Talk	en	zh-tw
jeremy_gilley_one_day_of_peace	"I was basically concerned about what was going on in the world. I couldn't understand the starvation, the destruction, the killing of innocent people. Making sense of those things is a very difficult thing to do. And when I was 12, I became an actor. I was bottom of the class. I haven't got any qualifications. I was told I was dyslexic. In fact, I have got qualifications. I got a D in pottery, which was the one thing that I did get — which was useful, obviously. And so concern is where all of this comes from. And then, being an actor, I was doing these different kinds of things, and I felt the content of the work that I was involved in really wasn't cutting it, that there surely had to be more. And at that point, I read a book by Frank Barnaby, this wonderful nuclear physicist, and he said that media had a responsibility, that all sectors of society had a responsibility to try and progress things and move things forward. And that fascinated me, because I'd been messing around with a camera most of my life. And then I thought, well maybe I could do something. Maybe I could become a filmmaker. Maybe I can use the form of film constructively to in some way make a difference. Maybe there's a little change I can get involved in. So I started thinking about peace, and I was obviously, as I said to you, very much moved by these images, trying to make sense of that. Could I go and speak to older and wiser people who would tell me how they made sense of the things that are going on? Because it's obviously incredibly frightening. But I realized that, having been messing around with structure as an actor, that a series of sound bites in itself wasn't enough, that there needed to be a mountain to climb, there needed to be a journey that I had to take. And if I took that journey, no matter whether it failed or succeeded, it would be completely irrelevant. The point was that I would have something to hook the questions of — is humankind fundamentally evil? Is the destruction of the world inevitable? Should I have children? Is that a responsible thing to do? Etc., etc. So I was thinking about peace, and then I was thinking, well where's the starting point for peace? And that was when I had the idea. There was no starting point for peace. There was no day of global unity. There was no day of intercultural cooperation. There was no day when humanity came together, separate in all of those things and just shared it together — that we're in this together, and that if we united and we interculturally cooperated, then that might be the key to humanity's survival. That might shift the level of consciousness around the fundamental issues that humanity faces — if we did it just for a day. So obviously we didn't have any money. I was living at my mom's place. And we started writing letters to everybody. You very quickly work out what is it that you've got to do to fathom that out. How do you create a day voted by every single head of state in the world to create the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September? And I wanted it to be the 21st of September because it was my granddad's favorite number. He was a prisoner of war. He saw the bomb go off at Nagasaki. It poisoned his blood. He died when I was 11. So he was like my hero. And the reason why 21 was the number is 700 men left, 23 came back, two died on the boat and 21 hit the ground. And that's why we wanted it to be the 21st of September as the date of peace. So we began this journey, and we launched it in 1999. And we wrote to heads of state, their ambassadors, Nobel Peace laureates, NGOs, faiths, various organizations — literally wrote to everybody. And very quickly, some letters started coming back. And we started to build this case. And I remember the first letter. One of the first letters was from the Dalai Lama. And of course we didn't have the money; we were playing guitars and getting the money for the stamps that we were sending out all of [this mail]. A letter came through from the Dalai Lama saying, ""This is an amazing thing. Come and see me. I'd love to talk to you about the first ever day of peace."" And we didn't have money for the flight. And I rang Sir Bob Ayling, who was CEO of BA at the time, and said, ""Mate, we've got this invitation. Could you give me a flight? Because we're going to go see him."" And of course, we went and saw him and it was amazing. And then Dr. Oscar Arias came forward. And actually, let me go back to that slide, because when we launched it in 1999 — this idea to create the first ever day of ceasefire and non-violence — we invited thousands of people. Well not thousands — hundreds of people, lots of people — all the press, because we were going to try and create the first ever World Peace Day, a peace day. And we invited everybody, and no press showed up. There were 114 people there — they were mostly my friends and family. And that was kind of like the launch of this thing. But it didn't matter because we were documenting, and that was the thing. For me, it was really about the process. It wasn't about the end result. And that's the beautiful thing about the camera. They used to say the pen is mightier than the sword. I think the camera is. And just staying in the moment with it was a beautiful thing and really empowering actually. So anyway, we began the journey. And here you see people like Mary Robinson, I went to see in Geneva. I'm cutting my hair, it's getting short and long, because every time I saw Kofi Annan, I was so worried that he thought I was a hippie that I cut it, and that was kind of what was going on. (Laughter) Yeah, I'm not worried about it now. So Mary Robinson, she said to me, ""Listen, this is an idea whose time has come. This must be created."" Kofi Annan said, ""This will be beneficial to my troops on the ground."" The OAU at the time, led by Salim Ahmed Salim, said, ""I must get the African countries involved."" Dr. Oscar Arias, Nobel Peace laureate, president now of Costa Rica, said, ""I'll do everything that I can."" So I went and saw Amr Moussa at the League of Arab States. I met Mandela at the Arusha peace talks, and so on and so on and so on — while I was building the case to prove whether this idea would make sense. And then we were listening to the people. We were documenting everywhere. 76 countries in the last 12 years, I've visited. And I've always spoken to women and children wherever I've gone. I've recorded 44,000 young people. I've recorded about 900 hours of their thoughts. I'm really clear about how young people feel when you talk to them about this idea of having a starting point for their actions for a more peaceful world through their poetry, their art, their literature, their music, their sport, whatever it might be. And we were listening to everybody. And it was an incredibly thing, working with the U.N. and working with NGOs and building this case. I felt that I was presenting a case on behalf of the global community to try and create this day. And the stronger the case and the more detailed it was, the better chance we had of creating this day. And it was this stuff, this, where I actually was in the beginning kind of thinking no matter what happened, it didn't actually matter. It didn't matter if it didn't create a day of peace. The fact is that, if I tried and it didn't work, then I could make a statement about how unwilling the global community is to unite — until, it was in Somalia, picking up that young girl. And this young child who'd taken about an inch and a half out of her leg with no antiseptic, and that young boy who was a child soldier, who told me he'd killed people — he was about 12 — these things made me realize that this was not a film that I could just stop. And that actually, at that moment something happened to me, which obviously made me go, ""I'm going to document. If this is the only film that I ever make, I'm going to document until this becomes a reality."" Because we've got to stop, we've got to do something where we unite — separate from all the politics and religion that, as a young person, is confusing me. I don't know how to get involved in that process. And then on the seventh of September, I was invited to New York. The Costa Rican government and the British government had put forward to the United Nations General Assembly, with 54 co-sponsors, the idea of the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September, as a fixed calendar date, and it was unanimously adopted by every head of state in the world. (Applause) Yeah, but there were hundreds of individuals, obviously, who made that a reality. And thank you to all of them. That was an incredible moment. I was at the top of the General Assembly just looking down into it and seeing it happen. And as I mentioned, when it started, we were at the Globe, and there was no press. And now I was thinking, ""Well, the press it really going to hear this story."" And suddenly, we started to institutionalize this day. Kofi Annan invited me on the morning of September the 11th to do a press conference. And it was 8:00 AM when I stood there. And I was waiting for him to come down, and I knew that he was on his way. And obviously he never came down. The statement was never made. The world was never told there was a day of global ceasefire and nonviolence. And it was obviously a tragic moment for the thousands of people who lost their lives, there and then subsequently all over the world. It never happened. And I remember thinking, ""This is exactly why, actually, we have to work even harder. And we have to make this day work. It's been created; nobody knows. But we have to continue this journey, and we have to tell people, and we have to prove it can work."" And I left New York freaked, but actually empowered. And I felt inspired by the possibilities that if it did, then maybe we wouldn't see things like that. I remember putting that film out and going to cynics. I was showing the film, and I remember being in Israel and getting it absolutely slaughtered by some guys having watched the film — that it's just a day of peace, it doesn't mean anything. It's not going to work; you're not going to stop the fighting in Afghanistan; the Taliban won't listen, etc., etc. It's just symbolism. And that was even worse than actually what had just happened in many ways, because it couldn't not work. I'd spoken in Somalia, Burundi, Gaza, the West Bank, India, Sri Lanka, Congo, wherever it was, and they'd all tell me, ""If you can create a window of opportunity, we can move aid, we can vaccinate children. Children can lead their projects. They can unite. They can come together. If people would stop, lives will be saved."" That's what I'd heard. And I'd heard that from the people who really understood what conflict was about. And so I went back to the United Nations. I decided that I'd continue filming and make another movie. And I went back to the U.N. for another couple of years. We started moving around the corridors of the U.N. system, governments and NGOs, trying desperately to find somebody to come forward and have a go at it, see if we could make it possible. And after lots and lots of meetings obviously, I'm delighted that this man, Ahmad Fawzi, one of my heroes and mentors really, he managed to get UNICEF involved. And UNICEF, God bless them, they said, ""Okay, we'll have a go."" And then UNAMA became involved in Afghanistan. It was historical. Could it work in Afghanistan with UNAMA and WHO and civil society, etc., etc., etc.? And I was getting it all on film and I was recording it, and I was thinking, ""This is it. This is the possibility of it maybe working. But even if it doesn't, at least the door is open and there's a chance."" And so I went back to London, and I went and saw this chap, Jude Law. And I saw him because he was an actor, I was an actor, I had a connection to him, because we needed to get to the press, we needed this attraction, we needed the media to be involved. Because if we start pumping it up a bit maybe more people would listen and there'd be more — when we got into certain areas, maybe there would be more people interested. And maybe we'd be helped financially a little bit more, which had been desperately difficult. I won't go into that. So Jude said, ""Okay, I'll do some statements for you."" While I was filming these statements, he said to me, ""Where are you going next?"" I said, ""I'm going to go to Afghanistan."" He said, ""Really?"" And I could sort of see a little look in his eye of interest. So I said to him, ""Do you want to come with me? It'd be really interesting if you came. It would help and bring attention. And that attention would help leverage the situation, as well as all of the other sides of it."" I think there's a number of pillars to success. One is you've got to have a great idea. The other is you've got to have a constituency, you've got to have finance, and you've got to be able to raise awareness. And actually I could never raise awareness by myself, no matter what I'd achieved. So these guys were absolutely crucial. So he said yes, and we found ourselves in Afghanistan. It was a really incredible thing that when we landed there, I was talking to various people, and they were saying to me, ""You've got to get everybody involved here. You can't just expect it to work. You have to get out and work."" And we did, and we traveled around, and we spoke to elders, we spoke to doctors, we spoke to nurses, we held press conferences, we went out with soldiers, we sat down with ISAF, we sat down with NATO, we sat down with the U.K. government. I mean, we basically sat down with everybody — in and out of schools with ministers of education, holding these press conferences, which of course, now were loaded with press, everybody was there. There was an interest in what was going on. This amazing woman, Fatima Gailani, was absolutely instrumental in what went on as she was the spokesperson for the resistance against the Russians. And her Afghan network was just absolutely everywhere. And she was really crucial in getting the message in. And then we went home. We'd sort of done it. We had to wait now and see what happened. And I got home, and I remember one of the team bringing in a letter to me from the Taliban. And that letter basically said, ""We'll observe this day. We will observe this day. We see it as a window of opportunity. And we will not engage. We're not going to engage."" And that meant that humanitarian workers wouldn't be kidnapped or killed. And then suddenly, I obviously knew at this point, there was a chance. And days later, 1.6 million children were vaccinated against polio as a consequence of everybody stopping. (Applause) And like the General Assembly, obviously the most wonderful, wonderful moment. And so then we wrapped the film up and we put it together because we had to go back. We put it into Dari and Pashto. We put it in the local dialects. We went back to Afghanistan, because the next year was coming, and we wanted to support. But more importantly, we wanted to go back, because these people in Afghanistan were the heroes. They were the people who believed in peace and the possibilities of it, etc., etc. — and they made it real. And we wanted to go back and show them the film and say, ""Look, you guys made this possible. And thank you very much."" And we gave the film over. Obviously it was shown, and it was amazing. And then that year, that year, 2008, this ISAF statement from Kabul, Afghanistan, September 17th: ""General Stanley McChrystal, commander of international security assistance forces in Afghanistan, announced today ISAF will not conduct offensive military operations on the 21st of September."" They were saying they would stop. And then there was this other statement that came out from the U.N. Department of Security and Safety saying that, in Afghanistan, because of this work, the violence was down by 70 percent. 70 percent reduction in violence on this day at least. And that completely blew my mind almost more than anything. And I remember being stuck in New York, this time because of the volcano, which was obviously much less harmful. And I was there thinking about what was going on. And I kept thinking about this 70 percent. 70 percent reduction in violence — in what everyone said was completely impossible and you couldn't do. And that made me think that, if we can get 70 percent in Afghanistan, then surely we can get 70 percent reduction everywhere. We have to go for a global truce. We have to utilize this day of ceasefire and nonviolence and go for a global truce, go for the largest recorded cessation of hostilities, both domestically and internationally, ever recorded. That's exactly what we must do. And on the 21st of September this year, we're going to launch that campaign at the O2 Arena to go for that process, to try and create the largest recorded cessation of hostilities. And we will utilize all kinds of things — have a dance and social media and visiting on Facebook and visit the website, sign the petition. And it's in the six official languages of the United Nations. And we'll globally link with government, inter-government, non-government, education, unions, sports. And you can see the education box there. We've got resources at the moment in 174 countries trying to get young people to be the driving force behind the vision of that global truce. And obviously the life-saving is increased, the concepts help. Linking up with the Olympics — I went and saw Seb Coe. I said, ""London 2012 is about truce. Ultimately, that's what it's about."" Why don't we all team up? Why don't we bring truce to life? Why don't you support the process of the largest ever global truce? We'll make a new film about this process. We'll utilize sport and football. On the Day of Peace, there's thousands of football matches all played, from the favelas of Brazil to wherever it might be. So, utilizing all of these ways to inspire individual action. And ultimately, we have to try that. We have to work together. And when I stand here in front of all of you, and the people who will watch these things, I'm excited, on behalf of everybody I've met, that there is a possibility that our world could unite, that we could come together as one, that we could lift the level of consciousness around the fundamental issues, brought about by individuals. I was with Brahimi, Ambassador Brahimi. I think he's one of the most incredible men in relation to international politics — in Afghanistan, in Iraq. He's an amazing man. And I sat with him a few weeks ago. And I said to him, ""Mr. Brahimi, is this nuts, going for a global truce? Is this possible? Is it really possible that we could do this?"" He said, ""It's absolutely possible."" I said, ""What would you do? Would you go to governments and lobby and use the system?"" He said, ""No, I'd talk to the individuals."" It's all about the individuals. It's all about you and me. It's all about partnerships. It's about your constituencies; it's about your businesses. Because together, by working together, I seriously think we can start to change things. And there's a wonderful man sitting in this audience, and I don't know where he is, who said to me a few days ago — because I did a little rehearsal — and he said, ""I've been thinking about this day and imagining it as a square with 365 squares, and one of them is white."" And it then made me think about a glass of water, which is clear. If you put one drop, one drop of something, in that water, it'll change it forever. By working together, we can create peace one day. Thank you TED. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thanks a lot. (Applause) Thank you very much. Thank you."	"我基本上是關心在這世界上的一舉一動的。我無法理解饑荒與破壞還有無辜民眾的喪生。要理解這些事情，是非常困難的。當我12歲時，我就很會演戲。老是在班上最後一名的我，任何考試都不及格。我被告知自己有閱讀障礙。事實上，我有課程是過關的。我捏陶課的成績拿了D，這是我唯一通過的一門課這顯然非常實用。所以這個焦慮關注的習慣是由此而來。爾後，身為演員，我作了許多很不一樣的事情。我感覺自己參與的這些工作內容實在不足，顯然還有更多是我可以做的。 在此時，我讀了Frank Barnaby所寫的書，這位傑出的核子物理學家，他認為，媒體必須要擔負起或說社會上的所有人都必須擔負起讓這個世界更加進步美好的責任。而這句話點醒了我，因為我的人生大部分的時間，就只是在鎂光燈堆裡消磨光陰。之後我就想，也許我也能為這個世界做點什麼。也許我能拍電影。也許我能有建設性地使用電影這個媒介在某些方面讓這個世界有些改變。也許這世界有甚麼小的改變，是我可以參與的。所以我開始往和平的方向想，如同我告訴過你的，很顯然我深深被這些影像感動，試圖去解釋這些事情的意義。我可以去詢問一些年長的智者嗎?請他們告訴我這些當下正在發生的事情到底是什麼道理?因為這顯然是令人難以置信的可怕。 但我了解到，嘗試用演員的身份挑戰體制了一段時間之後，我知道一連串的提問並不足夠，這挑戰像山一樣待我去征服，有一段旅程我必須展開。如果我從這段旅行著手，不論成功或失敗，都無關緊要。重點在於，我都會得到一些答案可以去回答這個問題: 人類基本上是邪惡的嗎?世界的毀滅難道不可避免?我該不該生孩子?這是有責任感的舉動嗎? ..等等的問題。 所以我想到了和平方面的議題，然後我開始想，和平到底是從什麼時候開始的呢?突然我靈光一閃和平根本就從沒開始過。從來就沒有全球統一日。沒有任何一天是跨文化交流的。從來沒有一天，人類全聚在一塊擁抱分享那些將我們從彼此分開的歧異了解我們其實在同一條船上了解若我們能結合起來，做超越文化的合作，也許這就是人類生存的關鍵。這也許可以改變我們的認知對於這些人類所面臨的各種基本困境如果我們就試那麼一天 不過，那時我們根本沒錢。我還跟我媽一起住。所以我開始寫信給所有人。你很快就會很清楚 爲了實現這個夢想自己該做些什麼你如何創造一個由全世界各國領導人投票通過史上第一個停火無暴力日在每一年的9月21日我希望日子是9月21日，原因是這是我爺爺最愛的數字。他曾經是戰俘。他親眼目睹過長崎被原子彈轟炸的情景。輻射汙染了他的血液，他在我11歲的時候過世。他就像是我的英雄。而選21日的理由，是因為這個數字代表了:當時離國去從軍的有700人，只有23個回來，而在返回的船上有2位又不幸過世，因此只有21位回到家。這就是為什麼選擇9月21日的理由。 在1999年，這項計畫正式開始。我們開始寫信給各國領袖、大使、諾貝爾和平獎得主、非營利團體、宗教團體、各式各樣的組織，幾乎所有團體我們都寫信去聯繫。很快的，寄出去的信很快就有了回音。計畫就這樣開始了。我一直記得第一封回信的內容。這封信來自達賴喇嘛(Dalai Lama)。當然，我們沒有任何資金，郵資還是靠我們路邊演奏吉他湊出來的。這封來自達賴喇嘛的回信說：""這個概念真令人驚嘆，請來跟我見個面""""我想跟你們聊聊這個前所未有的世界和平日。""但是，我們沒有錢買機票。我致電給當時的英國航空的執行長，Bob Ayling，對他說：""先生，達賴喇嘛邀請我們去跟他見個面，""""是否能贊助我們機票呢?""沒錯，我們真的跟達賴喇嘛見到面了，非常難忘。過不久，Oscar Arias博士也傳來消息。(1987諾貝爾和平獎得主) 老實說，喔，先回到上一張，這個計畫是在1999年開始推行的，這是第一個關於停戰與非暴力的節日，我們邀請了幾千人加入。好吧可能沒這麼多，但至少有數百人，很多人，所有的媒體，因為我們準備要嘗試創造史上第一個世界和平日，一個真正和平的日子。所以我們邀請了所有的人，但是沒有任何媒體現身。當時，有114人加入，當中大多是我的朋友或家人。而那就幾乎像是我們的發表會了。但是沒有關係，因為我們在記錄這個旅程，而這是關鍵，對我來說，真正重要的是過程。最後到底能不能成功根本不重要。而這就是相機美好的地方。人們通常說筆鋒可以比刀鋒厲，我覺得相機才是。留住那個片刻，非常美好其實是非常激勵人心的 總而言之，我們開始了旅程。在畫面中你可以看到Mary Robinson(左上，聯合國人權委員會主席)，我當時到日內瓦去拜訪他。我在剪頭髮，因為它們有長有短因為每次我見到Kofi Annan(聯合國的秘書長)，我都很怕被他誤以為是嬉皮人士。所以那時候才剪頭髮。(笑聲)是啦，我現在是不擔心了。Mary Robinson對我說：""讓這個點子實現的時間到了，這個紀念日一定要建立。""Kofi Annan說：""這對於我們正在沙場上的軍隊太有幫助了。""當時非洲共同組織(OAU)的領導人Salim Ahmed Salim說：""我一定要讓非洲各國都響應這個日子。""哥斯大黎加總統，前諾貝爾得獎者Oscar Arias博士表示：""我將盡我的一切所能。""所以我去阿拉伯聯盟秘書長Amr Moussa碰面。我在阿魯夏和平協定會議(Arusha peace)中和曼德拉見面。諸如此類的回應與會面一直持續，過程裡，我也不停的累積去證明這個想法確實有它的道理。 然後我們去聽人們的心聲，我們在各個世界角落記錄。近12年的時光裡，我參訪了76個國家。每到一個地方，我一定都會和當地的婦女與孩子們對話。我紀錄了4萬4千個年輕人的影像。錄下了他們總共約900小時的想法。我很清楚年輕人對這件事的想法當你和這些年輕人闡述這個主意透過他們的詩、他們的藝術、他們的文學，他們的音樂、運動或其他各種型態來起個頭，讓他們可以採取行動，使這個世界更和平。我們也聆聽了每一個人的意見。 可以透過和聯合國及非營利組織來合作推動這項計畫，是非常不可思議的事情。我覺得我自己好像在建立一個專案一個代表全世界的社群試著創造一個和平日的專案。如果這個計畫的內容越詳盡我們就有更高的機會去真正將它實現而其實就是因為這個，這個，在我才正開始這一切的時候我開始想，不論發生了什麼事，其實都不重要了。若這樣的和平日無法創建，也無所謂。至少我嘗試過了，而它沒有成功那麼我就會做個聲明說明為什麼全球的社群不願意合作，直到有一天，我在索馬利亞遇到了一個年輕女孩。而這個年輕的孩子在沒有麻醉的狀況下截去了一吋半的腿，這個小男孩是童兵，他告訴我他殺過一些人，而他大概12歲這些孩子讓我意識到這並不是什麼電影而我可以隨時喊卡。而事實上，就在那瞬間，讓我突然開竅了，我意識到，我應該要把這些都拍記錄起來。如果這是我這輩子拍的唯一的電影那我要一直記錄，直到它成真為止。因為我們得做些什麼，阻止這樣的事情繼續發生。我們得團結起來停止用政治和宗教將彼此區分這對當時還年輕的我來說，是非常令人困惑的我並不曉得該如何去參與改變這一切。 直到某一天，9月7日，我受邀參加在紐約舉辦的的聯合國代表大會。哥斯大黎加政府代表，以及英國政府代表，連同54個共同提案國向聯合國代表大會提議第一個停火無暴力日的概念，並將日子立定在9月21日，這個日子也被各國一致通過採納。(掌聲)當然這事情會成功，是受到了幾百個人的幫助。謝謝他們。那是非常美妙的一刻。我當時就坐在會場中看著美夢成真。就像我開始時說的，當我們開始推動這個計畫的時候，並沒有任何媒體來參加。當時我就想：""媒體現在真的會好好聽這個故事了""。然後突然間，我們便開始著手規劃這和平日的成立。 Kofi Annan邀請我在9月11日的早成參與成立記者會。當天早上8點我就到達會場。等著他到來，而我知道他就在路上。結果，他根本沒來到現場，這場說明會就這樣取消了。我們沒能向全世界宣佈這個全球性的停戰無暴力日。而那顯然是一個非常悲劇性的瞬間對成千上萬失去他們生命的人來說，對當時或之後有同樣經歷的人來說。這像從來沒有發生過。我還記得我當時在想，這應該正是為什麼我應該要更努力的原因吧。""我們一定得讓這個想法成功。這個停戰無暴力日成立了，但沒有人知道。而我們的旅程還是要繼續，我們得告訴世人，我們得証明這個想法是確實有用的。 我離開紐約的時候雖然非常驚恐卻覺得充滿力量我覺得深受啟發對於這個夢想其實有實現的可能性如果它當時真的實現了，我就見不到記者會被取消這樣的情況。我記得自己把紀錄片剪輯好，送出去接受所有的批評。我到處播放這個影片，我記得當時人在以色列，而記錄片被幾個看過的人批評得一文不值他們說那不過就是一天的和平，什麼都不算。它不會真正發揮作用的，你還是不能阻止阿富汗境內的戰爭，塔利班政府依舊故我..等等之類的批評。那只是個象徵。而那樣更糟比剛剛發生的事情還要更糟因為它沒有辦法不發揮作用。我到處演講:索馬利亞、布羅迪、迦薩、約旦西河岸、印度、斯里蘭卡、剛果，不管在哪裡他們都告訴我，你如果可以創造一個機會窗口。我們可以把醫藥物資送進去，我們可以幫孩子們打疫苗。孩子們可以帶領這個計畫。他們可以團結，它們可以聚集起來，如果可以讓人們停下來，生命會因而獲就。這是我聽到的事這些，是我從那些真正了解衝突的人們身上聽到的事。 所以我又重返聯合國。我決定要繼續拍攝，做另外一個影片。我又回到聯合國了好幾年。我們開始在聯合國體系的走廊上活動，各個政府和非營利組織，非常拼命地想要找到人願意挺身而出，和我們一起試試看，看我們能不能讓它成真。而經過了很多很多個會議，我們非常高興這位先生, Ahmad Fawzi,老實說是我們的英雄和導師之一，他成功地說服了聯合國兒童基金會。而聯合國兒童基金會，上帝保佑他們，說，""好吧，讓我們試一試""接著，聯合國阿富汗援助團，開始在阿富汗參與這個計畫這是非常歷史性的一刻，協同聯合國阿富汗援助團以及世界衛生組織還有很多民間團體等等，在阿富汗能成功嗎?我當時把這整個過程都錄了下來，而我在想，""這就是了，這是這個計畫可以成功的機會，但是如果不成功，至少我們起了個頭，這樣就有機會。"" 所以我回到倫敦，我去見了這個傢伙，裘德洛。我去見他因為他是個演員，而我也是。我和他有了聯繫，因為我們需要上新聞，我們需要得到關注，我們需要媒體的參與。因為如果我們開始給這個計畫加些料，也許更多人會願意傾聽然後我們會得到更多—當我們觸及某些區域，也許我們會引起更多人的興趣。也許我們會得到更多資助，因為在財務上面，我們始終非常困難。我不會在這方面著墨太多。所以裘德洛說:""好啊，我替你發些聲明稿。"" 當我在拍攝這些聲明的時候，他問我:""你接著的計畫是什麼?""我說:""我要去阿富汗。""他說:""真的嗎?""我可以看到他眼中透出的一些興趣。所以我對他說:""你要和我一起去嗎?如果你來，那應該會非常有趣。會幫我們帶來更大的關注。而那些關注會幫助我們改善現況，還有其他所有面向。""我想得以成功總是要有一些條件。第一是你必須要有一個很棒的點子。第二是你得有你的支持者，你得有資金，而且你要有辦法提高可見度。而實際上，我一個人不管怎麽做都沒有辦法提高這件事情的可見度。所以可以有這些人加入，是非常關鍵的事。然後他說好，我們就這麼去了阿富汗。 當我們抵達那裡的時候是非常不可思議的，我和一群人交談，而他們對我說，你得想辦法讓所有人都參與。你不能指望它會自己發生。你得走進田野，實際參與。""所以我們就這麼做了，我們到處旅行，我們和長者對話，和醫生對話，和護士對話，我們舉辦了記者會，我們和軍人一起出去，我們和國際安全援助部隊坐下來對談，我們和北約坐下來談，我們也和英國政府談。我的意思是，基本上我們和所有人對談，和教育部長一起拜訪學校和校外生活，舉辦數次記者會，而當然，現在我們佔滿了媒體，大家都在那裡。對正在發生的事情，大家都保持著興趣。而這個很不可思議的女人，Fatima Magalani 對我們助益斐然因為她當時是對抗俄國的組織發言人。她在阿富汗的人際網路絕對遍佈每個角落。對於將訊息傳遞進去，她扮演著非常重要的角色 然後我們就回家了，我們算是達成了使命。我們現在得等著看什麼會發生當我到家的時候，我還記得一個團隊從塔利班那裡帶了一封信給我信的內容基本上是說, ""我們會遵守這個停戰的一天。""我們會遵守這個停戰的一天。我們把這個視為機會的窗口。我們不會參戰。我們將不會參戰。""而這代表人道主義工作者不用擔心被綁架或是被殺。然後突然之間，我立刻明白那是一個機會。幾天之後，因為所有人都停火一百六十萬個兒童獲得了小兒麻痹疫苗的接種。(鼓掌)而就像當初的聯合國大會，這是最美好最美好的時刻。 所以我們把影片剪輯製作好因為我們必須再回到阿富汗去。我們放入了達裡語和普什圖語的字幕。我們加入當地方言。我們回到阿富汗，因為新的一年又要來了，而我們需要支持。但更重要的是，我們想要回去，因為這些在阿富汗的人們都是英雄。他們是相信和平相信有機會得以和平的人，而是他們將它實現。我們想要回去播放影片給他們看然後說:""看哪，是你們讓這一切成真，非常感謝你們。""所以我們把影片給了他們。影片被播出了，而迴響很好。 接著那一年，2008年，9月17日從喀布爾阿富汗國際安全援助部隊發出聲明：Stanley McChrystal將軍，下令阿富汗國際安全支援部隊，宣布國際安全援助部隊將會在9月21號那天暫停所有侵略軍事活動。""他們說他們會停火。然後接著這另外一個聲明是來自國家安全防衛部門上面寫說在阿富汗，因為這個計畫，暴力減少了70%。在這一天的暴力事件至少減少了70%這個消息帶給我的驚喜完全超乎我想像。 我記得我當時因為冰島火山灰的關係被困在紐約，而這很顯然比較不具傷害性。而我當時在想發生的這些事情。我一直在想70%這個數字。降低了70%的暴力在所有人多說是完全不可能和我沒有辦法這麼做的狀況下。而這讓我想，如果我們可以讓阿富汗的暴力降低70%，那我們當然可以在其他地方也降低70%。我們得繼續要求全球停火。我們得讓這個停火無暴力日實現讓全球停火，創造一個最大的停止敵對行動的記錄，不論是國內或是國際的記錄。 這正是我們必須要做的事。然後到了今年9月21日，我們將在O2會議中心推行這個計畫去開始這個旅程，去嘗試創造最大的停止敵對行動的記錄。我們會盡其所能辦個舞會、利用社群媒體點閱臉書、點閱網站、簽署請願書。這些都會使用六種聯合國官方語言。我們會聯合起全球政府，政府之間的組織，非政府組織，教育，公會，運動。你們會看到一個教育的箱子在這邊。我們現在，在174國家裡有資源試圖讓更多的年輕人成為推動的力量共同推動這個全球停戰的願景。那些被拯救的生命顯然持續增加，這個概念實際上幫助了人。 和奧運建立連結我去拜訪了Seb Coe (倫敦奧運組織委員會主席), 我說: ""倫敦2012奧運是代表停戰。最終來說，那是這個奧運自始的目的。""為什麼我們不組織起來? 為什麼我們不真的試著停戰?為什麼我們不參與支持這個創造全球停戰的最高記錄?我們會把這個過程拍成一部新的影片。我們會利用運動和足球。在世界和平日的那天，有上千個足球賽會開打，從巴西的貧民窟一直到世界任何角落。所以，藉由各種方式去啟發人們行動。最終，我們一定得試試。我們得一起努力。 而當我現在站在你們面前，而人們將會看到這段影片，我感到非常興奮來代表所有我見過的人，表示這世界有個機會可以團結，我們可以合而為一，我們可以提高人們提出的基礎生命議題的認識，我當時和Brahimi在一起, Brahimi大使(阿爾及利亞)我想他世界上最了不起的人之一在有關國際政治 - 伊拉克在阿富汗的議題上他真的很厲害。我幾個禮拜前和他坐在一起。我對他說，""Brahimi先生，試著讓全球停戰是個瘋狂的點子嗎?這有可能嗎?我們真的有可能做到嗎?""他說:""這絕對有可能。""我說:""你會怎麼做呢?你會去各個政府遊說，並使用固有體系嗎？“他說:""不，我會去和各式各樣的人談話。""到頭來，這是和每一個人息息相關的事。這是關於你和我的事。這是關於合夥的事。是關於你的選區的，是關於你的企業的事。因為一起，唯有一起努力，我真的覺得我們可以開始改變一些事情。 在場有一位非常美好的先生在觀眾席，而我不知道他坐在哪裡。這位先生幾天之前跟我說-因為我做了點預演的準備-他說:""我一直在想著這一天想像它是一個正方形裡頭有365個正方形,而其中一個是白色的。""這讓我想到一杯水，清澈透明。如果你放了一滴進去，一滴隨便什麼東西到水裡，它就足以讓它從此改變。 借由一起努力，我們總有一天，可以創造和平。謝謝TED。謝謝大家。 (鼓掌) 謝謝。 (鼓掌) 非常感謝。 (鼓掌) 非常非常謝謝你們。謝謝。"
