Talk	en	zh-tw
jessa_gamble_how_to_sleep	"Let's start with day and night. Life evolved under conditions of light and darkness, light and then darkness. And so plants and animals developed their own internal clocks so that they would be ready for these changes in light. These are chemical clocks, and they're found in every known being that has two or more cells and in some that only have one cell. I'll give you an example — if you take a horseshoe crab off the beach, and you fly it all the way across the continent, and you drop it into a sloped cage, it will scramble up the floor of the cage as the tide is rising on its home shores, and it'll skitter down again right as the water is receding thousands of miles away. It'll do this for weeks, until it kind of gradually loses the plot. And it's incredible to watch, but there's nothing psychic or paranormal going on; it's simply that these crabs have internal cycles that correspond, usually, with what's going on around it. So, we have this ability as well. And in humans, we call it the ""body clock."" You can see this most clearly when you take away someone's watch and you shut them into a bunker, deep underground, for a couple of months. (Laughter) People actually volunteer for this, and they usually come out kind of raving about their productive time in the hole. So, no matter how atypical these subjects would have to be, they all show the same thing. They get up just a little bit later every day — say 15 minutes or so — and they kind of drift all the way around the clock like this over the course of the weeks. And so, in this way we know that they are working on their own internal clocks, rather than somehow sensing the day outside. So fine, we have a body clock, and it turns out that it's incredibly important in our lives. It's a huge driver for culture and I think that it's the most underrated force on our behavior. We evolved as a species near the equator, and so we're very well-equipped to deal with 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness. But of course, we've spread to every corner of the globe and in Arctic Canada, where I live, we have perpetual daylight in summer and 24 hours of darkness in winter. So the culture, the northern aboriginal culture, traditionally has been highly seasonal. In winter, there's a lot of sleeping going on; you enjoy your family life inside. And in summer, it's almost manic hunting and working activity very long hours, very active. So, what would our natural rhythm look like? What would our sleeping patterns be in the sort of ideal sense? Well, it turns out that when people are living without any sort of artificial light at all, they sleep twice every night. They go to bed around 8:00 p.m. until midnight and then again, they sleep from about 2:00 a.m. until sunrise. And in-between, they have a couple of hours of sort of meditative quiet in bed. And during this time, there's a surge of prolactin, the likes of which a modern day never sees. The people in these studies report feeling so awake during the daytime, that they realize they're experiencing true wakefulness for the first time in their lives. So, cut to the modern day. We're living in a culture of jet lag, global travel, 24-hour business, shift work. And you know, our modern ways of doing things have their advantages, but I believe we should understand the costs. Thank you. (Applause)"	我先從日夜談起，生命的演進是在光照與黑暗中進行，也就是日出而後日落。植物和動物因此而發展出他們自己的內部時鐘，好讓自己熟悉這種光線的變幻。這種化學激素時鐘，可以在我們所知的每一種多細胞生物、甚至單細胞生物中觀察得到。 我來舉個例子，如果你從海灘上抓走一隻大螃蟹，讓它坐上飛機到大陸的另一端，把它放進一個斜的籠子裡，它會在它家鄉岸邊漲潮的時間裡，爬上籠子較高的那一端，然後在數千哩之外的海水退去之時，又滑下籠子底部。它會重覆這種行為好幾個星期，直到它漸漸搞不清楚身處何地為止。這很不可思議，但不是什麼靈異或超自然現象，只是這些螃蟹的內部時鐘能與週遭環境相配合而已。 人類也有這種能力，人類稱這種能力為生理時鐘。當你拿走某人的手錶，把他關進一個深入地底的地堡裡，好幾個月不出來，你就會清楚看到生理時鐘的作用。有些人還自願被關進地堡裡，當他們從地堡出來時，對自己能清醒工作的時間總是胡吹一通。不管他們說的有多離譜，有一件事是確定的，就是他們每天都會越來越晚起床，假設是晚15分鐘好了，然後就把整個生理時鐘往後推延，在他們待在地堡期間內不斷推延。我們發現，他們是依照自己的生理時鐘在運作，而不是靠感覺外面的日照在運作。 好，我們有生理時鐘，對我們的生命無比重要，也是文化的重要推動力量，我認為這是我們的行為裡，最被忽略的一股力量。人類是從接近赤道的地方開始發源，所以我們很能適應有12個小時的白天和有12個小時的夜晚。但現在，人類已分散居住在世界上每一個角落，在我居住的加拿大極地附近，夏天是永晝，冬天則是永夜。所以在北方的原住民文化裡，傳統上是高度倚賴季節變化的。冬天，人們睡覺的時間很常，也都待在屋內享受家庭生活；而在夏天，有無止盡的狩獵與工作活動，持續時間很長，非常活躍。 那麼，人類自然的時間韻律該是什麼樣子？理想的人類睡眠又該呈現什麼模式？我們發現，當人們的生活裡完全沒有人工光源時，每天晚上會有二次睡眠週期，他們會在晚上八點左右睡覺，直到午夜，接下來，則從二點睡到日出時分。在這二次睡眠之間，有好幾個小時是處於安靜的冥想階段。在這段期間裡，泌乳激素會大量分泌，這在現代人身上是觀察不到的。參與這項研究的人指出，他們在白天的時候感覺很清醒，是他們以前所沒有體會過的清醒感覺。 現在我們來談談現代人的生活。我們的生活裡充斥著時差、全球旅行、24小時營業、輪班等現代文化，現代人的工作方式，自有其優點存在，但我們得瞭解我們所付出的成本為何。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
