Talk	en	zh-tw
jessi_arrington_wearing_nothing_new	"I'm Jessi, and this is my suitcase. But before I show you what I've got inside, I'm going to make a very public confession, and that is, I'm outfit-obsessed. I love finding, wearing, and more recently, photographing and blogging a different, colorful, crazy outfit for every single occasion. But I don't buy anything new. I get all my clothes secondhand from flea markets and thrift stores. Aww, thank you. Secondhand shopping allows me to reduce the impact my wardrobe has on the environment and on my wallet. I get to meet all kinds of great people; my dollars usually go to a good cause; I look pretty unique; and it makes shopping like my own personal treasure hunt. I mean, what am I going to find today? Is it going to be my size? Will I like the color? Will it be under $20? If all the answers are yes, I feel as though I've won. I want to get back to my suitcase and tell you what I packed for this exciting week here at TED. I mean, what does somebody with all these outfits bring with her? So I'm going to show you exactly what I brought. I brought seven pairs of underpants and that's it. Exactly one week's worth of undies is all I put in my suitcase. I was betting that I'd be able to find everything else I could possible want to wear once I got here to Palm Springs. And since you don't know me as the woman walking around TED in her underwear — (Laughter) that means I found a few things. And I'd really love to show you my week's worth of outfits right now. Does that sound good? (Applause) So as I do this, I'm also going to tell you a few of the life lessons that, believe it or not, I have picked up in these adventures wearing nothing new. So let's start with Sunday. I call this ""Shiny Tiger."" You do not have to spend a lot of money to look great. You can almost always look phenomenal for under $50. This whole outfit, including the jacket, cost me $55, and it was the most expensive thing that I wore the entire week. Monday: Color is powerful. It is almost physiologically impossible to be in a bad mood when you're wearing bright red pants. (Laughter) If you are happy, you are going to attract other happy people to you. Tuesday: Fitting in is way overrated. I've spent a whole lot of my life trying to be myself and at the same time fit in. Just be who you are. If you are surrounding yourself with the right people, they will not only get it, they will appreciate it. Wednesday: Embrace your inner child. Sometimes people tell me that I look like I'm playing dress-up, or that I remind them of their seven-year-old. I like to smile and say, ""Thank you."" Thursday: Confidence is key. If you think you look good in something, you almost certainly do. And if you don't think you look good in something, you're also probably right. I grew up with a mom who taught me this day-in and day-out. But it wasn't until I turned 30 that I really got what this meant. And I'm going to break it down for you for just a second. If you believe you're a beautiful person inside and out, there is no look that you can't pull off. So there is no excuse for any of us here in this audience. We should be able to rock anything we want to rock. Thank you. (Applause) Friday: A universal truth — five words for you: Gold sequins go with everything. And finally, Saturday: Developing your own unique personal style is a really great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word. It's been proven to me time and time again as people have walked up to me this week simply because of what I'm wearing, and we've had great conversations. So obviously this is not all going to fit back in my tiny suitcase. So before I go home to Brooklyn, I'm going to donate everything back. Because the lesson I'm trying to learn myself this week is that it's okay to let go. I don't need to get emotionally attached to these things because around the corner, there is always going to be another crazy, colorful, shiny outfit just waiting for me, if I put a little love in my heart and look. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我是Jessi，這是我的旅行箱在我給各位看我裡頭裝什麼東西之前我要做一個非常公開的告白就是我對衣服極度迷戀我超愛尋找它們並穿上它們最近還愛上拍衣服的照片，寫在部落格上每一套與眾不同，色彩鮮豔，瘋狂的衣服都有其最適切的場合但我不購買任何新品我的衣服都是二手貨從跳蚤市場和二手店買的喔，謝謝你二手購物讓我減少購買衣服對環境的影響還有對荷包的影響我能認識各種有趣的人我的錢通常會捐款給慈善事業我的打扮自樹一格同時購物變成我私人的尋寶之旅我會想，今天會找到什麼？會剛好符合我的尺寸嗎？會是我喜歡的顏色嗎？價錢會低於二十塊美金嗎？如果答案都是「是」我就覺得自己賺到了 回來談談我的旅行箱告訴你們，為了來TED這興奮的一週，我都帶了些什麼這個有這麼多衣服的傢伙到底會帶些什麼？所以我要給你看到底我都帶了哪些衣物我帶了七件內褲就這樣剛好夠穿一週的內褲是我唯一放在旅行箱內的衣服我敢說我在棕櫚泉能夠找到我需要的所有衣服既然你們現在看到的我不是一個只穿著內褲來參加TED的女人(笑聲)這就說明了我的確找到了一些東西我現在真的很想讓你們看我這一週所穿的衣服是不是聽起來很不錯？(掌聲)當然同時我還會和各位聊聊生活的經驗無論你們是否相信，這些都是我在這趟冒險中體悟出來的想法 那我們就從星期日開始這叫這套「閃亮老虎」你無須花大錢也能顯得氣質非凡甚至你不用花到五十塊美金，就能令人印象深刻這整套衣服，包含外套用了我五十五塊美金而這是我這一週內穿得最貴的衣服 星期一：色彩是強大的在生理學上，穿上明亮的紅色褲子時幾乎不可能還覺得心情鬱悶(笑聲)如果你快樂你也會吸引到其他快樂的人 星期二：主流被遠遠高估了我一生中花了很多時間想做自己同時融入主流就做你自己如果你身邊有對的人他們不僅能了解還會懂得欣賞 星期三：擁抱你的童心有時候有人會告訴我說我像在玩打扮或者我讓他們想起了他們七歲的孩子我喜歡對他們微笑然後說聲「謝謝」 星期四自信是關鍵如果你覺得你穿什麼衣服好看那你一定會穿得好看如果你不覺得你穿什麼好看那你也可能是對的從小到大，我媽媽每天都告訴我這一點但是我到了三十歲才真正了解這意思我很快地為各位分析一下如果你相信你是個美麗的人從裡到外那就沒有什麼衣服是你不能穿得好看的所以在座各位你們不需要任何理由我們想穿上什麼就穿上什麼謝謝 (掌聲) 星期五：一個普遍的真理 —送你們五字箴言金亮片百搭 最後，星期六：展現獨特的個人風格這是告訴別人你是誰的一個很好的方式而且你一個字都不必說這一點我已經證實過許多次這星期當人們一次次走向我只是因為我穿了什麼我們有很愉快的交談 當然這些衣服都不會放進我的小旅行箱所以在我回到布魯克林之前我會把一切都捐回因為這個星期我在教導自己放手也是好的我不需要眷戀東西因為在下一個角落永遠會有另一套瘋狂的，五彩繽紛閃閃發光的衣服在等著我只要我帶著愛去找尋 非常謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲)
