Talk	en	zh-tw
jessica_green_are_we_filtering_the_wrong_microbes	Humans in the developed world spend more than 90 percent of their lives indoors, where they breathe in and come into contact with trillions of life forms invisible to the naked eye: microorganisms. Buildings are complex ecosystems that are an important source of microbes that are good for us, and some that are bad for us. What determines the types and distributions of microbes indoors? Buildings are colonized by airborne microbes that enter through windows and through mechanical ventilation systems. And they are brought inside by humans and other creatures. The fate of microbes indoors depends on complex interactions with humans, and with the human-built environment. And today, architects and biologists are working together to explore smart building design that will create healthy buildings for us. We spend an extraordinary amount of time in buildings that are extremely controlled environments, like this building here — environments that have mechanical ventilation systems that include filtering, heating and air conditioning. Given the amount of time that we spend indoors, it's important to understand how this affects our health. At the Biology and the Built Environment Center, we carried out a study in a hospital where we sampled air and pulled the DNA out of microbes in the air. And we looked at three different types of rooms. We looked at rooms that were mechanically ventilated, which are the data points in the blue. We looked at rooms that were naturally ventilated, where the hospital let us turn off the mechanical ventilation in a wing of the building and pry open the windows that were no longer operable, but they made them operable for our study. And we also sampled the outdoor air. If you look at the x-axis of this graph, you'll see that what we commonly want to do — which is keeping the outdoors out — we accomplished that with mechanical ventilation. So if you look at the green data points, which is air that's outside, you'll see that there's a large amount of microbial diversity, or variety of microbial types. But if you look at the blue data points, which is mechanically ventilated air, it's not as diverse. But being less diverse is not necessarily good for our health. If you look at the y-axis of this graph, you'll see that, in the mechanically ventilated air, you have a higher probability of encountering a potential pathogen, or germ, than if you're outdoors. So to understand why this was the case, we took our data and put it into an ordination diagram, which is a statistical map that tells you something about how related the microbial communities are in the different samples. The data points that are closer together have microbial communities that are more similar than data points that are far apart. And the first things that you can see from this graph is, if you look at the blue data points, which are the mechanically ventilated air, they're not simply a subset of the green data points, which are the outdoor air. What we've found is that mechanically ventilated air looks like humans. It has microbes on it that are commonly associated with our skin and with our mouth, our spit. And this is because we're all constantly shedding microbes. So all of you right now are sharing your microbes with one another. And when you're outdoors, that type of air has microbes that are commonly associated with plant leaves and with dirt. Why does this matter? It matters because the health care industry is the second most energy intensive industry in the United States. Hospitals use two and a half times the amount of energy as office buildings. And the model that we're working with in hospitals, and also with many, many different buildings, is to keep the outdoors out. And this model may not necessarily be the best for our health. And given the extraordinary amount of nosocomial infections, or hospital-acquired infections, this is a clue that it's a good time to reconsider our current practices. So just as we manage national parks, where we promote the growth of some species and we inhibit the growth of others, we're working towards thinking about buildings using an ecosystem framework where we can promote the kinds of microbes that we want to have indoors. I've heard somebody say that you're as healthy as your gut. And for this reason, many people eat probiotic yogurt so they can promote a healthy gut flora. And what we ultimately want to do is to be able to use this concept to promote a healthy group of microorganisms inside. Thank you. (Applause)	生活在已開發國家中的人們超過百分之90的時間待在室內，他們呼吸且接觸肉眼看不見的無數生物：微生物。建築物是複雜的生態系統，也是人們取得微生物的重要來源，不論是好的，還是不好的微生物。什麼因素決定了室內微生物的種類和分布？佔據在建築物內的空氣傳播微生物經由窗戶和機械通風裝置進入室內。也經由人類和其它生物帶入室內。室內微生物的命運取決於其與人類的互動和與人造環境的互動現今，建築師和生物學家一起合作探索聰慧的建築設計以創造對人們健康的建築物。 我們花非常大量的時間待在建築物內，建築物是被高度控制的環境，像這座建築物—裝設有機械通風系統包括過濾，暖氣和空氣調節設備。考量到我們待在室內的時間，了解這如何影響我們的健康是很重要的事。在這座生物和人造環境中心裡，我們進行一項醫院內的研究，我們取樣醫院裡的空氣，從空氣中的微生物擷取DNA。我們著眼於三種不同類型的房間。有機械通風設備的房間是圖表中的藍數據點。我們研究自然通風的地方是醫院允許我們關閉機械通風設備的房間它們位於醫院的側翼我們翹開的窗戶實際上早已不能使用，為了我們的研究，醫院恢復它們的功能。我們也從戶外空氣中取樣。 如果你看此表的X軸，可觀察到我們普通的作法—把戶外空氣排除在外—我們藉由機械通風達成此目的。如果你看表中的綠數據點，這是戶外的空氣，你可看到有大量的微生物多樣性，或者多樣化的微生物種類。但如果你看藍數據點，它們代表機械通風的空氣，種類沒那麼多樣化。但是種類少不一定對我們的健康有益處。如果你看表中的Y軸，你可看到，機械通風的空氣中，你有較高的可能性會接觸到潛在的病原體，或病菌，在戶外時，可能性反而較小 為了瞭解其背後的原因，我們把這些資料排列在序列分布圖中，形成一個統計地圖，這個圖可告訴你在不同的樣本中微生物族群的關聯性。位置相近的點帶有較類似的微生物族群，位置距離較遠的點則反之可從此圖表中發現的第一件事是如果你看這些藍數據點它們代表機械通風的空氣，他們不單純只是綠數據點的子集，綠數據點代表戶外空氣。 我們所發現的是機械通風的空氣看似人類的。漂浮其中的微生物和我們的皮膚、嘴巴和唾液有共通關連性。這是因為我們全部的人不斷地散播微生物。現在你們全部的人正在彼此分享彼此的微生物。當你們在戶外時，空氣中所帶的微生物和植物葉子還有土攘有關連性。 這為什麼重要呢？其重要性在於醫療保健產業排名美國第二大高耗能產業。醫院所耗能源是辦公建築物的2.5倍。現今醫院奉行的典範，同時也可見於很多不同建築之中，是將戶外空氣排除在外。而這個典範不一定是對我們健康最有益處的。鑒於非常大量的醫院感染，或者經由醫院取得的感染，這提醒我們，是時候重新考慮目前的常規是否合適。 如同我們管理國家公園，當我們促進一些物種的成長時，我們也抑制其它物種的成長，我們正把生態系統的架構應用到建築的思維裡，提升我們想要移到室內的某些微生物種類。我聽過人說你的健康取決於你的腸道健康。因此很多人吃益生菌優格就是為了促進健康的腸道菌叢。我們的終極目標是應用此概念促進室內的健康微生物群。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
