Talk	en	zh-tw
ji_hae_park_the_violin_and_my_dark_night_of_the_soul	"(Music) (Applause) Thank you. Hi, everybody. Ban-gap-seum-ni-da. I'd like to share with you a little bit of me playing my life. I might look successful and happy being in front of you today, but I once suffered from severe depression and was in total despair. The violin, which meant everything to me, became a grave burden on me. Although many people tried to comfort and encourage me, their words sounded like meaningless noise. When I was just about to give everything up after years of suffering, I started to rediscover the true power of music. (Music) In the midst of hardship, it was the music that gave me — that restored my soul. The comfort the music gave me was just indescribable, and it was a real eye-opening experience for me too, and it totally changed my perspective on life and set me free from the pressure of becoming a successful violinist. Do you feel like you are all alone? I hope that this piece will touch and heal your heart, as it did for me. (Music) (Applause) Thank you. Now, I use my music to reach people's hearts and have found there are no boundaries. My audience is anyone who is here to listen, even those who are not familiar with classical music. I not only play at the prestigious classical concert halls like Carnegie Hall and Kennedy Center, but also hospitals, churches, prisons, and restricted facilities for leprosy patients, just to mention a few. Now, with my last piece, I'd like to show you that classical music can be so much fun, exciting, and that it can rock you. Let me introduce you to my brand new project, ""Baroque in Rock,"" which became a golden disc most recently. It's such an honor for me. I think, while I'm enjoying my life as a happy musician, I'm earning a lot more recognition than I've ever imagined. But it's now your turn. Changing your perspectives will not only transform you but also the whole world. Just play your life with all you have, and share it with the world. I really look forward to witnessing a transforming world by you, TEDsters. Play your life, and stay tuned. (Music) (Applause)"	"(音樂) (掌聲) 謝謝！ 大家好！ 您好！(韓文) 我想通過""演奏""我的人生，來作一點簡單的自我介紹。 可能今天在你面前我看上去既成功又快樂，但我曾經患過重度憂鬱症，並完全地絕望。小提琴，基本上是我的一切，卻變成了死沉沉的負擔，雖然很多人試著安慰我、鼓勵我，但是他們說的話卻像是無意義的噪音，當我痛苦了好幾年，想要完全放棄的時候，我開始重新發現音樂真正的力量。 (音樂) 在我最艱辛的時候，是音樂修補了我的靈魂。我從音樂得到的安慰是無法形容的，這也是一個讓我大開眼界的經歷，我的人生觀也完全改變，讓我完全從“必須要成為成功的小提琴手”的壓力中解放出來。 你覺得孤獨寂寞嗎？我希望這段樂章能觸動並治愈你的心，就像它曾治愈我的一樣。 (音樂) (掌聲) 謝謝！ 現在，我用音樂來接近別人的心，而我發現音樂是沒有界限的。我的觀眾就是每一位在坐聆聽的人，包含平常對古典音樂不熟悉的人。我不是只在有名氣的音樂廳演奏而已，例如卡內基音樂廳和肯尼迪藝術中心，我也在醫院、教會、監獄，和僅限於痲瘋病患的機構演出，這些只是幾個例子。 現在為你演奏的最後一首曲子，是想讓你知道古典樂可以很活潑而令人激動，甚至能讓你搖滾！讓我向你介紹我最新的作品，《巴洛克搖滾》，這首曲子最近獲得了金唱片獎。我實在相當榮幸。 我想，當我享受一個快樂的音樂家的生活時，我也同時得到了更多想像不到的讚賞。現在輪到你了。改變你的觀點，你和你的世界都會改變。盡力地演奏你的生命，然後與世界分享。我期待看見一個由你們改變的世界，TED 的跟隨者們。演奏你的生命，持續下去！ (音樂) (鼓掌)"
