Talk	en	zh-tw
jill_bolte_taylor_s_powerful_stroke_of_insight	"I grew up to study the brain because I have a brother who has been diagnosed with a brain disorder, schizophrenia. And as a sister and later, as a scientist, I wanted to understand, why is it that I can take my dreams, I can connect them to my reality, and I can make my dreams come true? What is it about my brother's brain and his schizophrenia that he cannot connect his dreams to a common and shared reality, so they instead become delusion? So I dedicated my career to research into the severe mental illnesses. And I moved from my home state of Indiana to Boston, where I was working in the lab of Dr. Francine Benes, in the Harvard Department of Psychiatry. And in the lab, we were asking the question, ""What are the biological differences between the brains of individuals who would be diagnosed as normal control, as compared with the brains of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective or bipolar disorder?"" So we were essentially mapping the microcircuitry of the brain: which cells are communicating with which cells, with which chemicals, and then in what quantities of those chemicals? So there was a lot of meaning in my life because I was performing this type of research during the day, but then in the evenings and on the weekends, I traveled as an advocate for NAMI, the National Alliance on Mental Illness. But on the morning of December 10, 1996, I woke up to discover that I had a brain disorder of my own. A blood vessel exploded in the left half of my brain. And in the course of four hours, I watched my brain completely deteriorate in its ability to process all information. On the morning of the hemorrhage, I could not walk, talk, read, write or recall any of my life. I essentially became an infant in a woman's body. If you've ever seen a human brain, it's obvious that the two hemispheres are completely separate from one another. And I have brought for you a real human brain. (Groaning, laughter) So this is a real human brain. This is the front of the brain, the back of brain with the spinal cord hanging down, and this is how it would be positioned inside of my head. And when you look at the brain, it's obvious that the two cerebral cortices are completely separate from one another. For those of you who understand computers, our right hemisphere functions like a parallel processor, while our left hemisphere functions like a serial processor. The two hemispheres do communicate with one another through the corpus callosum, which is made up of some 300 million axonal fibers. But other than that, the two hemispheres are completely separate. Because they process information differently, each of our hemispheres think about different things, they care about different things, and, dare I say, they have very different personalities. Excuse me. Thank you. It's been a joy. Assistant: It has been. (Laughter) Our right human hemisphere is all about this present moment. It's all about ""right here, right now."" Our right hemisphere, it thinks in pictures and it learns kinesthetically through the movement of our bodies. Information, in the form of energy, streams in simultaneously through all of our sensory systems and then it explodes into this enormous collage of what this present moment looks like, what this present moment smells like and tastes like, what it feels like and what it sounds like. I am an energy-being connected to the energy all around me through the consciousness of my right hemisphere. We are energy-beings connected to one another through the consciousness of our right hemispheres as one human family. And right here, right now, we are brothers and sisters on this planet, here to make the world a better place. And in this moment we are perfect, we are whole and we are beautiful. My left hemisphere, our left hemisphere, is a very different place. Our left hemisphere thinks linearly and methodically. Our left hemisphere is all about the past and it's all about the future. Our left hemisphere is designed to take that enormous collage of the present moment and start picking out details, and more details about those details. It then categorizes and organizes all that information, associates it with everything in the past we've ever learned, and projects into the future all of our possibilities. And our left hemisphere thinks in language. It's that ongoing brain chatter that connects me and my internal world to my external world. It's that little voice that says to me, ""Hey, you've got to remember to pick up bananas on your way home. I need them in the morning."" It's that calculating intelligence that reminds me when I have to do my laundry. But perhaps most important, it's that little voice that says to me, ""I am. I am."" And as soon as my left hemisphere says to me ""I am,"" I become separate. I become a single solid individual, separate from the energy flow around me and separate from you. And this was the portion of my brain that I lost on the morning of my stroke. On the morning of the stroke, I woke up to a pounding pain behind my left eye. And it was the kind of caustic pain that you get when you bite into ice cream. And it just gripped me — and then it released me. And then it just gripped me — and then it released me. And it was very unusual for me to ever experience any kind of pain, so I thought, ""OK, I'll just start my normal routine."" So I got up and I jumped onto my cardio glider, which is a full-body, full-exercise machine. And I'm jamming away on this thing, and I'm realizing that my hands look like primitive claws grasping onto the bar. And I thought, ""That's very peculiar."" And I looked down at my body and I thought, ""Whoa, I'm a weird-looking thing."" And it was as though my consciousness had shifted away from my normal perception of reality, where I'm the person on the machine having the experience, to some esoteric space where I'm witnessing myself having this experience. And it was all very peculiar, and my headache was just getting worse. So I get off the machine, and I'm walking across my living room floor, and I realize that everything inside of my body has slowed way down. And every step is very rigid and very deliberate. There's no fluidity to my pace, and there's this constriction in my area of perception, so I'm just focused on internal systems. And I'm standing in my bathroom getting ready to step into the shower, and I could actually hear the dialogue inside of my body. I heard a little voice saying, ""OK. You muscles, you've got to contract. You muscles, you relax."" And then I lost my balance, and I'm propped up against the wall. And I look down at my arm and I realize that I can no longer define the boundaries of my body. I can't define where I begin and where I end, because the atoms and the molecules of my arm blended with the atoms and molecules of the wall. And all I could detect was this energy — energy. And I'm asking myself, ""What is wrong with me? What is going on?"" And in that moment, my left hemisphere brain chatter went totally silent. Just like someone took a remote control and pushed the mute button. Total silence. And at first I was shocked to find myself inside of a silent mind. But then I was immediately captivated by the magnificence of the energy around me. And because I could no longer identify the boundaries of my body, I felt enormous and expansive. I felt at one with all the energy that was, and it was beautiful there. Then all of a sudden my left hemisphere comes back online and it says to me, ""Hey! We've got a problem! We've got to get some help."" And I'm going, ""Ahh! I've got a problem!"" (Laughter) So it's like, ""OK, I've got a problem."" But then I immediately drifted right back out into the consciousness — and I affectionately refer to this space as La La Land. But it was beautiful there. Imagine what it would be like to be totally disconnected from your brain chatter that connects you to the external world. So here I am in this space, and my job, and any stress related to my job — it was gone. And I felt lighter in my body. And imagine all of the relationships in the external world and any stressors related to any of those — they were gone. And I felt this sense of peacefulness. And imagine what it would feel like to lose 37 years of emotional baggage! (Laughter) Oh! I felt euphoria — euphoria. It was beautiful. And again, my left hemisphere comes online and it says, ""Hey! You've got to pay attention. We've got to get help."" And I'm thinking, ""I've got to get help. I've got to focus."" So I get out of the shower and I mechanically dress and I'm walking around my apartment, and I'm thinking, ""I've got to get to work. Can I drive?"" And in that moment, my right arm went totally paralyzed by my side. Then I realized, ""Oh my gosh! I'm having a stroke!"" And the next thing my brain says to me is, Wow! This is so cool! (Laughter) This is so cool! How many brain scientists have the opportunity to study their own brain from the inside out?"" (Laughter) And then it crosses my mind, ""But I'm a very busy woman!"" (Laughter) ""I don't have time for a stroke!"" So I'm like, ""OK, I can't stop the stroke from happening, so I'll do this for a week or two, and then I'll get back to my routine. OK. So I've got to call help. I've got to call work."" I couldn't remember the number at work, so I remembered, in my office I had a business card with my number. So I go into my business room, I pull out a three-inch stack of business cards. And I'm looking at the card on top and even though I could see clearly in my mind's eye what my business card looked like, I couldn't tell if this was my card or not, because all I could see were pixels. And the pixels of the words blended with the pixels of the background and the pixels of the symbols, and I just couldn't tell. And then I would wait for what I call a wave of clarity. And in that moment, I would be able to reattach to normal reality and I could tell that's not the card... that's not the card. It took me 45 minutes to get one inch down inside of that stack of cards. In the meantime, for 45 minutes, the hemorrhage is getting bigger in my left hemisphere. I do not understand numbers, I do not understand the telephone, but it's the only plan I have. So I take the phone pad and I put it right here. I take the business card, I put it right here, and I'm matching the shape of the squiggles on the card to the shape of the squiggles on the phone pad. But then I would drift back out into La La Land, and not remember when I came back if I'd already dialed those numbers. So I had to wield my paralyzed arm like a stump and cover the numbers as I went along and pushed them, so that as I would come back to normal reality, I'd be able to tell, ""Yes, I've already dialed that number."" Eventually, the whole number gets dialed and I'm listening to the phone, and my colleague picks up the phone and he says to me, ""Woo woo woo woo."" (Laughter) (Laughter) And I think to myself, ""Oh my gosh, he sounds like a Golden Retriever!"" (Laughter) And so I say to him — clear in my mind, I say to him: ""This is Jill! I need help!"" And what comes out of my voice is, ""Woo woo woo woo woo."" I'm thinking, ""Oh my gosh, I sound like a Golden Retriever."" So I couldn't know — I didn't know that I couldn't speak or understand language until I tried. So he recognizes that I need help and he gets me help. And a little while later, I am riding in an ambulance from one hospital across Boston to [Massachusetts] General Hospital. And I curl up into a little fetal ball. And just like a balloon with the last bit of air, just right out of the balloon, I just felt my energy lift and just I felt my spirit surrender. And in that moment, I knew that I was no longer the choreographer of my life. And either the doctors rescue my body and give me a second chance at life, or this was perhaps my moment of transition. When I woke later that afternoon, I was shocked to discover that I was still alive. When I felt my spirit surrender, I said goodbye to my life. And my mind was now suspended between two very opposite planes of reality. Stimulation coming in through my sensory systems felt like pure pain. Light burned my brain like wildfire, and sounds were so loud and chaotic that I could not pick a voice out from the background noise, and I just wanted to escape. Because I could not identify the position of my body in space, I felt enormous and expansive, like a genie just liberated from her bottle. And my spirit soared free, like a great whale gliding through the sea of silent euphoria. Nirvana. I found Nirvana. And I remember thinking, there's no way I would ever be able to squeeze the enormousness of myself back inside this tiny little body. But then I realized, ""But I'm still alive! I'm still alive, and I have found Nirvana. And if I have found Nirvana and I'm still alive, then everyone who is alive can find Nirvana."" And I pictured a world filled with beautiful, peaceful, compassionate, loving people who knew that they could come to this space at any time. And that they could purposely choose to step to the right of their left hemispheres — and find this peace. And then I realized what a tremendous gift this experience could be, what a stroke of insight this could be to how we live our lives. And it motivated me to recover. Two and a half weeks after the hemorrhage, the surgeons went in, and they removed a blood clot the size of a golf ball that was pushing on my language centers. Here I am with my mama, who is a true angel in my life. It took me eight years to completely recover. So who are we? We are the life-force power of the universe, with manual dexterity and two cognitive minds. And we have the power to choose, moment by moment, who and how we want to be in the world. Right here, right now, I can step into the consciousness of my right hemisphere, where we are. I am the life-force power of the universe. I am the life-force power of the 50 trillion beautiful molecular geniuses that make up my form, at one with all that is. Or, I can choose to step into the consciousness of my left hemisphere, where I become a single individual, a solid. Separate from the flow, separate from you. I am Dr. Jill Bolte Taylor: intellectual, neuroanatomist. These are the ""we"" inside of me. Which would you choose? Which do you choose? And when? I believe that the more time we spend choosing to run the deep inner-peace circuitry of our right hemispheres, the more peace we will project into the world, and the more peaceful our planet will be. And I thought that was an idea worth spreading. Thank you. (Applause)"	我決定研究腦部是因為我的哥哥被診斷出精神分裂症。我身為他的妹妹以及一個科學家，我想了解為什麼我可以將我的夢想和現實生活做連結，並讓我的夢想成真而我的哥哥卻沒辦法將他的夢想連結到大家共享的現實世界中導致這些夢想變成幻覺？ 所以我全心投入重度心理疾病的研究，並從我的家鄉印第安那州搬遷到了波士頓到哈佛大學精神醫學部， Francine Benes博士的研究室工作。我們研究的問題是所謂「正常人」的大腦和那些精神分裂患者精神混亂患者和躁鬱患者的大腦，在生理上到底有什麼不同？ 我們其實在繪出腦內的電路哪些細胞會跟哪些細胞溝通？用什麼化學物質來溝通？用多少化學物質來溝通？我白天都在做這種研究所以日子過的很充實到了晚上和週末我四處奔走替 NAMI (國家心理疾病聯盟) 作宣導但是在1996年10月10號，我醒來時發現自己的腦部出現了問題一根血管在我的左腦破裂在接下來的四個鐘頭我看著自己的腦功能徹底退化腦溢血的那個早上我無法行走、說話、閱讀、寫字，或是記得我的人生我幾乎變成了個嬰兒，躲在女人的軀殼裡 如果你看過人腦就會很清楚知道，腦的左右兩半球是完全分開的我帶來了一個真的人腦這是真的人腦 這是腦的前端這是腦的後端，連接著脊髓而在我的頭顱裡面，它是這樣擺著的我們的大腦的兩個半球是完全分離的用電腦術語來講右腦的功能像一個並聯處理器而左腦像一個串聯處理器左腦和右腦靠著胼胝體來溝通是由三億個神經元軸突纖維組成的構造除此之外左右腦是完全分離的因為左腦和右腦用不同的方式處理資訊想著不同的事情關心不同的事情所以我說他們有迥異的性格 麻煩一下，謝謝，這真是歡樂。(助理：是呀！) 我們的右腦只關心此時此刻、當下它用圖像來思考用肢體運動來學習外界的資訊以能量的型態不斷地流進我們的感覺神經系統然後在體內如爆炸般地拼湊出「當下」的模樣「當下」的氣味觸感和聲音「我」是一種能量體，藉由右腦的意識與外界的能量連結我們都是能量體藉由右腦的作用彼此連結成一個大家族而此時此地我們都是這星球上的兄弟姊妹為了讓這個世界更美好而存在在這當下，我們是完美無暇的，是完整的，是美麗的 左腦則是個很不一樣的情況它用線性和規律去思考我們的左腦關心著過去和未來它的功能在於把我們拼湊出來的「當下」挑選其中的細節，以及細節中的細節並把這些細節分類整理再把它們連結到過去的經驗和未來的憧憬我們的左腦用語言來思考它是把「我」的內心世界和外在環境持續連結起來的獨白它是提醒我「回家的路上記得要買香蕉，早上要吃的」的那個小聲音 它是告訴個聰明的聲音告訴我什麼時候該送洗衣服。最重要的它是告訴我：「我是我」的那個聲音。當我的左腦告訴我：「我是我」的時候我就變成一個獨立的個體我便從外界環境的能量分離出來我變得獨特而它是我在腦中風的那個早上喪失功能的那部份 中風的那個早上，我醒來時覺得左眼後方傳來陣陣疼痛有點像是一口咬在冰淇淋上的那種痛。它抓住我然後又放開，然後再次抓住再次放開，如此反覆我不曾有過這樣的痛苦經歷可我還是決定要開始一天的工作 起床後照樣踏上了我的滑步機開始運動我的手抓住了跑步機的橫桿，但我感覺那似乎只是一隻普通的動物爪子抓在把手上，我那時想：「咦，好怪」我往下了看我的身體之後發現：「哇！我看起來好詭異。」在那一刻我的意識彷彿和現實經驗分離了，彷彿我正在另外一個空間觀察著我自己經歷著這一切 正當我對一切感到困惑的時候，我的頭痛加劇了。於是我從滑步機下來走到客廳，卻發現我體內的一切都慢了下來。每一個步伐都非常僵硬而且刻意，失去了原本應有的流暢我的感官變得只關注我體內的運作當我準備沖澡的時候我真的聽到了我身體在小聲對話：「你們這群肌肉，開始收縮！你們那群，放鬆。」 接著我失去了平衡，靠在牆壁上我看著我的手臂，發現我找不到身體的界線不知道自己是從哪個點開始的、哪裡結束因為組成我手臂的原子和分子和牆壁融合成一體了我感覺到的只有能量 我心想：「我到底怎麼了？發生什麼事了？」在那一刻我左腦的聲音突然消失了彷彿有人拿了遙控器按下靜音 – 徹底的安靜一開始我被大腦安靜的程度嚇到了不過我的注意力很快又集中在周圍那片能量海因為我感受不到我身體的界線，我覺得我好巨大，好像在膨脹覺得我和周遭所有的能量融合成一體那個境界很美 突然間，左腦又「上線」了並告訴我：「喂！出問題了出問題了，快想辦法求救！」但在我意識到情況不妙之後我遇到問題了。就像是，「好的好的，我出了問題」 可是馬上我又回到了純意識的世界—我稱之為「啦啦國」的地方那邊很美。試想：能夠完全脫離腦內的聲音切斷與現實生活的連結，那會是什麼樣子 我在那個空間裡面，一切工作上的壓力都消失了我感覺自己變的好輕。你可以想像在那邊，所有人際關係上的壓力也都消失了我感受到的是一片安詳。想想這37年以來，所有的情緒負擔都消失不見會是怎樣我感受到了極樂美麗的極樂 但我的左腦又上線說：「喂！你專心一點！快點求救！」於是我思考著，「我要求救，要專心。」我從浴室出來，僵硬地穿好衣服，在家裡走動並思考著：「我要去上班，我要上班我還能開車嗎？我還能嗎？」 就在那一瞬間，我的右臂徹底麻痺。我此時才驚覺「我的天呀！我中風了。我中風了。」 頓時，我的第一個反應是：「這太帥了！這太帥了！有幾個神經學家能夠在自己的身上研究腦部啊？」(笑聲) 不過我又想到：「我這麼忙沒有時間中風啊！ 但我沒有辦法阻止他發生，那好吧就暫時休息一兩個禮拜再回復我正常的生活所以我想打電話到公司求助我不記得公司的電話號碼但我記得在家裡的辦公室有一張名片上面有公司的電話，所以我到辦公室拿出了一疊三吋厚的名片看著那疊名片雖然我很清楚知道，我要找的那張名片長什麼樣卻分不清是我的，還是別人的，因為我只看到一團像素卡片上的文字圖案、背景三者在我眼裡成了模糊的一塊像素團我根本無法判斷我只能等到我的神經系統能把我帶回現實只有在那片刻的現實裡，我才能重新構建起與外部世界的聯系並知道要找的不是這張，不是這張，不是那張我花了 45分鐘才找了1/3的名片在這45分鐘的時間我左腦的出血越來越多我開始無法理解數字，我甚至無法理解電話這東西但我別無他法我抓著話筒，放在這裡，拿著名片我把它放在這裡開始比對公司名片上的扭曲線條和電話按鍵的扭曲線條，撥號但當我的意識又漂到「啦啦國」我不記得是否已經按過這些數字於是我抓起那癱瘓的右手蓋住那些已按下的數字這樣在那簡短的片刻清醒到來指示我才可能知道撥出了哪些數字，最終電話打通了 最終電話數字都按了聽著電話那頭我的同事接了電話，但我只聽到「嗚嗚嗚嗚」的扭曲聲音。我那時心想：「我的天，他聽起來像是一隻黃金獵犬！」 於是我說：「我是 Jill ！我需要幫助！」不過從我口中出來的卻是：「嗚嗚嗚嗚嗚」我心想：「我的天，連我都變成黃金獵犬了」這時我才發現，我根本無法說話也聽不懂別人說的話幸好我同事發現事情不對勁，叫了救護車 後來我在救護車上被送往麻州的Mass General 醫院我的身體蜷曲成胎兒的姿勢我像洩了氣的氣球一樣整個消了氣覺得能量從我體內流出，覺得我的靈魂已經投降了 在那一刻，我知道我已無法主導我的生命除非醫生把我救活，給我第二次人生，不然這會是我離開人間的時候 我那天下午醒來，很驚訝地發現我還活著。當我感覺到我的靈魂投降的時候我向自己說了再見但現在我身處於兩個截然不同的世界。外界傳來的刺激經過我的感官系統成為了劇痛光線如野火般燒著我的腦部，外界的聲音是那麼的嘈雜無法聽清楚任何聲音讓我只想逃離。我不能明確自己身體的範圍，我感到身體變大了、舒展開來了就像一個從瓶子裡跑出來的精靈而我的靈魂則如一條鯨魚在極樂的大海中遨遊，一切都很和諧涅磐，那是涅磐的感覺，我那時還想著我永遠也不可能像故事裡的精靈那樣把這個巨大的自己，壓縮回小小的身體裡 不過我發現：我還活著！我活著！而且我達到了涅盤。如果我活著而且達到了涅盤，那所有活著的人都可以達到涅盤。我想像著一個世界充滿著美麗、安詳、慈悲、關愛的人們，他們知道他們能夠隨時到這個空間來靠著意識跳出左腦進到右腦，來尋找這份安祥然後我發現這個經驗是多麼的寶貴因為這次中風讓我了解該如何活出我的生命，這念頭不斷地激勵著我復原 事發的兩個半星期之後醫生把我的血塊從腦部清除它有高爾夫球那麼大，壓迫到我的語言中心這是我跟我的母親她真的是我的守護天使，我花了八年的時間才完全康復 所以我們究竟是誰？我們是宇宙中的生命能源有著精巧的雙手和兩個用來認知的腦部每一秒，我們都有能力去選擇我們要成為怎樣的人、要在這世上過怎樣的日子此時此地，我可以進到右腦的意識裡，在這裡成為宇宙中的生命能量成為我身上50兆個精妙細胞的能源與一切合而唯一我也可以進入左腦的意識，成為獨立的個體與所有的能量切割跟你切割，我是 Jill Bolte Taylor 博士我是知識分子、神經解剖學家。這些是我體內的“我們”你想怎麼選？你會怎麼選？什麼時候選？我相信，如果我們花愈多時間啟動安詳平和的右腦那我們就可以把更多的安詳平和投射到這個世界上，地球就會有更多平和 而我認為，這是一個值得分享的念頭。
