Talk	en	zh-tw
jill_heinerth_the_mysterious_world_of_underwater_caves	I'm an underwater explorer, more specifically a cave diver. I wanted to be an astronaut when I was a little kid, but growing up in Canada as a young girl, that wasn't really available to me. But as it turns out, we know a lot more about space than we do about the underground waterways coursing through our planet, the very lifeblood of Mother Earth. So I decided to do something that was even more remarkable. Instead of exploring outer space, I wanted to explore the wonders of inner space. Now, a lot of people will tell you that cave diving is perhaps one of the most dangerous endeavors. I mean, imagine yourself here in this room, if you were suddenly plunged into blackness, with your only job to find the exit, sometimes swimming through these large spaces, and at other times crawling beneath the seats, following a thin guideline, just waiting for the life support to provide your very next breath. Well, that's my workplace. But what I want to teach you today is that our world is not one big solid rock. It's a whole lot more like a sponge. I can swim through a lot of the pores in our earth's sponge, but where I can't, other life-forms and other materials can make that journey without me. And my voice is the one that's going to teach you about the inside of Mother Earth. There was no guidebook available to me when I decided to be the first person to cave dive inside Antarctic icebergs. In 2000, this was the largest moving object on the planet. It calved off the Ross Ice Shelf, and we went down there to explore ice edge ecology and search for life-forms beneath the ice. We use a technology called rebreathers. It's an awful lot like the same technology that is used for space walks. This technology enables us to go deeper than we could've imagined even 10 years ago. We use exotic gases, and we can make missions even up to 20 hours long underwater. I work with biologists. It turns out that caves are repositories of amazing life-forms, species that we never knew existed before. Many of these life-forms live in unusual ways. They have no pigment and no eyes in many cases, and these animals are also extremely long-lived. In fact, animals swimming in these caves today are identical in the fossil record that predates the extinction of the dinosaurs. So imagine that: these are like little swimming dinosaurs. What can they teach us about evolution and survival? When we look at an animal like this remipede swimming in the jar, he has giant fangs with venom. He can actually attack something 40 times his size and kill it. If he were the size of a cat, he'd be the most dangerous thing on our planet. And these animals live in remarkably beautiful places, and in some cases, caves like this, that are very young, yet the animals are ancient. How did they get there? I also work with physicists, and they're interested oftentimes in global climate change. They can take rocks within the caves, and they can slice them and look at the layers within with rocks, much like the rings of a tree, and they can count back in history and learn about the climate on our planet at very different times. The red that you see in this photograph is actually dust from the Sahara Desert. So it's been picked up by wind, blown across the Atlantic Ocean. It's rained down in this case on the island of Abaco in the Bahamas. It soaks in through the ground and deposits itself in the rocks within these caves. And when we look back in the layers of these rocks, we can find times when the climate was very, very dry on earth, and we can go back many hundreds of thousands of years. Paleoclimatologists are also interested in where the sea level stands were at other times on earth. Here in Bermuda, my team and I embarked on the deepest manned dives ever conducted in the region, and we were looking for places where the sea level used to lap up against the shoreline, many hundreds of feet below current levels. I also get to work with paleontologists and archaeologists. In places like Mexico, in the Bahamas, and even in Cuba, we're looking at cultural remains and also human remains in caves, and they tell us a lot about some of the earliest inhabitants of these regions. But my very favorite project of all was over 15 years ago, when I was a part of the team that made the very first accurate, three-dimensional map of a subterranean surface. This device that I'm driving through the cave was actually creating a three-dimensional model as we drove it. We also used ultra low frequency radio to broadcast back to the surface our exact position within the cave. So I swam under houses and businesses and bowling alleys and golf courses, and even under a Sonny's BBQ Restaurant, Pretty remarkable, and what that taught me was that everything we do on the surface of our earth will be returned to us to drink. Our water planet is not just rivers, lakes and oceans, but it's this vast network of groundwater that knits us all together. It's a shared resource from which we all drink. And when we can understand our human connections with our groundwater and all of our water resources on this planet, then we'll be working on the problem that's probably the most important issue of this century. So I never got to be that astronaut that I always wanted to be, but this mapping device, designed by Dr. Bill Stone, will be. It's actually morphed. It's now a self-swimming autonomous robot, artificially intelligent, and its ultimate goal is to go to Jupiter's moon Europa and explore oceans beneath the frozen surface of that body. And that's pretty amazing. (Applause)	我是水下探險員更具體地說是洞穴潛水員 當我還是小孩，我原本想成為太空人以一個在加拿大成長的年輕女孩這實在遙不可及其實，我們了解外太空比了解流經我們星球的地底下水道還要多而這正是地球的命脈所以我決定做一些更卓越的事情沒去外太空探險我反而去探索奇妙的地表深處 現在許多人會告訴你洞穴潛水可能是最危險的冒險之一我是說想像你自己在現在這個房間裡如果你突然間陷入黑暗中你所能做的就是找到出口有時要游過這些大空間又有時得爬過座位底下沿著一條指示細繩等著維生裝備來供應你下一口氣這就是我的工作場所 今天我要告訴你的就是我們的世界不是一個大的實心岩石它比較像一個海綿我可以在這個地球大海綿的孔隙中暢游在我無法去的地方有其他的生物及物質可到達那裡而我將會教導你認識有關地球內部 當我決定成為南極冰山的首位洞穴潛水員時，並沒有可供我參考的手冊在 2000 年，這冰山是世界最大的移動物體它是從 “羅斯冰架” 崩解出來的我們就是在它底下探索冰緣生態以及搜尋在冰下的生物 我們用一種叫「再生式氧氣系統」的技術這和使用在太空漫步的技術幾乎相同這技術讓我們可以潛入比十年前能想像的更深處我們使用新型的氣體讓我們可以在水底長達20 小時執行任務 我和生物學家一起工作我們發現這些洞穴是珍奇生物的寶庫有我們以前不知道存在的物種這裡的許多生物以特別的方式生存牠們很多是沒有色素及沒有眼睛而且這些動物也非常長壽事實上，現在在這些洞穴裡游動的動物和恐龍滅絕之前這些動物所留下的化石相同所以想像一下：這些就像在游泳的小恐龍在演化和生存方面，它們能教我們什麼呢？我們看這個在罐裡游的槳足類動物牠具有劇毒的大毒牙可以攻擊並殺死比牠大 40 倍的生物如果牠像貓那麼大牠將是地球上最危險的生物而這些動物生活在這些極為美麗的地方有些洞穴 ─像這個─ 非常年輕但存在這古老的動物牠們是怎麼來到那裡的？ 我也和自然科學家一起工作他們通常對全球氣候的改變有興趣他們從洞穴中的岩石取樣然後將它們切成薄片觀察岩石裡的分層非常像樹的年輪他們可從歷史回溯而得知地球在不同時期的氣候從這張圖片你看到的紅色部份實際上是來自撒哈拉沙漠的沙塵它曾隨風揚起並飄過大西洋在巴哈馬的阿巴科島隨雨落下滲入地面然後沉積在這些洞穴的岩石裡我們根據這些岩石的分層來回頭看發現當時的地球氣候非常非常地乾燥而且我們能回溯到幾十萬年以前 古氣候學家也對於地球在不同時期海平面的位置有興趣在百慕達，我和我的隊友從事這區域有史以來最深的潛水我們在尋找過去鄰近海岸線的海平面位置就在現在海平面以下數百呎的地方 我也會與古生物學家及考古學家一起工作像在墨西哥、巴哈馬，甚至古巴我們查看了洞穴裡文化及人類的遺跡讓我們知道許多有關這些區域最早的居民 但其中我最喜愛的研究計畫是十五多年前當時我是成員之一這個團隊是在製作最早的精確 3D 立體地表下地圖這個我駕駛通過洞穴的儀器實際上它於我們駕駛時就邊畫一個 3D 立體模型我們也利用超低頻無線電向在地面的人回報我們在洞穴裡確切的位置所以我游過了民宅、商家、保齡球道及高爾夫球場甚至 Sonny 燒烤店的下面 很了不起吧！這一切給我的啟示是我們加諸地球表面的任何東西都會回歸給我們飲用我們這充滿水的星球不只是河流、湖泊及海洋而已而是廣大的地下水網絡將我們緊密地結合在一起它是一個共享資源我們都飲用它當我們能了解人類與這個星球的地下水和所有水資源的關連性那麼我們將努力解決這個問題而且這可能是本世紀最重要的議題 所以我沒有成為我一直想要當的太空人但是這個由比爾史東博士設計的繪圖裝置，會！事實上，它被修改過它現在是一個會自己游泳的自動化機器人具有人工智慧它的終極目標是到木星的衛星─ Europa / 歐羅巴探索該處冰涷地表下的海洋 這實在是非常了不起！ （鼓掌）
