Talk	en	zh-tw
jim_simons_a_rare_interview_with_the_mathematician_who_cracked_wall_street	"Chris Anderson: You were something of a mathematical phenom. You had already taught at Harvard and MIT at a young age. And then the NSA came calling. What was that about? Jim Simons: Well the NSA — that's the National Security Agency — they didn't exactly come calling. They had an operation at Princeton, where they hired mathematicians to attack secret codes and stuff like that. And I knew that existed. And they had a very good policy, because you could do half your time at your own mathematics, and at least half your time working on their stuff. And they paid a lot. So that was an irresistible pull. So, I went there. CA: You were a code-cracker. JS: I was. CA: Until you got fired. JS: Well, I did get fired. Yes. CA: How come? JS: Well, how come? I got fired because, well, the Vietnam War was on, and the boss of bosses in my organization was a big fan of the war and wrote a New York Times article, a magazine section cover story, about how we would win in Vietnam. And I didn't like that war, I thought it was stupid. And I wrote a letter to the Times, which they published, saying not everyone who works for Maxwell Taylor, if anyone remembers that name, agrees with his views. And I gave my own views ... CA: Oh, OK. I can see that would — JS: ... which were different from General Taylor's. But in the end, nobody said anything. But then, I was 29 years old at this time, and some kid came around and said he was a stringer from Newsweek magazine and he wanted to interview me and ask what I was doing about my views. And I told him, ""I'm doing mostly mathematics now, and when the war is over, then I'll do mostly their stuff."" Then I did the only intelligent thing I'd done that day — I told my local boss that I gave that interview. And he said, ""What'd you say?"" And I told him what I said. And then he said, ""I've got to call Taylor."" He called Taylor; that took 10 minutes. I was fired five minutes after that. CA: OK. JS: But it wasn't bad. CA: It wasn't bad, because you went on to Stony Brook and stepped up your mathematical career. You started working with this man here. Who is this? JS: Oh, [Shiing-Shen] Chern. Chern was one of the great mathematicians of the century. I had known him when I was a graduate student at Berkeley. And I had some ideas, and I brought them to him and he liked them. Together, we did this work which you can easily see up there. There it is. CA: It led to you publishing a famous paper together. Can you explain at all what that work was? JS: No. (Laughter) JS: I mean, I could explain it to somebody. (Laughter) CA: How about explaining this? JS: But not many. Not many people. CA: I think you told me it had something to do with spheres, so let's start here. JS: Well, it did, but I'll say about that work — it did have something to do with that, but before we get to that — that work was good mathematics. I was very happy with it; so was Chern. It even started a little sub-field that's now flourishing. But, more interestingly, it happened to apply to physics, something we knew nothing about — at least I knew nothing about physics, and I don't think Chern knew a heck of a lot. And about 10 years after the paper came out, a guy named Ed Witten in Princeton started applying it to string theory and people in Russia started applying it to what's called ""condensed matter."" Today, those things in there called Chern-Simons invariants have spread through a lot of physics. And it was amazing. We didn't know any physics. It never occurred to me that it would be applied to physics. But that's the thing about mathematics — you never know where it's going to go. CA: This is so incredible. So, we've been talking about how evolution shapes human minds that may or may not perceive the truth. Somehow, you come up with a mathematical theory, not knowing any physics, discover two decades later that it's being applied to profoundly describe the actual physical world. How can that happen? JS: God knows. (Laughter) But there's a famous physicist named [Eugene] Wigner, and he wrote an essay on the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics. Somehow, this mathematics, which is rooted in the real world in some sense — we learn to count, measure, everyone would do that — and then it flourishes on its own. But so often it comes back to save the day. General relativity is an example. [Hermann] Minkowski had this geometry, and Einstein realized, ""Hey! It's the very thing in which I can cast general relativity."" So, you never know. It is a mystery. It is a mystery. CA: So, here's a mathematical piece of ingenuity. Tell us about this. JS: Well, that's a ball — it's a sphere, and it has a lattice around it — you know, those squares. What I'm going to show here was originally observed by [Leonhard] Euler, the great mathematician, in the 1700s. And it gradually grew to be a very important field in mathematics: algebraic topology, geometry. That paper up there had its roots in this. So, here's this thing: it has eight vertices, 12 edges, six faces. And if you look at the difference — vertices minus edges plus faces — you get two. OK, well, two. That's a good number. Here's a different way of doing it — these are triangles covering — this has 12 vertices and 30 edges and 20 faces, 20 tiles. And vertices minus edges plus faces still equals two. And in fact, you could do this any which way — cover this thing with all kinds of polygons and triangles and mix them up. And you take vertices minus edges plus faces — you'll get two. Here's a different shape. This is a torus, or the surface of a doughnut: 16 vertices covered by these rectangles, 32 edges, 16 faces. Vertices minus edges comes out to be zero. It'll always come out to zero. Every time you cover a torus with squares or triangles or anything like that, you're going to get zero. So, this is called the Euler characteristic. And it's what's called a topological invariant. It's pretty amazing. No matter how you do it, you're always get the same answer. So that was the first sort of thrust, from the mid-1700s, into a subject which is now called algebraic topology. CA: And your own work took an idea like this and moved it into higher-dimensional theory, higher-dimensional objects, and found new invariances? JS: Yes. Well, there were already higher-dimensional invariants: Pontryagin classes — actually, there were Chern classes. There were a bunch of these types of invariants. I was struggling to work on one of them and model it sort of combinatorially, instead of the way it was typically done, and that led to this work and we uncovered some new things. But if it wasn't for Mr. Euler — who wrote almost 70 volumes of mathematics and had 13 children, who he apparently would dandle on his knee while he was writing — if it wasn't for Mr. Euler, there wouldn't perhaps be these invariants. CA: OK, so that's at least given us a flavor of that amazing mind in there. Let's talk about Renaissance. Because you took that amazing mind and having been a code-cracker at the NSA, you started to become a code-cracker in the financial industry. I think you probably didn't buy efficient market theory. Somehow you found a way of creating astonishing returns over two decades. The way it's been explained to me, what's remarkable about what you did wasn't just the size of the returns, it's that you took them with surprisingly low volatility and risk, compared with other hedge funds. So how on earth did you do this, Jim? JS: I did it by assembling a wonderful group of people. When I started doing trading, I had gotten a little tired of mathematics. I was in my late 30s, I had a little money. I started trading and it went very well. I made quite a lot of money with pure luck. I mean, I think it was pure luck. It certainly wasn't mathematical modeling. But in looking at the data, after a while I realized: it looks like there's some structure here. And I hired a few mathematicians, and we started making some models — just the kind of thing we did back at IDA [Institute for Defense Analyses]. You design an algorithm, you test it out on a computer. Does it work? Doesn't it work? And so on. CA: Can we take a look at this? Because here's a typical graph of some commodity. I look at that, and I say, ""That's just a random, up-and-down walk — maybe a slight upward trend over that whole period of time."" How on earth could you trade looking at that, and see something that wasn't just random? JS: In the old days — this is kind of a graph from the old days, commodities or currencies had a tendency to trend. Not necessarily the very light trend you see here, but trending in periods. And if you decided, OK, I'm going to predict today, by the average move in the past 20 days — maybe that would be a good prediction, and I'd make some money. And in fact, years ago, such a system would work — not beautifully, but it would work. You'd make money, you'd lose money, you'd make money. But this is a year's worth of days, and you'd make a little money during that period. It's a very vestigial system. CA: So you would test a bunch of lengths of trends in time and see whether, for example, a 10-day trend or a 15-day trend was predictive of what happened next. JS: Sure, you would try all those things and see what worked best. Trend-following would have been great in the '60s, and it was sort of OK in the '70s. By the '80s, it wasn't. CA: Because everyone could see that. So, how did you stay ahead of the pack? JS: We stayed ahead of the pack by finding other approaches — shorter-term approaches to some extent. The real thing was to gather a tremendous amount of data — and we had to get it by hand in the early days. We went down to the Federal Reserve and copied interest rate histories and stuff like that, because it didn't exist on computers. We got a lot of data. And very smart people — that was the key. I didn't really know how to hire people to do fundamental trading. I had hired a few — some made money, some didn't make money. I couldn't make a business out of that. But I did know how to hire scientists, because I have some taste in that department. So, that's what we did. And gradually these models got better and better, and better and better. CA: You're credited with doing something remarkable at Renaissance, which is building this culture, this group of people, who weren't just hired guns who could be lured away by money. Their motivation was doing exciting mathematics and science. JS: Well, I'd hoped that might be true. But some of it was money. CA: They made a lot of money. JS: I can't say that no one came because of the money. I think a lot of them came because of the money. But they also came because it would be fun. CA: What role did machine learning play in all this? JS: In a certain sense, what we did was machine learning. You look at a lot of data, and you try to simulate different predictive schemes, until you get better and better at it. It doesn't necessarily feed back on itself the way we did things. But it worked. CA: So these different predictive schemes can be really quite wild and unexpected. I mean, you looked at everything, right? You looked at the weather, length of dresses, political opinion. JS: Yes, length of dresses we didn't try. CA: What sort of things? JS: Well, everything. Everything is grist for the mill — except hem lengths. Weather, annual reports, quarterly reports, historic data itself, volumes, you name it. Whatever there is. We take in terabytes of data a day. And store it away and massage it and get it ready for analysis. You're looking for anomalies. You're looking for — like you said, the efficient market hypothesis is not correct. CA: But any one anomaly might be just a random thing. So, is the secret here to just look at multiple strange anomalies, and see when they align? JS: Any one anomaly might be a random thing; however, if you have enough data you can tell that it's not. You can see an anomaly that's persistent for a sufficiently long time — the probability of it being random is not high. But these things fade after a while; anomalies can get washed out. So you have to keep on top of the business. CA: A lot of people look at the hedge fund industry now and are sort of ... shocked by it, by how much wealth is created there, and how much talent is going into it. Do you have any worries about that industry, and perhaps the financial industry in general? Kind of being on a runaway train that's — I don't know — helping increase inequality? How would you champion what's happening in the hedge fund industry? JS: I think in the last three or four years, hedge funds have not done especially well. We've done dandy, but the hedge fund industry as a whole has not done so wonderfully. The stock market has been on a roll, going up as everybody knows, and price-earnings ratios have grown. So an awful lot of the wealth that's been created in the last — let's say, five or six years — has not been created by hedge funds. People would ask me, ""What's a hedge fund?"" And I'd say, ""One and 20."" Which means — now it's two and 20 — it's two percent fixed fee and 20 percent of profits. Hedge funds are all different kinds of creatures. CA: Rumor has it you charge slightly higher fees than that. JS: We charged the highest fees in the world at one time. Five and 44, that's what we charge. CA: Five and 44. So five percent flat, 44 percent of upside. You still made your investors spectacular amounts of money. JS: We made good returns, yes. People got very mad: ""How can you charge such high fees?"" I said, ""OK, you can withdraw."" But ""How can I get more?"" was what people were — (Laughter) But at a certain point, as I think I told you, we bought out all the investors because there's a capacity to the fund. CA: But should we worry about the hedge fund industry attracting too much of the world's great mathematical and other talent to work on that, as opposed to the many other problems in the world? JS: Well, it's not just mathematical. We hire astronomers and physicists and things like that. I don't think we should worry about it too much. It's still a pretty small industry. And in fact, bringing science into the investing world has improved that world. It's reduced volatility. It's increased liquidity. Spreads are narrower because people are trading that kind of stuff. So I'm not too worried about Einstein going off and starting a hedge fund. CA: You're at a phase in your life now where you're actually investing, though, at the other end of the supply chain — you're actually boosting mathematics across America. This is your wife, Marilyn. You're working on philanthropic issues together. Tell me about that. JS: Well, Marilyn started — there she is up there, my beautiful wife — she started the foundation about 20 years ago. I think '94. I claim it was '93, she says it was '94, but it was one of those two years. (Laughter) We started the foundation, just as a convenient way to give charity. She kept the books, and so on. We did not have a vision at that time, but gradually a vision emerged — which was to focus on math and science, to focus on basic research. And that's what we've done. Six years ago or so, I left Renaissance and went to work at the foundation. So that's what we do. CA: And so Math for America is basically investing in math teachers around the country, giving them some extra income, giving them support and coaching. And really trying to make that more effective and make that a calling to which teachers can aspire. JS: Yeah — instead of beating up the bad teachers, which has created morale problems all through the educational community, in particular in math and science, we focus on celebrating the good ones and giving them status. Yeah, we give them extra money, 15,000 dollars a year. We have 800 math and science teachers in New York City in public schools today, as part of a core. There's a great morale among them. They're staying in the field. Next year, it'll be 1,000 and that'll be 10 percent of the math and science teachers in New York [City] public schools. (Applause) CA: Jim, here's another project that you've supported philanthropically: Research into origins of life, I guess. What are we looking at here? JS: Well, I'll save that for a second. And then I'll tell you what you're looking at. Origins of life is a fascinating question. How did we get here? Well, there are two questions: One is, what is the route from geology to biology — how did we get here? And the other question is, what did we start with? What material, if any, did we have to work with on this route? Those are two very, very interesting questions. The first question is a tortuous path from geology up to RNA or something like that — how did that all work? And the other, what do we have to work with? Well, more than we think. So what's pictured there is a star in formation. Now, every year in our Milky Way, which has 100 billion stars, about two new stars are created. Don't ask me how, but they're created. And it takes them about a million years to settle out. So, in steady state, there are about two million stars in formation at any time. That one is somewhere along this settling-down period. And there's all this crap sort of circling around it, dust and stuff. And it'll form probably a solar system, or whatever it forms. But here's the thing — in this dust that surrounds a forming star have been found, now, significant organic molecules. Molecules not just like methane, but formaldehyde and cyanide — things that are the building blocks — the seeds, if you will — of life. So, that may be typical. And it may be typical that planets around the universe start off with some of these basic building blocks. Now does that mean there's going to be life all around? Maybe. But it's a question of how tortuous this path is from those frail beginnings, those seeds, all the way to life. And most of those seeds will fall on fallow planets. CA: So for you, personally, finding an answer to this question of where we came from, of how did this thing happen, that is something you would love to see. JS: Would love to see. And like to know — if that path is tortuous enough, and so improbable, that no matter what you start with, we could be a singularity. But on the other hand, given all this organic dust that's floating around, we could have lots of friends out there. It'd be great to know. CA: Jim, a couple of years ago, I got the chance to speak with Elon Musk, and I asked him the secret of his success, and he said taking physics seriously was it. Listening to you, what I hear you saying is taking math seriously, that has infused your whole life. It's made you an absolute fortune, and now it's allowing you to invest in the futures of thousands and thousands of kids across America and elsewhere. Could it be that science actually works? That math actually works? JS: Well, math certainly works. Math certainly works. But this has been fun. Working with Marilyn and giving it away has been very enjoyable. CA: I just find it — it's an inspirational thought to me, that by taking knowledge seriously, so much more can come from it. So thank you for your amazing life, and for coming here to TED. Thank you. Jim Simons! (Applause)"	"(安德森) 你算是數學界的奇葩很早便在哈佛和麻省理工教書之後NSA找上門這段故事是？ (西蒙斯) 喔，NSA是美國國家安全局並沒有實際找我它在普林斯頓有個機構請了許多數學家來破解密碼之類的我知道這事它們的規定挺不錯你可以一半研究數學只要一半做它們的事給薪很優渥這點很難抗拒所以我就去了 (安) 你曾是密碼破解員 (西) 對，是的 (安) 直到被解雇 (西) 對，我被炒魷魚 (安) 怎會這樣? (西) 嗯，原因嘛被解雇因為...那時越戰爆發我單位的上司迷上越戰他替紐約時報寫了文章成為封面故事談如何打贏越戰我不喜歡越戰，覺得很愚蠢便寫信給《時代》雜誌，後來被登出來說並非麥克斯維爾·泰勒所有屬下都贊同他，如果還有人記得這個名字我提出我的看法 (安) OK，我瞭解這會... (西) 與泰勒將軍不同但最後也沒人說什麼那年我29歲，有個小子來找我自稱是《新聞週刊》特約記者想問我怎麼實踐自己的看法我說:「現在我幾乎都弄數學等戰爭結束，才會做他們的事」於是我便做了那天最明智的事我把訪談一事告訴主管他問我:「你說了什麼?」我就照實說接著他說:「我要打電話給泰勒」他打給泰勒，講了10分鐘再5分鐘我就被解雇了 (安) 這樣啊 (西) 不過這並非壞事 (安) 這不糟，因為你去了紐約州立大學石溪分校數學生涯更上層樓也開始跟這人合作他是誰？ (西) 喔，陳省身陳是那世紀最厲害的數學家我在柏克萊念碩士時，就知道他我有些想法告訴了他，他很喜歡我們便一起努力，就上面你看到的就是這個 (安) 你們共同發表了著名論文可以談研究內容嗎? (西) 不行 (笑聲) (西) 我是說，可以講給別人聽 (笑聲) (安) 如果說明這個呢? (西) 可是, 不會向太多人 (安) 你曾告訴我，這跟球體有關從這說起吧 (西) 我要講那研究－是有關球形, 但我想先說那是一流的數學研究我非常高興，陳也是它甚至促成一個次領域，現在很興盛更棒的是它被用於物理一個未知領域，至少我不懂物理我想陳也只略知皮毛論文發表10年後普林斯頓的愛德華·維騰把它用在弦理論俄國人則用於所謂""凝聚體""研究如今這些被稱為""陳-西蒙不變式""廣泛應用在物理界這太不可思議我們完全是物理門外漢從沒想過會被用於物理然而，這就是數學你總猜不到它的去向 (安) 真難以置信我們談到演化如何形塑人類思想無論思想是否關於真理你就這樣得出一個數學理論完全不懂物理這理論20年後被用來深入描述實際物理世界怎麼辦到的? (西) 天曉得 (笑聲) 知名物理學家尤金·維格納曾撰文談到數學不合理的有效性不管怎樣, 數學本就源自真實世界例如學計算、測量，大家都這麼做這學門自己繁盛起來常常一回到數學，困難就迎刃而解廣義相對論就是一例愛因斯坦學了閔可夫斯基的幾何學後驚呼「就是它了! 幫我釐清廣義相對論」所以, 你搞不懂的，這太奧秘了超乎常理 (安) 關於數學的獨創性講講這個 (西) 這是顆球－球體，球面被格狀劃分就那些四方形我要講的是（萊昂納多）歐拉發現的18世紀偉大的數學家這現象逐漸成為重要的數學領域代數拓樸學、幾何學我的研究即從這來是這樣的這裡有8頂點、12邊和6面如果加以運算：頂點數-邊數+面數得到2嗯，好一個2換方法做，佈滿三角形有12個頂點，30個邊和20個面此時點-邊+面仍是2事實上，你可用任何方法球上蓋滿各種多邊形和三角形混合在一起再把點-邊+面，得到2這是另一種形狀這是環面，甜甜圈形表面16頂點覆蓋長方形，32邊，16面點-邊+面得出0答案永遠是0只要用長方或三角形覆蓋環面答案總是0這稱為歐拉示性數也叫做拓樸不變量這很神奇不論你怎麼劃，答案總是一樣這是18世紀中以來第一個刺激後來變成代數拓樸學 (安) 你對此更深入研究到更高維度理論更高維度的物體，找新的不變量? 是, 高維不變量已找到了龐特里亞金示性類，還有陳示性類一大堆這類不變量那時我努力研究其中一個發展成某種組合模型不用既有標準方法這變成我們的研究，也發現新東西但如果沒有歐拉寫下70卷數學書養育13個子女想必是邊寫邊逗弄幼兒若非歐拉, 就沒有這些不變量 (安) 恩, 我們瞭解了，奇特的心路歷程現在讓我們談談文藝復興科技公司由於你曾任NSA解碼員的研究經歷你開始當金融界的解碼員我想你不相信效率市場理論20年來，你有辦法獲利驚人對我來說你的方法驚人之處不在於獲利金額多寡而是大幅降低變動性與風險相較其他對沖基金你到底怎麼辦到的? (西) 我靠集合一群優秀的人我開始經商時，我對數學已有些厭煩年紀快40，手頭有點錢便開始做買賣，結果非常成功純靠運氣賺了一大筆錢我說，我認為是好運而肯定不是數學模型但我審視這些數字後發覺現似有固定模式我便請幾位數學家，弄了幾個模型類似我在防衛分析研究所做的設計一套演算法，用電腦測試能用?不能用? 之類的 (安) 可否看看這個?這是常見的商品銷售圖我想:「不過是隨機走高走低－整體趨勢緩升」你到底怎麼看這隨機圖就能做生意、發現東西? (西) 這圖很老套了商品或貨幣有其趨勢不必然像這樣，但一段時間有其走向如果你決定，好，我要預測今天靠前20日的平均變化也許可猜得準，也賺到錢事實上幾年前，這系統還可行不漂亮，但過得去賺了，賠了，又賺但這是一年內表現最好的幾天這期間賺得不多這系統老掉牙了 (安) 所以你用不同期間長短的趨勢來檢視，例如是10天還是15天的走勢預測較準 (西) 沒錯，都得試過才知道順勢投資法在60年代或許非常好用70年代還可以到80年代就玩不通了 (安) 因為任何人都看得出來你是怎麼持續領先的? (西) 我們靠開發其他方法保持領先－像是期間更短的方法實際上是蒐集無數資料早期都一筆筆抄回來我們到聯準會影印歷史利率之類的，那時還沒有電腦我們取得大批資料和絕頂聰明的人——這是關鍵我不太會找人做實際買賣我請過幾個——有人能賺，有的不行我不能這樣做生意但我知道怎麼請科學家這方面我比較有品味所以就這麼做了模型表現越來越好越來越順 (安) 你帶領文藝復興公司的成果驚艷塑造了一種文化、一群人他們不是老想錢的傭兵而一心想玩數學和科學 (西) 我希望這是真的但有些動機真的是錢 (安) 他們賺了好多 (西) 我不信沒人在乎錢我想許多人來都想賺錢但他們也想樂在其中 (安) 當中機器學習的角色是? (西) 某些情況下，我們就是做機器學習你面對成堆資料，試著模擬各種預測系統直到越發熟練它不一定會跟人一樣主動回饋資料但仍滿好用的 (安) 所以不同預測系統很難駕馭與掌握意思是，你什麼都算，是嗎?天氣、裙長、政治評論 (西) 是的，裙長倒沒試過 (安) 哪類東西? (西) 所有東西什麼都可用－除了衣擺長度天氣、年報季報、歷史資料、冊數，只要你叫得出來管他是什麼我們每天取得1T的資料接著儲存、處理、準備分析尋找突出的現象在找——就像你說的效率市場假說並不正確 (安) 但任何奇特現象都可能只是隨機現象所以秘訣是在與注意多次出現的異狀，並觀察何時接連出現嗎? (西) 任何異常狀可能只是恰巧不過看夠多資料後就知並非如此會發現異常持續很久隨機出現的機率反而不高一陣子它會不見，異常會消失所以我們得保持領先 (安) 目前人們看對沖基金產業都感到震驚竟創造這麼多財富又得投入大量腦力你擔心這產業嗎?或對整個金融業?好似脫韁野馬我不曉得——助長社會不平等?你為何支持對沖基金的近來發展？ (西) 我想近3、4年對沖基金表現平平我們曾風光一時但這產業走得不太順眾所周知，股市向來平步青雲本益比增加了過去5、6年錢賺到嚇死人但對沖基金就較差人們問我:「什麼是對沖基金?」我說:「1和20」意思是——現在是2和202％的固定手續費，20％的獲利抽成各家對沖基金差異很大 (安) 有流言說，你收的高些 (西) 我們的手續費一度是世界最高5和44，就這個價格 (安) 5和445%固定費用，44％獲利抽成你仍幫客戶賺進大把鈔票 (西) 是的，收益很不錯人們氣我:「這太貴了」我說:「OK，你可退出」但「如何賺更多」就是人們... (笑聲) 但重點是，我跟你提過我們收購了所有投資者，因為這基金能賺 (安) 但該替對沖基金業擔心嗎?它吸走太多全球優秀的數學等人才只做這事，而無視世界其他問題 (西) 這個嘛，不單數學家我們也聘請天文學家和物理學家等我不覺得我們應當過於擔心這產業規模仍小事實上，把科學引入投資界對世界有益可降低變動性，提高流動性因人們交易這東西，擴散範圍變更小我不擔心愛因斯坦出走搞對沖基金 (安) 你現在的人生階段是，一方面進出市場但在供應鏈另一端也正促進全美數學發展這是您的夫人，瑪麗蓮您倆攜手從事慈善工作說說這個 (西) 嗯，瑪麗蓮－這就是她，我美麗的老婆20年前她創立一基金會我想是1994年我說1993, 她說1994就這兩年間 (笑聲) 我們創立基金會以便做慈善工作她負責管帳等事那時我們沒太多想法，後來逐漸找到方向——投入數學、科學和基礎研究這就是我們在做的6年前我離開文藝復興公司，改在基金會工作我們在做這個 (安) Math for America計畫，基本上是投資全國數學教師提供額外收入並給予支持和指導讓計畫更有效運作號召有理想的老師 (西) 是的——與其懲罰不適任者會拖累教育士氣的人特別在數理科我們著重鼓勵好老師，給他們地位是的，我們每年給他們1萬5千美元額外收入目前紐約市有800名公立學校數理教師是核心成員他們士氣高昂專注在這領域明年將增至1千人即紐約公立學校10％的數理教師 (掌聲) (安) 你還資助另一計畫研究生命的起源, 是吧這是什麼?(西) 先擱一邊等會再說這圖生命源起令人著迷如何找到答案？這要處理兩個問題一是，從地質學往生物學路在哪裡？二是，從哪下手?一路上需哪些材料?這兩問題非常有趣問題一是條曲折路，從地質學到RNA之類的——這如何可能?問題二是需要什麼東西這超乎我們想像所以，這是張星體形成圖在千億星體組成的銀河系裡每年都誕生兩顆星星別問過程，反正就誕生了接著要百萬年才穩定下來型態固定了宇宙形成中的星星隨時都有兩百萬顆那顆星正逐漸穩定周遭圍繞著廢棄物塵埃和其他東西它可能形成太陽系，或者其他什麼但關鍵是——形成中星體周遭的塵土裡現在研究發現重要的有機分子不只有甲烷，還有甲醛、氰化物這種基礎物質——或者生命的種子這可能是典型過程宇宙星體也可能經此典型過程由基礎組成物建立起來這代表到處都存在生命?也許但問題在於這過程多麼迂迴曲折從渺小的起頭, 種子演變成生命這類種子絕大多數落在休眠星體上 (安) 那麼對你個人來說尋找答案，關於你我的起源和源起過程是你想知道的 (西) 我很期待也想知道——如果這路如此艱辛、渺茫那不論源頭是什麼，你我都可能是個奇點但另方面由於懸浮在外的有機塵埃遠方我們也許有很多朋友知道這個感覺很好 (安) 幾年前，我有機會和伊隆·馬斯克對談我請教他成功的秘訣他說好好把物理當回事而你所說的，我覺得是把數學當回事它飽滿了你的人生它給你帶來可觀的收入，可以投資全美、甚至其他地方數千位孩童的未來真是這學科的功勞嗎?數學真起作用了? (西) 數學本身一定是確實有效的但有趣的是和瑪麗蓮同心捐助也真是人生至樂 (安) 我發現——這啟發了我認真做好一門學問，更多好事由此而來感謝你來 TED 分享不凡的人生 謝謝你 詹姆士‧西蒙斯 (掌聲)"
