Talk	en	zh-tw
jim_al_khalili_how_quantum_biology_might_explain_life_s_biggest_questions	"I'd like to introduce you to an emerging area of science, one that is still speculative but hugely exciting, and certainly one that's growing very rapidly. Quantum biology asks a very simple question: Does quantum mechanics — that weird and wonderful and powerful theory of the subatomic world of atoms and molecules that underpins so much of modern physics and chemistry — also play a role inside the living cell? In other words: Are there processes, mechanisms, phenomena in living organisms that can only be explained with a helping hand from quantum mechanics? Now, quantum biology isn't new; it's been around since the early 1930s. But it's only in the last decade or so that careful experiments — in biochemistry labs, using spectroscopy — have shown very clear, firm evidence that there are certain specific mechanisms that require quantum mechanics to explain them. Quantum biology brings together quantum physicists, biochemists, molecular biologists — it's a very interdisciplinary field. I come from quantum physics, so I'm a nuclear physicist. I've spent more than three decades trying to get my head around quantum mechanics. One of the founders of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr, said, If you're not astonished by it, then you haven't understood it. So I sort of feel happy that I'm still astonished by it. That's a good thing. But it means I study the very smallest structures in the universe — the building blocks of reality. If we think about the scale of size, start with an everyday object like the tennis ball, and just go down orders of magnitude in size — from the eye of a needle down to a cell, down to a bacterium, down to an enzyme — you eventually reach the nano-world. Now, nanotechnology may be a term you've heard of. A nanometer is a billionth of a meter. My area is the atomic nucleus, which is the tiny dot inside an atom. It's even smaller in scale. This is the domain of quantum mechanics, and physicists and chemists have had a long time to try and get used to it. Biologists, on the other hand, have got off lightly, in my view. They are very happy with their balls-and-sticks models of molecules. (Laughter) The balls are the atoms, the sticks are the bonds between the atoms. And when they can't build them physically in the lab, nowadays, they have very powerful computers that will simulate a huge molecule. This is a protein made up of 100,000 atoms. It doesn't really require much in the way of quantum mechanics to explain it. Quantum mechanics was developed in the 1920s. It is a set of beautiful and powerful mathematical rules and ideas that explain the world of the very small. And it's a world that's very different from our everyday world, made up of trillions of atoms. It's a world built on probability and chance. It's a fuzzy world. It's a world of phantoms, where particles can also behave like spread-out waves. If we imagine quantum mechanics or quantum physics, then, as the fundamental foundation of reality itself, then it's not surprising that we say quantum physics underpins organic chemistry. After all, it gives us the rules that tell us how the atoms fit together to make organic molecules. Organic chemistry, scaled up in complexity, gives us molecular biology, which of course leads to life itself. So in a way, it's sort of not surprising. It's almost trivial. You say, ""Well, of course life ultimately must depend of quantum mechanics."" But so does everything else. So does all inanimate matter, made up of trillions of atoms. Ultimately, there's a quantum level where we have to delve into this weirdness. But in everyday life, we can forget about it. Because once you put together trillions of atoms, that quantum weirdness just dissolves away. Quantum biology isn't about this. Quantum biology isn't this obvious. Of course quantum mechanics underpins life at some molecular level. Quantum biology is about looking for the non-trivial — the counterintuitive ideas in quantum mechanics — and to see if they do, indeed, play an important role in describing the processes of life. Here is my perfect example of the counterintuitiveness of the quantum world. This is the quantum skier. He seems to be intact, he seems to be perfectly healthy, and yet, he seems to have gone around both sides of that tree at the same time. Well, if you saw tracks like that you'd guess it was some sort of stunt, of course. But in the quantum world, this happens all the time. Particles can multitask, they can be in two places at once. They can do more than one thing at the same time. Particles can behave like spread-out waves. It's almost like magic. Physicists and chemists have had nearly a century of trying to get used to this weirdness. I don't blame the biologists for not having to or wanting to learn quantum mechanics. You see, this weirdness is very delicate; and we physicists work very hard to maintain it in our labs. We cool our system down to near absolute zero, we carry out our experiments in vacuums, we try and isolate it from any external disturbance. That's very different from the warm, messy, noisy environment of a living cell. Biology itself, if you think of molecular biology, seems to have done very well in describing all the processes of life in terms of chemistry — chemical reactions. And these are reductionist, deterministic chemical reactions, showing that, essentially, life is made of the same stuff as everything else, and if we can forget about quantum mechanics in the macro world, then we should be able to forget about it in biology, as well. Well, one man begged to differ with this idea. Erwin Schrödinger, of Schrödinger's Cat fame, was an Austrian physicist. He was one of the founders of quantum mechanics in the 1920s. In 1944, he wrote a book called ""What is Life?"" It was tremendously influential. It influenced Francis Crick and James Watson, the discoverers of the double-helix structure of DNA. To paraphrase a description in the book, he says: At the molecular level, living organisms have a certain order, a structure to them that's very different from the random thermodynamic jostling of atoms and molecules in inanimate matter of the same complexity. In fact, living matter seems to behave in this order, in a structure, just like inanimate matter cooled down to near absolute zero, where quantum effects play a very important role. There's something special about the structure — the order — inside a living cell. So, Schrödinger speculated that maybe quantum mechanics plays a role in life. It's a very speculative, far-reaching idea, and it didn't really go very far. But as I mentioned at the start, in the last 10 years, there have been experiments emerging, showing where some of these certain phenomena in biology do seem to require quantum mechanics. I want to share with you just a few of the exciting ones. This is one of the best-known phenomena in the quantum world, quantum tunneling. The box on the left shows the wavelike, spread-out distribution of a quantum entity — a particle, like an electron, which is not a little ball bouncing off a wall. It's a wave that has a certain probability of being able to permeate through a solid wall, like a phantom leaping through to the other side. You can see a faint smudge of light in the right-hand box. Quantum tunneling suggests that a particle can hit an impenetrable barrier, and yet somehow, as though by magic, disappear from one side and reappear on the other. The nicest way of explaining it is if you want to throw a ball over a wall, you have to give it enough energy to get over the top of the wall. In the quantum world, you don't have to throw it over the wall, you can throw it at the wall, and there's a certain non-zero probability that it'll disappear on your side, and reappear on the other. This isn't speculation, by the way. We're happy — well, ""happy"" is not the right word — (Laughter) we are familiar with this. (Laughter) Quantum tunneling takes place all the time; in fact, it's the reason our Sun shines. The particles fuse together, and the Sun turns hydrogen into helium through quantum tunneling. Back in the 70s and 80s, it was discovered that quantum tunneling also takes place inside living cells. Enzymes, those workhorses of life, the catalysts of chemical reactions — enzymes are biomolecules that speed up chemical reactions in living cells, by many, many orders of magnitude. And it's always been a mystery how they do this. Well, it was discovered that one of the tricks that enzymes have evolved to make use of, is by transferring subatomic particles, like electrons and indeed protons, from one part of a molecule to another via quantum tunneling. It's efficient, it's fast, it can disappear — a proton can disappear from one place, and reappear on the other. Enzymes help this take place. This is research that's been carried out back in the 80s, particularly by a group in Berkeley, Judith Klinman. Other groups in the UK have now also confirmed that enzymes really do this. Research carried out by my group — so as I mentioned, I'm a nuclear physicist, but I've realized I've got these tools of using quantum mechanics in atomic nuclei, and so can apply those tools in other areas as well. One question we asked is whether quantum tunneling plays a role in mutations in DNA. Again, this is not a new idea; it goes all the way back to the early 60s. The two strands of DNA, the double-helix structure, are held together by rungs; it's like a twisted ladder. And those rungs of the ladder are hydrogen bonds — protons, that act as the glue between the two strands. So if you zoom in, what they're doing is holding these large molecules — nucleotides — together. Zoom in a bit more. So, this a computer simulation. The two white balls in the middle are protons, and you can see that it's a double hydrogen bond. One prefers to sit on one side; the other, on the other side of the two strands of the vertical lines going down, which you can't see. It can happen that these two protons can hop over. Watch the two white balls. They can jump over to the other side. If the two strands of DNA then separate, leading to the process of replication, and the two protons are in the wrong positions, this can lead to a mutation. This has been known for half a century. The question is: How likely are they to do that, and if they do, how do they do it? Do they jump across, like the ball going over the wall? Or can they quantum-tunnel across, even if they don't have enough energy? Early indications suggest that quantum tunneling can play a role here. We still don't know yet how important it is; this is still an open question. It's speculative, but it's one of those questions that is so important that if quantum mechanics plays a role in mutations, surely this must have big implications, to understand certain types of mutations, possibly even those that lead to turning a cell cancerous. Another example of quantum mechanics in biology is quantum coherence, in one of the most important processes in biology, photosynthesis: plants and bacteria taking sunlight, and using that energy to create biomass. Quantum coherence is the idea of quantum entities multitasking. It's the quantum skier. It's an object that behaves like a wave, so that it doesn't just move in one direction or the other, but can follow multiple pathways at the same time. Some years ago, the world of science was shocked when a paper was published showing experimental evidence that quantum coherence takes place inside bacteria, carrying out photosynthesis. The idea is that the photon, the particle of light, the sunlight, the quantum of light captured by a chlorophyll molecule, is then delivered to what's called the reaction center, where it can be turned into chemical energy. And in getting there, it doesn't just follow one route; it follows multiple pathways at once, to optimize the most efficient way of reaching the reaction center without dissipating as waste heat. Quantum coherence taking place inside a living cell. A remarkable idea, and yet evidence is growing almost weekly, with new papers coming out, confirming that this does indeed take place. My third and final example is the most beautiful, wonderful idea. It's also still very speculative, but I have to share it with you. The European robin migrates from Scandinavia down to the Mediterranean, every autumn, and like a lot of other marine animals and even insects, they navigate by sensing the Earth's magnetic field. Now, the Earth's magnetic field is very, very weak; it's 100 times weaker than a fridge magnet, and yet it affects the chemistry — somehow — within a living organism. That's not in doubt — a German couple of ornithologists, Wolfgang and Roswitha Wiltschko, in the 1970s, confirmed that indeed, the robin does find its way by somehow sensing the Earth's magnetic field, to give it directional information — a built-in compass. The puzzle, the mystery was: How does it do it? Well, the only theory in town — we don't know if it's the correct theory, but the only theory in town — is that it does it via something called quantum entanglement. Inside the robin's retina — I kid you not — inside the robin's retina is a protein called cryptochrome, which is light-sensitive. Within cryptochrome, a pair of electrons are quantum-entangled. Now, quantum entanglement is when two particles are far apart, and yet somehow remain in contact with each other. Even Einstein hated this idea; he called it ""spooky action at a distance."" (Laughter) So if Einstein doesn't like it, then we can all be uncomfortable with it. Two quantum-entangled electrons within a single molecule dance a delicate dance that is very sensitive to the direction the bird flies in the Earth's magnetic field. We don't know if it's the correct explanation, but wow, wouldn't it be exciting if quantum mechanics helps birds navigate? Quantum biology is still in it infancy. It's still speculative. But I believe it's built on solid science. I also think that in the coming decade or so, we're going to start to see that actually, it pervades life — that life has evolved tricks that utilize the quantum world. Watch this space. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想向你們介紹一個新興的科學領域，一個仍在推導中，但十分激動人心的，並且發展尤為迅速的領域。量子生物學問了一個很簡單的問題：量子力學—-這個怪誕奇妙而強大的理論，存在於原子和分子的亞原子世界，並為現代物理和化學打下如此堅固的基礎—-是否也在活細胞中扮演著一定角色？換句話說：是否某些進程，機制和現象在生物有機體中只能通過量子力學的幫助得以解釋說明？如今，量子生物學並不是新事物；早在20世紀30年代量子生物學就出現了。然而，直到大約過去十年內，那些周密的實驗—-在生物化學實驗室中，使用光譜儀—-才得出非常確鑿的證據，證明的確有某些特定的機制需要量子力學來解釋。 量子生物學領域聚集了量子物理學家，生物化學家和分子生物學家—-一個極具交叉性的學科。我來自量子物理學領域，然後我是一個核物理學家。 我花了三十多年的時間來嘗試研究量子力學。Niels Bohr，量子力學的創始人之一說過：如果你沒有為之震撼，那麽你就沒有理解它。我現在仍然對它感到震驚，所以我還挺高興的。這是個好事。但這意味著我研究的是宇宙中最最細微的結構—-是現實的基石。如果我們想知道這個結構的大小先從一個日常物品開始，比如說一個網球，然後將物體的尺寸大小按降序排列—-從一個針眼，到一個細胞，到一個細菌，再到一個酶—-最後你就來到了奈米的世界。 現在你可能聽說過奈米科技這個名詞。一奈米是一米的十億分之一。我的研究領域是原子核，相當於原子力的一個小點。它的尺寸規模甚至更小。這屬於量子力學的領域，而且物理學家和化學家已經花了很久的時間來做出嘗試並適應該領域。另一方面我認為，生物學家已經輕易地離開了該領域。他們對自己的分子球-棍模型已經很滿意了。 （笑聲） 球就是原子，而棍是連接各個原子的紐帶。而且當他們不能在實驗室裏用實物建造這種結構時，他們現在可以使用強大的計算機技術來模擬出一個巨大的分子結構。這是一個由10萬原子構成的蛋白質。事實上它並不需要用量子力學的理論來解釋。量子力學發展於20世紀20年代。它是一套美妙且強大的數學規則和理念，用來解釋那些微小的世界。同時這個世界於我們日常世界非常迥異，這個世界包括幾萬億原子。它是一個建立在可能性和概率上的，比較模糊的世界。猶如一個幽靈居住的世界，在這裏，粒子也可以表現出散開的波狀形態。 如果我們把量子力學，或量子物理學想象為是現實本身的基礎，那麽我們會自然而然地說，有機化學是基於量子物理學的。畢竟，量子物理學的規則向我們解釋了原子們是如何配合在一起來組成有機分子的。因複雜性而放大的有機化學，產生出分子生物學，當然就指向了生命本身。因此在某種意義上說，它並不令人驚訝。它幾乎是很細微的。你會說：“好吧，那生命最終必然依賴於量子力學。”但是其它所有的一切都是這樣。所有由幾萬億原子構成的無生命的物質都是如此。 最終，應該有一個量子水平讓我們不得不去深入探索這種怪異性。但在日常生活中，我們又會經常忘記這點。因為一旦當你將幾萬億的原子放在一起時，量子的怪異性就消失了。量子生物學不是研究這個的。量子生物學並不是這樣明顯的。當然在某個分子級上的生是由量子力學來支撐的。量子生物學研究的是非細微的—-量子力學中反直覺的理念—-去研究它們是否確實在描述諸多生命過程中起作用。 這是我舉的一個很典型的例子來闡釋量子世界中的反直覺性。這是一位量子滑雪者。他看上去是完整無缺的，還是很健康的，然而，他好像同時穿過了樹的兩邊。正如你們看到的軌跡一樣，你可能會覺得這是某種特技表演。但是在量子世界中，這卻是常事。粒子們能夠完成多種任務，它們可以同時在兩個不同的地點。它們可以同時做不止一件事。粒子們可以呈現出散開的波狀。這就是像是魔法一樣。 物理學家和化學家已經用了一個世紀的時間來適應這件怪事。我不會責怪生物學家們，責怪他們沒有或者不想去了解量子力學。 你們看，這種怪異是很微妙易損的；所以我們物理學家在實驗室裏很努力的在維持這種怪異。我們將系統冷卻至接近絕對零度，我們在真空的環境中進行實驗，我們還努力將它隔絕於一切外部的干擾。這些與一個活細胞中溫暖，混亂和吵鬧的環境截然不同。如果你思考一下分子生物學的話，生物學本身似乎將所有的生命進程，從化學—-化學反應—-的角度已經描述得很好了。而且這些還原論者，或這些確定性的化學反應，告訴我們：基本而言，生命的構成材質與其他物質相同，所以如果我們能夠忘記宏觀世界裡的量子力學，那麽我們就也能夠忘記生物學。 但是，有人很不同意這個觀點。以“Schrödinger的貓”實驗而著名的Erwin Schrödinger，是一位澳大利亞的物理學家。他是20世紀20年代量子力學的創始人之一。在1944年，他寫了一本書叫“生命是什麼？”。這本書非常具有影響力。它影響了Francis Crick和James Watson這兩位是發現DNA雙螺旋結構的人。他是這樣闡釋書中的一個描述的：在分子水平，生物體都有一個明確地秩序，一種結構，這個結構不同於那些在複雜程度相同的無生命物質中的原子和分子的隨機性熱力推撞。 事實上，有生命體似乎都以這種秩序存在，在一個結構中，就像被冷卻至近絕對零度的無生命物質一樣，那個時候量子效應就起到很重要的作用。關於一個活細胞內的結構—-秩序—-，有某些很特殊的地方。因此，Schrödinger推測量子力學也許在生命中扮演重要角色。這是一個意義深遠的猜想，但這個猜想並沒有走多遠。 但就像我一開始提到的，在過去的十年中，已經有一些新興的實驗，證明了生物學中的某些特定的現象的確需要量子力學來解釋。 我想與大家分享幾個令人興奮的現象。這是一個量子世界中最著名的現象之一，叫量子隧穿。左邊的方框中顯示的是一個量子實體的波狀，散開分布形態—-它是個電子一樣的粒子，而不是一個從墻面彈開的小球。這個波紋有一定的可能性能夠穿過，一面實墻，像一個幽靈一樣躍過了另一邊。大家可以看到右邊的方框中有一絲微弱的光痕。量子隧穿現象說明粒子在撞不可穿透的障礙物，可以不明原因地，像施了魔法般，從一端消失並重新出現在另一端。這個現象最好的解釋是，如果你想把球扔到墻那邊去，你必須給它足夠的力量讓它跳過墻頭。在量子的世界裏，你就沒必要非要把球扔過墻頭，你可以把球扔向墻面，然後有一定的非零概率使它消失在你這邊，繼而在另一邊重現。 對了，提醒一下，這不是推測。我們很高興—-好吧，“高興”不是一個恰當的表達。 （觀眾笑聲） 我們對此非常熟悉。 （觀眾笑聲） 量子隧穿一直都在發生；事實上，它就是我們能看到陽光普照的原因。顆粒熔合在一起，然後太陽通過量子隧穿把氫變成氦。在七八十年代的時候，人們發現量子隧穿還發生在活細胞內部。酶，是生命的老黃牛，是化學反應的催化劑—-作為生物分子，酶加速了活細胞中的化學反應，借助的是很多數量級上的指令。而且我們一直不知道酶是如何做到這一點的。 好，人們還發現酶在進化時用到的一個小把戲，就是將像電子，實際上是質子一樣的亞原子粒子，通過量子隧穿送分子的一個部位轉移到另一個部位。這個過程效率很高，很快，它可以消失—-一個質子可以從一個地方消失，然後出現在另一個地方。酶可以促進這一切的發生。 這項研究是80年代做的，研究者主要來自伯克萊，由 Judith Klinman 領導。英國的其他實驗組現在也證實了酶的確可以做到以上這些。 我的實驗組做了研究—-我之前說過，我是一個核物理學家。但是我意識到，我在原子核中使用量子力學時積累的方法工具也同樣可以很好地應用在其他領域的研究中。我們問過一個問題，量子隧穿是否在DNA突變中起作用。同樣，這也不是一個新觀點；早在60年代早期人們就提出過。DNA的兩條鏈，就是雙螺旋結構，像階梯一樣盤旋在一起，像一個扭曲的梯子。那些梯子的階梯是氫鍵—-質子，就像是兩條鏈之間的粘合劑。因為當你放大來看，能看見它們正在將這些大分子—-核甘酸—-聚合在一起。再放大一點。所以，這是一個計算機模擬圖。中間的兩個白球是質子，而且大家可以看到這是一個雙氫鍵。一個選擇坐在這邊；另一個選擇兩條鏈的另一邊。沿著垂直線上的兩條鏈向下，大家就看不到了。有一種情況就是這兩個質子可能會跳另一邊。看一下這兩個白球。他們可以跳到另一邊去。如果DNA的兩條鏈分開，導致了複製的過程，那麽這兩個質子就處於錯誤的位置，這就能導致突變的產生。 大家已經知道這個事有半個世紀了。但問題是：它們這樣做的可能性有多大，而且如果它們做了，是怎麽做的呢？它們會不會像小球翻墻那樣跳過去?或者它們是不是發生了量子隧穿，即使它們沒有足夠的力量？早期的種種跡象說明，量子隧穿可以在這起到作用。但我們還是不知道它到底有多重要；這仍是一個討論中的問題。它很有推測的空間，但它卻是一個很重要的問題，重要到，如果量子力學在突變中起作用，這絕對對於理解某些突變的類型甚至有可能是那些導致癌細胞的突變類型，有十分重大的意義。 生物學中的另一個量子力學的例子是量子相干性，存在於生物學中一個最重要的過程之一，光合作用：植物和細菌吸收光照，並用此能量來創造生物。量子相干性是關於量子實體進行多種任務的理念。它就是一個量子滑雪者。它是一個像波紋的物體，因此它不僅是向一個或另一個方向移動，它能夠同時在多種路徑上運動。 幾年以前，有一件事情讓全球科學界震驚：一篇發表論文中展示了實驗證據，證明量子相干性在細菌內部發生，進行光合作用。這個觀點相當於：質子，作為光、太陽光的顆粒，作為光的量子，被一個葉綠素分子捕捉到，然後被運送到了一個所謂的反應中心，在那裏，它變成了化學能量。而且為了到達那裏，它不止沿著一條路徑運動，它同時走了多種路徑，來優化出到達反應中心的效率最高的路徑。在這個過程中並沒有耗掉多余的熱量。量子相干性發生在一個活細胞內。這是一個了不起的理念，而且證據幾乎是每週都隨著新論文的發表出現，來證實量子相干性的確在發生。 我的第三個也是最後一個例子是一個最美妙絕倫的觀點。這個觀點也是推測性的，但我還是要與大家分享。歐洲的知更鳥每個秋天都從斯堪地維亞南下遷徒到地中海，像許多其他的海洋動物甚至昆蟲一樣，牠們通過感應地球的磁場來導航。現在，地球的磁場非常非常的微弱，比一個冰箱貼的磁場要弱100倍，但是它卻以某種方式地影響了一個有機生命體中的化學。這點是毫無疑問的—-一對德國的鳥類學家夫婦，Wolfgang和Roswitha Wiltschko，在20世紀70年代證實，知更鳥確實通過感知地球磁場來找路，獲得方向性的資訊—-像一個內置的指南針。 令我們疑惑的是：牠是如何做到的？好，唯一盛行的理論—-我們不知道它是否正確，但卻是唯一一個為人所知的理論—-是知更鳥是通過某種叫做量子糾纏的現象做到的。在知更鳥的視網膜裏—-這不是玩笑—-知更鳥的視網膜中有種隱色素蛋白，它對光很敏感。在隱色素內，一對電子發生量子糾纏。現在，我們理解量子糾纏是兩個分離甚遠的粒子卻以某種方式保持著彼此的聯系，甚至於愛因斯坦都討厭這個觀點；他把這個叫做「遠距離的幽靈行動」。 （觀眾笑聲） 如果連愛因斯坦都不喜歡它，那我們或許都對此感到不適。兩個發生量子糾纏的電子在一個單獨的分子內跳著微妙的舞蹈，這對於鳥在地球磁場中飛往的方向是非常敏感的。 我們不知道這是不是正確的解釋，但是，如果量子力學能幫鳥類導航，這該是多麽激動人心的事情啊？量子生物學仍然處於初級階段。仍然處於推測階段。但是我相信它是建立在紮實的科學基礎上的。我也認為在未來的十年左右，我們會看到這一領域實實在在地充斥於生命中—-生命會利用量子世界中的一切來進化發展。請大家一起關注。 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
