Talk	en	zh-tw
jimmy_wales_on_the_birth_of_wikipedia	"Charles Van Doren, who was later a senior editor of Britannica, said the ideal encyclopedia should be radical — it should stop being safe. But if you know anything about the history of Britannica since 1962, it was anything but radical: still a very completely safe, stodgy type of encyclopedia. Wikipedia, on the other hand, begins with a very radical idea, and that's for all of us to imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge. And that's what we're doing. So Wikipedia — you just saw the little demonstration of it — it's a freely licensed encyclopedia. It's written by thousands of volunteers all over the world in many, many languages. It's written using wiki software — which is the type of software he just demonstrated — so anyone can quickly edit and save, and it goes live on the Internet immediately. And everything about Wikipedia is managed by virtually an all-volunteer staff. So when Yochai is talking about new methods of organization, he's exactly describing Wikipedia. And what I'm going to do today is tell you a little bit more about how it really works on the inside. So Wikipedia's owned by the Wikimedia Foundation, which I founded, a nonprofit organization. And our goal, the core aim of the Wikimedia Foundation, is to get a free encyclopedia to every single person on the planet. And so, if you think about what that means, it means a lot more than just building a cool website. We're really interested in all the issues of the digital divide, poverty worldwide, empowering people everywhere to have the information that they need to make good decisions. And so we're going to have to do a lot of work that goes beyond just the Internet. And so that's a big part of why we've chosen the free licensing model, because that empowers local entrepreneurs or anyone who wants to — they can take our content and do anything they like with it — you can copy it, redistribute it — and you can do it commercially or non-commercially. So there's a lot of opportunities that are going to arise around Wikipedia all over the world. We're funded by donations from the public, and one of the more interesting things about that is how little money it actually takes to run Wikipedia. So Yochai showed you the graph of what the cost of a printing press was. And I'm going to tell you what the cost of Wikipedia is. But first, I'll show you how big it is. So we've got over 600,000 articles in English. We've got two million total articles across many, many different languages. The biggest languages are German, Japanese, French — all the Western-European languages are quite big. But only around one-third of all of our traffic to our web clusters to the English Wikipedia, which is surprising to a lot of people. A lot of people think in a very English-centric way on the Internet, but for us, we're truly global. We're in many, many languages. How popular we've gotten to be — we're a top-50 website and we're more popular than the New York Times. So this is where we get to Yochai's discussion. This shows the growth of Wikipedia — we're the blue line there — and this is the New York Times over there. And what's interesting about this is the New York Times website is a huge, enormous corporate operation with I have no idea how many hundreds of employees. We have exactly one employee, and that employee is our lead software developer. And he's only been our employee since January 2005, all the other growth before that ... So the servers are managed by a ragtag band of volunteers. All the editing is done by volunteers. And the way that we're organized is not like any traditional organization you can imagine. People are always asking, ""Well, who's in charge of this?"" or ""Who does that?"" And the answer is: anybody who wants to pitch in. It's a very unusual and chaotic thing. We've got over 90 servers now in three locations. These are managed by volunteer system administrators who are online. I can go online any time of the day or night and see eight to 10 people waiting for me to ask a question or something, anything about the servers. You could never afford to do this in a company. You could never afford to have a standby crew of people 24 hours a day and do what we're doing at Wikipedia. So we're doing around 1.4 billion page views monthly, so it's really gotten to be a huge thing. And everything is managed by the volunteers. And the total monthly cost for our bandwidth is about 5,000 dollars. And that's essentially our main cost. We could actually do without the employee. We hired Brian because he was working part-time for two years and full-time at Wikipedia, so we actually hired him, so he could get a life and go to the movies sometimes. So the big question when you've got this really chaotic organization is, why isn't it all rubbish? Why is the website as good as it is? First of all, how good is it? Well, it's pretty good. It isn't perfect, but it's much better than you would expect, given our completely chaotic model. So when you saw him make a ridiculous edit to the page about me, you think, ""Oh, this is obviously just going to degenerate into rubbish."" But when we've seen quality tests — and there haven't been enough of these yet and I'm really encouraging people to do more, comparing Wikipedia to traditional things — we win hands down. So a German magazine compared German Wikipedia, which is much, much smaller than English, to Microsoft Encarta and to Brockhaus multimedial, and we won across the board. They hired experts to come and look at articles and compare the quality, and we were very pleased with that result. So a lot of people have heard about the Wikipedia Bush-Kerry controversy. The media has covered this somewhat extensively. It started out with an article in Red Herring. The reporters called me up and they — I mean, I have to say they spelled my name right, but they really wanted to say the Bush-Kerry election is so contentious, it's tearing apart the Wikipedia community. And so they quote me as saying, ""They're the most contentious in the history of Wikipedia."" What I actually said is they're not contentious at all. So it's a slight misquote. (Laughter) The articles were edited quite heavily. And it is true that we did have to lock the articles on a couple of occasions. Time magazine recently reported that ""Extreme action sometimes has to be taken, and Wales locked the entries on Kerry and Bush for most of 2004."" This came after I told the reporter that we had to lock it for — occasionally a little bit here and there. So the truth in general is that the kinds of controversies that you would probably think we have within the Wikipedia community are not really controversies at all. Articles on controversial topics are edited a lot, but they don't cause much controversy within the community. And the reason for this is that most people understand the need for neutrality. The real struggle is not between the right and the left — that's where most people assume — but it's between the party of the thoughtful and the party of the jerks. And no side of the political spectrum has a monopoly on either of those qualities. The actual truth about the specific Bush-Kerry incident is that the Bush-Kerry articles were locked less than one percent of the time in 2004, and it wasn't because they were contentious; it was just because there was routine vandalism — which happens sometimes even on stage ... (Laughter) Sometimes even reporters have reported to me that they vandalized Wikipedia and were amazed that it was fixed so quickly. And I said — you know, I always say, please don't do that. That's not a good thing. So how do we do this? How do we manage the quality control? How does it work? So there's a few elements, mostly social policies and some elements of the software. So the biggest and the most important thing is our neutral point of view policy. This is something that I set down, from the very beginning, as a core principle of the community that's completely not debatable. It's a social concept of cooperation, so we don't talk a lot about truth and objectivity. The reason for this is if we say we're only going to write the ""truth"" about some topic, that doesn't do us a damn bit of good of figuring out what to write, because I don't agree with you about what's the truth. But we have this jargon term of neutrality, which has its own long history within the community, which basically says, any time there's a controversial issue, Wikipedia itself should not take a stand on the issue. We should merely report on what reputable parties have said about it. So this neutrality policy is really important for us because it empowers a community that is very diverse to come together and actually get some work done. So we have very diverse contributors in terms of political, religious, cultural backgrounds. By having this firm neutrality policy, which is non-negotiable from the beginning, we ensure that people can work together and that the entries don't become simply a war back and forth between the left and the right. If you engage in that type of behavior, you'll be asked to leave the community. So, real-time peer review. Every single change on the site goes to the ""Recent changes"" page. So as soon as he made his change, it went to the ""Recent changes"" page. That recent changes page was also fed into an IRC channel, which is an Internet chat channel that people are monitoring with various software tools. And people can get RSS feeds — they can get email notifications of changes. And then users can set up their own personal watch list. So my page is on quite a few volunteers' watch lists, because it is sometimes vandalized. And therefore, what happens is someone will notice the change very quickly, and then they'll just simply revert the change. There's a ""new pages feed,"" for example, so you can go to a certain page of Wikipedia and see every new page as it's created. This is really important because a lot of new pages are just garbage that has to be deleted, you know, ""ASDFASDF."" But also, that's some of the most interesting and fun things, some of the new articles. People will start an article on some interesting topic, other people will find that intriguing and jump in and help and make it much better. So we do have edits by anonymous users, which is one of the most controversial and intriguing things about Wikipedia. So, Chris was able to do his change — he didn't have to log in or anything; he just went on the website and made a change. But it turns out that only about 18 percent of all the edits to the website are done by anonymous users. And that's a really important thing to understand: the vast majority of the edits that go on on the website are from a very close-knit community of maybe 600 to 1,000 people who are in constant communication. And we have over 40 IRC channels, 40 mailing lists. All these people know each other. They communicate. We have off-line meetings. These are the people who are doing the bulk of the site, and they are, in a sense, semi-professionals at what they're doing. The standards we set for ourselves are equal to or higher than professional standards of quality. We don't always meet those standards, but that's what we're striving for. And so that tight community is who really cares for the site, and these are some of the smartest people I've ever met. It's my job to say that, but it's actually true. The type of people who were drawn to writing an encyclopedia for fun tend to be pretty smart people. The tools and the software: there's lots of tools that allow us — allow us, meaning the community — to self-monitor and to monitor all the work. This is an example of a page history on ""flat Earth,"" and you can see some changes that were made. What's nice about this page is you can immediately take a look at this and see, ""OK, I understand now."" When somebody goes and looks at — they see that someone, an anonymous IP number, made an edit to my page. That sounds suspicious. Who is this person? Somebody looks at it — they can immediately see highlighted in red all of the changes that took place — to see, OK, well, these words have changed, things like this. So that's one tool that we can use to very quickly monitor the history of a page. Another thing that we do within the community is we leave everything very open-ended. Most of the social rules and the methods of work are left completely open-ended in the software. All of that stuff is just on Wiki pages. And so there's nothing in the software that enforces the rules. The example I've got up here is the Votes for Deletion page. So, I mentioned earlier, people type ""ASDFASDF"" — it needs to be deleted. Cases like that, the administrators just delete it. There's no reason to have a big argument about it. But you can imagine there's a lot of other areas where the question is, is this notable enough to go in an encyclopedia? Is the information verifiable? Is it a hoax? Is it true? Is it what? So we needed a social method for figuring out the answer to this. And so the method that arose organically within the community is the Votes For Deletion page. And in the particular example we have here, it's a film, ""Twisted Issues,"" and the first person says, ""Now this is supposedly a film. It fails the Google test miserably."" The Google test is you look in Google and see if it's there, because if something's not even in Google, it probably doesn't exist at all. It's not a perfect rule, but it's a nice starting point for quick research. So somebody says, ""Delete it, please. Delete it — it's not notable."" And then somebody says, ""Wait, I found it. I found it in a book, 'Film Threat Video Guide: the 20 Underground Films You Must See.'"" So the next persons says, ""Clean it up."" Somebody says, ""I've found it on IMDB. Keep, keep, keep."" And what's interesting about this is that the software is — these votes are just text typed into a page. This is not really a vote so much as it is a dialogue. Now it is true that at the end of the day, an administrator can go through here and take a look at this and say, ""OK, 18 deletes, two keeps: we'll delete it."" But in other cases, this could be 18 deletes and two keeps, and we would keep it, because if those last two keeps say, ""Wait a minute. Nobody else saw this but I found it in a book, and I found a link to a page that describes it, and I'm going to clean it up tomorrow, so please don't delete it,"" then it would survive. And it also matters who the people are who are voting. Like I say, it's a tight-knit community. Down here at the bottom, ""Keep, real movie,"" RickK. RickK is a very famous Wikipedian who does an enormous amount of work with vandalism, hoaxes and votes for deletion. His voice carries a lot of weight within the community because he knows what he's doing. So how is all this governed? People really want to know about administrators, things like that. So the Wikipedia governance model, the governance of the community, is a very confusing, but workable mix of consensus — meaning we try not to vote on the content of articles, because the majority view is not necessarily neutral — some amount of democracy — all of the administrators — these are the people who have the ability to delete pages. That doesn't mean that they have the right to delete pages. They still have to follow all the rules — but they're elected by the community. Sometimes people — random trolls on the Internet — like to accuse me of handpicking the administrators to bias the content of the encyclopedia. I always laugh at this, because I have no idea how they're elected, actually. There's a certain amount of aristocracy. You got a hint of that when I mentioned, like, RickK's voice would carry a lot more weight than someone we don't know. I give this talk sometimes with Angela, who was just re-elected to the board from the community — to the Board of the Foundation, with more than twice the votes of the person who didn't make it. And I always embarrass her because I say, ""Well, Angela, for example, could get away with doing absolutely anything within Wikipedia, because she's so admired and so powerful."" But the irony is, of course, that Angela can do this because she's the one person who you know would never, ever break any rules of Wikipedia. And I also like to say she's the only person who actually knows all the rules of Wikipedia, so ... And then there's monarchy, and that's my role on the community, so ... (Laughter) I was describing this in Berlin once, and the next day in the newspaper the headline said, ""I am the Queen of England."" (Laughter) And that's not exactly what I said, but — (Laughter) the point is my role in the community — Within the free software world, there's been a long-standing tradition of the ""benevolent dictator"" model. So if you look at most of the major free software projects, they have one single person in charge who everyone agrees is the benevolent dictator. Well, I don't like the term ""benevolent dictator,"" and I don't think that it's my job or my role in the world of ideas to be the dictator of the future of all human knowledge compiled by the world. It just isn't appropriate. But there is a need still for a certain amount of monarchy, a certain amount of — sometimes we have to make a decision and we don't want to get bogged down too heavily in formal decision-making processes. So as an example of how this can be important: we recently had a situation where a neo-Nazi website discovered Wikipedia, and they said, ""Oh, well, this is horrible, this Jewish conspiracy of a website, and we're going to get certain articles deleted that we don't like. And we see they have a voting process, so we're going to send — we have 40,000 members and we're going to send them over and they're all going to vote and get these pages deleted."" Well, they managed to get 18 people to show up. That's neo-Nazi math for you. They always think they've got 40,000 members when they've got 18. But they managed to get 18 people to come and vote in a fairly absurd way to delete a perfectly valid article. Of course, the vote ended up being about 85 to 18, so there was no real danger to our democratic processes. On the other hand, people said, ""But what are we going to do? I mean, this could happen. What if some group gets really seriously organized and comes in and wants to vote?"" Then I said, ""Well, fuck it, we'll just change the rules."" That's my job in the community: to say we won't allow our openness and freedom to undermine the quality of the content. And so, as long as people trust me in my role, then that's a valid place for me. Of course, because of the free licensing, if I do a bad job, the volunteers are more than happy to take and leave — I can't tell anyone what to do. So the final point here is that to understand how Wikipedia works, it's important to understand that our wiki model is the way we work, but we are not fanatical web anarchists. In fact, we're very flexible about the social methodology, because ultimately, the passion of the community is for the quality of the work, not necessarily for the process that we use to generate it. Thank you. (Applause) Ben Saunders: Yeah, hi, Ben Saunders. Jimmy, you mentioned impartiality being a key to Wikipedia's success. It strikes me that much of the textbooks that are used to educate our children are inherently biased. Have you found Wikipedia being used by teachers and how do you see Wikipedia changing education? Jimmy Wales: Yeah, so, a lot of teachers are beginning to use Wikipedia. There's a media storyline about Wikipedia, which I think is false. It builds on the storyline of bloggers versus newspapers. And the storyline is, there's this crazy thing, Wikipedia, but academics hate it and teachers hate it. And that turns out to not be true. The last time I got an email from a journalist saying, ""Why do academics hate Wikipedia?"" I sent it from my Harvard email address because I was recently appointed a fellow there. And I said, ""Well, they don't all hate it."" (Laughter) But I think there's going to be huge impacts. And we actually have a project that I'm personally really excited about, which is the Wikibooks project, which is an effort to create textbooks in all the languages. And that's a much bigger project. It's going to take 20 years or so to come to fruition. But part of that is to fulfill our mission of giving an encyclopedia to every single person on the planet. We don't mean we're going to Spam them with AOL-style CDs. We mean we're going to give them a tool that they can use. And for a lot of people in the world, if I give you an encyclopedia that's written at a university level, it doesn't do you any good without a whole host of literacy materials to build you up to the point where you can actually use it. The Wikibooks project is an effort to do that. And I think that we're going to see — it may not even come from us; there's all kinds of innovation going on. But freely licensed textbooks are the next big thing in education."	1962年，還沒成為Britannica百科資深編輯的Charles Van Doren曾說，最理想的百科全書應該要是反叛的─它不該滿足於保守安全但如果你略知Britannica百科從1962創立至今的歷史，就會發現它毫無叛逆因子：它仍然是保守平庸到不行的百科全書反觀維基百科的創立，卻是源於一個非常顛覆的概念，它讓我們創造一個空間在這裡，每個人無論你我，都能夠對人類知識的積累自由貢獻 這就是我們正在進行的事。所以，維基百科你會發現維基很少指導使用者該怎麼做，它是自由授權的百科。它由成千上萬的志願者所撰寫他們來自世界各個角落，使用各自的語言人們藉由維基軟體撰寫軟體的使用就如剛剛所示範的所以每個人都能輕易編撰和儲存，即時、直接轉成網路上的內容維基百科的一切，是由一群幾乎全是志願的工作人員所管理所以當Yochai正高談闊論組織的新方法時他其實正是在描述維基百科。而我今天要做的事就是向你們多透露一點，維基內部是怎麼運作的。 維基百科的所有權歸屬於我所創立的維基媒體基金會那是一個非營利組織。而我們的目標，維基媒體基金會的核心目標，就是在世上創立一個，對每個人都自由開放的百科全書如果你在思考這究竟意味著什麼這表示，這遠不止是搭設一個很厲害的網站我們很關心各種議題：資訊鴻溝、貧窮問題讓人們無論身處何處，都能得到他們需要的訊息做出更好的選擇所以我們需要做得更多，而不再只是停留在提供人們網路這樣的程度所以我們選擇免費自由的授權模式這樣就能授權當地的企業家—或任何一個人獲取百科的內容愛怎麼用就怎麼用：可以複製、可以散播分享可以用在商業或其他用途 很多機會隨著維基百科應運而生全世界都有我們是由大眾的捐款所支持而另一件相關的趣事是維持維基運作所需的成本是多麼地少Yochai剛剛讓你們看了紙面出版成本的圖表而我將告訴你們維基的成本為何但我會先告訴各位，維基的規模有多大我們有超過60萬篇英文文章全球不同語言的文章合計起來，共有二百萬篇規模最大的使用語言是德文、日文和法文所有西歐的語言都有不小的規模但維基的總瀏覽量，只有大約三分之一是在觀看維基的英文頁面這令很多人感到訝異很多人都是以英文為中心的角度來看待網路但對我們而言，維基卻是全球性的，有非常多種語言是多麼受到使用者的歡迎阿：維基榮登前50大網站普及率甚至超越紐約時報這就連結到Yochai的論點 這展現了維基百科的成長—就是這條藍色的曲線—而另一條則是紐約時報的成長曲線有趣的是，紐約時報的網站是個規模巨大、有著浩大的組織運作，並且擁有好幾名員工，我們實際上只有一名員工他是我們的軟體研發組長而他開始為維基服務的時間，也不過是2006年的事維基的成長卻都在這之前發生所以維基的伺服器都是由一群隨意集結的志願者所管理而編輯工作也是由志願者完成我們組織團隊的方式並不同於任何傳統的組織結構人們總會問：「那麼，誰是這項工作的負責人呢？」或問「這是誰做的？」這些問題的正解是：任何想參與的人這既不尋常也亂無章法維基目前在三處共有90個伺服器由志願的線上系統管理員所管理我可以隨時連上網路看到線上已有8到10人為我解答任何網路伺服的問題這是任何一個傳統公司所無法負擔的服務公司是無法提供隨時待命的員工能像維基這樣24小時無休 也因此，我們擁有每月14億的網頁瀏覽量這真的成了一件不容忽視的大事每項分工都是由志工負責每月用在頻寬的開支大約為5,000美元這已是我們最主要的開銷了我們幾乎不用聘僱任何人。實際上，我們之所以雇用Brian，是因為他兼差工作了兩年卻是義務全職地為維基服務所以我們決定聘用他，讓他能擁有較好的生活，也可以偶爾看看電影。對於我們這個亂無章法的組織，大家常有的大哉問是它為什麼不會淪為一堆垃圾文字？為什麼能成為這麼好的網站？ 首先，先得釐清它有多好？是還算不錯，雖不完美，但它的成果已遠遠超出你所能期待的，就憑這麼一個放縱混亂的模式。所以當你看到某人在我的百科條目修訂了毫無道理的內容你心想，噢這顯然會讓這篇內容徹底瓦解成垃圾內容但當我們進行文章的品質分析，這樣的情形並不普遍反而我一直很鼓勵大眾再多編改一些維基相較於傳統百科，我們能很輕易地勝出 某德國雜誌將維基德文版，當然，德文版的規模遠不及英文版，將其與微軟的Encarta數位百科，以及最大的德語百科Brockhaus數位版相比維基在每個評比層面都勝過另外兩者這份雜誌邀請專家審試三家百科的文章，比較各家品質我們對這份分析結果感到非常雀躍很多人聽聞過維基的「小布希-凱利」論戰媒體對此事的報導，多少有些過度解讀這爭論起於「紅鯡魚Red Herring」雜誌的一篇文章那個記者打給我，然後—我要先強調他們把我的名字拼對了，但他們真正想說的是「小布希-凱利」的選舉太有爭議了它會分化維基的社群。所以他們引用了我的話，寫道：「他們是維基創立以來最具爭議的人物」但我實際上所要表達的是，他們一點都不具有爭議那句話的引用有點被誤解了。那篇文章用字強烈在某些狀況下，我們也的確需要封鎖文章時代雜誌最近曾報導「極端的行動有時是必要的，而Wales在2004年時，就選擇封鎖凱利和小布希的條目。」這篇報導是在我告訴記者說，我們必須封鎖，視情況封鎖一些而已事實上一般而言，類似這樣的爭議這些你認為可能在維基社群內引起爭議的議題其實一點都不算是爭議 爭議性的條目文章常被線上編修但並不常在網路社群中引發爭端這是因為大部分的人們瞭解採取中立態度的重要性真正在互相對抗的，並不是左右之爭雖然大部分的人都這麼以為但實際上，這卻是一場理智思考和無理取鬧之間的戰爭人們無論傾向哪種政治色彩，都有可能是理智抑或愚昧的小布希-凱利事件的真相是2004年，那些關於這兩位候選人的文章中真正被封鎖的只佔不到1%這些被封鎖的內容，不是因為它們的爭議性而是因為它們被反覆惡意破壞這些破壞有時甚至是故意做給別人看的，有時連記者都告訴我，他們惡搞維基的行徑竟然能這麼快就被修正了我說，我一向都這麼勸告—請別這麼做，這不大好所以，我們是怎麼辦到的?我們是如何做到品質控管的?這是怎麼運作的? 有一些要素大部分是關於人際的方針指導和一部分的軟體要件最大也最重要的要素，就是我們的「中立觀點」方針這是我最初就設定好的原則以它作為社群的核心原則，完全不容爭辯討論這是合作關係的人際原則所以我們不常談論事實或客觀性原因是，如果我們宣稱我們只寫題目中「事實」的部份這天殺的一點都不會幫助我們知道究竟該寫什麼因為我不認同你所認為的「事實」是事實但我們採用「中立」這個用語這個詞的使用在社群中已有很長的歷史這基本上是在說明，只要出現有爭議的議題維基本身並不該選邊站我們只能報導聲譽良好的團體提出的評論所以這個中立方針對我們而言相當重要因為維基授權給予的是多元的大眾社群齊聚合作，並且真的完成一些作品 我們的資訊來自多元的成員，各有不同的政治、宗教和文化背景藉由這個穩固的中立方針這個從最初設定，就是不容妥協的政策我們確保大家能通力合作而不致讓各個條目淪為唇槍舌戰的戰場在左右立場之間拉扯擺盪如果你也參與了這種狂熱的攻訐暴動你會被勒令禁止參與我們的撰寫團隊所以，即時的同儕檢閱網站上的每一項更動，都會匯集到「最近更改」頁面所以每當某人更動了內容，就會在「最近更改」頁面顯示那個頁面也會同時送到IRC聊天頻道那是個網路聊天頻道人們在上面利用各種軟體工具監督更動的內容而人們能收到RSS回饋訊息—他們能收到頁面更動的電子郵件通知使用者能選擇自己的監督清單像是我的頁面，就有數個志願者將它列在監督清單上以避免偶發的惡意破壞如此一來，任何內容的更動都會很快被發現他們只要輕輕一按，就能恢復原樣 比如說，維基有頁面更新通知的設計你能夠連到維基的頁面看到每一項更動過的內容這是個很重要的設計。因為，很多新創立的頁面往往是該直接刪除的垃圾內容，像是鍵盤左到右ASDF亂打的一樣。不過，這同時也是維基最有趣也最耐人尋味的特質某些新頁面新文章人們會撰寫新鮮的話題挑起其他讀者的興趣繼而投身修正條目的行列所以，我們確實有很多匿名編輯者這也是維基最引發爭論、也引起熱烈討論的部分所以Chris能夠直接更動—不需要登入或做任何事他只要連到網站，就能直接更動內容維基的現況卻是，只有18%的編輯修訂是由匿名者所更動理解這件事是相當重要的那就是，網站上絕大多數的修訂是源自於一個大概600到1,000人、非常緊密連結的社群他們持續溝通我們有超過40個IRC聊天頻道，40組郵件列表他們都互相認識、溝通，也有離線的會議討論 網站上大部分的內容，是由他們所完成的某個層面來說，我們甚至可以稱他們為半專業的編輯我們為自己設定的標準絕對不亞於專業百科的標準我們未必每次都能達到理想狀況不過這是我們傾力追求的目標 網路集結的編撰社群是認真看待這個網站他們之中有我認識過最聰明的人稱讚他們，一部分是我的職責所在，但也的確是事實會為了樂趣而投入於百科撰寫工程的人通常都是蠻聰明的一群 這些工具和軟體：網站上有很多工具能讓我們—讓我們整個社群能夠自我檢閱，也能全盤檢閱成果「世界是平的」，這就是其中一個例子你能看見改變這個現象最棒的是，你能即時地看到它然後「嗯，我懂了」每當人們上去看，發現有某人使用匿名IP位址，修訂了我的頁面感覺很可疑，「他是誰？」當人們看到這個狀況他們能看到那些被修改處，以紅色重點標示出來能夠知道：「噢，這些文字被更動了」藉由這個功能，我們能非常迅速地檢視頁面的修訂紀錄 我們在社群內所做的另一件事就是，我們給予非常少的限制大部分的人際規範和工作方法在軟體介面內是不設限制的這些軟體都在維基的頁面上所以軟體内沒有任何會強化規範的東西「頁面存廢表決」就是一例就像我前面所說的，某些人會亂打一堆無意義的字(ASDFASDF)這些內容應該被刪除。像這樣的情況，管理員會直接刪除它。這毫無爭議。但你知道，頁面勢必會有別的問題有人會問，這些內容是否重要到足以納入百科內？它們能通過檢驗嗎？是惡作劇還是事實？它究竟是什麼？所以我們需要一個人際互動的方法來解決這件事這個能夠在社群中自主互動的方法就是「頁面存廢表決」這裡舉一個特定的例子，一部電影「Twisted Issues」，第一個發言討論的人說「這應該是一部電影。它在Google檢測中敗得一塌糊塗」所謂Google檢測，就是利用Google查詢該事物如果連Google都搜尋不到，它很有可能根本不存在。這不是個完美通則，但快速搜尋能夠當作驗證的起點有人會說：「刪掉它吧，它幾乎就像不存在了」然後另一些人就說「等等，我找到它了，它在一本「恐怖電影指南：你不可錯過的20部地下電影」裡有出現噢，好吧。所以下一個人說「整理它吧」有人說「我在IMDB網站找到了。保留、保留、保留」而這裡有趣的是，這個軟體是—這裡所謂投票，不過是討論區內大家發表的意見與其說這是投票，不如說這其實是討論事實上，當一天過去管理員可以上來觀看雙方意見和討論，得到結論「18票刪除，2票保留，所以我們決定刪除它」但在其他狀況下，即使18票刪除2票保留，仍有可能會選擇保留如果那兩票提到「等等，其他人都沒找到資料，但我找到了這本書，而且我也在網路上發現有頁面提到它，我接下來會好好整理這項條目所以請不要刪除他」此外，參與討論投票的人是什麼背景也是相當重要就如同我所說的，這是個緊密連結的社群整篇討論最後的發言是Rick Kay寫的：「保留。這是真的電影」 Rick Kay是個非常有名的維基人他處理了很多維基的惡意破壞、惡作劇也參與許多頁面存廢表決他在社群內的發言是擲地有聲的他很清楚自己在做什麼那麼，這一切是如何運作、維持的呢?人們總是對於「管理員」之類的角色感到好奇所以維基的管理機制，維持社群運作的機制是個非常混亂卻又可行的，綜合共識的結果這意味著，我們並不想以多數決來決定文章的存廢因為佔多數的意見未必是中立持平的有部份的民主投票，所有的管理員—他們有權限能刪除頁面這不表示他們有權力任意刪除頁面他們仍須遵守所有的規則。不過他們是民選的他們是在維基社群中被選舉出來的。有些時候有些鮮少上網找資料的人，會指控我黑箱操控維基管理員造成內容的偏差我總是對此一笑置之，因為實際上，我對於管理員究竟是如何選出來的毫無所知社群中確實有一些意見領袖你們應該能從我剛剛所述中察覺端倪，例如Rick Kay的意見會比其他默默無聞的發言者要具影響力 我有時候會這麼告訴Angela，她剛再度選上成為社群委員—成為基金會的委員她獲得的票數超過落選者的兩倍我常消遣她，因為我會說，舉Angela為例，她能夠在維基做任何事，得逞而不受制裁因為她已累積一定聲望，有很大的影響力但關鍵的癥結點在於，Angela能有這樣的力量，是因為她無論如何，絕對不會打破維基的規則我也必須說，她是唯一真的了解所有維基規則的人而這是個王國，我扮演的是領導者的角色，所以當我在柏林這麼比喻，隔天報紙就以頭版頭條寫道「我自比為英國女皇」這完全不是我所說的，不過重點是我在社群中的角色在免費軟體的領域，存在有「仁慈的獨裁者」的體制傳統觀察大部分的大型免費軟體計畫都有一個擔任領袖的代表人物人們都認同，他就是那個「仁慈的獨裁者」的角色這個嘛，我並不喜歡這個稱號我也不認為我的工作是在這創意王國裡稱王這是全民創作的人類知識演進史，在這裡當一個獨裁國王一點都不適合不過某個程度上，維基仍然需要統治階層的存在某個程度—有時候我們必須做出決斷我們不想過度陷入眾人意見的漩渦中影響到正式的決策過程 接下來的例子，說明為什麼這麼決定是重要的最近我們遇到一個狀況，某個新納粹團體發現了維基他們說「噢真慘，這網站根本就是猶太人的陰謀我們要把那些惹人厭的文章刪掉，我們發現他們有使用存廢投票機制，所以—我們有四萬個會員，我們要集結起來讓他們投票，於是這些文章就能從此消失了」結果，他們最後弄來了18個人這就是新納粹的數學邏輯他們總以為他們有四萬個成員，但卻只能集合18個人不過他們集結了這18個人到維基，用非常可笑的方式投票決議刪除一篇以事實為基礎的文章當然，最後的投票結果是85比18整場事件並沒有真正威脅到我們的民主機制但另一方面，有些人會問「這樣的情況我們能怎麼辦呢？這的確可能發生，萬一有心人士認真地組織起來一擁而入來投票呢？」我會回答「噢去他的，我們就修改規則吧」這就是我在網路社群裡的工作：聲明我們不允許維基的開放性和自由度削弱、敗壞內容的品質只要人們相信我能扮演好這個決策的角色我就有存在的價值當然，因為維基的自由授權，只要我濫用我的職權那些原本志願參與的人們自然會抽身離開我就不再能指導任何人做事 所以我介紹的最後一項重點就是，了解維基的運作方式瞭解所謂維基體制就是現在我們合作的方式，的確很重要但我們不是無可救藥的網路無政府主義者。事實上，我們對於人際方法論抱持著彈性的態度因為最終，大眾的熱情投入是為了追求百科成果的高品質而不是找出最厲害的方法來產出百科內容謝謝大家(掌聲) Ben Saunders：嗨，我是Ben SaundersJimmy，你剛剛提到公正性是維基成功的關鍵這激發了我一個想法，很多教科書用在教育孩童，卻基本上是有主觀偏見的觀點就你所知，有老師運用維基百科在教學上嗎?你如何看待維基對教育的改變? Jimmy Wales: 是的，很多老師們開始使用維基百科。另外，有一段媒體報導的維基故事，我認為有錯誤。它是依據網路部落格的內容，而非報章雜誌。這真的是件瘋狂的事，那個故事是說，學者討厭維基，老師也一樣討厭維基。結果顯示這並非事實上次我接到一封來自記者的信寫道，「為什麼學者討厭維基？」我用我在哈佛大學的信箱回信給他，因為我剛被哈佛任命為他們的一份子我說「他們並不是每個都討厭維基」不過我認為這將成為巨大的影響我們的確有個計畫我個人為此感到很興奮那就是「維基教科書Wikibooks」計畫這個計畫希望能建立各種語言的線上教科書而這是一個更浩大的工程它會耗上20年左右才能收成不過它一部分是為了完成我們的使命希望能讓地球上每個人都能利用到百科我們並非打算像「美國線上」CD那樣，大量發送廣告我們所希望的是，給予大家一個能夠使用的工具而對這世界上大部分的人來說如果給你一個大學程度的百科這可能毫無用處因為在那之前，並沒有先給你完整的專業能力素材好讓你建立起知識系統，足以使用百科所以維基教科書計畫就是在這方面做努力而我認為我們將會看到一個巨大的—雖然未必是我們所促成的有很多創新的概念正在蓬勃發展自由授權的課本會是教育的下一個重要革命
