Talk	en	zh-tw
jimmy_carter_why_i_believe_the_mistreatment_of_women_is_the_number_one_human_rights_abuse	"As a matter of fact, I was trying to think about my career since I left the White House, and the best example I have is a cartoon in The New Yorker a couple of years ago. This little boy is looking up at his father, and he says, ""Daddy, when I grow up, I want to be a former president."" (Laughter) Well, I have had a great blessing as a former president, because I have had an access that very few other people in the world have ever had to get to know so many people around this whole universe. Not only am I familiar with the 50 states in the United States, but also my wife and I have visited more than 145 countries in the world, and the Carter Center has had full-time programs in 80 nations on Earth. And a lot of times, when we go into a country, we not only the meet the king or the president, but we also meet the villagers who live in the most remote areas of Africa. So our overall commitment at the Carter Center is to promote human rights, and knowing the world as I do, I can tell you without any equivocation that the number one abuse of human rights on Earth is, strangely, not addressed quite often, is the abuse of women and girls. (Applause) There are a couple of reasons for this that I'll mention to begin with. First of all is the misinterpretation of religious scriptures, holy scriptures, in the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, Quran and so forth, and these have been misinterpreted by men who are now in the ascendant positions in the synagogues and the churches and in the mosques. And they interpret these rules to make sure that women are ordinarily relegated to a secondary position compared to men in the eyes of God. This is a very serious problem. It's ordinarily not addressed. A number of years ago, in the year 2000, I had been a Baptist, a Southern Baptist for 70 years — I tell you, I still teach Sunday school every Sunday; I'll be teaching this Sunday as well — but the Southern Baptist Convention in the year 2000 decided that women should play a secondary position, a subservient position to men. So they issued an edict, in effect, that prevents women from being priests, pastors, deacons in the church, or chaplains in the military, and if a woman teaches a classroom in a Southern Baptist seminary, they cannot teach if a boy is in the room, because you can find verses in the Bible, there's over 30,000 verses in the Bible, that say that a woman shouldn't teach a man, and so forth. But the basic thing is the scriptures are misinterpreted to keep men in an ascendant position. That is an all-pervasive problem, because men can exert that power and if an abusive husband or an employer, for instance, wants to cheat women, they can say that if women are not equal in the eyes of God, why should I treat them as equals myself? Why should I pay them equal pay for doing the same kind of work? The other very serious blight that causes this problem is the excessive resort to violence, and that is increasing tremendously around the world. In the United States of America, for instance, we have had an enormous increase in abuse of poor people, mostly black people and minorities, by putting them in prison. When I was in office as governor of Georgia, one out of every 1,000 Americans were in prison. Nowadays, 7.3 people per 1,000 are in prison. That's a sevenfold increase. And since I left the White House, there's been an 800 percent increase in the number of women who are black who are in prison. We also have [one of the only countries] on Earth that still has the death penalty that is a developed country. And we rank right alongside the countries that are most abusive in all elements of human rights in encouraging the death penalty. We're in California now, and I figured out the other day that California has spent four billion dollars in convicting 13 people for the death penalty. If you add that up, that's 307 million dollars it costs California to send a person to be executed. Nebraska this week just passed a law abolishing the death penalty, because it costs so much. (Applause) So the resort to violence and abuse of poor people and helpless people is another cause of the increase in abuse of women. Let me just go down a very few abuses of women that concern me most, and I'll be fairly brief, because I have a limited amount of time, as you know. One is genital mutilation. Genital mutilation is horrible and not known by American women, but in some countries, many countries, when a child is born that's a girl, very soon in her life, her genitals are completely cut away by a so-called cutter who has a razor blade and, in a non-sterilized way, they remove the exterior parts of a woman's genitalia. And sometimes, in more extreme cases but not very rare cases, they sew the orifice up so the girl can just urinate or menstruate. And then later, when she gets married, the same cutter goes in and opens the orifice up so she can have sex. This is not a rare thing, although it's against the law in most countries. In Egypt, for instance, 91 percent of all the females that live in Egypt today have been sexually mutilated in that way. In some countries, it's more than 98 percent of the women are cut that way before they reach maturity. This is a horrible affliction on all women that live in those countries. Another very serious thing is honor killings, where a family with misinterpretation, again, of a holy scripture — there's nothing in the Quran that mandates this — will execute a girl in their family if she is raped or if she marries a man that her father does not approve, or sometimes even if she wears inappropriate clothing. And this is done by members of her own family, so the family becomes murderers when the girl brings so-called disgrace to the family. An analysis was done in Egypt not so long ago by the United Nations and it showed that 75 percent of these murders of a girl are perpetrated by the father, the uncle or the brother, but 25 percent of the murders are conducted by women. Another problem that we have in the world that relates to women particularly is slavery, or human trafficking it's called nowadays. There were about 12.5 million people sold from Africa into slavery in the New World back in the 19th century and the 18th century. There are 30 million people now living in slavery. The United States Department of State now has a mandate from Congress to give a report every year, and the State Department reports that 800,000 people are sold across international borders every year into slavery, and that 80 percent of those sold are women, into sexual slavery. In the United States right this moment, 60,000 people are living in human bondage, or slavery. Atlanta, Georgia, where the Carter Center is located and where I teach at Emory University, they have between 200 and 300 women, people sold into slavery every month. It's the number one place in the nation because of that. Atlanta has the busiest airport in the world, and they also have a lot of passengers that come from the Southern Hemisphere. If a brothel owner wants to buy a girl that has brown or black skin, they can do it for 1,000 dollars. A white-skinned girl brings several times more than that, and the average brothel owner in Atlanta and in the United States now can earn about $35,000 per slave. The sex trade in Atlanta, Georgia, exceeds the total drug trade in Atlanta, Georgia. So this is another very serious problem, and the basic problem is prostitution, because there's not a whorehouse in America that's not known by the local officials, the local policemen, or the chief of police or the mayor and so forth. And this leads to one of the worst problems, and that is that women are bought increasingly and put into sexual slavery in all countries in the world. Sweden has got a good approach to it. About 15 to 20 years ago, Sweden decided to change the law, and women are no longer prosecuted if they are in sexual slavery, but the brothel owners and the pimps and the male customers are prosecuted, and — (Applause) — prostitution has gone down. In the United States, we take just the opposite position. For every male arrested for illegal sex trade, 25 women are arrested in the United States of America. Canada, Ireland, I've already said Sweden, France, and other countries are moving now towards this so-called Swedish model. That's another thing that can be done. We have two great institutions in this country that all of us admire: our military and our great university system. In the military, they are now analyzing how many sexual assaults take place. The last report I got, there were 26,000 sexual assaults that took place in the military — 26,000. Only 3,000, not much more than 1 percent, are actually prosecuted, and the reason is that the commanding officer of any organization — a ship like my submarine, or a battalion in the Army or a company in the Marines — the commanding officer has the right under law to decide whether to prosecute a rapist or not, and of course, the last thing they want is for anybody to know that under their command, sexual assaults are taking place, so they do not do it. That law needs to be changed. About one out of four girls who enter American universities will be sexually assaulted before she graduates, and this is now getting a lot of publicity, partially because of my book, but other things, and so 89 universities in America are now condemned by the Department of Education under Title IX because the officials of the universities are not taking care of the women to protect them from sexual assault. The Department of Justice says that more than half of the rapes on a college campus take place by serial rapists, because outside of the university system, if they rape somebody, they'll be prosecuted, but when they get on a university campus, they can rape with impunity. They're not prosecuted. Those are the kinds of things that go on in our society. Another thing that's very serious about the abuse of women and girls is the lack of equal pay for equal work, as you know. (Applause) And this is sometimes misinterpreted, but for full-time employment, a woman in the United States now gets 23 percent less than a man. When I became president, the difference was 39 percent. So we've made some progress, partially because I was president and so forth — (Applause) (Laughter) — but in the last 15 years, there's been no progress made, so it's been just about 23 or 24 percent difference for the last 15 years. These are the kind of things that go on. If you take the Fortune 500 companies, 23 of them have women CEOs, out of 500, and those CEOs, I need not tell you, make less on an average than the other CEOs. Well, that's what goes on in our country. Another problem with the United States is we are the most warlike nation on Earth. We have been to war with about 25 different countries since the Second World War. Sometimes, we've had soldiers on the ground fighting. The other times, we've been flying overhead dropping bombs on people. Other times, of course, now, we have drones that attack people and so forth. We've been at war with 25 different countries or more since the Second World War. There was four years, I won't say which ones, where we didn't — (Applause) — we didn't drop a bomb, we didn't launch a missile, we didn't fire a bullet. But anyway, those kinds of things, the resort to violence and the misinterpretation of the holy scriptures are what causes, are the basic causes, of abuse of women and girls. There's one more basic cause that I need not mention, and that is that in general, men don't give a damn. (Applause) That's true. The average man that might say, I'm against the abuse of women and girls quietly accepts the privileged position that we occupy, and this is very similar to what I knew when I was a child, when separate but equal had existed. Racial discrimination, legally, had existed for 100 years, from 1865 at the end of the War Between the States, the Civil War, all the way up to the 1960s, when Lyndon Johnson got the bills passed for equal rights. But during that time, there were many white people that didn't think that racial discrimination was okay, but they stayed quiet, because they enjoyed the privileges of better jobs, unique access to jury duty, better schools, and everything else, and that's the same thing that exists today, because the average man really doesn't care. Even though they say, ""I'm against discrimination against girls and women,"" they enjoy a privileged position. And it's very difficult to get the majority of men who control the university system, the majority of men that control the military system, the majority of men that control the governments of the world, and the majority of men that control the great religions. So what is the basic thing that we need to do today? I would say the best thing that we could do today is for the women in the powerful nations like this one, and where you come from, Europe and so forth, who have influence and who have freedom to speak and to act, need to take the responsibility on yourselves to be more forceful in demanding an end to racial discrimination against girls and women all over the world. The average woman in Egypt doesn't have much to say about her daughters getting genitally mutilated and so forth. I didn't even go down to detail about that. But I hope that out of this conference, that every woman here  will get your husbands to realize that these abuses on the college campuses and the military and so forth and in the future job market, need to protect your daughters and your granddaughters. I have 12 grandchildren, four children, and 10 great-grandchildren, and I think often about them and about the plight that they will face in America, not only if they lived in Egypt or a foreign country, in having equal rights, and I hope that all of you will join me in being a champion for women and girls around the world and protect their human rights. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	其實，自從我離開白宮後，就在思考自己的事業，我能想到最好的例子是數年前在《紐約客》刊出的一則卡通。這個小男孩抬頭仰望自己的父親，他說：「爸爸，我長大後要當前總統。」 （笑聲） 我當前總統有個很大的福氣，因為我有機會接觸──這機會世上只有少數幾個人有，就是能瞭解整個宇宙這麼多的人。我不但很熟悉美國 50 州，我與妻子還訪問過全球超過 145 個國家，而且卡特中心還在全世界80 個國家設立全職單位。有很多時候，我們進入一個國家時，我們不僅會晤國王或總統，我們還會見居住在非洲偏遠地區的村民。 總體來說，卡特中心的承諾是要提升人權，了解世界如我，我可以很明確的告訴你地球上頭號人權侵犯，很奇怪，大家不太討論這個，就是虐待婦女及女童。 （掌聲） 接下來我會談造成的幾個原因。第一個就是錯誤闡釋宗教經文、聖經經文，無論是聖經的舊約、新約，還是可蘭經等等都是，這些經文被男性錯誤闡釋，而他們在猶太會堂、基督教堂或回教清真寺位居優越地位。他們以這種方式闡釋教規，確保女性一定會在神的眼中，降到比男性還次等的位置。 這是很嚴重的問題，通常很少人提及。幾年前，在 2000 年，我是浸信會的會友，在美南浸信會 70 年了，我告訴你們，我每個星期天都還在教主日學；我這個星期天也要教，但是 2000 年，美南浸信會聯會做出決定女性必須扮演次等角色，要順服男人。所以他們頒了一項教令，實施不讓女性在教會當祭司、牧師、執事，或軍隊的隨行神職人員，如果女性要在美南浸信會神學院教書，有男童在教室裡時就不能教，因為你可以在聖經裡找到經文，聖經總共有三萬多句的經文，說婦女不應教導男性，諸如此類。但基本上就是錯誤闡釋經文，讓男性保持優越地位。這是很普遍的問題，因為男性能運用這項權力，而且舉例來說，如果施虐的丈夫或雇主想騙女性，他們會說如果婦女在神的眼中並不平等，為什麼我應該平等待她們如待己？為什麼我應該要同工同酬？ 另一項造成這個問題的嚴重因素就是過度訴諸暴力，這現象在全球都顯著增加。舉例來說，在美國我們看到虐待窮人的情況大幅增加，絕大多數為黑人及少數族裔，他們被關進牢裡。我當喬治亞州州長時，每千名美國人中有一個人坐牢。現在，千人中有 7.3 人坐牢。那是七倍的增長。我離開白宮後，黑人女性被監禁的比例增加了 800%。我們也是這世上唯一還保留死刑的已開發國家。我們與最侵犯各式人權的國家同列鼓勵死刑的名單。我們現在在加州開會，而有一天我發現加州已經花了四十億美元判 13 人死刑。如果你加一加，加州要花三億七百萬美元處死一個人。內布拉斯加州本週才通過法律廢止死刑，因為那太花錢了。（掌聲）所以訴諸暴力與虐待窮苦及無助的人是虐待婦女現象增加的另一項原因。 接下來我要說幾個我特別關心的婦女受虐情況，我會盡量簡潔，因為你們知道我的演講時間有限。 其中一個是女陰殘割。女陰殘割非常恐怖，而且美國女性對此一無所知，但是在某些國家，在許多國家，女嬰出生後，很快地她的外生殖器會被所謂操刀者完全切除，操刀者持一把刀片，沒有消毒過，直接把婦女外陰割除。有時候，有些很慘卻非罕見的例子，他們會縫合陰道，只剩小洞，讓女孩能排尿或排月經。之後，當她要結婚時，同樣的操刀者會來切開這個小洞，所以她能有性行為。這並不罕見，儘管大部分國家都明文禁止。舉例來說，在埃及，現今居住在埃及的女性中有 91%受過那樣的性器官殘割。在某些國家，超過 98% 的女性在成年前受過如此殘割。這是種恐怖的折磨，讓活在那些國家的婦女飽受痛苦。 另一件非常嚴重的事就是名譽殺人。家族因為錯誤闡釋的經文──可蘭經裡找不到半條這樣的命令──而將族中的女孩處死，只因為她被強暴，或嫁給父親不同意的人，有時甚至只是因為她穿了不合宜的衣服。而且這由她自己家族的成員執行，所以家人變成兇手，把所謂讓家族蒙羞的女孩殺死。不久前聯合國在埃及做過分析，顯示出處決女孩的人，75% 是女孩的父親、叔伯或兄弟，但 25% 由女人下手。 世界上還有一件與婦女特別有關的問題，就是奴隸，現今稱為人口販賣。過去在十八及十九世紀，大約有一千二百五十萬名非洲人被賣到新世界當奴隸。現在則有三千萬人生活在奴役狀態下。美國國務院受剛果委託，每年要出一份（奴隸）報告，國務院的報告指出每年有八十萬人口被賣為跨國奴隸，而其中 80% 為女性，成為性奴。就在這一刻，光在美國就有六萬人生活在枷鎖中，成為奴隸。喬治亞州亞特蘭大市，即卡特中心的所在地，也是我教書的埃默里大學所在地，每個月都有二、三百名女性賣為奴隸。因而在這個項目成為全國第一。亞特蘭大有全球最繁忙的機場，他們也有許多旅客從南半球來。如果妓院老闆想買個膚色棕褐或黝黑的女孩，他們花一千美元就能買到。皮膚白皙的女孩可以賣好幾倍的錢，而現在在亞特蘭大及美國，一般的妓院老闆可以從每位性奴身上搖出三萬五千美元。喬治亞州亞特蘭大市的性交易超過毒品交易總量。所以這是另一個非常嚴重的問題，而最根本的問題就是賣淫，因為在美國每一間妓院都在當地政府官員、當地警察或警長或市長等人的掌握之下。 這導致另一項嚴重的問題，就是愈來愈多的女性被賣為性奴，全世界所有國家皆為如此。 瑞典有個對付的好方法。大約 15 到 20 年前，瑞典決定要改變法律，女性不再被起訴，如果她們是性奴，但是妓院老闆、皮條客及男性嫖客卻會被起訴，因此（掌聲）賣淫的情況減少。在美國，我們的做法卻恰恰相反。在美國，男性與女性因非法性交易被逮捕的比例為 1 比 25。加拿大、愛爾蘭及我剛談到的瑞典、法國和其他國家都朝所謂的瑞典模式前進。這是另一件可以著手的事。 這個國家有眾人景仰的兩大機構：我們的軍隊及偉大的大學系統。在軍隊，他們正在分析發生過多少性侵案。我拿到的最新報告指出有二萬六千筆性侵案在軍中發生，二萬六千筆！只有三千件，比 1% 多一點點，真的被起訴，原因是各單位的指揮官，像船、以我為名的潛水艇、陸軍軍營，或海軍連隊，指揮官有法律賦予的權力決定是否要起訴某名強暴犯，當然，他們最不想讓人知道的就是在他們的指揮下還發生性侵案，所以他們不會起訴強暴犯。這條法律必須改變。 美國大學生中大約每四名女生就有一名會在畢業前遭受性侵犯，現在這個情況受到許多媒體關注，部分是因為我的書，但還有其它因素，所以依照美國教育修正案第九條，教育部已經譴責了89 所大專院校，因為這些大學的高層沒有好好照顧女性，保護她們不被性侵。美國司法部說超過一半的大學校園強暴案都是連續強暴犯所為，因為如果這件事發生在校園外，他們強暴了某人，一定會被起訴，但是因為發生在校園內，所以可以免於懲處繼續強姦。他們不會被起訴。這些就是我們社會的情況。 還有一件非常嚴重的事，與虐待婦女及女童有關，就是沒有同工同酬，你們都知道的。（掌聲）這有時也被錯誤闡釋，但身為正職員工，在美國女性比男性少拿 23%。我當總統時，差距為 39%。所以我們的確有進步一點，部分是因為我當總統諸如此類──（掌聲）（笑聲）但是過去 15 年沒有什麼顯著的進步，所以過去 15 年，差距大約為 23% 或 24%，這就是我們社會的寫照。如果你看富比士 500 大公司，其中 23 間有女性執行長，500 間裡只有 23 間，這些執行長，我不說你也知道，比其他執行長平均還賺得少。所以，這也是我國社會的寫照。 美國還有一項問題，就是我們是世界上最愛打仗的國家。我們與 25 個國家打過仗，自二次世界大戰以來。有時候，我們派士兵去打地面戰，其他時候，我們飛過人家的領空對人投擲炸彈。還有一些時候，當然現在我們有無人機攻擊人民等等。我們已經和超過 25 個國家打仗，自二次世界大戰以來。其中有四年，我不會說是哪四年，我們沒有打仗，（掌聲）我們沒有投擲炸彈，我們沒有發射飛彈，我們甚至沒有打過一顆子彈。但無論如何，這幾件事，如訴諸暴力及錯誤闡釋經文，是造成虐待婦女及女童的基本原因。 還有一個基本原因，我不用說大家都知道，就是普遍來說，男人根本不甩這回事！（掌聲）真的。會聲稱反對婦女及女童虐待的男人可能會默默接受我們擁有的特權，這跟我小時候的情況很像，種族實施隔離但平等卻存在。合法的種族歧視已經存在了一百年，從 1865 年南北戰爭結束起，一直到 1960 年代林登·詹森通過平權法案為止。但在那段期間，有許多白人並不認為種族歧視是對的，但是他們選擇沉默，因為他們享受特權，有更好的工作，只有白人能進陪審團，進更好的學校和其他種種，這跟今天的情況一樣，因為一般男人真的不在乎。即使他們說：「我反對歧視婦女及女童。」他們還是享受了特權。而且真的很難贏得大多數掌握大學系統的男人、掌握軍隊系統的男人、掌握全球政府的男人，及掌握主要宗教的男人同意。 所以什麼是我們今天最該做的基本事項？我要說今天我們所能做的最好的事，是讓在強國的女性，像美國、妳們的國家、歐洲等等，有影響力、有言論及行動自由的女性，要切實為自己負起責任，做出更強有力的要求，終結全世界對婦女及女童的歧視。普通的埃及女性，不能為她的女兒在女陰殘割等等事情上說什麼意見。我甚至沒有詳述細節。但我希望在這場大會後，在座的每一位女性都能讓妳的丈夫明白這些在大專校園、軍隊等地發生的虐待，及將來出社會後會受到的虐待，因為你們需要保護自己的女兒及孫女。 我有 12 個孫兒女，4 個孩子，及 10 個曾孫，我常常想到他們，及他們在美國要面對的困境，不是只有住在埃及或國外才會碰到，具有平等的權利，我也希望在座所有人都能加入我的行列，為全世界的婦女及女童而戰，並保護她們的人權。謝謝各位！（掌聲）
