Talk	en	zh-tw
jinsop_lee_design_for_all_5_senses	"In an age of global strife and climate change, I'm here to answer the all important question: Why is sex so damn good? If you're laughing, you know what I mean. Now, before we get to that answer, let me tell you about Chris Hosmer. Chris is a great friend of mine from my university days, but secretly, I hate him. Here's why. Back in university, we had a quick project to design some solar-powered clocks. Here's my clock. It uses something called the dwarf sunflower, which grows to about 12 inches in height. Now, as you know, sunflowers track the sun during the course of the day. So in the morning, you see which direction the sunflower is facing, and you mark it on the blank area in the base. At noon, you mark the changed position of the sunflower, and in the evening again, and that's your clock. Now, I know my clock doesn't tell you the exact time, but it does give you a general idea using a flower. So, in my completely unbiased, subjective opinion, it's brilliant. However, here's Chris's clock. It's five magnifying glasses with a shot glass under each one. In each shot glass is a different scented oil. In the morning, the sunlight will shine down on the first magnifying glass, focusing a beam of light on the shot glass underneath. This will warm up the scented oil inside, and a particular smell will be emitted. A couple of hours later, the sun will shine on the next magnifying glass, and a different smell will be emitted. So during the course of the day, five different smells are dispersed throughout that environment. Anyone living in that house can tell the time just by the smell. You can see why I hate Chris. I thought my idea was pretty good, but his idea is genius, and at the time, I knew his idea was better than mine, but I just couldn't explain why. One thing you have to know about me is I hate to lose. This problem's been bugging me for well over a decade. All right, let's get back to the question of why sex is so good. Many years after the solar powered clocks project, a young lady I knew suggested maybe sex is so good because of the five senses. And when she said this, I had an epiphany. So I decided to evaluate different experiences I had in my life from the point of view of the five senses. To do this, I devised something called the five senses graph. Along the y-axis, you have a scale from zero to 10, and along the x-axis, you have, of course, the five senses. Anytime I had a memorable experience in my life, I would record it on this graph like a five senses diary. Here's a quick video to show you how it works. (Video) Jinsop Lee: Hey, my name's Jinsop, and today, I'm going to show you what riding motorbikes is like from the point of view of the five senses. Hey! Bike designer: This is [unclear], custom bike designer. (Motorcyle revving) [Sound] [Touch] [Sight] [Smell] [Taste] JL: And that's how the five senses graph works. Now, for a period of three years, I gathered data, not just me but also some of my friends, and I used to teach in university, so I forced my — I mean, I asked my students to do this as well. So here are some other results. The first is for instant noodles. Now obviously, taste and smell are quite high, but notice sound is at three. Many people told me a big part of the noodle-eating experience is the slurping noise. You know. (Slurps) Needless to say, I no longer dine with these people. OK, next, clubbing. OK, here what I found interesting was that taste is at four, and many respondents told me it's because of the taste of drinks, but also, in some cases, kissing is a big part of the clubbing experience. These people I still do hang out with. All right, and smoking. Here I found touch is at [six], and one of the reasons is that smokers told me the sensation of holding a cigarette and bringing it up to your lips is a big part of the smoking experience, which shows, it's kind of scary to think how well cigarettes are designed by the manufacturers. OK. Now, what would the perfect experience look like on the five senses graph? It would, of course, be a horizontal line along the top. Now you can see, not even as intense an experience as riding a motorbike comes close. In fact, in the years that I gathered data, only one experience came close to being the perfect one. That is, of course, sex. Great sex. Respondents said that great sex hits all of the five senses at an extreme level. Here I'll quote one of my students who said, ""Sex is so good, it's good even when it's bad."" So the five senses theory does help explain why sex is so good. Now in the middle of all this five senses work, I suddenly remembered the solar-powered clocks project from my youth. And I realized this theory also explains why Chris's clock is so much better than mine. You see, my clock only focuses on sight, and a little bit of touch. Here's Chris's clock. It's the first clock ever that uses smell to tell the time. In fact, in terms of the five senses, Chris's clock is a revolution. And that's what this theory taught me about my field. You see, up till now, us designers, we've mainly focused on making things look very pretty, and a little bit of touch, which means we've ignored the other three senses. Chris's clock shows us that even raising just one of those other senses can make for a brilliant product. So what if we started using the five senses theory in all of our designs? Here's three quick ideas I came up with. This is an iron, you know, for your clothes, to which I added a spraying mechanism, so you fill up the vial with your favorite scent, and your clothes will smell nicer, but hopefully it should also make the ironing experience more enjoyable. We could call this ""the perfumator."" All right, next. So I brush my teeth twice a day, and what if we had a toothbrush that tastes like candy, and when the taste of candy ran out, you'd know it's time to change your toothbrush? Finally, I have a thing for the keys on a flute or a clarinet. It's not just the way they look, but I love the way they feel when you press down on them. Now, I don't play the flute or the clarinet, so I decided to combine these keys with an instrument I do play: the television remote control. Now, when we look at these three ideas together, you'll notice that the five senses theory doesn't only change the way we use these products but also the way they look. So in conclusion, I've found the five senses theory to be a very useful tool in evaluating different experiences in my life, and then taking those best experiences and hopefully incorporating them into my designs. Now, I realize the five senses isn't the only thing that makes life interesting. There's also the six emotions and that elusive x-factor. Maybe that could be the topic of my next talk. Until then, please have fun using the five senses in your own lives and your own designs. Oh, one last thing before I leave. Here's the experience you all had while listening to the TED Talks. However, it would be better if we could boost up a couple of the other senses like smell and taste. And the best way to do that is with free candy. You guys ready? All right. (Applause)"	在一個全球衝突與氣候變遷的時代我在這裡要解答所有重要的問題為甚麼性愛感覺如此美好？如果你笑了表示你懂我的意思 在我們講那個答案之前讓我告訴你關於 Chris Hosmer 這號人物Chris 是我大學時一個很好的朋友但我私底下很討厭他理由是在大學時我們有一個小的專案要設計一些利用太陽能驅動的時鐘這是我的時鐘利用一種叫做矮種向日葵做的矮種向日葵大概 12 英吋高你也知道向日葵會追隨著太陽的方向所以早晨時，你看向日葵朝著哪個方向就在底座空白處作記號正午時，記下向日葵改變的方向同樣地，傍晚時也一樣，這就是你的時鐘我知道我的時鐘無法告訴你精確的時間但它利用花來告訴你一個大方向所以以我毫無偏見、主觀的立場我覺得這棒極了 可是呢，這是Chris 的時鐘用了五個放大鏡，每個放大鏡下方都放了一個烈酒杯每個烈酒杯裡有不同的香氛精油早晨時，陽光會照射在第一個放大鏡上光束會聚焦在下方的小玻璃杯溫熱玻璃杯裡的香氛精油然後某種特定的香氣就會散發出來兩小時後，陽光會照射在下一個放大鏡上，另一種香氣就會散發出來一天下來，五種不同的香氣在整個空間裡瀰漫每個居住在那裡的人就可以依據香氣的不同來判斷時間你知道為何我這麼討厭 Chris 了吧我以為我的點子已經很棒了可是 Chris 的簡直是天才當時我知道他的點子比我的好但我就是無法解釋箇中原由你們要知道我是個不服輸的人這個問題困擾著我超過十年 好吧，讓我們回到性愛為何如此美好這個問題在太陽能驅動時鐘專案的多年後有個我認識的年輕女性說性愛之所以如此美好，也許是因為五感因為她的話，我有一種頓悟的感覺我決定以五感的角度來分析評估我生活中的各種經驗 為此，我發明了五感圖表Y 軸的數值範圍從 0 到 10X 軸就是五種不同的感官感受每當我有難忘的生活經歷我就會標記在圖表上，像是個五感日記 這裡有個說明使用方法的短片 Jinsop Lee︰「嗨，我是 Jinsop，今天我要和你分享以五感的角度去了解騎重機的感覺」 重機設計者︰「我是（不清楚），客製重型機車的設計師」 （引擎聲響）（聽覺）（觸覺）（視覺）（嗅覺）（味覺） Jinsop Lee︰「這就是五感圖表作用的方式」 我花了三年的時間蒐集資料不只我在蒐集，還有我的一些朋友們我曾經在大學裡任教，所以我強迫...我是說，我請我的學生也這麼做這就是我們蒐集的結果第一個，速食麵顯然地，味覺與嗅覺的等級都相當高但聽覺只有3很多人告訴我，吃速食麵的聽覺經驗大部分是吸麵的噪音你知道的（吸食麵條的聲音）不用說，我再也不跟那些人一起吃飯 好，下一個，跑趴這是我發現有趣的地方跑趴味覺是 4，很多受訪者告訴我那是酒精性飲料的味覺感受但是，就某些情況而言，接吻也佔了跑趴經驗的一大部分我仍和這些受訪者們一起玩 好吧，那麼吸煙呢我發現吸煙的觸覺感受是 6，原因之一是吸煙者告訴我說，拿著煙，把煙送上雙唇間，是吸煙時的重點那表示，感覺有點駭人地，香煙製造商把香煙設計的多麼的好啊好吧，這些完美經驗在五感圖表上是如何呈現的呢？如果可以，它當然是條位在頂端的水平線但你可以看到，即使是強烈的騎重機經驗都無法達到五感都位居頂端的水平線事實上，在我蒐集資料的那些年只有一種經歷可以最接近完美的五感經驗那就是性愛，絕佳的性愛受訪者說絕佳的性愛衝擊所有的五官感受到極端的程度在此我要引用我學生所言︰「性愛如此美好，就算不愉悅的性愛也是美好的」所以五感理論的確解釋了為何性愛如此美好 現在在我做的這個五官感受的工作中我突然想起了年輕時做的太陽能驅動時鐘專案我發現，五感理論也說明了為何 Chris 設計的時鐘比我的還好你看，我設計的時鐘主要針對視覺還有一點點觸覺但 Chris 的時鐘卻是前所未有地讓人「嗅」到時間事實上，基於五種感官感受Chris 的時鐘是一種革命 而那正是在我的領域裡，這個理論教我的東西你看看現在我們這些設計師我們大多專注在讓東西看起來很好看再加上一些觸感那也就是說，我們忽略其他三種感官的感受Chris 的時鐘告訴我們，藉由提昇任一個感官的感受我們就可以創造出傑出的作品 那假設我們開始把五感設計理論融入我們所有的設計當中呢？接下來是我想出的三個點子 這是熨斗，燙衣服用的熨斗我添加了一個噴氣功能你會在蒸水瓶裡添加你喜歡的香氣然後你燙過的衣服就聞更好聞且同時你在熨燙衣服的過程也會是個很享受的經驗我們就稱之為「香味製造器」 好，下一個我一天刷兩次牙如果，我有個嚐起來像糖果的牙刷呢？然後當它再也沒有糖果的甜味時就表示該換牙刷了？ 最後，我對長笛或黑管的按鍵有特殊的喜好它不僅好看，我更愛那按下它的觸感它不僅好看，我更愛那按下它的觸感我現在不再吹奏長笛或黑管了所以我決定把那按鍵與我每天都會按的器具結合電視遙控器好了，綜合以上三個例子你會發現五感理論不僅改變我們使用產品的方式也改變了產品的外觀 結論是，我發現五感理論對於分析我生活中各式各樣的經驗是非常有用的工具並且希望把我最好的經驗融入我的設計當中並且希望把我最好的經驗融入我的設計當中 現在我明瞭五個感官的感受不僅增添生活的趣味還有六種情緒和那難以預料的不確定因素這也許會成為我下一個演講的主題在那之前，請盡情把五感融入你的生活和你的設計當中 喔，在我結束之前還有最後一件事這是你們聽 TED 演講時的經驗這是你們聽 TED 演講時的經驗然而，如果我們能增加像嗅覺和味覺這兩種感官經驗那會更好要達到這一點的最佳妙方就是免費的糖果 準備好了嗎？ 好的 （掌聲）
