Talk	en	zh-tw
joann_kuchera_morin_tours_the_allosphere	The AlloSphere: it's a three-story metal sphere in an echo-free chamber. Think of the AlloSphere as a large, dynamically varying digital microscope that's connected to a supercomputer. 20 researchers can stand on a bridge suspended inside of the sphere, and be completely immersed in their data. Imagine if a team of physicists could stand inside of an atom and watch and hear electrons spin. Imagine if a group of sculptors could be inside of a lattice of atoms and sculpt with their material. Imagine if a team of surgeons could fly into the brain, as though it was a world, and see tissues as landscapes, and hear blood density levels as music. This is some of the research that you're going to see that we're undertaking at the AlloSphere. But first a little bit about this group of artists, scientists, and engineers that are working together. I'm a composer, orchestrally-trained, and the inventor of the AlloSphere. With my visual artist colleagues, we map complex mathematical algorithms that unfold in time and space, visually and sonically. Our scientist colleagues are finding new patterns in the information. And our engineering colleagues are making one of the largest dynamically varying computers in the world for this kind of data exploration. I'm going to fly you into five research projects in the AlloSphere that are going to take you from biological macroscopic data all the way down to electron spin. This first project is called the AlloBrain. And it's our attempt to quantify beauty by finding which regions of the brain are interactive while witnessing something beautiful. You're flying through the cortex of my colleague's brain. Our narrative here is real fMRI data that's mapped visually and sonically. The brain now a world that we can fly through and interact with. You see 12 intelligent computer agents, the little rectangles that are flying in the brain with you. They're mining blood density levels. And they're reporting them back to you sonically. Higher density levels mean more activity in that point of the brain. They're actually singing these densities to you with higher pitches mapped to higher densities. We're now going to move from real biological data to biogenerative algorithms that create artificial nature in our next artistic and scientific installation. In this artistic and scientific installation, biogenerative algorithms are helping us to understand self-generation and growth: very important for simulation in the nanoscaled sciences. For artists, we're making new worlds that we can uncover and explore. These generative algorithms grow over time, and they interact and communicate as a swarm of insects. Our researchers are interacting with this data by injecting bacterial code, which are computer programs, that allow these creatures to grow over time. We're going to move now from the biological and the macroscopic world, down into the atomic world, as we fly into a lattice of atoms. This is real AFM — Atomic Force Microscope — data from my colleagues in the Solid State Lighting and Energy Center. They've discovered a new bond, a new material for transparent solar cells. We're flying through 2,000 lattice of atoms — oxygen, hydrogen and zinc. You view the bond in the triangle. It's four blue zinc atoms bonding with one white hydrogen atom. You see the electron flow with the streamlines we as artists have generated for the scientists. This is allowing them to find the bonding nodes in any lattice of atoms. We think it makes a beautiful structural art. The sound that you're hearing are the actual emission spectrums of these atoms. We've mapped them into the audio domain, so they're singing to you. Oxygen, hydrogen and zinc have their own signature. We're going to actually move even further down as we go from this lattice of atoms to one single hydrogen atom. We're working with our physicist colleagues that have given us the mathematical calculations of the n-dimensional Schrödinger equation in time. What you're seeing here right now is a superposition of an electron in the lower three orbitals of a hydrogen atom. You're actually hearing and seeing the electron flow with the lines. The white dots are the probability wave that will show you where the electron is in any given point of time and space in this particular three-orbital configuration. In a minute we're going to move to a two-orbital configuration, and you're going to notice a pulsing. And you're going to hear an undulation between the sound. This is actually a light emitter. As the sound starts to pulse and contract, our physicists can tell when a photon is going to be emitted. They're starting to find new mathematical structures in these calculations. And they're understanding more about quantum mathematics. We're going to move even further down, and go to one single electron spin. This will be the final project that I show you. Our colleagues in the Center for Quantum Computation and Spintronics are actually measuring with their lasers decoherence in a single electron spin. We've taken this information and we've made a mathematical model out of it. You're actually seeing and hearing quantum information flow. This is very important for the next step in simulating quantum computers and information technology. So these brief examples that I've shown you give you an idea of the kind of work that we're doing at the University of California, Santa Barbara, to bring together, arts, science and engineering into a new age of math, science and art. We hope that all of you will come to see the AlloSphere. Inspire us to think of new ways that we can use this unique instrument that we've created at Santa Barbara. Thank you very much. (Applause)	這就是全像球，一個不會產生回音的，三層樓高的金屬球狀內部空間。你可以把全像球想像為一個大的、連接著超級電腦的動態數位顯微鏡。20 個研究員可以站在球體內懸置的橋上，完全地和他們的數據融為一體。 想像一下如果一組物理學家，可以站在原子裏面，並且可以看到、聽到電子的自旋。想像一下如果一組雕塑家，可以站在原子的矩陣內並用他們的材料進行雕塑。想像一下如果一組外科醫生，可以在大腦裏飛翔，就好像大腦內是另一個世界一樣，將組織想像成地形景緻，將血液密度高低當成音樂來聽。這就是你們將看到的一部分我們正在全像球裡進行的研究。 但是先讓我介紹一下，跟我們一起工作的藝術家、科學家和工程師小組。我是一個交響樂團的作曲家，也是全像球的發明者。跟我的視覺藝術家同事一起，我們利用聲音與圖像繪出了各種在時間與空間中拓展的複雜數學演算法。我們的科學家同事正在資訊裡尋找新的規律。而我們的工程師同事正在製造一個世界上最大的動態電腦，以用於這種資料探索。我將要帶你們飛進全像球裡的五個研究計畫，那將帶領你們從宏觀生物學數據一路縮小到電子的自旋。 第一個項目叫做全像大腦。這是我們試圖在找出大腦和美麗事物互動區域的同時去量化美麗。你們正在飛躍我一個同事的大腦皮層，我們在這裡所做的，是將真實的 fMRI 資料以視覺和聽覺的方式顯現。現在大腦就像一個我們可以在其中飛翔並與之互動的世界。你看到了 12 個智慧電腦媒介，就是那些和你一起在腦內飛翔的長方形，它們在探測血液密度的高低，然後它們通過聲音將狀態回報給你。密度高表示著大腦中那個部位較為活躍。他們實際上正在將密度「唱」給你們聽，愈高的音調代表著愈高的密度。 我們現在將要從真正的生物資料移到創造人工自然的生物合成演算法，我將在下一個藝術和科學的裝置中展現給你們。在這個兼具藝術性和科學性的裝置中，生物合成演算法將要幫我們去瞭解自我繁殖和生長。這是在奈米規模的科學上的一個十分重要的模擬。對藝術家而言，我們正在創造我們可以開拓和探索的新世界。就在這些自我生長演算法在成長的同時，他們就像一群昆蟲一樣地在互動和交流。我們的研究員通過注入細菌代碼去和這個數據互動，那些都是允許讓這些生物不停成長的電腦程式。我們現在要從這個生物性的宏觀世界深入到原子的世界，現在我們正在飛往原子的矩陣中。這是真正的 AFM，原子力顯微鏡資料，這些資料來自於我在固態光學暨能源中心的同事。他們已經發現了一個新的化學鍵，一種可以應用到透明太陽能電池的新材料。 我們正在飛躍二千個原子的矩陣 —氧、氫和鋅。你看到了這個三角形的化學鍵。這是四個藍色的鋅原子和一個白色的氫原子鍵結在一起。你們看到了這些帶著流線型軌跡的電子流，這是作為藝術家的我們為科學家們所設計的。這可以讓他們在任何原子矩陣中去尋找鍵結的節點。我們認為這是一個美麗的結構藝術。你們現在聽到的聲音實際上是這些原子的放射光譜。我們將它們對應到聲音的頻帶中。所以它們就在對你們唱歌。氧、氫和鋅有它們自己的特徵。我們甚至可以更深入一點，從這個原子矩陣到一個單獨的氫原子。 我們和物理學的同事一起工作，他們為我們解出「三度空間中與時間相關的薛丁格方程式」。現在你們看到的是，在氫原子裡三個低階電子軌域的混成軌域。你們可以聽到和看到這些帶著軌跡的電子流動情形，白色的點是概率波，它告訴你在任何一個時空中，在這特殊的三軌域組態中電子的所在位置。一會兒後我們將要移至兩個軌域的組態，然後你將會注意到一個脈衝。然後你會聽到一個波動的聲音，這實際上是一個放射光子。當這聲音開始脈衝然後收縮，我們的物理學家可以得知，何時光子將被放射。 他們開始在這些計算中找到新的數學結構。然後他們就會更加瞭解量子數學。我們要繼續深入，去看看單個電子的自旋。這將是我為你們展示的最後一個計畫。我們在量子計算研究中心和自旋電子學的同事，通過雷射去測量電子的環繞。我們取得這些資料，然後我們用它做出了一個數學模型。你們現在看到和聽到的是量子資訊流。這對於接下來模擬量子電腦和資訊科技是十分重要的一步。 好了，這些是我為你們展示的小例子，讓你們對於我們在加州大學聖塔芭芭拉分校的工作有個概念，是將藝術、科學和工程學混合在一起，創造出一個數學、科學和藝術的新領域。我們希望你們都能來參觀全像球。來啟發我們思考對於我們在聖塔芭芭拉所創造的這個獨特的新儀器能有什麼全新的應用。十分感謝。（掌聲）
