Talk	en	zh-tw
joan_halifax	"I want to address the issue of compassion. Compassion has many faces. Some of them are fierce; some of them are wrathful; some of them are tender; some of them are wise. A line that the Dalai Lama once said, he said, ""Love and compassion are necessities. They are not luxuries. Without them, humanity cannot survive."" And I would suggest, it is not only humanity that won't survive, but it is all species on the planet, as we've heard today. It is the big cats, and it's the plankton. Two weeks ago, I was in Bangalore in India. I was so privileged to be able to teach in a hospice on the outskirts of Bangalore. And early in the morning, I went into the ward. In that hospice, there were 31 men and women who were actively dying. And I walked up to the bedside of an old woman who was breathing very rapidly, fragile, obviously in the latter phase of active dying. I looked into her face. I looked into the face of her son sitting next to her, and his face was just riven with grief and confusion. And I remembered a line from the Mahabharata, the great Indian epic: ""What is the most wondrous thing in the world, Yudhisthira?"" And Yudhisthira replied, ""The most wondrous thing in the world is that all around us people can be dying and we don't realize it can happen to us."" I looked up. Tending those 31 dying people were young women from villages around Bangalore. I looked into the face of one of these women, and I saw in her face the strength that arises when natural compassion is really present. I watched her hands as she bathed an old man. My gaze went to another young woman as she wiped the face of another dying person. And it reminded me of something that I had just been present for. Every year or so, I have the privilege of taking clinicians into the Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau. And we run clinics in these very remote regions where there's no medical care whatsoever. And on the first day at Simikot in Humla, far west of Nepal, the most impoverished region of Nepal, an old man came in clutching a bundle of rags. And he walked in, and somebody said something to him, we realized he was deaf, and we looked into the rags, and there was this pair of eyes. The rags were unwrapped from a little girl whose body was massively burned. Again, the eyes and hands of Avalokiteshvara. It was the young women, the health aids, who cleaned the wounds of this baby and dressed the wounds. I know those hands and eyes; they touched me as well. They touched me at that time. They have touched me throughout my 68 years. They touched me when I was four and I lost my eyesight and was partially paralyzed. And my family brought in a woman whose mother had been a slave to take care of me. And that woman did not have sentimental compassion. She had phenomenal strength. And it was really her strength, I believe, that became the kind of mudra and imprimatur that has been a guiding light in my life. So we can ask: What is compassion comprised of? And there are various facets. And there's referential and non-referential compassion. But first, compassion is comprised of that capacity to see clearly into the nature of suffering. It is that ability to really stand strong and to recognize also that I'm not separate from this suffering. But that is not enough, because compassion, which activates the motor cortex, means that we aspire, we actually aspire to transform suffering. And if we're so blessed, we engage in activities that transform suffering. But compassion has another component, and that component is really essential. That component is that we cannot be attached to outcome. Now I worked with dying people for over 40 years. I had the privilege of working on death row in a maximum security [prison] for six years. And I realized so clearly in bringing my own life experience, from working with dying people and training caregivers, that any attachment to outcome would distort deeply my own capacity to be fully present to the whole catastrophe. And when I worked in the prison system, it was so clear to me, this: that many of us in this room, and almost all of the men that I worked with on death row, the seeds of their own compassion had never been watered. That compassion is actually an inherent human quality. It is there within every human being. But the conditions for compassion to be activated, to be aroused, are particular conditions. I had that condition, to a certain extent, from my own childhood illness. Eve Ensler, whom you'll hear later, has had that condition activated amazingly in her through the various waters of suffering that she has been through. And what is fascinating is that compassion has enemies, and those enemies are things like pity, moral outrage, fear. And you know, we have a society, a world, that is paralyzed by fear. And in that paralysis, of course, our capacity for compassion is also paralyzed. The very word terror is global. The very feeling of terror is global. So our work, in a certain way, is to address this imago, this kind of archetype that has pervaded the psyche of our entire globe. Now we know from neuroscience that compassion has some very extraordinary qualities. For example: A person who is cultivating compassion, when they are in the presence of suffering, they feel that suffering a lot more than many other people do. However, they return to baseline a lot sooner. This is called resilience. Many of us think that compassion drains us, but I promise you it is something that truly enlivens us. Another thing about compassion is that it really enhances what's called neural integration. It hooks up all parts of the brain. Another, which has been discovered by various researchers at Emory and at Davis and so on, is that compassion enhances our immune system. Hey, we live in a very noxious world. (Laughter) Most of us are shrinking in the face of psycho-social and physical poisons, of the toxins of our world. But compassion, the generation of compassion, actually mobilizes our immunity. You know, if compassion is so good for us, I have a question. Why don't we train our children in compassion? (Applause) If compassion is so good for us, why don't we train our health care providers in compassion so that they can do what they're supposed to do, which is to really transform suffering? And if compassion is so good for us, why don't we vote on compassion? Why don't we vote for people in our government based on compassion, so that we can have a more caring world? In Buddhism, we say, ""it takes a strong back and a soft front."" It takes tremendous strength of the back to uphold yourself in the midst of conditions. And that is the mental quality of equanimity. But it also takes a soft front — the capacity to really be open to the world as it is, to have an undefended heart. And the archetype of this in Buddhism is Avalokiteshvara, Kuan-Yin. It's a female archetype: she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world. She stands with 10,000 arms, and in every hand, there is an instrument of liberation, and in the palm of every hand, there are eyes, and these are the eyes of wisdom. I say that, for thousands of years, women have lived, exemplified, met in intimacy, the archetype of Avalokitesvara, of Kuan-Yin, she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world. Women have manifested for thousands of years the strength arising from compassion in an unfiltered, unmediated way in perceiving suffering as it is. They have infused societies with kindness, and we have really felt that as woman after woman has stood on this stage in the past day and a half. And they have actualized compassion through direct action. Jody Williams called it: It's good to meditate. I'm sorry, you've got to do a little bit of that, Jody. Step back, give your mother a break, okay. (Laughter) But the other side of the equation is you've got to come out of your cave. You have to come into the world like Asanga did, who was looking to realize Maitreya Buddha after 12 years sitting in the cave. He said, ""I'm out of here."" He's going down the path. He sees something in the path. He looks, it's a dog, he drops to his knees. He sees that the dog has this big wound on its leg. The wound is just filled with maggots. He puts out his tongue in order to remove the maggots, so as not to harm them. And at that moment, the dog transformed into the Buddha of love and kindness. I believe that women and girls today have to partner in a powerful way with men — with their fathers, with their sons, with their brothers, with the plumbers, the road builders, the caregivers, the doctors, the lawyers, with our president, and with all beings. The women in this room are lotuses in a sea of fire. May we actualize that capacity for women everywhere. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想要談談同情心同情心有很多面相。這些面相中有些是激烈的，有些是憤怒的，有些是溫柔的，有些是有智慧的。達賴喇嘛曾說：「愛與同情是必須的。他們不是奢侈品。沒有他們，人類無法存活。」而我認為不只是人類不能存活，地球上的所有的物種，都無法存活。不論是大型貓科動物或是小浮游生物 我兩周前在印度的班家羅爾很榮幸能在班家羅爾郊區的一所安寧照護中心教學我在清晨進入安寧房在那安寧照護中心有31名男女正在面臨死亡我走到一名年老女的女性床邊她的呼吸非常急促、虛弱我看得出來她的時間不多了我看了她的臉。及她身旁兒子的臉她兒子臉上滿是憂傷與迷惘 然後我想起印度史詩摩訶婆羅多中的一段對話「尤迪斯帝拉，世上什麼最奇妙?」尤迪斯帝拉答道：「這世上最奇妙的是我們知道周遭所有人都可能死亡但我們卻沒有意識到自己也可能死亡。」我看了看照顧這些面臨死亡的31人是來自班家羅爾村莊的年輕女士我看了這些女士的臉我在她們臉上看到自然的同情心顯現時所顯露的能量當她在為老人洗澡時的雙手 我又看了另外一名女士的雙手她正擦拭著即將死亡的人的臉這提醒了我一件我才剛遇到的事大約每隔一年我都有榮幸帶領一些醫生到喜馬拉雅和西藏台地然後我們在這些沒有任何醫療機制的深山進行診療 在尼泊爾的席米哥的前幾天在拿博遙遠的西邊也就是拿博最落後的地方有一名老人緊抓著一堆破布走進來了診所他進來後有人跟他說了話但我們發現他是聾的然後我們看了那些破布我又看到了那滿是同情心的眼神那堆破布是從一為全身嚴重灼傷的女孩身上取下來的我又看見了那屬於觀世音菩薩的眼神和手這是一位年輕的女醫護人員眼神和手她清洗了這名嬰兒身上的傷口並為傷口包紮 我認識這雙手和眼睛他們也感動過我不只在當時感動了我他們在過去的68年間不斷地感動著我他們在我四歲失去視力且半身癱瘓的時候感動著我當時我的家人帶來一位女士她母親曾是奴隸，而她是來照顧我的那位女士的同情心不是來自感傷她有非凡的力量而我相信她那強大的力量成為一種啓發成為我生命中的明燈 所以我們可以問：同情心是什麼組成的？而那有非常多面向同情心有來自經驗及非經驗的但首先，同情心是由能夠洞悉受苦的意義的能力而來這個能力讓我們能堅強得瞭解到我們夜身處這些苦難中但光這些是不夠的因為同情心會激發運動皮質區表示我們會想去改變我們真的會去改變這些苦難然後如果我們是蒙神祝福的我們會身體力行來化解苦難但同情心還有另一個要件而且這要件很重要這個要件是我們不能有情感上的依附 我和這些走在生命最後階段的人相處超過40年了我有幸在戒備最深嚴的地方與死囚們共事了六年我很清楚得瞭解到而這是我經驗之談與面臨死亡的人相處和訓練照護人員時若對結果有情感的依附會嚴重影響我面對悲劇的能力 當我在監牢裡工作時我更瞭解到在我們當中有很多人和多數的死刑犯心中同情心的種子從未被灌溉過同情心事實上是人類與生俱來每一個人都有的但能夠促使同情心萌芽的狀況，是很特殊的在某種程度上，我小時候的一場大病給了我這樣的狀況等下我來告訴你們依夫‧恩斯勒她那驚人的同情心如何在一連串的痛苦中被啓發的 更驚人的是同情心是有敵人的敵人的名字就叫做遺憾憤怒與害怕如你們所知，我們的社會被恐懼癱瘓了在這樣的狀況下，當然的我們同情的能力也被癱瘓了恐怖這個辭存於全世界恐怖這個感覺是全世界都有的所以我們的工作，在某些程度上就是解決這樣的意象這樣的原始的意念這已經滲入全人類思想中了 我們從神經科學中瞭解到同情心有其與眾不同的特質舉例來說一個正在培養同情心的人當他正在面對苦痛時他會比其他人更能感受到這些痛苦但是他們也可以更快復原這叫做復原力我們之中很多人認為同情心會讓我們枯乾但我向你們保證同情心絕對會讓我們充滿生命力 在來是同情心會促進神經整合將腦部的各個部份連接在一起還有就是，艾默理大學的研究人員及加州大學的研究人員發現慈悲心會增加免疫力這很棒耶!因為我們處在一個很毒的世界【笑聲】多數人面對心理和生理的毒物時不斷得在萎縮但同情心，及慈悲心的產生其實能活化我們的免疫力 既然大家都知道同情心這麼好了讓我問你們一個問題為何不訓練我們的孩子擁有同情心？【掌聲】如果同情心這麼好，為何不訓練我們的醫護人員慈悲心如此他們就能把該做的事做好他們的工作不就是化解苦難嗎？而且如果同情心這麼好何不投票給同情心？何不在選舉時投票給有同情心的人呢?如此我們就能擁有一個充滿關懷的世界在佛教中，我們說：「需要一個強壯的背脊，但柔軟的顏面。」我們背後需要有強大的力量來讓我們立足於各種狀況那也是能人處世泰然的能力 但我們需要柔軟的顏面需要能夠敞開心胸接受這世界能夠有個不俱防備的心靈而在佛教中這樣的榜樣就是觀世音菩薩這是個女性的典型她是個接受全世界苦難的人她有一萬隻手每隻手上都有一個用以解放的工具每一隻手掌上都有眼睛而這些眼睛是智慧之眼數幾千年來所有存在過的女性們都是例子，也親身接觸過觀世音菩薩的典型觀音感受著全世界的苦難 女性數千年來展現著由同情心而來的力量她們毫不逃避及掩飾的感受著苦難他們將慈愛注入社會而我們可以確實在這過去一天半裡從接連上講台的女性深深得感受到。而她們也將同情心化為實際行動喬迪·威廉斯說過冥想是件好事但我想對喬迪說，你也必須做點別的讓一步，讓你媽媽休息一下。好嗎？ 【笑聲】 但這件事的另外一面是你必須走出你的洞穴你必須走進這個世界像無著菩薩那樣在洞穴中坐禪12年希望可以看見彌勒佛他最後說：「我要出關了。」他沿著路往下走他看到路上有東西原來是隻狗，他跪下看看看到這狗的腿上有一個大傷口上面爬滿了蛆他伸出了舌頭為狗清除傷口上的蛆以免傷著了蛆在那一刻狗變身成代表愛與慈祥的菩薩 我認為現代的婦女和女孩必須以充滿力量的方式於男性合作與父親合作與兒子與兄弟合作與水電工、建造道路的工人與醫護人員、醫生、律師與國家元首與所有人合作在場的所有婦女是火海中的蓮花讓我們把這樣的能力帶給各地的女性 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
