Talk	en	zh-tw
jody_williams_a_realistic_vision_for_world_peace	"I'm actually here to make a challenge to people. I know there have been many challenges made to people. The one I'm going to make is that it is time for us to reclaim what peace really means. Peace is not ""Kumbaya, my Lord."" Peace is not the dove and the rainbow — as lovely as they are. When I see the symbols of the rainbow and the dove, I think of personal serenity. I think of meditation. I do not think about what I consider to be peace, which is sustainable peace with justice and equality. It is a sustainable peace in which the majority of people on this planet have access to enough resources to live dignified lives, where these people have enough access to education and health care, so that they can live in freedom from want and freedom from fear. This is called human security. And I am not a complete pacifist like some of my really, really heavy-duty, non-violent friends, like Mairead McGuire. I understand that humans are so ""messed up"" — to use a nice word, because I promised my mom I'd stop using the F-bomb in public. And I'm trying harder and harder. Mom, I'm really trying. We need a little bit of police; we need a little bit of military, but for defense. We need to redefine what makes us secure in this world. It is not arming our country to the teeth. It is not getting other countries to arm themselves to the teeth with the weapons that we produce and we sell them. It is using that money more rationally to make the countries of the world secure, to make the people of the world secure. I was thinking about the recent ongoings in Congress, where the president is offering 8.4 billion dollars to try to get the START vote. I certainly support the START vote. But he's offering 84 billion dollars for the modernizing of nuclear weapons. Do you know the figure that the U.N. talks about for fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals is 80 billion dollars? Just that little bit of money, which to me, I wish it was in my bank account — it's not, but ... In global terms, it's a little bit of money. But it's going to modernize weapons we do not need and will not be gotten rid of in our lifetime, unless we get up off our ... and take action to make it happen, unless we begin to believe that all of the things that we've been hearing about in these last two days are elements of what come together to make human security. It is saving the tigers. It is stopping the tar sands. It is having access to medical equipment that can actually tell who does have cancer. It is all of those things. It is using our money for all of those things. It is about action. I was in Hiroshima a couple of weeks ago, and His Holiness — we're sitting there in front of thousands of people in the city, and there were about eight of us Nobel laureates. And he's a bad guy. He's like a bad kid in church. We're staring at everybody, waiting our turn to speak, and he leans over to me, and he says, ""Jody, I'm a Buddhist monk."" I said, ""Yes, Your Holiness. Your robe gives it away."" (Laughter) He said, ""You know that I kind of like meditation, and I pray."" I said, ""That's good. That's good. We need that in the world. I don't follow that, but that's cool."" And he says, ""But I have become skeptical. I do not believe that meditation and prayer will change this world. I think what we need is action."" His Holiness, in his robes, is my new action hero. I spoke with Aung Sun Suu Kyi a couple of days ago. As most of you know, she's a hero for democracy in her country, Burma. You probably also know that she has spent 15 of the last 20 years imprisoned for her efforts to bring about democracy. She was just released a couple of weeks ago, and we're very concerned to see how long she will be free, because she is already out in the streets in Rangoon, agitating for change. She is already out in the streets, working with the party to try to rebuild it. But I talked to her for a range of issues. But one thing that I want to say, because it's similar to what His Holiness said. She said, ""You know, we have a long road to go to finally get democracy in my country. But I don't believe in hope without endeavor. I don't believe in the hope of change, unless we take action to make it so."" Here's another woman hero of mine. She's my friend, Dr. Shirin Ebadi, the first Muslim woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. She has been in exile for the last year and a half. You ask her where she lives — where does she live in exile? She says the airports of the world. She is traveling because she was out of the country at the time of the elections. And instead of going home, she conferred with all the other women that she works with, who said to her, ""Stay out. We need you out. We need to be able to talk to you out there, so that you can give the message of what's happening here."" A year and a half — she's out speaking on behalf of the other women in her country. Wangari Maathai — 2004 Peace laureate. They call her the ""Tree Lady,"" but she's more than the Tree Lady. Working for peace is very creative. It's hard work every day. When she was planting those trees, I don't think most people understand that, at the same time, she was using the action of getting people together to plant those trees to talk about how to overcome the authoritarian government in her country. People could not gather without getting busted and taken to jail. But if they were together planting trees for the environment, it was okay — creativity. But it's not just iconic women like Shirin, like Aung Sun Suu Kyi, like Wangari Maathai — it is other women in the world who are also struggling together to change this world. The Women's League of Burma, 11 individual organizations of Burmese women came together because there's strength in numbers. Working together is what changes our world. The Million Signatures Campaign of women inside Burma working together to change human rights, to bring democracy to that country. When one is arrested and taken to prison, another one comes out and joins the movement, recognizing that if they work together, they will ultimately bring change in their own country. Mairead McGuire in the middle, Betty Williams on the right-hand side — bringing peace to Northern Ireland. I'll tell you the quick story. An IRA driver was shot, and his car plowed into people on the side of the street. There was a mother and three children. The children were killed on the spot. It was Mairead's sister. Instead of giving in to grief, depression, defeat in the face of that violence, Mairead hooked up with Betty — a staunch Protestant and a staunch Catholic — and they took to the streets to say, ""No more violence."" And they were able to get tens of thousands of, primarily, women, some men, in the streets to bring about change. And they have been part of what brought peace to Northern Ireland, and they're still working on it, because there's still a lot more to do. This is Rigoberta Menchu Tum. She also received the Peace Prize. She is now running for president. She is educating the indigenous people of her country about what it means to be a democracy, about how you bring democracy to the country, about educating, about how to vote — but that democracy is not just about voting; it's about being an active citizen. That's what I got stuck doing — the landmine campaign. One of the things that made this campaign work is because we grew from two NGOs to thousands in 90 countries around the world, working together in common cause to ban landmines. Some of the people who worked in our campaign could only work maybe an hour a month. They could maybe volunteer that much. There were others, like myself, who were full-time. But it was the actions, together, of all of us that brought about that change. In my view, what we need today is people getting up and taking action to reclaim the meaning of peace. It's not a dirty word. It's hard work every single day. And if each of us who cares about the different things we care about got up off our butts and volunteered as much time as we could, we would change this world, we would save this world. And we can't wait for the other guy. We have to do it ourselves. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在這裡事實上是要提出一個課題來討論雖然我知道大家面對的課題已經夠多了。我提出的課題是：我們該來想想和平的真正意義。和平不只是唱唱“Kumbaya, my Lord” (聖歌名)和平也不光是鴿子和彩虹雖然鴿子和彩虹都很可愛。我看到鴿子和彩虹的象徵或符號的時候，會讓我連想起個人内心的平靜冥想打坐。但不會讓我連想到和平，那種有正義平等長長久久的和平。我所謂的“可持續的和平”是指在這地球上大部分的人都有足夠的資源能有尊嚴地生活大部分的人也能夠有機會受教育有健保所以他們有免於匱乏和免於恐懼的自由。這是有人性的安全。我並不是個百分之一百的和平主義者我也不像我一些其他朋友是完完全全的非暴力主義者例如Mairead McGuire。我認爲人性是如此地亂七八糟我這麽說還算保守因爲我答應我媽在公共場合不再開罵。這真是越來越難媽咪啊，我真的很努力不用髒字了。 我們還是需要警察或是軍隊來作基本的保衛。我們必須重新定義在這世上安全地生活的條件或保障。不是去加倍武裝我們的國家也不是叫其他的國家來買我們生産的武器用這些武器來加強武裝他們自己。而是我們該更理性地來使用這些錢使世界各國更安全使世上的人人生活更安全。我之前在想最近發生在國會的一些事情，我們的總統要提供84億美元的預算使國會通過對第四階段戰略兵器消減條約的投票。我是堅決支持兵器消減條約的但是他要用這84億美元來使核能武器現代化。你知道嗎？聯合國提出的的千禧年發展計劃的預算也是84億美元？就這麽點錢，— 對我而言，我還真希望是存在我的戶頭裏但是很可惜地，並不是如此 —對全球經濟而言，這是一筆小錢但這是用來現代化這些我們不需要的、甚至我們一輩子也甩不掉的核子武器除非我們站起來採取行動，實現計劃除非我們真的去相信在過去這兩天我們聽到的演講内容是使我們的生活更安全不可或缺的元素的一部分。像，拯救瀕臨絕種的老虎，還原被原油污染的海砂像，能夠有儀器來偵測人體内的癌症細胞。不止要去相信諸如此類的事，還要把錢花在這些事上更要有確切的行動。 幾個禮拜前我在日本廣島還有達賴喇嘛我們坐在幾千人之前大約有八個諾貝爾獎得主出席他真調皮，像個在教堂裏的調皮小孩我們注視著人群，等著上臺發言他傾過身來，跟我說“茱蒂，我是個佛教僧人”我說，”是的聖上，從您的僧袍我們都看得出這一點“（笑聲）他說，“你也知道的，我挺喜歡打坐的，我還常祈禱。“我說，”那很好，很不錯這世間需要打坐和祈禱我是沒有在做，但是那很酷。”他接著說，“但是我開始懷疑我現在不相信打坐冥想和祈禱能改變這個世界。我想我們需要的是行動。”雖然穿著僧袍，達賴喇嘛卻是我的行動英雄。 幾天前，我還跟翁山蘇姬談過話。如同大家所知她是緬甸的民主英雄你們大概也知道過去的20年裏，她有15年是被囚禁的只是因爲她要推行民主。幾個星期前，她剛被放出來我們也都很好奇，等著看她能在外面多久因爲她一出來又在仰光的街頭鼓吹改變。她又走上街頭，跟她的政黨試著重建。我跟她討論到了很多的議題有一件我特別想提出來因爲這和達賴喇嘛說的很類似。她說，“在緬甸推行民主我們還有很長的一條路要走。但是我不相信光想不練的希望。我不相信還有改變的希望除非我們付諸行動，使希望成真。“ 這是另一個我崇拜的女英雄她是我的朋友，Shirin Ebadi她是第一個獲得諾貝爾和平獎的女回教徒。在過去的一年半裏她一直在流亡中。你問流亡中的她住哪裏，她會告訴你，全世界的機場。她四處漂流的原因是，在伊朗選舉的時候，她不在國内她和一起工作的女夥伴們説好了與其回國，她選擇待在國外她們告訴她，“留在國外，我們需要你留在國外為我們發聲所以你可以把訊息傳遞出去讓國際社會知道這裡發生了什麽事。”整整一年半了她一直在自己的國家外為自己國内的女性同胞發聲。 Wangari Maathai2004年的諾貝爾獎得主大家都叫她“種樹的女人”但是她不止是個種樹的女人她為和平奮鬥的方法是很有創意的。每天種樹不是件輕鬆的事她種樹的時候大部分的人不了解的是她在種樹的同時她用種樹這個行動將人們聚集在一起來談論如何能將他們國家（肯亞）的獨裁政府擊敗。那時候的人民集會是會被擊潰和監禁的。但是要是大家為環保一起來種樹那是被允許的真有創意！不是只有像Shirin像翁山蘇姬，像Wangari這類的偶像女性，還有其他很多平凡的女性一起爲了改變這個世界在奮鬥著。 緬甸女性聯盟由11個獨立的緬甸女性組織組成因爲團結就是力量結合在一起，進而改變了這世界。百萬人簽名訴願活動由緬甸境内的婦女發起爲了改變緬甸的人權和帶來民主而努力。當其中有一人被逮捕入獄的時候立刻有另外的人加入活動她們認知到，要是團結在一起最後終將為緬甸帶來改變。 Mairead McGuire 在照片中間Betty Williams 在右邊為北愛爾蘭帶來了和平。我要告訴你們一個小故事。一個愛爾蘭解放軍的司機中槍他的車子失控衝進站在街旁人群裏面有一個媽媽帶著三個小孩小孩們當場被撞死。這個媽媽是Mairead的姐姐。面對著如此的暴力，Mairead不但沒有投降更沒有陷入悲傷、沮喪、戰敗的局面Mairead和Betty結合一個是虔誠的天主教徒、一個是虔誠的基督教徒她們一起走上街頭向暴力說不她們能動員數千數萬的婦女也有一小部分是男人一同走上街頭、要求改變現狀。她們也對北愛的和平做出了貢獻一直到現在、她們還繼續她們的活動因爲還有太多的事要做。 這位是Rigoberta Menchu Tum她也是和平獎的得獎人她現在在競選總統她在教育瓜地馬拉的原住民民主的意義還有如何為他們的國家帶來民主教導人民如何投票等等，但是民主不單只是投票民主也是去當個積極主動的社會公民。 這就是我現在在做的事掃除地雷活動。這個活動之所以成功的原因之一是我們從兩個非政府組織成長變成數千個在90幾個國家都有代表一同為禁止地雷的使用來努力。有的工作人員一個月只做義工一個小時他們可能只能作這麽久有的人，像我是做全職的。但是是我們所有人大大小小的努力加起來使得這改變可能發生。 在我看來，我們今天需要的是大家一同站起來採取行動去落實“和平”的真意義。這不是個髒字這是每一天的努力工作。如果我們每一個人都重視我們在意的這些事都起立而行都盡己所能地去做義工我們就能改變這世界我們就能拯救這世界。我們不能再等別人來做，我們要從自己開始。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
