Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_kowan_how_i_beat_stage_fright	Joe Kowan: I have stage fright. I've always had stage fright, and not just a little bit, it's a big bit. And it didn't even matter until I was 27. That's when I started writing songs, and even then I only played them for myself. Just knowing my roommates were in the  same house made me uncomfortable. But after a couple of years,  just writing songs wasn't enough. I had all these stories and ideas, and I wanted to share them with people, but physiologically, I couldn't do it. I had this irrational fear. But the more I wrote, and the more I practiced, the more I wanted to perform. So on the week of my 30th birthday, I decided I was going to go to this local open mic, and put this fear behind me. Well, when I got there, it was packed. There were like 20 people there. (Laughter) And they all looked angry. But I took a deep breath, and I signed up to play, and I felt pretty good. Pretty good, until about 10 minutes before my turn, when my whole body rebelled, and  this wave of anxiety just washed over me. Now, when you experience fear,  your sympathetic nervous system kicks in. So you have a rush of adrenaline,  your heart rate increases, your breathing gets faster. Next your non-essential systems start  to shut down, like digestion. (Laughter) So your mouth gets dry, and blood is routed away from your extremities, so your fingers don't work anymore. Your pupils dilate, your muscles contract, your Spidey sense tingles, basically your whole body is trigger-happy. (Laughter) That condition is not conducive  to performing folk music. (Laughter) I mean, your nervous system is an idiot. Really? Two hundred thousand years of human evolution, and it still can't tell the difference between a saber tooth tiger and 20 folksingers on a Tuesday night open mic? (Laughter) I have never been more terrified — until now. (Laughter and cheers) So then it was my turn, and somehow, I get myself onto  the stage, I start my song, I open my mouth to sing the first line, and this completely horrible vibrato — you know, when your voice wavers —  comes streaming out. And this is not the good kind of vibrato,  like an opera singer has, this is my whole body just convulsing with fear. I mean, it's a nightmare. I'm embarrassed, the audience  is clearly uncomfortable, they're focused on my discomfort. It was so bad. But that was my first real experience  as a solo singer-songwriter. And something good did happen — I had the tiniest little glimpse of that audience connection that I was hoping for. And I wanted more. But I knew  I had to get past this nervousness. That night I promised myself:  I would go back every week until I wasn't nervous anymore. And I did. I went back every single week, and sure enough, week after week, it didn't get any better. The same  thing happened every week. (Laughter) I couldn't shake it. And that's when I had an epiphany. And I remember it really well, because I  don't have a lot of epiphanies. (Laughter) All I had to do was write a song  that exploits my nervousness. That only seems authentic when I have stage fright, and the more nervous I was, the better the song would be. Easy. So I started writing a song about having stage fright. First, fessing up to the problem, the physical manifestations, how I would feel, how the listener might feel. And then accounting for things like my shaky voice, and I knew I would be singing about a  half-octave higher than normal, because I was nervous. By having a song that explained  what was happening to me, while it was happening, that gave the audience permission to think about it. They didn't have to feel bad  for me because I was nervous, they could experience that with me, and we were all one big happy, nervous,  uncomfortable family. (Laughter) By thinking about my audience,  by embracing and exploiting my problem, I was able to take something  that was blocking my progress, and turn it into something that  was essential for my success. And having the stage fright song let  me get past that biggest issue right in the beginning of a performance. And then I could move on,  and play the rest of my songs with just a little bit more ease. And eventually, over time, I didn't  have to play the stage fright song at all. Except for when I was really  nervous, like now. (Laughter) Would it be okay if I played the  stage fright song for you? (Applause) Can I have a sip of water? (Music) Thank you. ♫ I'm not joking, you know, ♫ ♫ this stage fright is real. ♫ ♫ And if I'm up here trembling and singing, ♫ ♫ well, you'll know how I feel. ♫ ♫ And the mistake I'd be making, ♫ ♫ the tremolo caused by my whole body shaking. ♫ ♫ As you sit there feeling embarrassed for me, ♫ ♫ well, you don't have to be. ♫ ♫ Well, maybe just a little bit. ♫ (Laughter) ♫ And maybe I'll try to imagine  you all without clothes. ♫ ♫ But singing in front of all naked strangers scares me more than anyone knows. ♫ ♫ Not to discuss this at length, ♫ ♫ but my body image was never my strength. ♫ ♫ So frankly, I wish that you all would get dressed, ♫ ♫ I mean, you're not even really naked. ♫ ♫ And I'm the one with the problem. ♫ ♫ And you tell me, don't worry  so much, you'll be great. ♫ ♫ But I'm the one living with me ♫ ♫ and I know how I get. ♫ ♫ Your advice is gentle but late. ♫ ♫ If not just a bit patronizing. ♫ ♫ And that sarcastic tone doesn't  help me when I sing. ♫ ♫ But we shouldn't talk about  these things right now, ♫ ♫ really, I'm up on stage, and  you're in the crowd. Hi. ♫ ♫ And I'm not making fun of  unnurtured, irrational fear, ♫ ♫ and if I wasn't ready to face this, ♫ ♫ I sure as hell wouldn't be here. ♫ ♫ But if I belt one note out clearly, ♫ ♫ you'll know I'm recovering slowly but surely. ♫ ♫ And maybe next week, I'll set my guitar ringin' ♫ ♫ my voice clear as water, and everyone singin'. ♫ ♫ But probably I'll just get up and start groovin', ♫ ♫ my vocal cords movin', ♫ ♫ at speeds slightly faster than sound. ♫ (Applause)	喬·科望：我會怯場我總是怯場而且不只一點點是嚴重的怯場在我27歲之前，怯場並沒什麼影響27歲那年我開始寫歌那時，我也只是唱給自己聽一想到我的室友也在屋子裡就讓我難受過了幾年，我不再滿足於寫歌我想和人們分享我的故事和點子但是生理上，我卻做不到我有一種非理性的恐懼但是，我寫得越多，練習得越勤就越想站到臺前表演所以在我30歲生日這週我決定去我們當地的“麥克風開放日”（open-mic）一心想戰勝怯場的恐懼當我到了那裡，發現擠滿了人那裡大概有20個人(笑聲)而且他們看起來都很生氣但是我深吸一口氣，然後報了名去表演而且我感覺良好直到輪到我上臺前10分鐘都感覺不錯我全身都開始反抗焦慮的情緒席捲了我當你感覺恐懼的時候你的交感神經系統開始起作用腎上腺素增加心跳加快你的呼吸變得急促接下來，次要器官們開始關閉比如消化系統（笑聲）然後嘴唇變得乾燥血液離開四肢你的手指變得僵硬瞳孔放大，肌肉收縮對危險的預警能力突然大增基本上你的身體已經準備迎戰了（笑聲）這樣的狀況可不適合表演鄉村音樂（笑聲）我是說，你的神經系統是個白癡可不是嗎？二十萬年的人類進化居然還分不清一隻劍齒虎和週二晚上“麥克風開放日”上的20個鄉村歌手？（笑聲）我從沒那麼緊張過 — 就比現在好點（笑聲，加油聲）然後就輪到我了我鬼使神差地上了臺，開始唱歌我開口唱第一句恐怖的顫音出現了你知道，聲音顫抖的時候就會這樣這不是像歌劇演員那種專業的顫音而是我全身隨著恐懼發出的抽搐那真是個噩夢我很尷尬，顯然觀眾也很難受他們的注意力都集中在我的難受上了真是太糟了但那是我作為一個唱作歌手的第一次經驗而且有一件好事 —我感受到了一丁點我所期望的那種與觀眾的共鳴而我想要更多但是我知道自己需要戰勝緊張那個晚上我向自己保證：我會每週都去那裡唱歌直到我不再緊張我確實每週都去表演果然，經過一週又一週沒有任何好轉我還是每週怯場（笑聲）我擺脫不掉怯場那天我靈光一現我記得很清楚，因為我很少靈光一現（笑聲）我要利用我的緊張寫一首歌我怯場時唱它，才顯得真實而且我越緊張這首歌就越好。多簡單啊於是我開始寫一首關於怯場的歌曲首先，坦白面對問題生理上的表現，我的感覺以及聽眾可能有的感受然後，加入我顫抖的嗓音還有我知道在我緊張的時候我唱歌會比正常情況下高半個八度當我正在遭遇怯場時用一首歌來描述這些現象這會給觀眾思考這些現象的機會他們不需要因為我的緊張而感到難堪他們可以和我一起經歷這一切我們就是一個快樂的、緊張的、不安的大家庭（笑聲）通過考慮觀眾的感覺，接納並利用我的怯場我就能從阻礙中獲益並將其轉化為成功的助推這首“怯場之歌”幫我解決了我表演開場時最大的問題然後我就可以繼續唱其他歌曲而且更加輕鬆慢慢到最後，我不再需要去唱這首“怯場之歌”了除了我特別緊張的時候，比如現在（笑聲）我現在可以唱這首怯場之歌嗎？（掌聲）我可以喝口水嗎？（音樂）謝謝。♫ 你知道，我沒在開玩笑， ♫♫ 這怯場是真的。♫♫ 如果我在臺上一邊顫抖一邊唱，♫♫ 你們就能知道我的感覺， ♫♫ 還有我會唱錯走音， ♫♫全身顫抖發出顫音。 ♫♫ 你坐在台下為我感到尷尬，♫♫ 其實你不需要那樣。 ♫♫ 呃...可能只用一點小尷尬。 ♫（笑聲）♫ 或許我可以想像你們全都沒穿衣服，♫♫ 但在一絲不掛的陌生人面前唱歌更讓我害怕。♫♫ 不想長篇大論，♫♫ 但我的形象真不是什麽優勢。 ♫♫ 老實說，我希望你們都是穿著衣服的， ♫♫ 我的意思是，你們還真不是裸體的。 ♫♫ 我才是有問題的那個。 ♫♫ 你可能會告訴我，別擔心，你會唱得很棒。 ♫♫ 但我一直忍受著我自己，♫♫ 我知道我會怎樣。♫♫ 你的話雖然好聽，但來得太遲，♫♫ 還有些居高臨下。♫♫ 那諷刺的腔調在我歌唱時也沒用。♫♫ 但現在我們別再討論這個啦，♫♫ 說真的，我在臺上，你在臺下。嗨！ ♫♫ 我可不拿恐懼來開玩笑，它沒經刻意培養，一點也不理性， ♫♫ 我若不是早做準備面對這恐懼， ♫♫ 我肯定不會站在這裡。 ♫♫ 假如我唱出一個清晰的音符， ♫♫ 你就知道我在慢慢地恢復正常。 ♫♫ 或許下週，我會彈著我的吉他，♫♫ 音色清澈如水， 大家一起歡唱。 ♫♫ 但現在，我要站起來，開始打節奏，♫♫ 我的聲帶快速顫動， ♫♫ 比聲速還快那麼一點。♫（掌聲）
