Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_landolina_this_gel_can_make_you_stop_bleeding_instantly	I want you guys to imagine  that you're a soldier running through the battlefield. Now, you're shot in the leg with a bullet, which severs your femoral artery. Now, this bleed is extremely traumatic and can kill you in less  than three minutes. Unfortunately, by the time that a medic actually gets to you, what the medic has on his or her belt can take five minutes or more, with the application of pressure, to stop that type of bleed. Now, this problem is  not only a huge problem for the military, but it's  also a huge problem that's epidemic throughout  the entire medical field, which is how do we actually look at wounds and how do we stop them quickly in a way that can work with the body? So now, what I've been working on for the last four years is to develop smart biomaterials, which are actually materials that will work with the body, helping it to heal and helping it to allow the  wounds to heal normally. So now, before we do this, we  have to take a much closer look at actually how does the body work. So now, everybody here knows that the body is made up of cells. So the cell is the most basic unit of life. But not many people know what else. But it actually turns out that your cells sit in this mesh of complicated fibers, proteins and sugars known as the extracellular matrix. So now, the ECM is actually this mesh that  holds the cells in place, provides structure for your tissues, but it also gives the cells a home. It allows them to feel what they're doing, where they are, and tells them how to act and how to behave. And it actually turns out that  the extracellular matrix is different from every  single part of the body. So the ECM in my skin is different than the ECM in my liver, and the ECM in different  parts of the same organ actually vary, so it's very difficult to be able to have a product that will react to the  local extracellular matrix, which is exactly what we're trying to do. So now, for example,  think of the rainforest. You have the canopy,  you have the understory, and you have the forest floor. Now, all of these parts of the forest are made up of different plants, and different animals call them home. So just like that, the extracellular matrix is incredibly diverse in three dimensions. On top of that, the extracellular matrix is responsible for all wound healing, so if you imagine cutting the body, you actually have to rebuild this very complex ECM in order to get it to form again, and a scar, in fact, is actually poorly formed extracellular matrix. So now, behind me is an animation of the extracellular matrix. So as you see, your cells sit  in this complicated mesh and as you move throughout the tissue, the extracellular matrix changes. So now every other piece  of technology on the market can only manage a two- dimensional approximation of the extracellular matrix, which means that it doesn't fit in with the tissue itself. So when I was a freshman at NYU, what I discovered was  you could actually take small pieces of plant-derived polymers and reassemble them onto the wound. So if you have a bleeding  wound like the one behind me, you can actually put  our material onto this, and just like Lego blocks, it'll reassemble into the local tissue. So that means if you put it onto liver, it turns into something  that looks like liver, and if you put it onto skin, it turns into something  that looks just like skin. So when you put the gel on, it actually reassembles  into this local tissue. So now, this has a whole  bunch of applications, but basically the idea is, wherever you put this product, you're able to reassemble  into it immediately. Now, this is a simulated arterial bleed — blood warning — at twice human artery pressure. So now, this type of bleed  is incredibly traumatic, and like I said before,  would actually take five minutes or more with pressure to be able to stop. Now, in the time that it takes me to introduce the bleed itself, our material is able to stop that bleed, and it's because it actually  goes on and works with the body to heal, so it reassembles into this piece of meat, and then the blood actually recognizes that that's happening,  and produces fibrin, producing a very fast clot in less than 10 seconds. So now this technology — Thank you. (Applause) So now this technology, by January, will be in the hands of veterinarians, and we're working very diligently to  try to get it into the hands of doctors, hopefully within the next year. But really, once again, I  want you guys to imagine that you are a soldier running  through a battlefield. Now, you get hit in the leg with a bullet, and instead of bleeding  out in three minutes, you pull a small pack  of gel out of your belt, and with the press of a button, you're able to stop your own bleed and you're on your way to recovery. Thank you very much. (Applause)	大家想像一下：你是一名士兵，正在戰場上奔跑。現在你的腿被一顆子彈射中，使你的股動脈撕裂，現在，血流如注三分鐘之內就可致命。不幸的是，等到救護兵總算來到你身邊時，拿出他或她腰間的醫用設備，可要花上五分鐘以上的時間，通過施壓來止住出血。現在，這個問題不止是軍隊的大問題，同樣也是涉及到整個醫學界的大問題，我們究竟該如何看待傷口，怎樣通過一種符合身體運行機制的方法盡快止血？所以，我在過去四年一直致力於開發智慧生物材料，這些生物材料可以很好地在身體上作用，幫助治癒且幫助傷口正常癒合。所以在提及這些前，我們要仔細研究一下身體究竟是怎樣運作的。在座大家都應知道身體是由細胞所構成的，細胞是構成生命的最基本單位。但是大多數人對其他單位卻甚少了解。事實上，你的細胞散落在錯綜複雜的纖維、蛋白質和糖之間，稱為細胞外基質 (ECM)。細胞外基質實際是一個可以固定細胞的網架結搆，給你的組織提供支撐，同樣也為細胞提供容身之所。細胞外基質可以使細胞了解它們正在做什麼，它們在哪裡，並且告訴它們該怎樣運作，怎樣表現。此外，細胞外基質事實上在身體不同部位都不一樣的，就是說，皮膚細胞外基質與肝臟細胞外基質是不同的，而且在同一器官中的細胞外基質實際上也會有不同，所以很難實現生產一種產品可以跟不同部位的細胞外基質產生反應，而這正是我們要嘗試去做的事。舉一個例子，想像一片熱帶雨林。有樹冠層、有灌木層、還有地面層。現在，森林裡所有這些組成部分都孕育著不同的植物，而不同動物稱之為家。所以就像這樣，細胞外基質在三維空間內存在令人難以置信的多樣性。另外，細胞外基質負責所有傷口癒合的工作，如果你想像一下割破了身體，實際上是要重建這個非常複雜的細胞外基質，以便讓傷口重新癒合，而傷疤事實上是勉強重新組合的細胞外基質。現在，在我的身後面是一個關於細胞外基質的動畫。你可以看到，細胞坐落在這個複雜的網絡中，並且隨著你在組織中移動，細胞外基質也在變化著。所以現在市場上任何技術產品都只能夠管理一個二維的細胞外基質，這就意味著它不能被置於組織當中。所以當我還是紐約大學的一年級新生時，我發現實際上可以提取小片由植物衍生的聚合物，然後放在傷口上面，使它們重新聚合。所以如果你有一個類似我身後正在流血的傷口，你可以把我們的材料塗抹在上面，就像樂高磚一樣，它將會跟部位的組織重新聚合。這意味著如果你把它塗在肝臟上，它會轉化成一些像肝組織的東西，如果你把它塗在皮膚上，它會變成一些像皮膚組織的東西。所以當你塗上這種凝膠，它會和相應部位的組織重新聚合。因此這個材料有很多用途，但是最基本的思路就是，不管你把這個產品塗在哪裡，它都可以立刻重新聚合。這是一個模擬動脈出血 —出血警告 —是人類動脈壓的兩倍。這種出血狀況是非常嚴峻的，且就像我之前說過的那樣，需要花五分鐘以上的時間，通過施壓才能夠止血。現在，就在我介紹這個傷口時，我們的材料已經可以止住出血，這是因為它可以在身體上起作用來癒合傷口，與這塊肉聚合在一起，然後血流可以辨別它正在起作用，並且產生出纖維蛋白，然後在十秒鐘內很快就封堵傷口。所以現在這項技術 — 謝謝(掌聲)所以這項技術，在一月份前，會先交到獸醫手裡，並且我們會努力實現讓醫生掌握這種技術，希望在接下來的一年中實現。但是，我希望你們可以再想一次，你是一個在戰場上奔跑的士兵。現在，你腿上中槍，無需面臨三分鐘內流盡血的命運，取而代之的是，你從腰帶拿出一小盒凝膠，按下按鈕，就可以為自己止血，而傷情就會開始恢復。謝謝大家(掌聲)
