Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_lassiter_we_need_nuclear_power_to_solve_climate_change	"It's easy to forget that last night, one billion people went to sleep without access to electricity. One billion people. Two and a half billion people did not have access to clean cooking fuels or clean heating fuels. Those are the problems in the developing world. And it's easy for us not to be empathetic with those people who seem so distanced from us. But even in our own world, the developed world, we see the tension of stagnant economies impacting the lives of people around us. We see it in whole pieces of the economy, where the people involved have lost hope about the future and despair about the present. We see that in the Brexit vote. We see that in the Sanders/Trump campaigns in my own country. But even in countries as recently turning the corner towards being in the developed world, in China, we see the difficulty that President Xi has as he begins to un-employ so many people in his coal and mining industries who see no future for themselves. As we as a society figure out how to manage the problems of the developed world and the problems of the developing world, we have to look at how we move forward and manage the environmental impact of those decisions. We've been working on this problem for 25 years, since Rio, the Kyoto Protocols. Our most recent move is the Paris treaty, and the resulting climate agreements that are being ratified by nations around the world. I think we can be very hopeful that those agreements, which are bottom-up agreements, where nations have said what they think they can do, are genuine and forthcoming for the vast majority of the parties. The unfortunate thing is that now, as we look at the independent analyses of what those climate treaties are liable to yield, the magnitude of the problem before us becomes clear. This is the United States Energy Information Agency's assessment of what will happen if the countries implement the climate commitments that they've made in Paris between now and 2040. It shows basically CO2 emissions around the world over the next 30 years. There are three things that you need to look at and appreciate. One, CO2 emissions are expected to continue to grow for the next 30 years. In order to control climate, CO2 emissions have to literally go to zero because it's the cumulative emissions that drive heating on the planet. This should tell you that we are losing the race to fossil fuels. The second thing you should notice is that the bulk of the growth comes from the developing countries, from China, from India, from the rest of the world, which includes South Africa and Indonesia and Brazil, as most of these countries move their people into the lower range of lifestyles that we literally take for granted in the developed world. The final thing that you should notice is that each year, about 10 gigatons of carbon are getting added to the planet's atmosphere, and then diffusing into the ocean and into the land. That's on top of the 550 gigatons that are in place today. At the end of 30 years, we will have put 850 gigatons of carbon into the air, and that probably goes a long way towards locking in a 2-4 degree C increase in global mean surface temperatures, locking in ocean acidification and locking in sea level rise. Now, this is a projection made by men by the actions of society, and it's ours to change, not to accept. But the magnitude of the problem is something we need to appreciate. Different nations make different energy choices. It's a function of their natural resources. It's a function of their climate. It's a function of the development path that they've followed as a society. It's a function of where on the surface of the planet they are. Are they where it's dark a lot of the time, or are they at the mid-latitudes? Many, many, many things go into the choices of countries, and they each make a different choice. The overwhelming thing that we need to appreciate is the choice that China has made. China has made the choice, and will make the choice, to run on coal. The United States has an alternative. It can run on natural gas as a result of the inventions of fracking and shale gas, which we have here. They provide an alternative. The OECD Europe has a choice. It has renewables that it can afford to deploy in Germany because it's rich enough to afford to do it. The French and the British show interest in nuclear power. Eastern Europe, still very heavily committed to natural gas and to coal, and with natural gas that comes from Russia, with all of its entanglements. China has many fewer choices and a much harder row to hoe. If you look at China, and you ask yourself why has coal been important to it, you have to remember what China's done. China brought people to power, not power to people. It didn't do rural electrification. It urbanized. It urbanized by taking low-cost labor and low-cost energy, creating export industries that could fund a tremendous amount of growth. If we look at China's path, all of us know that prosperity in China has dramatically increased. In 1980, 80 percent of China's population lived below the extreme poverty level, below the level of having $1.90 per person per day. By the year 2000, only 20 percent of China's population lived below the extreme poverty level — a remarkable feat, admittedly, with some costs in civil liberties that would be tough to accept in the Western world. But the impact of all that wealth allowed people to get massively better nutrition. It allowed water pipes to be placed. It allowed sewage pipes to be placed, dramatic decrease in diarrheal diseases, at the cost of some outdoor air pollution. But in 1980, and even today, the number one killer in China is indoor air pollution, because people do not have access to clean cooking and heating fuels. In fact, in 2040, it's still estimated that 200 million people in China will not have access to clean cooking fuels. They have a remarkable path to follow. India also needs to meet the needs of its own people, and it's going to do that by burning coal. When we look at the EIA's projections of coal burning in India, India will supply nearly four times as much of its energy from coal as it will from renewables. It's not because they don't know the alternatives; it's because rich countries can do what they choose, poor countries do what they must. So what can we do to stop coal's emissions in time? What can we do that changes this forecast that's in front of us? Because it's a forecast that we can change if we have the will to do it. First of all, we have to think about the magnitude of the problem. Between now and 2040, 800 to 1,600 new coal plants are going to be built around the world. This week, between one and three one-gigawatt coal plants are being turned on around the world. That's happening regardless of what we want, because the people that rule their countries, assessing the interests of their citizens, have decided it's in the interest of their citizens to do that. And that's going to happen unless they have a better alternative. And every 100 of those plants will use up between one percent and three percent of the Earth's climate budget. So every day that you go home thinking that you should do something about global warming, at the end of that week, remember: somebody fired up a coal plant that's going to run for 50 years and take away your ability to change it. What we've forgotten is something that Vinod Khosla used to talk about, a man of Indian ethnicity but an American venture capitalist. And he said, back in the early 2000s, that if you needed to get China and India off of fossil fuels, you had to create a technology that passed the ""Chindia test,"" ""Chindia"" being the appending of the two words. It had to be first of all viable, meaning that technically, they could implement it in their country, and that it would be accepted by the people in the country. Two, it had to be a technology that was scalable, that it could deliver the same benefits on the same timetable as fossil fuels, so that they can enjoy the kind of life, again, that we take for granted. And third, it had to be cost-effective without subsidy or without mandate. It had to stand on its own two feet; it could not be maintained for that many people if in fact, those countries had to go begging or had some foreign country say, ""I won't trade with you,"" in order to get the technology shift to occur. If you look at the Chindia test, we simply have not come up with alternatives that meet that test. That's what the EIA forecast tells us. China's building 800 gigawatts of coal, 400 gigawatts of hydro, about 200 gigawatts of nuclear, and on an energy-equivalent basis, adjusting for intermittency, about 100 gigawatts of renewables. 800 gigawatts of coal. They're doing that, knowing the costs better than any other country, knowing the need better than any other country. But that's what they're aiming for in 2040 unless we give them a better choice. To give them a better choice, it's going to have to meet the Chindia test. If you look at all the alternatives that are out there, there are really two that come near to meeting it. First is this area of new nuclear that I'll talk about in just a second. It's a new generation of nuclear plants that are on the drawing boards around the world, and the people who are developing these say we can get them in position to demo by 2025 and to scale by 2030, if you will just let us. The second alternative that could be there in time is utility-scale solar backed up with natural gas, which we can use today, versus the batteries which are still under development. So what's holding new nuclear back? Outdated regulations and yesterday's mindsets. We have not used our latest scientific thinking on radiological health to think how we communicate with the public and govern the testing of new nuclear reactors. We have new scientific knowledge that we need to use in order to improve the way we regulate nuclear industry. The second thing is we've got a mindset that it takes 25 years and 2 to 5 billion dollars to develop a nuclear power plant. That comes from the historical, military mindset of the places nuclear power came from. These new nuclear ventures are saying that they can deliver power for 5 cents a kilowatt hour; they can deliver it for 100 gigawatts a year; they can demo it by 2025; and they can deliver it in scale by 2030, if only we give them a chance. Right now, we're basically waiting for a miracle. What we need is a choice. If they can't make it safe, if they can't make it cheap, it should not be deployed. But what I want you to do is not carry an idea forward, but write your leaders, write the head of the NGOs you support, and tell them to give you the choice, not the past. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	有件事很容易被人們遺忘——就是昨晚仍有10億人口在就寢前沒有電力可以使用。十億人口。有 25 億人口沒有乾淨的烹飪燃料或乾淨的暖氣燃料可用。這些是開發中國家的問題。而我們似乎也不太同情那些離我們這麼遙遠的人們。 但即使是在我們的世界——發達的世界，我們仍會看到因為經濟不景氣對我們周遭人生活所造成的影響。我們可以看到他們受各種景氣的影響，在這樣的背景下，人們對未來不抱希望，對目前現狀也相當失望。我們在英國脫歐看到了這種現象。我們在自己國家的總統大選也看到了這種現象。但即使是最近正要從發展中國家轉變成發達國家的——中國，我們也看到習主席也相當為難，他也開始在煤礦及採礦產業解雇了很多看不到自己未來的礦工。即使我們的社會已經知道如何管理發達國家的問題以及發展中國家的問題，我們仍得仔細想想要如何更進一步的管理這些決定所帶給環境的影響。 自從里約的《京都議定書》後，我們已經在這個議題上努力了25年。我們最近的活動是在巴黎的全球氣候大會協議，最後的協議書已經被世界各國所簽署認可。我想，我們都很期待這些協議，這些由下而上由各國政府所承諾的協議，能真正的實現並為所有人帶來利益。不幸的是，當我們仔細觀察獨立分析報告裡面這些氣候協定有哪些盲點時，一大堆問題就會一一浮現眼前。 這是美國能源資訊評估委員會的評估報告，報告中說明了在巴黎氣候大會上那些發表承諾的國家，如果從現在起到2040年，都執行了他們所說的事那會有甚麼事發生。這份報告基本上告訴了我們，未來30年全球的碳排狀況。有三件事，各位要特別注意： 第一，未來三十年，碳排預計仍會持續增長。為了要控制氣候，碳排幾乎必須要達到「零排放」，因為二氧化碳會積累，它主導了地球的溫度。這說明了，我們的石化燃料競賽根本是個錯誤。 第二，各位要明白：主要的增長來源是來自開發中國家，像是，中國、印度，還有其它國家，包括南非、印尼、巴西，當大部分這些國家把他們的人民帶往了一個更低水準的生活的同時，在發達國家的我們卻認為這是理所當然的必經過程。 最後一件各位必須注意的是：我們每一年，大約有100億噸的碳會排入地球的大氣層中，之後溶入到海洋及大地裡。這些會附加到目前存在地球5500億噸的碳存量上。30年後，我們的空氣中將有8500億噸的碳，所以要把地球表面的上升溫度控制在2~4度C內，那可能比登天還難，還有控制海洋酸化、控制海平面上升亦是百般困難。 這是人類造成的結果、社會造成的結果、我們必須改變，不能接受。但我們還有很多問題要釐清。 不同的國家有不同的能源選擇。取決於他們的天然資源的功能，一種氣候的功能。這是他們社會通往發展道路上的方式。這條方程式，取決於他們位於地球表面的哪一個位置。他們是否長時間處於黑暗狀態或是他們位於中緯度？有很多方式可以讓各國選擇，而每個國家都有不同的選擇。 有件擋不住的事，我們需要了解，那就是中國所做出的選擇。中國已經做出選擇，他們將選擇繼續燒煤。美國自己有替代方案，可以選擇天然氣，因為我們有水力壓裂技術及頁岩氣的探勘技術。它們提供了替代方案。歐洲的經濟合作發展組織也做了選擇。德國選擇再生能源，因為他們有錢可以支付做這件事。法國及英國對核能發電很有興趣。東歐對天然氣及煤礦仍相當依賴，提到天然氣，就會想到俄羅斯，它跟周遭國家一直糾纏不清。中國的選擇比較少，而且困難重重。 如果你仔細觀察中國，你也許會問，為什麼煤礦對中國這麼重要？你必須回想中國的發展軌跡。中國帶給人民的是權力，而不是電力。他們不發展農村電力。他們全力發展城市化。低成本的勞力及低成本的能源，促成了都市化的發展，造成出口產業的大幅度成長。 如果各位觀察中國的發展軌跡，大家都知道，中國的繁榮成長地相當快速。在1980年代，有將近80%的中國人生活在極度貧窮線以下。平均每人每天賺的竟低於1.9美金的水準。但到了2000年，只剩下20%的中國人生活在極度貧窮線之下——相當了不起的政績，誠然，這是犧牲了一些人民的自由換來的，這在西方世界裡是不可能被接受的。但這樣的財富增長讓人民大量獲得了更好的營養。地下水管得以建設、衛生下水道得以建設、大量減少了腹瀉的疾病，而這些卻是用空氣汙染換來的。 但在1980年代，甚至到目前為止，中國的頭號殺手，竟是室內的空氣汙染，因為人民沒有乾淨的烹飪及暖氣燃料可用。事實上，在2040年，預估仍有二億的中國人口沒有乾淨的烹飪燃料可用。他們仍有相當艱辛的一段路要走。 印度也需要滿足人民的需求，他們也準備用燃煤的方式來進行。當我們仔細觀察印度燃煤的環境影響評估，就會發現印度未來對燃煤的需求是再生能源的四倍。並不是因為他們不知道替代能源方案；是因為富裕國家可以自由選擇，而貧窮國家只能被迫選擇。 所以，我們要如何及時的停止燃煤的排放？我們有沒有辦法可以改善眼前的預測結果？因為只要我們有意願改變，我們一定辦的到。 首先，我們必須從大方向來思考。從現在開始到2040年，全世界即將有800~1600座燃煤發電廠被建造出來。光這個禮拜，世界上就有1~3座十億瓦特的燃煤發電廠開始運轉。不管我們想不想，這件事就是會發生，因為為了人民著想，當權者在權衡利益之後，就已經決定要怎麼做了。除非有更好的替代方案，不然事情擋都擋不住。而每100座燃煤發電廠將會耗損1~3%的地球氣候容忍量。 所以當你每天回家思考如何在全球暖化議題上有所貢獻時，記得，在每周結束前：已經又有人將要開啟壹座運行50年的發電站而這些人就是奪走你想改變這一切能力的人。 我們可能已經忘記，維諾德·柯斯拉曾說過的，他是印度裔，但他是一位美國籍的風險投資家，他說，回想2000年初期，如果你想要讓中國和印度不使用石化燃料，那你得創造出一種可以通過「Chindia測試」的科技，Chindia是中國和印度的縮寫。這是他們的首要考量，意思就是，這項技術，可以運用在他們的國家，且可以被他們的人民接受。 第二，這項技術必須能被規模化，它必須與石化燃料有相同的好處，能及時的傳送所需的能量，這樣他們才能享受那樣的生活，我再說一遍，我們認為這是理所當然的。 第三，它必須夠便宜，不用接受補助或受第三方牽制。必須自給自足；它不能由其他人來維護，如果這樣，他們國家就得求別人，或者哪一天被其他國家說，「我不跟你交易了」，為了就是讓技術突破能發生。 如果我們仔細觀察Chindia測試，我們根本找不到符合的可替代方案。這是環境引評估報告中告訴我們的。中國正在建造8000億瓦的燃煤發電廠4000億瓦的水力發電廠2000億瓦的核能發電廠，在能量相等的基礎上，因應跳電的調整，大約還需要1000億瓦的再生能源、8000億瓦的燃媒能源。這樣做的原因是因為他們知道，他們的成本比其它國家便宜，知道他們的需求比其它國家還要多。但這就是他們2040年的目標，除非我們能給他們一個更好的選擇。要給他們更好的選擇，還必須符合Chindia測試。 如果仔細看一下現有的替代方案，真的只有2個可以符合。第一個是新核能技術領域，我稍微談一談。它是新一代的核能廠，設計規劃目前正在全世界進行，而建造這些技術的人說，我們可以在2025年建造展示機，如果你們願意讓我們做的話，2030年前可以大規模建置。第二個替代方案可以馬上使用，就是現今已經有的多用途太陽能廠及天然氣做後盾，搭配目前仍在發展的蓄電池。 那麼，是甚麼阻礙了新核能技術的發展？過時的法令與老舊的想法。我們尚未運用最新的科技解決放射性的健康問題以及要如何與大眾溝通並管理新核能反應爐的測試能力。我們有新的科技知識，需要被使用才能改進核能產業的規範。 第二件事，就是我們有個大致的想法，需要花25年，20~50億美金來發展新的核能電廠技術。這是來自歷史、軍事方面的知識累積，這些是核能技術的知識來源。這些新的核能探險家告訴我們他們只要花5分錢就能產出1千瓦小時的能量；一年可以產出1000億瓦的能量；他們可以在2025年做展示；2030年規模量產，如果我們願意給他們機會。 現在，我們基本上在等一個奇蹟但我們需要的只是個選擇。如果他們不能令它安全，如果他們不能讓它便宜，那就不能蓋。但我希望各位要做的是，不是聽聽就好，而是要寫信給你們的領導人，寫信給你支持的非政府組織的老大，告訴他們，給你選擇，不要給你老舊的思維， 非常感謝各位。 （掌聲）
