Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_derisi_hunts_the_next_killer_virus	"How can we investigate this flora of viruses that surround us, and aid medicine? How can we turn our cumulative knowledge of virology into a simple, hand-held, single diagnostic assay? I want to turn everything we know right now about detecting viruses and the spectrum of viruses that are out there into, let's say, a small chip. When we started thinking about this project — how we would make a single diagnostic assay to screen for all pathogens simultaneously — well, there's some problems with this idea. First of all, viruses are pretty complex, but they're also evolving very fast. This is a picornavirus. Picornaviruses — these are things that include the common cold and polio, things like this. You're looking at the outside shell of the virus, and the yellow color here are those parts of the virus that are evolving very, very fast, and the blue parts are not evolving very fast. When people think about making pan-viral detection reagents, usually it's the fast-evolving problem that's an issue, because how can we detect things if they're always changing? But evolution is a balance: where you have fast change, you also have ultra-conservation — things that almost never change. And so we looked into this a little more carefully, and I'm going to show you data now. This is just some stuff you can do on the computer from the desktop. I took a bunch of these small picornaviruses, like the common cold, like polio and so on, and I just broke them down into small segments. And so took this first example, which is called coxsackievirus, and just break it into small windows. And I'm coloring these small windows blue if another virus shares an identical sequence in its genome to that virus. These sequences right up here — which don't even code for protein, by the way — are almost absolutely identical across all of these, so I could use this sequence as a marker to detect a wide spectrum of viruses, without having to make something individual. Now, over here there's great diversity: that's where things are evolving fast. Down here you can see slower evolution: less diversity. Now, by the time we get out here to, let's say, acute bee paralysis virus — probably a bad one to have if you're a bee —- this virus shares almost no similarity to coxsackievirus, but I can guarantee you that the sequences that are most conserved among these viruses on the right-hand of the screen are in identical regions right up here. And so we can encapsulate these regions of ultra-conservation through evolution — how these viruses evolved — by just choosing DNA elements or RNA elements in these regions to represent on our chip as detection reagents. OK, so that's what we did, but how are we going to do that? Well, for a long time, since I was in graduate school, I've been messing around making DNA chips — that is, printing DNA on glass. And that's what you see here: These little salt spots are just DNA tacked onto glass, and so I can put thousands of these on our glass chip and use them as a detection reagent. We took our chip over to Hewlett-Packard and used their atomic force microscope on one of these spots, and this is what you see: you can actually see the strands of DNA lying flat on the glass here. So, what we're doing is just printing DNA on glass — little flat things — and these are going to be markers for pathogens. OK, I make little robots in lab to make these chips, and I'm really big on disseminating technology. If you've got enough money to buy just a Camry, you can build one of these too, and so we put a deep how-to guide on the Web, totally free, with basically order-off-the-shelf parts. You can build a DNA array machine in your garage. Here's the section on the all-important emergency stop switch. (Laughter) Every important machine's got to have a big red button. But really, it's pretty robust. You can actually be making DNA chips in your garage and decoding some genetic programs pretty rapidly. It's a lot of fun. (Laughter) And so what we did — and this is a really cool project — we just started by making a respiratory virus chip. I talked about that — you know, that situation where you go into the clinic and you don't get diagnosed? Well, we just put basically all the human respiratory viruses on one chip, and we threw in herpes virus for good measure — I mean, why not? The first thing you do as a scientist is, you make sure stuff works. And so what we did is, we take tissue culture cells and infect them with various viruses, and we take the stuff and fluorescently label the nucleic acid, the genetic material that comes out of these tissue culture cells — mostly viral stuff — and stick it on the array to see where it sticks. Now, if the DNA sequences match, they'll stick together, and so we can look at spots. And if spots light up, we know there's a certain virus in there. That's what one of these chips really looks like, and these red spots are, in fact, signals coming from the virus. And each spot represents a different family of virus or species of virus. And so, that's a hard way to look at things, so I'm just going to encode things as a little barcode, grouped by family, so you can see the results in a very intuitive way. What we did is, we took tissue culture cells and infected them with adenovirus, and you can see this little yellow barcode next to adenovirus. And, likewise, we infected them with parainfluenza-3 — that's a paramyxovirus — and you see a little barcode here. And then we did respiratory syncytial virus. That's the scourge of daycare centers everywhere — it's like boogeremia, basically. (Laughter) You can see that this barcode is the same family, but it's distinct from parainfluenza-3, which gives you a very bad cold. And so we're getting unique signatures, a fingerprint for each virus. Polio and rhino: they're in the same family, very close to each other. Rhino's the common cold, and you all know what polio is, and you can see that these signatures are distinct. And Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus gives a nice signature down here. And so it is not any one stripe or something that tells me I have a virus of a particular type here; it's the barcode that in bulk represents the whole thing. All right, I can see a rhinovirus — and here's the blow-up of the rhinovirus's little barcode — but what about different rhinoviruses? How do I know which rhinovirus I have? There're 102 known variants of the common cold, and there're only 102 because people got bored collecting them: there are just new ones every year. And so, here are four different rhinoviruses, and you can see, even with your eye, without any fancy computer pattern-matching recognition software algorithms, that you can distinguish each one of these barcodes from each other. Now, this is kind of a cheap shot, because I know what the genetic sequence of all these rhinoviruses is, and I in fact designed the chip expressly to be able to tell them apart, but what about rhinoviruses that have never seen a genetic sequencer? We don't know what the sequence is; just pull them out of the field. So, here are four rhinoviruses we never knew anything about — no one's ever sequenced them — and you can also see that you get unique and distinguishable patterns. You can imagine building up some library, whether real or virtual, of fingerprints of essentially every virus. But that's, again, shooting fish in a barrel, you know, right? You have tissue culture cells. There are a ton of viruses. What about real people? You can't control real people, as you probably know. You have no idea what someone's going to cough into a cup, and it's probably really complex, right? It could have lots of bacteria, it could have more than one virus, and it certainly has host genetic material. So how do we deal with this? And how do we do the positive control here? Well, it's pretty simple. That's me, getting a nasal lavage. And the idea is, let's experimentally inoculate people with virus. This is all IRB-approved, by the way; they got paid. And basically we experimentally inoculate people with the common cold virus. Or, even better, let's just take people right out of the emergency room — undefined, community-acquired respiratory tract infections. You have no idea what walks in through the door. So, let's start off with the positive control first, where we know the person was healthy. They got a shot of virus up the nose, let's see what happens. Day zero: nothing happening. They're healthy; they're clean — it's amazing. Actually, we thought the nasal tract might be full of viruses even when you're walking around healthy. It's pretty clean. If you're healthy, you're pretty healthy. Day two: we get a very robust rhinovirus pattern, and it's very similar to what we get in the lab doing our tissue culture experiment. So that's great, but again, cheap shot, right? We put a ton of virus up this guy's nose. So — (Laughter) — I mean, we wanted it to work. He really had a cold. So, how about the people who walk in off the street? Here are two individuals represented by their anonymous ID codes. They both have rhinoviruses; we've never seen this pattern in lab. We sequenced part of their viruses; they're new rhinoviruses no one's actually even seen. Remember, our evolutionary-conserved sequences we're using on this array allow us to detect even novel or uncharacterized viruses, because we pick what is conserved throughout evolution. Here's another guy. You can play the diagnosis game yourself here. These different blocks represent the different viruses in this paramyxovirus family, so you can kind of go down the blocks and see where the signal is. Well, doesn't have canine distemper; that's probably good. (Laughter) But by the time you get to block nine, you see that respiratory syncytial virus. Maybe they have kids. And then you can see, also, the family member that's related: RSVB is showing up here. So, that's great. Here's another individual, sampled on two separate days — repeat visits to the clinic. This individual has parainfluenza-1, and you can see that there's a little stripe over here for Sendai virus: that's mouse parainfluenza. The genetic relationships are very close there. That's a lot of fun. So, we built out the chip. We made a chip that has every known virus ever discovered on it. Why not? Every plant virus, every insect virus, every marine virus. Everything that we could get out of GenBank — that is, the national repository of sequences. Now we're using this chip. And what are we using it for? Well, first of all, when you have a big chip like this, you need a little bit more informatics, so we designed the system to do automatic diagnosis. And the idea is that we simply have virtual patterns, because we're never going to get samples of every virus — it would be virtually impossible. But we can get virtual patterns, and compare them to our observed result — which is a very complex mixture — and come up with some sort of score of how likely it is this is a rhinovirus or something. And this is what this looks like. If, for example, you used a cell culture that's chronically infected with papilloma, you get a little computer readout here, and our algorithm says it's probably papilloma type 18. And that is, in fact, what these particular cell cultures are chronically infected with. So let's do something a little bit harder. We put the beeper in the clinic. When somebody shows up, and the hospital doesn't know what to do because they can't diagnose it, they call us. That's the idea, and we're setting this up in the Bay Area. And so, this case report happened three weeks ago. We have a 28-year-old healthy woman, no travel history, [unclear], doesn't smoke, doesn't drink. 10-day history of fevers, night sweats, bloody sputum — she's coughing up blood — muscle pain. She went to the clinic, and they gave her antibiotics and then sent her home. She came back after ten days of fever, right? Still has the fever, and she's hypoxic — she doesn't have much oxygen in her lungs. They did a CT scan. A normal lung is all sort of dark and black here. All this white stuff — it's not good. This sort of tree and bud formation indicates there's inflammation; there's likely to be infection. OK. So, the patient was treated then with a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic and doxycycline, and on day three, it didn't help: she had progressed to acute failure. They had to intubate her, so they put a tube down her throat and they began to mechanically ventilate her. She could no longer breathe for herself. What to do next? Don't know. Switch antibiotics: so they switched to another antibiotic, Tamiflu. It's not clear why they thought she had the flu, but they switched to Tamiflu. And on day six, they basically threw in the towel. You do an open lung biopsy when you've got no other options. There's an eight percent mortality rate with just doing this procedure, and so basically — and what do they learn from it? You're looking at her open lung biopsy. And I'm no pathologist, but you can't tell much from this. All you can tell is, there's a lot of swelling: bronchiolitis. It was ""unrevealing"": that's the pathologist's report. And so, what did they test her for? They have their own tests, of course, and so they tested her for over 70 different assays, for every sort of bacteria and fungus and viral assay you can buy off the shelf: SARS, metapneumovirus, HIV, RSV — all these. Everything came back negative, over 100,000 dollars worth of tests. I mean, they went to the max for this woman. And basically on hospital day eight, that's when they called us. They gave us endotracheal aspirate — you know, a little fluid from the throat, from this tube that they got down there — and they gave us this. We put it on the chip; what do we see? Well, we saw parainfluenza-4. Well, what the hell's parainfluenza-4? No one tests for parainfluenza-4. No one cares about it. In fact, it's not even really sequenced that much. There's just a little bit of it sequenced. There's almost no epidemiology or studies on it. No one would even consider it, because no one had a clue that it could cause respiratory failure. And why is that? Just lore. There's no data — no data to support whether it causes severe or mild disease. Clearly, we have a case of a healthy person that's going down. OK, that's one case report. I'm going to tell you one last thing in the last two minutes that's unpublished — it's going to come out tomorrow — and it's an interesting case of how you might use this chip to find something new and open a new door. Prostate cancer. I don't need to give you many statistics about prostate cancer. Most of you already know it: third leading cause of cancer deaths in the U.S. Lots of risk factors, but there is a genetic predisposition to prostate cancer. For maybe about 10 percent of prostate cancer, there are folks that are predisposed to it. And the first gene that was mapped in association studies for this, early-onset prostate cancer, was this gene called RNASEL. What is that? It's an antiviral defense enzyme. So, we're sitting around and thinking, ""Why would men who have the mutation — a defect in an antiviral defense system — get prostate cancer? It doesn't make sense — unless, maybe, there's a virus?"" So, we put tumors —- and now we have over 100 tumors — on our array. And we know who's got defects in RNASEL and who doesn't. And I'm showing you the signal from the chip here, and I'm showing you for the block of retroviral oligos. And what I'm telling you here from the signal, is that men who have a mutation in this antiviral defense enzyme, and have a tumor, often have — 40 percent of the time — a signature which reveals a new retrovirus. OK, that's pretty wild. What is it? So, we clone the whole virus. First of all, I'll tell you that a little automated prediction told us it was very similar to a mouse virus. But that doesn't tell us too much, so we actually clone the whole thing. And the viral genome I'm showing you right here? It's a classic gamma retrovirus, but it's totally new; no one's ever seen it before. Its closest relative is, in fact, from mice, and so we would call this a xenotropic retrovirus, because it's infecting a species other than mice. And this is a little phylogenetic tree to see how it's related to other viruses. We've done it for many patients now, and we can say that they're all independent infections. They all have the same virus, but they're different enough that there's reason to believe that they've been independently acquired. Is it really in the tissue? And I'll end up with this: yes. We take slices of these biopsies of tumor tissue and use material to actually locate the virus, and we find cells here with viral particles in them. These guys really do have this virus. Does this virus cause prostate cancer? Nothing I'm saying here implies causality. I don't know. Is it a link to oncogenesis? I don't know. Is it the case that these guys are just more susceptible to viruses? Could be. And it might have nothing to do with cancer. But now it's a door. We have a strong association between the presence of this virus and a genetic mutation that's been linked to cancer. That's where we're at. So, it opens up more questions than it answers, I'm afraid, but that's what, you know, science is really good at. This was all done by folks in the lab — I cannot take credit for most of this. This is a collaboration between myself and Don. This is the guy who started the project in my lab, and this is the guy who's been doing prostate stuff. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我們該如何研究這些在我們四周的病毒，以解決它們造成的健康問題？我們要如何將累積許久的病毒學知識轉化成簡單的掌上型單一檢驗法？我希望能將我們現在對檢驗病毒及生活中各種病毒基因的所有了解轉變成一個小小的晶片。 當我們開始思索這個計畫─也就是我們要發展能同時偵測所有病原體的單一檢驗法─這個想法遇到了一些問題。首先，病毒很複雜，但他們卻也進化得非常快速。這是小核醣酸病毒。它們會造成感冒、小兒麻痺這類傳染病。你現在看到的是病毒的外鞘，黃色區域演化得非常、非常快，而藍色區域則沒有那麼快。當我們想製造全病毒偵測試劑時，病毒的快速演化是一個棘手問題，原因是我們要怎麼檢驗一個不斷在改變的東西呢？但是演化是一種平衡：在某段基因序列快速改變的同時，也有序列超級保守─幾乎不怎麼改變。 我將提供各位一些數據，讓大家再仔細研究一下。結果都是各位可以利用桌上型電腦自行計算得來。我分析了幾種小核醣酸病毒的基因，像是感冒病毒、小兒麻痺病毒之類的，將它們分割成小片段，這是第一個例子：克沙奇病毒將其基因分割成幾個小片段。如果別種病毒跟克沙奇的某段基因序列一樣的話我就把這段基因染成藍色。像這邊這個序列─這序列並不會轉譯成蛋白質喔─在所有病毒裡幾乎都是一樣的，所以，我可以將這個序列當成標記用來偵測許多不同的病毒，而不需要製造一些個別的序列。這裡，是歧異度高的序列：也就是快速演化的序列。這裡，則是演化較慢的序列，歧異度較低。 現在，我們來看看急性蜜蜂麻痺病毒─如果你是一隻蜜蜂你應該不想得到─這種病毒一點也不像克沙奇病毒，但我跟妳保證，這隻病毒基因序列的保留區段，也就是螢幕右端這邊跟這裡的克沙奇病毒基因序列一樣。所以，我們可以擷取這些在演化時不變動的超級保守區段 ─ 這些病毒如何演化 ─將其中的DNA或RNA片段放在我們的晶片上當作檢驗試劑。 好，這就是我們的成果，可是我們下一步該怎麼做呢？很久以前，當我還在念研究所時，曾有一段時間忙亂地製作DNA晶片─也就是，把DNA印在玻璃上。就像你見到的這樣：這些似鹽的小顆粒，就是印在玻璃上的DNA，我可以將數以千計的DNA碎片印上去用來當作檢驗試劑。把我們的晶片拿到HP去用他們的原子力顯微鏡觀察晶片上的一點，你會看到：在玻璃上見到一層薄薄鍍上的DNA部分。我們所做的就是，把DNA印到玻璃上 —而病原體的標記，就會是這薄薄一層DNA。我在實驗室做了一個小機器人來製造這些晶片，我實在太喜歡散播科技新知了。如果你有錢買Toyota Camry，你也能做一台DNA印表機，我們把機器人的製作詳解放上網路，完全免費，零件都是些市面上買的東西 —你可以在自家車庫做一個DNA印表機。這是最重要的緊急停止開關。（笑）每一台重要的機器都得有個大紅按鈕。說真的，這是一台美麗的機器。你也可以在自家車庫製造DNA晶片，快速的執行一些基因解碼計畫。這個很好玩。（笑） 我們所做的 — 這是個很酷的計畫 —我們才剛剛開始製造呼吸道疾病相關病毒的晶片。我說就是為了那些，當你上診所看醫生，卻沒有確切診斷的情況。所以我們把所有人類呼吸道疾病相關病毒的序列放上晶片，然後用單純皰疹病毒測試 —為何不呢？當科學家，首先要做的是，確定主意行得通。所以我們培養了一些細胞以各種病毒感染，再用螢光標定核酸，也就是那些培養的細胞釋出的基因物質 —其中大部分的是病毒 — 將這些核酸片段放上晶片。如果DNA序列相合，兩者就會相黏，這時我們可以觀察螢光分布。晶片上的螢光點，就代表某病毒的存在。 這是晶片實際的樣子，這些紅點實際上就代表病毒訊號。每一個點是不同的病毒家族或是病毒種類。因為這樣不太容易觀察，所以我將結果用小條碼表示，將病毒各家族分類，以較直觀的方式呈現。我們把培養的細胞以腺病毒感染，你就會在腺病毒旁看到黃色小條碼。同理，我們以副流感病毒三型感染細胞 —這是一種副黏液病毒 — 小條碼在這裡。我們也試過呼吸道融合瘤病毒。這種病毒在養護中心大規模傳染 —它就像是充斥於血液中的鼻屎一般。（笑）你可能注意到，這個條碼跟造成嚴重感冒的副流感病毒三型屬同一家族，但兩者不太一樣。這讓我們有每一種病毒的獨特標識，就像指紋一般。小兒麻痺病毒跟鼻病毒同屬一個家族，非常接近。後者造成感冒，而你們都知道小兒麻痺是甚麼，你可以看到，它們的標識不太一樣。這是卡波西氏肉瘤病毒它們提供了清晰的標識。所以，這不是一個只會告訴我這是哪一種病毒的條紋；而是一個可以表達病毒全貌的條碼。 好吧，我看到鼻病毒 —這裡是鼻病毒的小條碼 —但是鼻病毒有許多亞型我怎麼知道我得了哪一種？以知約有102種病毒會造成普通感冒，只有102種是因為人們懶得再增加感冒病毒的名單長度了：每一年我們都會發現新種感冒病毒。這裡有四種不同的鼻病毒，你看，單純只靠肉眼，即使沒有高科技的電腦軟體計算模式跟配對，你也可以分辨出每一組條碼。 現在，這是個便宜的診斷方法，因為我知道所有鼻病毒的基因序列，所以我設計了可以分辨這些不同鼻病毒的晶片，但那些不知道序列的鼻病毒該怎麼辦呢？我們不知道它們的序列，就先擱置它們。這是四種鼻病毒我們對它們一無所知 —沒人知道它們的序列 — 而你可見它們的樣本仍獨特可辨。你或許想到了，我們可以設個資料庫，包含絕大多數病毒的實際或虛擬指紋。這就跟囊中取物一樣容易，對吧？你培植的細胞裡頭有一大堆病毒。但在人身上的真實情況呢？你大概已經知道，我們不能控制真人。我們不知道人們會把甚麼咳進樣本杯裡，情況大概會很複雜吧？可能會有很多細菌，或超過一種以上的病毒，當然還會有宿主的基因物質，我們該怎樣處理這樣的情況？這時該怎麼設計陽性對照組？ 這個頗容易。這是我，在接受鼻灌洗。這個概念是，我們在人體接種病毒，這個實驗是醫學研究倫理委員會核准的；岔題一下，他們有領薪水。這個實驗是：我們實驗在人體接種一般感冒病毒。但，更好的方法是，我們從急診室收集病人 —那些病原不明，社區型呼吸道感染的病人。你不知道誰會走過急診室那扇門。從陽性對照組開始，我們知道他們原本是健康的。我們把病毒打進鼻子裡，看看會如何。 實驗剛開始：甚麼都沒發生。受試者很健康，沒有受感染 — 這真是神奇。其實，我們以為這時鼻腔應該充滿病毒了即使你是健步如飛的健康人士。鼻腔很乾淨。如果你是健康的，實際上也相當健康。第二天：樣本出現大量鼻病毒的指紋，跟我們在實驗室裡收集的含病毒的細胞一樣。真好，正如我們說過，是個便宜的解法，對吧？我們讓這傢伙的鼻腔裡都是病毒了。所以 —（笑）我是說，我們希望實驗成功。我是說，這傢伙感冒了。那麼，那些從大街上進來的人呢？ 這是兩位不知名實驗者的病毒指紋。他們都有鼻病毒，其指紋卻跟實驗室的病毒株不同。我們分析了病毒的基因序列；發現他們身上的病毒是新品種。記住，我們使用在演化過程中恆定的保留序列來進行檢測，這讓我們得以找到新種或未分析過的病毒，這都是因為我們選擇保留序列的緣故。這是另一個受試者。你也可以自己玩檢驗遊戲。這些不同的指紋群代表副黏膜病毒家族裡不同的病毒株，你可以分析這些指紋組看看是哪些你認識的病毒。嗯，沒有犬瘟熱，還不錯。（笑）但是當你分析到第九組，你看到呼吸道融合瘤病毒。這表示病人可能有小孩。同時你得知，病原是呼吸道融合瘤病毒B亞群。所以，這個很不錯。這是另一個病人，在兩個不同的診次 —收集了兩次樣本。他感染了副流感病毒第一型，樣本中也有微量仙台病毒的指紋：這是老鼠身上的副流感病毒。這兩種病毒的基因很接近。很有趣吧！ 於是，我們製造了晶片。晶片上有所有已經被發現的病毒基因片斷。那麼，何不也來做所有的植物病毒、昆蟲病毒、海水病毒的晶片。反正相關資訊都在GenBank —也就是基因序列的國家型資料庫裡頭了。既然我們手上有晶片，能用它來幹嘛？首先，當我們有像這樣的大晶片時，還需要一些其他的資訊，來設計能夠進行自動診斷的系統。我們只有虛擬的樣本 —因為我們從來就無法收集所有病毒的樣本；就算如此，我們還是能得到虛擬的樣本，將之與觀察到的結果比較，因為是複雜的混合物，我們能計算出代表樣本含鼻病毒或是其他病毒可能性的分數。看起來就像這樣。舉例來說，你用被乳突病毒感染的細胞，得到這樣的數據，而我們的程式說它可能是第十八型。這也的確是實驗室裡的細胞感染的病毒亞型。 我們來做個難一點的實驗在診間裡放個傳呼機。在醫院無法做出診斷，不知道要對病人做甚麼處置時，他們會聯繫我們。計畫是：我們在灣區設置這個系統。這是三周前的病例。有個28歲的健康女性，【不清楚】，無外出旅遊記錄，不菸，不酒。發燒、夜間盜汗、痰中有血，也就是咳血、肌肉痛，長達十天。她就醫求助，拿了抗生素，然後回家。十天後她又回來，仍在發燒 —而且缺氧 — 她的肺部含氧量低。他們為她照了電腦斷層掃描。正常的肺應該略為色暗或呈黑色。但是她的卻是白色，狀況不妙。影像中的枝狀和芽狀散佈表示肺部發炎；有可能是感染。於是，病人開始接受抗生素治療包括第三代頭孢霉素，還有多西環素，到第三天仍沒有起色，她出現急性呼吸衰竭的症狀。醫生得為她插管，接上呼吸器。她無法自主呼吸。然後呢？不知道。改抗生素，於是醫生改用其他抗生素，用特敏福，而 —他們卻不太清楚為什麼醫生認為她得了感冒 —但仍使轉用特敏福。 第六天，他們認輸。在別無選擇的狀況下，開胸取活組織组樣本檢查。手術的致命率為百分之八，大體上，他們因此得到什麼？你們看到的是她的開胸活組織樣本。我不是病理學家，但從這個你也看不出來甚麼。唯一能辨別的就是：有很多腫脹、支氣管炎。病理學家的報告沒甚麼新發現。既然如此，他們檢驗了她什麼？當然，他們有自己的檢查，超過七十種不同的方法，所有能在市面上找到的細菌、黴菌、病毒測試：包括非典型病毒、間質肺炎病毒、愛滋病毒、呼吸融合瘤病毒 — 等等。檢查結果都是陰性，花了十萬多美金。我是說，醫生為了她已經盡了一切努力。 直到第八天，院方連繫我們。給我們病人氣管內的抽取物 —也就是在喉嚨裡放根管子，抽取喉嚨裡少少的液體。我們將樣本放上晶片，觀察到的是：副流感病毒第四型。這個副流感病毒第四型是甚麼鬼東西？沒有人測過這隻病毒，沒人想到過它。事實上，我們甚至連病毒的完整序都沒有。只有一小段序列。也沒甚麼流行病學研究過它。沒有人想過它，因為沒人有證據證明，這病毒會造成呼吸衰竭。為什麼？只有口頭知識，卻沒有數據 —沒有數據證明這種病毒會造成嚴重或輕微的疾病。顯然，我們手上有個正在失去生命的健康人。 這是個病例報告。最後兩分鐘，告訴大家一個還沒有發表的研究：論文明天才會出來 —這個有趣例子告訴我們，我們可以如何使用晶片來發現新事物、打開新知之門。攝護腺癌 / 前列腺癌。我不需要報告太多關於攝護腺癌的統計，你們大部分都很清楚：（攝護腺癌）在美國癌症死亡率中排名第三。有許多致病風險，其中一項引致攝護腺癌的成因為基因傾向。大概有一成的攝護腺癌病人，帶著這種傾向的基因。相關研究中找到的第一個早期攝護腺癌致癌基因，叫做RNASEL。這是甚麼？是一種對抗病毒感染的酵素。於是我們坐下思考，為什麼一個人，帶著有缺陷的抗病毒感染系統，會得攝護腺癌？這一點道理也沒有。除非，可能，病毒會造成攝護腺癌。 於是，我們把腫瘤 — 現在我們有至少一百個腫瘤 — 的基因放到晶片上。我們知道誰有RNASEL缺陷，誰沒有。我現在把晶片所傳達的訊息展示出來，還有這個代表反轉錄病毒引子的區塊。而這個訊息告訴我們，帶著抗病毒系統變異、具攝護腺癌的男性，通常 — 其中四成 —帶有新種逆轉濾過性病毒特徵。很出乎意料吧？這到底是什麼？於是，我們複製了整個病毒。首先，一個小小的自動預測告訴我們這隻病毒非常接近老鼠病毒。但這不能告訴我們甚麼，所以我們實質上複製了整個病毒。而我在這裡展出的病毒染色體序列是典型的γ逆轉錄病毒屬，但它是全新的，從來沒有人發現過它。事實上，最接近的親屬是，老鼠的逆轉錄病毒，所以我們將之命名為異嗜性逆轉錄病毒，因為它感染了除老鼠以外的物種。這是它的小演化樹，可見這隻新病毒跟其他病毒的親緣關係。我們已經分析過許多病人，發現這些全部都是獨立感染。他們都被同一種病毒感染，但他們不同處多到我們有理由相信他們都是獨立感染。病毒真的存在於組織中嗎？我以此作結。是的。我們切片了許多腫瘤活組織利用試劑來找出病毒的位置，而我們發現這裡的細胞帶有病毒顆粒。這些病人身上的確有這種病毒。 病毒會引致攝護腺癌嗎？我手上的資料並沒有顯示其中的因果關係。我不知道。它們跟癌變有關嗎？我不知道。還是只是這些病人容易被病毒感染？可能吧。病毒也可能跟癌症一點關係都沒有。但這是一扇門。我們找到病毒表現和基因突變跟癌症間的強烈關聯性。這就是我們目前的研究進度。不過，我恐怕，研究提供的問題比解答還多，但，這也是科學擅長的東西。這些研究是實驗室同仁共同努力的結果，我無法獨享榮耀。這是我跟Don合作的研究成果。這位在我的實驗室開始這個計畫，而這位一直進行攝護腺癌的研究。非常謝謝各位。
