Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_gebbia_how_airbnb_designs_for_trust	"I want to tell you the story about the time I almost got kidnapped in the trunk of a red Mazda Miata. It's the day after graduating from design school and I'm having a yard sale. And this guy pulls up in this red Mazda and he starts looking through my stuff. And he buys a piece of art that I made. And it turns out he's alone in town for the night, driving cross-country on a road trip before he goes into the Peace Corps. So I invite him out for a beer and he tells me all about his passion for making a difference in the world. Now it's starting to get late, and I'm getting pretty tired. As I motion for the tab, I make the mistake of asking him, ""So where are you staying tonight?"" And he makes it worse by saying, ""Actually, I don't have a place."" And I'm thinking, ""Oh, man!"" What do you do? We've all been there, right? Do I offer to host this guy? But, I just met him — I mean, he says he's going to the Peace Corps, but I don't really know if he's going to the Peace Corps and I don't want to end up kidnapped in the trunk of a Miata. That's a small trunk! So then I hear myself saying, ""Hey, I have an airbed you can stay on in my living room."" And the voice in my head goes, ""Wait, what?"" That night, I'm laying in bed, I'm staring at the ceiling and thinking, ""Oh my god, what have I done? There's a complete stranger sleeping in my living room. What if he's psychotic?"" My anxiety grows so much, I leap out of bed, I sneak on my tiptoes to the door, and I lock the bedroom door. It turns out he was not psychotic. We've kept in touch ever since. And the piece of art he bought at the yard sale is hanging in his classroom; he's a teacher now. This was my first hosting experience, and it completely changed my perspective. Maybe the people that my childhood taught me to label as strangers were actually friends waiting to be discovered. The idea of hosting people on airbeds gradually became natural to me and when I moved to San Francisco, I brought the airbed with me. So now it's two years later. I'm unemployed, I'm almost broke, my roommate moves out, and then the rent goes up. And then I learn there's a design conference coming to town, and all the hotels are sold out. And I've always believed that turning fear into fun is the gift of creativity. So here's what I pitch my best friend and my new roommate Brian Chesky: ""Brian, thought of a way to make a few bucks — turning our place into 'designers bed and breakfast,' offering young designers who come to town a place to crash, complete with wireless Internet, a small desk space, sleeping mat, and breakfast each morning. Ha!"" We built a basic website and Airbed and Breakfast was born. Three lucky guests got to stay on a 20-dollar airbed on the hardwood floor. But they loved it, and so did we. I swear, the ham and Swiss cheese omelets we made tasted totally different because we made them for our guests. We took them on adventures around the city, and when we said goodbye to the last guest, the door latch clicked, Brian and I just stared at each other. Did we just discover it was possible to make friends while also making rent? The wheels had started to turn. My old roommate, Nate Blecharczyk, joined as engineering co-founder. And we buckled down to see if we could turn this into a business. Here's what we pitched investors: ""We want to build a website where people publicly post pictures of their most intimate spaces, their bedrooms, the bathrooms — the kinds of rooms you usually keep closed when people come over. And then, over the Internet, they're going to invite complete strangers to come sleep in their homes. It's going to be huge!"" (Laughter) We sat back, and we waited for the rocket ship to blast off. It did not. No one in their right minds would invest in a service that allows strangers to sleep in people's homes. Why? Because we've all been taught as kids, strangers equal danger. Now, when you're faced with a problem, you fall back on what you know, and all we really knew was design. In art school, you learn that design is much more than the look and feel of something — it's the whole experience. We learned to do that for objects, but here, we were aiming to build Olympic trust between people who had never met. Could design make that happen? Is it possible to design for trust? I want to give you a sense of the flavor of trust that we were aiming to achieve. I've got a 30-second experiment that will push you past your comfort zone. If you're up for it, give me a thumbs-up. OK, I need you to take out your phones. Now that you have your phone out, I'd like you to unlock your phone. Now hand your unlocked phone to the person on your left. (Laughter) That tiny sense of panic you're feeling right now — (Laughter) is exactly how hosts feel the first time they open their home. Because the only thing more personal than your phone is your home. People don't just see your messages, they see your bedroom, your kitchen, your toilet. Now, how does it feel holding someone's unlocked phone? Most of us feel really responsible. That's how most guests feel when they stay in a home. And it's because of this that our company can even exist. By the way, who's holding Al Gore's phone? (Laughter) Would you tell Twitter he's running for President? (Laughter) (Applause) OK, you can hand your phones back now. So now that you've experienced the kind of trust challenge we were facing, I'd love to share a few discoveries we've made along the way. What if we changed one small thing about the design of that experiment? What if your neighbor had introduced themselves first, with their name, where they're from, the name of their kids or their dog? Imagine that they had 150 reviews of people saying, ""They're great at holding unlocked phones!"" (Laughter) Now how would you feel about handing your phone over? It turns out, a well-designed reputation system is key for building trust. And we didn't actually get it right the first time. It's hard for people to leave bad reviews. Eventually, we learned to wait until both guests and hosts left the review before we reveal them. Now, here's a discovery we made just last week. We did a joint study with Stanford, where we looked at people's willingness to trust someone based on how similar they are in age, location and geography. The research showed, not surprisingly, we prefer people who are like us. The more different somebody is, the less we trust them. Now, that's a natural social bias. But what's interesting is what happens when you add reputation into the mix, in this case, with reviews. Now, if you've got less than three reviews, nothing changes. But if you've got more than 10, everything changes. High reputation beats high similarity. The right design can actually help us overcome one of our most deeply rooted biases. Now we also learned that building the right amount of trust takes the right amount of disclosure. This is what happens when a guest first messages a host. If you share too little, like, ""Yo,"" acceptance rates go down. And if you share too much, like, ""I'm having issues with my mother,"" (Laughter) acceptance rates also go down. But there's a zone that's just right, like, ""Love the artwork in your place. Coming for vacation with my family."" So how do we design for just the right amount of disclosure? We use the size of the box to suggest the right length, and we guide them with prompts to encourage sharing. We bet our whole company on the hope that, with the right design, people would be willing to overcome the stranger-danger bias. What we didn't realize is just how many people were ready and waiting to put the bias aside. This is a graph that shows our rate of adoption. There's three things happening here. The first, an unbelievable amount of luck. The second is the efforts of our team. And third is the existence of a previously unsatisfied need. Now, things have been going pretty well. Obviously, there are times when things don't work out. Guests have thrown unauthorized parties and trashed homes. Hosts have left guests stranded in the rain. In the early days, I was customer service, and those calls came right to my cell phone. I was at the front lines of trust breaking. And there's nothing worse than those calls, it hurts to even think about them. And the disappointment in the sound of someone's voice was and, I would say, still is our single greatest motivator to keep improving. Thankfully, out of the 123 million nights we've ever hosted, less than a fraction of a percent have been problematic. Turns out, people are justified in their trust. And when trust works out right, it can be absolutely magical. We had a guest stay with a host in Uruguay, and he suffered a heart attack. The host rushed him to the hospital. They donated their own blood for his operation. Let me read you his review. (Laughter) ""Excellent house for sedentary travelers prone to myocardial infarctions. (Laughter) The area is beautiful and has direct access to the best hospitals. (Laughter) Javier and Alejandra instantly become guardian angels who will save your life without even knowing you. They will rush you to the hospital in their own car while you're dying and stay in the waiting room while the doctors give you a bypass. They don't want you to feel lonely, they bring you books to read. And they let you stay at their house extra nights without charging you. Highly recommended!"" (Applause) Of course, not every stay is like that. But this connection beyond the transaction is exactly what the sharing economy is aiming for. Now, when I heard that term, I have to admit, it tripped me up. How do sharing and transactions go together? So let's be clear; it is about commerce. But if you just called it the rental economy, it would be incomplete. The sharing economy is commerce with the promise of human connection. People share a part of themselves, and that changes everything. You know how most travel today is, like, I think of it like fast food — it's efficient and consistent, at the cost of local and authentic. What if travel were like a magnificent buffet of local experiences? What if anywhere you visited, there was a central marketplace of locals offering to get you thoroughly drunk on a pub crawl in neighborhoods you didn't even know existed. Or learning to cook from the chef of a five-star restaurant? Today, homes are designed around the idea of privacy and separation. What if homes were designed to be shared from the ground up? What would that look like? What if cities embraced a culture of sharing? I see a future of shared cities that bring us community and connection instead of isolation and separation. In South Korea, in the city of Seoul, they've actually even started this. They've repurposed hundreds of government parking spots to be shared by residents. They're connecting students who need a place to live with empty-nesters who have extra rooms. And they've started an incubator to help fund the next generation of sharing economy start-ups. Tonight, just on our service, 785,000 people in 191 countries will either stay in a stranger's home or welcome one into theirs. Clearly, it's not as crazy as we were taught. We didn't invent anything new. Hospitality has been around forever. There's been many other websites like ours. So, why did ours eventually take off? Luck and timing aside, I've learned that you can take the components of trust, and you can design for that. Design can overcome our most deeply rooted stranger-danger bias. And that's amazing to me. It blows my mind. I think about this every time I see a red Miata go by. Now, we know design won't solve all the world's problems. But if it can help out with this one, if it can make a dent in this, it makes me wonder, what else can we design for next? Thank you. (Applause)"	我想和你們分享一個故事。有一次，我差點被綁進一輛紅色馬自達 Miata 的後車箱。那是從設計學校畢業之後的隔天，我在後院裡弄了個舊貨拍賣。有個傢伙開著紅色馬自達過來，他停了車並開始打量我的東西。最後，他買了一件我的藝術作品。我後來才知道他今晚孤身一人待在這個鎮上，他正在進行穿越美國的公路旅行，旅程結束後就要加入和平部隊。於是我邀請他出去喝一杯，他跟我聊到他想要改變世界的滿腔熱忱。 這時候我覺得時間不早了，我也很累了。當我示意結帳時，我犯了個錯誤，問了他一句：「你今晚在哪裡過夜？」而他把事情弄得更糟，他說：「其實我沒有地方住。」我心想：「噢，天啊！」這下怎麼辦？我們都遇過這種情況，對吧？我要接待這傢伙嗎？但是我才剛認識他啊——他說他是要去和平部隊，但我哪知道他到底是不是真的要去啊！我可不想最後被綁進Miata 的後車箱裡。那後車箱超小的啊！ 接著我聽到自己說：「喂，我有個氣墊床，你可以睡我家客廳。」又有聲音在我的腦海裡出現：「等等，什麼？」 那一晩，我躺在床上，望著天花板，心想：「天啊，我究竟做了什麼事？怎麼會讓一個陌生人睡在我客廳裡？要是他是神經病怎麼辦？」我越來越害怕，於是從床上跳下來，躡手躡腳地走向門口，鎖緊房門。 後來發現他並不是神經病。之後我們時常保持聯絡。而且那件他在後院拍賣買來的美術品，現在掛在他的教室裡，他現在是老師。 這是我第一次接待外人留宿的經驗，而且這件事徹底改變了我的看法。可能我從小就被教導該當成陌生人的那些人其實可能都是尚待我們發掘的朋友。用氣墊床讓別人留宿的想法漸漸變得很自然，我移居舊金山後，還把氣墊床帶過去。 過了兩年，我失業，差不多要破產了，我的室友搬走，房租上漲。接著我知道鎮上將要舉行一場設計會議。所有飯店已經客滿。我一直相信把恐懼變成樂趣就是創意的良機。 所以我馬上告訴我最好的朋友，也是我的新室友布萊恩．切斯基，我說：「布萊恩，我想到一個賺錢的方法：把我們的房間變成『設計師過夜加早餐的地方』，給那些來到城市的年輕設計師一個過夜的地方，包含無線上網、一張小書桌、一張睡墊和每朝早餐，一應俱全。哈！」 我們建立了初步的網站，於是氣墊床加早餐食宿誕生了。有三位幸運的客人來住宿，他們睡在硬木地板價值20美元的氣墊床上。不過他們很滿意，我們也是。我發誓我們煮的瑞士起士火腿蛋餅味道與眾不同，因為是我們特別做給客人的。我們帶他們到市區參觀，當我們向最後一個客人道別、拉上門閂之後，布萊恩和我張大眼睛互相看著對方。我們是不是發現了一種既可以交朋友，又可以收租金的方法呢？ 齒輪開始轉動。我的舊室友內森．布萊查斯克加入成為我們的共同創辦人兼首席工程師。我們認真努力地了解看能否把它變成一門生意。 這是我們向投資者提案時說的話：「我們想建立一個網站，讓人可以把他們最私密空間的照片，比如臥室和浴室——這種別人來訪時不方便進入的空間——發佈到網站上。然後，透過網路，他們可以邀請素未謀面的陌生人到家中留宿。這一定很有賺頭啊！」 （笑聲） 我們就放輕鬆，等事業像火箭一飛沖天。但是希望的事情沒有發生。沒有一個頭腦正常的人會願意投資讓陌生人在自己家裡過夜的服務。為什麼？因為我們從小就被教導陌生人等於危險。 現在，當遇到問題時，你往往會回歸你所懂的東西。我們只懂得設計。在藝術學校裡，我們學到設計不只是外觀及感覺，而是全面性的體驗。我們在學校學的是設計物品，但是在這，我們的目標是讓素未謀面的人彼此產生奧林匹克式的信任。設計能否實現這點呢？信任是能夠設計的嗎？ 我想帶你們體驗一下「信任」的感覺，是我們想達成的目標。我會進行一個三十秒的實驗，這會把你們推出舒適圈。如果你願意參加，請豎起你的大拇指！好，請各位拿出自己的手機。拿出手機後，請替手機解鎖。現在把手機交給坐在你左邊的人。 （笑聲） 你現在感覺到的小驚恐—— （笑聲） 就是那些提供住宿的人第一次打開家門的感覺。因為比自己手機更私密的就是你家了。大家不只是看到手機訊息而已，他們會看到你的臥室、廚房和洗手間。 現在，握著別人已解鎖的手機感覺如何？大多數人都會油然而生一種責任感。這就是大部分房客在住宿時的感覺。正因此，我們的公司才能生存到現在。順便一提，誰拿著高爾的手機？ （笑聲） 可以麻煩你上推特說他要選總統嗎？ （笑聲） （掌聲） 好了，現在可以要回你的手機了。 所以，剛剛各位體驗了我們面對過的信任挑戰。我想分享我們一路上的一些發現。如果我們在剛剛的實驗裡，做一點小小變動會怎麽樣呢？如果坐在你隔壁的人首先介紹自己的名字，從哪裡來、子女或家中小狗的名字？想像他們獲得了150個的評價：「他們超會拿別人解鎖的手機啊！」 （笑聲） 這樣的話，你們交出手機時，會有什麼感覺呢？ 結果證明，一個設計完善的聲譽系統是建立信任的關鍵。我們最初其實不怎麼成功。人們難以留下負評。最後我們知道要等客人和民宿主人都留下評語後，才可以公開。 這是我們上星期的新發現。我們與史丹佛大學做了一個研究，觀察人們有多願意相信別人，以雙方的年齡、居住地和地理環境相似度為基礎。毫不令人意外，硏究的結果顯示，我們較喜歡與我們相似的人。跟我們越不相似的人，我們就越不信任他。這是一種很自然的社會偏見現象。但有意思的是，當你加入了聲譽的因素後就不一樣了，以我們的例子來說，就是評價。 要是你有三個以下評價，什麼都沒有改變。但要是你得到超過十個評價，一切就改變了。信譽好贏過相似度高。合適的設計其實可以幫助我們克服根深蒂固的偏見。 我們也發現，要建立適度的信任就需要公開適量的個人隱私。接下來是房客第一次發訊息給房東時的狀況。如果你透露得太少，例如「呦！」，那麼接受程度會降低。如果你透露得太多，例如：「我跟媽媽鬧翻了。」 （笑聲） 那麼接受程度也會下滑。但是有一個恰如其分的表達區域，例如：「我很喜歡你家的藝術品，想跟家人來渡假。」那麼，我們要如何設計去適量公開資料呢？我們利用空格欄位的大小來建議資料的適當長短，並用提示問題指導他們，鼓勵大家分享。 我們把全公司的賭注押在這樣一個希望上：就是透過對的設計讓人願意克服陌生人等於危險的偏見。但我們沒有料到的是到底有多少人早就準備好放下偏見。 這是我們訂房率的圖表。這張圖表說明了三件事。第一，我們幸運得難以置信。第二，這是我們團隊努力的成果。第三，之前有未獲滿足的需求。現在業務進展良好。 當然有時候會出現一些問題，比如客人未經同意舉辦了派對並且把家裡弄得一團糟。還有，房東對困在大雨中的房客置之不理。創業初期，我負責客服，那些來電會直達我的手機。我處在信任破裂的最前線，沒有比聽到這些來電還糟的了，現在想到都還會覺得心痛。這些失望的聲音，我說實話，一直都是我們不停改進的一大動力。 謝天謝地，在我們服務過1.23億個夜晚之後，出問題的機率遠不到百分之一。這也證明人對人的不信任情有可原。而當信任一旦上軌道，一定會發生神奇的事情！ 我們曾經有一個房客在烏拉圭住宿的時候，突然心臟病發。房東不只送他到醫院急救，還自己捐血幫助他動手術。讓我讀一下他的評價： （笑聲） 「這間房子特別適合長期久坐、易患心肌梗塞的旅行者。」 （笑聲） 這個區域環境優美，而且有一條直通最佳醫院的道路。 （笑聲） 哈維爾和亞莉安卓是那種就算不認識你，也會立刻救你一命的守護天使。當你快要不行的時候，他們會急忙開車帶你去醫院急救。醫生替你做繞道手術時，他們會在等候室守候你。他們不想讓你感到孤獨，還會帶書來給你讀。之後還會多留你幾晚並且不收你一毛錢。強力推薦！」 （掌聲） 當然，不是每次住宿都是這樣。但是，這種超越交易的連結就是「共享經濟」要達到的目標。 當我聽到這個術語的時候，我得承認，我還一時搞不懂。分享和交易如何並存呢？所以讓我們來搞清楚。這是關於商業的事。不過，如果你只把這叫做「房租經濟」那也不太完整。「共享經濟」是保證人類互動的商業行為。大家分享自己的一部分。這樣足以改變一切。 現在的旅遊很像什麼你知道嗎，我覺得像吃快餐，高效而且一致，卻犧牲了當地風土人情。要是旅遊有如華麗的本地旅遊體驗吃到飽呢？如果你遊覽的每個地方都有當地人聚集的中央市場，主動邀請你去你根本不曉得的區域一家一家跑酒吧，帶你喝得酩酊大醉。又或者向五星級飯店的廚師學廚藝？ 今日房子的設計概念以隱私和分隔為主。要是房子的設計從一開始就是分享的概念會怎樣呢？那看起來會是什麼樣子？要是城市都接受分享的文化呢？我能預見未來，這些分享的城市會帶給我們社群凝聚與連結，而不是孤立與分離。 在南韓的首爾，他們其實已經開始了共享經濟。他們把數以百計的政府停車位，改造之後分享給居民使用。他們安排需要住宿的學生到孩子已長大離巢的人家中住。他們還設立了育成中心，為下一代「共享經濟」的草創公司提供資金支持。 截至今晚，我們共服務了78.5萬人，遍及191個國家，他們不是住在陌生人家裡，就是準備歡迎陌生人來家裡住。很明顯，事實並沒有我們小時候被教育得那麼瘋狂。 我們沒有發明什麼新奇的事情。好客之道由來已久。也有很多和我們差不多的網站，但是為什麼我們最後成功了？除了運氣和掌握好時機之外，我學懂加入信任的因素，然後替它設計。設計可以克服「陌生人等於危險」這個根深蒂固的偏見。這一點讓我大感驚奇，我真是驚呆了。每次見到紅色 Miata 經過，我都會想起這件事。 我知道設計不能解決世界的所有問題。但如果設計能解決這個問題，取得初步的進展，那我不禁想，我們下次可以替什麼東西設計呢？ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
