Talk	en	zh-tw
joel_levine	"I want to talk about 4.6 billion years of history in 18 minutes. That's 300 million years per minute. Let's start with the first photograph NASA obtained of planet Mars. This is fly-by, Mariner IV. It was taken in 1965. When this picture appeared, that well-known scientific journal, The New York Times, wrote in its editorial, ""Mars is uninteresting. It's a dead world. NASA should not spend any time or effort studying Mars anymore."" Fortunately, our leaders in Washington at NASA headquarters knew better and we began a very extensive study of the red planet. One of the key questions in all of science, ""Is there life outside of Earth?"" I believe that Mars is the most likely target for life outside the Earth. I'm going to show you in a few minutes some amazing measurements that suggest there may be life on Mars. But let me start with a Viking photograph. This is a composite taken by Viking in 1976. Viking was developed and managed at the NASA Langley Research Center. We sent two orbiters and two landers in the summer of 1976. We had four spacecraft, two around Mars, two on the surface — an amazing accomplishment. This is the first photograph taken from the surface of any planet. This is a Viking Lander photograph of the surface of Mars. And yes, the red planet is red. Mars is half the size of the Earth, but because two-thirds of the Earth is covered by water, the land area on Mars is comparable to the land area on Earth. So, Mars is a pretty big place even though it's half the size. We have obtained topographic measurements of the surface of Mars. We understand the elevation differences. We know a lot about Mars. Mars has the largest volcano in the solar system, Olympus Mons. Mars has the Grand Canyon of the solar system, Valles Marineris. Very, very interesting planet. Mars has the largest impact crater in the solar system, Hellas Basin. This is 2,000 miles across. If you happened to be on Mars when this impactor hit, it was a really bad day on Mars. (Laughter) This is Olympus Mons. This is bigger than the state of Arizona. Volcanoes are important, because volcanoes produce atmospheres and they produce oceans. We're looking at Valles Marineris, the largest canyon in the solar system, superimposed on a map of the United States, 3,000 miles across. One of the most intriguing features about Mars, the National Academy of Science says one of the 10 major mysteries of the space age, is why certain areas of Mars are so highly magnetized. We call this crustal magnetism. There are regions on Mars, where, for some reason — we don't understand why at this point — the surface is very, very highly magnetized. Is there water on Mars? The answer is no, there is no liquid water on the surface of Mars today. But there is intriguing evidence that suggests that the early history of Mars there may have been rivers and fast flowing water. Today Mars is very very dry. We believe there's some water in the polar caps, there are polar caps of North Pole and South Pole. Here are some recent images. This is from Spirit and Opportunity. These images that show at one time, there was very fast flowing water on the surface of Mars. Why is water important? Water is important because if you want life you have to have water. Water is the key ingredient in the evolution, the origin of life on a planet. Here is some picture of Antarctica and a picture of Olympus Mons, very similar features, glaciers. So, this is frozen water. This is ice water on Mars. This is my favorite picture. This was just taken a few weeks ago. It has not been seen publicly. This is European space agency Mars Express, image of a crater on Mars and in the middle of the crater we have liquid water, we have ice. Very intriguing photograph. We now believe that in the early history of Mars, which is 4.6 billion years ago, 4.6 billion years ago, Mars was very Earth-like. Mars had rivers, Mars had lakes, but more important Mars had planetary-scale oceans. We believe that the oceans were in the northern hemisphere, and this area in blue, which shows a depression of about four miles, was the ancient ocean area on the surface of Mars. Where did the ocean's worth of water on Mars go? Well, we have an idea. This is a measurement we obtained a few years ago from a Mars-orbiting satellite called Odyssey. Sub-surface water on Mars, frozen in the form of ice. And this shows the percent. If it's a blueish color, it means 16 percent by weight. Sixteen percent, by weight, of the interior contains frozen water, or ice. So, there is a lot of water below the surface. The most intriguing and puzzling measurement, in my opinion, we've obtained of Mars, was released earlier this year in the magazine Science. And what we're looking at is the presence of the gas methane, CH4, in the atmosphere of Mars. And you can see there are three distinct regions of methane. Why is methane important? Because on Earth, almost all — 99.9 percent — of the methane is produced by living systems, not little green men, but microscopic life below the surface or at the surface. We now have evidence that methane is in the atmosphere of Mars, a gas that, on Earth, is biogenic in origin, produced by living systems. These are the three plumes: A, B1, B2. And this is the terrain it appears over, and we know from geological studies that these regions are the oldest regions on Mars. In fact, the Earth and Mars are both 4.6 billion years old. The oldest rock on Earth is only 3.6 billion. The reason there is a billion-year gap in our geological understanding is because of plate tectonics, The crust of the Earth has been recycled. We have no geological record prior for the first billion years. That record exists on Mars. And this terrain that we're looking at dates back to 4.6 billion years when Earth and Mars were formed. It was a Tuesday. (Laughter) This is a map that shows where we've put our spacecraft on the surface of Mars. Here is Viking I, Viking II. This is Opportunity. This is Spirit. This is Mars Pathfinder. This is Phoenix, we just put two years ago. Notice all of our rovers and all of our landers have gone to the northern hemisphere. That's because the northern hemisphere is the region of the ancient ocean basin. There aren't many craters. And that's because the water protected the basin from being impacted by asteroids and meteorites. But look in the southern hemisphere. In the southern hemisphere there are impact craters, there are volcanic craters. Here's Hellas Basin, a very very different place, geologically. Look where the methane is, the methane is in a very rough terrain area. What is the best way to unravel the mysteries on Mars that exist? We asked this question 10 years ago. We invited 10 of the top Mars scientists to the Langley Research Center for two days. We addressed on the board the major questions that have not been answered. And we spent two days deciding how to best answer this question. And the result of our meeting was a robotic rocket-powered airplane we call ARES. It's an Aerial Regional-scale Environmental Surveyor. There's a model of ARES here. This is a 20-percent scale model. This airplane was designed at the Langley Research Center. If any place in the world can build an airplane to fly on Mars, it's the Langley Research Center, for almost 100 years a leading center of aeronautics in the world. We fly about a mile above the surface. We cover hundreds of miles, and we fly about 450 miles an hour. We can do things that rovers can't do and landers can't do: We can fly above mountains, volcanoes, impact craters; we fly over valleys; we can fly over surface magnetism, the polar caps, subsurface water; and we can search for life on Mars. But, of equal importance, as we fly through the atmosphere of Mars, we transmit that journey, the first flight of an airplane outside of the Earth, we transmit those images back to Earth. And our goal is to inspire the American public who is paying for this mission through tax dollars. But more important we will inspire the next generation of scientists, technologists, engineers and mathematicians. And that's a critical area of national security and economic vitality, to make sure we produce the next generation of scientists, engineers, mathematicians and technologists. This is what ARES looks like as it flies over Mars. We preprogram it. We will fly where the methane is. We will have instruments aboard the plane that will sample, every three minutes, the atmosphere of Mars. We will look for methane as well as other gasses produced by living systems. We will pinpoint where these gases emanate from, because we can measure the gradient where it comes from, and there, we can direct the next mission to land right in that area. How do we transport an airplane to Mars? In two words, very carefully. The problem is we don't fly it to Mars, we put it in a spacecraft and we send it to Mars. The problem is the spacecraft's largest diameter is nine feet; ARES is 21-foot wingspan, 17 feet long. How do we get it to Mars? We fold it, and we transport it in a spacecraft. And we have it in something called an aeroshell. This is how we do it. And we have a little video that describes the sequence. Video: Seven, six. Green board. Five, four, three, two, one. Main engine start, and liftoff. Joel Levine: This is a launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. This is the spacecraft taking nine months to get to Mars. It enters the atmosphere of Mars. A lot of heating, frictional heating. It's going 18 thousand miles an hour. A parachute opens up to slow it down. The thermal tiles fall off. The airplane is exposed to the atmosphere for the first time. It unfolds. The rocket engine begins. We believe that in a one-hour flight we can rewrite the textbook on Mars by making high-resolution measurements of the atmosphere, looking for gases of biogenic origin, looking for gases of volcanic origin, studying the surface, studying the magnetism on the surface, which we don't understand, as well as about a dozen other areas. Practice makes perfect. How do we know we can do it? Because we have tested ARES model, several models in a half a dozen wind tunnels at the NASA Langley Research Center for eight years, under Mars conditions. And, of equal importance is, we test ARES in the Earth's atmosphere, at 100,000 feet, which is comparable to the density and pressure of the atmosphere on Mars where we'll fly. Now, 100,000 feet, if you fly cross-country to Los Angeles, you fly 37,000 feet. We do our tests at 100,000 feet. And I want to show you one of our tests. This is a half-scale model. This is a high-altitude helium balloon. This is over Tilamook, Oregon. We put the folded airplane on the balloon — it took about three hours to get up there — and then we released it on command at 103,000 feet, and we deploy the airplane and everything works perfectly. And we've done high-altitude and low-altitude tests, just to perfect this technique. We're ready to go. I have a scale model here. But we have a full-scale model in storage at the NASA Langley Research Center. We're ready to go. All we need is a check from NASA headquarters (Laughter) to cover the costs. I'm prepared to donate my honorarium for today's talk for this mission. There's actually no honorarium for anyone for this thing. This is the ARES team; we have about 150 scientists, engineers; where we're working with Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Goddard Space Flight Center, Ames Research Center and half a dozen major universities and corporations in developing this. It's a large effort. It's all at NASA Langley Research Center. And let me conclude by saying not too far from here, right down the road in Kittyhawk, North Carolina, a little more than 100 years ago history was made when we had the first powered flight of an airplane on Earth. We are on the verge right now to make the first flight of an airplane outside the Earth's atmosphere. We are prepared to fly this on Mars, rewrite the textbook about Mars. If you're interested in more information, we have a website that describes this exciting and intriguing mission, and why we want to do it. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我想要用這18分鐘來聊一下四十六億年的歷史。換算下來我一分鐘大約要跨越三億年。首先我們來看看美國太空總署第一次拍攝火星的照片。這幅是水手4號飛過的拍攝。是在1965年拍下的。當大家看到這幅照片,在那本著名的科學雜誌,紐約時報知名的科學期刊的社論中寫到:「火星是個無聊的地方。一片死寂，太空總署不應該花時間精力繼續研究火星。」幸運的是當時華盛頓的領袖以及太空總署的總部比較瞭解狀況。所以我們開始對這顆紅色的星球進行了大規模的研究。 在科學領域當中,有一個非常關鍵的問題:「地球以外是有否生命存在？」我認為火星是最有可能是在地球以外發現存有生命的目標星球。我會在接下來的幾分鐘內向大家展示一些驚人的測量結果，顯示火星上可能有生命存在。但讓我首先說說這幅由維京1號拍攝的照片。這是一幅在1976年由維京1號探測器所拍攝的合成照片。維京1號是在太空總署的蘭利研究中心研製和主持的。我們在1976年的夏天發射了兩顆軌道探測器和登陸探測器。我們有四艘宇宙飛船，兩艘環繞着火星,兩艘降落在表面,這真是一個了不起的成就。 這是第一幅在其他星球表面所拍攝的照片。這是一幅由維京著陸器所拍攝火星表面的照片。無錯，這個星球的確是紅色的。火星大約是地球一半的尺寸。但是由於地球的表面三分之二都被水覆蓋着,所以其實火星上的陸地面積和地球上的都差不多。因此儘管火星只有地球一半的大小，它還是一個很大的地方。我們得到了火星表面的地形尺碼。我們對它的海拔分別有所理解。 我們對火星已知道了不少。在太陽系裡火星擁有最大的火山，奧林帕斯山。火星有着太陽系裡的大峽谷，水手號谷。一個非常有意思的星球。火星亦有在太陽系裡最大的撞擊坑，名為希臘平原。這個撞擊坑有二千英里闊，若然你當時剛巧路過火星，那真正極是倒楣。（笑聲）這是奧林帕斯山。這比亞利桑那州更大。 火山是有重要性的，因為火山製造大氣層，以至大氣層製造海洋。我們現在來看看這個在太陽系最臣型的大峽谷，水手號谷的照片，疊放在一幅美國的地圖上，三千英里闊。根據國家科學學院所說，火星其中一個耐人尋味的特徴，一個在太空時代列入十大奧秘之一，便是為何在火星上某些地區是附磁性那麼高。我們稱之為地殼磁性。在火星上有些地區，我們仍不明白為什麼那些地區的地殼是那麼高磁性。 火星上有水嗎？答案是沒有, 今時今日在火星上是沒有液體水存在的。但卻有耐人尋味的證據顯示在火星歷史的早期曾經可能有河流及快速流動的水存在。今時今日火星卻是極之乾燥。我們相信在極地冰冠之處會有少量水份。在北極和南極都有極地冰冠。這些是近期的圖片。這幅是攝於精神號和機遇號上。這些照片顯示火星表面在某一個時期曾經有過快速流動的水。為什麼水是重要？水當然是重要，因為有水才有生命。水是星球進化的關鍵因素，及生命的來源。 這幅是南極的照片，這幅是奧林帕斯山的照片，非常相似的特徵及冰川。這是結了冰的水。這是火星上的冰水。我最喜歡這幅照片。攝於不過數星期前。還未公開於大衆。這是歐洲太空總署。火星快車號拍下火星上的一個撞擊坑，而在坑的中央我們發現了液體水及冰。非常奧妙的一幅照片。 我們現在相信在火星歷史的早期，那是四十六億年前。在四十六億年前，火星的狀況和地球十分相似。火星有河流，有湖泊，更重要是，火星上有恒星規模的海洋。我們相信那些海洋曾位於北半球。這些藍色的範圍顯示出這四英里的窪地便是火星古遠時代海洋的位置。那這麼多火星上的海水去了哪裡？嗯，我們有一個想法。幾年前從環繞火星軌道的一個衛星—火星奧德賽號—取得了一個測量，便是火星地下有水份被凍結成冰。這個顯示百份率。呈然籃色的按重量相等於百份之十六。百分之十六，按重量，含有冰水，或冰。換句話說，火星地下層有很多水。 對我來說，我們在火星取得的最耐人尋味和令人費解的測量，在今年年初經已在＜科學＞雜誌公開。我們有興趣的是有氣體存在—甲烷，CH4, 在火星上氣層中。你可以看到有三個不同的區域存有甲烷。為什麼甲烷重要？因為在地球，大至上全部，百分之九十九點九的甲烷都是由有生命的系統生產。不是從綠色的小矮人，而是從地面上或地下層的微觀生物產生。我們現在有證據顯示火星氣層裡有甲烷，一種在地球上由生命系統生產，亦是生物起源的氣體。這便是那三瓣紊流，A, B1, B2。 而這便是那氣體浮遊上空的地帶。由我們用對地質學的研究，這些地帶是火星上最古老的區域。事實上，地球和火星的年齡都是四十六億年歲。然而在地球上最古老的石頭只有三十六億歲。以我們對地質的研究這時間上差距的原因是板塊構造論假说地球的地殼是被循環再用。我們沒有之前的地球地質記錄。但在火星上便有那記錄。我們現在看到的地帶便有四十六億歲, 當時正是地球和火星形成的時候。當日是星期二。(笑聲) 這幅地圖顯示我們把飛船停放在火星表面的位置。這是維京1號, 維京2號。這是機遇號。這是精神號。這是火星探路者。這是我們剛剛在兩年前讓它飛往火星的鳳凰號。看, 我們所有探測器和著陸器所都是在北半球。這是因為北半球是古遠時代海洋盆地的位置。在那裡不是有很多隕石坑。因為那裡的水保護着盆地讓它不受到小行星和隕石轟擊。看看南半球。在南半球那裡有撞擊坑,有火山坑。這是希臘平原,一個地質非常不同的地方。看看甲烷在哪裡, 甲烷是位於一處十分不平坦的地區。 什麼是解開火星上的奧秘最好的方式?我們在10年前已經提出這個問題。我們邀請了10位頂級的火星科學家前往蘭利研究中心兩天。我們在黑板上發表那些還沒有得到答案的主要問題。我們花了兩天時間決定如何最有效地回答這個問題。而我們的會議結果是一艘我們稱之為ARES的火箭動力飛機。是一艘空中區域規模的環境測量器。這是ARES的模型。百分之二十比例。 這艘飛機是在蘭利研究中心設計的。在世界上能建造一艘可以飛往火星的飛機的地方,毫無疑問便是蘭利研究中心。在近100年來，它是世界上航空中心的領導者。我們在表面約一英里以上飛行。以450英里的時速,行駛數百英里。我們可以做到探測器和著陸器不能做的事情。我們可以在山脈，火山，撞擊坑的上空飛行。我們飛越山谷。我們可以飛越表面磁場，極地冰冠, 地下水。我們可以在火星上尋找生命。 當然，同樣重要的是，當我們穿越火星的大氣層，我們會傳遞這段旅程，這第一次飛機在地球以外的飛行，我們會將這些圖像傳送回地球。我們的目標是激勵美國公眾,通過稅收來支付這次使命的公眾。但更重要的是我們要激發新一代科學家，技師，工程師和數學家。這是關鍵國家安全,和經濟動力,我們要確保生產下一代的科學家，工程師, 數學家和技師。 這便是 ARES飛越火星的模樣。我們預先將它編程。我們會飛往甲烷所在之處。我們會帶同儀器來隔每三分鐘抽取火星大氣中的樣本。我們會尋找甲烷以及由生命系統產生的其他氣體。我們會準確查明這些氣體的來源。因為我們可以測量它大概從何而來。下一個任務我們便可以直接飛到該地區降落。 我們是如何將飛機運去火星？五個字，非常小心地。問題是，我們不要飛機直接飛至火星，我們會把它放在一首飛船內,由飛船送它到火星。但飛船的最長直徑為九英尺。而 ARES 是17英尺長, 翼展長度是21英尺。我們怎樣得把它運到火星呢？我們會把它折疊，再將之放入一個大氣圈,然後由飛船把它運送。就是這樣。我們還有一段短短的視頻來演示所談及的程序。 視頻：綠板。 5,4,3,2,1。主要發動機啟動。升空。 喬爾•列維:「這是從佛羅里達州肯尼迪航天中心的發射。這是飛船前往火星9個月之旅。它正在進入火星大氣層。許多熱氣。一萬八千英里時速摩擦產生的熱氣。一個降落傘會打開將它慢慢降速。然後隔熱瓦會脫落。這是飛機第一次暴露在大氣中。接著它會展開。火箭引擎會開始啟動。 我們相信，以一個小時的飛行旅程我們便可以重寫火星的教科書。以高分辨率測量大氣，尋找生物起源的氣體，尋找火山氣體來源，研究表面，研究我們不明白的表面磁場,以及其他十幾個領域。 熟能生巧。為什麼我們這樣有信心呢?因為我們已經將 ARES 通過測試，八年來在美國航天局蘭利研究中心，用六個模型在具有火星條件的風洞測試。再者，同樣重要地,我們在地球的大氣層測試 ARES，在10萬英尺上空，這是相比於將在火星飛行的氣壓和密度非常類似。試想想，如果你飛往洛杉磯只不過37,000英尺。我們的測試高度是10萬英尺。 現在我想給你們放映我們的一個測試。這是一個半比例模型。這是一個高空氦氣氣球。這是在蒂拉穆克，俄勒岡州上空。我們把已折疊的飛機放在氣球上。花了大約三個小時才到達那高空。然後在103000英尺上空，我們發佈命令它展開。我們部署飛機的過程一切無阻。我們已經進行了高海拔和低海拔的測試，來熟練這種技術。 我們已經一切準備就緒。我在這裡的是一個比例模型。但在美國航天局蘭利研究中心內，我們已存放了真正比例的模型。我們已經準備好。我們只需要美國航空航天局總部的一張支票(笑聲)來支付費用。我已準備為為這一個使命捐出我今天談話的酬金。其實這件事情任何人都是有沒有酬金的。這是 ARES 的部隊。我們有大約150名科學家，工程師，我們正在努力地與噴氣推進實驗室 (JPL),戈達德太空飛行中心,Ames 研究中心, 以及其他重點大學和機構在共同發展這個重任。 這是一個很大的任務。而一切都在美國航空航天局總部蘭利研究中心實現。讓我最後說說,離這裡不太遠，沿著這條道路, 北卡羅萊納州的基蒂霍克,稍多於100年前,便創造了歷史,當我們第一次在地球上有動力飛行的飛機。我們現在正在歷史的邊緣,讓第一首在地球大氣層外飛航的飛機。我們已準備將它飛往火星,改寫火星的教科書。如果你有興趣了解更多資料,我們有一個網站, 裡面描述了這一項奇妙和令人興奮的任務，以及任務的原因。非常感謝大家。(掌聲)
