Talk	en	zh-tw
johanna_blakley_social_media_and_the_end_of_gender	"I'm going to make an argument today that may seem a little bit crazy: social media and the end of gender. Let me connect the dots. I'm going to argue today that the social media applications that we all know and love, or love to hate, are actually going to help free us from some of the absurd assumptions that we have as a society about gender. I think that social media is actually going to help us dismantle some of the silly and demeaning stereotypes that we see in media and advertising about gender. If you hadn't noticed, our media climate generally provides a very distorted mirror of our lives and of our gender, and I think that's going to change. Now most media companies — television, radio, publishing, games, you name it — they use very rigid segmentation methods in order to understand their audiences. It's old-school demographics. They come up with these very restrictive labels to define us. Now the crazy thing is that media companies believe that if you fall within a certain demographic category then you are predictable in certain ways — you have certain taste, that you like certain things. And so the bizarre result of this is that most of our popular culture is actually based on these presumptions about our demographics. Age demographics: the 18 to 49 demo has had a huge impact on all mass media programming in this country since the 1960s, when the baby boomers were still young. Now they've aged out of that demographic, but it's still the case that powerful ratings companies like Nielson don't even take into account viewers of television shows over age 54. In our media environment, it's as if they don't even exist. Now, if you watch ""Mad Men,"" like I do — it's a popular TV show in the States — Dr. Faye Miller does something called psychographics, which first came about in the 1960s, where you create these complex psychological profiles of consumers. But psychographics really haven't had a huge impact on the media business. It's really just been basic demographics. So I'm at the Norman Lear Center at USC, and we've done a lot of research over the last seven, eight years on demographics and how they affect media and entertainment in this country and abroad. And in the last three years, we've been looking specifically at social media to see what has changed, and we've discovered some very interesting things. All the people who participate in social media networks belong to the same old demographic categories that media companies and advertisers have used in order to understand them. But those categories mean even less now than they did before, because with online networking tools, it's much easier for us to escape some of our demographic boxes. We're able to connect with people quite freely and to redefine ourselves online. And we can lie about our age online, too, pretty easily. We can also connect with people based on our very specific interests. We don't need a media company to help do this for us. So the traditional media companies, of course, are paying very close attention to these online communities. They know this is the mass audience of the future; they need to figure it out. But they're having a hard time doing it because they're still trying to use demographics in order to understand them, because that's how ad rates are still determined. When they're monitoring your clickstream — and you know they are — they have a really hard time figuring out your age, your gender and your income. They can make some educated guesses. But they get a lot more information about what you do online, what you like, what interests you. That's easier for them to find out than who you are. And even though that's still sort of creepy, there is an upside to having your taste monitored. Suddenly our taste is being respected in a way that it hasn't been before. It had been presumed before. So when you look online at the way people aggregate, they don't aggregate around age, gender and income. They aggregate around the things they love, the things that they like, and if you think about it, shared interests and values are a far more powerful aggregator of human beings than demographic categories. I'd much rather know whether you like ""Buffy the Vampire Slayer"" rather than how old you are. That would tell me something more substantial about you. Now there's something else that we've discovered about social media that's actually quite surprising. It turns out that women are really driving the social media revolution. If you look at the statistics — these are worldwide statistics — in every single age category, women actually outnumber men in their use of social networking technologies. And then if you look at the amount of time that they spend on these sites, they truly dominate the social media space, which is a space that's having a huge impact on old media. The question is: what sort of impact is this going to have on our culture, and what's it going to mean for women? If the case is that social media is dominating old media and women are dominating social media, then does that mean that women are going to take over global media? Are we suddenly going to see a lot more female characters in cartoons and in games and on TV shows? Will the next big-budget blockbuster movies actually be chick flicks? Could this be possible, that suddenly our media landscape will become a feminist landscape? Well, I actually don't think that's going to be the case. I think that media companies are going to hire a lot more women, because they realize this is important for their business, and I think that women are also going to continue to dominate the social media sphere. But I think women are actually going to be — ironically enough — responsible for driving a stake through the heart of cheesy genre categories like the ""chick flick"" and all these other genre categories that presume that certain demographic groups like certain things — that Hispanics like certain things, that young people like certain things. This is far too simplistic. The future entertainment media that we're going to see is going to be very data-driven, and it's going to be based on the information that we ascertain from taste communities online, where women are really driving the action. So you may be asking, well why is it important that I know what entertains people? Why should I know this? Of course, old media companies and advertisers need to know this. But my argument is that, if you want to understand the global village, it's probably a good idea that you figure out what they're passionate about, what amuses them, what they choose to do in their free time. This is a very important thing to know about people. I've spent most of my professional life researching media and entertainment and its impact on people's lives. And I do it not just because it's fun — though actually, it is really fun — but also because our research has shown over and over again that entertainment and play have a huge impact on people's lives — for instance, on their political beliefs and on their health. And so, if you have any interest in understanding the world, looking at how people amuse themselves is a really good way to start. So imagine a media atmosphere that isn't dominated by lame stereotypes about gender and other demographic characteristics. Can you even imagine what that looks like? I can't wait to find out what it looks like. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	"我今天要講的題目聼起來有些瘋狂：社會媒體和性別區分的終結。讓我把之間的關係解釋一下我今天要來闡述讓我們又愛又恨的社交應用程式實際上能讓我們從固有、荒謬的性別差異的假設中解放。我甚至認爲社會媒體能幫我們破除一些在現有媒體和廣告裏充斥、圍繞在性別上的既有概念。 如果你還沒注意到，在當今的媒體氛圍裏所呈現的我們的生活和性別跟實際是有很大的差異的。我認爲這將會改變。大部分的媒體公司像電視、廣播、出版社、遊戲等在了解他們的觀衆聽衆上使用的還是很僵化的區分方法。是舊有的人口學他們用這些很僵化的標籤來定義我們更瘋狂的是媒體公司相信你要是屬於某個群體那麽你的行爲也是可以預測的。你會有某些特定品味會喜歡某些事物。這樣的推論就導致了這個奇怪的結果：大部分當今的流行文化都是建立在這樣的人口分類學上的假設上。 年紀分類學：18到49歲的年齡層對我國大衆媒體的規劃有重大影響。從1960年開始當嬰兒潮世代還年輕的時候就如此了。現在嬰兒潮的世代已經超過這個年齡層但是大家的做法還是沒變像尼爾森等較大的市調公司甚至不把年紀大於54嵗的人列入電視市調的對象。在當今的媒體大環境裏這些人被當作是不存在的。你如果跟我一樣在看“廣告狂人”這個在美國很受歡迎的連續劇米勒博士在做一些“心理圖”的東西這產生於1960年左右你去對消費者勾勒出描述複雜的心理檔案。但是心理圖並沒有對媒體業產生重大的影響只是停留在基礎的人口分類學上而已。 我在南加大的Norman Lear中心在過去的七八年裏我們做了很多有關人口分類學的研究還有其對這國家或外國娛樂媒體所產生的影響。在最近的3年裏我們特別研究了社會媒體的改變我們發現了一些有趣的現象。所有使用社交媒體網路的人，過去媒體和廣告公司爲了分析研究所用的分類系統也還可以套用在他們的身上。但是這些分類的意義跟以前比起來顯得更不重要。因爲這些線上的社交工具讓我們更輕易地能跳脫人口分類的框架。我們能自由地跟其他人聯係還能重新定義我們在網上的身份。我們也能輕易的謊報年齡。我們能和志同道合的人們互相聯繫。我們再也不需要媒體公司來幫我們。 所以這些傳統的媒體公司理所當然地緊密地在注意著這些網上的群體。他們知道這將是未來的目標群衆他們必須了解這些人。但是這些人不像以前那麽容易了解原因在於媒體公司還是用以前的分類來分析因爲這是決定廣告費用的標準。當他們監視你的點擊率你也知道你是被監視的他們很難去分析出你的年齡、性別和收入。他們據以往經驗也許能猜出些端倪但是他們得到的資訊大部分是關於你爲何上網你喜歡什麽、對什麽有興趣這比你是誰還容易猜到雖然這聽起來讓人覺得怪怪的但是有人監視你的興趣還是有些好處的。突然間我們的喜好品味得到了前所未有的重視。在這之前都是別人幫我們設定好了。 你現在要是看看網路上人們聚集的原因這不是因爲大家有相同的年齡、性別或收入。大家聚在一起是因爲有相同的嗜好。你如果再想想，相同的嗜好，這個聚集人們的因素比起年齡來是要強許多的。我會比較想去知道你喜不喜歡""捉鬼者巴菲(Buffy the Vampire Slayer)”而不是你今年幾嵗。這比年紀還帶來更多的資訊。 我們還發現社會媒體一個驚人之處那就是女人正在帶領著社會媒體革命。你如果看看統計數字這些是世界的統計數字在每一個年齡層裏使用社交網路科技的女人都比男人要來得多。你要是再看看她們花在這些網站的時間女人真的主導了社會媒體的使用而社會媒體進一步又對傳統媒體有重大的影響。所以問題是，這對我們的文化會帶來什麽樣的衝擊這對女人又代表了什麽意義？如果說社會媒體會主導傳統媒體而女人又會主導社會媒體的話，這是不是意味著說女人會接管全球的媒體呢？我們是不是將會在卡通、遊戲、或電視節目裏看到更多的女性角色的出現呢？下一部好萊塢的超級大製作會不會是女性電影呢？未來我們的媒體是不是有可能變得更有女性主義呢？ 我並不這樣認爲。我認爲媒體公司將會雇用更多的女性員工因爲他們了解這對公司是重要的。我也認爲女性會繼續主導社會媒體。很諷刺地，我也認爲女性會帶起一陣軟性輕薄俗的片種像是女性影片或其他這一類的影片那種由人口分類學假設的某個年齡層會喜歡某種類型的影片像拉丁裔的人喜歡某些事物年輕人喜歡某些事物。這樣的推論還是太簡單化了。將來的媒體會是十分資料導向的將會是基於我們調查線上社群的喜好品味來設計的而這裡會由女性來主導。 你可能會問，爲什麽知道什麽帶給人們歡樂是重要的？爲什麽我需要知道這些？當然，傳統的媒體和廣告公司需要知道這些。但是我的理論是你如果想了解地球村你最好要去知道他們喜歡什麽，對什麽感興趣有空時作什麽消遣。這對了解人們來説是很重要的。我大部分的職業生涯都花在了解媒體和娛樂還有他們對人們生活的影響。我之所以這麽做不止是因爲這很有趣事實上，這真的很有趣，也還因爲我們的研究一再顯示娛樂和遊戲對人們的生活有深遠的影響譬如說，對他們的政治理念和他們的健康都有影響。再者，你如果對了解這世界有興趣可以看看人們如何娛樂自己這是個很好的研究起點。 所以，想像一個媒體不是被殘缺的性別、或其他年齡層的刻板印象所主導。你能想像那會是怎麽樣的一個情景嗎？我真是等不及去看那會是怎麽樣。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）"
