Talk	en	zh-tw
johann_hari_everything_you_think_you_know_about_addiction_is_wrong	"One of my earliest memories is of trying to wake up one of my relatives and not being able to. And I was just a little kid, so I didn't really understand why, but as I got older, I realized we had drug addiction in my family, including later cocaine addiction. I'd been thinking about it a lot lately, partly because it's now exactly 100 years since drugs were first banned in the United States and Britain, and we then imposed that on the rest of the world. It's a century since we made this really fateful decision to take addicts and punish them and make them suffer, because we believed that would deter them; it would give them an incentive to stop. And a few years ago, I was looking at some of the addicts in my life who I love, and trying to figure out if there was some way to help them. And I realized there were loads of incredibly basic questions I just didn't know the answer to, like, what really causes addiction? Why do we carry on with this approach that doesn't seem to be working, and is there a better way out there that we could try instead? So I read loads of stuff about it, and I couldn't really find the answers I was looking for, so I thought, okay, I'll go and sit with different people around the world who lived this and studied this and talk to them and see if I could learn from them. And I didn't realize I would end up going over 30,000 miles at the start, but I ended up going and meeting loads of different people, from a transgender crack dealer in Brownsville, Brooklyn, to a scientist who spends a lot of time feeding hallucinogens to mongooses to see if they like them — it turns out they do, but only in very specific circumstances — to the only country that's ever decriminalized all drugs, from cannabis to crack, Portugal. And the thing I realized that really blew my mind is, almost everything we think we know about addiction is wrong, and if we start to absorb the new evidence about addiction, I think we're going to have to change a lot more than our drug policies. But let's start with what we think we know, what I thought I knew. Let's think about this middle row here. Imagine all of you, for 20 days now, went off and used heroin three times a day. Some of you look a little more enthusiastic than others at this prospect. (Laughter) Don't worry, it's just a thought experiment. Imagine you did that, right? What would happen? Now, we have a story about what would happen that we've been told for a century. We think, because there are chemical hooks in heroin, as you took it for a while, your body would become dependent on those hooks, you'd start to physically need them, and at the end of those 20 days, you'd all be heroin addicts. Right? That's what I thought. First thing that alerted me to the fact that something's not right with this story is when it was explained to me. If I step out of this TED Talk today and I get hit by a car and I break my hip, I'll be taken to hospital and I'll be given loads of diamorphine. Diamorphine is heroin. It's actually much better heroin than you're going to buy on the streets, because the stuff you buy from a drug dealer is contaminated. Actually, very little of it is heroin, whereas the stuff you get from the doctor is medically pure. And you'll be given it for quite a long period of time. There are loads of people in this room, you may not realize it, you've taken quite a lot of heroin. And anyone who is watching this anywhere in the world, this is happening. And if what we believe about addiction is right — those people are exposed to all those chemical hooks — What should happen? They should become addicts. This has been studied really carefully. It doesn't happen; you will have noticed if your grandmother had a hip replacement, she didn't come out as a junkie. (Laughter) And when I learned this, it seemed so weird to me, so contrary to everything I'd been told, everything I thought I knew, I just thought it couldn't be right, until I met a man called Bruce Alexander. He's a professor of psychology in Vancouver who carried out an incredible experiment I think really helps us to understand this issue. Professor Alexander explained to me, the idea of addiction we've all got in our heads, that story, comes partly from a series of experiments that were done earlier in the 20th century. They're really simple. You can do them tonight at home if you feel a little sadistic. You get a rat and you put it in a cage, and you give it two water bottles: One is just water, and the other is water laced with either heroin or cocaine. If you do that, the rat will almost always prefer the drug water and almost always kill itself quite quickly. So there you go, right? That's how we think it works. In the '70s, Professor Alexander comes along and he looks at this experiment and he noticed something. He said ah, we're putting the rat in an empty cage. It's got nothing to do except use these drugs. Let's try something different. So Professor Alexander built a cage that he called ""Rat Park,"" which is basically heaven for rats. They've got loads of cheese, they've got loads of colored balls, they've got loads of tunnels. Crucially, they've got loads of friends. They can have loads of sex. And they've got both the water bottles, the normal water and the drugged water. But here's the fascinating thing: In Rat Park, they don't like the drug water. They almost never use it. None of them ever use it compulsively. None of them ever overdose. You go from almost 100 percent overdose when they're isolated to zero percent overdose when they have happy and connected lives. Now, when he first saw this, Professor Alexander thought, maybe this is just a thing about rats, they're quite different to us. Maybe not as different as we'd like, but, you know — But fortunately, there was a human experiment into the exact same principle happening at the exact same time. It was called the Vietnam War. In Vietnam, 20 percent of all American troops were using loads of heroin, and if you look at the news reports from the time, they were really worried, because they thought, my God, we're going to have hundreds of thousands of junkies on the streets of the United States when the war ends; it made total sense. Now, those soldiers who were using loads of heroin were followed home. The Archives of General Psychiatry did a really detailed study, and what happened to them? It turns out they didn't go to rehab. They didn't go into withdrawal. Ninety-five percent of them just stopped. Now, if you believe the story about chemical hooks, that makes absolutely no sense, but Professor Alexander began to think there might be a different story about addiction. He said, what if addiction isn't about your chemical hooks? What if addiction is about your cage? What if addiction is an adaptation to your environment? Looking at this, there was another professor called Peter Cohen in the Netherlands who said, maybe we shouldn't even call it addiction. Maybe we should call it bonding. Human beings have a natural and innate need to bond, and when we're happy and healthy, we'll bond and connect with each other, but if you can't do that, because you're traumatized or isolated or beaten down by life, you will bond with something that will give you some sense of relief. Now, that might be gambling, that might be pornography, that might be cocaine, that might be cannabis, but you will bond and connect with something because that's our nature. That's what we want as human beings. And at first, I found this quite a difficult thing to get my head around, but one way that helped me to think about it is, I can see, I've got over by my seat a bottle of water, right? I'm looking at lots of you, and lots of you have bottles of water with you. Forget the drugs. Forget the drug war. Totally legally, all of those bottles of water could be bottles of vodka, right? We could all be getting drunk — I might after this — (Laughter) — but we're not. Now, because you've been able to afford the approximately gazillion pounds that it costs to get into a TED Talk, I'm guessing you guys could afford to be drinking vodka for the next six months. You wouldn't end up homeless. You're not going to do that, and the reason you're not going to do that is not because anyone's stopping you. It's because you've got bonds and connections that you want to be present for. You've got work you love. You've got people you love. You've got healthy relationships. And a core part of addiction, I came to think, and I believe the evidence suggests, is about not being able to bear to be present in your life. Now, this has really significant implications. The most obvious implications are for the War on Drugs. In Arizona, I went out with a group of women who were made to wear t-shirts saying, ""I was a drug addict,"" and go out on chain gangs and dig graves while members of the public jeer at them, and when those women get out of prison, they're going to have criminal records that mean they'll never work in the legal economy again. Now, that's a very extreme example, obviously, in the case of the chain gang, but actually almost everywhere in the world we treat addicts to some degree like that. We punish them. We shame them. We give them criminal records. We put barriers between them reconnecting. There was a doctor in Canada, Dr. Gabor Maté, an amazing man, who said to me, if you wanted to design a system that would make addiction worse, you would design that system. Now, there's a place that decided to do the exact opposite, and I went there to see how it worked. In the year 2000, Portugal had one of the worst drug problems in Europe. One percent of the population was addicted to heroin, which is kind of mind-blowing, and every year, they tried the American way more and more. They punished people and stigmatized them and shamed them more, and every year, the problem got worse. And one day, the Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition got together, and basically said, look, we can't go on with a country where we're having ever more people becoming heroin addicts. Let's set up a panel of scientists and doctors to figure out what would genuinely solve the problem. And they set up a panel led by an amazing man called Dr. João Goulão, to look at all this new evidence, and they came back and they said, ""Decriminalize all drugs from cannabis to crack, but"" — and this is the crucial next step — ""take all the money we used to spend on cutting addicts off, on disconnecting them, and spend it instead on reconnecting them with society."" And that's not really what we think of as drug treatment in the United States and Britain. So they do do residential rehab, they do psychological therapy, that does have some value. But the biggest thing they did was the complete opposite of what we do: a massive program of job creation for addicts, and microloans for addicts to set up small businesses. So say you used to be a mechanic. When you're ready, they'll go to a garage, and they'll say, if you employ this guy for a year, we'll pay half his wages. The goal was to make sure that every addict in Portugal had something to get out of bed for in the morning. And when I went and met the addicts in Portugal, what they said is, as they rediscovered purpose, they rediscovered bonds and relationships with the wider society. It'll be 15 years this year since that experiment began, and the results are in: injecting drug use is down in Portugal, according to the British Journal of Criminology, by 50 percent, five-zero percent. Overdose is massively down, HIV is massively down among addicts. Addiction in every study is significantly down. One of the ways you know it's worked so well is that almost nobody in Portugal wants to go back to the old system. Now, that's the political implications. I actually think there's a layer of implications to all this research below that. We live in a culture where people feel really increasingly vulnerable to all sorts of addictions, whether it's to their smartphones or to shopping or to eating. Before these talks began — you guys know this — we were told we weren't allowed to have our smartphones on, and I have to say, a lot of you looked an awful lot like addicts who were told their dealer was going to be unavailable for the next couple of hours. (Laughter) A lot of us feel like that, and it might sound weird to say, I've been talking about how disconnection is a major driver of addiction and weird to say it's growing, because you think we're the most connected society that's ever been, surely. But I increasingly began to think that the connections we have or think we have, are like a kind of parody of human connection. If you have a crisis in your life, you'll notice something. It won't be your Twitter followers who come to sit with you. It won't be your Facebook friends who help you turn it round. It'll be your flesh and blood friends who you have deep and nuanced and textured, face-to-face relationships with, and there's a study I learned about from Bill McKibben, the environmental writer, that I think tells us a lot about this. It looked at the number of close friends the average American believes they can call on in a crisis. That number has been declining steadily since the 1950s. The amount of floor space an individual has in their home has been steadily increasing, and I think that's like a metaphor for the choice we've made as a culture. We've traded floorspace for friends, we've traded stuff for connections, and the result is we are one of the loneliest societies there has ever been. And Bruce Alexander, the guy who did the Rat Park experiment, says, we talk all the time in addiction about individual recovery, and it's right to talk about that, but we need to talk much more about social recovery. Something's gone wrong with us, not just with individuals but as a group, and we've created a society where, for a lot of us, life looks a whole lot more like that isolated cage and a whole lot less like Rat Park. If I'm honest, this isn't why I went into it. I didn't go in to the discover the political stuff, the social stuff. I wanted to know how to help the people I love. And when I came back from this long journey and I'd learned all this, I looked at the addicts in my life, and if you're really candid, it's hard loving an addict, and there's going to be lots of people who know in this room. You are angry a lot of the time, and I think one of the reasons why this debate is so charged is because it runs through the heart of each of us, right? Everyone has a bit of them that looks at an addict and thinks, I wish someone would just stop you. And the kind of scripts we're told for how to deal with the addicts in our lives is typified by, I think, the reality show ""Intervention,"" if you guys have ever seen it. I think everything in our lives is defined by reality TV, but that's another TED Talk. If you've ever seen the show ""Intervention,"" it's a pretty simple premise. Get an addict, all the people in their life, gather them together, confront them with what they're doing, and they say, if you don't shape up, we're going to cut you off. So what they do is they take the connection to the addict, and they threaten it, they make it contingent on the addict behaving the way they want. And I began to think, I began to see why that approach doesn't work, and I began to think that's almost like the importing of the logic of the Drug War into our private lives. So I was thinking, how could I be Portuguese? And what I've tried to do now, and I can't tell you I do it consistently and I can't tell you it's easy, is to say to the addicts in my life that I want to deepen the connection with them, to say to them, I love you whether you're using or you're not. I love you, whatever state you're in, and if you need me, I'll come and sit with you because I love you and I don't want you to be alone or to feel alone. And I think the core of that message — you're not alone, we love you — has to be at every level of how we respond to addicts, socially, politically and individually. For 100 years now, we've been singing war songs about addicts. I think all along we should have been singing love songs to them, because the opposite of addiction is not sobriety. The opposite of addiction is connection. Thank you. (Applause)"	"在我小時候的一個記憶有次我想叫醒我的親人卻叫不醒那時我只是個小孩不懂事但當我長大了我發現我的家族吸毒成癮包括之後古柯鹼成癮 於是我開始認真思考，其中的一個理由是百年前美英兩國帶頭禁止毒品使用而且我們也在世界各地強制提倡反毒我們已經反毒整整一個世紀了不斷逼迫癮君子戒毒並施以峻罰因為我們相信這些手段可以阻止他們並且刺激他們戒毒 幾年前我看著那些沾染上毒品的家人朋友不斷思索著如何幫助他們最後我發現有一堆難以置信的簡單問題是我根本無法解答的例如, 是什麼使我們成癮為何要繼續這種無效的反毒手段呢?是否有更好的解套方式呢? 為此我研究了大量的資料仍然找不出我要的答案所以我想說好吧, 我親自去走訪世界各地的人染過毒品的人或研究專家與他們交談並嘗試得到答案誰也沒想到一走就四萬八千公里以上面訪無數個不同的人從來自布魯克林的布朗斯維爾區販毒的跨性別者至餵食貓鼬吃幻覺劑的科學家研究牠們是否喜歡結果貓鼬真的喜歡但只限於某種情況下一直走訪到唯一把毒品合法化的國家從大麻至古柯鹼都合法的國家葡萄牙最讓我驚訝的一件事是我們對成癮的認知幾乎不對若我們開始吸收與成癮相關的新知我們要改變的事恐怕比現有的毒品政策還多 但我們從我們所知道的開始吧想像一下中間這排的觀眾想像從今天開始的二十天你們每天使用海洛因三次有些人看起來很興奮喔!(觀眾笑聲)別擔心這只不過是個假想的實驗假想你們已經做了會發生什麼事呢?我們都知道事情的發展畢竟我們都學了一世紀了我們都知道因為海洛因裡化學物質的勾引當你使用了一段時間你的身體便開始依賴這些化學物質的勾引所以你自然就會需要它二十天後你們都染上海洛因了吧我那時候也是這樣想的 我開始發現事情不太對勁讓我這麼解釋好了如果我今天走出TED演講會場不幸遭遇車禍並斷了腿我即被送往醫院並且注射大量的二乙酰嗎啡二乙酰嗎啡就是海洛因其純度比街上賣的海洛因更純因為毒販賣的貨是被汙染的事實上, 其海洛因的成份微乎其微因此醫生提供的藥品是純度最高的而且你會長期接受這種藥物治療現場有非常多的人你們也許都沒發現你們已經用過大量的海洛因了而你們正在聽這場演講的同時這件事也正在發生假設我們對成癮的認知是對的那些人也暴露在化學物質的勾引下吧結果會如何呢?他們應該也會變成癮君子我們仔細的研究過這個問題結果是否定的若您的祖母做了髖關節置換手術她不會出院後就成了癮君子吧 我了解之後一切似乎很怪異所有我所學的跟我所以為的其實都相反這整件事都怪怪的直到我見到布魯斯‧亞歷山大他是溫哥華的心理學教授他做過一次不可思議的實驗我真的認為這實驗幫助我了解此議題亞歷山大教授跟我解釋說我們腦子裡所想的成癮這件事有部分原因來自於一系列的實驗結果於二十世紀早期所完成的實驗都是很簡單的實驗如果你有點虐待傾向今晚你可以在家實驗你把一隻老鼠放進籠子裡並放置兩瓶水在裡面一瓶是純水另一瓶水添加少許的海洛因或古柯鹼你會發現老鼠總是喜歡有毒的水總是死得特別快你看吧這就是我們知道的結果在1970年代亞歷山大教授在過程中觀察此實驗然後他發現一個狀況他說我們把老鼠放在空籠子裡牠們無所事事當然只能吸毒我們嘗試不同的方法吧所以亞歷山大教授製作一個籠子叫做""老鼠樂園""基本上是老鼠玩樂的天堂牠們有大量的起司吃也有很多顏色的鼠球可玩還有無數條小隧道最重要的是牠們有很多朋友可以一直交配然而我們同樣提供牠們自來水和毒水令人訝異的是在老鼠樂園中牠們不喜歡喝毒水幾乎從不使用沒有一隻因為忍不住而飲用沒有一隻服藥過量這數字從它們遭隔離而百分百引用毒水到它們擁有快樂和生命的聯繫後掉到零用量 第一次看到這個情況亞歷山大教授認為也許這只是有關老鼠的事它們與我們不同也許牠們不同於我們所愛來的多元但你知道的慶幸的是, 這有做過人體實驗發生在同個原則同個時間那就是越戰在越南 有百分之二十的美軍使用大量的海洛因若你看那時候的新聞會發現大家都擔心得要命因為我們可能會有成千上萬的吸毒犯在美國的街上遊蕩當戰爭結束後證明了實驗的結果那些使用大量海洛因的軍人回鄉後普通精神病學文獻做了詳細的調查他們最後怎麼了呢?最後他們竟然沒有去戒毒所他們也沒有染上毒癮百分之九十五的人直接停止使用現在您若相信有關化學掛勾的事您會覺得那根本是無稽之談但亞歷山大教授便開始去想或許成癮有另外的解讀他提到如果成癮跟化學掛勾也許無關呢?而是跟你所處的環境有關呢?或許上癮和嘗試適應你的環境有關？ 有了以上觀點另一位來自荷蘭的教授彼得‧寇恩他說也許我們根本不應該用""成癮""一詞或許我們應該稱之為""連結""人類天生最原始的需求便是連結彼此而當我們開心又健康時我們會去連結彼此的關係但如果你無法這麼做的話是因為你心裡有創傷或受孤立或是遭生活壓力擊敗所致你需要跟某物做連結以幫助你舒緩壓力而這東西也許是賭博也許是色情書刊也許是古柯鹼也許是大麻煙但你會需要一個連結在因為這是我們人類的本性也是我們人類的基本需求 最初我覺得這件事難以理解但有個方法幫助我去思考我看到我座位旁有一罐水我看到你們很多人也有水忘掉毒品, 忘掉反毒戰爭在完全合法情況下這些水可能都是伏特加吧?我們可能都會醉倒在一起或許演講之後我會 －但我們沒醉呀因為你們都有接近海量的酒量這是參加TED演講的成果我猜你們都可以承受未來六個月每天喝伏特加而你最後卻不會成為遊民你不會這麼做的原因是不是因為有人阻止你而是因為你有很多的連結在這些連結是你希望能參與的你有你愛的工作你有你愛的人你有健康的關係然而成癮最核心的關鍵我了解後,相信證據所建議的方式是有關你無法忍受在生活中扮演的角色 這件事有個顯著的涵義在最顯著的例子是在""反毒之戰""裡在亞利桑那州, 我跟一群婦女出去她們受迫穿上""我是吸毒犯""的衣服用鍊子栓成串的囚犯挖墳墓人們看到都嘲笑她們當那些婦女出獄後她們便留下了犯罪紀錄代表她們永遠無法在合法的經濟體制工作顯然這個鍊子栓成串的囚犯的例子太過極端了但事實上世界各地都有類似的情形我們對待染毒者的方式也差不多我們懲罰她們, 讓他們羞愧也留下犯罪紀錄我們阻止她們擁有再次連結的機會加拿大有位醫生叫嘉柏‧馬鐵他非常傑出他告訴我若你想設計一個使上癮問題更糟的系統這就是那個系統 現在有一個地方決定去執行相反的模式而我觀察了它們的運作方法西元兩千年的時候葡萄牙是歐洲毒品最氾濫的國家百分之一的人口都有吸食海洛因真的無法想像每年他們都大量效法美國的方式懲罰, 汙辱並羞辱他們年復一年, 問題每下愈況某日, 葡萄牙總理和反對派的主席開會基本上是說""我們不能再這樣下去了""""沒看過一個國家吸海洛因的人這麼多""我們找科學家和醫生成立小組去找出問題根絕的方法於是他們成立了小組組長是優秀的華‧谷勞醫生來探究這個新的事實研究完之後他們說""毒品除罪化從大麻到古柯鹼""""但最關鍵的步驟是""""使用那些我們曾經拿來對抗他們的錢""""曾經使他們脫離社會的錢""用於幫助他們重新融入這個社會此種毒品療法和我們想像的差異很大尤其是在是在美國和英國他們的確也有戒毒中心也做心理治療多少都有些價值在然而跟我們的作法完全不同在於他們提供染毒者大量不同的職缺提供微型貸款給他們創業你如果曾經是一位技工當你準備好了, 政府會去車廠幫你說話""你們如果雇用他工作一年,我們將會支付一半的薪資""目的是讓每位葡萄牙的染毒者每天早上能夠有一個起床的動力而當我去拜訪葡萄牙的染毒者時他們表示重新找到生活的目的時他們也重新找回了生活連結並與廣大的社會有了關係 實驗至今已經實施了十五年了得到的結果是葡萄牙的注射性毒物使用量下降根據英國犯罪學雜誌下降了百分之五十吸毒過量的數據明顯下降染毒者得愛滋病機率也大幅下降每份毒品用量的報告皆大幅下降其中一項結果讓你知道方法成功就是沒有任何一位葡萄牙人想回舊制 而這就是政治意涵事實上, 我認為在這個研究下有分好幾個層面的意涵在我們所處的文化中人們感到越來越脆弱對於不同種類的成癮,無論是他們的智慧型手機消費或是飲食在這場演講前你們都知道我們被告知要把手機關機然而我必須說你們的臉色都很難看手機上癮者得知在未來的幾小時他們的毒販不在提供任何毒品了很多人都有這種感覺而且這或許聽起來很怪我一直強調失連是成癮最大的主因說來奇怪, 這問題日益嚴重因為你認為我們是有史以來連結最緊密的社會體, 的確如此!但我一直在想我們所擁有的連結或我們認為有的,都是有點可笑的人際關係若人生出現了危機你會發現坐在你身旁的不是你推特的朋友助你一臂之力的人不是臉書的朋友而是你那些有血有肉的朋友是與你有著深層且微妙的關係他們有特徵且可以見面的我從環境作家比爾‧麥吉本的研究發現我認為跟這件事有很大的關係這研究表明一般美國人所認定親密的朋友是在危機出現時可以依靠的人自從1950年代開始這個數字不停地往下掉每個人家裡的建坪大小穩定且持續地變大我覺得這個譬喻是我們作為一個文化的所做的選擇我們用建坪換朋友用物質換取連結這樣的結果卻造成我們成為了史上最孤立的社會體系布魯斯‧亞歷山大這位研究老鼠樂園的教授提到我們常常在討論每個人戒癮的治療討論是對的但是我們更需要的是社會的治療誰發生不好的事這不只是他的問題而是整個群體我們所創造出的社會體系對大部分人來說這個社會就像是一個獨立的牢籠完全不像個老鼠樂園 老實說, 這並不是我要研究的事我並不是要去揭發政治或社會的弊端我的出發點是為了幫助我所愛的人我從這個漫長的旅途回來後我學到這些知識我看著我身邊染上毒癮的人若你真的有心,關懷染毒者是很困難的在這個會場也會有很多人知道這件事大多時候你都是生氣的我想這個爭論會有如此劇烈的回應其中的原因是我們用心去體會每個人心中都有著一點關懷看著染上毒癮的人會想我真希望有人可以阻止你而我們所知的這種如何治理染毒者的腳本我想是一成不變的如果你們有看過真人實境秀""Intervention""我想實境秀反映了我們生活大小事但這是另外一個TED演講了若你們曾經看過""Intervetion""它的內容很簡單找個癮君子，找到他生命中的所有人把他們聚在一起所有人告訴癮君子：“如果你不能戒毒，我們唯有和你切斷關係。“他們把上癮者所有的關係人找出來要脅要切斷這些關係，依上癮者的表現而定。我開始思考為什麼這種方式無效，這幾乎就像毒品戰爭的思維灌輸到我們的私生活中 所以我就在想要如何用葡萄牙人的方式呢?我無法直接告訴你現在試著做的事與其說這件事很簡單不如說我想對生命中染上毒癮的朋友加深我們彼此的關係我要對他們說我愛你, 無論你是否吸毒與否我愛你, 無論你現在的狀況如何如果你需要我,我會陪在你身邊因為我愛你,我不想讓你孤單一個人或獨自感受寂寞 我想這些訊息的核心就是你一點都不孤單, 因為我們都愛你我們傳達給染毒者的訊息必須分層的社會層面, 政治層面和個人層面過了一個世紀, 我們還在對毒癮者唱戰歌我想這一路以來我們要對他們唱的是情歌才對因為成癮的反面不是戒斷而是關係 謝謝 (掌聲)"
