Talk	en	zh-tw
john_hodgman_s_brief_digression	"You all know this story. In the summer of 1950, Enrico Fermi, the Italian-American physicist and atomic-pile builder, went to lunch at Los Alamos National Laboratory and joined some colleagues there, and asked them a question: ""Where is everybody?"" This confused his colleagues, obviously, because they were sitting right there with him. And then he had to clarify that he wasn't talking about them. He was talking about the space aliens. You see, this was only a few years after the supposed flying saucer crash at Roswell, New Mexico. And even though that turned out to be nothing, nothing at all — (Laughter) — merely a downed weather balloon piloted by small hairless men with slits for mouths ... Still, America had gone saucer-mad, even famous scientists who were eating lunch. Fermi's reasoning, if I may paraphrase badly, is that the universe is so vast that it stands to reason, there should be other intelligent life out there. And the universe is so old that unless we were the very first civilization ever to evolve, we should have some evidence of their existence by now. And yet, to the best of our knowledge, we are alone. ""Where is everybody?"" asked Fermi, and his colleagues had no answer. Fermi then went on with the same blunt logic to disprove fairies, Sasquatch, God, the possibility of love — and thereafter, as you know, Enrico Fermi ate alone. (Laughter) Now, I am not a scientist. I have never built an atomic pile. Although, I might argue that, technically, every pile is atomic. (Laughter) However, with respect, I might point out two possibilities that Enrico Fermi perhaps did not consider. One is that the aliens might be very far away. Perhaps, I dare say, even on other planets. The other possibility — (Laughter) — is, perhaps, Enrico Fermi himself was an alien. (Laughter) Think about it. Isn't it a little convenient that in the midst of the World War, out of nowhere, suddenly an Italian scientist showed up with an amazing new technology that would transform everything in the world and darken the history of the human species forever after? And isn't it a little strange that he required no payment for this? That he asked for only one thing — a gift of two healthy sperm whales? That's — that's not true. But it is strange. (Laughter) And if Enrico Fermi were indeed a space alien, wouldn't he be the first to have tried to convince his fellow scientists that the space aliens are not already here? For it is given in certain UFO-ology or UFOlogy circles, that the aliens are already here and have been for millennia; that they have walked among us in disguise, observing us, guiding our evolution from ape to man — if you believe in that sort of thing — and, occasionally, kidnapping us in their flying saucers and taking us away to have sex with us in pyramids. (Laughter) It's a difficult theory to discount, I think you'll agree. (Laughter) For even in my own life, there are memories I have that are difficult to explain — happenings that are so odd and unaccountably weird, that it is difficult to imagine they were not the result of prolonged and frequent contact with aliens throughout my life. For how else will you explain the amazing and absolutely true close encounters that I had and will describe to you now? Encounter one: Ocean City, New Jersey, 1980. This was the summer when the special edition of ""Close Encounters of the Third Kind"" was released. And I went on vacation with my parents to the Jersey shore. Within 12 hours, I was horribly sunburned, just like Richard Dreyfuss in the movie. (Laughter) And so I spent the rest of the vacation largely sitting outside our little rental house at night, the sidewalk still warm from the sun, watching the skies for UFOs. What did I see? Stars, satellites, blinking airplanes — typical sky junk. Occasionally, kids would come and join me and watch, but their necks soon got sore, and they would go off to the boardwalk to play video games and mingle with humans. I was pretty good at the video games. I was not very good at the other part, so I stayed alone with the cosmos. And that's when it happened. An elderly couple came walking down the street. I would say they were in their late seventies, and I would say that they were on a date, because he was wearing a very neat little suit with a yellow tie — a brown suit. And she was wearing a cardigan, because it was now fully night and a chill was coming in off the ocean. I remember, for some reason, that they were exactly the same height. And then they stopped, and the man turned to me and said, ""What are you looking for, flying saucers?"" (Laughter) You have to admit, that's a pretty boss piece of detective work for an old man on a date. But what was stranger still — and even I realized it at the time, as a nine-year-old child — was that they stopped at all. That this old man would interrupt his moonlight stroll with his sweetheart with the precise reason of making fun of a child. ""Oh,"" he said, ""little green men."" And then his girlfriend joined in, too. ""There's no such thing as space men,"" she said. ""There's no such thing."" And then they both laughed. ""Ha, ha, ha."" I looked around. The street was entirely empty. I had stopped hearing the sound of the ocean. It was as though time had stopped. I did not know why they were teasing me. I looked into their strangely angry faces, and I remember wondering, are they wearing rubber masks? (Laughter) And what would be behind those rubber masks, if they were? Giant, almond-shaped, unblinking eyes? Slits for mouths? The old man crooked his finger as though he were firing a gun, and then he made laser sounds. ""Kew, kew, kew — watch out."" And they turned at once and walked away. The old man reached out his knobbly claw for the woman's hand, and found it, and left me alone. Now, you could describe this as a simple misunderstanding — a strange encounter among humans. Maybe it was swamp gas, but — (Laughter) — I know what I saw. Close encounter two: Brookline, Massachusetts, 1984. I went to see the movie ""Dune,"" and a girl talked to me. Now, on its face — (Laughter) — this is impossible on its face, I realize — but it is absolutely true. It was opening night, naturally. I went with my friend Tim McGonigal, who sat on my left. On my right was the girl in question. She had long, curly black hair, a blue jean jacket. I remember, she had some sort of injury to her ankle, an Ace bandage, and she had crutches. She was very tall, I would say. I was starting high school at the time. I would say she was a junior, but I had never seen her before. She didn't go to my school. I didn't know her name, and I never will. She was sitting with someone who I presume was her mother, and they were talking about the novel, ""Dune."" They were both big fans, mother and daughter — very unusual. They were talking about how their favorite characters were the giant sandworms. And then it got stranger. That's when she turned to me and said, ""Are you looking forward to seeing the movie?"" (Laughter) First of all, I was embarrassed because I had not read the novel ""Dune"" at that time. I was merely a connoisseur of movies featuring desert planets, as I still am. (Laughter) But it was also the tone of how she asked the question: apropos of nothing, like she didn't even care about the answer, as though she just wanted to talk to me. I did not know what to say. I said, ""Yes."" I did not even turn my head. The movie began. I need not remind you that this was David Lynch's version of ""Dune,"" in which all of the characters were sexy and deformed at the same time. (Laughter) There was a character called the Third-Stage Guild Navigator, which was a kind of giant, floating fetus-creature that lived in a giant tank with this orange mist of psychedelic spice swirling around him, allowing him to bend space and time. He could never leave the tank or interact with the outside world. He had become, in his isolation, so deformed and so sexy, that he had to talk through a kind of old-timey radio to the outside world, and could never touch them. I mean, I liked him a lot better than the sandworms. The sandworms were fine, but your favorite character? Please. When the movie ended, everyone seemed very happy to get up and get out of the theatre as soon as possible. Except for the girl. As I walked out, her pace slowed. Perhaps it was the crutches, but it seemed — (Laughter) — it seemed as though she might want to talk to me again. When I say it out loud, it sounds so ridiculous, but I can only come to the conclusion that it was what, in the alien abductee community, they call a ""screen memory"": a ridiculous false recollection designed by their brain to cover up some trauma — say, of being kidnapped and flown off to a sex pyramid. (Laughter) And so I sure am glad I did not slow down to talk to her. I sure am glad I never saw her again. Close encounter three: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1989. In the mid-to-late '80s, the novelist Whitley Strieber wrote a book called ""Communion,"" in which he described his own lifelong experiences being abducted by aliens. And he also described the phenomenon known in this community as ""lost time,"" where Whitley Strieber would suddenly become aware that he could not remember the previous ten minutes, or the previous ten hours, or the previous ten days. And would come to the conclusion that that was when the aliens were taking him and giving him rectal probes. (Laughter) This book became, naturally, an enormous best-seller. This image by Ted Joseph was from that book, and was his, sort of, police sketch of what the creatures looked like that Whitley Strieber had described to him. And it was so successful that they made it into a movie. And in 1989, the way I remember it, I was in Philadelphia visiting my girlfriend, and we decided, apropos of nothing, to go see this movie. And the way I remember it, the movie featured these details. One: Whitley Strieber was played by Christopher Walken. Two: the alien was played by a rubber puppet. (Laughter) Three: there was a surprisingly long sequence of the film in which the rubber puppet gives Christopher Walken a rectal probe. Four: this was being shown in a regular movie theater in Center City, Philadelphia. Five: all of which is to say, they made a movie out of the book, ""Communion,"" and it starred Christopher Walken. Does something seem strange about this to you? Something odd? Something off? Something wrong with this picture? Think about it. Yes. The answer is: I had a girlfriend. What? (Laughter) How did this happen? When did this happen? I remember walking out of the theater and becoming suddenly aware of this fact, as we walked hand in hand, and pondering these very same questions. And to this day, I have no answer for you. Close encounter four: the Algarve, Portugal, 1991. Some years later, I and this woman — we'll call her ""Catherine Fletcher"" — (Laughter) — went traveling through the south of Portugal together. We stayed in old, crumbling, walled cities, in tiny little hotels, and we would climb up to the roof and drink Vinho Verde and watch the sun set and play checkers. What? Did we do this? Really? Does anyone do this? We went to some topless beaches. Excuse me? No, not in my life. For what it's worth, we went to Sagres, which was considered, at the time, to be the end of the world. And there I was chased by a pack of feral dogs on the dock, and the lead dog bit me on the ass, requiring me to go to a strange Portuguese clinic and receive an ass shot. Make of that what you will. (Laughter) Our last day in Portugal, we were in the district capital of Faro, and Catherine decided that she wanted to go to the beach one last time. Now, Faro is a bustling little city, and to get to the beach, she explained, you would have to take a bus and then a boat. And did I want to come with? But I was exhausted and dog-bitten, and so I said, ""No."" I remember what she looked like before she left. The freckles had grown and multiplied on her face and shoulders, clustering into a kind of a tan. A tan, we were both tan — is this true? Her eyes were extra bright and extra blue, as a result. She was smiling. She was a single woman about to go alone into a country, not even speaking the language, to travel alone by bus and boat to go to a beach she did not know or had never seen. I loved her, and then she went out into that strange, alien land. It took me some time to come to my senses. I had my own ""lost time"" moment, where I woke up and suddenly realized it was very late in the day, almost dinnertime, and she had not come back. Nervous, I went down to the street to look for her. Now, I did not speak Portuguese. I did not know where the beach was. I could not call her on a cell phone because this was 1991, and the aliens had not given us that technology yet. (Laughter) I realized that the day would only have two possible outcomes: either Catherine would come back to the hotel, or she would never come back to the hotel. And so I sat down to wait. I did not watch the skies, but the very end of the street where the buses and cars and pedestrians and little scooters were moving along. And I watched those constellations shift, hoping that they would part and I would see her face. It was at that moment, in that very small town of 30,000 or so, that I truly appreciated the vastness of the universe and the searching we might do in it. And that's when the Liberians came along. Five young men — all laughing, happy, traveling together, coming back to this hotel where they were staying. One of them was named Joseph, and he asked me what was I doing, and I explained. And he said, ""Don't worry."" He was sure that Catherine would be safe. But he did not seem so very sure, for he sat down to wait with me. And for the next two hours, they all waited with me: taking turns, going up to their room, coming back, telling me jokes, distracting me. Two hours, they gave me a message. We are not alone. And then, in the middle of a sentence, at the very birth of twilight, I turned and looked down the street. The stars aligned, and she came back. She was smiling. She did not understand why I was so worried. Neither did the Liberians, although there was a huge amount of relief in their laughter as they clapped us on the back, and went back up to their room and left us alone in the street, holding hands. An event like this leaves a scar on the memory, much like a piece of alien technology that has been inserted into your buttocks by a ""Portuguese doctor."" (Laughter) And even now, a decade and a half later, even now that we are married, I look for her still, whenever she is not in the room. And even though, I think you'll agree, it is probable that during the time she was away, she was kidnapped and replaced by an alien clone, I love her and wait for her still. Thank you for your kind attention. (Applause)"	"你們都知道這個故事.在1950年的夏天,Enrico Fermi, 美國的意大利籍物理學家原子反應堆建造者在Los Alamos 國家實驗室和一些同事們共進午餐,他問了一個問題:""大家都去了哪?""很顯然,這句話讓大家都很困惑.因為他們正跟他坐在一起.他不得不解釋說他不是在說他們而是那些外星人 這件事發生在新墨西哥州的羅斯威爾飛碟墜毀事件的幾年之後.雖然結果是沒事完全沒事(笑聲)僅僅是天上掉下來的一個氣象氣球,被一個張著嘴的無毛人駕駛的氣球.然而, 美國人已經對飛碟發狂了即使是正在吃飯的著名科學家.Fermi的推論, 恕我詮釋的不好,這宇宙是如此的寬廣順理成章會有其它睿智的生命存在於宇宙中.而且宇宙是如此的古老除非我們是第一個進化的文明,我們現在應該有一些外星人存在的證據.然而, 據我們所知, 我們是孤獨的. ""大家都去了哪裡?"" Fermi問,他和他的同事都沒法回答.Fermi之後就繼續用這種愚笨的邏輯去反駁童話,還有大腳野人, 上帝,真愛的可能性—再後來, 你也知道,Enrico Fermi自此獨自用餐.(笑聲)現在,我不是一名科學家.我從來沒創造過原子反應堆雖然, 我很可能會爭論,技術上講.任何一個堆都是由原子構成的. (笑聲) 無論如何, 帶著景仰, 我要指出Enrico Fermi也許沒有考慮到的兩種可能.一種是外星人也許非常非常遠.大概吧, 我敢說,甚至在其它的行星上.另一種可能性 —(笑聲)就是, 有可能 Enrico Fermi本人就是一個外星人. (笑聲) 想像一下.在世界大戰期間,一個不知道哪裡來的意大利科學家突然帶著一種可以改變世界的令人吃驚的新技術出現在世界面前,並且自此改變了人類歷史. 這是不是太輕鬆了?並且是不是有點奇怪他並不要求任何報酬?他只要求一件事:要兩個健康的抹香鯨作為禮物?當然, 那並不是真的.不過太怪異了. (笑聲) 並且如果Enrico Fermi 當時真是一個外星人,他為什麼不先去嘗試說服他身邊的科學家外星人還沒有來過?對於發表的飛碟學說或者不明飛行物學說,他們認為外星人曾經來訪並且千年之前就曾來過.他們帶著偽裝跟我們一起生活,觀察我們, 引導我們進化從猿到人 —如果你相信這種東西的話.並且, 他們偶然把我們綁架到他們的飛碟並把我們帶到金字塔里發生性關係. (笑聲) 這是一個沒有人相信的深奧的理論,我想你也這麼認為的. (笑聲) 即使在我的生活中也有些回憶是我很難能夠解釋的通的 —有些事情就那麼非常神奇的,莫明奇妙的發生了.所以很難想像我們的一生中,他們始終堅持並且頻繁的聯繫外星人對於其它你要說的那些我親身經歷的令人吃驚並且絕對真實的遭遇我現在就告訴你.遭遇一: 1980年 新澤西的歐欣城.那是個夏天, 正好趕上《第三類接觸》的特別版發布.我和父母一起去新澤西的濱海度假.我在12個小時內被嚴重的曬傷,嚴重的就像電影裡的Richard Dreyfuss. (笑聲) 所以我剩餘的假期,基本上只能在晚上坐在我們租來的小房子外面,享受人行道殘存的太陽餘溫,尋找著天空的不明飛行物.我都是看到了什麼? 星星, 人造衛星,閃礫的飛機 — 典型的天空垃圾.小朋友們偶爾會過來,加入我一起觀察,他們的脖子很快就酸了, 所以他們離開人行道去玩遊戲機或找別人玩.我曾很擅長游戲機. 但我不擅長別的,所以我還是一個人跟宇宙呆著吧. 就是在這時發生的,一對老夫婦在街上溜達.我覺得他們有七十多了,還覺得他們在約會,因為他穿著很整潔的套裝棕色套裝裡還打著黃領帶.因為並不是深夜, 女士穿了一件羊毛上衣,涼風從海面上吹過來.我記得, 出於某種原因,他們身高相同.然後他們停住了, 這個男人轉向身問我,""你在看什麼呢?""""飛碟?"" (笑聲) 你不得不承認, 這個老男人在約會時非常像一名偵探.但還有很奇怪的是 —我意識到了在那個時間,作為一個九歲的小孩 —他們停下來這個老男人在跟他女朋友在月光下停下來用一個準確的問題去跟一個小孩看玩笑.""哦."" 他說,""小綠人""這時, 他女朋友也加入進來.""外星人根本不存在,"" 她說.""沒那種東西.""然後他們同時哈哈一笑.我環顧四周.街道已經全空了.我聽不到大海的聲音.彷彿時間停止了.我不知道他們為什麼逗我.我觀察他們陌生的臉孔,並且我感覺很奇怪他們是不是帶的橡膠面具? (笑聲) 躲在面具後面的是什麼?他們是不是有一雙巨大的, 一眨不眨的杏仁一樣的雙眼?裂縫一樣的嘴巴?這個做了一個開槍的手勢,並且他發出激光槍的聲音,咻,咻,咻—""小心!""然後他們轉身接著散步.那個老男人伸出他年邁粗糙的手拉住女人的手,然後留下我一個人.現在, 你可以把這個當成一次簡單的誤會—一個人類之間的奇怪的邂逅.也許它只是浮雲, 但是 —(笑聲)我知道我看到了什麼. 遭遇二: 1984年馬薩諸塞的布魯克林我去那裡看電影""沙丘""一個女孩跟我搭訕, 從表面上看 —(笑聲)我意識到,這從表面上看是不可能的 —但它確實是真的.當時是首場演出. 自然地.我跟我的朋友Tim McGonigal一起去看的, 他坐我左邊.我右邊是問我問題的女孩她有長長的,捲曲的頭髮, 藍色的工服.我記得,她的腳有點受傷,有綁帶和拐杖.我認為她很高,我那時是高年級學員. 我覺得她應該是低年級的,但我從來沒有見到過他. 她也不去我們學校.我不知道她的名字, 而且永遠不會知道她跟一個像她媽媽一樣的人一起坐著,她們正在討論小說她們兩個都很喜歡, 媽媽和女兒 —這很少見她們正在討論最喜歡的角色是那個巨大的沙蟲.這時, 事情變的更怪了.那時, 她轉向我並問道,""你想看這部電影嗎?"" (笑聲) 剛開始, 我很尷尬因為我從來沒讀過小說.我的影片鑒賞範圍只在於那些充滿沙漠的行星片 現在也是. (笑聲)但她還是問了很多的問題:沒什麼實質的東西, 就像她根本不介意答案一樣,彷彿她只是想跟我聊天一樣.我不知道要說什麼. 我只說""是的.""我甚至都不轉過頭來.電影開始了.我不需要提醒你那部電影是大偉林區版的,在所有的角色裡,畸形和性感同時存在. (笑聲) 有一個主角覺劇場版航海家,這是一個巨大的池塘,她孕育著生命這個巨大的池塘散發著香橙的迷幻味道環繞著他,讓他有能力扭曲時間與空間.並永遠不能離開這個池塘或者說與外界有任何联系.他認為,在他的獨立的世界,醜陋與性感是並存的,他通過一種老式的電台向外界傳播,但是永遠觸及不到他們.我是說,我喜歡他們勝過沙蟲.沙蟲固然好,但要成為我最喜歡的角色?算了吧 當影片結束,每個人洋溢著笑容都匆忙的走出了影院.除了一個女孩.當我走過她身邊,她放緩步伐.也許她拄著拐杖,假裝是這樣—(笑聲)看來她還想和我搭訕.當我說出來,聽起來卻很滑稽,我只能得出這樣的結論這是一個外星球社區他們稱之為""遮蔽性記憶""大腦給他們一個可笑錯誤的記憶去掩蓋一些創傷—被外星人綁架後飛往金字塔發生性關係. (笑聲) 我當然很高興所以我並沒有慢下腳步跟她說話.我很高興從那時起我再沒見過她. 遭遇三:賓夕法尼亞州的費城,1989年八十世紀末,小說家Whitley Strieber寫了本自傳,自傳中他描述了被外星人綁架的經歷.還有一些奇怪的現象稱之為""間接性失憶""Whitley Strieber突然意識到他不記得十分鐘以前發生的事,甚至十小時,十天.得出的結論是,當外星人抓住他後給他做直腸探頭. (笑聲) 這本書成為史上最牛的暢銷書籍.圖片是由Ted Joseph提供,圖片從某種意義上像警方示意圖Whitley Strieber說到.這是一個非常棒的電影題材.記得在1989年,我去費城—拜訪我女朋友,我們臨時決定,去看電影.我記得,電影展現了許多細節.一:Whitley Strieber由Christopher Walken扮演.二:外星人的扮演者是橡膠面具. (笑聲) 三:有一個出乎意料的長序列橡膠面具電影給Christopher Walken做直腸探頭.四:影片正在上映在費城的各大影院.五:所有人都說,電影是由""交流""改編.主角是 Christopher Walken.是哪裡出了問題?靈異事件？虛構事物？照片的毛病？想一想，是的。答案是：我曾經有個女朋友.瘋了麼? (笑聲) 這是如何發生的?什麼時候發生的?我記得我走出影院並突然意識到這是真的,正如我們手牽手漫步,卻思考著同樣的問題.至今,我都無法回答.遭遇四: 阿爾加瓦葡萄牙,1991.許多年過後,我和這個女人—我們將稱她為“Catherine Fletcher”-(笑聲)我們穿越葡萄牙南部去旅行.我們住在古老的搖搖欲墜的圍城裡.在小旅館裡,我們爬到屋頂喝著葡萄牙清酒看日落玩跳棋.什麼?我們做了這些麼?真的麼?有人會做這樣的事情麼?我們去裸體海灘醒醒?我不是在做夢吧.不論真偽.我們去了葡萄牙的一個小鎮,曾經一度﹐人們認為它就是世界的終點在那裡我被野狗追咬,最後領頭的狗咬了我的屁股,他們帶我去一個陌生的葡萄牙診所接受屁股的治療.你可以合理的遐想一下. (笑聲) 在葡萄牙的最後一天,我們在葡萄牙的首府,Catherine想去海灘轉一圈最後一圈.Faro是個熱鬧的小城市,她說去海邊要乘公交車再換乘個小船.你願意跟我一起去麼?我摸著被咬壞的屁股已經筋疲力盡了,我說""我不去了.""至今我還記得她黯然離開時失望的眼神.這個雀斑女已經長大雀斑在她的臉龐和肩頭上倍增,匯聚成一種巧克力色.結果我們皮膚都曬成了巧克力色.這是真的嗎?她的眼睛是藍色的格外的亮,最後.她笑了.一個單身女人獨自到一個陌生的國家,甚至沒有相通的語言,獨自乘著公車和小船去旅行去一個連她自己都不知道在哪的海灘或者她從未見過.我愛她,當她走到那個奇怪的外星人領域. 我重新整理了我的思緒.我有屬於我的""失憶時段"",我突然醒了,意識到時間已經不早了,差不多到了晚飯時間,但她還沒回來我感到不安,於是上街去找她.現在,我不會葡萄牙語.我也不知道沙灘在哪?我同樣不能打電話給她因為那是1991年,那時外星人也沒給我們這項技術. (笑聲) 我意識到這一天只有只有兩種可能的結果:Catherine 自己回到小旅館或者她再也不回來了.我只能坐下來等.我沒有注視著天空,而是盯著街道的盡頭那裡的公車汽車和行人和小踏板車在前行著.我看著那些星球的轉變,多希望他們能讓我看到你的臉.就在那一刻,在一個容納30000人的小鎮上,我真正欣賞到宇宙的浩瀚搜尋我們想要的.那時利比里亞人走了過來.5個年輕人—他們都開心的笑著同行,回到他們的住所. 其中一個名叫Joseph,他問我我來做什麼,我向他解釋.他說,""不要擔心,""他確信Catherine是安全的.但他看起來不太確信,因為他跟我一起坐下來.接下來的兩個小時,他們和我一起等待.他們輪流來我房間講笑話安慰我,分散我的注意力.兩小時後,他們給我捎口信.我們並不孤獨. 這時,字裡行間之中讓人感到暮光的開始.我轉過身來,看著街上.星星排成一排,她回來了.她笑著,她並不知道我為何而難過.利比里亞人也不理解,他們的笑聲裡有著很多的寬慰.他們在心底為我們鼓掌,默默回到房間讓我們獨自在街上,手牽手.這像記憶中的傷痛,被一個叫做""葡萄牙的醫生""的人把一塊外星人的高科技植入到你的臀部. (笑聲) 即使到現在,15年以後,我們結婚了,我隨時找她時她仍不在房間.我認為你也同意,很可能是在她外出時,被外星人綁架甚至複製,但我會一直愛她,等著她. 感謝您的關注. (掌聲)"
