Talk	en	zh-tw
john_la_grou_plugs_smart_power_outlets_1	"This is a world-changing invention. The smoke alarm has saved perhaps hundreds of thousands of lives, worldwide. But smoke alarms don't prevent fires. Every year in the USA, over 20,000 are killed or injured with 350,000 home fires. And one of the main causes of all these fires is electricity. What if we could prevent electrical fires before they start? Well, a couple of friends and I figured out how to do this. So how does electricity ignite residential fires? Well it turns out that the main causes are faulty and misused appliances and electrical wiring. Our invention had to address all of these issues. So what about circuit breakers? Well, Thomas Edison invented the circuit breaker in 1879. This is 130-year-old technology, and this is a problem, because over 80 percent of all home electrical fires start below the safety threshold of circuit breakers. Hmmm ... So we considered all of this. And we realized that electrical appliances must be able to communicate directly with the power receptacle itself. Any electrical device — an appliance, an extension cord, whatever — must be able to tell the power outlet, ""Hey, power outlet, I'm drawing too much current. Shut me off now, before I start a fire."" And the power outlet needs to be smart enough to do it. So here is what we did. We put a 10-cent digital transponder, a data tag, in the appliance plug. And we put an inexpensive, wireless data reader inside the receptacle so they could communicate. Now, every home electrical system becomes an intelligent network. The appliance's safe operating parameters are embedded into its plug. If too much current is flowing, the intelligent receptacle turns itself off, and prevents another fire from starting. We call this technology EFCI, Electrical Fault Circuit Interrupter. Okay, two more points. Every year in the USA, roughly 2,500 children are admitted to emergency rooms for shock and burn injuries related to electrical receptacles. And this is crazy. An intelligent receptacle prevents injuries because the power is always off, until an intelligent plug is detected. Simple. Now, besides saving lives, perhaps the greatest benefit of intelligent power is in its energy savings. This invention will reduce global energy consumption by allowing remote control and automation of every outlet in every home and business. Now you can choose to reduce your home energy bill by automatically cycling heavy loads like air conditioners and heaters. Hotels and businesses can shut down unused rooms from a central location, or even a cell phone. There are 10 billion electrical outlets in North America alone. The potential energy savings is very, very significant. So far we've applied for 414 patent claims. Of those, 186 have been granted: 228 are in process. And I'm pleased to announce that just three weeks ago we received our first international recognition, the 2009 CES Innovation Award. So, to conclude, intelligent power can, globally, save thousands of lives, prevent tens of thousands of injuries, and eliminate tens of billions of dollars in property damage every single year, while significantly reducing global energy consumption. In the spirit of this year's TED Conference, we think this is a powerful, world-changing invention. And I'd like to thank Chris for this opportunity to unveil our technology with you, and soon the world. Thank you. (Applause)"	"這是個足以改變世界的發明煙霧偵測器在全世界拯救了上千萬條生命但它們並不能預防火災的發生 在美國 每年有三十五萬起家庭火警造成兩萬人受傷 甚至喪命最主要的一項原因 是電線走火如果我們能夠預防那該會有多好有幾個朋友和我想出了一個辦法 造成電線走火的原因是什麼?最主要的原因來自於線路 和電器的不當使用我們的發明 能夠解決這些問題那斷路器呢?愛迪生在1879年發明了斷路器這是個有了130年歷史的科技而這也是個問題有百分之80的家庭火警發生於斷路器偵測到之前嗯... 經過思考 我們了解到電器用品必須能夠和電容器產生即時的反應任何的電器用品 家電 延長線等等必須能夠通知插座""嘿 插座""""電流太多了! 在我起火之前趕快關掉!""而插座也要能夠有所反應我們在電器用品的插頭中放置了一個數位轉換器和數據標籤並在電容器中 裝置了一個無線的數據讀取器所以它們能夠做出即時的反應現在 家中的每個電路系統成為了一套智慧型的網路電器用品的安全電量範圍由數據標籤掌控如果電流過量的話這種智慧型的電容器將會自行關閉來避免電線走火我們把這項技術稱為EFCI電氣異常斷路器 還有兩件事 每年在美國約有2500名孩童因為電器的關係 而造成休克 燒傷而被送進急診室 這真是太糟糕了而智慧型的電容器能夠防止這些傷害因為一旦電流過量電源就馬上被切斷了 就是這麼簡單 現在 除了提供安全之外這項技術最大的好處就是能夠節省能源這項發明能夠從遠端遙控和自動控制家裡和公司中的任何一個插座現在你可以使家裡高耗能的家電如冷氣 暖氣自動循環來省下許多電費飯店或是公司可以從中央控制系統或是手機關掉沒人房間的電源光是在北美地區就有100億個插座因此節約能源是非常重要的 我們申請了414項專利其中有186項已被批准228項正在審核當中另外 我很高興能夠宣布說在三個禮拜之前 我們得到了我們第一項的國際認證2009CES創新獎所以 總而言之以智慧型的方式管理電器 能夠拯救許多生命和預防傷亡並在每一年之中減少許多財物損失還能同時減少能源消耗我們這項發明符合了今年TED會議的精神另外我還要謝謝Chris讓我們有機會和大家分享我們的發明謝謝!(掌聲)"
