Talk	en	zh-tw
john_kasaona_from_poachers_to_caretakers	"In Africa we say, ""God gave the white man a watch and gave the black man time."" (Laughter) I think, how is it possible for a man with so much time to tell his story in 18 minutes? I think it will be quite a challenge for me. Most African stories these days, they talk about famine, HIV and AIDS, poverty or war. But my story that I would like to share with you today is the one about success. It is about a country in the southwest of Africa called Namibia. Namibia has got 2.1 million people, but it is only twice the size of California. I come from a region in the remote northwest part of the country. It's called Kunene region. And in the center of Kunene region is the village of Sesfontein. This is where I was born. This is where I'm coming from. Most people that are following the story of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt will know where Namibia is. They love Namibia for its beautiful dunes, that are even taller than the Empire State Building. Wind and time have twisted our landscape into very strange shapes, and these shapes are speckled with wildlife that has become so adapted to this harsh and strange land. I'm a Himba. You might wonder, why are you wearing these Western clothes? I'm a Himba and Namibian. A Himba is one of the 29 ethnic groups in Namibia. We live a very traditional lifestyle. I grew up herding, looking after our livestock — goats, sheep and cattle. And one day, my father actually took me into the bush. He said, ""John, I want you to become a good herder. Boy, if you are looking after our livestock and you see a cheetah eating our goat — cheetah is very nervous — just walk up to it. Walk up to it and smack it on the backside."" (Laughter) ""And he will let go of the goat and run off."" But then he said, ""Boy, if you run into a lion, don't move. Don't move. Stand your ground. Puff up and just look it in the eye and it may not want to fight you."" (Laughter) But then, he said, ""If you see a leopard, boy, you better run like hell."" (Laughter) ""Imagine you run faster than those goats you are looking after."" In this way — (Laughter) In this way, I actually started to learn about nature. In addition to being an ordinary Namibian and in addition to being a Himba I'm also a trained conservationist. And it is very important if you are in the field to know what to confront and what to run from. I was born in 1971. We lived under apartheid regime. The whites could farm, graze and hunt as they wished, but we black, we were not regarded as responsible to use wildlife. Whenever we tried to hunt, we were called poachers. And as a result, we were fined and locked up in jail. Between 1966 and 1990, the U.S. and Soviet interests fought for control over my country. And you know, during war time, there are militaries, armies, that are moving around. And the army hunted for valuable rhino horns and tusks. They could sell these things for anything between $5,000 a kilo. During the same year almost every Himba had a rifle. Because it was wartime, the British .303 rifle was just all over the whole country. Then in the same time, around 1980, we had a very big drought. It killed almost everything that was left. Our livestock was almost at the brink of extinction, protected as well. We were hungry. I remember a night when a hungry leopard went into the house of one of our neighbors and took a sleeping child out of the bed. It's a very sad story. But even today, that memory is still in people's minds. They can pinpoint the exact location where this all happened. And then, in the same year, we almost lost everything. And my father said, ""Why don't you just go to school?"" And they sent me off to school, just to get busy somewhere there. And the year I went to school, my father actually got a job with a non-governmental organization called IRDNC, Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation. They actually spend a lot of time a year in the communities. They were trusted by the local communities like our leader, Joshua Kangombe. Joshua Kangombe saw what was happening: wildlife disappearing, poaching was skyrocketing, and the situation seemed very hopeless. Death and despair surrounded Joshua and our entire communities. But then, the people from IRDNC proposed to Joshua: What if we pay people that you trust to look after wildlife? Do you have anybody in your communities, or people, that know the bush very well and that know wildlife very well? The headman said: ""Yes. Our poachers."" ""Eh? The poachers?"" ""Yes. Our poachers."" And that was my father. My father has been a poacher for quite a long time. Instead of shooting poachers dead like they were doing elsewhere in Africa, IRDNC has helped men reclaim their abilities to manage their peoples and their rights to own and manage wildlife. And thus, as people started feeling ownership over wildlife, wildlife numbers started coming back, and that's actually becoming a foundation for conservation in Namibia. With independence, the whole approach of community getting involved was embraced by our new government. Three things that actually help to build on this foundation: The very first one is honoring of tradition and being open to new ideas. Here is our tradition: At every Himba village, there is a sacred fire. And at this sacred fire, the spirit of our ancestors speak through the headman and advise us where to get water, where to get grazings, and where to go and hunt. And I think this is the best way of regulating ourselves on the environment. And here are the new ideas. Transporting rhinos using helicopters I think is much easier than talking through a spirit that you can't see, isn't it? And these things we were taught by outsiders. We learned these things from outsiders. We needed new boundaries to describe our traditional lands; we needed to learn more things like GPS just to see whether — can GPS really reflect the true reflection of the land or is this just a thing made somewhere in the West? And we then wanted to see whether we can match our ancestral maps with digital maps made somewhere in the world. And through this, we actually started realizing our dreams, and we maintained honoring our traditions but we were still open to new ideas. The second element is that we wanted to have a life, a better life where we can benefit through many things. Most poachers, like my father, were people from our own community. They were not people from outside. These were our own people. And sometimes, once they were caught, they were treated with respect, brought back into the communities and they were made part of the bigger dreams. The best one, like my father — I'm not campaigning for my father — (Laughter) they were put in charge to stop others from poaching. And when this thing started going on, we started becoming one community, renewing our connection to nature. And that was a very strong thing in Namibia. The last element that actually helped develop these things was the partnerships. Our government has given legal status over our traditional lands. The other partners that we have got is business communities. Business communities helped bring Namibia onto the world map and they have also helped make wildlife a very valuable land use like any other land uses such as agriculture. And most of my conservation colleagues today that you find in Namibia have been trained through the initiative, through the involvement of World Wildlife Fund in the most up-to-date conservation practices. They have also given funding for two decades to this whole program. And so far, with the support of World Wildlife Fund, we've been able to scale up the very small programs to national programs today. Namibia ... or Sesfontein was no more an isolated village somewhere, hidden away in Namibia. With these assets we are now part of the global village. Thirty years have passed since my father's first job as a community game guard. It's very unfortunate that he passed away and he cannot see the success as I and my children see it today. When I finished school in 1995, there were only 20 lions in the entire Northwest — in our area. But today, there are more than 130 lions. (Applause) So please, if you go to Namibia, make sure that you stay in the tents. Don't walk out at night! (Laughter) The black rhino — they were almost extinct in 1982. But today, Kunene has the largest concentration of black rhino — free-roaming black rhinos — in the world. This is outside the protected area. (Applause) The leopard — they are now in big numbers but they are now far away from our village, because the natural plain has multiplied, like zebras, springboks and everything. They stay very much far away because this other thing has multiplied from less than a thousand to tens of thousands of animals. What started as very small, community rangers getting community involved, has now grown into something that we call conservancies. Conservancies are legally instituted institutions by the government, and these are run by the communities themselves, for their benefit. Today, we have got 60 conservancies that manage and protect over 13 million hectares of land in Namibia. We have already reshaped conservation in the entire country. Nowhere else in the world has community-adopted conservation at this scale. (Applause) In 2008, conservancy generated 5.7 million dollars. This is our new economy — an economy based on the respect of our natural resources. And we are able to use this money for many things: Very importantly, we put it in education. Secondly, we put it for infrastructure. Food. Very important as well — we invest this money in AIDS and HIV education. You know that Africa is being affected by these viruses. And this is the good news from Africa that we have to shout from the rooftops. (Applause) And now, what the world really needs is for you to help me and our partners take some of what we have learned in Namibia to other places with similar problems: places like Mongolia, or even in your own backyards, the Northern Great Plains, where buffalo and other animals have suffered and many communities are in decline. I like that one: Namibia serving as a model to Africa, and Africa serving as a model to the United States. (Applause) We were successful in Namibia because we dreamed of a future that was much more than just a healthy wildlife. We knew conservation would fail if it doesn't work to improve the lives of the local communities. So, come and talk to me about Namibia, and better yet, come to Namibia and see for yourself how we have done it. And please, do visit our website to learn more and see how you can help CBNRM in Africa and across the world. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"在非洲 我們說“上帝給白種人手錶給黑人時間”（笑）我想, 這似乎是一件不可能的事讓一個有那麼多時間的人在18分鐘內把一個故事說完對我來說是一個挑戰 近來大部份發生在非洲的故事大家都繞著飢荒人體免疫缺乏病毒和愛滋病,貧窮或是戰爭這些話題打轉但是我今天要跟你們分享的是關於成功的一個故事這是關於一個國家在非洲的西南方名叫納米比亞納米比亞共有兩百一十萬人,但是只有加州的兩倍大 我來自一個偏遠地區在我的國家的西北邊在一個叫做Kunene的地區在Kunene區的中心有一個村莊叫做Sesfontain.這是我出生的地方.我來自這個地區.大部份有在注意安潔莉娜裘莉和布萊得彼特的人就會知道納米比亞他們喜愛納米比亞因為它的美麗沙丘這些沙丘比帝國大廈還高風和時間塑造了我們的地景成為奇特的形狀野生動物妝點這些形體這些野生動物變成適應了這些嚴峻和奇特的地景 我是Himba人你可能會猜想,為甚麼你穿著西化?我是Himba和納米比亞人Himba是納米比亞29個種族中的一種我們過著一種非常傳統的生活方式我是放牧長大的照顧我們的家畜 —山羊, 綿羊和牛有一天,我父親帶我到荒野中對我說, "" John我希望你變成一個好牧者孩子, 如果你正照顧著我們的牲畜看到一隻印度豹正在吃我們的山羊印度豹是非常緊張的,你就上前走去上前走去然後在牠的背後打一下""(笑）牠會放走那隻山羊然後跑掉 ""然後他說,“孩子, 如果你遇到一隻獅子,不要動.不要動. 穩穩的站好.帶著傲氣的凝視著牠的眼睛這樣牠可能不想跟你打架 ""(笑）然後, 他說,“ 如果你看到一隻豹,孩子, 你最好趕快跑 ""(笑）“ 想像你跑的比你照顧的那些山羊還快 ""在這樣的環境下 —(笑）在這樣的環境下, 我開始學習甚麼是自然. 你知道嗎, 我除了是一個平凡的納米比亞人除了是一個Himba人我同時是一個受過訓練的天然資源保護論者當你在野外知道遇到甚麼要面對知道遇到甚麼要逃, 這是非常重要的一件事我出生於1971年我們是在種族隔離的政權下生活著白種人可以耕種, 放牧還可以自由的打獵但是我們黑人, 我們對於野生動物的獵取不被視為如白種人般有責任感只要我們嘗試著打獵,就被稱為盜獵者因此, 我們被罰款並遭受牢獄之災 在1966到1990年間,美國和蘇聯爭奪著掌控我的國家你也知道, 在戰爭期間,軍方, 軍隊們到處遷徙然後軍隊會獵取有價值的犀牛角和長牙他們可以以一公斤5,000美元的價格賣出在同一年間幾乎每一個Himba人都有一枝步槍因為那是戰爭其間,英國.303步槍遍佈整個國家 同時, 大約1980年,我們經歷了一場大旱災它殺死了幾乎所有剩下的東西我們的家畜幾乎都在絕跡的邊緣也受到了保護我們非常飢餓我記得有一天晚上有一隻飢餓的豹跑進了我們鄰居的家裡把他正在睡覺的孩子從床上奪走這是一個非常令人難過的故事但是即使今天,那個記憶仍然留在人們的腦海中他們可以準確的指出事情發生的確切地點然後, 同年間,我們幾乎喪失了所有的東西我爸說, ""那你為甚麼不去上學?""然後他們把我送去學校, 就是想要忙碌些 我去上學的那一年,我父親在一個非政府營運的機構找到工作名叫IRDNC — 整合式郊區發展與自然保護他們一年當中花很多時間在許多社區上他們被當地的社區所信任像我們的領袖, Joshua KangombeJoshua Kangombe看到所發生的事情:野生動物漸漸消失,盜獵行為暴增這種狀況似乎非常令人絕望死亡和絕望籠罩著Joshua以及所有的社區 但是, 來自IRDNC的人向Joshua提議:若是我們付錢給你所信任的人去照顧野生動物?在你的社區或是你的群眾中你認識誰對荒野非常瞭解而且對野生動物非常熟悉?這位領袖說 ""有. 我們的盜獵者."""" 蛤？盜獵者？“是的. 我們的盜獵者""那就是我的父親我父親已經當了盜獵者好長一斷時間不是向盜獵者討債像是他們在非洲別處做的事IRDNC幫助人們重新找回他們的能力去管理他的人民以及去擁有和管理野生動物的權力因此, 當人們開始感覺對於野生動物有所有權野生動物的數量開始回升這也成為了納米比亞保育的基礎因為獨立, 社區這個整合的概念被新的政府欣然的接受 事實上有三件事幫助了基礎的建立第一件事是榮耀傳統而且接受新的想法我們的傳統是這樣的在每一個Himba的村落裡, 有一個聖火在這個聖火裡, 祖先的靈魂會向我們的頭目說話然後指示我們哪裡可以取得水,哪裡可以取得牧草,哪裡可以前往打獵我想這是在這個土地上管理我們自己最好的方法再來談談新的想法用直升機運送犀牛我想是比跟一個你看不見的神靈說話來的容易, 是不是?這些事情是由外來者教給我們的我們從他們的身上學到這些東西我們需要新的界線去描述我們的傳統地景;我們需要去學習像GPS這樣的東西只是想要知道GPS是不是真的可以反應真實的地景或它只是由西方世界發明的一個東西?接著想要看看我們是否可以比照祖先流傳下來的地圖與發明於世界某處的電子地圖透過這些.我們開始實現我們的夢想而且我們榮耀了我們的傳統但我們仍然接納新的想法 第二個元素存在的原因是因為我們想要一種生活,一種可以從各個方面受惠的較好的生活大部份的盜獵者, 像我的父親,是從我們自己社區中出來的他們不是外來者這些是我們自己的人民有時候, 一但他們被逮捕,他們會被有尊嚴的對待, 並且被帶回社區裡而他們會被成為這個遠大的夢想的一部份最厲害的人, 像我父親 — 我不是在為我父親競選拉票 —(笑）他們會被任命為阻止盜獵行為的負責人所以當這樣的事情開始發生,我們開始變成一個社群;我們知道我們和自然的關係而那是在納米比亞的一個非常非常重要的事情 幫忙這整件事情發展的最後一個元素是一個合夥的關係政府在我們流傳下來的土地上，給與合法擁有的權利我們的另一些合夥人是商業社群商業社群幫助帶領納米比亞走上世界地圖他們也幫助使野生生物的生長成為非常有價值的一種土地使用方式, 就像是任何一種土地使用例如農業現在我大部份在納米比亞從事保育工作的同事被主動積極的機構所培訓透過世界自然基金會的參與使用最新的實行作法這二十年來他們也一直給與整個計畫資金目前,因為世界自然基金會的支持我們有能力把非常小的計畫擴大到全國性的計畫納米比亞 ... 或是Sesfontein已經不在是藏在納米比亞某處的孤立村莊因為這些資產, 我們現在是整個地球村的一部份 三十年過去了從我父親的第一份工作- 社區狩獵管理員, 開始算起不幸的是我已經父親過世了, 他沒有機會目睹這份成就如同我和我的孩子現在看到的景況當我1995年念完書,在我們整個西北區只有20隻獅子但是今天, 現在有130隻以上的獅子(掌聲)所以, 如果你去納米比亞請你確定自己待在帳篷內晚上不要外出! (笑) 黑犀牛 — 牠們在1982年幾乎絕種但是現在, Kunene是全球黑犀牛最大的集中區 —自由遊走的黑犀牛這是發生在保護區以外的地方 (掌聲) 致於豹 — 牠們現在的數量很多但是牠們離我們的村莊非常遠因為自然資產倍增像是斑馬, 跳羚以及其他的生物牠們居住的地方離我們非常遠因為這些其他的生物倍增現在動物的數目從一千以下增長到須以萬計算 而且, 從非常小的起點,社區巡邏員開始使社區參與現在演變成名為保護局的機構保護局是合法創制的機構為政府所擁有而這些機構為社區所自行運作, 為著他們自己的福利現今, 我們有大約60個保護局他們管理以及保護超過一千三百萬公頃的納米比亞土地我們已經重新塑造了整個國家的保育工作全球沒有任何一個其他的以社區認養為基礎的大尺度保育工作 (掌聲) 在2008年, 保護局有五百七十萬元的收入這是我們新的經濟系統 —一個以尊敬我們自然資源為基礎的經濟系統而且, 我們可以把金錢運用在其他方面非常重要的, 我們把它用於教育第二, 我們把它用於國家建設和糧食另外非常重要的一點 — 我們把這些錢投資在人體免疫缺乏病毒和愛滋病的教育上如你所知的非洲被這些病毒牽動著而這就是來自非洲的好消息我們應該到處宣揚這件事情 (掌聲) 現在, 這個世界真正需要的是需要你和我們的合夥人把在納米比亞學到的經驗帶到其他面臨類似情形的的地方像是蒙古,或是你們自家的後院,北部大草原,水牛和其他動物正面臨危機許多社區人數正在下降我喜歡這點納米比亞成為非洲的典範然後非洲再作為美國的典範(掌聲)我們在納米比亞的成功是因為我們夢想我們的未來它會比一個健康的野生環境還要更遠大我們知道保育工作會失敗如果它不能改善當地社區的生活所以, 來和我談談納米比亞而更好的是, 拜訪納米比亞你親自來看我們怎麼做到的而且, 請上我們的網站去瞭解你要如何幫助CBNRM在非洲以及跨及全球非常謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
