Talk	en	zh-tw
john_underkoffler_drive_3d_data_with_a_gesture	"We're 25, 26 years after the advent of the Macintosh, which was an astoundingly seminal event in the history of human-machine interface and in computation in general. It fundamentally changed the way that people thought about computation, thought about computers, how they used them and who and how many people were able to use them. It was such a radical change, in fact, that the early Macintosh development team in '82, '83, '84 had to write an entirely new operating system from the ground up. Now, this is an interesting little message, and it's a lesson that has since, I think, been forgotten or lost or something, and that is, namely, that the OS is the interface. The interface is the OS. It's like the land and the king (i.e. Arthur) they're inseparable, they are one. And to write a new operating system was not a capricious matter. It wasn't just a matter of tuning up some graphics routines. There were no graphics routines. There were no mouse drivers. So it was a necessity. But in the quarter-century since then, we've seen all of the fundamental supporting technologies go berserk. So memory capacity and disk capacity have been multiplied by something between 10,000 and a million. Same thing for processor speeds. Networks, we didn't have networks at all at the time of the Macintosh's introduction, and that has become the single most salient aspect of how we live with computers. And, of course, graphics: Today 84 dollars and 97 cents at Best Buy buys you more graphics power than you could have gotten for a million bucks from SGI only a decade ago. So we've got that incredible ramp-up. Then, on the side, we've got the Web and, increasingly, the cloud, which is fantastic, but also — in the regard in which an interface is fundamental — kind of a distraction. So we've forgotten to invent new interfaces. Certainly we've seen in recent years a lot of change in that regard, and people are starting to wake up about that. So what happens next? Where do we go from there? The problem, as we see it, has to do with a single, simple word: ""space,"" or a single, simple phrase: ""real world geometry."" Computers and the programming languages that we talk to them in, that we teach them in, are hideously insensate when it comes to space. They don't understand real world space. It's a funny thing because the rest of us occupy it quite frequently and quite well. They also don't understand time, but that's a matter for a separate talk. So what happens if you start to explain space to them? One thing you might get is something like the Luminous Room. The Luminous Room is a system in which it's considered that input and output spaces are co-located. That's a strangely simple, and yet unexplored idea, right? When you use a mouse, your hand is down here on the mouse pad. It's not even on the same plane as what you're talking about: The pixels are up on the display. So here was a room in which all the walls, floors, ceilings, pets, potted plants, whatever was in there, were capable, not only of display but of sensing as well. And that means input and output are in the same space enabling stuff like this. That's a digital storage in a physical container. The contract is the same as with real word objects in real world containers. Has to come back out, whatever you put in. This little design experiment that was a small office here knew a few other tricks as well. If you presented it with a chess board, it tried to figure out what you might mean by that. And if there was nothing for them to do, the chess pieces eventually got bored and hopped away. The academics who were overseeing this work thought that that was too frivolous, so we built deadly serious applications like this optics prototyping workbench in which a toothpaste cap on a cardboard box becomes a laser. The beam splitters and lenses are represented by physical objects, and the system projects down the laser beam path. So you've got an interface that has no interface. You operate the world as you operate the real world, which is to say, with your hands. Similarly, a digital wind tunnel with digital wind flowing from right to left — not that remarkable in a sense; we didn't invent the mathematics. But if you displayed that on a CRT or flat panel display, it would be meaningless to hold up an arbitrary object, a real world object in that. Here, the real world merges with the simulation. And finally, to pull out all the stops, this is a system called Urp, for urban planners, in which we give architects and urban planners back the models that we confiscated when we insisted that they use CAD systems. And we make the machine meet them half way. It projects down digital shadows, as you see here. And if you introduce tools like this inverse clock, then you can control the sun's position in the sky. That's 8 a.m. shadows. They get a little shorter at 9 a.m. There you are, swinging the sun around. Short shadows at noon and so forth. And we built up a series of tools like this. There are inter-shadowing studies that children can operate, even though they don't know anything about urban planning: To move a building, you simply reach out your hand and you move the building. A material wand makes the building into a sort of Frank Gehry thing that reflects light in all directions. Are you blinding passers by and motorists on the freeways? A zoning tool connects distant structures, a building and a roadway. Are you going to get sued by the zoning commission? And so forth. Now, if these ideas seem familiar or perhaps even a little dated, that's great; they should seem familiar. This work is 15 years old. This stuff was undertaken at MIT and the Media Lab under the incredible direction of Professor Hiroshi Ishii, director of the Tangible Media Group. But it was that work that was seen by Alex McDowell, one of the world's legendary production designers. But Alex was preparing a little, sort of obscure, indie, arthouse film called ""Minority Report"" for Steven Spielberg, and invited us to come out from MIT and design the interfaces that would appear in that film. And the great thing about it was that Alex was so dedicated to the idea of verisimilitude, the idea that the putative 2054 that we were painting in the film be believable, that he allowed us to take on that design work as if it were an R&D effort. And the result is sort of gratifyingly perpetual. People still reference those sequences in ""Minority Report"" when they talk about new UI design. So this led full circle, in a strange way, to build these ideas into what we believe is the necessary future of human machine interface: the Spatial Operating Environment, we call it. So here we have a bunch of stuff, some images. And, using a hand, we can actually exercise six degrees of freedom, six degrees of navigational control. And it's fun to fly through Mr. Beckett's eye. And you can come back out through the scary orangutan. And that's all well and good. Let's do something a little more difficult. Here, we have a whole bunch of disparate images. We can fly around them. So navigation is a fundamental issue. You have to be able to navigate in 3D. Much of what we want computers to help us with in the first place is inherently spatial. And the part that isn't spatial can often be spatialized to allow our wetware to make greater sense of it. Now we can distribute this stuff in many different ways. So we can throw it out like that. Let's reset it. We can organize it this way. And, of course, it's not just about navigation, but about manipulation as well. So if we don't like stuff, or we're intensely curious about Ernst Haeckel's scientific falsifications, we can pull them out like that. And then if it's time for analysis, we can pull back a little bit and ask for a different distribution. Let's just come down a bit and fly around. So that's a different way to look at stuff. If you're of a more analytical nature then you might want, actually, to look at this as a color histogram. So now we've got the stuff color-sorted, angle maps onto color. And now, if we want to select stuff, 3D, space, the idea that we're tracking hands in real space becomes really important because we can reach in, not in 2D, not in fake 2D, but in actual 3D. Here are some selection planes. And we'll perform this Boolean operation because we really love yellow and tapirs on green grass. So, from there to the world of real work. Here's a logistics system, a small piece of one that we're currently building. There're a lot of elements. And one thing that's very important is to combine traditional tabular data with three-dimensional and geospatial information. So here's a familiar place. And we'll bring this back here for a second. Maybe select a little bit of that. And bring out this graph. And we should, now, be able to fly in here and have a closer look. These are logistics elements that are scattered across the United States. One thing that three-dimensional interactions and the general idea of imbuing computation with space affords you is a final destruction of that unfortunate one-to-one pairing between human beings and computers. That's the old way, that's the old mantra: one machine, one human, one mouse, one screen. Well, that doesn't really cut it anymore. In the real world, we have people who collaborate; we have people who have to work together, and we have many different displays. And we might want to look at these various images. We might want to ask for some help. The author of this new pointing device is sitting over there, so I can pull this from there to there. These are unrelated machines, right? So the computation is space soluble and network soluble. So I'm going to leave that over there because I have a question for Paul. Paul is the designer of this wand, and maybe its easiest for him to come over here and tell me in person what's going on. So let me get some of these out of the way. Let's pull this apart: I'll go ahead and explode it. Kevin, can you help? Let me see if I can help us find the circuit board. Mind you, it's a sort of gratuitous field-stripping exercise, but we do it in the lab all the time. All right. So collaborative work, whether it's immediately co-located or distant and distinct, is always important. And again, that stuff needs to be undertaken in the context of space. And finally, I'd like to leave you with a glimpse that takes us back to the world of imagery. This is a system called TAMPER, which is a slightly whimsical look at what the future of editing and media manipulation systems might be. We at Oblong believe that media should be accessible in much more fine-grained form. So we have a large number of movies stuck inside here. And let's just pick out a few elements. We can zip through them as a possibility. We can grab elements off the front, where upon they reanimate, come to life, and drag them down onto the table here. We'll go over to Jacques Tati here and grab our blue friend and put him down on the table as well. We may need more than one. And we probably need, well, we probably need a cowboy to be quite honest. (Laughter) Yeah, let's take that one. (Laughter) You see, cowboys and French farce people don't go well together, and the system knows that. Let me leave with one final thought, and that is that one of the greatest English language writers of the last three decades suggested that great art is always a gift. And he wasn't talking about whether the novel costs 24.95 [dollars], or whether you have to spring 70 million bucks to buy the stolen Vermeer; he was talking about the circumstances of its creation and of its existence. And I think that it's time that we asked for the same from technology. Technology is capable of expressing and being imbued with a certain generosity, and we need to demand that, in fact. For some of this kind of technology, ground center is a combination of design, which is crucially important. We can't have advances in technology any longer unless design is integrated from the very start. And, as well, as of efficacy, agency. We're, as human beings, the creatures that create, and we should make sure that our machines aid us in that task and are built in that same image. So I will leave you with that. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: So to ask the obvious question — actually this is from Bill Gates — when? (John Underkoffler: When?) CA: When real? When for us, not just in a lab and on a stage? Can it be for every man, or is this just for corporations and movie producers? JU: No, it has to be for every human being. That's our goal entirely. We won't have succeeded unless we take that next big step. I mean it's been 25 years. Can there really be only one interface? There can't. CA: But does that mean that, at your desk or in your home, you need projectors, cameras? You know, how can it work? JU: No, this stuff will be built into the bezel of every display. It'll be built into architecture. The gloves go away in a matter of months or years. So this is the inevitability about it. CA: So, in your mind, five years time, someone can buy this as part of a standard computer interface? JU: I think in five years time when you buy a computer, you'll get this. CA: Well that's cool. (Applause) The world has a habit of surprising us as to how these things are actually used. What do you think, what in your mind is the first killer app for this? JU: That's a good question, and we ask ourselves that every day. At the moment, our early-adopter customers — and these systems are deployed out in the real world — do all the big data intensive, data heavy problems with it. So, whether it's logistics and supply chain management or natural gas and resource extraction, financial services, pharmaceuticals, bioinformatics, those are the topics right now, but that's not a killer app. And I understand what you're asking. CA: C'mon, c'mon. Martial arts, games. C'mon. (Laughter) John, thank you for making science-fiction real. JU: It's been a great pleasure. Thank you to you all. (Applause)"	25、26 年前麥金塔電腦系統問世，而麥金塔系統的出現，整體來說，對人機界面和計算機的發展史影響非常重大。它從根本上改變了人們對於計算機和對於電腦的看法，人們是如何使用，以及是誰，還有多少人能夠使用它們。這是個非常極端的改變，事實上，早期麥金塔研發團隊在 1982 到 1984 年這三年間，必須從頭開始設計全新的操作系統。現在，這是個很有趣的訊息，我想，也是個已經被遺忘或失去之類的的課題。也就是，換句話說，操作系統即是界面。界面就是操作系統。這就像是《亞瑟王》中的領土與國王，他們密不可分，是一體的。而寫一個新的操作系統並不是個奇怪的想法。這並不只是調整改善某些圖像程序而已。當年並沒有圖像程序，也沒有滑鼠驅動程式。所以寫個新的操作系統是必要的。 但在那之後的 25 年，我們看到了所有的基本輔助科技傾巢而出。記憶體容量還有硬碟容量倍增十萬到百萬倍，處理器的狀況也一樣。網際網路，在麥金塔剛問世時，我們根本就談不上有網際網路。而網際網路是我們電腦生活中最突出、最特別的東西。當然，今天的顯示卡，在 Best Buy 用 84.97 美元就可以讓你買到功能更強大的顯示卡，這遠比十年前你用百萬美元在 SGI 買到的顯示卡還要好。所以這是很不可思議的成長。接著，另一方面，我們有了網路，再來有了雲端計算系統，這真的很棒，但也指出在這之中，界面是很重要的，這有點讓我們分心了。我們忘了要研發出新的界面。當然在過去幾年中，我們在相關系統看到了許多改變。而人們也開始覺醒。那接下來呢？我們要往那個方向進展？ 問題是，當我們看待這件事時，如何看這個單一，簡單的字，「空間」或一個簡單的詞「真實世界中的幾何」當我們使用程式語言來與電腦溝通，並嘗試教導電腦關於空間的概念時，電腦變得很愚鈍，讓人無法忍受。它們不理解真實世界的空間。這真的很有趣，因為我們人類對空間概念的使用相當頻繁而且順手。它們也不懂時間，但這又是另一個話題了。 那當你開始向這些電腦解釋空間時又會發生什麼事呢？你可能得到的是像這個「光室」的東西。光室是個輸入和輸出的空間重疊的系統。這是個極其簡單，卻還未有人研究的概念，對吧？當你使用滑鼠時，你的手就在滑鼠上。你的手甚至與你所討論的東西不在同個平面上。那些像素是呈現在顯示器上。這裡有個房間，裡面有所有的牆面，地板還有天花板，寵物，盆栽植物，還有其他有的沒的，都能夠，不僅僅是用來顯示而已，同時也用來感測。這意味著輸出和輸入可發生在同一空間，讓這樣的事發生。這是在物理空間中的數位儲存體。反之亦然。就跟真實世界中的真實物體一樣。無論你輸入什麼，都可以拿出來。這是個小小的設計實驗，這是個小型辦公室，還能做些其他有趣的事。如果你用西洋棋呈現的話，它會試著模擬出你可能的想法。如果他們沒有事可做，那這些西洋棋最後會覺得無聊然後跳走。 在督導這項計畫的學術單位認為這很愚蠢，所以我們做了相當正經的應用，像是這個光學原型工作台，我們把牙膏蓋放在厚紙板盒上，做成一個雷射台。分光器還有鏡片是以實物來呈現，這個系統投影出雷射光的路線。所以你有了沒有界面的界面。你操作這個虛擬世界就像是你在操作真實的世界，也就是，用你自己的雙手。相同地，有著數位風的數位風洞，由右至左吹過來。從某個層面看沒那麼了不起;我們並沒有發明這其中的數學原理。但如果你在 CRT 或平面面板上呈現，隨意拿起一個物體，一個真實世界中的物體，就沒什麼意義了。在這裡，真實的世界和虛擬的世界融合在一起。 最後，我們把剛提到的放在一起，這個系統叫做 Urp，專門為都市設計者所研發的，在這個系統中，我們提供建築師以及都市設計者模組，我們要求他們使用 CAD 系統。我們做出這機器以滿足他們的需求。它可以投射出數位化陰影，就像你在這看到的。如果你啟用像這個反向時鐘的工具，那你就可以控制天空中太陽的位置。這是早上八點的陰影。到了九點會有點短。就像這樣，任意移動太陽。中午影子更短，諸如此類的。我們還設計了一系列像這樣的工具。還有一個連孩子都可以操作的互動陰影學習工具，即便他們不懂都市設計，想要移動一座建築物的話，只要伸出你的手，你就可以移動它。一根棒子就可以將一棟建築物變成像是法蘭克•蓋瑞的作品，並反射出各個方向的光線。這會不會讓路人還有高速公路上的汽車乘客覺得太刺眼了呢?區域劃分工具可以連接地理位置上不相鄰的物體，將建築物還有道路連接起來。可以看看你會不會被區域委員會控告等等之類的。現在，如果這些想法有點耳熟或甚至有點過時，這很好，因為你應該要對他們感到熟悉。 這項計畫已進行十五年了。所以在石井裕教授英明的帶領下，麻省理工學院還有媒體實驗室一直都有這類的研究，石井裕教授是 Tangible Media Group 的領導者。亞歷克斯•麥克道爾發現了這個計劃，他是許多傳奇性產品的設計者。當時亞歷克斯正在為史蒂芬•史匹柏準備一部有點不好懂卻又獨樹一格的科技藝術電影。他邀請我們走出麻省理工學院並設計可在影片中出現的界面。最棒的事是亞歷克斯十分熱中於擬真這個想法，預設我們在片中所構想的 2054 年是有可能成真的，亞歷克斯允許我們接手這項設計任務，就好像這是個研發工作般。結果還蠻令人相當滿意呢。當人們談到新的使用者界面設計，仍然會參考在中的片段。這形成了一個完整的循環，用一種特殊的方式，建構出今天的這些新理念，我們相信這將是必然發生的未來人機界面，我們稱它為空間操作環境。 我們這裡有一些影像。接著，用一隻手，我們真的可以操作六個自由度，六度的導航控制。飛過貝克先生的眼睛還蠻好玩的。你還可以從可怕的紅毛猩猩前面退出來。這些都進行得非常順利。我們再來做些有點難度的！這裡，我們有一大堆不同的影像。我們可以飛過他們。所以導航是個相當基本的條件。你必須要能在三度空間中導航。大部分我們一開始所希望電腦幫我們處理的是內在空間。不是空間的部分時常可以轉為空間化，讓我們人腦可以利用它做出更有意義的事。現在我們可以用很多方法來分散這個東西。我們可以像這樣丟出去。 我們重新設置一下。我們可以這樣組合。 還有，當然，這不僅僅只是導航，還有牽扯到操控。所以如果我們不喜歡這個東西，或是我們對恩斯特•海克爾的科學仿真感到極度好奇，我們可以像這樣把他們拉出來。如果要做分析，我們可以退出一些，然後用個不一樣的展示方式。我們下來一點點，然後飛一圈。這又是另一個不一樣的方式來看這些東西。如果你有科學分析的特質，那你可能會想，事實上，把這個看成彩色的柱狀圖。所以我們把這些東西依據色彩來分類，把地圖彩色化。現在，如果我們想要選擇像3D，空間這類的東西，我們在真實空間中移動手的軌跡就變得相當重要，因為我們可以控制的並不是平面，也不是虛擬的平面，而是真實的三度空間。這裡有一些供選擇的陳列版。我們將進行這個布林運算因為我們真的很喜歡黃色和在青草地上的貘。 所以，從那裏到真實存在的世界。這裡有個後勤系統，這是我們現在正建立的東西的一小部分。有很多要素在裡面。其中有一個很重要的就是把傳統的表格數據和三度空間還有地理空間資訊結合在一起。這裡有個很熟悉的地方。我們把這個拉回來這裡一下。也許選一些那個。然後帶出這張圖表。現在，我們應該可以在這裡飛，還可以再看近一點。這些是散布在整個美國的物流要素。 三度空間互動以及完全的進入空間計算的基本概念所提供給你的是徹底淘汰了不合時的人類與電腦一對一操作界面。這是老舊的方式，老舊的思維，對吧！一台機器，一個人類，一個滑鼠，一個螢幕。現在，不能光靠這些了。所以在真實的世界中，我們有著跟我們合作的人，也有著和我們一起工作的人。我們還有許多不同的展示方式。大家可能會想要看看這些不一樣的圖像。我們可能會需要一些幫助。 這一套新的指向裝置的發明者就坐在那裡，所以我可以把這個從那拉到那裏。這些是沒有關聯的機器，對吧！所以這個計算是不受空間和網路限制的。我先把那些留在那裡，因為我有個問題要給保羅。保羅是這魔杖的設計者，也許由他過來這裡親自告訴我到底發生什麼事是最簡單的了。讓我先把這些東西移開。讓我先把這個拆開，我將向前把它分解開。凱文，可以幫個忙嗎?讓我看看，是否我可以讓我們找到線路板。提醒你一下，這是有點無聊的槍砲拆械演練，但是我們總是會在實驗室做這個。好了。所以集體工作，不論是不是在同一地點，或是相距千里，合作總是很重要的一件事。再一次，我們必須在空間狀態中處理這個東西。 最後，我想讓你們看一下帶我們回到想像世界的系統。這是一個叫做 TAMPER 的系統，這可以讓我們略見到編輯以及傳播操作系統未來可能呈現的樣貌。我們相信媒體應該可以在更細微的影像呈現中操作。我們有大量的電影儲存在這裡面。讓我們先挑出一些基本元素。我們可以快速地瀏覽它們。我們可以從表面將元素捕捉下來，它們在這裡復活，重生，我們再把它們拉下來放到這裡的桌面。我們來到 Jacques Tati 這裡，抓下我們的藍色朋友，也把他放到桌上。我們可能需要多一些。我們或許需要，嗯，老實說，我們可能需要一個牛仔。（笑聲）好，讓我們拿那一個。（笑聲）你看，牛仔跟法國諧星不太合得來，系統也知道這一點。 最後讓我再提個想法，這是過去三十幾年中最偉大的英語作家之一所提出的，偉大的藝術一直以來都是種禮物。他並不是在說要花 24.95 美金來買本小說，或是你需要花到七千萬美金來買維米爾（荷蘭畫家）的作品，他指的是藝術創作本身的條件與環境還有藝術本身的存在性。我認為也該是時候讓我們對科技有一樣的要求。科技能夠表達而且充滿著某種程度的寬容性，而我們事實上也需要這些。因為有些這一類的科技，基礎在於與設計的結合，而這樣的設計是極為重要的。除非我們從頭重新整合設計過，否則我們沒辦法在科技上再有新的進展。當然還有效能及專業機構。我們，身為人類，創作出萬物的創造者，我們應該確保機器永遠都會在工作上給予我們協助，而且都是以同樣的形像呈現。 我把這點留給大家思考。謝謝。 （掌聲） 克里斯•安德森：來問個直接的問題 —事實上是比爾•蓋茲要問的 —何時？（(約翰•昂德科夫勒：何時？）克里斯•安德森：這何時能夠成真？對我們來說，這一切不再是只發生在實驗室或是只在舞台上示範？這是每個人都可以操作的嗎？還是這只是給專門機構以及電影製作者用的？ 約翰•昂德科夫勒：不，這必須是給每個人用的。這是我們的終極目標。直到我們再往前再邁進一大步，才能稱得上成功。我的意思是，已經 25 年了。只能存在著單一界面嗎？當然不是。 克里斯•安德森：那這是不是意味著你的辦公桌前或家裡必須要有台投影機及攝影機？這要怎麼運作？ 約翰•昂德科夫勒：不，這東西將會被內建在所有顯示器的邊框。我們並會將它內建到建築物中。在幾個月或幾年後就不會需要這副手套了。這是這項科技必然的發展方向。 克里斯•安德森：所以，在你看來，有生之年中，將會有人添購這項產品做為電腦標準界面？ 約翰•昂德科夫勒：我想大概是在五年後你買電腦時，就會有這項配備。 克里斯•安德森：這真的很酷。（掌聲）這個世界中，新事物的使用方式總是會讓我們大吃一驚。你認為，在你看來，這個界面第一個最驚人的應用會是什麼? 約翰•昂德科夫勒：這是個好問題，我們每天也是這樣問自己。現在，我們早期的客戶，在現實世界中使用這個系統，利用它來處理大量的數據問題，所以，不管是供應通路管理的物流還是天然氣及資源開採，金融服務，製藥，生物資訊等等，這些都是現在的應用重點，但還不是最驚人的應用。而我懂你要問的是什麼。 克里斯•安德森：坦白一點吧，武術，遊戲，你知道的。（笑聲）約翰，謝謝你讓科幻小說成為現實。 約翰•昂德科夫勒：這是我莫大的榮幸。謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
