Talk	en	zh-tw
john_wooden_on_the_difference_between_winning_and_success	"I coined my own definition of success in 1934, when I was teaching at a high school in South Bend, Indiana, being a little bit disappointed, and [disillusioned] perhaps, by the way parents of the youngsters in my English classes expected their youngsters to get an A or a B. They thought a C was all right for the neighbors' children, because they were all average. But they weren't satisfied when their own — it would make the teacher feel that they had failed, or the youngster had failed. And that's not right. The good Lord in his infinite wisdom didn't create us all equal as far as intelligence is concerned, any more than we're equal for size, appearance. Not everybody could earn an A or a B, and I didn't like that way of judging, and I did know how the alumni of various schools back in the '30s judged coaches and athletic teams. If you won them all, you were considered to be reasonably successful — not completely. Because I found out — we had a number of years at UCLA where we didn't lose a game. But it seemed that we didn't win each individual game by the margin that some of our alumni had predicted — (Laughter) And quite frequently I really felt that they had backed up their predictions in a more materialistic manner. (Laughter) But that was true back in the 30s, so I understood that. But I didn't like it, I didn't agree with it. I wanted to come up with something I hoped could make me a better teacher, and give the youngsters under my supervision, be it in athletics or the English classroom, something to which to aspire, other than just a higher mark in the classroom, or more points in some athletic contest. I thought about that for quite a spell, and I wanted to come up with my own definition. I thought that might help. And I knew how Mr. Webster defined it, as the accumulation of material possessions or the attainment of a position of power or prestige, or something of that sort, worthy accomplishments perhaps, but in my opinion, not necessarily indicative of success. So I wanted to come up with something of my own. And I recalled — I was raised on a small farm in Southern Indiana, and Dad tried to teach me and my brothers that you should never try to be better than someone else. I'm sure at the time he did that, I didn't — it didn't — well, somewhere, I guess in the hidden recesses of the mind, it popped out years later. Never try to be better than someone else, always learn from others. Never cease trying to be the best you can be — that's under your control. If you get too engrossed and involved and concerned in regard to the things over which you have no control, it will adversely affect the things over which you have control. Then I ran across this simple verse that said, ""At God's footstool to confess, a poor soul knelt, and bowed his head. 'I failed!' he cried. The Master said, 'Thou didst thy best, that is success.'"" From those things, and one other perhaps, I coined my own definition of success, which is: Peace of mind attained only through self-satisfaction in knowing you made the effort to do the best of which you're capable. I believe that's true. If you make the effort to do the best of which you're capable, trying to improve the situation that exists for you, I think that's success, and I don't think others can judge that; it's like character and reputation — your reputation is what you're perceived to be; your character is what you really are. And I think that character is much more important than what you are perceived to be. You'd hope they'd both be good, but they won't necessarily be the same. Well, that was my idea that I was going to try to get across to the youngsters. I ran across other things. I love to teach, and it was mentioned by the previous speaker that I enjoy poetry, and I dabble in it a bit, and love it. There are some things that helped me, I think, be better than I would have been. I know I'm not what I ought to be, what I should be, but I think I'm better than I would have been if I hadn't run across certain things. One was just a little verse that said, ""No written word, no spoken plea can teach our youth what they should be; nor all the books on all the shelves — it's what the teachers are themselves."" That made an impression on me in the 1930s. And I tried to use that more or less in my teaching, whether it be in sports, or whether it be in the English classroom. I love poetry and always had an interest in that somehow. Maybe it's because Dad used to read to us at night, by coal oil lamp — we didn't have electricity in our farm home. And Dad would read poetry to us. So I always liked it. And about the same time I ran across this one verse, I ran across another one. Someone asked a lady teacher why she taught, and after some time, she said she wanted to think about that. Then she came up and said, ""They ask me why I teach, and I reply, 'Where could I find such splendid company?' There sits a statesman, strong, unbiased, wise; another Daniel Webster, silver-tongued. A doctor sits beside him, whose quick, steady hand may mend a bone, or stem the life-blood's flow. And there a builder; upward rise the arch of a church he builds, wherein that minister may speak the word of God, and lead a stumbling soul to touch the Christ. And all about, a gathering of teachers, farmers, merchants, laborers — those who work and vote and build and plan and pray into a great tomorrow. And I may say, I may not see the church, or hear the word, or eat the food their hands may grow, but yet again I may; And later I may say, I knew him once, and he was weak, or strong, or bold or proud or gay. I knew him once, but then he was a boy. They ask me why I teach and I reply, 'Where could I find such splendid company?'"" And I believe the teaching profession — it's true, you have so many youngsters, and I've got to think of my youngsters at UCLA — 30-some attorneys, 11 dentists and doctors, many, many teachers and other professions. And that gives you a great deal of pleasure, to see them go on. I always tried to make the youngsters feel that they're there to get an education, number one; basketball was second, because it was paying their way, and they do need a little time for social activities, but you let social activities take a little precedence over the other two, and you're not going to have any very long. So that was the idea that I tried to get across to the youngsters under my supervision. I had three rules, pretty much, that I stuck with practically all the time. I'd learned these prior to coming to UCLA, and I decided they were very important. One was ""Never be late."" Later on I said certain things — the players, if we were leaving for somewhere, had to be neat and clean. There was a time when I made them wear jackets and shirts and ties. Then I saw our chancellor coming to school in denims and turtlenecks, and thought, it's not right for me to keep this other [rule] so I let them just — they had to be neat and clean. I had one of my greatest players that you probably heard of, Bill Walton. He came to catch the bus; we were leaving for somewhere to play. And he wasn't clean and neat, so I wouldn't let him go. He couldn't get on the bus, he had to go home and get cleaned up to get to the airport. So I was a stickler for that. I believed in that. I believe in time; very important. I believe you should be on time, but I felt at practice, for example — we start on time, we close on time. The youngsters didn't have to feel that we were going to keep them over. When I speak at coaching clinics, I often tell young coaches — and at coaching clinics, more or less, they'll be the younger coaches getting in the profession. Most of them are young, you know, and probably newly-married. And I tell them, ""Don't run practices late, because you'll go home in a bad mood, and that's not good, for a young married man to go home in a bad mood. When you get older, it doesn't make any difference, but —"" (Laughter) So I did believe: on time. I believe starting on time, and I believe closing on time. And another one I had was, not one word of profanity. One word of profanity, and you are out of here for the day. If I see it in a game, you're going to come out and sit on the bench. And the third one was, never criticize a teammate. I didn't want that. I used to tell them I was paid to do that. That's my job. I'm paid to do it. Pitifully poor, but I am paid to do it. Not like the coaches today, for gracious sakes, no. It's a little different than it was in my day. Those were three things that I stuck with pretty closely all the time. And those actually came from my dad. That's what he tried to teach me and my brothers at one time. I came up with a pyramid eventually, that I don't have the time to go on that. But that helped me, I think, become a better teacher. It's something like this: And I had blocks in the pyramid, and the cornerstones being industriousness and enthusiasm, working hard and enjoying what you're doing, coming up to the apex, according to my definition of success. And right at the top, faith and patience. And I say to you, in whatever you're doing, you must be patient. You have to have patience to — we want things to happen. We talk about our youth being impatient a lot, and they are. They want to change everything. They think all change is progress. And we get a little older — we sort of let things go. And we forget there is no progress without change. So you must have patience, and I believe that we must have faith. I believe that we must believe, truly believe. Not just give it word service, believe that things will work out as they should, providing we do what we should. I think our tendency is to hope things will turn out the way we want them to much of the time, but we don't do the things that are necessary to make those things become reality. I worked on this for some 14 years, and I think it helped me become a better teacher. But it all revolved around that original definition of success. You know, a number of years ago, there was a Major League Baseball umpire by the name of George Moriarty. He spelled Moriarty with only one 'i'. I'd never seen that before, but he did. Big league baseball players — they're very perceptive about those things, and they noticed he had only one 'i' in his name. You'd be surprised how many also told him that that was one more than he had in his head at various times. (Laughter) But he wrote something where I think he did what I tried to do in this pyramid. He called it ""The Road Ahead, or the Road Behind."" He said, ""Sometimes I think the Fates must grin as we denounce them and insist the only reason we can't win, is the Fates themselves have missed. Yet there lives on the ancient claim: we win or lose within ourselves. The shining trophies on our shelves can never win tomorrow's game. You and I know deeper down, there's always a chance to win the crown. But when we fail to give our best, we simply haven't met the test, of giving all and saving none until the game is really won; of showing what is meant by grit; of playing through when others quit; of playing through, not letting up. It's bearing down that wins the cup. Of dreaming there's a goal ahead; of hoping when our dreams are dead; of praying when our hopes have fled; yet losing, not afraid to fall, if, bravely, we have given all. For who can ask more of a man than giving all within his span. Giving all, it seems to me, is not so far from victory. And so the Fates are seldom wrong, no matter how they twist and wind. It's you and I who make our fates — we open up or close the gates on the road ahead or the road behind."" Reminds me of another set of threes that my dad tried to get across to us: Don't whine. Don't complain. Don't make excuses. Just get out there, and whatever you're doing, do it to the best of your ability. And no one can do more than that. I tried to get across, too, that — my opponents will tell you — you never heard me mention winning. Never mention winning. My idea is that you can lose when you outscore somebody in a game, and you can win when you're outscored. I've felt that way on certain occasions, at various times. And I just wanted them to be able to hold their head up after a game. I used to say that when a game is over, and you see somebody that didn't know the outcome, I hope they couldn't tell by your actions whether you outscored an opponent or the opponent outscored you. That's what really matters: if you make an effort to do the best you can regularly, the results will be about what they should be. Not necessarily what you'd want them to be but they'll be about what they should; only you will know whether you can do that. And that's what I wanted from them more than anything else. And as time went by, and I learned more about other things, I think it worked a little better, as far as the results. But I wanted the score of a game to be the byproduct of these other things, and not the end itself. I believe it was one great philosopher who said — no, no — Cervantes. Cervantes said, ""The journey is better than the end."" And I like that. I think that it is — it's getting there. Sometimes when you get there, there's almost a let down. But it's the getting there that's the fun. As a basketball coach at UCLA, I liked our practices to be the journey, and the game would be the end, the end result. I liked to go up and sit in the stands and watch the players play, and see whether I'd done a decent job during the week. There again, it's getting the players to get that self-satisfaction, in knowing that they'd made the effort to do the best of which they are capable. Sometimes I'm asked who was the best player I had, or the best teams. I can never answer that. As far as the individuals are concerned — I was asked one time about that, and they said, ""Suppose that you, in some way, could make the perfect player. What would you want?"" And I said, ""Well, I'd want one that knew why he was at UCLA: to get an education, he was a good student, really knew why he was there in the first place. But I'd want one that could play, too. I'd want one to realize that defense usually wins championships, and who would work hard on defense. But I'd want one who would play offense, too. I'd want him to be unselfish, and look for the pass first and not shoot all the time. And I'd want one that could pass and would pass. (Laughter) I've had some that could and wouldn't, and I've had some that would and could. (Laughter) So, yeah, I'd want that. And I wanted them to be able to shoot from the outside. I wanted them to be good inside too. (Laughter) I'd want them to be able to rebound well at both ends, too. Why not just take someone like Keith Wilkes and let it go at that. He had the qualifications. Not the only one, but he was one that I used in that particular category, because I think he made the effort to become the best. There was a couple. I mention in my book, ""They Call Me Coach,"" two players that gave me great satisfaction, that came as close as I think anyone I ever had to reach their full potential: one was Conrad Burke, and one was Doug McIntosh. When I saw them as freshmen, on our freshmen team — freshmen couldn't play varsity when I taught. I thought, ""Oh gracious, if these two players, either one of them"" — they were different years, but I thought about each one at the time he was there — ""Oh, if he ever makes the varsity, our varsity must be pretty miserable, if he's good enough to make it."" And you know, one of them was a starting player for a season and a half. The other one, his next year, played 32 minutes in a national championship game, Did a tremendous job for us. The next year, he was a starting player on the national championship team, and here I thought he'd never play a minute, when he was — so those are the things that give you great joy, and great satisfaction to see. Neither one of those youngsters could shoot very well. But they had outstanding shooting percentages, because they didn't force it. And neither one could jump very well, but they kept good position, and so they did well rebounding. They remembered that every shot that's taken, they assumed would be missed. I've had too many stand around and wait to see if it's missed, then they go and it's too late, somebody else is in there ahead of them. They weren't very quick, but they played good position, kept in good balance. And so they played pretty good defense for us. So they had qualities that — they came close to — as close to reaching possibly their full potential as any players I ever had. So I consider them to be as successful as Lewis Alcindor or Bill Walton, or many of the others that we had; there were some outstanding players. Have I rambled enough? I was told that when he makes his appearance, I was supposed to shut up. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"我創造我自己對成功的定義在1934年,當我在印第安那州南本德的一所高中教書有一點失望、迷惑，可能是因為在我英文課堂裡年輕學子的父母對他們的年輕子弟的期望得到A或Ｂ的成績。他們認為Ｃ的成績是給他們鄰居的孩子的(美式評分: C-普通)因為鄰居的孩子是一般的當是他們自己的孩子時，他們不滿意會讓老師覺得失敗了或他們的年輕子弟失敗了這是不對的。在上帝無限的智慧裡沒有創造我們在智性上是平等的大小、外表也是並不是每個人都可得到A或B，且我不喜歡用此來評斷人 我不知道其他學校的校友在30年代如何評斷教練和運動隊伍如果你贏過他們,你會被認為相當地成功並非完全如此。因為我發現—在UCLA,我們有好幾年,我們一場球都沒輸過 (UCLA-加州大學落山磯分校）但似乎我們在每一場贏也沒有贏多少像我們的校友所預估的而且我常常—(笑聲）而且常常我真的感覺他們的預估是依據一種比較物質面的態度。但在30年代是這樣的, 所以我了解但是我不喜歡。且我不同意我想要想出如何使我成為一個更好的教師且給在我指導下的年輕人—不管是運動上或在英文課裡 —一些可以嚮往的而不只是較高的成績在教室理,或在運動比賽裡有更多的得分 我費力的思考著,且我想要想出我自己的定義。我想那可能有幫助我知道韋伯先生如何定義它（韋伯字典）即物質擁有的累積或權力或聲望地位的獲得，或這類的東西或許是值得的成就但在我的意見裡未必表示成功所以我想要想出我自己的來 我回想、我在南印第安那州的一個小農莊成長我爸試著教我和我的兄弟你永遠不要試著比任何人好我確定在那個時候他沒有, 我沒有 — 它沒有 —某處,我想是隱藏在我的心裡的幾年後出現永遠不要試著比任何人好永遠向別人學習，永遠不要停止試著成為你可以的最好 - 那是你可以控制的如果你過於投注和陷入和關切在那些你無法控制的事情上。它會相反地影響那些你能控制的事情上我想起這個簡單的詩句說著,在神的腳凳前承認,一個可憐的靈魂跪著,且低著頭‘我失敗了!' 他哭喊著主說, ""你盡你的全力了。那是成功。"" 因為那些事情, 可能還有其他的,我創造我自己對成功的定義那是：心靈平靜的達成只有透過你知道你全力以赴的自我滿意你能力所及的我相信那是真的。如果你努力達到你能力所及的最好。試了且改善了狀況你所面臨的,我認為那是成功且我不認為別人可以評斷。我認為它就像性格和名聲你的名聲是你被認為是什麼你的性格是你真正是什麼而且我認為性格是比你被認為是什麼更重要的你希望這二個都是好的但他們不必要都是一樣的那是我想要試著讓年輕人理解到的想法 和一些其他的事。我喜愛教書,之前的講演者已經有提過我享受詩歌,且我樂在其中,我喜愛它有一些事情幫了我, 我想比我會是的還要好。我知道我不是我應該成為的不是我應該是的。但我認為我比我會是的還要好如果我沒有碰到某些特定的事情其一只是一個小詩句說, 沒有寫下來的文字,沒有說出的請求,可以教我們的年輕人他們應該是什麼也不是書架上所有的書 —是教師他們自己本身."" 那造成了我有個印象。在1930年代且我多少試用在我的教學裡不管是在運動，或者是在英文課程裡我愛詩歌且總是對它有興趣可能是因為爸曾經在晚上念給我們聽煤油燈 — 我們沒有電在我們的農莊家裡且爸會念詩歌給我們。所以我總是喜歡詩歌大約在相同時期,我接觸到這一個詩句,我接觸到另一個。有一個人問一位女教師她為什麼教學然後她說她想要想一想然後她說, 他們問我為什麼我教學我回答, ""我要去那裡找到如此燦爛的同伴？“那裡坐了位政治家,強壯,公正的,智慧的另一位是丹尼韋伯斯特,很具說服力的人坐在他旁邊是一位醫生,他快速穩定的手愈合了骨頭.或者止住了血的流出那是一位建築者。教堂高立的拱門是他建立的,在那裡的牧師會說神的話且引領一位步入歧途的靈魂接觸到約穌所有的聚集 - 教師,農夫,商人,勞動者他們工作和投入和建造和計劃一個偉大的明天且我可以說,我可能看不到教堂或聽到說得,或吃到他們手種的農作物但我還是可以。且我還是可以說我曾認識他,他那時是弱小的,或是強壯的或是膽敢的或驕傲的或是同性戀我曾認識他,他當時是一個男孩他們問我為什麼我要教書,我回答""我要去那裡找到如此燦爛的同伴？“ 而且我相信教學的職業它是真的, 你有如此多的年輕人我得以想我在UCLA的年輕學子們30多位律師, 11位牙醫和醫師很多、很多的教師和其他的職業給了你很大的喜樂去看他們繼續我總試著讓年輕人感覺他們在那裡,第一是要受教育的籃球是第二位,因為它付了他們的學費他們是需要一點時間社交活動但你讓社交活動優先其他的二項那你就什麼都擁有不久的所以那是我試著讓他們理解的想法給那些在我指導下的年輕人 我有三個規則,差不多,我實際上總是堅持著我來UCLA前已有的,且我決定它們是很重要的第一是 - 永遠不要遲到。永遠不要遲到。然後我會說一些事如果我們要去某些地方,我要選手們乾淨和整齊我曾要他們穿夾克和襯衫和領帶我看到校長到學校穿牛仔褲和高領衣服, 所以我想我那樣的要求是不對的所以我讓他們 — 只要乾淨和整齊我有一個最偉大的選手之一,你可能聽過他,比爾·華頓,他來趕上巴士,我們正要離開到某處打球且他不是乾淨和整齊的,所以我不讓他去他不能上巴士。他需要回家清一清以便去機場所以對那事我是一個很要求的人。我相信..我相信時間很重要我相信你應該要準時。但我感覺在實際上,例如,我們準時開始,我們準時結束年輕人不需要感覺我們要把他們留超過時間 當我在教練指導和訓練談話時,我常告訴年輕的教練們—和在教練指導訓練課程,多多少少,他們是年輕的教練在獲得專業大部份都是年輕的,你知道的,可能才剛結婚我告訴他們,""別練習時間晚了因為你可能會回家時心情不好那是不好的,一個年輕結婚的男人回家時心情不好。""當你老一些時,它是沒什麼不同的。但— （笑聲） 所以我相信準時。我相信開始要準時,而且我相信結束要準時另一個我有的是,一句褻瀆,不敬的話都沒有说一句褻瀆的話,你今天就結束了如果我在比賽裡看到,你就要出來坐冷板凳第三是, 永遠不要批評隊友我不要這樣。我曾告訴他們,我是被付薪水來做這件事的那是我的工作。我受薪做這件事。不是很好,但我是受薪做這件事不像今日的教練們,有了更多的恩典,不是的在我那時代是有一些不一樣的那是三件我總是很堅持的事情那些實際上是來自我爸爸的那是他有一次試著教我和我的兄弟的 我逐漸地發展出一個金字塔我沒時間來談這個但它幫了我,我想,讓我成為一個更好的教師就像這個的樣子在這個金字塔有一些格子基石是勤勉和熱情,努力工作和享受你在做的來到了頂端根據我對成功的定義就在最頂端 — 信心和耐心我跟你說。不管你在做什麼你必須要有耐心。你必須要有耐心去 —我們要事情發生。我們談論我們的年輕人常沒耐心而且他們是的。他們想要改變每一件事情他們認為所有的改變就是進步且我們變了老一些 — 我們好像讓事情過去且我們忘記所有的進步都要有改變.所以你必須有耐心.且我相信我們必須有信心.我相信我們必須相信,真實地相信。不是只是嘴上說說;相信事情會像它們所應該的解決如果我們做我們應該做的我認為我們傾向事情應該如我們所要的結果發生,在大部份的時候。但我們不做需要做的讓那些事成為現實我如此做了14年,且我想它幫助我成為一個更好的教師但它總是圍繞著一開始對成功的定義 你知道在幾年前,有一個主要的聯盟棒球裁判員喬治.莫里亞帝(Moriarty)他拼他的名字只有一個“i”(同“眼睛”的發音）,我從沒看過, 但他的是大聯盟棒球選手 —他們對於這種事是很敏銳的他們覺察到在他的名字拼字上只有一個""i""(同“眼睛”的發音)你也會很訝異有多少人告訴他在他頭上有多一個（眼睛）在不同的時候 （笑聲） 他寫了一些東西是我試著在這個金字塔做的。他叫它“前面的道路,或後面的道路”有時候我認為命運一定露齒笑著當我們指責他們且堅持我們不能贏的唯一理由是命運之神的失誤但古人的說法:我們輸贏都在我們自己裡面。在我們架子上的戰利品永遠也無法贏得明天的比賽你和我心裡深處都知道,總是有機會贏得皇冠但當我們未全力以赴,我們就是沒有通過這個測試,盡全力不保留的直到真正的贏了展現甚麼是咬緊地毅力繼續競賽穿越當別人已放棄了繼續競賽穿越,不放手擊敗而贏了奬杯。夢想著前面的目標期望著當我們的夢想無效了祈禱著當我們的希望已消失輸了,不害怕跌倒,如果我們勇敢地付出全部。誰可以從一個人在他的能力內已付出全部還要要求更多一些付出全部,對我而言,已距離勝利不遠且命運很少出錯,不管他們如何的歪曲和迂迴是你和我讓我們的命運 —我們開啓或關閉前面的道路或後面的道路” 讓我想起我父親試著要讓我們理解的另外三點不要發牢騷。不要抱怨。不要製造藉口只要行動起來,且不論你在做什麼,盡你能力所能做到最好且沒人可做的比那樣還要多我也試著讓人理解 —我的對手不會告訴你 — 你絕不會聽到我提到贏過別人永遠不要提贏過別人。我的想法是你可能輸,當你在一場比賽裡得分超過某人你可能會贏當別人分數高過你時我在特定的狀況裡有這樣的感覺在不同的時候我只是要他們能夠比賽後把他們的頭抬的高高的我曾說過當比賽結束候,且你看到某個不知道比賽結果的人,我希望他們無法由你的行動看出來你贏過你的對手,還是你的對手贏過你 那才是真正重要的;如果你努力經常地全力以赴結果將會是它們應該的樣子未必是你要它們的樣子但它們會是它們應該的樣子且只有你會知道你是否會做到且那是比其它的,我更要他們的隨著時間的過去,我學了更多事情我想進行了更好一些,以結果來說。但我想要比賽的分數是其他事情的副產品,而非結果本身我相信它是—一位偉大的哲學家說過 — 不,不塞萬提斯。塞萬提斯說過, (“唐吉訶德”作者）旅程是比終點好的我喜歡這個說法。我認為那是 —越來越接近那裡。有時當你到達時,很多時候都是失望但有趣的是越來越接近到達那裡我喜歡我們的-當UCLA的籃球教練,我喜歡我們的練習是旅程而比賽將是結束。結束的結果我喜歡出去坐在場邊看球員打球,看看我是否做了好的工作在這一週裡再一次,讓球員得到自我的滿意,知道他們盡了努力在他們能力上全力以赴 有時我被問到誰是我有過最好的球員,或最好的球隊我永遠無法回答這個問題當涉及到個人時我有次被問到這個他們說,""如果你有方法可以—製造一個完美的球員。你要什麼？”然後我說,""我要一個知道為什麼他在UCLA;求得學問,他是一個好學生,第一是真實地知道他為什麼在那裡但我也要一個會打球的人我要一個能了解到防守經常贏得了冠軍,和會努力的防守但我也要一個會進攻的人。我要他是不自私的,他先找機會傳球,而非一直投球且我想要一個可以傳球且會傳球出去的 （笑聲） 我有些可以但不做的而我有一些會但沒能力 （笑聲） 我要他們有能力從界外射球我要他們在內場也很好 （笑聲） 我也要他們能夠在兩邊都能跳球就像凱斯.威爾克斯他是有資格的。非唯一的一個但他是一個我放在那一個特別的類別,因為我認為他努力成為最好的 我在我的書提過,“他們叫我教練""有二個球員給我很大的滿意;幾乎接近, 我認為我曾有過的任何一個人, 充分發揮潛力:一位是康拉德.巴爾克。和另一位道格.麥肯托希當我見到他們時他們是新生,在我們的新生隊伍 —我們沒有 — 當我教的時候新生不能打大學代表隊且我想, “喔,上天慈悲,如果這二位運動員,任一個 —他們是不同年級,但我想他們在那裡的時候 —喔, 如果他成為大學代表隊,我們的大學代表隊應該是挺悽慘的,如果他好到可以做到。”且你知道他們其中的一位是一個先發球員打了一季半另一個是 — 他的下一年, 他打在一個國家冠軍賽中打了32分鐘,為我們做了很棒的工作. 後在下一年,他是一個先發球員在國家冠軍隊裡而我在想他一分中也無法打, 當他是 —所以這些事情給你很大的喜樂,和很大的滿意去看到其一這些年輕人中的任一人都不能投球投的很好但他們有傑出的投中率,因為他們沒有強迫地做且二人都不能彈跳地非常好,但他們維持好的位置所以他們彈跳了很好。他們記得每一個射球,他們假設會失誤我有太多的球員站在一旁等著看會不會失誤然後他們投球,然太晚了某些人在他們前面他們不是很快,但他們打了好的位置維持在好的平衡因此他們為我們打了很好的防守所以他們有品質 — 他們幾乎接近 —接近到他們所有潛力的所有可能是我曾有過的球員之最所以我認為他們是成功的路易斯.阿爾辛多或比爾.華頓,或很多我們有過的 — 有一些卓越的 — 有些卓越的球員 我談了夠多了吧？我被告知當他出現時, 我應該要閉嘴了。 （笑聲）（掌聲）"
