Talk	en	zh-tw
john_legend_redemption_song	"At Free America, we've done a listening and learning tour. We visited not only with prosecutors but with legislators, with inmates in our state and local prisons. We've gone to immigration detention centers. We've met a lot of people. And we've seen that redemption and transformation can happen in our prisons, our jails and our immigration detention centers, giving hope to those who want to create a better life after serving their time. Imagine if we also considered the front end of this prison pipeline. What would it look like if we intervened, with rehabilitation as a core value — with love and compassion as core values? We would have a society that is safer, healthier and worthy of raising our children in. I want to introduce you to James Cavitt. James served 12 years in the San Quentin State Prison and is being released in 18 months. Now James, like you and me, is more than the worst thing he's done. He is a father, a husband, a son, a poet. He committed a crime; he's paying his debt, and working hard to build the skills to make the transition back to a productive life when he enters the civilian population again. Now James, like millions of people behind bars, is an example of what happens if we believe that our failings don't define who we are, that we are all worthy of redemption and if we support those impacted by mass incarceration, we can all heal together. I'd like to introduce you to James right now, and he's going to share his journey of redemption through spoken word. James Cavitt: Thanks, John. TED, welcome to San Quentin. The talent is abundant behind prison walls. Future software engineers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, musicians and artists. This piece is inspired by all of the hard work that men and women are doing on the inside to create better lives and futures for themselves after they serve their time. This piece is entitled, ""Where I Live."" I live in a world where most people are too afraid to go. Surrounded by tall, concrete walls, steel bars, where razor wire have a way of cutting away at the hopes for a brighter tomorrow. I live in a world that kill people who kill people in order to teach people that killing people is wrong. Imagine that. Better yet, imagine a world where healed people helped hurt people heal and become strong. Maybe then we would all be singin' ""Redemption Song."" I live in a world that has been called ""hell on Earth"" by those trapped inside. But I've come to the stark realization that prison — it really is what you make it. You see, in spite of the harshness of my reality, there is a silver lining. I knew that my freedom was gonna come, it was just a matter of time. And so I treated my first steps as if they were my last mile, and I realized that you don't have to be free in order to experience freedom. And just because you're free, doesn't mean that you have freedom. Many of us, for years, have been battling our inner demons. We walk around smiling when inside we're really screamin': freedom! Don't you get it? We're all serving time; we're just in different places. As for me, I choose to be free from the prisons I've created. The key: forgiveness. Action's my witness. If we want freedom, then we gotta think different. Because freedom ... it isn't a place. It's a mind setting. Thank you. (Applause) (Piano) John Legend: Old pirates, yes, they rob I. Sold I to the merchant ships. Minutes after they took I from the bottomless pit. My hands were made strong by the hand of the almighty. We forward in this generation triumphantly. Won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'Cause all I ever had — redemption songs. Redemption songs. Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery. None but ourselves can free our minds. Have no fear for atomic energy 'cause none of them can stop the time. How long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look? Some say it's just a part of it, we've got to fulfill the book. Won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'Cause all I ever had — redemption songs. Redemption songs. (Piano) Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery. None but ourselves can free our minds. Have no fear for atomic energy 'cause none of them can stop the time. How long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look? Some say it's just a part of it, we've got to fulfill the book. Won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'Cause all I ever had — redemption songs. Redemption songs. These songs of freedom. 'Cause all I ever had — redemption songs. Redemption songs. Redemption songs. (Piano) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	在自由的美國，我們經歷了一段充滿著聆聽和學習的旅途。我們不僅拜訪了公訴人，以及立法者，還有我們州或當地的監獄的囚犯。我們也造訪了移民拘留所。我們會見了許多人。我們也觀察到，在我們的監獄和移民拘留所裡，人的救贖和轉變是可以發生的，這也給了那些在服刑之後想創造更好生活的人以希望。這也給了那些在服刑之後想創造更好生活的人以希望。 想像一下，如果我們也設身處地地為這監獄的一角好好想想，如果我們以協助為核心價值、以愛和同情為核心價值，參與到其中來，如果我們以協助為核心價值、以愛和同情為核心價值，參與到其中來，這一切將會發生怎樣的改變？我們就會有一個更安全、更健康、更適合兒童成長的社會。 我想向你們介紹詹姆斯·卡韋特。詹姆斯在聖昆丁州立監獄服刑了12年，將會在18個月後釋放。現在，詹姆斯就像你和我一樣，已經不是從前的那個壞蛋了。他是一位父親，一位丈夫，一個兒子，一個詩人。他曾犯過罪；正在償還自己所虧欠的，努力工作掌握新的技藝向富有成效的生活轉變，當他又一次成為城市居民的時候。 現在，詹姆斯就像無數獄中的人一樣，是一個典型的例子。如果我們相信，我們的失敗並不能確定我們是什麼樣的人相信我們每個人有救贖的意義，並且如果我們能支持那些被大面積關押的人，我們都能癒合傷痕，變得堅強。 現在我想向你們介紹詹姆斯，他會一字一句，講述他自我救贖的歷程。他會一字一句，講述他自我救贖的歷程。 （詹姆斯·卡韋特：）謝謝，約翰。TED，歡迎來到聖昆丁州立監獄。獄牆難掩眾人才華：未來的軟件工程師，企業家，手工藝人，音樂家，和藝術家。這首詩的靈感來自與監獄裡所有人的艱苦努力——這首詩的靈感來自與監獄裡所有人的艱苦努力——為了在他們服刑期滿之後，為自己創造更好的生活和未來而作出的努力。為了在他們服刑期滿之後，為自己創造更好的生活和未來而作出的努力。 這首詩的標題是《我生活的地方》。 我住在一個大多數人恐懼而不涉足的世界。被高大的、鋼筋水泥牆，鐵柱包圍著。在那裡，鐵絲網切斷了通往光明未來的路。在那裡，鐵絲網切斷了通往光明未來的路。 我住在一個這樣的世界：殺害那些殺人犯，而僅僅只是為了教育人們：殺人是錯誤的。殺害那些殺人犯，而僅僅只是為了教育人們：殺人是錯誤的。殺害那些殺人犯，而僅僅只是為了教育人們：殺人是錯誤的。能想像嗎？ 在更好的世界裡，想像一下吧，從傷痛中痊癒的人們幫助受傷的人們康復，並且變得更加堅強。想像一下吧，從傷痛中痊癒的人們幫助受傷的人們康復，並且變得更加堅強。也許那時，我們會一起唱響「救贖之歌」。 我所生活的世界曾經被那些深陷其中的人們稱做「人間煉獄」。我所生活的世界曾經被那些深陷其中的人們稱做「人間煉獄」。但我突然明悟——那座監獄，是我們自己造就的。你知道，不管現實有多麼殘酷，光明總會到來。我一直知道我的自由會到來的。只是時間問題。所以我把我的啟程當作人生的最後行程來珍惜，我意識到，要體驗自由，不一定要無拘無束。我意識到，要體驗自由，不一定要無拘無束。 有時，你感覺不受拘束，但卻並不意味著你擁有自由。這些年裡，我們很多人都與內心的魔鬼鬥爭過。我們四處行走，帶著微笑，心中卻在咆哮：自由！ 明白嗎？我們都在服刑；只是在不同的地方而已。對於我，我選擇在思想的牢籠裡創造自由。要點就是：寬恕。行動證明一切。如果我們想要自由，我們就要換一種方式思考。因為自由……它不是一個地方。它是一種精神狀態。 謝謝你。 （掌聲） （鋼琴演奏） （約翰·傳奇：）老海盜們，對，他們打劫了我。把我賣到了貨船上，就在他們從那個無盡的深坑裡帶走我的幾分鐘後。就在他們從那個無盡的深坑裡帶走我的幾分鐘後。 我的手因為上帝之恩，變得有力。我的手因為上帝之恩，變得有力。我們在這一代前行，成功又自豪。 你不禁開始唱起那些關於自由的歌了嗎？因為我曾擁有的——那些救贖之歌。那些救贖之歌。 把自己從思想牢籠中解放。除了自己，沒有人能解放我們的思想。不懼任何力量，因為沒有什麼能停止時間。 他們殺害我們的先知要到幾時呢，當我們在一旁觀望的時候？有些人說這只是一部分，我們還有很多事要做。 你不禁開始唱起那些關於自由的歌了嗎？因為我曾擁有的——那些救贖之歌。那些救贖之歌。 （鋼琴演奏） 把自己從思想牢籠中解放。除了自己，沒有人能解放我們的思想。不懼任何力量，因為沒有什麼能停止時間。 他們殺害我們的先知要到幾時呢，當我們在一旁觀望的時候？有些人說這只是一部分，我們還有很多事要做。 你不禁開始唱起那些關於自由的歌了嗎？因為我曾擁有的——那些救贖之歌。那些救贖之歌。那些關於自由的歌。 因為我曾擁有的——那些救贖之歌。那些救贖之歌。那些救贖之歌。 （鋼琴演奏） （掌聲） 謝謝你。 謝謝你。 （掌聲）
