Talk	en	zh-tw
john_maeda_how_art_technology_and_design_inform_creative_leaders	"I have to say that I'm very glad to be here. I understand we have over 80 countries here, so that's a whole new paradigm for me to speak to all of these countries. In each country, I'm sure you have this thing called the parent-teacher conference. Do you know about the parent-teacher conference? Not the ones for your kids, but the one you had as a child, where your parents come to school and your teacher talks to your parents, and it's a little bit awkward. Well, I remember in third grade, I had this moment where my father, who never takes off from work, he's a classical blue collar, a working-class immigrant person, going to school to see his son, how he's doing, and the teacher said to him, he said, ""You know, John is good at math and art."" And he kind of nodded, you know? The next day I saw him talking to a customer at our tofu store, and he said, ""You know, John's good at math."" (Laughter) And that always stuck with me all my life. Why didn't Dad say art? Why wasn't it okay? Why? It became a question my entire life, and that's all right, because being good at math meant he bought me a computer, and some of you remember this computer, this was my first computer. Who had an Apple II? Apple II users, very cool. (Applause) As you remember, the Apple II did nothing at all. (Laughter) You'd plug it in, you'd type in it and green text would come out. It would say you're wrong most of the time. That was the computer we knew. That computer is a computer that I learned about going to MIT, my father's dream. And at MIT, however, I learned about the computer at all levels, and after, I went to art school to get away from computers, and I began to think about the computer as more of a spiritual space of thinking. And I was influenced by performance art — so this is 20 years ago. I made a computer out of people. It was called the Human Powered Computer Experiment. I have a power manager, mouse driver, memory, etc., and I built this in Kyoto, the old capital of Japan. It's a room broken in two halves. I've turned the computer on, and these assistants are placing a giant floppy disk built out of cardboard, and it's put into the computer. And the floppy disk drive person wears it. (Laughter) She finds the first sector on the disk, and takes data off the disk and passes it off to, of course, the bus. So the bus diligently carries the data into the computer to the memory, to the CPU, the VRAM, etc., and it's an actual working computer. That's a bus, really. (Laughter) And it looks kind of fast. That's a mouse driver, where it's XY. (Laughter) It looks like it's happening kind of quickly, but it's actually a very slow computer, and when I realized how slow this computer was compared to how fast a computer is, it made me wonder about computers and technology in general. And so I'm going to talk today about four things, really. The first three things are about how I've been curious about technology, design and art, and how they intersect, how they overlap, and also a topic that I've taken on since four years ago I became the President of Rhode Island School of Design: leadership. And I'll talk about how I've looked to combine these four areas into a kind of a synthesis, a kind of experiment. So starting from technology, technology is a wonderful thing. When that Apple II came out, it really could do nothing. It could show text and after we waited a bit, we had these things called images. Remember when images were first possible with a computer, those gorgeous, full-color images? And then after a few years, we got CD-quality sound. It was incredible. You could listen to sound on the computer. And then movies, via CD-ROM. It was amazing. Remember that excitement? And then the browser appeared. The browser was great, but the browser was very primitive, very narrow bandwidth. Text first, then images, we waited, CD-quality sound over the Net, then movies over the Internet. Kind of incredible. And then the mobile phone occurred, text, images, audio, video. And now we have iPhone, iPad, Android, with text, video, audio, etc. You see this little pattern here? We're kind of stuck in a loop, perhaps, and this sense of possibility from computing is something I've been questioning for the last 10 or so years, and have looked to design, as we understand most things, and to understand design with our technology has been a passion of mine. And I have a small experiment to give you a quick design lesson. Designers talk about the relationship between form and content, content and form. Now what does that mean? Well, content is the word up there: fear. It's a four-letter word. It's a kind of a bad feeling word, fear. Fear is set in Light Helvetica, so it's not too stressful, and if you set it in Ultra Light Helvetica, it's like, ""Oh, fear, who cares?"" Right? (Laughter) You take the same Ultra Light Helvetica and make it big, and like, whoa, that hurts. Fear. So you can see how you change the scale, you change the form. Content is the same, but you feel differently. You change the typeface to, like, this typeface, and it's kind of funny. It's like pirate typeface, like Captain Jack Sparrow typeface. Arr! Fear! Like, aww, that's not fearful. That's actually funny. Or fear like this, kind of a nightclub typeface. (Laughter) Like, we gotta go to Fear. (Laughter) It's, like, amazing, right? (Laughter) (Applause) It just changes the same content. Or you make it — The letters are separated apart, they're huddled together like on the deck of the Titanic, and you feel sorry for the letters, like, I feel the fear. You feel for them. Or you change the typeface to something like this. It's very classy. It's like that expensive restaurant, Fear. I can never get in there. (Laughter) It's just amazing, Fear. But that's form, content. If you just change one letter in that content, you get a much better word, much better content: free. ""Free"" is a great word. You can serve it almost any way. Free bold feels like Mandela free. It's like, yes, I can be free. Free even light feels kind of like, ah, I can breathe in free. It feels great. Or even free spread out, it's like, ah, I can breathe in free, so easily. And I can add in a blue gradient and a dove, and I have, like, Don Draper free. (Laughter) So you see that — form, content, design, it works that way. It's a powerful thing. It's like magic, almost, like the magicians we've seen at TED. It's magic. Design does that. And I've been curious about how design and technology intersect, and I'm going to show you some old work I never really show anymore, to give you a sense of what I used to do. So — yeah. So I made a lot of work in the '90s. This was a square that responds to sound. People ask me why I made that. It's not clear. (Laughter) But I thought it'd be neat for the square to respond to me, and my kids were small then, and my kids would play with these things, like, ""Aaah,"" you know, they would say, ""Daddy, aaah, aaah."" You know, like that. We'd go to a computer store, and they'd do the same thing. And they'd say, ""Daddy, why doesn't the computer respond to sound?"" And it was really at the time I was wondering why doesn't the computer respond to sound? So I made this as a kind of an experiment at the time. And then I spent a lot of time in the space of interactive graphics and things like this, and I stopped doing it because my students at MIT got so much better than myself, so I had to hang up my mouse. But in '96, I made my last piece. It was in black and white, monochrome, fully monochrome, all in integer mathematics. It's called ""Tap, Type, Write."" It's paying a tribute to the wonderful typewriter that my mother used to type on all the time as a legal secretary. It has 10 variations. (Typing noise) (Typing noise) There's a shift. Ten variations. This is, like, spin the letter around. (Typing noises) This is, like, a ring of letters. (Typing noises) This is 20 years old, so it's kind of a — Let's see, this is — I love the French film ""The Red Balloon."" Great movie, right? I love that movie. So, this is sort of like a play on that. (Typing noises) (Typewriter bell) It's peaceful, like that. (Laughter) I'll show this last one. This is about balance, you know. It's kind of stressful typing out, so if you type on this keyboard, you can, like, balance it out. (Laughter) If you hit G, life's okay, so I always say, ""Hit G, and it's going to be all right. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. So that was 20 years ago, and I was always on the periphery of art. By being President of RISD I've gone deep into art, and art is a wonderful thing, fine art, pure art. You know, when people say, ""I don't get art. I don't get it at all."" That means art is working, you know? It's like, art is supposed to be enigmatic, so when you say, like, ""I don't get it,"" like, oh, that's great. (Laughter) Art does that, because art is about asking questions, questions that may not be answerable. At RISD, we have this amazing facility called the Edna Lawrence Nature Lab. It has 80,000 samples of animal, bone, mineral, plants. You know, in Rhode Island, if an animal gets hit on the road, they call us up and we pick it up and stuff it. And why do we have this facility? Because at RISD, you have to look at the actual animal, the object, to understand its volume, to perceive it. At RISD, you're not allowed to draw from an image. And many people ask me, John, couldn't you just digitize all this? Make it all digital? Wouldn't it be better? And I often say, well, there's something good to how things used to be done. There's something very different about it, something we should figure out what is good about how we did it, even in this new era. And I have a good friend, he's a new media artist named Tota Hasegawa. He's based in London, no, actually it's in Tokyo, but when he was based in London, he had a game with his wife. He would go to antique shops, and the game was as such: When we look at an antique we want, we'll ask the shopkeeper for the story behind the antique, and if it's a good story, we'll buy it. So they'd go to an antique shop, and they'd look at this cup, and they'd say, ""Tell us about this cup."" And the shopkeeper would say, ""It's old."" (Laughter) ""Tell us more."" ""Oh, it's really old."" (Laughter) And he saw, over and over, the antique's value was all about it being old. And as a new media artist, he reflected, and said, you know, I've spent my whole career making new media art. People say, ""Wow, your art, what is it?"" It's new media. And he realized, it isn't about old or new. It's about something in between. It isn't about ""old,"" the dirt, ""new,"" the cloud. It's about what is good. A combination of the cloud and the dirt is where the action is at. You see it in all interesting art today, in all interesting businesses today. How we combine those two together to make good is very interesting. So art makes questions, and leadership is something that is asking a lot of questions. We aren't functioning so easily anymore. We aren't a simple authoritarian regime anymore. As an example of authoritarianism, I was in Russia one time traveling in St. Petersburg, at a national monument, and I saw this sign that says, ""Do Not Walk On The Grass,"" and I thought, oh, I mean, I speak English, and you're trying to single me out. That's not fair. But I found a sign for Russian-speaking people, and it was the best sign ever to say no. It was like, ""No swimming, no hiking, no anything."" My favorite ones are ""no plants."" Why would you bring a plant to a national monument? I'm not sure. And also ""no love."" (Laughter) So that is authoritarianism. And what is that, structurally? It's a hierarchy. We all know that a hierarchy is how we run many systems today, but as we know, it's been disrupted. It is now a network instead of a perfect tree. It's a heterarchy instead of a hierarchy. And that's kind of awkward. And so today, leaders are faced with how to lead differently, I believe. This is work I did with my colleague Becky Bermont on creative leadership. What can we learn from artists and designers for how to lead? Because in many senses, a regular leader loves to avoid mistakes. Someone who's creative actually loves to learn from mistakes. A traditional leader is always wanting to be right, whereas a creative leader hopes to be right. And this frame is important today, in this complex, ambiguous space, and artists and designers have a lot to teach us, I believe. And I had a show in London recently where my friends invited me to come to London for four days to sit in a sandbox, and I said great. And so I sat in a sandbox for four days straight, six hours every day, six-minute appointments with anyone in London, and that was really bad. But I would listen to people, hear their issues, draw in the sand, try to figure things out, and it was kind of hard to figure out what I was doing. You know? It's all these one-on-one meetings for like four days. And it felt kind of like being president, actually. I was like, ""Oh, this my job. President. I do a lot of meetings, you know?"" And by the end of the experience, I realized why I was doing this. It's because leaders, what we do is we connect improbable connections and hope something will happen, and in that room I found so many connections between people across all of London, and so leadership, connecting people, is the great question today. Whether you're in the hierarchy or the heterarchy, it's a wonderful design challenge. And one thing I've been doing is doing some research on systems that can combine technology and leadership with an art and design perspective. Let me show you something I haven't shown anywhere, actually. So what this is, is a kind of a sketch, an application sketch I wrote in Python. You know how there's Photoshop? This is called Powershop, and the way it works is imagine an organization. You know, the CEO isn't ever at the top. The CEO's at the center of the organization. There may be different subdivisions in the organization, and you might want to look into different areas. For instance, green are areas doing well, red are areas doing poorly. You know, how do you, as the leader, scan, connect, make things happen? So for instance, you might open up a distribution here and find the different subdivisions in there, and know that you know someone in Eco, over here, and these people here are in Eco, the people you might engage with as CEO, people going across the hierarchy. And part of the challenge of the CEO is to find connections across areas, and so you might look in R&D, and here you see one person who crosses the two areas of interest, and it's a person important to engage. So you might want to, for instance, get a heads-up display on how you're interacting with them. How many coffees do you have? How often are you calling them, emailing them? What is the tenor of their email? How is it working out? Leaders might be able to use these systems to better regulate how they work inside the heterarchy. You can also imagine using technology like from Luminoso, the guys from Cambridge who were looking at deep text analysis. What is the tenor of your communications? So these kind of systems, I believe, are important. They're targeted social media systems around leaders. And I believe that this kind of perspective will only begin to grow as more leaders enter the space of art and design, because art and design lets you think like this, find different systems like this, and I've just begun thinking like this, so I'm glad to share that with you. So in closing, I want to thank all of you for your attention. Thanks very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	我必須說我很高興站在這裡。我知道這裡有來自多於80個國家的朋友，這對我而言是個新體驗，我是說跟這麼多國家對話。 在你們的國家，你們也一定聽過家長教師會議這東西。你知道家長會嗎？不是你為了你子女出席的家長會，而是你小時候那種，你爸媽到學校和你的老師見面的家長會。老師會和你的父母說話，氣氛通常有點奇怪的。我記得在我三年級的時候，我永遠無法放下工作的爸爸﹣﹣他是個典型的藍領工人、移民，特地到學校去看看他的兒子（我）在學校的表現怎麼樣。然後我的老師跟他說：「你知道的，John的數學和美術科成績很好。」他還點頭了呢。但是第二天當我看到他在我們的豆腐店和一位客人說話時，他說：「嗯，John的數學不錯。」（笑聲） 我一直沒有忘記這件事。為什麼爸不提美術呢？美術不好嗎？這個「為什麼」一直留在我腦海裡。不過這也沒關係，因為「我數學很好」他買了一台電腦給我。你們其中部分人也許還記得那種很久以前的電腦，那是我的第一台電腦。有人曾經擁有過一台蘋果2號電腦嗎？蘋果2號用家很酷喔。（掌聲）你也許還記得，蘋果2號其實沒多少功能。你可以插上電源，打字，然後一堆綠色的字會在屏幕上出現。它通常會說「你錯了」。那就是我們以前認識的電腦。那是我上學時研究的電腦我上的是麻省理工學院，那是我爸的夢想。但是在學校，我學到了各式各樣的電腦相關知識，之後卻為了逃離電腦跑去讀美術學校。然後我開始想，其實電腦這玩意兒為我們提供了一個思考的空間。而且因為我受到表演藝術的影響﹣﹣請記得這是二十年前的事了﹣﹣我用「人」造了一部「電腦」。這個作品就叫做「人力電腦實驗」。這包括了一個電源管理、滑鼠驅動程式、記憶體等等。我是在日本的古都﹣﹣京都做這個實驗的。我把一個房間切割為兩部分。我會啟動這台「電腦」，而這些助手們正在把一個巨大的磁碟(floppy disk)這個用紙板造的磁碟會被放返「電腦」裡面。而扮演磁碟的人會把它掛在身上。（笑聲）她會拿出磁碟的其中一部分，然後交給，嗯，當然是交給傳送資訊的巴士(bus，電路板上的一條線)。而巴士會把資料送到電腦的記憶體，到中央處理器(CPU)，再到視頻記憶體(VRAM)等部分。這真的是一部可以運作的電腦。喔，那也是一部真正的巴士。（笑聲）而且這看起來還挺快的。這是滑鼠驅動程式，就是有Ｘ和Ｙ。（笑聲）這看起來運行得很快，但其實這是一部很慢的電腦，而當我發現以前的電腦和現在的電腦比到底有多慢的時候，我開始思考關於電腦和科技的問題。 而我今天的演講是關於四件事的，只是四件事。頭三件事物是我一直很有興趣的，包括科技、設計、藝術，和這三者之間的關係，它們如何重叠，還有最後一個主題：自從四年前我成為羅德島設計學院院長之後一直在想的﹣﹣領導力。我也會談到我怎樣嘗試把這四個東西結合起來變成一個組織、一個實驗。 先從科技開始說起，科技真是個美妙的東西。蘋果2號剛面世時，它的功能真的不多。它只能顯示一些文字改良以後才能顯示圖像。還記不記得當圖像第一次出面在電腦屏幕上﹣﹣那些彩色的、美麗的圖像？幾年後，我們便有了具CD質素的音效。這真是奇妙，在電腦上播放聲音呢！然後有了燒錄在CD上的電影。真的太神奇了。還記得那種興奮感嗎？然後我們有了瀏覽器，它真的很棒，但是當時的瀏覽器還是很粗糙的，網速也很慢。文字，再來是圖像，我們等了很久才等到CD質素的聲音在網上出現，然後才有網上電影。不得不說這還挺厲害的。之後我們發明了手提電話，文字、圖像、聲音、影片。現在我們有了iPhone，iPad, Android，文字短訊、影片甚麼的都有了。你看到這其中的模式了嗎？我們好像被困在一個特定模式裡面了，也許這就是我為什麼在過去十年來一直在疑惑電腦帶來的可能性到底是甚麼，而我轉向從設計中尋找答案，而從科技的角度了解設計一向是我的興趣之一。我有個小實驗可以讓你體驗一下設計是怎樣的。 設計師說的「形式和內容」、「內容和形式」之間的關係。這到底代表什麼？是這樣的，內容是這個字：恐懼。這個字只有4個字母，它是個不怎麼好的詞，恐懼嘛。當這個詞用上Light Helvetica字型，看起來不會那麼有壓迫感。如果你用Ultra Light Helvetica，看了之後可能會覺得，「喔，只是惡懼而已啦！」對不對？（笑聲）用同樣的字型但把它放大，然後它就變成「哇，恐懼喔，會痛吧」這樣你可以看到只要改變字的大小，你就可以改變它的形態。內容是一樣的，但感覺完全不一樣了。你改變字型，譬如把它變成這種字型，它看起來就會變得有點好笑。看起來像海盜的字型，像傑克船長寫的字。「喔喔！恐懼！」好吧，這聽起來一點也不恐怖，反而還有點搞笑。也可以用這種像夜店招牌的字型。（笑聲）好像在說「來，我們一定要去『恐懼』！」（笑聲）也好像說這很酷，對不對？（笑聲）（掌聲）改變字型就改變了相同內容帶出的感覺。你也可以改變字之間的距離，把它們弄成像在泰坦尼克號甲板上抱成一團，你真的會感覺到那種恐懼。你真的會被觸動。你也可以把字型變成這種。這字型很經典。就好像一間高級餐廳「恐懼」。我永遠也不會踏足那裡。（笑聲）這真的很奇妙。恐懼。但這就是形式，內容。 如果你只改變其中一個字母，你會得到一個很好的詞，比恐懼好很多的內容：自由。自由是個很好的詞。你幾乎可以把它用任何方式呈現。粗體的「自由」看起來像曼德拉的自由。好像在說，是的，我可以得到自由。而幼體的「自由」就好像在說，喔，我可以自由地呼吸呢。這樣感覺很好。如果把字距拉開，就變成，啊，我可以這麼輕易地自由呼吸呢。如果加上漸變藍和白鴿，就會變成Don Draper（廣告狂人）的「自由」。（笑聲）所以你看到了﹣﹣形式、設計，它是這麼運作的。它是很有力的。幾乎就像魔術一樣，像我們在TED看到的魔術師一樣神奇。這是魔術。設計可以做到這些事。 而我很好奇設計和科技是怎樣互相影響的，我會把一些我幾乎不再公開展示的舊作品給你們看看，讓你了解一下我以前是做甚麼的。所以嗯，我在九零年代做了很多作品。這是一個會對聲音作反應的正方形。其他人會問我為什麼要做這個。我也不是很確定。（笑聲）但我覺得正方形這樣給我反應是一件很酷的事，而當時我的孩子還小，他們會玩這些東西，「啊呀」你知道的，他們會說「啊呀，爸爸，啊啊」就像這樣。我們會去電腦用品店，他們會做同樣的事。他們會問「爸爸，為什麼這個電腦對聲音沒有反應？」那是我第一次認真去想為甚麼電腦不會對聲音作出反應？所以我做了這樣一個實驗。 然後我花了很多時間研究圖像和類似的東西，然後我停止了這麼做因為我在麻省理工學院的學生比我做得好太多了，所以我要放下我的滑鼠了。但在1996年我做了最後一個作品。它是黑白的，單色的，完全是單色的，只有整數數字。它叫做「按鈕、打字、書寫」(Tap, Type, Write)。這是向我母親的打字機致敬的作品，我母親是位法律文員，她以前總是用它來打法律文件。它有10種不同形態。（打字聲）（打字聲）這是空白鍵。10種變化。看，這是把字母翻轉。（打字聲）這是個字母圈。（打字聲）這已經20歲大了，它有點像﹣﹣嗯，看看這個﹣﹣我很喜歡一部法國電影，《紅氣球》很棒的電影，對嗎？我很愛那部電影。所以這就像是那裡面的一幕。（打字聲）聽起來很平和。像這樣。（笑聲）這會是最後一個。這是關於平衡的。這樣打出來很有壓力，所以如果你在這個鍵盤上打字，你可以平衡一下。（笑聲）如果你打G，這還過得去，我常常這麼說的，「打G吧，一切都會沒問題的。」謝謝。（掌聲）謝謝。 所以這是20年前的事了，而我一直在藝術的邊緣徘徊。但在羅德島設計學院當院長讓我對藝術有更深入的認識，藝術真是一件美好的東西。純藝術。你知道，當人們說「我不明白藝術，我完全不明白。」你知道嗎？這表示藝術成功了。這就好像在說藝術應該是深奧難懂的，所以當你說「我不明白」的時候，喔，那很好。（笑聲）藝術就是有這樣的功能，因為藝術是應該提出一些問題的，有些問題甚至無人能夠回答。 在羅德島設計學院，我們有個很棒的地方叫做Edna Lawrenece自然實驗室。裡面有80,000個動物、骨頭、礦物、植物的樣本。你知道的，在羅德島上，如果有動物不小心被車撞到，開車的人會打電話給我們，我們就會去把牠拿回來製成標本。 我們為甚麼要這樣做呢？因為在我們學院，你要看到實物（真正的動物），去了解牠的大小，去觀察牠。在我們學院你不能只看著照片畫畫。很多人問我，John，為什麼你不把這些都數碼化呢？那樣不會比較好嗎？而我常常說，嗯，傳統的方法總是有它的好處。這是很不一樣的，是我們應該去思考該怎麼做的事，即使在這個新世紀也是一樣。我有個好朋友，他是一位新媒體藝術家，他叫做長谷川踏太。他一般在倫敦，喔不，在東京工作。但當他在倫敦的時候，他會和他的妻子玩一個遊戲。他會去古董店，這個遊戲是這樣玩的：當我們看到一件想要的古董，我們會問店主它背後的故事，如果故事是好的，我們會買。所以有一次他們去古董店時看到一只杯，問店主「可以跟我們說說這只杯嗎？」然後店主只回答，「喔，它很老了。」（笑聲）「說多一點吧。」「喔，它真的很老。」（笑聲）然後一次又一次，他看到古董的價值似乎就是在於它在多老。但是作為一個新媒體藝術家，他反思後說，我花了一輩子做新媒體藝術。人們都說「哇，你的藝術喔，在哪兒？」新媒體就是這樣。然後他了解其實重點不是東西有多老或多新。重要是的中間的東西。這不是「老」或「泥土」或「新」或「雲端」的問題。重點是東西好不好。結合雲端和泥土才是行動所在。你可以在現代所有有趣的藝術中看到，在所有有趣的生意中看到。我們如何結合這兩者來造一些好東西是很有趣的。 所以藝術是會問問題的，領導力是一種問問題的能力。我們的思考不再像以往一樣簡單了。我們不再是個簡單的組織。說到權威主義這東西，我曾經去過俄羅斯聖彼德堡，在一個國家紀念碑前我看到一個告示牌說「請勿在草地上行走。」我想，嗯，我看得懂英語，所以你是在把我劃分開來嗎？這不公平。但是我找到一個給俄語人士看的告示，這是最適合向之說不的告示。它是這麼寫的：「不準游泳，不準登高，不準做任何事。」我最喜歡的是「不準攜帶植物」，誰要帶植物去看紀念碑呢？我真的不清楚。還有「不準愛」。（笑聲）所以這就是權威主義。如果從結構來看，權威主義是甚麼？它是一個等級制度。我們都知道這是今天許多組織運作的方式。但我們同時也知道，這已經和以前的制度不一樣了。現在樹型組織被網絡所取代。現在的組織多是層層相叠而不再階級分明。這有一點奇怪。 所以今天的領袖都得面對一個問題﹣﹣如何隨時代改變領袖風格。我是我和一位同事Becky Bermont做的關於創意領導力的研究。我們可以從藝術家和設計師身上學到甚麼嗎？因為正常的領袖通常會避免犯錯。但有創意的人卻很喜歡從錯誤中學習。傳統的領袖常常努力迫使自己把事情做對，但一個有創意的領袖通常只是希望自己做對而已。這樣的思考方式變得愈來愈重要，因為在這個時代，很多事情變得模糊、難以掌控，因此我相信我們可以向藝術家和設計師學到很多。 而我最近參加了倫敦的一個展覽，我的朋友邀我去在沙盒中坐四天，我說好啊。所以我在沙盒中坐了整整四天，每天六小時，無數個和倫敦陌生人的六分鐘會面，那真的很糟。但是我會聽這些人說話，聽他們的煩惱，在沙上寫字，嘗試幫他們看清問題，但我卻不太清楚我在做的是甚麼。你知道那是怎樣的感覺嗎？和陌生人一對一的對談，持續四天。其實感覺有點像變成總統似的。我想「嗯，這是我的工作。總統。我要開很多的會，對吧？」在這個體驗的結尾，我突然理解我在做的是甚麼。因為身為領袖，我們在做的就是把看似互不相關的東西連結起來，然後希望某些事情會發生，而在那個空間裡，我找到許多倫敦人之間的連結，所以，領導力這東西怎樣把人連結起來，就是今天我們該思考的問題。無論你身處的組織是層層分明還是較鬆散的網絡形式，這會是一個美妙的挑戰。 而我正在做的一項研究是關於能把科技和領導力結合的系統，而這些系統是帶有藝術及設計元素的。現在來看看一個我從沒公開演示過的東西。這是一個很初步的草圖，我用Python（一種程式語言）寫的。你知道Photoshop是怎樣的嗎？這叫做Powershop，它是一個假想的組織圖。在這個組織裡，CEO不是在最上層的。CEO是在組織的中心。組織裡可能有不同的小組，你也可以看看這些領域有甚麼不同。譬如，綠色的部分是做得出色的，紅色的部分需要改善。而你作為一個領袖，該怎樣觀看全局，連結不同部分，讓事情能夠順利進行？假設你開設一個銷售部門，這衍生了一些更小的部門。而你知道你認識在Eco工作的人，而且這些在Eco工作的人，這些你以CEO身份認識的人，他們並不屬於分層結構的一員。而身為CEO的其中一個考驗就是找到各個領域的連結，所以你看向研發部門你找到一個涉足這兩個領域的人這就是你該找的人了。你可以看看你和他有過怎樣的交流。你們一起喝過多少次咖啡？你通常隔多久給他們打一次電話或發一個電郵？他們電郵的主旨是甚麼？有好好表達他們要說的話嗎？領袖可以用這些系統來控制他們在組織內的工作和角色。你也可以嘗試用Luminoso科技（讓電腦了解你在說甚麼的科技）這些劍橋學者研究的是深層次的文字分析。你通訊的主旨是甚麼？ 所以我相信這樣的系統是很重要的。它們是領袖可用的、目標精準的社交媒體。而我相信這種視野會隨著領袖了解藝術及設計而變得愈來愈普遍，因為藝術及設計會讓你思考方式變得不一樣，找到類似的系統，而我正開始以這種方式思考，所以很高興能和你分享。在結尾前我想謝謝你們每一位專心聽我的演講。非常感謝。（掌聲）（掌聲）
