Talk	en	zh-tw
john_delaney_wiring_an_interactive_ocean	"For a moment, what I need to do is project something on the screen of your imagination. We're in 17th century Japan on the west coast, and a little, wizened monk is hurrying along, near midnight, to the crest of a small hill. He arrives on the small hill, dripping with water. He stands there, and he looks across at the island, Sado. And he scans across the ocean, and he looks at the sky. Then he says to himself, very quietly, ""[Turbulent the sea,] [Stretching across to Sado] [The Milky Way]."" Basho was a brilliant man. He said more with less than any human that I have ever read or talked to. Basho, in 17 syllables, juxtaposed a turbulent ocean driven by a storm now past, and captured the almost impossible beauty of our home galaxy with millions of stars, probably hundreds and hundreds of — who knows how many — planets, maybe even an ocean that we will probably call Sylvia in time. As he was nearing his death, his disciples and followers kept asking him, ""What's the secret? How can you make haiku poems so beautiful so easily?"" And toward the end, he said, ""If you would know the pine tree, go to the pine tree."" That was it. (Laughter) Sylvia has said we must use every capacity we have in order to know the oceans. If we would know the oceans, we must go to the oceans. And what I'd like to talk to you today about, a little bit, is really transforming the relationship, or the interplay, between humans and oceans with a new capability that is not at all routine yet. I hope it will be. There are a few key points. One of them is the oceans are central to the quality of life on earth. Another is that there are bold, new ways of studying oceans that we have not used well yet. And the last is that these bold, new ways that we are exploring as a community will transform the way we look at our planet, our oceans, and eventually how we manage probably the entire planet, for what it's worth. So what scientists do when they begin is to start with the system. They define what the system is. The system isn't Chesapeake Bay. It's not the Kuril arc. It's not even the entire Pacific. It's the whole planet, the entire planet, continents and oceans together. That's the system. And basically, our challenge is to optimize the benefits and mitigate the risks of living on a planet that's driven by only two processes, two sources of energy, one of which is solar, that drives the winds, the waves, the clouds, the storms and photosynthesis. The second one is internal energy. And these two war against one another almost continuously. Mountain ranges, plate tectonics, moves the continents around, forms ore deposits. Volcanoes erupt. That's the planet that we live on. It's immensely complex. Now I don't expect all of you to see all the details here, but what I want you to see is this is about 10 percent of the processes that operate within the oceans almost continuously, and have for the last 4 billion years. This is a system that's been around a very long time. And these have all co-evolved. What do I mean by that? They interact with one another constantly. All of them interact with one another. So the complexity of this system that we're looking at, the one driven by the sun — upper portion, mostly — and the lower portion is partly driven by the input from heat below and by other processes. This is very, very important because this is the system, this is the crucible, out of which life on the planet came, and it's now time for us to understand it. We must understand it. That's one of the themes that Sylvia reminds us about: understand this ocean of ours, this basic life support system, the dominant life support system on the planet. Look at this complexity here. This is only one variable. If you can see the complexity, you can see how tiny, little eddies and large eddies and the motion — this is just sea surface temperature, but it's immensely complicated. Now a layer in, the other two or three hundred processes that are all interacting, partly as a function of temperature, partly as a function of all the other factors, and you've got a really complicated system. That's our challenge, is to understand, understand this system in new and phenomenal ways. And there's an urgency to this. Part of the urgency comes from the fact that, of order, a billion people on the planet currently are undernourished or starving. And part of the issue is for Cody — who's here, 16 years old — and I have permission to relay this number. When he, 40 years from now, is the age of Nancy Brown, there are going to be another two and a half billion people on the planet. We can't solve all the problems by looking only at the oceans, but if we don't understand the fundamental life support system of this planet much more thoroughly than we do now, then the stresses that we will face, and that Cody will face, and even Nancy, who's going to live till she's 98, will have really problems coping. All right, let's talk about another perspective on the importance of the oceans. Look at this diagram, which is showing warm waters in red, cool waters in blue, and on the continents, what you're seeing in bright green, is the growth of vegetation, and in olive green, the dieback of vegetation. And in the lower left hand corner there's a clock ticking away from 1982 to 1998 and then cycling again. What you'll see is that the rhythms of growth, of vegetation — a subset of which is food on the continents — is directly tied to the rhythms of the sea surface temperatures. The oceans control, or at least significantly influence, correlate with, the growth patterns and the drought patterns and the rain patterns on the continents. So people in Kansas, in a wheat field in Kansas, need to understand that the oceans are central to them as well. Another complexity: this is the age of the oceans. I'm going to layer in on top of this the tectonic plates. The age of the ocean, the tectonic plates, gives rise to a totally new phenomenon that we have heard about in this conference. And I share with you some very high-definition video that we collected in real time. Seconds after this video was taken, people in Beijing, people in Sydney, people in Amsterdam, people in Washington D.C. were watching this. Now you've heard of hydrothermal vents, but the other discovery is that deep below the sea floor, there is vast reservoir of microbial activity, which we have only just discovered and we have almost no way to study. Some people have estimated that the biomass tied up in these microbes living in the pours and the cracks of the sea floor and below rival the total amount of living biomass at the surface of the planet. It's an astonishing insight, and we have only found out about this recently. This is very, very exciting. It may be the next rainforest, in terms of pharmaceuticals. We know little or nothing about it. Well, Marcel Proust has this wonderful saying that, ""The real voyage of discovery consists not so much in seeking new territory, but possibly in having new sets of eyes,"" new ways of seeing things, a new mindset. And many of you remember the early stages of oceanography, when we had to use what we had at our fingertips. And it wasn't easy. It wasn't easy in those days. Some of you remember this, I'm sure. And now, we have an entire suite of tools that are really pretty powerful — ships, satellites, moorings. But they don't quite cut it. They don't quite give us what we need. And the program that I wanted to talk to you about just a little bit here, was funded, and it involves autonomous vehicles like the one running across the base of this image. Modeling: on the right hand side, there's a very complex computational model. On the left hand side, there's a new type of mooring, which I'll show you in just a second. And on the basis of several points, the oceans are complex, and they're central to the life on earth. They are changing rapidly, but not predictably. And the models that we need to predict the future do not have enough data to refine them. The computational power is amazing. But without data, those models will never ever be predicted. And that's what we really need. For a variety of reasons they're dangerous, but we feel that OOI, this Ocean Observatory Initiative, which the National Science Foundation has begun to fund, has the potential to really transform things. And the goal of the program is to launch an era of scientific discovery and understanding across and within the ocean basins, utilizing widely accessible, interactive telepresence. It's a new world. We will be present throughout the volume of the ocean, at will, communicating in real time. And this is what the system involves, a number of sites in the southern hemisphere, shown in those circles. And in the northern hemisphere there are four sites. I won't talk a lot about most of them right here, but the one on the west coast, that's in the box, is called the regional scale nodes. It was once called Neptune. And let me show you what's behind it. Fiber: next-generation way of communicating. You can see the copper tips on these things. You can transmit power, but the bandwidth is in those tiny, little threads smaller than the hair on your head in diameter. And this particular set here can transmit something of the order of three to five terabits per second. This is phenomenal bandwidth. And this is what the planet looks like. We are already laced up as if we're in a fiber optic corset, if you like. This is what it looks like. And the cables go really continent to continent. It's a very powerful system, and most of our communications consist of it. So this is the system that I'm talking about, off the west coast. It's coincident with the tectonic plate, the Juan de Fuca tectonic plate. And it's going to deliver abundant power and unprecedented bandwidth across this entire volume — in the overlying ocean, on the sea floor and below the sea floor. Bandwidth and power and a wide variety of processes that will be operating. This is what one of those primary nodes looks like, and it's like a sub station with power and bandwidth that can spread out over an area the size of Seattle. And the kind of science that can be done will be determined by a variety of scientists who want to be involved and can bring the instrumentation to the table. They will bring it and link it in. It'll be, in a sense, like having time on a telescope, except you'll have your own port. Climate change, ocean acidification, dissolved oxygen, carbon cycle, coastal upwelling, fishing dynamics — the full spectrum of earth science and ocean science simultaneously in the same volume. So anyone coming along later simply accesses the database and can draw down the information they need about anything that has taken place. And this is just the first of these. In conjunction with our Canadian colleagues, we've set this up. Now I want to take you into the caldera. On the left hand side there is a large volcano called Axial Seamount. And we're going to go down into the Axial Seamount using animation. Here's what this system is going to look like that we are funded to build at this point. Very powerful. That's an elevator that's constantly moving up and down, but it can be controlled by the folks on land who are responsible for it. Or they can transfer control to someone in India or China who can take over for a while, because it's all going to be directly connected through the Internet. There will be massive amounts of data flowing ashore, all available to anyone who has any interest in using it. This is going to be much more powerful than having a single ship in a single location, then move to a new location. We're flying across the caldera floor. There is a number of robotic systems. There's cameras that can be turned on and off at your will, if those are your experiments. The kinds of systems that will be down there, the kinds of instruments that will be on the sea floor, consist of — if you can read them there — there's cameras, there's pressure sensors, fluorometers, there's seismometers. It's a full spectrum of tools. Now, that mound right there actually looks like this. This is what it actually looks like. And this is the kind of activity that we can see with high-definition video, because the bandwidth of these cables is so huge that we could have five to 10 stereo HD systems running continuously and, again, directed through robotic techniques from land. Very, very powerful. And these are the things that we're funded to do today. So what can we actually do tomorrow? We're about to ride the wave of technological opportunity. There are emerging technologies throughout the field around oceanography, which we will incorporate into oceanography, and through that convergence, we will transform oceanography into something even more magical. Robotics systems are just incredible these days, absolutely incredible. And we will be bringing robotics of all sorts into the ocean. Nanotechnology: this is a small generator. It's smaller than a postage stamp, and it can generate power just by being attached to your shirt as you move. Just as you move, it generates power. There are many kinds of things that can be used in the ocean, continuously. Imaging: Many of you know a good deal more about this type of thing than I, but stereo imaging at four times the definition that we have in HD will be routine within five years. And this is the magic one. As a result of the human genome process, we are in a situation where events that take place in the ocean — like an erupting volcano, or something of that sort — can actually be sampled. We pump the fluid through one of these systems, and we press the button, and it's analyzed for the genomic character. And that's transmitted back to land immediately. So in the volume of the ocean, we will know, not just the physics and the chemistry, but the base of the food chain will be transparent to us with data on a continuous basis. Grid computing: the power of grid computers is going to be just amazing here. We will soon be using grid computing to do pretty much everything, like adjust the data and everything that goes with the data. The power generation will come from the ocean itself. And the next generation fiber will be simply magic. It's far beyond what we currently have. So the presence of the power and the bandwidth in the environment will allow all of these new technologies to converge in a manner that is just unprecedented. So within five to seven years, I see us having a capacity to be completely present throughout the ocean and have all of that connected to the Internet, so we can reach many, many folks. Delivering the power and the bandwidth into the ocean will dramatically accelerate adaptation. Here's an example. When earthquakes take place, massive amounts of these new microbes we've never seen before come out of the sea floor. We have a way of addressing that, a new way of addressing that. We've determined from the earthquake activity that you're seeing here that the top of that volcano is erupting, so we deploy the troops. What are the troops? The troops are the autonomous vehicles, of course. And they fly into the erupting volcano. They sample the fluids coming out of the sea floor during an eruption, which have the microbes that have never been to the surface of the planet before. They eject it to the surface where it floats, and it is picked up by an autonomous airplane, and it's brought back to the laboratory within 24 hours of the eruption. This is doable. All the pieces are there. A laboratory: many of you heard what happened on 9/7. Some doctors in New York City removed the gallbladder of a woman in France. We could do work on the sea floor that would be stunning, and it would be on live TV, if we have interesting things to show. So we can bring an entirely new telepresence to the world, throughout the ocean. This — I've shown you sea floor — but so the goal here is real time interaction with the oceans from anywhere on earth. It's going to be amazing. And as I go here, I just want to show you what we can bring into classrooms, and indeed, what we can bring into your pocket. Many of you don't think of this yet, but the ocean will be in your pocket. It won't be long. It won't be long. So let me leave you then with a few words from another poet, if you'll forgive me. In 1943, T.S. Eliot wrote the ""Four Quartets."" He won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1948. In ""Little Gidding"" he says — speaking I think for the human race, but certainly for the TED Conference and Sylvia — ""We shall not cease from exploration, and the end of all our exploring will be to arrive where we started and know the place for the first time, arrive through the unknown remembered gate where the last of earth left to discover is that which was the beginning. At the source of the longest river the voice of a hidden waterfall not known because not looked for, but heard, half heard in the stillness beneath the waves of the sea."" Thank you. (Applause)"	現在我要做的是讓你們想像出這樣一個畫面我們身處17世紀的日本在西海岸一個矮小、枯瘦的和尚在午夜匆忙地趕路要到一座小山的山頂去當他到達山上時汗流浹背他矗立在那兒環視著佐渡島他四顧海面，仰望星空輕聲對自己說“怒海涌銀河流來佐渡島”（荒海や 佐渡によこたふ 天の河）松尾芭蕉（日本著名的俳句師）是個偉大的人在我讀到過或看到過的文字中他能用最簡練的語言傳達出更多的東西芭蕉用17個音節列舉了風暴剛止後的洶湧大海並最大限度地把握了我們銀河家園的美麗之處裏面點綴了無數繁星還有成千上萬的-誰知道有多少呢-行星可能還有一片海洋在當時被稱為西利維亞（Sylvia）當他不久于人世的時候他的弟子和信徒不停追問他：“您有什麽秘訣嗎？您有什麽能力才能把俳句寫的如此簡單而又美麗？臨終前，他說：“欲知松先問松”僅此而已 （笑聲） 西利維亞說我們應該傾盡全力來瞭解海洋。如果我們想瞭解海洋，那我們必須走進海洋。今天想和大家聊的內容有部份是關於變革人類和海洋之間的關係或者說是相互作用用新的能力還不是常規的技術來實現我希望這能成真這是一些關鍵點其中一點是“海洋在地球生物的生活質量中占中心地位另一點是:用可靠又創新的方式來研究海洋而之前我們未曾使用過最後一點是：我們作為一個集體來使用這些開拓性的新方法來探索海洋將會改變我們看待我們的行星、我們的海洋的方式最終，無論如何還將影響我們管理整個星球的方式科學家們首先從這個系統開始他們對它下了定義這個系統不是切薩皮克灣也不是Caro Arc，甚至也不是整個太平洋它是整個行星整個地球，包括陸地和海洋那就是這個系統 基本上，我们所面臨的挑戰在於如何優化利益和減少住在一顆只靠兩種產能方式驅動的星球上的風險這兩種能量一個是太陽它帶來了風、潮汐、雲、風暴和光合作用另一種是內能這兩種能量互相抗衡互相影響著山脈，大陸板塊移動了大洲，形成礦層火山爆發我們就生活在這樣一顆星球上面臨極端複雜的環境 現在，不用所有人都看到這張圖裡所有的細節我想讓你們知道的是這個過程中大概有10%是發生在海洋裡它們幾乎不間斷地持續了40億年這個系統緣來已久它們在進化中協同作用什麼意思呢它們彼此之間持續地相互作用每個部份都和其他部份互相作用所以我們研究的正是這個系統的複雜性太陽推動的上部比較大的能量以及下面部分較小那一部份能量由地下熱能和其他產能方式驅動這個非常、非常重要因為這顆星球上的生命就出自這個系統，這個立方體現在是我們理解它的時候我們必須理解它這是西利維亞提醒我們的理解我們的海洋這個基本的生命支持系統地球上最重要的生命支持系統 看看這幅複雜的圖這裡只有一個變量如果你看得出它有多複雜如果你能看到這些小潮汐和大潮汐，還有它們的運動這僅是海洋的表面溫度但已經非常複雜現在加上一層其他兩百或三百種進程它們都互相作用著一部份受到溫度的影響，一部份受到其他因素的影響你就知道這個系統有多複雜了這也是我們理解的挑戰理解這個系統，以及它的非凡之處現在這點可是當務之急緊急的原因之一是這個星球上有十億人缺乏營養或在飢餓中這個問題有一部份是因為科迪他在現場16歲公開這個數字我是得到了許可的過了40年後當他和南希·布朗（攝影師）同齡時這個星球上將會增加另外25億人通過海洋，我們不能解決所有問題但如果我們對這個星球的基本生命支持系統不能理解的更透徹的話那我們將要面對的壓力科迪將會面對的壓力以及南希—她活到98歲時—面對的壓力就很棘手了 好了，讓我們談談另一方面海洋的重要性看看這張圖樣，上面紅色表示暖水區藍色表示冷水區在陸地區域，看見的亮綠色表示植物的生長深綠色，表示植物的頹敗左下角有一個時鐘在走動從1982年到1998年然後重頭開始你們所看見的是節奏植物—在陸地上的一個重要食物來源—的生長和海洋表面溫度的節奏是直接聯繫在一起的海洋控制或說是顯著的影響了陸地上植物的生長模式，旱季模式以及雨季的模式所以在肯薩斯州麥田裡的人們也必須理解海洋對他們來說至關重要另一個很複雜的是：海洋的年齡我要在上面放上一張地殼板塊的圖海洋的年齡，地殼板塊顯示出一個全新的現象在這個會議上我們也聽過了 我要和你們分享一段高清晰的視頻是我們實時收集的這個視頻一拍出來在北京的人在雪梨，在阿姆斯特丹的人在華盛頓的人們都能看到你們都知道溫泉但是另一個發現是海底深處存在含大量微生物的水池我們也是剛剛發現還無從下手研究有人估計那些生活在海底的瀑布和缝隙裡的微生物的生物量超過地球表面的所有生物量總量這個見解相當驚人是我們不久前才剛剛發現的這非常、非常振奮人心用製藥學的說法來比喻的話這就是下一個熱帶雨林對此我們知之甚少，或者可說一無所知 馬塞爾·普魯斯特曾說過一句妙語“真正的發現之旅不是發現新的世界而是擁有新的視野新的眼光新的角度很多人應該還記得海洋學發展初期的情況我們所擁有的工具極其有限那個時代非常艱難我知道這里有人還歷歷在目，我很確定現在，我們有了一整套工具它們非常好用—船隻，人造衛星，繫泊工具但它們的作用有限，并沒有給我們很多我們想要的東西 我這裡提到的只不過是已經投入資金研究的項目的冰山一角包括無人駕駛交通工具就像畫面底部移動的這個右邊是模型構建這是一個複雜的計算機模型左邊是一個新型的繫泊工具過一會我會展示給你們看基於這幾個要點海洋非常複雜，它們是地球生命的中心它們瞬息萬變，又不可預測我們用來進行預報的模型還沒有積累足夠的數據來完善計算機的力量是驚人的但沒有數據，這些模型也無法進行預測這是我們真正需要的由於各種各樣的原因，它們很危險但我們認為OOI海洋觀測站計劃（Ocean Observatory Initiative）它是由美國國家科學基金會主持開展的它具有改變現狀的可能這個項目的目標在於打開一個科學地探索、瞭解海洋盆地和其中奧妙的新紀元它充分利用互動式遠程監控技術這是一個嶄新的世界 我們將能任意呈現出海洋及實時進行交流這就是這個系統的內容這些圓圈劃出的是南半球的觀測點在北半球共有4個觀測點關於這個我今天不會說得很多但是西海岸上被格子框起來的那個叫做區域範圍節點它曾經被命名為海王星我來展示一下它裏面有什麽 光纖，新時代的傳輸方式你可以看到上面的銅接線端你可以輸送能量但這樣的帶寬就存在于直徑比頭髮絲還小的細線中這種特殊設計讓它能夠在每秒鐘內傳輸30-50兆的數據這樣的帶寬相當了不起這是我們的星球我們已經被串在了一起也可以說成我們都穿上了光纖織成的緊身衣這就是它的樣子光纜連接在大洲之間這個系統非常強大我們大多數聯繫方式都要依賴於它 這就是我說的系統在西海岸之外，和板塊構造的形狀是一致的就是胡安·德富卡板塊它傳輸了巨大的能量和空前的帶寬它跨越了整個海洋的空間海床上和海床之下帶寬和能量以及各種各樣的進程都可以執行這是其中一個節點的樣子看上去就像是一個處理能量和帶寬的變電站傳輸的能量足夠供給西雅圖大小的地區想做這種科研的話需要有許多各個領域的科學家參與研究這種設備才能被運用於實踐他們將使它運行起來并連接到系統中這就像使用望遠鏡一樣不過你將擁有自己的觀測點氣候變化，海洋酸化氧氣溶解碳循環，海域沿岸區涌升流漁業動態—地球和海洋科學地所有方面運行於同一時空中任何後來加入的人都可以很容易的進入數據庫取得自己需要的信息只要是發生過的事都可以輕易瞭解這隻是第一步和加拿大的學者一起，我們設計出了這個 現在，我要帶你們去火山口左手邊有一個巨大的火山，名叫Axial海丘我們要進到Axial海丘里去以動畫的形式這個系統將會是這個樣子我們準備在這裡投資建造非常強大這個電梯不斷地上上下下但它能從地面上控制由地面上的工作人員進行控制他們也能將控制權轉移給身在印度或者中國的人他們可以暫時進行控制因為它是直接連接到網路上的大量的數據流將會源源不絕地湧出所有有興趣的人都能使用它們這樣將比一艘單獨的船從一個地方移動到另一個地方的方式強力多了 我們掠過火山口的底部這裡有很多機械系統有些攝影機你可以隨意開關如果這是你在做的實驗的話它將會設置在那裡的系統將會安置在海床上的設備組成部件有—如果你看得出有攝影機，壓力探測器透視定位器，地震檢波器工具非常完備而那邊拱起來的地方實際上看起來是這個樣子的這是它真實的樣子像這種活動我們可以用高清視頻看到因為光纜的帶寬非常之大可以支持5到10臺立體聲高清系統持續工作這也是通過機械技術從陸地上進行操作的非常、非常強大這些事實我們今天正在做的 那明天我們又要做些什麽呢我們要如何利用技術化大潮提供的機會呢在海洋學周邊的領域都湧現出各種技術我們將把它們融合到海洋學中通過這種融合我們可以使海洋學變得更奇妙機械系統現在讓人難以置信真是難以置信我們將要將機器人技術全面引入海洋納米科技：這是一個小小的發電器比郵票還小只要別在T恤上別在T恤上隨著你的移動，就能發電海裡有很多東西都能持續使用攝影機：這裡的很多人都比我更瞭解這種東西但立體攝影的清晰度比目前的高清攝像要高四倍它們在五年里就會成為主流 這個東西則很神奇通過這個人類基因組分析的結果使我們能夠將發生在海裡的事情—比如火山噴發之類的—確實採樣下來我們用系統的一部份將液體抽上來然後按下按鍵它就能分析基因組特徵並馬上將結果傳回陸地上所有在海洋這個總體不只是物理學上或者化學上甚至食物鏈的最基礎情況通過這些源源不絕的數據對我們來說都能清晰化網格計算：網格計算機的力量在這裡是驚人的我們很快就會將網格計算運用在所有事情上，比如調整數據和與數據有關的任何事情供給的電能則來自於海洋自己在下一個時代，光纖將變得奇妙無比那將比我們目前所有的要強得多目前環境下的能源和帶寬可以讓所有的新技術以一種前所未有的方式整合起來 在5-7年內我可以預見我們將有能力監控整個海洋並將所有內容都連上網路我們可以聯繫很多、很多同伴傳入海中的能量和帶寬將會大幅度的上漲這裡有個例子發生地震時，不可計數的我們從未見過的微生物來到海面上我們有個方法給它們定位一個新的方法就像你看到的，我們從地震活動確定火山噴發的位置然後派出部隊什麽部隊？當然是無人駕駛工具了它們飛入噴發的火山對噴發時海床滲出的液體進行採樣當時那些微生物還沒到過這個星球的表面它們將微生物彈射到海面，漂浮在那裡然後被無人駕駛飛機搜集起來並在火山噴發的24小時內就帶回實驗室這完全可行。所有的步驟很清晰 實驗室：你們中有很多人應該聽說過9/7發生的事情一些紐約醫生從一個在法國的女人的身體裡上取出了膽囊我們在海底的作業時讓人瞠目結舌的如果有什麽趣事發生它會出現在電視轉播上通過海洋，我們將一個嶄新的遠程呈現展示給了全世界這個—我之前給你們看過海底但目標其實是要在實時和地球上的任何一片海洋互動這將會很了不起 我到這裡來是想展示我們能把什麽內容帶到課堂上來事實上，我們也能將它放到你的口袋裡你們很多人還沒有想到這些但海洋將會被裝進口袋這不會很久了，不會很久了 你們若不介意，讓我留給你們一些句子來自另一個詩人1943年T·S·艾略特寫了四個四重奏他在1948年獲得了諾貝爾文學獎在“小吉丁”一章，他說—我想起這段話是因為人類當然也是爲了TED和西維利亞“我們將不停止探索而我們一切探索的終點將是到達我們出發的地方將是達到我們出發的地方當時間的終極優待我們去發現穿過那未認識的，憶起的大門就是過去曾經是我們的起點在最漫長的大河的源頭有深藏的瀑布的飛湍聲這些你都不知道，因為你並沒有去尋找而只是聽到，隱約聽到在大海兩次潮汐之間的寂靜裡” 謝謝 （掌聲）
