Talk	en	zh-tw
john_lloyd_inventories_the_invisible	"So the question is, what is invisible? There is more of it than you think, actually. Everything, I would say. Everything that matters except every thing and except matter. We can see matter. But we can't see what's the matter. As in this cryptic sentence I found in The Guardian recently: ""The marriage suffered a setback in 1965, when the husband was killed by the wife."" (Laughter) There's a world of invisibility there, isn't there? (Laughter) So, we can see the stars and the planets, but we can't see what holds them apart or what draws them together. With matter, as with people, we see only the skin of things. We can't see into the engine room. We can't see what makes people tick, at least not without difficulty. And the closer we look at anything, the more it disappears. In fact, if you look really closely at stuff, if you look at the basic substructure of matter, there isn't anything there. Electrons disappear in a kind of fuzz, and there is only energy. And you can't see energy. So everything that matters, that's important, is invisible. One slightly silly thing that's invisible is this story, which is invisible to you. And I'm now going to make it visible to you in your minds. It's about an M.P. called Geoffrey Dickens. The late Geoffrey Dickens, M.P. was attending a fete in his constituency. Wherever he went, at every stall he stopped he was closely followed by a devoted smiling woman of indescribable ugliness. (Laughter) Try as he might, he couldn't get away from her. A few days later he received a letter from a constituent saying how much she admired him, had met him at a fete and asking for a signed photograph. After her name, written in brackets was the apt description, horse face. (Laughter) ""I've misjudged this women,"" thought Mr. Dickens. ""Not only is she aware of her physical repulsiveness, she turns it to her advantage. A photo is not enough."" So he went out and bought a plastic frame to put the photograph in. And on the photograph, he wrote with a flourish, ""To Horse Face, with love from Geoffrey Dickens, M.P."" After it had been sent off, his secretary said to him, ""Did you get that letter from the woman at the fete? I wrote Horse Face on her, so you'd remember who she was."" (Laughter) I bet he thought he wished he was invisible, don't you? (Laughter) So, one of the interesting things about invisibility is that things that we can't see we also can't understand. Gravity is one thing that we can't see and which we don't understand. It's the least understood of all the four fundamental forces, and the weakest. And nobody really knows what it is or why it's there. For what it's worth, Sir Isaac Newton, the greatest scientist who ever lived, he thought Jesus came to Earth specifically to operate the levers of gravity. That's what he thought he was there for. So, bright guy, could be wrong on that one, I don't know. (Laughter) Consciousness. I see all your faces. I have no idea what any of you are thinking. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that incredible that we can't read each other's minds? But we can touch each other, taste each other perhaps, if we get close enough. But we can't read each other's minds. I find that quite astonishing. In the Sufi faith, this great Middle Eastern religion, which some claim is the route of all religions, Sufi masters are all telepaths, so they say. But their main exercise of telepathy is to send out powerful signals to the rest of us that it doesn't exist. So that's why we don't think it exists, the Sufi masters working on us. In the question of consciousness and artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence has really, like the study of consciousness, gotten nowhere. We have no idea how consciousness works. With artificial intelligence, not only have they not created artificial intelligence, they haven't yet created artificial stupidity. (Laughter) The laws of physics: invisible, eternal, omnipresent, all-powerful. Remind you of anyone? Interesting. I'm, as you can guess, not a materialist, I'm an immaterialist. And I've found a very useful new word, ignostic. Okay? I'm an ignostic. I refuse to be drawn on the question of whether God exists, until somebody properly defines the terms. (Laughter) Another thing we can't see is the human genome. And this is increasingly peculiar, because about 20 years ago, when they started delving into the genome, they thought it would probably contain around 100,000 genes. Geneticists will know this, but every year since, it's been revised downwards. We now think there are likely to be only just over 20,000 genes in the human genome. This is extraordinary. Because rice — get this — rice is known to have 38 thousand genes. Potatoes, potatoes have 48 chromosomes. Do you know that? Two more than people, and the same as a gorilla. (Laughter) You can't see these things, but they are very strange. (Laughter) The stars by day. I always think that's fascinating. The universe disappears. The more light there is, the less you can see. Time, nobody can see time. I don't know if you know this. Modern physics, there is a big movement in modern physics to decide that time doesn't really exist, because it's too inconvenient for the figures. It's much easier if it's not really there. You can't see the future, obviously. And you can't see the past, except in your memory. One of the interesting things about the past is you particularly can't see. My son asked me this the other day, he said, ""Dad, can you remember what I was like when I was two?"" And I said, ""Yes."" And he said, ""Why can't I?"" Isn't that extraordinary? You cannot remember what happened to you earlier than the age of two or three, which is great news for psychoanalysts, because otherwise they'd be out of a job. Because that's where all the stuff happens (Laughter) that makes you who you are. Another thing you can't see is the grid on which we hang. This is fascinating. You probably know, some of you, that cells are continually renewed. You can see it in skin and this kind of stuff. Skin flakes off, hairs grow, nails, that kind of stuff. But every cell in your body is replaced at some point. Taste buds, every 10 days or so. Livers and internal organs sort of take a bit longer. A spine takes several years. But at the end of seven years, not one cell in your body remains from what was there seven years ago. The question is, who, then, are we? What are we? What is this thing that we hang on, that is actually us? Okay. Atoms, you can't see them. Nobody ever will. They're smaller than the wavelength of light. Gas, you can't see that. Interesting. Somebody mentioned 1600 recently. Gas was invented in 1600 by a Dutch chemist called Van Helmont. It's said to be the most successful ever invention of a word by a known individual. Quite good. He also invented a word called ""blas,"" meaning astral radiation. Didn't catch on, unfortunately. (Laughter) But well done, him. (Laughter) There is so many things that — Light. You can't see light. When it's dark, in a vacuum, if a person shines a beam of light straight across your eyes, you won't see it. Slightly technical, some physicists will disagree with this. But it's odd that you can't see the beam of light, you can only see what it hits. I find that extraordinary, not to be able to see light, not to be able to see darkness. Electricity, you can't see that. Don't let anyone tell you they understand electricity. They don't. Nobody knows what it is. (Laughter) You probably think the electrons in an electric wire move instantaneously down a wire, don't you, at the speed of light when you turn the light on. They don't. Electrons bumble down the wire, about the speed of spreading honey, they say. (Laughter) Galaxies, 100 billion of them estimated in the universe. 100 billion. How many can we see? Five. Five out of the 100 billion galaxies, with the naked eye, and one of them is quite difficult to see unless you've got very good eyesight. Radio waves. There's another thing. Heinrich Hertz, when he discovered radio waves in 1887, he called them radio waves because they radiated. And somebody said to him, ""Well what's the point of these, Heinrich? What's the point of these radio waves that you've found?"" And he said, ""Well, I've no idea. But I guess somebody will find a use for them someday."" And that's what they do, radio. That's what they discovered. Anyway, so the biggest thing that's invisible to us is what we don't know. It is incredible how little we know. Thomas Edison once said, ""We don't know one percent of one millionth about anything."" And I've come to the conclusion — because you've asked this other question, ""What's another thing you can't see?"" The point, most of us. What's the point? (Laughter) (Applause) You can't see a point. It's by definition dimensionless, like an electron, oddly enough. But the point, what I've got it down to, is there are only two questions really worth asking. ""Why are we here?"" and ""What should we do about it while we are? And to help you, I've got two things to leave you with, from two great philosophers, perhaps two of the greatest philosopher thinkers of the 20th century, one a mathematician and an engineer, and the other a poet. The first is Ludwig Wittgenstein who said, ""I don't know why we are here. But I'm pretty sure it's not in order to enjoy ourselves."" (Laughter) He was a cheerful bastard wasn't he? (Laughter) And secondly and lastly, W.H. Auden, one of my favorite poets, who said, ""We are here on earth to help others. What the others are here for, I've no idea."" (Laughter) (Applause)"	"所以問題是，有哪些東西是看不見的？答案比你想的還要多。我會說，所有東西，所有重要的東西除了所有的，也除了東西。 我們可以看到東西，但我們看不見的這些東西實質到底是甚麼。就像我最近在《衛報》看到的一句晦澀的句子。「這段婚姻在1965年遭遇了重挫，那年妻子殺害了丈夫。」(笑聲)這其間可真有許多不可告人的秘密，不是嗎?(笑聲) 所以我們可以看到天空的許多星星但我們看不到是什麼使他們分離也看不到是什麼使他們聚集的。對於物質，就如對於人們，我們只能看到表面無法深入核心。我們看不到人們做事的動機，至少不能輕鬆的就判斷而知 。而我們觀察的越仔細，真相就越看不清楚。事實上，如果你真的足夠靠近去觀察事物如果你觀察物質的基本構造那裡什麼都沒有電子消失成一陣模糊的波動，只剩下能量，而我們看不到能量 因此對於任何事物來說，重要的是""看不見""的東西還有一個比較可笑的東西，關於""看不見""的這個故事，現在對你們來說還是""看不見""的但我即將讓它現形在你們腦海之中。有一位前國會議員，傑佛瑞狄更斯(Geoffrey Dickens) 正在他的選區參加一個宴會不管他走到哪裡，在他停下來的每一個地方他都被一個狂熱且奇醜而微笑的婦女緊緊跟隨者。(笑聲)僅管他努力嘗試，還是始終無法擺脫她。幾天以後他收到了一位選民的來信，傾述她的仰慕之情，回顧宴會的一面之緣以及索求一張簽名的照片。在她的名字後面，括號內寫著一個恰如其分的描述詞:馬臉。(笑聲) ""我錯怪這位女士了""狄更斯議員想到""她不僅僅認知到自己的外表令人厭惡，她還將其加以利用。一張照片是不夠的。於是他出去買了一個塑膠像框將照片放入其中。而且在照片上他大筆一揮寫上""致馬臉，您親愛的議員-傑佛瑞狄更斯""當照片寄出去以後，他的秘書跟他說:""你收到那個宴會上的女人的來信了嘛?我在上面寫上了'馬臉'，以便使您能記得她""(笑聲) 我想他寧可自己是隱藏起來，不是嘛?(笑聲) 所以""看不見""的一個有趣的特點是我們無法看見的東西我們也無法理解重力就是一個我們看不見的東西我們也無法理解它在四種基本力中它是最神秘的，也是最弱的力沒有人知道它是甚麼，為何存在 姑且不論真假，艾薩克牛頓爵士，史上最偉大的科學家，他認為耶穌的降臨就僅僅是為了操縱重力這個槓桿他認為這就是耶穌的使命。所以再聰明的人，在那裡也可能出錯，我不知道。(笑聲) 意識。我可以看見您的臉。但我卻不知道您們任何一人在想甚麼。這難道不令人驚訝嗎?我們不能閱讀他人的想法，這難到不是很不可思議嗎?但是我們可以互相觸摸，如果我們夠親密的話，我們也可能相互的親熱但是我們不能知道對方在想甚麼。我覺得這很讓人驚訝。 在中東的宗教蘇菲教派的信仰當中-有些人認為蘇菲教派是一切宗教的根源，據說，蘇菲長老都懂讀心術但是他們使用心靈感應的主要目的就是向外界傳達這樣的一個強而有力的訊號:它不存在所以也就不難理解為甚麼我們不相信讀心術的存在，這是蘇菲長老們對我們所作的好事 談到意識和人工智能人工智能的研究如同對於意識的研究一樣，毫無進展。我們完全不知道意識是如何運作的。使用人工智能技術不僅沒有創造出人工智慧，也沒有創造出""人工愚蠢""(笑聲) 物理學的定理：不可見、永恆、全能、無所不在，全部都擁有強大的力量這讓你們想起什麼了嗎？很有趣。就如你們所想，我不是一個唯物論者，我是個非唯物主義者而我找到了一個很有用的新字，忽視主義者(ignostic)我就是一位忽視主義者。我拒絕被捲入上帝是否存在的問題中，除非有人恰當的定義這個名詞。(笑聲) 另一個我們無法看見的是人類基因而且還越來越怪異因為大約20年前，當人們開始探索基因圖譜時當時他們預估人類的基因組大概會在十萬個左右遺傳學家對這個比較熟悉，但是從那以後的每一年這個數字不斷往下修正我們現在相信人類基因組大約只有將近兩萬個基因而已了 這真是奇特，因為稻米，聽好了稻米是有三萬八千個基因的馬鈴薯擁有與48個染色體，你知道嗎？比人類多兩個大猩猩也這樣(笑聲)你看不到這些東西。但他們確實存在，非常奇怪(笑聲) 白天的星空，我總覺得它令人著迷整個宇宙好像都不見了。光照越強，能看到的反而越少。 時間，沒人能看到時間我不知道你們有沒有聽過這個。現代物理，有一個重大的突破就是確定了時間並不存在因為它很難轉換到數學模式之中所以乾脆不存在，這樣就省事多了很顯然你看不到未來而除了回憶之外你也看不到過去 一個關於過去的有趣事情是有一天我兒子問我，他說""爸爸，你能記得我兩歲時候的樣子嗎?""我說:""可以阿""他說:""為甚麼我不行呢?"" 這難道不奇怪嗎?你記不得你兩三歲之前的事情不過對於心理學家卻是一個好消息不然的話他們就要失業了因為所有的事情都是那段時間發生的(笑聲)使得你變成了今天這個樣子 另一個不可見的東西是我們依賴的架構這很有趣。你們之中的某些人也許知道細胞是不斷的更新的。你可以在皮膚和其他的外部器官上看到這種情況。皮膚脫落，頭髮生長，指甲等諸如此類。但是你身體裡的細胞在某一個時刻也會更新。味蕾大概十天左右更新。肝臟和其他的內部器官都可能護長一點。脊椎要幾年。不過七年之後。你身體裡的每一個細胞都和七年前不在一樣了那麼問題是我們是誰?我們是甚麼，我們一直依賴的這個東西是甚麼，這真的是我們本身嗎? 原子，我們都無法看見沒人可以看見，它們比光的波長還要小氣體也不可見非常的有意思。最近有人提到了西元1600年Gas(氣體)這個字在西元1600年被一位叫Van Helmont的荷蘭化學家所發明這被認為是有史以來個人發明的最成功的一個字。非常的不錯。他還發明了一個字叫blass，意即星的輻射很遺憾的是這個字沒有能流行起來(笑聲)不過他還是做的很棒。(笑聲) 這樣的例子太多了-光你不能看見光。當黑暗之中，在真空裡如果有人在你的眼前的正面發射出一道光，你是不會看見的。這有一點誇張了，一些物理學家不會贊同這樣的觀點不過奇怪的是你並不能看見這束光你只能看到它擊中的地方我發現這是件很奇妙的事，不能直接看當光本身也不能看見黑暗 電，你看不見電別相信任何人跟你說的電是甚麼一回事他們不懂，沒人知道是甚麼回事(笑聲)你以認為在你開燈的那個剎那，電子在電線中以光速瞬間流過整條電線，是嗎?實際上並不是電子在電現中笨拙的移動，據說和蜂蜜的流動速度差不多(笑聲) 星系，估計有一千億個散布在我們宇宙中。一千億，而我們能看到多少呢？五個一千億個星系中，只有五個能用肉眼看見。而其中一個還得有相當好的眼力才能看的到 無線電，這又是一項海因里希·赫茲在1887年發現了無線電他之所以叫它們無線電是因為它們是幅射的於是有人問他，""那些又有甚麼意義呢，海因里希?你發現的這些無線電波有甚麼意義呢?""他說，""其實我也不知道不過我想以後應該有人會發現它們的用處的""這就是他們所做的，無線電，就就是他們所發現的 總而言之，對我們而言最大的不可見事物就是我們不知道的我們所知道的竟是那麼樣的少愛迪生曾說，對於任何事項而言，我們所知道的不過是其百分之一 於是我下了個結論因為你們已經問了另外一個問題，""還有甚麼東西我們看不見""意義對於我們大多數的人來說，這翻話到底有甚麼意義?(笑聲)(掌聲)你無法看到一個點，這是在定義上，一個點不佔任何空間，說來也怪，就像電子一樣 但是重點，當我們不斷探索時會發現最後只剩兩個問題值得一問""我們為何存在?""和""我們存在這世界上是為了甚麼而來?""為了幫助大家，我留下兩句話，來自兩位偉大的哲學家，也許是20世紀最偉大的兩個思想家一個是數學家也是工程師，另一個是一位詩人。 首先是Ludvig Vitgenštajn，他說「我不知道我們為何存在，但我很確定我們不是為了玩樂而存在。」(笑聲)他可真是個讓人愉快的傢伙是吧(笑聲) 第二個也是最後的，W.H. Auden一個我最喜歡的詩人，他說「我們來到這世界是為了幫助其他人。至於其他人為什麼在世界上，我毫無頭緒。」(笑聲)(掌聲)"
