Talk	en	zh-tw
johnny_lee_demos_wii_remote_hacks	So, as researchers, something that we often do is use immense resources to achieve certain capabilities, or achieve certain goals. And this is essential to the progress of science, or exploration of what is possible. But it creates this unfortunate situation where a tiny, tiny fraction of the world can actually participate in this exploration or can benefit from that technology. Something that motivates me, and gets me really excited about my research, is when I see simple opportunities to drastically change that distribution and make the technology accessible to a much wider percentage of the population. I'm going to show you two videos that have gotten a lot of attention that I think embody this philosophy. And they actually use the Nintendo Wii Remote. For those of you who aren't familiar with this device, it's a $40 video game controller. And it's mostly advertised for its motion-sensing capabilities: so you can swing a tennis racket, or hit a baseball bat. But what actually interests me a lot more is the fact that in the tip of each controller is a relatively high-performing infrared camera. And I'm going to show you two demos of why this is useful. So here, I have my computer set up with the projector, and I have a Wii Remote sitting on top of it. And, for example, if you're in a school that doesn't have a lot money, probably a lot of schools, or if you're in an office environment, and you want an interactive whiteboard, normally these cost about two to three thousand dollars. So I'm going to show you how to create one with a Wii Remote. Now, this requires another piece of hardware, which is this infrared pen. You can probably make this yourself for about five dollars with a quick trip to the Radio Shack. It's got a battery, a button and an infrared LED — you guys can't see it — but it turns on whenever I push the button. Now, what this means is that if I run this piece of software, the camera sees the infrared dot, and I can register the location of the camera pixels to the projector pixels. And now this is like an interactive whiteboard surface. (Applause) So for about $50 of hardware, you can have your own whiteboard. This is Adobe Photoshop. (Applause) Thank you. (Laughter) The software for this I've actually put on my website and have let people download it for free. In the three months this project has been public, it's been downloaded over half a million times. So teachers and students all around the world are already using this. (Applause) Although it does do it for 50 dollars, there are some limitations of this approach. You get about 80 percent of the way there, for one percent of the cost. Another nice thing is that a camera can see multiple dots, so this is actually a multi-touch, interactive whiteboard system as well. (Applause) For the second demo, I have this Wii Remote that's actually next to the TV. So it's pointing away from the display, rather than pointing at the display. And why this is interesting is that if you put on, say, a pair of safety glasses, that have two infrared dots in them, they are going to give the computer an approximation of your head location. And why this is interesting is I have this sort of application running on the computer monitor, which has a 3D room, with some targets floating in it. And you can see that it looks like a 3D room. kind of like a video game, it sort of looks 3D, but for the most part, the image looks pretty flat, and bound to the surface of the screen. But if we turn on head tracking — the computer can change the image that's on the screen and make it respond to the head movements. So let's switch back to that. (Laughter) (Applause) So this has actually been a little bit startling to the game-development community. (Laughter) Because this is about 10 dollars of additional hardware if you already have a Nintendo Wii. So I'm looking forward to seeing some games, and actually Louis Castle, that's him down there, last week announced that Electronic Arts, one of the largest game publishers, is releasing a game in May that has a little Easter egg feature for supporting this type of head tracking. And that's from less than five months from a prototype in my lab to a major commercial product. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) But actually, to me, what's almost more interesting than either of these two projects is how people actually found out about them. YouTube has really changed the way, or changed the speed, in which a single individual can actually spread an idea around the world. I'm doing some research in my lab with a video camera, and within the first week, a million people had seen this work, and literally within days, engineers, teachers and students from around the world were already posting their own YouTube videos of them using my system or derivatives of this work. So I hope to see more of that in the future, and hope online video distribution to be embraced by the research community. So thank you very much. (Applause)	身為研究人員，我們常會運用大量的資源來完成特定功能，或達成特定目標。這是科學進步和探索可能性的要素。但有點可惜的是世界上有些地方，無法參與這些探索或是無法從這些科技中受益。因而激勵我進行研究，並且讓我感到振奮的是，我發現可以透過一些簡單的方法，改變傳播的過程，讓更多人從這些科技中受益。 我想給大家看二支最近受到囑目的影片，它們具體展現了這個想法。我用的是任天堂 Wii 遙桿對於知道它的人來說，它不過是市價 40 美元的電玩控制器。它是用來做動作感應，能用它做出揮動網球拍，或打擊棒球的動作。但事實上，真正吸引我的是，它前端這個高性能紅外線鏡頭。我將要給你看兩個示範，說明它為什麼很有用。 這邊架設了電腦和投影機，Wii 遙控器則放在上面。假設你的學校沒有錢，就如同大部份學校一樣，或是你在一個辦公室裡需要一個互動式電子白板，它的市價大概要 2 至 4 千美元。我來告訴你們如何用 Wii 遙控器製做一個電子白板。你需要另外做一支紅外線筆做一支紅外線筆。只要到 RadioShack（美國電子產品零售商）花 5 美元購買以下零件。1 顆電池、1 個按鈕、1 個紅外線 LED（發光二極體），按下按鈕，紅外線 LED 就會發光，當然，肉眼是看不見紅外線的。現在讓我執行這個軟體，就能讓鏡頭能看見紅外線光點，接下來把它們的位置由鏡頭像素，對應到投影機像素。現在它成了互動式電子白板啦！（掌聲）只要 50 美元，你就能擁有自己的電子白板。這個是 Adobe Photoshop。（掌聲）謝謝。（笑聲） 這個程式放在我的網站免費下載。自公開以來，它在 3 個月內已被下載數十萬次。現在世界各地的老師學生已經開始使用它。（掌聲）我要聲明一下，它雖然只要 50 美元，而且，這個做法仍有些限制。不過想想，以 1% 的成本就能達到 80% 的效果。另一個好消息是，這個鏡頭可以同時辨識多個光點，所以它還是個多點觸控電子白板。（掌聲） 在第二個展示中，我將 Wii 遙控器放在電視旁邊。這次它不再指向螢幕而是指向看電視的人。有趣的是，如果我在這副眼鏡上頭放入 2 個紅外線光點它就能告訴電腦你的頭部位置。更有趣的是，這個電腦螢幕正執行著一個程式，顯示一些標靶漂浮在 3D 房間裡。就像很多遊戲裡看到的一樣，它看起來像是 3D，不過這些影像不但看起來很平，也釘在畫面上不能動。現在如果我們把頭部追蹤打開，電腦就能改變螢幕上的影像，讓它們與你的頭部互動。我們回頭看看。（笑聲）（掌聲） 這著實令遊戲開發業者吃驚。（笑聲）因為只要你擁有任天堂 Wii，再加上 10 美元的額外硬體費用就行了。我希望遊戲採用它上週 Lou Castle（EA 副總裁），也就是台下坐的這位，宣佈 EA（美商藝電），最大的遊戲發行商之一，將在 5 月發表一款遊戲附有支援頭部追蹤的隱藏功能。在不到 5 個月的時間內，將我的實驗原型變成為商業產品（掌聲）謝謝。 事實上，對我而言最有意思的，不是這兩個實驗本身，而是人們是如何發現這兩個實驗的。Youtube 改變了將個人想法散播到全世界的速度或方式。我不過是使用攝影機，將我在實驗室內的研究錄下，在一週之內，就有一百萬人看到，在短短幾天內，就有世界各地的工程師、老師、學生們，使用我的系統或加以變化，並在 Youtube 發佈他們的影片。我希望未來能看到更多，也希望線上遊戲的發行，可以和研究社群結合。謝謝大家（掌聲）
