Talk	en	zh-tw
john_hodgman_design_explained	Today I'm going to unpack for you three examples of iconic design, and it makes perfect sense that I should be the one to do it because I have a Bachelor's degree in Literature. (Laughter) But I'm also a famous minor television personality and an avid collector of Design Within Reach catalogs, so I pretty much know everything there is. Now, I'm sure you recognize this object; many of you probably saw it as you were landing your private zeppelins at Los Angeles International Airport over the past couple of days. This is known as the Theme Building; that is its name for reasons that are still very murky. And it is perhaps the best example we have in Los Angeles of ancient extraterrestrial architecture. It was first excavated in 1961 as they were building LAX, although scientists believe that it dates back to the year 2000 Before Common Era, when it was used as a busy transdimensional space port by the ancient astronauts who first colonized this planet and raised our species from savagery by giving us the gift of written language and technology and the gift of revolving restaurants. It is thought to have been a replacement for the older space ports located, of course, at Stonehenge and considered to be quite an improvement due to the uncluttered design, the lack of druids hanging around all the time and obviously, the much better access to parking. When it was uncovered, it ushered in a new era of streamlined, archaically futuristic design called Googie, which came to be synonymous with the Jet Age, a misnomer. After all, the ancient astronauts who used it did not travel by jet very often, preferring instead to travel by feathered serpent powered by crystal skulls. (Applause) (Music) Ah yes, a table. We use these every day. And on top of it, the juicy salif. This is a design by Philippe Starck, who I believe is in the audience at this very moment. And you can tell it is a Starck design by its precision, its playfulness, its innovation and its promise of imminent violence. (Laughter) It is a design that challenges your intuition — it is not what you think it is when you first see it. It is not a fork designed to grab three hors d'oeuvres at a time, which would be useful out in the lobby, I would say. And despite its obvious influence by the ancient astronauts and its space agey-ness and tripodism, it is not something designed to attach to your brain and suck out your thoughts. It is in fact a citrus juicer and when I say that, you never see it as anything else again. It is also not a monument to design, it is a monument to design's utility. You can take it home with you, unlike the Theme Building, which will stay where it is forever. This is affordable and can come home with you and, as such, it can sit on your kitchen counter — it can't go in your drawers; trust me, I found that out the hard way — and make your kitchen counter into a monument to design. One other thing about it, if you do have one at home, let me tell you one of the features you may not know: when you fall asleep, it comes alive and it walks around your house and goes through your mail and watches you as you sleep. (Applause) Okay, what is this object? I have no idea. I don't know what that thing is. It looks terrible. Is it a little hot plate? I don't get it. Does anyone know? Chi? It's an ... iPhone. iPhone. Oh yes, that's right, I remember those; I had my whole bathroom tiles redone with those back in the good old days. No, I have an iPhone. Of course I do. Here is my well-loved iPhone. I do so many things on this little device. I like to read books on it. More than that, I like to buy books on it that I never have to feel guilty about not reading because they go in here and I never look at them again and it's perfect. I use it every day to measure the weight of an ox, for example. Every now and then, I admit that I complete a phone call on it occasionally. And yet I forget about it all the time. This is a design that once you saw it, you forgot about it. It is easy to forget the gasp-inducement that occurred in 2007 when you first touched this thing because it became so quickly pervasive and because of how instantly we adopted these gestures and made it an extension of our life. Unlike the Theme Building, this is not alien technology. Or I should say, what it did was it took technology which, unlike people in this room, to many other people in the world, still feels very alien, and made it immediately and instantly feel familiar and intimate. And unlike the juicy salif, it does not threaten to attach itself to your brain, rather, it simply attaches itself to your brain. (Laughter) And you didn't even notice it happened. So there you go. My name is John Hodgman. I just explained design. Thank you very much. (Applause)	今天我要跟各位揭開三個知名設計的秘密由我來說明非常的合理因為我擁有文學士學位（笑聲）不過我也是一個有名的電視小角色也很狂熱的收藏著傢俱商Design Within Reach的目錄所以我很清楚那裡在賣什麼 那麼 我敢保證你們都認得這個物件這幾天在座很多人大概都看過它當你們的私人飛艇在洛杉磯國際機場降落的時候大家叫它 the Theme Building （主題建築）為什麼叫這個名字到目前仍原因不明這可能也是我們在洛杉磯能找到的古代外星人建築物的最佳例子 它於1961年出土當時他們在蓋洛杉磯國際機場但科學家相信它的歷史可以追溯到西元前2000年當時古代的太空人把它當作忙碌的多次元空間穿越站這些外星人是這個星球的第一批殖民者把我們這個種族教養成不再野蠻給我們文字這個禮物還有科技以及旋轉餐廳 大家都公認這個站是另一個更古老的太空空港的替代品我指的當然就是巨石陣並且大家都認為這個站有很大的進步因為它的設計簡潔四圍也沒有掛著德魯伊（祭司）像而且顯而易見大家更容易去停車場了當它被發現時它宣告了新派建築的來臨即流線型具古風的未來派設計也就是所謂Googie派建築物這個名稱是名不符實的噴射機時代的同義詞畢竟 使用它的古代的太空人並不太常搭噴射機旅行他們寧願搭以水晶骷髏頭為動力的羽蛇神（古中美洲神祗）飛來飛去 （掌聲） （音樂） 啊 是的 這是一張桌子我們每天都用得到桌子在這張桌子上面放了一個 juicy salif（榨汁機）這是飛利浦·史塔克的設計我相信他現在就混在觀眾群中你一眼就會認出這是史塔克的設計因為它的精密度 娛樂感它新穎的造型 以及暴力臨頭的感覺（笑聲） 這個設計挑戰你的直覺—這不是你第一眼看到時所想的那玩意它不是一個三叉的叉子讓你一次夾三個開胃前菜如果是這樣我想這東西在外面的大廳應該很好用儘管它很明顯的受到古代太空人的影響而且它很有宇宙感又是三腳架樣式但它真的不是設計來接上你的大腦吸乾你的思想的玩意其實它是一個柳丁榨汁機一旦我說穿了你就絕不會再認為它是別的東西 它並不是設計史上的不朽作品卻是實用物品設計上的代表作你可以把它帶回家不像剛剛說的主題建築會永遠固定不動在那裡這個東西你買得起還可以帶回家而且就像這樣你可以把它放在廚房的流理台上—你不能把它收在抽屜裡相信我 我很努力的試過—如此以來 你的廚房流理台就變的很有設計感另外要提的是如果你真的買了一個回家讓我告訴你一個你大概不知道的好處當你睡著了它就活過來了在你家裡走來走去看你的信觀察你睡著的樣子（掌聲） 好吧 這是什麼？我不知道我不知道這是什麼看起來很可怕這是一個小加熱板嗎？我不懂有誰知道嗎？琪？這是一個... iPhone。iPhone喔是的 沒錯 我記得這玩意我還記得過去美好的日子裡我把我的浴室瓷磚打掉重新貼上這玩意 開玩笑的 我有iPhone 我當然有這就是我鐘愛的iPhone我在這小東西上做好多事情我喜歡用它讀書不只這樣 我更喜歡用它買書我永遠不必因為沒讀書而感到內疚因為這些書就存在這裡我永遠不必再多看他們一眼真是好啊我每天用它隨便舉個例子來量牛的重量 偶爾我承認我偶爾會用它打電話然而我總是忘記這個功能這種設計是一旦你看過了就會把它忘了的設計你很快就忘了在2007年你第一次摸到這個東西的時候那個倒抽一口氣的感覺因為它普及的太快了而且我們很快的就習慣了這些手勢把它融入生活成為我們生活的一部分不像主題建築這不是外星科技或許我應該說它所做的是把這些科技對在座各位這不算甚麼但對外面的世界的人們而言這些仍然像外星科技般陌生讓大家能很立即 快速的上手 熟悉 也不像那個榨汁機它不會讓你產生要插上你的腦袋的威脅感它反而是硬要黏在你的腦袋上（笑聲）你甚至不會注意到它已經黏上來了所以就這樣啦我的名字是約翰哈許曼我來這裡講解設計謝謝 （掌聲）
