Talk	en	zh-tw
john_francis_walks_the_earth	"(Music) (Applause) Thank you for being here. And I say ""thank you for being here"" because I was silent for 17 years. And the first words that I spoke were in Washington, D.C., on the 20th anniversary of Earth Day. And my family and friends had gathered there to hear me speak. And I said, ""Thank you for being here."" My mother, out in the audience, she jumped up, ""Hallelujah, Johnny’s talking!"" (Laughter) Imagine if you were quiet for 17 years and your mother was out in the audience, say. My dad said to me, ""That’s one"" — I’ll explain that. But I turned around because I didn’t recognize where my voice was coming from. I hadn’t heard my voice in 17 years, so I turned around and I looked and I said, ""God, who's saying what I’m thinking?"" And then I realized it was me, you know, and I kind of laughed. And I could see my father: ""Yeah, he really is crazy."" Well, I want to take you on this journey. And the journey, I believe, is a metaphor for all of our journeys. Even though this one is kind of unusual, I want you to think about your own journey. My journey began in 1971 when I witnessed two oil tankers collide beneath the Golden Gate, and a half a million gallons of oil spilled into the bay. It disturbed me so much that I decided that I was going to give up riding and driving in motorized vehicles. That’s a big thing in California. And it was a big thing in my little community of Point Reyes Station in Inverness, California, because there were only about 350 people there in the winter – this was back in '71 now. And so when I came in and I started walking around, people — they just knew what was going on. And people would drive up next to me and say, ""John, what are you doing?"" And I’d say, ""Well, I’m walking for the environment."" And they said, ""No, you’re walking to make us look bad, right? You’re walking to make us feel bad."" And maybe there was some truth to that, because I thought that if I started walking, everyone would follow. Because of the oil, everybody talked about the polllution. And so I argued with people about that, I argued and I argued. I called my parents up. I said, ""I’ve given up riding and driving in cars."" My dad said, ""Why didn’t you do that when you were 16?"" (Laughter) I didn’t know about the environment then. They’re back in Philadelphia. And so I told my mother, ""I’m happy though, I’m really happy."" She said, ""If you were happy, son, you wouldn’t have to say it."" Mothers are like that. And so, on my 27th birthday I decided, because I argued so much and I talk so much, that I was going to stop speaking for just one day — one day — to give it a rest. And so I did. I got up in the morning and I didn’t say a word. And I have to tell you, it was a very moving experience, because for the first time, I began listening — in a long time. And what I heard, it kind of disturbed me. Because what I used to do, when I thought I was listening, was I would listen just enough to hear what people had to say and think that I could — I knew what they were going to say, and so I stopped listening. And in my mind, I just kind of raced ahead and thought of what I was going to say back, while they were still finishing up. And then I would launch in. Well, that just ended communication. So on this first day I actually listened. And it was very sad for me, because I realized that for those many years I had not been learning. I was 27. I thought I knew everything. I didn’t. And so I decided I’d better do this for another day, and another day, and another day until finally, I promised myself for a year I would keep quiet because I started learning more and more and I needed to learn more. So for a year I said I would keep quiet, and then on my birthday I would reassess what I had learned and maybe I would talk again. Well, that lasted 17 years. Now during that time — those 17 years — I walked and I played the banjo and I painted and I wrote in my journal, and I tried to study the environment by reading books. And I decided that I was going to go to school. So I did. I walked up to Ashland, Oregon, where they were offering an environmental studies degree. It’s only 500 miles. And I went into the Registrar’s office and — ""What, what, what?"" I had a newspaper clipping. ""Oh, so you really want to go to school here? You don’t …? We have a special program for you."" They did. And in those two years, I graduated with my first degree — a bachelor’s degree. And my father came out, he was so proud. He said, ""Listen, we’re really proud of you son, but what are you going to do with a bachelor’s degree? You don’t ride in cars, you don’t talk — you’re going to have to do those things."" (Laughter) I hunched my shoulder, I picked my backpack up again and I started walking. I walked all the way up to Port Townsend, Washington, where I built a wooden boat, rode it across Puget Sound and walked across Washington [to] Idaho and down to Missoula, Montana. I had written the University of Montana two years earlier and said I'd like to go to school there. I said I'd be there in about two years. (Laughter) And I was there. I showed up in two years and they — I tell this story because they really helped me. There are two stories in Montana. The first story is I didn’t have any money — that’s a sign I used a lot. And they said,""Don't worry about that."" The director of the program said, ""Come back tomorrow."" He gave me 150 dollars, and he said, ""Register for one credit. You’re going to go to South America, aren’t you?"" And I said — Rivers and lakes, the hydrological systems, South America. So I did that. He came back; he said to me, ""OK John, now that you've registered for that one credit, you can have a key to an office, you can matriculate — you’re matriculating, so you can use the library. And what we’re going to do is, we’re going to have all of the professors allow you to go to class. They’re going to save your grade, and when we figure out how to get you the rest of the money, then you can register for that class and they’ll give you the grade."" Wow, they don’t do that in graduate schools, I don’t think. But I use that story because they really wanted to help me. They saw that I was really interested in the environment, and they really wanted to help me along the way. And during that time, I actually taught classes without speaking. I had 13 students when I first walked into the class. I explained, with a friend who could interpret my sign language, that I was John Francis, I was walking around the world, I didn’t talk and this was the last time this person’s going to be here interpreting for me. All the students sat around and they went ... (Laughter) I could see they were looking for the schedule, to see when they could get out. They had to take that class with me. Two weeks later, everyone was trying to get into our class. And I learned in that class — because I would do things like this ... and they were all gathered around, going, ""What's he trying to say?"" ""I don't know, I think he's talking about clear cutting."" ""Yeah, clear cutting."" ""No, no, no, that's not clear cutting, that’s — he's using a handsaw."" ""Well, you can’t clearcut with a ..."" ""Yes, you can clear cut ..."" ""No, I think he’s talking about selective forestry."" Now this was a discussion class and we were having a discussion. I just backed out of that, you know, and I just kind of kept the fists from flying. But what I learned was that sometimes I would make a sign and they said things that I absolutely did not mean, but I should have. And so what came to me is, if you were a teacher and you were teaching, if you weren’t learning you probably weren’t teaching very well. And so I went on. My dad came out to see me graduate and, you know, I did the deal, and my father said, ""We’re really proud of you son, but ... "" You know what went on, he said, ""You’ve got to start riding and driving and start talking. What are you going to do with a master’s degree?"" I hunched my shoulder, I got my backpack and I went on to the University of Wisconsin. I spent two years there writing on oil spills. No one was interested in oil spills. But something happened — Exxon Valdez. And I was the only one in the United States writing on oil spills. My dad came out again. He said, ""I don't know how you do this, son — I mean, you don't ride in cars, you don’t talk. My sister said maybe I should leave you alone, because you seem to be doing a lot better when you’re not saying anything."" (Laughter) Well, I put on my backpack again. I put my banjo on and I walked all the way to the East Coast, put my foot in the Atlantic Ocean — it was seven years and one day it took me to walk across the United States. And on Earth Day, 1990 — the 20th anniversary of Earth Day — that’s when I began to speak. And that’s why I said, ""Thank you for being here."" Because it's sort of like that tree in the forest falling; and if there's no one there to hear, does it really make a sound? And I’m thanking you, and I'm thanking my family because they had come to hear me speak. And that’s communication. And they also taught me about listening — that they listened to me. And it’s one of those things that came out of the silence, the listening to each other. Really, very important — we need to listen to each other. Well, my journey kept going on. My dad said, ""That’s one,"" and I still didn’t let that go. I worked for the Coastguard, was made a U.N. Goodwill Ambassador. I wrote regulations for the United States — I mean, I wrote oil spill regulations. 20 years ago, if someone had said to me, ""John, do you really want to make a difference?"" ""Yeah, I want to make a difference."" He said, ""You just start walking east; get out of your car and just start walking east."" And as I walked off a little bit, they'd say, ""Yeah, and shut up, too."" (Laughter) ""You’re going to make a difference, buddy."" How could that be, how could that be? How could doing such a simple thing like walking and not talking make a difference? Well, my time at the Coast Guard was a really good time. And after that — I only worked one year — I said, ""That's enough. One year's enough for me to do that."" I got on a sailboat and I sailed down to the Caribbean, and walked through all of the islands, and to Venezuela. And you know, I forgot the most important thing, which is why I started talking, which I have to tell you. I started talking because I had studied environment. I’d studied environment at this formal level, but there was this informal level. And the informal level — I learned about people, and what we do and how we are. And environment changed from just being about trees and birds and endangered species to being about how we treated each other. Because if we are the environment, then all we need to do is look around us and see how we treat ourselves and how we treat each other. And so that’s the message that I had. And I said, ""Well, I'm going to have to spread that message."" And I got in my sailboat, sailed all the way through the Caribbean — it wasn't really my sailboat, I kind of worked on that boat — got to Venezuela and I started walking. This is the last part of this story, because it’s how I got here, because I still didn't ride in motorized vehicles. I was walking through El Dorado — it's a prison town, famous prison, or infamous prison — in Venezuela, and I don’t know what possessed me, because this was not like me. There I am, walking past the guard gate and the guard stops and says, ""Pasaporte, pasaporte,"" and with an M16 pointed at me. And I looked at him and I said, ""Passport, huh? I don't need to show you my passport. It’s in the back of my pack. I'm Dr. Francis; I'm a U.N. Ambassador and I'm walking around the world."" And I started walking off. What possessed me to say this thing? The road turned into the jungle. I didn’t get shot. And I got to — I start saying, ""Free at last — thank God Almighty, I’m free at last."" ""What was that about,"" I’m saying. What was that about? It took me 100 miles to figure out that, in my heart, in me, I had become a prisoner. I was a prisoner and I needed to escape. The prison that I was in was the fact that I did not drive or use motorized vehicles. Now how could that be? Because when I started, it seemed very appropriate to me not to use motorized vehicles. But the thing that was different was that every birthday, I asked myself about silence, but I never asked myself about my decision to just use my feet. I had no idea I was going to become a U.N. Ambassador. I had no idea I would have a Ph.D. And so I realized that I had a responsibility to more than just me, and that I was going to have to change. You know, we can do it. I was going to have to change. And I was afraid to change, because I was so used to the guy who only just walked. I was so used to that person that I didn’t want to stop. I didn’t know who I would be if I changed. But I know I needed to. I know I needed to change, because it would be the only way that I could be here today. And I know that a lot of times we find ourselves in this wonderful place where we’ve gotten to, but there’s another place for us to go. And we kind of have to leave behind the security of who we’ve become, and go to the place of who we are becoming. And so, I want to encourage you to go to that next place, to let yourself out of any prison that you might find yourself in, as comfortable as it may be, because we have to do something now. We have to change now. As our former Vice President said, we have to become activists. So if my voice can touch you, if my actions can touch you, if my being here can touch you, please let it be. And I know that all of you have touched me while I’ve been here. So, let’s go out into the world and take this caring, this love, this respect that we’ve shown each other right here at TED, and take this out into the world. Because we are the environment, and how we treat each other is really how we’re going to treat the environment. So I want to thank you for being here and I want to end this in five seconds of silence. Thank you. (Applause)"	"(音樂) (鼓掌) 謝謝大家今天來到這裡謝謝你們，因為我已經17年沒開口說話我開口說的第一個字是在華盛頓特區二十週年的地球日時我的家人及朋友們，全都聚在一起聽我說話然後我說""謝謝你們在這裡""我母親，在人群中跳起來說""哈雷路亞, Johnny說話了"" (笑聲) 想像一下假設你沉默了17年然後你母親在人群中說我父親對我說""就是這裡了""我稍後在解釋但我轉過頭，因為我不知道我的聲音是從哪來傳出來的我已經17年沒聽過我自己的聲音了所以我環顧四周然後說天啊！是誰正在把我的想法說出來？然後我知道了，是我自己阿，然後我笑了。然後我可以想像我父親說 ""是的，他真的瘋了""我想與你分享這段旅程這段旅程我相信是所有人歷程的一個隱喻即使這是段不尋常的經歷我要你們也思考一下你們的經歷 我的旅程從1971年開始當我目睹兩艘油輪在金色大橋下相撞時50多萬加崙的油流進海灣這畫面這讓我非常不安所以我決定放棄駕駛機動型的運輸工具這在加州來講可是一件大事這對我的小社區來講更是一件大事我的小社區位在加州印威內斯的波印雷站因為在1971年的冬天，那裡大約只有350人。所以當我進到當地時，然後我開始步行，人們他們才剛知道這件事時他們會開車到我身旁然後說""約翰，你在幹嘛""然後我會說，""我為保護環境而行走""然後他們說""不，你是為了讓我們難堪而走對吧？""你步行是為了讓我們覺得難受或許有部分是真的因為我想如果我開始步行，或許其他人也會跟進因為漏油事件，大家開始談論污染所以我開始不停的說服人們。我打給我父母我說""我已經放棄開車了""我父親說""為什麼你不在十六歲時就這麼做？"" (笑聲) 我那時候不知道這些環境問題問題都在費城然後我告訴我母親""我很開心，我真的很開心""她說""如果你真的開心，你才不會說出來""母親都這樣 因此，我27歲生日那天我決定，因為我爭論太多而且我說太多，所以，我決定不要開口說話一天就好，僅僅一天，讓嘴巴休息一下。所以就這樣我起床後就沒說過一句話我必須告訴你，這是個非常難忘的經驗因為第一次在這麼長的時間裡，我開始去聆聽然而我所聽見的，卻又有些困擾我因為我聆聽時會習慣只聽到對方講完該說的話為止我就會自認為已經知道他們要說什麼便停止傾聽在我腦子裏，我會有些超前當他們還在做總結時就想著我要怎麼回答然後我就會介入並結束那次的溝通 所以在那天，我認真聆聽但這對我來說是非常難過的事因為我了解這麼多年來我沒有成長當我27歲時，我自認無所不知但其實不然所以我決定我要在做一次這件事日復一日直到最後我向自己保證，保持沉默一年因為我開始逐漸成長，我覺得我需要學習更多所以，某年，我說我要保持沉默。然後我會在我生日那天分享我學到了什麼或許我就會在度開口我安靜了17年 在這17年裡，我行走，並且彈奏班卓琴我作畫並且寫下我的歷程然後我經由閱讀來研究環境生態之後我決定進修，然後我就去做了我走到奧勒岡州的奧許蘭市那裡提供環境研究的學位這僅僅只有500哩我走到學校的註冊處什麼？我有某份報紙所以你真的要來這裡念書？你不會...？我們有個特別的計畫適合你，是真的所以在這兩年裡，我拿到了我第一個學士學位。然後我父親來了，他非常驕傲他說""兒子，我們都以你為傲""但你拿個學士學位要幹麻？你又不開車，不講話拿了學位就得做這些事阿 (笑聲) 我聳聳肩，然後再次背起背包然後我又開始步行我走到華盛頓Townsend港口，我在那裡造了一艘木船然後靠著它穿越了普及桑(地名)愛達荷州—走路穿越華盛頓，愛達荷然後往下到蒙大拿的冰河湖當時的兩年前我就已經寫信給蒙大拿大學然後說我想要去那裏進修我說我大概會在兩年後抵達 (笑聲) 然後我到了，我在兩年內到了，然後他們我提及這段經歷，是因為他們真的幫助過我在蒙大拿有兩個故事第一個是我當時身無分文，這表示我花太多錢了然後他們說""你不需要擔心這個""這個計畫的負責人說""你明天再過來吧""他給了我150美元然後他說，去註冊一學分吧。你要前往南非，對吧？然後我回答河流和湖水，水利系統，南非。然後我就這樣做了他回來，然後對我說好的，約翰，你已經註冊了這個學分。你可以擁有辦公室的鑰匙你被錄取了，所以你可以使用圖書館我們接著要讓所有的教授允許你可以上課他們會替你保留分數當我們想辦法幫你籌到剩下的錢你就可以補註冊，他們就會給你成績了。哇，他們研究所並不這樣做。我不這樣覺得我分享這故事是因為他們真心想幫我他們覺得我真的對環境生態很有興趣他們想要再這方面給我幫助 在這段時間，我開始授課了，但依舊沒開口說話一開始我有13個學生我請一個朋友來解釋我的手勢表示我是約翰法蘭西斯, 我在世界上四處行走我沒說話，而這位朋友之後不會在這裡替我解譯手勢所有的學生散坐四周並且他們開始... (笑聲) 我知道他們正在看時間表看看他們何時可以離開但他們必須和我一起共渡這堂課兩週後，大家都想要參與我們的課程 在這堂課裡我學到了，因為我做了一些這樣的事而讓他們全都聚集在這裡，他即將要說些什麼呢不知道，我想他或許想要說伐木，是的，伐木不，不是伐木，他剛比了手鋸不，你不可能用它來伐木你當然可以不，我想他是在講選擇性林業現在這成了一個討論課，並且我們正在談論著我暫不參與這個，我只是讓我的拳頭停止飛舞但我知道有時候我會做個手勢他們就會開始談起一些我從未想過的事而我應該要想到的因此，我知道了如果你是一個老師你在授課，如果你不學習你可能沒辦法教的很好因此我持續著 我父親來參加我的畢業典禮碩士帽的穗也撥了我父親說""我們真的很以你為傲，但是...""你知道是怎麼一回事他說""你必須要開始開車並且與人交談，""不然你拿了碩士學位又有何用?""我聳了聳肩，我又拿起我的背包然後我去了威士康辛大學 我在那裡花了兩年的時間寫有關漏油的議題但沒人有興趣但突然間，發生了一些事Exxon Valdez(1989年一艘漏油的油輪名字)那時在美國我是唯一撰寫有關漏油議題的人我父親再次造訪他說""兒子，我不知道你是怎麼辦到的""我是說你既不開車也不說話你姑姑說或許我不該給你太多壓力因為當你一句話都不說時你愈做愈好了 (笑聲) 很好，我又再次背起了背包與我的班卓琴，我走到了東岸讓我的雙腳泡進大西洋七年又一天，我穿越了整個美國 在1990年的地球日地球日二十週年紀念日，也就是我決定開口的日子這就是為何我說""謝謝你們來到這裡""因為這有點像森林裡砍樹如果沒有人在這裡聆聽，它真的會有聲音嗎所以我謝謝你們，也謝謝我的家人因為他們特別到場聽我說話這就是交流並且他們教會我聆聽，他們傾聽我這是在寂靜中很重要的一件事那就是互相傾聽真的，很重要我們必須互相傾聽我的旅程持續著我父親說""就是這裡了""但我並不想要到此為止 我成為海巡隊的聯合國親善大使我替美國寫一些條文我指，關於漏油方面的條文我指，20年前如果有人告訴過我約翰，你真的想要做些什麼嗎？是的，我想要有所作為他說""你只需要開始往東走""下車然後開始往東走然後我要離去時，他們接著說""還有！順便閉嘴"" (笑聲) 你將大有作為的，兄弟""這怎麼可能，怎麼會？怎麼可能僅僅不說話或者走路這麼簡單的事情就可以大有作為 我在海岸警衛隊的日子是美好的之後，我只有工作一年我說""夠了，一年已經夠了""我搭乘帆船航向加勒比海並且造訪每個小島，然後到了委內瑞拉然後，我忘了最重要的事為什麼我開始講話，這是我要告訴你們的我開口說話是因為我研究環境生態在這個形式上的階段研究但還有是非形式上的這個階段是我從人身上學，我們做什麼，我們如何環境生態從樹和鳥開始產生變化瀕臨絕種的物種讓我們了解，我們是怎麼對待彼此的因為如果我們是環境我們只需要環顧彼此看看我們是怎麼對待自己與對待彼此的這就是我想說的事並且我說""我將要傳遞這個訊息""所以我又搭上了帆船，穿越加勒比海它其實並不是我的帆船，我是船員到了委內瑞拉我又開始走路 這是故事的尾端，因為這告訴各位，我是怎麼開口的因為我仍舊沒有使用機動的交通工具我穿越了多拉多，它是一個在委內瑞拉的監獄小鎮，有名或臭名昭彰的監獄都在這裡，我不知道哪裡吸引我因為這一點都不像我我在那，穿越大門，然後警衛拿著一支M16槍指著我說護照！護照(西班牙語)然後我看著他，我說""護照是吧""我不需要給你看，就放在我後背包裡我是法蘭西斯博士，我是聯合國親善大使，我走遍世界各地然後我就走開了為什麼我想說這件事是因為路一轉，通往叢林去了警衛並沒開槍然後我開始說，終於自由了謝謝老天爺，我終於自由了這代表什麼呢，我指這代表什麼 我花了100公哩去理解我的內心我成為一個囚犯我是一個囚犯而我必須要逃離這種囚禁是我沒有駕駛或使用機動型交通工具這件事這怎麼可能因為我開始做了，所以對我來講不使用機動型交通工具是理所當然的一件事但這是不同的每逢生日，我問自己有關沉默這件事但我從未問過自己使用雙腳的這個決定我從沒想到自己會成為聯合國大使也沒想到會有一個博士學位 所以我了解，我不僅只對自己有責任因此我決定有所改變我們可以的我必須要改變但我害怕改變因為我太習慣當一個只會走路的人太習慣當一個四處行走的人我不知道如果改變了，我會變成什麼樣子但我知道我必須改變我知道，因為這是我能夠在這裡唯一的方法我早已知道這件事我們這個擁有美好的地方但我們還有另外一個地方要去我們必須拋開那些，讓我們之所以為我們的安全機制然後去那些，讓我們正在轉變的地方所以我要鼓勵你們前往下一處鬆開你自身的枷鎖懷抱愉快的感覺，因為我們必須要做些什麼我們必須要改變引句美國前副總統說的話我們必須要成為行動者所以如果我的聲音可以感動你如果我這些行為可以感動你，如果我在這裡可以感動你請受我感動我知道你們感動了我當我在這裡時 所以，讓我們往外走，往世界各地出發帶著關心，愛與尊敬這是我們在TED展現給彼此的½並帶著這些到世界各地因為我們就是環境本身我們怎麼對待彼此就會怎麼樣對待這個環境所以我要謝謝你們在這裡我想要以五秒鐘的靜默來作結 謝謝你們 (掌聲)"
