Talk	en	zh-tw
john_bohannon_dance_vs_powerpoint_a_modest_proposal	"(Music) Good afternoon. As you're all aware, we face difficult economic times. I come to you with a modest proposal for easing the financial burden. This idea came to me while talking to a physicist friend of mine at MIT. He was struggling to explain something to me: a beautiful experiment that uses lasers to cool down matter. Now he confused me from the very start, because light doesn't cool things down. It makes it hotter. It's happening right now. The reason that you can see me standing here is because this room is filled with more than 100 quintillion photons, and they're moving randomly through the space, near the speed of light. All of them are different colors, they're rippling with different frequencies, and they're bouncing off every surface, including me, and some of those are flying directly into your eyes, and that's why your brain is forming an image of me standing here. Now a laser is different. It also uses photons, but they're all synchronized, and if you focus them into a beam, what you have is an incredibly useful tool. The control of a laser is so precise that you can perform surgery inside of an eye, you can use it to store massive amounts of data, and you can use it for this beautiful experiment that my friend was struggling to explain. First you trap atoms in a special bottle. It uses electromagnetic fields to isolate the atoms from the noise of the environment. And the atoms themselves are quite violent, but if you fire lasers that are precisely tuned to the right frequency, an atom will briefly absorb those photons and tend to slow down. Little by little it gets colder until eventually it approaches absolute zero. Now if you use the right kind of atoms and you get them cold enough, something truly bizarre happens. It's no longer a solid, a liquid or a gas. It enters a new state of matter called a superfluid. The atoms lose their individual identity, and the rules from the quantum world take over, and that's what gives superfluids such spooky properties. For example, if you shine light through a superfluid, it is able to slow photons down to 60 kilometers per hour. Another spooky property is that it flows with absolutely no viscosity or friction, so if you were to take the lid off that bottle, it won't stay inside. A thin film will creep up the inside wall, flow over the top and right out the outside. Now of course, the moment that it does hit the outside environment, and its temperature rises by even a fraction of a degree, it immediately turns back into normal matter. Superfluids are one of the most fragile things we've ever discovered. And this is the great pleasure of science: the defeat of our intuition through experimentation. But the experiment is not the end of the story, because you still have to transmit that knowledge to other people. I have a Ph.D in molecular biology. I still barely understand what most scientists are talking about. So as my friend was trying to explain that experiment, it seemed like the more he said, the less I understood. Because if you're trying to give someone the big picture of a complex idea, to really capture its essence, the fewer words you use, the better. In fact, the ideal may be to use no words at all. I remember thinking, my friend could have explained that entire experiment with a dance. Of course, there never seem to be any dancers around when you need them. Now, the idea is not as crazy as it sounds. I started a contest four years ago called Dance Your Ph.D. Instead of explaining their research with words, scientists have to explain it with dance. Now surprisingly, it seems to work. Dance really can make science easier to understand. But don't take my word for it. Go on the Internet and search for ""Dance Your Ph.D."" There are hundreds of dancing scientists waiting for you. The most surprising thing that I've learned while running this contest is that some scientists are now working directly with dancers on their research. For example, at the University of Minnesota, there's a biomedical engineer named David Odde, and he works with dancers to study how cells move. They do it by changing their shape. When a chemical signal washes up on one side, it triggers the cell to expand its shape on that side, because the cell is constantly touching and tugging at the environment. So that allows cells to ooze along in the right directions. But what seems so slow and graceful from the outside is really more like chaos inside, because cells control their shape with a skeleton of rigid protein fibers, and those fibers are constantly falling apart. But just as quickly as they explode, more proteins attach to the ends and grow them longer, so it's constantly changing just to remain exactly the same. Now, David builds mathematical models of this and then he tests those in the lab, but before he does that, he works with dancers to figure out what kinds of models to build in the first place. It's basically efficient brainstorming, and when I visited David to learn about his research, he used dancers to explain it to me rather than the usual method: PowerPoint. And this brings me to my modest proposal. I think that bad PowerPoint presentations are a serious threat to the global economy. (Laughter) (Applause) Now it does depend on how you measure it, of course, but one estimate has put the drain at 250 million dollars per day. Now that assumes half-hour presentations for an average audience of four people with salaries of 35,000 dollars, and it conservatively assumes that about a quarter of the presentations are a complete waste of time, and given that there are some apparently 30 million PowerPoint presentations created every day, that would indeed add up to an annual waste of 100 billion dollars. Of course, that's just the time we're losing sitting through presentations. There are other costs, because PowerPoint is a tool, and like any tool, it can and will be abused. To borrow a concept from my country's CIA, it helps you to soften up your audience. It distracts them with pretty pictures, irrelevant data. It allows you to create the illusion of competence, the illusion of simplicity, and most destructively, the illusion of understanding. So now my country is 15 trillion dollars in debt. Our leaders are working tirelessly to try and find ways to save money. One idea is to drastically reduce public support for the arts. For example, our National Endowment for the Arts, with its $150 million budget, slashing that program would immediately reduce the national debt by about one one-thousandth of a percent. One certainly can't argue with those numbers. However, once we eliminate public funding for the arts, there will be some drawbacks. The artists on the street will swell the ranks of the unemployed. Many will turn to drug abuse and prostitution, and that will inevitably lower property values in urban neighborhoods. All of this could wipe out the savings we're hoping to make in the first place. I shall now, therefore, humbly propose my own thoughts, which I hope will not be liable to the least objection. Once we eliminate public funding for the artists, let's put them back to work by using them instead of PowerPoint. As a test case, I propose we start with American dancers. After all, they are the most perishable of their kind, prone to injury and very slow to heal due to our health care system. Rather than dancing our Ph.Ds, we should use dance to explain all of our complex problems. Imagine our politicians using dance to explain why we must invade a foreign country or bail out an investment bank. It's sure to help. Of course someday, in the deep future, a technology of persuasion even more powerful than PowerPoint may be invented, rendering dancers unnecessary as tools of rhetoric. However, I trust that by that day, we shall have passed this present financial calamity. Perhaps by then we will be able to afford the luxury of just sitting in an audience with no other purpose than to witness the human form in motion. (Music) (Applause)"	（音樂） 午安。 你們都知道，我們面對著艱難的經濟時代。我來這裡提出一個謙卑的建議來減輕財政負擔。 這個想法是在我和一位麻省理工學院的物理學家朋友聊天時產生的。他正在竭力向我解釋一個美麗的實驗：利用鐳射冷卻物質。他從一開始就把我弄糊塗了，因為光不會降溫。光會加熱。像是現在。你可以看到我站在這裡的原因是因為這個房間裡充滿了超過一萬兆顆光子，它們在空間中以接近光速隨機移動。它們是不同顏色的，他們有不同的頻率，且他們在各個表面間反彈，包括我在內，其中一些會直接進入你的眼睛，這就是為什麼你的大腦形成我站在這裡的圖像。 鐳射是不一樣的。它也使用光子，但它們是同步的，且如果你把它們集中成一束，你就有個非常有用的工具。鐳射可以非常精確地被控制，讓你可以執行眼內手術，你可以使用它來存儲大量的資料，你也可以使用它做這個我的朋友正在竭力解釋的美麗實驗。首先你將原子捕捉在特別的瓶子當中。它使用電磁場來孤立原子及環境中的雜訊。原子本身是相當暴力的，但如果你非常精確地調整到合適的頻率，原子會暫時吸收這些光子而且往往會慢下來。慢慢地它會變冷直到最終接近絕對零度。 現在，如果你使用合適的原子且讓它們夠冷，非常奇怪的事情會發生。它不再是固體、 液體或氣體。它進入一個叫作超流體的新狀態。原子失去了他們原來的特質，接著量子世界的規則接管它們，這是賦予超流體怪異特質的原因。例如，如果你將光線通過超流體，它可以減緩光子速度到每小時 60 公里。另一個怪異的特質是它以一種完全沒有粘度及摩擦的方式流動，所以，如果你把瓶子的蓋子拿走，它不會留在裡面。一層薄膜會爬上牆內側，流到上面並流到外面。現在很顯然的，當它到外部環境的時候，它的溫度僅僅上升一點點，它馬上變回正常的物質。超流體是我們迄今發現最脆弱的東西之一。這是科學的極大樂趣：我們透過實驗發現我們的直覺是不成立的。 但實驗不是這故事的結尾，因為你仍然要將知識傳給其它人。我有個分子生物學的博士學位。我仍只能勉強明白大多數科學家正在談論的東西。所以，當我的朋友試著解釋這個實驗時，感覺起來像他說得越多，我懂得越少。因為如果你想給某人一個複雜概念的大架構，要真正捕捉其本質，那麼用越少字越好。事實上，最理想的是根本不用字。我記得當時在想，我的朋友能夠用舞蹈解釋整個實驗。當然，當你需要舞者的時候身邊總是沒有舞者。 這個想法沒有聽起來這麼瘋狂。我四年前開始一個叫作「舞出你的博士」的比賽。科學家用舞蹈而不是文字，來解釋它的研究。意想不到的是，似乎是辦得到的。舞蹈真的可以讓科學更容易理解。但不要直接相信我的話。到網路上搜索「舞出你的博士」。有數以百計的舞蹈科學家們在等著你。 我在辦這個比賽時最令我驚訝的是有些科學家現在正直接與舞者們作研究。例如，在明尼蘇達大學有位叫 David Odde 的生物醫學工程師，和舞者合作研究細胞的移動方式。他們透過改變形狀來這麼做。當一個化學信號從一側出現，它會在那一側引發一系列的形狀改變，因為細胞是不斷與環境互動的。這使細胞可以沿著正確的方向滲出。但從外面看來如此緩慢和優雅的事情，在裡面可是非常混沌的，因為細胞用硬質蛋白纖維骨架來維持其形狀，且這些纖維組織不斷地解散。但正當它們炸開的時候，更多蛋白質連接到尾端並將其增長，所以它不斷地在變化才能維持原狀。David 建立數學模型，然後在實驗室測試，但在他測試之前，他與舞者們合作來建造這些模型。基本上這是有效的集思廣益，且當我訪問 David 來了解他的研究時，他用舞蹈來給我解釋而不是用常用的方法：PowerPoint。 這就回到我謙卑的建議。我認為不好的 PowerPoint 演講是對全球經濟的嚴重威脅。 （笑聲）（掌聲） 當然這要看你如何衡量它，但一項估計每天損失約 2 億 5000 萬美金。那是假定半小時的演講，觀眾約四人，每人薪水 35,000 美元，且它保守估計約有四分之一的演講是完全浪費時間的，有鑒於一天大約有3 千萬個 PowerPoint 演講產生，這樣會累積成每年一千億美金的損失。當然，這只是我們聽演講所浪費的時間。還有其他費用，因為 PowerPoint 是一個工具，就像任何其它工具，它可以被濫用。借用我國中央情報局的概念，它可以幫你讓聽眾放鬆。它用漂亮的圖片和無關的資料來分散注意力，它創造一個完整的幻象、一個簡易的假像，更糟的是建造一個認知的錯覺。 所以現在我的國家有 15 兆美元的債務。我們的領導人努力地尋找省錢的方法。其中一個是大量減少藝術的支援。例如，國家藝術基金會有一億五千萬元的預算，砍掉這個預算可以馬上減少國家債務的千分之一個百分比。這當然是個不爭的事實。然而，一旦我們移除藝術發展的公共資金，會有一些缺點。街上的藝術家會大幅增加失業人口。大部份會轉去吸毒和賣淫，無法避免地，土地價值將降低。這一切可能花去我們原本想要的儲蓄金。 所以我現在要謙卑地提出我的想法，希望不會有任何反對。當我們移除藝術家的公共資金時，我們讓他們重新投入工作，就是使用他們而不用 PowerPoint。作為測試案例，我提議我們從用美國的舞者開始。畢竟，他們是同類中最容易凋零的，容易受傷且由於我們的衛生保健制度傷勢癒合緩慢。不只是跳我們的博士研究，我們應該用舞蹈來解釋所有我們複雜的問題。想像一下我們的政治家用舞蹈來解釋為什麼我們必須侵入外國或紓困一家投資銀行。這一定有幫助的。 當然很久後的某一天，一種比 PowerPoint 更強大地說服技術可能會被發明，讓舞者不再被需要用作為演講工具。不過，我相信當那天到來時，我們應該已經過了現在的金融風暴。或許那時後我們能夠奢侈地只坐在觀眾席、沒有其他目的地欣賞人體運動。（音樂）（掌聲）
