Talk	en	zh-tw
john_hardy_my_green_school_dream	"I grew up in a very small village in Canada, and I'm an undiagnosed dyslexic. I had a really hard time in school. In fact, my mother told me eventually that I was the little kid in the village who cried all the way to school. I ran away. I left when I was 25 years old to go to Bali, and there I met my incredible wife, Cynthia, and together, over 20 years, we built an amazing jewelry business. It was a fairy tale, and then we retired. Then she took me to see a film that I really didn't want to see. It ruined my life — (Laughter) ""The Inconvenient Truth"" and Mr. Gore. I have four kids, and even if part of what he says is true, they're not going to have the life that I had. And I decided at that moment that I would spend the rest of my life doing whatever I could to improve their possibilities. So here's the world, and here we are in Bali. It's a tiny, little island — 60 miles by 90 miles. It has an intact Hindu culture. Cynthia and I were there. We had had a wonderful life there, and we decided to do something unusual. We decided to give back locally. And here it is: it's called the Green School. I know it doesn't look like a school, but it is something we decided to do, and it is extremely, extremely green. The classrooms have no walls. The teacher is writing on a bamboo blackboard. The desks are not square. At Green School, the children are smiling — an unusual thing for school, especially for me. And we practice holism. And for me it's just the idea that, if this little girl graduates as a whole person, chances are she'll demand a whole world — a whole world — to live on. Our children spend 181 days going to school in a box. The people that built my school also built the prison and the insane asylum out of the same materials. So if this gentleman had had a holistic education, would he be sitting there? Would he have had more possibilities in his life? The classrooms have natural light. They're beautiful. They're bamboo. The breeze passes through them. And when the natural breeze isn't enough, the kids deploy bubbles, but not the kind of bubbles you know. These bubbles are made from natural cotton and rubber from the rubber tree. So we basically turned the box into a bubble. And these kids know that painless climate control may not be part of their future. We pay the bill at the end of the month, but the people that are really going to pay the bill are our grandchildren. We have to teach the kids that the world is not indestructible. These kids did a little graffiti on their desks, and then they signed up for two extra courses. The first one was called sanding and the second one was called re-waxing. But since that happened, they own those desks. They know they can control their world. We're on the grid. We're not proud of it. But an amazing alternative energy company in Paris is taking us off the grid with solar. And this thing is the second vortex to be built in the world, in a two-and-a-half meter drop on a river. When the turbine drops in, it will produce 8,000 watts of electricity, day and night. And you know what these are. There's nowhere to flush. And as long as we're taking our waste and mixing it with a huge amount of water — you're all really smart, just do the math. How many people times how much water. There isn't enough water. These are compost toilets, and nobody at the school wanted to know about them, especially the principal. And they work. People use them. People are okay. It's something you should think about doing. Not many things didn't work. The beautiful canvas and rubber skylights got eaten by the sun in six months. We had to replace them with recyclable plastic. The teachers dragged giant PVC whiteboards into the classrooms. So we had some good ideas: we took old automobile windshields, put paper behind them and created the first alternative to the whiteboard. Green School sits in south-central Bali, and it's on 20 acres of rolling garden. There's an amazing river traveling through it, and you can see there how we manage to get across the river. I met a father the other day; he looked a little crazed. I said, ""Welcome to Green School."" He said, ""I've been on an airplane for 24 hours."" I asked him, ""Why?"" He said, ""I had a dream once about a green school, and I saw a picture of this green school, I got on an airplane. In August I'm bringing my sons."" This was a great thing. But more than that, people are building green houses around Green School, so their kids can walk to school on the paths. And people are bringing their green industries, hopefully their green restaurants, to the Green School. It's becoming a community. It's becoming a green model. We had to look at everything. No petrochemicals in the pavement. No pavement. These are volcanic stones laid by hand. There are no sidewalks. The sidewalks are gravel. They flood when it rains, but they're green. This is the school buffalo. He's planning to eat that fence for dinner. All the fences at Green School are green. And when the kindergarten kids recently moved their gate, they found out the fence was made out of tapioca. They took the tapioca roots up to the kitchen, sliced them thinly and made delicious chips. Landscaping. We manage to keep the garden that was there running right up to the edge of each of the classrooms. We dropped them gently in. We made space for these guys who are Bali's last black pigs. And the school cow is trying to figure out how to replace the lawnmower on the playing field. These young ladies are living in a rice culture, but they know something that few people know in a rice culture. They know how to plant organic rice, they know how to look after it, they know how to harvest and they know how to cook it. They're part of the rice cycle and these skills will be valuable for them in their future. This young man is picking organic vegetables. We feed 400 people lunch every day and it's not a normal lunch. There's no gas. Local Balinese women cook the food on sawdust burners using secrets that only their grandmothers know. The food is incredible. Green School is a place of pioneers, local and global. And it's a kind of microcosm of the globalized world. The kids are from 25 countries. When I see them together, I know that they're working out how to live in the future. Green School is going into its third year with 160 children. It's a school where you do learn reading — one of my favorites — writing — I was bad at it — arithmetic. But you also learn other things. You learn bamboo building. You practice ancient Balinese arts. This is called mud wrestling in the rice fields. The kids love it. The mothers aren't quite convinced. (Laughter) We've done a lot of outrageous things in our lives, and we said, okay, local, what does ""local"" mean? Local means that 20 percent of the population of the school has to be Balinese, and this was a really big commitment. And we were right. And people are coming forward from all over the world to support the Balinese Scholarship Fund, because these kids will be Bali's next green leaders. The teachers are as diverse as the student body, and the amazing thing is that volunteers are popping up. A man came from Java with a new kind of organic agriculture. A woman came from Africa with music. And together these volunteers and the teachers are deeply committed to creating a new generation of global, green leaders. The Green School effect — we don't know what it is. We need someone to come and study it. But what's happening, our learning-different kids — dyslexic — we've renamed them prolexic — are doing well in these beautiful, beautiful classrooms. And all the kids are thriving. And how did we do all this? On giant grass. It's bamboo. It comes out of the ground like a train. It grows as high as a coconut tree in two months and three years later it can be harvested to build buildings like this. It's as strong and dense as teak and it will hold up any roof. When the architects came, they brought us these things, and you've probably seen things like this. The yellow box was called the administration complex. (Laughter) We squashed it, we rethought it, but mainly we renamed it ""the heart of school,"" and that changed everything forever. It's a double helix. It has administrators in it and many, many other things. And the problem of building it — when the Balinese workers saw long reams of plans, they looked at them and said, ""What's this?"" So we built big models. We had them engineered by the engineers. And Balinese carpenters like this measured them with their bamboo rulers, selected the bamboo and built the buildings using age-old techniques, mostly by hand. It was chaos. And the Balinese carpenters want to be as modern as we do, so they use metal scaffolding to build the bamboo building and when the scaffolding came down, we realized that we had a cathedral, a cathedral to green, and a cathedral to green education. The heart of school has seven kilometers of bamboo in it. From the time the foundations were finished, in three months it had roofs and floors. It may not be the biggest bamboo building in the world, but many people believe that it's the most beautiful. Is this doable in your community? We believe it is. Green School is a model we built for the world. It's a model we built for Bali. And you just have to follow these simple, simple rules: be local, let the environment lead and think about how your grandchildren might build. So, Mr. Gore, thank you. You ruined my life, but you gave me an incredible future. And if you're interested in being involved in finishing Green School and building the next 50 around the world, please come and see us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在加拿大的一個小村子長大我是個未被診斷出的閱讀障礙症患者我在學校很不快樂事實上，我媽後來告訴我我是村子裡大家都知道整路哭著上學的小孩我後來離開了我25歲的時候到了峇里島並在那遇到我的妻子 Cynthia在一起超過20年的時間我們開創出成功的珠寶事業好像童話故事一樣，後來我們退休了然後她帶我去看一部電影我本來不想看的那電影毀了我(笑聲)《不願面對的真相》和高爾先生毀了我我有四個孩子即使他所講的只有一部份會成真我的孩子也不會有我曾擁有的所以我當下就決定要用我剩下來的時間盡可能的做些能改變他們的未來的事這是地球這是我們所在的峇里島是個小小島面積5632平方公里崇拜印度文化Cynthia和我住在那我們在那裡過著美好生活後來決定做些與眾不同的事我們決定回饋當地 就是這兒了，綠色學校我知道看起來不像個學校但這就是我們決定要做的事而它非常非常環保教室沒有牆黑板是竹子做的桌子不是方的綠色學校的每個孩子都微笑著這對一間學校來說是多麼不尋常的我們以全人教育(holism)為宗旨對我來說，這概念就是如果這個小女孩畢業的時候有健全人格那麼全世界整個世界就會在她腳下我們的孩子有181天的時間在方形教室裡上課學校的建築師們也是用一樣的素材建造出監獄、瘋人院的人如果這個人接受的是全人教育那他還會坐在這狹小辦公室嗎？他的人生是否會多了更多可能性？ 教室都是自然光非常美麗，都是竹子做的微風輕輕吹過如果微風還不夠涼孩子們會做出泡泡並非你想的那種泡泡這些泡泡的材料是天然棉和橡膠樹提煉出的橡膠我以我們把方形教室變成圓的這些孩子們都知道他們未來的氣候控制也許不會是這麼輕鬆我們雖然每月底付帳單但真正要付出代價的是我們的子孫我們必須教導孩子世界並非堅固不摧的這些孩子們在桌上塗鴉然後就登記了兩門額外課程一門是磨光課一門是重新打蠟課正因為這樣桌子變成為他們的他們知道自己有能力控制自己的小世界 我們也需要用電，這點實在很慚愧但巴黎有間替代能源公司提供了我們太陽能發電這東西是世界第二大的人造渦旋250公尺的規模建於河上等渦輪開始運作可以產生出八千瓦特的電力日夜不分你們知道這是什麼沒有沖水的地方如果我們的排泄物都需要用水沖掉的話，那所需水量各位都很聰明，自己算算多少人乘以所需水量這樣水是不夠的這些是堆肥式馬桶學校沒人想了解它們特別是校長它們能用、也有人用各位可以考慮使用也不是很多東西都壞掉美麗的帆布與橡膠天窗半年內就會被陽光侵蝕我們必須用可回收的塑膠做更換老師們將PVC (塑料製品的原料) 白板帶進教室我們有些好主意用舊車的擋風板，後面放上白紙就弄出史上第一個替代白板 綠色學校坐落於峇里島中南部在20英畝的綠地之上有條美麗的河，流過校園如你所看到的這是我們造的橋我前幾天遇到一位父親，看起來很激動我說：「歡迎來到綠色學校」他說：「我搭了24小時的飛機」我問：「為什麼？」他回答：「我有次夢到綠色學校」「然後就看到你們這間學校」「就直接搭上飛機了」「八月時我要帶我兒子們過來」這真的很棒更棒的是當地人在綠色學校四周建起綠色房屋孩子們可以步著小道上學當地人將環保工業帶進來和綠色環保餐廳一起帶進綠色學校漸漸變成一個社區變成綠色的模範我們必須考量到每件事人行道不能有石油化學產品沒有人行道我們用手鋪上火山岩石沒有鋪磚人行道我們的人行道是石子做的，下雨時會積水但很天然 這是學校的水牛他正打算吃掉圍籬當晚餐綠色學校的圍籬當然是綠色天然的最近幼稚園的孩子最近在移他們的大門然後發現圍籬其實是木薯做成的他們就把木薯根拿到廚房切薄做成薯片景觀美化我們想辦法保留原有的花園並延伸到每間教室的周圍我們小心翼翼的規劃我們留了空間給這些傢伙峇里島最後的幾隻黑豬這是校牛牠正在想著怎麼取代操場裡的割草機 這些小女孩接觸的是米食文化關於米食文化，很少人知道的事她們都懂她們知道怎麼種有機米如何照顧有機米知道怎麼採收、烹煮是米食循環的一部份而這些技能，對他們的未來是很寶貴的這小男孩在採收有機蔬菜我們每天需要準備400份午餐不是一般午餐，我們不用瓦斯峇里島當地婦女用鋸木屑爐灶來烹煮烹調秘方是祖傳的食物超美味 綠色學校是培育先驅的搖籃既當地又國際而且像是全球化世界的縮影孩子們來自25個國家當我看他們聚在一起我知道他們正致力於更美好的未來綠色學校將邁入第三年共有160位學生這間學校提供你閱讀的學習—我的最愛之一 —寫作 — 我寫作超差 —還有算術但還有其他的可以學學會用竹子建築可以練習峇里傳統藝術這是在稻田裡玩泥巴摔角孩子們超愛媽媽們可不這麼想 (笑聲) 我們一生中做了很多肆無忌憚的事那我們想，要當地化，是什麼意思？當地化指的是20%的學校人口要是峇里島當地人這是個很大的承諾但我們是對的人們從世界各地給我們支持與幫忙來贊助峇里獎學金因為這些孩子是峇里島的下一代綠色領導者老師們也像學生一樣有多元背景最棒的一件事就是漸漸有志工加入有來自爪哇島的男人帶著新品種的有機農作過來來自非洲的女人，帶著音樂過來這些志工與老師們一起竭盡心力創造出新的下一代有世界觀、綠色的領導者綠色學校的效應我們還不知道是什麼可能需要有人過來研究但正在發生的是，每個不同學習力的學生有閱讀障礙的(dyslexic) —我們重新命名為喜愛閱讀的(prolexic)這些學生在美麗的教室裡都發展的很好所有的孩子都卓越成長 我們怎麼辦到的？用廣大綠園辦到的用竹子辦到的他們有如火車般，從地底竄出兩個月時間就長的跟椰子數一樣高三年後就可以採收用來建造這樣的建築跟柚木一樣密實強壯可以支撐任何屋頂建築師來的時候，他們帶了這些東西你們大概很熟悉這些黃色盒子叫行政辦公區(笑聲)我們將之壓碎重造主要是重新命名為「學校之心」從此改變了每件事是個雙螺旋狀建築管理人員在此辦公以及其他很多東西 建築碰到的問題就是當峇里島的工人一看到這張複雜的圖就問說：「這什麼碗糕？」所以我們做出模型請工程師做出來的峇里島的木匠們用竹尺來測量選用適當的竹子來建造利用傳統技能幾乎都用手建造當時一團亂這些木匠們也想像我們一樣用先進技術他們用金屬鷹架來建這些竹子建築當鷹架拆掉後我們發現，這就像座大教堂綠色的大教堂綠色教育的殿堂學校之心用了七公里的竹子建成地基建好後三個月內我們便有了屋頂和樓層架構這可能不是全世界最大的竹子建築但很多人都相信這是最漂亮的 這在你的社區是否行得通？我們認為可以的綠色學校是我們建給世界的模型是我們為峇里島所建的模型只要遵守幾個簡單的原則要當地化、以環境為優先、然後想想你的子孫會怎麼建造 所以，高爾先生，謝謝你你毀了我一生，但卻給予我一個很棒的未來如果各位對於綠色學校的落成有興趣想在世界各地建造另外50所學校就來拜訪我們吧! 謝謝 (掌聲)
