Talk	en	zh-tw
john_walker_re_creates_great_performances	"Ninety-nine percent of us have the dream of listeners. Not being the musicians — the listeners, right? And we crave one thing, even though we kind of don't know it all the time. We crave to be in the room with the musician the day it was recorded, the day it was played. And we go to live concerts, and we get that as much as we can. But then we listen to the other 99 percent of our stuff recorded. And it turns out the further back you go in history, the little rougher it sounds. And so we said, there's a solution to this. Let's separate the performance, as a thing, out from the recording, which was how it was made. You know, the thing with microphones in the room and all that day. But the performance itself was how the musicians worked their fingers, and what instruments they were using. And it's the data hidden inside the recording. In order to do this, it's a lot of hardware and software that runs in a very high resolution. And Yamaha makes an incredible thing called the Disklavier Pro that looks like a nice grand piano there. And you probably didn't realize it's going to do all these things — but full of solenoids, and fiber optics, and computers and all this kind of stuff. The highest resolution out of Japan. And this just didn't work until we could cross this line that says high-definition. And we were able to cross this line, called the uncanny valley, in terms of — artificial intelligence terms. We have a process where we, you know, kind of put it into the computer and digitize it, and then a whole lot of analysis. And we look at every single note, and all the attributes of those notes: how hard they were struck, and how they were held down, and how you move the fingers. So we had to develop a whole new science of how you move your fingers. And, you know, it's a thing your piano teacher teaches you, but we never had a science behind these kinds of things. I'm going to start with Glenn Gould. He died 25 years ago this year, and was born 75 years ago this year. Was a beloved pianist, maybe the great cult pianist of the twentieth century. He just got tired of being in front of an audience, and felt like — a performing monkey was, in fact, his term. So he stepped back, and did nothing but the crafting of his work. And Gould's specialty was playing Bach. His maybe most famous recording was something called ""The Goldberg Variations."" Bach only wrote themes and variations one time. He wrote some early pieces, but late in his life, in his mature period, he said, ""Here's a theme — 30 variations."" In fact, the theme isn't even the melody, it's the bass line. And Gould recorded it in two major recordings that you may know about, one in mono, and one in stereo. And the one in mono, by the way, he used the pedal, and as he got older, he said, ""No, no, wait a minute. I'm going to get very scientific about this, and not use the pedal."" What I'd like you to hear live is the 1955 version, and we'll play the first couple pieces of it. Glenn Gould, 1955. (Music) How about that? (Applause) So let me tell you a little bit how this was done. First of all, let me get you to the end step. This is — we have a fairly complex process that, you know, software and musicians and so on, but when we're all done, we know that the ear is the final arbiter. We can play the original in one ear, and a new recording in the other. So I'm going to do this for you right now, what you just heard. And in the right speaker is going to be the original recording, and the left speaker is going to be the new recording, actually of an instrument just like that one, and I'm going to play them together at the same time. (Music) That's the original. [Unclear] That's the two together. (Music) Before ""Jurassic Park,"" there was no science for how skin hung off of muscle, right? So, in the video world, we've been able to invent, in our lifetimes, natural behavior. And this is kind of another example of putting a science behind natural behavior. And then you heard the original. Ultimately, I started with the experience. And the experience is: I want to be in the room and hear the musicians. Lots of you can afford to buy one of these. But, if not, there is now high-definition surround sound. And I got to tell you, if you haven't heard high-definition surround, go down to your audio dealer, your audiophile dealer. It's so involving compared to regular stereo. But if you don't have that, maybe you can listen on your headphones. And so on the same disk we have five recordings — Sony has five recordings. And you could listen in headphones with this thing called binaural recording. And it's a dummy head that sits in front of the instrument, and it's got microphones where the ears are. And when you put on headphones, and you listen to this, you're inside of Glenn Gould's body. And it is a chuckle until, you know, the musicians, who are musicians who play the piano, listen to this, say, ""I can't believe it! It's just what it's like to play the piano."" Except now you're inside Glenn Gould's body playing the piano, and it feels like your fingers are making the decisions and moving through the whole process. It's a game changer. Here's now something we know in spectacular quality. The whole process is very sensitive to temperature and humidity. What you heard today was not perfect. It's an amalgam of wood, and cast iron, and felt, and steel strings, and all these, and they're all amazingly sensitive to temperature and humidity. So when you go into the recording session, you get to stop after every piece and rebuild the piano if you need to. There's the whole action there, sitting, kind of, on the side, and the dummy head and our recording engineers standing around while we rebuild the piano. Without putting dates next to these things, step-by-step music will be turned into data, like every field that's occurred in the past 35 or 40 years. Audio has come very late to this game — I'm not talking about digitizing, and bits, and re-mastering. I'm talking about turn it into the data that it was made from, which is how it was performed. And audio came very late because our ears are so hard to fool — they're high-resolution, and they're wired straight to our emotions, and you can't trick them very easily. Your eyes are pretty happy with some color and movement, you know. All right, there's this episode of ""Star Trek."" (Laughter) I get it — it was all just laid in for me yesterday there. The episode of ""Star Trek"" for me was James Daly played Methuselah — remember this one? And at some point he's dancing with his — and I won't ruin the episode for you, from 1967. Right, do you know where I'm going? And Nimoy, I'm sorry, Spock sits down at the piano, and he starts playing this Brahms waltz, and they all dance to it. And then Spock turns round, he goes, ""James, I know all of the Brahms waltzes, and I don't believe this is one of them in the category."" That's where I'm at. I want to hear the waltzes Brahms didn't write. I want to hear the pieces that Horowitz didn't play. But I believe we're on a path now, when we get to data, that we can distill styles, and templates, and formulas, and all these kinds of things, again, that you've seen happen in the computer graphics world. It's now coming in this world. The transition will be this one. It says right now, we think music is notes and how they're played. And I believe this is coming. Because what you've just heard was a computer playing data — no Glenn Gould in the room. But yet, it was human. And I believe you'll get to the next step, the real dream of listeners. Every time you listen to a recording today, every time you take out your iPod and whatever, every time you listen to it, it's the same thing — it's frozen. Wouldn't it be cool if every time you listened, it could be different? This morning, you're sadder, you want to hear your song, the same song, played sadder than you did yesterday. You want to hear it played by different musicians. You want to hear it in different rooms and whatever. We've seen all these ""Star Treks,"" and they're all holodeck episodes as well. Every time I listen to that, I get goose bumps. It's so amazing, it's so exciting. Every time I listen to that recording it's like, ""Oh my God, I can't believe I'm in the same room. I can't believe this is happening."" It's a way better experience than whatever you're used to listening to, in whatever form. And lastly, I will wrap up with one minute of Art Tatum. So I've really overshot my budget here. We made a new recording of him playing in the Shrine Auditorium in September. It was a concert he recorded in the Shrine Auditorium in 1949. And I've got to tell you, we have this lab where we build and measure everything, back in Raleigh, North Carolina, and we flew out to Los Angeles. And as the president of the company, I didn't feel real comfortable about where we were. That's a real uncomfortable feeling, when all the equipment's come out and a whole Sony team, and people are going to be sitting there in the audience. And we put the piano on the sweet spot of the stage in the Shrine, which has not changed since 1949, still seats 6,000 people. And on the sweet spot on the stage, Tatum starts playing ... and every note, every beat, every slur, every accent, every pedal was perfect, because he played it for that room on that day. And we captured all that data all over again. And I want you to hear that right now. And fortunately, it's right in here. This is an encore he used to do. It's one minute long. It's an Irish jig, and I want you to hear his humor. (Music) (Applause) And that's just what the live audience did. (Applause) So thank you very much, Michael, thank you for the opportunity."	"99%的我們都是音樂聆聽著不是音樂演奏者, 是聆聽者, 對吧?我們都渴望一件事雖然我們常不自覺但我們渴望能與音樂家同在錄音室中, 看著錄音的完成同理, 我們總是喜歡盡可能地到現場聽音樂會但又總是花99%的時間聽被錄製的音樂事實是 聽越久遠的錄音失真越多我們提供了一解決方式我們要把演奏這件事與錄音分離 就是錄音現場狀況就像是麥克風那一整天設在錄音室中而演出是只音樂家如何移動他們的手指彈奏他們的樂器這些是錄音後被隱藏的數據為了克服 需要大量的硬體與軟體分析以高解析度的方式處理Yamaha 作出一驚人的產品 叫 ""Disklavier Pro""它看起來只是個三角大鋼琴但有所不知的是它能作所有的事有著很多的線圈, 光纖 以及 電腦等等硬體裝置 —- 有著日本最高的解析度這些都無法成功直到我們稱它是""高傳真清晰度""才成功的跨過阻礙利用人工智慧軟體處理用電腦數位化後做大量分析我們分析每一音符以及其他的屬性音鍵是怎麼被敲下 以及持續被壓下多久又是怎麼移動手指所以我們建立了一個全新的科學研究手指如何在琴鍵上移動就是那些細節你的鋼琴老師會教你的但我們從沒一個科學研究這些問題 我要先介紹""Glenn Gould""他出生75年前 但於25年前離開人世是個受人愛戴的鋼琴演奏家 可能是20世紀最為大的異類鋼琴師他厭倦在觀眾前演出感覺就像是""耍猴戲"" 他就是這麼說過所以他退下來 專研他的作品Gould 的專長就是演奏巴哈可能是他最有名的作品是""戈德堡變奏曲""巴哈只寫下些主旋律與變奏Gould也在早年改寫些但到了晚期, 也就是他的成熟期他輕鬆的完成 30組變奏曲事實上主調還不是旋律 而是低音線Gould錄製在兩種錄音方式一在單音 一在立體聲道在單音錄製時 他用了踏板待他年長 他說 ""不!不! 等等我得要更科學些而不用踏板錄音""現在要為你們現場展示的是 1955年的版本我們只會演奏開始的一些片段Glenn Gould, 1955 作品 ...(鋼琴聲)如何?(掌聲) 讓我告訴你們這是如何做到的首先 讓我帶你們到最後階段我們有了複雜的過程一大堆的軟體與音樂家等等但當我們完成後, 我們知道耳朵才是最後的仲裁我們可以用一隻耳朵聽原曲, 而在另一耳朵聽新錄製的而我也要為你們示範剛聽到的曲子所以右聲道喇叭是原始錄製左聲道喇叭是新錄製類似這鋼琴的新錄製我會同時播放左右聲道(鋼琴聲)原始的(鋼琴聲) 在電影""侏儸紀公園""前從未顯示恐龍的皮膚是如何長在考古研究後的肌肉上, 對吧?所以在影像的世界中我們已經能用科技重現自然狀態我們這個就是另一用科學重現當初原始的風貌也就是讓大家能聽到原始的現場終極的 挑戰體驗就是要能與錄音的音樂家同在一個錄音室中相信許多其中的你們能買得起這樣的鋼琴若不能 現在也有 高傳真的環場音響讓我提醒你 如果你還沒有聽過高傳真音效快去音響經銷商試聽比一般音響更有臨場感如果沒有這些 建議你用耳機收聽同張CD上 有5首錄音SONY有5首錄音可以用耳機收聽利用了這叫""雙耳錄音法""就是個假人頭放置於樂器前假人的雙耳部分各有一麥克風所以當你戴上耳機時你就好像是在Glenn Gould 的演奏位置這會是會心的微笑的當真的演奏家自己聽到這錄音會笑說""我不敢相信 聽起來就好像是在演出中""差別是 你實際是在 Glenn Gould 的位置彈奏鋼琴感覺像是你的手指在決定如何彈奏移動在琴鍵上是個業界革命性改變 這裡是我們所了解成就驚人品質的因素樂器重現的整個過程 對溫溼度的變化相當敏感今天所聽到的並不是最完美的是木頭 鑄鐵 鋼弦等等的混合狀況它們對溫溼度變化都非常敏感所以當要開始一錄製過程你必須要在每首錄製後停下檢查 必要時得重新建構鋼琴所有的錄製得停下待命包括假人頭與錄音工程師都得在一旁待命沒有確定的時間表按部就班地 音樂就能轉換成數據就像是每個專門領域的過去35~40年的發展音響是較晚加入這場發展不是指那些數位化, 數據, 與再混音錄製而是重現最初錄音時細節與狀態數據也就是剛剛所呈現的音響是最後加入精進行列, 是因為我們的耳朵是非常難去欺騙的它們是高解析度 它們是直接連到情緒反應無法騙過它們我們的眼睛只要求顏色與動態 舉例一集""星際爭霸戰""(笑聲)昨天就像在我面前那集的星際爭霸戰是 James Daly 飾演 Methuselah記得這集嗎?他在其中一段跳起舞來...我不會跟你講1967年的這集的內容的，放心你知道我想說什麼Nimoy 喔不! 是劇中的Spock 坐在鋼琴前他開始彈起了布拉姆斯的華爾茲 他們也就跳起舞來Spock 站起說""詹姆士, 我知道所有的布拉姆斯的華爾茲我相信這曲並不是歸類在他之下""這就是我要說的我想聽到布拉姆斯沒寫過的華爾茲我想聽到 Horowitz 沒彈奏過我相信我們是正朝向那個方向我們能萃取出風格 樣式 與 規則 等等細節就像在電腦動畫世界中所體驗的重現這樣的可能即將來臨轉換就是這個我們認為音樂就是音符以及他們如何被演奏我相信即將來臨因為剛剛聽到的就是電腦演奏數據 —沒有 Glenn Gould 在現場但能感受到就像是真人彈奏出的我也相信你會升級到另一階 聆聽者的夢想每次你聽到一錄音每次當你拿出iPod 或是其他每次你聽到音樂 都是同樣的感受 就像是結凍一樣這不是很棒嗎? 如果每次你聽音樂 都能是不同的今晨你覺德感傷 你想聽到你的歌那同樣的歌 能演奏得較昨天悲傷些或是你想聽到不同的演奏者你想聽到在不同的室內演出 我們都看了星際爭霸戰 他們也就是利用虛擬場景每次我聽到這些音樂 我就起雞皮疙瘩這麼驚人 這麼另人興奮每次我聽到這些音樂 就像是 天啊我不敢相信 居然同在一間室內 我無法相信聽到的這是一更高層次的體驗相較之前我們曾聽過的任何形式最後 我想以一分鐘的 Art Tatum 演奏做結束所以 會超過演講時間的我們為他做了新的錄製是九月在 Shrine 演奏廳錄製這原本是1949年Shrine 演奏廳的現場演出我必須指出 我們有個實驗室位於北卡的Raleigh 可以建構與測量所有項目我們也飛來洛杉磯身為公司的總經理我並不覺得十分自在這是個緊張的時候當所有設備以及SONY團隊出現加上人們一一入座我們將鋼琴放在Shrine台上是1949年以來皆沒改變的 也坐入6000人就在舞台中央 Tatum 開始彈奏每個音符 每個節拍 每個連音 每個重音 每個踏板都是完美 因為他過去在那如何演出都被我們用數據分析捕捉到我希望你們現在也能聽見就在這裡了這是他常用的安可曲只有一分鐘長是個愛爾蘭節奏 我希望你聽到他的幽默(鋼琴聲)(熱烈掌聲)這也正是現場觀眾的反應(掌聲)謝謝大家 Michael, 謝謝這個機會"
