Talk	en	zh-tw
john_hunter_on_the_world_peace_game	"I'm very fortunate to be here. I feel so fortunate. I've been so impressed by the kindness expressed to me. I called my wife Leslie, and I said, ""You know, there's so many good people trying to do so much good. It feels like I've landed in a colony of angels."" It's a true feeling. But let me get to the talk — I see the clock is running. I'm a public school teacher, and I just want to share a story of my superintendent. Her name is Pam Moran in Albemarle County, Virginia, the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. And she's a very high-tech superintendent. She uses smart boards, she blogs, she Tweets, she does Facebook, she does all this sort of high-tech stuff. She's a technology leader and instructional leader. But in her office, there's this old wooden, weather-worn table, kitchen table — peeling green paint, it's kind of rickety. And I said, ""Pam, you're such a modern, cutting-edge person. Why is this old table in your office?"" And she told me, she said, ""You know, I grew up in Southwestern Virginia, in the coal mines and the farmlands of rural Virginia, and this table was in my grandfather's kitchen. And we'd come in from playing, he'd come in from plowing and working, and we'd sit around that table every night. And as I grew up, I heard so much knowledge and so many insights and so much wisdom come out around this table, I began to call it the wisdom table. And when he passed on, I took this table with me and brought it to my office, and it reminds me of him. It reminds me of what goes on around an empty space sometimes."" The project I'm going to tell you about is called the World Peace Game, and essentially it is also an empty space. And I'd like to think of it as a 21st century wisdom table, really. It all started back in 1977. I was a young man, and I had been dropping in and out of college. And my parents were very patient, but I had been doing intermittent sojourns to India on a mystical quest. And I remember the last time I came back from India — in my long white flowing robes and my big beard and my John Lennon glasses — and I said to my father, ""Dad, I think I've just about found spiritual enlightenment."" He said, ""Well there's one more thing you need to find."" I said, ""What is that, dad?"" ""A job."" (Laughter) And so they pleaded with me to get a degree in something. So I got a degree and it turned out to be education. It was an experimental education program. It could have been dentistry, but the word ""experimental"" was in it, and so that's what I had to go for. And I went in for a job interview in the Richmond Public Schools in Virginia, the capital city, bought a three-piece suit — my concession to convention — kept my long beard and my afro and my platform shoes — at the time it was the '70s — and I walked in, and I sat down and had an interview. And I guess they were hard up for teachers because the supervisor, her name was Anna Aro, said I had the job teaching gifted children. And I was so shocked, so stunned, I got up and said, ""Well, thank you, but what do I do?"" (Laughter) Gifted education hadn't really taken hold too much. There weren't really many materials or things to use. And I said, ""What do I do?"" And her answer shocked me. It stunned me. Her answer set the template for the entire career I was to have after that. She said, ""What do you want to do?"" And that question cleared the space. There was no program directive, no manual to follow, no standards in gifted education in that way. And she cleared such a space that I endeavored from then on to clear a space for my students, an empty space, whereby they could create and make meaning out of their own understanding. So this happened in 1978, and I was teaching many years later, and a friend of mine introduced me to a young filmmaker. His name is Chris Farina. Chris Farina is here today at his own cost. Chris, could you stand up and let them see you — a young, visionary filmmaker who's made a film. (Applause) This film is called ""World Peace and Other 4th Grade Achievements."" He proposed the film to me — it's a great title. He proposed the film to me, and I said, ""Yeah, maybe it'll be on local TV, and we can say hi to our friends."" But the film has really gone places. Now it's still in debt, but Chris has managed, through his own sacrifice, to get this film out. So we made a film and it turns out to be more than a story about me, more than a story about one teacher. It's a story that's a testament to teaching and teachers. And it's a beautiful thing. And the strange thing is, when I watch the film — I have the eerie sensation of seeing it — I saw myself literally disappear. What I saw was my teachers coming through me. I saw my geometry teacher in high school, Mr. Rucell's wry smile under his handlebar mustache. That's the smile I use — that's his smile. I saw Jan Polo's flashing eyes. And they weren't flashing in anger, they were flashing in love, intense love for her students. And I have that kind of flash sometimes. And I saw Miss Ethel J. Banks who wore pearls and high-heels to elementary school every day. And you know, she had that old-school teacher stare. You know the one. (Laughter) ""And I'm not even talking about you behind me, because I've got eyes in the back of my head."" (Laughter) You know that teacher? I didn't use that stare very often, but I do have it in my repertoire. And Miss Banks was there as a great mentor for me. And then I saw my own parents, my first teachers. My father, very inventive, spatial thinker. That's my brother Malcolm there on the right. And my mother, who taught me in fourth grade in segregated schools in Virginia, who was my inspiration. And really, I feel as though, when I see the film — I have a gesture she does, like this — I feel like I am a continuation of her gesture. I am one of her teaching gestures. And the beautiful thing was, I got to teach my daughter in elementary school, Madeline. And so that gesture of my mother's continues through many generations. It's an amazing feeling to have that lineage. And so I'm here standing on the shoulders of many people. I'm not here alone. There are many people on this stage right now. And so this World Peace Game I'd like to tell you about. It started out like this: it's just a four-foot by five-foot plywood board in an inner-city urban school, 1978. I was creating a lesson for students on Africa. We put all the problems of the world there, and I thought, let's let them solve it. I didn't want to lecture or have just book reading. I wanted to have them be immersed and learn the feeling of learning through their bodies. So I thought, well they like to play games. I'll make something — I didn't say interactive; we didn't have that term in 1978 — but something interactive. And so we made the game, and it has since evolved to a four-foot by four-foot by four-foot Plexiglass structure. And it has four Plexiglass layers. There's an outer space layer with black holes and satellites and research satellites and asteroid mining. There's an air and space level with clouds that are big puffs of cotton we push around and territorial air spaces and air forces, a ground and sea level with thousands of game pieces on it — even an undersea level with submarines and undersea mining. There are four countries around the board. The kids make up the names of the countries — some are rich; some are poor. They have different assets, commercial and military. And each country has a cabinet. There's a Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Minister of Defense and a CFO, or Comptroller. I choose the Prime Minister based on my relationship with them. I offer them the job, they can turn it down, and then they choose their own cabinet. There's a World Bank, arms dealers and a United Nations. There's also a weather goddess who controls a random stock market and random weather. (Laughter) That's not all. And then there's a 13-page crisis document with 50 interlocking problems. So that, if one thing changes, everything else changes. I throw them into this complex matrix, and they trust me because we have a deep, rich relationship together. And so with all these crises, we have — let's see — ethnic and minority tensions; we have chemical and nuclear spills, nuclear proliferation. There's oil spills, environmental disasters, water rights disputes, breakaway republics, famine, endangered species and global warming. If Al Gore is here, I'm going to send my fourth-graders from Agnor-Hurt and Venable schools to you because they solved global warming in a week. (Laughter) (Applause) And they've done it several times too. (Laughter) So I also have in the game a saboteur — some child — it's basically a troublemaker — and I have my troublemaker put to use because they, on the surface, are trying to save the world and their position in the game. But they're also trying to undermine everything in the game. And they do it secretly through misinformation and ambiguities and irrelevancies, trying to cause everyone to think more deeply. The saboteur is there, and we also read from Sun Tzu's ""The Art of War."" Fourth-graders understand it — nine years old — and they handle that and use that to understand how to, not follow — at first they do — the paths to power and destruction, the path to war. They learn to overlook short-sighted reactions and impulsive thinking, to think in a long-term, more consequential way. Stewart Brand is here, and one of the ideas for this game came from him with a CoEvolution Quarterly article on a peace force. And in the game, sometimes students actually form a peace force. I'm just a clock watcher. I'm just a clarifier. I'm just a facilitator. The students run the game. I have no chance to make any policy whatsoever once they start playing. So I'll just share with you ... (Video) Boy: The World Peace Game is serious. You're actually getting taught something like how to take care of the world. See, Mr. Hunter is doing that because he says his time has messed up a lot, and he's trying to tell us how to fix that problem. John Hunter: I offered them a — (Applause) Actually, I can't tell them anything because I don't know the answer. And I admit the truth to them right up front: I don't know. And because I don't know, they've got to dig up the answer. And so I apologize to them as well. I say, ""I'm so sorry, boys and girls, but the truth is we have left this world to you in such a sad and terrible shape, and we hope you can fix it for us, and maybe this game will help you learn how to do it."" It's a sincere apology, and they take it very seriously. Now you may be wondering what all this complexity looks like. Well when we have the game start, here's what you see. (Video) JH: All right, we're going into negotiations as of now. Go. (Chatter) JH: My question to you is, who's in charge of that classroom? It's a serious question: who is really in charge? I've learned to cede control of the classroom over to the students over time. There's a trust and an understanding and a dedication to an ideal that I simply don't have to do what I thought I had to do as a beginning teacher: control every conversation and response in the classroom. It's impossible. Their collective wisdom is much greater than mine, and I admit it to them openly. So I'll just share with you some stories very quickly of some magical things that have happened. In this game we had a little girl, and she was the Defense Minister of the poorest nation. And the Defense Minister — she had the tank corps and Air Force and so forth. And she was next door to a very wealthy, oil-rich neighbor. Without provocation, suddenly she attacked, against her Prime Minister's orders, the next-door neighbor's oil fields. She marched into the oil field reserves, surrounded it, without firing a shot, and secured it and held it. And that neighbor was unable to conduct any military operations because their fuel supply was locked up. We were all upset with her, ""Why are you doing this? This is the World Peace Game. What is wrong with you?"" (Laughter) This was a little girl and, at nine years old, she held her pieces and said, ""I know what I'm doing."" To her girlfriends she said that. That's a breach there. And we learned in this, you don't really ever want to cross a nine year-old girl with tanks. (Laughter) They are the toughest opponents. And we were very upset. I thought I was failing as a teacher. Why would she do this? But come to find out, a few game days later — and there are turns where we take negotiation from a team — actually there's a negotiation period with all teams, and each team takes a turn, then we go back in negotiation, around and around, so each turn around is one game day. So a few game days later it came to light that we found out this major country was planning a military offensive to dominate the entire world. Had they had their fuel supplies, they would have done it. She was able to see the vectors and trend lines and intentions long before any of us and understand what was going to happen and made a philosophical decision to attack in a peace game. Now she used a small war to avert a larger war, so we stopped and had a very good philosophical discussion about whether that was right, conditional good, or not right. That's the kind of thinking that we put them in, the situations. I could not have designed that in teaching it. It came about spontaneously through their collective wisdom. (Applause) Another example, a beautiful thing happened. We have a letter in the game. If you're a military commander and you wage troops — the little plastic toys on the board — and you lose them, I put in a letter. You have to write a letter to their parents — the fictional parents of your fictional troops — explaining what happened and offering your condolences. So you have a little bit more thought before you commit to combat. And so we had this situation come up — last summer actually, at Agnor-Hurt School in Albemarle County — and one of our military commanders got up to read that letter and one of the other kids said, ""Mr. Hunter, let's ask — there's a parent over there."" There was a parent visiting that day, just sitting in the back of the room. ""Let's ask that mom to read the letter. It'll be more realer if she reads it."" So we did, we asked her, and she gamely picked up the letter. ""Sure."" She started reading. She read one sentence. She read two sentences. By the third sentence, she was in tears. I was in tears. Everybody understood that when we lose somebody, the winners are not gloating. We all lose. And it was an amazing occurrence and an amazing understanding. I'll show you what my friend David says about this. He's been in many battles. (Video) David: We've really had enough of people attacking. I mean, we've been lucky [most of] the time. But now I'm feeling really weird because I'm living what Sun Tzu said one week. One week he said, ""Those who go into battle and win will want to go back, and those who lose in battle will want to go back and win."" And so I've been winning battles, so I'm going into battles, more battles. And I think it's sort of weird to be living what Sun Tzu said. JH: I get chills every time I see that. That's the kind of engagement you want to have happen. And I can't design that, I can't plan that, and I can't even test that. But it's self-evident assessment. We know that's an authentic assessment of learning. We have a lot of data, but I think sometimes we go beyond data with the real truth of what's going on. So I'll just share a third story. This is about my friend Brennan. We had played the game one session after school for many weeks, about seven weeks, and we had essentially solved all 50 of the interlocking crises. The way the game is won is all 50 problems have to be solved and every country's asset value has to be increased above its starting point. Some are poor, some are wealthy. There are billions. The World Bank president was a third-grader one time. He says, ""How many zeros in a trillion? I've got to calculate that right away."" But he was setting fiscal policy in that game for high school players who were playing with him. So the team that was the poorest had gotten even poorer. There was no way they could win. And we were approaching four o'clock, our cut-off time — there was about a minute left — and despair just settled over the room. I thought, I'm failing as a teacher. I should have gotten it so they could have won. They shouldn't be failing like this. I've failed them. And I was just feeling so sad and dejected. And suddenly, Brennan walked over to my chair and he grabbed the bell, the bell I ring to signal a change or a reconvening of cabinets, and he ran back to his seat, rang the bell. Everybody ran to his chair: there was screaming; there was yelling, waving of their dossiers. They get these dossiers full of secret documents. They were gesticulating; they were running around. I didn't know what they were doing. I'd lost control of my classroom. Principal walks in, I'm out of a job. The parents were looking in the window. And Brennan runs back to his seat. Everybody runs back to their seat. He rings the bell again. He says, ""We have"" — and there's 12 seconds left on the clock — ""we have, all nations, pooled all our funds together. And we've got 600 billion dollars. We're going to offer it as a donation to this poor country. And if they accept it, it'll raise their asset value and we can win the game. Will you accept it?"" And there are three seconds left on the clock. Everybody looks at this prime minister of that country, and he says, ""Yes."" And the game is won. Spontaneous compassion that could not be planned for, that was unexpected and unpredictable. Every game we play is different. Some games are more about social issues, some are more about economic issues. Some games are more about warfare. But I don't try to deny them that reality of being human. I allow them to go there and, through their own experience, learn, in a bloodless way, how not to do what they consider to be the wrong thing. And they find out what is right their own way, their own selves. And so in this game, I've learned so much from it, but I would say that if only they could pick up a critical thinking tool or creative thinking tool from this game and leverage something good for the world, they may save us all. If only. And on behalf of all of my teachers on whose shoulders I'm standing, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"能來到這裡我感覺很榮幸人們的友善幾乎讓我有些訝異我打電話給我太太雷思里我說“你知道嗎，這裡有好多好人要一起做好多好事我感覺我彷彿落到了一群天使之中。”我真的這樣感覺但讓我開始吧 － 時鐘開始跑了 我是個公立學校的老師我想要和你們分享我的主管的故事她的名字是潘莫然住在維吉尼亞州藍色背脊山上的山麓小丘她是個非常高科技的主管她用互動式點子板，她寫部落格她用推特，臉書所有高科技的東西她都有她在科技和指導方面都非常先進但在她的辦公室裡有一張風塵僕僕的老木頭餐桌上面的油漆都掉了，還搖搖晃晃的我說“潘，你是個這麼摩登、這麼先進的人你的辦公室裡怎麼放了一張這麼老的桌子？” 她說“我在維吉尼亞西南部的煤礦還有維吉尼亞鄉下的農場長大這張桌子原本在我爺爺的廚房我們都在那裡玩，他工作完以後會加入我們我們每個晚上圍繞著那張桌子在我的成長過程中，我在那張桌上學到許多知識、智慧洞悉人世我開始叫它智慧桌當他離開人世，我把這張桌子帶進我辦公室它讓我想起他它提醒我那些空白空間裡都發生了些甚麼”我今天所要介紹的這個計劃叫世界和平遊戲本質上，它也是個空白的空間我喜歡把它想做是21世紀的智慧桌 這一切都從1977年開始當時我很年輕在大學裡中輟，進進出出我的父母很有耐心我在印度斷斷續續地逗留一個神祕的旅程我記得最後一次我從印度回來穿著我飄飄然的白長衫大鬍子和約翰藍儂式的眼鏡我告訴我父親""爸，我想我就快得道了""他說""除了得道你還需要得到另一個東西""我說""是什麼？"" ""工作""（笑聲）於是他們請求我完成某個大學學位於是我畢業了讀的是教育那是個實驗性的教育課程我也可以讀牙醫，但“實驗性”這幾個字讓我選擇了它 我去維吉尼亞州的列治文公立小學面試穿著我的三件式西裝 － 作為我對現實的讓步但保留了我的大鬍子和爆炸頭和我的厚底鞋 － 那是70年代我走進去，我坐下，接受面試我想他們很缺老師當時的主管，她叫安爾若她說我可以去教特殊教育我大吃一驚站起來說，""嗯謝謝，但我要做什麽啊?""（笑聲）當時並沒有什麼有關特殊教育的教材特殊教育才剛起步我說“我該怎麼做？”她的回答令我大吃一驚她的回答成為我整個事業的模板她說“你想怎麼做？”這個問題讓我有很大空間當時的特殊教育沒有教材方向，沒有教學手冊也沒有任何標準就這樣她提供了很大的空間就像我一直努力為我學生所做的一樣，給他們空間讓他們用自己的理解力創造意義 這發生在1978年多年後我仍然在教書一個朋友介紹我認識一個電影人他的名字是克里斯法林那他今天自費來到這裡克里斯，你可以站起來讓大家看看你嗎一個年輕的，有遠見的電影工作人拍了這部電影（掌聲）電影的名字叫""世界和平和其它四年級生的成就""他向我提出拍攝計劃 － 很棒的名字他向我提出拍攝計劃我說""嗯說不定可以上當地的地方台讓我們和朋友揮揮手什麼的。""但這電影一炮而紅雖然仍然在虧損，但克里斯做出許多犧牲嘗試讓更多人看到我們拍了這一部電影不只是有關我身為一個老師的故事這是有關教學的成功見證和其它老師非常美好 奇怪的是，當我看電影的時候有一種很奇怪的感覺我彷彿看到自己消失了我在自己身上看到我的老師們的身影我看到高中的幾何老師，魯瑟先生在他的小鬍子下微笑我的微笑 － 就是他的微笑我看到珍保羅發亮的雙眼它們不是因為憤怒而發亮而是因為深刻的，對學生的愛而發亮我有時也會這樣我看見班克小姐每天戴著珍珠穿著高跟鞋到小學你知道那種老派的老師都這樣看你（笑聲）""我可不是在講你，我背後的那位仁兄因為我背後長著眼。""（笑聲）你認識他嗎？我很少用到這個眼神但我要的話是可以的班克小姐是我的良師益友 然後我看到我自己的父母，我的第一個老師我爸爸，一個非常有創造性的思想家坐在右邊的是我兄弟馬爾康還有我媽我在維吉尼亞上種族分隔學校時的四年級導師我的靈感來源真的，在我看電影的時候我感覺到我有和她一樣的姿態，像這樣我覺得我延續了這個姿態我是她教學姿態的一部分美妙的是我在小學裡教到我自己的女兒瑪德蓮於是我母親的這個姿態會持續好多代那種傳承的感覺真的好棒於是我在這裡，站在這麼多人的肩膀上我並不孤單台上有許多人和我在一起 我想和你們談談的這個世界和平遊戲是這樣開始的：它本來只是1978年在都市貧民區的一張四英尺乘五英尺的板子我正在為學生準備一個有關非洲的教材我們把世界上所有問題放在板子上我想，讓他們解決這些問題吧我不想只是講課或是朗讀我想要他們學會全心全意地投入學習我想，嗯他們喜歡玩遊戲我可以 － 我不是說互動1978年根本還沒有這個字但一些可以讓他們互動的遊戲於是我們做了這個遊戲從那時候開始它慢慢演變成四英尺立方的耐熱玻璃結構裡面有四層 外太空是一層裡頭有黑洞和衛星研究衛星和行星研究再來是大氣層被我們推來推去的這些蓬蓬棉花球是雲朵有不同國家的領空和空軍還有平底和海平面，上面有幾千種不同遊戲塊還有海底世界有潛水艇和深海礦區板子上面有四個國家孩子們可以為自己的國家取名字 － 有些富有有些貧窮他們有不同的資產，商業或軍師上的每個國家都有個內閣有總理，國務卿，國防部長和財政部長我依照我和他們的關係選擇總理我提出邀請，他們可以拒絕然後他們可以自己選擇內閣裡頭有世界銀行、軍火商和聯合國還有天氣女神她控制陰晴不定的股票市場和天氣 （笑聲） 這還不是全部裡頭有13頁的危機文件還有50個連鎖問題如果一件事改變了，其它事也會跟著變我把他們扔進這個複雜的世界他們信任我，因為我們和他們關係很好這些危機像是 － 民族和少數民族的衝突化學和核子外洩核子武器的增產擴散石油外泄，環境災害領海紛爭，政體分裂飢荒，動物絕種和溫室效應如果高爾在這我會派出我兩個小學的四年級學生因為他們可以在一個禮拜內解決暖化問題（笑聲）（掌聲）而且他們已經解決好幾次了 （笑聲） 遊戲裡還有個破壞家基本上就是個搗蛋鬼這個麻煩製造者表面上看起來是要在遊戲裡拯救世界和自己的權利但事實上他們是要暗中破壞遊戲中的所有一切他們用散發錯誤情報曖昧不明，和毫無關聯的事物讓遊戲中的每個人仔細思考破壞家在那我們也讀孫子兵法四年級，9歲的孩子可以理解可以學習如何靈活應用剛開始他們只是照著做剛開始他們走上爭權奪利和毀滅性的戰爭之道然後慢慢學會不要短視近利不要因衝動做出決定以長期的利弊來檢視，思考可能的後果 在我們之中的 Stewart Brand，其中的一個想法從他而來從他在《共同進化季刊》裡的談論的和平組織而來在這個遊戲裡，有時候學生們會組成一個和平小組我只負責算時間解釋問題，促進遊戲進行順利學生們控制遊戲裡的所有細節一旦他們開始玩我沒有機會可以制定任何政策我在這裡和你分享 － （影片）男孩：世界和平遊戲是很嚴肅的在其中你可以學習如何解決世界問題Hunter 老師說他這麼做是因為他的時代做錯很多事情他想要告訴我們如何解決這些問題 John Hunter：我給他們一個 －（掌聲）事實上，我沒辦法告訴他們任何事，因為我也沒有答案我一開始就告訴他們事實：我不知道正因為我不知道，他們必須自己找出解答於是我向他們道歉我說“小朋友們，我很抱歉事實是我們把世界交給你的時候，它是這麼混亂我們希望你可以幫助我們解決問題說不定這個遊戲可以教你們如何解決。”這是個很誠懇的道歉他們非常認真地接受了 現在你可能會想看看這個複雜的遊戲看起來是甚麼樣子遊戲開始的時候，它是這個樣子 （影片）好的，我們現在開始談判，開始（討論聲） JH:我想問你們，誰在帶領這個教室我很認真的問：是誰在帶頭？這麼久以來，我總算學會把課堂還給學生這裡頭的信任，理解和對理想的投入讓我根本不用做那些我剛開始做老師時所以為我該做的控制課堂裡的的每個討論和回應這是不可能的他們的集體智慧遠遠超過我我直接向他們承認這點我現在很快地和你們分享一些故事一些神奇的事 在遊戲裡有個小女孩她是窮國的國防部長身為國防部長 － 她握有坦克隊、空軍等等她的國家在一個非常富有的、充滿石油的國家旁邊在毫無挑釁的狀況下她突然違反總理的命令突擊鄰國的油田她把坦克開進對方的油田圍繞它，卻不射擊只是佔領並掩護它鄰國無法做出任何反擊因為他們的油田被封住了 我們都很生氣，對她說“你幹嘛這樣？這可是世界和平遊戲哎，你有什麼問題啊？“（笑聲）這個小女孩，只有九歲她只是握著她的棋子，對她的朋友說""我知道我自己在做什麼""於是產生了衝突於是我們學到，絕對不要惹火一個擁有坦克的九歲小女孩（笑聲）她們是競爭激烈的對手我們都很憤怒我想這是我身為教師的失敗：她為什麼會這麼做？ 但幾天後，我逐漸發現每個隊伍都有談判的時候所有隊伍都有一個談判時間每一組輪流我們回到談判桌，一次又一次一圈就是一天份的遊戲幾圈談判以後總算真相大白我們發現這個大國正在計劃一個大型軍事行動要征服整個世界如果它們握有石油，就可以達成計劃她比我們先看到這個這個趨勢對方的意圖理解即將發生的事態做出一個哲學性的決定在和平遊戲裡攻擊。 她用一個小的戰爭來避免一個大的戰爭於是我們把遊戲暫停，一起參與這個哲學討論討論這究竟是對的在某些狀況下是好的，或是錯的這就是我們在這種狀況下所思考的我無法設計出這種教材這必須出自偶然，出自他們自己的集體智慧 （掌聲） 另外一個例子是，一件美好的事發生了我們有一封信在遊戲裡你是個將軍，你增兵板子上的一塊塑膠玩具 － 然後你失去了它我放在信裡你必須寫一封信給他們的家長你那虛構士兵的虛構家長解釋事情發生的經過，並獻上弔辭於是在你準備開戰的時候你會三思而行於是我們遇見這個狀況上一個夏天在 Albemarle 區的 Agnor-Hurt 小學我們其中一個將軍起來朗誦這封信另外一個學生起來說“Hunter 先生那裡有個家長”那天是家長訪問學校的日子，他們都坐在教師後面“我們讓那個媽媽來讀這封信，她讀會更有真實感。”於是我們問了她，她很配合地拿起信“好的。”她開始讀，她讀了一句兩句到了第三句，她淚眼盈眶我也流淚了在場的每個人都懂了當有人失去性命，勝利的一方並沒有甚麼好得意的我們都是輸家這件事的發生和眾人的理解都很神奇 你們可以看看我朋友大衛怎麼說他經歷許多戰役 （影片）大衛：我們真的受夠了攻擊雖然大部分時候我們都很幸運但現在我感覺很怪我現在正經歷孫子說的他說“那些投身戰爭並勝利的人會想回到戰場上那些戰役的輸家會想再回去獲得勝利。”我在許多戰役中獲得勝利於是我一次又一次加入他們我的感覺，很奇異的就像孫子所描述的 每次我看那個影片，我就打冷顫這就是你想要的投入程度是我所不能計劃或設計出來的我甚至不能試驗但結果很明確我們都知道有一些教育成果是不言而喻的我們有很多數據，但我認為有時我們應該用真實的例子超越這些數據 讓我分享第三個故事和我朋友貝南有關有一天我們在下課後玩遊戲幾個禮拜，似乎是七個禮拜我們基本上解決了50個連鎖危機贏得遊戲的方法就是把50個問題全解決而且每個國家的資產都要比遊戲開始時更多有些貧窮，有些富有。有好幾億。有一次，世界銀行總裁是個三年級的學生他說“兆裡面有幾個零？我需要把這個算對。”他在為其它高中玩家設立財政政策 於是窮國變得更窮他們是不可能贏的我們越來越接近下午四點的期限只剩下一分鐘絕望充滿了整個課堂我想，身為教師，我失敗了我應該想辦法讓他們贏的他們不應該這樣就失敗了我讓他們失望了正在我感覺失望和沮喪時貝南走到我身邊來他拿走我手上的響鐘原本是用在內閣重組的時候他跑回座位，打響它每個人都跑到他座位那裡，鬧成一團叫著，揮舞著他們的檔案這些檔案裡充滿祕密文件他們打著手勢，滿教室亂跑我不知道他們在做甚麼，整個教室失控了要是校長在那時候走進來，我就失業了家長從窗子外看近來 貝南跑會他的座位，每個人都回到原座他重新敲響鐘。他說 －那時還剩下12秒“我們集合了所有國家的所有資金我們有600億我們要把這些捐給窮國如果他們接受，他們就可以提升資本，我們就贏得了遊戲你們接受嗎？那時只剩下三秒每個人都盯著那個國家的總理他回答“好的。”於是大家贏得遊戲自發的仁愛不能計劃的無法想像預知的 每次的遊戲都不同某些遊戲有關社會議題某些有關經濟議題有些有關戰爭但我從不避免提到我們身為人的真實狀態我讓他們去探索以一種冷血的方式，自己去經歷如何不去做那些自己認為錯誤的事讓他們找到甚麼是對的用他們自己的方法，自己兆在這個遊戲裡我學了很多我必須說倘若他們可以從遊戲裡找到批判性思考和創意思考的方式把那變成真正可以解決世界問題的方法來拯救我們所有人如果。 感謝我所有的老師他們的經驗傳承謝謝各位，謝謝各位，謝謝各位 （掌聲）"
