Talk	en	zh-tw
john_maeda_on_the_simple_life	"On simplicity. What a great way to start. First of all, I've been watching this trend where we have these books like such and such ""For Dummies."" Do you know these books, these such and such ""For Dummies?"" My daughters pointed out that I'm very similar looking, so this is a bit of a problem. (Laughter) But I was looking online at Amazon.com for other books like this. You know, there's also something called the ""Complete Idiot's Guide?"" There's a sort of business model around being stupid in some sense. We like to have technology make us feel bad, for some strange reason. But I really like that, so I wrote a book called ""The Laws of Simplicity."" I was in Milan last week, for the Italian launch. It's kind of a book about questions, questions about simplicity. Very few answers. I'm also wondering myself, what is simplicity? Is it good? Is it bad? Is complexity better? I'm not sure. After I wrote ""The Laws of Simplicity,"" I was very tired of simplicity, as you can imagine. And so in my life, I've discovered that vacation is the most important skill for any kind of over-achiever. Because your companies will always take away your life, but they can never take away your vacation — in theory. (Laughter) So, I went to the Cape last summer to hide from simplicity, and I went to the Gap, because I only have black pants. So I went and bought khaki shorts or whatever, and unfortunately, their branding was all about ""Keep It Simple."" (Laughter) I opened up a magazine, and Visa's branding was, ""Business Takes Simplicity."" I develop photographs, and Kodak said, ""Keep It Simple."" So, I felt kind of weird that simplicity was sort of following me around. So, I turned on the TV, and I don't watch TV very much, but you know this person? This is Paris Hilton, apparently. And she has this show, ""The Simple Life."" So I watched this. It's not very simple, a little bit confusing. (Laughter) So, I looked for a different show to watch. So, I opened up this TV Guide thing, and on the E! channel, this ""Simple Life"" show is very popular. They'll play it over, and over, and over. (Laughter) So it was traumatizing, actually. So, I wanted to escape again, so I went out to my car. And Cape Cod, there are idyllic roads, and all of us can drive in this room. And when you drive, these signs are very important. It's a very simple sign, it says, ""road"" and ""road approaching."" So I'm mostly driving along, okay, and then I saw this sign. (Laughter) So, I thought complexity was attacking me suddenly, so I thought, ""Ah, simplicity. Very important."" But then I thought, ""Oh, simplicity. What would that be like on a beach? What if the sky was 41 percent gray? Wouldn't that be the perfect sky?"" I mean that simplicity sky. But in reality, the sky looked like this. It was a beautiful, complex sky. You know, with the pinks and blues. We can't help but love complexity. We're human beings: we love complex things. We love relationships — very complex. So we love this kind of stuff. I'm at this place called the Media Lab. Maybe some of you guys have heard of this place. It's designed by I. M. Pei, one of the premier modernist architects. Modernism means white box, and it's a perfect white box. (Laughter) And some of you guys are entrepreneurs, etc., whatever. Last month, I was at Google, and, boy, that cafeteria, man. You guys have things here in Silicon Valley like stock options. See, in academia, we get titles, lots of titles. Last year at TED, these were all my titles. I had a lot of titles. I have a default title as a father of a bunch of daughters. This year at TED, I'm happy to report that I have new titles, in addition to my previous titles. Another ""Associate Director of Research."" And this also happened, so I have five daughters now. (Laughter) That's my baby Reina. (Applause) Thank you. And so, my life is much more complex because of the baby, actually, but that's okay. We will still stay married, I think. But looking way back, when I was a child — you see, I grew up in a tofu factory in Seattle. Many of you may not like tofu because you haven't had good tofu, but tofu's a good food. It's a very simple kind of food. It's very hard work to make tofu. As a child, we used to wake up at 1 a.m. and work till 6 p.m., six days a week. My father was kind of like Andy Grove, paranoid of the competition. So often, seven days a week. Family business equals child labor. We were a great model. So, I loved going to school. School was great, and maybe going to school helped me get to this Media Lab place, I'm not sure. (Laughter) Thank you. But the Media Lab is an interesting place, and it's important to me because as a student, I was a computer science undergrad, and I discovered design later on in my life. And there was this person, Muriel Cooper. Who knows Muriel Cooper? Muriel Cooper? Wasn't she amazing? Muriel Cooper. She was wacky. And she was a TEDster, exactly, and she showed us, she showed the world how to make the computer beautiful again. And she's very important in my life, because she's the one that told me to leave MIT and go to art school. It was the best advice I ever got. So I went to art school, because of her. She passed away in 1994, and I was hired back to MIT to try to fill her shoes, but it's so hard. This amazing person, Muriel Cooper. When I was in Japan — I went to an art school in Japan — I had a nice sort of situation, because somehow I was connected to Paul Rand. Some of you guys know Paul Rand, the greatest graphic designer — I'm sorry — out there. The great graphic designer Paul Rand designed the IBM logo, the Westinghouse logo. He basically said, ""I've designed everything."" And also Ikko Tanaka was a very important mentor in my life — the Paul Rand of Japan. He designed most of the major icons of Japan, like Issey Miyake's brand and also Muji. When you have mentors — and yesterday, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar talked about mentors, these people in your life — the problem with mentors is that they all die. This is a sad thing, but it's actually a happy thing in a way, because you can remember them in their pure form. I think that the mentors that we all meet sort of humanize us. When you get older, and you're all freaked out, whatever, the mentors calm us down. And I'm grateful for my mentors, and I'm sure all of you are too. Because the human thing is very hard when you're at MIT. The T doesn't stand for ""human,"" it stands for ""technology."" And because of that, I always wondered about this human thing. So, I've always been Googling this word, ""human,"" to find out how many hits I get. And in 2001, I had 26 million hits, and for ""computer,"" because computers are against humans a bit, I have 42 million hits. Let me do an Al Gore here. So, if you sort of compare that, like this, you'll see that computer versus human — I've been tracking this for the last year — computer versus human over the last year has changed. It used to be kind of two to one. Now, humans are catching up. Very good, us humans! We're catching up with the computers. In the simplicity realm, it's also interesting. So if you compare complexities to simplicity, it's also catching up in a way, too. So, somehow humans and simplicity are intertwined, I think. I have a confession: I'm not a man of simplicity. I spent my entire early career making complex stuff. Lots of complex stuff. I wrote computer programs to make complex graphics like this. I had clients in Japan to make really complex stuff like this. And I've always felt bad about it, in a sense. So, I hid in a time dimension. I built things in a time-graphics dimension. I did this series of calendars for Shiseido. This is a floral theme calendar in 1997, and this is a firework calendar. So, you launch the number into space, because the Japanese believe that when you see fireworks, you're cooler for some reason. This is why they have fireworks in the summer. A very extreme culture. Lastly, this is a fall-based calendar, because I have so many leaves in my yard. So this is the leaves in my yard, essentially. And so I made a lot of these types of things. I've been lucky to have been there before people made these kind of things, and so I made all this kind of stuff that messes with your eyes. I feel kind of bad about that. Tomorrow, Paola Antonelli is speaking. I love Paola. She has this show right now at MoMA, where some of these early works are here on display at MoMA, on the walls. If you're in New York, please go and see that. But I've had a problem, because I make all this flying stuff and people say, ""Oh, I know your work. You're the guy that makes eye candy."" And when you're told this, you feel kind of weird. ""Eye candy"" — sort of pejorative, don't you think? So, I say, ""No, I make eye meat,"" instead. (Laughter) And eye meat is something different, something more fibrous, something more powerful, perhaps. But what could that be, eye meat? I've been interested in computer programs all my life, actually. Computer programs are essentially trees, and when you make art with a computer program, there's kind of a problem. Whenever you make art with a computer program, you're always on the tree, and the paradox is that for excellent art, you want to be off the tree. So, this is sort of a complication I've found. So, to get off the tree, I began to use my old computers. I took these to Tokyo in 2001 to make computer objects. This is a new way to type, on my old, color Classic. You can't type very much on this. I also discovered that an IR mouse responds to CRT emissions and starts to move by itself, so this is a self-drawing machine. And also, one year, the G3 Bondi Blue thing — that caddy would come out, like, dangerous, like, ""whack,"" like that. But I thought, ""This is very interesting. What if I make like a car crash test?"" So I have a crash test. (Laughter) And sort of measure the impact. Stuff like this are things I made, just to sort of understand what these things are. (Laughter) Shortly after this, 9/11 happened, and I was very depressed. I was concerned with contemporary art that was all about piss, and sort of really sad things, and so I wanted to think about something happy. So I focused on food as my area — these sort of clementine peel things. In Japan, it's a wonderful thing to remove the clementine peel just in one piece. Who's done that before? One-piece clementine? Oh, you guys are missing out, if you haven't done it yet. It was very good, and I discovered I can make sculptures out of this, actually, in different forms. If you dry them quick, you can make, like, elephants and steers and stuff, and my wife didn't like these, because they mold, so I had to stop that. So, I went back to the computer, and I bought five large fries, and scanned them all. And I was looking for some kind of food theme, and I wrote some software to automatically lay out french-fry images. And as a child, I'd hear that song, you know, ""Oh, beautiful, for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain,"" so I made this amber waves image. It's sort of a Midwest cornfield out of french fries. And also, as a child, I was the fattest kid in class, so I used to love Cheetos. Oh, I love Cheetos, yummy. So, I wanted to play with Cheetos in some way. I wasn't sure where to go with this. I invented Cheeto paint. Cheeto paint is a very simple way to paint with Cheetos. (Laughter) I discovered that Cheetos are good, expressive material. And with these Cheetos, I began to think, ""What can I make with these Cheetos?"" And so, I began to crinkle up potato chip flecks, and also pretzels. I was looking for some kind of form, and in the end, I made 100 butter-fries. Do you get it? (Laughter) And each butter-fry is composed of different pieces. People ask me how they make the antenna. Sometimes, they find a hair in the food. That's my hair. My hair's clean — it's okay. I'm a tenured professor, which means, basically, I don't have to work anymore. It's a strange business model. I can come into work everyday and staple five pieces of paper and just stare at it with my latte. End of story. (Laughter) But I realized that life could be very boring, so I've been thinking about life, and I notice that my camera — my digital camera versus my car, a very strange thing. The car is so big, the camera is so small, yet the manual for the camera is so much bigger than the car manual. It doesn't make any sense. (Laughter) So, I was in the Cape one time, and I typed the word ""simplicity,"" and I discovered, in this weird, M. Night Shyamalan way, that I discovered [the] letters, M, I, T. You know the word? In the words ""simplicity"" and ""complexity,"" M, I, T occur in perfect sequence. It's a bit eerie, isn't it? So, I thought, maybe I'll do this for the next twenty years or something. And I wrote this book, ""The Laws of Simplicity."" It's a very short, simple book. There are ten laws and three keys. The ten laws and three keys — I won't go over them because that's why I have a book, and also that's why it's on the Web for free. But the laws are kind of like sushi in a way: there are all kinds. In Japan, they say that sushi is challenging. You know the uni is the most challenging, so number ten is challenging. People hate number ten like they hate uni, actually. The three keys are easy to eat, so this is anago, cooked already, so easy to eat. So enjoy your sushi meal later, with the laws of simplicity. Because I want to simplify them for you. Because that's what this is about. I have to simplify this thing. So, if I simplify the laws of simplicity, I have what's called the cookie versus laundry thing. Anyone who has kids knows that if you offer a kid a big cookie or a small cookie, which cookie are they going to take? The big cookie. You can say the small cookie has Godiva chocolate bits in it, but it doesn't work. They want the big cookie. But if you offer kids two piles of laundry to fold, the small pile or the big pile, which will they choose? Strangely, not the big pile. So, I think it's as simple as this. You know, when you want more, it's because you want to enjoy it. When you want less, it's because it's about work. And so, to boil it all down, simplicity is about living life with more enjoyment and less pain. I think this is sort of simple more versus less. Basically, it always depends. This book I wrote because I want to figure out life. I love life. I love being alive. I like to see things. And so life is a big question, I think, in simplicity, because you're trying to simplify your life. And I just love to see the world. The world is an amazing place. By being at TED, we see so many things at one time. And I can't help but enjoy looking at everything in the world. Like everything you see, every time you wake up. It's such a joy to sort of experience everything in the world. From everything from a weird hotel lobby, to Saran wrap placed over your window, to this moment where I had my road in front of my house paved dark black, and this white moth was sitting there dying in the sun. And so, this whole thing has struck me as exciting to be here, because life is finite. This was given to me by the chairman of Shiseido. He's an expert in aging. This horizontal axis is how old you are — twelve years old, twenty-four years old, seventy-four, ninety-six years old — and this is some medical data. So, brain strength increases up to 60, and then after 60, it sort of goes down. Kind of depressing in a way. Also, if you look at your physical strength. You know, I have a lot of cocky freshmen at MIT, so I tell them, ""Oh, your bodies are really getting stronger and stronger, but in your late twenties and mid-thirties, cells, they die."" OK. It gets them to work harder, sometimes. And if you have your vision, vision is interesting. As you age from infant age, your vision gets better, and maybe in your late teens, early twenties, you're looking for a mate, and your vision goes after that. (Laughter) Your social responsibility is very interesting. So, as you get older, you may, like, have kids, whatever. And then the kids graduate, and you have no responsibility any more — that's very good, too. But if any of you people ask, ""What actually goes up? Does anything go up? What's the positive part of this, you know?"" I think wisdom always goes up. I love these eighty-year-old, ninety-year-old guys and women. They have so many thoughts, and they have so much wisdom, and I think — you know, this TED thing, I've come here. And this is the fourth time, and I come here for this wisdom, I think. This whole TED effect, it sort of ups your wisdom, somehow. And I'm so glad to be here, and I'm very grateful to be here, Chris. And this is an amazing experience for me as well."	"簡單，多麼棒的開場！首先，我一直都在關注這個趨勢市面上不也有很多像是＂傻瓜也會...＂的這類書嗎？你知道這類書嗎？教你一學就上手的指南我女兒說我長得很像這書中的傻瓜，聽起來不太妙...(笑聲)我也在亞馬遜的網站上搜尋這樣的書你知道嗎？甚至還有＂白痴大全＂呢？似乎有些商業模式本身就蠻愚蠢的而不知什麼原因，我們也喜歡擁有讓自己感覺很糟的科技 我也喜歡，所以我寫了一本書叫做＂簡單的法則＂為了這本新書在義大利上市，上週我到米蘭這本書提了很多問題，都是關於簡單但是答案很少。我也常問自己，到底簡單是什麼？簡單是好事？是壞事？複雜點會不會更好？我不知道 但當我寫完這本＂簡單的法則＂時不難想像，我對這二個字有多厭惓同時，我也發現好好渡個假對於工作狂來說絕對是最重要的技能因為工作總是佔用你的生活但絕無法奪走你的假期....理論上來說(笑聲) 為了躲避＂簡單＂，去年夏天我跑去鱈魚角渡假得去GAP逛逛，因為我只有黑色褲子想買些卡其布的衣服短褲之類的沒想到，GAP的品牌代表著""保持簡單""(笑聲)我翻開雜誌，Visa 的品牌形象是＂商業在於簡單＂連去洗相片時，柯達的廣告還是＂保持簡單＂奇怪，怎麼簡單這二個字到處都是 打開電視，其實我不常看電視的這個人Paris Hilton，顯然你們都知道她她主持＂簡單生活＂這個節目我看了，嗯，內容不太簡單，好像還有點複雜(笑聲)所以我想看其他節目打開電視節目指南啊，是E!頻道！看來＂簡單生活＂很紅呢所以E!頻道不斷重播(笑聲)總之，真是種精神折磨 所以我決定再度逃走，開了車到了鱈魚角，那有田園詩般的美麗道路，所有人都能在這環境中享受開車樂趣當然，開車時交通標誌很重要的簡單的標誌，只寫著＂道路＂及＂分叉路＂大部份時間我延著路一直開，都沒什麼問題，直到看到這個(笑聲)我想複雜是不是突然間開始襲擊我？我又想：嗯！簡單...原來真的很重要 我又想：簡單，在海攤上又會是什麼樣呢41%的灰色天空，會不會更美好呢？我是說簡單一點的天空但事實上，天空是長這樣的，很美，也很複雜 你看，粉紅色和藍色混合著，怎麼可能不愛呢?我們是人，人都愛複雜的東西我們喜歡搞關係，搞複雜，我們就是熱愛這種複雜事物 這是＂媒體實驗室＂，我工作的地方也許有些人聽過貝聿銘設計的，一個頂尖的現代主義建築師現代主義指的是這白色箱子，一個完美的白色箱子(笑聲)你們之中，也許有些人是創業家，企業家之類的上個月我在Google，天啊！那咖啡廳真棒！在矽谷，科技界有＂股票選擇權＂而在學術界，我們則有頭銜，很多很多的頭銜 這是去年在TED論壇上，這些都是我的頭銜，多得數不完的頭銜還有個不在枱面上的，一堆女兒的父親今年同樣在這論壇上，我很高興告訴大家，我又有新的頭銜除了已有的頭銜外還有一個是研究室主任這個也是新加的，所以我有五個女兒囉(笑聲)我的女兒Reina，謝謝事實上我的生活因為她而變得更加複雜但是沒關係，我們會繼續維持婚姻關係的，我想會的 不過，回想我小時候我在西雅圖一個豆腐工廠長大你們很多人可能不喜歡豆腐，那是因為你們沒吃過真正好吃的豆腐豆腐真的很棒，它是一種簡單的食物但製作豆腐的過程卻非常辛苦小時候，我們通常從早上1點工作到晚上6點，一週工作六天我父親是像Andy Grove 一樣，不喜歡認輸所以經常，一週工作七天，家族企業其實都是童工 我們樹立一個良好典範。我也愛上學學校生活很棒，也許上學才讓我有機會到媒體實驗室這樣的地方，我不知道(笑聲)謝謝媒體實驗室是個有趣的地方，對我來說很重要大學時，我主修資訊電腦之後，才開始接觸設計 這個人Muriel Cooper有誰聽過她嗎？Muriel Cooper?她很令人驚訝吧，Muriel Cooper，也是個怪胎她還是個TED人，事實上，她告訴我們我們所有人，電腦也可以很美的同時，她也是我生命中很重要的人因為就是她勸我離開MIT，去唸藝術學校的這是我聽過最好的建議，我會去唸藝術學校，是因為她1994年她過世了之後，MIT聘請我回去接替她的位子，但這位子實在太難坐了就是這個了不起的人，Muriel Cooper 當我在日本時，我去那的一間藝術學校那是個很棒的經歷，因為和Paul Rand有點關係你們有些人可能知道他最棒的平面設計師，抱歉，我是說除了你們之外最棒的平面設計師Paul RandIBM, 西屋的商標都是他的傑作基本上他說過＂我可以設計任何東西＂Ikko Tanaka是我人生中一個很重要的導師他被稱為日本的Paul Rand。日本企業有名的商標都出自他手像是三宅一生，還有無印良品 當你生命中出現導師，昨天Kareen Abdul-Jabbar 談論到導師這些人曾出現在你的生命中，問題是現在他們都不在了這當然令人傷心，但某些方面也是好事因為你總是記得他們最好的一面他們總能在某方面教化我們當你年歲漸長，當你不知所措時他們讓我們的心平靜下來我很感謝這些曾出現在我生命中的導師，我相信你們也是 因為＂人際關係＂在MIT裡是很難經營的""T""代表的是＂科技＂，不是＂人＂也因為如此，我總是對人有關的事物感到好奇所以我在網路上Google ＂人＂想知道我能找到多少答案2001年我Google到2600萬筆，至於＂電腦＂電腦某種程度似乎和人類是相對的 我Google 到4200萬筆。讓我當一下高爾吧！如果做個比較，像這樣你會發現＂電腦＂對＂人類＂過去一年來我一直在追踪這個數據＂電腦＂對＂人類＂的比例在過去一年中發生了變化以前大約是２比１吧！現在＂人類＂的數字增加了太好了，我們人類，迎頭趕上電腦囉在簡單的領域中，蠻有趣的如果比較＂複雜＂對＂簡單＂你會發現簡單也以同樣方式追上來因此，不知不覺中，人類和簡單是交織在一起的 我要坦白一件事，我並非一個簡單的人早期的職業生涯我都在做複雜的事很多複雜的事我寫的電腦程式形成這樣複雜的圖形日本有個客戶要我做出像這樣複雜的東西對這一切，我常覺得很糟所以我將這些藏在時間維度裡創造了一些具有時間維度的圖形這是我為資生堂設計的日曆這是97年以花為主題的日曆這是煙火日曆，你看數字在空中發射日本人相信當你看見煙火時基於某些原因你會變得冷靜也就是為什麼他們會在夏天放煙火一個相當特別的文化最後一個，以秋天為背景的日曆因為我的院子裡有太多的落葉所以這些基本上都是我院子裡的落葉 我也做了很多這類型的設計很幸運地，我有這些經驗只是這些令人眼花撩亂的東西讓我感覺不是很好明天Paola Antonelli 要來演講，我可是她的粉絲紐約現代藝術博物館正展出她早期的一些作品，就掛在牆上如果到了紐約，記得一定要去看看 我一直有個問題，我做了這些會飛的東西人們看到會說：喔！我知道你的作品你是那個做＂視覺特效＂的傢伙每當我聽到這些，總覺得怪怪的＂視覺特效＂聽起來有點輕蔑耶，你不覺得嗎？所以我總是回答＂不，我做的是視覺紅肉＂(笑聲)視覺紅肉聽起來就不一樣囉，它有更多纖維看起來也更為有力，或許吧，不然它還會是什麼樣呢？ 事實上，我一直對電腦程式很感興趣電腦程式事實上就是樹狀圖但當你用電腦程式創作藝術時，問題就來了因為當你這麼做時你總是離不開樹狀圖，而矛盾的是為了創造好的藝術，你一定得脫離這樹狀圖這是我發現的一種＂複雜＂ 為了擺脫這些樹狀圖，我開始用以前的舊電腦2001年時我把這些帶去東京製作電腦產品這是一種新的輸入方式，用我的舊電腦其實是無法輸入太多東西的我還發現一個紅外線滑鼠能感應CRT顯示器的射線而且它還能自己移動，活像個自動繪圖機有一年，這個像iMac G3 bondi 藍色的東西這小盒子會發出像＂危險＂或撞擊的聲音，像這樣我覺得這超有趣的，如果我也來做個汽車撞擊測試呢？我真做了(笑聲)為了想測量影響程度，我還做了這東西做這些就只是想了解而已(笑聲) 不久後，911事爆發，這事讓我很難過我所在意的當代藝術全是些雞毛蒜皮的小事，還有令人傷心的事所以我想找些快樂的事像是吃的東西這些剥橘子之類的事在日本，剥橘子是件很棒的事剥成一整片，誰會這麼無聊呢？剥成一整片？如果你還沒做過，那可錯失很多樂趣囉很好玩的，我發現我能雕塑成不同形狀事實上，是完全不同的東西如果把它迅速乾燥後，你可以做成大象，方向盤等很多東西我太太不喜歡這些，因為它們會發霉，所以我得停止 所以我回到電腦上，我買了5包薯條同時將它們掃描，想從中找到和食物相關的主題我還寫了軟體讓它可以自動呈現薯條影像小時候，我曾聽過一首歌，你知道的美哉此地，天高空廣，糧食如浪金黃所以我想把＂糧食如浪金黃＂呈現出來這是用薯條做的中西部的玉米田 小時候，我總是班上最胖的小孩因為我超愛＂奇多＂香脆棒的，天啊，真是美味！所以我要以某種方式玩＂奇多＂我不知道應該如何做，但我發明了＂奇多＂顏科用奇多顏料來畫奇多應該是再簡單不過了吧(笑聲)我發現奇多是一種非常好的表現材料看著這些我開始思考我應該怎樣來使用這些奇多呢？ 於是我開始讓薯片一片片排列，還有德國椒鹽蝴蝶脆餅，我想找某種形式最後我做了100隻薯條蝴蝶，你看到了嗎？(笑聲)而且每隻蝴蝶都是由不同碎片組成的有人問我這觸角怎麼做的有時可能會在這些食物中發現頭髮；哈！那是我的頭髮別擔心，我的頭髮很乾淨的 我是一個終身教授，什麼意思呢？基本上，我可以不用工作了很奇怪的商業模式，我每天進到辦公室把五張紙訂在一起，一邊盯著它，一邊享用我的拿鐵一天就這樣過了(笑聲)但我意識到這樣的生活可能會很無聊所以我一直思考著生活，突然注意到我的相機數位相機和我的車，我發現一件奇怪的事車子這麼大，相機這麼小不過相機手冊卻比車子的大的多實在是不合理(笑聲) 有次我在鱈魚角，輸入＂簡單＂這個字我發現，用奇怪的奈特沙馬蘭方式，我發現字母「M-I-T」，你知道這個字吧？在＂簡單＂及＂複雜＂這兩個字中，＂M-I-T""出現完美序列很怪吧，是吧？所以我想往後20年我會為這巧合做些什麼 所以我寫了這本書＂簡單的法則＂很短，很簡單的一本書，共有十個法則三個關鍵關於這十個法則三個關鍵，我就不多說了，因為那是為什麼我寫這本書同時也讓人免費在網路上閱讀但這些法則像壽司一樣，有各式各樣的在日本，人們認為壽司是一種挑戰如同你所知的，數字一是最挑戰的，十也是事實上，人們討厭數字十就像他們痛恨一是一樣的這三個關鍵很容易了解，這是星鰻，煮好的星鰻，可以吃了所以稍後再隨著簡單法則，享用你的壽司吧！因為我想將它們再簡單化這是我想說的，再簡單化 所以，如果我簡化了簡單的法則而有了餅乾對衣服的理論任何有孩子都人都知道，如果讓小孩選擇一塊大的或一塊小的餅乾他們會選那一個？當然是大塊的即使你告訴他們，小塊餅乾裡有Godiva巧克力沒用的，他們還是要大塊的但如果你給小孩選擇二堆要摺的衣服小堆的或大堆的，他們會選那一堆？ 奇怪，一定不是大堆的。我想理由再簡單不過當你想要更多，那是因為你想要享受它當你不想要那麼多，那是因為和工作有關所以，總結來說，簡單和生活有關多一點享受，少一些痛苦我覺得＂多對少＂本身就是一種簡單因為它總是依情況而定我之所以寫這本書是因為我想參透生活我愛生活，我享受活著的感覺，我喜歡了解事情生活是人生大問題，我想問題就在於簡單因為人總是想簡單過生活 像我只是喜歡看世界，世界是個了不起的地方在TED演講，我們可以同時看到這麼多事我無法抗拒去喜愛，去看著世上的一切去喜歡所看見的每件事。每一次由睡夢中醒來所有經歷都是一種喜悅每件事，即使是在奇怪的飯店大廳到放在窗口的保鮮膜這個時刻，我家前面的路是暗黑色的有一隻白蛾躺在那裡死在陽光下 所有事都像在這一樣讓我興奮因為生命是有限的這是資生堂的董事長給我的他是個研究老化專家，橫軸代表年紀12歲、24歲、74歲、96歲而這是醫療數據，腦力在60歲時達到顛峰過了60歲，開始往下，逐漸衰退 同樣地，來看看你的體力你知道的，在MIT有許多不知天高天厚的新生，我總是告訴他們現在你們很年輕，體力也愈來愈好但是到了20歲末30歲中，身體的細胞，會逐漸老化，死亡用這招激勵他們努力用功，還挺管用的，不過是有時候啦！但如果你有眼光，那很有趣年齡由零開始成長，眼光也會愈變愈好也許在你青少年，20歲初時，你尋找另一半你的眼光從此走下坡(笑聲) 社會責任也很有意思當你愈來愈年長，你可能會想要有小孩之類的然後小孩長大，從學校畢業，你的責任也告一段落那是很棒的人生經歷 你們之中任何一個人可能會問然後呢？有什麼是會隨著年齡增長的呢？年齡漸長的好處又是什麼？我會說是智慧的累積我喜歡這些80歲，甚至90歲的老人他們有如此多的想法，如此多的智慧我覺得，你知道嗎？這些TED的活動，我曾經參加過這已經是第四次了，我想我是來這尋找智慧的TED最大的影響，就某種程度而言，是提昇個人的智慧我很高興能在這裡，也很感謝有這機會，Chris對我而言，這也是一個很棒的經驗"
