Talk	en	zh-tw
john_gerzema_the_post_crisis_consumer	"Thirteen trillion dollars in wealth has evaporated over the course of the last two years. We've questioned the future of capitalism. We've questioned the financial industry. We've looked at our government oversight. We've questioned where we're going. And yet, at the same time, this very well may be a seminal moment in American history, an opportunity for the consumer to actually take control and guide us to a new trajectory in America. I'm calling this The Great Unwind. (Laughter) And the idea is a simple, simple idea, which is the fact that the consumer has moved from a state of anxiety to action. Consumers who represent 72 percent of the GDP of America have actually started, just like banks and just like businesses, to de-leverage, to unwind their leverage in daily life, to remove themselves from the liability and risk that presents itself as they move forward. So, to understand this — and I'm going to stress this — it's not about the consumer being in retreat. The consumer is empowered. To understand this, we'll step back and look at what's happened over the last year and a half. So if you've been gone, this is the CliffsNotes on what's happened in the economy. (Laughter) Unemployment up. Housing values down. Equity markets down. Commodity prices are like this. If you're a mom trying to manage a budget, and oil was 150 dollars a barrel last summer, and it's somewhere between 50 and 70, do you plan vacations? How do you buy? What's your strategy in your household? Will the bailout work? We have national debt, Detroit, currency valuations, health care — all these issues facing us. You put them all together, mix them up in a bouillabaisse, and you have consumer confidence that's basically a ticking time bomb. In fact, let's go back and look at what caused this crisis, because the consumer, all of us, in our daily lives, actually contributed a large part to the problem. This is something I call the 50-20 paradox. It took us 50 years to reach annual savings ratings of almost 10 percent. Fifty years. Do you know what this was right here? This was World War II. Do you know why savings was so high? There was nothing to buy, unless you wanted to buy some rivets. What happened, though, over the course of the last 20 years, we went from a 10 percent savings rate to a negative savings rate. Because we binged. We bought extra-large cars, supersized everything, we bought remedies for restless leg syndrome. All these things together basically created a factor where the consumer drove us headlong into the crisis that we face today. The personal debt-to-income ratio basically went from 65 to 135 percent in the span of about 15 years. So consumers got over-leveraged. And of course our banks did as well, as did our federal government. This is an absolutely staggering chart. It shows leverage, trended out from 1919 to 2009. And what you end up seeing is the whole phenomenon that we are actually stepping forth and basically leveraging future education, future children in our households. So if you look at this in the context of visualizing the bailout, what you can see is, if you stack up dollar bills, first of all, 360,000 dollars is about the size of a five-foot-four guy. But if you stack it up, you see this amazing, staggering amount of dollars that have been put into the system to fund and bail us out. So this is the first 315 billion. But I read this fact the other day, that one trillion seconds equals 32,000 years. So if you think about that, the context, the casualness with which we talk about trillion-dollar bailout here and trillion there, we are stacking ourselves up for long-term leverage. However, consumers have moved. They are taking responsibility. What we're seeing is an uptake in the savings rate. In fact, 11 straight months of savings have happened since the beginning of the crisis. We're working our way back up to that 10 percent. Also, remarkably, in the fourth quarter, spending dropped to its lowest level in 62 years — almost a 3.7 percent decline. Visa now reports that more people are using debit cards than credit cards. So we're starting to pay for things with money that we have. And we're starting to be much more careful about how we save and invest. But that's not really the whole story, because this has also been a dramatic time of transformation. And you've got to admit, over the last year and a half, consumers have been doing some weird things. It's pretty staggering, what we've lived through. If you take into account that 80 percent of all Americans were born after World War II, this was essentially our Depression. And so, as a result, some crazy things have happened. I'll give you some examples. Let's talk about dentists, vasectomies, guns and shark attacks. (Laughter) Dentists report molars — people grinding their teeth, coming in and reporting that they've had stress. So there's an increase in people having to have their fillings replaced. Gun sales, according to the FBI, who does background checks, are up almost 25 percent since January. Vasectomies are up 48 percent, according to the Cornell Institute. And lastly, but a very good point, hopefully not related to the former point I just made, which is that shark attacks are at their lowest level from 2003. Does anybody know why? (Laughter) No one's at the beach. So there's a bright side to everything. But seriously, what we see happening, and the reason I want to stress that the consumer is not in retreat, is that this is a tremendous opportunity for the consumer who drove us into this recession to lead us right back out. What I mean by that is we can move from mindless consumption to mindful consumption. Right? (Applause) If you think about the last three decades, the consumer has moved from savvy about marketing in the '90s, to gathering all these amazing social and search tools in this decade. But the one thing holding them back is the ability to discriminate. By restricting their demand, consumers can actually align their values with their spending, and drive capitalism and business to not just be about more, but to be about better. We're going to explain that right now. Based on Y&R's BrandAsset Valuator, proprietary tool of VML and Young & Rubicam, we set out to understand what's been happening in the crisis with the consumer marketplace. We found a couple of really interesting things. We're going to go through four value shifts that we see driving new consumer behaviors, that offer new management principles. The first cultural value shift we see is this tendency toward something we call ""liquid life."" This is the movement from Americans defining their success on having things to having liquidity, because the less excess that you have around you, the more nimble and fleet of foot you are. As a result, déclassé consumption is in. Déclassé consumption is the whole idea that spending money frivolously makes you look a little bit anti-fashion. The management principle is dollars and cents. So let's look at some examples of this déclassé consumption that falls out of this value. The first thing is, something must be happening when P. Diddy vows to tone down his bling. (Laughter) But seriously, we also have this phenomenon on Madison Avenue and in other places, where people are actually walking out of luxury boutiques with ordinary, generic paper bags to hide the brand purchases. We see high-end haggling in fashion today, high-end haggling for luxury and real estate. We also see just a relaxing of ego, and sort of a dismantling of artifice. This is a story on the yacht club that's all basically blue collar. Blue-collar yacht club — where you can join, but you've got to work in the boatyard as condition of membership. We also see the trend toward tourism that's a little bit more low-key: agritourism — going to vineyards and going to farms. And then we also see this movement forward from dollars and cents. What businesses can do to connect with these new mindsets is really interesting. A couple things that are kind of cool. One is that Frito-Lay figured out this liquidity thing with their consumer. They found their consumer had more money at the beginning of the month, less at the end of the month. So they started to change their packaging: larger packs at the beginning of the month, smaller packaging at the end of the month. Really interestingly, too, was the San Francisco Giants. They've just instituted dynamic pricing. It takes into account everything from the pitcher match-ups, to the weather, to the team records, in setting prices for the consumer. Another quick example of these types of movements is the rise of Zynga. Zynga has risen on the consumer's desire to not want to be locked in to fixed cost. Again, this theme is about variable cost, variable living. So micro-payments have become huge. And lastly, some people are using Hulu as a device to get rid of their cable bill. So, really clever ideas there that are being taken ahold of and that marketers are starting to understand. The second of the four values is this movement toward ethics and fair play. We see that play itself out with empathy and respect. The consumer is demanding it. And, as a result, businesses must provide not only value, but values. Increasingly, consumers are looking at the culture of the company, at their conduct in the marketplace. So we see with empathy and respect lots of really hopeful things come out of this recession. I'll give you a few examples. One is the rise toward communities and neighborhoods, and increased emphasis on your neighbors as your support system. Also, a wonderful by-product of a really lousy thing, which has been unemployment, is a rise in volunteerism that's been noted in our country. We also see the phenomenon — some of you may have ""boomerang kids"" — these are ""boomerang alumni,"" where universities are actually reconnecting with alumni and helping them with jobs, sharing skills and retraining. We also talked about character and professionalism. We had this miracle on the Hudson in New York City in January, and suddenly Sully has become a key name on BabyCenter. (Laughter) So, from a value and values standpoint, what companies can do is connect in lots of different ways. Microsoft is doing something wonderful. They are actually vowing to retrain two million Americans with IT training, using their existing infrastructure to do something good. Also, a really interesting company is GORE-TEX. GORE-TEX is all about personal accountability of their management and their employees, to the point where they really kind of shun the idea of bosses. But they also talk about the fact that their executives — all of their expense reports are put onto their company intranet for everyone to see. Complete transparency. Think twice before you have that bottle of wine. (Laughter) The third of the four laws of post-crisis consumerism is about durable living. We're seeing in our data that consumers are realizing this is a marathon, not a sprint. They're digging in and looking for ways to extract value out of every purchase they make. Witness the fact that Americans are holding on to their cars longer than ever before: 9.4 years on average, in March. A record. We also see the fact that libraries have become a huge resource for America. Did you know that 68 percent of Americans now carry a library card? The highest percentage ever in our nation's history. So what you see in this trend is also the accumulation of knowledge. Continuing education is up. Everything is focused on betterment, training, development and moving forward. We also see a big DIY movement. I was fascinated to learn that 30 percent of all homes in America are actually built by owners. That includes cottages and the like, but 30 percent. People are getting their hands dirty, rolling up their sleeves. They want these skills. We see it with the phenomenon of raising backyard hens, chickens and ducks. And when you work out the math, they say it doesn't work, but the principle is there; it's about being sustainable and taking care of yourself. Then we look at the High Line in New York City, an excellent use of reimagining existing infrastructure for something good, which is a brand-new park in New York City. So what brands can do, and companies, is pay dividends to consumers, be a brand that lasts, offer transparency, promise you're going to be there beyond today's sale. Perfect example of that is Patagonia. Patagonia's ""Footprint Chronicles"" basically goes through and tracks every product they make, and gives you social responsibility, and helps you understand the ethics behind the product they make. Another great example is Fidelity. Rather than instant cash-back rewards on your credit or debit purchases, this is about 529 rewards for your student education. Or the interesting company Sunrun. I love this company. They've created a consumer collective where they put solar panels on households and create a consumer-based utility, where the electricity they generate is basically pumped back out into the marketplace. So it's a consumer-driven co-op. The fourth post-crisis consumerism that we see is this movement about ""return to the fold."" It's incredibly important right now. Trust is not parceled out, as we all know. It's now about connecting to your communities, connecting to your social networks. In my book, I talked about the fact that 72 percent of people trust what other people say about a brand or a company, versus 15 percent on advertising. So in that respect, cooperative consumerism has really taken off. This is about consumers working together to get what they want out of the marketplace. Let's look at a couple of quick examples. The artisanal movement is huge: everything about locally derived products and services, supporting your local neighborhoods, whether it's cheeses, wines and other products. Also this rise of local currencies. Realizing that it's difficult to get loans in this environment, you're doing business with people you trust in your local markets. So this rise of local currency is another really interesting phenomenon. And then they did a recent report I thought was fascinating. They actually started, in certain communities in the United States, to publish people's electricity usage. And what they found out is when that was available for public record, the people's electricity usage in those communities dropped. Then we also look at the idea of cow-pooling, which is the whole phenomenon of consumers organizing together to buy meat from organic farms, that they know is safe and controlled in the way that they want it to be controlled. And then there's this other really interesting movement in California, which is about carrot mobs. The traditional thing would be to boycott, right? Have a stick. Well, why not have a carrot? So these are consumers organizing, pooling their resources to incentify companies to do good. And then we look at what companies can do. This is all the opportunity about being a community organizer. You have to realize that you can't fight and control this. You actually need to organize it. You need to harness it. You need to give it meaning. And there's lots of really interesting examples here. First is just the rise of the fact that Zagat's has actually moved out of and diversified from rating restaurants, into actually rating health care. So what credentials does Zagat's have? Well, they have a lot, because it's their network of people. So that becomes a very powerful force for them to make their brand more elastic. Then you look at the phenomenon of Kogi. This Kogi doesn't exist. It's a moving truck. It's a moving truck through L.A., and the only way you can find it is through Twitter. (Laughter) Or you look at Johnson & Johnson's ""Momversations,"" a phenomenal blog that's been built up, where J&J basically is tapping into the power of mommy bloggers, allowing them to create a forum where they can communicate and connect. And it's also become a very valuable advertising revenue for J&J as well. This, plus the fact that you've got phenomenal work from CEOs, from Ford to Zappos, connecting on Twitter, creating an open environment, allowing their employees to be part of the process, rather than hidden behind walls. You see this rising force in total transparency and openness that companies are starting to adopt, all because the consumer is demanding it. So when we look at this and step back, what I believe is that the crisis that exists today is definitely real. It's been tremendously powerful for consumers. But at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity. The Chinese character for crisis is actually the same side of the same coin. Crisis equals opportunity. What we're seeing with consumers right now is the ability for them to actually lead us forward out of this recession. So we believe that values-driven spending will force capitalism to be better: it will drive innovation; it will make longer-lasting products; it will create better, more intuitive customer service; and it will give us the opportunity to connect with companies that share the values that we share. So when we look back and step out at this and see the beginning of these trends that we're seeing in our data, we see a very hopeful picture for the future of America. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"13兆美元的財富，在過去兩年裡從市場上蒸發，我們質疑資本主義的未來，我們質問這些金融產業，我們檢視政府的缺失，我們對未來的方向充滿迷茫；但同時，這也可能成為美國史上一個重要的里程碑。對消費者而言，這是一個機會，可以讓消費者去掌控並引導我們走向一個新的軌道， 我稱它為""大解放 ""。這是一個很簡單的概念，指的是消費者將心中的焦慮實際付諸行動的現象。佔美國國內生產總值72%的消費者已經開始採取行動，就像那些銀行、企業紛紛採取去槓桿化措施、解除財務槓桿的操作，消費者每天都在幫助自己從負債與風險中脫離出來，繼續往前進。 因此，為了暸解這部份，接下來我將強調這點，這並不是說消費者正從市場上撤退，而是他們的力量變強了。為了暸解這個，我們稍微後退一步看看，在過去一年半裡究竟發生了什麼事，如果你已經經歷過金融危機，就把這當作是重點整理，以便了解我們的經濟到底發生了什麼事情，好嗎?(笑聲)失業率上升、房價暴跌、股市一片慘淡、商品價格也差不多如此， 假設你是一個管理預算的媽媽，去年夏天油價一桶150美元，現在則差不多在50到70美元間上下震盪，你還會計畫旅遊嗎?你會如何分配預算?你的家庭策略規劃又是什麼?政府的緊急財政救援會見效嗎?美國國債、底特律失業問題、幣值、醫療保健等，所有的這些議題都不斷地衝擊著我們，如果把這些問題攪和在一起，你將發現消費者信心會像個定時炸彈一樣。 讓我們回顧看看是什麼造成這次的金融危機，每天，我們所有的消費者所做的行為，都要對這個問題負上很大的責任。我稱它為50-20矛盾法則，我們花了50年時間，才達到接近10%的年存款率。50年耶...你們知道在這裡發生了什麼事嗎?這是第二次世界大戰。各位知道為什麼存款率這麼高嗎?因為沒有東西可以買，除非你想引起別人注意，對吧? 那麼,在過去20年裡,究竟發生了什麼事，讓我們的存款率從正10%變成負的存款率？因為我們過於狂熱，我們買超大尺寸的車、購買過量或過大的東西、付錢醫治我們的「不寧腿症候群」，當所有的事情都湊在一起時，多多少少造成了今日的金融危機。個人的負債收入比在過去的15年期間，從原來的65%攀升到現在的135%。消費者過度使用財務槓桿，當然銀行跟聯邦政府也是一樣。 這是一張絕對會讓你吃驚的圖表，顯示財務槓桿從1919年到2009年的走向，最後你會看到一個特殊的現象，就是我們正在花未來的錢，我們將財務槓桿拉到未來，我們已經花掉未來的教育經費及家裡小孩的花費。 因此,如果你將整個財務救援政策具體化，如果把這些錢堆起來，我們就會看到驚人的景象，一開始先堆36萬美元，那大概是一個160公分高的人的高度；但如果我們持續堆下去，你就會看到這些驚人、巨額的金錢已經被放進這個系統，作為資助及財政救援的措施。這是第一筆3千150億美元。但就在不久前的某一天, 我才發現，一萬億秒等於3萬2千年。因此如果你思考著整件事情的來龍去脈,這些倉促決策的幾萬億的財政救援措施，正將我們自己推向長期的財務槓桿。 然而,消費者已經改變了，他們正在學著負起責任，我們所看到的是存款率的上升，事實上,自從金融危機發生之後，存款已連續增加了11個月。我們正努力將存款率拉回10%，同時，在第四季可以很明顯地看到，消費支出掉到62年來的最低點，減少約3.7%。 近日Visa的報告指出，比起使用信用卡，越來越多人開始使用現金卡，人們開始在存款限額內進行消費；同時我們也更加謹慎規劃儲蓄與投資。但這還無法說明整件事的全貌，因為這也已經變成一個充滿戲劇化的轉變。我們必須承認,在過去一年半的時間裡，消費者做了一些相當奇怪的事，因為我們所經歷的事件太不可思議了，尤其現在的美國人，有80%是在二次世界大戰之後出生，這無疑是我們的經濟大衰退。 也因此,導致一些瘋狂的事情發生。我會舉幾個例子,像是牙醫、男人結紮、槍枝氾濫以及鯊魚攻擊事件，好嗎?(笑聲)牙醫報告指出，從臼齒就可以看出人們磨牙，顯示他們承受過多的壓力，因此補牙的人越來越多；根據FBI的背景調查指出，槍枝銷售量從1月到現在攀升了近25%；根據Cornell機構資料顯示，男人做結紮手術的比例上升了48%。最後，也是一個非常好的一點，希望跟先前我所提到的都不相關，就是鯊魚攻擊的次數降到了2003年以來的最低點。有人知道為什麼嗎？因為没人去沙灘了。反正每一件事都有好的一面。 但是認真地來說，我們所看到發生的一切，以及為什麼我想要去強調現在不是消費者從市場上撤退的時機，對消費者來說，現在反而是一個絕佳的機會，雖然過度消費曾讓我們走入經濟衰退，但消費也可以帶領我們走出衰退。經過這次的事件,我們可以從愚蠢的消費轉為聰明的消費,對吧?如果你回顧一下過去三十年，90年代還在試圖理解市場運作的消費者，最近十年已經發展到懂得利用驚人的社交及搜尋工具，唯一能將他們拉回市場的是辨別好壞的能力。藉由限制他們的需求,消費者才能夠實際地衡量消費的價值，引導資本主義和企業，讓他們不只在乎數量，而是更在乎品質。 接下來我要來解釋這點，根據Y&R的品牌資產評估系統，這是VML和Y&R的專有工具，我們開始了解到，金融危機在消費市場所扮演的角色。我們發現了一些相當有趣的事情，我們要來探討引發新型消費行為、提供新型態管理法則的四種價值觀的轉變。 首先是文化價值觀的轉變，現在的生活型態漸漸開始重視流動性；以前美國人以為的成功，是擁有資產，現在則是擁有現金，因為你購買的非必須品愈少，生活的負擔就會愈減輕。因此，就產生了低調消費。低調消費不贊成盲目奢侈的消費，因為那不符合現在的流行趨勢。這個法則重視的是金錢。 那麼,讓我們先來看看一些低調消費這種價值觀轉變的例子。第一件事是當P. Diddy（吹牛老爹）宣告不再穿戴華麗閃亮的服飾，那一定代表某種意義。（笑聲）但是嚴格地說，這種現象也發生在廣告業和其他地方，當人們從奢侈的精品店走出來的時候，手裡拿著一般的紙袋，裡面卻藏著他們剛買的各種名牌物品。今天我們看到高檔的流行商品開始降價促銷，高檔的奢侈品和不動產也在降價，我們也看到自尊心的解放，以及人們不再玩弄巧計。 這是一個發生在遊艇俱樂部的故事，成員基本上都是藍領階級，也就是藍領階級遊艇俱樂部,你可以參加這個俱樂部，但前題是你必須在船塢上工作，這是入會的基本條件。我們也看到未來趨勢朝向低調觀光旅遊,對吧?農業旅遊，走入葡萄園和農田去實際體驗。 然後我們也看到消費者從重視金錢又往前邁了一步，企業運用這些新觀念所發展出來的想法，是相當有趣的，有一些看起來還很酷。其中一個是Frito-Lay(知名食品公司)，他們從消費者身上觀察到現金的使用狀況。他們發現消費者在月初有較多可運用的錢，月底則較少，因此他們所做的就是去改變他們的包裝，月初販賣的包裝比較大，月底販賣的包裝則較小。 另外，真正有趣的是舊金山巨人棒球隊，他們採用了動態定價策略，將各種因素列入考量,像是投手與打者的投打記錄、天氣、球隊紀錄等，作為訂定票價的依據。另一個例子就是Zynga（開發""開心農場""的遊戲廠商）的快速崛起。Zynga的崛起，是因為消費者不想定期支付固定成本，同樣的，重點是關於變動成本及變動生活，所以消費者的小額支出便累積出Zynga的巨額收入。最後,有一些人使用Hulu（免付費網路電視）作為逃避有線電視帳單的手法。因此,消費者開始採用一些真正聰明的想法,而企業也開始瞭解到這個現象。 第二個價值觀的轉變，是重視道德及公平競賽。消費者表現出來的行為是同理心與尊重，因為這是消費者需要的，所以企業不只要提供有價值的東西，還得提供符合消費者的價值觀。漸漸地，消費者開始檢視公司文化，在市場中觀察企業的行為。由於消費者重視同理心與尊重，在這次的經濟衰退中竟產生很多真正有希望的事情。下面是一些例子， 其中之一是重視社區與鄰里，並將鄰居當作自己的後備支援系統。此外,這次的經濟衰退雖然導致了嚴重的失業率，但卻出現了一個很棒的副產品，就是目前國人所注意到的義工的增加。我們也看到這樣的一個現象，你們家裡可能有”賴家王老五”，這些人則是返校校友，由大學來聯繫這些畢業校友，幫助他們找工作、分享專業技能，並進行職業訓練。我們也談論到人格特質與個人專業，今年一月時，紐約的哈德遜河上發生了機長成功迫降的奇蹟，突然間Sully(機長)這個名字便成了為嬰兒命名的當紅選擇。(笑聲) 因此,從價值及價值觀的觀點來看，公司能做的是用各種方式與之連結。微軟做了一些很棒的事，他們對外宣示將訓練2百萬美國人從事資訊行業，也就是使用他們既有的設備去做一些好事。 另一個有趣的公司是Gore-Tex，Gore-Tex相當強調個人自我的責任感，不管是主管或是員工都一樣，所以幾乎用不到主管的權威。但他們也談論到，公司高階主管的所有費用支出，都條列在公司內部網路供每個員工觀看，完全透明，所以高階主管在喝酒前可得三思而後行。 第三個法則是永續生存。資料顯示，消費者已經意識到金融危機是一場馬拉松，而非短跑；他們開始認真地尋找方法去取得每次購買所創造出的價值，我們看到美國人現在保有同一輛車的時間，比以前還要久，在今年三月創下歷史紀錄，平均9.4年。我們也看到，圖書館已經變成美國人很常使用的地方，你知道現在有68%的美國人辦了圖書證嗎?這在我們國家的紀錄中，是最高的比例。 從這個趨勢我們也可以看到知識的累積，越來越多人不斷地學習，每件事都強調改善、訓練、發展及進步。我們也看到一個DIY的趨勢，我很驚訝有30%的美國人，動手建造自己的房屋，包括農舍小屋這類的，有30%的人耶...他們必須捲起袖子，弄髒雙手，他們希望取得這類技術。 我們看到有人在後院飼養母雞、小雞及鴨子，當你計算成本效益後，他們卻回答那不重要，他們所重視的是關於永續及自給自足的概念。我們再看看紐約市的High Line長廊式休憩公園，將原有的設施重新改造，賦予全新的面貌，一躍而成紐約市的新地標公園。 因此,品牌或企業能做的，就是回饋給消費者，並承諾大眾做一個永續經營、透明的企業，而不僅只是銷售而已。最佳的例子是Patagonia(成衣商)，Patagonia設計了一套產品追蹤系統，可以讓消費者查詢產品的生產過程，並讓消費者瞭解，在每樣產品背後，都有自己的社會責任與道德倫理。 另一個很棒的例子是富達證券，一般發卡公司都是將現金回饋到消費者的信用卡上，但富達卻是提供529項助學獎勵金，作為學生教育補助。或者還有另一個有趣的公司SunRun，我喜歡這間公司，因為他們提供的產品，可以讓消費者將太陽能面板放置在一般家庭裡，就像一個小型的家庭電力公司，並將產生的電力再賣回到市場上，形成一個由消費者主導的合作模式。 第四種金融危機後的消費價值觀的改變，是恢復對人的信任，這是非常重要的一點，因為我們都知道信任無法分配。我們所談的是社區連結與社會網絡的連結。在我的書中有提到，72%的人信賴認識的人介紹的品牌跟公司,只有15%的人相信廣告。因此,在這方面，互助消費主義已經開始發酵，消費者們相互合作，去得到他們想從市場上取得的東西。先快速地看一下幾個例子， 現在掀起了一股巨大的手工製造風潮，他們全都使用當地的產品與服務，無論是起司、酒或其他產品，讓當地的居民有生意可做。同時各地也開始印製流通於當地的貨幣，因為大家瞭解到在這種環境下，很難取得融資，所以人們開始只和自己信賴的人做生意，也只在當地的市場做生意，因此,只限當地流通的貨幣就出現了，這變成另一個有趣的現象。最近有一個報告，我覺得這個報告很吸引人，報告指出，美國的某些特定社區，已經開始公布各個家庭的用電量，他們發現，一旦公布用電量的資訊，該社區的用電量就會開始減少。 再來,我們來看看揪團買牛肉的構想，這是由消費者自己組織起來，去有機農場裡直接購買肉品，因為他們認同該農場的管理風格及肉品安全。還有一個很有趣的運動，就是從加州興起的胡蘿蔔運動。傳統的方法是聯合抵制購買,對吧?但那是對商家的懲罰?為什麼不用獎勵的方式呢?因此,這些消費者組織起來、集合大家的資源，去鼓勵那些商家表現得更好， 然後我們再來看看企業能做到什麼程度。由消費者組成的社群能做很多事，你必須了解你不能對抗消費者，也不能控制消費者，你只能把消費者組織起來，駕馭這個組織，賦予它意義。這裡有很多有趣的實際案例，可以供我們參考。第一個案例是Zagat(餐廳評比網站)，他們已經跨出自己原本的領域，從美食餐廳的評比跨足到醫療保健的評比。Zagat到底能做什麼呢?他們能做的事當然很多，因為他們擁有強大的人脈，對吧?所以,人脈是他們非常強大力量的來源，讓他們的品牌更具彈性。 再來看看Kogi(賣包韓國烤肉的墨西哥薄餅)現象，Kogi並不是餐廳,而是一個流動餐車,對吧?它是一個穿梭在洛杉磯的快餐車,而你只能透過Twitter才能找到它。又或者再看看嬌生集團的媽媽經網站，這是一個驚人的部落格，嬌生集團抓準了媽咪部落客的心理，讓她們建立一個論壇，可以互相溝通和連結，這儼然已經變成一個非常有效的行銷方式。這些以及我們從福特汽車到Zappos(知名網路鞋店)的執行長上所學到的，連結上Twitter後，就能創造出一個開放的環境，讓員工也參予整個過程，而非藏在幕後。 企業似乎都已開始採行資訊透明及公開的策略，因為消費者希望他們這樣做。因此,當我們看清這一點，再回頭看看，我相信今天發生的危機，是絕對真實的。金融危機已經對消費者造成極大的衝擊，但同時，這也代表這是一個絕佳的機會。中國字對於危機的詮釋，實際上指的是同一件事，危機就是轉機。我們所看到的消費者行為的轉變，事實上是消費者有能力引領我們走出這次的經濟衰退。 因此,我們相信，價值導向的消費行為，將引導促使資本主義走向更好的境界。它將帶來創新、創造更持久耐用的產品、提供更好、更直觀的服務。這讓我們有機會與企業一同互相分享價值。因此,當我們回過頭去，或跳出來看這些資料顯示為正在興起的趨勢時，我們看到的未來是一個非常有希望的美國。非常謝謝你們。(鼓掌)"
