Talk	en	zh-tw
jok_church_a_circle_of_caring	"You know, what I do is write for children, and I'm probably America's most widely read children's author, in fact. And I always tell people that I don't want to show up looking like a scientist. You can have me as a farmer, or in leathers, and no one has ever chose farmer. I'm here today to talk to you about circles and epiphanies. And you know, an epiphany is usually something you find that you dropped someplace. You've just got to go around the block to see it as an epiphany. That's a painting of a circle. A friend of mine did that — Richard Bollingbroke. It's the kind of complicated circle that I'm going to tell you about. My circle began back in the '60s in high school in Stow, Ohio where I was the class queer. I was the guy beaten up bloody every week in the boys' room, until one teacher saved my life. She saved my life by letting me go to the bathroom in the teachers' lounge. She did it in secret. She did it for three years. And I had to get out of town. I had a thumb, I had 85 dollars, and I ended up in San Francisco, California — met a lover — and back in the '80s, found it necessary to begin work on AIDS organizations. About three or four years ago, I got a phone call in the middle of the night from that teacher, Mrs. Posten, who said, ""I need to see you. I'm disappointed that we never got to know each other as adults. Could you please come to Ohio, and please bring that man that I know you have found by now. And I should mention that I have pancreatic cancer, and I'd like you to please be quick about this."" Well, the next day we were in Cleveland. We took a look at her, we laughed, we cried, and we knew that she needed to be in a hospice. We found her one, we got her there, and we took care of her and watched over her family, because it was necessary. It's something we knew how to do. And just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult got to know me, she turned into a box of ashes and was placed in my hands. And what had happened was the circle had closed, it had become a circle — and that epiphany I talked about presented itself. The epiphany is that death is a part of life. She saved my life; I and my partner saved hers. And you know, that part of life needs everything that the rest of life does. It needs truth and beauty, and I'm so happy it's been mentioned so much here today. It also needs — it needs dignity, love and pleasure, and it's our job to hand those things out. Thank you. (Applause)"	你知道，我的工作是為兒童寫作，事實上,我的可能是美國最被廣泛閱讀的兒童文學作家。而我常常告訴人，我不希望看起來像一個科學家。你可以把我看成是個農夫，或穿著皮衣的人但從來沒有人選農夫。我今天要在這裡要和你們談談有關循環和頓悟。你都知道，頓悟，通常是你掉某處的某樣東西。你只要再兜一圈回來便會看出頓悟就在那裡。 這是一幅有關循環的圖畫。我的一位朋友畫的—理查德•保令布魯克。這是一種我要告訴你的複雜的循環。我的循環早在60年代就開始在俄亥俄州的士都高中，在那裡我是班上的異類。我是那個每週在男生宿舍裡，被打得滿身是血的男孩,直到有一個老師救了我。她藉著讓我使用教師休息室的洗手間救了我的性命。她默默的做這件事，長達三年之久，直到我不得不離開這個城鎮。我有一隻大拇指(搭便車手勢)，我有85美元，我最後來到了加州 舊金山—認識了一個情人 —並在80年代當時，認為有必要便在愛滋病組織開始工作。 大約三，四年前，我在半夜接到一通電話一通由當初那位老師—普斯頓老師的電話說：「我必須要見你。我很失望我們從未用成人的身份了解彼此。請你能否到俄亥俄州，並請帶著那位我知道你現在已經找到的男人。而我要補充的是我有胰腺癌，我想請你對這個請求快馬加鞭。」 好，第二天我們便抵達克利夫蘭市。我們來看一看她，我們又笑又哭，並且我們知道，她必需接受安寧照顧。我們為她找到一個，我們把她安頓穩當,我們照顧她，照顧她的家庭，因為那是必要的，這是我們認為該怎麼做的。而正當這個想要認識長大成人的我的女士剛剛認識我的時候,她便變成了一盒骨灰並被放置在我的手中。那便是一個循環完成的句號,它已成為一個完整的循環 —而我所提到的頓悟便呈現於我跟前。 那個頓悟便是死亡是生命的一部分。她曾經救活了我，我和我的夥伴救她的。你知道，生命中有關死亡的這一部分，所需要的和其他部份的生命一樣。它需要真理與美麗，我很高興這些已在今天被多次提到它還需要 —它需要尊嚴，愛和快樂。而我們的工作是要將它顯現出來。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
