Talk	en	zh-tw
jon_mooallem_the_strange_story_of_the_teddy_bear_and_what_it_reveals_about_our_relationship_to_animals	"So it was the fall of 1902, and President Theodore Roosevelt needed a little break from the White House, so he took a train to Mississippi to do a little black bear hunting outside of a town called Smedes. The first day of the hunt, they didn't see a single bear, so it was a big bummer for everyone, but the second day, the dogs cornered one after a really long chase, but by that point, the president had given up and gone back to camp for lunch, so his hunting guide cracked the animal on the top of the head with the butt of his rifle, and then tied it up to a tree and started tooting away on his bugle to call Roosevelt back so he could have the honor of shooting it. The bear was a female. It was dazed, injured, severely underweight, a little mangy-looking, and when Roosevelt saw this animal tied up to the tree, he just couldn't bring himself to fire at it. He felt like that would go against his code as a sportsman. A few days later, the scene was memorialized in a political cartoon back in Washington. It was called ""Drawing a Line in Mississippi,"" and it showed Roosevelt with his gun down and his arm out, sparing the bear's life, and the bear was sitting on its hind legs with these two big, frightened, wide eyes and little ears pricked up at the top of its head. It looked really helpless, like you just wanted to sweep it up into your arms and reassure it. It wouldn't have looked familiar at the time, but if you go looking for the cartoon now, you recognize the animal right away: It's a teddy bear. And this is how the teddy bear was born. Essentially, toymakers took the bear from the cartoon, turned it into a plush toy, and then named it after President Roosevelt — Teddy's bear. And I do feel a little ridiculous that I'm up here on this stage and I'm choosing to use my time to tell you about a 100-year-old story about the invention of a squishy kid's toy, but I'd argue that the invention of the teddy bear, inside that story is a more important story, a story about how dramatically our ideas about nature can change, and also about how, on the planet right now, the stories that we tell are dramatically changing nature. Because think about the teddy bear. For us, in retrospect, it feels like an obvious fit, because bears are so cute and cuddly, and who wouldn't want to give one to their kids to play with, but the truth is that in 1902, bears weren't cute and cuddly. I mean, they looked the same, but no one thought of them that way. In 1902, bears were monsters. Bears were something that frickin' terrified kids. For generations at that point, the bear had been a shorthand for all the danger that people were encountering on the frontier, and the federal government was actually systematically exterminating bears and lots of other predators too, like coyotes and wolves. These animals, they were being demonized. They were called murderers because they killed people's livestock. One government biologist, he explained this war on animals like the bear by saying that they no longer had a place in our advancing civilization, and so we were just clearing them out of the way. In one 10-year period, close to half a million wolves had been slaughtered. The grizzly would soon be wiped out from 95 percent of its original territory, and whereas once there had been 30 million bison moving across the plains, and you would have these stories of trains having to stop for four or five hours so that these thick, living rivers of the animals could pour over the tracks, now, by 1902, there were maybe  less than 100 left in the wild. And so what I'm saying is, the teddy bear was born into the middle of this great spasm of extermination, and you can see it as a sign that maybe some people deep down were starting to feel conflicted about all that killing. America still hated the bear and feared it, but all of a sudden, America also wanted to give the bear a great big hug. So this is something that I've been really curious about in the last few years. How do we imagine animals, how do we think and feel about them, and how do their reputations get written and then rewritten in our minds? We're here living in the eye of a great storm of extinction where half the species on the planet could be gone by the end of the century, and so why is it that we come to care about some of those species and not others? Well, there's a new field, a relatively new field of social science that started looking at these questions and trying to unpack the powerful and sometimes pretty schizophrenic relationships that we have to animals, and I spent a lot of time looking through their academic journals, and all I can really say is that their findings are astonishingly wide-ranging. So some of my favorites include that the more television a person watches in Upstate New York, the more he or she is afraid of being attacked by a black bear. If you show a tiger to an American, they're much more likely to assume that it's female and not male. In a study where a fake snake and a fake turtle were put on the side of the road, drivers hit the snake much more often than the turtle, and about three percent of drivers who hit the fake animals seemed to do it on purpose. Women are more likely than men to get a ""magical feeling"" when they see dolphins in the surf. Sixty-eight percent of mothers with ""high feelings of entitlement and self-esteem"" identified with the dancing cats in a commercial for Purina. (Laughter) Americans consider lobsters more important than pigeons but also much, much stupider. Wild turkeys are seen as only slightly more dangerous than sea otters, and pandas are twice as lovable as ladybugs. So some of this is physical, right? We tend to sympathize more with animals that look like us, and especially that resemble human babies, so with big, forward-facing eyes and circular faces, kind of a roly-poly posture. This is why, if you get a Christmas card from, like, your great aunt in Minnesota, there's usually a fuzzy penguin chick on it, and not something like a Glacier Bay wolf spider. But it's not all physical, right? There's a cultural dimension to how we think about animals, and we're telling stories about these animals, and like all stories, they are shaped by the times and the places in which we're telling them. So think about that moment back in 1902 again where a ferocious bear became a teddy bear. What was the context? Well, America was urbanizing. For the first time, nearly a majority of people lived in cities, so there was a growing distance between us and nature. There was a safe space where we could reconsider the bear and romanticize it. Nature could only start to seem this pure and adorable because we didn't have to be afraid of it anymore. And you can see that cycle playing out again and again with all kinds of animals. It seems like we're always stuck between demonizing a species and wanting to wipe it out, and then when we get very close to doing that, empathizing with it as an underdog and wanting to show it compassion. So we exert our power, but then we're unsettled by how powerful we are. So for example, this is one of probably thousands of letters and drawings that kids sent to the Bush administration, begging it to protect the polar bear under the Endangered Species Act, and these were sent back in the mid-2000s, when awareness of climate change was suddenly surging. We kept seeing that image of a polar bear stranded on a little ice floe looking really morose. I spent days looking through these files. I really love them. This one's my favorite. If you can see, it's a polar bear that's drowning and then it's also being eaten simultaneously by a lobster and a shark. This one came from a kid named Fritz, and he's actually got a solution to climate change. He's got it all worked out to an ethanol-based solution. He says, ""I feel bad about the polar bears. I like polar bears. Everyone can use corn juice for cars. From Fritz."" So 200 years ago, you would have Arctic explorers writing about polar bears leaping into their boats and trying to devour them, even if they lit the bear on fire, but these kids don't see the polar bear that way, and actually they don't even see the polar bear the way that I did back in the '80s. I mean, we thought of these animals as mysterious and terrifying lords of the Arctic. But look now how quickly that climate change has flipped the image of the animal in our minds. It's gone from that bloodthirsty man-killer to this delicate, drowning victim, and when you think about it, that's kind of the conclusion to the story that the teddy bear started telling back in 1902, because back then, America had more or less conquered its share of the continent. We were just getting around to polishing off these last wild predators. Now, society's reach has expanded all the way to the top of the world, and it's made even these, the most remote, the most powerful bears on the planet, seem like adorable and blameless victims. But you know, there's also a postscript to the teddy bear story that not a lot of people talk about. We're going to talk about it, because even though it didn't really take long after Roosevelt's hunt in 1902 for the toy to become a full-blown craze, most people figured it was a fad, it was a sort of silly political novelty item and it would go away once the president left office, and so by 1909, when Roosevelt's successor, William Howard Taft, was getting ready to be inaugurated, the toy industry was on the hunt for the next big thing. They didn't do too well. That January, Taft was the guest of honor at a banquet in Atlanta, and for days in advance, the big news was the menu. They were going to be serving him a Southern specialty, a delicacy, really, called possum and taters. So you would have a whole opossum roasted on a bed of sweet potatoes, and then sometimes they'd leave the big tail on it like a big, meaty noodle. The one brought to Taft's table weighed 18 pounds. So after dinner, the orchestra started to play, and the guests burst into song, and all of a sudden, Taft was surprised with the presentation of a gift from a group of local supporters, and this was a stuffed opossum toy, all beady-eyed and bald-eared, and it was a new product they were putting forward to be the William Taft presidency's answer to Teddy Roosevelt's teddy bear. They were calling it the ""billy possum."" Within 24 hours, the Georgia Billy Possum Company was up and running, brokering deals for these things nationwide, and the Los Angeles Times announced, very confidently, ""The teddy bear has been relegated to a seat in the rear, and for four years, possibly eight, the children of the United States will play with billy possum."" So from that point, there was a fit of opossum fever. There were billy possum postcards, billy possum pins, billy possum pitchers for your cream at coffee time. There were smaller billy possums on a stick that kids could wave around like flags. But even with all this marketing, the life of the billy possum turned out to be just pathetically brief. The toy was an absolute flop, and it was almost completely forgotten by the end of the year, and what that means is that the billy possum didn't even make it to Christmastime, which when you think about it is a special sort of tragedy for a toy. So we can explain that failure two ways. The first, well, it's pretty obvious. I'm going to go ahead and say it out loud anyway: Opossums are hideous. (Laughter) But maybe more importantly is that the story of the billy possum was all wrong, especially compared to the backstory of the teddy bear. Think about it: for most of human's evolutionary history, what's made bears impressive to us has been their complete independence from us. It's that they live these parallel lives as menaces and competitors. By the time Roosevelt went hunting in Mississippi, that stature was being crushed, and the animal that he had roped to a tree really was a symbol for all bears. Whether those animals lived or died now was entirely up to the compassion or the indifference of people. That said something really ominous about the future of bears, but it also said something very  unsettling about who we'd become, if the survival of even an animal like that was up to us now. So now, a century later, if you're at all paying attention to what's happening in the environment, you feel that discomfort so much more intensely. We're living now in an age of what scientists have started to call ""conservation reliance,"" and what that term means is that we've disrupted so much that nature can't possibly stand on its own anymore, and most endangered species are only going to survive if we stay out there in the landscape riggging the world around them in their favor. So we've gone hands-on and we can't ever take our hands off, and that's a hell of a lot of work. Right now, we're training condors not to perch on power lines. We teach whooping cranes to migrate south for the winter behind little ultra-light airplanes. We're out there feeding plague vaccine to ferrets. We monitor pygmy rabbits with drones. So we've gone from annihilating species to micromanaging the survival of a lot of species indefinitely, and which ones? Well, the ones that we've told compelling stories about, the ones we've decided ought to stick around. The line between conservation and domestication is blurred. So what I've been saying is that the stories that we tell about wild animals are so subjective they can be irrational or romanticized or sensationalized. Sometimes they just have nothing to do with the facts. But in a world of conservation reliance, those stories have very real consequences, because now, how we feel about an animal affects its survival more than anything that you read about in ecology textbooks. Storytelling matters now. Emotion matters. Our imagination has become an ecological force. And so maybe the teddy bear worked in part because the legend of Roosevelt and that bear in Mississippi was kind of like an allegory of this great responsibility that society was just beginning to face up to back then. It would be another 71 years before the Endangered Species Act was passed, but really, here's its whole ethos boiled down into something like a scene you'd see in a stained glass window. The bear is a helpless victim tied to a tree, and the president of the United States decided to show it some mercy. Thank you. (Applause) [Illustrations by Wendy MacNaughton]"	1902 年秋天時，狄奧多．羅斯福總統想離開白宮去渡假，因此他搭上火車前往密西西比州，到城外去獵黑熊，就在史密德鎮。打獵的第一天，他們一隻熊也沒看到，大家都覺得很掃興，但是第二天，追逐好久之後，狗群圍住了一隻熊，但是那時總統已經放棄，回到帳篷去吃午餐了。因此狩獵長用來福槍托往那隻熊的頭上猛力一擊，接著將牠綁在樹上，並開始吹號角，請羅斯福回來，享有槍殺牠的特權。那是隻母熊。牠頭暈眼花，遍體鱗傷，十分瘦弱，看起來有點骯髒，羅斯福一看到牠被綁在樹上，就是無法鼓起勇氣對牠開槍。他覺得這麼做有違運動家精神。 幾天後，這個場景被畫在華府的政治漫畫裡留念。稱為「在密西西比州劃界」，這幅畫展現了羅斯福放下槍並伸出手的樣子，留給熊一條活命。那隻熊坐在後腳上，有著圓滾滾的雙眼和頭頂上小巧、豎立的雙耳。看起來非常無助，讓你想將牠抱在懷裡安慰牠。當時那隻熊不太常見，但現在若是在漫畫裡找，你馬上就能認出這隻動物：泰迪熊。而這就是泰迪熊誕生的方式。基本上，玩具商從漫畫採用這隻熊，讓牠變成毛絨絨的玩具，並以羅斯福總統之名，稱它為「泰迪熊」。 我覺得有點可笑，因為我站在這舞台上把我的時間花在告訴大家一個百年前的老故事，關於一個軟綿綿童玩的誕生。但我認為泰迪熊發明的故事裡頭還有一個更重要的故事，一個我們的想法能讓自然大幅改變的故事，同樣地，如今在地球上我們述說的故事也大幅改變了自然。 因為你想想泰迪熊。試著回想，對我們來說那是再自然不過的事了，因為熊那麼可愛又討人喜歡，誰不會想拿隻熊給孩子玩？但事實是 1902 年時，熊並不可愛也不討喜。牠們雖然長得一樣，但沒人會有那種感覺。1902 年時，熊是怪物。熊是會嚇死小孩的東西。幾個世代以來，熊一直是危險的象徵，大家會在荒郊野外碰到的那種，聯邦政府其實有計畫地消滅熊，以及其他食肉動物，像是土狼和野狼。這些動物都被妖魔化了。牠們被稱為兇手，因為牠們會殺害人類的牲畜。有位官方的生物學家說道，這場對動物，像是對熊的戰爭，只需要透過說牠們在文明社會之中已無容身之地，我們就能清光牠們。在十年之間，將近五十萬隻野狼被屠殺。95% 原生地的灰熊即將被一掃而空，然而，當地曾有三千萬隻犎牛橫跨平原，因此你聽過一些故事提到火車需暫停四、五個小時，讓這些洪流般的大批動物通過軌道，到了 1902 年，留在原野上的也許不到一百隻。我想表達的是，泰迪熊在大滅絕時期誕生了，你可以將它視為徵兆，也許有些人的內心深處對那些殺戮行為已開始感到衝突。當時美國還是討厭熊、害怕熊，但是一瞬間，美國也想給熊一個大大的擁抱。 近年來，我對這件事深感好奇。我們對如何想像動物，我們如何看待、感受牠們，以及牠們的名聲如何在我們的心中被寫下，然後改寫？我們正生活在滅絕的颱風眼之中，地球上，超過半數的物種有可能在本世紀末就會消失，為什麼我們在乎的是某些物種，而非其他的物種？有一個在社會科學界較新的領域開始研究這些問題，並試著卸下我們對動物那強大且時常頗為反覆無常的關係，我花很多時間翻閱他們的學術期刊，我能說的只有他們的發現還真是廣泛的嚇人。當中我最喜歡的包括紐約上州的居民如果越常看電視，就會越害怕被黑熊攻擊。如果你讓美國人看老虎，他們多半會認為那是母的，而非公的。一份研究指出，如果路邊有假蛇和假烏龜，駕駛輾過蛇的機率大於烏龜，大約有 3% 的駕駛似乎是故意輾過假動物。女性在浪上看到海豚時，比男性更可能有「神奇的感覺」。68% 的媽媽在買飼料時看到跳舞的貓咪，會有「強烈自尊心和權利的感受」。美國人認為龍蝦比企鵝還重要，但也認為龍蝦較遲鈍。野生火雞只比海獺還危險一點而已；熊貓可愛的程度比瓢蟲高兩倍。 這和外表有點關係吧？我們傾向較同情長得像人的動物，尤其是長得像小嬰兒的動物，有較大的前視眼睛和圓圓的臉，圓滾滾的樣子。這就是為什麼，如果你收到聖誕卡，像明尼蘇達州姨媽寄的，上面常會有毛絨絨的企鵝寶寶，而不是冰河灣的狼蛛在上面。但也不全是外表吧？文化層面也影響我們怎麼看待動物，以及如何說這些動物的故事，像所有故事一樣，我們述說動物的時間和地點也會改變牠們的形象。回想 1902 年的那一刻，一隻兇猛的熊變成泰迪熊。背景是什麼？美國正在都市化階段。首次，超過半數的人住在城市，因此我們和自然的距離越來越遠。有個安全地帶讓我們能重新思考熊，並讓牠的形象變得浪漫。自然要開始變得如此純淨、討喜，得要我們不再害怕自然才行。你會看到這種循環不斷重覆上演，發生在各種動物身上。似乎我們總是陷在妖魔化物種、想要毀滅牠們，然後在我們快這麼做的時候，就會同情牠們像隻敗犬，想對牠們展現憐憫之情。因此我們運用權力，但我們又因擁有強大的力量而感到不安。 例如，這是小朋友寄給布希政府數千封信和畫之中的一件，請求政府能依據瀕危物種法案保護北極熊，這些信在 2005 年左右被寄出，當時氣候變遷的意識突然高漲。我們不斷看到北極熊被困在小浮冰上的圖像，看起來鬱鬱寡歡。我花了幾天查閱這些資料，非常喜愛，這是我最喜歡的一張。你可以看到北極熊快淹死了，同時龍蝦和鯊魚正要將牠吃下肚。這張是法瑞茲小朋友寫的，他真的找到氣候變遷的解方。他運用乙醇方案來解決一切。他說：「我覺得北極熊好可憐。我喜歡北極熊。每個人都可以用玉米汁幫汽車加油。法蘭茲敬上。」200 年前，我們有北極探險家會寫下北極熊跳到船上，試圖活吞他們的故事，即使放火燒熊也難保命，但這些孩子不這樣看北極熊，其實他們看待北極熊的方式甚至和我在 80 年代還小的時候不同。我們認為這些動物就像是北極圈裡謎樣又嚇人的領主。但是現在氣候變遷已飛快轉變這種動物在我們心目中的形象。北極熊從嗜血的殺人兇手到變成這種脆弱、快溺死的被害者，而當你認真思考那個故事的結局，那個 1902 年開始傳說的泰迪熊故事，那時候，美國已或多或少征服了那塊大陸。我們只是找時間去快速處理最後一批野生食肉動物。現在，社會已一路擴展到世界之巔，甚至讓這些遠在天邊、世上最強壯的熊都變成可愛又無辜的受害者。 其實泰迪熊故事還有後續發展，但卻沒什麼人討論。我們可以稍做討論，因為即使在 1902 年羅斯福打獵後不久，這玩具開始蔚為風潮，大多數人都把它看做是一時的流行，只是某種愚蠢的政治噱頭，總統卸任就會煙消雲散。因此羅斯福在 1909 年的接班人威廉．霍華德．塔虎脫準備好要就職時，玩具業等著搜尋下一個大事件。結果成效不彰。 那年一月，塔虎脫是亞特蘭大一場宴會的座上佳賓，在會前幾天，菜單是新聞重點。他們打算招待塔虎脫一道南方菜，非常美味，稱為「負鼠佐香薯」。所以他會拿到一隻完整的烤負鼠，躺在蕃薯上，有時會留著負鼠的大尾巴，就像是很粗的肉麵條。送到塔虎脫桌上的那隻大約 18 磅。晚餐後，管弦樂團開始演奏，賓客被音樂環繞，突然間，塔虎脫收到驚喜，當地支持群眾送上一份禮物，是個負鼠填充玩具，有著圓滾的雙眼和光禿的耳朵，他們把這項新產品拿來做為威廉．塔虎脫總統的象徵，就像是羅斯福的泰迪熊。大家把它叫做「比利鼠」。不到 24 小時，喬治亞的比利鼠公司火速成立、開工、在全國舖貨，《洛杉磯時報》十分篤定地報導：「泰迪熊已被拋在腦後，未來四年或八年，美國孩童都玩比利鼠了。」從那時起，開始掀起一鼓負鼠狂潮。市面上有比利鼠明信片、比利鼠胸針、喝咖啡時用的奶油比利鼠罐。還有在棒子上的小比利鼠，讓孩子能夠像旗子般揮舞。但即使有這一大堆銷售方式，比利鼠的壽命卻短得可憐。這個玩具大慘敗，年底時幾乎就被世人徹底遺忘，也就是說比利鼠根本沒有活到聖誕假期，可以算是玩具界的特殊慘案。 我們可以用兩種方式解釋這場失敗。第一，顯而易見，我打算在這裡大聲說出來：負鼠超醜。（笑聲）但也許更重要的是比利鼠的故事錯得一塌糊塗，尤其是把它拿來和泰迪熊的故事相比。你想想：人類演化歷史中，大多數讓我們對熊留下深刻印象的原因，早已完全與我們無關。牠們以威脅和敵手的樣貌和我們同時存活在世上。羅斯福在密西西比打獵時，那形象已破滅，那隻被他綁在樹上的動物其實就是所有熊的象徵。現在那些動物是死是活，全看人類要用同情心或是冷漠感來決定。那說明了熊的未來其實不太樂觀，但也說明了我們變得多麼讓人不安，即使是那種動物的生死都操在我們的手中。一個世紀之後的今天，如果你非常注意環境中發生的事，那種讓人不安的感受會更加強烈。我們當前住的這個世代，是科學家稱為「依賴保護」的時代，這個詞代表了我們已太過破壞自然，以致於自然無法再自立更生，最瀕危的物種若要生存，人類就得離開這塊土地，以對自然有利的方式來安頓世界。而我們已著手實踐，不能再袖手旁觀、置之不理，那可是一大堆棘手的工作。目前，我們正在訓練兀鷹不要棲息在電線上。我們訓練鶴跟在輕型飛機後面遷徒到南方過冬。我們為雪貂施打鼠疫疫苗。我們用無人機監控侏兔。如此一來，我們就從毀滅物種到無限期管理眾多物種生存的大小事，那是哪些物種呢？是那些我們曾述說動人故事的物種，是那些我們決定要在身邊守護的物種。保護與馴養之間的界線已變得模糊。 我不斷提到的是我們述說關於野生動物的故事都很主觀，故事可能很不合理、變得浪漫或聳動。有時候他們對事實無能為力。但是在依賴保護的世界裡，那些故事有非常真實的結局，因為現在，我們對動物的感受會影響牠是否能生存，影響甚至大於任何你在生態學課本裡讀過的東西。現在說故事很重要。情感很重要。我們的想像變成一種生態力量。也許泰迪熊起了點作用，因為羅斯福和那隻熊在密西西比的傳奇故事就像是種寓意，象徵當時社會正要開始肩負重任。在《瀕危物種法案》通過之前，也許還要再過 71 年，但事實上，整個社會的氛圍已轉變成某種像是你從彩色玻璃窗看進去的景象。熊是被綁在樹上的無辜受害者，而美國總統決定要表現憐憫之心。謝謝。（掌聲）【插畫：溫蒂．麥克諾頓(Wendy Macnaughton) 】
