Talk	en	zh-tw
jonas_eliasson_how_to_solve_traffic_jams	"Hi. I'm here to talk about congestion, namely road congestion. Road congestion is a pervasive phenomenon. It exists in basically all of the cities all around the world, which is a little bit surprising when you think about it. I mean, think about how different cities are, actually. I mean, you have the typical European cities, with a dense urban core, good public transportation mostly, not a lot of road capacity. But then, on the other hand, you have the American cities. It's moving by itself, okay. Anyway, the American cities: lots of roads dispersed over large areas, almost no public transportation. And then you have the emerging world cities, with a mixed variety of vehicles, mixed land-use patterns, also rather dispersed but often with a very dense urban core. And traffic planners all around the world have tried lots of different measures: dense cities or dispersed cities, lots of roads or lots of public transport or lots of bike lanes or more information, or lots of different things, but nothing seems to work. But all of these attempts have one thing in common. They're basically attempts at figuring out what people should do instead of rush hour car driving. They're essentially, to a point, attempts at planning what other people should do, planning their life for them. Now, planning a complex social system is a very hard thing to do, and let me tell you a story. Back in 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell, an urban planner in London got a phone call from a colleague in Moscow saying, basically, ""Hi, this is Vladimir. I'd like to know, who's in charge of London's bread supply?"" And the urban planner in London goes, ""What do you mean, who's in charge of London's — I mean, no one is in charge."" ""Oh, but surely someone must be in charge. I mean, it's a very complicated system. Someone must control all of this."" ""No. No. No one is in charge. I mean, it basically — I haven't really thought of it. It basically organizes itself."" It organizes itself. That's an example of a complex social system which has the ability of self-organizing, and this is a very deep insight. When you try to solve really complex social problems, the right thing to do is most of the time to create the incentives. You don't plan the details, and people will figure out what to do, how to adapt to this new framework. And let's now look at how we can use this insight to combat road congestion. This is a map of Stockholm, my hometown. Now, Stockholm is a medium-sized city, roughly two million people, but Stockholm also has lots of water and lots of water means lots of bridges — narrow bridges, old bridges — which means lots of road congestion. And these red dots show the most congested parts, which are the bridges that lead into the inner city. And then someone came up with the idea that, apart from good public transport, apart from spending money on roads, let's try to charge drivers one or two euros at these bottlenecks. Now, one or two euros, that isn't really a lot of money, I mean compared to parking charges and running costs, etc., so you would probably expect that car drivers wouldn't really react to this fairly small charge. You would be wrong. One or two euros was enough to make 20 percent of cars disappear from rush hours. Now, 20 percent, well, that's a fairly huge figure, you might think, but you've still got 80 percent left of the problem, right? Because you still have 80 percent of the traffic. Now, that's also wrong, because traffic happens to be a nonlinear phenomenon, meaning that once you reach above a certain capacity threshold then congestion starts to increase really, really rapidly. But fortunately, it also works the other way around. If you can reduce traffic even somewhat, then congestion will go down much faster than you might think. Now, congestion charges were introduced in Stockholm on January 3, 2006, and the first picture here is a picture of Stockholm, one of the typical streets, January 2. The first day with the congestion charges looked like this. This is what happens when you take away 20 percent of the cars from the streets. You really reduce congestion quite substantially. But, well, as I said, I mean, car drivers adapt, right? So after a while they would all come back because they have sort of gotten used to charges. Wrong again. It's now six and a half years ago since the congestion charges were introduced in Stockholm, and we basically have the same low traffic levels still. But you see, there's an interesting gap here in the time series in 2007. Well, the thing is that, the congestion charges, they were introduced first as a trial, so they were introduced in January and then abolished again at the end of July, followed by a referendum, and then they were reintroduced again in 2007, which of course was a wonderful scientific opportunity. I mean, this was a really fun experiment to start with, and we actually got to do it twice. And personally, I would like to do this every once a year or so, but they won't let me do that. But it was fun anyway. So, we followed up. What happened? This is the last day with the congestion charges, July 31, and you see the same street but now it's summer, and summer in Stockholm is a very nice and light time of the year, and the first day without the congestion charges looked like this. All the cars were back again, and you even have to admire the car drivers. They adapt so extremely quickly. The first day they all came back. And this effect hanged on. So 2007 figures looked like this. Now these traffic figures are really exciting and a little bit surprising and very useful to know, but I would say that the most surprising slide here I'm going to show you today is not this one. It's this one. This shows public support for congestion pricing of Stockholm, and you see that when congestion pricing were introduced in the beginning of Spring 2006, people were fiercely against it. Seventy percent of the population didn't want this. But what happened when the congestion charges were there is not what you would expect, that people hated it more and more. No, on the contrary, they changed, up to a point where we now have 70 percent support for keeping the charges, meaning that — I mean, let me repeat that: 70 percent of the population in Stockholm want to keep a price for something that used to be free. Okay. So why can that be? Why is that? Well, think about it this way. Who changed? I mean, the 20 percent of the car drivers that disappeared, surely they must be discontent in a way. And where did they go? If we can understand this, then maybe we can figure out how people can be so happy with this. Well, so we did this huge interview survey with lots of travel services, and tried to figure out who changed, and where did they go? And it turned out that they don't know themselves. (Laughter) For some reason, the car drivers are — they are confident they actually drive the same way that they used to do. And why is that? It's because that travel patterns are much less stable than you might think. Each day, people make new decisions, and people change and the world changes around them, and each day all of these decisions are sort of nudged ever so slightly away from rush hour car driving in a way that people don't even notice. They're not even aware of this themselves. And the other question, who changed their mind? Who changed their opinion, and why? So we did another interview survey, tried to figure out why people changed their mind, and what type of group changed their minds? And after analyzing the answers, it turned out that more than half of them believe that they haven't changed their minds. They're actually confident that they have liked congestion pricing all along. Which means that we are now in a position where we have reduced traffic across this toll cordon with 20 percent, and reduced congestion by enormous numbers, and people aren't even aware that they have changed, and they honestly believe that they have liked this all along. This is the power of nudges when trying to solve complex social problems, and when you do that, you shouldn't try to tell people how to adapt. You should just nudge them in the right direction. And if you do it right, people will actually embrace the change, and if you do it right, people will actually even like it. Thank you. (Applause)"	嗨，我今天要談的是塞車也就是所謂的交通擁塞塞車非常普遍世界各地的城市都有這個問題仔細想想其實令人驚訝畢竟城市之間不同之處甚多像典型的歐洲城市都有稠密的都市中心，良好的公共交通但大部分道路狹小另一方面，我們看看美國城市它自己動起來了，好言歸正傳，美國的城市裡許多道路散佈在大片土地上幾乎沒有公共交通工具再來是初嶄頭角的世界級城市當中混雜各種交通工具各種土地使用模式，而且相當分散市中心卻多數人口稠密世界各地的交通規劃人員採用過不同措施：以密集或分散形式規劃城市建大量道路，或大力發展公共交通規劃很多單車徑，或提供更多資訊措施不勝枚舉，但似乎都不得要領 這一切努力都有一個共同點就是嘗試找出人們避免在尖峰時間開車的方法基本上這些方法旨在影響人該做什麼替別人規劃生活 規劃一個複雜的社會系統相當困難讓我給你說個故事早在1989年，柏林圍牆倒下時一位倫敦的都市規劃師接到電話是莫斯科的同事打來的，他說“嗨，我是維拉迪摩，我想知道倫敦的麵包供應是誰管的？” 那位都市規劃師回應道“甚麼意思? 誰管理倫敦的...沒人管啊。”“但總有個人管吧這個系統極其複雜，一定要有人管理運作。” “不，不，真沒人管我意思是，我真的沒想過這問題系統會自我管理吧。” 自我管理這例子說明複雜的社會系統擁有自我管理的能力這洞見發人深省當你試圖解決非常複雜的社會問題很多時候正確的做法是製造誘因不需要規劃細節大家自會知道該做甚麼如何適應這個新框架 讓我們現在看看如何應用這洞見來解決塞車問題 這是我家鄉斯德哥爾摩的地圖中型城市，現時大約住了兩百萬人但斯德哥爾摩除了水還是水即是說城裡有很多橋，古老的，狹窄的亦即是說交通經常擁塞這些紅點代表最擁塞的區域也就是通往內城的橋後來有人想出解決方法不是改善公共運輸不是大費金錢興建道路而是在瓶頸位置向司機徵收一兩歐元 一兩二歐元不是甚麼大錢相對於停車費和日常開支而言所以你可能以為司機們對這種小額收費無動於衷你錯了一兩歐元足以令百分之二十的汽車在尖峰時間從路上消失百份之二十，你或許覺得這是個大數字但仍有百份之八十的問題未解決，對嗎？因為仍然有百份之八十的汽車在路上這也是錯的因為交通問題不是綫性現象當你超過一個容量臨界點之後交通擁塞會開始很快地惡化幸運的是，反之亦然如果你可以稍為減少交通量擁塞問題減輕的速度比你想像中更快道路收費於2006年1月3號在斯德哥爾摩實施這裏第一張是斯德哥爾摩一條典型街道的照片，在2號拍的開始收費的第一天它變成這樣這就是路上減少百分之二十的車輛以後看起來的樣子實際上，塞車情況大為改善 但正如我所說，汽車司機會適應的，對嗎？所以不久之後，他們會回到路上因為他們已適應了收費又錯了，六年半前斯德哥爾摩開始徵收道路費到了今天，路上的汽車流量依然偏低 但大家看，在時間序列上有個有趣的間縫時為2007年實情是這樣的道路收費最初引入時屬試驗性質故此在一月引入後，七月尾便被廢除接着舉行全民投票，然後在2007年再次引入道路費這當然是一次極好的研究機會我意思是開始時它已是個有趣的實驗而我們有機會兩次進行這實驗對我來說，我希望大約一年進行一次但他們不許我這樣做無論如何這是有趣的實驗 我們跟進之後，有甚麼發現？這是7月31日，徵收道路費的最後一天你看到的是同一條街，而這正是夏季斯德哥爾摩的夏季是年中非常天朗氣清的日子取消道路收費的第一天是這樣的所有汽車都返回路上，你真的要佩服那些司機他們的反應真的很快他們第一天就回來了情況持續下去，所以2007年的數據是這樣的 這些交通數據真的令人興奮有點出人意表，但同時十分有用但今天給大看的幻燈片中最令人驚奇的不是這張，而是這張它顯示了市民支持在斯德哥爾摩實施道路收費你看到當引入道路收費之時即2006年初春，人們激烈反對收費百份之七十的市民反對收費當道路收費實施後，出現的情況並不如你想像的那樣人們會越來越憎惡它正好相反，他們改變了現時有百份之七十的市民支持繼續收費我是說，讓我再說一次斯德哥爾摩百份之七十的人口希望對一樣一向可免費使用的東西繼續收費 怎會這樣？有甚麼原因？試循這方向想。誰改變了？那百份之二十消失了的司機肯定會在某方面感到不滿他們去了那裏？如果我們明白這點或許便可以明白為何人們喜愛這措施我們很多交通工具上進行大型的訪問調查目的是要找出誰改變了，和這些人去了那裏？原來受訪者自己也不知道由於某些原因那些司機都認為他們按自己一貫的方式駕駛為甚麼會這樣？這是因為人們的駕駛路線並非如你想像那般穩定每一天，人會做新的決定，人會變環繞他們的世界也在變每一天這些決定會產生細微作用促使他們避開繁忙時間駕車人往往不會覺察這些作用他們自己甚至不知道自己已改變 另一個問題是，誰改變了他們的心思？誰改變了他們的想法，和為甚麼？我們為此做了另一個訪問調查為了要了解人為何改變想法，和那些群組的人改變了想法？分柝了數據之後，我們發現超過一半的人認為他們的想法沒有變他們真的以為他們一直都喜歡道路收費這即是說現在的情況是我們透過收費界線減少了百份二十交通流量同時大幅減少了塞車情況而人們甚至不為意他們已改變了並且他們誠實地相信他們一直都喜歡這個情況 這就是我們解決複雜的社會問題時輕推所產生的力量，你那樣做的時候你不應該試圖告訴人他們要如何適應你只要輕輕把他們往對的方向推如果你做得對人們會支持改變並且如果你做得對，人們甚至會喜歡它謝謝大家。（拍掌）
