Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_haidt_on_the_moral_mind	"Suppose that two American friends are traveling together in Italy. They go to see Michelangelo's ""David,"" and when they finally come face to face with the statue, they both freeze dead in their tracks. The first guy — we'll call him Adam — is transfixed by the beauty of the perfect human form. The second guy — we'll call him Bill — is transfixed by embarrassment, at staring at the thing there in the center. So here's my question for you: which one of these two guys was more likely to have voted for George Bush, which for Al Gore? I don't need a show of hands because we all have the same political stereotypes. We all know that it's Bill. And in this case, the stereotype corresponds to reality. It really is a fact that liberals are much higher than conservatives on a major personality trait called openness to experience. People who are high in openness to experience just crave novelty, variety, diversity, new ideas, travel. People low on it like things that are familiar, that are safe and dependable. If you know about this trait, you can understand a lot of puzzles about human behavior. You can understand why artists are so different from accountants. You can actually predict what kinds of books they like to read, what kinds of places they like to travel to, and what kinds of food they like to eat. Once you understand this trait, you can understand why anybody would eat at Applebee's, but not anybody that you know. (Laughter) This trait also tells us a lot about politics. The main researcher of this trait, Robert McCrae says that, ""Open individuals have an affinity for liberal, progressive, left-wing political views"" — they like a society which is open and changing — ""whereas closed individuals prefer conservative, traditional, right-wing views."" This trait also tells us a lot about the kinds of groups people join. So here's the description of a group I found on the Web. What kinds of people would join a global community welcoming people from every discipline and culture, who seek a deeper understanding of the world, and who hope to turn that understanding into a better future for us all? This is from some guy named Ted. (Laughter) Well, let's see now, if openness predicts who becomes liberal, and openness predicts who becomes a TEDster, then might we predict that most TEDsters are liberal? Let's find out. I'm going to ask you to raise your hand, whether you are liberal, left of center — on social issues, we're talking about, primarily — or conservative, and I'll give a third option, because I know there are a number of libertarians in the audience. So, right now, please raise your hand — down in the simulcast rooms, too, let's let everybody see who's here — please raise your hand if you would say that you are liberal or left of center. Please raise your hand high right now. OK. Please raise your hand if you'd say you're libertarian. OK, about a — two dozen. And please raise your hand if you'd say you are right of center or conservative. One, two, three, four, five — about eight or 10. OK. This is a bit of a problem. Because if our goal is to understand the world, to seek a deeper understanding of the world, our general lack of moral diversity here is going to make it harder. Because when people all share values, when people all share morals, they become a team, and once you engage the psychology of teams, it shuts down open-minded thinking. When the liberal team loses, as it did in 2004, and as it almost did in 2000, we comfort ourselves. (Laughter) We try to explain why half of America voted for the other team. We think they must be blinded by religion, or by simple stupidity. (Laughter) (Applause) So, if you think that half of America votes Republican because they are blinded in this way, then my message to you is that you're trapped in a moral matrix, in a particular moral matrix. And by the matrix, I mean literally the matrix, like the movie ""The Matrix."" But I'm here today to give you a choice. You can either take the blue pill and stick to your comforting delusions, or you can take the red pill, learn some moral psychology and step outside the moral matrix. Now, because I know — (Applause) — OK, I assume that answers my question. I was going to ask you which one you picked, but no need. You're all high in openness to experience, and besides, it looks like it might even taste good, and you're all epicures. So anyway, let's go with the red pill. Let's study some moral psychology and see where it takes us. Let's start at the beginning. What is morality and where does it come from? The worst idea in all of psychology is the idea that the mind is a blank slate at birth. Developmental psychology has shown that kids come into the world already knowing so much about the physical and social worlds, and programmed to make it really easy for them to learn certain things and hard to learn others. The best definition of innateness I've ever seen — this just clarifies so many things for me — is from the brain scientist Gary Marcus. He says, ""The initial organization of the brain does not depend that much on experience. Nature provides a first draft, which experience then revises. Built-in doesn't mean unmalleable; it means organized in advance of experience."" OK, so what's on the first draft of the moral mind? To find out, my colleague, Craig Joseph, and I read through the literature on anthropology, on culture variation in morality and also on evolutionary psychology, looking for matches. What are the sorts of things that people talk about across disciplines? That you find across cultures and even across species? We found five — five best matches, which we call the five foundations of morality. The first one is harm/care. We're all mammals here, we all have a lot of neural and hormonal programming that makes us really bond with others, care for others, feel compassion for others, especially the weak and vulnerable. It gives us very strong feelings about those who cause harm. This moral foundation underlies about 70 percent of the moral statements I've heard here at TED. The second foundation is fairness/reciprocity. There's actually ambiguous evidence as to whether you find reciprocity in other animals, but the evidence for people could not be clearer. This Norman Rockwell painting is called ""The Golden Rule,"" and we heard about this from Karen Armstrong, of course, as the foundation of so many religions. That second foundation underlies the other 30 percent of the moral statements I've heard here at TED. The third foundation is in-group/loyalty. You do find groups in the animal kingdom — you do find cooperative groups — but these groups are always either very small or they're all siblings. It's only among humans that you find very large groups of people who are able to cooperate, join together into groups, but in this case, groups that are united to fight other groups. This probably comes from our long history of tribal living, of tribal psychology. And this tribal psychology is so deeply pleasurable that even when we don't have tribes, we go ahead and make them, because it's fun. (Laughter) Sports is to war as pornography is to sex. We get to exercise some ancient, ancient drives. The fourth foundation is authority/respect. Here you see submissive gestures from two members of very closely related species. But authority in humans is not so closely based on power and brutality, as it is in other primates. It's based on more voluntary deference, and even elements of love, at times. The fifth foundation is purity/sanctity. This painting is called ""The Allegory Of Chastity,"" but purity's not just about suppressing female sexuality. It's about any kind of ideology, any kind of idea that tells you that you can attain virtue by controlling what you do with your body, by controlling what you put into your body. And while the political right may moralize sex much more, the political left is really doing a lot of it with food. Food is becoming extremely moralized nowadays, and a lot of it is ideas about purity, about what you're willing to touch, or put into your body. I believe these are the five best candidates for what's written on the first draft of the moral mind. I think this is what we come with, at least a preparedness to learn all of these things. But as my son, Max, grows up in a liberal college town, how is this first draft going to get revised? And how will it end up being different from a kid born 60 miles south of us in Lynchburg, Virginia? To think about culture variation, let's try a different metaphor. If there really are five systems at work in the mind — five sources of intuitions and emotions — then we can think of the moral mind as being like one of those audio equalizers that has five channels, where you can set it to a different setting on every channel. And my colleagues, Brian Nosek and Jesse Graham, and I, made a questionnaire, which we put up on the Web at www.YourMorals.org. And so far, 30,000 people have taken this questionnaire, and you can too. Here are the results. Here are the results from about 23,000 American citizens. On the left, I've plotted the scores for liberals; on the right, those for conservatives; in the middle, the moderates. The blue line shows you people's responses on the average of all the harm questions. So, as you see, people care about harm and care issues. They give high endorsement of these sorts of statements all across the board, but as you also see, liberals care about it a little more than conservatives — the line slopes down. Same story for fairness. But look at the other three lines. For liberals, the scores are very low. Liberals are basically saying, ""No, this is not morality. In-group, authority, purity — this stuff has nothing to do with morality. I reject it."" But as people get more conservative, the values rise. We can say that liberals have a kind of a two-channel, or two-foundation morality. Conservatives have more of a five-foundation, or five-channel morality. We find this in every country we look at. Here's the data for 1,100 Canadians. I'll just flip through a few other slides. The U.K., Australia, New Zealand, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, East Asia and South Asia. Notice also that on all of these graphs, the slope is steeper on in-group, authority, purity. Which shows that within any country, the disagreement isn't over harm and fairness. Everybody — I mean, we debate over what's fair — but everybody agrees that harm and fairness matter. Moral arguments within cultures are especially about issues of in-group, authority, purity. This effect is so robust that we find it no matter how we ask the question. In one recent study, we asked people to suppose you're about to get a dog. You picked a particular breed, you learned some new information about the breed. Suppose you learn that this particular breed is independent-minded, and relates to its owner as a friend and an equal? Well, if you are a liberal, you say, ""Hey, that's great!"" Because liberals like to say, ""Fetch, please."" (Laughter) But if you're conservative, that's not so attractive. If you're conservative, and you learn that a dog's extremely loyal to its home and family, and doesn't warm up quickly to strangers, for conservatives, well, loyalty is good — dogs ought to be loyal. But to a liberal, it sounds like this dog is running for the Republican nomination. (Laughter) So, you might say, OK, there are these differences between liberals and conservatives, but what makes those three other foundations moral? Aren't those just the foundations of xenophobia and authoritarianism and Puritanism? What makes them moral? The answer, I think, is contained in this incredible triptych from Hieronymus Bosch, ""The Garden of Earthly Delights."" In the first panel, we see the moment of creation. All is ordered, all is beautiful, all the people and animals are doing what they're supposed to be doing, where they're supposed to be. But then, given the way of the world, things change. We get every person doing whatever he wants, with every aperture of every other person and every other animal. Some of you might recognize this as the '60s. (Laughter) But the '60s inevitably gives way to the '70s, where the cuttings of the apertures hurt a little bit more. Of course, Bosch called this hell. So this triptych, these three panels portray the timeless truth that order tends to decay. The truth of social entropy. But lest you think this is just some part of the Christian imagination where Christians have this weird problem with pleasure, here's the same story, the same progression, told in a paper that was published in Nature a few years ago, in which Ernst Fehr and Simon Gachter had people play a commons dilemma. A game in which you give people money, and then, on each round of the game, they can put money into a common pot, and then the experimenter doubles what's in there, and then it's all divided among the players. So it's a really nice analog for all sorts of environmental issues, where we're asking people to make a sacrifice and they themselves don't really benefit from their own sacrifice. But you really want everybody else to sacrifice, but everybody has a temptation to a free ride. And what happens is that, at first, people start off reasonably cooperative — and this is all played anonymously. On the first round, people give about half of the money that they can. But they quickly see, ""You know what, other people aren't doing so much though. I don't want to be a sucker. I'm not going to cooperate."" And so cooperation quickly decays from reasonably good, down to close to zero. But then — and here's the trick — Fehr and Gachter said, on the seventh round, they told people, ""You know what? New rule. If you want to give some of your own money to punish people who aren't contributing, you can do that."" And as soon as people heard about the punishment issue going on, cooperation shoots up. It shoots up and it keeps going up. There's a lot of research showing that to solve cooperative problems, it really helps. It's not enough to just appeal to people's good motives. It really helps to have some sort of punishment. Even if it's just shame or embarrassment or gossip, you need some sort of punishment to bring people, when they're in large groups, to cooperate. There's even some recent research suggesting that religion — priming God, making people think about God — often, in some situations, leads to more cooperative, more pro-social behavior. Some people think that religion is an adaptation evolved both by cultural and biological evolution to make groups to cohere, in part for the purpose of trusting each other, and then being more effective at competing with other groups. I think that's probably right, although this is a controversial issue. But I'm particularly interested in religion, and the origin of religion, and in what it does to us and for us. Because I think that the greatest wonder in the world is not the Grand Canyon. The Grand Canyon is really simple. It's just a lot of rock, and then a lot of water and wind, and a lot of time, and you get the Grand Canyon. It's not that complicated. This is what's really complicated, that there were people living in places like the Grand Canyon, cooperating with each other, or on the savannahs of Africa, or on the frozen shores of Alaska, and then some of these villages grew into the mighty cities of Babylon, and Rome, and Tenochtitlan. How did this happen? This is an absolute miracle, much harder to explain than the Grand Canyon. The answer, I think, is that they used every tool in the toolbox. It took all of our moral psychology to create these cooperative groups. Yes, you do need to be concerned about harm, you do need a psychology of justice. But it really helps to organize a group if you can have sub-groups, and if those sub-groups have some internal structure, and if you have some ideology that tells people to suppress their carnality, to pursue higher, nobler ends. And now we get to the crux of the disagreement between liberals and conservatives. Because liberals reject three of these foundations. They say ""No, let's celebrate diversity, not common in-group membership."" They say, ""Let's question authority."" And they say, ""Keep your laws off my body."" Liberals have very noble motives for doing this. Traditional authority, traditional morality can be quite repressive, and restrictive to those at the bottom, to women, to people that don't fit in. So liberals speak for the weak and oppressed. They want change and justice, even at the risk of chaos. This guy's shirt says, ""Stop bitching, start a revolution."" If you're high in openness to experience, revolution is good, it's change, it's fun. Conservatives, on the other hand, speak for institutions and traditions. They want order, even at some cost to those at the bottom. The great conservative insight is that order is really hard to achieve. It's really precious, and it's really easy to lose. So as Edmund Burke said, ""The restraints on men, as well as their liberties, are to be reckoned among their rights."" This was after the chaos of the French Revolution. So once you see this — once you see that liberals and conservatives both have something to contribute, that they form a balance on change versus stability — then I think the way is open to step outside the moral matrix. This is the great insight that all the Asian religions have attained. Think about yin and yang. Yin and yang aren't enemies. Yin and yang don't hate each other. Yin and yang are both necessary, like night and day, for the functioning of the world. You find the same thing in Hinduism. There are many high gods in Hinduism. Two of them are Vishnu, the preserver, and Shiva, the destroyer. This image actually is both of those gods sharing the same body. You have the markings of Vishnu on the left, so we could think of Vishnu as the conservative god. You have the markings of Shiva on the right, Shiva's the liberal god. And they work together. You find the same thing in Buddhism. These two stanzas contain, I think, the deepest insights that have ever been attained into moral psychology. From the Zen master Seng-ts'an: ""If you want the truth to stand clear before you, never be for or against. The struggle between for and against is the mind's worst disease."" Now unfortunately, it's a disease that has been caught by many of the world's leaders. But before you feel superior to George Bush, before you throw a stone, ask yourself, do you accept this? Do you accept stepping out of the battle of good and evil? Can you be not for or against anything? So, what's the point? What should you do? Well, if you take the greatest insights from ancient Asian philosophies and religions, and you combine them with the latest research on moral psychology, I think you come to these conclusions: that our righteous minds were designed by evolution to unite us into teams, to divide us against other teams and then to blind us to the truth. So what should you do? Am I telling you to not strive? Am I telling you to embrace Seng-ts'an and stop, stop with this struggle of for and against? No, absolutely not. I'm not saying that. This is an amazing group of people who are doing so much, using so much of their talent, their brilliance, their energy, their money, to make the world a better place, to fight — to fight wrongs, to solve problems. But as we learned from Samantha Power, in her story about Sergio Vieira de Mello, you can't just go charging in, saying, ""You're wrong, and I'm right."" Because, as we just heard, everybody thinks they are right. A lot of the problems we have to solve are problems that require us to change other people. And if you want to change other people, a much better way to do it is to first understand who we are — understand our moral psychology, understand that we all think we're right — and then step out, even if it's just for a moment, step out — check in with Seng-ts'an. Step out of the moral matrix, just try to see it as a struggle playing out, in which everybody does think they're right, and everybody, at least, has some reasons — even if you disagree with them — everybody has some reasons for what they're doing. Step out. And if you do that, that's the essential move to cultivate moral humility, to get yourself out of this self-righteousness, which is the normal human condition. Think about the Dalai Lama. Think about the enormous moral authority of the Dalai Lama — and it comes from his moral humility. So I think the point — the point of my talk, and I think the point of TED — is that this is a group that is passionately engaged in the pursuit of changing the world for the better. People here are passionately engaged in trying to make the world a better place. But there is also a passionate commitment to the truth. And so I think that the answer is to use that passionate commitment to the truth to try to turn it into a better future for us all. Thank you. (Applause)"	想像兩個美國人到意大利旅遊一起去看米開朗基羅的名作“大衛”當他們和巨大石雕面對面時兩個人都望著出神第一個人﹐我們就叫他亞當吧被完美的人體肌理震懾住了第二個人 我們就叫他比爾吧也嚇傻了 - 被那兩腿間的玩意兒讓我試問這兩個男人誰比較有可能把票投給小布希誰投給了高爾﹖ 大家不用舉手因為我們都有一樣的刻板印象我們都知道是比爾在這個例子裡﹐刻板印象反映了事實事實上﹐自由黨員的確比保守黨員更容易接受新體驗那些喜歡接受新體驗的人渴望新鮮 多樣性 新想法 旅行較難接受新體驗的人喜歡熟悉 安全 可靠的事物 如果你知道這些特性你便能了解人類許多難解的行為了解為什麼藝術家和會計師如此不同你可以預測他們喜歡看的書他們喜歡去的旅遊點甚至他們的飲食偏好只要你了解這個特性﹐你便能理解為什麼這麼多人喜歡去連鎖餐廳吃飯 但你卻一個都不認識(笑聲)這個特性也讓我們理解政治研究這個性格特質的研究者 Robert McCrae 說“開放的人偏向自由 進步 左翼政治思想”他們喜歡一個開放 持續改變的社會“封閉的人偏好保守 傳統 右翼的觀點。” 這個特質也讓我們了解人們所參與的社團組織這是我在網路上找到的一個組織簡介怎樣的人會參加一個全球性的社群歡迎來自各種文化和學科的人那些想更深刻理解世界的人同時也是那些想以這些理解讓世界變得更好的人這是一個叫 TED 的男人寫的(笑聲)那麼﹐如果開放性格偏向自由派同時也預知了你會成為 TED 一員是否大部份的 TED 成員都是自由黨呢﹖讓我們試試請你舉起手﹐不管你是自由黨﹐中間偏左在我們所討論的議題上或是保守黨﹐還有一個第三選項因為我知道觀眾中還有一些相信自由至上的放任自由主義者現在﹐舉起你的手來在聯播臺裡的人也是讓每個人看看都是誰如果你是自由黨或中間偏左﹐請舉起手來請把你的手舉高﹐好請舉手如果你是放任自由主義者好 差不多有二十多人如果你覺得你是中間偏右或保守黨﹐請舉手1 2 3 4 5 - 大概8 到10人 好。這就是問題。如果我們的目標是了解世界深刻的進一步了解世界但缺乏道德多樣性讓了解世界變得更難因為當每個人都分享一樣的價值觀和道德觀便成為一個團隊﹐一旦進入團隊心理原本開放的思想就會閉塞當自由隊在2004年敗選就像在2000年一樣﹐我們自我安慰(笑聲)我們嘗試自我解釋為什麼有一半美國人投給另外一隊我們想 他們一定是被宗教蒙蔽 或是純粹愚蠢(笑聲)(掌聲)如果你認為投給共和黨的另一半美國人是因為他們被蒙蔽了我想告訴你的是你被道德母體限制住了某一種特別的道德母體所謂的道德母體﹐就像“駭客人物”裡面的大電腦一樣 但今日我讓你有個選擇你可以選擇藍色藥丸然後保持在舒適的幻覺中或是選擇紅色藥丸﹐了解道德心理學﹐跨越你的道德母體因為我知道 —(掌聲)我想這已經回答了我的問題我本來想問你們要選哪一個﹐我想不需要了你們都很愛接受新體驗﹐更何況這看起來很可能很可口 能滿足你們的美食主義總而言之﹐讓我們選擇紅色藥丸讓我們學習一些道德心理學﹐看看我們能了解什麼 讓我們從頭開始道德是什麼﹖它從哪裡來﹖心理學中最糟的想法便是我們像一張白紙一樣出生發展心理學告訴我們嬰兒來到世界上時已經知道許多有關世界和社會讓他們變得更易學習卻很難向他人學習有關這些與生俱來的天賦有個人說的很好腦科學家 Gary Marcus他說“腦的初始組織不是來自經驗自然提供了第一個版本﹐經驗只能修改先建不代表不可塑﹔而是組織先於經驗。”那麼道德的第一個版本是什麼﹖我和同事 Craig Joseph閱讀了許多人類學的文獻有關不同文化的道德同時也在進化心理學裡找相同處跨領域的人談論的時候他們都談論什麼跨文化和跨物種的人又談論什麼﹖我們總共找到五種我們稱它們為五種道德基礎 第一種是傷害-照護我們都是哺乳類﹐我們都有許多神經和荷爾蒙程式讓我們與他人聯結﹐關懷他人同情他人﹐尤其那些脆弱容易受傷的人讓我們對那些造成傷害的人有強烈感覺這個道德基礎含括了我在TED所聽到的七成的道德陳述 第二個道德基礎是公平-相等有一些模糊的證據證明你是否能在其他動物身上找到相互性但在人類身上的例子卻再清楚不過了這幅 Norman Rockwell 的畫叫做“金科玉律”Karen Armstrong 也告訴我們這是很多宗教的基礎第二哥道德基礎含括了我在TED所聽到的另外三成的道德陳訴 第三個基礎是團隊忠誠你可以在動物裡面找到群體你可以找到合作團隊但這些組織通常不是很小或是牠們都是兄弟姐妹只有在人類的世界裡你看到一大群人彼此相處﹐一起合作但在這例子裡﹐團隊合作是為了和其他團隊鬥爭這大概是來自我們長時間的部落生態﹐部落心理這種部落心態實在太愉快了就算我們已經不在部落裡了我們還是照樣因為好玩(笑聲)運動和戰爭就像A片和性的關係我們借此發泄那些古老的慾望 第四種道德基礎是權威-尊敬從這裡你可以看到兩種非常接近的物種的服從姿態但人類的權威不是以權力和暴力為基礎像其他動物而是以自願的服從﹐有時候甚至是愛的元素 第五種基礎是純潔- 神聖這幅畫是“貞節的寓意”但純潔不只是壓抑女性性慾而是任何理想﹐任何想法告訴你只要控制你的身體你便可以成善只要控制進入你身體的東西右翼喜歡談論性方面的道德左翼喜歡用食物今日食物變成一種道德指標這些觀點也來自純潔有關你願意觸摸和放進身體的東西 我相信這是五個最好的候選人在我們道德思想的初稿上我相信這是我們與生俱來的做好準備要來學習這些東西但我的兒子 Max 在一個自由派的大學城裡長大這個初稿將如何被改寫﹖和在我們南部六十里的鄉下生下來的孩子 又會有什麼不同﹖當我們想到這些多樣文化的時候﹐讓我們試試其他隱喻如果真的有著五種系統在我們想法裡五種情緒和直覺的來源我們可以把道德感當做音響有五種頻道的均衡器你可以在不同頻道選擇不同的程度我的同事 Brian Nosek, Jesse Graham 和我做了一個問卷﹐放在www.YourMorals.org網站上目前為止已經有三萬人填寫了這個問卷﹐你也可以結果在這裡這裡是兩萬三千個美國公民的結果左邊是自由派的分數右邊是保守派的﹐中間是中立藍線是你們的回應在所有有關傷害的問題上 你可以看到﹐人們真的很關心傷害和照護的問題他們很支持這方面的陳述在整個表上﹐但你也可以看到自由派比保守派更在乎一些﹐線慢慢降了下來公平也是一樣但看看其他三條線自由派的分數非常低基本上自由派是說“這根本不是道德。團體 權威 純潔 - 這些東西和道德一點關係也沒有。我拒絕。”但當人越保守﹐這些價值便提昇我們可以說自由派有一種 - 雙頻或是雙基礎的道德保守派則是有五基礎或是五頻的道德 我們在每個國家都看到一樣的情形這是一千多個加拿大人的數據我會翻過一些其他的國家英國﹐澳洲 紐西蘭 西歐 東歐拉丁美洲 中東 中亞 和南亞你可以看到在這些圖表上在團體 權威 純潔的差異更大這告訴我們在任何國家歧見並不是來自傷害和公平我們討論什麼是公平但每個人都認同傷害和公平是要緊的在文化中的道德討論通常都與團隊 權威 純潔有關 無論我們怎麼提出問題﹐效果還是很明顯。在最近的一項研究中我們問人們﹕如果你們要買狗你選擇了一種特別的品種後來你知道有關這些品種的一些事或許你學到這個特別的品種會獨立思考並且把主人當做平等的朋友如果你是自由派你會說“哇!那太好了!”因為自由派喜歡說“去接!”(笑聲)但如果你是保守派﹐這就不是太好如果你是保守派﹐你知道這只狗對牠的家庭非常忠誠不會很快地和陌生人混熟對保守派來說 忠誠很好 狗就是要忠誠但對自由派來說﹐這聽起來像是這隻狗要參加共和黨初選了(笑聲) 所以你可能說 好這就是保守派和自由派的差異但什麼讓其他三種基礎也成為道德呢﹖難道它們不是只是極權主義排他主義和清教主義的基礎嗎﹖什麼讓它們變成道德﹖答案﹐我想﹐就存在布殊這個三聯圖中“世俗慾望的樂園。”在第一幅圖裡﹐我們看到創造世界時一切都有秩序﹐一些都很美麗﹐所有的人和動物都在它們應該在的地方做他們應該做的事情但因為世俗的一切 事情開始改變人們開始任意而為和任何人和任何動物在座的某些人可能會發現這是60年代(笑聲)但60年代終究被70年代取代這些裂縫開始令人痛苦當然 布殊稱這為地獄 在這個三聯畫中﹐三片圖描繪了秩序逐漸腐敗的真實社會消減的事實你們可能只會想這只是基督徒的想像因為基督徒老是要跟歡愉過不去這裡有一個一樣的故事 一樣的演進在自然雜誌中刊登的一篇文章裡Ernst Fehr 和 Simon Gachter 要人們思考一個常見的難題你給人們錢然後在每一輪游戲結束前他們可以把錢放進一個共用壺裡實驗者把裡面的錢變雙份然後再分給所有玩家這就像許多環境議題我們要求人們做出犧牲他們自己不會從犧牲中得到什麼但你總是要其他人犧牲但人總有搭便車的想法剛開始﹐人們較為合作這是無名制的 —第一輪﹐人們給出一半的錢但他們很快知道”說真的﹐其他人沒有做這麼多。我才不是笨蛋。我不要合作。“於是合作關係很快的從還不錯﹐落到幾乎沒有 但是 - 訣竅在這Fehr 和 Gachter 在第七輪的時候和每個人說”好的﹐新規則如果你要給一些錢來懲罰那些沒有貢獻的人﹐你可以這樣做。“當人們聽到懲罰的時候馬上變得合作不但合作 而且繼續加強有許多研究表示在解決合作問題上 這有明顯的幫助只靠人們的好心並不夠有些懲罰會更好就算只是羞辱或是被談論你需要懲罰讓人們在大的群體裡合作甚至有些最近的研究談到宗教讓人們想到神往往讓人們懂得合作 更符合社會期待 某些人認為宗教是一種適應作用來自文化和生理進化讓群體可以合作讓人們何以互信在與他人競爭時能夠更有效我想這大概是真的雖然這是個爭議性很大的話題但我對宗教特別有興趣宗教的來源﹐他為我們和對我們做了什麼因為我認為最大的奇景不是大峽谷大峽谷很簡單很多石頭 很多水和風 很多時間你就能得到大峽谷一點也不複雜複雜的是那些住在大峽谷這樣的地方的人彼此合作﹐或在非洲的撒哈拉沙漠或在阿拉斯加的冰岸﹐和那些村莊逐漸變成偉大城市像巴比倫﹐羅馬 湖中之城提诺契特兰這是怎麼發生的﹖這完全是奇跡﹐比大峽谷更難解釋 答案﹐我想﹐是他們用了所有工具盒裡面的工具用了所有道德心理學創造了這些合作團隊是﹐你需要想到傷害你需要想到正義但如果你有一些小團隊﹐便很容易組織大團隊這些小團隊中有一些內部組織如果你有一些理想可以告訴人壓制他們的慾望 去追求更高的 更榮耀的理想現在我們來到自由派和保守派歧義的交會處因為自由派拒絕其中三個基礎他們說”不﹐我們應該要支持多樣性 不要搞一些小圈圈。“他們說”讓我們質疑權威。“他們說”不要給我這些法律。“ 自由派這樣做有著崇高的動機傳統的權威﹐傳統的道德 時常壓制那些在底層的人 女人 那些不符合社會標準的人所以自由派為了那些受壓迫的弱者說話他們要改變 要正義 就算可能造成混亂這個人的衣服上說”少放屁﹐去革命“如果你很喜歡經歷新事 革命是好的它是改變 它很有趣保守派﹐在另一邊 為傳統和制度發聲他們要秩序﹐就算有可能要犧牲底層的人保守派的心理是 秩序是非常難達成的很珍貴 很容易就失去了所以 Edmund Burke 說”人們的束縛和他們的自由﹐是在他們的權利上。“這是在法國大革命的混亂後只要你看清這一點自由派和保守派都能有一些貢獻他們能在改變和穩定中找到平衡 —我想重點是試著踏出我們的道德框架 這是所有亞洲宗教都有的特性想想陰陽陰陽不是敵人﹐陰陽不互相仇恨陰陽都是必須的﹐像日夜讓世界繼續轉動你在印度教中也能看到印度教有很多大神其中兩位是守護神毗瑟挐﹐和破壞神濕婆這個圖片是兩個神使用同一個身體左邊有毗瑟挐的特質你可以想他是保護神右邊有濕婆的特質濕婆是個自由派 - 祂們一起合作你在佛教裡也可以找到一樣的例子這兩個小句有深深的寓意或許是道德心理學從來沒達到的境界來自禪宗的僧璨至道无难，唯嫌拣择。违顺相争，是为心病。“很不幸的﹐這種心病許多世界的偉大領袖都有但在你感覺自己比小布希好很多前在你對他扔石頭前﹐先自問﹕我接受嗎﹖我能跨出善惡論嗎﹖我能不支持和反對任何事情嗎 重點是什麼 我該怎麼做你可以在偉大的古代亞洲宗教和哲學裡找到答案將這些答案加上最新的道德心理學研究你會有這三個結論﹕我們的腦子被進化所設計要我們成為一個團隊 讓我們和其他團隊分開讓我們無視真理你該怎麼做﹖難道我要你放棄努力我是要你擁抱僧璨然後停止這些支持和反對的想法嗎﹖絕對不是。這不是我要說的有許多了不起的人做了許多事用他們的才能﹐他們的技能 他們的精力和金錢讓世界變得更好﹐去爭取打擊錯誤﹐解決問題 但就像我們在 Samantha Power 的故事裡學到的像 Sergio Vieira de Mello﹐你不能直接殺進去然後說”你錯了 我對了“因為﹐就像我們剛剛聽到的 每個人都以為自己是對的有太多我們需要解決的問題是那些需要我們去改變他人的問題如果你想要改變他人﹐一個比較好的方法是先了解我們是誰 — 了解我們自己的道德心理了解我們都認為自己是對的﹐然後跨出去就算只是一下子﹐跨出去 想想僧璨跨出你的道德框架嘗試當做這只是每個人認為自己是對的人的一種拔河每個人﹐就算你不認同他們 都有自己的理由每個人做事都有自己的理由跨出去如果你這樣做﹐你便可以培養道德謙遜讓你自己離開這個自以為義一種正常人類的心理想想達賴喇嘛想想達賴喇嘛巨大的道德權威這是來自他的道德謙遜 我想我談話的重點是TED的重點是這是一個熱情的想要讓世界變得更好的團體人們熱情的希望讓世界變得更好同時也有一種接近真理的希望我想答案是保持你的熱情﹐尋找真理然後把它變成更好的未來謝謝你。(掌聲)
