Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_drori_why_we_re_storing_billions_of_seeds	"All human life, all life, depends on plants. Let me try to convince you of that in a few seconds. Just think for a moment. It doesn't matter whether you live in a small African village, or you live in a big city, everything comes back to plants in the end: whether it's for the food, the medicine, the fuel, the construction, the clothing, all the obvious things; or whether it's for the spiritual and recreational things that matter to us so much; or whether it's soil formation, or the effect on the atmosphere, or primary production. Damn it, even the books here are made out of plants. All these things, they come back to plants. And without them we wouldn't be here. Now plants are under threat. They're under threat because of changing climate. And they are also under threat because they are sharing a planet with people like us. And people like us want to do things that destroy plants, and their habitats. And whether that's because of food production, or because of the introduction of alien plants into places that they really oughtn't be, or because of habitats being used for other purposes — all these things are meaning that plants have to adapt, or die, or move. And plants sometimes find it rather difficult to move because there might be cities and other things in the way. So if all human life depends on plants, doesn't it make sense that perhaps we should try to save them? I think it does. And I want to tell you about a project to save plants. And the way that you save plants is by storing seeds. Because seeds, in all their diverse glory, are plants' futures. All the genetic information for future generations of plants are held in seeds. So here is the building; it looks rather unassuming, really. But it goes down below ground many stories. And it's the largest seed bank in the world. It exists not only in southern England, but distributed around the world. I'll come to that. This is a nuclear-proof facility. God forbid that it should have to withstand that. So if you're going to build a seed bank, you have to decide what you're going to store in it. Right? And we decided that what we want to store first of all, are the species that are most under threat. And those are the dry land species. So first of all we did deals with 50 different countries. It means negotiating with heads of state, and with secretaries of state in 50 countries to sign treaties. We have 120 partner institutions all over the world, in all those countries colored orange. People come from all over the world to learn, and then they go away and plan exactly how they're going to collect these seeds. They have thousands of people all over the world tagging places where those plants are said to exist. They search for them. They find them in flower. And they go back when their seeds have arrived. And they collect the seeds. All over the world. The seeds — some of if is very untechnical. You kind of shovel them all in to bags and dry them off. You label them. You do some high-tech things here and there, some low-tech things here and there. And the main thing is that you have to dry them very carefully, at low temperature. And then you have to store them at about minus 20 degrees C — that's about minus four Fahrenheit, I think — with a very critically low moisture content. And these seeds will be able to germinate, we believe, with many of the species, in thousands of years, and certainly in hundreds of years. It's no good storing the seeds if you don't know they're still viable. So every 10 years we do germination tests on every sample of seeds that we have. And this is a distributed network. So all around the world people are doing the same thing. And that enables us to develop germination protocols. That means that we know the right combination of heat and cold and the cycles that you have to get to make the seed germinate. And that is very useful information. And then we grow these things, and we tell people, back in the countries where these seeds have come from, ""Look, actually we're not just storing this to get the seeds later, but we can give you this information about how to germinate these difficult plants."" And that's already happening. So where have we got to? I am pleased to unveil that our three billionth seed — that's three thousand millionth seed — is now stored. Ten percent of all plant species on the planet, 24,000 species are safe; 30,000 species, if we get the funding, by next year. Twenty-five percent of all the world's plants, by 2020. These are not just crop plants, as you might have seen stored in Svalbard in Norway — fantastic work there. This is at least 100 times bigger. We have thousands of collections that have been sent out all over the world: drought-tolerant forest species sent to Pakistan and Egypt; especially photosynthetic-efficient plants come here to the United States; salt-tolerant pasture species sent to Australia; the list goes on and on. These seeds are used for restoration. So in habitats that have already been damaged, like the tall grass prairie here in the USA, or in mined land in various countries, restoration is already happening because of these species — and because of this collection. Some of these plants, like the ones on the bottom to the left of your screen, they are down to the last few remaining members. The one where the guy is collecting seeds there on the truck, that is down to about 30 last remaining trees. Fantastically useful plant, both for protein and for medicine. We have training going on in China, in the USA, and many other countries. How much does it cost? 2,800 dollars per species is the average. I think that's cheap, at the price. And that gets you all the scientific data that goes with it. The future research is ""How can we find the genetic and molecular markers for the viability of seeds, without having to plant them every 10 years?"" And we're almost there. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"所有人類，所有生物，都倚賴植物過活。讓我簡短地說明一下，試想一下，不管你是住在非洲的某個小村莊，或是住在大城市，最終都要依靠植物。不管是用來當作食物、藥物、燃料、建築、衣物等這些顯而易見的用途，或是提供我們精神層面的補給或是對我們很重要的娛樂，或是幫助我們做好水土保持、改善空氣品質及簡單的生產作業。天啊，甚至連書本都是植物做成的。所有的事都與植物有關，沒有植物，我們就不會存在。 現在，植物的生存受到威脅。氣候變遷對植物造成了威脅，一同生存在地球上的人類也對植物產生了威脅。我們通常會做破壞植物生長的事，同時破壞他們的棲息地，不管是為了生產食物、或是在不恰當的地點引進新品種植物，或是將植物的棲息地移做他用，這些作為都表示植物必須去遷移、適應環境、或死去。要讓植物進行遷移也不是件容易的事，因為可能會有城市或其他建築擋在遷移的路上。 如果人類那麼倚重植物，我們是不是該嚐試拯救植物？我認為是的。我要告訴各位一項拯救植物的計畫，利用保存種子來拯救植物。因為種子，這些各式各樣的種子，是植物未來的希望。植物未來世代延續的祕密都隱藏在種子裡，所以我們建造了這個地方，看起來不像想像中的種子銀行，但是它深入地下好幾層。這是世界上最大的種子銀行，我們不只在南英格蘭建立這樣的種子銀行，也在世界各地推行這個計畫，待會兒我會再詳細說明。這棟建築可以抵擋核爆，希望核爆不會發生，但這棟建築擋得住這種爆炸。 如果要建立一座種子銀行，你就得思考要放什麼在裡頭，對不對？所以我們決定，首要必須儲藏的是即將絕種的物種。也就是面臨乾旱的物種。所以我們一開始就和50個不同的國家達成協議，也就是和來自50個不同國家的領袖簽署協議。我們和世界上其他120個類似的組織組成聯盟，他們散布在我標示為橘色的國家裡。世界各地的人都來我們這裡學習，然後他們回去詳細地計畫該如何蒐集種子。世界各地還有數千人為這些種子可能存在的地域畫上標記，然後開始尋找，如果只找到這種植物的花，就等他們的種子成熟後再回去蒐集，他們在全世界各地蒐集這些種子。 蒐集種子的過程，有些用不到什麼技術。你可能就只是把種子鏟進袋子裡，將之乾燥，然後貼上標籤。有時做一些高科技的事，有時也會做一些低科技的事。最重要的是乾燥的過程，你必須非常小心地用低溫來乾燥種子。然後把種子儲存於攝氏零下20度，大概是華氏負四度吧...然後要嚴格控制溼度。我們相信，有一天這些種子會再度萌芽，許多植物會再生，也許在數千年，或是數百年之後。 如果種子不具備發芽的能力，那麼儲存種子就變得沒有意義。所以每十年，我們會針對我們所儲存的每一種種子進行發芽測試，和我們的聯盟組織同步測試，所以全世界這類型組織的人都在做同樣一件事，這樣我們就能瞭解種子發芽的條件。也就是我們會知道種子發芽所需的溫度及發芽所需的期間，這些是很重要的資訊。然後我們把發芽的種子種進土裡，並告訴種子來源地的人民，""看，我們不只是為未來儲存種子而已，我們還能告訴你們該怎麼種植這些難以存活的植物。""這是目前正在發生的事。 那麼我們現在的進度到哪裡了？我很高興能告訴各位，我們目前已經儲存了30億顆種子，也就是目前世界上所有植物種類的百分之十，二萬四千種植物受到安全保障，若我們明年能籌到資金，我們就能成功保存三萬種植物種子。在2020年之前，我們計畫儲存所有植物種類的百分之二十五。這並不只限於農業種子，我們並不像挪威斯瓦巴種子銀行，他們做得很成功，但我們的規模至少是他們的100倍以上，我們所蒐集的種子將被送往世界各地，耐旱的森林植物會被送到巴基斯坦和埃及，能有效進行光合作用的植物則被送往美國，耐鹽的牧草則送往澳洲，不同植物將被送往不同地點。 這些種子是用來恢復植被的，如果某塊土地已經被破壞了，像是美國的大草原牧場或是其他國家的廢棄礦坑，我們利用這些種子成功地復育了這些土地。這要歸功於我們的蒐集行動。有些植物，像是螢幕左下角的這種植物，目前只剩下幾棵殘存的植株。有個人站在卡車上蒐集種子的植物，目前只剩下大約30棵，那是很有用的植物，可以提供豐富的蛋白質，也可以提煉成藥材。 我們在中國、美國和世界上其他國家提供訓練，花費是多少呢？平均每一種植物要花費2千8百美元，我覺得以金額來計算的話，那很便宜。這個計畫讓我們取得了許多科學數據，未來的研究重點在於，如何從種子本身來發掘出生長標記，讓我們知道種子可以發芽，而不用每十年進行一次測試？我們就快做到了，謝謝各位。(掌聲)"
