Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_harris_collects_stories	"So I'm going to talk today about collecting stories in some unconventional ways. This is a picture of me from a very awkward stage in my life. You might enjoy the awkwardly tight, cut-off pajama bottoms with balloons. Anyway, it was a time when I was mainly interested in collecting imaginary stories. So this is a picture of me holding one of the first watercolor paintings I ever made. And recently I've been much more interested in collecting stories from reality — so, real stories. And specifically, I'm interested in collecting my own stories, stories from the Internet, and then recently, stories from life, which is kind of a new area of work that I've been doing recently. So I'll be talking about each of those today. So, first of all, my own stories. These are two of my sketchbooks. I have many of these books, and I've been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years. They accompany me wherever I go in my life, and I fill them with all sorts of things, records of my lived experience: so watercolor paintings, drawings of what I see, dead flowers, dead insects, pasted ticket stubs, rusting coins, business cards, writings. And in these books, you can find these short, little glimpses of moments and experiences and people that I meet. And, you know, after keeping these books for a number of years, I started to become very interested in collecting not only my own personal artifacts, but also the artifacts of other people. So, I started collecting found objects. This is a photograph I found lying in a gutter in New York City about 10 years ago. On the front, you can see the tattered black-and-white photo of a woman's face, and on the back it says, ""To Judy, the girl with the Bill Bailey voice. Have fun in whatever you do."" And I really loved this idea of the partial glimpse into somebody's life. As opposed to knowing the whole story, just knowing a little bit of the story, and then letting your own mind fill in the rest. And that idea of a partial glimpse is something that will come back in a lot of the work I'll be showing later today. So, around this time I was studying computer science at Princeton University, and I noticed that it was suddenly possible to collect these sorts of personal artifacts, not just from street corners, but also from the Internet. And that suddenly, people, en masse, were leaving scores and scores of digital footprints online that told stories of their private lives. Blog posts, photographs, thoughts, feelings, opinions, all of these things were being expressed by people online, and leaving behind trails. So, I started to write computer programs that study very, very large sets of these online footprints. One such project is about a year and a half old. It's called ""We Feel Fine."" This is a project that scans the world's newly posted blog entries every two or three minutes, searching for occurrences of the phrases ""I feel"" and ""I am feeling."" And when it finds one of those phrases, it grabs the full sentence up to the period and also tries to identify demographic information about the author. So, their gender, their age, their geographic location and what the weather conditions were like when they wrote that sentence. It collects about 20,000 such sentences a day and it's been running for about a year and a half, having collected over 10 and a half million feelings now. This is, then, how they're presented. These dots here represent some of the English-speaking world's feelings from the last few hours, each dot being a single sentence stated by a single blogger. And the color of each dot corresponds to the type of feeling inside, so the bright ones are happy, and the dark ones are sad. And the diameter of each dot corresponds to the length of the sentence inside. So the small ones are short, and the bigger ones are longer. ""I feel fine with the body I'm in, there'll be no easy excuse for why I still feel uncomfortable being close to my boyfriend,"" from a twenty-two-year-old in Japan. ""I got this on some trading locally, but really don't feel like screwing with wiring and crap."" Also, some of the feelings contain photographs in the blog posts. And when that happens, these montage compositions are automatically created, which consist of the sentence and images being combined. And any of these can be opened up to reveal the sentence inside. ""I feel good."" ""I feel rough now, and I probably gained 100,000 pounds, but it was worth it."" ""I love how they were able to preserve most in everything that makes you feel close to nature — butterflies, man-made forests, limestone caves and hey, even a huge python."" So the next movement is called mobs. This provides a slightly more statistical look at things. This is showing the world's most common feelings overall right now, dominated by better, then bad, then good, then guilty, and so on. Weather causes the feelings to assume the physical traits of the weather they represent. So the sunny ones swirl around, the cloudy ones float along, the rainy ones fall down, and the snowy ones flutter to the ground. You can also stop a raindrop and open the feeling inside. Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their spots on a world map, giving you a sense of their geographic distribution. So I'll show you now some of my favorite montages from ""We Feel Fine."" These are the images that are automatically constructed. ""I feel like I'm diagonally parked in a parallel universe."" (Laughter) ""I've kissed numerous other boys and it hasn't felt good, the kisses felt messy and wrong, but kissing Lucas feels beautiful and almost spiritual."" ""I can feel my cancer grow."" ""I feel pretty."" ""I feel skinny, but I'm not."" ""I'm 23, and a recovering meth and heroin addict, and feel absolutely blessed to still be alive."" ""I can't wait to see them racing for the first time at Daytona next month, because I feel the need for speed."" (Laughter) ""I feel sassy."" ""I feel so sexy in this new wig."" As you can see, ""We Feel Fine"" collects very, very small-scale personal stories. Sometimes, stories as short as two or three words. So, really even challenging the notion of what can be considered a story. And recently, I've become interested in diving much more deeply into a single story. And that's led me to doing some work with the physical world, not with the Internet, and only using the Internet at the very last moment, as a presentation medium. So these are some newer projects that actually aren't even launched publicly yet. The first such one is called ""The Whale Hunt."" Last May, I spent nine days living up in Barrow, Alaska, the northernmost settlement in the United States, with a family of Inupiat Eskimos, documenting their annual spring whale hunt. This is the whaling camp here, we're about six miles from shore, camping on five and a half feet of thick, frozen pack ice. And that water that you see there is the open lead, and through that lead, bowhead whales migrate north each springtime. And the Eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here, waits for a whale to come close enough to attack. And when it does, it throws a harpoon at it, and then hauls the whale up under the ice, and cuts it up. And that would provide the community's food supply for a long time. So I went up there, and I lived with these guys out in their whaling camp here, and photographed the entire experience, beginning with the taxi ride to Newark airport in New York, and ending with the butchering of the second whale, seven and a half days later. I photographed that entire experience at five-minute intervals. So every five minutes, I took a photograph. When I was awake, with the camera around my neck. When I was sleeping, with a tripod and a timer. And then in moments of high adrenaline, like when something exciting was happening, I would up that photographic frequency to as many as 37 photographs in five minutes. So what this created was a photographic heartbeat that sped up and slowed down, more or less matching the changing pace of my own heartbeat. That was the first concept here. The second concept was to use this experience to think about the fundamental components of any story. What are the things that make up a story? So, stories have characters. Stories have concepts. Stories take place in a certain area. They have contexts. They have colors. What do they look like? They have time. When did it take place? Dates — when did it occur? And in the case of the whale hunt, also this idea of an excitement level. The thing about stories, though, in most of the existing mediums that we're accustomed to — things like novels, radio, photographs, movies, even lectures like this one — we're very accustomed to this idea of the narrator or the camera position, some kind of omniscient, external body through whose eyes you see the story. We're very used to this. But if you think about real life, it's not like that at all. I mean, in real life, things are much more nuanced and complex, and there's all of these overlapping stories intersecting and touching each other. And so I thought it would be interesting to build a framework to surface those types of stories. So, in the case of ""The Whale Hunt,"" how could we extract something like the story of Simeon and Crawford, involving the concepts of wildlife, tools and blood, taking place on the Arctic Ocean, dominated by the color red, happening around 10 a.m. on May 3, with an excitement level of high? So, how to extract this order of narrative from this larger story? I built a web interface for viewing ""The Whale Hunt"" that attempts to do just this. So these are all 3,214 pictures taken up there. This is my studio in Brooklyn. This is the Arctic Ocean, and the butchering of the second whale, seven days later. You can start to see some of the story here, told by color. So this red strip signifies the color of the wallpaper in the basement apartment where I was staying. And things go white as we move out onto the Arctic Ocean. Introduction of red down here, when whales are being cut up. You can see a timeline, showing you the exciting moments throughout the story. These are organized chronologically. Wheel provides a slightly more playful version of the same, so these are also all the photographs organized chronologically. And any of these can be clicked, and then the narrative is entered at that position. So here I am sleeping on the airplane heading up to Alaska. That's ""Moby Dick."" This is the food we ate. This is in the Patkotak's family living room in their house in Barrow. The boxed wine they served us. Cigarette break outside — I don't smoke. This is a really exciting sequence of me sleeping. This is out at whale camp, on the Arctic Ocean. This graph that I'm clicking down here is meant to be reminiscent of a medical heartbeat graph, showing the exciting moments of adrenaline. This is the ice starting to freeze over. The snow fence they built. And so what I'll show you now is the ability to pull out sub-stories. So, here you see the cast. These are all of the people in ""The Whale Hunt"" and the two whales that were killed down here. And we could do something as arbitrary as, say, extract the story of Rony, involving the concepts of blood and whales and tools, taking place on the Arctic Ocean, at Ahkivgaq camp, with the heartbeat level of fast. And now we've whittled down that whole story to just 29 matching photographs, and then we can enter the narrative at that position. And you can see Rony cutting up the whale here. These whales are about 40 feet long, and weighing over 40 tons. And they provide the food source for the community for much of the year. Skipping ahead a bit more here, this is Rony on the whale carcass. They use no chainsaws or anything; it's entirely just blades, and an incredibly efficient process. This is the guys on the rope, pulling open the carcass. This is the muktuk, or the blubber, all lined up for community distribution. It's baleen. Moving on. So what I'm going to tell you about next is a very new thing. It's not even a project yet. So, just yesterday, I flew in here from Singapore, and before that, I was spending two weeks in Bhutan, the small Himalayan kingdom nestled between Tibet and India. And I was doing a project there about happiness, interviewing a lot of local people. So Bhutan has this really wacky thing where they base most of their high-level governmental decisions around the concept of gross national happiness instead of gross domestic product, and they've been doing this since the '70s. And it leads to just a completely different value system. It's an incredibly non-materialistic culture, where people don't have a lot, but they're incredibly happy. So I went around and I talked to people about some of these ideas. So, I did a number of things. I asked people a number of set questions, and took a number of set photographs, and interviewed them with audio, and also took pictures. I would start by asking people to rate their happiness between one and 10, which is kind of inherently absurd. And then when they answered, I would inflate that number of balloons and give them that number of balloons to hold. So, you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons, and some really sad soul holding one balloon. But you know, even holding one balloon is like, kind of happy. (Laughter) And then I would ask them a number of questions like what was the happiest day in their life, what makes them happy. And then finally, I would ask them to make a wish. And when they made a wish, I would write their wish onto one of the balloons and take a picture of them holding it. So I'm going to show you now just a few brief snippets of some of the interviews that I did, some of the people I spoke with. This is an 11-year-old student. He was playing cops and robbers with his friends, running around town, and they all had plastic toy guns. His wish was to become a police officer. He was getting started early. Those were his hands. I took pictures of everybody's hands, because I think you can often tell a lot about somebody from how their hands look. I took a portrait of everybody, and asked everybody to make a funny face. A 17-year-old student. Her wish was to have been born a boy. She thinks that women have a pretty tough go of things in Bhutan, and it's a lot easier if you're a boy. A 28-year-old cell phone shop owner. If you knew what Paro looked like, you'd understand how amazing it is that there's a cell phone shop there. He wanted to help poor people. A 53-year-old farmer. She was chaffing wheat, and that pile of wheat behind her had taken her about a week to make. She wanted to keep farming until she dies. You can really start to see the stories told by the hands here. She was wearing this silver ring that had the word ""love"" engraved on it, and she'd found it in the road somewhere. A 16-year-old quarry worker. This guy was breaking rocks with a hammer in the hot sunlight, but he just wanted to spend his life as a farmer. A 21-year-old monk. He was very happy. He wanted to live a long life at the monastery. He had this amazing series of hairs growing out of a mole on the left side of his face, which I'm told is very good luck. He was kind of too shy to make a funny face. A 16-year-old student. She wanted to become an independent woman. I asked her about that, and she said she meant that she doesn't want to be married, because, in her opinion, when you get married in Bhutan as a woman, your chances to live an independent life kind of end, and so she had no interest in that. A 24-year-old truck driver. There are these terrifyingly huge Indian trucks that come careening around one-lane roads with two-lane traffic, with 3,000-foot drop-offs right next to the road, and he was driving one of these trucks. But all he wanted was to just live a comfortable life, like other people. A 24-year-old road sweeper. I caught her on her lunch break. She'd built a little fire to keep warm, right next to the road. Her wish was to marry someone with a car. She wanted a change in her life. She lives in a little worker's camp right next to the road, and she wanted a different lot on things. An 81-year-old itinerant farmer. I saw this guy on the side of the road, and he actually doesn't have a home. He travels from farm to farm each day trying to find work, and then he tries to sleep at whatever farm he gets work at. So his wish was to come with me, so that he had somewhere to live. He had this amazing knife that he pulled out of his gho and started brandishing when I asked him to make a funny face. It was all good-natured. A 10-year-old. He wanted to join a school and learn to read, but his parents didn't have enough money to send him to school. He was eating this orange, sugary candy that he kept dipping his fingers into, and since there was so much saliva on his hands, this orange paste started to form on his palms. (Laughter) A 37-year-old road worker. One of the more touchy political subjects in Bhutan is the use of Indian cheap labor that they import from India to build the roads, and then they send these people home once the roads are built. So these guys were in a worker's gang mixing up asphalt one morning on the side of the highway. His wish was to make some money and open a store. A 75-year-old farmer. She was selling oranges on the side of the road. I asked her about her wish, and she said, ""You know, maybe I'll live, maybe I'll die, but I don't have a wish."" She was chewing betel nut, which caused her teeth over the years to turn very red. Finally, this is a 26-year-old nun I spoke to. Her wish was to make a pilgrimage to Tibet. I asked her how long she planned to live in the nunnery and she said, ""Well, you know, of course, it's impermanent, but my plan is to live here until I'm 30, and then enter a hermitage."" And I said, ""You mean, like a cave?"" And she said, ""Yeah, like a cave."" And I said, ""Wow, and how long will you live in the cave?"" And she said, ""Well, you know, I think I'd kind of like to live my whole life in the cave."" I just thought that was amazing. I mean, she spoke in a way — with amazing English, and amazing humor, and amazing laughter — that made her seem like somebody I could have bumped into on the streets of New York, or in Vermont, where I'm from. But here she had been living in a nunnery for the last seven years. I asked her a little bit more about the cave and what she planned would happen once she went there, you know. What if she saw the truth after just one year, what would she do for the next 35 years in her life? And this is what she said. Woman: I think I'm going to stay for 35. Maybe — maybe I'll die. Jonathan Harris: Maybe you'll die? Woman: Yes. JH: 10 years? Woman: Yes, yes. JH: 10 years, that's a long time. Woman: Yes, not maybe one, 10 years, maybe I can die within one year, or something like that. JH: Are you hoping to? Woman: Ah, because you know, it's impermanent. JH: Yeah, but — yeah, OK. Do you hope — would you prefer to live in the cave for 40 years, or to live for one year? Woman: But I prefer for maybe 40 to 50. JH: 40 to 50? Yeah. Woman: Yes. From then, I'm going to the heaven. JH: Well, I wish you the best of luck with it. Woman: Thank you. JH: I hope it's everything that you hope it will be. So thank you again, so much. Woman: You're most welcome. JH: So if you caught that, she said she hoped to die when she was around 40. That was enough life for her. So, the last thing we did, very quickly, is I took all those wish balloons — there were 117 interviews, 117 wishes — and I brought them up to a place called Dochula, which is a mountain pass in Bhutan, at 10,300 feet, one of the more sacred places in Bhutan. And up there, there are thousands of prayer flags that people have spread out over the years. And we re-inflated all of the balloons, put them up on a string, and hung them up there among the prayer flags. And they're actually still flying up there today. So if any of you have any Bhutan travel plans in the near future, you can go check these out. Here are some images from that. We said a Buddhist prayer so that all these wishes could come true. You can start to see some familiar balloons here. ""To make some money and to open a store"" was the Indian road worker. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	"今天我想要來談談收集故事，用一些非傳統的方式。這是我在尷尬年齡時拍下的照片，你也許喜歡那件緊繃、剪短且印有氣球圖案的睡褲。那時我熱衷於收集有圖像的故事。照片中我拿著我最早時畫的水彩畫。最近我比較有興趣，從現實中收集故事從現實中收集故事，也就是真實的故事。具體而言，就是喜歡去收集我自己的故事、網路上的故事，以及最近所收集的關於人生的故事，這也是我最近投入的新領域。今天我將會一一討論。先來講我自己的故事。這是我的兩本寫生簿，我有許多這種寫生簿，而且保存了八至九年之久。它們跟著我四處走動，我在裡面寫滿各種東西，生活體驗的記錄。如水彩畫及我看見的景象的繪畫，凋謝的花、死去的昆蟲、黏貼的票根、生鏽的硬幣、名片、筆記，從中你可以瞥見我所經歷的片段。在紀錄這些簿子幾年之後，我變得不只有興趣收集自己的東西，也對別人的東西感到有興趣。我開始收集撿到的東西，這是我十年前在紐約市的水溝裡撿到的照片。你可以看到破爛的黑白女士肖像，後面寫著：獻給聲音像比利貝雷的女孩-茱蒂，寓樂於妳所做的每件事。我非常喜歡瞥見別人生命中的片段，不是去知道整個故事; 只去知道其中的一部分，然後，用你自己的想像去填滿其他的空白。而這生命片段的瞥見將會出現在接下來給各位看的許多作品當中。那時我正在普林斯頓大學讀電腦科學，我注意到收集這些私人物品，不只是從街角，還可以從網路上去收集。突然間，人們在網路上，留下大量的數位足跡，分享他們的私人生活故事。部落格文章、照片、思緒、感覺、意見，人們全部透過網路抒發，並留下痕跡。於是我開始寫電腦程式，來研究這些大量的數位足跡。其中一項計畫已經有一年半之久，叫做""我們感覺很好""。這個計畫追蹤全世界最新發佈的部落格文章，每兩三分鐘執行一次，尋找「我覺得」及「我正感到」等字眼。當程式一找到這些字，就會抓下整個句子，並且嘗試辨識出作者的人口統計資料。如性別、年齡、地理位置，以及作者寫下那句子時的天氣狀況。這程式一天收集大約兩萬個句子，且已經執行約一年半了，現在約收集超過一千零五十萬個感覺了。這是它們的視覺呈現，這些點代表英語系國家在過去幾小時，所發表的感覺句子，每個點代表一個部落客所寫的一個句子。點的顏色代表感覺的類型，亮的代表快樂，暗的代表悲傷。點的大小代表句子的長度，小的是短句子，大的是長句子。「我對自己的身體感到滿意，然而，我很難解釋為何仍無法與男友親近」由日本一位22歲的人所寫 。「我從當地的商店買來這個，卻不想用線路和沒用的玩意兒來固定它」另外有些感覺在部落格中含有照片，這時拼湊的貼圖會自動產生，將句子和照片結合在一起，點選任何一張就可以看到裡面的句子。「我覺得很好」「我覺得很糟，大概胖了十萬磅，卻很值得」「我喜愛他們能夠保存大部分的東西，好讓你感覺跟大自然很親近—蝴蝶、人造森林、石灰山洞 甚至是巨蟒蛇」下一個動作叫眾聚(mobs)。以較統計學的方式來看資料，這個顯示全世界整體最常見的感覺 ，主要是更好、不好、好、罪惡感等等。""天氣""會感覺去定義不同天氣所影響人的方式，所以晴天會轉圈圈。陰天會漂浮，雨天就下落，雪花就飄落地面。你也可以停住一個雨滴打開當中的句子，最後，地理位置讓感覺句子移動到世界地圖上，讓你看到句子的地理分佈。現在，給你們看一些我最喜歡的拼圖，這些都是自動組成的圖片。「我的車在平行宇宙中停歪了」(笑聲)「我親吻過不少男孩卻從未感覺美好，那些吻感覺很混亂而且錯誤，但是感覺親吻魯克斯很美 甚至超凡入聖」「我能感覺到癌症漫延」「我覺得美麗」「我覺得很瘦，但其實沒有」「我二十三歲，正在戒掉海洛因，而且慶幸自己仍然活著」「我等不及想看下個月在德通納的首次賽車，因為我感覺非常需要速度感」(笑聲)「我感覺活潑漂亮」「這頂新假髮讓我感覺好性感」你可以發現We Feel Fine收集非常非常渺小的私人故事。有時候甚至只有兩三個字，也可說是在挑戰，如何定義一個故事。近來，我變得想要更深入挖掘一個故事，這引領我在實體世界裡做一些事，而不是在網路上，只是最後以網路做為呈現的媒介，這些是比較新的計畫，事實上，都尚未公開。其中一個計畫叫做「獵鯨」，去年五月我在阿拉斯加的貝羅待了九天，那是美國最北端的領土。跟伊努皮亞特愛斯基摩人的家庭一起住 ，記錄他們每年春天的獵鯨。這是獵鯨營地，我們離岸邊約六英里遠，在五英尺半深厚的浮冰上紮營 。而你看到的水是冰間航道，每年春天弓頭鯨都會經過水道遷徙到北方 。愛斯基摩人就在冰岸上紮營，等待鯨魚接近到便於攻擊的距離，用魚叉刺殺，將鯨魚從冰下拖上岸後宰殺。鯨魚肉可提供愛斯基摩人長期的糧食。於是我到了那裡跟當地人住在獵鯨營地裡，將整個經驗拍攝下來，從紐約搭計程車到紐華克機場開始，七天後以屠宰第二隻鯨魚做為結束。過程中我每5分鐘拍攝一次，就是每5分鐘，我就拍一張照片。我清醒時，相機就在脖子上，睡覺時，就用三腳架和定時器。遇到很刺激的時刻，譬如發生令人興奮的事情時 ，我就會增加拍照的次數 ，最多可在5分鐘內拍下37張照片。這創造出一種拍照的心跳，加速或減緩，幾乎就跟我自己的心跳變化一樣。那是我的最初概念。第二個概念是，利用這個經驗來思考，任何故事都有的基本元素。哪些元素架構出一個故事呢 ？結論是故事有人物，故事有概念，故事在某地發生，有背景關係，他們也有顏色。那看起來像什麼？故事有時間，也就是幾時發生的？有日期，在哪個時候發生的？而在獵鯨的例子裡，則還含有刺激的程度。可是在大多數我們所熟悉的媒介裡，如小說、收音機、照片、電影，甚至是像這樣的講座，我們都很習慣有個敘述者，或是有鏡頭角度。比如一個無所不知的角色，透過他的眼睛來看故事。我們很習慣這樣來接收故事。但是如果你想到現實生活，事情並非如此，在現實中事物是更加微妙複雜的，故事會重疊交錯和觸碰彼此。於是我覺得創造出一個架構，來顯露那種微妙的細節，將會很有趣。那麼在獵鯨當中，我們要如何擷取以賽門與克勞芙為人物，加入""野生動物"" ""器具"" 與""鮮血""，地點在""北極洋""等等概念，以紅色為主色，五月三日早上十點左右，是什麼樣高度刺激的故事呢？要如何從這大故事中，擷取出以上的敘述呢？於是我建構了一個獵鯨網頁介面，嘗試做到這點。這是我在阿拉斯加拍的3214張照片。這是我在布魯克林的工作室。這是北極洋。以及七天後屠宰第二隻鯨魚的照片。依照顏色你可以看出一些故事，紅色的色塊代表我當時住的地下一樓公寓的壁紙 。然後，隨著我到北極而轉為白色。另一個紅色系列的照片，則代表鯨魚被屠殺。你可以用時間軸來看，故事中刺激的時刻。照片全部依照時序排列，以輪盤呈現則更有趣，全部照片都是按時間排序。任何照片都能點擊，然後就能看到那個片段。這是我在飛往阿拉斯加的飛機上睡覺的照片。那是摩比‧迪克。這是我們吃的食物。這是帕他寇他克家在貝羅房子的客廳。這是他們請我們喝的箱裝葡萄酒。吞雲吐霧時間，但我不抽煙。我睡覺時令人興奮的連環照。這是在北極洋上的獵鯨營地 。現在我正在點擊的圖表應該讓人聯想到醫院的心電圖，顯示腎上腺素感受到的刺激。這是開始結冰的情形，他們蓋的雪籬笆。接著給你們看，如何擷取出小故事。這些角色是這次獵鯨出現的人，以及獵殺的兩隻鯨魚。我們可以隨意地挑選，例如以羅尼為人物，加入鮮血、鯨魚、器具等元素，發生在北極洋上，地點在阿機瓦克營地，以及心跳加速的程度。現在我們削減了整個故事，變成29張精選照片。接著就可以從這敘述進入故事，你可以看到羅尼宰殺鯨魚的照片，這些鯨魚約長40英尺重、40噸以上，鯨魚肉可提供全族人大半年的糧食。跳過一些照片，這裡羅尼正站在鯨魚屍體上，他們不使用電鋸或其他工具，完全只用刀子，而且效率令人驚奇。這是所有人一起拉繩子，剖開鯨魚的屍體，這是食用的鯨魚皮或鯨油等著分給大家。這是鯨鬚。好，繼續。接下來我要跟大家分享的，是非常新的東西，它甚至還不算是個計畫案。昨天我從新加坡飛來這裡，在那之前，在那之前我在不丹待了兩個星期，那是位於西藏和印度之間的，喜馬拉雅山脈的小王國。我在不丹進行了一個關於快樂的計畫，訪問了許多當地的居民，不丹有個很古怪的事，他們將高層政治決策奠基在國民快樂總值，而不是國民生產總值之上。從70年代以來就是如此，這創造出一套全然不同的價值體系。這是難以置信的非物質文化，人民擁有的不多，但卻非常快樂。於是我到處走訪，跟很多人談論這些觀念。我做很多事，我問人們許多預設的問題，拍下一些預設的照片，將訪問錄音下來，且拍照存檔。一開始我會請居民用1到10，評量他們的快樂程度，這本身就有點荒謬。當他們答出一個數字，我就會吹出同樣多的氣球，然後交給他們拿著。於是，你就會看到非常快樂的人手上拿著十顆氣球，某些非常悲傷的靈魂，手上拿著一顆氣球。但是，即使是拿著一顆氣球，也是某種程度的快樂。(笑聲)然後我會問他們一些問題，例如他們最快樂的一天，什麼令他們快樂 ，最後我會請他們許一個願望。當他們許願之後，我會把願望寫在其中一顆氣球上，讓他們拿著拍照。現在，我要給你們看幾張零星的照片，關於我做的一些訪問和受訪者。這是一位11歲的學生，他正在玩警察抓小偷的遊戲，在鎮上到處跑他們都有塑膠玩具槍。他的願望是當一個警察，他從小就已經開始練習了，那是他的雙手。我替每個人的手拍照，因為我認為通常從手的外觀，可以看出許多關於那個人的事情，我爲所有人拍獨照，然後叫每個人做鬼臉。這是一位17歲的學生，她的願望是希望自己是男生。她認為不丹女人的人生很坎坷，而當男生一切就會輕鬆得多。28歲手機店老闆，如果你知道百羅(不丹西部）是怎樣的地方，你就會了解有家手機店是多麼不可思議，他想要幫助貧窮的人。這是53歲的農夫，她正在打麥，她花了一個星期才完成背後那堆麥子。她想要一直農耕直到老死，你可以看到她雙手所訴說的故事，她戴著一只刻有「愛」的銀戒指，那是她在路邊撿到的。16歲的採礦工人。他正在烈日下用鐵鎚敲碎石頭，但是他希望此生能當農夫。21歲的僧侶，他非常的快樂。他想在僧院裡活得很長壽，他臉上左邊的痣會長出奇異的毛髮，他告訴我那代表好福氣，他害羞到不敢做鬼臉。16歲的學生，她想成為獨立自主的女性，我問她什麼意思，她說她的意思是，不想結婚，因為她認為在不丹女人一結婚，就失去獨立生活的機會，所以她不想結婚。24歲的卡車司機。那種嚇人的巨大印度卡車，搖晃行駛在單線卻雙向行車的山路上，旁邊就是3000英尺的斷崖，他開的就是這種大卡車。但他想要的是跟別人一樣過舒適的日子。24歲的道路清掃夫，我利用她的午餐時間做訪問。她在路邊生起火堆取暖 ，她的願望是跟一個有車子的人結婚，她想要人生有所改變，她住在路邊小工人營地裡，她希望生活有極大的改變。81歲的流浪農夫，我在路邊看到他。他其實沒有家，每天他從一個農場到另一個農場找工作，然後睡在他工作的農場上。所以他的願望是跟著我，好讓自己有地方住。他的幗裡有一把很奇特的刀子 ，當我請他做鬼臉時他拿起刀子揮舞 ，完全沒有惡意。10歲的小男孩，他想要上學識字，但是他的父母並沒有足夠的錢送他上學。他正在吃橘色的糖果，不停用手指沾著吃，所以他手上有許多口水，掌心也開始染上橘色。(笑聲)37歲的修路工人，不丹較敏感的政治議題之一，就是雇用印度的廉價勞工。從印度引進來修建道路，完工之後再遣送工人回印度。這些人所屬的勞工隊，就在早上的公路旁攪拌柏油 ，他的願望是賺一些錢開店。75歲的農夫，她正在路旁賣橘子，我問她的願望是什麼，她說，""也許我將活著，也許我將死去，但是我沒有願望""她正在嚼檳榔，多年下來讓她的牙齒變得很紅。最後這是一位26歲的尼姑，她的願望是到西藏朝聖。我問她打算在尼姑院待多久，她說""當然不是永久的，我的計畫是待到30歲，然後隱居去""我又問：""妳的意思是指山洞嗎?""她說：""對，山洞""然後我又問：""哇!那妳要在山洞裡住多久呢?""她說：""我想我會想要一輩子都住在山洞裡""我真的覺得那很不可思議，因為她用流利的英文，帶著驚奇的幽默和笑聲。讓我覺得她就像我會在紐約或故鄉維蒙特州，路上會碰到的某人一樣但過去七年，她都一直住在尼姑院裡，我又問了她更多關於山洞的事情，一旦她到了那裡，什麼是她計畫看到的，如果一年之後她就領悟了真理，那接下來35年的人生呢？而她給了我這樣的回答，她說：""我想我會待到35歲，也許，也許我會死""Jonathan Harris說：""妳也許會死?""。女人說：""對""Jonathan Harris說：""十年嗎?""。女人說：""對""。Jonathan Harris說：""十年是很長的時間""。女人說：""也許一年、十年，也許我一年內就死了或什麼的""Jonathan Harris說：""妳希望這樣嗎?""。女人說：""因為你知道生命是無常的""。Jonathan Harris說：""是沒錯，但是妳比較想要在山洞裡住40年，還是1年呢？""。女人說：""我比較想要住上40至50年""。Jonathan Harris說：""40至50年？""女人說：""對，然後之後我就要去天堂""。Jonathan Harris說：""我祝福妳一切順利""。女人說：""謝謝你""。Jonathan Harris說：""我希望一切就如同妳所盼望的。再次非常感謝妳""。女人說：""你太過客氣了""。Jonathan Harris說：如果你聽得懂這段對話，她說希望自己可以在40歲時死去，這樣對她就足夠了。最後快速地說一下我們最後做的事，我拿起所有的願望氣球—總共有117個訪問，117個願望—拿到一個叫都楚拉的地方，位於不丹海拔10300英尺高的山隘，是不丹較神聖的地方之一。在那山上有成千上萬，許多年來人們插下的祈禱旗。我們再次把願望氣球充足了氣，綁在一條繩子上，然後綁在祈禱旗之間。直到今天都還在那山上飛揚著 ，所以如果有人計畫近期到不丹去旅行，不妨去參觀一下，這是一些氣球的照片。我們唸了佛教的祝禱詞，祈求這些願望都可以成真。你可以看到一些熟悉的氣球。希望賺錢開店的是那個印度修路工人。謝謝大家！(掌聲)"
