Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_klein_photos_that_changed_the_world	"In my industry, we believe that images can change the world. Okay, we're naive, we're bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. The truth is that we know that the images themselves don't change the world, but we're also aware that, since the beginning of photography, images have provoked reactions in people, and those reactions have caused change to happen. So let's begin with a group of images. I'd be extremely surprised if you didn't recognize many or most of them. They're best described as iconic: so iconic, perhaps, they're cliches. In fact, they're so well-known that you might even recognize them in a slightly or somewhat different form. (Laughter) But I think we're looking for something more. We're looking for something more. We're looking for images that shine an uncompromising light on crucial issues, images that transcend borders, that transcend religions, images that provoke us to step up and do something — in other words, to act. Well, this image you've all seen. It changed our view of the physical world. We had never seen our planet from this perspective before. Many people credit a lot of the birth of the environmental movement to our seeing the planet like this for the first time — its smallness, its fragility. Forty years later, this group, more than most, are well aware of the destructive power that our species can wield over our environment. And at last, we appear to be doing something about it. This destructive power takes many different forms. For example, these images taken by Brent Stirton in the Congo. These gorillas were murdered, some would even say crucified, and unsurprisingly, they sparked international outrage. Most recently, we've been tragically reminded of the destructive power of nature itself with the recent earthquake in Haiti. Well, I think what is far worse is man's destructive power over man. Samuel Pisar, an Auschwitz survivor, said, and I'll quote him, ""The Holocaust teaches us that nature, even in its cruelest moments, is benign in comparison with man, when he loses his moral compass and his reason."" There's another kind of crucifixion. The horrifying images from Abu Ghraib as well as the images from Guantanamo had a profound impact. The publication of those images, as opposed to the images themselves, caused a government to change its policies. Some would argue that it is those images that did more to fuel the insurgency in Iraq than virtually any other single act. Furthermore, those images forever removed the so-called moral high ground of the occupying forces. Let's go back a little. In the 1960s and 1970s, the Vietnam War was basically shown in America's living rooms day in, day out. News photos brought people face to face with the victims of the war: a little girl burned by napalm, a student killed by the National Guard at Kent State University in Ohio during a protest. In fact, these images became the voices of protest themselves. Now, images have power to shed light of understanding on suspicion, ignorance, and in particular — I've given a lot of talks on this but I'll just show one image — the issue of HIV/AIDS. In the 1980s, the stigmatization of people with the disease was an enormous barrier to even discussing or addressing it. A simple act, in 1987, of the most famous woman in the world, the Princess of Wales, touching an HIV/AIDS infected baby did a great deal, especially in Europe, to stop that. She, better than most, knew the power of an image. So when we are confronted by a powerful image, we all have a choice: We can look away, or we can address the image. Thankfully, when these photos appeared in The Guardian in 1998, they put a lot of focus and attention and, in the end, a lot of money towards the Sudan famine relief efforts. Did the images change the world? No, but they had a major impact. Images often push us to question our core beliefs and our responsibilities to each other. We all saw those images after Katrina, and I think for millions of people they had a very strong impact. And I think it's very unlikely that they were far from the minds of Americans when they went to vote in November 2008. Unfortunately, some very important images are deemed too graphic or disturbing for us to see them. I'll show you one photo here, and it's a photo by Eugene Richards of an Iraq War veteran from an extraordinary piece of work, which has never been published, called War Is Personal. But images don't need to be graphic in order to remind us of the tragedy of war. John Moore set up this photo at Arlington Cemetery. After all the tense moments of conflict in all the conflict zones of the world, there's one photograph from a much quieter place that haunts me still, much more than the others. Ansel Adams said, and I'm going to disagree with him, ""You don't take a photograph, you make it."" In my view, it's not the photographer who makes the photo, it's you. We bring to each image our own values, our own belief systems, and as a result of that, the image resonates with us. My company has 70 million images. I have one image in my office. Here it is. I hope that the next time you see an image that sparks something in you, you'll better understand why, and I know that speaking to this audience, you'll definitely do something about it. And thank you to all the photographers. (Applause)"	從事我們這一行的都相信照片可以改變世界好吧，我們是很天真，而且還不知天高地厚事實上我們知道照片本身並不會改變世界我們也瞭解，自從攝影問世以來照片開始對人們產生影響而且促使人們採取行動去改變世界 那麼我們先來看一些照片我覺得你們應該都看過這些照片至少認得其中幾張這些都是經典的照片相當經典，或許有人覺得己經過時了事實上，這些經典照片就算有些小小的改變你還是會認得出來 (笑聲) 但我想談的不只這些照片還有一些別的東西我想要談的是在關鍵時刻發出堅定光芒的照片超越國界的照片、超越宗教的照片那些促使我們挺身而出採取行動的照片嗯，你們一定看過這張照片它改變了我們觀看世界的角度我們以前從來沒有從這個角度看過自己的星球許多人相信現在的環保運動之所以會興起是因為這張照片因為我們第一次看到地球的渺小與脆弱 40年之後，這些環保團體開始注意到人類對於自身的環境具有毁滅性的破壞力所以，我們開始對此採取一些行動這些毁滅性的破壞力具有不同的面貌例如，Brent Stirton在剛果所拍攝的這些照片這些大猩猩被人類殘殺，有人覺得他們像是被釘在十字架上當然這些照片引起了國際憤怒最近我們目睹大自然所帶來毁滅性的破壞力在海地地震中所造成的悲劇 我則認為這和人類自相殘殺所造成的悲劇比起來，算不上什麼Samuel Pisar是奧許維茲集中營的倖存者我引用他說的話納粹對猶太人的屠殺讓我們瞭解到一旦人類喪失自己的道德準則和行為正義就算和最殘暴的大自然相比大自然都還算仁慈的多 人類還有其他的暴行伊拉克美軍虐囚案及關達納摩監獄裡令人震驚的照片都對世人產生深遠的影響相較於這些照片本身這些照片公諸於世讓政府改變政策但是有人卻認為這些照片反而助長了伊拉克的暴動是其他的具體行動無法相比還有人認為這些照片摧毁了駐地美軍自以為是的高道德觀 讓我們回顧歷史在1960到1970年之間越戰的畫面基本上充斥於每天的電視新聞新聞迫使每個人去面對戰爭中的受害者，一個小女孩被汽油彈燒傷一個在俄亥俄州Kent州立大學就讀的大學生因為參與抗議而被鎮暴部隊殺害這些照片反而成為最有力的抗議聲音 某些照片甚至會散發出光芒讓我們在猜疑與忽視中產生同理心尤其是針對愛滋病的議題我曾針對這個議題發表過許多演說但我只打算讓你們看這張照片在1980年代人們對愛滋病污名化造成大部分的人都不願意討論或提及這個問題然而在1987年，世界上最有名的一位女士，她做了一個簡單的動作黛安娜王妃抱起染上愛滋病的嬰孩就讓大部分的人接納了愛滋病，尤其是歐洲人她比任何人都瞭解影像的力量 當我們面對一張具有影響力的照片時我們可以有所選擇我們可以假裝沒看到，或是我們可以讓這張照片曝光很慶幸的，當這些照片在1998年刊載於英國衛報世人開始注意這個問題，開始投入大量金錢援助蘇丹的饑荒難民這些照片是否改變了世界？不是，但是他們具有極大的影響力照片通常會讓我們質疑自己的中心信念以及我們對世界的責任我們都看過卡崔娜颶風災後的照片而且我相信看過照片的千百萬民眾內心都有強烈的衝擊我深刻認為全美民眾的心是一致的尤其是他們在2008年十一月前往投票的時候 很不幸的，有些非常重要的照片由於太過寫實而不忍足睹請看看這張照片Eugene Richards為一位伊拉克戰爭退伍士兵所拍攝的卓越照片從未對外公開，命名為“我一個人的戰爭”照片並不一定要如此寫實才能喚起我們注意到戰爭的悲慘John Moore在阿靈頓公墓拍攝了這張照片在所有緊張對峙和衝突之後在世界上所有爆發戰爭區域有一張來自寂靜角落的照片一直縈繞在我心頭 Ansel Adams曾說過，但我並不贊同你不是在拍攝照片，你是在創造照片在我看來，照片並不是由攝影師創造而是由你們創造我們為每一張照片賦予我們自己的價值觀、我們自己的信念因此，我們拍攝的照片將反映出自己的想法我的公司裡有七千萬張照片我放了一張在我的辦公室就是這張我希望下次你們在看某張能引發你思考的照片時你會瞭解其中的原因而且我知道，在聽了我的演說之後你們將會有所行動 我要謝謝所有的攝影師 (掌聲)
