Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_harris_tells_the_web_s_secret_stories	"So I really consider myself a storyteller. But I don't really tell stories in the usual way, in the sense that I don't usually tell my own stories. Instead, I'm really interested in building tools that allow large numbers of other people to tell their stories, people all around the world. I do this because I think that people actually have a lot in common. I think people are very similar, but I also think that we have trouble seeing that. You know, as I look around the world I see a lot of gaps, and I think we all see a lot of gaps. And we define ourselves by our gaps. There's language gaps, there's ethnicity and racial gaps, there's age gaps, there's gender gaps, there's sexuality gaps, there's wealth and money gaps, there's education gaps, there's also religious gaps. You know, we have all these gaps and I think we like our gaps because they make us feel like we identify with something, some smaller community. But I think that actually, despite our gaps, we really have a lot in common. And I think one thing we have in common is a very deep need to express ourselves. I think this is a very old human desire. It's nothing new. But the thing about self-expression is that there's traditionally been this imbalance between the desire that we have to express ourselves and the number of sympathetic friends who are willing to stand around and listen. (Laughter) This, also, is nothing new. Since the dawn of human history, we've tried to rectify this imbalance by making art, writing poems, singing songs, scripting editorials and sending them in to a newspaper, gossiping with friends. This is nothing new. What's new is that in the last several years a lot of these very traditional physical human activities, these acts of self-expression, have been moving onto the Internet. And as that's happened, people have been leaving behind footprints, footprints that tell stories of their moments of self-expression. And so what I do is, I write computer programs that study very large sets of these footprints, and then try to draw conclusions about the people who left them — what they feel, what they think, what's different in the world today than usual, these sorts of questions. One project that explores these ideas, which was made about a year ago, is a piece called We Feel Fine. This is a piece that every two or three minutes scans the world's newly-posted blog entries for occurrences of the phrases ""I feel"" or ""I am feeling."" And when it finds one of those phrases, it grabs the sentence up to the period, and then automatically tries to deduce the age, gender and geographical location of the person that wrote that sentence. Then, knowing the geographical location and the time, we can also then figure out the weather when that person wrote the sentence. All of this information is saved in a database that collects about 20,000 feelings a day. It's been running for about a year and a half. It's reached about seven-and-a-half million human feelings now. And I'll show you a glimpse of how this information is then visualized. So this is We Feel Fine. What you see here is a madly swarming mass of particles, each of which represents a single human feeling that was stated in the last few hours. The color of each particle corresponds to the type of feeling inside — so that happy, positive feelings are brightly colored. And sad, negative feelings are darkly colored. The diameter of each dot represents the length of the sentence inside, so that the large dots contain large sentences, and the small dots contain small sentences. Any dot can be clicked and expanded. And we see here, ""I would just feel so much better if I could curl up in his arms right now and feel his affection for me in the embrace of his body and the tenderness of his lips."" So it gets pretty hot and steamy sometimes in the world of human emotions. And all of these are stated by people: ""I know that objectively it really doesn't mean much, but after spending so many years as a small fish in a big pond, it's nice to feel bigger again."" The dots exhibit human qualities. They kind of have their own physics, and they swarm wildly around, kind of exploring the world of life. And then they also exhibit curiosity. You can see a few of them are swarming around the cursor right now. You can see some other ones are swarming around the bottom left corner of the screen around six words. Those six words represent the six movements of We Feel Fine. We're currently seeing Madness. There's also Murmurs, Montage, Mobs, Metrics and Mounds. And I'll walk you through a few of those now. Murmurs causes all of the feelings to fly to the ceiling. And then, one by one, in reverse chronological order, they excuse themselves, entering the scrolling list of feelings. ""I feel a bit better now."" (Laughter) ""I feel confused and unsure of what the hell I want to do."" ""I feel gypped out of something awesome here."" ""I feel so free; I feel so good."" ""I feel like I'm in this fog of depression that I can't get out of."" And you can click any of these to go out and visit the blog from which it was collected. And in that way, you can connect with the authors of these statements if you feel some degree of empathy. The next movement is called Montage. Montage causes all of the feelings that contain photographs to become extracted and display themselves in a grid. This grid is then said to represent the picture of the world's feelings in the last few hours, if you will. Each of these can be clicked and we can blow it up. We see, ""I just feel like I'm not going to have fun if it's not the both of us."" That was from someone in Michigan. We see, ""I feel like I have been at a computer all day."" (Laughter) These are automatically constructed using the found objects: ""I think I feel a little full."" The next movement is called mobs. Mobs provides different statistical breakdowns of the population of the world's feelings in the last few hours. We see that ""better"" is the most frequent feeling right now, followed by ""good,"" ""bad,"" ""guilty,"" ""right,"" ""down,"" ""sick"" and so on. We can also get a gender breakdown. And we see that women are slightly more prolific talking about their emotions in the last few hours than men. We can do an age breakdown, which gives us a histogram of the world's emotional distribution by age. We see people in their twenties are the most prolific, followed by teenagers, and then people in their thirties, and it dies out very quickly from there. In weather, the feelings assume the physical characteristics of the weather that they represent, so that the ones collected on a sunny day swirl around as if they're part of the sun. The cloudy ones float along as if they're on a breeze. The rainy ones fall down as if they're in a rainstorm, and the snowy ones kind of flutter to the ground. Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their positions on a world map showing the geographical distribution of feelings. Metrics provides more numerical views on the data. We see that the world is feeling ""used"" at 3.3 times the normal level right now. (Laughter) They're feeling ""warm"" at 2.9 times the normal level, and so on. Other views are also available. Here are gender, age, weather, location. The final movement is called Mounds. It's a bit different from the others. Mounds visualizes the entire dataset as large, gelatinous blobs which kind of jiggle. And if I hold down my cursor, they do a little dance. We see ""better"" is the most frequent feeling, followed by ""bad."" And then if I go over here, the list begins to scroll, and there are actually thousands of feelings that have been collected. You can see the little pink cursor moving along, representing our position. Here we see people that feel ""slipping,"" ""nauseous,"" ""responsible."" There's also a search capability, if you're interested in finding out about a certain population. For instance, you could find women who feel ""addicted"" in their 20s when it was cloudy in Bangladesh. (Laughter) But I'll spare you that. So here are some of my favorite montages that have been collected: ""I feel so much of my dad alive in me that there isn't even room for me."" ""I feel very lonely."" ""I need to be in some backwoods redneck town so that I can feel beautiful."" ""I feel invisible to you."" ""I wouldn't hide it if society didn't make me feel like I needed to."" ""I feel in love with Carolyn."" ""I feel so naughty."" ""I feel these weirdoes are actually an asset to college life."" (Laughter) ""I love how I feel today."" So as you can see, We Feel Fine uses a technique that I call ""passive observation."" What I mean by that is that it passively observes people as they live their lives. It scans the world's blogs and looks at what people are writing, and these people don't know they're being watched or interviewed. And because of that, you end up getting very honest, candid, sincere responses that are often very moving. And this is a technique that I usually prefer in my work because people don't know they're being interviewed. They're just living life, and they end up just acting like that. Another technique is directly questioning people. And this is a technique that I explored in a different project, the Yahoo! Time Capsule, which was designed to take a fingerprint of the world in 2006. It was divided into ten very simple themes — love, anger, sadness and so on — each of which contained a single, very open-ended question put to the world: What do you love? What makes you angry? What makes you sad? What do you believe in? And so on. The time capsule was available for one month online, translated into 10 languages, and this is what it looked like. It's a spinning globe, the surface of which is entirely composed of the pictures and words and drawings of people that submitted to the time capsule. The ten themes radiate out and orbit the time capsule. You can sift through this data and see what people have submitted. This is in response to, What's beautiful? ""Miss World."" There are two modes to the time capsule. There's One World, which presents the spinning globe, and Many Voices, which splits the data out into film strips and lets you sift through them one by one. So this project was punctuated by a really amazing event, which was held in the desert outside Albuquerque in New Mexico at the Jemez Pueblo, where for three consecutive nights, the contents of the capsule were projected onto the sides of the ancient Red Rock Canyon walls, which stand about 200 feet tall. It was really incredible. And we also projected the contents of the time capsule as binary code using a 35-watt laser into outer space. You can see the orange line leaving the desert floor at about a 45 degree angle there. This was amazing because the first night I looked at all this information and really started seeing the gaps that I talked about earlier — the differences in age, gender and wealth and so on. But, you know, as I looked at this more and more and more, and saw these images go across the rocks, I realized I was seeing the same archetypal events depicted again and again and again. You know: weddings, births, funerals, the first car, the first kiss, the first camel or horse — depending on the culture. And it was really moving. And this picture here was taken the final night from a distant cliff about two miles away, where the contents of the capsule were being beamed into space. And there was something very moving about all of this human expression being shot off into the night sky. And it started to make me think a lot about the night sky, and how humans have always used the night sky to project their great stories. You know, as a child in Vermont, on a farm where I grew up, I would often look up into the dark sky and see the three star belt of Orion, the Hunter. And as an adult, I've been more aware of the great Greek myths playing out in the sky overhead every night. You know, Orion facing the roaring bull. Perseus flying to the rescue of Andromeda. Zeus battling Chronos for control of Mount Olympus. I mean, these are the great tales of the Greeks. And it caused me to wonder about our world today. And it caused me to wonder specifically, if we could make new constellations today, what would those look like? What would those be? If we could make new pictures in the sky, what would we draw? What are the great stories of today? And those are the questions that inspired my new project, which is debuting here today at TED. Nobody's seen this yet, publicly. It's called Universe: Revealing Our Modern Mythology. And it uses this metaphor of an interactive night sky. So, it's my great pleasure now to show this to you. So, Universe will open here. And you'll see that it leads with a shifting star field, and there's an Aurora Borealis in the background, kind of morphing with color. The color of the Aurora Borealis can be controlled using this single bar of color at the bottom, and we'll put it down here to red. So you see this kind of — these stars moving along. Now, these aren't just little points of light, little pixels. Each of those stars actually represents a specific event in the real world — a quote that was stated by somebody, an image, a news story, a person, a company. You know, some kind of heroic personality. And you might notice that as the cursor begins to touch some of these stars, that shapes begin to emerge. We see here there's a little man walking along, or maybe a woman. And we see here a photograph with a head. You can start to see words emerging here. And those are the constellations of today. And I can turn them all on, and you can see them moving across the sky now. This is the universe of 2007, the last two months. The data from this is global news coverage from thousands of news sources around the world. It's using the API of a really great company that I work with in New York, actually, called Daylife. And it's kind of the zeitgeist view at this level of the world's current mythology over the last couple of months. So we can see where it's emerging here, like President Ford, Iraq, Bush. And we can actually isolate just the words — I call them secrets — and we can cause them to form an alphabetical list. And we see Anna Nicole Smith playing a big role recently. President Ford — this is Gerald Ford's funeral. We can actually click anything in Universe and have it become the center of the universe, and everything else will enter its orbit. So, we'll click Ford, and now that becomes the center. And the things that relate to Ford enter its orbit and swirl around it. We can isolate just the photographs, and we now see those. We can click on one of those and have the photograph be the center of the universe. Now the things that relate to it are swirling around. We can click on this and we see this iconic image of Betty Ford kissing her husband's coffin. In Universe, there's kind of no end. It just goes infinitely, and you can just kind of click on stuff. This is a photographic representation, called Snapshots. But we can actually be more specific in defining our universe. So, if we want to, let's check out what Bill Clinton's universe looks like. And let's see, in the past week, what he's been up to. So now, we have a new universe, which is just constrained to all things Bill Clinton. We can have his constellations emerge here. We can pull out his secrets, and we see that it has a lot to do with candidates, Hillary, presidential, Barack Obama. We can see the stories that Bill Clinton is taking part in right now. Any of those can be opened up. So we see Obama and the Clintons meet in Alabama. You can see that this is an important story; there are a lot of things in its orbit. If we open this up, we get different perspectives on this story. You can click any of those to go out and read the article at the source. This one's from Al Jazeera. We can also see the superstars. These would be the people that are kind of the looming heroes and heroines in the universe of Bill Clinton. So there's Bill Clinton, Hillary, Iraq, George Bush, Barack Obama, Scooter Libby — these are kind of the people of Bill Clinton. We can also see a world map, so this shows us the geographic reach of Bill Clinton in the last week or so. We can see he's been focused in America because he's been campaigning, probably, but a little bit of action over here in the Middle East. And then we can also see a timeline. So we see that he was a bit quiet on Saturday, but he was back to work on Sunday morning, and actually been tapering off since then this week. And it's not limited to just people or dates, but we can actually put in concepts also. So if I put in climate change for all of 2006, we'll see what that universe looks like. Here we have our star field. Here we have our shapes. Here we have our secrets. So we see again, climate change is large: Nairobi, global conference, environmental. And there are also quotes that you can see, if you're interested in reading about quotes on climate change. You know, this is really an infinite thing. The superstars of climate change in 2006: United States, Britain, China. You know, these are the towering countries that kind of define this concept. So this is a piece that demands exploration. This will be online in several days, probably next Tuesday. And you'll all be able to use it and kind of explore what your own personal mythology might be. You'll notice that in Daylife — rather, in Universe — it supports both the notion of a global mythology, which is represented by something as broad as, say, 2007, and also a personal mythology. As you search for the things that are important to you in your world, and then see what the constellations of those might look like. So it's been a pleasure. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我覺得自己是一個說故事的人，但我說故事的方式和一般人不同，我也不常講自己的故事。我比較常做的是設計一些工具，讓世界上的其他許多人都可以講述自己的故事。我會這麼做是因為我覺得人們有許多共同點，我覺得大部分的人都很相像，只是大家都沒有發覺而已。 當我觀察了世界上的各種人後，發現了一些差異，我相信大家都看得出來這些差異，我們也用這些差異來區別彼此，像是語言差異、種族及人種差異、年齡差異、性別差異、性向差異、財富差異、教育程度差異，當然還有宗教差異。就算我們之間存在了這麼多的差異，我們還是喜歡這些差異，因為這些差異會讓我們產生認同感，形成各個小團體。但除了這些差異之外，我真的覺得我們有許多共同點，其中一個共同點，就是我們對於表達自己的意見，都有很深的渴望。我認為這是一種存在已久的人類渴望，不是什麼新聞， 但一談到自我表達這件事，通常我們就會想到一個不對等的狀況，那就是我們對於表達自己意見的渴望，其渴求程度遠遠大於願意聆聽我們意見的朋友人數。 (笑聲) 這也不是什麼新聞了。自有人類歷史以來，人類總試圖藉由藝術創造、寫詩、唱歌、寫些社論投稿到報社、或和朋友們八卦一番，來改善這種不對等的狀況，這也不是什麼新聞。 真正的新聞是在過去幾年，這些傳統人類用來抒發自我的活動，全都移到網路上去了。在網路發達後，人們開始在網路上留下自己的足跡，也就是留下可以表達自我的各種故事。而我所做的，就是撰寫一些電腦程式，蒐集大量的故事文章，然後試圖在這些文章背後找出某些蛛絲馬跡，我想知道這些人的感受、想法，我也想知道現在的世界和以往究竟有何不同，我想知道這類問題的答案。 有一個專案就是在探討這些問題，我們在一年以前開啟了這個專案，「我們覺得很好」專案。這個程式會每隔二到三分鐘，上網蒐尋最新發佈的部落格文章，我們設定的關鍵字是「我覺得...」或「我感到...」，只要找到這種關鍵字，程式就會把那句話擷取下來，然後開始自動分析發表文章的人，看他的年齡、性別和所在的城市為何。一旦知道作者的城市和發表文章的時間，我們就可以相對應地找出作者在寫這個句子時的天氣如何。我們把所有的資訊都儲存在資料庫裡，每天約可收集到二萬筆各種人們的感覺資訊。這個專案已經進行了一年半左右，蒐集到約750萬則人們的感覺，我來讓各位看看這些資訊畫成圖表的樣子，這就是「我們覺得很好」， 各位所看到的是一大群小點點，每一個點就代表某個人的感覺，這是我們在前幾個小時所蒐集到的感覺。點點的顏色就代表感覺的類型，像是快樂、正面的感覺就用明亮的色彩，悲傷、負面的感覺就用灰暗的顏色。每一個小點的直徑就代表那個句子的長度，句子愈長，圓點就愈大，小的點點就表示句子很短。每個小點都能用滑鼠點開，看到句子內容，像是：「如果我能踡進他的臂彎，讓他擁抱我，我就能感受到他的愛意包圍著我，感受到他溫柔的唇，我就會覺得好過一點。」有時人類的情緒是可以很火熱也很煽情的，這些全都是網路上的人所寫的文字：「我知道客觀上來說這不算什麼，但在一個大池塘裡當了那麼多年的小魚之後，我很高興能覺得自己又變成了一條大魚。」 這些小點把每個人的情緒都表露出來，像是有自己的個性一般，成為一個又一個的群體，又有點像是真實人生的縮影。這些小點也呈現出某種趣味，有些聚集在這個游標附近，有一些則聚集在螢幕左下角那六個字附近。那六個字代表了「我們覺得很好」的六種面向，我們現在看到的是狂亂，還有喃喃自語、剪輯、分類、數據和山丘圖。接下來我會一一介紹。喃喃自語會把每個人的感覺從螢幕上方放下來，由新到舊，一個一個呈現出來，每一個都排列在捲軸式清單裡，「我覺得好過多了。」 (笑聲) 「我覺得很困惑，完全不知道自己要做什麼。」「我覺得自己被這些假象給騙了！」「我覺得很自由、很好！」「我覺得自己被一片愁雲慘霧所籠罩，完全走不出去。」你只要點開這些小點點，就可以連回這些語句原先所在的部落格，你可以和這些語句的作者聯絡，表達你的同情。 下一個面向是剪輯，也就是把附有照片的感覺剪輯下來，一格一格地呈現出來。我們可以把這些一格一格的照片視為過去幾個小時這個世界的心情寫照，每一張照片都可以點開，你會看到：「我覺得如果不是和你在一起，世界就不會那麼有趣。」這是密西根某個人寫的，還有，「我覺得自己好像已經打了一整天的電腦。」 (笑聲) 這些都是用我們找到的句子自動剪輯下來的，「我覺得有點飽。」 下一個面向叫做分類，我們將過去幾個小時內所蒐集到的感覺句子，以統計分析的方式加以分類，我們會看到「好多了」是目前出現頻率最高的感覺，接下來是很好、糟糕、罪惡感、正確、沮喪及不舒服等。我們還可以依性別分類，我們會發現，女性談論情感的頻率，在過去這幾個小時裡是比男性稍高一些。我們還可以依年齡分類，我們可以看到這個長條圖，呈現出全世界依年齡分類的情緒發洩分佈狀況。我們發現，二十多歲的年輕人頻率最高，接下來是青少年，然後是三十多歲的人，再後面的人就幾乎沒有發表什麼情緒。我們會以各種天氣的特徵來代表各種不同的感覺，像是旋轉的渦旋就代表了充滿陽光的日子，因為那渦旋就像是陽光的一部分；漂浮在微風裡的粒子，就代表了陰天；像暴風雨般落下的代表雨天；在地上飄動的就代表下雪天。 最後，我們會把從世界各地蒐集而來的感覺語句，依其地點放回到世界地圖上，以看出地理上的分佈狀況。數據則是以將資料以數據方式呈現，可以看到，現在網路上，覺得「被利用了」的人數是平常的3.3倍； (笑聲) 覺得「很溫暖」的則是平常的2.9倍，還有其他的數據，像是性別、年齡、天氣和地理位置等。 最後一個面向稱為山丘圖，和前面幾個稍微有點不一樣，山丘圖是把整個資料庫描繪成一個很大的膠狀團塊，還會抖動個不停，如果我把滑鼠往下滑，他們就會像跳舞一樣抖動。我們發現「好多了」是目前出現頻率最高的，後面接著的是「糟糕」，如果我往後移，整個清單就會開始轉動，你會看到我們蒐集到數以千計的感覺。你可以看到這個小小的粉紅色游標，代表我們現在所在的位置，像是有人覺得「變糟了」、「厭惡」、「負責任的」。 裡面還有搜尋功能，可以讓你找到某一個特定的族群，舉例來說，你可以搜尋在孟加拉的陰天時，有「沈迷」感的二十歲女性。 (笑聲) 這些就留給你們自己去發掘吧...接下來我要給各位看看我最喜歡的幾張剪輯：「我覺得父親還活在我心裡，佔據了我所有的心念。」「我覺得很孤單。」「我覺得自己在偏遠農民的眼中，才算漂亮。」「我覺得你眼裡沒有我。」「我不會遮掩，除非你們逼我這樣做。」「我覺得我愛上了卡洛琳。」「我是個頑皮鬼。」「我覺得這些怪胎真是大學校園裡的寶。」 (笑聲) 「我喜歡今天的感覺。」 各位可以看到，「我們覺得很好」所運用的技術，是我稱之為「被動觀察」的技術，也就是我們從旁被動地觀察人群，看他們是怎麼過活的。我們掃視全世界的部落格，看看每個人在寫些什麼，但這些部落格主並不知道有人在觀察他們，也因為這樣，我們得到的是最真誠、最坦白、最真摯的反應，永遠都最感人。這是我最喜歡的技術，因為大家並不知道自己是受訪的對象，他們的日子還是照過，所以才會有這些反應。 另外一個技術是直接詢問人們的感覺，這個技術是我在另一個專案上開發出來的技術，也就是「Yahoo!時空膠囊」，原先是為了蒐集2006年全世界每個人的手印而設計，其中有十個非常簡單的主題，像是愛、憤怒、悲傷等等，我們為每一個主題設計了一個開放式的問題，我們會問：你愛什麼？你為什麼生氣？你為什麼悲傷？你信仰什麼？這一類的。那時我們線上開放「時空膠囊」為期一個月，翻成十國語言，這就是「時空膠囊」，像個旋轉的球體，球體的表面覆滿了大家上傳到「時空膠囊」的照片、文字和插圖，那十個主題發射出光芒，繞行這個「時空膠囊」。你可以點選這些資料，看大家都上傳了什麼，像是針對「什麼最美？」這個問題，就有人上傳「環球小姐」。 「時空膠囊」有二個模式，現在這個轉動的是一個模式，稱為「一個世界」，另一個模式是「不同聲音」，以底片的方式呈現，你可以一個一個點選這些影片。這個專案還舉辦了一個令人讚歎的活動，活動地點選在新墨西哥州的黑梅茲．帕布羅市郊的沙漠裡，一連舉辦了三天，「時空膠囊」的內容全被投射在紅岩峽谷的古老岩石上，那塊岩石約有60公尺高，真的很壯觀！我們還把「時空膠囊」裡的內容，轉成二進位制，以35瓦的雷射光向太空投射，你可以看到有一道橘色的光束從沙漠中以45度角向天空發射，那真的很棒！就在我第一晚在那裡看這些內容時，真的就看到了我先前所談的各項人類差異，像是年齡差異、性別差異和財富差異等， 但當我看得愈久，看著這些影像投射在岩石上，我愈發現我看的是相同的事情，只是一次又一次由不同的人演出而已，就像是婚禮、小孩出生、葬禮、買第一部車、初吻、買第一隻駱駝或馬，就看是在什麼文化之下，那真的很感人！這張照片是在最後一晚照的，我們在三公里外的一個岩石上拍下這張照片，我們可以看到那些載有影片內容的光束被投射到外太空去，看著我們人類的各種喜怒哀樂被投射到夜晚的天空上，真的很感人！ 我開始想到許多關於夜空的事，人類不是早在很久以前就利用夜空來講述許多偉大的故事嗎？我小的時候住在佛蒙特，我是在農場長大的，我常會看著漆黑的天空，看著獵戶座腰帶上的那三顆星，到我長大之後，我更常想到希臘神話每天都在夜空裡上演：獵戶座正對著咆哮的金牛座，柏修斯飛去拯救安朵美達(仙女座)，宙斯為了奪取奧林帕斯的控制權而大戰柯羅諾斯，這些都是偉大的希臘神話， 讓我聯想到現在的世界，讓我特別想到如果現代的我們能創造新的星座，那會長什麼樣子？我們又會怎麼命名？如果我們能在天空上作畫，我們會畫什麼？現在最偉大的故事是什麼？ 這些問題讓我又開始了一項新的專案，這個專案還沒有對外公開，今天在TED算是首度露面，專案名稱為「宇宙」，以現代神話的型式表現，並引用互動式夜空的概念。我很高興能為各位介紹這個專案， 現在，這是「宇宙」的開始畫面。你會看到一個可以移動的星空，背後有北極光做背景，顏色會變化，北極光的顏色可以用下方的顏色區塊來控制，我們來把顏色改成紅色。你會看到這些星星在移動， 這些不只是小光點而已，套句某個人說過的話，每一顆星星都代表著真實世界所發生的事情，像是一張照片、一個故事、一個人或一間公司，有點英雄主義的味道。當游標指到某些星星時，你會看到某種形狀漸漸顯示出來，像這裡就是一個小人在走路，或許是女人也說不定；而這裡，則是一張大頭照；有些字句會浮現出來，這些就是星座，就是現代版的星座。我可以把他們全都點開，你會看到他們在天空上移動。 這是2007年最後二個月的宇宙天空，這些是全世界數以千計的媒體所播報出來的新聞。這個專案所使用的應用程式界面是由和我合作的在紐約的Daylife公司。這裡所呈現出來的，有點像是過去幾個月來世界發展軌跡的縮影， 我們可以看看這裡有些什麼，像是福特總統、伊拉克、布希等。我們還可以把字句單獨挑出來，我稱之為「祕密」，這樣就可以產生一個按照字母排列的清單，我們可以看到安娜．妮可．史密斯最近很出風頭；福特總統—這是吉拉德．福特的葬禮。我們可以在「宇宙」裡點選任何一點，讓這一點變成宇宙的中心，其他的東西則會進入它的軌道。現在我們點選福特，它就變成了中心，和福特相關的新聞就會進入軌道，繞著它轉。 我們也可以把照片挑出來，就像這樣，點選其中一張照片，那張照片就會成為宇宙的中心，和它相關的新聞就會繞著它轉。點選這裡，就會看到一張經典照片，貝蒂．福特親吻她丈夫的棺材。 在宇宙裡，一切都沒有盡頭，每件事都會無限延伸，有許多項目可以點選。這裡陳列的是照片，我們稱之為「剪影」，我們可以更明確地定義這個宇宙，所以如果我們想要的話，我們可以看看柯林頓的宇宙長什麼樣子，我們來看看在過去幾週裡，他都在做些什麼。好，我們有一個新的宇宙了，這個宇宙包含了柯林頓的一切活動，我們可以把他的星座放在這裡，把他的祕密點選出來，我們可以看到他的新聞都是有關總統候選人希拉蕊和歐巴馬的新聞，我們會看到現在柯林頓也參與其中了，所有的新聞都可以點選開來，你看到歐巴馬和柯林頓在阿拉巴馬會面，那是一則很重要的新聞，所以又有很多新聞環繞著它，如果我們點開來看，我們就會看到這則新聞的其他面向。點選任何一則新聞，就能看到全文及其出處這則是來自半導電視台的報導。 我們還可以看看其他相關的明星，也就是在柯林頓的宇宙中，相關的英雄配角們，像是柯林頓、希拉蕊、伊拉克、布希、歐巴馬、史古托．利比等，這些都是環繞在柯林頓身旁的配角。我們也可以來看看世界地圖，看看柯林頓在過去一週到過什麼地方，像是他最近在待在美國，或許是因為要參加競選活動的關係，但他在中東也有短暫露面。我們也可以來看看他的時間安排，我們會看到他在星期六的活動好像很少，但星期日一早就會回復活躍，但活動量從星期日後就逐漸減少。 在這個宇宙裡，不僅可以指定人物或日期，還可以指定某種概念，像是我可以輸入2006年的氣候變遷，看看相關的新聞是什麼。這就是這個主題的星空、形狀、和祕密。氣候變遷這個主題真的很大，涵蓋奈洛比、全球會議及環保議題等，如果你對氣候變遷相關的經典名句有興趣，也可以點選看看有什麼經典名句，這是一個無窮無盡的世界。 2006年氣候變遷的配角包括美國、英國、中國，其實就是這些國家定義出氣候變遷這個概念的。這個宇宙很值得大家探索。 過幾天這個程式就會上線，或許會在下星期二，你可以利用這個程式來探索你個人的神話故事。你會注意到，Daylife這家公司，或者說「宇宙」這個程式，不只可以讓你看到全球的神話故事，涵蓋了2007年全部的事件，也可以讓你看到個人的神話故事。你可以上去搜尋對你而言重要的新聞，看看由那些新聞所組成的星座長什麼樣子。 很高興能在這裡演說，謝謝各位！ (掌聲)
