Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_eisen_meet_your_microbes	"I'm going to start with a little story. So, I grew up in this neighborhood. When I was 15 years old, I went from being what I think was a strapping young athlete, over four months, slowly wasting away until I was basically a famine victim with an unquenchable thirst. I had basically digested away my body. And this all came to a head when I was on a backpacking trip, my first one ever actually, on Old Rag Mountain in West Virginia, and was putting my face into puddles of water and drinking like a dog. That night, I was taken into the emergency room and diagnosed as a type 1 diabetic in full-blown ketoacidosis. And I recovered, thanks to the miracles of modern medicine, insulin and other things, and gained all my weight back and more. And something festered inside me after this happened. What I thought about was, what caused the diabetes? You see, diabetes is an autoimmune disease where your body fights itself, and at the time people thought that somehow maybe exposure to a pathogen had triggered my immune system to fight the pathogen and then kill the cells that make insulin. And this is what I thought for a long period of time, and that's in fact what medicine and people have focused on quite a bit, the microbes that do bad things. And that's where I need my assistant here now. You may recognize her. So, I went yesterday, I apologize, I skipped a few of the talks, and I went over to the National Academy of Sciences building, and they sell toys, giant microbes. And here we go! So you have caught flesh-eating disease if you caught that one. I gotta get back out my baseball ability here. (Laughter) So, unfortunately or not surprisingly, most of the microbes they sell at the National Academy building are pathogens. Everybody focuses on the things that kill us, and that's what I was focusing on. And it turns out that we are covered in a cloud of microbes, and those microbes actually do us good much of the time, rather than killing us. And so, we've known about this for some period of time. People have used microscopes to look at the microbes that cover us, I know you're not paying attention to me, but ... (Laughter) The microbes that cover us. And if you look at them in the microscope, you can see that we actually have 10 times as many cells of microbes on us as we have human cells. There's more mass in the microbes than the mass of our brain. We are literally a teeming ecosystem of microorganisms. And unfortunately, if you want to learn about the microorganisms, just looking at them in a microscope is not sufficient. And so we just heard about the DNA sequencing. It turns out that one of the best ways to look at microbes and to understand them is to look at their DNA. And that's what I've been doing for 20 years, using DNA sequencing, collecting samples from various places, including the human body, reading the DNA sequence and then using that DNA sequencing to tell us about the microbes that are in a particular place. And what's amazing, when you use this technology, for example, looking at humans, we're not just covered in a sea of microbes. There are thousands upon thousands of different kinds of microbes on us. We have millions of genes of microbes in our human microbiome covering us. And so this microbial diversity differs between people, and what people have been thinking about in the last 10, maybe 15 years is, maybe these microbes, this microbial cloud in and on us, and the variation between us, may be responsible for some of the health and illness differences between us. And that comes back to the diabetes story I was telling you. It turns out that people now think that one of the triggers for type 1 diabetes is not fighting a pathogen, but is in fact trying to — miscommunicating with the microbes that live in and on you. And somehow maybe the microbial community that's in and on me got off, and then this triggered some sort of immune response and led to me killing the cells that make insulin in my body. And so what I want to tell you about for a few minutes is, what people have learned using DNA sequencing techniques in particular, to study the microbial cloud that lives in and on us. And I want to tell you a story about a personal project. My first personal experience with studying the microbes on the human body actually came from a talk that I gave, right around the corner from here at Georgetown. I gave a talk, and a family friend who happened to be the Dean of Georgetown Medical School was at the talk, and came up to me afterwards saying, they were doing a study of ileal transplants in people. And they wanted to look at the microbes after the transplants. And so I started a collaboration with this person, Michael Zasloff and Thomas Fishbein, to look at the microbes that colonized these ilea after they were transplanted into a recipient. And I can tell you all the details about the microbial study that we did there, but the reason I want to tell you this story is something really striking that they did at the beginning of this project. They take the donor ileum, which is filled with microbes from a donor and they have a recipient who might have a problem with their microbial community, say Crohn's disease, and they sterilized the donor ileum. Cleaned out all the microbes, and then put it in the recipient. They did this because this was common practice in medicine, even though it was obvious that this was not a good idea. And fortunately, in the course of this project, the transplant surgeons and the other people decided, forget common practice. We have to switch. So they actually switched to leaving some of the microbial community in the ileum. They leave the microbes with the donor, and theoretically that might help the people who are receiving this ileal transplant. And so, people — this is a study that I did now. In the last few years there's been a great expansion in using DNA technology to study the microbes in and on people. There's something called the Human Microbiome Project that's going on in the United States, and MetaHIT going on in Europe, and a lot of other projects. And when people have done a variety of studies, they have learned things such as, when a baby is born, during vaginal delivery you get colonized by the microbes from your mother. There are risk factors associated with cesarean sections, some of those risk factors may be due to mis-colonization when you carve a baby out of its mother rather than being delivered through the birth canal. And a variety of other studies have shown that the microbial community that lives in and on us helps in development of the immune system, helps in fighting off pathogens, helps in our metabolism, and determining our metabolic rate, probably determines our odor, and may even shape our behavior in a variety of ways. And so, these studies have documented or suggested out of a variety of important functions for the microbial community, this cloud, the non-pathogens that live in and on us. And one area that I think is very interesting, which many of you may have now that we've thrown microbes into the crowd, is something that I would call ""germophobia."" So people are really into cleanliness, right? We have antibiotics in our kitchen counters, people are washing every part of them all of the time, we pump antibiotics into our food, into our communities, we take antibiotics excessively. And killing pathogens is a good thing if you're sick, but we should understand that when we pump chemicals and antibiotics into our world, that we're also killing the cloud of microbes that live in and on us. And excessive use of antibiotics, in particular in children, has been shown to be associated with, again, risk factors for obesity, for autoimmune diseases, for a variety of problems that are probably due to disruption of the microbial community. So the microbial community can go wrong whether we want it to or not, or we can kill it with antibiotics, but what can we do to restore it? I'm sure many people here have heard about probiotics. Probiotics are one thing that you can try and do to restore the microbial community that is in and on you. And they definitely have been shown to be effective in some cases. There's a project going on at UC Davis where people are using probiotics to try and treat, prevent, necrotizing enterocolitis in premature infants. Premature infants have real problems with their microbial community. And it may be that probiotics can help prevent the development of this horrible necrotizing enterocolitis in these premature infants. But probiotics are sort of a very, very simple solution. Most of the pills that you can take or the yogurts that you can eat have one or two species in them, maybe five species in them, and the human community is thousands upon thousands of species. So what can we do to restore our microbial community when we have thousands and thousands of species on us? Well, one thing that animals seem to do is, they eat poo — coprophagia. And it turns out that many veterinarians, old school veterinarians in particular, have been doing something called ""poo tea,"" not booty, but poo tea, to treat colic and other ailments in horses and cows and things like that, where you make tea from the poo from a healthy individual animal and you feed it to a sick animal. Although, unless you have a fistulated cow with a big hole in its side, and you can put your hand into its rumen, it's hard to imagine that the delivery of microbes directly into the mouth and through the entire top of the digestive tract is the best delivery system, so you may have heard in people they are now doing fecal transplants, where rather than delivering a couple of probiotic microbes through the mouth, they are delivering a community of probiotics, a community of microbes from a healthy donor, through the other end. And this has turned out to be very effective in fighting certain intransigent infectious diseases like Clostridium difficile infections that can stay with people for years and years and years. Transplants of the feces, of the microbes from the feces, from a healthy donor has actually been shown to cure systemic C. dif infections in some people. Now what these transplants, these fecal transplants, or the poo tea suggest to me, and many other people have come up with this same idea, is that the microbial community in and on us, it's an organ. We should view it as a functioning organ, part of ourselves. We should treat it carefully and with respect, and we do not want to mess with it, say by C-sections or by antibiotics or excessive cleanliness, without some real good justification. And what the DNA sequencing technologies are allowing people to do now is do detailed studies of, say, 100 patients who have Crohn's disease and 100 people who don't have Crohn's disease. Or 100 people who took antibiotics when they were little, and 100 people who did not take antibiotics. And we can now start to compare the community of microbes and their genes and see if there are differences. And eventually we may be able to understand if they're not just correlative differences, but causative. Studies in model systems like mouse and other animals are also helping do this, but people are now using these technologies because they've gotten very cheap, to study the microbes in and on a variety of people. So, in wrapping up, what I want to tell you about is, I didn't tell you a part of the story of coming down with diabetes. It turns out that my father was an M.D., actually studied hormones. I told him many times that I was tired, thirsty, not feeling very good. And he shrugged it off, I think he either thought I was just complaining a lot, or it was the typical M.D. ""nothing can be wrong with my children."" We even went to the International Society of Endocrinology meeting as family in Quebec. And I was getting up every five minutes to pee, and drinking everybody's water at the table, and I think they all thought I was a druggie. (Laughter) But the reason I'm telling you this is that the medical community, my father as an example, sometimes doesn't see what's right in front of their eyes. The microbial cloud, it is right in front of us. We can't see it most of the time. It's invisible. They're microbes. They're tiny. But we can see them through their DNA, we can see them through the effects that they have on people. And what we need now is to start thinking about this microbial community in the context of everything in human medicine. It doesn't mean that it affects every part of us, but it might. What we need is a full field guide to the microbes that live in and on people, so that we can understand what they're doing to our lives. We are them. They are us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要用一個小故事做開場。我在這附近長大。15歲時，我從一個自信身材魁梧的年輕運動員，四個多月，逐漸消瘦，瘦到像是個饑荒的災民，無時無刻覺得口渴我的身體基本上被消化掉了。狀況嚴重到，當我自助旅行到西維吉尼亞州，到 Old Rag Mountain, 那是我頭一回自助旅行我渴到像狗一樣趴到地上從地上的水坑喝水 那天晚上，我被送進急診室，確診為第一型糖尿病、導致酮酸中毒。感謝現代醫學的奇蹟，胰島素和其他的東西，我恢復健康，體重也回復，而且又胖了一些。 在那之後，一些念頭開始醞釀。我開始想，到底是什麼造成糖尿病？你們知道的，糖尿病是一種自體免疫疾病，你的身體攻擊自身正常的細胞，當時的認知是，人體在某些狀況下接觸到的病原體引發了免疫系統來對抗病原體結果殺死了製造胰島素的細胞。關於這個理論，我思考了很長一段時間，而醫界和大眾也大多專注在這個觀念上那就是： 微生物是有害的。現在，我需要我的助理幫忙。你們可能認得她。 其實，昨天，很抱歉的，我跳過了一些會談，去了國家科學院的大樓一趟，那邊有賣玩具，巨型微生物。所以...接住!如果你接住那一個，你已經得到噬肉菌了很明顯的我已經很久沒玩棒球了 （笑聲） 因此，不幸的，但不意外的是，國家科學院大樓賣的微生物娃娃，大多數都是病菌，大家都只看到有害致死的東西，那也是我當時研究的重點。事實上，我們被厚厚一層微生物雲覆蓋，而這些微生物大多時對我們有益，並不會致我們於死地。而且我們了解這點已經有一段時間了。人們用顯微鏡觀察研究覆蓋人體的微生物，我知道你沒有在聽我講話，但... （笑聲） 這些覆蓋人體的微生物。如果你用顯微鏡觀察它們，你會發現，在人身上，微生物細胞數量其實會有人體細胞的10倍。而這些微生物的總重量比我們的大腦還重。 我們的身體是其實的微生物豐富的生態系統。可惜的是，如果你想了解這些微生物，只是用顯微鏡觀察是不夠的我們剛才聽到的DNA定序，後來發現是研究微生物的最佳方法之一，藉由研究它們的DNA，我們得到更多資訊。而這是我這20年來的一直在做的，我用DNA定序分析不同來源收集的樣本，包括人體樣本。藉由DNA定序技術，我們可以從收集到DNA序列來了解特定地方的微生物。 神奇的是，當你使用這個技術研究，例如，人體，覆蓋我們的微生物不只是數量眾多，這些微生物有數千種不同的種類。我們身上的「人體微生物群系」包含了數百萬的基因，而且每個人身上的微生物體系的組成都不相同，在過去10或15年，人們一直在思考，也許是人體裡外的微生物，每個人身上的微生物雲組成的差異，可能決定了一些的健康和疾病上的個體差異。 而這回到剛剛的我的糖尿病故事，現在人們認為，引發一型糖尿病的原因不是因為人體不去對抗病原體，而是人體跟居住於其內外的微生物群溝通不良。而也許是在我身上的微生物群突然不知怎的消失了，然後引發某種免疫反應，導致我體內製造胰島素的細胞被攻擊破壞。 所以，接下來這幾分鐘，我想分享的是，經由DNA定序技術，我們學到了些什麼，尤其是在研究人體內外的存在的微生物雲。我現在要告訴你們另一個故事，是關於我的個人計畫。我第一次開始研究人體微生物的個人經驗，其實是緣起一個我發表的講座。那講座是在喬治城，就在附近而已。 我是主講人，喬治城醫學院院長也是我們家族的朋友，出席了那個講座。講座結束後，院長上前來告訴我他們正在做人體迴腸移植的研究。他們想研究移植後的微生物分布情況。 所以我開始跟 Michael Zasloff 及 Thomas Fishbein合作，我們觀察迴腸移植後，微生物在迴腸內繁殖的情形。我可以告訴你這個微生物研究的所有細節還有我們做了什麼。但我想告訴你這個故事的原因是因為在研究計畫的初期階段，他們做了一個很特別的嘗試。他們取得捐贈者的迴腸，充滿捐贈者身上的微生物，同時，受贈的病人體內微生物群也許已經失常了，舉例來說，克隆氏症的患者，然後他們消毒捐贈者的迴腸，清除所有的微生物，然後移植到受贈患者的體內。他們這樣做，是因為醫學上這是通常的手續，即使很明顯的，並不是個好主意。 還好，在這個研究的過程中移植外科醫生和所有其他成員，決定：「別用慣用的手續了，我們必須更新做法。」因此，他們留下部分原有的微生物群在迴腸裡。這些從捐贈者來源留下來的微生物，理論上，可能會對接受移植的人有幫助。 所以了，大家，這就是我過去幾年中所做的研究。用DNA技術來檢視人體微生物的研究在過去幾年來有很大的擴展。人類微生物群系研究計畫正在美國進行中，而在歐洲，人類腸道菌叢誌基因辨異研究計畫(MetaHIT)，和很多其他的研究也在進行。 當人們做了各種研究，他們發現，如，當一個嬰兒經由產道出生時，會得到母體的微生物群。剖腹產是帶有風險的，部分的風險因素可能起因為，嬰兒直接經由剖腹被取出母體時無法經由產道取得母體的菌群。許多不同的研究已經發現，在於我們體內及表面的微生物群落，有益於我們免疫系統的發展，幫助我們擊退病原體，促進新陳代謝，並調節我們的代謝速度，可能還形成了我們的體味，甚至在很多的方面都，影響我們的行為. 而且這些研究已經證明或是推斷各種重要機能經由這些微生物群、這層雲、非-病原體，在我們體內及體表的運作。有個領域我覺得相當有意思的是，剛剛既然我們丟了一堆菌給你們，你們之中有許多人也許有這個我會稱之為「 恐菌症」。人們真的很重視清潔，你說是嗎？我們廚房流理台上有抗菌產品，人們無時無刻在清洗身上的每個部分，抗生素被注入我們的食物、我們的居住環境，我們無結制地濫用抗生素。 如果你生病，殺光病原體是好事，但是我們必須了解，當我們使用化學製品跟抗生素在我們的環境裡，我們同時也在抹滅跟我們共生的微生物雲。抗生素的過度使用，尤其是在兒童身上，研究發現，跟造成肥胖、自體免疫疾病還有其他各種健康問題的風險因素息息相關，因為人體的微生物群落，被抗生素干擾破壞。 所以微生物群落可能會失常，不管我們喜不喜歡,或者可以用抗生素殺光這些微生物，但我們怎樣可以重建微生物群落？我相信這裡有很多人聽說過關於益生菌。益生菌可以用來嘗試重建體內及體表的微生物群落，而且已經有些成功的案例。在加州大學戴維斯分校正在進行一個計畫，他們嘗試用益生菌來治療和預防早產兒的壞死性腸炎。早產兒的身上的微生物群落問題多多，而也許益生菌可以幫助預防早產兒罹患這可怕的壞死性腸炎。 但是，益生菌是一個非常，非常簡易的解決方式。大多數的益生菌錠或是優酪乳含有一或兩種菌種，或是五種菌種，而人體的微生物群系有數千種的菌種。所以，什麼方法可以重建我們的微生物群系當我們的微生物群系是由數千種菌種組成的? 嗯，動物所做的一件事是，他們吃便便 - 所謂的嗜糞癖。原來，許多獸醫，尤其是老經驗的獸醫，一直在用一種叫「便便茶」，不是屁屁，而是便便茶，來治療馬和牛腹絞痛及其他之類的毛病。作法是用健康的動物的糞便做成茶，然後餵食給生病的動物。但是，除非你有隻牛，肚子一側開了一個大洞，你可以把你的手，伸入牠的瘤胃之外，很難想像，從嘴巴經過整個上消化道將微生物送入會是最好的運輸方式。所以，你可能已經聽說有人在做糞便移植，與其將少數益生菌種經由口部送入，他們是將整個益生菌的群系，從健康的捐贈者取得的群系，從消化道的另一端送入。 結果發現這樣做對於對抗某些頑固的傳染病非常有效。例如可以存留人體多年的困難腸梭菌。經由糞便移植，取得健康捐贈者的糞便中的微生物，事實上已經有成功治癒困難腸梭菌感染的案例。 因為這些新的移植手術手法、糞便移植或是便便茶的應用，讓我還有許多人有了同一個想法，就是這存在於我們體內及表面的微生物群系，其實是個器官。我們應該把這當做是一個正常運作的器官，自己的一部分看待。我們應該認真對待和尊重，不應該擾亂其平衡，像是沒有必要的狀況下，進行剖腹產、使用抗生素、或是過度清潔。 而因為DNA定序技術，今天人們可以做詳細的研究，比方說，比較100個克隆氏症患者跟100個沒有克隆氏症的人。或是比較100個小時候服用過生素的人，跟100個沒有服用抗生素的人。我們現在可以開始比較群系裡的微生物，和他們的基因，看看是否有差異。最終我們可能能夠明白，是否他們不只是有相關的差異，還有因果上的差異性。使用老鼠或是其他動物的實驗模型系統所做的研究，也同時幫助我們了解更多，但人們使用DNA技術是因為其成本已經變得非常低廉，可研究不同人身上的微生物。 作為總結，我現在想告訴你們的是，我剛剛沒告訴你們我得到糖尿病的過程。其實，我父親是醫生，而且他的專科是研究內分泌激素。很多次我告訴他，我很累，很渴，人很不舒服。他聳聳肩，我認為，他要麼想，我只是愛抱怨，或是醫生常有的「我的小孩怎麼可能會有毛病」心態甚至 我們全家一起去魁北克參加國際內分泌學會會議時，我每五分鐘就要起床尿尿，吃飯時我渴到得喝光每個人的水我想，他們大概都認為我嗑藥了。 （笑聲） 但我告訴你這個的原因是，醫學界，以我父親作為一個例子，有時反而看不見眼前發生的事。這層微生物雲，就在我們眼前，即使大部分時間我們看不見它，它是隱形的。微生物是極渺小的，但是我們可以看見他們，經由他們的DNA。但是我們可以看見他們，經由他們對人們的影響。 而我們現在需要的是，開始思考微生物群落在人類醫學的每一個層面。這不表示微生物影響我們的每一部分，但不排除這樣的可能性。我們需要的是對人體的微生物有一個整體的了解，才能了解他們對我們生活的影響。微生物跟人類，共生共存。 謝謝 （掌聲）
