Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_drori_on_what_we_think_we_know	"I'm going to try and explain why it is that perhaps we don't understand as much as we think we do. I'd like to begin with four questions. This is not some sort of cultural thing for the time of year. That's an in-joke, by the way. But these four questions, actually, are ones that people who even know quite a lot about science find quite hard. And they're questions that I've asked of science television producers, of audiences of science educators — so that's science teachers — and also of seven-year-olds, and I find that the seven-year-olds do marginally better than the other audiences, which is somewhat surprising. So the first question, and you might want to write this down, either on a bit of paper, physically, or a virtual piece of paper in your head. And, for viewers at home, you can try this as well. A little seed weighs next to nothing and a tree weighs a lot, right? I think we agree on that. Where does the tree get the stuff that makes up this chair, right? Where does all this stuff come from? (Knocks) And your next question is, can you light a little torch-bulb with a battery, a bulb and one piece of wire? And would you be able to, kind of, draw a — you don't have to draw the diagram, but would you be able to draw the diagram, if you had to do it? Or would you just say, that's actually not possible? The third question is, why is it hotter in summer than in winter? I think we can probably agree that it is hotter in summer than in winter, but why? And finally, would you be able to — and you can sort of scribble it, if you like — scribble a plan diagram of the solar system, showing the shape of the planets' orbits? Would you be able to do that? And if you can, just scribble a pattern. OK. Now, children get their ideas not from teachers, as teachers often think, but actually from common sense, from experience of the world around them, from all the things that go on between them and their peers, and their carers, and their parents, and all of that. Experience. And one of the great experts in this field, of course, was, bless him, Cardinal Wolsey. Be very careful what you get into people's heads because it's virtually impossible to shift it afterwards, right? (Laughter) I'm not quite sure how he died, actually. Was he beheaded in the end, or hung? (Laughter) Now, those questions, which, of course, you've got right, and you haven't been conferring, and so on. And I — you know, normally, I would pick people out and humiliate, but maybe not in this instance. A little seed weighs a lot and, basically, all this stuff, 99 percent of this stuff, came out of the air. Now, I guarantee that about 85 percent of you, or maybe it's fewer at TED, will have said it comes out of the ground. And some people, probably two of you, will come up and argue with me afterwards, and say that actually, it comes out of the ground. Now, if that was true, we'd have trucks going round the country, filling people's gardens in with soil, it'd be a fantastic business. But, actually, we don't do that. The mass of this comes out of the air. Now, I passed all my biology exams in Britain. I passed them really well, but I still came out of school thinking that that stuff came out of the ground. Second one: can you light a little torch-bulb with a battery bulb and one piece of wire? Yes, you can, and I'll show you in a second how to do that. Now, I have some rather bad news, which is that I had a piece of video that I was about to show you, which unfortunately — the sound doesn't work in this room, so I'm going to describe to you, in true ""Monty Python"" fashion, what happens in the video. And in the video, a group of researchers go to MIT on graduation day. We chose MIT because, obviously, that's a very long way away from here, and you wouldn't mind too much, but it sort of works the same way in Britain and in the West Coast of the USA. And we asked them these questions, and we asked those questions of science graduates, and they couldn't answer them. And so, there's a whole lot of people saying, ""I'd be very surprised if you told me that this came out of the air. That's very surprising to me."" And those are science graduates. And we intercut it with, ""We are the premier science university in the world,"" because of British-like hubris. (Laughter) And when we gave graduate engineers that question, they said it couldn't be done. And when we gave them a battery, and a piece of wire, and a bulb, and said, ""Can you do it?"" They couldn't do it. Right? And that's no different from Imperial College in London, by the way, it's not some sort of anti-American thing going on. As if. Now, the reason this matters is we pay lots and lots of money for teaching people — we might as well get it right. And there are also some societal reasons why we might want people to understand what it is that's happening in photosynthesis. For example, one half of the carbon equation is how much we emit, and the other half of the carbon equation, as I'm very conscious as a trustee of Kew, is how much things soak up, and they soak up carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. That's what plants actually do for a living. And, for any Finnish people in the audience, this is a Finnish pun: we are, both literally and metaphorically, skating on thin ice if we don't understand that kind of thing. Now, here's how you do the battery and the bulb. It's so easy, isn't it? Of course, you all knew that. But if you haven't played with a battery and a bulb, if you've only seen a circuit diagram, you might not be able to do that, and that's one of the problems. So, why is it hotter in summer than in winter? We learn, as children, that you get closer to something that's hot, and it burns you. It's a very powerful bit of learning, and it happens pretty early on. By extension, we think to ourselves, ""Why it's hotter in summer than in winter must be because we're closer to the Sun."" I promise you that most of you will have got that. Oh, you're all shaking your heads, but only a few of you are shaking your heads very firmly. Other ones are kind of going like this. All right. It's hotter in summer than in winter because the rays from the Sun are spread out more, right, because of the tilt of the Earth. And if you think the tilt is tilting us closer, no, it isn't. The Sun is 93 million miles away, and we're tilting like this, right? It makes no odds. In fact, in the Northern Hemisphere, we're further from the Sun in summer, as it happens, but it makes no odds, the difference. OK, now, the scribble of the diagram of the solar system. If you believe, as most of you probably do, that it's hotter in summer than in winter because we're closer to the Sun, you must have drawn an ellipse. Right? That would explain it, right? Except, in your — you're nodding — now, in your ellipse, have you thought, ""Well, what happens during the night?"" Between Australia and here, right, they've got summer and we've got winter, and what — does the Earth kind of rush towards the Sun at night, and then rush back again? I mean, it's a very strange thing going on, and we hold these two models in our head, of what's right and what isn't right, and we do that, as human beings, in all sorts of fields. So, here's Copernicus' view of what the solar system looked like as a plan. That's pretty much what you should have on your piece of paper. Right? And this is NASA's view. They're stunningly similar. I hope you notice the coincidence here. What would you do if you knew that people had this misconception, right, in their heads, of elliptical orbits caused by our experiences as children? What sort of diagram would you show them of the solar system, to show that it's not really like that? You'd show them something like this, wouldn't you? It's a plan, looking down from above. But, no, look what I found in the textbooks. That's what you show people, right? These are from textbooks, from websites, educational websites — and almost anything you pick up is like that. And the reason it's like that is because it's dead boring to have a load of concentric circles, whereas that's much more exciting, to look at something at that angle, isn't it? Right? And by doing it at that angle, if you've got that misconception in your head, then that two-dimensional representation of a three-dimensional thing will be ellipses. So you've — it's crap, isn't it really? As we say. So, these mental models — we look for evidence that reinforces our models. We do this, of course, with matters of race, and politics, and everything else, and we do it in science as well. So we look, just look — and scientists do it, constantly — we look for evidence that reinforces our models, and some folks are just all too able and willing to provide the evidence that reinforces the models. So, being I'm in the United States, I'll have a dig at the Europeans. These are examples of what I would say is bad practice in science teaching centers. These pictures are from La Villette in France and the welcome wing of the Science Museum in London. And, if you look at the, kind of the way these things are constructed, there's a lot of mediation by glass, and it's very blue, and kind of professional — in that way that, you know, Woody Allen comes up from under the sheets in that scene in ""Annie Hall,"" and said, ""God, that's so professional."" And that you don't — there's no passion in it, and it's not hands on, right, and, you know, pun intended. Whereas good interpretation — I'll use an example from nearby — is San Francisco Exploratorium, where all the things that — the demonstrations, and so on, are made out of everyday objects that children can understand, it's very hands-on, and they can engage with, and experiment with. And I know that if the graduates at MIT and in the Imperial College in London had had the battery and the wire and the bit of stuff, and you know, been able to do it, they would have learned how it actually works, rather than thinking that they follow circuit diagrams and can't do it. So good interpretation is more about things that are bodged and stuffed and of my world, right? And things that — where there isn't an extra barrier of a piece of glass or machined titanium, and it all looks fantastic, OK? And the Exploratorium does that really, really well. And it's amateur, but amateur in the best sense, in other words, the root of the word being of love and passion. So, children are not empty vessels, OK? So, as ""Monty Python"" would have it, this is a bit Lord Privy Seal to say so, but this is — children are not empty vessels. They come with their own ideas and their own theories, and unless you work with those, then you won't be able to shift them, right? And I probably haven't shifted your ideas of how the world and universe operates, either. But this applies, equally, to matters of trying to sell new technology. For example, we are, in Britain, we're trying to do a digital switchover of the whole population into digital technology [for television]. And it's one of the difficult things is that when people have preconceptions of how it all works, it's quite difficult to shift those. So we're not empty vessels; the mental models that we have as children persist into adulthood. Poor teaching actually does more harm than good. In this country and in Britain, magnetism is understood better by children before they've been to school than afterwards, OK? Same for gravity, two concepts, so it's — which is quite humbling, as a, you know, if you're a teacher, and you look before and after, that's quite worrying. They do worse in tests afterwards, after the teaching. And we collude. We design tests, or at least in Britain, so that people pass them. Right? And governments do very well. They pat themselves on the back. OK? We collude, and actually if you — if someone had designed a test for me when I was doing my biology exams, to really understand, to see whether I'd understood more than just kind of putting starch and iodine together and seeing it go blue, and really understood that plants took their mass out of the air, then I might have done better at science. So the most important thing is to get people to articulate their models. Your homework is — you know, how does an aircraft's wing create lift? An obvious question, and you'll have an answer now in your heads. And the second question to that then is, ensure you've explained how it is that planes can fly upside down. Ah ha, right. Second question is, why is the sea blue? All right? And you've all got an idea in your head of the answer. So, why is it blue on cloudy days? Ah, see. (Laughter) I've always wanted to say that in this country. (Laughter) Finally, my plea to you is to allow yourselves, and your children, and anyone you know, to kind of fiddle with stuff, because it's by fiddling with things that you, you know, you complement your other learning. It's not a replacement, it's just part of learning that's important. Thank you very much. Now — oh, oh yeah, go on then, go on. (Applause)"	我會試著解釋為何我說也許我們知道的沒有自以為的多我想從四個問題開始不是那種今年流行的文化問題對了，剛剛那句是個圈內笑話不過這四個問題，事實上即使是很懂科學的人也覺得難這些問題我拿去問科學節目製片問觀眾、問科學背景的學者也問教科學的老師還有七歲孩童我發現七歲孩童答得比其他人好這點有些令人驚訝 問題一，你可能想把問題抄下來抄在紙上，或想像中的紙上坐在電腦前的你也可以試著作答種籽很輕，而大樹很有重量對吧？都同意吧，大樹用來製成椅子的木材是哪來的？對吧？木材是怎麼來的？（敲椅聲） 問題二，你能否點亮1個小燈泡只用1個電池、1個燈泡、和1條電線？那你能畫出上述問題的圖解嗎？不用真的畫畫出這題的圖解就好要是你必須畫的話，或者你會表示這個問題沒有解答 問題三，為何夏天比冬天熱？大家應該都同意夏天比冬天還熱但為何如此？問題四，你能不能想畫的人可以畫在紙上畫出太陽系的平面圖呈現出行星軌道運行的形狀你可以畫得出來嗎？你晝得出來的話，就把形狀畫出來 好，孩童對事物的概念不是老師教的老師時常這麼以為，但實際上概念來自於常理來自於孩童對周遭世界的體驗來自於他們跟同伴彼此交流還有跟保姆、父母親、所有人交流的經驗有個專家很清楚這事實，對了，願他安息他就是渥西主教，他說要小心放進腦袋的東西因為那些東西幾乎不會再改變，對吧？（笑聲）我不太清楚他的死因，真的他最後上了斷頭台？還是被吊死？（笑聲）現在我們回歸那四個問題，大家都知道問題了彼此之間也沒有討論答案我習慣點人起來回答讓他丟臉不過這次就不點人好了 種籽可以很重，基本上這些木材的原料有99％來自於空氣我相信有85％的人，或許在你們TED會比較少會說木材來自於大地，而有些人可能晚點有一兩個人會來找我爭論說木材其實是來自於大地若是如此，各地就會有卡車跑來跑去在人們的花園裡倒土，這真是門很棒的生意不過實際上我們不會那麼做木材的原料主要來自於空氣我在英國念書時考生物每考必過我的成績很好，但畢業後還是以為木材來自於大地 你能用1顆電池和1條電線點亮燈泡嗎？沒錯，可以，我會示範要如何做到現在有個壞消息本來有個影片要給大家看可惜在這邊聲音放不出來所以我就用講的，用比較喜感的方式影片內容是這樣的，在影片裡有一群研究員在畢業典禮那天去麻省理工學院為什麼是麻省理工呢？因為它離這裡很遠大家也就不會太介意不過場景設在英國也差不多或是設在美國西岸我們問了麻省理工的畢業生這四個問題他們答不出來而且還有很多學生表示「我很驚訝你說木材是從空氣中來的」「這真的讓我很吃驚」，理工的畢業生這麼說我們用「我們是全球第一的理工大學」來作結因為英國人很傲慢(笑聲)我們拿問題二去問見習工程師他們說這不可能做得到我們拿了電池、電線、和燈泡給他們問他們「你能做到嗎?」，他們沒辦法順道一提，倫敦的帝國學院也差不多如此我們不是在做什麼反美的事 雖然聽來頗像。重點是我們花了很多錢來教育大眾，或許能改正大眾認知其中也有一些社會因素讓我們想使大眾了解光合作用如何運作例如，有1/2的碳儲量是人類排放的而其餘1/2的碳儲量我相當關切，身為皇家植物園的受託管理人那1/2的碳儲量就是植物吸收的，吸收二氧化碳植物就是以此維生的如果在場有芬蘭人，這是芬蘭話的雙關語我們無論在實際上或隱喻上，都是如履薄冰要是我們不明白那些事電池和燈泡只要這要做就行很簡單，不是嗎？你們都懂了但要是你沒有親手碰過電池和燈泡只看過電路圖你可能就做不出來，這是個麻煩 那麼，為何夏天比冬天熱？我們從小就知道，離熱的東西太近你就被燙到，這真是個震憾教育很小的時候大家就學到了延伸這個論點，我們覺得夏天比冬天熱一定是因為我們離太陽比較近我相信大多人都懂了哦，大家都在搖頭不過只有幾個人搖得很堅定其他人只是這樣子搖而已，好吧夏天比冬天熱是因為太陽的輻射線傳播得比較多，地球傾斜的關係如果你以為是朝太陽的方向傾斜，那就錯了太陽離地球1億5千萬公里，地球傾斜角度大略如此傾斜不是差別所在，在北半球夏天時離太陽較遠跟傾斜沒有關係 好，問題四是畫出太陽系的平面圖如果大家相信，大多數可能都相信夏天比冬天熱是因為地球離太陽較近大家應該都畫了橢圓形對吧？這就能解釋了吧？除非，你點頭了，你畫了個橢圓形你有想過，「夜晚又是怎麼回事」？澳洲和美國這邊，澳洲是夏天這邊是冬天，難道說地球在晚上會衝向太陽然後再衝回來？這實在很奇怪我們腦中有兩種思考模式，對的和錯的身為人類，我們什麼事都這樣思考 左邊是哥白尼畫的太陽系平面圖比大家紙上畫的好多了，對吧？右邊是NASA的版本，兩張圖非常相似我希望大家注意其中的巧合要是你知道人們有錯誤觀念，你會怎麼做在他們腦中，楕圓形的軌道是他們兒時經驗教的嗎？你會給他們看什麼樣的太陽系示意圖?證明太陽系不是他們想的那樣你會給他們看這種圖嗎?這是俯瞰的平面圖可是並非如此，瞧瞧我在教科書裡找到的你會給他們看這種圖對吧？出自教科書出自教育網站你找得到的幾乎都是這種圖會以這種視角呈現是因為只有一堆同心圓太死板無趣從這種視角看太陽系比較新鮮刺激不是嗎？因為弄成這種視角如果你腦中有了這種誤解用二度空間來呈現三度空間就會變成橢圓形這真是沒意義，可不是嗎？因此，我們尋求證據來增強我們的心智模式我們用這種方式處理種族、政治、所有事當然也用這種方式處理科學，我們只觀看是科學家在處理，我們不斷尋求證據來增強我們的心智模式，有些人很有辦法也樂意提供證據來增強那些模式 所以我現在人在美國，就會說歐洲人的壞話這些圖片都是我認為不良的科學實作例子類似教學中心，這些圖取自法國維葉特科博館以及倫敦科博館的迎賓翼展示區你看看這些東西建成的模樣有很多玻璃隔板，藍光色調，弄得很專業似的那種方式，就像是伍迪艾倫從床單裡冒出來在《安妮霍爾》戲中的那一幕他說「老天，這真是太專業了」沒有一絲熱情，沒有實作空間這是個雙關，不過也有好的教學方法我舉一個例子，離這裡很近，舊金山探索館在那裡所有的東西，展示品之類的都是用孩子能懂的日常用品做成的都可以動手玩，孩子們可以專心玩好好體驗我知道麻省理工畢業生以及倫敦帝國學院畢業生手上有電池電線點亮燈泡的話他們會明白其中的原理而不是覺得他們照著電路圖來做是做不到的好的教學方法不是粗製濫造、沈醉在自己世界裡對吧？那些東西也不該被隔著用玻璃或是鈦製品隔開看起來很炫就好，好嗎？舊金山探索館在這點做得非常好很不專業，但就是不專業才好也就是說，不專業是出自愛和熱情 所以，孩童不是空瓶子用喜感的方式來說有點像英國掌璽大臣會說的意思是說孩童不是空無一物的瓶子他們生來就有自己的想法和理念如果你沒從這方式著手，就改變不了他們對吧？我大概沒有改變大家的想法對於世界和宇宙到底如何運作不過這也能運用在推銷新科技上例如，在英國，我們試著把全部的電視都換成新科技的數位電視有個難題是人們對事物運作的方式一旦有了成見就很難去改變我們不是空瓶子，我們保有心智模式從幼年到成年一直都存在不良的教學是弊多於利在美國和英國，在磁力知識上孩童在就學前學得比較好重力知識也一樣，兩個不同概念，這實在可悲如果你是個老師，看見受教前和受教後的差別實在令人憂心，學童在受教後考得更差我們都是共犯，我們設計測驗方式至少在英國是這樣，好讓人們能通過考試政府也幫了不少忙，他們推波助瀾懂嗎？我們都是共犯如果有人替我設計測驗在我要考生物的時候讓我能真正明白，明白我是否真的懂了不是只在澱粉中加入碘液看著反應呈現藍色而且能真正明白植物是從空氣中茁壯的我的科學可能就會學得比較好所以，最重要的是要讓人們打通心智模式 回家作業是，飛機為何有機翼就能飛？這問題很好懂，大家心中也有答案了注意事項是你要確保自己能解釋為何飛機能飛上飛下對吧，問題二，海為何是藍色的？大家心中應該都有答案了那麼，為什麼陰天時海還是藍的？看吧（笑聲）我一直想在美國講這句話（笑聲）最後，我希望大家能讓自己，還有孩子以及任何你認識的人，去攪動事物因為翻攪了事物，你知道的你就補足了其他方面的學習，這不是替換這只是一部分很重要的學習謝謝大家那麼，噢，沒闗係，繼續吧(鼓掌)
