Talk	en	zh-tw
joseph_pine_on_what_consumers_want	"I'm going to talk about a very fundamental change that is going on in the very fabric of the modern economy. And to talk about that, I'm going to go back to the beginning, because in the beginning were commodities. Commodities are things that you grow in the ground, raise on the ground or pull out of the ground: basically, animal, mineral, vegetable. And then you extract them out of the ground, and sell them on the open marketplace. Commodities were the basis of the agrarian economy that lasted for millennia. But then along came the industrial revolution, and then goods became the predominant economic offering, where we used commodities as a raw material to be able to make or manufacture goods. So, we moved from an agrarian economy to an industrial economy. Well, what then happened over the last 50 or 60 years, is that goods have become commoditized. Commoditized: where they're treated like a commodity, where people don't care who makes them. They just care about three things and three things only: price, price and price. Now, there's an antidote to commoditization, and that is customization. My first book was called ""Mass Customization"" — it came up a couple of times yesterday — and how I discovered this progression of economic value was realizing that customizing a good automatically turned it into a service, because it was done just for a particular person, because it wasn't inventoried, it was delivered on demand to that individual person. So, we moved from an industrial economy to a service-based economy. But over the past 10 or 20 years, what's happened is that services are being commoditized as well. Long-distance telephone service sold on price, price, price; fast-food restaurants with all their value pricing; and even the Internet is commoditizing not just goods, but services as well. What that means is that it's time to move to a new level of economic value. Time to go beyond the goods and the services, and use, in that same heuristic, what happens when you customize a service? What happens when you design a service that is so appropriate for a particular person — that's exactly what they need at this moment in time? Then you can't help but make them go ""wow""; you can't help but turn it into a memorable event — you can't help but turn it into an experience. So we're shifting to an experience economy, where experiences are becoming the predominant economic offering. Now most places that I talk to, when I talk about experience, I talk about Disney — the world's premier experience-stager. I talk about theme restaurants, and experiential retail, and boutique hotels, and Las Vegas — the experience capital of the world. But here, when you think about experiences, think about Thomas Dolby and his group, playing music. Think about meaningful places. Think about drinking wine, about a journey to the Clock of the Long Now. Those are all experiences. Think about TED itself. The experience capital in the world of conferences. All of these are experiences. Now, over the last several years I spent a lot of time in Europe, and particularly in the Netherlands, and whenever I talk about the experience economy there, I'm always greeted at the end with one particular question, almost invariably. And the question isn't really so much a question as an accusation. And the Dutch, when they usually put it, it always starts with the same two words. You know the words I mean? You Americans. They say, you Americans. You like your fantasy environments, your fake, your Disneyland experiences. They say, we Dutch, we like real, natural, authentic experiences. So much has that happened that I've developed a fairly praticed response, which is: I point out that first of all, you have to understand that there is no such thing as an inauthentic experience. Why? Because the experience happens inside of us. It's our reaction to the events that are staged in front of us. So, as long as we are in any sense authentic human beings, then every experience we have is authentic. Now, there may be more or less natural or artificial stimuli for the experience, but even that is a matter of degree, not kind. And there's no such thing as a 100 percent natural experience. Even if you go for a walk in the proverbial woods, there is a company that manufactured the car that delivered you to the edge of the woods; there's a company that manufactured the shoes that you have to protect yourself from the ground of the woods. There's a company that provides a cell phone service you have in case you get lost in the woods. Right? All of those are man-made, artificiality brought into the woods by you, and by the very nature of being there. And then I always finish off by talking about — the thing that amazes me the most about this question, particularly coming from the Dutch, is that the Netherlands is every bit as manufactured as Disneyland. (Laughter) And the Dutch, they always go ... and they realize, I'm right! There isn't a square meter of ground in the entire country that hasn't been reclaimed from the sea, or otherwise moved, modified and manicured to look as if it had always been there. It's the only place you ever go for a walk in the woods and all the trees are lined up in rows. (Laughter) But nonetheless, not just the Dutch, but everyone has this desire for the authentic. And authenticity is therefore becoming the new consumer sensibility — the buying criteria by which consumers are choosing who are they going to buy from, and what they're going to buy. Becoming the basis of the economy. In fact, you can look at how each of these economies developed, that each one has their own business imperative, matched with a consumer sensibility. We're the agrarian economy, and we're supplying commodities. It's about supply and availability. Getting the commodities to market. With the industrial economy, it is about controlling costs — getting the costs down as low as possible so we can offer them to the masses. With the service economy, it is about improving quality. That has — the whole quality movement has risen with the service economy over the past 20 or 30 years. And now, with the experience economy, it's about rendering authenticity. Rendering authenticity — and the keyword is ""rendering."" Right? Rendering, because you have to get your consumers — as business people — to percieve your offerings as authentic. Because there is a basic paradox: no one can have an inauthentic experience, but no business can supply one. Because all businesses are man-made objects; all business is involved with money; all business is a matter of using machinery, and all those things make something inauthentic. So, how do you render authenticity, is the question. Are you rendering authenticity? When you think about that, let me go back to what Lionel Trilling, in his seminal book on authenticity, ""Sincerity and Authenticity"" — came out in 1960 — points to as the seminal point at which authenticity entered the lexicon, if you will. And that is, to no surprise, in Shakespeare, and in his play, Hamlet. And there is one part in this play, Hamlet, where the most fake of all the characters in Hamlet, Polonius, says something profoundly real. At the end of a laundry list of advice he's giving to his son, Laertes, he says this: And this above all: to thine own self be true. And it doth follow, as night the day, that thou canst not then be false to any man. And those three verses are the core of authenticity. There are two dimensions to authenticity: one, being true to yourself, which is very self-directed. Two, is other-directed: being what you say you are to others. And I don't know about you, but whenever I encounter two dimensions, I immediately go, ahh, two-by-two! All right? Anybody else like that, no? Well, if you think about that, you do, in fact, get a two-by-two. Where, on one dimension it's a matter of being true to yourself. As businesses, are the economic offerings you are providing — are they true to themselves? And the other dimension is: are they what they say they are to others? If not, you have, ""is not true to itself,"" and ""is not what it says it is,"" yielding a two-by-two matrix. And of course, if you are both true to yourself, and are what you say you are, then you're real real! (Laughter) The opposite, of course, is — fake fake. All right, now, there is value for fake. There will always be companies around to supply the fake, because there will always be desire for the fake. Fact is, there's a general rule: if you don't like it, it's fake; if you do like it, it's faux. (Laughter) Now, the other two sides of the coin are: being a real fake — is what it says it is, but is not true to itself, or being a fake real: is true to itself, but not what it says it is. You can think about those two — you know, both of these better than being fake fake — not quite as good as being real real. You can contrast them by thinking about Universal City Walk versus Disney World, or Disneyland. Universal City Walk is a real fake — in fact, we got this very term from Ada Louise Huxtable's book, ""The Unreal America."" A wonderful book, where she talks about Universal City Walk as — you know, she decries the fake, but she says, at least that's a real fake, right, because you can see behind the facade, right? It is what it says it is: It's Universal Studio; it's in the city of Los Angeles; you're going to walk a lot. Right? You don't tend to walk a lot in Los Angeles, well, here's a place where you are going to walk a lot, outside in this city. But is it really true to itself? Right? Is it really in the city? Is it — you can see behind all of it, and see what is going on in the facades of it. So she calls it a real fake. Disney World, on the other hand, is a fake real, or a fake reality. Right? It's not what it says it is. It's not really the magic kingdom. (Laughter) But it is — oh, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to — (Laughter) — sorry. We won't talk about Santa Claus then. (Laughter) But Disney World is wonderfully true to itself. Right? Just wonderfully true to itself. When you are there you are just immersed in this wonderful environment. So, it's a fake real. Now the easiest way to fall down in this, and not be real real, right, the easiest way not to be true to yourself is not to understand your heritage, and thereby repudiate that heritage. Right, the key of being true to yourself is knowing who you are as a business. Knowing where your heritage is: what you have done in the past. And what you have done in the past limits what you can do, what you can get away with, essentially, in the future. So, you have to understand that past. Think about Disney again. Disney, 10 or 15 years ago, right, the Disney — the company that is probably best-known for family values out there, Disney bought the ABC network. The ABC network, affectionately known in the trade as the T&A network, right — that's not too much jargon, is it? Right, the T&A network. Then it bought Miramax, known for its NC-17 fare, and all of a sudden, families everywhere couldn't really trust what they were getting from Disney. It was no longer true to its heritage; no longer true to Walt Disney. That's one of the reasons why they're having such trouble today, and why Roy Disney is out to get Michael Eisner. Because it is no longer true to itself. So, understand what — your past limits what you can do in the future. When it comes to being what you say you are, the easiest mistake that companies make is that they advertise things that they are not. That's when you're perceived as fake, as a phony company — advertizing things that you're not. Think about any hotel, any airline, any hospital. Right, if you could check into the ads, you'd have a great experience. (Laughter) But unfortunately, you have to experience the actual hotel, airline and hospital, and then you have that disconnect. Then you have that perception that you are phony. So, the number one thing to do when it comes to being what you say you are, is to provide places for people to experience who you are. For people to experience who you are. Right, it's not advertising does it. That's why you have companies like Starbucks, right, that doesn't advertise at all. They said, you want to know who we are, you have to come experience us. And think about the economic value they have provided by that experience. Right? Coffee, at its core, is what? Right? It's beans; right? It's coffee beans. You know how much coffee is worth, when treated as a commodity as a bean? Two or three cents per cup — that's what coffee is worth. But grind it, roast it, package it, put it on a grocery store shelf, and now it'll cost five, 10, 15 cents, when you treat it as a good. Take that same good, and perform the service of actually brewing it for a customer, in a corner diner, in a bodega, a kiosk somewhere, you get 50 cents, maybe a buck per cup of coffee. But surround the brewing of that coffee with the ambiance of a Starbucks, with the authentic cedar that goes inside of there, and now, because of that authentic experience, you can charge two, three, four, five dollars for a cup of coffee. So, authenticity is becoming the new consumer sensibility. Let me summarize it, for the business people in the audience, with three rules, three basic rules. One, don't say you're authentic unless you really are authentic. Two, it's easier to be authentic if you don't say you're authentic. And three, if you say you're authentic, you better be authentic. And then for the consumers, for everyone else in the audience, let me simply summarize it by saying, increasingly, what we — what will make us happy, is spending our time and our money satisfying the desire for authenticity. Thank you."	我要來談一談在現代經濟結構中，一個正在發生且很根本的改變。要談這個改變就需要從頭說起，因為在經濟開始時有貨品。貨品是你種植和畜養在地上，或從地上挖出來的東西。基本上就是動物、礦物、蔬菜，你從土地上取出這些東西，然後到公開的市場上販賣。貨品是農業經濟的基礎，且持續了好幾千年。可是，之後發生了工業革命，商品成了主要的經濟產物，我們將貨品當作原料，用來製造或生產商品。 於是，我們從農業經濟轉入工業經濟。而過去50或60年所發生的是商品變得大眾化了。大眾化就是對待商品像貨品一樣。人們不關心是由誰製造的。人們只關心三件事情：價格、價格、價格。 有個對抗商品大眾化的辦法，那就是客製化。我的第一本書叫「大量客製化」，昨天在演講上提過幾次。書中提到我發現經濟價值的演進，是從了解到將商品客製化之後，將自動轉變成服務，因為這是爲某個特定的人所做的事，因為這是沒有庫存的。它是應需求而傳遞給特定的個人。 於是，我們從工業經濟轉移到以服務為基礎的經濟。不過在過去10或20年內，服務竟然也被大眾化了。長途電話服務的銷售也只關心價格、價格、價格，速食餐廳提供所有的超值定價，甚至連網路也不只是將商品大眾化而已，連服務也大眾化了。這意味著，轉移到新一層的經濟價值的時候到了。超越產品與服務的時候到了，應用同樣的法則，當你客製服務後會產生什麼？當你為特定的人設計，為當前的消費者提供非常合適的服務時會如何呢？你必須讓他們大聲喊出「哇」！你必須使服務變成難忘的活動，你不得不使服務變成一種體驗。 所以我們現在正轉移到體驗經濟，體驗逐漸變成主要的經濟產物。在我演講的許多地方，當我提到體驗，我就會講到迪士尼—世界上首位提供體驗的老手。我談論主題餐廳及實驗商店，精品旅館及拉斯維加斯—世界的體驗首都。但是在這裡當你講到體驗，你會想到湯瑪斯道比和他的團隊演奏音樂，想想別具意義的地方，想想喝葡萄酒，或是踏上邁向「萬年鐘」的旅程。這些全部都是體驗。想想TED本身，座談會世界裡的體驗首都，這全都是體驗。 過去幾年我花很多的時間在歐洲，特別是在荷蘭，每當我在那裡談到體驗經濟時，我總是會在演講最後被問到一個問題，幾乎每次都一樣。那問題其實並不是個問題，而是一種指責。荷蘭人通常都會用同一種開頭，你知道我指的是什麼嗎？“你們美國人”荷蘭人會說：你們美國人，你們喜歡自己夢幻的世界，你們假象的迪士尼樂園體驗。他們又說：我們荷蘭人喜歡實質的、自然、真實的體驗。這問題出現的次數，多到讓我發展出一套標準答案。那就是：首先我想指出，大家必須了解，“非真實的體驗” 並不存在。爲什麼呢？因為體驗發生在我們體內，是我們對眼前舞台上的活動所產生的反應，所以，只要我們是真實的人類，那麼我們所擁有的每個體驗都是真實的。也許體驗中或多或少有些是，自然或人工的刺激。但那也只是程度的差異而不是種類的差別。而且，百分之百自然的體驗也不存在，即使你是到聞名的森林裡去散步，還是有公司製造了車子，載你到森林的入口處去;也有公司製造了你所穿的鞋子，來保護你的腳不受到傷害。還有公司提供你所擁有的手機服務，萬一你在森林裡迷路了可以用。對吧！這些都是你帶進森林裡的人工產物，單單是在那裡就非純自然的了。而我總是在結尾時， 提到這個問題，讓我覺得不可思議的地方，尤其是來自荷蘭人口中，那就是荷蘭跟迪士尼樂園一樣是人工的。(笑聲)最後荷蘭人總是會嘆息，然後明白我說的是對的。在荷蘭沒有一平方公尺的地，不是用填海造地的。要不然就是經過搬動改造及整修，好讓土地看起來就像有史以來就在那兒一樣。荷蘭是唯一一個地方你到森林去散步，會看見排列整齊的樹。(笑聲) 無論如何不只是荷蘭人，但是，每個人都渴望擁有最真實的體驗。於是真實性就變成了新的消費感知力—成為決定消費者選擇在哪裡購買，以及購買什麼的條件。成為經濟結構的基礎。事實上，你可以看見每個經濟是如何演進的，每個經濟結構都有自己的商業模式，結合某種消費感知力。在農業經濟我們供應貨品，關係到供應與可得性。將貨品送到市場上， 工業經濟則關心成本的掌控—儘可能將成本降到最低，好讓我們可以提供給大眾。服務經濟則關係到品質的改進。過去20或30年來，服務經濟帶動了整個品質運動。 而現在的體驗經濟，則關係到呈現真實性。呈現真實性關鍵字是呈現。因為身為商人你必須讓你的消費者—像商人一樣，覺得你所提供的是真實的東西。因為這裡有個基本的迷思：沒有人可以擁有非真實性的體驗，但也沒有商人可以提供絕對真實的體驗。因為所有的商業都是人造的物質;所有的商業都跟錢有關;所有的商業都使用機器，而這些都會讓東西變成非真實的。所以你如何呈現真實性就是一個問題。你在呈現真實性嗎？ 在你思考這個問題的同時，讓我回到萊諾.崔凌探討真實性的學術著作，1960年寫的「誠意與真實性」，被當成是學術重點，你可以當作是將真實性編入了詞典。自然也出現在莎士比亞劇作哈姆雷特當中，在哈姆雷特當中的某場戲，劇中最虛假的波龍尼，道出了極度真實的事情。在一連串給他兒子雷阿提斯的建議的末端，他說：最重要的是忠於自我。如夜之繼日般奉行，也不致對人虛假，而這三句話就是真實性的核心。真實性有兩面，其一是忠於自我，非常自我導向，其二則是他人導向：對外界忠於你所說的。我不知道你怎麼做，但每當我遇到兩個面向時，我就馬上想到啊！ 二乘以二！有沒有人跟我一樣啊？沒有嗎？當你這麼想的時候，事實上，你就會得到二乘以二。一方面你得忠於自我。在商場上，你所提供的經濟產物，本身是否忠於自我呢？另一方面：它們在別人看來是否如描述的一樣呢？如果不是，結果就會變成，不忠於自我以及並非如你所說的一樣，產生一個二乘以二的矩陣圖當然如果你忠於自我，也真如你所說的那樣，那麼你就是真真！(笑聲) 相反的當然就是假假。虛假其實還是有價值的。總是會有公司提供假的東西，因為總是會有對假貨的渴望存在。事實上，這有個原則：如果你不喜歡那就是假的;如果你喜歡那就是人造的。(笑聲) 硬幣的另外兩面是：成為真的假，那就是產品忠於它所說的，但卻不是忠於自我的，另外就是成為一個假的真：忠於自我，但卻不是忠於它所說的。你可以說這兩種都比假假要來得好—雖然還不如真真的好。你可以拿環球影城商店街與迪士尼世界或迪士尼樂園做個比較。環球影城商店街是真的虛假—事實上，我們是從賀克斯苔博的書「非真實的美國」當中擷取出這個詞的。那是一本好書，描述環球影城商店街是假的。她譴責假的事物，但是她又說那至少是真的假。因為你可以看見門面後的東西，對吧？它如自己所說的它就是環球影城;在洛杉磯市區而且你需要走很多路。在洛杉磯人們不太走路，可是在這個地方你可以在戶外走很多路，就在城市裡。不過它真的忠於自我嗎？它真的是在城市裡嗎？它是—你可以看穿後台的東西，也可以看見前台正在發生的事情，所以賀克斯苔博說環球影城是真的假。 相反的迪士尼世界是假的真，或是一個假的現實。它並非如同它所說的不是真的神奇國度。(笑聲)噢！抱歉，我並不是故意的，(笑聲)—抱歉。我保證不會再說聖誕老公公。(笑聲)但是迪士尼世界確實非常忠於自我，極度的忠於自我。當你在那裡，整個人就沉浸在那美好的世界裡。所以它是假的真。 要失敗最簡單的方法，且不要成為真的真實，不要忠於自我最簡單的方法就是不要去了解你自己的傳統，也就是跟你的傳統斷絕關係。忠於自我的關鍵就是，了解你是什麼樣的商業，了解你的傳統在哪裡你過去做了什麼？而你過去所做的事情會限制你可以做的事，基本上就是未來你可以逃脫掉的事，所以，你必須了解那個歷史。 再拿迪士尼做比喻。迪士尼，在10或15年前，迪士尼可能是眾所皆知最標榜家庭價值的公司，迪士尼買下了ABC電視網，ABC電視網在商場上被暱稱為T&A 電視網—這沒有用太多術語吧！接著T&A電視網，又買了Miramax電影公司，以NC-17限制級影片出名。突然間各地所有的家庭，就無法信任迪士尼所播出的節目了。迪士尼不再忠於自己的傳統;也不在忠於華特迪士尼。這就是今天他們為何會面臨困境的原因之一，也是爲什麼洛依迪士尼要找來邁可.艾斯納。因為迪士尼已經不再忠於自我了。所以，了解自己的傳統就會限制你未來可做的事。 當談到忠於你所說的，許多企業最常犯的錯誤就是，他們刊登不實的廣告。於是人們就視你為假的謊騙的公司—去廣告非你所說的那種產品。試想任何一家旅館、航空、醫院，如果你看廣告，你會得到一個很棒的體驗。(笑聲)可惜的是，你必須體驗旅館航空、醫院的實體，接著你將體會到那種斷層的感覺。然後就有一種被騙的感覺。所以要忠於你所說的第一個法則就是，提供一個地方讓人去體驗你是什麼。讓人去體驗你是什麼。廣告無法做到這點。 這就是為什麼有像星巴克這樣的企業，從來不登廣告，他們說如果你想了解我們，你就要來體驗我們。想想看他們透過這體驗所提供的經濟價值，咖啡的核心是什麼呢？就是咖啡豆，對吧？咖啡豆。你知道當咖啡被當作貨品，像咖啡豆一樣販賣時值多少錢嗎？一杯只要2或3分錢這就是咖啡的價值，但是研磨、烘烤、包裝，再放到商店架子上，價格就變成5、10、15分錢了。被當作商品之後。把同樣的商品，拿來實地爲消費者燒煮，在某個轉角的餐車酒館、小攤販裡煮咖啡，一杯咖啡的價格就提升到50分或一塊錢。若是將煮咖啡的動作加入星巴克的氣氛，室內有西洋杉原木的裝潢，現在因為多了這原汁原味的體驗，一杯咖啡就可以賣上二、三、四、五塊錢，於是真實性開始變成消費感知力。 讓我爲在座的商人做個總結，這裡有三個基本規則，第一、不要說自己是真實的，除非你真的是真實的。第二、當你不說自己是真實的，就會比較容易成為真實的。第三、如果你說自己是真實的，你最好就是真實的。接著讓我為其他消費者以及在座的其他觀眾做個總結，漸漸地，未來將讓我們快樂的是，花錢、花時間，滿足我們對真實的渴望。謝謝各位！
