Talk	en	zh-tw
jose_abreu_on_kids_transformed_by_music	"Chris Anderson: Let's now see the extraordinary speech that we captured a couple weeks ago. (Music) Jose Antonio Abreu: My dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, I am overjoyed today at being awarded the TED Prize on behalf of all the distinguished music teachers, artists and educators from Venezuela who have selflessly and loyally accompanied me for 35 years in founding, growing and developing in Venezuela the National System of Youth and Children's Orchestras and Choirs. Since I was a boy, in my early childhood, I always wanted to be a musician, and, thank God, I made it. From my teachers, my family and my community, I had all the necessary support to become a musician. All my life I've dreamed that all Venezuelan children have the same opportunity that I had. From that desire and from my heart stemmed the idea to make music a deep and global reality for my country. From the very first rehearsal, I saw the bright future ahead. Because the rehearsal meant a great challenge to me. I had received a donation of 50 music stands to be used by 100 boys in that rehearsal. When I arrived at the rehearsal, only 11 kids had shown up, and I said to myself, ""Do I close the program or multiply these kids?"" I decided to face the challenge, and on that same night, I promised those 11 children I'd turn our orchestra into one of the leading orchestras in the world. Two months ago, I remembered that promise I made, when a distinguished English critic published an article in the London Times, asking who could be the winner of the Orchestra World Cup. He mentioned four great world orchestras, and the fifth one was Venezuela's Youth Symphony Orchestra. Today we can say that art in Latin America is no longer a monopoly of elites and that it has become a social right, a right for all the people. Child: There is no difference here between classes, nor white or black, nor if you have money or not. Simply, if you are talented, if you have the vocation and the will to be here, you get in. You share with us and make music. JA: During the recent tour by the Simon Bolivar Youth Orchestra of Venezuela of U.S. and Europe, we saw how our music moved young audiences to the bottom of their souls, how children and adolescents rushed up to the stage to receive the jackets from our musicians, how the standing ovations, sometimes 30 minutes long, seemed to last forever, and how the public, after the concert was over, went out into the street to greet our young people in triumph. This meant not only an artistic triumph, but also a profound emotional sympathy between the public of the most advanced nations of the world and the musical youth of Latin America, as seen in Venezuela, giving these audiences a message of music, vitality, energy, enthusiasm and strength. In its essence, the orchestra and the choir are much more than artistic structures. They are examples and schools of social life, because to sing and to play together means to intimately coexist toward perfection and excellence, following a strict discipline of organization and coordination in order to seek the harmonic interdependence of voices and instruments. That's how they build a spirit of solidarity and fraternity among them, develop their self-esteem and foster the ethical and aesthetical values related to the music in all its senses. This is why music is immensely important in the awakening of sensibility, in the forging of values and in the training of youngsters to teach other kids. Child: After all this time here, music is life. Nothing else. Music is life. JA: Each teenager and child in El Sistema has his own story, and they are all important and of great significance to me. Let me mention the case of Edicson Ruiz. He is a boy from a parish in Caracas who passionately attended to his double bass lessons at the San Agustin's Junior Orchestra. With his effort, and the support of his mother, his family and his community, he became a principal member in the double bass segment of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. We have another well-known case — Gustavo Dudamel. He started as a boy member of the children's orchestra in his hometown, Barquisimeto. There, he grew as a violinist and as a conductor. He became the conductor of Venezuela's junior orchestras, and today conducts the world's greatest orchestras. He is the musical director of Los Angeles Philharmonic, and is still the overall leader of Venezuela's junior orchestras. He was the conductor of the Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra, and he's an unbeatable example for young musicians in Latin America and the world. The structure of El Sistema is based on a new and flexible managing style adapted to the features of each community and region, and today attends to 300,000 children of the lower and middle class all over Venezuela. It's a program of social rescue and deep cultural transformation designed for the whole Venezuelan society with absolutely no distinctions whatsoever, but emphasizing the vulnerable and endangered social groups. The effect of El Sistema is felt in three fundamental circles: in the personal/social circle, in the family circle and in the community. In the personal/social circle, the children in the orchestras and choirs develop their intellectual and emotional side. The music becomes a source for developing the dimensions of the human being, thus elevating the spirit and leading man to a full development of his personality. So, the emotional and intellectual profits are huge — the acquisition of leadership, teaching and training principles, the sense of commitment, responsibility, generosity and dedication to others, and the individual contribution to achieve great collective goals. All this leads to the development of self-esteem and confidence. Mother Teresa of Calcutta insisted on something that always impressed me: the most miserable and tragic thing about poverty is not the lack of bread or roof, but the feeling of being no-one — the feeling of not being anyone, the lack of identification, the lack of public esteem. That's why the child's development in the orchestra and the choir provides him with a noble identity and makes him a role model for his family and community. It makes him a better student at school because it inspires in him a sense of responsibility, perseverance and punctuality that will greatly help him at school. Within the family, the parents' support is unconditional. The child becomes a role model for both his parents, and this is very important for a poor child. Once the child discovers he is important to his family, he begins to seek new ways of improving himself and hopes better for himself and his community. Also, he hopes for social and economic improvements for his own family. All this makes up a constructive and ascending social dynamic. The large majority of our children belong, as I already mentioned, to the most vulnerable strata of the Venezuelan population. That encourages them to embrace new dreams, new goals, and progress in the various opportunities that music has to offer. Finally, in the circle of the community, the orchestras prove to be the creative spaces of culture and sources of exchange and new meanings. The spontaneity music has excludes it as a luxury item and makes it a patrimony of society. It's what makes a child play a violin at home, while his father works in his carpentry. It's what makes a little girl play the clarinet at home, while her mother does the housework. The idea is that the families join with pride and joy in the activities of the orchestras and the choirs that their children belong to. The huge spiritual world that music produces in itself, which also lies within itself, ends up overcoming material poverty. From the minute a child's taught how to play an instrument, he's no longer poor. He becomes a child in progress heading for a professional level, who'll later become a full citizen. Needless to say that music is the number one prevention against prostitution, violence, bad habits, and everything degrading in the life of a child. A few years ago, historian Arnold Toynbee said that the world was suffering a huge spiritual crisis. Not an economic or social crisis, but a spiritual one. I believe that to confront such a crisis, only art and religion can give proper answers to humanity, to mankind's deepest aspirations, and to the historic demands of our times. Education — the synthesis of wisdom and knowledge — is the means to strive for a more perfect, more aware, more noble and more just society. With passion and enthusiasm we pay profound respects to TED for its outstanding humanism, the scope of its principles, for its open and generous promotion of young values. We hope that TED can contribute in a full and fundamental way to the building of this new era in the teaching of music, in which the social, communal, spiritual and vindicatory aims of the child and the adolescent become a beacon and a goal for a vast social mission. No longer putting society at the service of art, and much less at the services of monopolies of the elite, but instead art at the service of society, at the service of the weakest, at the service of the children, at the service of the sick, at the service of the vulnerable, and at the service of all those who cry for vindication through the spirit of their human condition and the raising up of their dignity. (Music) (Applause) CA: We are going live now to Caracas. We are going live to Caracas to hear Maestro Abreu's TED Prize wish. JA: Here is my TED Prize wish: I wish that you'll help to create and document a special training program for 50 gifted young musicians, passionate about their art and social justice, and dedicated to bringing El Sistema to the United States and other countries. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	克理斯·安德生：現在讓我們來觀賞這段我們於幾星期前所錄製的精彩演講。 (音樂) 荷西·安東尼奧·阿布努：各位親愛的朋友、女仕、先生們，今天我非常高興能夠獲頒本年度的TED大獎謹代表委內瑞拉全體優秀的音樂教師、藝術家以及教育工作者們，他們在過去三十五年來一直無私並忠誠地陪伴着我共同在委內瑞拉為開創、培育及發展國立青少年與兒童管弦樂團及合唱團系統而努力。 打從我是還個男孩，在我稚幼的童年歲月中，我就一心想成為音樂家，感謝上帝，我成功了!從我的老師、我的家人及社會，我獲得了要成為音樂家所需的全部支持，窮我一生所夢想著的，是希望讓所有委內瑞拉的孩子，都能享有和我一樣的機會。由那個願望、從我的心中，生成了一個計畫，要使音樂全面深植於我的國家。 就從第一次彩排中，我看到了前方光明的未來，因為那次彩排對我來說是個極大的挑戰。我收到了五十個捐贈的樂譜架，準備給一百個孩子彩排時使用。當我到達彩排現場，發現只來了十一個小孩，我就對自己說，“我是該終止這個音樂計畫，還是要使學童的數量倍增呢？”我决定去面對挑戰，於是就在那個晚上，我向這十一個孩子承諾，我一定會把我們的管弦樂團變成世界上最好的樂團之一。兩個月前，我想起了這個曾許下的承諾，因為有位著名的英國樂評人，在《倫敦時報》發表了一篇文章，討論哪個樂團將會成為管絃樂世界大賽的贏家。他提到了四組世界一流的樂團，而第五個就是委内瑞拉青少年交響樂團。今天我們可以說，在拉丁美洲藝術不再是精英階層的專利，它已經成為一項社會權利，為所有人民所享有。 受訪孩子：在這裡没有階級差異，不論你的膚色，亦不分你的貧富。簡單的說，只要你有天分，只要你有信心及意願來到這裡，你就能加入，和我們一起分享並創作音樂。 在最近的巡迴演出中，西蒙玻利瓦爾青少年管弦樂團到委內瑞拉、美國及歐洲各地表演。我們見識到音樂如何地感動年輕聽眾，觸及他們的心靈深處;孩童及青少年們如何地爭相擁至台前來領取我們音樂家手中的外套；觀眾如何地熱烈起立鼓掌，掌聲有時長達30分鐘，似乎要持續到永久，還有在音樂會結束後，觀眾如何地興高采烈到街上去向我們的年輕團員們致賀。這代表的不僅是藝術上的重大成就，更是種深切的情感共鳴，在世界上最先進國家的觀眾與我們拉丁美洲的年輕音樂家之間，正如在委內瑞拉所看到的，傳達給聽眾們一個富有音樂、活力、能量、熱情與勇敢的訊息。 在本質上，我們的管絃樂團和合唱團不僅只是藝術形式的組織，更是社會生活的學習典範和學習場所，因為要一起演唱歌曲彈奏樂器意謂著要密切地共生共存著，共同朝向完美卓越的目標，遵守組織嚴格的紀律及協調配合，才能尋求歌聲與樂音合諧的互相依賴。那也就是他們如何能在彼此之中建立一種團結及友愛的精神，發展他們的自尊自重，並培養所有和音樂相關的道德感與審美觀。這也就是為什麼音樂是如此的重要，能喚醒鑑賞力、塑造價值觀，並訓練年輕的世代去教導其他的孩子。 經過在樂團的這段時間，我體會到音樂就是生活，無可取代。音樂就是生活。 在這青少年管弦樂團系統 (El Sistema)中每個孩子都有他自己的故事，他們每個人對我來說都具有重大意義。讓我舉艾迪生‧路易茲 (Edicson Ruiz)為例，來自加拉加斯某行政區的他，積極熱誠地在聖奧古斯汀青少年管弦樂團上著低音大提琴課。在他的努力，和他的母親、家庭及社區的支持下，他成為柏林愛樂管弦樂團低音大提琴部的主要成員。我們另一個著名的例子是高斯塔夫‧杜達美(Gustavo Dudamel)。一開始他是兒童管弦樂團的成員，在他的故鄉，巴爾格茲米托 (Barquisismeto)。在那裏，他成長為小提琴手與指揮家，然後擔任委內瑞拉少年管弦樂團的指揮，到今日領導著世界上最頂尖的管弦樂團。他是洛杉磯愛樂的音樂總監，而且仍然是委內瑞拉少年管弦樂團的總指揮。他曾經是哥德堡交響樂團的指揮，對拉丁美洲及世界上的年輕音樂家而言，他是音樂界難以匹敵的典範。 El Sistema 的組織結構是以新穎彈性的管理方式為基礎，能夠適應每個社區環境的特色，到現在照料著三十萬個來自中下階層的孩子，遍及委內瑞拉全國。它是一項社會救助計畫與深層文化改造運動，是為委內瑞拉全體社會所設計的，絕無什麼背景等級之分，而是更重視弱勢受難的社會族群。 El Sistema 所發揮的影響力主要在三個基礎層面:在個人/社交層面、在家庭層面及在社會層面。就個人/社交來說，管弦樂團及合唱團的孩子們能發展他們知性與感性的一面。音樂成為一項資源，讓人有多方面的發展，因而提升其精神層次，並促進其健全的人格發展。所以，在感性與知性方面助益良多—包括領導能力的習得、行為準則的教導訓練、敢於承諾勇於負責的判斷能力、利他的寬容大度及犧牲奉獻，以及個人的力量貢獻去達到團體偉大的共同目標。這一切都從而增進自尊與信心的發展。 加爾各答的泰瑞莎修女所堅持的某種信念永遠令我印象深刻—關於貧窮困頓，最最悲慘的，不是缺乏食物或住所，而是感覺自己一無是處，又感覺他人遙不可及，缺乏自我認同，又缺乏眾人敬重。這也就是為什麼一個孩子在管弦樂團及合唱團的發展，能夠賦予他高尚的身份認同感，並使他成為家庭和社會的標竿模範，且能讓他在學校成為一個更棒的學生，因為這樣的發展啟發了他的責任感、堅忍精神及守時習慣，這些美德將對他在校表現幫助極大。 在家庭方面，家長的支持是毫無保留的，孩子成為他雙親的好榜樣，這對一個窮孩子來說尤其重要。一旦孩子發現他對家庭的重要性，他就會開始尋求新的方法以提升自己，並希望自己及社會能夠越來越好，他也會希望自己家庭的社經狀況能夠有所改善，這一切的一切就創造出積極向上的社會動力。正如之前已提過的，我們樂團裏絕大部分的孩子屬於委內瑞拉人口中最弱勢的社會階層。那樣的背景鼓勵他們去擁抱新夢想、新目標，並且在音樂所能提供的種種機會中不斷進步。 最後，在社會層面，管弦樂團已然成為文化的創意空間、對話的源頭與新價值的發祥地。音樂所具有的自發性，使它不再是一項奢華的享受，而是一種社會的資產。音樂的自發性使得小孩在家拉著小提琴，而同時他的父親在做著木工；亦或是小女孩在家吹著單簧管，而同時她的母親在做著家事。這個理念就是要家人以驕傲喜悅的心情，去參與他們孩子所隸屬的管弦樂團及合唱團相關的種種活動。音樂在其中所營造出的崇高精神世界，也是音樂的職責所在，終得以戰勝物質上的貧窮困頓。從一個孩子開始學習樂器的那一刻起，他就不再貧窮了，他成為一個朝著專業領域前進的孩童，未來將成為一個堂堂正正的公民。無庸置疑地，音樂可說是首道防線，防止孩子淪為娼妓，使其遠離暴力惡習以及抵擋所有會有使孩子墮落的事情。 幾年前，歷史學家阿諾‧湯恩比(Arnold Toynbee)宣稱這世界正遭受巨大的精神危機，不是經濟或社會的危機，而是精神的危機。我相信面對這樣的一種危機，唯有藝術和宗教能夠提供適當的答案給人類全體，解決人性最深層的渴望，回應我們這個時代的歷史要求。教育是智慧和知識的綜合體，教育也是個途徑，藉以努力通往一個更完美更自醒更高貴更公正的社會。 滿懷著激情和熱誠，我們在此向TED致上深切的敬意，其卓越的人文主義思想、其行動信條的寬廣領域、及其對青年價值開放無私的推廣都令我們敬佩。我們希望TED能提供一套完整且根本的方法，以開創音樂教育的新紀元，在其中兒童與青少年的社交目標、群體目標、精神目標以及其辨證的目標，會成為一個強大社會使命的標誌與目的。別再讓社會為藝術而服務，更不該是為精英的壟斷而服務，相反地要讓藝術為社會而服務，為弱勢者而服務，為孩子們而服務，為患病者而服務，為弱勢者而服務，為所有憑藉人類生存的精神去呼求正義清白的人們而服務，並為提升人性尊嚴而服務。 音樂 掌聲 我們現在就將現場轉到加拉加斯。我們現在就將現場轉到加拉加斯去聽音樂大師阿布努的TED大獎願望。™ 這是我的TED大獎願望—我希望你們能幫忙創設並記錄一個特別的訓練計畫，培訓五十位有天賦的年輕音樂家，對他們的藝術及社會正義充滿熱情，並致力將El Sistema 傳播到美國及其他的國家。非常感謝! 掌聲
