Talk	en	zh-tw
joseph_kim_the_family_i_lost_in_north_korea_and_the_family_i_gained	"I was born and raised in North Korea. Although my family constantly struggled against poverty, I was always loved and cared for first, because I was the only son and the youngest of two in the family. But then the great famine began in 1994. I was four years old. My sister and I would go searching for firewood starting at 5 in the morning and come back after midnight. I would wander the streets searching for food, and I remember seeing a small child tied to a mother's back eating chips, and wanting to steal them from him. Hunger is humiliation. Hunger is hopelessness. For a hungry child, politics and freedom are not even thought of. On my ninth birthday, my parents couldn't give me any food to eat. But even as a child, I could feel the heaviness in their hearts. Over a million North Koreans died of starvation in that time, and in 2003, when I was 13 years old, my father became one of them. I saw my father wither away and die. In the same year, my mother disappeared one day, and then my sister told me that she was going to China to earn money, but that she would return with money and food soon. Since we had never been separated, and I thought we would be together forever, I didn't even give her a hug when she left. It was the biggest mistake I have ever made in my life. But again, I didn't know it was going to be a long goodbye. I have not seen my mom or my sister since then. Suddenly, I became an orphan and homeless. My daily life became very hard, but very simple. My goal was to find a dusty piece of bread in the trash. But that is no way to survive. I started to realize, begging would not be the solution. So I started to steal from food carts in illegal markets. Sometimes, I found small jobs in exchange for food. Once, I even spent two months in the winter working in a coal mine, 33 meters underground without any protection for up to 16 hours a day. I was not uncommon. Many other orphans survived this way, or worse. When I could not fall asleep from bitter cold or hunger pains, I hoped that, the next morning, my sister would come back to wake me up with my favorite food. That hope kept me alive. I don't mean big, grand hope. I mean the kind of hope that made me believe that the next trash can had bread, even though it usually didn't. But if I didn't believe it, I wouldn't even try, and then I would die. Hope kept me alive. Every day, I told myself, no matter how hard things got, still I must live. After three years of waiting for my sister's return, I decided to go to China to look for her myself. I realized I couldn't survive much longer this way. I knew the journey would be risky, but I would be risking my life either way. I could die of starvation like my father in North Korea, or at least I could try for a better life by escaping to China. I had learned that many people tried to cross the border to China in the nighttime to avoid being seen. North Korean border guards often shoot and kill people trying to cross the border without permission. Chinese soldiers will catch and send back North Koreans, where they face severe punishment. I decided to cross during the day, first because I was still a kid and scared of the dark, second because I knew I was already taking a risk, and since not many people tried to cross during the day, I thought I might be able to cross without being seen by anyone. I made it to China on February 15, 2006. I was 16 years old. I thought things in China would be easier, since there was more food. I thought more people would help me. But it was harder than living in North Korea, because I was not free. I was always worried about being caught and sent back. By a miracle, some months later, I met someone who was running an underground shelter for North Koreans, and was allowed to live there and eat regular meals for the first time in many years. Later that year, an activist helped me escape China and go to the United States as a refugee. I went to America without knowing a word of English, yet my social worker told me that I had to go to high school. Even in North Korea, I was an F student. (Laughter) And I barely finished elementary school. And I remember I fought in school more than once a day. Textbooks and the library were not my playground. My father tried very hard to motivate me into studying, but it didn't work. At one point, my father gave up on me. He said, ""You're not my son anymore."" I was only 11 or 12, but it hurt me deeply. But nevertheless, my level of motivation still didn't change before he died. So in America, it was kind of ridiculous that they said I should go to high school. I didn't even go to middle school. I decided to go, just because they told me to, without trying much. But one day, I came home and my foster mother had made chicken wings for dinner. And during dinner, I wanted to have one more wing, but I realized there were not enough for everyone, so I decided against it. When I looked down at my plate, I saw the last chicken wing, that my foster father had given me his. I was so happy. I looked at him sitting next to me. He just looked back at me very warmly, but said no words. Suddenly I remembered my biological father. My foster father's small act of love reminded me of my father, who would love to share his food with me when he was hungry, even if he was starving. I felt so suffocated that I had so much food in America, yet my father died of starvation. My only wish that night was to cook a meal for him, and that night I also thought of what else I could do to honor him. And my answer was to promise to myself that I would study hard and get the best education in America to honor his sacrifice. I took school seriously, and for the first time ever in my life, I received an academic award for excellence, and made dean's list from the first semester in high school. (Applause) That chicken wing changed my life. (Laughter) Hope is personal. Hope is something that no one can give to you. You have to choose to believe in hope. You have to make it yourself. In North Korea, I made it myself. Hope brought me to America. But in America, I didn't know what to do, because I had this overwhelming freedom. My foster father at that dinner gave me a direction, and he motivated me and gave me a purpose to live in America. I did not come here by myself. I had hope, but hope by itself is not enough. Many people helped me along the way to get here. North Koreans are fighting hard to survive. They have to force themselves to survive, have hope to survive, but they cannot make it without help. This is my message to you. Have hope for yourself, but also help each other. Life can be hard for everyone, wherever you live. My foster father didn't intend to change my life. In the same way, you may also change someone's life with even the smallest act of love. A piece of bread can satisfy your hunger, and having the hope will bring you bread to keep you alive. But I confidently believe that your act of love and caring can also save another Joseph's life and change thousands of other Josephs who are still having hope to survive. Thank you. (Applause) Adrian Hong: Joseph, thank you for sharing that very personal and special story with us. I know you haven't seen your sister for, you said, it was almost exactly a decade, and in the off chance that she may be able to see this, we wanted to give you an opportunity to send her a message. Joseph Kim: In Korean? AH: You can do English, then Korean as well. (Laughter) JK: Okay, I'm not going to make it any longer in Korean because I don't think I can make it without tearing up. Nuna, it has been already 10 years that I haven’t seen you. I just wanted to say that I miss you, and I love you, and please come back to me and stay alive. And I — oh, gosh. I still haven't given up my hope to see you. I will live my life happily and study hard until I see you, and I promise I will not cry again. (Laughter) Yes, I'm just looking forward to seeing you, and if you can't find me, I will also look for you, and I hope to see you one day. And can I also make a small message to my mom? AH: Sure, please. JK: I haven't spent much time with you, but I know that you still love me, and you probably still pray for me and think about me. I just wanted to say thank you for letting me be in this world. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在北韓出生長大。雖然我的家庭離不開貧窮但我仍然備受關愛，因為我是家中的獨子也是兩個孩子中最小的。 但在94年，大飢荒開始了。當時我四歲。我姊姊和我四處尋找柴火從凌晨五點開始一直到午夜才回家。我為了尋找食物在路上遊蕩，我曾看見一個綁在母親背上的嬰兒手上拿著洋芋片吃，當時我動了偷竊的念頭。 飢餓讓人感到羞恥、感到絕望，對一個飢餓的孩子來說政治和自由是他想也沒想過的事。在我九歲生日時，我的雙親不能給我任何食物。但就算我還小，我也能感受到他們內心的沈重。 當時北韓有上百萬人死於飢餓，2003年，我13歲，我的父親成為了他們之一。我親眼見到父親日漸衰弱，步向死亡。同年，我的母親離開了我們，我姊姊告訴我她去了中國賺錢，她很快會帶著錢和食物回來。但我們從未試過分開，我一直以為我們會永遠在一起，她離開時我甚至沒給她一個擁抱。這是我此生犯下最大的錯誤。然而，我又怎麼會知道這會是個如此漫長的分別。從此以後我再也沒見過母親和姊姊。 突然間，我成了無家可歸的孤兒。日常生活變得異常艱難。但也非常簡單。目標是從垃圾中找出一片佈滿灰塵的麵包。但這仍難以維生。我逐漸明白，乞討也不能解決問題。我開始從黑市食物攤上偷竊。有時我能靠著做一些小工換取食物。一次， 我在冬日的礦坑裡連續工作了兩個月。在三十三公尺的地底，毫無遮蓋保護地連續工作十六個小時。像我這樣的孩子很尋常。許多其他孤兒都和我一樣，甚至更差。 當我在沁骨的寒冷或飢餓的痛楚中輾轉難眠時，我只希望，明日早晨，姊姊會帶著我最喜歡的食物出現在我面前叫醒我。這樣的希望，讓我活了下來。這不是什麼弘遠偉大的希望。而是那些相信下一個垃圾桶裡我能找到一片麵包的希望，就算這希望如此渺茫。但若我不去相信，連嘗試也不嘗試，那麼我面臨的就只有死亡。希望讓我得以存活。每天我都告訴自己，無論狀況如何艱困，我仍然要活著。 我這樣等待姊姊歸來，等了三年，我決定親身去中國尋找她。我發現，我不能繼續這樣生存下去。我知道逃亡的路極其險惡，但不逃亡的下場也相差不遠。我可以留在北韓像父親一樣死於飢餓，或是我可以試著逃到中國為自己爭取更好的生活。 我聽說有很多人為了避免被發現而選擇在夜晚逃亡到中國。我聽說有很多人為了避免被發現而選擇在夜晚逃亡到中國。駐守邊防的北韓士兵毋需批准就能隨意射殺那些嘗試跨越國界的逃亡者。中國士兵則會追捕並遣返逃亡的北韓人，讓他們面臨嚴峻的制裁。我決定在光天化日下穿越邊境，第一因為我還是個孩子，我怕黑，第二因為我知道我反正是冒險，既然在白天逃亡的人少，我想或許我可以不被人發現成功逃亡。 我是在06年的二月十五日抵達中國的。當時我十六歲。我以為在中國的生活會輕鬆些，因為那裡有食物。我以為會有更多人幫助我。但結果是，我的生活比在北韓時更艱難，因為我失去了人身自由。我總是擔心著我是否會被捉到然後被遣返。 幾個月後，奇蹟出現了，我遇見一個為北韓人準備了地下庇護所的人，他收留了我在那裡，我吃到多年來的第一頓正餐。同年，一位工作者幫助我離開中國，以難民身份到了美國。 抵達時，我一個英文字也不懂，負責我的社會工作者卻告訴我我必須上高中。就算在北韓，我也時常不及格。(笑聲‭)‬連小學都畢業的很勉強。我記得我在學校時常打架。課本和圖書館不是我的地盤。父親曾努力地激勵我用功唸書，卻徒勞無功。到了一個地步，我的父親終於放棄了。他說：“我再也不把你當兒子了。”當時我不過十一二歲，這話卻深深刺傷了我始終，到他死前，我都沒有改變。我連中學都沒有畢業他們卻要我在美國上高中，這不是莫名其妙嗎？我還是去了，但只是因為他們要我這樣做，我沒怎麼放在心上。 有一天，我回家發現養母做了雞翅。晚餐時，我很想再多吃一隻雞翅但卻發現不夠每個人吃，於是我就沒有要求。但我的盤子裡卻出現了一隻雞翅，我養父把自己的份給了我。我欣喜若狂。我看著坐在我旁邊的他，他只是默默地看著我，眼神中的溫暖不言而喻。我突然想起我的生父。養父的簡單的愛的舉止讓我想到了我自己的父親，那就算在極端的飢餓中，也仍然把食物給我的父親。我突然為我在美國的飽足感到窒息，我的父親死於飢餓啊。當晚我只有一個心願，就是能為他煮一餐好吃的方法同時想著其他能榮耀他的。我想出的答案是要自己努力讀書，在美國力爭上游以榮耀他的為我所作的犧牲。 我努力用功，人生中第一次，得到了學業優異的獎勵，第一學期末，我拿到了院長獎。 （掌聲） 一隻雞翅改變了我的生命。（笑聲） 希望是獨有的。希望是一種別人不能給你的東西。想要懷有希望，你必須自己做出決定。在北韓，我自己做了決定。是希望帶我來到美國。但我不知道我在美國能做什麼，因為自由無邊無際。我的養父那夜在餐桌上，為我指引方向，我有了活在美國的動力和目標。 我不是靠自己來到這裡的。我有希望，但單有希望是不夠的。靠著許多人的幫助，我才能來到這裡。北韓人正努力地求生。他們必須逼著自己活下來，懷抱存活的希望，但他們不能只靠自己，孤身無援。 這就是我今天想告訴你們的。懷抱希望，彼此幫助。生活對每個人來說都有其艱難，無論你身在何方。養父沒有刻意要改變我的生命。相同的，你一個極微小的愛的舉止也可能改變他人的一生。一片麵包能充飢，懷抱希望則能救命。我真心相信你的愛與關懷可以拯救另一個約瑟的生命讓無數個仍然懷抱希望的約瑟有機會生存下來。 感謝各位。 （掌聲） Adrian Hong: 約瑟，謝謝你分享這段屬於你個人的特別旅程。我知道你已經有十年，不曾見到姊姊。我們想你藉著這個機會，對她說話，或許她有天會看見。 Joseph Kim：用韓文嗎？ AH: 先用英文，再用韓文也行。 （笑聲） JK: 我就不用韓文了我想那樣我無法阻止自己想哭的衝動。 姊，已經十年了我們十年沒見面了。我只想說，我想你，我愛你。請你回到我身邊，好好活著。我‭ ‬–‭ ‬天啊。我還沒有放棄有天能見到你的希望。我會快樂的活著，努力唸書，直到我們再見的那天。我也保證我不會再哭了。（笑聲）是的，我期待見到你，如果你找不到我，我也會努力找你，我希望有天能再見你。我可以和我媽說句話嗎？ AH: 當然，請。 JK:‭ ‬我們相處的機會不多，但我知道你還愛我，為我禱告，和思念我。我只想說聲謝謝帶我來到這個世界。謝謝你。 （掌聲）
