Talk	en	zh-tw
josh_silver_demos_adjustable_liquid_filled_eyeglasses	I'm going to tell you about one of the world's largest problems and how it can be solved. I'd like to start with a little experiment. Could you put your hand up if you wear glasses or contact lenses, or you've had laser refractive surgery? Now, unfortunately, there are too many of you for me to do the statistics properly. But it looks like — I'm guessing — that it'll be about 60 percent of the room because that's roughly the fraction of developed world population that have some sort of vision correction. The World Health Organization estimates — well, they make various estimates of the number of people who need glasses — the lowest estimate is 150 million people. They also have an estimate of around a billion. But in fact, I would argue that we've just done an experiment here and now, which shows us that the global need for corrective eyewear is around half of any population. And the problem of poor vision, is actually not just a health problem, it's also an educational problem, and it's an economic problem, and it's a quality of life problem. Glasses are not very expensive. They're quite plentiful. The problem is, there aren't enough eye care professionals in the world to use the model of the delivery of corrective eyewear that we have in the developed world. There are just way too few eye care professionals. So this little slide here shows you an optometrist and the little blue person represents about 10,000 people and that's the ratio in the U.K. This is the ratio of optometrists to people in sub-Saharan Africa. In fact, there are some countries in sub-Saharan Africa where there's one optometrist for eight million of the population. How do you do this? How do you solve this problem? I came up with a solution to this problem, and I came up with a solution based on adaptive optics for this. And the idea is you make eye glasses, and you adjust them yourself and that solves the problem. What I want to do is to show you that one can make a pair of glasses. I shall just show you how you make a pair of glasses. I shall pop this in my pocket. I'm short sighted. I look at the signs at the end, I can hardly see them. So — okay, I can now see that man running out there, and I can see that guy running out there. I've now made prescription eyewear to my prescription. Next step in my process. So, I've now made eye glasses to my prescription. Okay, so I've made these glasses and ... Okay, I've made the glasses to my prescription and ... ... I've just ... And I've now made some glasses. That's it. (Applause) Now, these aren't the only pair in the world. In fact, this technology's been evolving. I started working on it in 1985, and it's been evolving very slowly. There are about 30,000 in use now. And they're in fifteen countries. They're spread around the world. And I have a vision, which I'll share with you. I have a global vision for vision. And that vision is to try to get a billion people wearing the glasses they need by the year 2020. To do that — this is an early example of the technology. The technology is being further developed — the cost has to be brought down. This pair, in fact, these currently cost about 19 dollars. But the cost has to be brought right down. It has to be brought down because we're trying to serve populations who live on a dollar a day. How do you solve this problem? You start to get into detail. And on this slide, I'm basically explaining all the problems you have. How do you distribute? How do you work out how to fit the thing? How do you have people realizing that they have a vision problem? How do you deal with the industry? And the answer to that is research. What we've done is to set up the Center for Vision in the Developing World here in the university. If you want to know more, just come have a look at our website. Thank you. (Applause)	我要告訴各位一個目前世人所面對的嚴重問題以及如何解決這個問題 在開始前，我想先進行一個實驗如果你有戴眼鏡或隱形眼鏡，請你把手舉起來或是有做過雷射視力矯正手術？嗯，舉手的人數很多，我沒有辦法做很精確的統計但是看起來，我猜，舉手的人大約佔百分之六十因為這大約就是在已開發國家中做過視力矯正的比例 世界衛生組織估計嗯，針對眼鏡的需求，他們做過各式各樣的估計最保守的估計約有一億五千萬人需要眼鏡最高的估計是十億人但是事實上，就我們剛才所做的實驗來看需要矯正視力的人口約佔全世界人口的一半以上視力的問題，不僅僅是健康的問題還是教育問題也是經濟問題，更是生活品質的問題 玻璃並不貴，而且產量不虞匱乏問題是沒有足夠的專業人員能夠運用現在已開發國家所提供的視力矯正方案問題就只在於專業人員太少 現在投影片上所顯示的是一個驗光師藍色的小人代表一萬個人這是英國的比例這是一個驗光師在非洲撒哈拉沙漠服務人數的比例事實上，在非洲撒哈拉沙漠的某些國家裡有些驗光師得一個人服務八百萬人 你會怎麼做？你會怎麼解決這個問題？我想到一個方法我想到利用可調式光學鏡片來解決這個問題也就是你自己製作眼鏡，自己調整度數這樣就解決問題了 我要做的是讓你們知道，自己也可以做出一副眼鏡我會告訴你們如何製作一副眼鏡，我先把這個放進口袋我有近視，我看得到走道盡頭有些標誌，但我看不清楚但現在，我能看到一個人往這邊跑也看到另一個人往那邊跑現在我可以為自己找出適合的鏡片度數下一步是...我有適合自己的度數的眼鏡了好了，我做出眼鏡了好了，我調整好度數了就像我剛才做的我已經製作出自己的眼鏡了，就像這樣 (掌聲) 這可不是世界上唯一的一副自製眼鏡事實上，這個技術已經改良很多了我從1985年開始研究自製眼鏡進度其實很緩慢現在已有三萬人在使用了遍及十五個國家，目前正在世界上其他國家推廣 我有一個願望，希望與你們分享我希望能改善世人的視力問題我希望能有十億人在2020年前，戴上他們需要的眼鏡目前這只是這項科技的初期樣品這項科技已經又改良了成本也被降低了這副眼鏡目前的成本是19美金但我們必須將成本再壓低成本需要再降低的原因是我們希望服務的對象每天的生活費只有1美金 該怎麼解決這個問題呢？有一大堆的細節要處理這張投影片上所顯示的，是目前我們所遭遇到的問題該怎麼配送？該怎麼組裝這副眼鏡？你怎麼讓其他人瞭解他們有視力問題？怎麼解決工業生產的問題？所有的問題都需要靠研究來解決。 我們已經在開發中國家的大學裡設立了視力改善中心若你想得到更多訊息，請上我們的網站查詢，謝謝 (掌聲)
