Talk	en	zh-tw
josh_luber_why_sneakers_are_a_great_investment	"This is the Air Jordan 3 Black Cement. This might be the most important sneaker in history. First released in 1988, this is the shoe that started Nike marketing as we know it. This is the shoe that propelled the entire Air Jordan lineage, and perhaps saved Nike. The Air Jordan 3 Black Cement did for sneakers what the iPhone did for phones. It's been re-released four times. Every celebrity's been seen wearing it. There's a site about what to wear with the Black Cement. It's been right under your nose for decades and you never looked down. And right about now, most of you are probably thinking, ""Sneakers?"" (Laughter) Yes. Yes, sneakers. Some extraordinary things about sneakers and data and Nike and how they're all related, possibly, to the future of all online commerce. In 2011, the last time the Jordan 3 Black Cement was released, at a retail of 160 dollars, it sold out globally in minutes. And that's because people were camped outside of sneaker stores for days before it went on sale. And just minutes after that, thousands of those pairs were on eBay for two and three times retail. In fact, there's over 1,000 pairs on eBay right now, four years later. But here's the thing: this happens every single Saturday. Every week there's another release or two or three, and every shoe has a story as rich and compelling as the Jordan 3 Black Cement. This is Nike building the marketplace for sneakerheads — people who collect sneakers — and my daughter. (Laughter) That's an ""I love Dad"" T-shirt. For the brands, sneakerheads are a very important demographic. These are the tastemakers; these are the Apple fanboys. Because who else is going to buy a pair of $8,000 Back to the Future sneakers? (Laughter) Yeah, 8,000 dollars. And while that's obviously the anomaly, the resell sneaker market is definitely not. Thirty years in the making, what started as an underground culture of a few people who like sneakers just a bit too much — (Laughter) Now we have sneaker addictions. In a market where in the past 12 months, there have been over nine million pairs of shoes resold in the United States alone, at a value of 1.2 billion dollars. And that's a conservative estimate — I should know, I am a sneakerhead. This is my collection. In the pantheon of great collections, mine doesn't even register. I have about 250 pairs, but trust me, I am small-time. People have thousands. I'm a very typical 37-year-old sneakerhead. I grew up playing basketball when Michael Jordan played, I always wanted Air Jordans, my mother would never buy me Air Jordans, as soon as I got some money I bought Air Jordans — literally, we all have the exact same story. But here's where mine diverged. After starting three companies, I took a job as a strategy consultant, when I very quickly realized that I didn't know the first thing about data. But I learned, because I had to, and I liked it. So I thought, I wonder if I could get ahold of some sneaker data, just to play with for my own amusement. The goal was to develop a price guide, a real data-driven view of the market. And four years later, we're analyzing over 25 million transactions, providing real-time analytics on thousands of sneakers. Now sneakerheads check prices while camping out for releases. Others have used the data to validate insurance claims. And the top investment banks in the world now use resell data to analyze the retail footwear industry. And here's the best part: sneakerheads have sneaker portfolios. (Laughter) Sneakerheads can track the value of their collection over time, compare it to others, and have access to the same analytics you might for your online brokerage account. So sneakerhead Dan builds his collection and identifies which 352 are his. He can see it's worth 103,000 dollars — frankly, a modest collection. At the asset level, he can see gain-loss by shoe. Here he's made over 600 dollars on one pair. I have one of those. (Laughter) So an unregulated 1.2 billion dollar industry that thrives as much on the street as it does online, and has spawned fundamental financial services for sneakers? At some point I asked myself what's really going on in the market, and two comparisons started to emerge. Are sneakers more like stocks or drugs? (Laughter) In fact, one guy emailed to say he thought his 15-year-old son was selling drugs and later found out he was selling sneakers. (Laughter) And now they use the data to do it together. And that's because sneakers are an investment opportunity where none other exists. And I don't just mean the kid selling sneakers instead of drugs. How about all kids? You have to be 18 to play the stock market. I sold chewing gum in sixth grade, Blow Pops in ninth grade and collected baseball cards through high school. The cards are long dead, and the candy market's usually quite local. For a lot of people, sneakers are a legal and accessible investment opportunity — a democratized stock market, but also unregulated. Which is why the story you're probably most familiar with is people killing each other for sneakers. And while that definitely happens and is tragic, it's not nearly the epidemic some media would have you believe. In fact, it's a very small piece of a much bigger and better story. So sneakers have clear similarities to both the stock exchange and the illegal drug trade, but perhaps the most fundamental is the existence of a central actor. Someone is making the rules. In the case of sneakers, that someone is Nike. Let me walk you through some numbers. The resell market, we know, is $1.2 billion. Nike, including Jordan brand, accounts for 96 percent of all shoes sold on the secondary market. Just complete domination. Sneakerheads love Jordans. And profit on the secondary market is about a third. That means that sneakerheads made 380 million dollars selling Nikes last year. Let's jump to retail for a second. Skechers, earlier this year, became the number two footwear brand in the country, surpassing Adidas — this was a big deal. And in the 12 months ending in June, Skechers's net income was 209 million dollars. That means that Nike's customers make almost twice as much profit as their closest competitor. That — (Laughter) How is that even possible? The sneaker market is just supply and demand, but Nike's gotten very good at using supply — limited sneakers — and the distribution of those sneakers to their own benefit. So it's really just supply. Sneakerheads joke that as long as it's limited and Nike, they'll buy it. Shoes that sell for 8,000 dollars do so because they're very rare. It's no different than any other collectible market, only this isn't a market at all. It's a false construct created by Nike — ingeniously created by Nike, in the most positive sense — to sell more shoes. And in the process, it provided tens of thousands of people with life-long passions, myself included. If Nike wanted to kill the resell market, they could do so tomorrow, all they have to do is release more shoes. But we certainly don't want them to, nor is it in their best interest. That's because unlike Apple, who will sell an iPhone to anyone who wants one, Nike doesn't make their money by just selling $200 sneakers. They sell millions of shoes to millions of people for 60 dollars. And sneakerheads are the ones who drive the marketing and the hype and the PR and the brand cachet, and enable Nike to sell millions of $60 sneakers. It's marketing. It's marketing the likes of which has never been seen before — this isn't in any textbook. For 15 years Nike has propped up an artificial commodities market, with a Facebook-level hyped IPO every single weekend. Drive by any Footlocker at 8am on a Saturday morning, and there will be a line down the street and around the block, and sometimes those kids have been waiting there all week. You know those crazy iPhone lines you see on the news every other year? Nike lines happen 104 times more often. So Nike sets the rules. And they do so by controlling supply and distribution. But once a pair leaves the retail channel, it's the Wild West. There are very few — if any — legal, unregulated markets of this size. So Nike is definitely not the stock exchange. In fact, there is no central exchange. By last count, there were 48 different online markets that I know of. Some are eBay clones, some are mobile markets, and then you have consignment shops and brick-and-mortar stores, and sneaker conventions, and reseller sites, and Facebook and Instagram and Twitter — literally, anywhere sneakerheads come into contact with each other, shoes will be bought and sold. But that means no efficiencies, no transparency, sometimes not even authenticity. Can you imagine if that's how stocks were bought? What if the way to buy a share of Apple stock was to search over 100 places online and off, including every time you walk down the street just hoping to pass someone wearing some Apple stock? Never knowing who had the best price, or even if the stock you were looking at was real. That would surely make you say: [WTF?] Of course that's not how we buy stock. But what if that's not how we need to buy sneakers either? What if the inverse is true, and what if we could buy sneakers exactly the same way as we buy stock? And what if it wasn't just sneakers, but any similar product, like watches and handbags and women's shoes, and any collectible, any seasonal item and any markdown item? What if there was a stock market for commerce? A stock market of things. And not only could you buy in a much more educated and efficient manner, but you could engage in all the sophisticated financial transactions you can with the stock market. Shorts and options and futures and well, maybe you see where this is going. Maybe you want to invest in a stock market of things. Because if you had invested in a pair of Air Jordan 3 Black Cement in 2011, you could either be wearing them onstage, (Laughter) or have earned 162 percent on your money — double the S&P and 20 percent more than Apple. (Laughter) And that's why we're talking about sneakers. Thank you. (Applause)"	這是Air Jordan 3代「黑白爆裂紋」球鞋。這可能是歷史上最重要的球鞋。它在1988年第一次發表，開啟了我們今天所熟知的Nike行銷手法。它就是推動整個Air Jordan系列，甚至可能還救了Nike的一雙鞋。Air Jordan 3代黑白爆裂紋在球鞋中的重要性等同iPhone在手機中的重要性。它已經被復刻了四次。幾乎每個名人都被看見穿過這雙鞋。甚至還有個網站專門介紹搭配這雙鞋的各種服飾。這些事情在你眼下已經發生好幾十年，只是你從來沒有好好關注它。而就在此時此刻，你們當中大部分人可能正在想：「球鞋！？」 (笑聲) 對。對，就是球鞋。還有關於球鞋一些意想不到的事，還有數據，還有Nike，還有他們如何會影響到線上商業行為的未來。 2011年，Jordan 3代黑白爆裂紋最後一次發表時，零售價是160美元，幾分鐘內就在全球銷售一空。原因是許多人就在鞋店外搭帳篷，等它發售等了好幾天。就在發售完畢幾分鐘後，其中好幾千雙就在eBay上以兩、三倍的價格上架。事實上，現在還有超過一千雙在eBay上販售，即使時隔四年。但有趣的是：這件事情每個禮拜六都會發生。每個禮拜都會有一雙鞋釋出，甚至兩、三雙，而且每一雙鞋都有故事，和Air Jordan 3代黑色爆裂紋一樣精采迷人。 這是Nike為了這些「鞋頭」在打造的市場－－「鞋頭」指的是蒐集球鞋的人，還有我女兒。 (笑聲) 她身上穿著「我愛爸爸」的T恤。 對這些品牌而言，鞋頭是非常重要的一群人。他們是引領潮流的人；他們是鞋界的果粉。不然還有誰會買一雙8,000美元的「回到未來」鞋？ (笑聲) 是的，8,000美元。 當然這很明顯地是個反常的案例，但球鞋轉售的市場可絕對不是。在它逐漸成形的30年間，它原本只是一種地下文化，在這些愛鞋有點過頭的人之間流竄…… (笑聲) 現在演變成球鞋成癮現象。就發生在這個過去12個月光在美國就賣了9百萬雙鞋總價值超過12億美元的市場裡。而且這是保守估計──我應該很清楚，我是個鞋頭。這是我的收藏。在球鞋收藏的名人堂裡，我連註冊的資格都沒有。我有大約250雙，但相信我，我算小咖的。有人有上千雙的。 我是個非常典型的37歲鞋頭。我是看著麥可‧喬丹打球長大的，一直希望擁有Air Jordan球鞋，媽媽永遠不會買給我，所以拿到錢馬上跑去買Air Jordan──真的，我們都有一模一樣的故事。但我的版本稍微有點不同。在嘗試創業三次之後，我找了一個策略顧問的工作，當時我立刻意識到我完全不瞭解數據這件事。但我開始去學，因為我得學會，結果我喜歡上它。所以我開始想，是不是能掌握一些球鞋相關的數據，讓我能用這些數據輔助個人興趣。目標是建立一個價格指南，一個真正參考自數據的市場觀點。四年後的今天，我們已經在分析超過2,500萬筆交易，為數以千計的球鞋提供即時分析。現在鞋頭們會在搭帳篷等球鞋發售前先確認價格。另外也有人利用這些數據來核定保險理賠的金額。還有一些全球頂尖的投資銀行正在利用轉售的數據來分析鞋類零售業。以下是最棒的部分：鞋頭們擁有球鞋的投資組合。 (笑聲) 鞋頭可以追蹤他們所收鞋款的價值變化，和其他鞋款做比較，還可以進入線上經紀帳戶進行相同的分析。像鞋頭丹建立了自己的組合，並選出自己擁有哪352雙鞋。他可以看到這些鞋價值103,000美元──老實說，只是中等程度的收藏。他還可以看到在他的資產水平上，每雙鞋的損益為何。可以看到他的一雙鞋賺了超過600美元。這個我也有一雙。 (笑聲) 所以這個不受規範、價值12億美元、在街上和線上都一樣活躍的產業，竟然還催生了專為球鞋打造的基礎財務服務？有一天，我曾自問這個市場究竟是怎麼回事，有兩個東西的對比開始浮現。球鞋比較像股票，還是毒品？ (笑聲) 事實上，曾有人寫信給我，說他以為他15歲的兒子在販毒，後來發現他原來是在賣鞋。 (笑聲) 而現在他們利用數據一起在做這件事。這是因為球鞋可以是種投資機會而其他商品則不行。我想說的並不只是這個孩子用賣鞋取代販毒。如果所有孩子都這麼做呢？你必須滿18歲才能玩股票。我六年級開始賣口香糖，國三則賣棒棒糖，高中時都在收集棒球卡。這些卡當然已經永遠消失了，而糖果也只會在當地賣賣。 但對許多人來說，球鞋是個合法而容易進入的投資機會──一個民主化的股票市場，但也是未受規範的。這也是為什麼你可能經常聽到有人為了球鞋殺人這種事情。這是確實會發生的事，也絕對是悲劇，卻不是某些媒體寫的那種流行病。事實上，這只是更大更美好的故事中非常小的一部分。 所以球鞋買賣明顯相似於股票交易和非法毒品交易，但或許最重要的是有個核心演員存在。有人訂出了這些規則。在球鞋的案例中，這個人就是Nike。 讓我快速帶各位看過幾個數字。 我們知道轉賣市場價值12億美元。Nike，包含Jordan牌，在二手市場賣出了總雙數96%的鞋。完全的支配。鞋頭們很愛Jordan鞋。而二手市場的利潤大約是33%。這代表這些鞋頭去年賺了3億8,000萬美金，僅靠賣Nike球鞋。讓我們暫時先跳到零售市場。Skechers，今年稍早成為美國第二大的鞋子品牌，超越Adidas──這可是件大事。而在今年六月為止的12個月中，Skechers淨利為2億9百萬美元。意思是Nike的顧客賺了他們最大競爭者幾乎兩倍的錢。這…… (笑聲) 這怎麼可能呢？ 球鞋市場就只是供給和需求而已，但Nike非常善於操作供給──限量鞋款，以及這些鞋款的銷售配額來增加他們的利益。所以真的就只是控制供給。鞋頭常開玩笑地說，只要是Nike限量款，他們就會買。鞋子可以賣8,000美元是因為它們很稀有。這點無異於任何其他收藏品的市場，唯一不同的是，它根本不是個市場。它是一個被Nike創造出來的假結構 －在最積極的意義上，Nike巧妙地創造出來的──為了賣更多鞋。而在過程中，供應了數以萬計、擁有畢生熱情的人，包含我自己在內。如果Nike想摧毀這個轉售市場，他們明天就辦得到，只要釋出更多的鞋就行了。但我們肯定不希望他們這麼做，當然對他們自己也無益。這是因為不像Apple將iPhone賣給任何想要的人，Nike不是光靠著賣200美元的球鞋賺錢。他們將幾百萬雙60美元的鞋賣給幾百萬個人。而鞋頭就是幫他們促進行銷成效、炒作、公共關係、品牌印記的人，讓Nike可以把60美元的鞋賣給上百萬人。 這是行銷。這是前所未見的行銷手法，沒有在任何教科書上。15年來，Nike扶植了一個人工商品市場，每個週末都搞一次炒作程度如同Facebook的首次公開募資。星期六早上八點開車經過任何Footlocker店面，街上會有一條長長的隊伍圍繞整個街區，有些孩子甚至等了一整個禮拜。你看過iPhone每年推出新機時瘋狂排隊盛況嗎？Nike排隊盛況的頻率是那個的104倍。所以是Nike制定了遊戲規則。方法是控制供給和銷售配額。 而當這些鞋離開零售店，就是狂野的大西部了。如此規模的合法卻又未受規範的市場極罕見，可說是除此之外根本沒有，所以Nike球鞋肯定不是股票交易。事實上，連交易中心都沒有。上次計算時，光我所知就有48個不同的線上市場。有些是eBay的複製品、有些是行動市場，還有寄售商店、實體店面，還有球鞋交易中心、二手轉賣網站，還有Facebook、Instagram、Twitter……真的是鞋頭可以接觸彼此的任何地方，就會有球鞋買賣。 但這表示沒有效率、也不透明，有時甚至沒有誠信。你能想像如果股票被這樣買賣嗎？如果你要買一股Apple的股票，得先搜尋超過100個線上或實體商店，包含每次走在街上時都期待撞見一個穿著Apple股票的人，一切會變怎樣？永遠不知道誰會有最好的價格，甚至不知道你看到的這張股票是不是真的。這肯定會讓你想說： （這什麼鬼東西啊！？） 這當然不是我們購買股票的方式。但如果這也不是我們必須購買球鞋的方式呢？如果情況相反過來，如果我們可以用和買股票完全相同的方式來購買球鞋呢？如果不只是球鞋，還有任何類似商品，像是手錶、手提包、女鞋，以及任何收藏品、當季品項和特價商品呢？如果商品界也有股票市場呢？實體物品的股票市場。這樣你不只可以用更有知識根據、更有效率的方式買東西，還可以操作所有完善的財務交易，就像操作股票一樣。空頭交易、選擇權、期貨，或許你了解它會怎麼發展。或許你也想買一些實體商品的股票。因為如果你在2011年投資了一雙Air Jordan3代黑白爆裂紋，你可以穿著它們站上講台， (笑聲) 或是賺到投資金額的162%──報酬率是標準普爾的2倍、也是Apple的1.2倍。 (笑聲) 而這就是為什麼我們今天要討論球鞋。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
