Talk	en	zh-tw
joshua_walters_on_being_just_crazy_enough	"My name is Joshua Walters. I'm a performer. (Beatboxing) (Laughter) (Applause) But as far as being a performer, I'm also diagnosed bipolar. I reframe that as a positive because the crazier I get onstage, the more entertaining I become. When I was 16 in San Francisco, I had my breakthrough manic episode in which I thought I was Jesus Christ. Maybe you thought that was scary, but actually there's no amount of drugs you can take that can get you as high as if you think you're Jesus Christ. (Laughter) I was sent to a place, a psych ward, and in the psych ward, everyone is doing their own one-man show. (Laughter) There's no audience like this to justify their rehearsal time. They're just practicing. One day they'll get here. Now when I got out, I was diagnosed and I was given medications by a psychiatrist. ""Okay, Josh, why don't we give you some — why don't we give you some Zyprexa. Okay? Mmhmm? At least that's what it says on my pen."" (Laughter) Some of you are in the field, I can see. I can feel your noise. The first half of high school was the struggle of the manic episode, and the second half was the overmedications of these drugs, where I was sleeping through high school. The second half was just one big nap, pretty much, in class. When I got out I had a choice. I could either deny my mental illness or embrace my mental skillness. (Bugle sound) There's a movement going on right now to reframe mental illness as a positive — at least the hypomanic edge part of it. Now if you don't know what hypomania is, it's like an engine that's out of control, maybe a Ferrari engine, with no breaks. Many of the speakers here, many of you in the audience, have that creative edge, if you know what I'm talking about. You're driven to do something that everyone has told you is impossible. And there's a book — John Gartner. John Gartner wrote this book called ""The Hypomanic Edge"" in which Christopher Columbus and Ted Turner and Steve Jobs and all these business minds have this edge to compete. A different book was written not too long ago in the mid-90s called ""Touched With Fire"" by Kay Redfield Jamison in which it was looked at in a creative sense in which Mozart and Beethoven and Van Gogh all have this manic depression that they were suffering with. Some of them committed suicide. So it wasn't all the good side of the illness. Now recently, there's been development in this field. And there was an article written in the New York Times, September 2010, that stated: ""Just Manic Enough."" Just be manic enough in which investors who are looking for entrepreneurs that have this kind of spectrum — you know what I'm talking about — not maybe full bipolar, but they're in the bipolar spectrum — where on one side, maybe you think you're Jesus, and on the other side maybe they just make you a lot of money. (Laughter) Your call. Your call. And everyone's somewhere in the middle. Everyone's somewhere in the middle. So maybe, you know, there's no such thing as crazy, and being diagnosed with a mental illness doesn't mean you're crazy. But maybe it just means you're more sensitive to what most people can't see or feel. Maybe no one's really crazy. Everyone is just a little bit mad. How much depends on where you fall in the spectrum. How much depends on how lucky you are. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是約書亞•華特斯我是位表演家 【口技表演】 【笑聲】 【掌聲】 但身為表演家的同時我也被診斷出患有躁鬱症我換個想法把它當成件好事因為我在舞台上越瘋狂我就越有娛樂性我16歲那年在舊金山的時候我的躁症發作了我以為自己是耶穌基督也許你們覺得那挺可怕的但老實說 想靠嗑藥High到以為自己是耶穌基督還不容易咧 【笑聲】 我被送到一個地方一間精神病院在那間精神病院每個人都在唱自己的獨角戲【笑聲】那裡不像現在，有觀眾來讓他們的「排演」看起來正式他們不斷地練習好像有一天 他們也會站上舞台在我出院後我接受了診斷也拿了藥精神科醫師開的藥「好吧 喬許（暱稱） 不如我開個......痾.....那個......金普薩（常用精神藥物）給你好了好嗎? 嗯?至少藥商送的筆上是這個名字」【笑聲】我看得出來你們有人在這個領域工作我聽到你們的笑聲了在我高中的前半段我都因為躁症發作而掙扎著後半段則是服藥過量而讓我一路睡到畢業後半段差不多就是在學校睡一場很長的午覺畢業後我有個機會抉擇我可以排拒我的精神病或者是擁抱我精神病症的「優點」 【口技表演喇叭聲】 現在有一個趨勢要人們正面看待精神疾病至少正面看待輕躁症的優勢如果你問我輕躁症是什麼它就像是失控的引擎可能是法拉利的引擎 但沒有剎車台下許多講者及聽眾就有這樣的創意優勢如果你們懂我在說什麼你們被驅使著去做一些大家都說不可能的事 有一本書 約翰‧嘉納寫的約翰‧嘉納寫了這本《瀕臨輕躁》在書中 哥倫布 泰德‧透納（CNN創辦人） 和賈伯斯這些頭腦精明的人都有這樣的優勢不久前還有另一本在90年代中期寫的書凱‧傑米森的《為火所染》這本書就創意的角度來探討躁鬱症提到莫札特 貝多芬以及梵谷都深受躁鬱症折磨他們之中有幾位自殺了所以 這種病並不只有好的一面 最近這個領域有了新的發展紐約時報刊登了一篇文章2010年9月登的標題是〈瘋得剛剛好〉瘋得剛剛好就好文章談到有些投資人在尋找企業家有躁鬱症狀的企業家你知道我在說什麼或許不是完全的躁鬱症而是有一點那樣的症狀或許一方面他們覺得自己是耶穌也可能同時他們就幫你賺了一堆錢唷【笑聲】完完全全看你怎麼想每個人其實都介於躁跟鬱之間都不是在躁鬱的兩極 你們知道嗎 也許根本就沒有發瘋這回事即使被診斷出精神疾病也不代表你真的瘋了或許這只意味著你比較敏感對於多數人看不到或感覺不到的事物敏感或許沒有人真正瘋而每個人都有那麼點狂而你有多瘋狂就要看你離躁鬱的兩極有多遠而你離躁鬱的兩極有多遠就要看你多幸運了 謝謝 【掌聲】
