Talk	en	zh-tw
joshua_klein_on_the_intelligence_of_crows	"How many of you have seen the Alfred Hitchcock film ""The Birds""? Any of you get really freaked out by that? You might want to leave now. (Laughter) So this is a vending machine for crows. Over the past few days, many of you have been asking, ""How did you come to this? How did you get started doing this?"" It started, as with many great ideas, or many ideas you can't get rid of, anyway, at a cocktail party. About 10 years ago, I was at a cocktail party with a friend of mine. We were sitting there, and he was complaining about the crows that were all over his yard and making a big mess. And he was telling me we ought to eradicate these things, kill them, because they're making a mess. I said that was stupid, maybe we should just train them to do something useful. And he said that was impossible. And I'm sure I'm in good company in finding that tremendously annoying, when someone tells you it's impossible. So I spent the next 10 years reading about crows in my spare time. (Laughter) And after 10 years of this, my wife said, ""You've got to do this thing you've been talking about, and build the vending machine."" So I did. But part of the reason I found this interesting is, I started noticing that we're very aware of all the species that are going extinct on the planet as a result of human habitation expansion, and no one seems to be paying attention to all the species that are actually living; they're surviving. And I'm talking specifically about synanthropic species, which have adapted specifically for human ecologies, species like rats and cockroaches and crows. And as I started looking at them, I was finding that they had hyper-adapted. They'd become extremely adept at living with us. And in return, we just tried to kill them all the time. (Laughter) And in doing so, we were breeding them for parasitism. We were giving them all sorts of reasons to adapt new ways. So, for example, rats are incredibly responsive breeders. And cockroaches, as anyone who's tried to get rid of them knows, have become really immune to the poisons that we're using. So I thought, let's build something that's mutually beneficial; something that we can both benefit from, and find some way to make a new relationship with these species. So I built the vending machine. But the story of the vending machine is a little more interesting if you know more about crows. It turns out, crows aren't just surviving with human beings; they're actually thriving. They're found everywhere on the planet except for the Arctic and the southern tip of South America. And in all that area, they're only rarely found breeding more than five kilometers away from human beings. So we may not think about them, but they're always around. And not surprisingly, given the human population growth, more than half of the human population is living in cities now. And out of those, nine-tenths of the human growth population is occurring in cities. We're seeing a population boom with crows. So bird counts are indicating that we might be seeing up to exponential growth in their numbers. So that's no great surprise. But what was really interesting to me was to find out that the birds were adapting in a pretty unusual way. And I'll give you an example of that. This is Betty. She's a New Caledonian crow. And these crows use sticks in the wild to get insects and whatnot out of pieces of wood. Here, she's trying to get a piece of meat out of a tube. But the researchers had a problem. They messed up and left just a stick of wire in there. And she hadn't had the opportunity to do this before. You see, it wasn't working very well. So she adapted. Now, this is completely unprompted; she had never seen this done before. No one taught her to bend this into a hook or had shown her how it could happen. But she did it all on her own. So keep in mind — she's never seen this done. (Laughter) Right. (Laughter) Yeah. All right. (Applause) So that's the part where the researchers freak out. (Laughter) It turns out, we've been finding more and more that crows are really intelligent. Their brains are in the same proportion as chimpanzee brains are. There's all kinds of anecdotes for the different kinds of intelligence they have. For example, in Sweden, crows will wait for fishermen to drop lines through holes in the ice. And when the fishermen move off, the crows fly down, reel up the lines, and eat the fish or the bait. It's pretty annoying for the fishermen. On an entirely different tack, at University of Washington a few years ago, they were doing an experiment where they captured some crows on campus. Some students went out, netted some crows, brought them in, weighed and measured them, and let them back out again. And they were entertained to discover that for the rest of the week, whenever these particular students walked around campus, these crows would caw at them and run around, and make their life kind of miserable. (Laughter) They were significantly less entertained when this went on for the next week. And the next month. And after summer break. Until they finally graduated and left campus, and — glad to get away, I'm sure — came back sometime later, and found the crows still remembered them. (Laughter) So, the moral being: don't piss off crows. So now, students at the University of Washington that are studying these crows, do so with a giant wig and a big mask. (Laughter) It's fairly interesting. (Laughter) So we know these crows are really smart, but the more I dug into this, the more I found that they actually have an even more significant adaptation. Video: Crows have become highly skilled at making a living in these new urban environments. In this Japanese city, they have devised a way of eating a food that normally they can't manage: drop it among the traffic. The problem now is collecting the bits, without getting run over. Wait for the light to stop the traffic. Then, collect your cracked nut in safety. (Laughter) (Applause) Joshua Klein: Yeah, pretty interesting. What's significant about this isn't that crows are using cars to crack nuts. In fact, that's old hat for crows. This happened about 10 years ago in a place called Sendai City, at a driving school in the suburbs of Tokyo. And since that time, all the crows in the neighborhood are picking up this behavior. Now every crow within five kilometers is standing by a sidewalk, waiting to collect its lunch. So they're learning from each other. And research bears this out. Parents seem to be teaching their young. They learn from their peers, they learn from their enemies. If I have a little extra time, I'll tell you about a case of crow infidelity that illustrates that nicely. The point being, they've developed cultural adaptation. And as we heard yesterday, that's the Pandora's box that's getting human beings in trouble, and we're starting to see it with them. They're able to very quickly and very flexibly adapt to new challenges and new resources in their environment, which is really useful if you live in a city. So we know that there's lots of crows. We found out they're really smart and they can teach each other. When all this became clear, I realized the only obvious thing to do is build a vending machine. So that's what we did. This is a vending machine for crows. And it uses Skinnerian training to shape their behavior over four stages. It's pretty simple. Basically, what happens is that we put this out in a field or someplace where there's lots of crows. We put coins and peanuts all around the base of the machine. Crows eventually come by, eat the peanuts, and get used to the machine being there. Eventually, they eat all the peanuts. Then they see peanuts here on the feeder tray, and hop up and help themselves. Then they leave, the machine spits up more coins and peanuts, and life is dandy if you're a crow — you can come back anytime and get yourself a peanut. So when they get really used to that, we move on to the crows coming back. Now they're used to the sound of the machine; they keep coming back and digging out peanuts from the pile of coins that's there. When they get really happy about this, we stymie them. We move to the third stage, where we only give them a coin. Now, like most of us who have gotten used to a good thing, this really pisses them off. So they do what they do in nature when they're looking for something: sweep things out of the way with their beak. They do that here, and that knocks the coins down the slot. When that happens, they get a peanut. This goes on for some time. The crows learn that all they have to do is show up, wait for the coin to come out, put it in the slot, then get their peanut. When they're good and comfortable with that, we move to the final stage, where they show up and nothing happens. This is where we see the difference between crows and other animals. Squirrels, for example, would show up, look for the peanut, go away. Come back, look for the peanut, go away. They do this maybe half a dozen times before they get bored, and then they go off and play in traffic. Crows, on the other hand, show up and they try and figure it out. They know this machine has been messing with them through three different stages of behavior. (Laughter) They figure there must be more to it. So they poke at it and peck at it. And eventually some crow gets a bright idea: ""Hey, there's lots of coins lying around from the first stage, hops down, picks it up, drops it in the slot, and we're off to the races. That crow enjoys a temporary monopoly on peanuts, until his friends figure out how to do it, and then there we go. So, what's significant about this to me isn't that we can train crows to pick up peanuts. Mind you, there's 216 million dollars' worth of change lost every year, but I'm not sure I can depend on that ROI from crows. (Laughter) Instead, I think we should look a little bit larger. I think crows can be trained to do other things. For example, why not train them to pick up garbage after stadium events? Or find expensive components from discarded electronics? Or maybe do search and rescue? The main point of all this for me is, we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species. We can find ways to interact with these other species that doesn't involve exterminating them, but involves finding an equilibrium with them that's a useful balance. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	有多少人看過希區考克的電影 ｢鳥 ｣?有人覺得那部片很恐怖嗎?那你最好先離開(笑聲)這就是烏鴉專用的販賣機過去這幾天，很多人問我你怎麼做到的？你怎麼會想做這個？靈感來源，跟許多精彩的想法或是很多令人無法放棄的點子一樣就在雞尾酒派對裡大約 10 年前，我和朋友去參加一個雞尾酒派對我們坐在一旁，然後他開始抱怨起烏鴉他說他的花園到處都是烏鴉而且被搞得亂七八糟然後他說我們應該想辦法消滅它們它們那麼愛搗亂，真該全殺光我回答這樣很蠢耶！或許我們應該訓練牠們做一些有用的事然後他回答這是不可能的 相信很多人跟我一樣，覺得這回答很惹人厭當別人跟你說這是不可能的所以接下來的 10 年，我利用空閒時間了解烏鴉(笑聲)10 年後，我老婆終於說「聽著，你一定要去做這件事」「都掛在嘴邊那麼久了。還有，把販賣機做出來。」所以我就做了我覺得這件事有趣的部份原因就是我注意到我們對於那些因為人類棲息地擴張而瀕臨絕種的物種都非常關注不過卻沒有人注意那些還存活著的物種，也在為生存奮鬥我尤其想點出那些與人類共同生活的物種就是一些已經適應人類生態的物種像是老鼠、蟑螂和烏鴉 我一開始研究牠們時就發現牠們的適應力極高牠們已經非常融入我們的生活反觀我們，卻隨時想著要殺牠們因此，我們消滅牠們的手段反而有了反效果牠們不得不適應新的生活舉例來說，老鼠是對於環境非常敏感的動物而蟑螂，所有想消滅牠們的人都知道牠們對蟑螂藥有很強的抗藥性所以我想來做個對雙方都有利的東西使兩方都能獲益同時找到與這些物種建立新關係的方法因此我做了這台販賣機 但是販賣機背後的故事更有趣如果你了解烏鴉的話你會發現牠們不只是與人類共存牠們還真的族群繁榮到處都看得到牠們，除了極地和南美洲的最南端以外在這些地方，牠們很少在距離人類棲地超過 5 公里之外的地方繁殖我們可能忘記牠們的存在但是牠們一直在我們身邊如我們預料的，因為人口成長的關係超過一半的人居住在都市其中，90% 的人口成長都發生在都市我們同時也觀察到烏鴉族群數量暴增鳥類數量調查顯示烏鴉數量可能以超過指數成長的速度增加這沒什麼好驚訝的 對我來說真正有趣的是烏鴉適應環境的方式非常特別給大家看看這個例子這是貝蒂。一隻新加利多尼亞烏鴉這種烏鴉在野外會利用樹枝來抓木頭裡的昆蟲等等的食物影片中她想把一小塊肉從試管中叼出來但是研究人員出了一點小差錯不小心把一根鐵絲留在那裡這是貝蒂第一次做這種事你看，一開始不太順利所以她開始變通 這全是自發性的，她從沒看過別人這麼做沒人教過她把鐵絲彎成鉤子也從來沒有示範給她看過完全是她自己想到要這麼做請記住她從來沒看過這樣的舉動像這樣(笑聲)她成功了(掌聲)就是這個行為把研究人員嚇壞了(笑聲) 結果發現越來越多證據顯示烏鴉是非常非常聰明的牠們的大腦容量比例很均衡跟黑猩猩大腦容量比例一樣到處都有各種牠們聰明行為的趣聞像在瑞典烏鴉會等漁夫在冰上鑽洞放線釣魚漁夫一走烏鴉就飛下來，拉起釣線，吃掉魚或餌漁夫不堪其擾 烏鴉還有另一種行為發生在華盛頓大學，幾年前學生因為實驗需要到學校裡抓些烏鴉幾個學生到校園用網子捕到幾隻烏鴉帶到實驗室，量牠們的體重、身長等等的然後再放牠們走然後就發現了好笑的事接下來的整個禮拜，那些烏鴉只要在學校看到那幾個抓牠們的學生就會大聲鼓譟而且在上頭盤旋，讓那些學生日子很難過 到下個禮拜情況還沒改善，這下他們笑不太出來了然後持續到下個月，甚至到暑假結束一直到他們畢業離開學校我想他們一定很高興終於解脫了畢業一陣子後返校，發現這群烏鴉竟然還記得他們所以這告訴我們，放聰明點，不要去招惹烏鴉所以現在華盛頓大學研究烏鴉的學生抓烏鴉前必須先戴大假髮和面具變裝(笑聲)這其實相當有趣 現在我們知道烏鴉非常聰明我了解的越深入，就發現越多證據顯示牠們的適應力甚至更高更強 影片旁白 — 烏鴉有很高明的生存技能讓牠們能在都市環境生存下去日本城市裡的烏鴉想出一種方法可以吃到牠們通常無法自行處理的食物把食物丟到馬路上剩下的難題，就是把東西撿回來而且不被撞到等到紅燈讓車流停下來然後，就能安全的撿回壓碎的果仁了 (笑聲)(掌聲)很有趣吧！這段影片的重點不是烏鴉利用車流來壓碎果實事實上，這已經是烏鴉的老把戲了這是 10 年前的事發生在仙台的一所駕訓中心位在東京的市郊從此以後附近的所有烏鴉都學會這個技巧現在，方圓 5 公里內的所有烏鴉都會等在人行道旁準備撿回壓碎的果實吃 所以牠們會互相學習，研究印證了這一點父母似乎會教育下一代也會向同伴，甚至是敵人學習如果我有多餘的時間，我可以說個烏鴉外遇的故事正清楚表現出這個特性影片的重點是，烏鴉發展出適應環境的習性就像我們昨天聽的這種人類養成的習性反而為我們帶來麻煩現在我們必須跟牠們一起承擔牠們可以快速又靈活的適應環境變遷帶來的阻礙與挑戰如果生活在都市，這是很有用的生存技能 我們知道烏鴉數量很多也知道牠們非常聰明又會互相學習這些都確定之後我發現唯一合理的事就是做出一台販賣機這是我們的做法這是為烏鴉量身打造的販賣機應用操作制約，以 4 階段步驟訓練烏鴉行為其實很簡單基本上，過程就是把機器放在野外或任何烏鴉很多的地方然後在機器底部放上一些銅板和花生烏鴉會飛來吃花生先讓牠們習慣機器最後花生吃光了接著牠們發現在餵食盤裡還有一些花生就會跳上來吃掉然後烏鴉離開後，販賣機會再吐出一些銅板跟花生這樣的生活對烏鴉來說簡直是一大享受隨時飛回來就可以吃到花生 牠們很習慣後，我們對回來的烏鴉採取進一步行動現在他們習慣了機器的聲音，也會一直飛回來從一堆銅板中挑出花生當他們吃的樂不思蜀我們就干擾牠們吃花生 然後進展到第 3 階段，我們只給一個銅板就像大部分被寵壞的人一樣烏鴉很生氣牠們發揮在野外覓食的本能用鳥喙把東西掃到一旁這樣做恰好把銅板掃進投幣孔如果投進了，就會得到一粒花生這樣維持了一段時間烏鴉知道只要牠們飛過來等銅板出來，再把銅板投進投幣孔，就有花生 當牠們很得心應手的時候我們進入最後階段，這時牠們飛過來但是什麼都沒有這下烏鴉就表現出和其他動物不同之處例如松鼠，牠們會跑來找花生，然後離開再回來找花生，又離開重複約 5、6 次後牠們就厭倦了然後離開走人 烏鴉則是會飛來，試著搞清楚狀況牠們知道販賣機在捉弄牠們因為有過之前的 3 段式行為訓練(笑聲)牠們知道一定有什麼機關所以牠們就戳戳機器、啄啄機器終於有隻烏鴉想到好主意「嘿! 地上有好多一開始掉出來的銅板」「到處都是。」 牠飛下來，撿起銅板，投到投幣孔我們就不再插手干預這隻烏鴉很享受這種暫時獨占所有花生的過程直到同伴們都想到這樣做，我們就達成目的 我覺得這項實驗值得注意的不只是我們可以訓練烏鴉撿花生請注意，每年有價值 2 億 1600 萬的零錢損失但是我不確定烏鴉的投資報酬率有這麼高不過，我覺得我們應該將眼光看遠一點我認為還能訓練烏鴉做其他的事舉個例子，為什麼不訓練牠們在演唱會後撿垃圾?或是從廢棄的電子儀器中找出昂貴的零件?或是參與搜救行動?對我來說，最主要的重點是我們可以為這些動物找到一個互利的生存方式我們可以用其他方法與牠們共存不需要消滅他們而是找到一個有效的平衡點與牠們和平共存感謝大家(掌聲)
