Talk	en	zh-tw
jr_one_year_of_turning_the_world_inside_out	"Twelve years ago, I was in the street writing my name to say, ""I exist."" Then I went to taking photos of people to paste them on the street to say, ""They exist."" From the suburbs of Paris to the wall of Israel and Palestine, the rooftops of Kenya to the favelas of Rio, paper and glue — as easy as that. I asked a question last year: Can art change the world? Well let me tell you, in terms of changing the world there has been a lot of competition this year, because the Arab Spring is still spreading, the Eurozone has collapsed ... what else? The Occupy movement found a voice, and I still have to speak English constantly. So there has been a lot of change. So when I had my TED wish last year, I said, look, I'm going to switch my concept. You are going to take the photos. You're going to send them to me. I'm going to print them and send them back to you. Then you're going to paste them where it makes sense for you to place your own statement. This is Inside Out. One hundred thousand posters have been printed this year. Those are the kind of posters, let me show you. And we keep sending more every day. This is the size. Just a regular piece of paper with a little bit of ink on it. This one was from Haiti. When I launched my wish last year, hundreds of people stood up and said they wanted to help us. But I say it has to be under the conditions I've always worked: no credit, no logos, no sponsoring. A week later, a handful of people were there ready to rock and empower the people on the ground who wanted to change the world. These are the people I want to talk about to you today. Two weeks after my speech, in Tunisia, hundreds of portraits were made. And they pasted [over] every single portrait of the dictator [with] their own photos. Boom! This is what happened. Slim and his friends went through the country and pasted hundreds of photos everywhere to show the diversity in the country. They really make Inside Out their own project. Actually, that photo was pasted in a police station, and what you see on the ground are ID cards of all the photos of people being tracked by the police. Russia. Chad wanted to fight against homophobia in Russia. He went with his friends in front of every Russian embassy in Europe and stood there with the photos to say, ""We have rights."" They used Inside Out as a platform for protest. Karachi, Pakistan. Sharmeen is actually here. She organized a TEDx action out there and made all the unseen faces of the city on the walls in her town. And I want to thank her today. North Dakota. Standing Rock Nation, in this Turtle Island, [unclear name] from the Dakota Lakota tribe wanted to show that the Native Americans are still here. The seventh generation are still fighting for their rights. He pasted up portraits all over his reservation. And he's here also today. Each time I get a wall in New York, I use his photos to continue spreading the project. Juarez: You've heard of the border — one of the most dangerous borders in the world. Monica has taken thousands of portraits with a group of photographers and covered the entire border. Do you know what it takes to do this? People, energy, make the glue, organize the team. It was amazing. While in Iran at the same time Abololo — of course a nickname — has pasted one single face of a woman to show his resistance against the government. I don't have to explain to you what kind of risk he took for that action. There are tons of school projects. Twenty percent of the posters we are receiving comes from schools. Education is so essential. Kids just make photos in a class, the teacher receives them, they paste them on the school. Here they even got the help of the firemen. There should be even more schools doing this kind of project. Of course we wanted to go back to Israel and Palestine. So we went there with a truck. This is a photobooth truck. You go on the back of that truck, it takes your photo, 30 seconds later take it from the side, you're ready to rock. Thousands of people use them and each of them signs up for a two-state peace solution and then walk in the street. This is march, the 450,000 march — beginning of September. They were all holding their photo as a statement. On the other side, people were wrapping up streets, buildings. It's everywhere. Come on, don't tell me that people aren't ready for peace out there. These projects took thousands of actions in one year, making hundreds of thousands of people participating, creating millions of views. This is the biggest global art participatory project that's going on. So back to the question, ""Can art change the world?"" Maybe not in one year. That's the beginning. But maybe we should change the question. Can art change people's lives? From what I've seen this year, yes. And you know what? It's just the beginning. Let's turn the world inside out together. Thank you. (Applause)"	12年前，我在街上寫我的名字，為了宣告：「我存在。」然後改成我拍別人的照片再貼到街上，為了說：「他們存在。」從巴黎的郊區到以色列和巴勒斯坦的牆壁上，到肯亞的屋頂上，到里約的貧民區，用紙和膠水 — 就是這麼簡單。 去年我問了一個問題：藝術可否改變世界？我跟你說，今年有很多人搶著要改變世界，有仍然在擴張的阿拉伯之春，已經崩塌的歐元區，還有什麼？反資本主義的佔領運動，還有我仍然必須一直說英文。所以已經有很多改變。 當我去年許下我的TED願望時，我說，我要轉換我的概念。你們將要拍照片。你們將把照片寄給我。'我將會將它們印出來，寄回給你們。然後你們將把照片貼在能為你們個人發聲的地方。 這就是顛覆計劃(Inside Out)。今年我們已經印了10萬張海報。形形色色的海報，我會展示給你們看。而且我們每天持續在寄送。這是海報的尺寸。就是一張普通的紙上面有油墨。這張是從海地來的。 當我去年發願的時候，數百人站起來說他們要幫助我們。但我說前提是這必須要和我一直以來工作的形式相同：沒有功勞，沒有商標，沒有贊助商。一周後，少數人已經做好準備，要給地球上想改變世界的人們更多力量。這些就是我今天要跟你們分享的人們。 在突尼西亞，我演講後兩周，上百幅肖像已經完成。而且他們把這些自己肖像貼在當地獨裁者的肖像上面。砰！就這樣發生的。Slim和他的朋友走片全國到處貼了上百張的照片，以展現這個國家的多樣性。他們確實將顛覆計劃轉化成他們自己的企劃。事實上，這張照片被貼在警察局內，你看到在地上的是警察追蹤這些照片中人們的身分證。 在俄羅斯，Chad想要對抗當地對同性戀的憎惡。他和他的朋友到俄羅斯在歐洲的每間大使館前，拿著照片站在那裡，告訴大家：「我們有權力。」他們將顛覆計畫做為一種抗議的平台。 這是巴基斯坦的卡拉奇。Sharmeen人今天在現場。她在那裏舉辦了一個TED活動將城市中看不到的臉貼到她鎮上的牆上。所以我今天要謝謝她。 這是在北達科他州。在北美洲的立岩民族保留區，有個從達哥塔那哥塔部落來的人(名字不詳)想要展現北美洲原住民依然存在。第七代子孫仍然在爭取他們的權力。他在部落保留區內貼滿肖像。他本人今天也在場。每次我在紐約有一面牆可以創作時，我使用他的照片，持續散播這項計畫。 很多人都聽過墨西哥華雷斯城 —世界上最危險的邊境之一。Monica和一群攝影師拍了幾千張的肖像將他們貼遍整個邊境。你知道這要怎麼做嗎？人力、精力、生產膠水、組成一個團隊。成效很驚人。 同時間在伊朗Abololo —當然這是個綽號—貼了一個女人的臉的照片，展現他對政府的反抗。我不需要解釋他這個舉動冒了多大的風險。 還有很多在學校進行的計畫。我們收到的海報中，有兩成來自學校。教育是如此重要，孩童們在課堂上製作照片，老師集合起來後，他們再將照片貼在校園內。在這裡他們甚至還得到消防隊員的幫助。應該要有更多學校執行這種計畫。 我們當然也想回到以色列和巴勒斯坦。於是我們坐著一輛貨車回去。這是一台照相亭貨車。你走到貨車後面拍張照，30秒後在車側邊取照片，你就準備好動手了。有幾千個人使用這項服務，而且當中每個人都連署了兩國和平契約然後走上街。這是有45萬人的遊行 — 在9月初的時候。他們都手拿著自己的照片作為宣告。在另外一頭，人們將街道和建築物包起來。隨處可見。拜託，不要跟我說在那裏的人不想要和平。 這些計畫在一年內執行了幾千次行動，帶動千萬人參與，創造了幾百萬個景象。這是全球規模最大且持續進行中的藝術參與計畫。 所以回到原本的問題，「藝術可以改變世界嗎？」也許不是在一年之內。這只是個開始。但或許我們可以改問個問題。藝術可以改變人的生命嗎？就我這一年來所見，是的，而且你知道嗎？這只是剛開始。讓我們一起顛覆這個世界吧。謝謝。 (掌聲)
