Talk	en	zh-tw
jr_s_ted_prize_wish_use_art_to_turn_the_world_inside_out	"Two weeks ago I was in my studio in Paris, and the phone rang and I heard, ""Hey, JR, you won the TED Prize 2011. You have to make a wish to save the world."" I was lost. I mean, I can't save the world. Nobody can. The world is fucked up. Come on, you have dictators ruling the world, population is growing by millions, there's no more fish in the sea, the North Pole is melting and as the last TED Prize winner said, we're all becoming fat. (Laughter) Except maybe French people. Whatever. So I called back and I told her, ""Look, Amy, tell the TED guys I just won't show up. I can't do anything to save the world."" She said, ""Hey, JR, your wish is not to save the world, but to change the world."" ""Oh, all right."" (Laughter) ""That's cool."" I mean, technology, politics, business do change the world — not always in a good way, but they do. What about art? Could art change the world? I started when I was 15 years old. And at that time, I was not thinking about changing the world. I was doing graffiti — writing my name everywhere, using the city as a canvas. I was going in the tunnels of Paris, on the rooftops with my friends. Each trip was an excursion, was an adventure. It was like leaving our mark on society, to say, ""I was here,"" on the top of a building. So when I found a cheap camera on the subway, I started documenting those adventures with my friends and gave them back as photocopies — really small photos just that size. That's how, at 17 years old, I started pasting them. And I did my first ""expo de rue,"" which means sidewalk gallery. And I framed it with color so you would not confuse it with advertising. I mean, the city's the best gallery I could imagine. I would never have to make a book and then present it to a gallery and let them decide if my work was nice enough to show it to people. I would control it directly with the public in the streets. So that's Paris. I would change — depending on the places I would go — the title of the exhibition. That's on the Champs-Elysees. I was quite proud of that one. Because I was just 18 and I was just up there on the top of the Champs-Elysees. Then when the photo left, the frame was still there. (Laughter) November 2005: the streets are burning. A large wave of riots had broken into the first projects of Paris. Everyone was glued to the TV, watching disturbing, frightening images taken from the edge of the neighborhood. I mean, these kids, without control, throwing Molotov cocktails, attacking the cops and the firemen, looting everything they could in the shops. These were criminals, thugs, dangerous, destroying their own environment. And then I saw it — could it be possible? — my photo on a wall revealed by a burning car — a pasting I'd done a year earlier — an illegal one — still there. I mean, these were the faces of my friends. I know those guys. All of them are not angels, but they're not monsters either. So it was kind of weird to see those images and those eyes stare back at me through a television. So I went back there with a 28 mm lens. It was the only one I had at that time. But with that lens, you have to be as close as 10 inches from the person. So you can do it only with their trust. So I took full portraits of people from Le Bosquet. They were making scary faces to play the caricature of themselves. And then I pasted huge posters everywhere in the bourgeois area of Paris with the name, age, even building number of these guys. A year later, the exhibition was displayed in front of the city hall of Paris. And we go from thug images, who've been stolen and distorted by the media, who's now proudly taking over his own image. That's where I realized the power of paper and glue. So could art change the world? A year later, I was listening to all the noise about the Middle East conflict. I mean, at that time, trust me, they were only referring to the Israeli and Palestinian conflict. So with my friend Marco, we decided to go there and see who are the real Palestinians and who are the real Israelis. Are they so different? When we got there, we just went in the street, started talking with people everywhere, and we realized that things were a bit different from the rhetoric we heard in the media. So we decided to take portraits of Palestinians and Israelis doing the same jobs — taxi-driver, lawyer, cooks. Asked them to make a face as a sign of commitment. Not a smile — that really doesn't tell about who you are and what you feel. They all accepted to be pasted next to the other. I decided to paste in eight Israeli and Palestinian cities and on both sides of the wall. We launched the biggest illegal art exhibition ever. We called the project Face 2 Face. The experts said, ""No way. The people will not accept. The army will shoot you, and Hamas will kidnap you."" We said, ""Okay, let's try and push as far as we can."" I love the way that people will ask me, ""How big will my photo be?"" ""It will be as big as your house."" When we did the wall, we did the Palestinian side. So we arrived with just our ladders and we realized that they were not high enough. And so Palestinians guys say, ""Calm down. No wait. I'm going to find you a solution."" So he went to the Church of Nativity and brought back an old ladder that was so old that it could have seen Jesus being born. (Laughter) We did Face 2 Face with only six friends, two ladders, two brushes, a rented car, a camera and 20,000 square feet of paper. We had all sorts of help from all walks of life. Okay, for example, that's Palestine. We're in Ramallah right now. We're pasting portraits — so both portraits in the streets in a crowded market. People come around us and start asking, ""What are you doing here?"" ""Oh, we're actually doing an art project and we are pasting an Israeli and a Palestinian doing the same job. And those ones are actually two taxi-drivers."" And then there was always a silence. ""You mean you're pasting an Israeli face — doing a face — right here?"" ""Well, yeah, yeah, that's part of the project."" And I would always leave that moment, and we would ask them, ""So can you tell me who is who?"" And most of them couldn't say. (Applause) We even pasted on Israeli military towers, and nothing happened. When you paste an image, it's just paper and glue. People can tear it, tag on it, or even pee on it — some are a bit high for that, I agree — but the people in the street, they are the curator. The rain and the wind will take them off anyway. They are not meant to stay. But exactly four years after, the photos, most of them are still there. Face 2 Face demonstrated that what we thought impossible was possible — and, you know what, even easy. We didn't push the limit; we just showed that they were further than anyone thought. In the Middle East, I experienced my work in places without [many] museums. So the reactions in the street were kind of interesting. So I decided to go further in this direction and go in places where there were zero museums. When you go in these developing societies, women are the pillars of their community, but the men are still the ones holding the streets. So we were inspired to create a project where men will pay tribute to women by posting their photos. I called that project Women Are Heroes. When I listened to all the stories everywhere I went on the continents, I couldn't always understand the complicated circumstances of their conflict. I just observed. Sometimes there was no words, no sentence, just tears. I just took their pictures and pasted them. Women Are Heroes took me around the world. Most of the places I went to, I decided to go there because I've heard about it through the media. So for example, in June 2008, I was watching TV in Paris, and then I heard about this terrible thing that happened in Rio de Janeiro — the first favela of Brazil named Providencia. Three kids — that was three students — were [detained] by the army because they were not carrying their papers. And the army took them, and instead of bringing them to the police station, they brought them to an enemy favela where they get chopped into pieces. I was shocked. All Brazil was shocked. I heard it was one of the most violent favelas, because the largest drug cartel controls it. So I decided to go there. When I arrived — I mean, I didn't have any contact with any NGO. There was none in place — no association, no NGOs, nothing — no eyewitnesses. So we just walked around, and we met a woman, and I showed her my book. And she said, ""You know what? We're hungry for culture. We need culture out there."" So I went out and I started with the kids. I just took a few photos of the kids, and the next day I came with the posters and we pasted them. The day after, I came back and they were already scratched. But that's okay. I wanted them to feel that this art belongs to them. Then the next day, I held a meeting on the main square and some women came. They were all linked to the three kids that got killed. There was the mother, the grandmother, the best friend — they all wanted to shout the story. After that day, everyone in the favela gave me the green light. I took more photos, and we started the project. The drug lords were kind of worried about us filming in the place, so I told them, ""You know what? I'm not interested in filming the violence and the weapons. You see that enough in the media. What I want to show is the incredible life and energy. I've been seeing it around me the last few days."" So that's a really symbolic pasting, because that's the first one we did that you couldn't see from the city. And that's where the three kids got arrested, and that's the grandmother of one of them. And on that stairs, that's where the traffickers always stand and there's a lot of exchange of fire. Everyone there understood the project. And then we pasted everywhere — the whole hill. (Applause) What was interesting is that the media couldn't get in. I mean, you should see that. They would have to film us from a really long distance by helicopter and then have a really long lens, and we would see ourselves, on TV, pasting. And they would put a number: ""Please call this number if you know what's going on in Providencia."" We just did a project and then left so the media wouldn't know. So how can we know about the project? So they had to go and find the women and get an explanation from them. So you create a bridge between the media and the anonymous women. We kept traveling. We went to Africa, Sudan, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Kenya. In war-torn places like Monrovia, people come straight to you. I mean, they want to know what you're up to. They kept asking me, ""What is the purpose of your project? Are you an NGO? Are you the media?"" Art. Just doing art. Some people question, ""Why is it in black and white? Don't you have color in France?"" (Laughter) Or they tell you, ""Are these people all dead?"" Some who understood the project would explain it to others. And to a man who did not understand, I heard someone say, ""You know, you've been here for a few hours trying to understand, discussing with your fellows. During that time, you haven't thought about what you're going to eat tomorrow. This is art."" I think it's people's curiosity that motivates them to come into the projects. And then it becomes more. It becomes a desire, a need, an armor. On this bridge that's in Monrovia, ex-rebel soldiers helped us pasting a portrait of a woman that might have been raped during the war. Women are always the first ones targeted during conflict. This is Kibera, Kenya, one of the largest slums of Africa. You might have seen images about the post-election violence that happened there in 2008. This time we covered the roofs of the houses, but we didn't use paper, because paper doesn't prevent the rain from leaking inside the house — vinyl does. Then art becomes useful. So the people kept it. You know what I love is, for example, when you see the biggest eye there, there are so [many] houses inside. And I went there a few months ago — photos are still there — and it was missing a piece of the eye. So I asked the people what happened. ""Oh, that guy just moved."" (Laughter) When the roofs were covered, a woman said as a joke, ""Now God can see me."" When you look at Kibera now, they look back. Okay, India. Before I start that, just so you know, each time we go to a place, we don't have authorization, so we set up like commandos — we're a group of friends who arrive there, and we try to paste on the walls. But there are places where you just can't paste on a wall. In India it was just impossible to paste. I heard culturally and because of the law, they would just arrest us at the first pasting. So we decided to paste white, white on the walls. So imagine white guys pasting white papers. So people would come to us and ask us, ""Hey, what are you up to?"" ""Oh, you know, we're just doing art."" ""Art?"" Of course, they were confused. But you know how India has a lot of dust in the streets, and the more dust you would have going up in the air, on the white paper you can almost see, but there is this sticky part like when you reverse a sticker. So the more dust you have, the more it will reveal the photo. So we could just walk in the street during the next days and the photos would get revealed by themselves. (Applause) Thank you. So we didn't get caught this time. Each project — that's a film from Women Are Heroes. (Music) Okay. For each project we do a film. And most of what you see — that's a trailer from ""Women Are Heroes"" — its images, photography, taken one after the other. And the photos kept traveling even without us. (Laughter) (Applause) Hopefully, you'll see the film, and you'll understand the scope of the project and what the people felt when they saw those photos. Because that's a big part of it. There's layers behind each photo. Behind each image is a story. Women Are Heroes created a new dynamic in each of the communities, and the women kept that dynamic after we left. For example, we did books — not for sale — that all the community would get. But to get it, they would have to [get] it signed by one of the women. We did that in most of the places. We go back regularly. And so in Providencia, for example, in the favela, we have a cultural center running there. In Kibera, each year we cover more roofs. Because of course, when we left, the people who were just at the edge of the project said, ""Hey, what about my roof?"" So we decided to come the year after and keep doing the project. A really important point for me is that I don't use any brand or corporate sponsors. So I have no responsibility to anyone but myself and the subjects. (Applause) And that is for me one of the more important things in the work. I think, today, as important as the result is the way you do things. And that has always been a central part of the work. And what's interesting is that fine line that I have with images and advertising. We just did some pasting in Los Angeles on another project in the last weeks. And I was even invited to cover the MOCA museum. But yesterday the city called them and said, ""Look, you're going to have to tear it down. Because this can be taken for advertising, and because of the law, it has to be taken down."" But tell me, advertising for what? The people I photograph were proud to participate in the project and to have their photo in the community. But they asked me for a promise basically. They asked me, ""Please, make our story travel with you."" So I did. That's Paris. That's Rio. In each place, we built exhibitions with a story, and the story traveled. You understand the full scope of the project. That's London. New York. And today, they are with you in Long Beach. All right, recently I started a public art project where I don't use my artwork anymore. I use Man Ray, Helen Levitt, Giacomelli, other people's artwork. It doesn't matter today if it's your photo or not. The importance is what you do with the images, the statement it makes where it's pasted. So for example, I pasted the photo of the minaret in Switzerland a few weeks after they voted the law forbidding minarets in the country. (Applause) This image of three men wearing gas masks was taken in Chernobyl originally, and I pasted it in Southern Italy, where the mafia sometimes bury the garbage under the ground. In some ways, art can change the world. Art is not supposed to change the world, to change practical things, but to change perceptions. Art can change the way we see the world. Art can create an analogy. Actually the fact that art cannot change things makes it a neutral place for exchanges and discussions, and then enables you to change the world. When I do my work, I have two kinds of reactions. People say, ""Oh, why don't you go in Iraq or Afghanistan. They would be really useful."" Or, ""How can we help?"" I presume that you belong to the second category, and that's good, because for that project, I'm going to ask you to take the photos and paste them. So now my wish is: (mock drum roll) (Laughter) I wish for you to stand up for what you care about by participating in a global art project, and together we'll turn the world inside out. And this starts right now. Yes, everyone in the room. Everyone watching. I wanted that wish to actually start now. So a subject you're passionate about, a person who you want to tell their story or even your own photos — tell me what you stand for. Take the photos, the portraits, upload it — I'll give you all the details — and I'll send you back your poster. Join by groups and reveal things to the world. The full data is on the website — insideoutproject.net — that is launching today. What we see changes who we are. When we act together, the whole thing is much more than the sum of the parts. So I hope that, together, we'll create something that the world will remember. And this starts right now and depends on you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	二星期前, 我在巴黎的工作室,電話響起　我接到消息說：『喂, JR,你贏得了TED2011大獎。你要為拯救世界而許願。』我頓時不知所措。我無法拯救世界, 沒有人可以。世界整個亂了套我們看到獨裁者統治世界人口以百萬增加,海裡已經沒有魚了,北極也在融化,上個TED大獎得主還說每個人都愈來愈胖（笑聲）也許除了法國人罷。諸如此類。於是, 我回覆電話我告訴她,「聽著, Amy,告訴TED 那群人我不會出席，我沒辦法拯救世界。」她說: 喂, 『JR,你的願望不是拯救世界, 而是在改變世界。』『噢, 那好的。』（笑聲）『這很好。』我的意思是, 科技, 政治, 商業可以改變世界—並非總是有益，但的確在改變世界。那麼藝術呢？藝術可以改變世界嗎? 我十五歲開始創作那時我並不是為了想改變世界我喜歡塗鴉，在四處畫下自己的名字把城市當做畫布。我與朋友走過巴黎的地下道和屋頂。每一次都是短途的旅行是一場探險。就像在社會各處留下我們的印記在城市頂端宣稱：「我曾在此」 我在地鐵上發現了一台便宜的相機後就開始記錄那些與朋友同行的冒險經歷並以照片影印的方式跟朋友們分享大約是這種大小的照片接著在十七歲，我開始張貼這些照片這是我第一個街頭博覽會,意思是街頭畫廊。我用顏色把照片裱起來你就不會以為這是廣告了。我是說: 城市是我想像中最棒的畫廊。我從不需要製作畫冊、呈現給畫廊看讓他們評判我的創作是否夠好是否足以秀給大眾來欣賞我會把它們直接向公眾展示在街上, 這是巴黎。我會改變 —-我的創作隨著旅行的地方、畫展的主題而改變這是香榭麗舍大街。我對這個展覽相當自豪因為當時我只是十八歲在香榭大道上遊走當我拿下照片之後裱的框架仍然架在那裡。 （笑聲） 二零零五年十一月:整條街道熊火蔓延。一場很大的暴動在發生後來變成我在巴黎的第一個藝術計畫,每個人都黏在電視機旁,看著那些由旁邊鄰居拍攝出來的打鬥影像。我是說: 那些孩子, 失控的,抛著汽油彈,襲擊警察和消防員,打刼商品搶走所有東西這些是罪犯, 壞蛋, 危險的破壞他們的環境。 然後我想：有沒有可能？我貼在牆上的照片透過一輛燃燒中的汽車反映出來 —-我一年前貼上去的違法的創作仍留在牆上我意思是, 當中有我的朋友的樣子。我認識這些人,他們不全是天使,但他們也不是惡魔。這很奇怪的看到這些影像和那些眼睛竟然透過電視回來的凝望著我。 於是我回到那裡還有那28mm 的鏡頭。那是我當時唯一僅有的鏡頭但從這鏡頭,我必須很靠近那些人, 大概是十吋左右。只有他們對我的信任, 我才可以把他們拍下來。於是, 我在Le Bosquet拍了四個人像照。他們都做著最恐佈的表情將他們變成了卡通人物。然後我再張貼巨大海報在巴黎資產階級區的各個角落包括每個人的名字、年齡、甚至居住地址的號碼一年之後,這個展覽在巴黎市政府前展出，我繼續的去拍攝,那些被傳媒扭曲了, 或是損毀形象的人,如今卻能以自己的原貌為榮這時我才領悟到紙張和膠水的力量。所以, 藝術是否可以改變世界? 一年之後,我聽到許多關於中東衝突的聲音。我的意思是, 那時, 相信我他們其實是指以色列和巴基斯坦的衝突。我和我的朋友, Marco我們決定到那裡去看看誰是真正的巴勒斯坦人, 誰是真正的以色列人。他們是否真的很不同?當我們到了那裡, 我們只是走在街上,隨處跟人閒聊,我們發現事實是有很大不同由傳媒聽到的訊息於是我們決定去拍人像照是有關巴勒斯坦和以色列人的職業相同的人計程車司機, 律師, 廚師要求他們做出「承諾奉獻」的表情不是笑容—其實他們也分不出來你是誰跟你的感受之間的分別他們全都答應了就是貼在別國的附近我決定去貼在八個以色列和巴勒斯坦的城市兩邊的牆壁上我們發起史上首次規模最大的違法畫展並取名為「面對面」 專家說: 不可能人們不會接受軍隊會槍殺你, 哈馬斯會綁架你我們說, 好的, 看看我們可以做到那裡我很開心聽到人們問：「我的照片會有多大？」我回答：跟你的家一樣大。當我們貼在牆上, 在巴勒斯坦那邊我們只帶著自己的梯子然後, 我們發現那張梯子並不够高於是, 巴勒斯坦人說冷靜，等等，我們會幫你想辦法於是他到聖誕教堂去帶來了一張很舊的梯子那張梯子舊得應該曾見証耶穌出生（笑聲）「面對面」計畫，動用了六個朋友二張梯子, 兩把刷子一輛租來的汽車, 一台相機以及二萬平方呎的紙我們獲得各種鼎力相助來自不同階層的人 好吧, 例如, 這是巴勒斯坦Ramallah我們當時就拉馬拉我們在貼著人像照兩張人像照都是在擠迫市場的街上人們走過來開始不停地問你們在做什麼?噢, 我們其實在做一個藝術計畫把職業相同的巴勒斯坦人和以色列人的照片貼在一起這兩位都是計程車司機通常他們都先會沉默, 然後問:你的意思是，你會貼上以色列人的臉孔在這裡?『對, 這是我們計畫的一部份。』我總是享受那個片刻然後會問他們,『你可以告訴我誰是以色列人, 誰是巴勒斯坦人?』他們大部份人都不能說出。 （笑聲） 我們甚至貼在以色列的軍事塔上,也沒發生什麼事。當你貼上照片, 這只是紙張和膠水。人們可以撕爛它, 亂畫它, 甚至向它撒尿 —有些人甚至為此有點興奮, 我承認—-但在街上的人們,他們就是監護人，風和雨終究會吹走這些照片而這些海報本來就不會永久存在但事實上, 四年之後,那些照片, 大部份都仍然留存下來。面對面」證明了我們以為的不可能, 其實是可能的 —你知嗎, 甚至可說是輕而易舉。我們還沒有推到極限,我們只是想展示我們已經走得比別人所想的要遠。 在中東, 我經驗到我在那些沒有(很多)美術館的地方工作。所以在街上展覽這方向其實是出於興趣。所以我決定往這方向更進一步到一個沒有美術館的地方去當你踏進一個開發中的國家女人是他們社會的支柱,但男性卻依然是把持街頭的人於是激發了我們創造一個計畫男人以可貼上女性的照片以向女性致敬。我稱這次的計畫為「女人英雄」當我聽過當中所有的故事在我到過的每個洲的每一處,我總是無法理解他們那些矛盾的複雜狀態,我只是觀察。有時我無言以對，講不出話，只能流淚我只是專心拍照然後貼出來。 『女人英雄』這計畫，讓我走到全世界。在我去過的大部份地方,我決定去那裡是因為我在傳媒之中聽說過。就好像, 二零零八年六月,我在巴黎看電視,跟著我就聽到這可怕的事發生在里約熱內盧。巴西第一個貧民區叫做Providencia三個孩子 —- 也是三個學生被軍隊拘留了因為他們沒有帶著他們的證件。軍隊於是逮捕他們學生沒有被送到警察局反而是帶他們到敵方的貧民區在那裡, 他們被斬成數段。我十分震驚。整個巴西也震驚。我聽過這是最殘忍的貧民區,因為最大的販毒集團控制那裡,所以我決定要去到那裡。 當我到達的時候 —-我是說, 並不認識任何非政府組織的人，那裡也沒有, 沒有旅行社, 沒有非政府機構, 什麼也沒有 —-沒有目擊者我們只是隨處走動然後遇到了一名婦女我給她看我的書她說, 『你知嗎?我們這裡對文化是很飢渴的。我們這裡需要文化。』於是我走出去, 跟孩子開始。我只是拍了一些孩子們的照片，第二天我們就帶著海報回來貼在牆上第三天我再回去，海報已經被抓破了但是那沒關係，我想讓他們感到, 這些藝術是屬於他們的。 第四天，我在廣場上舉辦一場會議來了一些婦女。這些婦女都跟那三個被殺的孩子有關。有他們的媽媽, 祖母, 最好的朋友。她們都想分享這個故事這天之後，貧民窟的每個人都開始對我釋出善意我拍了更多的照片，開始著手計畫毒梟對我們有些疑慮因為我們在這裡拍攝，我告訴他們, 『你知嗎？我並無興趣去拍那個暴力和武器。這些你在傳媒已經看够了。我想捕捉的是驚人的生命與活力，事實上, 這些就是我在這些日子所看到的東西。』這是極具代表性的圖貼因為這是我的創舉, 你在城市是無法看到的。這是三個孩子被捉的地方，這是他們其中一個的祖母。在那些階梯上，就是那些毒販時常佔據的地方這裡也有軍火交易。當地人全都明白這個計畫所代表的意義然後，我們把照片張貼在山丘上的各個角落 （掌聲） 有趣的是，媒體無法走進那個地帶我是說, 你應該看看。他們應該是在遠距離用直昇機拍我們的他們有一支很長的鏡頭,我們會在電視上看到自己張貼海報的樣子還打著字幕：「如果你知道Providencia的現況，歡迎來電。」我們單純完成這個計畫後，就走人了媒體茫然，無從了解這個計畫？於是, 他們必需找出那個女人從她們身上得到解釋於是, 你做了傳媒和那不知名女人之間的橋樑。 我們繼續旅程。我們去到非洲, 蘇丹, 獅子山,利比亞, 肯亞。在戰亂的地方好像蒙羅維亞,人們直接走到你跟前。他們想知道你在做什麼?不停提問：你的計畫有什麼目的？你是NGO嗎? 你是記者嗎?』藝術, 只在搞藝術,有些人甚至問：「為什麼全是黑白照片？你們在法國沒有彩色嗎?」（笑聲）或是, 他們會問你: 『這些都是死人嗎?』了解這個藝術計畫的人會向不懂的人解釋我聽到有個人這樣解釋：『你在這裡好幾個小時跟同伴一起試圖想了解、分析你腦中完全不會去想明天要吃什麼這就是藝術。』我想這是人的好奇心鼓動了他們跟我們合作這些計畫。讓它變成更多的東西。變成了慾望，需求，哀悼在Monrovia的這段橋上一個前叛軍幫我們貼上這人像照這是一個在戰爭曾受強暴的女人的照片。女人通常是第一個在衝突之中受害的。 這是肯亞的基貝拉非洲最大的貧民窟之一。你可能看過選舉後發生的暴動影片那是發生在二零零八年。這次我們貼在屋頂上,但我們不用紙張,因為紙張不能防止雨水滲漏到屋內—-塑膠布就可以於是, 藝術又變得有用了。也令那些人繼續保存它。例如，你看到最大張的那雙眼睛底下遮蔽著許多房子我最近這幾個月也有去過 —-那些照片仍在——就只是遺失去眼睛那部份。於是, 我去問人們, 究竟發生了什麼事。『噢, 那個人剛剛搬走了。』（笑聲）屋頂蓋上海報之後，一位婦女打趣地說『現在, 上帝可以看見我了。』當你現在看到基貝拉基貝拉也回看著你 這裡是印度你也會知道, 當我開始時,每一次我們去的每個地方, 我們都沒有導遊,我們好像是突擊隊 —-我們一群朋友走到那裡,然後把照片貼在牆上。但有些地方是, 你不能在那些牆上貼東西。在印度, 我們就是無法張貼。我聽說是因為文化上, 也因為這是法律,我們第一次貼上, 我們就會被拘捕。於是,我們決定去貼白色的,白紙在牆上。想像一下：白人貼著白紙的模樣於是人們都走過來問我們,『喂, 你們在做些什麼?』『噢, 我們只是在做藝術。』『藝術?』當然, 這令他們很迷惘。你知道印度的街道上有許多灰塵灰塵越多飄到空氣中,附在白紙那些黏貼的部份,於是, 你便可以看到影像了就像貼紙的背面一樣於是, 愈多灰塵, 影像愈清晰。隔天我們走到街上那些照片便自動顯現了。（掌聲）謝謝於是, 所以那次我們就沒有被拘捕。 每一個計畫, 都是一齣影片這是「女人是英雄」的紀錄影片（音樂）好了我們用攝影機記錄每一個藝術計畫大部份你所看見的, 是由『女人是英雄』的簡介短片而來 —-這是影像, 照片,一張接著一張即使沒有我們，那些照片也會繼續旅行下去(笑聲)(掌聲)希望你們看到影片之後能了解這些藝術計畫的規模以及, 感受到人們怎樣去看這些照片。因為每張照片背後, 還有不同的層次。在每個影像背後都是故事。 「女人是英雄」啟動了社區的新動力在每一個社區,以及, 即使我們走了, 當地婦女仍然保持著那動力。例如, 我們製做書本—-非賣品整個社區都會得到。但要得到, 他們需要讓其中一位婦女簽名。我們在許多地方都是這樣做。我們定期回去。例如在Providencia 貧民窟我們設立了一個管理中心在基貝拉，我們每年會回去拉塑膠海報遮屋頂因為當我們離開時，位於計畫周邊的民眾就會說: 『喂, 那我的屋頂呢?』於是, 我們決定第二年再去繼續這項計畫。 對我來說最重要的是我沒有用任何的品牌或是商業的贊助。所以我沒有責任對任何人, 我只需對自己和拍攝對象負責（掌聲）這是我的其中一個最重要的工作。我想, 今天做事的過程和結果都是同樣重要。而這一直是處事的重心好玩的是 我的創作與圖像和廣告之間有著細微差別我們剛剛在洛杉機進行一些工作在過去的數個星期, 是有關另外一個計畫的。我甚至是被邀請去覆蓋整個MOCA美術館。可是昨天市政府打電話給美術館看看, 我們準備把它們撕下來『因為這可以用來做廣告,也因為法令,它需要被撕下來。』你告訴我，這到底可以廣告什麼？ 我所拍攝的對象都非常驕傲能參與這計畫以及在社區裡有他們的照片。但他們基本上要一個承諾：他們要求我: 『請把我的故事隨你去旅行。』於是,我做了, 這是巴黎這裡是里約熱內盧我們在各方透過照片展覽故事、讓故事旅行讓人了解這個藝術計畫的規模這是倫敦紐約以及今天, 他們和你們一起在長灘。 最近，我開始進行一項公共藝術計畫我不再只選用我自己的作品我用了Man Ray, Helen Levitt,Giacomelli, 以及其他人的藝術。今天的重點不再是　這是你拍的還是別人拍的照片重要的是你用這些圖像做什麼那些影像,當它被貼出來的時候, 那便是一項聲明。例如，我貼了一張尖塔（喚拜塔）的照片在瑞士就在這國家投票反對清真寺喚拜塔後的數個星期後。（掌聲）圖片中戴著防毒面具的行人原本是在切諾貝爾拍的,我把它貼在義大利南部,當地的黑手黨有時會惡霸橫行 就某方面而言，藝術可以改變世界儘管藝術不能期待改變世界就現實面而言，但藝術可以改變觀念。藝術可以改變我們看待世界的方式。藝術可以創造出一個類比藝術不能改變世界的事實反而可以成為中立的空間允許對話和討論發生繼而改善世界當我創作的時候我通常得到兩種反應人會說: 『為什麼你不到伊朗或是阿富汗。這對他們一定很有用。』或是, 『我們可以幫什麼忙!』我假設你大概會是屬於第二類,那就好了,因為這個計畫,我想請各位拍下照片然後貼出來。 我的願望就是：（模擬擊鼓）（笑聲）我希望各位為自己關心的議題挺身而出透過參與這項全球性的藝術計畫,一起共同把世界顛覆這項計畫在此刻正式啟動我邀請在座的各位每位觀眾　共襄盛舉我希望這願望可以由現在開始!分享你所關心的議題、某個人的故事甚至你自己的照片 —-告訴我　你所支持的事物拍那些照片, 人像照我會提供管道讓你上傳我也會回寄你你的海報, 集合一群人對世界展示你的想法所有的資料都在這網站:insideoutproject.net由今天開始正式推出! 我們的視野改變我們本身當我們擕手一起行動,整件事會大於所有部份的總和!所以我希望, 一起, 我們可以創造一些東西讓全世界可以記得。這個心願在此刻啟動，並且掌握在你手中 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝 掌聲
