Talk	en	zh-tw
juan_enriquez_shares_mindboggling_new_science	"There's a great big elephant in the room called the economy. So let's start talking about that. I wanted to give you a current picture of the economy. That's what I have behind myself. (Laughter) But of course what we have to remember is this. And what you have to think about is, when you're dancing in the flames, what's next? So what I'm going to try to do in the next 17 and a half minutes is I'm going to talk first about the flames — where we are in the economy — and then I'm going to take three trends that have taken place at TED over the last 25 years and that will take place in this conference and I will try and bring them together. And I will try and give you a sense of what the ultimate reboot looks like. Those three trends are the ability to engineer cells, the ability to engineer tissues, and robots. And somehow it will all make sense. But anyway, let's start with the economy. There's a couple of really big problems that are still sitting there. One is leverage. And the problem with leverage is it makes the U.S. financial system look like this. (Laughter) So, a normal commercial bank has nine to 10 times leverage. That means for every dollar you deposit, it loans out about nine or 10. A normal investment bank is not a deposit bank, it's an investment bank; it has 15 to 20 times. It turns out that B of A in September had 32 times. And your friendly Citibank had 47 times. Oops. That means every bad loan goes bad 47 times over. And that, of course, is the reason why all of you are making such generous and wonderful donations to these nice folks. And as you think about that, you've got to wonder: so what do banks have in store for you now? (Laughter) It ain't pretty. The government, meanwhile, has been acting like Santa Claus. We all love Santa Claus, right? But the problem with Santa Clause is, if you look at the mandatory spending of what these folks have been doing and promising folks, it turned out that in 1967, 38 percent was mandatory spending on what we call ""entitlements."" And then by 2007 it was 68 percent. And we weren't supposed to run into 100 percent until about 2030. Except we've been so busy giving away a trillion here, a trillion there, that we've brought that date of reckoning forward to about 2017. And we thought we were going to be able to lay these debts off on our kids, but, guess what? We're going to start to pay them. And the problem with this stuff is, now that the bill's come due, it turns out Santa isn't quite as cute when it's summertime. Right? (Laughter) Here's some advice from one of the largest investors in the United States. This guy runs the China Investment Corporation. He is the main buyer of U.S. Treasury bonds. And he gave an interview in December. Here's his first bit of advice. And here's his second bit of advice. And, by the way, the Chinese Prime Minister reiterated this at Davos last Sunday. This stuff is getting serious enough that if we don't start paying attention to the deficit, we're going to end up losing the dollar. And then all bets are off. Let me show you what it looks like. I think I can safely say that I'm the only trillionaire in this room. This is an actual bill. And it's 10 triliion dollars. The only problem with this bill is it's not really worth very much. That was eight bucks last week, four bucks this week, a buck next week. And that's what happens to currencies when you don't stand behind them. So the next time somebody as cute as this shows up on your doorstep, and sometimes this creature's called Chrysler and sometimes Ford and sometimes ... whatever you want — you've just got to say no. And you've got to start banishing a word that's called ""entitlement."" And the reason we have to do that in the short term is because we have just run out of cash. If you look at the federal budget, this is what it looks like. The orange slice is what's discretionary. Everything else is mandated. It makes no difference if we cut out the bridges to Alaska in the overall scheme of things. So what we have to start thinking about doing is capping our medical spending because that's a monster that's simply going to eat the entire budget. We've got to start thinking about asking people to retire a little bit later. If you're 60 to 65 you retire on time. Your 401(k) just got nailed. If you're 50 to 60 we want you to work two years more. If you're under 50 we want you to work four more years. The reason why that's reasonable is, when your grandparents were given Social Security, they got it at 65 and were expected to check out at 68. Sixty-eight is young today. We've also got to cut the military about three percent a year. We've got to limit other mandatory spending. We've got to quit borrowing as much, because otherwise the interest is going to eat that whole pie. And we've got to end up with a smaller government. And if we don't start changing this trend line, we are going to lose the dollar and start to look like Iceland. I got what you're thinking. This is going to happen when hell freezes over. But let me remind you this December it did snow in Vegas. (Laughter) Here's what happens if you don't address this stuff. So, Japan had a fiscal real estate crisis back in the late '80s. And its 225 largest companies today are worth one quarter of what they were 18 years ago. We don't fix this now, how would you like to see a Dow 3,500 in 2026? Because that's the consequence of not dealing with this stuff. And unless you want this person to not just become the CFO of Florida, but the United States, we'd better deal with this stuff. That's the short term. That's the flame part. That's the financial crisis. Now, right behind the financial crisis there's a second and bigger wave that we need to talk about. That wave is much larger, much more powerful, and that's of course the wave of technology. And what's really important in this stuff is, as we cut, we also have to grow. Among other things, because startup companies are .02 percent of U.S. GDP investmentm and they're about 17.8 percent of output. It's groups like that in this room that generate the future of the U.S. economy. And that's what we've got to keep growing. We don't have to keep growing these bridges to nowhere. So let's bring a romance novelist into this conversation. And that's where these three trends come together. That's where the ability to engineer microbes, the ability to engineer tissues, and the ability to engineer robots begin to lead to a reboot. And let me recap some of the stuff you've seen. Craig Venter showed up last year and showed you the first fully programmable cell that acts like hardware where you can insert DNA and have it boot up as a different species. In parallel, the folks at MIT have been building a standard registry of biological parts. So think of it as a Radio Shack for biology. You can go out and get your proteins, your RNA, your DNA, whatever. And start building stuff. In 2006 they brought together high school students and college students and started to build these little odd creatures. They just happened to be alive instead of circuit boards. Here was one of the first things they built. So, cells have this cycle. First they don't grow. Then they grow exponentially. Then they stop growing. Graduate students wanted a way of telling which stage they were in. So they engineered these cells so that when they're growing in the exponential phase, they would smell like wintergreen. And when they stopped growing they would smell like bananas. And you could tell very easily when your experiment was working and wasn't, and where it was in the phase. This got a bit more complicated two years later. Twenty-one countries came together. Dozens of teams. They started competing. The team from Rice University started to engineer the substance in red wine that makes red wine good for you into beer. So you take resveratrol and you put it into beer. Of course, one of the judges is wandering by, and he goes, ""Wow! Cancer-fighting beer! There is a God."" (Laughter) The team from Taiwan was a little bit more ambitious. They tried to engineer bacterias in such a way that they would act as your kidneys. Four years ago, I showed you this picture. And people oohed and ahhed, because Cliff Tabin had been able to grow an extra wing on a chicken. And that was very cool stuff back then. But now moving from bacterial engineering to tissue engineering, let me show you what's happened in that period of time. Two years ago, you saw this creature. An almost-extinct animal from Xochimilco, Mexico called an axolotl that can re-generate its limbs. You can freeze half its heart. It regrows. You can freeze half the brain. It regrows. It's almost like leaving Congress. (Laughter) But now, you don't have to have the animal itself to regenerate, because you can build cloned mice molars in Petri dishes. And, of course if you can build mice molars in Petri dishes, you can grow human molars in Petri dishes. This should not surprise you, right? I mean, you're born with no teeth. You give away all your teeth to the tooth fairy. You re-grow a set of teeth. But then if you lose one of those second set of teeth, they don't regrow, unless, if you're a lawyer. (Laughter) But, of course, for most of us, we know how to grow teeth, and therefore we can take adult stem teeth, put them on a biodegradable mold, re-grow a tooth, and simply implant it. And we can do it with other things. So, a Spanish woman who was dying of T.B. had a donor trachea, they took all the cells off the trachea, they spraypainted her stem cells onto that cartilage. She regrew her own trachea, and 72 hours later it was implanted. She's now running around with her kids. This is going on in Tony Atala's lab in Wake Forest where he is re-growing ears for injured soldiers, and he's also re-growing bladders. So there are now nine women walking around Boston with re-grown bladders, which is much more pleasant than walking around with a whole bunch of plastic bags for the rest of your life. This is kind of getting boring, right? I mean, you understand where this story's going. But, I mean it gets more interesting. Last year, this group was able to take all the cells off a heart, leaving just the cartilage. Then, they sprayed stem cells onto that heart, from a mouse. Those stem cells self-organized, and that heart started to beat. Life happens. This may be one of the ultimate papers. This was done in Japan and in the U.S., published at the same time, and it rebooted skin cells into stem cells, last year. That meant that you can take the stuff right here, and turn it into almost anything in your body. And this is becoming common, it's moving very quickly, it's moving in a whole series of places. Third trend: robots. Those of us of a certain age grew up expecting that by now we would have Rosie the Robot from ""The Jetsons"" in our house. And all we've got is a Roomba. (Laughter) We also thought we'd have this robot to warn us of danger. Didn't happen. And these were robots engineered for a flat world, right? So, Rosie runs around on skates and the other one ran on flat threads. If you don't have a flat world, that's not good, which is why the robot's we're designing today are a little different. This is Boston Dynamics' ""BigDog."" And this is about as close as you can get to a physical Turing test. O.K., so let me remind you, a Turing test is where you've got a wall, you're talking to somebody on the other side of the wall, and when you don't know if that thing is human or animal — that's when computers have reached human intelligence. This is not an intelligence Turing rest, but this is as close as you can get to a physical Turing test. And this stuff is moving very quickly, and by the way, that thing can carry about 350 pounds of weight. These are not the only interesting robots. You've also got flies, the size of flies, that are being made by Robert Wood at Harvard. You've got Stickybots that are being made at Stanford. And as you bring these things together, as you bring cells, biological tissue engineering and mechanics together, you begin to get some really odd questions. In the last Olympics, this gentleman, who had several world records in the Special Olympics, tried to run in the normal Olympics. The only issue with Oscar Pistorius is he was born without bones in the lower part of his legs. He came within about a second of qualifying. He sued to be allowed to run, and he won the suit, but didn't qualify by time. Next Olympics, you can bet that Oscar, or one of Oscar's successors, is going to make the time. And two or three Olympics after that, they are going to be unbeatable. And as you bring these trends together, and as you think of what it means to take people who are profoundly deaf, who can now begin to hear — I mean, remember the evolution of hearing aids, right? I mean, your grandparents had these great big cones, and then your parents had these odd boxes that would squawk at odd times during dinner, and now we have these little buds that nobody sees. And now you have cochlear implants that go into people's heads and allow the deaf to begin to hear. Now, they can't hear as well as you and I can. But, in 10 or 15 machine generations they will, and these are machine generations, not human generations. And about two or three years after they can hear as well as you and I can, they'll be able to hear maybe how bats sing, or how whales talk, or how dogs talk, and other types of tonal scales. They'll be able to focus their hearing, they'll be able to increase the sensitivity, decrease the sensitivity, do a series of things that we can't do. And the same thing is happening in eyes. This is a group in Germany that's beginning to engineer eyes so that people who are blind can begin to see light and dark. Very primitive. And then they'll be able to see shape. And then they'll be able to see color, and then they'll be able to see in definition, and one day, they'll see as well as you and I can. And a couple of years after that, they'll be able to see in ultraviolet, they'll be able to see in infrared, they'll be able to focus their eyes, they'll be able to come into a microfocus. They'll do stuff you and I can't do. All of these things are coming together, and it's a particularly important thing to understand, as we worry about the flames of the present, to keep an eye on the future. And, of course, the future is looking back 200 years, because next week is the 200th anniversary of Darwin's birth. And it's the 150th anniversary of the publication of ""The Origin of Species."" And Darwin, of course, argued that evolution is a natural state. It is a natural state in everything that is alive, including hominids. There have actually been 22 species of hominids that have been around, have evolved, have wandered in different places, have gone extinct. It is common for hominids to evolve. And that's the reason why, as you look at the hominid fossil record, erectus, and heidelbergensis, and floresiensis, and Neanderthals, and Homo sapiens, all overlap. The common state of affairs is to have overlapping versions of hominids, not one. And as you think of the implications of that, here's a brief history of the universe. The universe was created 13.7 billion years ago, and then you created all the stars, and all the planets, and all the galaxies, and all the Milky Ways. And then you created Earth about 4.5 billion years ago, and then you got life about four billion years ago, and then you got hominids about 0.006 billion years ago, and then you got our version of hominids about 0.0015 billion years ago. Ta-dah! Maybe the reason for thr creation of the universe, and all the galaxies, and all the planets, and all the energy, and all the dark energy, and all the rest of stuff is to create what's in this room. Maybe not. That would be a mildly arrogant viewpoint. (Laughter) So, if that's not the purpose of the universe, then what's next? (Laughter) I think what we're going to see is we're going to see a different species of hominid. I think we're going to move from a Homo sapiens into a Homo evolutis. And I think this isn't 1,000 years out. I think most of us are going to glance at it, and our grandchildren are going to begin to live it. And a Homo evolutis brings together these three trends into a hominid that takes direct and deliberate control over the evolution of his species, her species and other species. And that, of course, would be the ultimate reboot. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"經濟是個很重要卻又被忽視的話題讓我們來聊聊它我想讓你們對目前的經濟狀況有個概念在我身後這個 (笑聲） 當然，我們要記得這個然後有意識知道,當情況危急的時後， 下一步怎麼做所以在接下來的17分半中我要做的是先來談談現在的危機—目前的經濟狀況—讓後我將用三個在TED過去25年裡提到的然後會出現在這個會談裡的趨勢我會試著將它們統整然後給各位一個最終復甦情形的概況這三個趨勢是細胞工程組織工程還有機器人工程大家會看到為什麼 不過我們先從談經濟開始有一些很大的問題還是存在一個是經濟槓桿作用然後它的問題是讓美國財務體系變這樣 (笑聲） 所以，一般的商業銀行十次裡會有九次會受到這個影響這表示你每存1塊錢銀行可以貸款出9到10塊在一個普通的投資銀行而非存款銀行這是投資銀行可貸款出15到20倍的錢結果顯示美國銀行在九月份是32倍花旗銀行是47倍哇這表示每個壞帳會有47倍的影響然後，當然，這是為什麼在坐各位做出慷慨的捐獻給這個演講當你想到這裡你一定好奇：那 (錢都貸款出去了）銀行現在幫你們存了什麼(笑聲）情況不妙 政府同時, 一直在扮演聖誕老人的角色我們都喜歡聖誕老人對吧?但問題是如果你看到這些人做的事所用到的強制開銷還有他們給的承諾結果變成在1967年, 百分之38是強制開銷用在我們所謂的""權益“上然後到了2007變成百分之68在2030年，開銷不應該會變成百分之百這邊一下用了百萬兆， 那邊一下又用了百萬兆所以將預估結果提前到2017年我們認為可以有能力不讓孩子承擔這樣的債務但是猜猜看我們已經開始在還債了問題現在又變成，賬單要到期了而聖誕老人在夏季不是那麼可愛對不對？ (笑聲) 這是美國其中一個最大的投資家提出的一些建議這個人經營中國的投資集團他是美國國庫卷的主要買者在12月時接受訪問這是他給的第一個建議這是第二個順道一提中國國務總理在上星期日的達沃斯也重述這些要點情況開始不樂觀如果我們不開始重視缺失我們最後會造成虧損光這個就會帶來嚴重的後果 讓大家看看情形會怎麼樣我敢說我是目前這邊的唯一百萬兆富翁這是個的紙鈔價值10千萬兆美金問題是它並不真的直那麼多錢上星期它值8塊, 這星期4塊下星期只剩1塊了這就是當我們無法支撐匯率時會發生的情況所以下次有這麼可愛的人出現在你家門口有時候它叫做克萊斯勒或是福特或有時後...隨你喜歡叫什麼—你只能拒絕然後你必須開始不在用“權益”這個字需要這麼做，在短期來看是因為我們沒錢了 如果你看聯邦政府預算，就是這個樣子橘色部份是自由資金其他都是強制資金就算斷去通往阿拉斯加的橋整個情形也不會改變所以我們需要開始著手的是限制醫療支出因為它是個會吞噬整個預算的怪物我們必須開始要求大家晚點退休60到65歲退休就差不多退休金受的影響就不大如果你是在50到60歲, 那希望你可以在多工做兩年如果你還不到50歲，希望你可以多工做四年為什麼這麼說合理是因為，當你的祖父母得到社會保障時他們大概65歲開始領到68歲現在68歲算年輕的了我們也需要縮減一年3％的軍用預算 我們必須限制一些強制開銷我們必須停止這麼多的借貸不然的話, 利息會佔據整個趨勢然後剩下小規模的政府如果不開始改變這個趨勢經濟就會受到影響變得像冰島一樣我知道你們在想什麼這一切除非地獄凍結了才會發生但是讓我提醒你, 拉斯維加斯今年十二月的確下雪了 (笑聲） 如果你們再不關注這些議題，以下這樣的事就會發生日本在80年代的時後發生過地產財務危機現今225間最大的公司價值只有十八年前的四分之一現在我們不重視問題你想在2026年看見道瓊指數3,500嗎？因為那就是現在不重視這些問題的後果除非你要這個人不只是當佛羅里達的財務長，還是整個美國的財務長我們現在最好開始重視這些問題這是短期來看. 比較棘手的部份財務方面的危機 現在， 跟在財務危機後面的第二波更大的浪潮我們必須來談談這個問題更強殺傷力更大當然，就是科技浪潮這個重要的地方是我們縮減預算的同時也必須要成長別的先不提，新起的公司佔據美國國民所得投資的 0.02％帶來17.8%的出產像一匹帶領美國未來經濟的人聚集在一起而這就是我們必須繼續成長的方向我們不必毫無目標的發展所以現在我們把浪漫新主義者帶進來這就是三波趨勢匯集的地方微生物工程組織工程和機器人工程將帶領復甦讓我重述一下你們看過的東西 去年Craig Venter來過展示給大家看到第一個可以完整編程, 運作起來像是電腦硬體的細胞你可以植入DNA, 並將它驅動行成不同的生物在這同時，MIT的人已經開始建立生物器官的標準制式把它想成是給生物學的Radio Shack (美國電子物件零售商）你可以出去買到自己的蛋白質，RNA, DNA, 等等然後開始組裝你要的東西在2006年他們聚集高中生和大專院校學生開始做這些小生物它們活起來了而並非只是電路板 這是其中一個他們做的東西細胞有個循環一開始它們不會長然後就一下長很快然後就不會停止生長了研究生想找到方法知道細胞的成長階段所以他們做了這樣的細胞工程當細胞急速成長的時後會聞起來像冬青樹當停止生長的時後會聞起來像香蕉然後實驗者就可以很容易知道哪個實驗是否成功了，然後在什麼階段 這個兩年之後開始變得複雜一些21個國家，很多的團體聚集在一起開始互相比賽從Rice University 開始培養改造紅酒裡對人體有益處的物質轉到啤酒裡所以你可以提煉出葡萄中的抗氧化物質然後放到啤酒裡當然，其中一個競賽評審經過就說""哇, 抗癌的啤酒！ 上帝真的存在！"" (笑聲) 從台灣來的團隊比較有野心他們想將微生物變成可以有腎臟的功能四年前, 我讓你們看過這個圖片大家好驚奇因為Cliff Tabin 可以讓雞多長出翅膀在當時是很酷的東西但是現在從微生物工程道組織工程我讓大家看看這個階段發生了什麼 兩年前，你們看到這個生物一個從墨西哥 Xochimilco 差不多絕種的動物叫做 axolotl（白化六角恐龍 / 墨西哥蠑螈）牠可以自生臂膀你把牠一半的心臟冷凍起來, 它會長出來你把牠一半的腦子冷凍起來，它會長出來很像國會(笑聲）但是現在，你不須要這樣的動物來自我恢復因為你可以在培養皿中複製老鼠的臼齒當然，如果你可以在培養皿中複製老鼠的臼齒人類的牙齒也可以你們應該不覺得有什麼驚奇的對吧?我意思是說, 你天生就沒牙齒牙齒長出來後都給牙齒精靈重長新的牙齒但是如果第二匹長出的牙齒掉了，它們就不會再長了除非, 你是律師 (笑聲） 但是，當然，對大部份其他人來說我們知道牙齒怎麼長，所以可以取成人的牙齒幹細胞放入生物培養皿重新長牙然後植牙我們也可以在別的東西上做同樣的事所以，假設一個因肺結核生命垂危的西班牙裔的女子得到一個捐贈的氣管他們將氣管的細胞全部取出然後在軟骨上鋪上她的幹細胞她自生自己的氣管72小時後植入了她現在快樂地和孩子們玩樂這是在Tony Atala於Wake Forest的實驗室發生的在那邊他幫忙受傷的士兵重生耳朵也在做膀胱的生長現今有九位女士在Boston有著重新生長的膀胱比下半生都要帶著塑膠袋子 (尿帶）四處走動感覺好太多了 開始有點無聊了嗎？我是說，你知道故事演變的方向但越來越有趣的是去年，這群人可以移除所有心臟細胞只留下軟骨然後，將心臟鋪滿老鼠的幹細胞幹細胞自我組織， 心臟開始跳動了生命出現了 這應該是最近期的發表的文章在日本和美國同步發表然後在去年將皮膚細胞轉成幹細胞那表示你可以就這樣從這邊拿東西出來讓後把它變成身體的任何一部份這將越來越普遍, 這樣的技術發展非常快朝向一系列的領域發展 第三個趨勢: 機器人我們這個年代的人生長在期待家裡會有""傑森一家“中的機器人Rosie但是我們只有Roomba (自動地板清潔器)(笑聲)我們也以為會有這樣的機器人幫我們預警也沒發生這些是機器人是製造用在平穩的陸地上對吧?所以, Rosie穿著溜冰鞋跑來跑去然後另一個在平路上跑如果地都不平就糟糕了這是為什麼現今的機器人做得有點不一樣 這是Boston Dynamic的"" BigDog.""這是你可以看到最接近現實物質的圖靈試驗好,讓我備註一下, 圖靈試驗是當你有一道牆你在牆的另一邊說話當你不知道說話對象是人類還是動物 —就表示電腦已經達到人類的智力了這個不是智力的圖靈試驗這個已經是最接近實物的圖靈試驗這個東西移動的很快順便提一下, 這個東西可以承載350磅的重量這不是唯一一個有趣的機器人我們也有蒼蠅, 跟真的蒼蠅大小一樣哈佛大學的Robert Wood做的我們還有在Stanford做的Stickybots當你把這些東西聚集在一起同時加入細胞, 生物組織工程和機械工程結合一起你會開始發現有一些奇怪的疑問 在上一次的奧運, 這位打破很多項特殊奧運世界紀錄的先生試著在一般的奧運競賽跑Oscar Pistorius 唯一的問題是他天生腳的下半部就沒有骨頭他想到一種讓他合格參加比賽的方式法律訴訟參加跑步然後勝訴了但是並沒有及時通過省核下一次奧運會, 你可以打賭是Oscar還是他的後繼者會及時趕上比賽兩三次奧運會之後, 他們就無敵了 當你把所有的趨勢整合一起, 然後想想它的意義讓一個完全失去聽力的人可以聽見我是說, 記得助聽器的演變嗎?你的祖父母有那樣的大圓筒然後到你父母的年代有這樣吃飯的時候會發出聲的怪盒子然後現在我門有人看不到的小東西在來是耳蝸的植入可以進入人腦讓聽不見的人再次有聽力現在他們的聽力可以跟你我一樣好但是在10-15個機器時代後這些都是機器人做的, 而非人做的他們可以聽見大約再過2, 3年說不定就可以學會蝙蝠的聲音或是鯨魚怎麼溝通的或是狗怎麼說話, 還有其他種音調他們可以集中注意在聽力可以增加或減少強度做很多我們可以做的事 同樣的東西發生在視力這邊有一個德國的團隊開始在製造眼睛看不見的人可以開始分辨明暗非常基本的他們開始可以看到形狀可以看見顏色, 而且看得很清晰然後有一天, 他們會可以看見像你我看到的東西再過幾年他們就能看見紫外線光可以看見紅外線, 可以焦距視力可以在微距看東西他們可以做到你我都做不了的東西這些匯集在一起這是一個特別重要需要大家理解的事當我們現在擔心眼前的炙手問題時要關注未來 當然, 未來是往後看200年因為下個星期是達爾文200歲的生日也是物種原始發表的150年紀年日達爾文認為進化是自然的狀態是任何有生命的生物, 包括人類的自然狀態有22種類人物種存在, 演化, 分佈在不同的地方他們已經絕種了所以類人生物進化是很常見的這是為什麼當你看到人類化石的紀錄直立人, 海德堡人, 佛羅勒斯人還有尼安德特人,智人, 都有重複特徵這通常表示有重複類型的類人物種不是只有一種 當你想想背後的涵意,這是簡短的宇宙歷史宇宙是137億年前產生的然後有恆星跟行星所有的星系和銀河系然後地球是45億產生的40億年後出現生命600萬年前出現類人猿我們這樣的人類在150萬年前出現Ta-dah!或許, 宇宙起源的原因還有這些星系跟行星跟能源所以暗物質還有其他東西是為了創造這個房間裡的所有東西或許不是這樣的觀點或許有些自大(笑聲)如果這不是宇宙的意義那會是什麼?(笑聲) 我想我們將看的是不同的類人物種我想我們會從智人變成演化人我認為這不是1000年後的事情大多數的我們都只能看到一下子我們的子孫將會活在那樣的環境裡演化人將三個趨勢聚集在一起變成一種直接對後來的類人演變的控制到時後, 當然, 會是終極的復甦 謝謝(掌聲)"
