Talk	en	zh-tw
judson_brewer_a_simple_way_to_break_a_bad_habit	"When I was first learning to meditate, the instruction was to simply pay attention to my breath, and when my mind wandered, to bring it back. Sounded simple enough. Yet I'd sit on these silent retreats, sweating through T-shirts in the middle of winter. I'd take naps every chance I got because it was really hard work. Actually, it was exhausting. The instruction was simple enough but I was missing something really important. So why is it so hard to pay attention? Well, studies show that even when we're really trying to pay attention to something — like maybe this talk — at some point, about half of us will drift off into a daydream, or have this urge to check our Twitter feed. So what's going on here? It turns out that we're fighting one of the most evolutionarily-conserved learning processes currently known in science, one that's conserved back to the most basic nervous systems known to man. This reward-based learning process is called positive and negative reinforcement, and basically goes like this. We see some food that looks good, our brain says, ""Calories! ... Survival!"" We eat the food, we taste it — it tastes good. And especially with sugar, our bodies send a signal to our brain that says, ""Remember what you're eating and where you found it."" We lay down this context-dependent memory and learn to repeat the process next time. See food, eat food, feel good, repeat. Trigger, behavior, reward. Simple, right? Well, after a while, our creative brains say, ""You know what? You can use this for more than just remembering where food is. You know, next time you feel bad, why don't you try eating something good so you'll feel better?"" We thank our brains for the great idea, try this and quickly learn that if we eat chocolate or ice cream when we're mad or sad, we feel better. Same process, just a different trigger. Instead of this hunger signal coming from our stomach, this emotional signal — feeling sad — triggers that urge to eat. Maybe in our teenage years, we were a nerd at school, and we see those rebel kids outside smoking and we think, ""Hey, I want to be cool."" So we start smoking. The Marlboro Man wasn't a dork, and that was no accident. See cool, smoke to be cool, feel good. Repeat. Trigger, behavior, reward. And each time we do this, we learn to repeat the process and it becomes a habit. So later, feeling stressed out triggers that urge to smoke a cigarette or to eat something sweet. Now, with these same brain processes, we've gone from learning to survive to literally killing ourselves with these habits. Obesity and smoking are among the leading preventable causes of morbidity and mortality in the world. So back to my breath. What if instead of fighting our brains, or trying to force ourselves to pay attention, we instead tapped into this natural, reward-based learning process ... but added a twist? What if instead we just got really curious about what was happening in our momentary experience? I'll give you an example. In my lab, we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking. Now, just like trying to force myself to pay attention to my breath, they could try to force themselves to quit smoking. And the majority of them had tried this before and failed — on average, six times. Now, with mindfulness training, we dropped the bit about forcing and instead focused on being curious. In fact, we even told them to smoke. What? Yeah, we said, ""Go ahead and smoke, just be really curious about what it's like when you do."" And what did they notice? Well here's an example from one of our smokers. She said, ""Mindful smoking: smells like stinky cheese and tastes like chemicals, YUCK!"" Now, she knew, cognitively that smoking was bad for her, that's why she joined our program. What she discovered just by being curiously aware when she smoked was that smoking tastes like shit. (Laughter) Now, she moved from knowledge to wisdom. She moved from knowing in her head that smoking was bad for her to knowing it in her bones, and the spell of smoking was broken. She started to become disenchanted with her behavior. Now, the prefrontal cortex, that youngest part of our brain from an evolutionary perspective, it understands on an intellectual level that we shouldn't smoke. And it tries its hardest to help us change our behavior, to help us stop smoking, to help us stop eating that second, that third, that fourth cookie. We call this cognitive control. We're using cognition to control our behavior. Unfortunately, this is also the first part of our brain that goes offline when we get stressed out, which isn't that helpful. Now, we can all relate to this in our own experience. We're much more likely to do things like yell at our spouse or kids when we're stressed out or tired, even though we know it's not going to be helpful. We just can't help ourselves. When the prefrontal cortex goes offline, we fall back into our old habits, which is why this disenchantment is so important. Seeing what we get from our habits helps us understand them at a deeper level — to know it in our bones so we don't have to force ourselves to hold back or restrain ourselves from behavior. We're just less interested in doing it in the first place. And this is what mindfulness is all about: Seeing really clearly what we get when we get caught up in our behaviors, becoming disenchanted on a visceral level and from this disenchanted stance, naturally letting go. This isn't to say that, poof, magically we quit smoking. But over time, as we learn to see more and more clearly the results of our actions, we let go of old habits and form new ones. The paradox here is that mindfulness is just about being really interested in getting close and personal with what's actually happening in our bodies and minds from moment to moment. This willingness to turn toward our experience rather than trying to make unpleasant cravings go away as quickly as possible. And this willingness to turn toward our experience is supported by curiosity, which is naturally rewarding. What does curiosity feel like? It feels good. And what happens when we get curious? We start to notice that cravings are simply made up of body sensations — oh, there's tightness, there's tension, there's restlessness — and that these body sensations come and go. These are bite-size pieces of experiences that we can manage from moment to moment rather than getting clobbered by this huge, scary craving that we choke on. In other words, when we get curious, we step out of our old, fear-based, reactive habit patterns, and we step into being. We become this inner scientist where we're eagerly awaiting that next data point. Now, this might sound too simplistic to affect behavior. But in one study, we found that mindfulness training was twice as good as gold standard therapy at helping people quit smoking. So it actually works. And when we studied the brains of experienced meditators, we found that parts of a neural network of self-referential processing called the default mode network were at play. Now, one current hypothesis is that a region of this network, called the posterior cingulate cortex, is activated not necessarily by craving itself but when we get caught up in it, when we get sucked in, and it takes us for a ride. In contrast, when we let go — step out of the process just by being curiously aware of what's happening — this same brain region quiets down. Now we're testing app and online-based mindfulness training programs that target these core mechanisms and, ironically, use the same technology that's driving us to distraction to help us step out of our unhealthy habit patterns of smoking, of stress eating and other addictive behaviors. Now, remember that bit about context-dependent memory? We can deliver these tools to peoples' fingertips in the contexts that matter most. So we can help them tap into their inherent capacity to be curiously aware right when that urge to smoke or stress eat or whatever arises. So if you don't smoke or stress eat, maybe the next time you feel this urge to check your email when you're bored, or you're trying to distract yourself from work, or maybe to compulsively respond to that text message when you're driving, see if you can tap into this natural capacity, just be curiously aware of what's happening in your body and mind in that moment. It will just be another chance to perpetuate one of our endless and exhaustive habit loops ... or step out of it. Instead of see text message, compulsively text back, feel a little bit better — notice the urge, get curious, feel the joy of letting go and repeat. Thank you. (Applause)"	"當我第一次學習冥想的時候，得到的指示就是，簡單地注意自己的呼吸，而如果心思遊走了，就把它拉回來。 聽起來很簡單。但當我在靜坐冥想時，嚴冬也會讓我汗流浹背。我總會把握每個可能的機會小睡片刻，因為靜坐冥想也是一番功夫。其實是筋疲力盡了。指示是很簡單，但我錯過了很多重要之處。 那為什麼專注會這麼困難呢？根據研究指出，就算是我們嘗試著專注於一些事情 —就好像這個演講 —到了某個時間點，我們當中會有一半的人，都會恍惚進入神遊狀態，或是會有一種念頭，去查看一下推特的內容。 那到底是怎麼回事呢？原來我們與之抗爭的， 是一種最近被科學界發現的 —「演化保守」的學習過程，它會保守護存着回到人類所知的最基本神經系統裡頭。 這類以獎勵為本的學習過程，稱之為正面的和負面的強化，基本上是這樣運行的。我們看到了看起來好吃的食物，我們的大腦會說：「卡路里！...... 生存！」我們把食物吃下去，我們嚐了味道 —食物的味道很好。尤其是有加糖的，我們的身體就會向大腦發出訊息說，「要記住你在吃甚麼和從哪裡找到的。」我們種下了這「情境關連」的記憶學懂了下一趟再重覆這個過程。看到食物，吃下食物，感覺良好。重覆。觸發、行為、獎勵。 簡單，對不對？這樣過了一陣子，我們富有創意的腦袋就會說：「 你知道嗎？你不只可以利用這個過程來記住食物在哪裡，而且還可以在下一次你感覺糟糕時，嘗試吃一些好吃的食物，來讓你感覺好一點？」我們感謝自己的腦袋裡有這麼好的點子，試著這樣做並且很快就學會，當我們生氣或是傷心的時候，如果我們吃下巧克力或雪糕，我們的感覺就會好一點。 同樣的過程，只是不一樣的觸發方式。本來是來自我們胃裡的飢餓訊息，這個情感上的訊息 — 感到傷心 —觸發了吃的慾望。 大概在我們的青少年時期，我們都是阿呆，看著那些站在校園外吸煙的叛逆少年，我們也都會想，"" 嘿！我也想要耍酷 ""於是我們開始抽煙。所以萬寶路男人不是笨蛋，這並不意外。看到耍酷，吸煙耍酷，感覺良好，重覆。觸發、行為、獎勵。每一次我們這樣做，我們學懂了去重覆這個過程從而把這個過程養成了習慣。所以再過一陣子，感覺有壓力的時候，就會觸發慾望去吸煙或是去吃一些甜的東西。 伴隨這些相同的大腦過程，我們體會了從學習到生存，到簡直是用這些習慣在殘害著我們自己。肥胖和吸煙是全世界數一數二發病率和致命率極高的可預防疾病。 所以，回到我的呼吸。假設我們不要再跟腦袋去抗爭，也不要再強逼自己去專注，取而代之，我們借助這個天然的、以獎勵為本的學習過程......然後稍微改變扭轉一下？假設我們變得很好奇，想了解自己的瞬間體驗到底是怎樣一回事？ 我會給你們一個例子。在我的實驗室，我們研究冥想的訓練是不是可以幫助人們戒掉吸煙。其實，就像嘗試著強迫自己去專注於呼吸一樣，他們也可以嘗試著去強迫自己戒煙。他們大部份人都曾經這樣嘗試，但都失敗了 —平均來說，嘗試過六次。 現在，要是用冥想的訓練，我們把強迫的那部份去掉，取而代之的是專注於好奇。事實上，我們甚至吩咐他們抽菸。甚麼？是呀，我們說，"" 去抽菸就對了，只是在抽菸的時候，真心的去好奇一下抽菸到底是怎麼回事。"" 結果他們覺察到了什麼？讓我們來看看其中的一位抽菸者怎麽說。她說，「 專注地抽菸：聞起來就像發臭的奶酪，味道則好像化學製品，超噁心！」其實在認知上，她知道，抽菸會危害她，正因如此，她參加我們的計劃。她發現，在抽菸的時候，只要好奇地去體會，就會察覺到菸的味道像大便。 （笑聲） 現在，她從知識昇華到智慧。她從腦袋裡開始了解抽菸對她有害並昇華到骨子裡去，就破解了抽菸的魔咒。她開始對她的行為產生覺悟。 其實，前額葉皮質，從進化的角度來看，那是我們大腦最年輕的部份，它明白，理智上我們不應該抽菸。然後它嘗試盡最大的努力，去幫助我們改變自己的行為、幫助我們戒菸，要幫助我們去戒掉吃第二塊、第三塊、第四塊曲奇餅。我們稱之為「認知控制」。我們用認知去控制自己的行為。很不幸的是，當我們過度勞累時，這也是我們腦袋裡，率先離線的部份。所以不太能夠幫得上忙。 其實我們大家都可以找到自己類似的經驗。當我們壓力過大或是很勞累時，我們有很大的可能，會向自己的伴侶或小孩吼叫，雖然我們知道，這樣的吼叫並沒有幫助。只是我們控制不了自己。 在前額葉皮質處於離線狀態時，我們會墜落回老習慣，這是為什麼覺悟是這麼的重要。明白我們如何養成習慣可以幫助我們更深層次的去了解它們 —讓我們從骨子裡去明白，那我們就不需要再強逼自己去憋住或是去遏止自己的行為。我們只是在一開始的時候沒有太大的興趣去做這件事。 這就是冥想：當我們被自己的行為絆住的時候，得真的很清醒得去了解，我們得到的是什麼，發自內心層次的覺悟，在覺悟的狀態下，自然地放它走。 這不是在說，神奇的 "" 噗 ""的一聲，我們就戒菸了。而是日積月累，當我們學會看得愈來愈清楚我們行為所導致的結果，我們就會摒除掉老習慣，而養成了新的習慣。 吊詭的是，冥想是，打從內心的感到有興趣，時時刻刻很私密的去體會到底我們的身體和心智，發生了什麼事。將這種意願轉換成我們的體驗而不是嘗試得儘快把不好的癮念去除。將意願轉換成體驗是源由自好奇，那是先天性的一種獎勵機制。 好奇的感覺是怎樣的呢？感覺很好。我們感到好奇的時候會發生什麼事情呢？我們會開始察覺到，癮念其實單就是從身體的感官所造成 —噢，那裡很緊張，那邊有壓力那邊煩躁不安 —這些身體的感覺來來去去。這些都是我們時時刻刻都可以處理好的小體驗，無需被這巨大可怕的癮念所噎住並擊倒。 換句話來說，當我們感到好奇，我們就走出舊有的、恐懼為本的、回應式的習慣模式，我們從而踏進了當下。我們成為了熱切地期待著下一個數據點的內心科學家。 這聽起來，好像太簡單到沒那麼容易可以影響行為。但有一個研究顯示，我們發現了冥想的訓練，在幫助人們戒菸的這事情上，比黃金標準治療法好 2 倍所以冥想真的有效。 當我們研究資深冥想者的大腦時，我們發現了神經網絡裡面「自我指認流程」的部分被稱為「預設模式網絡」正在產生影響。目前是有一個關於這個網絡某區域的理論，稱為「後扣帶回皮質」，會因為癮念本身而引發不必要的啟動。但當我們被它牽絆住，當我們被吸進去的時候，它會欺騙我們。 相反來說，如果我們就讓它走—從流程裡走出來只是單純的好奇到底發生甚麼事情—同一區域的大腦就會安靜下來。 現在我們在測試手機應用程式和以網路為基礎的冥想訓練課程，目標就是這些核心機制，諷刺的是，竟是使用同一種讓我們分心的科技去幫助我們脱離自己不健康的習慣模式，像是吸煙、因壓力而狂吃和其他上癮的行為。 現在，還記得剛才曾提過的情境記憶嗎？我們可以把這些最重要的內容工具傳遞到人們的指尖。所以我們可以幫助他們在渴望抽菸、遇壓力亂吃或任何不好的慾望浮現的霎那，挖掘他們的內心潛力去好奇地意識正確。 所以如果你不抽菸、也沒有因為壓力而狂吃，可能下一次你在無聊的時候想去檢查電郵，或是你想在工作時間透一下氣，又或在開車時，有不得不回覆訊息的義務，看看你是不是可以，藉助這先天的能力，就單純的去好奇到底那一刻，你的身體和心智在發生什麼事。這可能提供了一個機會讓你持續保有這個永無止境和消耗性的惡性循環......或是擺脫掉它。 看見訊息時，不要再 — 不得不的回覆反而應該是有蠻好的感覺 —察覺到渴望，感到好奇，感受一下放走它的歡愉，然後重覆。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
