Talk	en	zh-tw
julie_taymor_spider_man_the_lion_king_and_life_on_the_creative_edge	"(Music) [""Oedipus Rex""] [""The Lion King""] [""Titus""] [""Frida""] [""The Magic Flute""] [""Across The Universe""] (Applause) Julie Taymor: Thank you. Thank you very much. That's a few samples of the theater, opera and films that I have done over the last 20 years. But what I'd like to begin with right now is to take you back to a moment that I went through in Indonesia, which is a seminal moment in my life and, like all myths, these stories need to be retold and told, lest we forget them. And when I'm in the turbulent times, as we know, that I am right now, through the crucible and the fire of transformation, which is what all of you do, actually. Anybody who creates knows there's that point where it hasn't quite become the phoenix or the burnt char. (Laughter) And I am right there on the edge, which I'll tell you about, another story. I want to go back to Indonesia where I was about 21, 22 years, a long time ago, on a fellowship. And I found myself, after two years there and performing and learning, on the island of Bali, on the edge of a crater, Gunung Batur. And I was in a village where there was an initiation ceremony for the young men, a rite of passage. Little did I know that it was mine as well. And as I sat in this temple square under this gigantic beringin banyan tree, in the dark, there was no electricity, just the full moon, down in this empty square, and I heard the most beautiful sounds, like a Charles Ives concert as I listened to the gamelan music from all the different villagers that came for this once-every-five-years ceremony. And I thought I was alone in the dark under this tree. And all of a sudden, out of the dark, from the other end of the square, I saw the glint of mirrors lit by the moon. And these 20 old men who I'd seen before all of a sudden stood up in these full warrior costumes with the headdress and the spears, and no one was in the square, and I was hidden in the shadows. No one was there, and they came out, and they did this incredible dance. ""Huhuhuhuhuhuhuhahahahaha."" And they moved their bodies and they came forward, and the lights bounced off these costumes. And I've been in theater since I was 11 years old, and performing, creating, and I went, ""Who are they performing for with these elaborate costumes, these extraordinary headdresses?"" And I realized that they were performing for God, whatever that means. But somehow, it didn't matter about the publicity. There was no money involved. It wasn't going to be written down. It was no news. And there were these incredible artists that felt for me like an eternity as they performed. The next moment, as soon as they finished and disappeared into the shadows, a young man with a propane lantern came on, hung it up on a tree, set up a curtain. The village square was filled with hundreds of people. And they put on an opera all night long. Human beings needed the light. They needed the light to see. So what I gained and gathered from this incredible, seminal moment in my life as a young artist was that you must be true to what you believe as an artist all the way through, but you also have to be aware that the audience is out there in our lives at this time, and they also need the light. And it's this incredible balance that I think that we walk when we are creating something that is breaking ground, that's trying to do something you've never seen before, that imaginary world where you actually don't know where you're going to end up, that's the fine line on the edge of a crater that I have walked my whole life. What I would like to do now is to tell you a little bit about how I work. Let's take ""The Lion King."" You saw many examples of my work up there, but it's one that people know. I start with the notion of the ideograph. An ideograph is like a brush painting, a Japanese brush painting. Three strokes, you get the whole bamboo forest. I go to the concept of ""The Lion King"" and I say, ""What is the essence of it? What is the abstraction? If I were to reduce this entire story into one image, what would it be?"" The circle. The circle. It's so obvious. The circle of life. The circle of Mufasa's mask. The circle that, when we come to Act II and there's a drought, how do you express drought? It's a circle of silk on the floor that disappears into the hole in the stage floor. The circle of life comes in the wheels of the gazelles that leap. And you see the mechanics. And being a theater person, what I know and love about the theater is that when the audience comes in and they suspend their disbelief, when you see men walking or women walking with a platter of grass on their heads, you know it's the savanna. You don't question that. I love the apparent truth of theater. I love that people are willing to fill in the blanks. The audience is willing to say, ""Oh, I know that's not a real sun. You took pieces of sticks. You added silk to the bottom. You suspended these pieces. You let it fall flat on the floor. And as it rises with the strings, I see that it's a sun. But the beauty of it is that it's just silk and sticks. And in a way, that is what makes it spiritual. That's what moves you. It's not the actual literal sunrise that's coming. It's the art of it. So in the theater, as much as the story is critical and the book and the language, the telling of the story, how it's told, the mechanics, the methods that you use, is equal to the story itself. And I'm one who loves high tech and low tech. So I could go from — For instance, I'll show you some ""Spider-Man"" later, these incredible machines that move people along. But the fact is, without the dancer who knows how to use his body and swing on those wires, it's nothing. So now I'm going to show you some clips from the other big project of my life this year, ""The Tempest."" It's a movie. I did ""The Tempest"" on a stage three times in the theater since 1984, '86, and I love the play. I did it always with a male Prospero. And all of a sudden, I thought, ""Well, who am I gonna get to play Prospero? Why not Helen Mirren? She's a great actor. Why not?"" And this material really did work for a woman equally as well. So now, let's take a look at some of the images from ""The Tempest."" (Music) (Video) Prospera: Hast thou, spirit, performed to the point the tempest that I bade thee? Ariel: I boarded the king's ship. In every cabin, I flamed amazement. Prospera: At first sight, they have changed eyes. Miranda: Do you love me? Ferdinand: Beyond all limit. HM: They are both in either's powers. Trinculo: Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows. (Music) Looking for business, governor? Caliban: Hast thou not dropped from heaven? Stephano: Out of the moon, I do assure thee. Prospera: Caliban! Caliban: This island is mine. Prospera: For this, be sure, tonight thou shalt have cramps. Antonio: Here lies your brother no better than the earth he lies upon. Sebastian: Draw thy sword. And I, the king, shall love thee. Prospera: I will plague them all, even to roaring. Ariel: I have made you mad. Prospera: We are such stuff as dreams are made on. and our little life is rounded with a sleep. (Music) JT: Okay. (Applause) So I went from theater, doing ""The Tempest"" on the stage in a very low-budget production many years ago, and I love the play, and I also think it's Shakespeare's last play, and it really lends itself, as you can see, to cinema. But I'm just going to give you a little example about how one stages it in theater and then how one takes that same idea or story and moves it into cinema. The ideograph that I talked to you about before, what is it for ""The Tempest""? What, if I were to boil it down, would be the one image that I could hang my hat on for this? And it was the sand castle, the idea of nurture versus nature, that we build these civilizations — she speaks about it at the end, Helen Mirren's Prospera — we build them, but under nature, under the grand tempest, these cloud-capped towers, these gorgeous palaces will fade and there will — leave not a rack behind. So in the theater, I started the play, it was a black sand rake, white cyc, and there was a little girl, Miranda, on the horizon, building a drip castle, a sand castle. And as she was there on the edge of that stage, two stagehands all in black with watering cans ran along the top and started to pour water on the sand castle, and the sand castle started to drip and sink, but before it did, the audience saw the black-clad stagehands. The medium was apparent. It was banal. We saw it. But as they started to pour the water, the light changed from showing you the black-clad stagehands to focusing, this rough magic that we do in theater, it focused right on the water itself. And all of a sudden, the audience's perspective changes. It becomes something magically large. It becomes the rainstorm. The masked actors, the puppeteers, they disappear, and the audience makes that leap into this world, into this imaginary world of ""The Tempest"" actually happening. Now the difference when I went and did it in the cinema, I started the actual movie with a close-up of a sand castle, a black sand castle, and what cinema can do is, by using camera, perspective, and also long shots and close-ups, it started on a close-up of the sand castle, and as it pulled away, you saw that it was a miniature sitting in the palm of the girl's hands. And so I could play with the medium, and why I move from one medium to another is to be able to do this. Now I'm going to take you to ""Spider-Man."" (Music) (Video) Peter Parker: ♪ Standing on the precipice, I can soar away from this. ♪ JT: We're trying to do everything in live theater that you can't do in two dimensions in film and television. PP: ♪ Rise above yourself and take control. ♪ George Tsypin: We're looking at New York from a Spider-Man point of view. Spider Man is not bound by gravity. Manhattan in the show is not bound by gravity either. PP: ♪ Be yourself and rise above it all. ♪ Ensemble: ♪ Sock! Pow! ♪ ♪ Slam! Scratch! ♪ Danny Ezralow: I don't want you to even think there's a choreographer. It's real, what's happening. I prefer you to see people moving, and you're going, ""Whoa, what was that?"" (Music) JT: If I give enough movement in the sculpture, and the actor moves their head, you feel like it's alive. It's really comic book live. It's a comic book coming alive. (Music) Bono: They're mythologies. They're modern myths, these comic book heroes. PP: ♪ They believe. ♪ (Screams) (Music) (Applause) JT: Ohhhh. What was that? Circus, rock 'n' roll, drama. What the hell are we doing up there on that stage? Well, one last story, very quickly. After I was in that village, I crossed the lake, and I saw that the volcano was erupting on the other side, Gunung Batur, and there was a dead volcano next to the live volcano. I didn't think I'd be swallowed by the volcano, and I am here. But it's very easy to climb up, is it not? You hold on to the roots, you put your foot in the little rocks and climb up there, and you get to the top, and I was with a good friend who was an actor, and we said, ""Let's go up there. Let's see if we can come close to the edge of that live volcano."" And we climbed up and we got to the very top, and we're on the edge, on this precipice, Roland disappears into the sulfur smoke at the volcano at the other end, and I'm up there alone on this incredible precipice. Did you hear the lyrics? I'm on the precipice looking down into a dead volcano to my left. To my right is sheer shale. It's coming off. I'm in thongs and sarongs. It was many years ago. And no hiking boots. And he's disappeared, this mad French gypsy actor, off in the smoke, and I realize, I can't go back the way that I've come. I can't. So I throw away my camera. I throw away my thongs, and I looked at the line straight in front of me, and I got down on all fours like a cat, and I held with my knees to either side of this line in front of me, for 30 yards or 30 feet, I don't know. The wind was massively blowing, and the only way I could get to the other side was to look at the line straight in front of me. I know you've all been there. I'm in the crucible right now. It's my trial by fire. It's my company's trials by fire. We survive because our theme song is ""Rise Above."" Boy falls from the sky, rise above. It's right there in the palm of both of our hands, of all of my company's hands. I have beautiful collaborators, and we as creators only get there all together. I know you understand that. And you just stay going forward, and then you see this extraordinary thing in front of your eyes. Thank you. (Applause)"	"(音樂) [伊底帕斯王(Oedipus Rex)] [獅子王(The Lion King)] [聖詩復仇 (Titus)] [揮灑烈愛(Frida)] [魔笛 (The Magic Flute)] [愛是唯一(Across The Universe)] (鼓掌聲) 謝謝大家 謝謝這些是我過去二十年來製作的一些戲劇、歌劇和電影的片段 不過在一開始我想要帶大家回到我在印尼所經歷到的一個對我來說非常重要的時刻就和所有的神話故事一樣故事需要被不斷傳講不停重複才不會被忘記當我處於混亂的時刻其實我現在就是正在上刀山、下油鍋事實上在座的各位想必也有經歷過只要創作過的人大概都明白創作的過程會到一個點一個卡在中間，還未成為浴火鳳凰的時刻 (笑聲)而我就是到了那個臨界點上這又會和我想講的另一個故事有關 我想再回到剛剛講到的印尼當時我大概21、22歲左右是很久以前的事了我是拿了獎學金去做研究的到了那裡兩年表演和學習一天，我到了峇里島在巴杜爾 (Gunung Batur) 火山口附近那裡是個小村莊正在舉辦年輕男子的成年禮正在舉辦年輕男子的成年禮我當時不曉得那其實也會是我的成年禮 當我坐在寺廟廣場前一棵大榕樹下四周一片漆黑，沒有電燈只有天上的一輪明月就在廣場的附近我聽見了世界上最美妙的聲音就好像查理斯艾維斯的音樂會聽著甘美朗所彈奏出來的音樂(印尼一種竹製樂器)是由好幾位參與慶典的村民為了這場五年一次的慶典而演奏我以為只有我一個人夜裡坐在這樹下突然，一片漆黑中從廣場的另外一頭在月光些微光芒的照射下我看到之前見過的約二十位老人突然間全站了起來並且都穿著全套的戰服頭飾、長矛一應俱全廣場上空無一人我剛好藏在陰影處就在無人之際 他們站了出來並跳了一段非常棒的舞蹈 ""呼呼呼呼哇哈哈哈哈"" 他們舞動著身體並且漸漸走到前端光不斷地反射他們衣服上的亮片我從十一歲起就在戲院裡頭打滾也一直都在表演跟創作我不禁想：他們是在表演給誰看居然穿著這麼精緻的戲服還帶這麼特別的頭飾？後來我發現他們是在表演給神看的無論那什麼意思 總之不是在做宣傳也沒有票房的問題不需要留下記錄更沒有要做報導而每位表演者都是頂尖的藝術家當他們在表演的時候我真的有種永恆的感覺但下一刻他們一跳完就馬上消失在陰影中一名年輕人拿著瓦斯燈走了出來把它掛在一棵樹上後又架了一個簾子廣場上擠滿了幾百人這些人演了一整晚的戲凡是人都需要有光因為要有光才看得見東西 所以當我還是個年輕的藝術家時就從這個既特別又具有啓發性的時刻學到我們必須堅持並且忠於自己做為一個藝術家所相信的我們必須堅持並且忠於自己做為一個藝術家所相信的但我們同時也必須意識到同一個時刻觀眾就在台下觀看著而他們需要那道光我們在追求的就是這樣一個微妙的平衡點當我們想要做一個突破性的創舉或是做出沒有人曾經做過的嘗試那個未知的世界你也自己也不知道結果會如何的世界就是我這輩子一直在走的火山口 接著我想跟大家談談我的創作過程就拿「獅子王」來說吧大家剛剛看到許多我的作品不過「獅子王」是大家都熟知的 這部片的創作是從表意的概念出發的表意有點像日本水墨畫畫上三筆你就知道是代表的是整片的竹林我先是有了「獅子王」這個概念接著問自己：這部片的本質是什麼？精華又在哪裡？如果我要把整個故事縮減到只有一個畫面那會是什麼畫面呢？循環，是一個循環太清楚了一個生命的循環木法沙 (Mufasa) 面具的傳承在第二幕的時候有場乾旱的景應該怎麼表現出乾旱呢？一開始用絲巾圍了一圈在地上然後讓絲巾消失在舞台上的一個洞裡生命的循環則是透過轉輪上一群群跳躍的羚羊來表現 這些技術性的部分是觀眾都看得到的身為一個劇場人我深知且熱愛戲劇的地方就是當觀眾進到劇院裡他們就會放下許多成見或質疑當看見一群在走動的男女每個人頭上都戴著一圈草你立刻就會知道那代表著草原不會有人質疑這點我就是喜歡劇場裡頭這種不需要多做解釋的真理我喜歡那些自己填空的觀眾他們會願意這麼說「喔，我知道那不是真的太陽啊」你就是拿幾根木棍在底部加上絲巾然後把棍子掛起來讓絲巾垂到地上當隨著鋼絲把棍子吊起來時我就知道那是太陽但這美妙之處在於其實不過就是絲巾跟棍子罷了但這也就是為什麼劇場如此靈性而且具感染力觀眾雖然不是真正看到太陽升起但那意境確實傳達出來了 所以在劇院裡頭故事本身固然重要包括整個劇本或是所用的文字但是如何去說一個故事所用的佈景技巧或表現手法和故事本身是一樣重要的我本身喜歡用高科技也喜歡用很基礎的技術所以我可以從 —比方說 我等下會給大家看「蜘蛛人」的一些片段這些讓人飛來飛去的機器真的很不可思議但事實上，如果沒有舞者誰會知道該如何運用身體在鋼絲間擺盪？沒了舞者這些就做不出來了 所以我現在要播放我今年做的一些大案子的片段[暴風雨 (The Tempest)]這部是電影我曾經三度把它做成舞台劇從1984、1986年起就有在劇場裡演出我很愛這齣戲我過去都是用男性演員來演出Prospero這個角色但我某天突然想「該找誰來演 Prospero 好呢？」「不如找海倫米蘭好了，她是個優秀的演員！就這麼辦吧」且這個素材確實也十分適合女性發揮現在就讓我們來看看[暴風雨(The Tempest)]的一些場景吧 (音樂) Prospera：精靈，你有沒有按照我的命令去執行那場暴風雨？ Ariel：我登上了國王的船，也到每個船艙裡放了火，使人恐懼 Prospera：才第一次見面他們就已經在眉目傳情了 Miranda：你愛我嗎？ Ferdinand：勝於一切 旁白：他們已經深陷情網中了 Trinculo：患難使人從陌生到熟稔 (音樂) 您在找什麼嗎，大人？ Caliban：您不是從天上掉下來的嗎？ Stephano：我確實是從月亮上下來的 Prospera：Caliban! Caliban：這座島是我的 Prospera：記住吧，為著你的出言不遜今晚要叫你痛苦Antonio：你哥哥躺著，如同他身下的泥土 Sebastian：舉起你的劍吧孤王我必會十分眷顧你 Prospera：我要狠狠地懲治他們直至他們哀嚎出聲 Ariel：你們已經發狂了 Prospera：我們的人生也不過是一場夢而且這短暫的一生，前後都在酣睡 (音樂) 大概是這樣 (掌聲) 所以我從好多年前，在劇院裡頭用很低的成本，製作『暴風雨』這部劇一路到了現在我很愛這部戲，而且我覺得這是莎翁筆下最後的一部劇再加上如同大家剛所看到的它很適合在大螢幕上播出但我只是想跟大家分享如何在劇場裡做一部劇又該如何把同樣的一個想法或我們說同一個故事搬上大螢幕 還記得我們先前提過的表意手法嗎如果運用在『暴風雨』上該用什麼來表現呢？如果要去蕪存菁哪個畫面會是最有代表性的？哪個畫面會是最有代表性的？我想到的是那座沙堡我們所建構的文明究竟是後天還是先天的？這也就是海倫米蘭所飾演Prospera在片尾所說的我們努力讓自己成為文明人但實際上，在大歷練下那些被雲所覆蓋的高塔或華美的皇宮都將逝去而且是消失地無影無蹤 所以在劇場裡演出時的開場是一個黑色的沙耙配上全白的佈景然後有個小女孩 Miranda 在當中用沙在蓋著城堡當她在舞台邊上蓋著蓋著時有兩個全身穿黑衣服的舞台工作人員手裡拿著澆水器開始在沙堡上頭澆水於是沙堡開始倒塌但在倒下來之前觀眾都有看到那兩位穿黑衣服的工作人員這個手法太明顯了甚至可以說太直白但當他們開始倒水的時候光就從這兩個黑衣人挪開並用在劇院裡我們常用的那招把光改打在水面上觀眾的想法也就瞬間跟著改變了關注的是整個畫面是專注在暴風雨上隨著帶著面具或操縱木偶的演員下台觀眾們就這樣進到台上『暴風雨』的想像世界裡 不過當我把這部戲搬到電影院裡時電影的開場方式就不一樣了一開始鏡頭是特寫在沙堡上一個黑色的沙堡電影的好處就是可以運用鏡頭的遠近來製造不同的角度我是用特寫沙堡的鏡頭開場的然後當鏡頭漸漸拉遠的時候觀眾就會看到其實它是放在一個小女孩手上的迷你沙堡所以我可以大玩不同的呈現方式而我選擇用各種不同的呈現方式就是為了可以做到這個 接下來我要讓大家看的是『蜘蛛人』 (音樂) Peter Parker: 站在這個高樓的邊緣我可以一躍而下 我們在劇院裡頭就是盡可能地嘗試任何在一般2D電視或電影螢幕上所無法表現的東西 Peter Parker：超越自我並掌管一切吧 George Tsypin：我們是在從蜘蛛人的角度在看紐約蜘蛛人不受地心引力限制這部戲裡的曼哈頓也不受地心引力的限制Peter Parker：做你自己並不要受任何影響 合唱：猛烈一擊！啪！砰！劃破了！ Danny Ezalow：我不希望大家覺得有人在編舞這裡發生的一切都是真的我倒希望你看到人在移動然後你說：""哇，這是什麼？"" (音樂) 如果我給那些雕像再多一點的動作要演員去移動他們的頭你會覺得是真人真的是把漫畫活生生地搬上台 (音樂) Bono：這簡直是神話故事這些漫畫主角確實是現代版的神話故事 Peter Parker：他們都相信 (尖叫聲) (音樂) (鼓掌聲) 哇，那是什麼啊？既像馬戲團，又有搖滾樂跟戲劇成分我們在那個舞台上究竟在搞什麼？ 很快地，跟大家分享最後一個故事去完那個小村莊之後我去了一個湖的對岸看到另外一頭巴杜爾火山噴發而在那個活火山的旁邊，有個死火山我當時沒想過自己可能會被火山給吞滅雖然確實沒有因為我還站在這但是要爬上去還滿容易的嘛，不是嗎？你就抓著那些樹的樹根然後把腳踩在小石塊上不一會就爬到頂部了我當時跟一個做演員的朋友一塊爬上去的我們就說：一起爬上去吧看看我們能不能爬到那座活火山口去看看我們能不能爬到那座活火山口去我們就爬了也真的到最頂部了我們就站在那個火山口那個危險的邊緣硫磺的煙把Roland都給遮住了他在火山口的另一邊就只剩下我自己在那裡在這個難以形容的危險邊緣你剛有聽見那段歌詞嗎我站在這個邊緣往下看看到在我左手邊是一個死火山右手邊則是陡峭的頁岩壁而且還在一塊塊地崩落我穿著拖鞋跟沙龍那是很多年前了還不是登山鞋喔！然後他突然間不見了我那個瘋瘋癲癲的法國吉普賽演員朋友就這麼消失在煙霧裡然後我意識到我沒辦法從我剛來的路回去真的沒辦法 所以我把相機給丟了把腳上的拖鞋也踢掉然後我看著我面前那條必須跨過去的路我像隻貓一樣四隻腳著地趴在地上試著把膝蓋跨過去比比看有多寬大概有三十碼或三十呎吧我也不太清楚風颳得很大那是我唯一可以去到另外一邊的路就是在我面前這條必須跨過去的線 我知道你們大概都有過類似經驗就是這樣一個嚴酷的考驗那是我的過火試煉也是我公司的試煉我們成功地跨過去了因為主題曲就叫做""超越""男孩從天掉落 但跨越一切機會就在我們的雙手中也在我公司所有人的手中我有很棒的工作團隊而身為創意工作者的我們唯有一起跨越才行我知道你們了解我在說的是什麼繼續向前走就對了一旦跨越了眼前的美景就能盡收眼底 謝謝大家 (鼓掌聲)"
