Talk	en	zh-tw
julian_treasure_shh_sound_health_in_8_steps	"The Hindus say, ""Nada brahma,"" one translation of which is, ""The world is sound."" And in a way, that's true, because everything is vibrating. In fact, all of you as you sit here right now are vibrating. Every part of your body is vibrating at different frequencies. So you are, in fact, a chord — each of you an individual chord. One definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony. Your ears can't hear that chord; they can actually hear amazing things. Your ears can hear 10 octaves. Incidentally, we see just one octave. Your ears are always on — you have no ear lids. They work even when you sleep. The smallest sound you can perceive moves your eardrum just four atomic diameters. The loudest sound you can hear is a trillion times more powerful than that. Ears are made not for hearing, but for listening. Listening is an active skill, whereas hearing is passive, listening is something that we have to work at — it's a relationship with sound. And yet it's a skill that none of us are taught. For example, have you ever considered that there are listening positions, places you can listen from? Here are two of them. Reductive listening is listening ""for."" It reduces everything down to what's relevant and it discards everything that's not relevant. Men typically listen reductively. So he's saying, ""I've got this problem."" He's saying, ""Here's your solution. Thanks very much. Next."" That's the way we talk, right guys? Expansive listening, on the other hand, is listening ""with,"" not listening ""for."" It's got no destination in mind — it's just enjoying the journey. Women typically listen expansively. If you look at these two, eye contact, facing each other, possibly both talking at the same time. (Laughter) Men, if you get nothing else out of this talk, practice expansive listening, and you can transform your relationships. The trouble with listening is that so much of what we hear is noise, surrounding us all the time. Noise like this, according to the European Union, is reducing the health and the quality of life of 25 percent of the population of Europe. Two percent of the population of Europe — that's 16 million people — are having their sleep devastated by noise like that. Noise kills 200,000 people a year in Europe. It's a really big problem. Now, when you were little, if you had noise and you didn't want to hear it, you'd stick your fingers in your ears and hum. These days, you can do a similar thing, it just looks a bit cooler. It looks a bit like this. The trouble with widespread headphone use is it brings three really big health issues. The first really big health issue is a word that Murray Schafer coined: ""schizophonia."" It's a dislocation between what you see and what you hear. So, we're inviting into our lives the voices of people who are not present with us. I think there's something deeply unhealthy about living all the time in schizophonia. The second problem that comes with headphone abuse is compression. We squash music to fit it into our pocket and there is a cost attached to this. Listen to this — this is an uncompressed piece of music. (Music) And now the same piece of music with 98 percent of the data removed. (Music) I do hope that some of you at least can hear the difference between those two. There is a cost of compression. It makes you tired and irritable to have to make up all of that data. You're having to imagine it. It's not good for you in the long run. The third problem with headphones is this: deafness — noise-induced hearing disorder. Ten million Americans already have this for one reason or another, but really worryingly, 16 percent — roughly one in six — of American teenagers suffer from noise-induced hearing disorder as a result of headphone abuse. One study at an American university found that 61 percent of college freshmen had damaged hearing as a result of headphone abuse. We may be raising an entire generation of deaf people. Now that's a really serious problem. I'll give you three quick tips to protect your ears and pass these on to your children, please. Professional hearing protectors are great; I use some all the time. If you're going to use headphones, buy the best ones you can afford because quality means you don't have to have it so loud. If you can't hear somebody talking to you in a loud voice, it's too loud. And thirdly, if you're in bad sound, it's fine to put your fingers in your ears or just move away from it. Protect your ears in that way. Let's move away from bad sound and look at some friends that I urge you to seek out. WWB: Wind, water, birds — stochastic natural sounds composed of lots of individual random events, all of it very healthy, all of it sound that we evolved to over the years. Seek those sounds out; they're good for you and so it this. Silence is beautiful. The Elizabethans described language as decorated silence. I urge you to move away from silence with intention and to design soundscapes just like works of art. Have a foreground, a background, all in beautiful proportion. It's fun to get into designing with sound. If you can't do it yourself, get a professional to do it for you. Sound design is the future, and I think it's the way we're going to change the way the world sounds. I'm going to just run quickly through eight modalities, eight ways sound can improve health. First, ultrasound: we're very familiar with it from physical therapy; it's also now being used to treat cancer. Lithotripsy — saving thousands of people a year from the scalpel by pulverizing stones with high-intensity sound. Sound healing is a wonderful modality. It's been around for thousands of years. I do urge you to explore this. There are great things being done there, treating now autism, dementia and other conditions. And music, of course. Just listening to music is good for you, if it's music that's made with good intention, made with love, generally. Devotional music, good — Mozart, good. There are all sorts of types of music that are very healthy. And four modalities where you need to take some action and get involved. First of all, listen consciously. I hope that that after this talk you'll be doing that. It's a whole new dimension to your life and it's wonderful to have that dimension. Secondly, get in touch with making some sound — create sound. The voice is the instrument we all play, and yet how many of us are trained in using our voice? Get trained; learn to sing, learn to play an instrument. Musicians have bigger brains — it's true. You can do this in groups as well. It's a fantastic antidote to schizophonia; to make music and sound in a group of people, whichever style you enjoy particularly. And let's take a stewarding role for the sound around us. Protect your ears? Yes, absolutely. Design soundscapes to be beautiful around you at home and at work. And let's start to speak up when people are assailing us with the noise that I played you early on. So I'm going to leave you with seven things you can do right now to improve your health with sound. My vision is of a world that sounds beautiful and if we all start doing these things, we will take a very big step in that direction. So I urge you to take that path. I'm leaving you with a little more birdsong, which is very good for you. I wish you sound health. (Applause)"	"印度人說：「那答布拉馬」，翻譯過來就是：「有聲世界」。在某方面來說，這很正確，因為萬物都會振動，就算你現在坐在位子上，還是在振動，我們身體的每一個部位都以不同的頻率在振動。所以我們本身就是一種和弦，我們每一個人都是一種獨立的和弦。如果這種和弦可以很和諧地運作，也可視為另外一種健康的定義。人類的耳朵聽不到這種和弦，但人耳能聽到神奇的聲音，我們可以聽見十個八度音階，但通常我們只會注意到一個八度音階。人耳是永遠打開的，不能自由開闔，就算在睡覺的時候也能聽得見聲音。人類能聽到的最微小聲音，僅僅能讓我們的鼓膜振動4個原子直徑而已；而我們能聽到最大的聲音，則是最小聲音的兆倍以上。 耳朵不光只是可以聽聲音，還能傾聽別人的心聲；傾聽是一項主動的行為，而聽聲音則是被動的，所以我們在傾聽的時候必須專注，學習培養與聲音的良好互動，但這個技巧卻從來沒有人教過我們。舉例來說，你有沒有想過是否有指導我們如何傾聽的技巧呢？我來舉二個傾聽的技巧：縮小範圍式傾聽，是為聽而聽，先把不相關的內容都去除，只留下重要的內容。男人大部分採取縮小範圍式傾聽，如果某個男人說：「我有個問題...」另一個男人會回答：「解決方法是這樣，謝謝，下一位。」我們男人就是這樣談話的，對吧？ 另一種擴大範圍式傾聽，是參與傾聽，而不是為聽而聽，傾聽的人，心中沒設定什麼目標，只是很享受這種傾聽的過程。女人大部分都採擴大範圍式傾聽，你看看這二個女人，她們眼神接觸，面向對方，可能二個人都同時在講話。(笑聲)男性同胞們，聽完我的演講後，至少要學會擴大範圍式傾聽，這樣至少可以改善你的人際關係。 傾聽的困難度在於，當我們要傾聽的時候，總是有許多噪音圍繞在我們四周，依據歐盟的講法，這種噪音會降低歐洲人口25%的生活品質與健康。歐洲有約2%的人，也就是1600萬人，因為這種噪音而夜不成眠。噪音一年會導致二十萬歐洲人死亡，真的是很嚴重的問題。 在我們小時候，如果遇到有噪音又不想聽的時候，我們會把手指塞進耳朵裡，自己哼歌唱。現在，你也可以做類似的動作，看起來還很酷，用這種東西就可以了。但大量使用耳機的壞處是會引發三項嚴重的健康問題，第一項問題，被莫瑞．雪佛(作曲家)定義為：""schizophonia""(音景分裂)，也就是聽覺和視覺的錯置。我們在生活裡，加入了許多身旁的人以外的聲音，我覺得長期處在音景分裂狀態下，是很不健康的。 配戴耳機會造成的第二個健康問題就是壓縮，我們把音樂壓縮進我們的口袋裡，這樣做有個問題。聽聽看這個，這是未經壓縮過的音樂。(音樂)現在再來聽聽相同的音樂，其中98%因壓縮而被移除。(音樂)我真的希望你們之中有人能聽得出來這二者的差別，這就是壓縮音樂的代價，它會讓你不耐煩、也不想去想像那些你必須去想像的聲音，長期來說，對我們的健康是不好的。 戴耳機會引發的第三個問題是：耳聾，NIHD—噪音引起的聽覺障礙。有一千萬個美國人，因為各種原因而有聽覺障礙，但真正讓我們擔心的是，有16%的美國青少年，也就是六個青少年中有一個，因為配戴耳機而產生這種因噪音引起的聽覺障礙。美國某間大學所做的一項研究顯示，有61%的大學新鮮人，因為配戴耳機而產生聽覺障礙。我們的下一代很有可能都會有聽覺障礙，這真的是很嚴重的問題。 有三個小方法可以保護你的耳朵，請務必教導給你的小孩：專業的護耳器很棒，我經常戴著；若一定要用耳機，請買你能力範圍內，品質最好的耳機，因為好品質的耳機可以讓你不用開那麼大的音量，如果戴上耳機後，聽不到別人大聲對你說話，耳機的音量就太大了；第三，如果你處於有噪音的環境，你可以用手指塞住你的耳朵，或乾脆走開，這樣才能保護你的耳朵。 我建議大家儘量遠離噪音，去見見這幾位朋友：W，W，B：也就是風、水和鳥類，這種是隨機的自然聲音，由各種不同的隨機聲音所組成，每一種都很健康，每一種都伴隨著我們人類演化至今。到戶外找找這種聲音，對你很有幫助，這種聲音也是，靜默也有另一種美感。伊利莎白時代的人認為語言只是為了裝飾沈默。我希望各位能先認識靜默之美，再轉而體會音效設計之美，就像藝術品一樣，要有前景、背景，還要有完美的比例。聲音的設計是很有趣的，如果你自己做不來，就請專業人士幫忙。聲音設計會是未來的趨勢，我認為我們可以藉此改變世界的聲音生態。 我很快地為各位介紹八種聲音療法，這八種聲音療法可以改善各位的健康。第一，超音波：大家健檢時都會用到，現在也被用來治療癌症。碎石術：每一年都讓數以千計的病患免於開刀之苦，用高強度的音頻將結石震碎。聲音療癒法是很棒的療法，已經被人類使用了數千年了，我建議各位嚐試一下，現在已被廣泛應用，可以治療自閉症、痴呆及其他症狀。音樂，當然光聽音樂就很棒了，尤其是出於善意、充滿愛意的音樂更棒，像是宗教音樂或莫札特都很棒，各式各樣的音樂對人體健康都很有幫助。 還有四種聲音療法是需要各位主動參與的，第一是有意識的傾聽，我希望各位在演講結束後就身體力行，你會體驗到完全不同的境界，達到那個境界是很棒的事。第二，製造一些聲音、發出聲響，聲音是我們每個人都會的樂器，但有多少人受過發聲訓練？學習發聲，學習唱歌，學習演奏樂器。音樂家的腦袋確實比一般人來得大，你也可以和大家一起演奏樂器或歌唱，這是對抗音景分裂的最佳良藥，和別人一起演奏或歌唱，只要你喜歡的型式都可以。我們必須學會尊重週遭的聲音，還得要保護自己的耳朵，為你自己的家或工作場所設計出悠美的聲音效果；若有人用剛才那種噪音攻擊你時，要學會出聲制止。 在結束之前，我要告訴各位七項你現在就可以做的事，來改善你的聽力。我希望世界都充滿美妙的聲音，如果我們都能開始做這七件事，我們就能朝這個方向大步邁進。所以我建議各位採取這些行動。 我要再播放一些鳥鳴聲，對你的健康很有幫助，希望各位的聽力都能保持健康。 (掌聲)"
