Talk	en	zh-tw
julia_bacha	I'm a filmmaker. For the last 8 years, I have dedicated my life to documenting the work of Israelis and Palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means. When I travel with my work across Europe and the United States, one question always comes up: Where is the Palestinian Gandhi? Why aren't Palestinians using nonviolent resistance? The challenge I face when I hear this question is that often I have just returned from the Middle East where I spent my time filming dozens of Palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from Israeli soldiers and settlers. These leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region. Yet, most of you have probably never heard about them. This divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a Palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful. So I'm here today to talk about the power of attention, the power of your attention, and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the West Bank, Gaza and elsewhere — but today, my case study is going to be Palestine. I believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for Palestinians to start adopting nonviolence, but for us to start paying attention to those who already are. Allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called Budrus. About seven years ago, they faced extinction, because Israel announced it would build a separation barrier, and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village. They would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded, so they would lose free access to the rest of the West Bank. Through inspired local leadership, they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening. Let me show you some brief clips, so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground. (Music) Palestinian Woman: We were told the wall would separate Palestine from Israel. Here in Budrus, we realized the wall would steal our land. Israeli Man: The fence has, in fact, created a solution to terror. Man: Today you're invited to a peaceful march. You are joined by dozens of your Israeli brothers and sisters. Israeli Activist: Nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition. Woman: We saw the men trying to push the soldiers, but none of them could do that. But I think the girls could do it. Fatah Party Member: We must empty our minds of traditional thinking. Hamas Party Member: We were in complete harmony, and we wanted to spread it to all of Palestine. Chanting: One united nation. Fatah, Hamas and the Popular Front! News Anchor: The clashes over the fence continue. Reporter: Israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd. They were allowed to use any force necessary. (Gunshots) Man: These are live bullets. It's like Fallujah. Shooting everywhere. Israeli Activist: I was sure we were all going to die. But there were others around me who weren't even cowering. Israeli Soldier: A nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear]. Protester: This is a peaceful march. There is no need to use violence. Chanting: We can do it! We can do it! We can do it! Julia Bacha: When I first heard about the story of Budrus, I was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago, in 2003. What was even more surprising was the fact that Budrus was successful. The residents, after 10 months of peaceful resistance, convinced the Israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line, which is the internationally recognized boundary between Israel and the Palestinian Territories. The resistance in Budrus has since spread to villages across the West Bank and to Palestinian neighborhoods in Jerusalem. Yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories. This silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow, or even survive, in Palestine. Violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause. If violent actors are the only ones constantly getting front-page covers and attracting international attention to the Palestinian issue, it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight. The power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room. The surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit. The tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior, since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it. Parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children. But that's true for adults too. In fact, the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced, depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention. I believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the Middle East and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today. In the course of taking my film to villages in the West Bank, in Gaza and in East Jerusalem, I have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation. In a village called Wallajeh, which sits very close to Jerusalem, the community was facing a very similar plight to Budrus. They were going to be surrounded, lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access, either to the West Bank or Jerusalem. They had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention. So we organized a screening. A week later, they held the most well-attended and disciplined demonstration to date. The organizers say that the villagers, upon seeing the story of Budrus documented in a film, felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing, that people cared. So they kept on going. On the Israeli side, there is a new peace movement called Solidariot, which means solidarity in Hebrew. The leaders of this movement have been using Budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools. They report that Israelis who had never been active before, upon seeing the film, understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities. The examples of Wallajeh and the Solidariot movement show that even a small-budget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior. Now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like Bil'in, Ni'lin, Wallajeh, in Jerusalem neighborhoods like Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan — the nonviolent leaders would become more visible, valued and effective in their work. I believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts, they are invisible, and it's as if they never happened. But I have seen first hand that if we do, they will multiply. If they multiply, their influence will grow in the overall Israeli-Palestinian conflict. And theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation. These leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like Budrus. Let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere. Thank you. (Applause)	我是一位電影製片人在過去八年中我致力拍攝以色列與巴勒斯坦嘗試解決衝突的人們他們運用的是和平的手段每當我出差到歐洲和美國時總是有人問我為何巴勒斯坦沒有像甘地一樣的人?為何巴勒斯坦人不用非暴力的方式抗爭呢? 當我聽到這樣的問題時﹐ 我感到為難因為我當時可能才從中東回國而我是在中東拍攝數十位巴勒斯坦人運用非暴力方法來捍衛他們的土地和水資源以免被以色列士兵和居民所剝奪這些領導人致力促成一場大規模的全國性非暴力運動來結束佔領並建立區域的和平但是你們多數人可能從未聽說過他們有一個隔閡存在於當地所發生的事與國際的認知之間這是一個關鍵性的原因也是為什麼我們還沒有一場巴勒斯坦和平抗爭運動成功過 所以我今天要來講關注的力量你的關注的力量以及非暴力運動在约旦河西岸和加薩及其他地方的萌芽與發展而今天我要分析的案例是巴勒斯坦我認為要促進非暴力運動並不是要要求巴勒斯坦人開始採用非暴力手段而是﹐ 我們要開始注意那些用非暴力手段的人們讓我帶你進入這個名為布德魯斯的村子來闡明這點 約莫七年前他們面臨存亡的問題因為以色列宣佈要築起一道圍牆而部分圍牆將橫越這個村子他們會失去40%的土地並且被包圍住如此便無法自由往返约旦河西岸的其他地区透過當地收到感召的領導人他們發動了和平抗爭活動來阻止這道圍牆 讓我給你們看一些短片這樣你們才有概念當地到底是怎麼一回事 【音樂】 巴勒斯坦女性: 我們聽說圍牆將分隔巴勒斯坦與以色列而在布德鲁斯村我們發現這道牆將竊取我們的土地 以色列男性: 這道牆其實是解決恐懼的一個方法 男性: 我們今天邀請你們來一場和平的遊行你的身邊是數十位你的以色列弟兄姐妹 以色列抗議人士: 軍隊害怕的就是非暴力的抵抗 女性: 我們看見男人想推開那些士兵但是他們不能那麼做但我覺得女生們能 法塔赫黨員: 我們必須清空腦中的傳統思想 哈馬斯黨員: 我們是完全和平的而我們希望這能擴散到全巴勒斯坦 口號聲: 全國團結法塔赫、哈馬斯、人民陣線主播: 這道牆所帶來的衝突持續著 記者: 以色列邊界警察被派來驅散群眾他們得採取任何必要手段 【槍響】 男性: 這些是實彈這裡就像伊拉克的費魯杰市。四處是槍聲 以色列抗議人士: 我以為我們要死了但我身邊有人甚至一點都不害怕 以色列士兵: 非暴力抗爭是無法阻止這【聲音模糊不清】 抗議人士: 這是和平的遊行不需要使用暴力 口號聲: 我們會贏、我們會贏我們會贏! 朱麗亞·巴夏: 當我第一次聽到布德鲁斯村的故事時我非常驚訝國際媒體竟然沒有報導這一連串驚人的事件而這不過就發生在幾年前就在2003年更令人驚訝的是布德鲁斯村成功了居民抗爭十個月後說服了以色列政府將這道牆從他們的土地移開到綠線上也就是國際公認的以巴領土分界線布德鲁斯村的抗爭自此傳遍全約旦河西岸的村子以及耶路撒冷境內巴勒斯坦人居住的地區但是媒體還是沒有報導這些事件這種漠視嚴重的影響非暴力運動在巴勒斯坦發展甚至存活的可能性 暴力抗爭及非暴力抗爭都有一個非常重要的共通點他們都是一種劇院需要觀眾來關心他們的議題如果只有使用暴力的人才能上頭版並引起國際媒體關注巴勒斯坦的議題非暴力領袖就很難向他們的民眾證明公民抗命是個可行的方式來解決當前的困境 關注的力量可能對在場的父母親一點都不陌生如果小孩吵鬧就能得到父母的注意那麼小孩再來就會吵得更凶這種吵鬧的行為就是兒童心理學家口中的功能性行為因為小孩知道他能藉此得到父母的注意力父母能透過給予孩童注意力或是不給予孩童注意力來鼓勵或抑制這樣的行為對於成人也是如此事實上每個國家及其人民都能被影響就端看國際社會選擇聚焦在那裡 我認為結束中東地區的衝突並為其帶來和平的根本是要將非暴力抗爭轉變成一個功能性行為我們只要多關注這些帶動非暴力運動的領袖們當我在拍攝約旦河西岸的村子以及加薩地區以及東耶路撒冷的村子時我見證到就算只是一部小小的紀錄片也能影響行為模式的轉變 瓦拉杰村座落的位置非常接近耶路撒冷那裡的人面臨跟布德鲁斯村非常相似的困境他們將被包圍並失去許多土地也將失去往返約旦河西岸和耶路撒冷的自由他們已經持續非暴力抗爭兩年左右了但是他們開始感到意志消沉因為沒有人注意他們於是我們安排了記錄片的播放一個禮拜後他們舉辦了目前為止人數最多也最有紀律的遊行舉辦人說村民見到布德鲁斯村的故事被記錄在影片後發現確實有人在跟隨他們的腳步人們是在乎的於是他們堅持了下去 在以色列那邊則有名為索里德拉爾特的和平運動在希伯来語中表示團结一致這些運動的領袖都把布德鲁斯村的故事當作主要的工具來號召群眾他們反映說從未參與過抗爭活動的以色列人看過影片後了解到非暴力的力量也開始加入他們的抗爭瓦拉杰村和索里德拉爾特的和平運動展現出小成本的獨立製片也能幫助非暴力行為轉變成功能性行為想象一下主流媒體開始報導這些每個禮拜都在村子裡進行的非暴力遊行時所產生的影響力貝拉因村、尼因村和瓦拉杰村這些位處耶路撒冷境內香克哈拉和西路万的非暴力領導人的事跡就會得到更多關注他們的工作就更有價值更有效果了 我認為最重要的是要了解如果沒有人關注他們的付出﹐ 那這些事就像隱形的好像從未發生過但我親身經歷過只要我們關注他們就會開始發展如果他們開始發展他們的影響力會在以巴衝突中發揮影響而他們的影響力就是那種能夠化解衝突的影響力這些領導人證明了非暴力是可行的就算在布德鲁斯村這樣的地方我們來關注他們幫助他們證明自己 謝謝 【掌聲】
