Talk	en	zh-tw
julian_treasure_the_4_ways_sound_affects_us	"Over the next five minutes, my intention is to transform your relationship with sound. Let me start with the observation that most of the sound around us is accidental; much of it is unpleasant. (Traffic noise) We stand on street corners, shouting over noise like this, pretending it doesn't exist. This habit of suppressing sound has meant that our relationship with sound has become largely unconscious. There are four major ways sound is affecting you all the time, and I'd like to raise them in your consciousness today. The first is physiological. (Alarm clocks ring) Sorry about that. I just gave you a shot of cortisol, your fight-flight hormone. Sounds are affecting your hormone secretions all the time, but also your breathing, heart rate — which I just also did — and your brainwaves. It's not just unpleasant sounds like that that do it. This is surf. (Ocean waves) It has the frequency of roughly 12 cycles per minute. Most people find that very soothing, and, interestingly, 12 cycles per minute is roughly the frequency of the breathing of a sleeping human, so there is a deep resonance with being at rest. We also associate it with being stress-free and on holiday. The second way in which sound affects you is psychological. Music is the most powerful form of sound that we know that affects our emotional state. (Albinoni's Adagio) This is guaranteed to make most of you feel pretty sad if I leave it on. Music is not the only kind of sound, however, which affects your emotions. Natural sound can do that, too. Birdsong, for example, is a sound which most people find reassuring. There's a reason: over hundreds of thousands of years we've learned that when the birds are singing, things are safe. It's when they stop you need to be worried. The third way in which sound affects you is cognitively. You can't understand two people talking at once (Voice-over) or in this case, one person talking twice. You have to choose which me you're going to listen to. We have a very small amount of bandwidth for processing auditory input, which is why noise like this ... (Office noise) is extremely damaging for productivity. If you have to work in an open-plan office like this, your productivity is greatly reduced. And whatever number you're thinking of, it probably isn't as bad as this. [Open-plan offices productivity down 66%] You are one-third as productive in open-plan offices as in quiet rooms. I have a tip for you: if you work in spaces like that, carry headphones with you, with a soothing sound like birdsong. Put them on, and your productivity goes back up to triple what it would be. The fourth way in which sound affects us is behaviorally. With all that other stuff going on, it would be amazing if our behavior didn't change. (Techno music) So ask yourself: Is this person ever going to drive at a steady 28 miles per hour? I don't think so. At the simplest, you move away from unpleasant sound and towards pleasant sounds. So if I were to play this ... (Jackhammer) for more than a few seconds, you'd feel uncomfortable; for more than a few minutes, you'd be leaving the room in droves. For people who can't get away from noise like that, it's extremely damaging for their health. And that's not the only thing that bad sound damages. Most retail sound is inappropriate and accidental, even hostile, and it has a dramatic effect on sales. For you retailers, you may want to look away before I show this slide. [Inappropriate retail soundscapes sales down 28%] They're losing up to 30 percent of their business with people leaving shops faster, or just turning around at the door. We've all done it, left the area, because the sound in there is so dreadful. I want to spend just a moment talking about the model we've developed, which allows us to start at the top and look at the drivers of sound, analyze the soundscape and then predict the four outcomes I just talked about. Or start at the bottom and say what outcomes we want, and then design a soundscape to have a desired effect. At last we've got some science we can apply. And we're in the business of designing soundscapes. Just a word on music. Music is the most powerful sound there is, often inappropriately deployed. It's powerful for two reasons: you recognize it fast, and you associate it very powerfully. I'll give you two examples. (First chord of ""A Hard Day's Night"") Most of you recognize that immediately. The younger, maybe not. (Laughter) (First notes of ""Jaws"" theme) Most of you associate that with something! Now, those are one-second samples of music. Music is very powerful, and unfortunately, it's veneering commercial spaces, often inappropriately. I hope that's going to change over the next few years. Let me talk about brands for a moment, since some of you run brands. Every brand is out there making sound right now. There are eight expressions of a brand in sound; they're all important. And every brand needs to have guidelines at the center. I'm glad to say that is starting to happen now. (Intel ad jingle) You all recognize that one. (Nokia ringtone) This is the most-played tune in the world today — 1.8 billion times a day, that tune is played. (Laughter) And it cost Nokia absolutely nothing. I'll leave you with four golden rules, for those of you who run businesses, for commercial sound. First, make it congruent, pointing in the same direction as your visual communication. That increases impact by over 1,100 percent. If your sound is pointing the opposite direction, incongruent, you reduce impact by 86 percent. That's an order of magnitude, up or down. This is important. Secondly, make it appropriate to the situation. Thirdly, make it valuable. Give people something with the sound, don't just bombard them with stuff. Finally, test and test it again. Sound is complex; there are many countervailing influences. It can be a bit like a bowl of spaghetti: sometimes you just have to eat it and see what happens. So I hope this talk has raised sound in your consciousness. If you're listening consciously, you can take control of the sound around you. It's good for your health and for your productivity. If we all do that, we move to a state that I like to think will be sound living in the world. I'll leave you with more birdsong. (Birds chirping) I recommend at least five minutes a day, but there's no maximum dose. Thank you for lending me your ears today. (Applause)"	"在接下來的五分鐘裡我將改變你們對聲音的看法我觀察到在我們四週的聲音通常都是偶然產生的而且大部分是不悅耳的(交通噪音)當我們站在街角，在這些噪音之下大聲談話然後還假裝噪音並不存在嗯，這種壓抑聲音的習慣讓我們對於週遭的聲音漠不關心 聲音會對我們產生四種影響我想藉由今天的機會分享給大家首先是生理上的影響(警鈴聲)很抱歉，我剛才為你們注射了一劑可體松，也就是刺激你戰鬥或是逃跑的荷爾蒙聲音會影響你的荷爾蒙分泌還有你的呼吸，心跳，就像我剛才做的還會影響你的腦波 不是只有不悅耳的聲音會產生生理上的影響這是海浪(海浪聲)頻率大約是每分鐘12次大部分的人覺得海浪聲具有撫慰的效果而且有趣的是熟睡的人每分鐘的呼吸次數也大約是12次所以海浪聲會讓我們聯想到休息聯想到放鬆聯想到假日 聲音也會對我們的心理產生影響音樂是我們所熟知最能影響人類情緒狀態的聲音形式(Albinoni 慢板)若我再播放下去你們一定會變得很憂傷但是音樂並不是唯一可以影響你的情緒的聲音 自然界的聲音也有這種效果舉例來說，鳥叫聲，大部分的人都覺得具有安慰的效果(鳥鳴聲)這是有原因的，自古以來我們就知道若小鳥在鳴唱，就表示安全若叫聲停止了，你就該當心了 聲音影響我們的第三種方式是知覺上的若二個人同時講話，你就無法同時瞭解其內容(“若你聽這個聲音”)""你就離題了...”)或是像現在同一個人有二個聲音(“你該聽另一個聲音”)你必須選擇你要聽哪一個聲音 人腦處理聲音進入的頻寬很窄所以像這種噪音(辦公室噪音)絕對會破壞生產力若你是在沒有隔間的辦公室裡工作你的生產力絕對很低你無法想像生產力會低到什麼程度(預告聲)在沒有隔間的辦公室裡工作，生產力只有在安靜環境下的三分之一但有一個小方法可以改善這個問題，若你必須在這種環境裡工作就戴上耳機，播放鳥鳴聲等安慰人心的聲音你的生產力就會立刻提升三倍 聲音影響我們的第四種方式是行為上的當你聽到這麼多聲音你的行為一定會改變(車上的電子音樂聲)試著想想看：這個開車的人會不會只用28英哩的時速開車？我覺得不會最簡單的是，你會逃離不悅耳的聲音轉而尋找你喜歡的聲音若我播放這個聲音(鑽地機聲音)只要放個幾秒，你就會覺得不舒服若放上個幾分鐘，你就會想要逃離這個地方對那些無法避免這些噪音的人來說這些聲音會嚴重損害他們的健康 這不是噪音唯一會破壞的事情大部分店家播放的音樂都不恰當，有些是隨機播放，有些還會製造敵對氣氛這些都會嚴重影響銷售業績若你們之中有人經營店家，你可能會不喜歡我所要播放的投影片業績下滑了百分之三十只因為客戶很快就離開你的店，或是在門口就轉身走了我們都曾經匆促離開某個地方只因為那裡所播放的音樂太恐怖 我想花點時間來談談我們所開發出來的模型，從最上面開始是聲音的來源，接下來分析聲音的主軸再來預測我們剛才談到的四個影響層面或是從下面開始先想我們希望得到什麼效果然後設計出我們想要的聲音這是我們現在所使用的科學方法我們所從事的是聲音設計這個行業 再來談談音樂，音樂是最有影響力的聲音但也最常被誤用音樂的影響力可從二方面觀察到，你可以很快就認出某些音樂也可以做出很多聯想讓我給你們二個範例(披頭四""A Hard Day's Night""第一個和弦)大部分的人都可以立刻認出這個音樂年輕人可能就沒有那麼熟(笑聲)(電影大白鯊主題曲的前二個音)你們應該會聯想到什麼吧！這二個就是我要舉的例子音樂具有很強的影響力但現在卻被許多商場錯誤使用我希望在未來幾年內這種情形能有所改變 接下來談談品牌因為你們之中有些人經營某些品牌現在每個品牌都有自己的聲音品牌的聲音有八種表情每一種都很重要，每一個品牌都應該瞭解如何使用這些聲音我很高興現在已有品牌開始這樣做了(Intel廣告聲)大家都認得出這個聲音(Nokia鈴聲)這是現在世界上最常被播放的聲音每天會播放18億次而Nokia不必付出任何成本 我先告訴你們四個黃金原則這對企業經營者選擇聲音很重要首先，聲音選擇要有一致性要和視覺廣告傳達出相同訊息這樣會提升廣告力度達百分之一千一百若你選擇了相反的聲音，和視覺廣告不一致你的廣告力度會降低百分之八十六這關乎廣告的強度，看你是要強或弱這很重要第二，要適合情境第三，要讓聲音產生價值，讓人們可以從這個聲音得到一些東西而不是只提供贈品而已最後，要不斷地測試聲音是很複雜的，聲音所產生的效果有些還會互相衝突就像面對一碗義大利麵你得先吃了才知道 我希望我的演說能讓你們瞭解聲音的影響力若你仔細聽你就可以控制周遭的聲音對你的健康有幫助，也能提升你的生產力如果我們大家都這麼做這個世界的聲音就會活化起來我再播放一些鳥鳴叫聲(鳥鳴聲)我建議你們一天至少聽個五分鐘，至於上限，沒有限制謝謝你們(掌聲)"
