Talk	en	zh-tw
julian_treasure_5_ways_to_listen_better	"We are losing our listening. We spend roughly 60 percent of our communication time listening, but we're not very good at it. We retain just 25 percent of what we hear. Now — not you, not this talk, but that is generally true. (Laughter) Let's define listening as making meaning from sound. It's a mental process, and it's a process of extraction. We use some pretty cool techniques to do this. One of them is pattern recognition. (Crowd noises) So in a cocktail party like this, if I say, ""David, Sara, pay attention"" — some of you just sat up. We recognize patterns to distinguish noise from signal, and especially our name. Differencing is another technique we use. If I left this pink noise on for more than a couple of minutes, (Pink noise) you would literally cease to hear it. We listen to differences; we discount sounds that remain the same. And then there is a whole range of filters. These filters take us from all sound down to what we pay attention to. Most people are entirely unconscious of these filters. But they actually create our reality in a way, because they tell us what we're paying attention to right now. I'll give you one example of that. Intention is very important in sound, in listening. When I married my wife, I promised her I would listen to her every day as if for the first time. Now that's something I fall short of on a daily basis. (Laughter) But it's a great intention to have in a relationship. (Laughter) But that's not all. Sound places us in space and in time. If you close your eyes right now in this room, you're aware of the size of the room from the reverberation and the bouncing of the sound off the surfaces; you're aware of how many people are around you, because of the micro-noises you're receiving. And sound places us in time as well, because sound always has time embedded in it. In fact, I would suggest that our listening is the main way that we experience the flow of time from past to future. So, ""Sonority is time and meaning"" — a great quote. I said at the beginning, we're losing our listening. Why did I say that? Well, there are a lot of reasons for this. First of all, we invented ways of recording — first writing, then audio recording and now video recording as well. The premium on accurate and careful listening has simply disappeared. Secondly, the world is now so noisy, (Noise) with this cacophony going on visually and auditorily, it's just hard to listen; it's tiring to listen. Many people take refuge in headphones, but they turn big, public spaces like this, shared soundscapes, into millions of tiny, little personal sound bubbles. In this scenario, nobody's listening to anybody. We're becoming impatient. We don't want oratory anymore; we want sound bites. And the art of conversation is being replaced — dangerously, I think — by personal broadcasting. I don't know how much listening there is in this conversation, which is sadly very common, especially in the UK. We're becoming desensitized. Our media have to scream at us with these kinds of headlines in order to get our attention. And that means it's harder for us to pay attention to the quiet, the subtle, the understated. This is a serious problem that we're losing our listening. This is not trivial, because listening is our access to understanding. Conscious listening always creates understanding, and only without conscious listening can these things happen. A world where we don't listen to each other at all is a very scary place indeed. So I'd like to share with you five simple exercises, tools you can take away with you, to improve your own conscious listening. Would you like that? Audience: Yes! Good. The first one is silence. Just three minutes a day of silence is a wonderful exercise to reset your ears and to recalibrate, so that you can hear the quiet again. If you can't get absolute silence, go for quiet, that's absolutely fine. Second, I call this ""the mixer."" (Noise) So even if you're in a noisy environment like this — and we all spend a lot of time in places like this — listen in the coffee bar to how many channels of sound can I hear? How many individual channels in that mix am I listening to? You can do it in a beautiful place as well, like in a lake. How many birds am I hearing? Where are they? Where are those ripples? It's a great exercise for improving the quality of your listening. Third, this exercise I call ""savoring,"" and this is a beautiful exercise. It's about enjoying mundane sounds. This, for example, is my tumble dryer. (Dryer) It's a waltz — one, two, three; one, two, three; one, two, three. I love it! Or just try this one on for size. (Coffee grinder) Wow! So, mundane sounds can be really interesting — if you pay attention. I call that the ""hidden choir"" — it's around us all the time. The next exercise is probably the most important of all of these, if you just take one thing away. This is listening positions — the idea that you can move your listening position to what's appropriate to what you're listening to. This is playing with those filters. Remember I gave you those filters? It's starting to play with them as levers, to get conscious about them and to move to different places. These are just some of the listening positions, or scales of listening positions, that you can use. There are many. Have fun with that. It's very exciting. And finally, an acronym. You can use this in listening, in communication. If you're in any one of those roles — and I think that probably is everybody who's listening to this talk — the acronym is RASA, which is the Sanskrit word for ""juice"" or ""essence."" And RASA stands for ""Receive,"" which means pay attention to the person; ""Appreciate,"" making little noises like ""hmm,"" ""oh,"" ""OK""; ""Summarize"" — the word ""so"" is very important in communication; and ""Ask,"" ask questions afterwards. Now sound is my passion, it's my life. I wrote a whole book about it. So I live to listen. That's too much to ask for most people. But I believe that every human being needs to listen consciously in order to live fully — connected in space and in time to the physical world around us, connected in understanding to each other, not to mention spiritually connected, because every spiritual path I know of has listening and contemplation at its heart. That's why we need to teach listening in our schools as a skill. Why is it not taught? It's crazy. And if we can teach listening in our schools, we can take our listening off that slippery slope to that dangerous, scary world that I talked about, and move it to a place where everybody is consciously listening all the time, or at least capable of doing it. Now, I don't know how to do that, but this is TED, and I think the TED community is capable of anything. So I invite you to connect with me, connect with each other, take this mission out. And let's get listening taught in schools, and transform the world in one generation to a conscious, listening world — a world of connection, a world of understanding and a world of peace. Thank you for listening to me today. (Applause)"	"我們正在失去傾聽的能力。我們花大約60％的時間傾聽我們的溝通，但我們不是傾聽得很有效。我們只保留我們聽到的25％。不是說你現在，不是說這演說，但這是一般是事實。讓我們定義傾聽為從聽聲音搜索到意思。這是一個心理過程，一個提取的過程。 我們使用一些很酷的技術來做到這一點。其中一樣是模式識別。（人群噪音）例如在一個雞尾酒會這樣，假如我說：「大衛，薩拉，注意， 」你們有些便會坐起來。我們認識到模式來區分噪聲的信號，尤其是我們的名字。「過濾削減法」是我們使用的另一種技術。如果我讓這吵雜的聲音播放着兩分鐘，你會漸漸停止聽到它。我們辨聽到差異，我們對保持不變的聲音逐漸地不理會。 接著便是一個整體範圍的過濾器。這些過濾器把我們帶到所有的聲音直至到我們注意的聲音。大部分人是對這些過濾器完全​​無意識的。但它們實際上創造了我們的現實，因為它們正在告訴我們現在正在關注什麼。給你們一個例子：聽和聲音的意圖是非常重要的。當我太太嫁給我時，我答應她我會每天聽從她彷彿像是第一次一樣。現在，這是我每天功虧一簣的事情。(笑聲)但對關係它是一個偉大的意圖。 但這還不是全部。聲音將我們放在空間和時間。如果你現在在這個房間裡閉上眼睛，你會從混響和聲音彈跳離開不同表面而察覺到房間的大小。而從收到周圍的微噪音你便會察覺到有多少人。而聲音更加把我們察覺到時間因為聲音總是有時間嵌入其中。其實，我認為，聆聽是我們主要途徑來讓我們經歷時間從過去到未來的流動。那麼，“聲響是時間和意義” — 一個偉大的引用句。 在一開始我說，我們正在失去我們的聽力。為什麼我這樣說呢？有很多原因的。第一，我們發明了記錄的方法首先, 寫作，然後錄音和以及現在, 錄像。那獨特的準確和仔細的聆聽簡直已消失了。其次，世界上現在那麼吵，(噪音）與此視覺和聽覺的雜音，是十分很難聆聽，要聆聽很是累人。許多人躲避於聽筒內，但他們因此將這又大，又公眾共享音景的場所，改變成為百萬個微小的和個人的聲音小氣泡。在這種情況下，沒有人在聆聽任何人。 我們越來越不耐煩。我們不希望再聽演講，我們只擷取片段的句子。而談話的藝術被危險地替換成為—我認為的 —由個人廣播。我不知道有多少人在聽這次談話，這是很可悲的普遍，尤其是在英國。我們變得麻木。為以獲得我們的注意力, 我們的媒體紛紛在用這類型的標題以博取我們的注意。這意味著我們漸有困難地注意安靜，含蓄和低調的事物。 這是一個嚴重的問題，我們正在失去我們的聆聽力。這不是小事。因為聆聽力是我們獲得理解的通路。有意識的聆聽總會創造有意識的理解。而只有無意識的聆聽能令這些事情發生 —變成這個世界上，我們不再傾聽對方的一切，變成一個非常可怕的地方。所以我想與大家分享可以採取的, 五個簡單的練習工具，來提高你自己的意識和聆聽力。你想要嗎？ （觀眾：想要。）好。 第一: 是沉默。僅僅每天三分鐘的沉默是一種奇妙的練習，以重復你的耳朵，並重新調整，使你能聽到安靜。如果你不能得到絕對的沉默，去一個較安靜的地方，這是沒有問題的。 第二，我稱此為混合器。（噪音）即使你在一個這樣嘈雜的環境中 —我們都花很多時間在這樣的地方 —在咖啡吧試試可以聽到多少聲音的頻道？你實際上在聽到多少不同的頻道呢？你可以在一個美麗的地方練習，像一個湖泊。你在聽到多少隻鳥呢？牠們在哪裡？波紋在哪裡呢？這是一個很好的鍛煉來提高你聆聽的素質。 第三，這項練習我稱之為品嚐，這是一個美麗的練習。這是關於享受平凡的聲音。例如，我的乾衣機。（乾衣機）這是一首華爾茲。一，二，三。一，二，三。一二三。我喜歡它。或者試試這個。（磨咖啡機）哇！所以，如果你留意, 平凡的聲音會很有趣。我稱之為隱藏的合唱團。我們身邊通通皆是。 接下來的練習可能是這些最重要的，若然你只採取一樣練習。這是聆聽的位置 —意思是，你可以移動你聆聽的位置到適合你聆聽的什麼。這是把弄那些過濾器。你還記得嗎？我開始時給你們這些過濾器。開始將它們如槓桿般把弄，以獲得有關它們的知覺和移動到不同的地方。這些只是一些可以使用的聆聽位置，或尺度聽的位置。有很多。很有樂趣的。非常令人興奮。 最後，一個縮寫。你可以在聆聽上和在溝通上使用這個。如果你在這任何一個些任務 —我認為這可能是在聽這談論的任何人 —縮寫是RASA，這是梵文,意思是果汁或本質。而RASA的R代表要接收，意思是要注意著人;要賞識，製造小噪音像嗯，哦，還好;要總結，""因此""這個詞在溝通是非常重要;並且要問，之後提出問題。 現在，聲音是我的激情，是我的生命。我對於這個寫了一整本書。所以，我活著為了聆聽。這對大多數人是過分的要求。但我相信每個人為了充分體驗生活需要有意識地傾聽 —來連接在我們身邊物理世界的空間和時間，來連接相互理解，更何況是精神上的相連，因為我知道每一個精神心路上的歷程都以聆聽和沉思為核心。 這就是為什麼我們要在學校需要教聆聽為一門技能。為什麼不教這個？這實在是瘋狂。如果我們可以在學校教導聽聆，我們可以把我們的聆聽能力拉回來,避免滑落去這個我談及的危險和可怕的世界，並將其移動到一個大家在任何時間都自覺地聆聽著對方的地方，— 或至少有能力這樣做的地方。 現在我不知道該怎麼做，但這是TED，我覺得的TED社群是有能力做任何事情。因此，我邀請你與我連縶，與每個人相互連接，採取這個任務，讓我們在學校教導聽聆，改造世界的一代成為有意識地傾聽的世界 —一個有連縶的世界，一個有理解和和平的世界。 謝謝今天你的聆聽。 （掌聲）"
