Talk	en	zh-tw
kamal_meattle_on_how_to_grow_your_own_fresh_air	"Some 17 years ago, I became allergic to Delhi's air. My doctors told me that my lung capacity had gone down to 70 percent, and it was killing me. With the help of IIT, TERI, and learnings from NASA, we discovered that there are three basic green plants, common green plants, with which we can grow all the fresh air we need indoors to keep us healthy. We've also found that you can reduce the fresh air requirements into the building, while maintaining industry indoor air-quality standards. The three plants are Areca palm, Mother-in-Law's Tongue and money plant. The botanical names are in front of you. Areca palm is a plant which removes CO2 and converts it into oxygen. We need four shoulder-high plants per person, and in terms of plant care, we need to wipe the leaves every day in Delhi, and perhaps once a week in cleaner-air cities. We had to grow them in vermi manure, which is sterile, or hydroponics, and take them outdoors every three to four months. The second plant is Mother-in-law's Tongue, which is again a very common plant, and we call it a bedroom plant, because it converts CO2 into oxygen at night. And we need six to eight waist-high plants per person. The third plant is money plant, and this is again a very common plant; preferably grows in hydroponics. And this particular plant removes formaldehydes and other volatile chemicals. With these three plants, you can grow all the fresh air you need. In fact, you could be in a bottle with a cap on top, and you would not die at all, and you would not need any fresh air. We have tried these plants at our own building in Delhi, which is a 50,000-square-feet, 20-year-old building. And it has close to 1,200 such plants for 300 occupants. Our studies have found that there is a 42 percent probability of one's blood oxygen going up by one percent if one stays indoors in this building for 10 hours. The government of India has discovered or published a study to show that this is the healthiest building in New Delhi. And the study showed that, compared to other buildings, there is a reduced incidence of eye irritation by 52 percent, respiratory systems by 34 percent, headaches by 24 percent, lung impairment by 12 percent and asthma by nine percent. And this study has been published on September 8, 2008, and it's available on the government of India website. Our experience points to an amazing increase in human productivity by over 20 percent by using these plants. And also a reduction in energy requirements in buildings by an outstanding 15 percent, because you need less fresh air. We are now replicating this in a 1.75-million-square-feet building, which will have 60,000 indoor plants. Why is this important? It is also important for the environment, because the world's energy requirements are expected to grow by 30 percent in the next decade. 40 percent of the world's energy is taken up by buildings currently, and 60 percent of the world's population will be living in buildings in cities with a population of over one million in the next 15 years. And there is a growing preference for living and working in air-conditioned places. ""Be the change you want to see in the world,"" said Mahatma Gandhi. And thank you for listening. (Applause)"	大約十七年前，我開始對德里的空氣過敏。醫生說我的肺活量降到只剩 70%，日子久了會致命。降到只剩 70%，日子久了會致命。經由印度理工學院、印度塔塔能源研究所的協助，以及美國國家航空暨太空總署所發表的研究成果，我們發現有三種基本的綠色植物，很常見的綠色植物，能生產我們所需的新鮮空氣，讓我們在室內保持健康。我們還發現，你可以減少室外新鮮空氣流入室內的需求，，而仍保持合乎業界標準的室內空氣品質。 這三種植物是黃椰子、虎尾蘭和黃金葛。投影片上標了植物學名。黃椰子可以把二氧化碳轉換成氧氣。每個人需要四株肩膀高的黃椰子，植物照料上，在德里，我們需要每天把葉子擦拭乾淨，在德里，我們需要每天把葉子擦拭乾淨，如果在乾淨一點的城市，也許每週擦拭就夠了。這些植物用無菌的蚯蚓糞，，或水耕的方式養殖，並且每三到四個月拿到外面曬太陽。第二種植物是虎尾蘭，也是常見的植物，我們說它是適合在臥室栽種的植物，因為它能在晚上把二氧化碳轉換成氧氣。我們每人需要六到八株高度及腰的虎尾蘭。第三種是黃金葛，一樣是很常見的植物，特別適合水耕。這類植物能移除甲醛，和其他揮發性化學藥劑。這類植物能移除甲醛，和其他揮發性化學藥劑。 有了這三種植物，你能產生所需要的全部新鮮空氣。甚至，你可以把自己關在一個大瓶子裡把頂端蓋子蓋緊，也不會窒息，也不需要任何外來的新鮮空氣。我們在德里的辦公大樓裡栽種這些植物，我們在德里的辦公大樓裡栽種這些植物，那是五萬平方英尺的二十年老建築。為了裡面 300 人，我們種了 1200 株植物。我們研究發現在這棟大樓裡待十個鐘頭的人，血氧含量提升一個百分點的機率是 42%。在這棟大樓裡待十個鐘頭的人，血氧含量提升一個百分點的機率是 42%。在這棟大樓裡待十個鐘頭的人，血氧含量提升一個百分點的機率是 42%。印度政府發現並發表研究結果，說明印度政府發現並發表研究結果，說明這是新德里市區最健康的建築。而研究顯示，跟其他建築相比，而研究顯示，跟其他建築相比，大樓裡的用戶眼睛不適的情形減少了 52%，呼吸系統問題減少 34%，頭痛減少 24%，肺功能障礙減少 12%，而氣喘減少 9%。這項研究於 2008 年 9 月 8 號發表，可以到印度政府網站下載。 根據我們的經驗利用這些植物，能使工作效率獲得超過 20% 的驚人提升。利用這些植物，能使工作效率獲得超過 20% 的驚人提升。更因為不需要從室外注入那麼多新鮮空氣，大樓能源需求也減少 15%。更因為不需要從室外注入那麼多新鮮空氣，大樓能源需求也減少 15%。我們即將在 175 萬平方英尺的大樓裡重複這個實驗，我們即將在 175 萬平方英尺的大樓裡重複這個實驗，裡面會有六萬株室內植物。 這為什麼值得提出來?其實這對環境影響很重要，因為世界的能源需求，預計在未來十年將有 30% 的成長。因為世界的能源需求，預計在未來十年將有 30% 的成長。因為世界的能源需求，預計在未來十年將有 30% 的成長。目前全世界 40% 的能源需求用在房屋建築上面，目前全世界 40% 的能源需求用在房屋建築上面，而全球 60% 的人口，在未來十五年內，將集中居住在超過一百萬人的大城市裡。在未來十五年內，將集中居住在超過一百萬人的大城市裡。同時，又有越來越多人，希望在有空調的場所居住跟工作。同時，又有越來越多人，希望在有空調的場所居住跟工作。甘地曾說過：你要這世界怎麼改變，你就自己先變成那個樣子。甘地曾說過：你要這世界怎麼改變，你就自己先變成那個樣子。謝謝你們的聆聽( 掌聲 )
