Talk	en	zh-tw
karen_bass_unseen_footage_untamed_nature	"I'm a very lucky person. I've been privileged to see so much of our beautiful Earth and the people and creatures that live on it. And my passion was inspired at the age of seven, when my parents first took me to Morocco, at the edge of the Sahara Desert. Now imagine a little Brit somewhere that wasn't cold and damp like home. What an amazing experience. And it made me want to explore more. So as a filmmaker, I've been from one end of the Earth to the other trying to get the perfect shot and to capture animal behavior never seen before. And what's more, I'm really lucky, because I get to share that with millions of people worldwide. Now the idea of having new perspectives of our planet and actually being able to get that message out gets me out of bed every day with a spring in my step. You might think that it's quite hard to find new stories and new subjects, but new technology is changing the way we can film. It's enabling us to get fresh, new images and tell brand new stories. In Nature's Great Events, a series for the BBC that I did with David Attenborough, we wanted to do just that. Images of grizzly bears are pretty familiar. You see them all the time, you think. But there's a whole side to their lives that we hardly ever see and had never been filmed. So what we did, we went to Alaska, which is where the grizzlies rely on really high, almost inaccessible, mountain slopes for their denning. And the only way to film that is a shoot from the air. (Video) David Attenborough: Throughout Alaska and British Columbia, thousands of bear families are emerging from their winter sleep. There is nothing to eat up here, but the conditions were ideal for hibernation. Lots of snow in which to dig a den. To find food, mothers must lead their cubs down to the coast, where the snow will already be melting. But getting down can be a challenge for small cubs. These mountains are dangerous places, but ultimately the fate of these bear families, and indeed that of all bears around the North Pacific, depends on the salmon. KB: I love that shot. I always get goosebumps every time I see it. That was filmed from a helicopter using a gyro-stabilized camera. And it's a wonderful bit of gear, because it's like having a flying tripod, crane and dolly all rolled into one. But technology alone isn't enough. To really get the money shots, it's down to being in the right place at the right time. And that sequence was especially difficult. The first year we got nothing. We had to go back the following year, all the way back to the remote parts of Alaska. And we hung around with a helicopter for two whole weeks. And eventually we got lucky. The cloud lifted, the wind was still, and even the bear showed up. And we managed to get that magic moment. For a filmmaker, new technology is an amazing tool, but the other thing that really, really excites me is when new species are discovered. Now, when I heard about one animal, I knew we had to get it for my next series, Untamed Americas, for National Geographic. In 2005, a new species of bat was discovered in the cloud forests of Ecuador. And what was amazing about that discovery is that it also solved the mystery of what pollinated a unique flower. It depends solely on the bat. Now, the series hasn't even aired yet, so you're the very first to see this. See what you think. (Video) Narrator: The tube-lipped nectar bat. A pool of delicious nectar lies at the bottom of each flower's long flute. But how to reach it? Necessity is the mother of evolution. (Music) This two-and-a-half-inch bat has a three-and-a-half-inch tongue, the longest relative to body length of any mammal in the world. If human, he'd have a nine-foot tongue. (Applause) KB: What a tongue. We filmed it by cutting a tiny little hole in the base of the flower and using a camera that could slow the action by 40 times. So imagine how quick that thing is in real life. Now people often ask me, ""Where's your favorite place on the planet?"" And the truth is I just don't have one. There are so many wonderful places. But some locations draw you back time and time again. And one remote location — I first went there as a backpacker; I've been back several times for filming, most recently for Untamed Americas — it's the Altiplano in the high Andes of South America, and it's the most otherworldly place I know. But at 15,000 feet, it's tough. It's freezing cold, and that thin air really gets you. Sometimes it's hard to breathe, especially carrying all the heavy filming equipment. And that pounding head just feels like a constant hangover. But the advantage of that wonderful thin atmosphere is that it enables you to see the stars in the heavens with amazing clarity. Have a look. (Video) Narrator: Some 1,500 miles south of the tropics, between Chile and Bolivia, the Andes completely change. It's called the Altiplano, or ""high plains"" — a place of extremes and extreme contrasts. Where deserts freeze and waters boil. More like Mars than Earth, it seems just as hostile to life. The stars themselves — at 12,000 feet, the dry, thin air makes for perfect stargazing. Some of the world's astronomers have telescopes nearby. But just looking up with the naked eye, you really don't need one. (Music) (Applause) KB: Thank you so much for letting me share some images of our magnificent, wonderful Earth. Thank you for letting me share that with you. (Applause)"	"我是一個非常幸運的人我很榮幸能看到我們美麗的地球上形形色色的人和生物我這份激情從7歲開始被啟發當我父母第一次帶我去摩洛哥位於撒哈拉大沙漠邊境想像一位小英國佬來到一個不像家鄉不寒冷也不潮濕的地方那種感覺很神奇而這讓我渴望繼續探索 所以作為電影工作者我走遍世界天涯嘗試拍攝、捕捉到有史以來動物生態活動最完美的鏡頭而讓我更感幸運的是我可以和全世界上百萬的人分享這些鏡頭只要想到影片可以給我們觀察地球的全新視角並真正將這種信息傳遞出去這種想法讓我對每一天都充滿期待 你可能覺得找到新的故事和新的主題十分困難但新科技正在改變我們的拍攝方式它讓我們拍到嶄新的畫面並講述新的故事在我和大衛‧艾登堡一起製作的BBC的紀錄片系列《自然大事件》中我們嘗試了新的方法 大家都很熟悉大灰熊的樣貌我想你們一天到晚都看的到但有一部份牠們的生活型態我們幾乎沒有見過並且從未被拍攝過所以，我們來到阿拉斯加在這裡，大灰熊在極高、人類幾乎無法到達的山脈建造巢窩唯一的拍攝的方式是從空中拍攝 （影片）大衛‧艾登堡： 在阿拉斯加和英屬哥倫比亞中成千的灰熊家庭正從冬眠中蘇醒這上頭並沒有食物可吃但它的環境卻非常適合冬眠可以在厚雪層中挖掘巢穴爲了尋找食物，母熊必須帶著小熊仔下到海岸那裡的雪早已逐漸融化但從山上下來對小熊仔是一大挑戰這些山脈是危險的地域但最終，這些熊家庭的命運甚至於所有在北太平洋的熊的命運都取決於鮭魚 KB： 我很喜歡這個片段每次看到我都會起雞皮疙瘩這是從直升飛機上拍攝的用螺旋儀穩定攝影機這個裝置很神奇就像是將飛行的三腳架、起重機及移動攝影車合為一體的工具但僅有科技還不夠若要拍到最頂級的畫面最終還是要在對的地點以及對的時間而要同時天時地利非常難掌握 第一年我們什麽都沒拍到我們必須在下一年重新回到阿拉斯加偏遠地區我們用直升機在那裡繞了整整兩個星期而最終我們還是很幸運雲層散去，風逐漸靜止而熊也出現了然後我們拍攝了那美妙的一刻 對於一位電影導演來說新科技非常不可思議但另一個讓我非常、非常興奮的是發現一個新的物種當我聽到關於一種動物的信息時我便知道我必須將它包括在下一個為國家地理頻道做的節目《野性的美洲》2005年，一種新的蝙蝠在厄瓜多爾密集的森林中被發現而這個發現的特別之處在於它同時也解答這個謎團究竟是什麼物種在為一種特別的花傳遞花粉這種花完全只靠這種蝙蝠 這節目還未在電視播映所以你們是一個看到的看看你們覺得怎樣（影片） 旁白： 管吻狀花蜜蝙蝠有美味的花蜜在每朵花長長的花柱底端但如何才能喝到它？需求是進化之母（音樂）這種大小2.5英吋的蝙蝠有3.5英寸長的舌頭其舌與身長的比例是哺乳動物中最長的相當於人類有9英尺長的舌頭（掌聲）kB： 很奇特的舌頭爲了攝影它我們在花朵的底端開了一個非常小的洞並且使用了可以將動作緩慢40倍的攝影機所以你可以想像它在現實中有多快 人們經常問我：“你全世界最喜歡哪個地方？”事實上，我無法選擇有太多的神奇的地方了但有些地方可以讓你流連忘返，多次重遊故地而有這麼一個偏遠的地域 —我第一次背包旅行來到那裡而之後也爲了攝影回去過幾次最近是爲了《野性的美洲》—這是南美洲安地斯山脈上的高原它是我所見過的最超自然的地方但位於海拔一萬五千英尺，它的環境惡劣它非常的冷而空氣也非常的稀薄有些時候呼吸都很困難特別是當你同時還帶著沉重的攝影器材而昏沉又痛的腦袋就像宿醉一般但稀薄的大氣層的好處是它讓你可以無比清晰的看到天空中的繁星看一下吧 （影片）旁白： 在熱帶以南1500英里之處在智利和玻利維亞之間安地斯山脈完全變的不一樣它被叫做""阿爾蒂普拉諾"" (西班牙語）或者“高原”一個存在各式極限和極端對比的地方在這裡沙漠結凍水被蒸發像火星不像地球不適合生命而繁星本身在1萬2千英尺，乾燥但稀薄的空氣締造了眺望星空的完美場景世界上很多天文學家在這附近都有設立望遠鏡但用你的雙眼抬頭看看吧你並不需要它們（音樂）（掌聲） KB： 非常感謝讓我分享我們宏偉壯麗的地球的影片感謝大家讓我與你們一同分享（掌聲）"
