Talk	en	zh-tw
karima_bennoune_the_side_of_terrorism_that_doesn_t_make_headlines	"Could I protect my father from the Armed Islamic Group with a paring knife? That was the question I faced one Tuesday morning in June of 1993, when I was a law student. I woke up early that morning in Dad's apartment on the outskirts of Algiers, Algeria, to an unrelenting pounding on the front door. It was a season as described by a local paper when every Tuesday a scholar fell to the bullets of fundamentalist assassins. My father's university teaching of Darwin had already provoked a classroom visit from the head of the so-called Islamic Salvation Front, who denounced Dad as an advocate of biologism before Dad had ejected the man, and now whoever was outside would neither identify himself nor go away. So my father tried to get the police on the phone, but perhaps terrified by the rising tide of armed extremism that had already claimed the lives of so many Algerian officers, they didn't even answer. And that was when I went to the kitchen, got out a paring knife, and took up a position inside the entryway. It was a ridiculous thing to do, really, but I couldn't think of anything else, and so there I stood. When I look back now, I think that that was the moment that set me on the path was to writing a book called ""Your Fatwa Does Not Apply Here: Untold Stories from the Fight Against Muslim Fundamentalism."" The title comes from a Pakistani play. I think it was actually that moment that sent me on the journey to interview 300 people of Muslim heritage from nearly 30 countries, from Afghanistan to Mali, to find out how they fought fundamentalism peacefully like my father did, and how they coped with the attendant risks. Luckily, back in June of 1993, our unidentified visitor went away, but other families were so much less lucky, and that was the thought that motivated my research. In any case, someone would return a few months later and leave a note on Dad's kitchen table, which simply said, ""Consider yourself dead."" Subsequently, Algeria's fundamentalist armed groups would murder as many as 200,000 civilians in what came to be known as the dark decade of the 1990s, including every single one of the women that you see here. In its harsh counterterrorist response, the state resorted to torture and to forced disappearances, and as terrible as all of these events became, the international community largely ignored them. Finally, my father, an Algerian peasant's son turned professor, was forced to stop teaching at the university and to flee his apartment, but what I will never forget about Mahfoud Bennoune, my dad, was that like so many other Algerian intellectuals, he refused to leave the country and he continued to publish pointed criticisms, both of the fundamentalists and sometimes of the government they battled. For example, in a November 1994 series in the newspaper El Watan entitled ""How Fundamentalism Produced a Terrorism without Precedent,"" he denounced what he called the terrorists' radical break with the true Islam as it was lived by our ancestors. These were words that could get you killed. My father's country taught me in that dark decade of the 1990s that the popular struggle against Muslim fundamentalism is one of the most important and overlooked human rights struggles in the world. This remains true today, nearly 20 years later. You see, in every country where you hear about armed jihadis targeting civilians, there are also unarmed people defying those militants that you don't hear about, and those people need our support to succeed. In the West, it's often assumed that Muslims generally condone terrorism. Some on the right think this because they view Muslim culture as inherently violent, and some on the left imagine this because they view Muslim violence, fundamentalist violence, solely as a product of legitimate grievances. But both views are dead wrong. In fact, many people of Muslim heritage around the world are staunch opponents both of fundamentalism and of terrorism, and often for very good reason. You see, they're much more likely to be victims of this violence than its perpetrators. Let me just give you one example. According to a 2009 survey of Arabic language media resources, between 2004 and 2008, no more than 15 percent of al Qaeda's victims were Westerners. That's a terrible toll, but the vast majority were people of Muslim heritage, killed by Muslim fundamentalists. Now I've been talking for the last five minutes about fundamentalism, and you have a right to know exactly what I mean. I cite the definition given by the Algerian sociologist Marieme Helie Lucas, and she says that fundamentalisms, note the ""s,"" so within all of the world's great religious traditions, ""fundamentalisms are political movements of the extreme right which in a context of globalization manipulate religion in order to achieve their political aims."" Sadia Abbas has called this the radical politicization of theology. Now I want to avoid projecting the notion that there's sort of a monolith out there called Muslim fundamentalism that is the same everywhere, because these movements also have their diversities. Some use and advocate violence. Some do not, though they're often interrelated. They take different forms. Some may be non-governmental organizations, even here in Britain like Cageprisoners. Some may become political parties, like the Muslim Brotherhood, and some may be openly armed groups like the Taliban. But in any case, these are all radical projects. They're not conservative or traditional approaches. They're most often about changing people's relationship with Islam rather than preserving it. What I am talking about is the Muslim extreme right, and the fact that its adherents are or purport to be Muslim makes them no less offensive than the extreme right anywhere else. So in my view, if we consider ourselves liberal or left-wing, human rights-loving or feminist, we must oppose these movements and support their grassroots opponents. Now let me be clear that I support an effective struggle against fundamentalism, but also a struggle that must itself respect international law, so nothing I am saying should be taken as a justification for refusals to democratize, and here I send out a shout-out of support to the pro-democracy movement  in Algeria today, Barakat. Nor should anything I say be taken as a justification of violations of human rights, like the mass death sentences handed out in Egypt earlier this week. But what I am saying is that we must challenge these Muslim fundamentalist movements because they threaten human rights across Muslim-majority contexts, and they do this in a range of ways, most obviously with the direct attacks on civilians by the armed groups that carry those out. But that violence is just the tip of the iceberg. These movements as a whole purvey discrimination against religious minorities and sexual minorities. They seek to curtail the freedom of religion of everyone who either practices in a different way or chooses not to practice. And most definingly, they lead an all-out war on the rights of women. Now, faced with these movements in recent years, Western discourse has most often offered two flawed responses. The first that one sometimes finds on the right suggests that most Muslims are fundamentalist or something about Islam is inherently fundamentalist, and this is just offensive and wrong, but unfortunately on the left one sometimes encounters a discourse that is too politically correct to acknowledge the problem of Muslim fundamentalism at all or, even worse, apologizes for it, and this is unacceptable as well. So what I'm seeking is a new way of talking about this all together, which is grounded in the lived experiences and the hope of the people on the front lines. I'm painfully aware that there has been an increase in discrimination against Muslims in recent years in countries like the U.K. and the U.S., and that too is a matter of grave concern, but I firmly believe that telling these counter-stereotypical stories of people of Muslim heritage who have confronted the fundamentalists and been their primary victims is also a great way of countering that discrimination. So now let me introduce you to four people whose stories I had the great honor of telling. Faizan Peerzada and the Rafi Peer Theatre workshop named for his father have for years promoted the performing arts in Pakistan. With the rise of jihadist violence, they began to receive threats to call off their events, which they refused to heed. And so a bomber struck their 2008 eighth world performing arts festival in Lahore, producing rain of glass that fell into the venue injuring nine people, and later that same night, the Peerzadas made a very difficult decision: they announced that their festival would continue as planned the next day. As Faizan said at the time, if we bow down to the Islamists, we'll just be sitting in a dark corner. But they didn't know what would happen. Would anyone come? In fact, thousands of people came out the next day to support the performing arts in Lahore, and this simultaneously thrilled and terrified Faizan, and he ran up to a woman who had come in with her two small children, and he said, ""You do know there was a bomb here yesterday, and you do know there's a threat here today."" And she said, ""I know that, but I came to your festival with my mother when I was their age, and I still have those images in my mind. We have to be here."" With stalwart audiences like this, the Peerzadas were able to conclude their festival on schedule. And then the next year, they lost all of their sponsors due to the security risk. So when I met them in 2010, they were in the middle of the first subsequent event that they were able to have in the same venue, and this was the ninth youth performing arts festival held in Lahore in a year when that city had already experienced 44 terror attacks. This was a time when the Pakistani Taliban had commenced their systematic targeting of girls' schools that would culminate in the attack on Malala Yousafzai. What did the Peerzadas do in that environment? They staged girls' school theater. So I had the privilege of watching ""Naang Wal,"" which was a musical in the Punjabi language, and the girls of Lahore Grammar School played all the parts. They sang and danced, they played the mice and the water buffalo, and I held my breath, wondering, would we get to the end of this amazing show? And when we did, the whole audience collectively exhaled, and a few people actually wept, and then they filled the auditorium with the peaceful boom of their applause. And I remember thinking in that moment that the bombers made headlines here two years before but this night and these people are as important a story. Maria Bashir is the first and only woman chief prosecutor in Afghanistan. She's been in the post since 2008 and actually opened an office to investigate cases of violence against women, which she says is the most important area in her mandate. When I meet her in her office in Herat, she enters surrounded by four large men with four huge guns. In fact, she now has 23 bodyguards, because she has weathered bomb attacks that nearly killed her kids, and it took the leg off of one of her guards. Why does she continue? She says with a smile that that is the question that everyone asks— as she puts it, ""Why you risk not living?"" And it is simply that for her, a better future for all the Maria Bashirs to come is worth the risk, and she knows that if people like her do not take the risk, there will be no better future. Later on in our interview, Prosecutor Bashir tells me how worried she is about the possible outcome of government negotiations with the Taliban, the people who have been trying to kill her. ""If we give them a place in the government,"" she asks, ""Who will protect women's rights?"" And she urges the international community not to forget its promise about women because now they want peace with Taliban. A few weeks after I leave Afghanistan, I see a headline on the Internet. An Afghan prosecutor has been assassinated. I google desperately, and thankfully that day I find out that Maria was not the victim, though sadly, another Afghan prosecutor was gunned down on his way to work. And when I hear headlines like that now, I think that as international troops leave Afghanistan this year and beyond, we must continue to care about what happens to people there, to all of the Maria Bashirs. Sometimes I still hear her voice in my head saying, with no bravado whatsoever, ""The situation of the women of Afghanistan will be better someday. We should prepare the ground for this, even if we are killed."" There are no words adequate to denounce the al Shabaab terrorists who attacked the Westgate Mall in Nairobi on the same day as a children's cooking competition in September of 2013. They killed 67, including poets and pregnant women. Far away in the American Midwest, I had the good fortune of meeting Somali-Americans who were working to counter the efforts of al Shabaab to recruit a small number of young people from their city of Minneapolis to take part in atrocities like Westgate. Abdirizak Bihi's studious 17-year-old nephew Burhan Hassan was recruited here in 2008, spirited to Somalia, and then killed when he tried to come home. Since that time, Mr. Bihi, who directs the no-budget Somali Education and Advocacy Center, has been vocally denouncing the recruitment and the failures of government and Somali-American institutions like the Abubakar As-Saddique Islamic Center where he believes his nephew was radicalized during a youth program. But he doesn't just criticize the mosque. He also takes on the government for its failure to do more to prevent poverty in his community. Given his own lack of financial resources, Mr. Bihi has had to be creative. To counter the efforts of al Shabaab to sway more disaffected youth, in the wake of the group's 2010 attack on World Cup viewers in Uganda, he organized a Ramadan basketball tournament in Minneapolis in response. Scores of Somali-American kids came out to embrace sport despite the fatwa against it. They played basketball as Burhan Hassan never would again. For his efforts, Mr. Bihi has been ostracized by the leadership of the Abubakar As-Saddique Islamic Center, with which he used to have good relations. He told me, ""One day we saw the imam on TV calling us infidels and saying, 'These families are trying to destroy the mosque.'"" This is at complete odds with how Abdirizak Bihi understands what he is trying to do by exposing al Shabaab recruitment, which is to save the religion I love from a small number of extremists. Now I want to tell one last story, that of a 22-year-old law student in Algeria named Amel Zenoune-Zouani who had the same dreams of a legal career that I did back in the '90s. She refused to give up her studies, despite the fact that the fundamentalists battling the Algerian state back then threatened all who continued their education. On January 26, 1997, Amel boarded the bus in Algiers where she was studying to go home and spend a Ramadan evening with her family, and would never finish law school. When the bus reached the outskirts of her hometown, it was stopped at a checkpoint manned by men from the Armed Islamic Group. Carrying her schoolbag, Amel was taken off the bus and killed in the street. The men who cut her throat then told everyone else, ""If you go to university, the day will come when we will kill all of you just like this."" Amel died at exactly 5:17 p.m., which we know because when she fell in the street, her watch broke. Her mother showed me the watch with the second hand still aimed optimistically upward towards a 5:18 that would never come. Shortly before her death, Amel had said to her mother of herself and her sisters, ""Nothing will happen to us, Inshallah, God willing, but if something happens, you must know that we are dead for knowledge. You and father must keep your heads held high."" The loss of such a young woman is unfathomable, and so as I did my research I found myself searching for Amel's hope again and her name even means ""hope"" in Arabic. I think I found it in two places. The first is in the strength of her family and all the other families to continue telling their stories and to go on with their lives despite the terrorism. In fact, Amel's sister Lamia overcame her grief, went to law school, and practices as a lawyer in Algiers today, something which is only possible because the armed fundamentalists were largely defeated in the country. And the second place I found Amel's hope was everywhere that women and men continue to defy the jihadis. We must support all of those in honor of Amel who continue this human rights struggle today, like the Network of Women Living Under Muslim Laws. It is not enough, as the victims rights advocate Cherifa Kheddar told me in Algiers, it is not enough just to battle terrorism. We must also challenge fundamentalism, because fundamentalism is the ideology that makes the bed of this terrorism. Why is it that people like her, like all of them are not more well known? Why is it that everyone knows who Osama bin Laden was and so few know of all of those standing up to the bin Ladens in their own contexts. We must change that, and so I ask you to please help share these stories through your networks. Look again at Amel Zenoune's watch, forever frozen, and now please look at your own watch and decide this is the moment that you commit to supporting people like Amel. We don't have the right to be silent about them because it is easier or because Western policy is flawed as well, because 5:17 is still coming to too many Amel Zenounes in places like northern Nigeria, where jihadis still kill students. The time to speak up in support of all of those who peacefully challenge fundamentalism and terrorism in their own communities is now. Thank you. (Applause)"	我能保護父親免受伊斯蘭武裝組織傷害，就憑一支水果刀嗎？這是我曾面對的問題，那是 1993 年 6 月某個星期二的早晨，當時我還是法律系學生。 那天早上我起得早，我在父親的公寓裡，在阿爾及利亞的阿爾及爾郊區，前門不斷傳來重擊聲。地方報形容這個季節每週二都會有位學者死在基本教義派刺客的子彈下。我父親在大學教的達爾文課程激怒了一位旁聽者，他來自所謂的伊斯蘭拯救陣線總部，譴責我父親是生物中心論的擁護者之後，我父親才將他趕出教室。而現在不管門外站的是誰，他都不會表明身分，也不會離開。我父親試著打電話叫警察，但也許警察被高漲的情勢嚇到，因為武裝極端主義已經奪去非常多阿爾及利亞警官的性命，沒有人接聽電話。那時我去廚房，拿出一支水果刀，在大門前擺好姿勢。其實做這件事很蠢，但我想不到還能做什麼，只好就站在那。 現在回過頭看，我想就是那一刻讓我決定寫一本書，書名是《你的伊斯蘭教令不適用於此：對抗伊斯蘭教基本教義派不為人知的故事》。標題源自於巴基斯坦戲劇。我想正是那個時刻讓我展開一段旅程，訪問三百位穆斯林出身的人，他們來自三十個國家，從阿富汗到馬利，我找出他們如何和平對抗基本教義派，就跟我父親一樣，以及他們如何設法解決伴隨而來的風險。 幸運的是，1993 年 6 月那位未表明身分的訪客離開了，但其他家庭可沒那麼幸運，就是這個想法驅使我做研究。無論是哪種情況，幾個月後都會有人回來，在我父親的餐桌上留張紙條，上面寫著：「準備幫自己辦後事。」隨後，阿爾及利亞的基本教義派武裝團體謀殺二十萬名老百姓，這是後來我們所知1990 年代的黑暗十年，亡者包括你在這裡可以看到的每一位女性。而在嚴酷的反恐對策中，政府訴諸酷刑與強迫失蹤，和這些事件一樣恐怖的是國際間大多忽視他們。最後，我的父親，身為教授的阿爾及利亞農民之子，被迫停止在大學教書，並要他的從公寓消失，但我永遠忘不了的是馬福．班努尼，我的父親，就像許多阿爾及利亞的知識分子一樣拒絕離開祖國，而且他持續發表尖銳評論，他們與基本教義派作戰，也不時與政府作戰。例如《國家報》1994 年 11 月的系列報導題為＜基本教義派如何無先例地製造出恐怖主義＞他譴責所謂的恐怖主義激進分子破壞了長久以來先民遵循的伊斯蘭真理。這些字眼可能會讓你喪命。 我父親的祖國教我，在那黑暗的 90 年代，扺抗穆斯林基本教義派的浪潮是世界上最重要且被忽視的人權抗爭之一，即使將近二十年後的今日仍是如此。你看，不管在哪個國家你都會聽到武裝聖戰者針對平民百姓，也有很多手無寸鐵的人民公然反抗那些激進分子，只是你沒聽過，那些人需要我們的支持才能成功。 西方國家通常都認為穆斯林普遍都會容忍恐怖行動。有些右翼者這樣想是因為他們認為伊斯蘭教文化與生俱來就很暴力，有些左翼者這樣想是因為他們認為穆斯林暴力、基本教義派的暴力，完全是合理的怨憤產物。但這兩種觀點都大錯特錯。事實上許多生來就是伊斯蘭教徒的人在世界各地都堅決反對基本主義和恐怖主義，而且通常都有很好的理由。你看，他們更像是暴力受害者，而非加害者。我舉個例子。根據一份 2009 年阿拉伯語的媒體調查，在 2004 年到 2008 年間，蓋達組織的受害者中，不到 15%是歐美人。那是很恐怖的死亡人數，但大多數人生下來就是穆斯林，卻被穆斯林基本主義者所殺害。 我已經談了五分鐘基本教義派，而你們有權知道我真正要傳達的意思。我引用的定義出自阿爾及利亞社會學家瑪麗梅．艾利．魯卡斯，她說眾多的基本教義派，注意「眾多」，在全世界的重要宗教傳統中，「眾多的基本教義派都是極右派的政治運動，在全球化的背景下操控宗教，來達成他們的政治目的。」薩迪亞．阿巴斯稱此為宗教理論的極端政治化。我想儘量避免投射出某種想法，那就是有種龐大的組織稱為穆斯林基本教義派，在各地都一樣，因為這些運動也各有不同。有一些使用與提倡暴力，有些則不然，雖然他們常相互影響。他們都有不同的形式。有些也許是非政府組織，即使在英國這裡，像是伊斯蘭教囚犯組織。有些則成為政黨，像是穆斯林兄弟會，有些可能是公開的武裝團體，像是塔利班。但不論是哪一種，這些都是激進的化身。那不是保守或傳統的手段，也往往改變大眾與伊斯蘭教的關係，而非保護這段關係。我指的是穆斯林的極右派，以及它的追隨者自稱是穆斯林的這個事實，不會讓他們的攻擊性少於任何地方的極右派人士。因此在我看來，如果我們自認為自由主義者或左派人士，愛好人權者或女性主義者，我們都必須反對這些運動，並支持反抗他們的平民百姓。我先聲明，我支持實際的抗爭來抵抗基本教義派，但抗爭也一定要尊重國際法，因此我所說的一切都不應該被視為拒絕民主化的辯解，在此，我要公開聲援今天在阿爾及利亞巴拉卡的親民主運動。我所說的一切也不該被視為侵犯人權的辯解，像是本週前幾天在埃及的大批死刑宣判。我想表達的是我們必須挑戰這些穆斯林基本教義派的運動，因為他們危害人權，充斥在以穆斯林為主的社會中，他們運用各種方式，直接攻擊平民百姓，最顯見的就是透過武裝團體執行各種任務。但那樣的暴力只是冰山一角。這些運動普遍都宣揚歧視宗教弱勢與性別弱勢。他們企圖削減大家的宗教自由，針對那些用不同方式實踐或是選擇不去實踐的人。最明確的是，他們引領對女權的全面戰爭。 面對近年來的這些運動，西方論述最常提出兩種錯誤的反應。第一種，時常出自右翼人士，他們會說大多數的穆斯林都是基本主義者，或和伊斯蘭教有關的事骨子裡都是基本教義派，這很冒犯，也不正確，但不幸的是，從左翼者那邊也常碰到一種過於政治正確的說法，以致於完全無法承認穆斯林基本教義的問題，更糟的是，無法為問題致歉，這也讓人無法接受。因此我想找的是一種新的方式，能夠一併討論所有問題，並且是根植在生活經驗中，以及前線人們的希望之中。我很痛苦地意識到近年來對穆斯林的歧視與日俱增，像是在英國、美國，這也是極度令人憂心的問題，但我堅信訴說這些不同於刻板印象、關於穆斯林的故事，他們對抗基本主義者，且成為首當其衝的受害者，述說他們的故事也是種反抗歧視的好方式。因此，現在讓我為各位介紹四個人，我很榮幸能與各位分享他們的故事。 法山．皮扎達與以他父親為名的拉菲皮爾劇院工作坊，已多年在巴基斯坦推廣表演藝術。隨著聖戰暴力的崛起，他們開始被威脅終止活動，但他們拒絕服從。因此，一枚炸彈攻擊了2008 年舉行的第八屆世界拉合爾表演藝術嘉年華，如雨落下的玻璃碎片在事發現場造成九個人受傷，隨後在同一天晚上，皮扎達做了一個非常艱難的決定，他們宣布嘉年華隔天如期舉行。如同法山當時所說，如果我們對伊斯蘭教徒低頭，未來就只能坐在陰暗的角落。但是他們不知道會發生什麼事，會有人來嗎？事實上，隔天有成千上萬人前來拉合爾支持這場表演藝術，這也讓法山感到激動又害怕，他跑到一名帶著兩個孩子來參加的女士面前，他說：「你知道昨天這裡有炸彈攻擊吧？你知道今天這裡有恐怖威脅吧？」她說：「我知道，但我和母親一起參加過你辦的嘉年華，那時候我和他們一樣小，那些影像至今還印在我心上，我們一定要參加。」有像她這樣勇敢的觀眾，讓皮扎達最終能如期完成他們的嘉年華。 隔年，他們失去了所有的贊助商，原因是安全考量。後來我在 2010 年和他們碰面，他們正在籌辦下一次的活動，在同一個地方舉辦，也就是第九屆的青年表演藝術嘉年華，在拉合爾舉行，那年當地已歷經了 44 次的恐怖攻擊。那個時候正是巴基斯坦的塔利班開始有系統地以女子學校為目標，最後引發對馬拉拉的攻擊事件。皮扎達在那種環境下做了什麼？他們安排了女子校園劇院。我有幸觀賞《結》，那是用旁遮普語表演的歌舞劇，拉合爾文理學校的女學生扮演所有的角色。他們唱歌、跳舞，扮演老鼠和水牛，我屏息凝氣，心想我們能不能看到這場表演的最後一刻？結束時，全場觀眾都鬆了一口氣，有些人甚至流下眼淚，後來，禮堂裡充滿大家的溫馨掌聲。在那當下我心想炸彈客上了新聞頭條不過是兩年前的事，但是今晚和這些人也同是一樣重要的故事。 瑪麗亞．巴希爾是阿富汗首位，也是目前唯一的女性總檢察長。她從 2008 年起任職，並設立部門調查針對女性的暴力案件，她說那是她的任務中最重要的一環。我和她在她的赫拉特辦公室碰面，她進入時被四位手持大型槍枝的彪形大漢圍繞。其實現在她有 23 位保鑣，因為她才剛經歷炸彈攻擊，她的孩子差點被炸死，其中一位保鑣還失去一條腿。 為什麼她還要繼續下去？她面帶微笑，說每個人都問她這個問題，她是這樣描述的：「為什麼你要冒這種生命危險？」對她來說這答案簡單明瞭，能替所有女性創造更美好的未來值得冒險，她知道如果像她這樣的人不去冒險，就不會有更好的未來。之後在我們的訪談中，檢察長巴希爾告訴我她有多擔心政府和塔利班協商的可能結果，那些是曾試圖殺了她的人。她問：「如果讓他們擔任公職，誰來保護婦女的權利？」她鼓吹國際組織不要忘了對女性的承諾，只因為他們現在希望與塔利班和平共處。我離開阿富汗幾週後，看到一則網路頭條。阿富汗檢察官遇刺。我絕望地上網搜尋，謝天謝地，瑪麗亞不是受害者，但讓人難過的是，另一位阿富汗檢察官在回家的路上被槍殺。現在只要我聽到像那樣的頭條，我都會想，在國際軍隊今年撤離阿富汗之後，我們仍須持續關心那裡的人發生什麼事，以及像瑪麗亞那樣的女性發生什麼事。有時候我仍聽見她的聲音在我的腦海裡縈繞，她一點也不逞強地說：「阿富汗婦女的處境總有一天會更好。我們應該為此打穩基礎，即使我們會因此喪命。」 沒有任何言語足以譴責索馬利亞青年黨的恐怖分子，他們曾攻擊奈洛比的西門百貨，兒童廚藝大賽就在 2013 年 9 月的同一天舉行。他們殺了 67 人，包括詩人和孕婦。我在遙遠的美國中西部很好運碰到索馬利亞裔的美國人，他們致力於反抗索馬利亞青年黨，避免他們召募故鄉明尼亞波利斯的年輕人參與像西門百貨那樣的暴行。阿迪里扎．畢希有一位勤學的 17 歲姪子伯罕．哈桑2008 年時在這裡被召募，帶到索馬利亞，後來在試圖回家時被殺身亡。自那時起，無預算管理索馬利亞教育與提倡組織的畢希先生一直大聲譴責這種召募行動和失敗的政府，以及索馬利裔美國人的機構，像是阿布巴卡．阿斯-沙迪克伊斯蘭教中心，他相信姪子就是在這個組織的青年課程中被慫恿。但他不只是批判清真寺，他也批判政府未能努力減少他們社群的貧窮。考慮到拮据的經濟資源，畢許先生必須更有創意。要抵抗索馬利亞青年黨不讓他們動搖更多不滿的青年，在 2010 年青年黨攻擊烏干達世界盃的觀眾之後，他策畫齋戒月籃球比賽，在明尼亞波利斯舉行以回應該起攻擊。許多索馬利亞裔的美國孩童出來投入運動懷抱，無視伊斯蘭領袖的命令。他們打籃球，但伯罕．哈桑卻無法再次打球。畢希先生的努力讓他因此被阿布巴卡．阿斯-沙迪克伊斯蘭教中心的高層排擠，失去原來的友好關係。他告訴我：「有天我看到伊斯蘭教領袖在電視上，稱我們離經叛道，還說『這些家人都試圖破壞清真寺。』」這完全違背了阿迪里扎．畢希的理念，他不斷嘗試努力揭發索馬利亞青年黨的召募行動，就為了拯救我所熱愛的宗教免受少數極端分子控制。 我想說的最後一個故事是，有一位在阿爾及利亞的 22 歲法律系學生名叫阿梅爾．任努-佐尼，她也夢想從事法律相關職業，和我在 90 年代時一樣。她拒絕放棄學業，無視基本主義者在和阿爾及利亞政府交戰之後威脅所有繼續上學的人。1997 年 1 月 26 日，她在阿爾及爾搭上公車，準備從學校回家，和家人共渡齋戒月的夜晚，卻永遠無法唸完法學院了。巴士開到她家鄉的郊區外時，在檢查站被攔了下來，站崗的是伊斯蘭武裝組織的男子。阿梅爾拿著書包被帶下公車，在街上被殺死。男人切斷她的喉嚨，之後告訴每個人：「如果你去唸大學，總有一天我們會回來殺了你，就像這樣。」 阿梅爾在下午五點十七分過世，我們會知道是因為，她倒在街上時手錶摔破了。她媽媽給我們看手錶，上頭的秒針仍樂觀地邁向永遠不會到來的五點十八分。阿梅爾死前曾告訴母親和姊妹：「一切都會平安無事，這是阿拉的旨意，但如果發生了什麼事，你們要知道，我們是為了知識而死。你和父親一定要昂首挺立。」 如此年輕的少女生命殞落讓人無法理解，因此當我做研究時，發現自己再次尋找阿梅爾的希望，而她的名字甚至是阿拉伯語中的「希望」。我想，我在兩個地方找到了希望。第一處是在她堅強的家人與其他人身上，他們繼續訴說自己的故事，繼續生活，無視於恐怖主義。其實阿梅爾的妹妹拉米亞已經走出傷痛，在法學院就讀，也在阿爾及爾當律師，這種事之所以能發生，是因為武裝基本主義者在國內的勢力被大幅消滅。第二個我發現阿梅爾希望之處，是各個地方不分男女都持續反抗聖戰。為了向阿梅爾致敬，我們必須全面支持那些至今仍繼續為人權而奮戰的團體，像是「穆斯林律法下的女性組織」。這還不夠，就像受害者權利倡導者查理法．凱達在阿爾及爾告訴我的，只是對抗恐怖主義是不夠的。我們也要挑戰基本教義派，因為基本主義是創造出恐怖主義基礎的意識型態。 為什麼像她這樣的人、像他們的人沒有更加廣為人知？為什麼每個人都認識賓拉登，卻少有人認識那些用各種方式起身反抗賓拉登的人們。我們一定要改變，因此我請各位幫忙分享這些故事，運用你們的網絡。再看一眼阿梅爾．任努-佐尼的手錶，永遠凍結了，現在請看著你自己的手錶，決定這一刻就是你承諾支持像阿梅爾這樣的人。我們沒有對他們沉默的權力，只因為那更簡單，或是因為西方國家的政策也有缺失，因為五點十七分仍然發生在太多阿梅爾．任努-佐尼身上，發生在像北奈及利亞這樣的地方，聖戰仍在那裡殺害學生。聲援所有和平對抗基本教義派和社群內恐怖分子的時刻就是現在。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
