Talk	en	zh-tw
kartick_satyanarayan_how_we_rescued_the_dancing_bears	"Hi. For those of you who haven't seen dancing bears, these are the dancing bears. In 1995, we started working on a two-year investigative research project to try and find out what was going on. Because the sloth bears in the wild were obviously getting depleted because of this. This is the Qalandar community. They are a marginalized Islamic community who live across India, and have been in India since the 13th century. We went about getting evidence of what was going on. And this is footage from a hidden camera in a button. And we went in, pretending to be buyers. And we found this right in this very state, in Karnataka. And the bear cubs were being harvested from across the country and being sold and traded. These were being sold for about 2,000 dollars each, and they are used for bear paw soup, and also being trained, later on, to become dancing bears like the one you just saw. Sadly, the family of Qalandars depended on this bear. The couple are barely 18 years old. They already have four children beside them. You can see them. And the economy of the family and their livelihood depended on those animals. So, we had to deal with it in a very practical and sustainable manner. Now, when we started working deeper and digging deeper, we found that it's an illegal act. These guys could go to jail for up to seven years if they were caught by authorities. And what they were doing to the bears was really appalling. It was unacceptable. The mother bears are usually killed. The cubs, which are taken, are separated. Their teeth are basically bashed out with a metal rod. And they use a red hot iron needle to make a hole through the muzzle. Now we had to start changing these people and converting them from using that for a livelihood, to getting something else. So, this is Bitu Qalandar, who was our first experiment. And we were so unsure that this would work. We weren't sure at all. And we managed to convince him. And we said, ""Okay, here is some seed fund. Let's see if you can get something else."" And we got the bear surrendered to — we set up a sanctuary. We have four sanctuaries in India. And now he sells cool drinks, he's by the highway. He has a telephone booth. And then it started, there was no turning back after that. This is Sadua who came and surrendered his bear. And now he runs a cattle fodder store and a grain store near Agra. Then there was no looking back at all for us. We gave cycle rickshaws. We set up carpet-weaving units, vocational training for the women. The women were just not allowed to come out of the community and work with mainstream society. So, we were able to address that. Education. The kids never went to school. They only had Islamic education, very little of it. And they were never allowed to go to school because they were an extra earning hand at home. So we managed to get education. So, we sponsor 600 children education programs today. We were able to ensure brighter futures for these people. Of course we also had to get the bears in. This is what happens to the bears when they come in. And this is what we turn them into. We have a veterinary facility in our rescue centers. So, basically in 2002 there were 1,200 dancing bears. We rescued over 550 dancing bears. We've been able to ensure better futures for the people and the bears. The big news that I want to announce today is that next month we will be bringing in the very last bear of India, into our rescue center. (Applause) And India will no longer have to witness this cruel barbaric practice which has been here for centuries. And the people can hold their heads up high. And the Qalandar people will rise above all this cruel barbaric past that they've lived all their lives. And the beautiful bears can of course live in the wild again. And there will be no more removing of these bears. And the children, both humans and bear cubs can live peacefully. Thank you. (Applause)"	"大家好，讓你們當中沒看過跳舞熊的人看看，這些就是跳舞熊。在1995，我們開始著手進行一個為期兩年的調查研究計畫，試著找出來龍去脈。因為野生的懶熊數目急速地下降，幾乎殆盡，就是因為這種活動。這是卡蘭達爾族群，被邊緣化的伊斯蘭教族群，足跡遍佈印度，他們自十三世紀就定居在印度。 我們到處尋訪想要找出證據，來證明現在發生的事情。而這是用鈕釦式隱藏相機拍到的片段。我們進去，佯裝成買家。這正是我們在卡納塔克邦發現的。這些幼熊是從全國各地狩獵來的，並透過交易被販賣掉。每一隻大約值兩千美金，牠們被用來煮熊掌湯，有些之後被訓練，成為跳舞熊，就像你剛剛看到的那一些。 悲哀的是，卡蘭達爾的家庭依賴這隻熊維生。這對夫妻僅只有十八歲。他們身邊已有四個孩子。你可以在畫面上看到他們。這個家庭的經濟來源和生計就依靠那些動物。所以我們必須用一個長久可行的方法來解決這個問題。 當我們開始深入研究，並做更進一步的探查，我們發現這是一個違法的行為。這些狩獵者如果被有關當局逮捕的話，可能會入監服刑長達七年。而他們對熊所做的事是相當令人髮指，無法被接受的。母熊通常會被殺掉，被帶走的幼熊則會被隔離。牠們的牙齒，基本上會被用金屬棒敲掉。接著他們用熾熱的鐵針在熊鼻上穿洞。我們必須開始改變這些人，並改變他們目前賴以維生的方法，讓他們去做一些別的事。 這是 Bitu Kalandar，我們的第一位實驗者。我們不確定這是否有效。我們一點也沒有把握，但我們打算說服他。我們說，""好的，這裡有一些創業基金。瞧瞧是否你可以找些別的事做。"" 接著我們讓他把熊交出來。我們設立了一個保護區，在印度總共有四處保護區。現在他在高速公路邊賣冷飲。他經營一個電話亭。 這計畫就這樣開始了，再也沒有回頭的機會了。這是 Sadua ，他來找我們並將他的熊交給我們。現在他經營一家牛飼料店，還有一間穀物店。就在阿格拉附近。對我們來說，這一切更義無反顧了。我們給他們人力三輪車。我們設置了地毯編織處，提供女性職業訓練。這些女性被禁止出外工作，也不能跟主流社群一同工作，所以我們也可以設法解決這一點。 至於教育，這些孩子們從沒上過學。他們只有接受相當少的伊斯蘭教教育，他們也無法上學，因為家裡極需他們幫忙賺錢，所以我們設法讓這些孩子受教育。今天，我們資助六百個孩童接受教育。我們能夠確保這些孩童有著更光明的未來。 當然，我們也必須將熊接進來。這是熊一進來中心的樣子，而這是經過我們照顧的樣子。我們在保育中心有個獸醫中心。基本上，在 2002 年共有一萬二千頭跳舞熊。我們拯救了超過 550 隻跳舞熊。我們能確保這些人還有熊，有著更好的未來。 我今天要宣布的重大消息是，下個月，我們將會接收印度最後一隻舞蹈熊進入我們的保育中心。（掌聲）我們再也不會在印度看到這種持續好幾世紀殘酷野蠻的行為。人們也將可以昂首闊步。卡蘭達爾人將從他們存活幾世代的野蠻歷史中重新覺醒。當然，這些漂亮的熊也將能再次在野外生存，再也不會被捕捉。而孩子們，人類與熊都將能和平地生存下去。謝謝。（掌聲）"
