Talk	en	zh-tw
kate_adams_4_larger_than_life_lessons_from_soap_operas	"In 1987, Tina Lord found herself in quite the pickle. See, this gold digger made sure she married sweet Cord Roberts just before he inherited millions. But when Cord found out Tina loved his money as much as she loved him, he dumped her. Cord's mother Maria was thrilled until they hooked up again. So Maria hired Max Holden to romance Tina and then made sure Cord didn't find out Tina was pregnant with his baby. So Tina, still married but thinking Cord didn't love her flew to Argentina with Max. Cord finally figured out what was going on and rushed after them, but he was too late. Tina had already been kidnapped, strapped to a raft and sent over a waterfall. She and her baby were presumed dead. Cord was sad for a bit, but then he bounced right back with a supersmart archaeologist named Kate, and they had a gorgeous wedding until Tina, seemingly back from the dead, ran into the church holding a baby. ""Stop!"" she screamed. ""Am I too late? Cord, I've come so far. This is your son."" And that, ladies and gentlemen, is how the soap opera ""One Life to Live"" introduced a love story that lasted 25 years. (Laughter) Now, if you've ever seen a soap opera, you know the stories and the characters can be exaggerated, larger than life, and if you're a fan, you find that exaggeration fun, and if you're not, maybe you find them melodramatic or unsophisticated. Maybe you think watching soap operas is a waste of time, that their bigness means their lessons are small or nonexistent. But I believe the opposite to be true. Soap operas reflect life, just bigger. So there are real life lessons we can learn from soap operas, and those lessons are as big and adventurous as any soap opera storyline. Now, I've been a fan since I ran home from the bus stop in second grade desperate to catch the end of Luke and Laura's wedding, the biggest moment in ""General Hospital"" history. (Applause) So you can imagine how much I loved my eight years as the assistant casting director on ""As the World Turns."" My job was watching soap operas, reading soap opera scripts and auditioning actors to be on soap operas. So I know my stuff. (Laughter) And yes, soap operas are larger than life, drama on a grand scale, but our lives can be filled with as much intensity, and the stakes can feel just as dramatic. We cycle through tragedy and joy just like these characters. We cross thresholds, fight demons and find salvation unexpectedly, and we do it again and again and again, but just like soaps, we can flip the script, which means we can learn from these characters that move like bumblebees, looping and swerving through life. And we can use those lessons to craft our own life stories. Soap operas teach us to push away doubt and believe in our capacity for bravery, vulnerability, adaptability and resilience. And most importantly, they show us it's never too late to change your story. So with that, let's start with soap opera lesson one: surrender is not an option. (Laughter) ""All My Children""'s Erica Kane was daytime's version of Scarlett O'Hara, a hyperbolically self-important princess who deep down was scrappy and daring. Now, in her 41 years on TV, perhaps Erica's most famous scene is her alone in the woods suddenly face to face with a grizzly bear. She screamed at the bear, ""You may not do this! Do you understand me? You may not come near me! I am Erica Kane and you are a filthy beast!"" (Laughter) And of course the bear left, so what that teaches us is obstacles are to be expected and we can choose to surrender or we can stand and fight. Pandora's Tim Westergren knows this better than most. You might even call him the Erica Kane of Silicon Valley. Tim and his cofounders launched the company with two million dollars in funding. They were out of cash the next year. Now, lots of companies fold at that point, but Tim chose to fight. He maxed out 11 credit cards and racked up six figures in personal debt and it still wasn't enough. So every two weeks for two years on payday he stood in front of his employees and he asked them to sacrifice their salaries, and it worked. More than 50 people deferred two million dollars, and now, more than a decade later, Pandora is worth billions. When you believe that there is a way around or through whatever is in front of you, that surrender is not an option, you can overcome enormous obstacles. Which brings us to soap opera lesson two: sacrifice your ego and drop the superiority complex. Now, this is scary. It's an acknowledgment of need or fallibility. Maybe it's even an admission that we're not as special as we might like to think. Stephanie Forrester of ""The Bold and the Beautiful"" thought she was pretty darn special. She thought she was so special, she didn't need to mix with the riffraff from the valley, and she made sure valley girl Brooke knew it. But after nearly 25 years of epic fighting, Stephanie got sick and let Brooke in. They made amends, archenemies became soul mates and Stephanie died in Brooke's arms, and here's our takeaway. Drop your ego. Life is not about you. It's about us, and our ability to experience joy and love and to improve our reality comes only when we make ourselves vulnerable and we accept responsibility for our actions and our inactions, kind of like Howard Schultz, the CEO of Starbucks. Now, after a great run as CEO, Howard stepped down in 2000, and Starbucks quickly overextended itself and stock prices fell. Howard rejoined the team in 2008, and one of the first things he did was apologize to all 180,000 employees. He apologized. And then he asked for help, honesty, and ideas in return. And now, Starbucks has more than doubled its net revenue since Howard came back. So sacrifice your desire to be right or safe all the time. It's not helping anyone, least of all you. Sacrifice your ego. Soap opera lesson three: evolution is real. You're not meant to be static characters. On television, static equals boring and boring equals fired. Characters are supposed to grow and change. Now, on TV, those dynamic changes can make for some rough transitions, particularly when a character is played by one person yesterday and played by someone new today. Recasting happens all the time on soaps. Over the last 20 years, four different actors have played the same key role of Carly Benson on ""General Hospital."" Each new face triggered a change in the character's life and personality. Now, there was always an essential nugget of Carly in there, but the character and the story adapted to whomever was playing her. And here's what that means for us. While we may not swap faces in our own lives, we can evolve too. We can choose to draw a circle around our feet and stay in that spot, or we can open ourselves to opportunities like Carly, who went from nursing student to hotel owner, or like Julia Child. Julia was a World War II spy, and when the war ended, she got married, moved to France, and decided to give culinary school a shot. Julia, her books and her TV shows revolutionized the way America cooks. We all have the power to initiate change in our lives, to evolve and adapt. We make the choice, but sometimes life chooses for us, and we don't get a heads up. Surprise slams us in the face. You're flat on the ground, the air is gone, and you need resuscitation. So thank goodness for soap opera lesson four: resurrection is possible. (Laughter) (Applause) In 1983, ""Days of Our Lives""' Stefano DiMera died of a stroke, but not really, because in 1984 he died when his car plunged into the harbor, and yet he was back in 1985 with a brain tumor. (Laughter) But before the tumor could kill him, Marlena shot him, and he tumbled off a catwalk to his death. And so it went for 30 years. (Laughter) Even when we saw the body, we knew better. He's called the Phoenix for a reason. And here's what that means for us. As long as the show is still on the air, or you're still breathing, nothing is permanent. Resurrection is possible. Now, of course, just like life, soap operas do ultimately meet the big finale. CBS canceled my show, ""As The World Turns,"" in December 2009, and we shot our final episode in June 2010. It was six months of dying and I rode that train right into the mountain. And even though we were in the middle of a huge recession and millions of people were struggling to find work, I somehow thought everything would be OK. So I packed up the kids and the Brooklyn apartment, and we moved in with my in-laws in Alabama. (Laughter) Three months later, nothing was OK. That was when I watched the final episode air, and I realized the show was not the only fatality. I was one too. I was unemployed and living on the second floor of my in-laws' home, and that's enough to make anyone feel dead inside. (Laughter) But I knew my story wasn't over, that it couldn't be over. I just had to tap into everything I had ever learned about soap operas. I had to be brave like Erica and refuse to surrender, so every day, I made a decision to fight. I had to be vulnerable like Stephanie and sacrifice my ego. I had to ask for help a lot of times across many states. I had to be adaptable like Carly and evolve my skills, my mindset, and my circumstances, and then I had to be resilient, like Stefano, and resurrect myself and my career like a phoenix from the ashes. Eventually I got an interview. After 15 years in news and entertainment, nine months of unemployment and this one interview, I had an offer for an entry level job. I was 37 years old and I was back from the dead. We will all experience what looks like an ending, and we can choose to make it a beginning. Kind of like Tina, who miraculously survived that waterfall, and because I hate to leave a cliffhanger hanging, Tina and Cord did get divorced, but they got remarried three times before the show went off the air in 2012. So remember, as long as there is breath in your body, it's never too late to change your story. Thank you. (Applause)"	1987 年，蒂娜‧羅德發現自己深陷困境。所以，這個拜金女決定在善良的科德‧ 羅伯特繼承百萬遺產之前嫁給他。但當科德發現她愛他的錢財，和愛他一樣多時，他甩了她。科德的媽媽瑪利亞很開心直到他們又搞在一起。所以瑪利亞雇了馬克思‧ 赫登引誘蒂娜，並確保科德不知道蒂娜懷了他的孩子。所以蒂娜還是嫁了，但覺得科德不愛她了，於是就和馬克思飛到阿根廷。科德後來知道了事情的真相，趕去追他們，但為時已晚。當時蒂娜已經被綁架，她被綁在一個木筏上，沖下了瀑布。她和孩子被推斷已經死亡。科德有點傷心，但是他恢復得很快，和一個叫凱特的聰明考古學家在一起了，他們舉行了一場美麗的婚禮，直到看似死而復生的蒂娜抱著一個嬰兒衝進教堂，「停住！」她喊道。「我來晚了嗎？科德，我克服萬難回來了。這是你的兒子。」各位女士、先生，這就是肥皂劇《僅此一生》，一齣在電視上播映了25 年的愛情長壽劇。（笑聲）如果你看過肥皂劇，你就會知道那些故事和角色可以很誇張，超越現實生活，如果你是一個粉絲，你會發現這種誇張很有意思，如果你不是粉絲，你會發現它們太戲劇化和膚淺。可能你覺得看肥皂劇是浪費時間，誇張的劇情意味著沒什麽教育目的或是子虛烏有。但是我認為，恰恰相反。肥皂劇反映了真實人生，只是誇大了些。因為我們能從肥皂劇中學到真實人生的課題與道理，而這些課題與肥皂劇劇情一樣誇張且驚險刺激。我是個大粉絲，從小二開始我每天從公車站飛奔回家，就為了看盧克和羅拉婚禮的故事結局，那是《綜合醫院》最大的重頭戲。（鼓掌）所以你可以想像我有多熱愛擔任《地球照轉》八年的選角副導。我的工作是看肥皂劇，閱讀肥皂劇本並面試肥皂劇演員。所以我知道自己在幹嘛。（笑聲）是的，肥皂劇比現實生活要誇張，更大程度的戲劇化，但我們的生活可能也一樣緊張刺激、所承擔的賭注風險亦是如此地戲劇化。人生不斷地經歷各種悲歡離合，就像那些角色一樣。我們跨越困境，與惡魔征戰並在無意中找到了救贖，而且我們不斷地在這些情境中輪迴。但是就像肥皂劇一樣，我們可以翻轉局面，也就是說，我們可以從這些像大黃蜂一樣為生活忙得焦頭爛額的角色身上學到東西。我們可以善用這些教訓，刻畫出我們自己的人生故事。肥皂劇教我們屏除疑慮並相信自己勇敢、脆弱、適應及復原的能力。最重要的，它們告訴我們要改變自己的故事永遠不會太晚。所以，我們從肥皂劇的第一課開始：投降不是一個選項。（笑聲）《我的孩子們》的艾瑞卡‧卡恩是電視版的郝思嘉，一個誇張、以自我為中心的公主，其內心深處是好鬥和大膽的。艾瑞卡在她 41 年的電視生涯中，可能是最出名的場景就是：她獨自在森林裏突然和一個灰熊面對面。她朝灰熊大喊：「你不能這樣！你聽不懂嗎？你不能靠近我！我是艾瑞卡‧卡恩而你是一隻卑劣的野獸！」（笑聲）當然，灰熊離開了，所以這教會我們人生總會有障礙，但我們可以選擇投降，或者挺身奮戰。潘多拉的提姆‧韋斯特格倫最能了解這個道理。你甚至可以叫他矽谷的艾瑞卡‧卡恩。提姆和其他聯合創始人集資了兩百萬成立公司。但他們在第二年就用光了資金。很多公司都在那個時候放棄，但是提姆選擇繼續奮戰下去。他刷爆 11 張信用卡，背負了六位數的債務，但這還不夠。兩年來每兩周發工資的那天，他都會站在他的員工前請求他們放棄他們的工資，這有了成效。50 多人貢獻了兩百萬美金，十多年後的現在，潘多拉的市值高達幾十億。當你相信天無絕人之路，有志者事竟成時，投降不會是一個選項，你可以克服巨大的障礙。來到肥皂劇的第二課：放下你的自大和高人一等的態度。這有點可怕。這意味著認知到人是有需求或難免會犯錯的。可能這甚至是對我們自己並沒有想象中那樣特殊的覺悟。《大膽而美麗》的斯坦芬尼‧福瑞斯特認為她自己與眾不同。她覺得她獨特到不需要和來自村莊的普通人往來，她還警告村莊的女孩布魯克要知道這點。但在近 25 年漫長的苦鬥後，斯坦芬尼生病了，讓布魯克進入了她的內心。她們重修舊好，從敵人變成了靈魂伴侶，最後斯坦芬尼死在布魯克的懷裏，這就是我們學到的：放下你的自大。人生談的不是你，人生談的我們，只有在我們展現脆弱並對自己的所作所為和無所作為去負責的時候，我們才能體驗到喜樂、愛並改善現實生活，有點像霍華德‧舒爾茨，星巴克的執行長，他在任內表現得極為出色，霍華德在 2000 年辭職，但星巴克因迅速地過度擴張，造成股價下跌。霍華德在 2008 年重新加入團隊，他做的第一件事，就是向 18 萬名員工道歉。他向員工道歉，並尋求幫助、真誠和建議。現在，自從霍華德歸隊後，星巴克的凈利超過兩倍。所以放下自己永遠要正確和安全的渴望，它並不會幫助到任何人，至少幫不了你們自己。放下你的自大。肥皂劇課程三：進化是真實的。你的風格特性並非一成不變。在電視圈，一成不變意味著無聊，無聊意味著隨時會被解雇。角色應該有成長和變化。在電視上，那些充滿變數的改變，可以創造出一些劇烈的轉變，特別是當一個角色昨天是由甲演員，今天卻是由新面孔的乙演員來飾演。在肥皂劇裏，換角是很常見的。過去的 20 年裏，四個不同的演員都扮演過《綜合醫院》的重要角色，卡莉‧本森。每一個嶄新的臉龐都引發了角色的生活和人格變化。雖然卡莉的本質還在，但是角色性格和故事都會依不同的扮演者而做調整。對我們來說，這意味著雖然我們不能在生活中變換面容，但我們可以進化。我們可以選擇畫地自限，或者我們可以向機會敞開心扉，像卡莉，從一個護校學生變成酒店業主，像茱莉亞·柴爾德，茱莉亞是一個二戰間諜，當戰爭結束候，她結了婚、搬到法國，並決定去烹飪學校學習。茱莉亞，她的書和電視節目顛覆了美國烹飪的方式。我們都有啟動改變生命的能力，為了進化和適應環境，我們做出選擇，但有時候我們不得不向生活低頭，意外搧了你一記耳光，你躺在地板上，不知所措，你需要恢復知覺。所以，感謝肥皂劇的第四課：重生是有可能的。（笑聲）（鼓掌）1983年，《我們的日子》的斯特凡諾‧德米拉死於中風，但那不是真的，因為在 1984 年他因車子掉進海港而死亡，但是他在 1985 年帶著腦瘤復活了。（笑聲）在腫瘤殺死他之前，馬裏拉朝他開槍，他從架台上摔落死亡。死而復生的劇碼持續演了30年。（笑聲）當我們看到他的屍體，我們很清楚，他被稱作鳳凰是有原因的。這對我們的意義是，只要劇還在播出，或者你還在呼吸，沒什麼是不變的。重生是有可能的。當然，就像生活一樣，肥皂劇總會有大結局。CBS 在 2009 年 12 月宣布要下檔我的肥皂劇《地球照轉》，我們在 2010 年 6 月，錄製了最後一集。在那痛苦的六個月當中，我的人生看不到光明。即使我們的經濟仍在衰退，百萬人掙扎著尋找工作，但我覺得一切都會變好。我帶著孩子離開布魯克林的公寓，和公婆一起居住在阿拉巴馬州。（笑聲）三個月後，沒有好轉的跡象。在我看了最後一集的播出後，我意識到不僅那個電視劇結束了，我也失業了。我沒有了工作，住在公婆家的二樓。真的有夠難受的。（笑聲）但是我知道我的故事還沒有結束，也不會結束。我只要運用我從肥皂劇裏學到的所有東西。我要像艾瑞卡一樣勇敢並拒絕投降。所以每天，我都選擇奮戰到底。我要像斯坦芬尼一樣脆弱，放下自大。我要在很多州尋求很多幫助。我需要像卡莉一樣善於適應並進化我的技能、思考和境遇，然後我還要像斯特凡諾一樣頑強，使我自己和我的職業重生就像鳳凰浴火重生一樣。最後，我得到了一個面試。在新聞和娛樂界工作了 15 年，失業了 9 個月在這次面試之後，我得到了一個入門級別的工作機會，我當時已經 37 歲，我復活重生。我們都會經歷人生低潮，我們可以選擇讓低潮成為一個起點。像蒂娜奇蹟般地從瀑布中存活下來，因為我不喜歡劇情有懸念，蒂娜和科德真的離婚了，但是他們在 2012 年劇終之前結了三次婚。所以記住，只要你還有一口氣在，改變你的故事永遠不會太晚。謝謝。（鼓掌）
