Talk	en	zh-tw
kate_orff_oysters_as_architecture	"I am passionate about the American landscape and how the physical form of the land, from the great Central Valley of California to the bedrock of Manhattan, has really shaped our history and our character. But one thing is clear. In the last 100 years alone, our country — and this is a sprawl map of America — our country has systematically flattened and homogenized the landscape to the point where we've forgotten our relationship with the plants and animals that live alongside us and the dirt beneath our feet. And so, how I see my work contributing is sort of trying to literally re-imagine these connections and physically rebuild them. This graph represents what we're dealing with now in the built environment. And it's really a conflux of urban population rising, biodiversity plummeting and also, of course, sea levels rising and climate changing. So when I also think about design, I think about trying to rework and re-engage the lines on this graph in a more productive way. And you can see from the arrow here indicating ""you are here,"" I'm trying to sort of blend and meld these two very divergent fields of urbanism and ecology, and sort of bring them together in an exciting new way. So the era of big infrastructure is over. I mean, these sort of top-down, mono-functional, capital-intensive solutions are really not going to cut it. We need new tools and new approaches. Similarly, the idea of architecture as this sort of object in the field, devoid of context, is really not the — excuse me, it's fairly blatant — is really not the approach that we need to take. So we need new stories, new heroes and new tools. So now I want to introduce you to my new hero in the global climate change war, and that is the eastern oyster. So, albeit a very small creature and very modest, this creature is incredible, because it can agglomerate into these mega-reef structures. It can grow; you can grow it; and — did I mention? — it's quite tasty. So the oyster was the basis for a manifesto-like urban design project that I did about the New York Harbor called ""oyster-tecture."" And the core idea of oyster-tecture is to harness the biological power of mussels, eelgrass and oysters — species that live in the harbor — and, at the same time, harness the power of people who live in the community towards making change now. Here's a map of my city, New York City, showing inundation in red. And what's circled is the site that I'm going to talk about, the Gowanus Canal and Governors Island. If you look here at this map, showing everything in blue is out in the water, and everything in yellow is upland. But you can see, even just intuit, from this map, that the harbor has dredged and flattened, and went from a rich, three-dimensional mosaic to flat muck in really a matter of years. Another set of views of actually the Gowanus Canal itself. Now the Gowanus is particularly smelly — I will admit it. There are problems of sewage overflow and contamination, but I would also argue that almost every city has this exact condition, and it's a condition that we're all facing. And here's a map of that condition, showing the contaminants in yellow and green, exacerbated by this new flow of storm-surge and sea-level rise. So we really had a lot to deal with. When we started this project, one of the core ideas was to look back in history and try to understand what was there. And you can see from this map, there's this incredible geographical signature of a series of islands that were out in the harbor and a matrix of salt marshes and beaches that served as natural wave attenuation for the upland settlement. We also learned at this time that you could eat an oyster about the size of a dinner plate in the Gowanus Canal itself. So our concept is really this back-to-the-future concept, harnessing the intelligence of that land settlement pattern. And the idea has two core stages. One is to develop a new artificial ecology, a reef out in the harbor, that would then protect new settlement patterns inland and the Gowanus. Because if you have cleaner water and slower water, you can imagine a new way of living with that water. So the project really addresses these three core issues in a new and exciting way, I think. Here we are, back to our hero, the oyster. And again, it's this incredibly exciting animal. It accepts algae and detritus in one end, and through this beautiful, glamorous set of stomach organs, out the other end comes cleaner water. And one oyster can filter up to 50 gallons of water a day. Oyster reefs also covered about a quarter of our harbor and were capable of filtering water in the harbor in a matter of days. They were key in our culture and our economy. Basically, New York was built on the backs of oystermen, and our streets were literally built over oyster shells. This image is an image of an oyster cart, which is now as ubiquitous as the hotdog cart is today. So again, we got the short end of the deal there. (Laughter) Finally, oysters can attenuate and agglomerate onto each other and form these amazing natural reef structures. They really become nature's wave attenuators. And they become the bedrock of any harbor ecosystem. Many, many species depend on them. So we were inspired by the oyster, but I was also inspired by the life cycle of the oyster. It can move from a fertilized egg to a spat, which is when they're floating through the water, and when they're ready to attach onto another oyster, to an adult male oyster or female oyster, in a number of weeks. We reinterpreted this life cycle on the scale of our sight and took the Gowanus as a giant oyster nursery where oysters would be grown up in the Gowanus, then paraded down in their spat stage and seeded out on the Bayridge Reef. And so the core idea here was to hit the reset button and regenerate an ecology over time that was regenerative and cleaning and productive. How does the reef work? Well, it's very, very simple. A core concept here is that climate change isn't something that — the answers won't land down from the Moon. And with a $20 billion price tag, we should simply start and get to work with what we have now and what's in front of us. So this image is simply showing — it's a field of marine piles interconnected with this woven fuzzy rope. What is fuzzy rope, you ask? It's just that; it's this very inexpensive thing, available practically at your hardware store, and it's very cheap. So we imagine that we would actually potentially even host a bake sale to start our new project. (Laughter) So in the studio, rather than drawing, we began to learn how to knit. The concept was to really knit this rope together and develop this new soft infrastructure for the oysters to grow on. You can see in the diagram how it grows over time from an infrastructural space into a new public urban space. And that grows over time dynamically with the threat of climate change. It also creates this incredibly interesting, I think, new amphibious public space, where you can imagine working, you can imagine recreating in a new way. In the end, what we realized we were making was a new blue-green watery park for the next watery century — an amphibious park, if you will. So get your Tevas on. So you can imagine scuba diving here. This is an image of high school students, scuba divers that we worked with on our team. So you can imagine a sort of new manner of living with a new relationship with the water, and also a hybridizing of recreational and science programs in terms of monitoring. Another new vocabulary word for the brave new world: this is the word ""flupsy"" — it's short for ""floating upwelling system."" And this glorious, readily available device is basically a floating raft with an oyster nursery below. So the water is churned through this raft. You can see the eight chambers on the side host little baby oysters and essentially force-feed them. So rather than having 10 oysters, you have 10,000 oysters. And then those spat are then seeded. Here's the Gowanus future with the oyster rafts on the shorelines — the flupsification of the Gowanus. New word. And also showing oyster gardening for the community along its edges. And finally, how much fun it would be to watch the flupsy parade and cheer on the oyster spats as they go down to the reef. I get asked two questions about this project. One is: why isn't it happening now? And the second one is: when can we eat the oysters? And the answer is: not yet, they're working. But we imagine, with our calculations, that by 2050, you might be able to sink your teeth into a Gowanus oyster. To conclude, this is just one cross-section of one piece of city, but my dream is, my hope is, that when you all go back to your own cities that we can start to work together and collaborate on remaking and reforming a new urban landscape towards a more sustainable, a more livable and a more delicious future. Thank you. (Applause)"	我熱愛美國景觀還有地形從加州的中央谷地到曼哈頓的岩盤他們如何的形塑了我們的歷史與特質不過，我們可以非常清楚的看到在過去的100年裡我們的國家 — 這張地圖顯示了美國城市的擴張我們的國家已經有系統的將景觀扁平化與均質化以至於我們忘記了與我們同住在一起的動植物還有在我們腳底下的泥土跟我們之間的關係所以我把我的作品定位看作是試圖對這些連結作重新的想像並且實質上將它重新建造出來此張圖代表我們目前人造環境正遇到的處境他實際上是一個城市人口增加生物多樣性急劇下降還有海平面上升和氣候變化的匯流 因此，當我在作設計思考時我會想嘗試將這個圖上的線條以更有建設性的方式重新連結這個的箭頭標示你們目前所在的位置我有點想將都市主義與生態這兩個非常不同的領域混合和融合在一起用一個令人興奮的新方法加以整合龐大基礎設施的時代已經結束我的意思是，這些自上而下的單一功能，資本密集型的解決方案已經不足以解決問題我們需要新的工具和新方法同樣的，把建築物當作是個與周邊毫無關係的獨立物件的這種想法實在不是抱歉，這個作品實在是有夠直接實在不是解決問題的辦法我們需要新的故事新的英雄和新的工具 所以，現在我想向你們介紹我在全球氣候變遷戰爭中的新英雄東方牡蠣儘管這種小動物看上去不太起眼他其實非常不可思議因為它可以聚集成這些大型的礁堡結構它會生長，你也可以養殖還有，我有沒有提到，它相當可口因此，牡蠣就成了我在紐約港作的一個近乎宣言式的都市設計案的主題我把這設計命題為“蚵築”蚵築的核心思想，就是運用貽貝、大葉藻和牡蠣等等生活在海港裡的物種的生物能同時運用社區居民的力量現在就開始做些改變 這是我的城市，也就是紐約市的地圖紅色表示淹沒區圈起來的就是我要談的基地位置Gowanus運河和總督島(Governors Island)如果你看這邊這張地圖藍色代表水黃色代表陸地即使只是直觀上看這張地圖你都可以看出海港經歷過疏通並整成平地在幾年之內從一個多樣、立體的鑲嵌體變成一個平坦的淤泥地另外就是Gowanus運河本身目前 Gowanus運河非常臭，這點我不得不承認運河裡有污水排入與污染的問題不過我認為幾乎每個城市都有同樣的問題這是一個我們共同面對的問題這地圖顯示了污染的狀況污染物以黃色和綠色顯示而最近雨水暴增和海平面上升使得問題加劇所以我們真的有很多課題需要處理 當我們開始這個設計案時核心思想之一就是回顧歷史試圖了解這裡的過去你可以從這張舊地圖看到當時在海港裡有好多不可思議的地理特徵包括一整系列的島嶼，和整片可以緩衝浪潮沖蝕陸地的鹽沼和海灘當時你還能從Gowanus運河中捕到跟餐盤一樣大的牡蠣所以我們的設計概念基本上就是要回到未來要善用這地景形成的智慧我們的設計概念有兩個核心階段第一階段是要在海港裡建造一個新的人工生態珊瑚礁然後靠這個珊瑚礁保護內陸和Gowanus運河上的居民因為如果你有流速較慢和較乾淨的水就可以重新想像人與水共同生活的新方法 所以，我認為這個計畫是用一種新的和令人興奮的方式解決這三個核心課題：水質、河水暴漲、和海平面上升第一項，要回到我們的英雄：牡蠣它實在是個非常令人興奮的動物它從這一端接受藻類和有機碎屑通過這套美麗動人的消化系統另一端就跑出乾淨的水一隻牡蠣一天可以過濾高達 50加侖的水牡蠣礁曾經占據這海港約四分之一的面積幾天之內就可以把海港內的水過濾乾淨它們對我們的文化和經濟非常關鍵基本上，紐約市是靠牡蠣漁民創建的而我們的街道也都真的建立在牡蠣殼上這張照片是牡蠣攤它當時就跟現在的熱狗攤一樣普遍這樣說起來，我們現在好像過得沒有當時好（笑聲）第二，牡蠣出生後會附著到老牡蠣的殼上使得這些結構越長越大而終成天然的礁石構造他們真的是大自然的消波塊第三，這些礁石也是所有海港生態系統的基盤很多很多物種依賴他們生存 我們從牡蠣身上得到靈感也從牡蠣的生活史得到啟發牡蠣從受精卵開始孵化成幼蟲後漂浮在水中然後在幾週後附著到另一個成熟的公或母牡蠣的殼上我們重新以人類視覺的尺度詮釋了這個生活史把Gowanus運河當作一個巨大的牡蠣的養殖場讓牡蠣在運河裡孕育在幼蟲期漂游過這些地方最後在 Bayridge Reef 這邊著床設計的核心思想就像是按重新啟動鈕隨著時間重新形成一個可以再生、淨化、而且有生產力的生態系 所以這珊瑚礁到底要怎麼弄？其實非常非常簡單。核心概念就是我們要如何因應氣候變遷答案絕不會從天上掉下來況且有200億美元的價值我們實在應該就直接以我們現有的知識與資源開始工作這張圖是幾根海底樁用毛茸茸的繩索串連起來如果你要問：什麼是毛茸茸的繩索？它就只是個很便宜的在五金店就買得到的東西所以，我們搞不好弄個糕餅義賣活動就可以湊足經費啟動我們的新計畫（笑聲）所以在工作室裡，我們不是在繪圖而是開始學習如何編織我們的概念真的就是把這些繩子編織在一起發展出這個新的軟性基礎設施讓牡蠣可以在上面生長你可以在圖上看到它如何隨著時間成長從基礎設施慢慢發展成一個新的都市公共空間隨著時間，它的生長會與氣候變遷的威脅作動態的回應 它還可以創造一個非常有趣的新的兩棲公共空間在那裡你可以對工作和休閒活動以嶄新的方式作些想像到最後，我們發現我們其實是為下一個水很多的世紀做了個新的藍綠水岸公園一個兩棲公園所以穿上你的水陸越野涼鞋想像你在這裡潛水這張圖是一群與我們團隊一起工作的高中學生，他們會水肺潛水所以，你可以想像一個與水生活的新關係也可以把環境監測變成休閒和科學的混合體 我們為這個勇敢的新世界創造了另一個新名詞：flupsy它的是“漂浮湧升系統”的簡稱這個亮眼的、隨時可用的設施基本上就是一個漂浮平台下頭有個牡蠣孕育場水會被送過這個平台的下方你可以看到側邊的八個小隔間養育著小牡蠣，將水中的養分灌進他們嘴裡所以，10個牡蠣不久就會變成10000個牡蠣他們成熟後產卵孵出的幼蟲又會在這裡著床這就是我們想像Gowanus運河的未來海岸線都是牡蠣平台將整個Gowanus運河 “漂浮湧升化”這是我們發明的新名詞社區也可以在這邊緣作牡蠣的養殖想想看辦漂浮湧升遊行為游泳著床的牡蠣幼蟲歡呼將是多麼好玩的一件事 這個計畫我常被問兩個問題第一，為什麼到現在什麼都還看不出來？第二，我們什麼時候才能吃到牡蠣？答案是，還沒有，他們正在努力，但這得花些時間。不過根據我們的估算，大概到了2050年，你們就可以大啖Gowanus的牡蠣 總而言之，這只是一個城市的一個小小的橫斷面但我的夢想，我的希望是當你們回到自己的城市我們可以開始攜手合作重新改造一個新的都市景觀讓它的未來更永續、更宜居還有更美味 謝謝 （掌聲）
