Talk	en	zh-tw
kate_stone_dj_decks_made_of_paper	"I love paper, and I love technology, and what I do is I make paper interactive. And that's what I say when people ask me what I do, but it really confuses most people, so really, the best way for me to convey it is to take the technology and be creative and create experiences. So I tried to think what I could use for here, and a couple of weeks ago I had a crazy idea that I wanted to print two DJ decks and to try and mix some music. And I'm going to try and show that at the end, and the suspense will be as much mine if it works. And I'm not a DJ, and I'm not a musician, so I'm a little bit scared of that. So I think, I found the best way to describe my journey is just to mention a few little things that have happened to me throughout my life. There's three particular things that I've done, and I'll just describe those first, and then talk about some of my work. So when I was a kid, I was obsessed with wires, and I used to thread them under my carpet and thread them behind the walls and have little switches and little speakers, and I wanted to make my bedroom be interactive but kind of all hidden away. And I was also really interested in wireless as well. So I bought one of those little kits that you could get to make a radio transmitter, and I got an old book and I carved out the inside and I hid it inside there, and then I placed it next to my dad and snuck back to my bedroom and tuned in on the radio so I could eavesdrop. I was not at all interested in what he was saying. It's more that I just liked the idea of an everyday object having something inside and doing something different. Several year later, I managed to successfully fail all of my exams and didn't really leave school with much to show for at all, and my parents, maybe as a reward, bought me what turned out to be a one-way ticket to Australia, and I came back home about four years later. I ended up on a farm in the middle of nowhere. It was in far western New South Wales. And this farm was 120,000 acres. There were 22,000 sheep, and it was about 40 degrees, or 100 or so Fahrenheit. And on this farm there was the farmer, his wife, and there was the four-year-old daughter. And they kind of took me into the farm and showed me what it was like to live and work. Obviously, one of the most important things was the sheep, and so my job was, well, pretty much to do everything, but it was about bringing the sheep back to the homestead. And we'd do that by building fences, using motorbikes and horses, and the sheep would make their way all the way back to the shearing shed for the different seasons. And what I learned was, although at the time, like everyone else, I thought sheep were pretty stupid because they didn't do what we wanted them to do, what I realize now, probably only just in the last few weeks looking back, is the sheep weren't stupid at all. We'd put them in an environment where they didn't want to be, and they didn't want to do what we wanted them to do. So the challenge was to try and get them to do what we wanted them to do by listening to the weather, the lay of the land, and creating things that would let the sheep flow and go where we wanted them to go. Another bunch of years later, I ended up at Cambridge University at the Cavendish Laboratory in the U.K. doing a Ph.D. in physics. My Ph.D. was to move electrons around, one at a time. And I realize — again, it's kind of these realizations looking back as to what I did — I realize now that it was pretty much the same as moving sheep around. It really is. It's just you do it by changing an environment. And that's kind of been a big lesson to me, that you can't act on any object. You change its environment, and the object will flow. So we made it very small, so things were about 30 nanometers in size; making it very cold, so at liquid helium temperatures; and changing environment by changing the voltage, and the electrons could make flow around a loop one at a time, on and off, a little memory node. And I wanted to go one step further, and I wanted to move one electron on and one electron off. And I was told that I wouldn't be able to do this, which, you know, as we've heard from other people, that's the thing that makes you do it. And I was determined, and I managed to show that I could do that. And a lot of that learning, I think, came from being on that farm, because when I was working on the farm, we'd have to use what was around us, we'd have to use the environment, and there was no such thing as something can't be done, because you're in an environment where, if you can't do what you need to do, you can die, and, you know, I had seen that sort of thing happen. So now my obsession is printing, and I'm really fascinated by the idea of using conventional printing processes, so the types of print that are used to create many of the things around us to make paper and card interactive. When I spoke to some printers when I started doing this and told them what I wanted to do, which was to print conductive inks onto paper, they told me it couldn't be done, again, that kind of favorite thing. So I got about 10 credit cards and loans and got myself very close to bankruptcy, really, and bought myself this huge printing press, which I had no idea how to use at all. It was about five meters long, and I covered myself and the floor with ink and made a massive mess, but I learned to print. And then I took it back to the printers and showed them what I've done, and they were like, ""Of course you can do that. Why didn't you come here in the first place?"" That's always the case. So what we do is we take conventional printing presses, we make conductive inks, and run those through a press, and basically just letting hundreds of thousands of electrons flow through pieces of paper so we can make that paper interactive. And it's pretty simple, really. It's just a collection of things that have been done before, but bringing them together in a different way. So we have a piece of paper with conductive ink on, and then add onto that a small circuit board with a couple of chips, one to run some capacitive touch software, so we know where we've touched it, and the other to run, quite often, some wireless software so the piece of paper can connect. So I'll just describe a couple of things that we've created. There's lots of different things we've created. This is one of them, because I love cake. And this one, it's a large poster, and you touch it and it has a little speaker behind it, and the poster talks to you when you touch it and asks you a series of questions, and it works out your perfect cake. But it doesn't tell you the cake there and then. It uploads a picture, and the reason why it chose that cake for you, to our Facebook page and to Twitter. So we're trying to create that connection between the physical and the digital, but have it not looking on a screen, and just looking like a regular poster. We've worked with a bunch of universities on a project looking at interactive newsprint. So for example, we've created a newspaper, a regular newspaper. You can wear a pair of headphones that are connected to it wirelessly, and when you touch it, you can hear the music that's described on the top, which is something you can't read. You can hear a press conference as well as reading what the editor has determined that press conference was about. And you can press a Facebook ""like"" button or you can vote on something as well. Something else that we created, and this was an idea that I had a couple of years ago, and so we've done a project on this. It was for funding from the government for user-centered design for energy-efficient buildings, difficult to say, and something I had no idea what it was when I went into the workshop, but quickly learned. And we wanted to try and encourage people to use energy better. And I really liked the idea that, instead of looking at dials and reading things to say — looking at your energy usage, I wanted to create a poster that was wirelessly connected and had color-changing inks on it, and so if your energy usage was trending better, than the leaves would appear and the rabbits would appear and all would be good. And if it wasn't, then there'd be graffiti and the leaves would fall off the trees. So it was trying to make you look after something in your immediate environment, which you don't want to see not looking so good, rather than expecting people to do things in the local environment because of the effect that it has a long way off. And I think, kind of like going back to the farm, it's about how to let people do what you want them to do rather than making people do what you want them to do. Okay. So this is the bit I'm really scared of. So a couple of things I've created are, there's a poster over here that you can play drums on. And I am not a musician. It seemed like a good idea at the time. If anyone wants to try and play drums, then they can. I'll just describe how this works. This poster is wirelessly connected to my cell phone, and when you touch it, it connects to the app. (Drums) And it has really good response time. It's using Bluetooth 4, so it's pretty instantaneous. Okay. Thanks. (Applause) And there's a couple of other things. So this one is like a sound board, so you can touch it, and I just love these horrible noises. (Sirens, explosions, breaking glass) Okay, and this is a D.J. turntable. So it's wirelessly linked to my iPad, and this is a software that's running on the iPad. Oh, yes. I just love doing that. I'm not a D.J., though, but I just always wanted to do that. (Scratching) So I have a crossfader, and I have the two decks. So I've made some new technology, and I love things being creative, and I love working with creative people. So my 15-year-old niece, she's amazing, and she's called Charlotte, and I asked her to record something, and I worked with a friend called Elliot to put some beats together. So this is my niece, Charlotte. (Music) Yay! (Applause) So that's pretty much what I do. I just love bringing technology together, having a lot of fun, being creative. But it's not about the technology. It's just about, I want to create some great experiences. So thank you very much. (Applause)"	我愛紙張，也熱愛科技我做的事，就是讓紙張能和人互動每當有人問及我的工作，我就是這樣回答但是大多數人都不太了解因此，對我來說，要讓大家了解我的工作最好就是把科技加上一點創意創造出實際的經驗 我試著去思考該怎麼做幾個星期前，我有了一個瘋狂的想法我想印出兩張DJ台然後混合一些音效演講快結束時，我會試著呈現給大家看我很擔心，不知道會不會成功我不是一個DJ，也不是音樂家所以我有點怕怕的我想，解釋我為什麼進入這個行業最好的方法，就是講幾件發生在我人生中的事情我做過三件很特別的事我決定要先講這些事情然後再談談我的工作 在我小時候，我對線路很著迷我常把線路串在地毯下也把線路串在牆壁後方然後裝一些小開關，小擴音器我想要和我的房間互動但效果似乎沒有那麼顯著我對無線的東西也很感興趣我買了一個無線電的配件，就是大家可以拿來製作無線電發射器的工具我找了一本舊書，把裡面挖空然後把我做的無線電器藏在裡面把它放在我爸旁邊接下來，我就悄悄的回房間，然後轉開收音機我就能偷聽我爸說話我對我爸說的事情完全不感興趣令我感興趣的是日常生活用品都有不為人知的一面也能拿來做不一樣的事情 幾年後我試著成功地搞砸所有的考試離開學校時也沒有學到什麼成果這可能算是種獎勵吧，因為我爸媽居然給我買了一張到澳洲的單程機票我大概四年後才回來 我在某地中部的農場上在新南威爾斯州很遠的西方這農場有十二萬英畝大有兩萬兩千頭羊溫度差不多在攝氏40度或是華氏一百度這農場上，有農夫和他的老婆他們還有一個四歲的女兒他們有點像是帶我進農場然後向我介紹農場的生活及工作顯然地，那裡最重要的事情就是羊而我在那裡的工作，就是什麼都要做有點像是把羊趕回家這樣我們會築籬笆利用摩托車和馬匹這些羊在不同季節，就會用牠們自己的方法回到羊棚裡我從中所學到的雖然那個時候我和大家一樣覺得羊很笨因為牠們不想做我們要牠們做的事情我現在體認到，可能是最近幾星期才知道的回顧過去的日子，我發現羊一點都不笨我們把羊群放在一個牠們不想待的環境中羊群也不想做我們要牠們做的事情所以有挑戰性的地方在於，要試著讓羊群去做我們想要牠們做的事像是聆聽自然的聲音，觀察大地的地形以及創造事物，讓羊群能夠順著走走到我們要牠們去的地方 又過了幾年我人在英國劍橋大學內的卡文迪許實驗室寫一篇關於物理的博士論文我的論文主要關於一次移動一顆電子我發現，再一次，我領悟到的東西使我回頭看這些過往的經驗我發現這些事情都很雷同就像讓羊群移動一樣事實也是如此只不過是換個環境而已這對我而言是個很大的體悟你沒有辦法影響任何物體你改變環境，物體就跟著改變我們把這些物體做得很小小到大約只有三十奈米我們把它做得很冷，差不多是液態氦的溫度然後透過電壓來改變環境這些電子就能照著圈圈流動一次一顆，停停走走，有點記憶模式 我想要更進一步嘗試一次只讓一個電子移動然後一個電子停止有人告訴我這辦不到你知道的，我們常常聽到別人這麼說這也就是讓你辦到的原因我下定決心，要讓別人知道我辦得到我覺得，我現在所學到的知識有一大部分是從那次農場經驗而來當我還在農場工作時我們只能用周遭的東西我們得利用環境在那，並沒有所謂的辦不到這種事情因為你所身處的環境如果辦不到你得辦的事情你就陣亡了我曾經目睹過這類的事情 因此，我對列印很狂熱我也深深著迷於用傳統列印流程也就是用來創造我們周遭許多事物的流程來讓紙張、卡片和人互動剛開始時，我和一些列印商談過告訴他們我想做的事情就是把導電油墨印在紙上他們說這辦不到這又再次地激發了我我拿了差不多十張信用卡去貸款讓我自己瀕臨破產的邊緣給我自己買了台這麼大的印刷機但我自己卻完全不知道該怎麼用印刷機差不多有五公尺長我把整間地板還有我自己搞得滿身油墨真的是一團亂，但我想知道要怎麼印接著，我把機器拿回印刷廠告訴他們我做了什麼他們有點像是說「你當然可以這麼做你剛開始就找我們不就好了？」這一直都是問題所在 我們採用傳統列印流程製造導電墨水然後就重覆這一流程基本上，就是讓數十萬計的電子流過一張張的紙所以我們能讓紙張互動這真的很簡單我們只是蒐集從前做過的東西然後用不同的方式來結合它們我們有一張紙還有導電墨水加上一小塊電路板，還有一兩塊晶片有一塊負責電容式觸控軟體這樣我們就會知道碰到了什麼另一塊晶片負責一些無線軟體好讓紙張相互連結 我會描述一些我們創作的事物我們創作的事物很廣泛這就是其中一樣，因為我喜歡蛋糕而這個，是一張大海報這後面有個喇叭，只要你碰它這張海報就會和你說話然後問你一串問題接著找出你要的理想蛋糕但是它不會馬上說出你要的蛋糕它會上傳一張照片然後列出為你選這個蛋糕的理由照片會傳到我們的臉書、推特我們試著創造出物理以及數位之間的連結但是卻不必看著數位螢幕而只是看一張普通的海報 我們已經和幾所大學合作研究互動報紙舉例來說，我們做了一種報紙很普通的報紙你可以戴上和報紙透過無線連結的耳機當你碰到報紙，你就會聽到音樂在最上方有描述，這是你看不到的你可以聽到一場會議也可以讀到編輯要決定這場會議要談論什麼你可以在臉書上按讚或是投票表決某樣東西 我們還創造了其他東西我在幾年前有了這個想法我們就針對這個想法開專題來研究是關於從政府方面拿到贊助金還有使用者導向設計，節能建築這到底是什麼樣的東西，我沒有一點概念直到我走進一家工廠，我馬上就明白了我們想要嘗試，也希望鼓勵大家來更有效率的使用能源我真的很喜歡這想法而不是看看儀器上的指針還有翻翻一些資料像是看看你們使用能源的方法我想做出一種透過無線連結的海報上面印有變色墨水所以說，如果你更有效率地使用能源樹葉就會出現，兔子也會跑出來這就是好現象如果能源沒有有效地應用，就會出現噴漆樹葉就會從樹上落下所以，這就像是要你期待某件事在一個緊急的環境下你不想要看到看起來不好的事物而是希望別人去做這些事因為這些影響是很長遠的我覺得這有點像回到那個農場關於該如何讓人們做你希望他們做的事情而不是強迫他們去做那些事 好我現在真的很怕我做的一些東西包括這裡的這張海報以及那邊那個你可以打的鼓我不是一個音樂家，先和你們說清楚比較好如果有人想要上來玩，我很歡迎我只是解釋一下它的原理這張海報透過無線連結到我的手機當你碰它，它就會連結到應用程式 （鼓聲） 它反應的很快使用的是藍芽4.0，所以才有這麼好的反應好，謝謝（掌聲） 還有些其他的事情這一塊有點像音版你一碰它，就會發出一些我超愛的恐怖聲音 （警笛聲、爆炸聲、坡璃被打破的聲音） 這個是一座DJ台也是透過無線連結到我的iPad這是在iPad上執行的軟體噢，我真的很喜歡這麼做雖然我不是一個DJ，但我很喜歡這麼做（轉DJ台所發出的聲音）我有一個平滑轉換器，兩個轉盤我創造了一些新科技我喜歡讓事情變得有創意我也喜歡和有創意的人工作像是我十五歲的姪女就讓我很驚豔她叫夏洛特我叫她幫我紀錄一些東西我和一個叫做埃利奥特的朋友一起做事我們把一些拍子合在一起這是我的姪女，夏洛特 （音樂） 太棒了 （掌聲） 這差不多就是我的工作我喜歡結合科技做一些好玩，又創意的事情但這不只是和科技有關而是關於我想創造出很棒的經驗 謝謝你們 （掌聲）
