Talk	en	zh-tw
kathryn_schulz_don_t_regret_regret	"So that's Johnny Depp, of course. And that's Johnny Depp's shoulder. And that's Johnny Depp's famous shoulder tattoo. Some of you might know that, in 1990, Depp got engaged to Winona Ryder, and he had tattooed on his right shoulder ""Winona forever."" And then three years later — which in fairness, kind of is forever by Hollywood standards — they broke up, and Johnny went and got a little bit of repair work done. And now his shoulder says, ""Wino forever."" (Laughter) So like Johnny Depp, and like 25 percent of Americans between the ages of 16 and 50, I have a tattoo. I first started thinking about getting it in my mid-20s, but I deliberately waited a really long time. Because we all know people who have gotten tattoos when they were 17 or 19 or 23 and regretted it by the time they were 30. That didn't happen to me. I got my tattoo when I was 29, and I regretted it instantly. And by ""regretted it,"" I mean that I stepped outside of the tattoo place — this is just a couple miles from here down on the Lower East Side — and I had a massive emotional meltdown in broad daylight on the corner of East Broadway and Canal Street. (Laughter) Which is a great place to do it because nobody cares. (Laughter) And then I went home that night, and I had an even larger emotional meltdown, which I'll say more about in a minute. And this was all actually quite shocking to me, because prior to this moment, I had prided myself on having absolutely no regrets. I made a lot of mistakes and dumb decisions, of course. I do that hourly. But I had always felt like, look, you know, I made the best choice I could make given who I was then, given the information I had on hand. I learned a lesson from it. It somehow got me to where I am in life right now. And okay, I wouldn't change it. In other words, I had drunk our great cultural Kool-Aid about regret, which is that lamenting things that occurred in the past is an absolute waste of time, that we should always look forward and not backward, and that one of the noblest and best things we can do is strive to live a life free of regrets. This idea is nicely captured by this quote: ""Things without all remedy should be without regard; what's done is done."" And it seems like kind of an admirable philosophy at first — something we might all agree to sign onto ... until I tell you who said it. Right, so this is Lady MacBeth basically telling her husband to stop being such a wuss for feeling bad about murdering people. And as it happens, Shakespeare was onto something here, as he generally was. Because the inability to experience regret is actually one of the diagnostic characteristics of sociopaths. It's also, by the way, a characteristic of certain kinds of brain damage. So people who have damage to their orbital frontal cortex seem to be unable to feel regret in the face of even obviously very poor decisions. So if, in fact, you want to live a life free of regret, there is an option open to you. It's called a lobotomy. But if you want to be fully functional and fully human and fully humane, I think you need to learn to live, not without regret, but with it. So let's start off by defining some terms. What is regret? Regret is the emotion we experience when we think that our present situation could be better or happier if we had done something different in the past. So in other words, regret requires two things. It requires, first of all, agency — we had to make a decision in the first place. And second of all, it requires imagination. We need to be able to imagine going back and making a different choice, and then we need to be able to kind of spool this imaginary record forward and imagine how things would be playing out in our present. And in fact, the more we have of either of these things — the more agency and the more imagination with respect to a given regret, the more acute that regret will be. So let's say for instance that you're on your way to your best friend's wedding and you're trying to get to the airport and you're stuck in terrible traffic, and you finally arrive at your gate and you've missed your flight. You're going to experience more regret in that situation if you missed your flight by three minutes than if you missed it by 20. Why? Well because, if you miss your flight by three minutes, it is painfully easy to imagine that you could have made different decisions that would have led to a better outcome. ""I should have taken the bridge and not the tunnel. I should have gone through that yellow light."" These are the classic conditions that create regret. We feel regret when we think we are responsible for a decision that came out badly, but almost came out well. Now within that framework, we can obviously experience regret about a lot of different things. This session today is about behavioral economics. And most of what we know about regret comes to us out of that domain. We have a vast body of literature on consumer and financial decisions and the regrets associated with them — buyer's remorse, basically. But then finally, it occurred to some researchers to step back and say, well okay, but overall, what do we regret most in life? Here's what the answers turn out to look like. So top six regrets — the things we regret most in life: Number one by far, education. 33 percent of all of our regrets pertain to decisions we made about education. We wish we'd gotten more of it. We wish we'd taken better advantage of the education that we did have. We wish we'd chosen to study a different topic. Others very high on our list of regrets include career, romance, parenting, various decisions and choices about our sense of self and how we spend our leisure time — or actually more specifically, how we fail to spend our leisure time. The remaining regrets pertain to these things: finance, family issues unrelated to romance or parenting, health, friends, spirituality and community. So in other words, we know most of what we know about regret by the study of finance. But it turns out, when you look overall at what people regret in life, you know what, our financial decisions don't even rank. They account for less than three percent of our total regrets. So if you're sitting there stressing about large cap versus small cap, or company A versus company B, or should you buy the Subaru or the Prius, you know what, let it go. Odds are, you're not going to care in five years. But for these things that we actually do really care about and do experience profound regret around, what does that experience feel like? We all know the short answer. It feels terrible. Regret feels awful. But it turns out that regret feels awful in four very specific and consistent ways. So the first consistent component of regret is basically denial. When I went home that night after getting my tattoo, I basically stayed up all night. And for the first several hours, there was exactly one thought in my head. And the thought was, ""Make it go away!"" This is an unbelievably primitive emotional response. I mean, it's right up there with, ""I want my mommy!"" We're not trying to solve the problem. We're not trying to understand how the problem came about. We just want it to vanish. The second characteristic component of regret is a sense of bewilderment. So the other thing I thought about there in my bedroom that night was, ""How could I have done that? What was I thinking?"" This real sense of alienation from the part of us that made a decision we regret. We can't identify with that part. We don't understand that part. And we certainly don't have any empathy for that part — which explains the third consistent component of regret, which is an intense desire to punish ourselves. That's why, in the face of our regret, the thing we consistently say is, ""I could have kicked myself."" The fourth component here is that regret is what psychologists call perseverative. To perseverate means to focus obsessively and repeatedly on the exact same thing. Now the effect of perseveration is to basically take these first three components of regret and put them on an infinite loop. So it's not that I sat there in my bedroom that night, thinking, ""Make it go away."" It's that I sat there and I thought, ""Make it go away. Make it go away. Make it go away. Make it go away."" So if you look at the psychological literature, these are the four consistent defining components of regret. But I want to suggest that there's also a fifth one. And I think of this as a kind of existential wake-up call. That night in my apartment, after I got done kicking myself and so forth, I lay in bed for a long time, and I thought about skin grafts. And then I thought about how, much as travel insurance doesn't cover acts of God, probably my health insurance did not cover acts of idiocy. In point of fact, no insurance covers acts of idiocy. The whole point of acts of idiocy is that they leave you totally uninsured; they leave you exposed to the world and exposed to your own vulnerability and fallibility in face of, frankly, a fairly indifferent universe. This is obviously an incredibly painful experience. And I think it's particularly painful for us now in the West in the grips of what I sometimes think of as a Control-Z culture — Control-Z like the computer command, undo. We're incredibly used to not having to face life's hard realities, in a certain sense. We think we can throw money at the problem or throw technology at the problem — we can undo and unfriend and unfollow. And the problem is that there are certain things that happen in life that we desperately want to change and we cannot. Sometimes instead of Control-Z, we actually have zero control. And for those of us who are control freaks and perfectionists — and I know where of I speak — this is really hard, because we want to do everything ourselves and we want to do it right. Now there is a case to be made that control freaks and perfectionists should not get tattoos, and I'm going to return to that point in a few minutes. But first I want to say that the intensity and persistence with which we experience these emotional components of regret is obviously going to vary depending on the specific thing that we're feeling regretful about. So for instance, here's one of my favorite automatic generators of regret in modern life. (Laughter) Text: Relpy to all. And the amazing thing about this really insidious technological innovation is that even just with this one thing, we can experience a huge range of regret. You can accidentally hit ""reply all"" to an email and torpedo a relationship. Or you can just have an incredibly embarrassing day at work. Or you can have your last day at work. And this doesn't even touch on the really profound regrets of a life. Because of course, sometimes we do make decisions that have irrevocable and terrible consequences, either for our own or for other people's health and happiness and livelihoods, and in the very worst case scenario, even their lives. Now obviously, those kinds of regrets are incredibly piercing and enduring. I mean, even the stupid ""reply all"" regrets can leave us in a fit of excruciating agony for days. So how are we supposed to live with this? I want to suggest that there's three things that help us to make our peace with regret. And the first of these is to take some comfort in its universality. If you Google regret and tattoo, you will get 11.5 million hits. (Laughter) The FDA estimates that of all the Americans who have tattoos, 17 percent of us regret getting them. That is Johnny Depp and me and our seven million friends. And that's just regret about tattoos. We are all in this together. The second way that we can help make our peace with regret is to laugh at ourselves. Now in my case, this really wasn't a problem, because it's actually very easy to laugh at yourself when you're 29 years old and you want your mommy because you don't like your new tattoo. But it might seem like a kind of cruel or glib suggestion when it comes to these more profound regrets. I don't think that's the case though. All of us who've experienced regret that contains real pain and real grief understand that humor and even black humor plays a crucial role in helping us survive. It connects the poles of our lives back together, the positive and the negative, and it sends a little current of life back into us. The third way that I think we can help make our peace with regret is through the passage of time, which, as we know, heals all wounds — except for tattoos, which are permanent. So it's been several years since I got my own tattoo. And do you guys just want to see it? All right. Actually, you know what, I should warn you, you're going to be disappointed. Because it's actually not that hideous. I didn't tattoo Marilyn Manson's face on some indiscreet part of myself or something. When other people see my tattoo, for the most part they like how it looks. It's just that I don't like how it looks. And as I said earlier, I'm a perfectionist. But I'll let you see it anyway. This is my tattoo. I can guess what some of you are thinking. So let me reassure you about something. Some of your own regrets are also not as ugly as you think they are. I got this tattoo because I spent most of my 20s living outside the country and traveling. And when I came and settled in New York afterward, I was worried that I would forget some of the most important lessons that I learned during that time. Specifically the two things I learned about myself that I most didn't want to forget was how important it felt to keep exploring and, simultaneously, how important it is to somehow keep an eye on your own true north. And what I loved about this image of the compass was that I felt like it encapsulated both of these ideas in one simple image. And I thought it might serve as a kind of permanent mnemonic device. Well it did. But it turns out, it doesn't remind me of the thing I thought it would; it reminds me constantly of something else instead. It actually reminds me of the most important lesson regret can teach us, which is also one of the most important lessons life teaches us. And ironically, I think it's probably the single most important thing I possibly could have tattooed onto my body — partly as a writer, but also just as a human being. Here's the thing, if we have goals and dreams, and we want to do our best, and if we love people and we don't want to hurt them or lose them, we should feel pain when things go wrong. The point isn't to live without any regrets. The point is to not hate ourselves for having them. The lesson that I ultimately learned from my tattoo and that I want to leave you with today is this: We need to learn to love the flawed, imperfect things that we create and to forgive ourselves for creating them. Regret doesn't remind us that we did badly. It reminds us that we know we can do better. Thank you. (Applause)"	這當然是強尼•戴普,這是他的肩膀。這是他肩上著名的紋身。你們有些人可能知道，戴普在1990年,和薇諾娜•瑞德曾訂婚,並在他的右肩上刺上「永遠的薇諾娜」。3年後—從好萊塢的標準來說應該算得上是「 永遠 」—他們分手了,然後强尼改了一下他的紋身 。現在他肩上說的是 「 永遠的酒鬼 」。 （笑聲） 像强尼一樣,也像25%的年齡在16到50歲間的美國人一樣,我也是有紋身的。我第一次想去弄一個紋身是在我25歲左右,我是已經刻意等了很久的。要知道很多人在17歲的時候就想弄一個了,或者19歲, 23歲,並且對此都在自己30歲前就後悔。但是這卻沒有發生在我身上 。我是在29時繡上了紋身,然後立刻就後悔了 。我說的後悔是我腳跟剛剛離開紋身店—就發生在離這裡幾英哩外的下東城區—大白天就歇斯底理、徹底崩潰了,就在東百老匯和運河街相交的轉角 。（笑聲）那真是個做這事的好地方，因為沒人理你 。（笑聲）那晚回到家，再一次更加嚴重的情感崩潰,詳細狀況我等會兒再說。 那次的事真的是把我自己嚇到了,因為在之前我一直為我自己肯定不會後悔感到自豪。我曾經犯了很多錯,一直在做錯的決定,每小時一次吧。但是我也總是會認為我已經是做出了最好的決定,根據我那時的心態,那時的想法,我從中也學習了一些東西。我的人生也是因為它才完整 。總之我不會想著要改變它 。換句話說, 我已經是我們文化中關於後悔教導的狂信者,他們認為為過去的事哀傷是一種完全沒有意義的事,我們應該向前看而非向後看,在生活中儘量不要後悔,這是我們能做的最好的事。 以下的引用句非常恰當的描述這個道理:「 沒有挽救方法的事就不要關注了;事情做了就做了」 。一開始這看起來的確是很令人深省的哲理—一些我們都應遵守的信條..直至我告訴你這句話是誰說 。這是麥克白的夫人,說這句話只不過是用來勸麥克白不要像個膽小鬼,為殺人而感到罪惡感 。莎翁在這裡應該也如他以往在說些有內涵的話 。因為沒有能力去經歷後悔,這其實是反社會的典型的診斷特徵。同時這也是大腦某部份損傷的特徵。那些眼眶額皮質受損的人看起來就算做了再差的決定也不會後悔。所以, 如果你不想過充滿後悔的生活,你可以去做一個前額腦皮質切除手術。但是如果你想要自己機能完整,是一個完整的人,是一個完整的靈魂,我想你要學的是怎樣在後悔中生存, 而非是擺脫它。 接下來讓我們開始先給一些專屬名詞定義吧 。那麼什麽是後悔?後悔是一種情緒,是一種當我們認為我們假如在以前做了不同的事,現在的情況會更好的話的情緒,那麼後悔是需要兩個前提條件的。首先它是需要一個媒介—你必須在之前做一個決定。然後, 它需要的是想像力。我們要能想像我們回到過去並且做了不同的決定,接下來我們要把這段想像稍微前移一點並想像一下現在事情會變成怎麼 。只要我們這兩個條件中的一個越多—就是, 越多的媒介或者越多的想像就有越多的後悔,後悔感就越強烈 。 就比如,你在你好朋友婚禮的路上,正在趕飛機, 結果遇上了堵車,最後你到了你的登機口發現你錯過了你的航班。在這種情形下, 你將會感到更多的後悔感,假如你只不過是誤機了3分鐘而非20分鐘 。爲什麽呢?因為你只是錯過了飛機3分鐘,對你來說是痛苦的想像,你可以做了別的不同選擇並且有個很好的結果是很簡單的 。「 我應該從橋上走而不是走隧道 。我應該衝過那黃燈 。」這些都是很自然的引發後悔的因素 。當我們認為我們是應該對這個明明可以變好卻弄砸的決定, 我們便後悔 。 在這樣的一個框架中,我們很顯然會經歷各種悔恨。今天的話題是關於行為經濟學 。我們所知道有關後悔的一切也都是來自那個領域的 。我們有一堆關於消費者和財政決策, 和關於他們對這些決策後悔的書籍—基本上主要是買家的懊悔 。到最後, 這樣的一個問題會出現在那些研究者腦中並說, 既然這樣了,那麼什麽是我們一輩子最後悔的事情呢?這是他們總結這個問題的答案 。 後悔排行—我們一輩子最後悔的六件事:目前為止, 教育排在第一。我們一生百分之33的後悔都會與自己的教育有關。我們總希望曾經能多學一點 。我們總希望曾經更好的利用我們獲得的教育。我們希望曾經能選擇學另外一個科目 。另外幾個很“熱”的後悔包括我們的職業, 愛情, 教養方式,對自己的各種評價和選擇,還有我們業餘時間的耗費—或更準確的事,我們沒有好好利用業餘時間 。接下來的後悔就是涉及:金錢, 愛情和養育之外的家庭問題,健康, 朋友,信仰, 組織 。 換句話說, 我們通過研究經濟知道了我們一輩子最後悔的事 。但是當你仔細看看我們這輩子的遺憾時,我們的經濟問題不是那六個之一 。他們僅僅是我們後悔中的百分之3 。所以你假如坐在那裡比較著大杯子小杯子,或公司A 公司B,或者普銳斯還是斯巴魯的時候,你應該明白—隨便它吧。賠率是五年後你不會後悔那些事情 。 但是那些你真正關心的問題和那深沉的懊悔,那樣的經歷感覺是怎樣的?我們都有一個簡短的答案 。那感覺很糟糕 。很難受 。但那些令人痛苦的後悔一般都有四個共性 。後悔的第一個共性基本上便是否定 。那天我繡了紋身回家,我一夜沒睡 。在一開始的幾個小時中,在我腦中就只有一個想法 。那就是「弄走它吧! 」就是這樣的難以置信的原始感情回應 。很直接的就是, 「 我想要我的媽媽」!我們並不是在想著如何解決問題 。我們也不是在明白問題是從哪裡來的 。我們就只是想讓它消失 。 第二個很典型的後悔成份就是迷亂的感覺 。然後那晚我在我房裡想的第二件事情就是「 我是怎麼會做這個的?我當時在想些什麽呢?」這是種把我們從令我們後悔的決定分離出來的感覺 。我們不想認同那個部份 。我們不想理解這部份 。我們甚至對這份沒有任何換位思考。這就解釋了接下來的第三點,那就是強烈的對自己的懲罰感。這就是爲什麽當我們面對自己的後悔時,我們總喜歡說一句話: 「 我真該踢自己一腳。」第四個成份就是心理學上的執拗 。執拗就是強迫自己不斷地關注同一件事情 。執拗的效果就是把後悔的前三個效果組合在一起然後變成一個無限的循環 。那晚我並不是坐在我臥室想著:「 讓那玩意消失 。」而我是在這裡想著,「 讓那東西消失消失消失消失」。當你在看心理學作品時,這就是定義後悔的四個部份 。 但是我想說這裡還有第五個 。而且我認為這是一種存在感的喚醒警訊 。那天夜我在公寓裡,在我踢打完我自己諸如此類後,我在床上躺了很長時間,我有想過皮膚移植 。就開始想如何弄到這筆錢呢但是就像旅行保險無法包括天災同樣我的醫療保險也不可能為我的愚蠢買單再說 也不可能有保險會擔保愚蠢的行為所以得愚蠢的行為他們一定都是完全無保的它們讓你暴露在這個大世界中暴露你的軟弱你的愚笨坦白地說就是暴露這個相當冷漠的世界 這很顯然是很難受的經歷並且在現在這個被Control-Z文化所包裹的世界中這種經歷將更加痛心Control-Z就是電腦指令撤銷雖然難以置信但是我們都用它從某種程度中逃避現實中的艱難我們想我們可以用錢解決問題或者用技術去解決我們可以撤銷 撤銷人與人間的關係可以取消關注但是問題是生活中是有著我們十分想改變我們無法改變的事情就因這樣我們會用歸零來代替撤銷這樣的代替對那些控制癖和完美主義者是非常痛苦的因為我就是那種人因為我們一直希望我們自己做每件事並且都做好 但是這樣的情況就出現可一個控制癖完美主義者是不應該去繡紋身的爲什麽就不說了我現在想說的是後悔中的那些我們經歷的感情的強度很明顯是根據我們到底為什麽而後悔而變得比如 這是我最愛的現代社會的後悔產生器（笑）文本：答覆給所有然後驚奇的是這個暗中為害的技術發明還真的讓我們體驗了不少後悔僅僅是這一個你可能寫電郵時一不小心就點了這個鍵然後毀了一個人與你之間的關係後者那天工作的時候將非常尷尬或者今天就是你在職的最後一天 但是這些並沒有和我們那些影響深遠的悔恨沾邊因為很顯然 我們偶爾會做一些導致不可原諒的糟糕後果的決定可能是對自己也可能是對別人的健康幸福或生活環境可能更糟的是危害了他們的生命明顯的這些後悔將會是難以置信的刺痛和持久甚至是這小小的 答覆全部帶來的後悔都可能讓我們煩惱幾天 那麼這樣我們又如何能與它一同生活應該有三件事是能幫我們在遇到後悔時平靜下來的第一就是我們可以從它的普遍性中得到安慰假如你Google一下後悔和紋身兩個關鍵字你將會有1.15千萬的結果（笑）FDA統計所有繡了紋身的美國人有百分之17都很後悔其中就是 強尼德普和我和7百萬美國人我們在為紋身後悔時我們是在一起的 第二種方法然我們面對後悔平靜一點的是自我諷刺我感覺 這真的不難因為自己罵下自己是很簡單的事情當你29歲了還要因為你不喜歡你的新紋身而找媽媽但是這樣的嘲笑可能在碰到嚴重的後悔時會變成一種殘酷滑頭的辯解但我不認我我們每個經歷過真正的包含真的痛苦和悲哀的後悔都是明白的幽默 甚至是黑色幽默真的能幫我們挺過去他把我們生活中的兩極連在了一起正極和負極然後輸回了一點生命的力量給我們 第三個能幫我們平靜的面對後悔的就是靠著時間的流逝時間我們都懂了 能治好所有的傷口除了紋身 那是永久的但現在離我繡上紋身已經有幾年了你們想看一下嗎行啊但是我要說的是你們應該會失望的因為它並不是太嚇人我並沒有繡上瑪麗蓮曼森的臉在不檢點的地方當其他人看我紋身時他們都還是比較喜歡只不過是我不喜歡我之前也說過我是一個完美主義者我還是會讓你們看 這是我的紋身我能猜到你們可能在想（這不錯）但是我也想告訴你們你的某些後悔可能真的並不像你們想的那樣我繡上這個紋身是因為20多歲這段時間一直在別的國家居住旅遊當我來到紐約居住下來的時候我生怕自己會忘記我從當中學到的重要的事特別是兩點關於我自己的特別不想忘記就是不斷冒險的重要和同時不斷的尋找你自己的重要然後我喜歡這個羅盤圖像就在於它包含了這兩種想法在一張圖裏面我也認為它可能作為一種永遠的幫我回憶的道具 好吧 它真的做到了但是 卻不是我希望記住的東西而是讓我不斷記住了別的事情它提醒我後悔能教導我的事同樣的也是生活教我的重要課程但是諷刺的是 我又在想可能能在我身上繡上的紋身—作為一個作家更可能是作為一個普通人就這這個了假如我們有目標有理想我們想要做的更好同時我們愛我們的鄰居我們不想失去或傷害他們我們就應該為我們的過錯傷心我們要做的不是無悔不是討厭有遺憾的人生 我最終從我紋身中明白的是同時也是今天想跟你們說的就是這個我們應該學會去愛上那些我們創造的不完美的有瑕疵的東西并學會原諒創造了那些東西的我們後悔並不是提醒我們 我們有多差勁而是提醒我們 我們能做的更好 謝謝 （掌聲）
