Talk	en	zh-tw
katherine_fulton_you_are_the_future_of_philanthropy	"I want to help you re-perceive what philanthropy is, what it could be, and what your relationship to it is. And in doing that, I want to offer you a vision, an imagined future, if you will, of how, as the poet Seamus Heaney has put it, ""Once in a lifetime the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up, and hope and history rhyme."" I want to start with these word pairs here. We all know which side of these we'd like to be on. When philanthropy was reinvented a century ago, when the foundation form was actually invented, they didn't think of themselves on the wrong side of these either. In fact they would never have thought of themselves as closed and set in their ways, as slow to respond to new challenges, as small and risk-averse. And in fact they weren't. They were reinventing charity in those times, what Rockefeller called ""the business of benevolence."" But by the end of the 20th century, a new generation of critics and reformers had come to see philanthropy just this way. The thing to watch for as a global philanthropy industry comes about — and that's exactly what is happening — is how the aspiration is to flip these old assumptions, for philanthropy to become open and big and fast and connected, in service of the long term. This entrepreneurial energy is emerging from many quarters. And it's driven and propelled forward by new leaders, like many of the people here, by new tools, like the ones we've seen here, and by new pressures. I've been following this change for quite a while now, and participating in it. This report is our main public report. What it tells is the story of how today actually could be as historic as 100 years ago. What I want to do is share some of the coolest things that are going on with you. And as I do that, I'm not going to dwell much on the very large philanthropy that everybody already knows about — the Gates or the Soros or the Google. Instead, what I want to do is talk about the philanthropy of all of us: the democratization of philanthropy. This is a moment in history when the average person has more power than at any time. What I'm going to do is look at five categories of experiments, each of which challenges an old assumption of philanthropy. The first is mass collaboration, represented here by Wikipedia. Now, this may surprise you. But remember, philanthropy is about giving of time and talent, not just money. Clay Shirky, that great chronicler of everything networked, has captured the assumption that this challenges in such a beautiful way. He said, ""We have lived in this world where little things are done for love and big things for money. Now we have Wikipedia. Suddenly big things can be done for love."" Watch, this spring, for Paul Hawken's new book — Author and entrepreneur many of you may know about. The book is called ""Blessed Unrest."" And when it comes out, a series of wiki sites under the label WISER, are going to launch at the same time. WISER stands for World Index for Social and Environmental Responsibility. WISER sets out to document, link and empower what Paul calls the largest movement, and fastest-growing movement in human history: humanity's collective immune response to today's threats. Now, all of these big things for love — experiments — aren't going to take off. But the ones that do are going to be the biggest, the most open, the fastest, the most connected form of philanthropy in human history. Second category is online philanthropy marketplaces. This is, of course, to philanthropy what eBay and Amazon are to commerce. Think of it as peer-to-peer philanthropy. And this challenges yet another assumption, which is that organized philanthropy is only for the very wealthy. Take a look, if you haven't, at DonorsChoose. Omidyar Network has made a big investment in DonorsChoose. It's one of the best known of these new marketplaces where a donor can go straight into a classroom and connect with what a teacher says they need. Take a look at Changing the Present, started by a TEDster, next time you need a wedding present or a holiday present. GiveIndia is for a whole country. And it goes on and on. The third category is represented by Warren Buffet, which I call aggregated giving. It's not just that Warren Buffet was so amazingly generous in that historic act last summer. It's that he challenged another assumption, that every giver should have his or her own fund or foundation. There are now, today, so many new funds that are aggregating giving and investing, bringing together people around a common goal, to think bigger. One of the best known is Acumen Fund, led by Jacqueline Novogratz, a TEDster who got a big boost here at TED. But there are many others: New Profit in Cambridge, New School's Venture Fund in Silicon Valley, Venture Philanthropy Partners in Washington, Global Fund for Women in San Francisco. Take a look at these. These funds are to philanthropy what venture capital, private equity, and eventually mutual funds are to investing, but with a twist — because often a community forms around these funds, as it has at Acumen and other places. Now, imagine for a second these first three types of experiments: mass collaboration, online marketplaces, aggregated giving. And understand how they help us re-perceive what organized philanthropy is. It's not about foundations necessarily; it's about the rest of us. And imagine the mash-up, if you will, of these things, in the future, when these things come together in the experiments of the future — imagine that somebody puts up, say, 100 million dollars for an inspiring goal — there were 21 gifts of 100 million dollars or more in the US last year, not out of the question — but only puts it up if it's matched by millions of small gifts from around the globe, thereby engaging lots of people, and building visibility and engaging people in the goal that's stated. I'm going to look quickly at the fourth and fifth categories, which are innovation, competitions and social investing. They're betting a visible competition, a prize, can attract talent and money to some of the most difficult issues, and thereby speed the solution. This tackles yet another assumption, that the giver and the organization is at the center, as opposed to putting the problem at the center. You can look to these innovators to help us especially with things that require technological or scientific solution. That leaves the final category, social investing, which is really, anyway, the biggest of them all, represented here by Xigi.net. And this, of course, tackles the biggest assumption of all, that business is business, and philanthropy is the vehicle of people who want to create change in the world. Xigi is a new community site that's built by the community, linking and mapping this new social capital market. It lists already 1,000 entities that are offering debt and equity for social enterprise. So we can look to these innovators to help us remember that if we can leverage even a small amount of the capital that seeks a return, the good that can be driven could be astonishing. Now, what's really interesting here is that we're not thinking our way into a new way of acting; we're acting our way into a new way of thinking. Philanthropy is reorganizing itself before our very eyes. And even though all of the experiments and all of the big givers don't yet fulfill this aspiration, I think this is the new zeitgeist: open, big, fast, connected, and, let us also hope, long. We have got to realize that it is going to take a long time to do these things. If we don't develop the stamina to stick with things — whatever it is you pick, stick with it — all of this stuff is just going to be, you know, a fad. But I'm really hopeful. And I'm hopeful because it's not only philanthropy that's reorganizing itself, it's also whole other portions of the social sector, and of business, that are busy challenging ""business as usual."" And everywhere I go, including here at TED, I feel that there is a new moral hunger that is growing. What we're seeing is people really wrestling to describe what is this new thing that's happening. Words like ""philanthrocapitalism,"" and ""natural capitalism,"" and ""philanthroentrepreneur,"" and ""venture philanthropy."" We don't have a language for it yet. Whatever we call it, it's new, it's beginning, and I think it's gong to quite significant. And that's where my imagined future comes in, which I am going to call the social singularity. Many of you will realize that I'm ripping a bit off of the science fiction writer Vernor Vinge's notion of a technological singularity, where a number of trends accelerate and converge and come together to create, really, a shockingly new reality. It may be that the social singularity ahead is the one that we fear the most: a convergence of catastrophes, of environmental degradation, of weapons of mass destruction, of pandemics, of poverty. That's because our ability to confront the problems that we face has not kept pace with our ability to create them. And as we've heard here, it is no exaggeration to say that we hold the future of our civilization in our hands as never before. The question is, is there a positive social singularity? Is there a frontier for us of how we live together? Our future doesn't have to be imagined. We can create a future where hope and history rhyme. But we have a problem. Our experience to date, both individually and collectively, hasn't prepared us for what we're going to need to do, or who we're going to need to be. We are going to need a new generation of citizen leaders willing to commit ourselves to growing and changing and learning as rapidly as possible. That's why I have one last thing I want to show you. This is a photograph taken about 100 years ago of my grandfather and great-grandfather. This is a newspaper publisher and a banker. And they were great community leaders. And, yes, they were great philanthropists. I keep this photograph close by to me — it's in my office — because I've always felt a mystical connection to these two men, both of whom I never knew. And so, in their honor, I want to offer you this blank slide. And I want you to imagine that this a photograph of you. And I want you to think about the community that you want to be part of creating. Whatever that means to you. And I want you to imagine that it's 100 years from now, and your grandchild, or great-grandchild, or niece or nephew or god-child, is looking at this photograph of you. What is the story you most want for them to tell? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我希望幫助各位重新認識慈善事業，看到它的可能性，以及它跟你的關係。為了要這樣做，我要向你展示一個遠景，一個想像中的未來樣貌，就如詩人 Seamus Heaney 所說，「人的一生中總有一次，一直盼望的正義之潮會升起，而希望正和歷史合奏著。」 我想從這幾對字詞開始。我們都知道我們想身於哪一方。一個世紀前，當慈善事業進行重整，開始出現基金會的形式時，他們也沒有想到自己會屬於錯的這一方。他們從沒想到自己會是封閉、故步自封，對新挑戰反應緩慢，渺小而且經不起風險。而事實上他們也不是。他們改革當時的慈善事業，洛克費羅稱為「慈善生意」。但到了二十世紀末，新一代的評論家和改革者指出了慈善事業的這些缺失。 我們可以觀察到全球慈善行業的走向，目前正出現一股強烈的企圖，要翻轉這些舊有的認定，企圖使慈善事業變得開放而且強大，快捷而且緊密連結，可以持續地為社會服務。這股具有企業精神的力量正從各個角落出現，在各位當中有些人正是新一代的領導者，而我們剛才所見到的新工具，以及新的壓力，也形成推動的力量。 我長期觀察並參與這樣的轉變。這份報告是我們的主要公開報告。而它會告訴你如今這個時代就如同一百年前一樣具有歷史意義。我想與各位分享一些正在發生的最酷的事情。但我不會講太多那些家傳戶曉的大型慈善事業，如蓋茨、索羅斯、Google等等。相反的，我想講的是屬於我們所有人的慈善事業，慈善事業的民主化。在今天，一個普通人所擁有的力量，是歷史上前所未有的強大。 現在來看看五種類型的實驗，每一種都挑戰一項對慈善事業的既有認定。第一種是群體協作，代表者有維基百科(Wikipedia)。這可能會令你如夢初醒，但記著，慈善不止於金錢上的捐獻，也可以奉獻時間和才能。Clay Shirky這位網路發展的觀察者，把這實驗如何推翻固有的認定作出很好的註解。他說：「我們所在的世界，是只能為愛做小事、為錢做大事的世界。而現在我們有了維基百科(Wikipedia)。突然之間，也可以為愛做成大事。」 今年春天，留意Paul Hawken的新書，大家可能都認識這位作家及企業家。這本書名為「蒙福的動盪」。在它出版時，名為 ""WISER"" 的一系列維基網站也將會同時上線。WISER 所代表的是「世界社會及環境責任指數」。WISER 的宗旨是記錄、連結和推動Paul 所說的人類史上規模最大、發展最快的行動。可以說是人類對現有威脅的集體免疫反應。但是，這些為愛做大事的實驗並不是每一個都能成功。但是那些能夠成功的，將成為人類史上最大、最開放、最敏捷、最相連的慈善事業。 第二種是網上慈善賣場。這些賣場對於慈善事業，正如eBay和Amazon對於傳統商業的意義一樣。將它想像成一對一的慈善事業。它挑戰另一項認定，就是有組織的慈善事業是富人的專利。如果你還不知道的話，請看DonorsChoose網站。DonorsChoose已獲得Omidyar Network的鉅額投資。它是知名度最高的新賣場之一，捐贈者可以直接進入一間教室，與教師連結，瞭解他們所需要的是什麼。下次你要買結婚禮物或節日禮物，請逛一逛Changing the Present,這是由一名 TED 會員所設立的。GiveIndia 是為印度這個國家捐獻。這樣的例子數之不盡。 第三種類型以巴菲特為代表，我稱它為集資捐獻。巴菲特去年夏天的這項歷史性創舉，不只是因為他的慷慨捐獻而偉大，而是他打破了另一項認定，證明並不是每一個捐獻者都必須成立自己的基金或基金會。現在有很多新的慈善基金是採用集資捐獻及投資，把人們集合起來，為共同的目標提供更大規模的捐獻。當中最廣為人知的是 Acumen Fund, 由 Jacqueline Novogratz 帶領，她是一位 TED 會員，從 TED 這裡得到大力幫助。但當然不止於此。在劍橋的 New Profit,矽谷的 New School's Venture Fund,華府的 Venture Philanthropy Partners及三藩市的 Global Fund For Women.觀察這些例子，這些基金與慈善事業的關係，和風險投資、私人資本、共同基金等，與投資項目之間的關係類似。但當然不完全一樣，因為通常一個社群將會伴隨這些基金形成，就如 Acumen 及其他基金的例子。 現在，想像一下前面三種類型的實驗：群體協作、網上賣場、集資捐獻。了解它們如何幫助我們重新認識有組織的慈善事業。不一定屬於基金會，而是屬於我們所有人的。再想像一下，當這些混搭元素未來相互結合，進行更多實驗 －例如有人提出目標，價值一億美元的群體捐獻目標 －去年在美國有21筆捐獻的單筆金額超過一億美元，這並不是不可能的 －但達到這個目標的方法是募集全球數百萬筆的小型捐獻。所以它能使許多人參與在其中，建立其公信力，吸引人群參與，以達成所設立的目標。 我會很快地說明第四及第五種類型，也就是創新、競爭及社會投資。以實際的競賽、獎項，吸引人才及資金，對付一些最困難的議題，加快解決議題的腳步。這挑戰了另一項認定，就是以捐贈者及組織為中心，而不是以問題為主。你可以依賴這些革新者，來幫助我們解決問題，特別是需要科技支援的問題。 最後一種類型，社會投資，從任何方面來說，這都是在五種類型當中最大的一個。以 Xigi.net 為代表。當然，這是要挑戰最大的認定，就是在商言商，而慈善是由一班想改變世界的人所推動。Xigi 是一個新的社群網站，由社群所創立，把這最新的社會資本市場連結起來。它列出一千個為社會企業提供借貸及資本的組織。所以這群革新者提醒了我們，即使運用很少的資金去追求報酬，所能推動的善行也很驚人。 而最有趣的是，我們不是透過思想去啟發新一種行為。我們正以行動啟動新一波的思維。慈善事業正在我們眼前徹底重整。就算這些實驗和所有的大慈善家還沒有實現這個企圖，我想這就是新的時代精神：開放、強大、快捷、相互連結。而且希望可以長久持續。我們必須明白，這些事不是一朝一夕可以完成的。如果我們沒有毅力去堅持 －無論你選擇了什麼，堅持著 －所有東西都只會淪為一時的風潮。 但我是滿懷希望的。而我充滿希望是因為不止是慈善事業在進行重整。而是其他所有的社會組織以及商業組織，都在挑戰過去習以為常的做法。我所到的每一個地方，包括在 TED 這裡，我也感受到對道德的一股新的渴望，正在不斷成長。我們看到人們絞盡腦汁要描述正在發生的這件事情。出現了如「慈善資本主義」、「自然資本主義」、「慈善企業家」以及「慈善風險投資」等各種名稱。我們暫時沒有專門的用語。但無論我們怎樣稱呼它，這是新的，這是起步，而且我想它會是很重要的。 這與我所想像的未來有關，我將把它稱為 ""社會奇異點"" 。你們當中有些人知道我借用了科幻小說家Vernor Vinge ""科技奇異點"" 的概念，當幾個不同的趨勢加速並聚合的時候，將共同創造一個令人震撼的新世界。我們將面臨的社會奇異點，正是我們最害怕的。當不同的災難一同發生，如環境破壞、大規模毀滅性武器、流行疫症，以及貧窮。這是因為我們解決所遭遇問題的能力，遠比我們製造問題的能力慢。就如我們剛才所聽到的，要說我們對人類文明的未來有著前所未有的掌握能力，其實一點也不誇張。 問題是，有沒有正面的社會奇異點？有沒有一個先例可以啟示我們要如何共同生活？我們的未來不需要只憑空想像。我們可以創造一個未來，讓今日的希望成為明日的歷史。但我們有一個問題。到今天為止，我們的經驗，無論是個人或集體的，都不足以預備我們面對未來將要做的，或是我們將要成為的未來。我們會需要新一代的公民領袖，願意身體力行去不斷成長，快速地轉變及學習。因此，我有最後一件東西想給大家看。 這張照片攝於大約一百年前，相中人是我的祖父和曾祖父。他們是日報發行人和銀行家，也是傑出的社群領袖。而且，沒錯，他們都是大慈善家。這張照片和我形影不離。我把它放在我的辦公室裡。因為我總感覺到和這兩位我從不認識的長輩有一種神祕的聯繫。所以，以他們之名，我把這張空白的幻燈片送給你們。我希望各位想像，這是一張你的照片。我希望你想像一下你希望參與創造的那個社群。無論它對你具有什麼意義。我也要你想像一百年之後，你的孫兒或曾孫兒，姪兒、甥兒或教子，看著你的這一張照片。你最希望他們述說什麼故事？謝謝各位。（掌聲）"
