Talk	en	zh-tw
kathryn_schulz_on_being_wrong	"So it's 1995, I'm in college, and a friend and I go on a road trip from Providence, Rhode Island to Portland, Oregon. And you know, we're young and unemployed, so we do the whole thing on back roads through state parks and national forests — basically the longest route we can possibly take. And somewhere in the middle of South Dakota, I turn to my friend and I ask her a question that's been bothering me for 2,000 miles. ""What's up with the Chinese character I keep seeing by the side of the road?"" My friend looks at me totally blankly. There's actually a gentleman in the front row who's doing a perfect imitation of her look. (Laughter) And I'm like, ""You know, all the signs we keep seeing with the Chinese character on them."" She just stares at me for a few moments, and then she cracks up, because she figures out what I'm talking about. And what I'm talking about is this. (Laughter) Right, the famous Chinese character for picnic area. (Laughter) I've spent the last five years of my life thinking about situations exactly like this — why we sometimes misunderstand the signs around us, and how we behave when that happens, and what all of this can tell us about human nature. In other words, as you heard Chris say, I've spent the last five years thinking about being wrong. This might strike you as a strange career move, but it actually has one great advantage: no job competition. (Laughter) In fact, most of us do everything we can to avoid thinking about being wrong, or at least to avoid thinking about the possibility that we ourselves are wrong. We get it in the abstract. We all know everybody in this room makes mistakes. The human species, in general, is fallible — okay fine. But when it comes down to me, right now, to all the beliefs I hold, here in the present tense, suddenly all of this abstract appreciation of fallibility goes out the window — and I can't actually think of anything I'm wrong about. And the thing is, the present tense is where we live. We go to meetings in the present tense; we go on family vacations in the present tense; we go to the polls and vote in the present tense. So effectively, we all kind of wind up traveling through life, trapped in this little bubble of feeling very right about everything. I think this is a problem. I think it's a problem for each of us as individuals, in our personal and professional lives, and I think it's a problem for all of us collectively as a culture. So what I want to do today is, first of all, talk about why we get stuck inside this feeling of being right. And second, why it's such a problem. And finally, I want to convince you that it is possible to step outside of that feeling and that if you can do so, it is the single greatest moral, intellectual and creative leap you can make. So why do we get stuck in this feeling of being right? One reason, actually, has to do with a feeling of being wrong. So let me ask you guys something — or actually, let me ask you guys something, because you're right here: How does it feel — emotionally — how does it feel to be wrong? Dreadful. Thumbs down. Embarrassing. Okay, wonderful, great. Dreadful, thumbs down, embarrassing — thank you, these are great answers, but they're answers to a different question. You guys are answering the question: How does it feel to realize you're wrong? (Laughter) Realizing you're wrong can feel like all of that and a lot of other things, right? I mean it can be devastating, it can be revelatory, it can actually be quite funny, like my stupid Chinese character mistake. But just being wrong doesn't feel like anything. I'll give you an analogy. Do you remember that Loony Tunes cartoon where there's this pathetic coyote who's always chasing and never catching a roadrunner? In pretty much every episode of this cartoon, there's a moment where the coyote is chasing the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off a cliff, which is fine — he's a bird, he can fly. But the thing is, the coyote runs off the cliff right after him. And what's funny — at least if you're six years old — is that the coyote's totally fine too. He just keeps running — right up until the moment that he looks down and realizes that he's in mid-air. That's when he falls. When we're wrong about something — not when we realize it, but before that — we're like that coyote after he's gone off the cliff and before he looks down. You know, we're already wrong, we're already in trouble, but we feel like we're on solid ground. So I should actually correct something I said a moment ago. It does feel like something to be wrong; it feels like being right. (Laughter) So this is one reason, a structural reason, why we get stuck inside this feeling of rightness. I call this error blindness. Most of the time, we don't have any kind of internal cue to let us know that we're wrong about something, until it's too late. But there's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well — and this one is cultural. Think back for a moment to elementary school. You're sitting there in class, and your teacher is handing back quiz papers, and one of them looks like this. This is not mine, by the way. (Laughter) So there you are in grade school, and you know exactly what to think about the kid who got this paper. It's the dumb kid, the troublemaker, the one who never does his homework. So by the time you are nine years old, you've already learned, first of all, that people who get stuff wrong are lazy, irresponsible dimwits — and second of all, that the way to succeed in life is to never make any mistakes. We learn these really bad lessons really well. And a lot of us — and I suspect, especially a lot of us in this room — deal with them by just becoming perfect little A students, perfectionists, over-achievers. Right, Mr. CFO, astrophysicist, ultra-marathoner? (Laughter) You're all CFO, astrophysicists, ultra-marathoners, it turns out. Okay, so fine. Except that then we freak out at the possibility that we've gotten something wrong. Because according to this, getting something wrong means there's something wrong with us. So we just insist that we're right, because it makes us feel smart and responsible and virtuous and safe. So let me tell you a story. A couple of years ago, a woman comes into Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center for a surgery. Beth Israel's in Boston. It's the teaching hospital for Harvard — one of the best hospitals in the country. So this woman comes in and she's taken into the operating room. She's anesthetized, the surgeon does his thing — stitches her back up, sends her out to the recovery room. Everything seems to have gone fine. And she wakes up, and she looks down at herself, and she says, ""Why is the wrong side of my body in bandages?"" Well the wrong side of her body is in bandages because the surgeon has performed a major operation on her left leg instead of her right one. When the vice president for health care quality at Beth Israel spoke about this incident, he said something very interesting. He said, ""For whatever reason, the surgeon simply felt that he was on the correct side of the patient."" (Laughter) The point of this story is that trusting too much in the feeling of being on the correct side of anything can be very dangerous. This internal sense of rightness that we all experience so often is not a reliable guide to what is actually going on in the external world. And when we act like it is, and we stop entertaining the possibility that we could be wrong, well that's when we end up doing things like dumping 200 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or torpedoing the global economy. So this is a huge practical problem. But it's also a huge social problem. Think for a moment about what it means to feel right. It means that you think that your beliefs just perfectly reflect reality. And when you feel that way, you've got a problem to solve, which is, how are you going to explain all of those people who disagree with you? It turns out, most of us explain those people the same way, by resorting to a series of unfortunate assumptions. The first thing we usually do when someone disagrees with us is we just assume they're ignorant. They don't have access to the same information that we do, and when we generously share that information with them, they're going to see the light and come on over to our team. When that doesn't work, when it turns out those people have all the same facts that we do and they still disagree with us, then we move on to a second assumption, which is that they're idiots. (Laughter) They have all the right pieces of the puzzle, and they are too moronic to put them together correctly. And when that doesn't work, when it turns out that people who disagree with us have all the same facts we do and are actually pretty smart, then we move on to a third assumption: they know the truth, and they are deliberately distorting it for their own malevolent purposes. So this is a catastrophe. This attachment to our own rightness keeps us from preventing mistakes when we absolutely need to and causes us to treat each other terribly. But to me, what's most baffling and most tragic about this is that it misses the whole point of being human. It's like we want to imagine that our minds are just these perfectly translucent windows and we just gaze out of them and describe the world as it unfolds. And we want everybody else to gaze out of the same window and see the exact same thing. That is not true, and if it were, life would be incredibly boring. The miracle of your mind isn't that you can see the world as it is. It's that you can see the world as it isn't. We can remember the past, and we can think about the future, and we can imagine what it's like to be some other person in some other place. And we all do this a little differently, which is why we can all look up at the same night sky and see this and also this and also this. And yeah, it is also why we get things wrong. 1,200 years before Descartes said his famous thing about ""I think therefore I am,"" this guy, St. Augustine, sat down and wrote ""Fallor ergo sum"" — ""I err therefore I am."" Augustine understood that our capacity to screw up, it's not some kind of embarrassing defect in the human system, something we can eradicate or overcome. It's totally fundamental to who we are. Because, unlike God, we don't really know what's going on out there. And unlike all of the other animals, we are obsessed with trying to figure it out. To me, this obsession is the source and root of all of our productivity and creativity. Last year, for various reasons, I found myself listening to a lot of episodes of the Public Radio show This American Life. And so I'm listening and I'm listening, and at some point, I start feeling like all the stories are about being wrong. And my first thought was, ""I've lost it. I've become the crazy wrongness lady. I just imagined it everywhere,"" which has happened. But a couple of months later, I actually had a chance to interview Ira Glass, who's the host of the show. And I mentioned this to him, and he was like, ""No actually, that's true. In fact,"" he says, ""as a staff, we joke that every single episode of our show has the same crypto-theme. And the crypto-theme is: 'I thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead.' And the thing is,"" says Ira Glass, ""we need this. We need these moments of surprise and reversal and wrongness to make these stories work."" And for the rest of us, audience members, as listeners, as readers, we eat this stuff up. We love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings. When it comes to our stories, we love being wrong. But, you know, our stories are like this because our lives are like this. We think this one thing is going to happen and something else happens instead. George Bush thought he was going to invade Iraq, find a bunch of weapons of mass destruction, liberate the people and bring democracy to the Middle East. And something else happened instead. And Hosni Mubarak thought he was going to be the dictator of Egypt for the rest of his life, until he got too old or too sick and could pass the reigns of power onto his son. And something else happened instead. And maybe you thought you were going to grow up and marry your high school sweetheart and move back to your hometown and raise a bunch of kids together. And something else happened instead. And I have to tell you that I thought I was writing an incredibly nerdy book about a subject everybody hates for an audience that would never materialize. And something else happened instead. (Laughter) I mean, this is life. For good and for ill, we generate these incredible stories about the world around us, and then the world turns around and astonishes us. No offense, but this entire conference is an unbelievable monument to our capacity to get stuff wrong. We just spent an entire week talking about innovations and advancements and improvements, but you know why we need all of those innovations and advancements and improvements? Because half the stuff that's the most mind-boggling and world-altering — TED 1998 — eh. (Laughter) Didn't really work out that way, did it? (Laughter) Where's my jet pack, Chris? (Laughter) (Applause) So here we are again. And that's how it goes. We come up with another idea. We tell another story. We hold another conference. The theme of this one, as you guys have now heard seven million times, is the rediscovery of wonder. And to me, if you really want to rediscover wonder, you need to step outside of that tiny, terrified space of rightness and look around at each other and look out at the vastness and complexity and mystery of the universe and be able to say, ""Wow, I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong."" Thank you. (Applause) Thank you guys. (Applause)"	"當時是95年我在上大學我和一個朋友開車去玩從羅德島的普羅旺斯區出發到奧勒岡州的波特蘭市我們年輕，無業於是整個旅程都在鄉間小道經過州立公園和國家保護森林我們盡可能繞著最長的路徑在南達科塔州之中某處我轉向我的朋友問她一個兩千英里路途上一直煩惱我的問題""路邊那個一直出現的中文字到底是什麼?""我的朋友露出疑惑的神情正如現在坐在第一排的這三位男士所露出的神情一樣（笑聲）我說""你知道的我們一直看到的那個路牌寫著中文的那個啊""她瞪著我的臉一陣子突然笑開了因為她總算知道我所指為何我說的是這個（笑聲）沒錯，這就是代表野餐區的那個中文字 （笑聲） 過去的五年我一直在思考剛剛我所描述的狀況為什麼我們會對身邊的徵兆產生誤解當誤解發生時我們作何反應以及這一切所告訴我們的人性換句話說，就像 Chris 剛才說的過去五年的時間我都在思考錯誤的價值你可能覺得這是個奇異的專業但有一項好處是不容置疑的：沒有競爭者。（笑聲）事實上，我們大部分的人都盡力不思考錯誤的價值或至少避免想到我們有可能犯錯。我們都知道這個模糊的概念。我們都知道這裡的每個人都曾經犯錯人類本來就會犯錯 － 沒問題 一旦這個想法臨到我們自身我們現在所有的所有的信念對人類可能犯錯的抽象概念隨即被我們拋棄我無法想到我有哪裡出錯但是，我們活在現在我們開會，去家庭旅遊去投票全都是現在式我們就像現在一個小泡泡裡經歷人生感覺自己總是對的 我認為這是個問題我認為這是每個人私人生活和職業生活中的問題我認為我們身為群體，這也造成了文化問題於是，我今天想做的是先談談為甚麼我們會陷在這種自以為是的心態中第二是為甚麼這是個問題最後我想說服大家克服這種感覺是可能的而且一旦你做到了這將成為你道德上智性上和創意上最大的進步 為甚麼我們會陷在這種自以為是的心態中？事實上這和犯錯的感覺有關我想問問你們讓我問問台上的你們當你意識到自己犯錯了你感覺如何？糟透了。很差勁。難堪。很好，是的。很糟糕，很差勁，很難堪。謝謝你們提供這些答案但這些答案沒有回答我的問題你們回答的問題是：當你意識到你犯錯的時候，你的感覺如何？（笑聲）意識到你犯錯了就會有剛剛所說的這些感覺，不是嗎？令人沮喪，暴露了一些真實有時候甚至有些好笑像我誤以為路牌是中文字但犯錯本身事實上毫無感覺 讓我給你一個例子你記得卡通裡那個總是在追逐卻從未抓到獵物的土狼嗎？幾乎在每一集裡牠的獵物 － 一隻走鵑鳥都會跳下懸崖反正牠是鳥，牠可以飛但土狼也會跟著牠一起跳崖那很好笑如果你是個六歲兒童土狼也很好牠就這麼繼續跑直到牠往下看發現自己漫步在空中這時候他才會往下掉在我們犯錯時在我們意識到我們犯錯時我們就像那隻土狼還沒意識到自己奔出懸崖我們已經錯了已經惹上麻煩了但仍然感覺像走在地上我應該改變我之前的說法犯錯的感覺就和正確的感覺一樣 （笑聲） 事實上我們這種自以為對的感受是有構造性的原因的我稱之為錯誤盲點大部份的時間裡我們身體裡沒有任何機制提醒我們錯了直到木已成舟但還有第二個理由文化性的理由回想小學時代你坐在課堂裡你的老師發回小考考卷像這樣的小考考卷雖然這張不是我的（笑聲）你從小學時代就知道該對拿這張考卷的同學下甚麼評語笨蛋，搗蛋鬼從不做功課的壞學生你不過才九歲你已經懂得，首先那些犯錯的人都是懶惰、不負責任的傻瓜第二想要在人生中成功就不要犯錯 我們很早就得到這些錯誤訊息而我們尤其是這個大廳裡的許多人都因此成為好學生拿全A完美主義、永不滿意不是嗎？財務長、天體物理學家、超級馬拉松先生們？（笑聲）結果是你們全成了財務長、天體物理學家、跑超級馬拉松那很好但一旦我們發現有可能犯錯就開始手足無措因為依照規定犯錯代表我們一定也有甚麼不對勁於是我們堅持己見因為那讓我們感覺聰明、得體安全和可靠 讓我告訴你們一個故事幾年前一個女人到 Beth Israel Deaconess 診所做手術Beth Israel 在波士頓是哈佛大學的教學附屬醫院全國數一數二的醫療中心這個女人被送進開刀房麻醉，外科醫生做完手術縫合，將她送進恢復室一切看上去都很好她醒來，往自己身上一看說“為甚麼我的左腿綁著繃帶？”她應該接受治療的是右腿但為他做手術的外科醫生卻把刀開在左腿當副院長出來為醫院的醫療品質和這次意外做出解釋時他說了句很有趣的話他說“無論如何這位外科醫生感覺他開下的刀是在正確的一側”（笑聲）故事的重點是相信自己的判斷力相信自己站在對的一邊是非常危險的 我們心中時常感覺到的理直氣壯的感覺在真實世界中並不是個可靠的嚮導。當我們依此行事不再思考我們是否犯錯我們就有可能把兩百灣加侖的石油倒進墨西哥灣或是顛覆世界經濟這是個很實際的問題這也是個很大的社會問題 “感覺對”究竟是什麼意思這代表著你認為你的信念和真實是一致的當你有這種感覺的時候你的問題就大了因為如果你是對的為甚麼還有人和你持不同意見？於是我們往往用同一種思考方式去解釋這些異議第一是當他人不同意我們的說法我們便覺得他們無知他們不像我們懂得這麼多當我們慷慨地和他們分享我們的知識他們便會理解，並加入我們的行列如果不是這樣如果這些人和我們獲得的資訊一樣多卻仍然不認同我們我們便有了下一個定論那就是他們是白癡（笑聲）他們已經有了所有的資訊卻笨到無法拼湊出正確的圖像一旦第二個定論也不成立當這些反對我們的人和我們有一樣的資訊又聰明我們便有了第三個結論他們知道事實是甚麼但卻為了自己的好處故意曲解真實。這真是個大災難 我們的自以為是讓我們在最需要的時候無法預防犯錯更讓我們互相仇視對我來說最大的悲劇是它讓我們錯失了身為人的珍貴意義那就像是想像我們的心靈之窗完全透明我們向外觀看描述在我們之前展開的世界我們想要每個人和我們有一樣的窗子對世界做出一樣的觀察那不是真的如果是，人生將會多麼無聊心靈的神奇之處不在你懂得這個世界是甚麼樣子而是去理解那些你不懂的地方我們記得過去思考未來我們想像自己成為他人，在他方我們的想像都有些不同於是當我們抬頭看同一個夜空我們看到這個這個和這個這也是我們搞錯事情的原因 在笛卡兒說出那句有名的”我思故我在“的一千兩百年前聖奧古斯丁，坐下來寫下""Fallor ergo sum""""我錯故我在""奧古斯丁懂得我們犯錯的能力這並不是人性中一個令人難堪的缺陷不是我們可以克服或消滅的這是我們的本質因為我們不是上帝我們不知道我們之外究竟發生了甚麼而不同於其它動物的是我們都瘋狂地想找出解答對我來說這種尋找的衝動就是我們生產力和創造力的來源 因為一些緣故去年我在廣播上聽了很多集的""我們的美國人生""我聽著聽著突然發現這些故事全和犯錯有關我的第一個念頭是“我完了我寫書寫瘋了四處都看到有關犯錯的幻覺”說真的是這樣但幾個月後我訪問了那個廣播節目的主持人 Ira Glass我向他提到這件事他回答我“事實上你是對的”他說“我們這些工作人員總是開玩笑說每集節目之中的祕密主題都是一樣的這個祕密主題就是""我以為這件事會這樣發生結果其它事情發生了""他說“但是，這就是我們需要的我們需要這些意外這些顛倒和錯誤這些故事才能成立。""而我們身為觀眾聽眾、讀者我們吸收這些故事我們喜歡故事轉折令人驚訝的結局我們喜歡在故事裡看到犯錯 但，故事會這樣寫是因為人生就是這樣我們以為某些事情會這樣發生發生的卻是其它事小布希以為他入侵伊拉克會找到大規模毀滅性武器解放中東百姓，為他們帶來民主自由但卻不是這樣穆巴拉克以為他到死都會是埃及的獨裁者一直到他年老或臥病再把他的權力交給下一代但卻不是這樣或許你想過你會長大、嫁給你的初戀情人搬回老家，生一群孩子但卻不是這樣我必須說我以為我寫的是一本很冷僻的書有關一個人人討厭的主題為一些從不存在的讀者但卻不是這樣 （笑聲） 我們的人生無論好壞我們創造了啦那包圍我們的世界而世界轉過頭來，令我們大吃一驚說真的，這整個會議充斥著這樣難以置信的時刻我們一次又一次地意識到自己的錯誤我們花了整整一週討論創新，進步和改善你知道我們為甚麼需要這些創新進步和改善嗎？因為其中有一半來自最應該改變世界的98年的TED呃（笑聲）真是出人意料之外啊，不是嗎（笑聲）我的逃生火箭在哪，Chris? （笑聲） （掌聲） 於是我們又在這裡事情就是這樣我們重新想出其它點子我們有了新的故事我們開了另一個會議這次的主題是如果你還沒有聽到耳朵出油的話是重新找到想像的力量對我來說如果你真的想重新找到想像的力量你需要離開那個小小的、自我感覺良好的小圈圈看看彼此看看宇宙的廣大無垠複雜神祕然後真正地說“哇，我不知道或許我錯了。” 謝謝各位 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲）"
