Talk	en	zh-tw
keith_bellows_on_the_camel_s_hump	"[SHIT] This is arguably the back end of the design of animals. (Laughter) But the reason I put this up here is because when I was in Africa last year, my wife and I were driving around, we had this wonderful guide, who showed us something that surprised both of us, and it was very revealing in terms of the fascination that comes with the design of animals. It turns out that in about the 1880s, the missionaries came to Africa to spread the word of Christianity, to teach English to the natives. And they brought blackboards and chalk. And I'd like you to imagine that that's a blackboard, and I just used some chalk on there. And they brought quite a bit of this stuff. But over the years, the blackboards were fine, but they ran out of chalk. And this is a real crisis for them. And that's where the hyena comes in. The hyena is probably the most perfectly designed scavenging animal in the world. It strip-mines carcasses, and it has amazing teeth, because it enables the hyena to essentially eat bones. Now, the end product of that action is up on the board here. What the missionaries would do is, they'd walk around and they'd pick up hyena shit. And the incredible thing about hyena shit is, it makes great chalk. (Laughter) That's not what I'm here to talk about, but it is a fascinating aspect of animal design. What I'm here to talk about is the camel. When I started talking to Richard about what I was going to speak about, I had recently come back from Jordan, where I had an amazing experience with a camel. (Laughter) And we were in the desert. Richard Wurman: That's the end! Keith Bellows: Yeah, yeah. We were in the desert, in Wadi Rum, in a small Jeep. There were four of us, two Bedouin drivers. You can just imagine, this expanse is an ocean of sand, 105 degrees, one water bottle. And we were driving in what they told us was their very, very best Jeep. Didn't look like it to me. And as we started to go through the desert, the Jeep broke down. The guys got out, they put the hood up, they started working under the hood, got it going again. About a hundred yards, it broke down. This went on about 6-7 times, we were getting more and more alarmed, we were also getting deeper and deeper into the desert. And eventually, our worst nightmare happened: they flooded the engine. And they said, ""Ah, no problem! We just get out and walk."" And we said, ""We get out and walk?"" One water bottle, remember, guys, four people. And they said, ""Yeah, yeah, we'll walk. We'll find some camels."" We got out and walked, and sure enough, about half a mile, we came over the crest of this hill, and there was a huge gathering of Bedouin with their camels. The guy went up and started dickering, and 10 dollars later, we had four camels. They went down like elevators; we got on them. They went back up, and the Bedouin, each Bedouin, four of them, got behind each of the camels with a little whip. And they started slashing away at the back of the camels, and they started galloping. And if you've ever been on a camel, it is a very, very uncomfortable ride. There's also one other aspect about these camels. About every 10 steps, they lean back and try to take a chunk out of your leg. (Laughter) So we kept on going, and this camel kept on trying to take a chunk out of my leg. And eventually, three miles later, we arrived at our destination, where a Jeep was supposed to meet us. And the camels come down again like elevators, we sort of clumsily get off, and they, obviously, try to take another chunk out of my leg. And I've developed a very wonderful relationship with this creature by this point, and I've realized that this is a mean son of a bitch. And much meaner, by the way, than the Bedouin who greeted me and tried to sell me one of his 26 daughters to take back to the States. So as we talked, Richard and I, I said, ""You know, maybe I should bring a camel. It's the best designed animal in the world."" He went, ""Nah. I don't think we want to be bringing a camel."" And you should be really glad we decided not to bring the camel. So I did the next best thing. I went to the Washington Zoo. Richard said, ""I want you to get up close and personal with this camel. I want you to inspect its mouth, look at its teeth. Go underneath it. Go above it. Go around it. Pull its tail up; take a look in there. I want you to get as close to that camel as you possibly can."" So, I got a National Geographic film crew. We went down there, and I took one look at this camel. It is a 2,000 pound creature who is in rut. (Laughter) Now, if you've ever seen a 2,000 pound camel in rut, it is a scary, scary thing to behold. And if Richard thought I was getting in the ring with that camel, someone was smoking Bedouin high grade. (Laughter) So we got as close to it as possible, and I'm going to share this. Chris, if you want to roll this film. Then I'm going to show you a little bit more about the design of camels. Do you want to roll the film? (Adventure music) (Video) Hello. This is Keith Bellows with the TED National Geographic Camel Investigation Unit. I'm here to look at the ultimate desert machine. (Music continues) Keith Bellows: And you'll note I started chewing gum because I was around this camel all day. (Video) That's it, OK. No! See, now he's getting a little overexcited. So we'll need to be very careful around him. Don't let him get you. Now, you can see copious amounts of saliva in there. I always called myself the unstable stable boy. Their nose, you can see his nose is flared right now. When they're in rut, they're similar to seals in the way, like, a seal has to open its nose to breathe. And they're similar. They have to consciously open their nose. KB: Ears? SK: They are small. But they have excellent hearing. But not big; for instance, in zebras, they have a huge ear that's very mobile, so they can actually turn them both around. And they use them in the same way we use our binocular vision. They use that to pinpoint sound. The desert's extremely windy as well as being very cold. So not only do they have the very long eyelashes, but there's the secondary — I guess you'd call it the [unclear] or whatever. It's this hair that's above the eyes, and below it, it's longer. Most people think that the humps store water. They don't. They store fat. Now, I'm not a chemist, but basically what happens is the fat is oxidized by their breathing. And that will turn it into actually usable water. Like a lot of predators, they walk on their toes. But there's a big fat pad in there that squishes out. They're like sun shoes, but, you know, with sand. Hooves? They don't have traditional hooves, but they do have one, like, big nail. (Audience laughter) You can't really see too clear. The fur's kind of grown over. But they use their tails a lot, especially in rut. He will urinate and spin his tail to spread the urine around and make him more attractive. I don't know why that would be, but it works for them. So, what the hell. (Audience laughter) Now, they will also defecate in certain areas. Generally, they poop wherever they want to, but during their rut, they will defecate in perimeter areas. I don't know if you've read or heard about the sub-sonic sounds from elephants, you know what I mean, like, ""Br-r-r!"" These big, big rumbling sounds. He will do the same thing. You can actually see, right here, it will vibrate. We weigh our animals. Unfortunately, he's a very aggressive animal, so he's actually destroyed some of the scales. We had these big things that I weigh the bison on, for instance. I'm guessing that he's at least 1,600 pounds. But I would put him closer to 2,000. He's basically a walking mulch pile. We're kind of like buds, but I'm also a male as well. KB: He sees you as competition? Senior Keeper: Yeah, exactly. And it makes him very dangerous at this time of year. Don't even think about it. Don't think about it! But now, we're going to meet. Out! Out! Out! No. Out! (Music) (Applause) KB: What I didn't show you was, you got that swinging thing going? Well, and you're glad I didn't show you this. One of the other things about the camel's beautiful design is that its penis points backwards. That way the camel can dip its tail in the stream, and just whacker the entire area around him. And that's how he really marks his territory. Now, what you also didn't see was that — and you may have noticed in the pen beside him and, by the way, the camel's name is Suki. In the pen beside him is Jasmine. Jasmine has been his mate for some time. But on this particular occasion, it was very, very clear that as horny as Suki was, Jasmine was having none of it. And so we started thinking. Well, if poor old Suki is in search of a mate, what would Suki do to find the perfect mate? I'm going to show you another film. But before I do, I just want to mention that this animal truly is a sort of the SUV of the sand, the ship of the desert. It's so vital to the inhabitants of the areas in which the camel is found, largely Mongolia and Sahara, that there are 160 words in Arabic to describe the camel. And if this is a creature that was designed by committee, it's certainly been like no committee I've ever been on. So here's what Suki would do in search of a mate. Can you roll it, please? Camel seeking camel Lusty beast desires attractive and sincere mate. I'm seven feet, 2,000 lbs., with brown hair and eyes, long legs — and I'm very well ... hung. I'm TED Camel. The perfect desert machine. I'm smartly designed. Eyelashes that keep out sand and a third eyelash that works like a windshield wiper. A distinguished nose — with nostrils lined to filter out sand and dust and a groove that catches moisture. Amazingly full lips — that allow me to eat practically anything that grows. Callouses on my knees that let me kneel comfortably. Leathery chest pads that beat the heat. Short fur that keeps my skin cool. Long legs that allow heat to escape. And my hump? Ogden Nash once wrote: ""The camel has a single hump; the dromedary two, or else the other way around. I'm never sure. Are you?"" Here's a hint: Bactarian. Dromedary. My hump contains up to 80 lbs. of fat, but doesn't store H2O. I'm built to last. I'm the go-to animal when the oasis is dry. I usually won't sweat until my body reaches 105 ºF, enough to fry an egg. I'm able to lose 40% of my weight without dying. (Most animals would if they lost half that much.) I'll drink 5 to 7 gallons of water a day. But go without for more than a month. I'm powerful. Able to pack up to 400 lbs. of cargo. Outrun a horse — And cover 26 miles on a good day. Camelot. Jackie O. once said that traveling by camel made riding an elephant seem like taking a jet plane. Yet my large, soft feet allow me to navigate sand. (Is that why the Bedouin claim I can dance?) I'm a good provider, too. Bedouins call the camel the Gift of God. No surprise. Tents and rugs are made of my hair. My dried bones are prized as a sort of ivory. My dung is burned as fuel. My milk is used for cheese. ""Camels are like angels,"" a Bedouin once said. (Applause) Thank you. I just want to leave you with one last thought, which is probably the most important thing to take away. Humans, the animal, are pretty lucky creatures because, by and large, we really don't have to adapt to our environment; we adapt our environment to us. And we've seen that repeatedly through this conference, not just this year, but in past years. But this creature that you've just seen ultimately adapts, and keeps adapting and adapting. I think when you look at the animal kingdom, that is one of the most remarkable things. It doesn't have an environment that adapts to it; it has to adapt to the environment. Ricky, thank you very much for having me. RW: That's terrific. Thank you."	屎這被認為是動物的最終產物。(笑聲)但我把這個字寫上來的原因是我去年在非洲和妻子開著車閒晃的時候遇到一個很棒的導遊他給我們看了個讓我們倆都很驚奇的東西，而這以動物創造物之魅力的角度來看是非常具有啟發性的。1880年代左右，傳教士來到非洲宣傳基督教、教原住民英文。他們帶來了黑板和粉筆。我希望你們想像這是塊黑板，而我剛剛用了粉筆寫字。他們帶了蠻多這些東西的。但經過幾年以後黑板還很好，但粉筆不夠了。對他們來說這是個危機。 這是土狼起作用的時候。土狼大概是這世界上腐肉動物中設計得最完美的。牠們攫食動物屍體且擁有讓牠們可以吃骨頭的驚人牙齒。現在，上述動作的最終產物在這個板子上。這些傳教士會到處走並撿起土狼糞。土狼糞最驚奇的部分是：它是很棒的粉筆。(笑聲) 這不是我來這要講的東西，但這的確是動物設計中令人著迷的一面。我是來講駱駝的。我剛開始跟理察說我要來這講什麼的時候，我剛從約旦回來在那我跟駱駝有一段驚奇的經驗。(笑聲)我們那時在沙漠中。 理察沃爾曼：這個演說就結束了！ Keith Bellows:是啊是啊。我們開著吉普車在瓦迪拉姆的沙漠上。我們有四個人，其中兩個是貝多因司機。然後你可以想像，這個沙海華氏105度、只有一個水壺。我們坐在一輛他們說是他們最好最好的吉普車。我看起來不怎麼像。就當我們正在穿越沙漠時，吉普車故障了。這些人出去，把敞篷架起來，在敞篷下面修理車子，車子修好了，大約一百碼後車子又故障了。上述狀況重複了六或七次，我們越來越不安，且我們正往沙漠越來越深處開去。 最後，我們最糟的惡夢發生了：引擎熄火了。然後他們說：「啊，沒問題！我們出去用走的。」我們說：「我們出去用走的？」一個水壺，記得嗎，有四個人。他們說：「是啊是啊，我們用走的。我們會找到一些駱駝的。」所以我們出去用走的，然後真的大約走了半哩路後，我們走過峰頂，看到一大群貝多因人和他們的駱駝。這個人走上去跟他們討價還價，付了十塊錢後我們有了四頭駱駝。牠們像電梯般蹲下，我們坐上去。牠們站起來，然後那些貝多因人，每一個貝多因人，總共四個，各帶了一條小鞭子來到駱駝後面。然後他們開始鞭打駱駝後面，駱駝就開始奔跑。如果你有騎過駱駝就會知道那是非常非常不舒服的。還有另一點是大約每十步，駱駝會往後傾試圖在你腿上咬一口。(笑聲) 我們繼續走，這些駱駝繼續試圖咬我們的腿。最後，三哩路後，我們到達目的地，理論上會有一台吉普車在那等我們。駱駝再次像電梯般蹲下，我們七手八腳的下來，牠們，當然的，試圖在我們腿上咬一口。到這個時候我已經跟這生物有了不錯的關係，我了解到這真是個可惡的爛東西。比接待我們的貝多因人還可惡這個貝多因人還試圖賣給我他26個女兒中的一個帶回美國。 所以理查和我聊了一下，我說：「或許我應該帶一頭駱駝來。我認為駱駝是這世上設計得最好的動物。」然後他大概說：「不了。我覺得我們不想要帶一頭駱駝。」你應該要非常慶幸我們沒有帶駱駝來。所以我做了下一個可行的事，我去了華盛頓動物園。理查說：「我要你非常接近這隻駱駝。我要你檢查牠的嘴巴、看看牠的牙齒。到牠下面、到牠上面、在牠四周晃晃。拉牠的尾巴、看看裡面有什麼。我要你盡你所能的靠近這頭駱駝。」 所以我邀請了國家地理雜誌的攝影團隊。我們去了那裡，我看了這頭駱駝。牠是個兩千磅正在發情的動物。(笑聲)現在，如果你有看過一頭兩千磅的駱駝在發情，是非常恐怖的，看起來很恐怖的。如果理查認為我和那頭駱駝有好關係，他絕對是在大吸貝多因了。(笑聲)我們盡可能的靠近，然後我要分享這個。克理斯可以幫我放影片嗎然後我再給你們看一些關於駱駝的設計的東西。請放 (影片)：哈囉。這是Keith Bellows與國家地理雜誌調查小組。我來這看最棒的沙漠機器。你們可以看到我開始嚼口香糖因為我整天都跟駱駝在一起。資深管理員：這就是了。喔不！牠看起來有點太興奮了。所以我們在他附近需要非常小心。不要讓牠對你怎麼樣。現在，你可以看到周圍有非常多口水。我叫我自己「不穩定的穩定男孩」。牠們的鼻子─你們可以看到牠的鼻子現在呈喇叭型。當牠們在發情的時候，牠們很像海豹。就是說海豹也會把鼻子張開來呼吸。牠們也相似。牠們需要有意識的張開鼻子。耳朵呢？耳朵很小但他們的聽力非常好。但不是像斑馬那樣的大耳朵，牠們的耳朵是可以動的。就像我們用我們的雙眼一樣，牠們可以用耳朵指向聲音。在沙漠上風很大且非常冷。所以牠們不但必須有很長很長的睫毛，還有第二層的─我猜應該叫做...隨便你叫什麼。就是眼睛上部有毛髮，下部有一層更長的。 大部分人認為駝峰是裝水的。但不是的，駝峰裝脂肪的。但是─我不是化學家，但基本上就是脂肪在牠們的呼吸過程中被氧化，然後就會被轉換成可用的水。就像大部分的食肉動物一樣，牠們用腳指頭走路。但那邊有個很厚的墊子會被壓出來。就像是太陽鞋。你知道的，用在沙灘上的。蹄？牠們沒有傳統的蹄，但牠們有很大的指甲。你看不大清楚。毛把它蓋住了。但牠們很常用牠們的尾巴，尤其是在發情的時候。牠會小便且甩牠的尾巴將尿往外灑這樣讓牠更具吸引力。我不知道為什麼會這樣，但似乎是有用的。所以，管牠的。 好，牠們還會在固定地方大便。大部分時候他們隨地大便，但在發情的時候牠們會在周圍大便。我不知道你有沒有讀過或聽過大象的超低音聲音你知道的就是「爾厄爾」的聲音。這個隆隆聲，牠也會發。你可以看到，在這裡，會震動。我們會幫我們的動物秤重。不幸的是牠是非常具侵略性的動物，所以牠其實弄壞了幾個磅秤。我們有大磅秤用來秤北美野牛的，我猜大約至少有一千六百磅，可能快要兩千磅。他基本上是個會走路的挖土機。我們有點像是好夥伴，但我是男的牠也是。對就是這樣。這讓他在年度的這個時候非常危險。不要想，根本就不要想。 但是現在，我們要來看─出來！出來！出來！不。出來！(掌聲)我沒有給你們看的是，你記得那個甩尾巴的動作嗎？嗯，你應該慶幸我沒有給你們看。另外一個駱駝設計的很棒的部分是牠的陰莖是向後指的。這樣的話駱駝可以把牠的尾巴浸在尿液中，然後直接重擊他四周所有的區域。這事牠如何劃牠的勢力範圍。現在，你們也沒有看到你們可能有發現牠旁邊的圍欄中喔對，這頭駱駝的名字叫Suki。在牠旁邊圍欄中的叫Jasmine。Jasmine已經是牠的伴侶一陣子了。但在這次狀況中，非常非常明顯的，不管Suki有多性感，Jasmine完全不為所動。所以我們開始想，可憐的老Suki在找伴侶，Suki會怎麼樣尋找牠的完美伴侶呢？ 所以我要給你們看另外一部影片。但在我放給你們看之前我要先說這動物真的是沙漠中的越野車，沙漠上的方舟，對駱駝出沒區的居民來說非常重要。主要是蒙古和沙哈拉沙漠在阿拉伯語中，大約有160個單字來形容駱駝。如果這是一種由委員會設計的動物，那麼這個委員會跟我曾經參加過的委員會大相逕庭。所以這是Suki如何找尋牠的伴侶。可以請你幫我放嗎？ (駱駝找駱駝)(健壯的野獸徵具吸引力且真誠的伴侶)(我高七呎、重兩千磅、有咖啡色眼睛和頭髮、長腿...)(然後我有...巨根)(我是TED駱駝)(完美的沙漠機器)(我是聰明的設計)(眼睫毛會隔離沙子且有第三層睫毛作用像雨刷)(一個特別的鼻子)(鼻孔排列可以過濾沙和塵)(和會抓住水分的凹槽)(驚人的豐唇)(讓我可以吃幾乎所有生長的東西)(膝上的繭讓我可以舒服地跪下)(皮革胸墊可以抵擋炎熱)(短毛讓皮膚涼爽)(長腿能夠散熱)(我的駝峰呢?)(Ogden Nash曾寫到：)(「駱駝有一個峰；單峰駱駝有兩個峰，還是是相反。我從來不是很確定。你確定嗎？」)(這裡有個提示：)(雙峰駱駝)(單峰駱駝)(我的駝峰含有八十磅的脂肪，但沒有水。)(我耐力強。)(綠洲枯竭時我是救星。)(基本上我不會流汗，除非溫度高達華氏105度，)(可以煎蛋的溫度。)(我可以瘦掉體重的百分之四十)(也不會死亡。)(大部分動物如果瘦那麼多會死的。)(我可以一天喝掉五到七加侖的水)(但接下來一個月都不用喝。)(我是強壯的。)(可以承載400磅)(的貨物。)(我跑得比馬快。)(一天可以跑26英哩。)(亞瑟王)(Jackie O.曾經說過騎駱駝)(讓騎大象像是坐噴射機。)(但我的又大有軟的腳掌讓我可以在沙上行走。)(那是為什麼貝多因人說我會跳舞嗎？」(我還是個很好的供應者。)(貝多因人說我是上天的禮物)(沒什麼好驚訝的)(帳篷和地毯是用我的毛做的。)(我乾掉的骨頭跟象牙一樣珍貴。)(我的糞可以當燃料；我的乳可以做起司。)(「駱駝就像天使一樣」一個貝多因人曾經這麼說) (掌聲) 謝謝。我最後要給你們一個想法，大慨是今天要講的最重要的東西。人類─一種動物─是非常幸運的生物因為大至上來說我們不需要適應環境，我們要環境適應我們。這在這個會議中一再地看到不只今年，前幾年都是。但你們剛剛看到的這個生物完全地適應、適應、適應環境。我覺得當你看看動物界那是非常值得注意的。環境不一定要適應動物，動物可以適應環境。Ricky謝謝你讓我來。RW:很棒。謝謝你。
