Talk	en	zh-tw
kelli_jean_drinkwater_enough_with_the_fear_of_fat	"I'm here today to talk to you about a very powerful little word, one that people will do almost anything to avoid becoming. Billion-dollar industries thrive because of the fear of it, and those of us who undeniably are it are left to navigate a relentless storm surrounding it. I'm not sure if any of you have noticed, but I'm fat. Not the lowercase, muttered-behind-my-back kind, or the seemingly harmless chubby or cuddly. I'm not even the more sophisticated voluptuous or curvaceous kind. Let's not sugarcoat it. I am the capital F-A-T kind of fat. I am the elephant in the room. When I walked out on stage, some of you may have been thinking, ""Aww, this is going to be hilarious, because everybody knows that fat people are funny."" (Laughter) Or you may have been thinking, ""Where does she get her confidence from?"" Because a confident fat woman is almost unthinkable. The fashion-conscious members of the audience may have been thinking how fabulous I look in this Beth Ditto dress — (Cheers) thank you very much. Whereas some of you might have thought, ""Hmm, black would have been so much more slimming."" (Laughter) You may have wondered, consciously or not, if I have diabetes, or a partner, or if I eat carbs after 7pm. (Laughter) You may have worried that you ate carbs after 7pm last night, and that you really should renew your gym membership. These judgments are insidious. They can be directed at individuals and groups, and they can also be directed at ourselves. And this way of thinking is known as fatphobia. Like any form of systematic oppression, fatphobia is deeply rooted in complex structures like capitalism, patriarchy and racism, and that can make it really difficult to see, let alone challenge. We live in a culture where being fat is seen as being a bad person — lazy, greedy, unhealthy, irresponsible and morally suspect. And we tend to see thinness as being universally good — responsible, successful, and in control of our appetites, bodies and lives. We see these ideas again and again in the media, in public health policy, doctors' offices, in everyday conversations and in our own attitudes. We may even blame fat people themselves for the discrimination they face because, after all, if we don't like it, we should just lose weight. Easy. This antifat bias has become so integral, so ingrained to how we value ourselves and each other that we rarely question why we have such contempt for people of size and where that disdain comes from. But we must question it, because the enormous value we place on how we look affects every one of us. And do we really want to live in a society where people are denied their basic humanity if they don't subscribe to some arbitrary form of acceptable? So when I was six years old, my sister used to teach ballet to a bunch of little girls in our garage. I was about a foot taller and a foot wider than most of the group. When it came to doing our first performance, I was so excited about wearing a pretty pink tutu. I was going to sparkle. As the other girls slipped easily into their Lycra and tulle creations, not one of the tutus was big enough to fit me. I was determined not to be excluded from the performance, so I turned to my mother and loud enough for everyone to hear said, ""Mom, I don't need a tutu. I need a fourfour."" (Laughter) Thanks, Mom. (Applause) And although I didn't recognize it at the time, claiming space for myself in that glorious fourfour was the first step towards becoming a radical fat activist. Now, I'm not saying that this whole body-love thing has been an easy skip along a glittering path of self-acceptance since that day in class. Far from it. I soon learned that living outside what the mainstream considers normal can be a frustrating and isolating place. I've spent the last 20 years unpacking and deprogramming these messages, and it's been quite the roller coaster. I've been openly laughed at, abused from passing cars and been told that I'm delusional. I also receive smiles from strangers who recognize what it takes to walk down the street with a spring in your step and your head held high. (Cheer) Thanks. And through it all, that fierce little six-year-old has stayed with me, and she has helped me stand before you today as an unapologetic fat person, a person that simply refuses to subscribe to the dominant narrative about how I should move through the world in this body of mine. (Applause) And I'm not alone. I am part of an international community of people who choose to, rather than passively accepting that our bodies are and probably always will be big, we actively choose to flourish in these bodies as they are today. People who honor our strength and work with, not against, our perceived limitations, people who value health as something much more holistic than a number on an outdated BMI chart. Instead, we value mental health, self-worth and how we feel in our bodies as vital aspects to our overall well-being. People who refuse to believe that living in these fat bodies is a barrier to anything, really. There are doctors, academics and bloggers who have written countless volumes on the many facets of this complex subject. There are fatshionistas who reclaim their bodies and their beauty by wearing fatkinis and crop tops, exposing the flesh that we're all taught to hide. There are fat athletes who run marathons, teach yoga or do kickboxing, all done with a middle finger firmly held up to the status quo. And these people have taught me that radical body politics is the antidote to our body-shaming culture. But to be clear, I'm not saying that people shouldn't change their bodies if that's what they want to do. Reclaiming yourself can be one of the most gorgeous acts of self-love and can look like a million different things, from hairstyles to tattoos to body contouring to hormones to surgery and yes, even weight loss. It's simple: it's your body, and you decide what's best to do with it. My way of engaging in activism is by doing all the things that we fatties aren't supposed to do, and there's a lot of them, inviting other people to join me and then making art about it. The common thread through most of this work has been reclaiming spaces that are often prohibitive to bigger bodies, from the catwalk to club shows, from public swimming pools to prominent dance stages. And reclaiming spaces en masse is not only a powerful artistic statement but a radical community-building approach. This was so true of ""AQUAPORKO!"" — (Laughter) the fat fem synchronized swim team I started with a group of friends in Sydney. The impact of seeing a bunch of defiant fat women in flowery swimming caps and bathers throwing their legs in the air without a care should not be underestimated. (Laughter) Throughout my career, I have learned that fat bodies are inherently political, and unapologetic fat bodies can blow people's minds. When director Kate Champion, of acclaimed dance theater company Force Majeure, asked me to be the artistic associate on a work featuring all fat dancers, I literally jumped at the opportunity. And I mean literally. ""Nothing to Lose"" is a work made in collaboration with performers of size who drew from their lived experiences to create a work as varied and authentic as we all are. And it was as far from ballet as you could imagine. The very idea of a fat dance work by such a prestigious company was, to put it mildly, controversial, because nothing like it had ever been done on mainstream dance stages before anywhere in the world. People were skeptical. ""What do you mean, 'fat dancers?' Like, size 10, size 12 kind of fat? Where did they do their dance training? Are they going to have the stamina for a full-length production?"" But despite the skepticism, ""Nothing to Lose"" became a sellout hit of Sydney Festival. We received rave reviews, toured, won awards and were written about in over 27 languages. These incredible images of our cast were seen worldwide. I've lost count of how many times people of all sizes have told me that the show has changed their lives, how it helped them shift their relationship to their own and other people's bodies, and how it made them confront their own bias. But of course, work that pushes people's buttons is not without its detractors. I have been told that I'm glorifying obesity. I have received violent death threats and abuse for daring to make work that centers fat people's bodies and lives and treats us as worthwhile human beings with valuable stories to tell. I've even been called ""the ISIS of the obesity epidemic"" — (Laughter) a comment so absurd that it is funny. But it also speaks to the panic, the literal terror, that the fear of fat can evoke. It is this fear that's feeding the diet industry, which is keeping so many of us from making peace with our own bodies, for waiting to be the after-photo before we truly start to live our lives. Because the real elephant in the room here is fatphobia. Fat activism refuses to indulge this fear. By advocating for self-determination and respect for all of us, we can shift society's reluctance to embrace diversity and start to celebrate the myriad ways there are to have a body. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我在這裏和大家討論一個短小卻有力的詞，人們會盡其所能，來避免它的發生。幾十億美金的產業興旺，因為對它的恐懼，但身處其中的人們，它正在我們周圍，不斷引發著風暴。 不知道妳們註意到了沒有，我是個胖子。不是那種“只是有點胖”，也不是所謂的豐滿或可愛，更不是什麽凹凸有致的豐腴胖子。 讓我們不要美化它了，我就是一個大寫的胖子，我就是房間裡顯而易見的大象。當我走上舞臺的時候，有些人就會開始想，“哦，這一定會非常搞笑，因為所有人有覺得胖子很搞笑。” （笑聲） 或者妳又會想，“她哪來的勇氣？”，因為我們幾乎無法想象一個“自信的胖女人。而時尚感強的觀眾會想我在這件Beth Ditto的裙子裡有多麼好看。 （歡呼） 謝謝大家。有些人可能會覺得，“穿黑色能顯瘦。” （笑聲） 妳們可能也好奇，我是不是有糖尿病，有沒有伴侶，有沒有在晚上7點後攝入碳水化合物。 （笑聲） 妳可能擔心妳昨晚7點後攝入的碳水化合物，你真的需要續健身房的會費。 這些想法會在不知不覺中加劇，它們會影響到個人和小集體，它們也會直接影響到我們自身。這種想法，被稱為“肥胖恐懼癥”。 正如任何一種形式的體制壓迫，對肥胖的恐懼已經通過各種形式漸漸深入人心，就像資本主義 男權社會 和種族偏見一樣。我們甚至不太了解他們，就更別說去改變了。在我們所處的文化中，胖子被視為不好的人，他們懶惰、貪吃、不健康、還缺少責任感，在道德方面常常被懷疑。而當我們在看瘦子的時候，他們簡直各方面都是完美的，他們有責任心、成功、還能夠控制食欲、身體、以及自己的生活。我們一次次的接收這種信息，它存在於在媒體上 在公共衛生政策中。在醫生的辦公室裏，在日常的聊天中以及我們自身的態度中。我們甚至會責備那些胖子，對他們的樣子表示歧視。畢竟，如果不喜歡自己的樣子，只要減肥就好了。很簡單啊。這種“反胖”的偏見在我們看待自己和他人的時候，已經根深蒂固了。我們卻從來不知道 為什麽對人們的體型會有如此的偏見，這種偏見又是從哪來的。 然而，我們必須向其提出質疑，因為我們對自身的樣貌極其的重視。這種價值觀影響著每個人，如果一個人會因為不贊同一些獨特的社會認可，而被否定了他的人性時，那麽這種社會我們真的想要麽？ 在我六歲的時候，我的姐姐在我家的車庫教一群小女孩跳芭蕾，我幾乎比那裏所有的小女孩都“大一號”。在進行第一次表演的時候，我因為要穿粉紅色的芭蕾舞裙而特別激動，我覺得我今天一定會很耀眼。但是當其他女孩都輕松的穿上緊身衣和芭蕾舞裙的時候，卻沒有一件我能穿的進的演出服。我不想因此就退出演出，所以我轉過身面對我的媽媽，用所有人都能聽見的聲音跟她說，“媽媽，我不需要tutu(普通的芭蕾舞裙)，我要fourfour(圖上媽媽做的加大的演出服)！” (笑) 感謝我的媽媽。 (掌聲) 盡管我那個時候還沒有意識到，這件超棒的演出服讓我自己感受到了認可，它使我在成為徹底的肥胖活躍分子的道路上跨出了第一步。 我不是說 “愛身體”這件事情，在當時，只是一個簡單的自我接受的過程。還差得遠。很快我就意識到，生活在主流認知之外，是一件令人沮喪和感到孤立的事情。我在過去的二十年一直在嘗試剖析並且試圖擺脫這種心態的影響。這種經歷就像坐過山車一樣，我曾被嘲笑，曾在走過一輛車的時候被謾罵，也曾被說是癡心妄想，也曾收到過陌生人的微笑，當他們發現，我在過街的時候，步伐輕快並且昂周挺胸。 (歡呼) 謝謝。經歷過這一切之後，那個狂熱的六歲的我一直都在。也是那時的我，使我今天能夠站在這裏，成為一個自信的胖子，成為一個不願承認，胖給自己的生活所帶來的局限，認為胖限制了自身價值的胖子。 (掌聲) 我並不是一個人，我是一個國際組織中的一員，組織中的人都不是被動地接受，只能一直這麽胖下去的現實，而是主動地選擇 帶著這樣的身軀幸福的生活。這些人能看到自身的優點並加以利用，而不是去對抗自身的局限性，這些人能夠，更加全面的看待健康，而不只是盯著過時的BMI表。相反的 我們更註重精神上的健康，我們認為，自我的價值感和對身體的認知對整體的幸福感有著決定的作用。我們不相信，肥胖的身軀，會是做什麼事情的阻礙。 有許多醫生，學者和博主，在這個問題的各各方面，寫了不計其數的文章。這裏有胖胖的潮人，穿著比基尼，秀出自己的身材和美麗，露出那些被要求要藏起來的贅肉。這裏還有胖胖的運動員，他們跑馬拉松、教瑜伽、打拳擊，他們所做的每件事，都狠狠地扇了現實一耳光。是他們教會了我，這種對待身體的態度，能夠消除自己對身體產生的羞恥感。 但我不是說，人們不應該改變自己的體型，除非他們確實想這麽做。改造自己是表現自愛的最棒的方式，它會讓妳看變得與眾不同。從發型到紋身再到美體，去打激素、去做手術、甚至去減肥，這很簡單，因為這是妳的身體。所以應該由妳來決定怎樣對它才是最好的。 我作為活動積極分子的方式，就是去做一些看起來我們胖子不應該做的事，做許許多多的事情。邀請一些人來加入我的活動，然後做一些藝術相關的事情。貫穿這些作品的線索，就是奪回那些胖子通常無法進入的領域。從走T臺、到夜店演出、從公共遊泳池、到著名的舞臺，而一起奪回屬於自己的領域，不僅僅是一種有力的藝術主張，同時也是一種徹底的構建群體的方式。這一點在“AQUAPORKO”上體現的淋漓盡致。 (笑) 她們是由胖子組成的女子花樣遊泳隊，我在悉尼認識了一群朋友，見到這麽一群，帶著花哨的泳帽，自由向空中踢腿的胖胖的女生時，我認為她們帶來的影響不能被低估。 (笑) 在我追求事業的過程中，我漸漸發現 “胖”本質上來說就像政治。作為一個理直氣壯的胖子，會對人們的思維產生沖擊。當廣受贊譽的Force Majeure舞團的管理者，Kate Champion找到我的時候，她詢問我是否想一起做藝術工作，讓“胖”作為舞者的特色。我毫不猶豫的就加入了，幾乎沒有思考。“一無所有”是與一群藝術家合作的作品，他們從自身生活中汲取經驗，創作真實而又多樣的作品。這和大眾想像中的芭蕾相去甚遠。 胖人舞蹈這個想法最初由這個有聲望的公司提出來的時候，是飽受爭議的。因為在全世界都從未有人在主流的舞臺上，做過類似的事情。 人們對此持懷疑態度。“妳說什麽？胖子跳舞麽？是那種10碼，12碼的胖麽，他們在哪學習舞蹈？他們有耐力能堅持下來一套完整的舞蹈麽？“ 盡管有這些懷疑者，”一無所有“還是成為了悉尼藝術節上賣座的演出，我們引發了熱烈的討論，進行巡演，不斷獲獎，還被27種語言報道過，這些演員的圖片在世界各地隨處可見。不記得曾經有多少人和我說過，告訴我，這個表演改變了他們的生活，幫助他們轉變了，對待自己和他人的身體的態度，使他們改變了自身的偏見。 當然，這個作品既然觸動了人心，就也一定會有批評者。我曾被告知我是在美化肥胖，我也收到過暴力的死亡威脅，以及因為勇於去擺正胖子的地位而收到的謾罵，而我只不過是想讓人們意識到，胖子也是有價值的一群人。我曾經還被稱為，是讓肥胖流行的ISIS（恐怖主義）。 (笑) 這個評論荒唐又可笑，但這也恰恰說明了，對肥胖的害怕，能夠引發多大的恐慌。正是這種恐懼促進了減肥產業的發展，它讓我們不再遵循自身的節奏，我們不再去主動開始自己的生活，而是不斷等待”減肥後“的自己。真正讓我們生活變糟的，是肥胖恐懼癥。積極主義的胖子就是能夠不陷入這種恐懼，而是去宣揚自我自主和對所有人的尊重。我們可以改變社會的遲疑而去接受人的多樣化，並且能夠去贊美不同的身材。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
