Talk	en	zh-tw
kelly_mcgonigal_how_to_make_stress_your_friend	"I have a confession to make. But first, I want you to make a little confession to me. In the past year, I want you to just raise your hand if you've experienced relatively little stress. Anyone? How about a moderate amount of stress? Who has experienced a lot of stress? Yeah. Me too. But that is not my confession. My confession is this: I am a health psychologist, and my mission is to help people be happier and healthier. But I fear that something I've been teaching for the last 10 years is doing more harm than good, and it has to do with stress. For years I've been telling people, stress makes you sick. It increases the risk of everything from the common cold to cardiovascular disease. Basically, I've turned stress into the enemy. But I have changed my mind about stress, and today, I want to change yours. Let me start with the study that made me rethink my whole approach to stress. This study tracked 30,000 adults in the United States for eight years, and they started by asking people, ""How much stress have you experienced in the last year?"" They also asked, ""Do you believe that stress is harmful for your health?"" And then they used public death records to find out who died. (Laughter) Okay. Some bad news first. People who experienced a lot of stress in the previous year had a 43 percent increased risk of dying. But that was only true for the people who also believed that stress is harmful for your health. (Laughter) People who experienced a lot of stress but did not view stress as harmful were no more likely to die. In fact, they had the lowest risk of dying of anyone in the study, including people who had relatively little stress. Now the researchers estimated that over the eight years they were tracking deaths, 182,000 Americans died prematurely, not from stress, but from the belief that stress is bad for you. (Laughter) That is over 20,000 deaths a year. Now, if that estimate is correct, that would make believing stress is bad for you the 15th largest cause of death in the United States last year, killing more people than skin cancer, HIV/AIDS and homicide. (Laughter) You can see why this study freaked me out. Here I've been spending so much energy telling people stress is bad for your health. So this study got me wondering: Can changing how you think about stress make you healthier? And here the science says yes. When you change your mind about stress, you can change your body's response to stress. Now to explain how this works, I want you all to pretend that you are participants in a study designed to stress you out. It's called the social stress test. You come into the laboratory, and you're told you have to give a five-minute impromptu speech on your personal weaknesses to a panel of expert evaluators sitting right in front of you, and to make sure you feel the pressure, there are bright lights and a camera in your face, kind of like this. (Laughter) And the evaluators have been trained to give you discouraging, non-verbal feedback, like this. (Exhales) (Laughter) Now that you're sufficiently demoralized, time for part two: a math test. And unbeknownst to you, the experimenter has been trained to harass you during it. Now we're going to all do this together. It's going to be fun. For me. Okay. (Laughter) I want you all to count backwards from 996 in increments of seven. You're going to do this out loud, as fast as you can, starting with 996. Go! (Audience counting) Go faster. Faster please. You're going too slow. (Audience counting) Stop. Stop, stop, stop. That guy made a mistake. We are going to have to start all over again. (Laughter) You're not very good at this, are you? Okay, so you get the idea. If you were actually in this study, you'd probably be a little stressed out. Your heart might be pounding, you might be breathing faster, maybe breaking out into a sweat. And normally, we interpret these physical changes as anxiety or signs that we aren't coping very well with the pressure. But what if you viewed them instead as signs that your body was energized, was preparing you to meet this challenge? Now that is exactly what participants were told in a study conducted at Harvard University. Before they went through the social stress test, they were taught to rethink their stress response as helpful. That pounding heart is preparing you for action. If you're breathing faster, it's no problem. It's getting more oxygen to your brain. And participants who learned to view the stress response as helpful for their performance, well, they were less stressed out, less anxious, more confident, but the most fascinating finding to me was how their physical stress response changed. Now, in a typical stress response, your heart rate goes up, and your blood vessels constrict like this. And this is one of the reasons that chronic stress is sometimes associated with cardiovascular disease. It's not really healthy to be in this state all the time. But in the study, when participants viewed their stress response as helpful, their blood vessels stayed relaxed like this. Their heart was still pounding, but this is a much healthier cardiovascular profile. It actually looks a lot like what happens in moments of joy and courage. Over a lifetime of stressful experiences, this one biological change could be the difference between a stress-induced heart attack at age 50 and living well into your 90s. And this is really what the new science of stress reveals, that how you think about stress matters. So my goal as a health psychologist has changed. I no longer want to get rid of your stress. I want to make you better at stress. And we just did a little intervention. If you raised your hand and said you'd had a lot of stress in the last year, we could have saved your life, because hopefully the next time your heart is pounding from stress, you're going to remember this talk and you're going to think to yourself, this is my body helping me rise to this challenge. And when you view stress in that way, your body believes you, and your stress response becomes healthier. Now I said I have over a decade of demonizing stress to redeem myself from, so we are going to do one more intervention. I want to tell you about one of the most under-appreciated aspects of the stress response, and the idea is this: Stress makes you social. To understand this side of stress, we need to talk about a hormone, oxytocin, and I know oxytocin has already gotten as much hype as a hormone can get. It even has its own cute nickname, the cuddle hormone, because it's released when you hug someone. But this is a very small part of what oxytocin is involved in. Oxytocin is a neuro-hormone. It fine-tunes your brain's social instincts. It primes you to do things that strengthen close relationships. Oxytocin makes you crave physical contact with your friends and family. It enhances your empathy. It even makes you more willing to help and support the people you care about. Some people have even suggested we should snort oxytocin... to become more compassionate and caring. But here's what most people don't understand about oxytocin. It's a stress hormone. Your pituitary gland pumps this stuff out as part of the stress response. It's as much a part of your stress response as the adrenaline that makes your heart pound. And when oxytocin is released in the stress response, it is motivating you to seek support. Your biological stress response is nudging you to tell someone how you feel, instead of bottling it up. Your stress response wants to make sure you notice when someone else in your life is struggling so that you can support each other. When life is difficult, your stress response wants you to be surrounded by people who care about you. Okay, so how is knowing this side of stress going to make you healthier? Well, oxytocin doesn't only act on your brain. It also acts on your body, and one of its main roles in your body is to protect your cardiovascular system from the effects of stress. It's a natural anti-inflammatory. It also helps your blood vessels stay relaxed during stress. But my favorite effect on the body is actually on the heart. Your heart has receptors for this hormone, and oxytocin helps heart cells regenerate and heal from any stress-induced damage. This stress hormone strengthens your heart. And the cool thing is that all of these physical benefits of oxytocin are enhanced by social contact and social support. So when you reach out to others under stress, either to seek support or to help someone else, you release more of this hormone, your stress response becomes healthier, and you actually recover faster from stress. I find this amazing, that your stress response has a built-in mechanism for stress resilience, and that mechanism is human connection. I want to finish by telling you about one more study. And listen up, because this study could also save a life. This study tracked about 1,000 adults in the United States, and they ranged in age from 34 to 93, and they started the study by asking, ""How much stress have you experienced in the last year?"" They also asked, ""How much time have you spent helping out friends, neighbors, people in your community?"" And then they used public records for the next five years to find out who died. Okay, so the bad news first: For every major stressful life experience, like financial difficulties or family crisis, that increased the risk of dying by 30 percent. But — and I hope you are expecting a ""but"" by now — but that wasn't true for everyone. People who spent time caring for others showed absolutely no stress-related increase in dying. Zero. Caring created resilience. And so we see once again that the harmful effects of stress on your health are not inevitable. How you think and how you act can transform your experience of stress. When you choose to view your stress response as helpful, you create the biology of courage. And when you choose to connect with others under stress, you can create resilience. Now I wouldn't necessarily ask for more stressful experiences in my life, but this science has given me a whole new appreciation for stress. Stress gives us access to our hearts. The compassionate heart that finds joy and meaning in connecting with others, and yes, your pounding physical heart, working so hard to give you strength and energy. And when you choose to view stress in this way, you're not just getting better at stress, you're actually making a pretty profound statement. You're saying that you can trust yourself to handle life's challenges. And you're remembering that you don't have to face them alone. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: This is kind of amazing, what you're telling us. It seems amazing to me that a belief about stress can make so much difference to someone's life expectancy. How would that extend to advice, like, if someone is making a lifestyle choice between, say, a stressful job and a non-stressful job, does it matter which way they go? It's equally wise to go for the stressful job so long as you believe that you can handle it, in some sense? KM: Yeah, and one thing we know for certain is that chasing meaning is better for your health than trying to avoid discomfort. And so I would say that's really the best way to make decisions, is go after what it is that creates meaning in your life and then trust yourself to handle the stress that follows. CA: Thank you so much, Kelly. It's pretty cool. (Applause)"	我必須要坦誠一件事但首先我希望在座的各位也可以開誠布公一下過去一年裡有的話可不可以舉一下手 如果你曾感受到有一點點壓力的有嗎？ 那如果說是一般的壓力呢？ 那有沒有人是承受了相當大壓力的？沒錯，我跟你們一樣 但這不是我要跟大家坦誠的事我要跟大家坦誠的是：我是健康心理學家我的職責就是要幫助人們過得更開心也更健康但我擔心過去這十年來所傳授的恐怕反而是帶來了反效果這跟壓力有關這些年來我不斷告訴人們壓力會帶來疾病它會增加生病的風險小至一般的小感冒大至心血管疾病基本上我把壓力視如敵人但我現在對壓力有了不同的看法而今天我要改變你們的看法 讓我們從這個讓我重新思考我對於壓力看法的研究報告說起吧這個研究花了八年的時間追蹤美國的三萬名成年人他們所做的就是先問受訪者「過去一年裡你承受了多少的壓力？」他們還會問：「你是否相信壓力對你的健康有害？」之後他們用戶政所的死亡記錄去查出哪些人掛了 （笑聲） 我先跟大家報告壞消息過去一年裡承受相當大壓力的人死亡的風險增加了43％但這只適用於那些相信壓力是有害於健康的人（笑聲）那些承受很大壓力的人當他們不認為壓力是有害的就沒有面臨死亡的問題事實上，這群人的死亡風險反而是最低的在研究中甚至比那些只承受了一點點壓力的人還低 研究人員根據過去八年間所追蹤的死亡人數作出統計共有18萬2千美國人死於非命死因並非壓力所導致而是因為他們相信壓力對身體有害（笑聲）這個數字顯示出每年有超過2萬人因此死亡如果這個數字是正確的那麼相信壓力有害身體健康就是第15大死因了光去年一年在美國死於這個原因的人就比死於皮膚癌的人還多也多於愛滋病或兇殺案 （笑聲） 由此可知為什麼這個研究會讓我這麼擔憂了因為我多年來費盡心力告訴人們壓力對健康是有害的 這項研究讓我不禁去想改變你對壓力的想法就能讓你變得更健康嗎？然而科學確實證明了這點當你改變對壓力的看法你同時也會改變身體對於壓力的反應機制 現在為了向大家說明這如何運作我希望大家假裝自己是這個我希望大家假裝自己是這個這叫做社會壓力測試你進到這個實驗室裡被告知你要針對自己的弱點進行一場五分鐘的即席演講被告知你要針對自己的弱點進行一場五分鐘的即席演講面對一群專業評審並且為了確保你一定會倍感壓力你面前還會架設聚光燈跟相機大概像現在這樣而且這些評審已經被告知就是要給你像這樣洩氣的回應 （笑聲） 即便現在你已經完全像是個洩了氣的皮球事情還沒完，下一步是數學測驗當然是在你不知情的情況下測試者會在過程中間騷擾你我們現在要一起來做這個測驗會很好玩的至少對我來說 好，我要你們大家一起倒數從996開始，以減7的方式倒算回去必須要數出聲來而且念得越快越好從996開始算起開始觀眾：（倒數中）速度再加快，請數再快一點你們算得太慢了停，停，停，停下來那位老兄剛算錯了所以我們必須從頭來過 （笑聲）你們大家數學好像不是太好喔我相信大家都懂了試想一下如果你真的在這個研究裡你可能會感受到一些壓力你的心臟可能開始砰砰跳你可能呼吸也會變得急促甚至開始冒汗一般來說我們會將這些生理變化解釋為焦慮或是我們沒辦法應付壓力的徵兆 但如果你把這些生理反應看成是身體開始活絡並且在預備好讓你面對這個挑戰的徵兆呢？這正是哈佛大學研究調查中受試者所被告知的這正是哈佛大學研究調查中受試者所被告知的當他們進行這項社會壓力測試前他們學習到這些壓力反應都是有益的比方說心臟跳很快有助於準備進行下一個動作呼吸變得急促不是什麼大問題會讓你的大腦吸到更多氧氣當受試者學習將這些抗壓反應機制視為有助於他們的表現時他們反而感受到比較少的壓力不再那麼緊張，也多了點自信但我認為最有趣的發現是就連他們在生理上的抗壓反應都隨之改變了在一般的抗壓反應中人的心搏率會升高你的血管會像這樣收縮這也是為什麼長期的壓力被列為導致心血管疾病原因之一若血管一直長時間這樣收縮的確是不太健康的但在這個測試裡當受試者視抗壓反應為有益的但在這個測試裡當受試者視抗壓反應為有益的他們的血管其實是保持像這樣子放鬆的狀態他們的心臟可能也是一樣砰砰跳但是心血管所呈現出來的卻是較健康的狀態看起來他們比較像是渡過了一段充滿喜樂和勇氣的時光我們一生會經歷各種大大小小令人感到壓力的事件這一個生理上的改變可能帶來的影響將決定你是否會在50歲就因壓力所導致的心臟病而英年早逝或是能健健康康地活到90多歲這也是經過最新研究壓力相關的科學所證實的你看待壓力的方式很重要 所以我身為健康心理學家的目標也因此而有所改變我不再希望你去選擇擺脫壓力我希望你能更善於駕馭壓力在這裡要打岔一下如果剛剛你舉手說過去一年裡你承受了很大的壓力今天你的人生可能會就此改變因為希望下次當你的心臟因為感受到壓力而砰砰作響時你會記得今天所聽到的並會告訴自己這是我的身體在幫助我面對這個挑戰當你可以面對壓力可以這樣處之泰然你的身體會聽命於你這樣你面對壓力的反應機制就也會變得比較健康 我剛說我過去十幾年的時間都把壓力妖魔化所以我今天要好好彌補一下現在我們要針對這點再重新思考我要告訴大家關於抗壓反應最不為人知的一件事我要告訴大家關於抗壓反應最不為人知的一件事那就是壓力會提升你的社交能力 要想理解關於壓力的這一面我們必須先來聊聊催產素這個賀爾蒙我知道催產素作為賀爾蒙的一種已經很能夠發揮它該有的功效它甚至有個很可愛的小名：抱抱賀爾蒙會取這名字是因為當你跟人擁抱時它就會被釋放出來但這只是催產素功能的一小部分催產素是一種神經賀爾蒙它可以在腦袋裡微調你的社交本能預備你去做些事情好增進你與他人的親密關係催產素也會讓你渴望與人有肢體接觸包括跟朋友和家人它也有助於增強同理心它甚至會讓你更願意去幫助那些你所關心的人還有人曾這麼建議我們應該試著吸一點催產素好變成一個更有同情心、關心別人的人但大家不了解關於催產素的是它是一種隨壓力而生的賀爾蒙當身體抗壓機制啓動時你的腦下垂體就會激生這種激素幾乎是抗壓的同時就會產生的就好像腎上腺素會讓你的心臟加快速度一樣而當催產素在抗壓過程中被釋放出來時它會促使你去尋求幫助生理上的抗壓反應會讓你想要向人傾訴你的感受而不是獨自悶著不講你的抗壓反應機制要確保你會注意到身邊正在面對一些掙扎的人好讓你們成為彼此的幫助若遇到了困難你的抗壓反應機制會讓你待在關心你的人身邊 那知道了這些可以怎麼幫助我們更健康地去面對壓力呢催產素不光是對我們頭腦裡的想法有效它也會在我們的身體裡有所作為其中最主要一個角色就是保護我們的心血管系統不受到壓力的影響它具有純天然的消炎功用它也可以讓血管在感受到壓力的狀況下依然保持放鬆但我個人最欣賞它能幫助我們的心臟你的心臟有一個針對這種賀爾蒙而設的接收器催產素還能幫助心臟細胞再生跟治療因壓力而造成的受損心細胞這個壓力賀爾蒙能你的心臟更為強壯但更酷的是 我們剛所提各種催產素所能帶來生理上的益處都能透過社交接觸或社會支持來強化所以當你在受到壓力的情況下去與人接觸不論是想要尋求幫助或是去幫助他人你的身體都會更多釋放出這種賀爾蒙於是你的抗壓機制會變得更為健康你就也可以更快地從壓力當中解脫我發現這很奇妙我們體內的抗壓反應有一個有助於紓緩壓力的內建機制而這個機制就是人與人之間的互動 最後結束前我想再跟大家分享一個研究報告請注意聽因為這份報告也可能會救你一命這個研究追蹤了美國共一千位年紀為34到93歲的成年人這份調查中他們會問「過去一年裡你承受了多少的壓力？」還會問「你花了多少時間去幫助你的朋友、鄰居或你身邊的人呢？」然後他們又花了接下來五年的時間追蹤戶政所的死亡紀錄 好，我們先講壞消息我們生命當中可能成為主要壓力來源的每一個事件比方說財務困難或家庭風暴都會讓死亡率上升30個百分點但是...我希望大家都期待接下來要說的但是這並不適用於每個人的狀況那些花時間去關心別人的人壓力對他們的死亡率不具任何影響是完全沒有任何影響關心別人會讓我們抗壓性增加所以從這裡我們可以再次知道壓力對於健康的損害並非不可避免的你的想法跟反應可以改變你經歷壓力的方式如果你選擇把身體因壓力而產生的反應當作有益的那你自然而然會有勇氣去面對而當面臨到壓力時你選擇去與人分享你就能強化抗壓性當然我不會刻意讓自己的生命去經歷更多的壓力當然我不會刻意讓自己的生命去經歷更多的壓力但是這項研究確實讓我對於壓力有了一個全新的認識但是這項研究確實讓我對於壓力有了一個全新的認識壓力讓我們有機會審視自己的心當我們深富同情心時我們就會享受於與人交心並從中找到意義是的，還有你跳得很快的心臟正在努力地跳動好供給你能力跟力量當你這麼去看待壓力的時候你就不會只是在壓力中成長而是更進一步傳達一個訊息你在說的是，你相信自己能夠面對生命裡頭的挑戰你在說的是你相信自己能夠面對生命裡頭的挑戰並且會記得你不必獨自面對這些挑戰 謝謝大家 （掌聲） Chris Anderson：你剛剛跟我們分享的真是太神奇了對我來說奇妙的是光是我們怎麼看待壓力就能對我們的壽命造成如此大的差異那我們可以如何運用這個概念並且去給人建議比方說，如果有人要做一個生命中的重大決定像是要在有龐大壓力跟毫無壓力的工作中做選擇他們怎麼選擇會有差嗎？即使選擇了壓力會很大的工作只要相信自己可以做得來就是明智的抉擇，可以這麼說嗎？ Kelly McGonigal：是啊有件事是我們可以確定的那就是尋求做有意義的事比逃避不舒適還更有益於健康那就是尋求做有意義的事比逃避不舒適還更有益於健康所以我會說做決定時最好的思考方向就是去做會為你人生增加意義的事然後相信自己可以面對將隨之而來的壓力 CA：非常感謝妳，Kelly。這真的很棒。KM：謝謝 （掌聲）
