Talk	en	zh-tw
keller_rinaudo_a_mini_robot_powered_by_your_phone	So just by a show of hands, how many of you all have a robot at home? Not very many of you. Okay. And actually of those hands, if you don't include Roomba how many of you have a robot at home? So a couple. That's okay. That's the problem that we're trying to solve at Romotive — that I and the other 20 nerds at Romotive are obsessed with solving. So we really want to build a robot that anyone can use, whether you're eight or 80. And as it turns out, that's a really hard problem, because you have to build a small, portable robot that's not only really affordable, but it has to be something that people actually want to take home and have around their kids. This robot can't be creepy or uncanny. He should be friendly and cute. So meet Romo. Romo's a robot that uses a device you already know and love — your iPhone — as his brain. And by leveraging the power of the iPhone's processor, we can create a robot that is wi-fi enabled and computer vision-capable for 150 bucks, which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past. When Romo wakes up, he's in creature mode. So he's actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face. If I duck down, he'll follow me. He's wary, so he'll keep his eyes on me. If I come over here, he'll turn to follow me. If I come over here — (Laughs) He's smart. And if I get too close to him, he gets scared just like any other creature. So in a lot of ways, Romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own. Thanks, little guy. (Sneezing sound) Bless you. And if I want to explore the world — uh-oh, Romo's tired — if I want to explore the world with Romo, I can actually connect him from any other iOS device. So here's the iPad. And Romo will actually stream video to this device. So I can see everything that Romo sees, and I get a robot's-eye-view of the world. Now this is a free app on the App Store, so if any of you guys had this app on your phones, we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together. So I'll show you really quickly, Romo actually — he's streaming video, so you can see me and the entire TED audience. If I get in front of Romo here. And if I want to control him, I can just drive. So I can drive him around, and I can take pictures of you. I've always wanted a picture of a 1,500-person TED audience. So I'll snap a picture. And in the same way that you scroll through content on an iPad, I can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device. So there are all of you through Romo's eyes. And finally, because Romo is an extension of me, I can express myself through his emotions. So I can go in and I can say let's make Romo excited. But the most important thing about Romo is that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive. You do not have to teach someone how to drive Romo. In fact, who would like to drive a robot? Okay. Awesome. Here you go. Thank you, Scott. And even cooler, you actually don't have to be in the same geographic location as the robot to control him. So he actually streams two-way audio and video between any two smart devices. So you can log in through the browser, and it's kind of like Skype on wheels. So we were talking before about telepresence, and this is a really cool example. You can imagine an eight-year-old girl, for example, who has an iPhone, and her mom buys her a robot. That girl can take her iPhone, put it on the robot, send an email to Grandma, who lives on the other side of the country. Grandma can log into that robot and play hide-and-go-seek with her granddaughter for fifteen minutes every single night, when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year. Thanks, Scott. (Applause) So those are a couple of the really cool things that Romo can do today. But I just want to finish by talking about something that we're working on in the future. This is actually something that one of our engineers, Dom, built in a weekend. It's built on top of a Google open framework called Blockly. This allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic code and create any behavior for this robot you want. You do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for Romo. And you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser, which is what you see Romo doing on the left. And then if you have something you like, you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life, run the program in real life. And then if you have something you're proud of, you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world. So all of these wi-fi–enabled robots actually learn from each other. The reason we're so focused on building robots that everyone can train is that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal. They change from person to person. So we think that if you're going to have a robot in your home, that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination. So I wish that I could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like. To be honest, I have no idea. But what we do know is that it isn't 10 years or 10 billion dollars or a large humanoid robot away. The future of personal robotics is happening today, and it's going to depend on small, agile robots like Romo and the creativity of people like yourselves. So we can't wait to get you all robots, and we can't wait to see what you build. Thank you. (Applause)	如果你的家裡有機器人的話，麻煩舉個手不是很多人有的樣子好吧。剛剛舉手的觀眾們，如果你所謂的機器人不包含Roomba 掃地機器人的話，你們還有多少人家中有機器人?剩兩三隻小貓。沒有關係。這是我們 Romotive 公司試著去解決的問題20 位宅男和我在 Romotive 努力地去找出解答 我們真的很希望能創造出一個，所有人都可以用的機器人不管你是八歲還是八十歲而事實表明，這成了一件非常困難的問題，因為要做出一個夠小、容易攜帶的機器人它不僅僅是要價格夠親民它同時也要成為一個家家戶戶都想要把它帶回家，並讓小孩接受的機器人。這樣的機器人不能設計得很詭異或不討喜。他應該要是友善中帶點可愛。 為你們介紹 ROMO。ROMO 這個機器人，需要藉由一個你們已熟悉且是你們最愛的產品來運作你們手中的iPhone，用來當作它的大腦透過 iPhone 處理器的力量我們可以創造一個連接WIFI 無線網路的機器人同時擁有電腦視覺能力，而它只需要 150 塊美金這樣的花費，是過去同類型機器人的百分之一而已 當 ROMO 被喚醒時，它會進入生物狀態它實際上是用它裝置上攝影機來追蹤我的臉如果我蹲下，它會跟著我一起動它很謹慎，所以它一直盯著我不放。如果我走過來，它就會轉向並跟蹤我如果走到這邊（笑）它很聰明要是我太靠近它它會感到害怕，就像任何生物一樣所以在很多方面，ROMO 像是一隻有自己想法的寵物謝謝你，小傢伙。（打噴嚏聲）保佑你。 如果我想要探索世界—呃-哦，ROMO 累了—如果我想要和 ROMO 一起探索世界，我可以將他和任何 iOS 的設備做連接。這裡有個 iPad。ROMO 會將視訊串流到這個設備。所以我可以看到 ROMO 看到的一切，而我可以從機器人的視角來看世界。這在 App Store 中是一個免費的軟體所以如果你們在手機上安裝了此應用程式，我們現在可以共同控制這個機器人，並且一起玩遊戲。 我現在很快地做個示範，ROMO實際上是在串流影片，所以你可以看到我和全部 TED 觀眾。如果我在這裡擋住了ROMO。如果我想要控制它，我可以駕駛它。所以我可以帶它在附近繞繞，我可以幫你們拍張照片。我一直都想要有張一千五百個 TED 觀眾的照片所以我拍了一張照片就和你在iPAD上滑動頁面的方式一樣，我可以用此方式調整這裝置上攝影機鏡頭的角度。透過 ROMO 的眼睛，你們全部都在這裡了。最後，因為 ROMO 像是我的分身，我可以透過它的表情來展現我自己。所以我可以進入 ROMO 的內心，我們來讓 ROMO 興奮一下。 但關於ROMO最重要的事是我們想要創造一個完全依靠直覺的東西。你不需要教他人如何駕駛 ROMO。實際上，有誰願意來駕駛這個機器人？很好。很棒。拿去吧。謝謝你，史考特。 更酷的是，你其實不一定要和機器人處在同一個地理位置來控制它。他實際上是在任意兩個智慧型設備之間做雙向的音訊和影像串流。所以你可以透過瀏覽器來登入，而它就像是有輪子的 Skype 一樣。所以我們剛剛所講的就是遠端臨場感，這裡有個很酷的例子。舉例來說，你可以想像一個八歲大的女孩，而她擁有一台 iPhone，而她媽媽買給她一個機器人。那個女孩可以拿著她的 iPhone，把它放在機器人上給她住在國家另一端的奶奶寄一封電子郵件。奶奶可以登入那個機器人，然後和她的孫女一起玩捉迷藏。每晚十五分鐘，否則她一年可能只能見到她奶奶一兩次而已。 謝謝你，史考特。 （掌聲） 所以這些是ROMO今天能做的幾個很酷的事。但我現在結束前，談談我們未來要努力的方向。這實際上是我們的一個工程師，Dom，在一個週末做出的成果。它是建立在 Google 一個稱為 Blockly 的開放框架上的。這可以讓你拖拉這些代表各種程式碼的小方塊同時創造任何你想要這個機器人所做的行為。您不需要知道如何去寫 ROMO 行為模式的程式碼。你實際上可以在瀏覽器中去模擬這些行為模式，就像你在左邊看到ROMO正在做的事。如果你發現有什麼是你喜歡的，你可以下載這些程式到你的機器人，並在現實生活中去執行它在現實生活中實現該程式。接著，如果你有什麼值得讓你驕傲的你可以和世界上任何一個擁有機器人的人分享。因此，所有這些連接 WIFI 無線網路的機器人，實際上在互相學習。 我們極度專注於建造一個，所有人都可以訓練的機器人的原因是我們相信在這些個人機器人中，最能引人注目的使用方式，是基於獨立個體。這些機器人會因為使用者的不同而不同。所以，我們認為，如果你要在你的家中放置一個機器人，那個機器人應該是你豐富想像力的具體實現。 所以，我希望我能告訴你個人機器人的未來是什麼樣子。老實說，我也不知道。但我們知道的是，這不需花費 10 年或 100 億美金來製造也不是一個大型的類人型機器人。個人機器人的未來就發生在現在，它取決於體積小且敏捷的機器人，像是 ROMO 這樣還有像你們一樣有創造力的人們。所以，我們等不及把機器人送到你們全部人的手上，我們也等不及要看看你們所創造的成果。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
