Talk	en	zh-tw
ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity	"Good morning. How are you? (Laughter) It's been great, hasn't it? I've been blown away by the whole thing. In fact, I'm leaving. (Laughter) There have been three themes running through the conference which are relevant to what I want to talk about. One is the extraordinary evidence of human creativity in all of the presentations that we've had and in all of the people here. Just the variety of it and the range of it. The second is that it's put us in a place where we have no idea what's going to happen, in terms of the future. No idea how this may play out. I have an interest in education. Actually, what I find is everybody has an interest in education. Don't you? I find this very interesting. If you're at a dinner party, and you say you work in education — Actually, you're not often at dinner parties, frankly. (Laughter) If you work in education, you're not asked. (Laughter) And you're never asked back, curiously. That's strange to me. But if you are, and you say to somebody, you know, they say, ""What do you do?"" and you say you work in education, you can see the blood run from their face. They're like, ""Oh my God,"" you know, ""Why me?"" (Laughter) ""My one night out all week."" (Laughter) But if you ask about their education, they pin you to the wall. Because it's one of those things that goes deep with people, am I right? Like religion, and money and other things. So I have a big interest in education, and I think we all do. We have a huge vested interest in it, partly because it's education that's meant to take us into this future that we can't grasp. If you think of it, children starting school this year will be retiring in 2065. Nobody has a clue, despite all the expertise that's been on parade for the past four days, what the world will look like in five years' time. And yet we're meant to be educating them for it. So the unpredictability, I think, is extraordinary. And the third part of this is that we've all agreed, nonetheless, on the really extraordinary capacities that children have — their capacities for innovation. I mean, Sirena last night was a marvel, wasn't she? Just seeing what she could do. And she's exceptional, but I think she's not, so to speak, exceptional in the whole of childhood. What you have there is a person of extraordinary dedication who found a talent. And my contention is, all kids have tremendous talents. And we squander them, pretty ruthlessly. So I want to talk about education and I want to talk about creativity. My contention is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy, and we should treat it with the same status. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) That was it, by the way. Thank you very much. (Laughter) So, 15 minutes left. (Laughter) Well, I was born... no. (Laughter) I heard a great story recently — I love telling it — of a little girl who was in a drawing lesson. She was six, and she was at the back, drawing, and the teacher said this girl hardly ever paid attention, and in this drawing lesson, she did. The teacher was fascinated. She went over to her, and she said, ""What are you drawing?"" And the girl said, ""I'm drawing a picture of God."" And the teacher said, ""But nobody knows what God looks like."" And the girl said, ""They will, in a minute."" (Laughter) When my son was four in England — Actually, he was four everywhere, to be honest. (Laughter) If we're being strict about it, wherever he went, he was four that year. He was in the Nativity play. Do you remember the story? (Laughter) No, it was big, it was a big story. Mel Gibson did the sequel, you may have seen it. (Laughter) ""Nativity II."" But James got the part of Joseph, which we were thrilled about. We considered this to be one of the lead parts. We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts: ""James Robinson IS Joseph!"" (Laughter) He didn't have to speak, but you know the bit where the three kings come in? They come in bearing gifts, gold, frankincense and myrrh. This really happened. We were sitting there and I think they just went out of sequence, because we talked to the little boy afterward and we said, ""You OK with that?"" And he said, ""Yeah, why? Was that wrong?"" They just switched. The three boys came in, four-year-olds with tea towels on their heads, and they put these boxes down, and the first boy said, ""I bring you gold."" And the second boy said, ""I bring you myrrh."" And the third boy said, ""Frank sent this."" (Laughter) What these things have in common is that kids will take a chance. If they don't know, they'll have a go. Am I right? They're not frightened of being wrong. I don't mean to say that being wrong is the same thing as being creative. What we do know is, if you're not prepared to be wrong, you'll never come up with anything original — if you're not prepared to be wrong. And by the time they get to be adults, most kids have lost that capacity. They have become frightened of being wrong. And we run our companies like this. We stigmatize mistakes. And we're now running national education systems where mistakes are the worst thing you can make. And the result is that we are educating people out of their creative capacities. Picasso once said this, he said that all children are born artists. The problem is to remain an artist as we grow up. I believe this passionately, that we don't grow into creativity, we grow out of it. Or rather, we get educated out of it. So why is this? I lived in Stratford-on-Avon until about five years ago. In fact, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles. So you can imagine what a seamless transition that was. (Laughter) Actually, we lived in a place called Snitterfield, just outside Stratford, which is where Shakespeare's father was born. Are you struck by a new thought? I was. You don't think of Shakespeare having a father, do you? Do you? Because you don't think of Shakespeare being a child, do you? Shakespeare being seven? I never thought of it. I mean, he was seven at some point. He was in somebody's English class, wasn't he? (Laughter) How annoying would that be? (Laughter) ""Must try harder."" (Laughter) Being sent to bed by his dad, you know, to Shakespeare, ""Go to bed, now! And put the pencil down."" (Laughter) ""And stop speaking like that."" (Laughter) ""It's confusing everybody."" (Laughter) Anyway, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles, and I just want to say a word about the transition. My son didn't want to come. I've got two kids; he's 21 now, my daughter's 16. He didn't want to come to Los Angeles. He loved it, but he had a girlfriend in England. This was the love of his life, Sarah. He'd known her for a month. (Laughter) Mind you, they'd had their fourth anniversary, because it's a long time when you're 16. He was really upset on the plane, he said, ""I'll never find another girl like Sarah."" And we were rather pleased about that, frankly — (Laughter) Because she was the main reason we were leaving the country. (Laughter) But something strikes you when you move to America and travel around the world: Every education system on Earth has the same hierarchy of subjects. Every one. Doesn't matter where you go. You'd think it would be otherwise, but it isn't. At the top are mathematics and languages, then the humanities, and at the bottom are the arts. Everywhere on Earth. And in pretty much every system too, there's a hierarchy within the arts. Art and music are normally given a higher status in schools than drama and dance. There isn't an education system on the planet that teaches dance everyday to children the way we teach them mathematics. Why? Why not? I think this is rather important. I think math is very important, but so is dance. Children dance all the time if they're allowed to, we all do. We all have bodies, don't we? Did I miss a meeting? (Laughter) Truthfully, what happens is, as children grow up, we start to educate them progressively from the waist up. And then we focus on their heads. And slightly to one side. If you were to visit education, as an alien, and say ""What's it for, public education?"" I think you'd have to conclude, if you look at the output, who really succeeds by this, who does everything that they should, who gets all the brownie points, who are the winners — I think you'd have to conclude the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors. Isn't it? They're the people who come out the top. And I used to be one, so there. (Laughter) And I like university professors, but you know, we shouldn't hold them up as the high-water mark of all human achievement. They're just a form of life, another form of life. But they're rather curious, and I say this out of affection for them. There's something curious about professors in my experience — not all of them, but typically, they live in their heads. They live up there, and slightly to one side. They're disembodied, you know, in a kind of literal way. They look upon their body as a form of transport for their heads. (Laughter) Don't they? It's a way of getting their head to meetings. (Laughter) If you want real evidence of out-of-body experiences, get yourself along to a residential conference of senior academics, and pop into the discotheque on the final night. (Laughter) And there, you will see it. Grown men and women writhing uncontrollably, off the beat. (Laughter) Waiting until it ends so they can go home and write a paper about it. (Laughter) Our education system is predicated on the idea of academic ability. And there's a reason. Around the world, there were no public systems of education, really, before the 19th century. They all came into being to meet the needs of industrialism. So the hierarchy is rooted on two ideas. Number one, that the most useful subjects for work are at the top. So you were probably steered benignly away from things at school when you were a kid, things you liked, on the grounds that you would never get a job doing that. Is that right? Don't do music, you're not going to be a musician; don't do art, you won't be an artist. Benign advice — now, profoundly mistaken. The whole world is engulfed in a revolution. And the second is academic ability, which has really come to dominate our view of intelligence, because the universities designed the system in their image. If you think of it, the whole system of public education around the world is a protracted process of university entrance. And the consequence is that many highly-talented, brilliant, creative people think they're not, because the thing they were good at at school wasn't valued, or was actually stigmatized. And I think we can't afford to go on that way. In the next 30 years, according to UNESCO, more people worldwide will be graduating through education than since the beginning of history. More people, and it's the combination of all the things we've talked about — technology and its transformation effect on work, and demography and the huge explosion in population. Suddenly, degrees aren't worth anything. Isn't that true? When I was a student, if you had a degree, you had a job. If you didn't have a job, it's because you didn't want one. And I didn't want one, frankly. (Laughter) But now kids with degrees are often heading home to carry on playing video games, because you need an MA where the previous job required a BA, and now you need a PhD for the other. It's a process of academic inflation. And it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet. We need to radically rethink our view of intelligence. We know three things about intelligence. One, it's diverse. We think about the world in all the ways that we experience it. We think visually, we think in sound, we think kinesthetically. We think in abstract terms, we think in movement. Secondly, intelligence is dynamic. If you look at the interactions of a human brain, as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations, intelligence is wonderfully interactive. The brain isn't divided into compartments. In fact, creativity — which I define as the process of having original ideas that have value — more often than not comes about through the interaction of different disciplinary ways of seeing things. By the way, there's a shaft of nerves that joins the two halves of the brain called the corpus callosum. It's thicker in women. Following off from Helen yesterday, this is probably why women are better at multi-tasking. Because you are, aren't you? There's a raft of research, but I know it from my personal life. If my wife is cooking a meal at home — which is not often, thankfully. (Laughter) No, she's good at some things, but if she's cooking, she's dealing with people on the phone, she's talking to the kids, she's painting the ceiling, she's doing open-heart surgery over here. If I'm cooking, the door is shut, the kids are out, the phone's on the hook, if she comes in I get annoyed. I say, ""Terry, please, I'm trying to fry an egg in here."" (Laughter) ""Give me a break."" (Laughter) Actually, do you know that old philosophical thing, if a tree falls in a forest and nobody hears it, did it happen? Remember that old chestnut? I saw a great t-shirt recently, which said, ""If a man speaks his mind in a forest, and no woman hears him, is he still wrong?"" (Laughter) And the third thing about intelligence is, it's distinct. I'm doing a new book at the moment called ""Epiphany,"" which is based on a series of interviews with people about how they discovered their talent. I'm fascinated by how people got to be there. It's really prompted by a conversation I had with a wonderful woman who maybe most people have never heard of, Gillian Lynne. Have you heard of her? Some have. She's a choreographer, and everybody knows her work. She did ""Cats"" and ""Phantom of the Opera."" She's wonderful. I used to be on the board of The Royal Ballet, as you can see. Anyway, Gillian and I had lunch one day and I said, ""How did you get to be a dancer?"" It was interesting. When she was at school, she was really hopeless. And the school, in the '30s, wrote to her parents and said, ""We think Gillian has a learning disorder."" She couldn't concentrate; she was fidgeting. I think now they'd say she had ADHD. Wouldn't you? But this was the 1930s, and ADHD hadn't been invented at this point. It wasn't an available condition. (Laughter) People weren't aware they could have that. (Laughter) Anyway, she went to see this specialist. So, this oak-paneled room, and she was there with her mother, and she was led and sat on this chair at the end, and she sat on her hands for 20 minutes while this man talked to her mother about the problems Gillian was having at school. Because she was disturbing people; her homework was always late; and so on, little kid of eight. In the end, the doctor went and sat next to Gillian, and said, ""I've listened to all these things your mother's told me, I need to speak to her privately. Wait here. We'll be back; we won't be very long,"" and they went and left her. But as they went out of the room, he turned on the radio that was sitting on his desk. And when they got out, he said to her mother, ""Just stand and watch her."" And the minute they left the room, she was on her feet, moving to the music. And they watched for a few minutes and he turned to her mother and said, ""Mrs. Lynne, Gillian isn't sick; she's a dancer. Take her to a dance school."" I said, ""What happened?"" She said, ""She did. I can't tell you how wonderful it was. We walked in this room and it was full of people like me. People who couldn't sit still. People who had to move to think."" Who had to move to think. They did ballet, they did tap, jazz; they did modern; they did contemporary. She was eventually auditioned for the Royal Ballet School; she became a soloist; she had a wonderful career at the Royal Ballet. She eventually graduated from the Royal Ballet School, founded the Gillian Lynne Dance Company, met Andrew Lloyd Webber. She's been responsible for some of the most successful musical theater productions in history, she's given pleasure to millions, and she's a multi-millionaire. Somebody else might have put her on medication and told her to calm down. (Applause) What I think it comes to is this: Al Gore spoke the other night about ecology and the revolution that was triggered by Rachel Carson. I believe our only hope for the future is to adopt a new conception of human ecology, one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity. Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip-mine the earth: for a particular commodity. And for the future, it won't serve us. We have to rethink the fundamental principles on which we're educating our children. There was a wonderful quote by Jonas Salk, who said, ""If all the insects were to disappear from the Earth, within 50 years all life on Earth would end. If all human beings disappeared from the Earth, within 50 years all forms of life would flourish."" And he's right. What TED celebrates is the gift of the human imagination. We have to be careful now that we use this gift wisely and that we avert some of the scenarios that we've talked about. And the only way we'll do it is by seeing our creative capacities for the richness they are and seeing our children for the hope that they are. And our task is to educate their whole being, so they can face this future. By the way — we may not see this future, but they will. And our job is to help them make something of it. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	早安，你們好嗎？這次大會實在很精彩，對吧？這一切都讓我太震驚。所以我現在要離開了。（笑聲）我今天要談的與貫穿這次研討會的三個主題相關。首先，這些演說與這裏的每個人所涵蓋領域的廣度與歧異度是展現人類創意的傑出典範。第二、這樣的創意讓人了解到，我們根本不能預知未來。我們不知道未來會是何種面貌 我對教育議題有興趣 —事實上，我發現每個人都對教育有興趣不是嗎？我覺得很有趣的是即便在一個晚宴上，你告訴大家你在教育界服務。坦白說你很少會參加那些晚宴啦，因為如果你在教育界工作（笑聲）沒人會邀請你去。詭異的是就算請你去一次，也不會再請你去第二次。但是如果你應邀出席了，你問同桌的某人，他在何處高就，然後說你自己在教育界工作。你立刻會看到他們臉上出現三條黑線，彷彿是說：天啊！為什麼是我？我這星期好不容易有個晚上可以輕鬆一下。（笑聲）但如果你問大家受過什麼樣教育，每個人都滔滔不絕說個沒完。因為這是影響人們極深的幾個主題之一，對吧？就像宗教、金錢或其他一些事情一樣。我個人對教育極感興趣，我猜我們都是這樣。大家都對教育興趣濃厚，其中部份原因是：教育可用來幫助我們掌握難以理解的未來。試想，今年開始上學的小孩將在西元 2065 年退休。沒人會知道 —儘管我們在過去四天中探討了各種專業知識 —五年後世界會怎樣。但我們本來應該是要教育這些孩子為將來預作準備，所以我認為，未來的不可預知性是極為特殊的。 第三部份是我們都仍同意孩童擁有驚人的潛力 —他們創新的潛力。我是說，昨晚的莎琳娜真是令人驚奇，不是嗎？目睹了昨晚莎琳娜能做到的事。她真是優秀，但我認為在所有的孩童裡面，她並沒有那麼的特殊。昨晚你見到的只是一個已經發現她才能的人非常專心致力於其天賦的結果。我的觀點是所有孩子都天賦異稟。都被我們殘酷的浪費了。所以我想談談教育與創意。我的論點是在我們的教育裏，創意與識字能力同等重要，我們應該給予兩者平等的地位。（掌聲）謝謝。就這樣，我說完了。非常謝謝大家。（笑聲）所以，還剩下十五分鐘。這個嘛，我生於 — 不，開玩笑的（笑聲） 我最近聽到了一個很棒的故事— 我很愛轉述它 —有個小女孩在上繪畫課。她六歲，她坐在教室後方畫畫，老師說這小女孩平常非常難專注在一件事物上，但是今天她很專心。老師非常的好奇，於是老師走向小女孩問道：妳在畫什麼？小女孩說：我正在畫一幅上帝的畫像。老師又說：可是沒人知道上帝長什麼樣子啊。小女孩接著說：那他們馬上就會知道了。（笑聲） 當我兒子四歲在英國的時候，其實，說實話，他在各地都是四歲。（笑聲）我們對他很嚴格，不管去哪他都是四歲。他在聖誕節參加演出耶穌誕生的兒童劇。你們記得那個故事嗎？它很著名。那是個很著名的故事。梅爾．吉勃遜演了續集。耶穌誕生第二集，你們也許看過。但我兒子詹姆士扮演耶穌的養父聖若瑟，我們很興奮。我們認為這角色是主角群之一。觀眾席上擠滿了我們找來穿著印有「詹姆士．羅賓森是聖若瑟」字樣 T 恤的人。（笑聲）不過他是沒有台詞的，你知道故事中來自東方的三博士來朝拜剛出生的耶穌。他們輪流獻上黃金、乳香與沒藥三項禮物。我們坐在那看戲時，這是真實發生的情況喲，我發現他們把獻禮的順序弄錯了，我們後來問兒子說：你不在意嗎？他說：這有什麼錯嗎？他們就換ㄧ下順序而已啊。故事繼續，這三個四歲小男孩走進耶穌的家，頭上包著毛巾布，他們把裝禮物的三個盒子放下，第一個小男孩說：我為你獻上黃金。第二個說：我為你獻上沒藥。第三個小男孩說：這是法蘭克送的(Frank sent this) [應為乳香-Frankincense，但小男孩不會發音] 這些故事的共通處說明了小孩願意冒險。有不知道的事，他們就用猜的。我說的對吧？他們不怕犯錯。當然，我不是說犯錯等於有創意。但是我們知道如果你沒有犯錯的心理準備，就永遠無法發揮獨創性。如果你都不準備犯錯。當他們長大成人時，絕大部份孩子已經失去這項冒險的能力了。他們會變得害怕犯錯。順道一提，我們就是這樣經營公司企業的。我們懲罰錯誤。我們現在也以同樣方式在經營國家的教育制度，告訴孩子犯錯是最糟的事。而結果是我們教出一堆沒有創意的人。畢卡索曾經說過：所有孩子都是天生的藝術家。問題是如何維持藝術家的性格到成年。我堅信：我們不會越老越有創意，我們的成長背離創意。或者說，教育抹煞了我們的創造力。為什麼呢？ 我以前住在英國埃文河畔的斯特拉福，莎士比亞的家鄉。我們五年前從那搬到美國洛杉磯。所以你可以了解，這是個多麼平順的轉變吧。（笑聲）事實上，我們那時住在斯特拉福外圍的斯尼特菲爾，那是莎翁父親出生的小鎮。這有沒有讓你聯想到什麼？我有。你從來沒想過莎士比亞也有爸爸吧？有嗎？想過嗎？因為你沒有想過莎士比亞曾經是個小孩，有嗎？七歲的莎士比亞？我從來沒想過。我是說，他曾經是七歲大。他曾經是某人英文課上的學生，難道不是嗎？想想那會有多討厭？（笑聲）「你得更用功」爸爸趕他上床睡覺，你知道的，跟莎士比亞說：上床睡覺，馬上！威廉．莎士比亞，「給我把鉛筆放下。而且別再用那種辭彙講話，大家都聽得霧煞煞。」（笑聲） 反正呢，我們從斯特拉福搬到洛城，我事實上只是想談談我們的這個轉變。我的兒子並不想來。我有兩個孩子。兒子今年 21，女兒 16 歲。他不想來洛杉磯。他很喜歡這裡，但因為他在英國有女朋友。名叫莎拉，她是他人生至愛。他那時認識她一個月。告訴你，他們好像已經認識四年一樣，因為對 16 歲來說一個月是個很長的時間。無論如何，我兒子在飛機上很難過，他說：我再也找不到像莎拉這樣的女孩了。但坦白說，我們對此挺高興的，因為她是我們決定搬離英國的主要原因。（笑聲） 但當你來到美國或是在世界各地旅行時你會驚訝的發現，這地球上所有教育系統都有同樣的科目階級制度。不管你去哪裏，都是這樣。你以為會有所不同，但真的沒有差別。最高階的學科是數學和語文，接著是人文社會科目，而藝術則是墊底的科目。到處都一樣。而且每個教育體系中的藝術課程中，也都有同樣的階級制度。美術和音樂課程在學校永遠比戲劇和舞蹈課程更重要。這地球上沒有一個教育系統每天教授小孩們跳舞，就像教數學一樣。為什麼呢？為什麼不呢？我覺得這很重要。我認為數學非常重要，但舞蹈也是。如果被允許，孩子們無時無刻不在跳舞，我們都是這樣。我們都有肢體，不是嗎？我錯過了什麼嗎？（笑聲）這一切背後的真相是，當小孩開始成長，我們的教育重心大量移至腰部以上。然後著重在頭部。並且沒有左右均衡。 如果你觀察這種教育制度，當個局外人，然後問：公立教育的目的是什麼呢？我想你的結論會是 — 如果你以結果論，誰能在這種制度下成功？誰是乖乖牌，從不犯錯？誰累積了最多嘉獎？誰是贏家？—我想你會得到這樣的結論，全球公立教育的目的只是製造大學教授，難道不是嗎？他們是那群高分畢業的人。我以前也是大學教授，所以你看吧！（笑聲）當然我喜歡大學教授，但你知道，我們不應將他們視為人類成就的最高指標。那只是一種生活方式，就只是一種不同的生活方式。是但教授們是有些古怪的，我會這樣說是因為，我對他們有深厚的感情。在我的經驗裏，教授們是有點難以理解的 —不是所有教授都這樣，但一般來說 — 他們活在自己腦袋中。他們都活在那兒，而且稍微偏向一邊。他們是脫離現實的，你知道，我沒有誇大。他們向下看著他們的身體，將其視為運輸頭部的一種交通工具，難道不是嗎？（笑聲）是將他們的腦袋帶往會議場所的一種方式。如果你還需要這種離體經驗的真實證據，順道提一下，去參加一個由資深學者組成的需要住宿的研討會，然後在最後一個晚上，到大會附近的舞廳去。（笑聲）那你就會看到我所謂的證據，許多成年男女痛苦的扭動著身體，完全跟不上節拍，他們只想等著舞曲結束，好快點回家寫一篇關於此行的報告。 我們將教育制度建構在學術能力上。是有原因的。這整個系統是被創造的 — 全球皆然，真的，十九世紀前並沒有公立教育制度。這系統的目的是要滿足西方工業化的需求。所以這個階級制度根植在兩種概念上。首先，最有利工作的學科享有最高地位。所以當你還是個孩子的時候，在學校就被良性的指導不要去學某些東西，一些你喜歡的事物，因為就算你學了以後工作也用不上。對吧？別學音樂，因為你不會變成音樂家；別學美術，你不會變成藝術家。善意的建議 — 才怪，大錯特錯。這整個世界都被工業革命吞沒。第二，我們對智力的看法取決於學術能力的高底，因為大學院校以它們自己的經驗為藍本來設計教育制度。你仔細思考就會發現，全世界的公立教育系統都只是為進入大學之門鋪路。而結果造成許多有天份、有創意的、聰明的學生自我否定，因為他們的專長在學校不被重視，還可能因此受罰。我認為，我們不能再繼續這樣下去。 根據聯合國教育文化組織的數據，接下來三十年內全世界從教育系統畢業的人數將超越人類歷史開始時的人口總數。更多的人，許多我們談過的因素結合造就了這項數字 —包括科技、對工作的轉型效應、人口組成和人口數大爆發。突然之間，文憑不值錢了。對吧？當我還是學生的時候，如果你有張大學文憑，你就有份工作。你要是沒工作，是因為你自己不想要。老實說，像我就是不想要工作。（笑聲）但現在有大學文憑的小孩常常只能回家繼續打電動，因為以前大學畢業可以做的工作，現在得要碩士才行，而該是碩士的工作，現在要是博士才能搶到。這是一個文憑膨脹的過程。這顯示著整個教育結構正在我們腳下改變。我們必須徹底重新思考我們對智力的看法。 我們確知智慧包括下列三件事：第一、多樣性。我們是以各種不同經驗來思考這個世界。我們可以用視覺、聲音、肢體運動、抽象名詞和活動等各種方式來思考。第二、智力應該是充滿活力的。如果你們研究人類腦部的互動，就像我們昨天從數場演說中所聽到的，智慧是極為神奇的相互作用。人腦不能簡單的加以劃分開來。事實上，我對創意的定義是產生有價值原創性想法的思維過程通常是在各領域不同意見的交互激盪下產生。 腦部的能量是很強烈的，順便ㄧ提，腦內連結左右腦半球的神經束叫做胼肢體。女性的比較粗。根據昨天海倫的演講，我猜這可能是為什麼女人比較能夠一心多用的原因。難道不是嗎？許多文獻都曾提及，但我是從我個人經驗中得知。如果我太太在家裏做菜，幸好這不常發生，感謝天。（笑聲）但你可以想像，她還會做— 她有某些特殊技能 —當她在做菜時，你知道，她還可以同時講電話，跟小孩說話，油漆天花板，甚至可以就地動開心手術。可是換成我在做飯時，門要關上，小孩帶到外面去，電話是掛好的，她如果進來，我會被激怒。我就會說：泰瑞，拜託！別煩我，我正試著炒蛋。（笑聲）讓我講個古老的哲學故事，如果沒人聽見一棵樹倒在森林裏，這件事發生了嗎？記得這故事嗎？我最近看到一件很棒的 T 恤上寫：如果沒有女人聽見一個男人在森林中說出的真心話，男人還是錯的嗎？（笑聲） 關於智力的第三件事是與眾不同。我現在正在寫一本書叫《頓悟》，本書根據一系列訪談，訪問許多人是如何發現自己的天份。我對於那些人成功的故事很著迷。這本書啟發於我跟一個美妙女子的對談，大部份人可能沒聽過她她叫茱麗安．琳，你們聽過她嗎？有些人聽過。她是個編舞家，每個人都聽說過她的作品。《貓》與《歌劇魅影》她很棒的。我過去曾擔任過英國皇家芭蕾舞團的董事，我想你們應該看得出來。總而言之，有天我和茱麗安共進午餐，我問她：茱麗安，你怎麼成為舞者的？他回答到：說來有趣，她在學校時表現很糟。那是 30 年代，學校寫信給她父母說：我們認為茱麗安可能有學習障礙。她無法專心，她總是動來動去。我想如果是現在他們會說她有「注意力不足過動症」。不是嗎？但那是 30 年代，那時這個名詞還沒有被發明。所以大家還沒辦法生這種病。（笑聲）人們不知道自己可能有此種疾病。 總而言之，後來她去見一位專家。那是在一個橡木地板的房間，她與母親一起在裡面，她被帶到房間盡頭的椅子上坐下，她在椅子上乖乖坐了二十分鐘，當醫生與她母親在討論她在學校所遭遇的問題。當討論結束後 —因為她總是捉弄別人，又老是遲交作業等等，八歲的小孩嘛 — 最後這位醫生走過去坐在她旁邊說：茱麗安，妳母親跟我說了很多妳的問題，我需要私下跟她談談，他說：在這兒等一下，我們不會太久，很快回來。然後他們就離開了，留她獨自一人。但走出房門前，醫生把桌上的收音機打開。當他們走到房間外面，醫生跟她母親說：我們就站在這裏觀察她。他們一離開房間後，茱麗安說她就隨著收音機的音樂跳起舞來。兩位大人在外面觀看了幾分鐘後醫生轉向她母親說：琳太太，茱麗安沒有病，她是個舞者。帶她去上舞蹈學校。 我說：後來怎麼了？她說：媽媽真的送我去學跳舞，我無法告訴你那有多棒。我走進一個房間，裏面全是和我一樣的人。無法端坐不動的人。這些人都必須要經過舞動來思考。經由舞動才能思考。他們學芭蕾、踢踏、爵士、現代舞等等。她最後去應徵英國皇家芭蕾舞團的一個角色，她成為獨舞者，在皇家芭蕾舞團裡有個很傑出的職業舞者生涯。她最後從皇家芭蕾舞團離開，成立了自己的舞蹈團，茱麗安．琳舞團，認識歌舞劇大師韋伯。她為歷史上最受歡迎的幾齣歌舞劇編舞，她娛樂了數以百萬的觀眾，她現在是百萬富翁。但換成另外一個醫生可能會叫她吃藥，叫她安靜下來。（掌聲） 因此，我認為 —（掌聲）我認為這個故事的啓示是：高爾，前幾晚在這裏談到生態學，及美國知名海洋生物學家瑞秋．卡森發起的環保革命。我相信，我們未來唯一的希望是採取人類生態學的新觀念，開始重新建構我們對人類豐富潛能的看法。我們的教育制度開採我們的心智就如同我們過度開採地球上的礦物一般：只針對有特殊價值的東西。但是對我們的未來沒有幫助。我們必須要重新思考我們教育孩子的基本原則。發明小兒痲痹疫苗的美國科學家瓊恩斯．沙克有個名言，他說：如果昆蟲從地球上消失，五十年內地球上所有生命都會滅絕。如果人類從地球上消失，五十年內地球上所有生命都會茁壯。他是對的。 TED 頌揚的是人類發揮想像力的天賦。我們現在應謹慎、聰明地運用我們的天賦才能來防止一些情景的發生，我們剛剛已經談過一些可能的事態。唯一的方法是藉由要看重人類創意的豐富性，看重我們孩子代表的希望，我們的任務是要提供全人教育，使他們能夠面對未來。順道一提，我們不見得看的到這個未來，但他們一定會。而我們的工作是幫助他們在自己的未來發光發亮。謝謝大家。
