Talk	en	zh-tw
ken_kamler_medical_miracle_on_everest	"OK. We've heard a lot of people speak at this conference about the power of the human mind. And what I'd like to do today is give you a vivid example of how that power can be unleashed when someone is in a survival situation, how the will to survive can bring that out in people. This is an incident which occurred on Mount Everest; it was the worst disaster in the history of Everest. And when it occurred, I was the only doctor on the mountain. So I'll take you through that and we'll see what it's like when someone really summons the will to survive. OK, this is Mount Everest. It's 29,035 feet high. I've been there six times: Four times I did work with National Geographic, making tectonic plate measurements; twice, I went with NASA doing remote sensing devices. It was on my fourth trip to Everest that a comet passed over the mountain. Hyakutake. And the Sherpas told us then that was a very bad omen, and we should have listened to them. Everest is an extreme environment. There's only one-third as much oxygen at the summit as there is at sea level. Near the summit, temperatures can be 40 degrees below zero. You can have winds 20 to 40 miles an hour. It's actually a wind-chill factor which is lower than a summer day on Mars. I remember one time being up near the summit, I reached into my down jacket for a drink from my water bottle, inside my down jacket, only to discover that the water was already frozen solid. That gives you an idea of just how severe things are near the summit. OK, this is the route up Everest. It starts at base camp, at 17,500 feet. Camp One, 2,000 feet higher. Camp Two, another 2,000 feet higher up, what's called the Western Cwm. CampThree is at the base of Lhotse, which is the fourth highest mountain in the world, but it's dwarfed by Everest. And then Camp Four is the highest camp; that's 3,000 feet short of the summit. This is a view of base camp. This is pitched on a glacier at 17,500 feet. It's the highest point you can bring your yaks before you have to unload. And this is what they unloaded for me: I had four yak loads of medical supplies, which are dumped in a tent, and here I am trying to arrange things. This was our expedition. It was a National Geographic expedition, but it was organized by The Explorers Club. There were three other expeditions on the mountain, an American team, a New Zealand team and an IMAX team. And, after actually two months of preparation, we built our camps all the way up the mountain. This is a view looking up the icefall, the first 2,000 feet of the climb up from base camp. And here's a picture in the icefall; it's a waterfall, but it's frozen, but it moves very slowly, and it actually changes every day. When you're in it, you're like a rat in a maze; you can't even see over the top. This is near the top of the icefall. You want to climb through at night when the ice is frozen. That way, it's less likely to tumble down on you. These are some climbers reaching the top of the icefall just at sun-up. This is me crossing a crevasse. We cross on aluminum ladders with safety ropes attached. That's another crevasse. Some of these things are 10 stories deep or more, and one of my climbing friends says that the reason we actually climb at night is because if we ever saw the bottom of what we're climbing over, we would never do it. Okay. This is Camp One. It's the first flat spot you can reach after you get up to the top of the icefall. And from there we climb up to Camp Two, which is sort of the foreground. These are climbers moving up the Lhotse face, that mountain toward Camp Three. They're on fixed ropes here. A fall here, if you weren't roped in, would be 5,000 feet down. This is a view taken from camp three. You can see the Lhotse face is in profile, it's about a 45 degree angle. It takes two days to climb it, so you put the camp halfway through. If you notice, the summit of Everest is black. There's no ice over it. And that's because Everest is so high, it's in the jet stream, and winds are constantly scouring the face, so no snow gets to accumulate. What looks like a cloud behind the summit ridge is actually snow being blown off the summit. This is on the way up from Camp Three to Camp Four, moving in, up through the clouds. And this is at Camp Four. Once you get to Camp Four, you have maybe 24 hours to decide if you're going to go for the summit or not. Everybody's on oxygen, your supplies are limited, and you either have to go up or go down, make that decision very quickly. This is a picture of Rob Hall. He was the leader of the New Zealand team. This is a radio he used later to call his wife that I'll tell you about. These are some climbers waiting to go to the summit. They're up at Camp Four, and you can see that there's wind blowing off the summit. This is not good weather to climb in, so the climbers are just waiting, hoping that the wind's going to die down. And, in fact, the wind does die down at night. It becomes very calm, there's no wind at all. This looks like a good chance to go for the summit. So here are some climbers starting out for the summit on what's called the Triangular Face. It's the first part of climb. It's done in the dark, because it's actually less steep than what comes next, and you can gain daylight hours if you do this in the dark. So that's what happened. The climbers got on the southeast ridge. This is the view looking at the southeast ridge. The summit would be in the foreground. From here, it's about 1,500 feet up at a 30-degree angle to the summit. But what happened that year was the wind suddenly and unexpectedly picked up. A storm blew in that no one was anticipating. You can see here some ferocious winds blowing snow way high off the summit. And there were climbers on that summit ridge. This is a picture of me in that area taken a year before, and you can see I've got an oxygen mask on with a rebreather. I have an oxygen hose connected here. You can see on this climber, we have two oxygen tanks in the backpack — little titanium tanks, very lightweight — and we're not carrying much else. This is all you've got. You're very exposed on the summit ridge. OK, this is a view taken on the summit ridge itself. This is on the way toward the summit, on that 1,500-foot bridge. All the climbers here are climbing unroped, and the reason is because the drop off is so sheer on either side that if you were roped to somebody, you'd wind up just pulling them off with you. So each person climbs individually. And it's not a straight path at all, it's very difficult climbing, and there's always the risk of falling on either side. If you fall to your left, you're going to fall 8,000 feet into Nepal; if you fall to your right, you're going to fall 12,000 feet into Tibet. So it's probably better to fall into Tibet because you'll live longer. (Laughter) But, either way, you fall for the rest of your life. OK. Those climbers were up near the summit, along that summit ridge that you see up there, and I was down here in Camp Three. My expedition was down in Camp Three, while these guys were up there in the storm. The storm was so fierce that we had to lay, fully dressed, fully equipped, laid out on the tent floor to stop the tent from blowing off the mountain. It was the worst winds I've ever seen. And the climbers up on the ridge were that much higher, 2,000 feet higher, and completely exposed to the elements. We were in radio contact with some of them. This is a view taken along the summit ridge. Rob Hall, we heard by radio, was up here, at this point in the storm with Doug Hansen. And we heard that Rob was OK, but Doug was too weak to come down. He was exhausted, and Rob was staying with him. We also got some bad news in the storm that Beck Weathers, another climber, had collapsed in the snow and was dead. There were still 18 other climbers that we weren't aware of their condition. They were lost. There was total confusion on the mountain; all the stories were confusing, most of them were conflicting. We really had no idea what was going on during that storm. We were just hunkered down in our tents at Camp Three. Our two strongest climbers, Todd Burleson and Pete Athans, decided to go up to try to rescue who they could even though there was a ferocious storm going. They tried to radio a message to Rob Hall, who was a superb climber stuck, sort of, with a weak climber up near the summit. I expected them to say to Rob, ""Hold on. We're coming."" But in fact, what they said was, ""Leave Doug and come down yourself. There's no chance of saving him, and just try to save yourself at this point."" And Rob got that message, but his answer was, ""We're both listening."" Todd and Pete got up to the summit ridge, up in here, and it was a scene of complete chaos up there. But they did what they could to stabilize the people. I gave them radio advice from Camp Three, and we sent down the climbers that could make it down under their own power. The ones that couldn't we just sort of decided to leave up at Camp Four. So the climbers were coming down along this route. This is taken from Camp Three, where I was. And they all came by me so I could take a look at them and see what I could do for them, which is really not much, because Camp Three is a little notch cut in the ice in the middle of a 45-degree angle. You can barely stand outside the tent. It's really cold; it's 24,000 feet. The only supplies I had at that altitude were two plastic bags with preloaded syringes of painkiller and steroids. So, as the climbers came by me, I sort of assessed whether or not they were in condition to continue on further down. The ones that weren't that lucid or were not that well coordinated, I would give an injection of steroids to try to give them some period of lucidity and coordination where they could then work their way further down the mountain. It's so awkward to work up there that sometimes I even gave the injections right through their clothes. It was just too hard to maneuver any other way up there. While I was taking care of them, we got more news about Rob Hall. There was no way we could get up high enough to rescue him. He called in to say that he was alone now. Apparently, Doug had died higher up on the mountain. But Rob was now too weak to come down himself, and with the fierce winds and up at that altitude, he was just beyond rescue and he knew it. At that point, he asked to be paged into his wife. He was carrying a radio. His wife was home in New Zealand, seven months pregnant with their first child, and Rob asked to be patched into her. That was done, and Rob and his wife had their last conversation. They picked the name for their baby. Rob then signed off, and that was the last we ever heard of him. I was faced with treating a lot of critically ill patients at 24,000 feet, which was an impossibility. So what we did was, we got the victims down to 21,000 feet, where it was easier for me to treat them. This was my medical kit. It's a tackle box filled with medical supplies. This is what I carried up the mountain. I had more supplies lower down, which I asked to be brought up to meet me at the lower camp. And this was scene at the lower camp. The survivors came in one by one. Some of them were hypothermic, some of them were frostbitten, some were both. What we did was try to warm them up as best we could, put oxygen on them and try to revive them, which is difficult to do at 21,000 feet, when the tent is freezing. This is some severe frostbite on the feet, severe frostbite on the nose. This climber was snow blind. As I was taking care of these climbers, we got a startling experience. Out of nowhere, Beck Weathers, who we had already been told was dead, stumbled into the tent, just like a mummy, he walked into the tent. I expected him to be incoherent, but, in fact, he walked into the tent and said to me, ""Hi, Ken. Where should I sit?"" And then he said, ""Do you accept my health insurance?"" (Laughter) He really said that. (Laughter) So he was completely lucid, but he was very severely frostbitten. You can see his hand is completely white; his face, his nose, is burned. First, it turns white, and then when it's completed necrosis, it turns black, and then it falls off. It's the last stage, just like a scar. So, as I was taking care of Beck, he related what had been going on up there. He said he had gotten lost in the storm, collapsed in the snow, and just laid there, unable to move. Some climbers had come by and looked at him, and he heard them say, ""He's dead."" But Beck wasn't dead; he heard that, but he was completely unable to move. He was in some sort of catatonic state where he could be aware of his surroundings, but couldn't even blink to indicate that he was alive. So the climbers passed him by, and Beck lay there for a day, a night and another day, in the snow. And then he said to himself, ""I don't want to die. I have a family to come back to."" And the thoughts of his family, his kids and his wife, generated enough energy, enough motivation in him, so that he actually got up. After laying in the snow that long a time, he got up and found his way back to the camp. And Beck told me that story very quietly, but I was absolutely stunned by it. I couldn't imagine anybody laying in the snow that long a time and then getting up. He apparently reversed an irreversible hypothermia. And I can only try to speculate on how he did it. So, what if we had Beck hooked up to a SPECT scan, something that could actually measure brain function? Just very simply, the three parts of the brain: the frontal lobe, where you focus your attention and concentration; you have the temporal lobe, where you form images and keep memories; and the posterior part of your brain, which contains the cerebellum, which controls motion; and the brain stem, where you have your basic maintenance functions, like heartbeat and respiration. So let's take a cut through the brain here, and imagine that Beck was hooked up to a SPECT scan. This measures dynamic blood flow and therefore energy flow within the brain. So you have the prefrontal cortex here, lighting up in red. This is a pretty evenly distributed scan. You have the middle area, where the temporal lobe might be, in here, and the posterior portion, where the maintenance functions are in the back. This is a roughly normal scan, showing equal distribution of energy. Now, you go to this one and you see how much more the frontal lobes are lighting up. This might be what Beck would be experiencing when he realizes he's in danger. He's focusing all his attention on getting himself out of trouble. These parts of the brain are quieting down. He's not thinking about his family or anybody else at this point, and he's working pretty hard. He's trying to get his muscles going and get out of this. OK, but he's losing ground here. He's running out of energy. It's too cold; he can't keep his metabolic fires going, and, you see, there's no more red here; his brain is quieting down. He's collapsed in the snow here. Everything is quiet, there's very little red anywhere. Beck is powering down. He's dying. You go on to the next scan, but, in Beck's case, you can see that the middle part of his brain is beginning to light up again. He's beginning to think about his family. He's beginning to have images that are motivating him to get up. He's developing energy in this area through thought. And this is how he's going to turn thought back into action. This part of the brain is called the anterior cingulate gyrus. It's an area in which a lot of neuroscientists believe the seat of will exists. This is where people make decisions, where they develop willpower. And, you can see, there's an energy flow going from the mid portion of his brain, where he's got images of his family, into this area, which is powering his will. Okay. This is getting stronger and stronger to the point where it's actually going to be a motivating factor. He's going to develop enough energy in that area — after a day, a night and a day — to actually motivate himself to get up. And you can see here, he's starting to get more energy into the frontal lobe. He's beginning to focus, he can concentrate now. He's thinking about what he's got to do to save himself. So this energy has been transmitted up toward the front of his brain, and it's getting quieter down here, but he's using this energy to think about what he has to do to get himself going. And then, that energy is sort of spreading throughout his thought areas. He's not thinking about his family now, and he's getting himself motivated. This is the posterior part, where his muscles are going to be moving, and he's going to be pacing himself. His heart and lungs are going to pick up speed. So this is what I can speculate might have been going on had we been able to do a SPECT scan on Beck during this survival epic. So here I am taking care of Beck at 21,000 feet, and I felt what I was doing was completely trivial compared to what he had done for himself. It just shows you what the power of the mind can do. He was critically ill, there were other critically ill patients; luckily, we were able to get a helicopter in to rescue these guys. A helicopter came in at 21,000 feet and carried out the highest helicopter rescue in history. It was able to land on the ice, take away Beck and the other survivors, one by one, and get them off to Kathmandu in a clinic before we even got back to base camp. This is a scene at base camp, at one of the camps where some of the climbers were lost. And we had a memorial service there a few days later. These are Serphas lighting juniper branches. They believe juniper smoke is holy. And the climbers stood around on the high rocks and spoke of the climbers who were lost up near the summit, turning to the mountain, actually, to talk to them directly. There were five climbers lost here. This was Scott Fischer, Rob Hall, Andy Harris, Doug Hansen and Yasuko Namba. And one more climber should have died that day, but didn't, and that's Beck Weathers. He was able to survive because he was able to generate that incredible willpower, he was able to use all the power of his mind to save himself. These are Tibetan prayer flags. These Sherpas believe that if you write prayers on these flags, the message will be carried up to the gods, and that year, Beck's message was answered. Thank you. (Applause)"	好的。嗯，我們都聽了很多人在這次的會議中說了很多關於人們意志力的力量而我今天想做的是給你們一個活生生的例子關於這些力量如何被釋放出來的當一個人在一個生死攸關的情況下那生存的意志力是如何從人們激發出來這是一次發生在聖母峰上的事件這是一個聖母峰史上最嚴重的山難而且當時我是山上唯一的一個醫生所以呢我會帶你們一起去體會然後我們會看到這就像當一個人確實召喚出意志力以求生存是甚麼樣子。 ok 這就是聖母峰。她高 29,035 英尺。我曾經去過那裡六次，其中四次是和國家地理頻道一起，做關於板塊的測量。另外兩次我是跟NASA一起去的做關於遙測系統的測試。這是我的第四次聖母峰之旅這個是百武彗星，剛好畫過山際然後這些夏爾巴人（當地住民）告訴我們那個彗星是一個不好的預兆而我們真的應該要聽他們的聖母峰上面真的是一個很艱困的環境在頂峰的地方氧氣含量大約只有平地的三分之一頂峰的氣溫呢大約是華氏40度到零度風速大概是每小時20到40英里她的風寒指標呢大概比火星的夏天還要低我記得有一次在頂峰的附近我伸手進我的羽毛外套想要從我的水壺喝口水在我的羽毛外套裡面卻發現裡面的水居然已經結冰凝固了！這樣讓你有一些概念關於頂峰附近的情況有多麼惡劣 好的，這是上聖母峰的路徑它從位於一萬七千五百英尺的基地營開始再往上兩千英尺是一號營一號營再往上兩千英尺是二號營也稱為 Western Cwn (西谷)三號營位於洛子峰的底部他是世界上的第四高峰，但是在聖母峰前面也變得矮小接著四號營是最高的營地它距離峰頂不到三千英尺這是我們基地營的一張照片它紮營在一萬七千五百英尺的冰河上這是你能帶你的氂牛到的最高位置在你必須要卸下裝備之前然後這是他們幫我卸貨的東西.我帶了四隻載滿醫療補給品的氂牛然後東西全部都倒在帳篷裡喔這個是我試著想要整理這些東西 這是我們的探勘團隊這是國家地理的探勘隊伍但是他是由The Explorers Club.所組成的另外還有三支探勘隊伍同時在山上一個美國的隊伍，一個紐西蘭團隊，還有一個IMAX的隊伍。接著，在整整兩個月的準備之後，我們把我們的營地蓋在山上最高的地方。 這是一張仰望冰瀑的景象。爬了前兩千英尺之後遇到從基地營開始。這個是一張冰瀑的照片。他其實是一個瀑布，但是它結冰了，但它仍非常緩慢的移動，所以它每天都還是會改變。當你身在其中的時候，你就像一隻在迷宮裡頭的老鼠：你甚至無法從上面看到全貌。這是靠近冰瀑的頂端。你會想要在晚上完全結冰了才爬上去。這樣它才比較不會垮在你身上。這是一群登山客在太陽剛剛升起的時候爬到冰瀑頂端。這是我，正要越過一個冰隙。我們利用綁上安全繩的鋁梯來通過。這是另外一個冰隙。這些冰隙有些深達十層樓或者更高，一個山友告訴我說我們之所以要在晚上爬過去的原因是因為如果我們一旦看到了冰隙的底部是我們正要爬過去的，那我們永遠也不會這麼做。 好的，這是一號營。這是第一個你能夠到達的平坦處在你爬到冰瀑的上方之後我們從這裡爬上第二營地有點像是前哨站這裡是登山客開始往洛子峰面攀爬的情況這座山也是第三營地的地方他們都固定在繩索上攀爬如果你沒綁上繩索，就會在這跌下差不多是五千英尺深這是從第三營地拍的景觀你可以看到洛子峰表面的輪廓大概呈現45度角，要花個兩天才能爬上去所以你會紮營在半途中 如果你有注意到，聖母峰峰頂呈現黑色並沒有冰雪覆蓋在上面那是因為呢，聖母峰太高她在所謂的高速氣流當中強風不斷的沖刷她的表面造成冰雪沒有辦法在上面堆積在頂峰邊緣看起來像是雲的東西其實就是被風吹起來的冰雪 這是從三號營地攀爬到四號營地的途中會走進並且穿越雲層然後這是在四號營地一旦你到達了四號營地，你大概有二十四小時來決定你到底要不要攻頂每一個人都帶著氧氣面罩。你的氧氣補給非常有限所以你要攻頂還是下山你要很快的做決定這是一張Rob Hall的照片他是紐西蘭隊伍的領隊。這是他晚點用來與他老婆聯繫的無線電我等一下就會告訴你。這是一些等著攻頂的登山客。他們正在四號營地，然後你可以看到後面頂峰上面強風不斷的吹著。這不是一個適合攀爬的天氣，所以登山客們只能等著，希望強風能夠停下來。然後，事實上風在晚上的確是停了下來。變得非常平靜，而且幾乎沒有風。這看起來是個非常適合攻頂的好機會。所以有些登山客開始準備攻頂在所謂的三角點上。這是攀登的第一個部份。這通常會在黑夜中完成，因為跟接下來比這算是比較不那麼陡峭的，而且讓你可以賺到一點白天的時間，如果你是在黑夜中完成的。 然後這就是接下來發生的。這些登山客到了東南邊的山脊。這是從東南脊觀看它的樣子。這個山頂是個前台。從這裡開始，它大約有一千五百英尺以一個30度的傾角到達頂峰。但是那年發生的事情是風突然不預期的又刮大了起來。一個所有人預料之外的暴風。你可以看到這裡一些非常強勁的風勢把雪吹得遠高過山頂。而且還有登山客還在山頂的山脊上。 這張照片是我在同樣的地方在一年以前拍的，你可以看到我戴著氧氣面罩還有循環的呼吸器我這還有個氧氣管連接在上面你可以看到在這位登山者身上，我們的背包都有兩罐氧氣筒小型的鈦合金筒，重量非常輕然後，我們並沒有多帶什麼這是你全部所有的。你在山頂脊上是非常裸露沒有遮蔽的。 好，這是一張照片從山頂脊上拍下來的這是在攻頂的半途中，在那一千五百英尺的山脊。所有的登山人員都是沒有綁上繩子的那是由於兩邊下坡都是非常陡峭的，如果你還和其他人綁著，你最後會拉著他們跟著你掉下去。所以每個人都只能靠自己獨立的爬。而且這根本就不是什麼好走的路。它可是非常難爬的，都必須要冒著可能會掉下任何一邊的危險如果你從左邊掉下去，你將會墜落八千英尺到尼泊爾。如果你從右邊掉下去你會墜落一萬兩千英尺深到西藏。所以，可能摔到西藏那邊會好一點因為你會活的久一點 （墜落時間比較長...）（笑聲）但是無論哪一邊，你都是跌下你剩下的人生。 好，這些登山者正沿著山脊，你可以看到這裡爬到接近頂峰了當時我正在下面的三號營地這裡。我的探勘隊伍駐紮在三號營，當這些登山客在暴風當中的時候。因為風暴實在太強勁了，我們只能躺著完全備裝、全副武裝的，躺在帳篷的地板上來防止帳篷被強風吹落山谷。那是我看過最糟糕的暴風。然後那些登山客還在的山脊上還要高兩千英尺，然後完全的暴露在外在的環境下。我們透過無線電連絡他們。 這張照片是沿著山頂的山脊拍的一張。我們從無線電中聽到Rob Hall就在上面，就在暴風之中跟Doug Hansen在一起。然後我們聽到Rob沒什麼問題，但是Doug 實在太虛弱了而沒辦法爬下來。他完全累斃了，然後Rob在那裡陪著他。我們在暴風雪中也得到了其他壞消息另一個登山客 Beck Weather，被崩下的雪壓住而且已經死了。還有其他十八個登山客我們是不清楚他們的狀況。他們失蹤了。山上完全是一團混亂。所有傳來的消息都讓人困惑。大部份還互相衝突。我們真的不知道到底在暴風雪時發生了甚麼事情。我們只能窩在我們在第三營地的帳篷裡。 我們其中兩位最強壯的登山客，Todd Burleson 和 Pete Athans，決定上山去看看能不能援救到任何他們所能救到的人即使暴風還在猛烈的吹著。他們是著透過無線電發送訊息給Rob Hall，他是一個傑出的登山者有點像與一個虛弱的登山客卡住在接近山頂的地方。我原本希望他們對Rob說，『撐住，我們就來了。』但事實上他們卻說，『留下Doug！你自己下來！已經沒有機會能夠救他了，在這關頭只能試著救你自己！！』然後Rob 也收到了那個訊息，但是他的回答是，我們都在聽...Todd 和 Pete 衝上山頂脊，就在那上面，然後發現的景象是一片混亂。但是他們做了所有他們能做的去穩定人們。我從第三營地透過無線電給了他們一些意見，然後我們將能到達山下的登山者送下山靠的是他們自己的力量。對於那些作不到的，我們就只是決定留在四號營地。所以那些登山客都沿著這條路線下山。 這是我從三號營地拍的，也是我所在的地方。然後他們都是來找我的所以我盡我所能的看看我能夠為他們做些什麼，但是我們能做的不多因為三號營地不過是冰上面的一個小小V字型斜缺口駐紮在四十五度角的中間。在帳篷外面你很勉強才能站著。在兩萬四千英尺真的是非常的冷。在那個高度下我唯一有的補給品只是兩個塑膠袋還有預先注好的針筒的止痛劑或是類固醇。 所以當這些登山客來找我的時候，我約略評估他們的狀態還適不適合繼續走下山。對於那些情況不是那麼清醒，或是身體不是太協調的，我會給他們注射一些類固醇並且給他們一點時間恢復到比較清醒和協調的狀況好讓他們能夠自己走下山。在那上面工作其實是很棘手的像有些時候我甚至會直接穿過衣服幫他們打針。那實在是太難去操作在那上面的時候還以其它的方式來完成。 當我在照料他們的時候，我們得到更多關於Rob Hall的消息。我們沒有辦法爬到那麼高去救他回來。他說現在只剩下他一個人了很明顯的Doug已經在山上死了。但是Rob現在已經太虛弱了而沒有辦法自己走下山，尤其是在那樣的強風還有高海拔下，他幾乎沒有被拯救的機會而且他也知道。就在那當下，他問到希望能夠連絡到他太太。而他也帶著那個無線電。她的太太在紐西蘭的家裡，肚子裡懷著七個月大，他們的第一個小孩。Rob要求能夠連絡到他太太。也真的聯繫上了。然後Rob跟他太太說了他們人生中最後、他們最後的一次對話。他們為他們的孩子挑了一個名字。然後Rob就掛斷了，那是我們最後一次得到他的消息。 我面對到必須要治療許多狀況嚴重的病人在兩萬四千英尺的地方，這幾乎不可能的。所以我們做的是，帶著這些山難的倖存者下降到兩萬一千英尺的地方，那裡對我來說比較好照顧他們。這是我的急救箱。這是一個裝滿醫療補給品的工具箱。這是我帶上山的裝備。我在低一點的地方還有更多的補給品，我要求帶上來到較低層的營地給我。這是較低層營地的景象。 倖存者一個接著一個的來找我。他們有一些失溫，有一些有凍瘡，有些人兩樣都有。我們做的就是盡我們所能的讓他們暖起來，給他們氧氣或是試著讓他們活下來，這在兩萬一千英尺做起來是很困難的，尤其是當你的帳篷還冷得結冰時。這是一些很嚴重在腳上的凍瘡，在鼻子上嚴重的凍瘡。這位登上客得到了雪盲。 正當我在照顧這些登山者的時候，我們得到了一個令人吃驚的經驗。不知道從哪裡，Beck Weathers，我們早就被告知已經雪壓死的人，蹣跚的走進了帳篷，就像個木乃伊，他就這麼走了進來。我以為他可能會有點語無倫次，但是事實上他走進帳篷後對我說『嗨， Ken 我應該坐哪？』然後他又接著說，『你接受我的健康保險嗎？』(笑聲)他真的是那麼說的。(笑聲)所以他是完全的清醒，只是有非常嚴重的凍瘡。你可以看到他的手非常白，然後他的臉、跟鼻子都灼傷了。一開始你會看到它先變白，然後當它完全壞死之後，它就會變黑，然後就掉下來。這是末期，就像是個疤。 所以，當我正在照顧Beck的時候，他描述了上面到底發生了什麼事。他說他在暴風雪當中迷了路。然後被壓倒在雪堆下，然後他只能倒在那裡，沒辦法動。有些登山客經過看了看他，然後他聽到他們說：『他已經死了。』但是Beck並沒有死：他聽到他們說的，但是他完全沒辦法動彈。他正處於一種類似僵硬緊繃完全不動的狀態，但他仍能感受周遭的環境，但是沒辦法甚至眨眼來表示他還活著。因此，登山客們經過他，然後Beck躺在那裡一天、一夜，然後又一天，在雪堆中。然後他對自己說，『我不想死。我還有家人等著我回去。』而想到他的家人，他的老婆、小孩，產生足夠的力量，讓他產生足夠的動機，所以讓他能夠確實站起來。被壓在雪堆中那麼長的時間之後，他站起來並找到他自己走回營地的路。然後Beck平靜的告訴我這個故事。而我完全的被他的故事震懾住了。我無法想像有任何人躺在雪堆中經過那麼長的時間之後還可以再站起來的。他確實是回來了帶著不可逆的失溫。我只能試著去猜測他到底是怎麼辦到的。 所以，如果我們把Beck接到SPECT（單光子射出電腦斷層掃描）造影，那是個大概可以測出大腦功能的東西？非常簡單的說一下，大腦的三個部份：額葉，是你主要集中你的注意力跟專注力的地方，你有顳葉，主要為你形成影像還有留住你的記憶，然後你大腦的後面，有著小腦用來控制你的動作，還有腦幹，用來掌控你基本的生存功能像是心跳跟呼吸。 所以讓我們把大腦沿著這裡剖開，然後想像這是Beck在接上SPECT之後的影像。他可以測量動態的血液流動因此可以看見腦內能量的流動。所以你在這裡有前額葉的腦迴亮著呈現紅色。這是張幾乎分佈得很均勻的掃描圖。你有這中間的區域，也就是顳葉大概所在的地方，在這，然後維持功能的部份在後面的區域。 這是張大致上正常的掃描圖，顯示出平均的能量分布。現在我們來到這張，然後你會看到到底有多少額葉的部份亮了起來。這可能就是Beck經歷過的當他意識到他正處於危險當中。他將全部的注意力專注在如何讓他脫離這次的危險。這些中間部份的腦區沈寂下來。他在此時並沒有想到他的家人或是任何人，而且他非常努力（於脫離危險這件事情上。）他試著讓他的肌肉作用來脫離這個危險。好。但是在這他失去優勢（遭遇困難）。他正在耗盡所有的力氣。這實在太冷，他沒辦法讓他的新陳代謝動起來。然後，你看到，這裡沒有任何一點是紅色的。他的大腦已經完全的沈寂了下來。他正被雪堆壓著。一切都是安靜的。根本只有很少的地方是還亮著紅色的。Beck正在失去一切能量。他正在邁向死亡。 你繼續看到下一張影像，但是，在Beck的案例中，你可以看到他腦中間的區域正開始要再亮了起來。他正開始想起他的家人。他腦中正開始有了些圖像驅動他要站起來。他正在這個區域產生能量透過想像/意念。而這就是他正如何將意念轉換成行動。這個部份的大腦就是所謂的前扣帶迴。這個區域呢被許多神經科學家認為是意念存在的地方。這是人們做出決定，並且產生念力/意志力的地方。然後，你能看到，這裡有能量在的流動從他大腦中間的部份開始，也是他開始想起他的家人影像的地方，流向到這個區域，而加強了他的意念。 好，這個意念越來越強大直到它能夠真正的變成一個激勵的因子。他將要在那個區域產生足夠的能量，在一個白天、一個黑夜、然後又一天之後，去確實驅動他站起來。然後你可以看到這裡，他的額葉開始得到越來越多的能量。他漸漸開始專注。他現在可以集中注意力。他開始想他要怎麼做才能救得了他自己。所以這股能量已經被傳送了送達到他大腦的前方然後這中間的區域漸漸的安靜了下來，但是他正用這個能量來想著他要如何才能夠帶他自己脫離困境。然後，這個能量有點像在散播佈滿著他控制意念的區域。他現在沒有在想他的家人，然後他正在激勵他自己。這是大腦後方的部份，是讓他的肌肉能夠活動的地方，然後他正要開始調整他的速度。他的心臟跟肺也會漸漸的跟上他的速度。所以這就是我所猜想，可能在他腦中發生的情況如果我們有機會對Beck做SPECT在那個生死攸關的當口。 所以這是我在兩萬一千英呎照顧Beck的照片，而我覺得當時我所作的可以說是微乎其微跟Beck對他自己所作的比起來。這只是呈現了你的意志力能夠做的當時他真的是傷得很重。同時也有其他情況危急的傷者。幸運的，我們能夠找到一架直升機來救這些人。直升機來到兩萬一千英呎然後造就了史上最高的直升機救援任務。它能夠降落在冰上，將Beck帶走還有其他傷患一個接著一個的帶走。接著讓他們降落在加德滿都的診所在我們回到基地營之前。 這是基地營的一景在其中的一個營裡是有些登山客走丟的地方。我們在那有一個紀念儀式的服務在山難發生之後的幾天。這是當地人點燃杜松樹枝。他們相信杜松的煙是神聖的。然後這些登山客站在旁邊較高的石頭上然後談論著那些失去生命的人們在接近頂峰，他們面向山，真的，與他們直接對話。這裡有五位登山客遇難。這是Scott Fischer（史考特．費雪），Rob Hall（羅伯．豪）Andy Harris （安迪．哈里斯）Doug Hansen（東．漢森），以及Yasuko Namba（難波 康子）。還有另外一個登山客本來在那天應該已經死了，但是他沒有，那就是Beck Weathers（貝克．偉特斯）。他能夠存活下來是因為他能夠產生那驚人的意念，他能夠使用他腦中所有的力量來拯救他自己。 這些是西藏的祈禱旗。這些喇嘛相信如果你把禱文寫在旗子上面。你的訊息就會被帶到神的那邊去，而就在那年，Beck的願望得到了答覆。 謝謝。（掌聲）
