Talk	en	zh-tw
kent_larson_brilliant_designs_to_fit_more_people_in_every_city	I thought I would start with a very brief history of cities. Settlements typically began with people clustered around a well, and the size of that settlement was roughly the distance you could walk with a pot of water on your head. In fact, if you fly over Germany, for example, and you look down and you see these hundreds of little villages, they're all about a mile apart. You needed easy access to the fields. And for hundreds, even thousands of years, the home was really the center of life. Life was very small for most people. It was a center of entertainment, of energy production, of work, a center of health care. That's where babies were born and people died. Then, with industrialization, everything started to become centralized. You had dirty factories that were moved to the outskirts of cities. Production was centralized in assembly plants. You had centralized energy production. Learning took place in schools. Health care took place in hospitals. And then you had networks that developed. You had water, sewer networks that allowed for this kind of unchecked expansion. You had separated functions, increasingly. You had rail networks that connected residential, industrial, commercial areas. You had auto networks. In fact, the model was really, give everybody a car, build roads to everything, and give people a place to park when they get there. It was not a very functional model. And we still live in that world, and this is what we end up with. So you have the sprawl of LA, the sprawl of Mexico City. You have these unbelievable new cities in China, which you might call tower sprawl. They're all building cities on the model that we invented in the '50s and '60s, which is really obsolete, I would argue, and there are hundreds and hundreds of new cities that are being planned all over the world. In China alone, 300 million people, some say 400 million people, will move to the city over the next 15 years. That means building the equivalent of the entire built infrastructure of the US in 15 years. Imagine that. And we should all care about this whether you live in cities or not. Cities will account for 90 percent of the population growth, 80 percent of the global CO2, 75 percent of energy use, but at the same time it's where people want to be, increasingly. More than half the people now in the world live in cities, and that will just continue to escalate. Cities are places of celebration, personal expression. You have the flash mobs of pillow fights that — I've been to a couple. They're quite fun. You have — (Laughter) Cities are where most of the wealth is created, and particularly in the developing world, it's where women find opportunities. That's a lot of the reason why cities are growing very quickly. Now there's some trends that will impact cities. First of all, work is becoming distributed and mobile. The office building is basically obsolete for doing private work. The home, once again, because of distributed computation — Communication is becoming a center of life, so it's a center of production and learning and shopping and health care and all of these things that we used to think of as taking place outside of the home. And increasingly, everything that people buy, every consumer product, in one way or another, can be personalized. And that's a very important trend to think about. So this is my image of the city of the future. (Laughter) In that it's a place for people, you know. Maybe not the way people dress, but — You know, the question now is, how can we have all the good things that we identify with cities without all the bad things? This is Bangalore. It took me a couple of hours to get a few miles in Bangalore last year. So with cities, you also have congestion and pollution and disease and all these negative things. How can we have the good stuff without the bad? So we went back and started looking at the great cities that evolved before the cars. Paris was a series of these little villages that came together, and you still see that structure today. The 20 arrondissements of Paris are these little neighborhoods. Most of what people need in life can be within a five- or 10-minute walk. And if you look at the data, when you have that kind of a structure, you get a very even distribution of the shops and the physicians and the pharmacies and the cafes in Paris. And then you look at cities that evolved after the automobile, and it's not that kind of a pattern. There's very little that's within a five-minute walk of most areas of places like Pittsburgh. Not to pick on Pittsburgh, but most American cities really have evolved this way. So we said, well, let's look at new cities, and we're involved in a couple of new city projects in China. So we said, let's start with that neighborhood cell. We think of it as a compact urban cell. So provide most of what most people want within that 20-minute walk. This can also be a resilient electrical microgrid, community heating, power, communication networks, etc. can be concentrated there. Stewart Brand would put a micronuclear reactor right in the center, probably. And he might be right. And then we can form, in effect, a mesh network. It's something of an Internet typology pattern, so you can have a series of these neighborhoods. You can dial up the density — about 20,000 people per cell, if it's Cambridge. Go up to 50,000 if it's Manhattan density. You connect everything with mass transit and you provide most of what most people need within that neighborhood. You can begin to develop a whole typology of streetscapes and the vehicles that can go on them. I won't go through all of them. I'll just show one. This is Boulder. It's a great example of kind of a mobility parkway, a superhighway for joggers and bicyclists, where you can go from one end of the city to the other without crossing the street, and they also have bike-sharing, which I'll get into in a minute. This is even a more interesting solution in Seoul, Korea. They took the elevated highway, they got rid of it, they reclaimed the street, the river down below, below the street, and you can go from one end of Seoul to the other without crossing a pathway for cars. The High Line in Manhattan is very similar. You have these rapidly emerging bike lanes all over the world. I lived in Manhattan for 15 years. I went back a couple of weekends ago, took this photograph of these fabulous new bike lanes that they have installed. They're still not to where Copenhagen is, where something like 42 percent of the trips within the city are by bicycle. It's mostly just because they have fantastic infrastructure there. We actually did exactly the wrong thing in Boston. The Big Dig — (Laughter) So we got rid of the highway but we created a traffic island, and it's certainly not a mobility pathway for anything other than cars. Mobility on demand is something we've been thinking about, so we think we need an ecosystem of these shared-use vehicles connected to mass transit. These are some of the vehicles that we've been working on. But shared use is really key. If you share a vehicle, you can have at least four people use one vehicle, as opposed to one. We have Hubway here in Boston, the Vélib' system in Paris. We've been developing, at the Media Lab, this little city car that is optimized for shared use in cities. We got rid of all the useless things like engines and transmissions. We moved everything to the wheels, so you have the drive motor, the steering motor, the breaking — all in the wheel. That left the chassis unencumbered, so you can do things like fold, so you can fold this little vehicle up to occupy a tiny little footprint. This was a video that was on European television last week showing the Spanish Minister of Industry driving this little vehicle, and when it's folded, it can spin. You don't need reverse. You don't need parallel parking. You just spin and go directly in. (Laughter) So we've been working with a company to commercialize this. My PhD student Ryan Chin presented these early ideas two years ago at a TEDx conference. So what's interesting is, then if you begin to add new things to it, like autonomy, you get out of the car, you park at your destination, you pat it on the butt, it goes and it parks itself, it charges itself, and you can get something like seven times as many vehicles in a given area as conventional cars, and we think this is the future. Actually, we could do this today. It's not really a problem. We can combine shared use and folding and autonomy and we get something like 28 times the land utilization with that kind of strategy. One of our graduate students then says, well, how does a driverless car communicate with pedestrians? You have nobody to make eye contact with. You don't know if it's going to run you over. So he's developing strategies so the vehicle can communicate with pedestrians, so — (Laughter) So the headlights are eyeballs, the pupils can dilate, we have directional audio, we can throw sound directly at people. What I love about this project is he solved a problem that doesn't exist yet, so — (Laughter) We also think that we can democratize access to bike lanes. You know, bike lanes are mostly used by young guys in stretchy pants. So — (Laughter) We think we can develop a vehicle that operates on bike lanes, accessible to elderly and disabled, women in skirts, businesspeople, and address the issues of energy congestion, mobility, aging and obesity simultaneously. That's our challenge. This is an early design for this little three-wheel. It's an electronic bike. You have to pedal to operate it in a bike lane, but if you're an older person, that's a switch. If you're a healthy person, you might have to work really hard to go fast. You can dial in 40 calories going into work and 500 going home, when you can take a shower. We hope to have that built this fall. Housing is another area where we can really improve. Mayor Menino in Boston says lack of affordable housing for young people is one of the biggest problems the city faces. Developers say, OK, we'll build little teeny apartments. People say, we don't really want to live in a little teeny conventional apartment. So we're saying, let's build a standardized chassis, much like our car. Let's bring advanced technology into the apartment, technology-enabled infill, give people the tools within this open-loft chassis to go through a process of defining what their needs and values and activities are, and then a matching algorithm will match a unique assembly of integrated infill components, furniture, and cabinetry, that are personalized to that individual, and they give them the tools to go through the process and to refine it, and it's something like working with an architect, where the dialogue starts when you give an alternative to a person to react to. Now, the most interesting implementation of that for us is when you can begin to have robotic walls, so your space can convert from exercise to a workplace, if you run a virtual company. You have guests over, you have two guest rooms that are developed. You have a conventional one-bedroom arrangement when you need it. Maybe that's most of the time. You have a dinner party. The table folds out to fit 16 people in otherwise a conventional one-bedroom, or maybe you want a dance studio. I mean, architects have been thinking about these ideas for a long time. What we need to do now, develop things that can scale to those 300 million Chinese people that would like to live in the city, and very comfortably. We think we can make a very small apartment that functions as if it's twice as big by utilizing these strategies. I don't believe in smart homes. That's sort of a bogus concept. I think you have to build dumb homes and put smart stuff in it. (Laughter) And so we've been working on a chassis of the wall itself. You know, standardized platform with the motors and the battery when it operates, little solenoids that will lock it in place and get low-voltage power. We think this can all be standardized, and then people can personalize the stuff that goes into that wall, and like the car, we can integrate all kinds of sensing to be aware of human activity, so if there's a baby or a puppy in the way, you won't have a problem. (Laughter) So the developers say, well, this is great. OK, so if we have a conventional building, we have a fixed envelope, maybe we can put in 14 units. If they function as if they're twice as big, we can get 28 units in. That means twice as much parking, though. Parking's really expensive. It's about 70,000 dollars per space to build a conventional parking spot inside a building. So if you can have folding and autonomy, you can do that in one-seventh of the space. That goes down to 10,000 dollars per car, just for the cost of the parking. You add shared use, and you can even go further. We can also integrate all kinds of advanced technology through this process. There's a path to market for innovative companies to bring technology into the home. In this case, a project we're doing with Siemens. We have sensors on all the furniture, all the infill, that understands where people are and what they're doing. Blue light is very efficient, so we have these tunable 24-bit LED lighting fixtures. It recognizes where the person is, what they're doing, fills out the light when necessary to full spectrum white light, and saves maybe 30, 40 percent in energy consumption, we think, over even conventional state-of-the-art lighting systems. This just shows you the data that comes from the sensors that are embedded in the furniture. We don't really believe in cameras to do things in homes. We think these little wireless sensors are more effective. We think we can also personalize sunlight. That's sort of the ultimate personalization in some ways. So we've looked at articulating mirrors of the facade that can throw shafts of sunlight anywhere into the space, therefore allowing you to shade most of the glass on a hot day like today. In this case, she picks up her phone, she can map food preparation at the kitchen island to a particular location of sunlight. An algorithm will keep it in that location as long as she's engaged in that activity. This can be combined with LED lighting as well. We think workplaces should be shared. I mean, this is really the workplace of the future, I think. This is Starbucks, you know. Maybe a third — And you see everybody has their back to the wall and they have food and coffee down the way and they're in their own little personal bubble. We need shared spaces for interaction and collaboration. We're not doing a very good job with that. At the Cambridge Innovation Center, you can have shared desks. I've spent a lot of time in Finland at the design factory of Aalto University, where the they have a shared shop and shared fab lab, shared quiet spaces, electronics spaces, recreation places. We think ultimately, all of this stuff can come together, a new model for mobility, a new model for housing, a new model for how we live and work, a path to market for advanced technologies. But in the end, the main thing we need to focus on are people. Cities are all about people. They're places for people. There's no reason why we can't dramatically improve the livability and creativity of cities like they've done in Melbourne with the laneways while at the same time dramatically reducing CO2 and energy. It's a global imperative. We have to get this right. Thank you. (Applause)	我想我應該簡短地從城市的發展歷史開始說起村落通常以一群人圍著一口井開始，而村落的大小大約是你能頂著一壺水回家所能負荷的距離事實上，舉個例子來說，如果你飛越德國俯瞰地面時你會看到上百個小小的村莊，而各村莊間隔約一哩遠你必須能方便的到田裡工作過去數百年，甚至是過去數千年家就是生活的中心對大部分的人們而言，生活範圍很小家就是娛樂中心，能源生產中心，工作中心，照護中心那裡也是寶寶出生、親人去世的地方 之後，隨著工業革命發展，所有的東西都開始集中化骯髒的工廠移到城市外圍貨物集中在裝配工廠中製造能源生產也集中化學習要到學校。醫療照護則移到了醫院然後各式網路發展起來送水及污水渠道使人們得以無限制擴張領域分工現象愈來愈多火車把住宅區工業區及商業區連起來。你也有了公路系統事實上，過去的模式的確是給每人一輛車造公路到每個地方，而且讓人們到了目的地後有個地方可以停車。這並不是功能很好的模式但我們仍然生活在這樣的模式裡而這就是這種發展模式的結果 這是向四面八方無限蔓延的洛杉磯市向四面八方無限蔓延的墨西哥市還有這些令人難以置信的中國新都市你或許可以稱這些為向天空無限蔓延的巨塔他們正以我們在50及60年代所發展的模式來建造都市，我要說這模式真的很過時了而全球還有成百上千的新都市開發計劃僅在中國，就有三億人口有人說是四億人口會在未來15年內遷徙到都市這意味著中國要在15年內建立相當於美國整體的基礎建設可以想像嗎？ 我們都應該對此關心不論你住在都市與否都市要對90%的人口成長80%的全球二氧化碳排放量，75%的能源使用負責任但同時，都市也是人們愈來愈想去的地方現在，全球一半以上的人住在都市裡而且人數還會逐步上升 都市是歡慶、表達個人的地方你有快閃族在打枕頭仗—我去參加過幾次。還挺好玩的。（笑聲）你有—（笑聲）都市也是創造大部份財富的地方特別是在開發中國家在那裡女人有很多機會。這也是都市成長如此快速的主要原因 那麼，有一些趨勢會影響都市發展首先，工作變得分散並且機動性高在辦公大樓內做私人工作基本上已經過時了「家」再度因為分散式計算，即通訊設備而變成生活的中心所以家是製造、學習、購物醫療，及其他我們原本已經習慣要在家以外發生的事情的中心 而且人們想辦法把買的每一樣物品每一種消費產品個人化的現象也愈來愈多這是值得思考的重要趨勢 所以這是我想像中的未來城市的樣子（笑聲）因為都市是一個「人」的地方，你知道大家大概不會穿成這樣，但是 —你知道真正的問題是我們要如何保有我們認為都市應該有的好東西而除去那些不好的事情？ 這是班加羅爾。去年我在那裡要花好幾個小時才能在班加羅爾街上移動數哩遠所以有了都市，你也就有了交通阻塞及汙染疾病，及那些不好的東西我們要如何去蕪存菁？ 所以我們回溯歷史，並且開始研究那些在汽車發展前就很偉大的城市巴黎是由一系列的小村莊組合起來的，至今你仍然能看到這個結構巴黎的20區就是由這些小社區組成的人們生活所需的大部分物品都能在步行5到10分鐘之內買到如果你研究一下數據，你會發現在巴黎因為這樣的組成結構，你會看到分佈平均的商店、診所及藥局及餐館然後你看看那些在車子發明之後才發展出的城市，不走這種模式大部份像匹茲堡這樣的地方，很少有步行五分鐘之內能到的商店我不是故意要挑匹茲堡，但是大部分的美國城市的確是以這種模式發展 所以我們說，我們會，讓我們看看新都市目前我們正參與幾個中國的都市發展計劃所以我們說，讓我們從發展細胞社區開始我們把這視為小型的都會細胞社區它在步行20分鐘地區內提供多數人想要的東西這同時也是一個動態輸電微網社區暖氣供應站、電力供應站、通訊網路站等等設施都可以集中在此（美國環保運動先驅）斯圖爾特•布蘭德可能會放一個微核子反應器在這個小細胞的中心（笑聲）很有可能喔！如此我們可以形成一個實際網狀網路很像網際網路類型學的模式所以你可以有一系列這樣子的小社區你可以增加細胞社區人口密度—如果是劍橋，就增大到可容納二萬人。如果是曼哈頓就增大到五萬人。你把所有的東西用大眾運輸連起來，而且你在細胞社區內提供大多數人所需之物品你可以開始發展一整套街道景觀類型學並且設定什麼車子可以通過。我不要講所有細節我舉一個例就好 這是博爾德市。這是個「移動林蔭大道」的好例子一條給慢跑者及單車客的「高速公路」讓你可以從城市的這一端走到另一端不需要穿越馬路，而且他們還有個單車共享計劃等一下我會談這個 在南韓首爾這個解決方案更有趣他們把原有的高架道路拆掉復原地面街道，在底下的暗渠變為明渠所以河流在街道底下，你可以從首爾的這一端走到另一端，不用穿過車道 曼哈頓的 Highline（重整廢棄高架鐵道）也很類似這些快速興起的自行車道在全世界盛行。我曾在曼哈頓住過15年前幾個星期我回去看了一下，照了這張照片他們蓋了幾條非常棒的新自行車道但是仍然比不上哥本哈根，在那裡大約百分之四十二的城內旅行是騎腳踏車完成。主要是因為他們有非常棒的基礎建設 我們其實也在波士頓作了件同樣的蠢事我們—這個「大隧道計畫」（Big Dig）—（笑聲）所以我們把高速公路拆掉，卻蓋了一個安全島很肯定這條「移動大道」除了車以外，沒有東西能在上面移動 「隨選自由行」是我們一直在想的東西所以我們認為我們需要一個生態系統把這些共享車輛與大眾運輸系統連起來這些是我們一直在設計的車輛種類但是真正的關鍵是共享。如果你有一部車你可以讓至少四人乘坐而不是一個人開在波士頓我們有Hubway；在巴黎叫Vélib' （均為單車共享租用計劃） 我們在麻省理工的媒體實驗室計劃這個小小的車子，專門設計給都市人共享我們把那些沒用的東西拿掉，像是引擎排檔等等。我們把所有的東西都移到輪子上所以驅動馬達、駕駛馬達還有剎車都在輪子上這樣底盤就不受限制。你可以做像是摺疊這樣的事，所以你可以把這個小車子折起來這樣就只佔一個小小的空間 這是上星期在歐洲電視上放的一段影片展示西班牙工業部長駕駛這個小車，這個車折起來後還會轉圈圈你不需要預訂，不需要路邊停車你只要轉一轉它然後直直停進去（笑聲）所以我們一直在與一家公司合作要量產上市這部車。我的博士班學生秦來恩（Ryan Chin）曾在二年前的TEDx研討會上發表過本計畫早期的發展 所以有趣的是，如果你開始在上面加新東西，像是自動化程式，你下了車你停在你的目的地後，拍拍它的屁股它可以自己去停車，還會自己充電你可以讓比原來多七倍的車輛停在一個普通停車場裡而我們認為這是未來的展望。其實今天就可以這麼做這真的不是什麼問題我們可以結合共享、折疊及自動化使用這種策略我們可以讓土地使用增加28倍 然後我們有一個研究生說，嗯一部無人駕駛的車子要怎麼跟行人溝通？沒人在上面跟你眼神接觸你不知道這玩意是不是要輾過你所以他在發展一些策略，讓這部車子可以跟行人溝通，所以 —（笑聲）所以車頭燈是眼珠，瞳孔會放大我們有定向的音訊，可以直接對著人播放聲音我喜歡這個計劃，因為他未雨稠繆這問題基本上還不存在。所以（笑聲）（笑聲）（掌聲） 我們也認為這種車可以讓自行車道的使用更民主化你知道，自行車道的使用者大部分都是年輕人穿著緊身褲，你知道，所以 —（笑聲）我們認為我們可以發展一種車子可以在單車道上駕駛，老人及殘障者皆可使用穿裙子的女人、商人都可以，並且同時解決能源擁塞、行動力、老化及肥胖問題那是我們的挑戰 這是這個小三輪車的原型它是輛電動單車，你得踩踏板才能在騎在單車道上，但如果你是位老人家那裡有個開關轉成電動。如果你很健康你得非常努力的踩才能騎快你可以設定去上班時消耗40卡回家時500卡，因為回家可以洗澡我們希望能在這個秋天製造出來 住宅是另一個還有進步空間的地方波士頓市長馬尼諾說，缺乏年輕人買的起的房子是本市面臨的最大困難之一都市計畫的人回應說，好啊，我們來蓋一些小小的公寓買房的人則說，我們真的不想住在小小的普通公寓裡所以我們主張，讓我們蓋一些標準化的屋殼就像剛剛那部車，然後我們把最先進科技打造的內裝放入公寓中讓大家在這個開放式建築的殼裡想想什麼是他們所需的物品價值觀及活動，然後一套電腦演算法會配合打造出一組獨有的裝配線將各式內裝元件、家俱、及櫥櫃套入這個殼內形成爲個人打造的專屬空間，他們還有工具可以繼續不斷修正這就好比你與建築師合作在一開始談計劃的時候就給個替代方案讓顧客想想 對我們而言，實行這套方法最有趣的就是當你可以擁有「機器人牆」的時候。所以假設你開了一間虛擬公司，這些「機器人牆」會把你的空間從運動房轉變成辦公室你會有客人來訪，所以就設定好你要兩間客房但你也需要一間傳統的一房公寓。或許大部分時間都維持這樣。你邀請朋友來吃晚餐時，餐桌就打開讓16人都坐的下說不定你想要一間舞蹈室我的意思是建築師在想這些點子已經想了很久。我們現在要做的就是發展可以擴展到讓想要住在都市裡的這三億中國人能住的很舒服的東西我們認為我們可以使用這些策略讓一間非常小的公寓裡面的功能如同二倍大的公寓般。我不相信所謂智慧型住家這是沒有意義的虛假概念我認為你必須建造非常陽春的屋子然後把智慧型的物品放在裡面。（笑聲） 所以我們已經開始發展這種牆的殼你知道，標準化的平台，配備各式馬達裝上電池以利運轉，小的電磁閥可以鎖定到位，產生低電壓電源等等我們認為這些都可以標準化，所以大家能針對不同需求將物品個人化，嵌在那面牆上就像那部車，我們可以把各樣的感應器整合起來能注意到人類活動，所以如果有個嬰兒或一隻小狗在路中間擋路，你也不會撞上他。（笑聲） 所以都市計畫的人說，嗯，這很棒，很好所以如果我們有一棟普通的建築容積就這麼大，大概可以放14間公寓如果他們真的能發揮兩倍大的功能我們可以放28間公寓這意味著你也需要兩倍停車位蓋停車場真的很貴，在大樓裡蓋一座普通的停車場，一個車格大約要美金七萬元所以如果你可以使用摺疊及自動化的觀念你可以僅使用七分之一的車格來停車這樣讓每部車所需的費用下降到美金一萬元這還只是停車場的費用再加上共享觀念你的費用可以省更多 我們也可以把所有先進科技透過這一過程整合起來。這對要將技術帶進家裡的新創企業而言是條賺錢的康莊大道這個部分，我們正與西門子合作一個計畫我們在所有的家俱及內裝上都裝上感應器以偵測人在哪裡活動，以及他們在做什麼藍光非常有效率，所以我們裝上這些可調光量的24-比特 全彩LED照明設備它可以感應到人在哪裡，以及他在那裡做什麼必要時把燈光全打亮，成為全光譜白光如此我們認為會比最先進的傳統照明設備節省大約百分之30到40的能源消耗這裡只展示了來自家俱上的感應器的數據我們不認為攝影機能在家裡做這些事我們認為這些小小的無線感應器更有效 我們甚至認為我們可以把陽光個人化這在某種程度可稱是最佳個人化的範例所以我們看上了在建築物立面裝可伸縮鏡子的方法如此可以投射陽光在房內任何一個地方所以像今天這樣的大熱天，你可以把大多數的窗戶遮起來在這裡她利用電話，告訴電腦她將在在廚房中島上準備食物，同時投射陽光在一個設定的位置。只要她繼續從事這個活動電腦運算就會讓光束繼續停留在那個位置這也可以與LED照明結合 我們認為工作場所應該是共享公用的我真的認為這是未來的工作場所這其實是星巴客，你知道的（笑聲）可能三分之一的人吧 — 你看每一個人都背靠著牆走過去就有食物和咖啡他們都沉浸在自己的小小空間裡我們需要共享的空間以互動及合作在這方面我們沒有做的很好在波士頓劍橋新創中心，你跟大家公用桌子。我曾在芬蘭的阿爾託大學 (Aalto University)設計工廠待了很長的時間在那裡他們共用車間，共用晶圓實驗室共用休息室電器房以及娛樂間 我們認為最終這些東西都可以湊在一起產生一種新的「可移動空間」模式，新的住宅模式新的生活及工作模式提供最新科技一條賺錢的路但最終我們要注意一件最主要的事就是人。都市是「人」組成的他們是人待的地方我們沒有理由不能明顯地改善都市的可住性及創造力。就像墨爾本他們有很多徒步巷道同時顯著地節能減碳這是全球的當務之急。我們一定要搞清楚謝謝（掌聲）
