Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_breel_confessions_of_a_depressed_comic	"For a long time in my life, I felt like I'd been living two different lives. There's the life that everyone sees, and then there's the life that only I see. And in the life that everyone sees, who I am is a friend, a son, a brother, a stand-up comedian and a teenager. That's the life everyone sees. If you were to ask my friends and family to describe me, that's what they would tell you. And that's a huge part of me. That is who I am. And if you were to ask me to describe myself, I'd probably say some of those same things. And I wouldn't be lying, but I wouldn't totally be telling you the truth, either, because the truth is, that's just the life everyone else sees. In the life that only I see, who I am, who I really am, is someone who struggles intensely with depression. I have for the last six years of my life, and I continue to every day. Now, for someone who has never experienced depression or doesn't really know what that means, that might surprise them to hear, because there's this pretty popular misconception that depression is just being sad when something in your life goes wrong, when you break up with your girlfriend, when you lose a loved one, when you don't get the job you wanted. But that's sadness. That's a natural thing. That's a natural human emotion. Real depression isn't being sad when something in your life goes wrong. Real depression is being sad when everything in your life is going right. That's real depression, and that's what I suffer from. And to be totally honest, that's hard for me to stand up here and say. It's hard for me to talk about, and it seems to be hard for everyone to talk about, so much so that no one's talking about it. And no one's talking about depression, but we need to be, because right now it's a massive problem. It's a massive problem. But we don't see it on social media, right? We don't see it on Facebook. We don't see it on Twitter. We don't see it on the news, because it's not happy, it's not fun, it's not light. And so because we don't see it, we don't see the severity of it. But the severity of it and the seriousness of it is this: every 30 seconds, every 30 seconds, somewhere, someone in the world takes their own life because of depression, and it might be two blocks away, it might be two countries away, it might be two continents away, but it's happening, and it's happening every single day. And we have a tendency, as a society, to look at that and go, ""So what?"" So what? We look at that, and we go, ""That's your problem. That's their problem."" We say we're sad and we say we're sorry, but we also say, ""So what?"" Well, two years ago it was my problem, because I sat on the edge of my bed where I'd sat a million times before and I was suicidal. I was suicidal, and if you were to look at my life on the surface, you wouldn't see a kid who was suicidal. You'd see a kid who was the captain of his basketball team, the drama and theater student of the year, the English student of the year, someone who was consistently on the honor roll and consistently at every party. So you would say I wasn't depressed, you would say I wasn't suicidal, but you would be wrong. You would be wrong. So I sat there that night beside a bottle of pills with a pen and paper in my hand and I thought about taking my own life and I came this close to doing it. I came this close to doing it. And I didn't, so that makes me one of the lucky ones, one of the people who gets to step out on the ledge and look down but not jump, one of the lucky ones who survives. Well, I survived, and that just leaves me with my story, and my story is this: In four simple words, I suffer from depression. I suffer from depression, and for a long time, I think, I was living two totally different lives, where one person was always afraid of the other. I was afraid that people would see me for who I really was, that I wasn't the perfect, popular kid in high school everyone thought I was, that beneath my smile, there was struggle, and beneath my light, there was dark, and beneath my big personality just hid even bigger pain. See, some people might fear girls not liking them back. Some people might fear sharks. Some people might fear death. But for me, for a large part of my life, I feared myself. I feared my truth, I feared my honesty, I feared my vulnerability, and that fear made me feel like I was forced into a corner, like I was forced into a corner and there was only one way out, and so I thought about that way every single day. I thought about it every single day, and if I'm being totally honest, standing here I've thought about it again since, because that's the sickness, that's the struggle, that's depression, and depression isn't chicken pox. You don't beat it once and it's gone forever. It's something you live with. It's something you live in. It's the roommate you can't kick out. It's the voice you can't ignore. It's the feelings you can't seem to escape, the scariest part is that after a while, you become numb to it. It becomes normal for you, and what you really fear the most isn't the suffering inside of you. It's the stigma inside of others, it's the shame, it's the embarrassment, it's the disapproving look on a friend's face, it's the whispers in the hallway that you're weak, it's the comments that you're crazy. That's what keeps you from getting help. That's what makes you hold it in and hide it. It's the stigma. So you hold it in and you hide it, and you hold it in and you hide it, and even though it's keeping you in bed every day and it's making your life feel empty no matter how much you try and fill it, you hide it, because the stigma in our society around depression is very real. It's very real, and if you think that it isn't, ask yourself this: Would you rather make your next Facebook status say you're having a tough time getting out of bed because you hurt your back or you're having a tough time getting out of bed every morning because you're depressed? That's the stigma, because unfortunately, we live in a world where if you break your arm, everyone runs over to sign your cast, but if you tell people you're depressed, everyone runs the other way. That's the stigma. We are so, so, so accepting of any body part breaking down other than our brains. And that's ignorance. That's pure ignorance, and that ignorance has created a world that doesn't understand depression, that doesn't understand mental health. And that's ironic to me, because depression is one of the best documented problems we have in the world, yet it's one of the least discussed. We just push it aside and put it in a corner and pretend it's not there and hope it'll fix itself. Well, it won't. It hasn't, and it's not going to, because that's wishful thinking, and wishful thinking isn't a game plan, it's procrastination, and we can't procrastinate on something this important. The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one. Well, we haven't done that, so we can't really expect to find an answer when we're still afraid of the question. And I don't know what the solution is. I wish I did, but I don't — but I think, I think it has to start here. It has to start with me, it has to start with you, it has to start with the people who are suffering, the ones who are hidden in the shadows. We need to speak up and shatter the silence. We need to be the ones who are brave for what we believe in, because if there's one thing that I've come to realize, if there's one thing that I see as the biggest problem, it's not in building a world where we eliminate the ignorance of others. It's in building a world where we teach the acceptance of ourselves, where we're okay with who we are, because when we get honest, we see that we all struggle and we all suffer. Whether it's with this, whether it's with something else, we all know what it is to hurt. We all know what it is to have pain in our heart, and we all know how important it is to heal. But right now, depression is society's deep cut that we're content to put a Band-Aid over and pretend it's not there. Well, it is there. It is there, and you know what? It's okay. Depression is okay. If you're going through it, know that you're okay. And know that you're sick, you're not weak, and it's an issue, not an identity, because when you get past the fear and the ridicule and the judgment and the stigma of others, you can see depression for what it really is, and that's just a part of life, just a part of life, and as much as I hate, as much as I hate some of the places, some of the parts of my life depression has dragged me down to, in a lot of ways I'm grateful for it. Because yeah, it's put me in the valleys, but only to show me there's peaks, and yeah it's dragged me through the dark but only to remind me there is light. My pain, more than anything in 19 years on this planet, has given me perspective, and my hurt, my hurt has forced me to have hope, have hope and to have faith, faith in myself, faith in others, faith that it can get better, that we can change this, that we can speak up and speak out and fight back against ignorance, fight back against intolerance, and more than anything, learn to love ourselves, learn to accept ourselves for who we are, the people we are, not the people the world wants us to be. Because the world I believe in is one where embracing your light doesn't mean ignoring your dark. The world I believe in is one where we're measured by our ability to overcome adversities, not avoid them. The world I believe in is one where I can look someone in the eye and say, ""I'm going through hell,"" and they can look back at me and go, ""Me too,"" and that's okay, and it's okay because depression is okay. We're people. We're people, and we struggle and we suffer and we bleed and we cry, and if you think that true strength means never showing any weakness, then I'm here to tell you you're wrong. You're wrong, because it's the opposite. We're people, and we have problems. We're not perfect, and that's okay. So we need to stop the ignorance, stop the intolerance, stop the stigma, and stop the silence, and we need to take away the taboos, take a look at the truth, and start talking, because the only way we're going to beat a problem that people are battling alone is by standing strong together, by standing strong together. And I believe that we can. I believe that we can. Thank you guys so much. This is a dream come true. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我覺得我大半輩子都過著兩種截然不同的生活，一個是大家看見的，一個只有我自己知道。在大家都能看見的生活裡，我是他們的朋友、兒子、兄弟、單人脫口秀諧星和一個青少年，這是大家都能看到的一面。如果你請我的朋友和家人形容我這個人，他們講的大概八九不離十。而那些佔了我很大的一部分，那就是我。如果你請我描述我自己我大概也會告訴你們類似的東西，雖然我這樣並沒有說謊，但我講的也不全然是實話，因為事實上，那只是大家看得到的那一面。在只有我能看見的生活裡，我，真實的我，是一個奮力對抗憂鬱症的人。過去六年裡我持續與它對峙，未來的每天也將如此。 現在，對於那些不曾憂鬱過，或不真的的了解它的意義的人來說，聽到這裡應該會很驚訝，因為有個廣為流傳的誤解說憂鬱其實就只是悲傷，當你人生中出了某些差錯的時候；當你和女朋友分手的時候；當你失去至親摯愛的時候；當你沒得到想要的工作的時候。但那是悲傷，那是很自然的東西，那是人自然的情緒。真正的憂鬱不是因為生活中事情出了差錯而感到悲傷。真正的憂鬱是當生活一切順遂時仍感到悲傷。那是真正的憂鬱，這就是讓我受苦的東西。 非常坦白的地說，站在台上並訴說這些對我來說很困難。談論這些對我來說很困難，而且看來似乎對其他人來說也很困難，以至於根本沒有人在談論這些事情。沒有人在談論憂鬱症，但我們必須這麼做因為現在它是個巨大的問題，它是個巨大的問題。但我們在社會媒體上並看不到，對吧？我們在臉書上看不到它，我們在推特上看不到它，我們在新聞上看不到它因為它不美好，它不有趣，它不光明。因為我們看不見，所以我們便無法了解它的嚴重性， 它的嚴重性和嚴肅性在於：每三十秒，每三十秒，在世界某處，就會有一個人因為憂鬱症而了結自己的性命。事情可能發生在兩個街區之外、兩個國家之外甚至兩個大陸之外，但它正在發生，而且每日不曾間斷。而我們的社會傾向於看一眼然後問：「所以呢？」所以呢？我們看了一眼然後說：「那是你的問題。」「那是他們的問題。」我們說我們感到哀傷，我們感到遺憾，但我們也說：「所以呢？」 而兩年前這是我的問題，因為當時我坐在我已坐過千百次的床沿，而且好想自殺，我好想自殺。但如果你當時從表面上來看我的生活，你不會覺得這個孩子有自殺傾向。你看到的會是個身兼籃球隊隊長、戲劇與劇場年度榮譽生、英文年度榮譽生、幾乎都出現在榮譽榜上和每個派對裡的的孩子。所以你會說我並不憂鬱，你會說我沒有自殺傾向，但你錯了。你錯了。所以那天晚上我坐在那裏，旁邊有一罐藥丸，手裡拿著一支筆和一張紙，心裡想著要結束自己的生命，我差那麼點就要動手了，我差那麼點就要動手了， 但我沒有。這讓我成為了幸運者的一份子，成為走到懸崖邊，往下看，但沒有跳下去的一份子，成為幸運生還的一份子。我活下來了，背負著我的故事活下來了，而我的故事是這樣子的：一言以蔽之，我為憂鬱症所苦。我為憂鬱症所苦，而且有好長一段時間我覺得我過著兩個截然不同的生活，在那裏我總是害怕其他人，我害怕人們會看到真正的我，一個不再是高中裡公認最完美和最受歡迎的孩子的我，我的笑容的背後有許多掙扎，在我的光芒之下有黑暗，而在我的奔放的個性中暗藏著更加深沉的苦痛。 你懂嗎？有些人可能害怕女孩們沒有回應他們的情意，有些人可能怕鯊魚，有些人可能害怕死亡，但對我來說，對我大半的人生來說，我害怕我自己。我害怕真實的我，我害怕誠實的我，我害怕軟弱的我，而那些恐懼讓我覺得像是我被逼到牆角，像是我被逼到牆角而且只有一條退路(自殺)，於是我每天都會想著那條路，我每天都會想著那條退路，而且說真的，站在這裡到現在，我其實有想到那條退路，因為那就是疾病本身，那就是試煉，那就是憂鬱症，憂鬱症不是水痘，你不能打敗它一次就一勞永逸，你必須和它共存，你就生活在它之中。它是你趕不走的室友、是你無法忽視的聲音、是種你沒什麼機會逃脫的感受，最令人害怕的是過了一段時間後，你便麻木了，對你來說它變得再正常不過。而真正令你感到害怕的不是你內心所受的煎熬，而是存乎於他人心中的汙名、是那份羞恥、是那份尷尬、是朋友們不以為然的臉色、是穿堂中關於你多麼軟弱的耳語，是關於你是瘋子的評論。就是這些讓你怯於尋求援助，就是這些讓你寧可忍住並躲起來，就是這些汙名讓你寧可忍住並躲起來，讓你再忍住再躲起來，縱使它讓你只想每天躲在被窩裡，讓你無論多努力都無法填補生命的空洞感，你仍選擇隱藏，因為充斥在我們社會裡對於憂鬱症的污名化是如此的真實。它是如此的真實。如果你覺得這些汙名不存在的話，請捫心自問：你會寧願在下一則臉書動態裡說要你起床是一件很困難的事因為你的背受傷了，還是說你每天早上都不想起床因為你很憂鬱？這就是汙名化。因為，不幸地，我們身處在一個如果你的手骨折大家會圍過來在你的石膏上簽名的世界，但如果你告訴大家你有憂鬱症，大家全都會離你而去。這就是汙名化。我們非常之能夠接受全身除了腦以外任何一個器官的故障，那是無知，那是全然的無知，而無知造就了一個不了解憂鬱症、不了解精神健康的世界。這個現象對我來說很諷刺，因為憂鬱症是世界上擁有最完整紀載的問題之一，同時也是最少被討論的。我們只顧把它推到旁邊然後堆在角落並裝作它不存在，期待有天它會自我修復。 但是，它不會，過去不曾如此，以後也不會如此，因為，那只是癡心妄想，癡心妄想不是解決之道，它只是拖延戰術，而面對這樣重要的問題我們絕不能耽擱。解決任何問題的第一步驟是要先承認問題的確存在，明顯地，我們還沒有做到，所以我們也不用期待在我們仍然害怕問題時就找到答案， 而我也不知道解決方法是什麼。我希望我知道，但我並不知道。但是我認為，我認為應該從這裡開始，應該從我開始，應該從你開始，應該從那些備受煎熬的人們開始，從那些躲在陰影中的人開始。我們必須站出來發聲並打破沉默，我們必須成為那些因信念而變得勇敢的人們，因為如果要說我漸漸體會了某件事，如果要說有一件我視為最重要的問題的事，那並不是建造一個消除他人的無知的世界，而是建立一個教育我們接受自己的世界，在那裏我們可以做自己，因為當我們能更誠實我們會發現我們都在掙扎且我們都在受苦。無論是因為這些或是因為那些(原因)，我們都知道傷害我們的是什麼。我們都知道心理受傷是怎麼樣的感受且我們都知道恢復健康是多麼的重要。但現在，憂鬱症是社會的瘡疤，而我們只是用個OK繃蓋住然後假奘它不存在就放心了。 然而，它在那裏。它在那裏。而且你知道嗎？沒有關係。有憂鬱症沒有關係。如果你正在經歷它，要知道自己沒問題的，而且要知道你只是病了，你不軟弱，而且這是個難題，不是你的身份，因為當你撐過恐懼和他人的訕笑、評論和汙名的時候，你就能看透憂鬱的本質，它只是生命的一部分，它只是生命的一部份，即便我如此的厭惡，即便我如此厭惡憂鬱症曾把我拖往的某些地方和我生命中的某些部份，從許多方面來說我對它仍心懷感恩。因為，沒錯，它曾經置我於幽谷之中，但這只讓我看到山巔的所在；而沒錯，它曾經把我拖往黑暗，但這只提醒了我光明的存在。我的痛苦，比19年來在這世上的其他東西都還要更多地賦予我洞察力，而我的傷痛，我的傷痛迫使我懷抱希望，懷抱著希望和信念，相信自己、相信別人、相信事情將會變得更好、相信我們可以改變現況、我們可以大聲疾呼並呼籲、可以對無知和不寬容進行反擊。然後，最重要的是，學會愛自己，學會接受我就是我，做自己，而不是世上其他人想要我們做的人，因為我所嚮往的世界裡你不需要忽視自己的黑暗才能擁抱光亮；我所嚮往的世界裡衡量我們的是克服困境而不是逃避困境的能力；我所嚮往的世界裡，我可以直視某人的眼睛，說：「我身處在地獄之中」，然後他不會避開我的眼神，並回我：「我也是」，沒什麼大不了的，沒什麼大不了的，因為憂鬱症沒那麼嚴重，我們是人，我們是人，我們掙扎、我們受苦、我們流血和哭泣，如果你認為真正的堅強是從來不顯露自己的弱點，那我在這裡要告訴你，你錯了。你錯了，因為恰恰相反。我們是人，我們會出問題，我們不完美，但那沒什麼大不了的。 所以，我們必須終結無知、停止不寬容、遏止汙名化並打破沉默，而且我們必須揚棄這些禁忌，看一眼真相，然後開始對話，因為讓我們解決人們總是孤軍奮戰的唯一方法是堅強的團結在一起，堅強的團結在一起。 我相信我們可以，我相信我們可以。非常謝謝你們，站在這裡真是美夢成真，謝謝(掌聲)謝謝。(掌聲)
