Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_b_jones_why_curiosity_is_the_key_to_science_and_medicine	"Science. The very word for many of you conjures unhappy memories of boredom in high school biology or physics class. But let me assure that what you did there had very little to do with science. That was really the ""what"" of science. It was the history of what other people had discovered. What I'm most interested in as a scientist is the ""how"" of science. Because science is knowledge in process. We make an observation, guess an explanation for that observation, and then make a prediction that we can test with an experiment or other observation. A couple of examples. First of all, people noticed that the Earth was below, the sky above, and both the Sun and the Moon seemed to go around them. Their guessed explanation was that the Earth must be the center of the universe. The prediction: everything should circle around the Earth. This was first really tested when Galileo got his hands on one of the first telescopes, and as he gazed into the night sky, what he found there was a planet, Jupiter, with four moons circling around it. He then used those moons to follow the path of Jupiter and found that Jupiter also was not going around the Earth but around the Sun. So the prediction test failed. And this led to the discarding of the theory that the Earth was the center of the universe. Another example: Sir Isaac Newton noticed that things fall to the Earth. The guessed explanation was gravity, the prediction that everything should fall to the Earth. But of course, not everything does fall to the Earth. So did we discard gravity? No. We revised the theory and said, gravity pulls things to the Earth unless there is an equal and opposite force in the other direction. This led us to learn something new. We began to pay more attention to the bird and the bird's wings, and just think of all the discoveries that have flown from that line of thinking. So the test failures, the exceptions, the outliers teach us what we don't know and lead us to something new. This is how science moves forward. This is how science learns. Sometimes in the media, and even more rarely, but sometimes even scientists will say that something or other has been scientifically proven. But I hope that you understand that science never proves anything definitively forever. Hopefully science remains curious enough to look for and humble enough to recognize when we have found the next outlier, the next exception, which, like Jupiter's moons, teaches us what we don't actually know. We're going to change gears here for a second. The caduceus, or the symbol of medicine, means a lot of different things to different people, but most of our public discourse on medicine really turns it into an engineering problem. We have the hallways of Congress, and the boardrooms of insurance companies that try to figure out how to pay for it. The ethicists and epidemiologists try to figure out how best to distribute medicine, and the hospitals and physicians are absolutely obsessed with their protocols and checklists, trying to figure out how best to safely apply medicine. These are all good things. However, they also all assume at some level that the textbook of medicine is closed. We start to measure the quality of our health care by how quickly we can access it. It doesn't surprise me that in this climate, many of our institutions for the provision of health care start to look a heck of a lot like Jiffy Lube. (Laughter) The only problem is that when I graduated from medical school, I didn't get one of those little doohickeys that your mechanic has to plug into your car and find out exactly what's wrong with it, because the textbook of medicine is not closed. Medicine is science. Medicine is knowledge in process. We make an observation, we guess an explanation of that observation, and then we make a prediction that we can test. Now, the testing ground of most predictions in medicine is populations. And you may remember from those boring days in biology class that populations tend to distribute around a mean as a Gaussian or a normal curve. Therefore, in medicine, after we make a prediction from a guessed explanation, we test it in a population. That means that what we know in medicine, our knowledge and our know-how, comes from populations but extends only as far as the next outlier, the next exception, which, like Jupiter's moons, will teach us what we don't actually know. Now, I am a surgeon who looks after patients with sarcoma. Sarcoma is a very rare form of cancer. It's the cancer of flesh and bones. And I would tell you that every one of my patients is an outlier, is an exception. There is no surgery I have ever performed for a sarcoma patient that has ever been guided by a randomized controlled clinical trial, what we consider the best kind of population-based evidence in medicine. People talk about thinking outside the box, but we don't even have a box in sarcoma. What we do have as we take a bath in the uncertainty and unknowns and exceptions and outliers that surround us in sarcoma is easy access to what I think are those two most important values for any science: humility and curiosity. Because if I am humble and curious, when a patient asks me a question, and I don't know the answer, I'll ask a colleague who may have a similar albeit distinct patient with sarcoma. We'll even establish international collaborations. Those patients will start to talk to each other through chat rooms and support groups. It's through this kind of humbly curious communication that we begin to try and learn new things. As an example, this is a patient of mine who had a cancer near his knee. Because of humbly curious communication in international collaborations, we have learned that we can repurpose the ankle to serve as the knee when we have to remove the knee with the cancer. He can then wear a prosthetic and run and jump and play. This opportunity was available to him because of international collaborations. It was desirable to him because he had contacted other patients who had experienced it. And so exceptions and outliers in medicine teach us what we don't know, but also lead us to new thinking. Now, very importantly, all the new thinking that outliers and exceptions lead us to in medicine does not only apply to the outliers and exceptions. It is not that we only learn from sarcoma patients ways to manage sarcoma patients. Sometimes, the outliers and the exceptions teach us things that matter quite a lot to the general population. Like a tree standing outside a forest, the outliers and the exceptions draw our attention and lead us into a much greater sense of perhaps what a tree is. We often talk about losing the forests for the trees, but one also loses a tree within a forest. But the tree that stands out by itself makes those relationships that define a tree, the relationships between trunk and roots and branches, much more apparent. Even if that tree is crooked or even if that tree has very unusual relationships between trunk and roots and branches, it nonetheless draws our attention and allows us to make observations that we can then test in the general population. I told you that sarcomas are rare. They make up about one percent of all cancers. You also probably know that cancer is considered a genetic disease. By genetic disease we mean that cancer is caused by oncogenes that are turned on in cancer and tumor suppressor genes that are turned off to cause cancer. You might think that we learned about oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes from common cancers like breast cancer and prostate cancer and lung cancer, but you'd be wrong. We learned about oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes for the first time in that itty-bitty little one percent of cancers called sarcoma. In 1966, Peyton Rous got the Nobel Prize for realizing that chickens had a transmissible form of sarcoma. Thirty years later, Harold Varmus and Mike Bishop discovered what that transmissible element was. It was a virus carrying a gene, the src oncogene. Now, I will not tell you that src is the most important oncogene. I will not tell you that src is the most frequently turned on oncogene in all of cancer. But it was the first oncogene. The exception, the outlier drew our attention and led us to something that taught us very important things about the rest of biology. Now, TP53 is the most important tumor suppressor gene. It is the most frequently turned off tumor suppressor gene in almost every kind of cancer. But we didn't learn about it from common cancers. We learned about it when doctors Li and Fraumeni were looking at families, and they realized that these families had way too many sarcomas. I told you that sarcoma is rare. Remember that a one in a million diagnosis, if it happens twice in one family, is way too common in that family. The very fact that these are rare draws our attention and leads us to new kinds of thinking. Now, many of you may say, and may rightly say, that yeah, Kevin, that's great, but you're not talking about a bird's wing. You're not talking about moons floating around some planet Jupiter. This is a person. This outlier, this exception, may lead to the advancement of science, but this is a person. And all I can say is that I know that all too well. I have conversations with these patients with rare and deadly diseases. I write about these conversations. These conversations are terribly fraught. They're fraught with horrible phrases like ""I have bad news"" or ""There's nothing more we can do."" Sometimes these conversations turn on a single word: ""terminal."" Silence can also be rather uncomfortable. Where the blanks are in medicine can be just as important as the words that we use in these conversations. What are the unknowns? What are the experiments that are being done? Do this little exercise with me. Up there on the screen, you see this phrase, ""no where."" Notice where the blank is. If we move that blank one space over ""no where"" becomes ""now here,"" the exact opposite meaning, just by shifting the blank one space over. I'll never forget the night that I walked into one of my patients' rooms. I had been operating long that day but I still wanted to come and see him. He was a boy I had diagnosed with a bone cancer a few days before. He and his mother had been meeting with the chemotherapy doctors earlier that day, and he had been admitted to the hospital to begin chemotherapy. It was almost midnight when I got to his room. He was asleep, but I found his mother reading by flashlight next to his bed. She came out in the hall to chat with me for a few minutes. It turned out that what she had been reading was the protocol that the chemotherapy doctors had given her that day. She had memorized it. She said, ""Dr. Jones, you told me that we don't always win with this type of cancer, but I've been studying this protocol, and I think I can do it. I think I can comply with these very difficult treatments. I'm going to quit my job. I'm going to move in with my parents. I'm going to keep my baby safe."" I didn't tell her. I didn't stop to correct her thinking. She was trusting in a protocol that even if complied with, wouldn't necessarily save her son. I didn't tell her. I didn't fill in that blank. But a year and a half later her boy nonetheless died of his cancer. Should I have told her? Now, many of you may say, ""So what? I don't have sarcoma. No one in my family has sarcoma. And this is all fine and well, but it probably doesn't matter in my life."" And you're probably right. Sarcoma may not matter a whole lot in your life. But where the blanks are in medicine does matter in your life. I didn't tell you one dirty little secret. I told you that in medicine, we test predictions in populations, but I didn't tell you, and so often medicine never tells you that every time an individual encounters medicine, even if that individual is firmly embedded in the general population, neither the individual nor the physician knows where in that population the individual will land. Therefore, every encounter with medicine is an experiment. You will be a subject in an experiment. And the outcome will be either a better or a worse result for you. As long as medicine works well, we're fine with fast service, bravado, brimmingly confident conversations. But when things don't work well, sometimes we want something different. A colleague of mine removed a tumor from a patient's limb. He was concerned about this tumor. In our physician conferences, he talked about his concern that this was a type of tumor that had a high risk for coming back in the same limb. But his conversations with the patient were exactly what a patient might want: brimming with confidence. He said, ""I got it all and you're good to go."" She and her husband were thrilled. They went out, celebrated, fancy dinner, opened a bottle of champagne. The only problem was a few weeks later, she started to notice another nodule in the same area. It turned out he hadn't gotten it all, and she wasn't good to go. But what happened at this juncture absolutely fascinates me. My colleague came to me and said, ""Kevin, would you mind looking after this patient for me?"" I said, ""Why, you know the right thing to do as well as I do. You haven't done anything wrong."" He said, ""Please, just look after this patient for me."" He was embarrassed — not by what he had done, but by the conversation that he had had, by the overconfidence. So I performed a much more invasive surgery and had a very different conversation with the patient afterwards. I said, ""Most likely I've gotten it all and you're most likely good to go, but this is the experiment that we're doing. This is what you're going to watch for. This is what I'm going to watch for. And we're going to work together to find out if this surgery will work to get rid of your cancer."" I can guarantee you, she and her husband did not crack another bottle of champagne after talking to me. But she was now a scientist, not only a subject in her experiment. And so I encourage you to seek humility and curiosity in your physicians. Almost 20 billion times each year, a person walks into a doctor's office, and that person becomes a patient. You or someone you love will be that patient sometime very soon. How will you talk to your doctors? What will you tell them? What will they tell you? They cannot tell you what they do not know, but they can tell you when they don't know if only you'll ask. So please, join the conversation. Thank you. (Applause)"	科學這詞喚起你們當中許多人高中生物和物理課裡無聊、不愉快的回憶。但我保證，你們當時的經歷與科學大相逕庭。那其實是科學的「是什麼」的那部分。是前人發現的歷史記載。身為科學家，我最感興趣的是科學的「如何」那部分。因為科學是求知的進程。我們觀察，猜個說法用來解釋所觀察到的現象，然後預測假設，再用實驗或其他的觀察來測試這個預測。 舉兩個例子。第一個，前人注意到地在下而天在上，看似太陽和月亮都圍繞著天地轉。他們猜的解釋是地球想必是宇宙的中心。預測：每樣東西都應該繞著地球轉。首次有人真正檢視這說法是伽里略從第一批望遠鏡中拿到了一台，並著手觀測星空的時候，他發現木星這個行星有四個繞著它轉的衛星。他用這些衛星來追蹤木星的軌跡，並且發現木星也沒繞著地球轉，而是繞著太陽轉。因此那個假設並未通過測試，所以導致大家捨棄了地球是宇宙中心的理論。 另一個例子：艾薩克·牛頓爵士注意到東西落地。他猜測的解釋是重力，預測每個東西都會落地。當然，並非每個東西都會落地。我們因此就棄捨重力論嗎？當然不。我們把理論修正為：重力曳引東西落地，除非另有個力道相等而方向相反的作用力。這讓我們學到新知識。我們開始更加注意鳥和鳥的翅膀，試想所有沿著這條思路而引出的新發現。因此，失敗的測試、例外與離群值，教導我們原先未知的，並且引領我們發現新知。科學如此前進。科學如此學習。 雖然罕見，有時媒體甚至連科學家都說這或那個已經被科學所證明了。但我希望你們明白科學從未終極永遠地證明過什麼。希望科學家保有足夠的好奇心去探尋，並且謙卑得足以辨認，在我們發現下一個離群值或例外時，像是木星的衛星那樣，教導我們原先並未真正明瞭的。 此刻我們暫時先變換個主題。蛇杖，醫學的標誌，對不同的人而言，代表不同的意思，但大多數的公共醫學論述把它轉成了工程問題。國會和保險公司的董事會試圖找出支付醫療款項的方法。倫理學家和流行病學家試圖找到分配醫藥的最佳方式。而醫院和醫生們則完全沉迷於他們的儀軌和清單裡，試圖找出最佳、最安全的行醫方式。這些都是好事。然而，在某種程度上他們全都假設醫學教科書已蓋棺論定。我們以多快能獲得治療來衡量我們的醫療品質。在這種氣氛下，我一點也不訝異許多機構所提供的醫療變得像是 Jiffy Lube汽車維修連鎖店那樣。 （笑聲） 唯一的問題是當我自醫學院畢業時，沒拿到像這樣的小玩意，汽車技工把它插進車裡，用來找出車子哪裡出了問題。因為醫學的教科書尚未編寫完整，醫學是科學，醫學是正在進程中的知識。我們觀察，為所觀察到的現象猜個解釋，然後做個可以測試的預測。多數的醫療預測在民眾的身上測試。你們可能記得從前上的無聊生物課裡說到，人口的分佈傾向集中於平均值也就是高斯或常態分佈。因此，在醫學上猜了個解釋後，我們預測假設，然後在民眾身上測試。這意味著我們的醫學知識，我們的知識和學問來自人群，它最遠只延伸到下一個離群值、下一個例外；就像木星的衛星，能教導我們原先未確切明白的道理。 我是個外科醫生，照顧惡性肉瘤癌症的患者。肉瘤是種罕見的癌症。是肌肉與骨骼的癌變。我必須說，我的每個病人都是個離群值，是個特例。我為肉瘤患者動的手術，不曾有任何一個遵循著隨機控制的臨床試驗，也就是我們以為是人口常態分佈的最佳醫療方式。人們總說要跳脫框框，採取創造性思維，但肉瘤沒有既定的框框。我們的肉瘤被不確定、未知、特例和離群值所包圍，我認為易用的是普世科學的兩個最重要的價值：謙卑和好奇心。若我謙卑和好奇，當病患問我問題，而我沒有答案時，我會請教其他接觸過類似但是不同的肉瘤病患的同事，我們甚至會建立國際間的合作。病患能透過聊天室和支持團體彼此對談。經由這樣謙卑好奇的交流，我們開始嘗試學習新知識。 例如，我的這個病人在近膝蓋處罹癌。經由謙卑好奇的國際合作交流，我們得知能夠移用腳踝替代被移除的罹癌膝蓋，他就可以戴著假肢跑、跳與玩耍了。他因國際的合作而有了這契機。他希望做這樣的手術，因他接觸過其他經歷過的病人。因此，醫學上的特例和離群值教我們原本我們所不知道的，也引導我們產生新的想法。 非常重要的是，所有的特例和離群值帶給我們醫學領域的新想法不僅適用於特例和離群值。我們從肉瘤病患身上不僅學到治療肉瘤患者的方法。有時候特例和離群值教我們許多適用於普羅大眾的新知。就像矗立在森林外的樹木，特例和離群值吸引我們去注意、引領我們去領悟更宏觀的認識，像「樹木是什麼」。我們常說見樹不見林，但人們也常會見林而忽視了樹。獨自矗立在森林之外的樹使得樹木定義的關係，那些樹幹、樹根、樹枝間的關係，更為明朗。即使那是棵歪斜扭曲的樹，或者那棵樹的樹幹、樹根、與樹枝間的關係不尋常，儘管如此，它仍吸引我們的注意力，讓我們觀察，然後在普羅大眾的身上測試。 我說過肉瘤癌極為罕見，大約只佔所有癌症案例的百分之一。你們大概也知道，癌症被視為是一種遺傳疾病。遺傳疾病的意思是癌基因引起癌症，當癌基因被開啟而腫瘤抑制基因卻關閉時，誘發了癌症。你可能認為我們對癌基因和腫瘤抑制基因的認識來自常見的癌症，像是乳癌、前列腺癌和肺癌，但你錯了。我們首次學到癌基因和腫瘤抑制基因是從那微少、僅僅佔百分之一，名為肉瘤癌的癌症。佩頓·勞斯在 1966 年獲得了諾貝爾獎，由於他發現了雞禽裡有種傳染性肉瘤。三十年後，哈羅德·瓦爾姆斯與麥克·畢曉普發現了那種傳染性的因子究竟是什麼。它是一種攜帶基因的病毒，SRC 癌基因。我不是說 SRC 是最重要的癌基因。也不是說SRC 是所有的癌症中最常被開啟的癌基因。但它是第一個被發現的癌基因。這特例、離群值吸引了我們的注意，帶領我們發現，教導我們其他有關生物學的重要知識。 TP53 是最重要的腫瘤抑制基因。是幾乎所有的癌症裡最常關閉的腫瘤抑制基因。但我們不是從一般的癌症裡學到這一點。而是當李醫生和佛美尼醫生在檢視家族病史時，發現這些家庭的肉瘤癌症比例遠高於一般家庭。我說過肉瘤癌極為罕見。請記住，一般而言一個家庭裡發生兩件肉瘤癌的機率是百萬分之一，但那個家庭的發生率實在太高了。就是因為十分罕見，所以吸引我們的注意，啟發我們新的思考。 或許你們當中的很多人會說，也有權這樣說，是啊，凱文，那很棒，但是你所說的並非鳥的翅膀，也不是繞著木星轉的衛星，而是人啊。離群值或特例能引致科學的進步，但我們談的是人啊。我只能說，我太明白了。我與這些罹患罕見而致命疾病的患者對話。我紀錄這些對話。這些對話非常令人焦慮，充滿著恐怖的語句，像是「我有個壞消息」或是「我們一籌莫展」。有時對話轉向一個單詞：「末期」。 沉默能讓人非常難受。在醫學裡，空白的位置可能會像那些對話裡的用字遣詞一樣重要。什麼是未知的？哪些試驗正在進行中？ 和我一同做個小練習。看在銀幕上的片語：「無處」。注意空格落在何處。如果我們把空格向右移一格，「無處」變成了「此刻在這裡」，完全相反的意思，僅僅把空格向右移了一格。 我永遠忘不了走進一位患者病房的那一晚。雖然我在手術房裡忙了一天，仍然想去看看他。幾天前我診斷出這個男孩罹患了骨癌。稍早他和他的母親與化療醫生談過話，他剛剛入院開始化療。約在午夜時分，我進到他的病房。他沉睡著，而他的母親正在病床旁藉由手電筒的光閱讀著。她走出來，在走道上和我聊了幾分鐘。原來她正在閱讀當天稍早化療醫生給她的程序手冊。她記住了裡面的內容。她說：「瓊斯醫生，你告訴過我這種癌症未必能被療癒，但我很仔細研究治療程序，認為我做得到。我認為我們能夠承受這困難的治療。我要辭職，搬去和父母親同住。我要救我的孩子。」我沒告訴她。我沒糾正她的想法。她信任的醫療程序，即使完全照著做，也未必救得了她的兒子。我沒告訴她。我沒填入那個空白。一年半後，她的兒子還是死於癌症。當時我應該告訴她嗎？ 或許你們當中有許多人會說：「那又怎樣？我沒罹患肉瘤癌。我的家族沒有任何人罹患肉瘤癌。這些都有道理，但大概與我無關。」或許你是對的。肉瘤癌或許與你無甚關聯。但是醫學上的空白部分卻與你的生命息息相關。 我沒告訴你們一個不甚光彩的小秘密。我說過在醫學裡，我們在民眾的身上測試所預測的假設。但我沒說的是，通常醫學並未告訴你們，每次某個人接觸治療，即使那個人的確是普羅大眾的一員，他和醫生都不知道他在人口分布中會落在哪一點。因此，每個醫療行為都是個試驗。你將會是個被試驗的主體。試驗結果，你的情況可能變好也可能變差。只要藥物起作用，我們不在乎治療的快慢，以及那些自滿、充滿自信的談話。但是如果事情進展不順利，有時我們就要做法不同。 我有個同事切除病人肢體的腫瘤。他很擔心這個腫瘤。在我們的研討會上，他講述他的憂慮，這是種原位複發率極高的腫瘤。但是他與病患的對話卻完全是病患想聽到的那種：充滿了自信。他說：「我已完全清除腫瘤，妳可以回家了。」她和她的丈夫喜出望外。他們上館子慶祝，享用大餐，還開了瓶香檳。唯一的問題是幾個星期後，她注意到在相同的區域出現了另一個硬塊。真相是醫生並未清乾淨腫瘤，她並未真的痊癒可以返家。當下發生的事吸引了我。我的同事問我：「凱文，你願意幫我照料這個病人嗎？」我說：「為什麼，你和我一樣知道該怎麼做啊。你沒做錯任何事。」他說：「拜託你，幫我照料這個病人吧。 」他很尷尬，但不是為了他動的手術，而是他先前的對話，和過度的自信讓他很尷尬。 因此我動了更深入的切除手術，術後和我和病人的對話截然不同。我說：「看起來很像已經清乾淨了，妳看似可以回家了。但我們做的是個試驗。妳需要繼續觀察，我也需要繼續觀察。我們一起努力，看手術是否成功去除了妳的腫瘤。」我可以向你們保證，在這次談話後，她和她的丈夫並沒再開一瓶香檳慶祝。但她現在採取科學家的態度，而不僅是個被試驗的主體而已。 因此我鼓勵你們尋求你們醫生的謙遜和好奇心。每年大約兩百億次，一個人走進醫生的辦公室成了一名病患。你和你所愛的人不久的將來也會成為病患。你如何與你的醫生對話？你要怎麼跟他們說？他們會告訴你些什麼？他們自己也不知道的事，他們無法告訴你，但是如果你問了，當他們不知道的時候，他們會回答不知道。所以，請加入對話吧。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
