Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_stone_the_bio_future_of_joint_replacement	"So let me just start with my story. So I tore my knee joint meniscus cartilage playing soccer in college. Then I went on to tear my ACL, the ligament in my knee, and then developed an arthritic knee. And I'm sure that many of you in this audience have that same story, and, by the way, I married a woman who has exactly the same story. So this motivated me to become an orthopedic surgeon and to see if I couldn't focus on solutions for those problems that would keep me playing sports and not limit me. So with that, let me just show you a quick video to get you in the mood of what we're trying to explain. Narrator: We are all aware of the risk of cancer, but there's another disease that's destined to affect even more of us: arthritis. Cancer may kill you, but when you look at the numbers, arthritis ruins more lives. Assuming you live a long life, there's a 50 percent chance you'll develop arthritis. And it's not just aging that causes arthritis. Common injuries can lead to decades of pain, until our joints quite literally grind to a halt. Desperate for a solution, we've turned to engineering to design artificial components to replace our worn-out body parts, but in the midst of the modern buzz around the promises of a bionic body, shouldn't we stop and ask if there's a better, more natural way? Let's consider an alternative path. What if all the replacements our bodies need already exist in nature, or within our own stem cells? This is the field of biologic replacements, where we replace worn-out parts with new, natural ones. Kevin Stone: And so, the mission is: how do I treat these things biologically? And let's talk about both what I did for my wife, and what I've done for hundreds of other patients. First thing for my wife, and the most common thing I hear from my patients, particularly in the 40- to 80-year-old age group, 70-year-old age group, is they come in and say, ""Hey, Doc, isn't there just a shock absorber you can put in my knee? I'm not ready for joint replacement."" And so for her, I put in a human meniscus allograft donor right into that [knee] joint space. And [the allograft] replaces [the missing meniscus]. And then for that unstable ligament, we put in a human donor ligament to stabilize the knee. And then for the damaged arthritis on the surface, we did a stem cell paste graft, which we designed in 1991, to regrow that articular cartilage surface and give it back a smooth surface there. So here's my wife's bad knee on the left, and her just hiking now four months later in Aspen, and doing well. And it works, not just for my wife, but certainly for other patients. The girl on the video, Jen Hudak, just won the Superpipe in Aspen just nine months after having destroyed her knee, as you see in the other image — and having a paste graft to that knee. And so we can regrow these surfaces biologically. So with all this success, why isn't that good enough, you might ask. Well the reason is because there's not enough donor cycles. There's not enough young, healthy people falling off their motorcycle and donating that tissue to us. And the tissue's very expensive. And so that's not going to be a solution that's going to get us global with biologic tissue. But the solution is animal tissue because it's plentiful, it's cheap, you can get it from young, healthy tissues, but the barrier is immunology. And the specific barrier is a specific epitope called the galactosyl, or gal epitope. So if we're going to transplant animal tissues to people, we have to figure out a way to get rid of that epitope. So my story in working with animal tissues starts in 1984. And I started first with cow Achilles tendon, where we would take the cow Achilles tendon, which is type-I collagen, strip it of its antigens by degrading it with an acid and detergent wash and forming it into a regeneration template. We would then take that regeneration template and insert it into the missing meniscus cartilage to regrow that in a patient's knee. We've now done that procedure, and it's been done worldwide in over 4,000 cases, so it's an FDA-approved and worldwide-accepted way to regrow the meniscus. And that's great when I can degrade the tissue. But what happens for your ligament when I need an intact ligament? I can't grind it up in a blender. So in that case, I have to design — and we designed with Uri Galili and Tom Turek — an enzyme wash to wash away, or strip, those galactosyl epitopes with a specific enzyme. And we call that a ""gal stripping"" technique. What we do is humanize the tissue. It's by gal stripping that tissue we humanize it (Laughter), and then we can put it back into a patient's knee. And we've done that. Now we've taken pig ligament — young, healthy, big tissue, put it into 10 patients in an FDA-approved trial — and then one of our patients went on to have three Canadian Masters Downhill championships — on his ""pig-lig,"" as he calls it. So we know it can work. And there's a wide clinical trial of this tissue now pending. So what about the next step? What about getting to a total biologic knee replacement, not just the parts? How are we going to revolutionize artificial joint replacement? Well here's how we're going to do it. So what we're going to do is take an articular cartilage from a young, healthy pig, strip it of its antigens, load it with your stem cells, then put it back on to that arthritic surface in your knee, tack it on there, have you heal that surface and then create a new biologic surface for your knee. So that's our biologic approach right now. We're going to rebuild your knee with the parts. We're going to resurface it with a completely new surface. But we have other advantages from the animal kingdom. There's a benefit of 400 million years of ambulation. We can harness those benefits. We can use thicker, younger, better tissues than you might have injured in your knee, or that you might have when you're 40, 50 or 60. We can do it as an outpatient procedure. We can strip that tissue very economically, and so this is how we can get biologic knee replacement to go global. And so welcome to super biologics. It's not hardware. It's not software. It's bioware. It's version 2.0 of you. And so with that, coming to a — (Laughter) coming to an operating theater near you soon, I believe. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	那麼，讓我直接開始講我的故事。我大學時代踢足球的時候，撕傷了我膝關節的半月軟骨。然後我又撕傷了我膝關節上的前交叉韌帶，因此病情惡化成為膝關節炎。而且我確定在座的各位當中，有許多人跟我有著同樣的故事。順帶一提，我娶到了一個跟我有著完全一樣經歷的妻子。因此這激勵了我成為一名骨外科醫生，看看我是否能夠專注於找出讓這些使我不能運動的毛病不再限制我的解決方法。以此為楔子，讓我很快地放一段影片給大家看，讓你們對於我將要解釋的東西，有個大概的了解。 旁白：我們都清楚地明白癌症的風險，但是另外有一種疾病，其影響的人甚至比癌症還要多，那就是關節炎。癌症也許是致命的，但是如果你看看統計數字，更多的性命毀在關節炎手上。假設你能活到高齡，你患有關節炎的機率高達百分之五十。導致關節炎的原因並不是因為老化。常見的運動傷害能導致數十年的疼痛，直到我們的關節磨損到不能再使用為止。亟需解決方案，我們已朝向設計製造人工關節組件來替換我們耗盡的身體部件。但是在圍繞著仿生機械身體美好前景的摩登炒作中，我們是否該停下來問問，有沒有其他更好、更自然的方法？讓我們考慮另一個替代方案。如果我們身體所需求的所有替代品都已經存在於自然界，或者存在於我們自身的幹細胞中，那將如何？這就是生物性替換的領域，以自然的、新的部件來替換我們耗盡的部件。 Kevin Stone: 所以任務是：我要如何利用生物性的方法來治療這些疾病？讓我們來談談，我為我妻子所做的事，和我已經為其他數百名病患所做的事。首先是為我妻子所做的，也是我從病人那最常聽到的事，特別是介於 40~80 歲的族群、70 歲的族群，他們通常進來後會說，「醫生，難道沒有可以吸震的東西放到我的膝蓋裡嗎？我還沒有準備好做關節置換手術。」因此，在我妻子身上，我將人類半月板移植供應體置入她膝關節的空間內。這個 [移植] 取代了 [缺失的半月板] 。而對於那個不穩定的韌帶，我們也放入了一個人類捐贈的韌帶來穩定住膝蓋。而那些因為關節炎而受損的表面，我們使用了幹細胞黏貼移植法，這方法是我們於 1991 年設計出來的，能夠重新長出關節軟骨表面，因此重回原本滑順的表面。在這邊，左邊是我妻子的爛膝蓋，而如今她剛剛能夠登山健行，手術完成的四個月後，她去阿斯彭參加健行，反應良好。手術很成功，不僅對我妻子是這樣，對其他病人一定也是一樣。影片中的女孩，Jen Hudak，剛在阿斯彭贏得 Superpipe 極限滑雪大賽，僅僅在毀了她膝蓋的九個月後，如同你在其他照片所看到的一般 —她的膝蓋進行了黏貼移植。因此我們可以生物性的重新長出這些表面。 即使有了這些成功，你可能會問，這樣還不夠好嗎？因為沒有足夠的捐贈者，沒有足夠的年輕、健康的人們從摩托車上摔下來，然後捐贈那些組織給我們。也因此，這些組織非常的昂貴。因此，這不會是個能夠提供我們全球性生物組織來源的解決方案。但是，解決方案就是動物組織，因為它們不虞匱乏，並且便宜。你可以很容易取得年輕、健康的組織，但是障礙就是免疫反應。這個專一性的障礙是有一種特別的蛋白免疫表位稱作半乳糖基或是 gal 表位。因此，如果我們要移植動物性組織到人類身上，我們就必須找出一種方法，移除這個免疫表位。 因此，我與動物組織一起工作的故事始於 1984。我首先從牛的跟（阿基里斯）腱開始，我們使用牛的跟腱，它是甲型膠原蛋白，以酸性溶劑與清潔劑清洗來移除它的抗原，再將它塑型成可供再生的模板。然後我們利用這個再生模板，將之置入缺失的半月軟骨處，在病人的膝蓋內重新生長出來。這樣我們就完成了這項手術，這手術在全球已經有超過四千起成功的術例，因此它已經是 FDA 核准並被世界所接受重新生長半月軟骨的方法。這方法在我能夠降解組織的時候，一切都很好。但是當我需要一個完整的韌帶組織時，你的韌帶又將會如何？我不能再用攪拌器將組織打碎。因此，我們與 Uri Galili 和 Tom Turek 一同設計了 —一種酵素洗劑來洗掉，或脫除這些半乳糖基免疫表位，藉由一種特殊的酵素。我們稱之為「gal 脫除法」。我們所做的是將這組織「人類」化。藉由脫除組織上的 gal 基我們就使其「人類」化了，然後我們將之放回到病人的膝蓋內。因為手術的成功，現在我們能用豬的韌帶 —年輕、健康、大組織，在一個 FDA 核准的實驗性療法中，將之置入十個病人身上 —然後我們其中一位病人獲得了三項加拿大大師級下坡滑雪競賽大獎 —用他的「豬腳」，他自己取的。所以我們知道這方法可行。關於這組織療法的擴大臨床試驗計畫正在審查階段。 那麼，下一步是什麼？一個完全生物性的膝關節置換聽起來如何？不只是零部件而已。我們要如何推動人工關節置換革命？那麼，我就告訴你我們準備如何下手。我們所將要做的是，使用從年輕、健康的豬隻身上所取得的關節軟骨，脫去它的抗原，裝載上你的幹細胞，然後把它放回你膝蓋的軟骨表面上，釘在那邊，直到你那邊的軟骨表面癒合為止，然後也就產生了你膝蓋新的生物性表面。這就是現在我們的生物性策略。我們將要用零部件來重新建造你的膝蓋。我們將重鋪全新的軟骨關節表面。 但是，動物界提供了我們其他的優勢。行走 40 億年所提供的利基。我們可以利用這些優惠。我們可以使用比你膝蓋受傷前，更厚，更年輕，更好的組織，或者比起你 40, 50 或 60 歲時好的組織。我們可以以門診手術來進行。我們可以非常經濟地脫去組織上的抗原。這就是我們如何可以讓生物性膝關節置換拓展到全球的方法。 歡迎來到超級生物工程學。不是硬體。不是軟體。是生物體。是第二代的你。最後～（笑聲）我相信，很快地就會在你們附近的戲院上映。 非常謝謝你們。 （掌聲）
