Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_rudd_are_china_and_the_us_doomed_to_conflict	"G'day, my name's Kevin. I'm from Australia. I'm here to help. (Laughter) Tonight, I want to talk about a tale of two cities. One of those cities is called Washington, and the other is called Beijing. Because how these two capitals shape their future and the future of the United States and the future of China doesn't just affect those two countries, it affects all of us in ways, perhaps, we've never thought of: the air we breathe, the water we drink, the fish we eat, the quality of our oceans, the languages we speak in the future, the jobs we have, the political systems we choose, and, of course, the great questions of war and peace. You see that bloke? He's French. His name is Napoleon. A couple of hundred years ago, he made this extraordinary projection: ""China is a sleeping lion, and when she awakes, the world will shake."" Napoleon got a few things wrong; he got this one absolutely right. Because China is today not just woken up, China has stood up and China is on the march, and the question for us all is where will China go and how do we engage this giant of the 21st century? You start looking at the numbers, they start to confront you in a big way. It's projected that China will become, by whichever measure — PPP, market exchange rates — the largest economy in the world over the course of the decade ahead. They're already the largest trading nation, already the largest exporting nation, already the largest manufacturing nation, and they're also the biggest emitters of carbon in the world. America comes second. So if China does become the world's largest economy, think about this: It'll be the first time since this guy was on the throne of England — George III, not a good friend of Napoleon's — that in the world we will have as the largest economy a non-English speaking country, a non-Western country, a non-liberal democratic country. And if you don't think that's going to affect the way in which the world happens in the future, then personally, I think you've been smoking something, and it doesn't mean you're from Colorado. So in short, the question we have tonight is, how do we understand this mega-change, which I believe to be the biggest change for the first half of the 21st century? It'll affect so many things. It will go to the absolute core. It's happening quietly. It's happening persistently. It's happening in some senses under the radar, as we are all preoccupied with what's going in Ukraine, what's going on in the Middle East, what's going on with ISIS, what's going on with ISIL, what's happening with the future of our economies. This is a slow and quiet revolution. And with a mega-change comes also a mega-challenge, and the mega-challenge is this: Can these two great countries, China and the United States — China, the Middle Kingdom, and the United States, Měiguó — which in Chinese, by the way, means ""the beautiful country."" Think about that — that's the name that China has given this country for more than a hundred years. Whether these two great civilizations, these two great countries, can in fact carve out a common future for themselves and for the world? In short, can we carve out a future which is peaceful and mutually prosperous, or are we looking at a great challenge of war or peace? And I have 15 minutes to work through war or peace, which is a little less time than they gave this guy to write a book called ""War and Peace."" People ask me, why is it that a kid growing up in rural Australia got interested in learning Chinese? Well, there are two reasons for that. Here's the first of them. That's Betsy the cow. Now, Betsy the cow was one of a herd of dairy cattle that I grew up with on a farm in rural Australia. See those hands there? These are not built for farming. So very early on, I discovered that in fact, working in a farm was not designed for me, and China was a very safe remove from any career in Australian farm life. Here's the second reason. That's my mom. Anyone here ever listen to what their mom told them to do? Everyone ever do what their mom told them to do? I rarely did, but what my mom said to me was, one day, she handed me a newspaper, a headline which said, here we have a huge change. And that change is China entering the United Nations. 1971, I had just turned 14 years of age, and she handed me this headline. And she said, ""Understand this,  learn this, because it's going to affect your future."" So being a very good student of history, I decided that the best thing for me to do was, in fact, to go off and learn Chinese. The great thing about learning Chinese is that your Chinese teacher gives you a new name. And so they gave me this name: Kè, which means to overcome or to conquer, and Wén, and that's the character for literature or the arts. Kè Wén, Conqueror of the Classics. Any of you guys called ""Kevin""? It's a major lift from being called Kevin to be called Conqueror of the Classics. (Laughter) I've been called Kevin all my life. Have you been called Kevin all your life? Would you prefer to be called Conqueror of the Classics? And so I went off after that and joined the Australian Foreign Service, but here is where pride — before pride, there always comes a fall. So there I am in the embassy in Beijing, off to the Great Hall of the People with our ambassador, who had asked me to interpret for his first meeting in the Great Hall of the People. And so there was I. If you've been to a Chinese meeting, it's a giant horseshoe. At the head of the horsehoe are the really serious pooh-bahs, and down the end of the horseshoe are the not-so-serious pooh-bahs, the junior woodchucks like me. And so the ambassador began with this inelegant phrase. He said, ""China and Australia are currently enjoying a relationship of unprecedented closeness."" And I thought to myself, ""That sounds clumsy. That sounds odd. I will improve it."" Note to file: Never do that. It needed to be a little more elegant, a little more classical, so I rendered it as follows. [In Chinese] There was a big pause on the other side of the room. You could see the giant pooh-bahs at the head of the horseshoe, the blood visibly draining from their faces, and the junior woodchucks at the other end of the horseshoe engaged in peals of  unrestrained laughter. Because when I rendered his sentence, ""Australia and China are  enjoying a relationship of unprecedented closeness,"" in fact, what I said was that Australia and China were now experiencing fantastic orgasm. (Laughter) That was the last time I was asked to interpret. But in that little story, there's a wisdom, which is, as soon as you think you know something about this extraordinary civilization of 5,000 years of continuing history, there's always something new to learn. History is against us when it comes to the U.S. and China forging a common future together. This guy up here? He's not Chinese and he's not American. He's Greek. His name's Thucydides. He wrote the history of the Peloponnesian Wars. And he made this extraordinary observation about Athens and Sparta. ""It was the rise of Athens and the fear that this inspired in Sparta that made war inevitable."" And hence, a whole literature about something called the Thucydides Trap. This guy here? He's not American and he's not Greek. He's Chinese. His name is Sun Tzu. He wrote ""The Art of War,"" and if you see his statement underneath, it's along these lines: ""Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected."" Not looking good so far for China and the United States. This guy is an American. His name's Graham Allison. In fact, he's a teacher at the Kennedy School over there in Boston. He's working on a single project at the moment, which is, does the Thucydides Trap about the inevitably of war between rising powers and established great powers apply to the future of China-U.S. relations? It's a core question. And what Graham has done is explore 15 cases in history since the 1500s to establish what the precedents are. And in 11 out of 15 of them, let me tell you, they've ended in catastrophic war. You may say, ""But Kevin — or Conqueror of the Classics — that was the past. We live now in a world of interdependence and globalization. It could never happen again."" Guess what? The economic historians tell us that in fact, the time which we reached the greatest point of economic integration and globalization was in 1914, just before that happened, World War I, a sobering reflection from history. So if we are engaged in this great question of how China thinks, feels, and positions itself towards the United States, and the reverse, how do we get to the baseline of how these two countries and civilizations can possibly work together? Let me first go to, in fact, China's views of the U.S. and the rest of the West. Number one: China feels as if it's been humiliated at the hands of the West through a hundred years of history, beginning with the Opium Wars. When after that, the Western powers carved China up into little pieces, so that by the time it got to the '20s and '30s, signs like this one appeared on the streets of Shanghai. [""No dogs and Chinese allowed""] How would you feel if you were Chinese, in your own country,  if you saw that sign appear? China also believes and feels as if, in the events of 1919, at the Peace Conference in Paris, when Germany's colonies were given back to all sorts of countries around in the world, what about German colonies in China? They were, in fact, given to Japan. When Japan then invaded China in the 1930s the world looked away and was indifferent to what would happen to China. And then, on top of that, the Chinese to this day believe that the United States and the West do not accept the legitimacy of their political system because it's so radically different from those of us who come from liberal democracies, and believe that the United States to this day is seeking to undermine their political system. China also believes that it is being contained by U.S. allies and by those with strategic partnerships with the U.S. right around its periphery. And beyond all that, the Chinese have this feeling in their heart of hearts and in their gut of guts that those of us in the collective West are just too damned arrogant. That is, we don't recognize the problems in our own system, in our politics and our economics, and are very quick to point the finger elsewhere, and believe that, in fact, we in the collective West are guilty of a great bunch of hypocrisy. Of course, in international relations, it's not just the sound of one hand clapping. There's another country too, and that's called the U.S. So how does the U.S. respond to all of the above? The U.S. has a response to each of those. On the question of is the U.S. containing China, they say, ""No, look at the history of the Soviet Union. That was containment."" Instead, what we have done in the U.S. and the West is welcome China into the global economy, and on top of that, welcome them into the World Trade Organization. The U.S. and the West say China cheats on the question of intellectual property rights, and through cyberattacks on U.S. and global firms. Furthermore, the United States says that the Chinese political system is fundamentally wrong because it's at such fundamental variance to the human rights, democracy, and rule of law that we enjoy in the U.S. and the collective West. And on top of all the above, what does the United States say? That they fear that China will, when it has sufficient power, establish a sphere of influence in Southeast Asia and wider East Asia, boot the United States out, and in time, when it's powerful enough, unilaterally seek to change the rules of the global order. So apart from all of that, it's just fine and dandy, the U.S.-China relationship. No real problems there. The challenge, though, is given those deep-rooted feelings, those deep-rooted emotions and thought patterns, what the Chinese call ""Sīwéi,"" ways of thinking, how can we craft a basis for a common future between these two? I argue simply this: We can do it on the basis on a framework of constructive realism for a common purpose. What do I mean by that? Be realistic about the things that we disagree on, and a management approach that doesn't enable any one of those differences to break into war or conflict until we've acquired the diplomatic skills to solve them. Be constructive in areas of the bilateral, regional and global engagement between the two, which will make a difference for all of humankind. Build a regional institution capable of cooperation in Asia, an Asia-Pacific community. And worldwide, act further, like you've begun to do at the end of last year by striking out against climate change with hands joined together rather than fists apart. Of course, all that happens if you've got a common mechanism and political will to achieve the above. These things are deliverable. But the question is, are they deliverable alone? This is what our head tells us we need to do, but what about our heart? I have a little experience in the question back home of how you try to bring together two peoples who, frankly, haven't had a whole lot in common in the past. And that's when I apologized to Australia's indigenous peoples. This was a day of reckoning in the Australian government, the Australian parliament, and for the Australian people. After 200 years of unbridled abuse towards the first Australians, it was high time that we white folks said we were sorry. The important thing — (Applause) The important thing that I remember is staring in the faces of all those from Aboriginal Australia as they came to listen to this apology. It was extraordinary to see, for example, old women telling me the stories of when they were five years old and literally ripped away from their parents, like this lady here. It was extraordinary for me to then be able to embrace and to kiss Aboriginal elders as they came into the parliament building, and one woman said to me, it's the first time a white fella had ever kissed her in her life, and she was over 70. That's a terrible story. And then I remember this family saying to me, ""You know, we drove all the way from the far North down to Canberra to come to this thing, drove our way through redneck country. On the way back, stopped at a cafe after the apology for a milkshake."" And they walked into this cafe quietly, tentatively, gingerly, a little anxious. I think you know what I'm talking about. But the day after the apology, what happened? Everyone in that cafe, every one of the white folks, stood up and applauded. Something had happened in the hearts of these people in Australia. The white folks, our Aboriginal brothers and sisters, and we haven't solved all these problems together, but let me tell you, there was a new beginning because we had gone not just to the head, we'd gone also to the heart. So where does that conclude in terms of the great question that we've been asked to address this evening, which is the future of U.S.-China relations? The head says there's a way forward. The head says there is a policy framework, there's a common narrative, there's a mechanism through regular summitry to do these things and to make them better. But the heart must also find a way to reimagine the possibilities of the America-China relationship, and the possibilities of China's future engagement in the world. Sometimes, folks, we just need to take a leap of faith not quite knowing where we might land. In China, they now talk about the Chinese Dream. In America, we're all familiar with the term ""the American Dream."" I think it's time, across the world, that we're able to think also of something we might also call a dream for all humankind. Because if we do that, we might just change the way that we think about each other. [In Chinese] That's my challenge to America. That's my challenge to China. That's my challenge to all of us, but I think where there's a will and where there is imagination we can turn this into a future driven by peace and prosperity and not once again repeat the tragedies of war. I thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thanks so much for that. Thanks so much for that. It feels like you yourself have a role to play in this bridging. You, in a way, are uniquely placed to speak to both sides. Kevin Rudd: Well, what we Australians do best is organize the drinks, so you get them together in one room, and we suggest this and suggest that, then we go and get the drinks. But no, look, for all of us who are friends of these two great countries, America and China, you can do something. You can make a practical contribution, and for all you good folks here, next time you meet someone from China, sit down and have a conversation. See what you can find out about where they come from and what they think, and my challenge for all the Chinese folks who are going to watch this TED Talk at some time is do the same. Two of us seeking to change the world can actually make a huge difference. Those of us up the middle, we can make a small contribution. CA: Kevin, all power to you, my friend. Thank you. KR: Thank you. Thank you, folks. (Applause)"	大家好！我是凱文，我來自澳洲，我是來救你們的！(笑聲) 今晚我想要談另一本雙城記，一個是華盛頓另一個則是北京。因為這兩大首都要如何打造它們共同的未來 ，美國的未來和中國的未來，不只是影響這兩個國家，還會影響到我們每一個人；也許透過我們從沒想到過的方式，諸如我們呼吸的空氣、所喝的水、所吃的魚、海洋的品質、未來所使用的語言、所擁有的工作、所選擇的政治制度，還有對戰爭及和平的大哉問等等。 看見這個人沒 ? 他是法國人，他叫「拿破崙」，數百年前他做出這個令人意想不到的預言：「中國是沉睡中的獅子，當她醒來時，這個世界將會晃動！」拿破崙以前做錯過一些事，他講這句話卻是一分不差的，因為今天中國不只醒來了，還站了起來，向前邁進。對我們所有人來講，問題是中國會往那裡去 ?還有我們該如何與這個二十一世紀的巨頭打交道 ? 你們正看著的這些數據，會極大地挑戰你的設想，數據預測中國在任何計算方法之下 ，例如購買力平價、市場匯率等，在未來的十年內，將會成為世界上最大的經濟體。中國已經是最大的貿易國家、最大的出口國、最大的製造國家，還是世界上最大的碳排放體，美國則是第二大的碳排放體。 所以如果中國成為了世界上最大的經濟體，想一下這情景，這將會是第一次，打從這位老兄 ─ 喬治三世貴為英國國王以來 ，他跟破崙的交情不太好，我們即將有世界最大的一個經濟體既乃非英語系國家、非西方的國家、非自由民主制國家。假使你不認為這會影響到未來會發生在世界的事，我單方面認為你可能抽過什麼煙了，這不代表你是來自科羅拉多州啦。 簡言之今晚我們的問題就是我們要如何來認清這個巨大的變動？我認為這會是二十一世紀上半世紀最大的變動。這會影響到很多事情，這絕對會是關鍵，變動正安靜、持續地在上演，正在你掌握不到的地方上演，當我們全心關注在烏克蘭會怎樣、中東會怎樣、伊斯蘭國會怎樣、我們經濟的未來又會怎樣？這是緩慢、安靜的變革。巨大的變動同時會帶來巨大的挑戰，而巨大的挑戰就是這兩個超級城市 ─中國與美國，中國 ─天下中心的國度；還有，美國其中文意思是美麗的國家，這個名字是早在一百年前中國幫它取的。這兩個偉大的文明、國家，是否可以在現實中為他們自己以及這世界開創出共同的未來？簡言之我們能否開創出和平共榮的未來呢？還是我們即將要面臨要戰爭或是和平的巨大挑戰？而我有15分鐘的時間來講要戰爭或是和平，比起他們給這傢伙寫「戰爭與和平」這本書的時間，我們的時間有點緊湊！ 人們問我為什麼一個在澳洲鄉間長大的小孩會想要學習中文呢？我有兩個理由，這是其中第一個：貝蒂牛貝蒂牛是一種乳牛，我在澳洲鄉間與牠們一起長大，看到這兩隻手了嗎？它們並不是用來做農事的。所以從很早開始我就發現了，事實上在農場工作並不適合我，而中國是一個非常安全的地方能遠離在澳洲農場工作的生活。 這是第二個理由：我媽媽這裡有誰曾經認真聽過媽媽的話？有誰曾經就照著去做呢？我很少做到過。但是我媽媽跟我說的話，有天她遞給了我一份報紙，頭條告訴我們現在有了重大的變動，變動就是中國即將要加入聯合國，在 1971 年我剛滿14歲，她遞給了我這則頭條新聞，她說看懂來、記起來，因為這將會影響到你的未來！ 因此身為一個優秀的歷史系學生，我決定好我最該做的事情，就是去學中文。學中文最棒的事情就是中文老師會幫你取一個新名字，因此他們幫我取這個新名字，「克」：代表克服或是征服，「文」：就是代表文學或藝術的字，「克文」：征服經典文學的人，你們有誰叫「凱文」的嗎？這是個重大的升等，從「凱文」到被叫成「征服經典文學的人」。(笑聲)我已經被叫「凱文」一輩子了，你們是不是也已經被叫「凱文」一輩子了呢？你會不會更喜歡被叫成「征服經典文學的人」呢？ 所以後來我就飛去了中國，進入了澳洲外事館工作，但那裡人外有人、天外有天，你總有踢到鐵板的時候。我是在北京的澳洲外館，就在人民大會堂的旁邊，陪著我們的大使，他讓我為他在人民大會堂的第一場會議做翻譯。所以我就在那裡，假使你曾經參加過中國人的會議，那是大型的U型桌，在 U 型桌頂部是非常顯赫的高官領導人，而在桌尾則是沒那麼顯赫的高官領導人、以及像我一般的小助理們。而大使先生一開頭就講了句粗俗的話，他說：「中國與澳洲最近正享受著前所未見的親密關係！」我自己想說這聽起來很不得體又奇怪，我要給它修改一下。記進你的筆記裡：「千萬別做這種事！」這句話需要更優雅、更經典一些，所以我翻譯如下：「 澳、中關係最近處於高潮關係 [中語]」， 整個房間的其他角落都停頓了，你可以看見巨型U形桌頂部的高官領導人們整個臉色翻白，在 U 型桌尾端另一邊的小助理，發出了毫不節制的宏亮笑聲。因為當我在翻譯大使的句子 ，「澳洲與中國正享受著前所未見的親密關係。」我實際上所說的卻是「澳洲與中國現在正體驗著絕妙的性高潮」，(笑聲) 那是我最後一次被要求做翻譯。但是在這個小故事裡有讓人長智慧的事，就是當你認為你瞭解了這個有連續五千年歷史之不凡文化的某些東西，總還是有新東西得學。 歷史是跟我們反向的，當美國和中國要一起打造出一個共同的未來，看到上頭這個人沒？他不是中國人、也不是美國人，他是希臘人名叫「修昔底德」，他寫了「伯羅奔尼撒戰爭史」，就雅典與斯巴達的關係他做出這個不凡的觀察 ：「正是雅典的崛起以及斯巴達被引發之恐懼，使得戰爭避無可避。」因此整本書講的是所謂的「修昔底德陷阱」。 這傢伙他不是美國人、不是希臘人，他是個中國人，他的名字是「孫子」，他寫了「孫子兵法」；如果大家看看下面的銘文，就明白他文章的深意：「攻其不備，出其不意」用在中國和美國之間好像不太好。 這位老兄是美國人，叫做「葛雷厄姆‧艾利森」，事實上他是哈佛大學甘迺迪政府學院的老師，就在波士頓那邊，他此時正在做單一計畫的研究：「在崛起的力量與既有最大力量之間，有關戰爭避無可避的修昔底德陷阱，是否可適用於未來的中美關係？」這是個關鍵的問題。葛雷厄姆所做的就是探究自從西元1,500年以來歷史裡的15個案例，來確定這些先例的本質；讓我來告訴你，它們 15 個裡面有 11 個，是完覆於災禍性之戰爭。 你可能會說：「不過凱文或是征服經典文學的人，那是往事了，我們現在是活在一個互相依靠和全球化的世界，不可能會再發生那種事的啦！」你猜怎麼著，經濟歷史學家告訴我們，事實上我們達到經濟整合和全球化之最高境界，時間是在 1914年，剛好在「第一次世界大戰」發生前，那是一個來自歷史發人深省的思辨。 因此要是我們要探討中國、美國是如何思考、感受、以及定位自己與對方的關係，我們如何營造出讓這兩個國家合作之基礎。 讓我先來講在現實中，中國對美國和其他西方國家的觀點，第一點、中國覺得是讓人糟蹋了，在長達一百年歷史的西方折磨，始於「鴉片戰爭」，其後西方列強分割中國使其破碎，這時候時間來到了20至30年代，像這種的標語出現在上海的街頭上 ：[ 狗與中國人禁止進入！]要是在自己的國家看到了這標語，假若你是中國人會有什麼感受呢？中國也相信和感受到如同 1919 年在「巴黎和會」上的事項，當時德國的殖民地都被還給世界上的所有國家，而德國在中國的殖民地怎麼了？它們被還給了日本，當日本在1930 年代侵略中國，這世界當成眼不見為淨，並且對中國的事和未來很冷淡，此外直到今天中國堅信美國和西方並不承認其政治體系的正當性，因為其大大有異於那些自由民主國家，而且堅信美國直到今天還試圖要破壞他們的政治體系，中國也堅信它被美國的盟友，和那些中國周邊與美國做策略同盟的國家給制約住。此外中國人在其內心深處、骨子裡有這種感覺，那些合稱西方的我們不過就是傲慢至極罷了，我們並沒有找出自身體系上、政治上和經濟上的問題但卻很會來指責別人，中國還認為合稱西方的我們在一大串的偽善行為裡是有過錯的。 當然了，國際關係一個巴掌是拍不響的，也還有另一個的國家，它就叫做「美國」。那麼美國如何回應所有以上這些呢？美國對以上每一點都做了回應；在美國是否制約著中國這問題上，美國說：「才不是呢，看看蘇聯的歷史，那才叫制約！相反地我們美國和西方歡迎中國進到全球經濟裡頭，除此之外還歡迎他們進入世界貿易組織。」美國和西方說中國在智慧財產權的問題上作假，而且透由網路來打擊美國和跨國的公司；更甚者美國說中國的政治體系徹底就是個錯誤，因為它在本質上是如此殊異於美國與合稱西方的我們所享有的人權、民主、法制；除此以外，美國還說了什麼？美國擔心當中國有了足夠力量將會營造一個影響東南亞和大東亞的氛圍要把美國趕走，當中國夠強大了，就會試圖單方面地來改變全球秩序的常規。 除了以上講的這些之外，美中關係還是良好的，並沒有實質的問題存在。然而，挑戰正是那些根深蒂固的感受，那些根深蒂固的情緒以及想法，也就是中國人所謂的「思維」，亦即思考的方式，我們可以如何打造出兩者之間共同未來的基礎？ 我只想講這個：「為了共同目標，在有建設性之務實基礎上，我們做得到。」什麼意思呢？對我們不認同的事情上要務實，而且運用方法讓這些差異無法引起戰事或衝突，直到我們終於具備可解決這些問題的外交技巧。在這兩大國之間雙邊、區域、全球參與的領域要有建設性，那將會對所有人類有利；成立區域性的機構，一個亞太團體，讓亞太區域的合作可行。在全球有更大的動作，就像你們去年年底開始那樣攜手協力來抵制氣候變化，而非以拳頭相對。 當然，這前提是你們有一個共有的機制，和政治意志來達成這一事業，這些事是可以實現的。不過問題是：單邊努力是否能實現這些？理智告訴我們應該要做這些事，但是我們的內心呢？ 我在國內對這問題有些許經驗，要是兩個民族在過去不曾有過太多的共通處如何讓他們站在一起？那時我向澳洲的原住民致歉，這對澳洲政府、國會、澳洲的百姓來說是個翻舊帳的日子，經過兩百年對澳洲原住民無止境的折磨以來，我們白人早就該說對不起了。 很重要的一件事 ，(掌聲) 我記得很重要的一件事是當那些澳洲土著來聽這個道歉時，凝視著他們的臉；很難置信，比方說年長女性們告訴我，當她們五歲大時，硬生生從父母身邊被帶走了的故事，像是這邊的這位女士。對我來說非凡的是，澳洲土著長者來到國會大樓時我能夠擁抱和親吻他們；一位女性跟我說在她生命裡這是第一次被白人小哥親過，她當時已經70多歲了，這是令人難過的事。 之後我記得有個家庭向我說道：「我們從遙遠的北方一路開車下殺到坎培拉，為了這件事而來，一路穿越鄉巴佬地區，接受道歉後回程路上停在一間咖啡館買杯奶昔。」他們安靜地、試探性地、輕手輕腳地帶點焦慮地走進咖啡館。我想你應該知道我在講什麼，但是道歉後的那天發生了什麼事呢？咖啡館的每個人、每個白人，站了起來還鼓掌，在這些澳洲人的心中已經產生了變化，這些白人、澳洲土著同胞心中發生了變化。雖然我們還沒把所有問題處理好，但是讓我來告訴你，那是個新開始，因為我們不只理智上接受了，我們心裡也接受了。 所以這如何總結我們今晚所要處理的大問題？亦即美中關係的將來會怎樣？理智告訴我們有辦法前進，理智告訴我們透過例行高峰會議借助政策系統、共同的故事、機制，來做這些事情使其更好。不過內心也一定要找出個方法來重新想像美中關係的可能性，以及未來中國參與世界的可能性。有時候我們只是需要跳出深信的道理，不必太清楚我們會掉落在那兒。 在中國他們現在談著「中國夢」，在美國的話我們都熟識「美國夢」這個詞兒，我認為對全世界來說是時候我們也能夠來思考我們所謂的「人類夢」，因為假使我們這麼做了，我們可能剛好改變了我們看待彼此的方式。 人類夢 [中語]， 那是我給美國的挑戰，那是我給中國的挑戰，那是我給我們所有人的挑戰。不過我認為只要有意願、有想像力，我們就可以把實現由和平共榮所帶動的未來，而不會再次重蹈戰爭的悲劇， 謝謝大家！ (掌聲) 克里斯‧安德森：「太感謝您了！」感覺就像你在橋介上也扮演著一個角色，你找了一個獨特的位置講給雙邊聽。 陸克文：我們澳洲人擅長於安排酒會，所以你把人們聚在房間裡，我們提這樣那樣的建議，接著我們一起去喝酒。不過，我們當中與美中這兩大國結交的朋友，你可以來做些什麼事的，你可以產生實質的貢獻，所有在場的有心人下次你碰上來自中國的人，坐下來一起聊個天，看你可以從他們的出處和思維發現些什麼，我也對看到這個TED 演說的所有中國人下這個挑戰，也一起來這樣做。只要雙方希望改變世界，就可以真的做出一番成績，我們這些處於中間的人物也可以做出一些小貢獻， 克里斯‧安德森：「我的朋友，再接再勵！感謝你！」 陸克文：「謝謝！謝謝大家！」 (鼓掌)
