Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_bales_how_to_combat_modern_slavery	"You know for me, the interest in contemporary forms of slavery started with a leaflet that I picked up in London. It was the early '90s, and I was at a public event. I saw this leaflet and it said, ""There are millions of slaves in the world today."" And I thought, ""No way, no way."" And I'm going to admit to hubris. Because I also, I'm going to admit to you, I also thought, ""How can I be like a hot-shot young full professor who teaches human rights and not know this? So it can't be true."" Well, if you teach, if you worship in the temple of learning, do not mock the gods, because they will take you, fill you with curiosity and desire, and drive you. Drive you with a passion to change things. I went out and did a lit review, 3,000 articles on the key word ""slavery."" Two turned out to be about contemporary — only two. All the rest were historical. They were press pieces and they were full of outrage, they were full of speculation, they were anecdotal — no solid information. So, I began to do a research project of my own. I went to five countries around the world. I looked at slaves. I met slaveholders, and I looked very deeply into slave-based businesses because this is an economic crime. People do not enslave people to be mean to them. They do it to make a profit. And I've got to tell you, what I found out in the world in four different continents, was depressingly familiar. Like this: Agricultural workers in Africa, whipped and beaten, showing us how they were beaten in the fields before they escaped from slavery and met up with our film crew. It was mind-blowing. And I want to be very clear. I'm talking about real slavery. This is not about lousy marriages, this is not about jobs that suck. This is about people who can not walk away, people who are forced to work without pay, people who are operating 24/7 under a threat of violence and have no pay. It's real slavery in exactly the same way that slavery would be recognized throughout all of human history. Now, where is it? Well, this map in the sort of redder, yellower colors are the places with the highest densities of slavery. But in fact that kind of bluey color are the countries where we can't find any cases of slavery. And you might notice that it's only Iceland and Greenland where we can't find any cases of enslavement around the world. We're also particularly interested and looking very carefully at places where slaves are being used to perpetrate extreme environmental destruction. Around the world, slaves are used to destroy the environment, cutting down trees in the Amazon; destroying forest areas in West Africa; mining and spreading mercury around in places like Ghana and the Congo; destroying the coastal ecosystems in South Asia. It's a pretty harrowing linkage between what's happening to our environment and what's happening to our human rights. Now, how on Earth did we get to a situation like this, where we have 27 million people in slavery in the year 2010? That's double the number that came out of Africa in the entire transatlantic slave trade. Well, it builds up with these factors. They are not causal, they are actually supporting factors. One we all know about, the population explosion: the world goes from two billion people to almost seven billion people in the last 50 years. Being numerous does not make you a slave. Add in the increased vulnerability of very large numbers of people in the developing world, caused by civil wars, ethnic conflicts, kleptocratic governments, disease ... you name it, you know it. We understand how that works. In some countries all of those things happen at once, like Sierra Leone a few years ago, and push enormous parts ... about a billion people in the world, in fact, as we know, live on the edge, live in situations where they don't have any opportunity and are usually even destitute. But that doesn't make you a slave either. What it takes to turn a person who is destitute and vulnerable into a slave, is the absence of the rule of law. If the rule of law is sound, it protects the poor and it protects the vulnerable. But if corruption creeps in and people don't have the opportunity to have that protection of the rule of law, then if you can use violence, if you can use violence with impunity, you can reach out and harvest the vulnerable into slavery. Well, that is precisely what has happened around the world. Though, for a lot of people, the people who step into slavery today don't usually get kidnapped or knocked over the head. They come into slavery because someone has asked them this question. All around the world I've been told an almost identical story. People say, ""I was home, someone came into our village, they stood up in the back of a truck, they said, 'I've got jobs, who needs a job?'"" And they did exactly what you or I would do in the same situation. They said, ""That guy looked sketchy. I was suspicious, but my children were hungry. We needed medicine. I knew I had to do anything I could to earn some money to support the people I care about."" They climb into the back of the truck. They go off with the person who recruits them. Ten miles, 100 miles, 1,000 miles later, they find themselves in dirty, dangerous, demeaning work. They take it for a little while, but when they try to leave, bang!, the hammer comes down, and they discover they're enslaved. Now, that kind of slavery is, again, pretty much what slavery has been all through human history. But there is one thing that is particularly remarkable and novel about slavery today, and that is a complete collapse in the price of human beings — expensive in the past, dirt cheap now. Even the business programs have started picking up on this. I just want to share a little clip for you. Daphne: OK. Llively discussion guaranteed here, as always, as we get macro and talk commodities. Continuing here in the studio with our guest Michael O'Donohue, head of commodities at Four Continents Capital Management. And we're also joined by Brent Lawson from Lawson Frisk Securities. Brent Lawson: Happy to be here. D: Good to have you with us, Brent. Now, gentlemen ... Brent, where is your money going this year? BL: Well Daphne, we've been going short on gas and oil recently and casting our net just a little bit wider. We really like the human being story a lot. If you look at a long-term chart, prices are at historical lows and yet global demand for forced labor is still real strong. So, that's a scenario that we think we should be capitalizing on. D: Michael, what's your take on the people story? Are you interested? Michael O'Donoghue: Oh definitely. Non-voluntary labor's greatest advantage as an asset is the endless supply. We're not about to run out of people. No other commodity has that. BL: Daphne, if I may draw your attention to one thing. That is that private equity has been sniffing around, and that tells me that this market is about to explode. Africans and Indians, as usual, South Americans, and Eastern Europeans in particular are on our buy list. D: Interesting. Micheal, bottom line, what do you recommend? MO: We're recommending to our clients a buy and hold strategy. There's no need to play the market. There's a lot of vulnerable people out there. It's very exciting. D: Exciting stuff indeed. Gentlemen, thank you very much. Kevin Bales: Okay, you figured it out. That's a spoof. Though I enjoyed watching your jaws drop, drop, drop, until you got it. MTV Europe worked with us and made that spoof, and they've been slipping it in between music videos without any introduction, which I think is kind of fun. Here's the reality. The price of human beings across the last 4,000 years in today's money has averaged about 40,000 dollars. Capital purchase items. You can see that the lines cross when the population explodes. The average price of a human being today, around the world, is about 90 dollars. They are more expensive in places like North America. Slaves cost between 3,000 to 8,000 dollars in North America, but I could take you places in India or Nepal where human beings can be acquired for five or 10 dollars. They key here is that people have ceased to be that capital purchase item and become like Styrofoam cups. You buy them cheaply, you use them, you crumple them up, and then when you're done with them you just throw them away. These young boys are in Nepal. They are basically the transport system on a quarry run by a slaveholder. There are no roads there, so they carry loads of stone on their backs, often of their own weight, up and down the Himalaya Mountains. One of their mothers said to us, ""You know, we can't survive here, but we can't even seem to die either."" It's a horrible situation. And if there is anything that makes me feel very positive about this, it's that there are also — in addition to young men like this who are still enslaved — there are ex-slaves who are now working to free others. Or, we say, Frederick Douglass is in the house. I don't know if you've ever had a daydream about, ""Wow. What would it be like to meet Harriet Tubman? What would it be like to meet Frederick Douglass?"" I've got to say, one of the most exciting parts about my job is that I get to, and I want to introduce you to one of those. His name is James Kofi Annan. He was a slave child in Ghana enslaved in the fishing industry, and he now, after escape and building a new life, has formed an organization that we work closely with to go back and get people out of slavery. This is not James, this is one of the kids that he works with. James Kofi Annan (Video): He was hit with a paddle in the head. And this reminds me of my childhood when I used to work here. KB: James and our country director in Ghana, Emmanuel Otoo are now receiving regular death threats because the two of them managed to get convictions and imprisonment for three human traffickers for the very first time in Ghana for enslaving people, from the fishing industry, for enslaving children. Now, everything I've been telling you, I admit, is pretty disheartening. But there is actually a very positive side to this, and that is this: The 27 million people who are in slavery today, that's a lot of people, but it's also the smallest fraction of the global population to ever be in slavery. And likewise, the 40 billion dollars that they generate into the global economy each year is the tiniest proportion of the global economy to ever be represented by slave labor. Slavery, illegal in every country has been pushed to the edges of our global society. And in a way, without us even noticing, has ended up standing on the precipice of its own extinction, waiting for us to give it a big boot and knock it over. And get rid of it. And it can be done. Now, if we do that, if we put the resources and the focus to it, what does it actually cost to get people out of slavery? Well, first, before I even tell you the cost I've got to be absolutely clear. We do not buy people out of slavery. Buying people out of slavery is like paying a burglar to get your television back; it's abetting a crime. Liberation, however, costs some money. Liberation, and more importantly all the work that comes after liberation. It's not an event, it's a process. It's about helping people to build lives of dignity, stability, economic autonomy, citizenship. Well, amazingly, in places like India where costs are very low, that family, that three-generation family that you see there who were in hereditary slavery — so, that granddad there, was born a baby into slavery — but the total cost, amortized across the rest of the work, was about 150 dollars to bring that family out of slavery and then take them through a two year process to build a stable life of citizenship and education. A boy in Ghana rescued from fishing slavery, about 400 dollars. In the United States, North America, much more expensive. Legal costs, medical costs ... we understand that it's expensive here: about 30,000 dollars. But most of the people in the world in slavery live in those places where the costs are lowest. And in fact, the global average is about what it is for Ghana. And that means, when you multiply it up, the estimated cost of not just freedom but sustainable freedom for the entire 27 million people on the planet in slavery is something like 10.8 billion dollars — what Americans spend on potato chips and pretzels, what Seattle is going to spend on its light rail system: usually the annual expenditure in this country on blue jeans, or in the last holiday period when we bought GameBoys and iPods and other tech gifts for people, we spent 10.8 billion dollars. Intel's fourth quarter earnings: 10.8 billion. It's not a lot of money at the global level. In fact, it's peanuts. And the great thing about it is that it's not money down a hole, there is a freedom dividend. When you let people out of slavery to work for themselves, are they motivated? They take their kids out of the workplace, they build a school, they say, ""We're going to have stuff we've never had before like three squares, medicine when we're sick, clothing when we're cold."" They become consumers and producers and local economies begin to spiral up very rapidly. That's important, all of that about how we rebuild sustainable freedom, because we'd never want to repeat what happened in this country in 1865. Four million people were lifted up out of slavery and then dumped. Dumped without political participation, decent education, any kind of real opportunity in terms of economic lives, and then sentenced to generations of violence and prejudice and discrimination. And America is still paying the price for the botched emancipation of 1865. We have made a commitment that we will never let people come out of slavery on our watch, and end up as second class citizens. It's just not going to happen. This is what liberation really looks like. Children rescued from slavery in the fishing industry in Ghana, reunited with their parents, and then taken with their parents back to their villages to rebuild their economic well-being so that they become slave-proof — absolutely unenslaveable. Now, this woman lived in a village in Nepal. We'd been working there about a month. They had just begun to come out of a hereditary kind of slavery. They'd just begun to light up a little bit, open up a little bit. But when we went to speak with her, when we took this photograph, the slaveholders were still menacing us from the sidelines. They hadn't been really pushed back. I was frightened. We were frightened. We said to her, ""Are you worried? Are you upset?"" She said, ""No, because we've got hope now. How could we not succeed,"" she said, ""when people like you from the other side of the world are coming here to stand beside us?"" Okay, we have to ask ourselves, are we willing to live in a world with slavery? If we don't take action, we just leave ourselves open to have someone else jerk the strings that tie us to slavery in the products we buy, and in our government policies. And yet, if there's one thing that every human being can agree on, I think it's that slavery should end. And if there is a fundamental violation of our human dignity that we would all say is horrific, it's slavery. And we've got to say, what good is all of our intellectual and political and economic power — and I'm really thinking intellectual power in this room — if we can't use it to bring slavery to an end? I think there is enough intellectual power in this room to bring slavery to an end. And you know what? If we can't do that, if we can't use our intellectual power to end slavery, there is one last question: Are we truly free? Okay, thank you so much. (Applause)"	我對現代奴隸制度的研究興趣始於我在倫敦撿到的一張傳單。那時是90年代早期，我參加了一場公眾活動，我讀到這張傳單，上面寫著：「現在全世界有好幾百萬名奴隸。」我那時候想：「這根本不可能。」我當時出於自傲而不願承認的是，我要跟大家報告，我那時想，我身為年輕有為的教授在學校教的就是人權，怎麼不知道有這些事？所以這不是真的。 如果你從事教學，如果你身在知識殿堂，千萬別向知識之神挑釁。否則祂會引領你讓你充滿求知的渴望，驅策你，讓你滿腔熱血去改變世界。我離開會場，搜尋參考文獻，輸入「奴隸制度」，找到三千篇文章，兩篇，只有兩篇，在論述現代奴隸制度，其他都是陳年往事。這兩篇是報紙的文章，語氣非常憤怒，充滿猜測與軼聞，而沒有信實的訊息。 所以我開始自己做研究，我環遊世界，去了五個國家，親身接觸奴隸以及奴隸主，深入探究以奴隸為本的產業。因為這是一樁經濟犯罪，奴隸主蓄奴不是為了欺負他們，而是為了賺錢。我必須向大家報告，在全世界，即使在四個不同的大陸，情況都一樣令人難過。就像這個：非洲的農業勞工，受人鞭笞，向我們展示他們獲得自由之前，在田裡挨打的樣子。那真是震懾人心。 我想要澄清一個觀念：我所說的是真正的奴隸制度。這不只是糟糕的婚姻，不僅僅是討厭的工作，這些人是無法逃離奴隸制度的。奴隸主強迫奴隸工作，卻不給薪水，他們因為受暴力威脅，全年無休，日夜不息，卻賺不到一毛錢。這就是奴隸制度，無論中外，古今皆然。 現代奴隸在哪裡呢？在這張地圖上，越偏紅色及黃色的地區奴隸密度越高。反之，藍色系的顏色代表該國完全沒有奴隸。各位大概會發現，放眼全球，一個奴隸都沒有的地方，只有冰島跟格陵蘭。 我們還注意到一點：我們深入研究，發現在某些地方奴隸的勞動造成非常嚴重的環境破壞。世界各地都有奴隸勞動破壞環境的例子，他們在亞馬遜叢林砍樹，破壞西非的森林，在迦納與剛果開採水銀、造成毒物外洩，以及破壞南亞海岸的生態系統。這樣對人權以及環境雙方面的傷害令人痛心。 我們到底是如何落入這樣的境地？2010年，全世界有兩千七百萬人受困於奴隸制度，這是當年奴隸交易期間非洲輸出總數的兩倍。以下是可能的原因，不過並不是原兇，只是幫兇。眾所周知的一個原因是人口爆炸，五十年來，世界人口從二十億增加到將近七十億。然而人口增加並不會逼人為奴，開發中國家的眾多人口越來越容易受到傷害，因為國家發生內戰、種族衝突、政府貪污、疾病流行...各位想得到的都有。 我們知道，在某些國家這些事情全部一起發生，例如數年前的獅子山共和國。一連串災難造成全世界大約十億的難民奔逃，他們生活在邊緣，他們的生活環境不但沒有任何機會，而且時常是匱乏的，但這也並不代表一定要當奴隸。貧弱之所以會淪為奴隸，是因為法律無法發揮效力。如果法律能有效發揮，便可以保護窮人、保護弱者；然而如果政府貪瀆，人民失去法律的保護，那麼只要用暴力，只要肆無忌憚使用暴力，就能像收割作物一樣蓄積奴隸。 這就是世界上許多地方正在發生的事。不過，對很多人來說讓他們成為奴隸的原因，誘使他們陷入奴隸制度的原因並不全是因為被綁架或被打昏抓走。他們變成奴隸是因為有人問了他們這個問題。 在世界各個角落，我都聽到類似的故事：人們說：「我本來在家裡，有人來我們村子，站在卡車上說：『我這兒有工作，有人需要工作嗎？』他們下意識的反應就跟我們的直覺一樣，他們說：「這傢伙看起來怪怪的，很可疑，但是孩子在挨餓，我們也需要醫藥費，我得盡全力賺錢支持家裡的人，他們是我的摯愛。」於是他們便爬上了卡車，跟著這些掮客走了，走了十哩，一百哩，一千哩之後，他們才發現所謂的「工作」環境髒亂、危險而且低賤。他們勉強做了一陣子，但是他們想離開的時候，卻有人拿鐵鎚打他們，他們才發現自己變成奴隸了。 這種逼人為奴的方式在人類歷史中一樣是重複發生的。不過現代的奴隸制度有一點迥異於以前，那就是，人的價值徹底崩潰了。以前奴隸很貴，但現在價賤如土，就連財經節目也開始批評。給大家看看這段影片。 （影片）今天的節目依然給大家帶來熱烈的討論，主題是總體經濟和商品。邀請到四陸金控公司的負責人歐麥克先生，還有勞氏投顧公司的負責人勞布藍先生。 大家好。 布藍，歡迎你參加討論。今年你打算把錢投資在哪裡呢？ 因為今年油氣和石油短缺，所以我們必須找新的投資標的，關於「人」的投資題材還不錯，如果您想長期投資的話，現在奴隸的價格來到歷史新低，不過全球的奴隸需求依然很高，所以我們覺得可以投資奴隸。 麥克，你覺得這題材如何？有興趣嗎？ 當然有，奴隸最大的優點就是永遠不會短缺。永遠不會有人口短缺的問題，這是其他商品沒有的優勢。 主持人，我要向您報告，私募基金已經虎視眈眈，這意味著市場很快會爆炸。非洲和印度已經有長足發展，南美和東歐則是特別受矚目的市場，都很值得投資。 是的。那麼麥克，你會怎麼建議投資策略呢？ 我們要建議投資人買進留守，不必在市場上殺進殺出，弱勢族群很多，可以好好操作。 好的，謝謝各位專家。 大家都發現了吧？這只是模仿秀。不過看著大家蒙在鼓裡，下巴快掉下來的樣子，還滿有趣的。感謝歐洲ＭＴＶ公司和我們合作這段影片。他們不做任何說明，就把影片安插在ＭＶ間播放，我覺得很好玩。真相是，四萬年來，一個生人的價錢換算成現在的幣值大約是四萬美金，是資本的一種形式。這兩條線交會的地方，人口開始急遽成長， 今天在全世界平均一個生人價值約九十美元。在北美洲之類的地方會比較貴，那裡的奴隸一個大約三千到八千美元；但是在印度或尼泊爾只要五美元或十美元就可以買一個奴隸。關鍵在於人已經不再成為資本，而是一文不值。他們很便宜，可以壓榨，用完了，就丟掉。 這些小男孩在尼泊爾工作，他們在奴隸主經營的採石場負責運送石頭，因為沒有路，所以他們就背著石頭，有時石頭比他們還重，在喜馬拉雅山脈穿梭。其中一位孩子的媽媽告訴我們：「我們在這兒活不下去，但是想死也死不了。」情況非常糟糕。唯一能讓我還繼續樂觀的事情就是，即使有許多年輕人受奴役，但是有些重獲自由的人正在努力想救出同伴，他們是現代的Frederick Douglass。【美國政治家，本為黑奴，逃脫後致力於解放黑奴運動。】 不知道各位有沒有想過親眼見到Harriet Tubman是甚麼感覺？【本為美國黑奴，逃脫後幫助數百名黑奴祕密逃亡。】親眼見到Frederick Douglass是甚麼感覺？我的工作內容最振奮的一點就是我可以見到和他們一樣偉大的人。我想向大家介紹其中一位，他名叫詹姆士．科非．安南，小的時候在迦納當童奴，從事漁業勞役。逃跑之後，他建立了新生活，成立拯救奴隸的組織，並和我們密切合作。這個人不是詹姆士，而是他拯救的一個孩子。 （詹姆士）有人用槳打他，從頭上打下去。我小時候也是被人這樣打。 詹姆士和我們組織在迦納的負責人艾馬鈕爾．奧拓時常收到恐嚇威脅，因為他們兩人成功讓三組人口販子獲罪監禁，這是迦納首例。這些人在漁業上蓄奴，利用童奴來做工作。 我向大家報告的這些情況，我必須承認，都是非常令人心痛的，但是我們依然可以保持樂觀，因為即使今日的世界有多達兩千七百萬名奴隸，數量很多，不過跟世界總人口相比只是一小部份。同樣的，他們每年創造的四百億美元產值佔全球經濟產值的比例也是奴隸加入生產以來的歷史新低。 奴隸在各國都是違法的，只能在全球社會的邊緣生存。在我們不注意的時候奴隸制度已經來到滅亡邊緣，只需臨門一腳便能從世界上消失。這是我們可以做到的。 我們可以集中心力解決問題：解放奴隸需要什麼？對了，在公佈答案之前我要先告訴大家，我們不會直接贖回奴隸。用錢把人買出來就好比向小偷買回電視一樣是助紂為虐。不過真正的解放會花一點錢： 除了自由，還有更重要的，重獲自由之後的生活。這是一段過程，不是單一事件。我們要幫助人們建立有尊嚴的生活，穩定、自力更生的生活，以及取得公民身分。出人意表的是像印度這樣物價極低的國家一家人，像這樣三代同堂的家庭，世代為奴，祖父一出生就是奴隸；然而要脫離奴隸身分，整個分攤下來，約150元美金的花費，就能循序漸進幫助他們。大約兩年之後，就能有穩定的生活、取得公民身分，以及接受教育。 救一個迦納漁業童奴，四百美元。在美國或北美洲會貴很多，因為有法律成本、醫療成本，理所當然會比較貴，大約要三萬美元。不過世界上大部份的奴隸都居住在物價最低的地方，全球的平均價錢大約跟迦納差不多。 如果我們要解放全世界的奴隸，不只給他們自由，還有自力更生的生活，解放這2700萬人大概要108億美元。相當於美國人花在洋芋片和蝴蝶餅上的錢，相當於西雅圖建造輕軌電車的花費。每年美國人買牛仔褲，或是在連續假期買掌上型遊戲機或iPod送人，就是108億美元這數字。英特爾第四季盈餘，108億美元。 以全球經濟的標準這只是小數目。而且投注這些資金不會一去不回，他們會自立自強，維持這份自由。這種方法對奴隸有沒有吸引力？他們會把孩子救出來，他們會建立學校，說著：「我們要發展以前沒有的東西，例如送餐給沒飯吃的人，發展醫療照顧，幫助生病的人，做衣服，天氣冷了可以穿。」他們會變成消費者跟生產者，然後當地的經濟就會快速成長， 這是非常重要的，我們必須建立自食其力的自由，因為我們絕不想再看到歷史重蹈美國1865年的覆轍。有四百萬人從奴隸制度中脫身但是又陷進去，因為他們無法參與政治，無法受良好的教育，沒有任何機會過經濟獨立的生活，世世代代都註定要受暴力欺凌，受人歧視。美國至今仍在為1865年的大規模黑奴解放付出代價。 我們承諾絕對不會讓我們解放的奴隸重獲自由之後卻淪為次等公民。絕對不會。這才是解放真正的樣貌。在迦納解救出的漁業童奴和家人重逢，一起回到村子裡重新開始打拼，過經濟獨立的生活，從此他們就不會變成奴隸了。絕對不會。 這位婦人住在尼泊爾的一個村子裡，我們在那裡進行約一個月的工作。他們正要脫離世代相傳的奴隸制度，才剛剛開始改善生活，我們和她談話時拍了這張照片，奴隸主人還在威脅我們，他們就站在旁邊，還不願意撤退。我嚇到了，我們都很害怕。我們問她：「妳會害怕嗎？會不會難過？」 她說：「不會，因為我們現在有希望了，有你們這樣的人從世界的另一邊來幫助我們，我們一定會成功的。」 所以現在我們必須捫心自問，我們願意生活在有奴隸的世界嗎？如果我們不採取行動，就是在姑息某些壞蛋把奴隸和我們買的商品牽扯在一起，把奴隸和政策牽扯在一起。如果有一個全人類都可以達成的共識，我想，那就是我們應該終結奴隸制度。 如果有一件事侵害人的尊嚴讓全人類都感到驚惶，這件事就是奴隸制度。我們的智慧與知識、政治和經濟力量，是我們最有力的工具，我們能不能運用今日齊聚一堂的智慧來終結奴隸制度呢？我相信我們可以。而如果我們做不到，如果我們無法用智慧消滅奴隸制度，我們便要自問：我們真的自由嗎？謝謝大家。（歡呼）
