Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_kelly_on_how_technology_evolves	"I don't know about you, but I haven't quite figured out exactly what technology means in my life. I've spent the past year thinking about what it really should be about. Should I be pro-technology? Should I embrace it full arms? Should I be wary? Like you, I'm very tempted by the latest thing. But at the other hand, a couple of years ago I gave up all of my possessions, sold all my technology — except for a bicycle — and rode across 3,000 miles on the U.S. back roads under the power of my one body, fuelled mostly by Twinkies and junk food. (Laughter) And I've since then tried to keep technology at arm's length in many ways, so it doesn't master my life. At the same time, I run a website on cool tools, where I issue a daily obsession of the latest things in technology. So I'm still perplexed about what the true meaning of technology is as it relates to humanity, as it relates to nature, as it relates to the spiritual. And I'm not even sure we know what technology is. And one definition of technology is that which is first recorded. This is the first example of the modern use of technology that I can find. It was the suggested syllabus for dealing with the Applied Arts and Science at Cambridge University in 1829. Before that, obviously, technology didn't exist. But obviously it did. I like one of the definitions that Alan Kay has for technology. He says technology is anything that was invented after you were born. (Laughter) So it sums up a lot of what we're talking about. Danny Hillis actually has an update on that — he says technology is anything that doesn't quite work yet. (Laughter) Which also, I think, gets into a little bit of our current idea. But I was interested in another definition of technology. Something, again, that went back to something more fundamental. Something that was deeper. And as I struggled to understand that, I came up with a way of framing the question that seemed to work for me in my investigations. And I'm, this morning, going to talk about this for the first time. So this is a very rough attempt to think out loud. The question that I came up with was this question: what does technology want? And by that, I don't mean, does it want chocolate or vanilla? By what it wants, I mean, what are its inherent trends and biases? What are its tendencies over time? One way to think about this is thinking about biological organisms, which we've heard a lot about. And the trick that Richard Dawkins does, which is to say, to look at them as simply as genes, as vehicles for genes. So he's saying, what do genes want? The selfish gene. And I'm applying a similar trick to say, what if we looked at the universe in our culture through the eyes of technology? What does technology want? Obviously, this in an incomplete question, just as looking at an organism as only a gene is an incomplete way of looking at it. But it's still very, very productive. So I'm attempting to say, if we take technology's view of the world, what does it want? And I think once we ask that question we have to go back, actually, to life. Because obviously, if we keep extending the origins of technology far back, I think we come back to life at some point. So that's where I want to begin my little exploration, is in life. And like you heard from the previous speakers, we don't really know what life there is on Earth right now. We have really no idea. Craig Venter's tremendous and brilliant attempt to DNA sequence things in the ocean is great. Brian Farrell's work is all part of this agenda to try and actually discover all the species on Earth. And one of the things that we should do is just make a grid of the globe and randomly go and inspect all the places that the grid intersects, just to see what's on life. And if we did that with our little Martian probe, which we have not done on Earth, we would begin to see some incredible species. This is not on another planet. These are things that are hidden away on our planet. This is an ant that stores its colleagues' honey in its abdomen. Each one of these organisms that we've described — that you've seen from Jamie and others, these magnificent things — what they're doing, each one of them, is they're hacking the rules of life. I can't think of a single general principle of biology that does not have an exception somewhere by some organism. Every single thing that we can think of — and if you heard Olivia's talk about the sexual habits, you'll realize that there isn't anything we can say that's true for all life, because every single one of them is hacking something about it. This is a solar-powered sea slug. It's a nudibranch that has incorporated chloroplast inside it to drive its energy. This is another version of that. This is a sea dragon, and the one on the bottom, the blue one, is a juvenile that has not yet swallowed the acid, has not yet taken in the brown-green algae pond scum into its body to give it energy. These are hacks, and if we looked at the general shape of the approaches to hacking life there are, current consensus, six kingdoms. Six different broad approaches: the plants, the animals, the fungi, the protests — the little things — the bacteria and the Archaea bacteria. The Archaeas. Those are the general approaches to life. That's one way to look at life on Earth today. But a more interesting way, the current way to take the long view, is to look at it in an evolutionary perspective. And here we have a view of evolution where rather than having evolution go over the linear time, we have it coming out from the center. So in the center is the most primitive, and this is a genealogical chart of all life on earth. This is all the same six kingdoms. You see 4,000 representative species, and you can see where we are. But what I like about this is it shows that every living organism on Earth today is equally evolved. Those fungi and bacteria are as highly evolved as humans. They've been around just as long and gone through just the same kind of trial and error to get here. But we see that each one of these is actually hacking, and has a different way of finding out how to do life. And if we take the long-term trends of life, if we begin to say, what does evolution want? There's several things that we see. One of the things about evolution is that nowhere on Earth have we ever been where we don't find life. We find life at the bottom of every long-term, long-distance drilling core into the center of rock that we bring up — and there's bacteria in the pores of that rock. And wherever life is, it never retreats. It's ubiquitous and it wants to be more. More and more of the inert matter of the globe is being touched and animated by life. The second thing is is we see diversity. We also see specialization. We see the movement from a general-purpose cell to the more specific and specialized. And we see a drift towards complexity that's very intuitive. And actually, we have current data that does show that there is an actual drift towards complexity over time. And the last thing, I bring back this nudibranch. One of the things we see about life is that it moves from the inner to increasing sociability. And by that it means that there is more and more of life whose entire environment is other life. Like those chloroplast cells — they're completely surrounded by other life. They never touch the inner matter. There is more and more co-evolution. And so the general, long-term trends of evolution are roughly these five: ubiquity, diversity, specialization, complexity and socialization. Now, I took that and said, OK, what are the long-term trends in technology? And again, my question is, what does technology want? And so, remarkably, I discovered that there's also a drift toward specialization. That we see there's a general hammer, and hammers become more and more specific over time. There's obviously diversity. Huge numbers of things. This is all the contents of a Japanese home. I actually had my daughter — gave her a tally counter, and I gave her an assignment last summer to go around and count the number of species of technology in our household. And it came up with 6,000 different species of products. I did some research and found out that the King of England, Henry VIII, had only about 7,000 items in his household. And he was the King of England, and that was the entire wealth of England at the time. So we're seeing huge numbers of diversity in the kinds of things. This is a scene from Star Wars where the 3PO comes out and he sees machines making machines. How depraved! Well, this is actually what we're headed towards: world machines. And the technology is only being thrown out by other technologies. Most machines will only ever be in contact with other technology and not non-technology, or even life. And thirdly, the idea that machines are becoming biological and complex is at this point a cliche. And I'm happy to say, I was partly responsible for that cliche that machines are becoming biological, but that's pretty evident. So the major trends in technology evolution actually are the same as in biological evolution. The same drives that we see towards ubiquity, towards diversity, towards socialization, towards complexity. That is maybe not a big surprise because if we map out, say, the evolution of armor, you can actually follow a sort of an evolutionary-type cladistic tree. I suggest that, in fact, technology is the seventh kingdom of life. That its operations and how it works is so similar that we can think of it as the seventh kingdom. And so it would be sort of approximately up there, coming out of the animal kingdom. And if we were to do that, we would find out — we could actually approach technology in this way. This is Niles Eldredge. He was the co-developer with Stephen Jay Gould of the theory of punctuated equilibrium. But as a sideline, he happens to collect cornets. He has one of the world's largest collections — about 500 of them. And he has decided to treat them as if they were trilobites, or snails, and to do a morphological analysis, and try to derive their genealogical history over time. This is his chart, which is not quite published yet. But the most interesting aspect about this is that if you look at those red lines at the bottom, those indicate basically a parentage of a type of cornet that was no longer made. That does not happen in biology. When something is extinct, you can't have it as your parent. But that does happen in technology. And it turns out that that's so distinctive that you can actually look at this tree, and you can actually use it to determine that this is a technological system versus a biological system. In fact, this idea of resurrecting the whole idea is so important that I began to think about what happens with old technology. And it turns out that, in fact, technologies don't die. So I suggested this to an historian of science, and he said, ""Well, what about, you know, come on, what about steam cars? They're not around anymore."" Well actually, they are. In fact, they're so around that you can buy new parts for a Stanley steam automobile. And this is a website of a guy who's selling brand new parts for the Stanley automobile. And the thing that I liked is sort of this one-click, add-to-your-cart button — (Laughter) — for buying steam valves. I mean, it was just — it was really there. And so, I began to think about, well, maybe that's just a random sample. Maybe I should do this sort of in a more conservative way. So I took the great big 1895 Montgomery Ward's catalog and I randomly went through it. And I took a page — not quite a random page — I took a page that was actually more difficult than others because lots of the pages are filled with things that are still being made. But I took this page and I said, how many of these things are still being made? And not antiques. I want to know how many of these things are still in production. And the answer is: all of them. All of them are still being produced. So you've got corn shellers. I don't know who needs a corn sheller. Be it corn shellers — you've got ploughs; you've got fan mills; all these things — and these are not, again, antiques. These are — you can order these. You can go to the web and you can buy them now, brand-new made. So in a certain sense, technologies don't die. In fact, you can buy, for 50 bucks, a stone-age knife made exactly the same way that they were made 10,000 years ago. It's short, bone handle, 50 bucks. And in fact, what's important is that this information actually never died out. It's not just that it was resurrected. It's continued all along. And in Papua New Guinea, they were making stone axes until two decades ago, just as a course of practical matters. Even when we try to get rid of a technology, it's actually very hard. So we've all heard about the Amish giving up cars. We've heard about the Japanese giving up guns. We've heard about this and that. But I actually went back and took what I could find, the examples in history where there have been prohibitions against technology, and then I tried to find out when they came back in, because they always came back in. And it turns out that the time, the duration of when they were outlawed and prohibited, is decreasing over time. And that basically, you can delay technology, but you can't kill it. So this makes sense, because in a certain sense what culture is, is the accumulation of ideas. That's what it's for. It's so that ideas don't die out. And when we take that, we take this idea of what culture is doing and add it to what the long-term trajectory — again, in life's evolution — we find that each case — each of the major transitions in life — what they're really about is accelerating and changing the way in which evolution happens. They're actually changing the way in which ideas are generated. So all these steps in evolution are increasing, basically, the evolution of evolvability. So what's happening over time in life is that the ways in which you generate these new ideas, these new hacks, are increasing. And the real tricks are ways in which you kind of explore the way of exploring. And then what we see in the singularity, that prophesized by Kurzweil and others — his idea that technology is accelerating evolution. It's accelerating the way in which we search for ideas. So if you have life hacking — life means hacking, the game of survival — then evolution is a way to extend the game by changing the rules of the game. And what technology is really about is better ways to evolve. That is what we call an ""infinite game."" That's the definition of ""infinite game."" A finite game is play to win, and an infinite game is played to keep playing. And I believe that technology is actually a cosmic force. The origins of technology was not in 1829, but was actually at the beginning of the Big Bang, and at that moment the entire huge billions of stars in the universe were compressed. The entire universe was compressed into a little quantum dot, and it was so tight in there, there was no room for any difference at all. That's the definition. There was no temperature. There was no difference whatsoever. And at the Big Bang, what it expanded was the potential for difference. So as it expands and as things expand what we have is the potential for differences, diversity, options, choices, opportunities, possibilities and freedoms. Those are all basically the same thing. And those are the things that technology brings us. That's what technology is bringing us: choices, possibilities, freedoms. That's what it's about. It's this expansion of room to make differences. And so a hammer, when we grab a hammer, that's what we're grabbing. And that's why we continue to grab technology — because we want those things. Those things are good. Differences, freedom, choices, possibilities. And each time we make a new opportunity place, we're allowing a platform to make new ones. And I think it's really important. Because if you can imagine Mozart before the technology of the piano was invented — what a loss to society there would be. Imagine Van Gogh being born before the technologies of cheap oil paints. Imagine Hitchcock before the technologies of film. Somewhere, today, there are millions of young children being born whose technology of self-expression has not yet been invented. We have a moral obligation to invent technology so that every person on the globe has the potential to realize their true difference. We want a trillion zillion species of one individuals. That's what technology really wants. I'm going to skip through some of the objections because I don't have answers to why there's deforestation. I don't have an answer to the fact that there seem to be bad technologies. I don't have an answer to how this impacts on our dignity, other than to suggest that maybe the seventh kingdom, because it's so close to what life is about, maybe we can bring it back and have it help us monitor life. Maybe in some ways the fact that what we're trying to do with technology is find a good home for it. It's a terrible thing to spray DDT on cotton fields, but it's a really good thing to use to eliminate millions of cases of death due to malaria in a small village. Our humanity is actually defined by technology. All the things that we think that we really like about humanity is being driven by technology. This is the infinite game. That's what we're talking about. You see, technology is a way to evolve the evolution. It's a way to explore possibilities and opportunities and create more. And it's actually a way of playing the game, of playing all the games. That's what technology wants. And so when I think about what technology wants, I think that it has to do with the fact that every person here — and I really believe this — every person here has an assignment. And your assignment is to spend your life discovering what your assignment is. That recursive nature is the infinite game. And if you play that well, you'll have other people involved, so even that game extends and continues even when you're gone. That is the infinite game. And what technology is is the medium in which we play that infinite game. And so I think that we should embrace technology because it is an essential part of our journey in finding out who we are. Thank you. (Applause)"	我不知你怎麼想，但我想不出科技對我的生命真正的意義為何。我花了過去一年在想，那到底該怎樣。我要親科技嗎？我要全心擁抱它嗎？我要擔心嗎？和你們一樣，我嚮往新事物。但另方面，幾年前我放棄我所有的物品，賣掉我的科技用品，只留一輛腳踏車，騎了三千哩的美國小路，用自身的力量，大部分只吃海棉蛋糕和垃圾食物。 (笑聲) 自此，我試著和科技保持距離，不受它支配我的生活。同時，我卻管理一個酷品網站，每天暢談最新的科技物品。因此，我仍感到困惑，科技的真義是什麼 －它與人的關係，與自然的關係，與心靈的關係。我甚至不確定，我們真的認識科技嗎？有一個最早對科技的定義。這是我找到的「科技」一詞現代用法的首例。它出現在一個教學大綱中，是關於「應用藝術與科學」，在劍橋大學，1829年。 那之前，顯然「科技」一詞並不存在。但顯然科技是存在的。我喜歡 Alan Kay 對科技的一個定義。他說：科技是你出生後才發明的任何東西。 (笑聲) 但它總結了許多我們討論的事。Danny Hillis 事實上有個更新版本 －他說：科技是還不怎麼能用的任何東西。 (笑聲) 我認為，這也和我們現在的想法有關。但我卻對科技的另一個定義感興趣。它再次回到更基本的某些事物。更深奧的事。當我盡力去理解它時，我得到一個方法去看待問題使它看來符合我的探索需求。今天上午我就首次來談它。因此這是一種出聲想的粗略嘗試。 我得到的問題就是這個問題，科技要的是什麼？這裡的意思不是指它要巧克力或香草。我指的是：它的固有趨勢與偏向如何？長此以往，它的趨勢如何？這樣來思考它：想想生物組織體，我們聽到很多了。理查德·道金斯的技巧是：將它們看成只是基因，是基因載體。因此他說，基因要什麼？自私的基因。我用相似的技巧說：如果我們透過科技眼光觀看我們文化中的宇宙，科技要的是什麼？顯然，這是個不完整的問題，就像把生物體看成只是基因也是不完整的看法。但這仍然很有建設性。因此我試著說，如果我們採取科技的世界觀，它要的是什麼？我認為，一旦我們問這個問題我們必須實際上回到生命。因為很明顯，如果我們遠遠推回科技的起源，我認為在某一點我們回到生命。 因此，我要開始我的小小探索，是在生命。就如你聽到前幾個演講者，我們不真正知道地球上現有的生命。我們真的毫無概念。克萊格·凡特的雄大抱負要為海洋生物 DNA 定序是偉大的。Brian Farrell 的工作是其中一部分，試著實際發現地球上所有的物種。我們該做的一件事就是為地球畫格子並隨機檢視格子的交叉點，看看那裡有什麼生命。如果我們使用火星探測儀，將它用在地球上，我們將會看到難以置信的物種。 這不是在另個星球。這些都是躱在我們星球的東西。這是一隻螞蟻，它將同伴的蜜放在肚子裡。這些生物體的每一個 － 你從詹姆斯等人看過的，這些偉大事物 －它們每一個在做的都是在｢修整｣生命規則。我想不出單一的生物學通則到處對任何生物體都沒有例外的。我們想得到的任何一件事 －如果你聽過 Oliver 談性習慣，你將知道，沒有任何一件事適用所有生命。因為每一個都在修整它的某部分。這是太陽能海蛞蝓。它屬裸鰓亞目它結合葉綠體在體內當它的能源。這是另外一種。這是海龍。那隻在底部，藍色的，是幼蟲，尚未吞進酸，也尚未食用棕綠色的海藻浮渣到體內提供能源。 這些都是修整，如果我們看修整生命取向的一般形式，依目前的共識，共有六個界。六個廣泛的取向：植物、動物、真菌、原生生物、細菌、古菌。這是生命的一般取向，是看今日地球生命的一種方式。 但另一個較有趣的方式，拉長來看現在的方式，是以演化的觀點來看它。這裡我們有個演化觀，它不是線性時間的演化，我們將它從中心往外擴延。在中心是最原始的，這是地球所有生命的系譜。所有相同的六個界都看得到。四千個代表性物種，你看到我們在何處。我喜歡這個，因為它顯示地球上每種生物體都是同等演化的。那些真菌和細菌和人類都是高度演化的。它們同樣久存，並經歷相同的試煉而到達這裡。但我們看到，這些每個都實際上在修整，且各有不同方式去求取生存。 如果我們看生命的長期趨勢，如果我們開始說，演化要的是什麼？我們看到若干事。演化的一件事就是，地球上無處找不到生命。我們發現生命在每個長期、長距離鑽探地心岩石所取出的核心 － 岩石孔隙中就有細菌。生命所在之處，它從不撤退。它無所不在，不斷增多。地球上越來越多的無生命物質受到生命的刺激及活化。 另一件我們看到的是多樣性。我們也看到特殊化。我們看到的是由一般目的的細胞移動到更特定、特殊化的。我們看到移向複雜，直覺可察。實際上，我們現有數據顯示實際上長期來是在移向複雜。最後我再提一下裸鰓亞目。我們看到生命的一件事，即它由內部移向漸增的社會性。也就是有越來越多的生命，其整體環境是其他生命。就像那些葉綠體細胞 －它們全被其他生命所包圍。它們從不觸及內部物質。有更多的共同演化。因此，演化的一般長期趨勢大約有五個：普遍、多樣、特殊、複雜、及社群。我採取此一觀點，那麼，科技的長期趨勢如何？ 再次我問：科技要的是什麼？因此，顯然，我發現了它也是移向特殊化。這裡我們看到普通的鎚子，鎚子隨著時間越來越特殊化。顯然有多樣性。許許多多的物品。這是日本家庭的所有東西。我要我女兒 － 送她一個計數器，去年夏天我要她四處看看算算我們家中有多少科技物種。結果有六千個產品種類。我做過研究，發現英格蘭王享利八世只有大約七千件物品在他家中。而他是英格蘭王，那是當時英格蘭的全部財富了。因此我們看到大量的物品多樣性。 這是星際戰爭的一景，3PO 出現了他看到了機器在製作機器。真敗壞呀！嗯，這正是我們的走向：世界機器科技只是由其他科技發展出來。大部分機器將只和其他科技打交道而不管非科技，甚至生命。 第三，機器生物化、複雜化的想法已是陳腔濫調。而我很高興地說，我要為那個陳腔濫調負部分責任：機器生物化了，那很明顯。因此科技演化的主要趨勢，實際上就像生物演化。我們看到相同的趨勢走向普遍、多樣、社群、複雜。這或許不是大驚奇因為如果我們圖示，舉例說：盔甲的演化，你可以實際上跟隨一種演化式的血緣族譜。我認為，事實上科技是生命的第七界。它的運作及功能都如此相似我們可以將它當成第七界。因此它大略就在上方，出自於動物界。如果這麼做，我們將發現 － 我們實質上可以這樣面對科技。 這是尼爾斯·艾崔奇，他和史蒂芬·古爾德一起發展間斷平衡理論。附帶地，他也收藏小銅喇叭。他有著世界上最大的收藏 － 大約有 500 只。他決定把它們當成旋螺或蝸牛，進行形態分析，試著導出它們在時間上的系譜史。這是他得到的圖表，還沒完全公開。但這最有趣的面向是如果你看那些底下的紅線，它基本上表示某種小銅喇叭的上一代現在已沒人製造了。生物學上不是這樣。當某物滅絕後，你無法以它為上一代。但在科技它會發生。結果呢它非常獨特，你可以看這個系譜，可以用它來確定這是科技系統而非生物系統。 事實上，觀念復活的想法是非常重要的，因而，我開始思考舊的科技怎麼了。結果呢，事實上科技不會死。我向一位科學史學家提起，他說：｢嗯，那麼蒸汽車還在嗎？它們已消失了。｣而事實上，它們還在。它們不但在，你還能買到 Stanley 蒸汽車的新零件。這個網站有賣全新的零件供應 Stanley 汽車之用。我很欣賞它也有點擊選貨進購物車的按鍵 － (笑聲) 可以買蒸汽閥。我是說，真的有人在賣。因此，我開始想，也許這只是個特例。也許我該用比較保守的方式去查看。 我拿大部頭的 1895年 Montgomery Ward 型錄隨機翻翻，我選了一頁 － 不怎麼隨機 －我選的這樣實際上是比較難的因為許多頁面中的東西都還有在製造。但我選了這一頁我說：這些東西有多少還在製造？而不是古董。我要知道這些東西有多少還在製造。答案是：全部。它們都還在製造。因此你能買到玉米脫殼機。我不知道誰需要玉米脫殼機。就是玉米脫殼機 － 你還可買到犁、風車磨，所有這些東西都不是古董。這些是 －你可以訂購。你可以上網，現在就去買，全新製造的。因此，某種觀點而言，科技不死。事實上，你能花 50 美元買到石器時代的刀以一萬年前完全一樣的方式做成的。它有短的骨柄，50 美元。而事實上，重要的是這項資訊從未消逝。它不只是復活。它一直存在著。而在巴布亞新幾亞，他們做石斧直到二十年前，它還是件實用的事。 甚至當我們試圖放棄一項科技，那實在很難。我們都聽過阿米希人放棄車子。我們也聽過日本人放棄槍砲。我們聽過這個、那個。但我回頭去找找到歷史實例曾經禁制過科技的實例，我試著找出何時它們又回頭了，因為它們總是回頭。結果是：時間受禁止和限制的時期隨著時間而減少。那基本上只是延遲了科技，而無法棄絕它。這是有意義的。就某種意義而言，所謂文化就是觀念的累積。其目的是要使觀念生生不息。當我們採取，我們採取這個文化作用的觀念並將它加到生命演化的長程軌道中我們發現每次 － 生命的每次主要轉換 －它們真正是在加速與改變演化發生的方式。它們實際上改變著觀念產生的方式。 因此，演化的這些步驟基本上都是在增加演化的可演化性。因此，生命在時間軸上發生的是產生新觀念、新俢整的方式一直在增加。真正的技巧是你去探索｢探索方式｣的方式。而我們在這獨特性中看到的由庫茨魏爾和其他人所預言的 －他認為的科技正在加速演化。它正在加速我們尋找觀念的方式。因此，如果你有生命修整 －生命就是修整，生存的競賽 －那麼，演化就是改變競賽規則來延長賽局的方式。而科技真正涉及的，是較好的演化方式。那就是我們所說的無限賽局，是無限賽局的定義。有限賽局是要贏，無限賽局是要賽個不停。我相信科技實際上是一種宇宙力。 科技的起源不是在 1829 年，實際上是在｢大爆炸｣的開始，在宇宙中巨量億萬星球被壓縮的時刻。整個宇宙被壓縮為一個小量子點，它是那麼緊，緊得不可能有任何差別。這就是定義。沒有溫度。沒有任何差別。而在｢大爆炸｣，擴散開的是差別的潛能。因此，當它擴散，當事物擴散開來，我們即可能有差別、多樣、替換、選擇、機會、可能、和自由。這些基本上是相同的事。那些就是科技帶給我們的事。科技帶給我們：選擇、可能、自由。它就是關於這個，就是擴大造成差別。因此，當我們握鐡鎚，我們握的是鐡鎚。因而我們繼續握住科技 －因為我們要這些事物。這些事物是好的。差別、自由、選擇、可能。每次我們製造一個新機會點，我們即容許一個平台去製造更多新的。 我認為這真的很重要。因為如果你能想像莫札特生在鋼琴科技發明之前，那會是社會的多大損失。想像梵谷生在廉價油彩的科技之前。想像希區考克在電影科技之前。今天某處有好幾百萬小孩出生他們自我表達的科技尚未發明。我們有發明科技的道德義務使地球上每個人有潛能去實現他們的真正差別。我們要幾兆、幾京物種的單一個體。那就是科技真正要的。 我要跳過一些反對意見因為我不知道為何有森林濫伐。我也不知道事實上有著 － 看來是壞的科技。我也不知道這如何衝擊我們的尊嚴，我只是提議這個第七界，因為它非常接近生命形式，也許我們可以帶回它，要它幫我們監測生命。或許以某些方式事實上我們試著搞定科技，是替它找個家。噴灑 DDT 在棉花田是可怕的事，但好的一面是用它來消滅小村莊瘧疾導致的數百萬死亡案例。 人道實際上是由科技定義的。所有我們認為我們喜歡的人道事項都是由科技驅導的。這就是無限賽局。我們談的就是這個。看，科技是推展演化的方法。它是個方法用來探索可能和機會，並創造更多。它實際上是參與賽局、玩各種賽局的方法。那就是科技要的。因此，當我想到科技要的是什麼，我認為，它涉及這裡的每個人，我深信：這裡的每個人都有一項任務。你的任務就是究其一生找出你的任務是什麼。那個遞回的本質就是無限賽局。如果你玩得好，你將有他人參與，賽局會延長並持續，即使你已離開。那就是無限賽局。科技就是我們玩無限賽局的中介。因此，我認為我們該接納科技因為它是我們找出自我的旅程中，至為關鍵的部分。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
