Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_kelly_tells_technology_s_epic_story	"I want to talk about my investigations into what technology means in our lives — not just our immediate life, but in the cosmic sense, in the kind of long history of the world and our place in the world. What is this stuff? What is the significance? And so, I want to kind of go through my little story of what I found out. One of the first things I started to investigate was the history of the name of technology. In the United States, there is a State of the Union address given by every president since 1790. And each one of those is kind of summing up the most important things for the United States at that time. If you search for the word ""technology,"" it was not used until 1952. So, technology was sort of absent from everybody's thinking until 1952, which happened to be the year of my birth. And obviously, technology had existed before then, but we weren't aware of it. And so it was sort of an awakening of this force in our life. I actually did research to find out the first use of the word ""technology."" It was in 1829, and it was invented by a guy who was starting a curriculum — a course, bringing together all the kinds of arts and crafts, and industry — and he called it ""Technology."" And that's the very first use of the word. So what is this stuff that we're all consumed by and bothered by? Alan Kay calls it, ""Technology is anything that was invented after you were born."" (Laughter) Which is sort of the idea we normally have about what technology is: it's all that new stuff. It's not roads, or penicillin, or factory tires; it's the new stuff. My friend Danny Hillis says kind of a similar one, he says, ""Technology is anything that doesn't work yet."" (Laughter) Which is, again, a sense that it's all new. But we know that it's just not new. It actually goes way back, and what I want to suggest is, it goes a long way back. So, another way to think about technology, what it means, is to imagine a world without technology. If we were to eliminate every single bit of technology in the world today — and I mean everything, from blades to scrapers to cloth — we, as a species, would not live very long. We would die by the billions, and very quickly: the wolves would get us, we would be defenseless, we would be unable to grow enough food or find enough food. Even the hunter-gatherers used some elementary tools. So, they had minimal technology, but they had some technology. And if we study those hunter-gatherer tribes and the Neanderthal, which are very similar to early man, we find out a very curious thing about this world without technology, and this is a kind of a curve of their average age. There are no Neanderthal fossils that are older than 40 years old that we've ever found, and the average age of most of these hunter-gatherer tribes is 20 to 30. There are very few young infants, because they die — high mortality rate — and there's very few old people. So the profile is sort of for your average San Francisco neighborhood: a lot of young people. And if you go there, you say, ""Hey, everybody's really healthy."" Well, that's because they're all young. Same thing with the hunter-gatherer tribes and early man: you didn't live beyond the age of 30. So it was a world without grandparents. And grandparents are very important, because they are the transmitter of cultural evolution and information. Imagine a world where basically everybody was 20 to 30 years old. How much learning can you do? You can't do very much learning in your own life, it's so short, and there's nobody to pass on what you do learn. So that's one aspect. It was a very short life. But at the same time, anthropologists know that most hunter-gatherer tribes of the world, with that very little technology, actually did not spend a very long time gathering the food they needed: three to six hours a day. Some anthropologists call that the original affluent society, because they had bankers' hours, basically. So it was possible to get enough food. But when the scarcity came, when the highs and lows and the droughts came, then people went into starvation. And that's why they didn't live very long. So what technology brought, through the very simple tools like these stone tools here — even something as small as this — the early bands of humans were actually able to eliminate to extinction about 250 megafauna animals in North America when they first arrived 10,000 years ago. So, long before the industrial age, we've been affecting the planet on a global scale with just a small amount of technology. The other thing that the early man invented was fire. And fire was used to clear out, and again, affected the ecology of grass and whole continents, and was used in cooking. It enabled us to actually eat all kinds of things. It was, in a certain sense, in a McLuhan sense, an external stomach, in the sense that it was cooking food that we could not eat otherwise. And if we didn't have fire, we actually could not live. Our bodies have adapted to these new diets. Our bodies have changed in the last 10,000 years. So, with that little bit of technology, humans went from a small band of 10,000 or so — the same number as Neanderthals everywhere — and we suddenly exploded. With the invention of language around 50,000 years ago, the number of humans exploded, and very quickly became the dominant species on the planet. And they migrated into the rest of the world at two kilometers per year until, within several tens of thousands of years, we occupied every single watershed on the planet and became the most dominant species, with a very small amount of technology. And even at that time, with the introduction of agriculture, 8,000, 10,000 years ago, we started to see climate change. So climate change is not a new thing; what's new is just the degree of it. Even during the agricultural age, there was climate change. So already, small amounts of technology were transforming the world. And what this means, and where I'm going, is that technology has become the most powerful force in the world. All the things we see today that are changing our lives, we can always trace back to the introduction of some new technology. So it's a force, that is the most powerful force that has been unleashed on this planet, and in such a degree, that I think it's become who we are. In fact, our humanity and everything that we think about ourselves, is something we've invented. So we've invented ourselves. Of all the animals that we've domesticated, the most important animal has been us. So humanity is our greatest invention, but of course, we're not done yet. We're still inventing, and this is what technology is allowing us to do; it's continually to reinvent ourselves. It's a very, very strong force. I call this entire thing — us humans as our technology, everything that we've made, gadgets in our lives — we call that the technium. That's this world. My working definition of technology is: anything useful that a human mind makes. It's not just hammers and gadgets, like laptops. But it's also law. And, of course, cities are ways to make things more useful to us. While this is something that comes from our mind, it also has its roots deeply into the cosmos. It goes back. The origins and roots of technology go back to the Big Bang, in this way, in that they are part of this self-organizing thread that starts at the Big Bang and goes through galaxies and stars, into life, into us. And the three major phases of the early universe was energy, when the dominant force was energy; then the dominant force, as it cooled, became matter; and then, with the invention of life four billion years ago, the dominant force in our neighborhood became information. That's what life is: an information process that was restructuring and making new order. So, energy and matter, Einstein showed were equivalent, and now new sciences of quantum computing show that entropy and information and matter and energy are all interrelated. So it's one long continuum. You put energy into the right kind of system, and out comes wasted heat, entropy, and extropy, which is order. It's the increased order. Where does this order come from? Its roots go way back. We actually don't know. But we do know that the self-organization trend throughout the universe is long, and it began with things like galaxies; they maintained their order for billions of years. Stars are basically nuclear fission machines that self-organize and self-sustain themselves for billions of years: order against the extropy of the world. And flowers and plants are the same thing, extended, and technology is basically an extension of life. One trend that we notice in all those things is that the amount of energy per gram per second that flows through this is actually increasing. The amount of energy is increasing through this little sequence. And the amount of energy per gram per second that flows through life is actually greater than a star — because of the star's long lifespan, the energy density in life is actually higher than a star. And the energy density that we see in the greatest amount anywhere in the universe is actually in a PC chip. There is more energy flowing through, per gram per second, than anything that we have any other experience with. And so, what I would suggest is that if you want to see where technology is going, we continue that trajectory, and we say, ""Well, it's going to become more energy-dense, that's where it's going."" And so what I've done is, I've taken the same kinds of things and looked at other aspects of evolutionary life and say, ""What are the general trends in evolutionary life?"" And there are things moving towards greater complexity, moving towards greater diversity, moving towards greater specialization, sentience, ubiquity, and most important, evolvability. Those very same things are also present in technology. That's where technology is going. In fact, technology is accelerating all the aspects of life. And we can see that happening; just as there's diversity in life, there's more diversity in things we make. Things in life start off being general cells, and they become specialized: you have tissue cells, muscle, brain cells. The same thing happens with, say, a hammer, which is general at first and becomes more specific. So I would like to say that while there are six kingdoms of life, we can think of technology basically as a seventh kingdom of life. It's a branching off from the human form. But technology has its own agenda, like anything, like life itself. For instance, right now, three-quarters of the energy that we use is actually used to feed the technium itself. In transportation, it's not to move us; it's to move the stuff we make or buy. I use the word ""want."" Technology wants. This is a robot that wants to plug itself in to get more power. Your cat wants more food. A bacterium, which has no consciousness at all, wants to move towards light. It has an urge, and technology has an urge. At the same time, it wants to give us things, and what it gives us is basically progress. You can take all kinds of curves, and they're all pointing up. There's really no dispute about progress, if we discount the cost of that. And that's the thing that bothers most people, is that progress is really real, but we wonder and question: What are the environmental costs of it? I did a survey of the number of species of artifacts in my house, and there's 6,000. Other people have come up with 10,000. When King Henry of England died, he had 18,000 things in his house, but that was the entire wealth of England, so ... (Laughter) And with that entire wealth of England, King Henry could not buy any antibiotics, he could not buy refrigeration, he could not buy a trip of a thousand miles, whereas this rickshaw wallah in India could save up and buy antibiotics and he could buy refrigeration. He could buy things that King Henry, in all his wealth, could never buy. That's what progress is about. So, technology is selfish; technology is generous. That conflict, that tension, will be with us forever: sometimes it wants to do what it wants to do, and sometimes it's going to do things for us. We have confusion about what we should think about a new technology. Right now the default position when a new technology comes along, is people talk about the precautionary principle, which is very common in Europe, which says, basically, ""Don't do anything. When you meet a new technology, stop, until it can be proven that it does no harm."" I think that really leads nowhere. But a better way is what I call the proactionary principle, which is, you engage with technology. You try it out. You obviously do what the precautionary principle suggests, you try to anticipate it, but after anticipating it, you constantly asses it, not just once, but eternally. And when it diverts from what you want, we prioritize risk, we evaluate not just the new stuff, but the old stuff. We fix it; but most importantly, we relocate it. And what I mean by that is, we find a new job for it. Nuclear energy, fission, is a really bad idea for bombs. But it may be a pretty good idea relocated into sustainable nuclear energy for electricity, instead of burning coal. When we have a bad idea, the response to a bad idea is not no ideas, it's not to stop thinking. The response to a bad idea — like, say, a tungsten lightbulb — is a better idea. So, better ideas is really always the response to technology we don't like; it's basically better technology. And actually, in a certain sense, technology is a kind of a method for generating better ideas, if you can think about it that way. So, maybe spraying DDT on crops is a really bad idea. But DDT sprayed on local homes — there's nothing better to eliminate malaria, besides insect DDT-impregnated mosquito nets. But that's a really good idea; that's a good job for technology. So our job as humans is to parent our mind children, to find them good friends, to find them a good job. And so, every technology is sort of a creative force looking for the right job. That's actually my son, right here. (Laughter) There are no bad technologies, just as there are no bad children. We don't say children are neutral; children are positive. We just have to find them the right place. And so, what technology gives us over the long term — over this sort of extended evolution from the beginning of time, through the invention of the plants and animals, and the evolution of life, the evolution of brains — what that is constantly giving us is increasing differences: It's increasing diversity, it's increasing options, it's increasing choices, opportunities, possibilities and freedoms. That's what we get from technology all the time. That's why people leave villages and go into cities — because they are always gravitating towards increased choices and possibilities. And we are aware of the price; we pay a price for that, but we're aware of it, and generally, we will pay the price for increased freedoms, choices and opportunities. Even technology wants clean water. Is technology diametrically opposed to nature? Because technology is an extension of life, it's in parallel and aligned with the same things that life wants. So that I think technology loves biology, if we allow it to. Great movement starting billions of years ago is moving through us and it continues to go, and our choice, so to speak, in technology, is really to align ourselves with this force much greater than ourselves. So, technology is more than just the stuff in your pocket; it's more than just gadgets, it's more than just things that people invent. It's actually part of a very long story — a great story — that began billions of years ago. It's moving through us, this self-organization, and we're extending and accelerating it, and we can be part of it by aligning the technology that we make with it. And I really appreciate your attention today. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想談談我的一些研究有關科技對我們生活的意義不光是狹義上我們的生活，而是廣義上的宇宙觀我們世界觀裡的時間跟世界觀裡的空間這是什麼呢?對我們重要嗎?我想先用一些小故事來談我所發現的 一開始引起我研究興趣的是 ""科技"" 這一名稱的來源美國從1790年以後依照慣例每位總統會對國會發表施政報告每一次演說都會總結當時對美國最重要的事情如果你去追溯 ""科技"" 這個詞直到1952年才開始出現照這麼看來1952年以前還沒有人想到科技， 而我剛好是出生在那一年但很明顯的， 科技早在那以前就存在了， 只是我們沒有察覺而已。那時就像是當頭棒喝突然發覺我們生活中的這股力量。 我實際去研究了是誰第一個使用了 ""科技"" 這個詞那是在 1829 年的時候一個傢伙在編教程的時候發明的這個課程是要把不同種類的藝術、手工藝與工業搞在一起。他把這叫做科技那就是這個名詞的起源 那這個我們每天消費的為它煩心的東西是什麼?艾倫 凱 說 ""凡是我們出生後才發明的東西， 都是科技""(笑聲)這就是我們對科技的刻板印象就是那些“新玩意”不是馬路或盤尼西林或量產的輪胎 要“新”玩意才算。我的朋友 丹尼 西里斯 提出一個類似的說法他說 ""科技就是還不能實用的.""(笑聲)對啊, 意思就是全新的 但是我們知道科技不全是是新的我建議大家 從時間軸上往前推推到很早很早以前。另一個思考科技意義的辦法是去想像沒有科技的世界。假設我們把今日世界的科技一一去掉真的完全去除乾淨從刀片 掃把 到衣服我們這個物種將無法存活太久。幾十億的人口將會快速的死去狼會吃掉亳無保護的我們我們將無法栽種或找到足夠的食物 獵人們至少也用了一些工具吧。所以他們有了最起碼的科技但他們的科技不止如此如果我們研究形成部落的這些獵人像是最早發現的 尼安德塔人在無科技世界裡我們找到令人好奇的東西這是他們平均壽命的曲線 在尼安德塔人的骨骸中沒有超過40歲的這些獵人部落的年齡大部份是在 20 到 30 之間小嬰孩是很罕見的因為嬰兒死亡率很高。老人也不多見所以總體來說會像是舊金山附近的人口結構一大堆年青人如果你去那裡你會說 ""哇, 每個人都很健康""那是因為他們都很年青啊 同樣的在原始人類的獵人部落裡人活不過 30 歲所以那是沒有祖父母的世界。祖父母是很重要的因為他們是文化演進與資訊的轉化器想像一下每個人都只有20到30歲的世界他們能學習到怎樣的程度?你在自己的生命中真的學不到很多因為那太短暫了而且你所學的又傳不下去。這只是一個觀點 不只人生苦短 同時人類學家們知道在原始獵人聚集部落的世界用的科技不多， 他們並沒有花很長的時間蒐集維生的食物一天大概 3 到 6 小時。有些人類學家稱之為原初豐裕社會因為他們那時候已經有了 ""半天班""而且在當時是有可能得到足夠食物的。不過當食物短缺時像是多雨或乾旱來臨時人們還是會餓死。這就是為什麼他們活不長。 所以科技帶來的小工具像這裡這些石器工具即使是這麼小的一個就可以讓原始人類有能力可以在進化上超越並消滅一萬年前在北美洲的大約250種的巨型動物群。所以遠早於工業時代我們已經對這個星球有了全面性的影響那只是用了一點小科技。 另一個原始人的發明是 火。火最早是用來清除草地而這影響到草原生態與整個大陸火並且用來烹煮食物有了火我們可以無所不吃這就好像 麥克魯漢 所謂的“體外的胃”意思是沒煮過的我們也消化不了如果沒有火的話我們很難活下去我們的身體早已調適到這些新的飲食過去一萬年以來我們的身體已經改變。 看, 這小小的一點科技讓人類從約一萬人左右的一小群約略是各地的原始人總數然後隨著語言的發明大約五萬年以前人口突然暴增很快的人類成為稱霸地球的生物其擴展版圖的速度是每年兩公里直到最近幾萬年人已經漫佈到全球各地成為獨霸的生物種類這都是拜小小的科技所賜 甚至在八千到一萬年前農業才剛發明的時候氣候變遷開始出現了。氣候變遷並不是新東西不一樣的只是程度上的差別。在農業時期就有氣候變遷了。同樣極少量的科技也轉化了整個世界。我想要表達的重點是科技己經變成世界上最強大的力量。我們今天看到的所有東西只要能改變我們生活方式的都可以回溯到某些科技的發明。 這就是力量 一種從這個地球上曾爆發的最強大力量。我認為在某種程度上這是因為我們的本質 ""人性""包括我們認為有關自己的一切實際上是我們發明的。我們創造了我們自己! 所有我們餋養的動物裡最重要的就是我們 對吧?因此人性是我們最偉大的發明 當然這件事還沒完呢科技讓我們還持續的發明著這是不斷的重新創造我們自己是一股巨大無比的力量。我把這一整個事情 包括人與科技所有我們創造的 生活中的小東西統稱為科技育成 (Technium)，也就是這世界。我對科技的新定義是任何人類所製造出的有用東西不只是鐵鎚、筆電或酷炫的３Ｃ產品還包括法律。 當然 ""城市"" 也讓很多東西變得有用。這些從我們的心念而來的其根源卻同樣來自宇宙。 回到科技的最初起源再回到大爆炸從這一路看 這些心念是自我形成的次序然後從大爆炸開始經過不同的星系與無數的星星來到我們的生命中。在宇宙形成早期的三個主要階段一開始是能量 主導力量是 ""能量""。然後冷卻以後 主導力量變成 ""物質""再來 生命起源 在40億年前我們週遭的主導力量變成 ""資訊""。這就是生命。 它是資訊重組與建立新秩序的過程。 所以在愛因斯坦發現 質M 與 能E是相同的 而現在新的量子計算機裡的不可控制能量(熵)跟資訊 跟物質 跟能量所以這一長串的 都是互相關聯的。你把能量放入一個系統會產出無法控制隨機的熱(熵 entrory)跟可以控制有用的部份(extropy)。可掌控部份是有增加的。 這部份是從何而來呢? 追根究底其實上我們不知道。但是我們很早就從宇宙得知這自我組織的趨勢由來已久從像星系這樣的東西開始它們維持自己的秩序有數十億年之久星球基本上就是原子能融合機器它可以自我組織支撐到數十億年。這種秩序可以對抗無用的浪費。而花草樹木也是同一件事的擴展科技基本上也是生命的延伸。 所以從這些東西上面我們發現一個趨勢：每一公克 每秒鐘能流過這裡的能量實際上是遞增的。通過這個小小通道的能量是一直增加的。而流過我們生命的能量以每克每秒算來是比一顆星星還多的因為星星的壽命很長使得我們生命的能量密度高於星星。而我們所能見到能量密度最高的實際上是在個人電腦裡的晶片。它有非常高的能量流過超越一切我們所能見識到的。 所以我建議你如果你想看到科技的未來何去何從往更高的能量密度走這是很篤定的這是未來的趨勢。 我所做的是我把這些同類的東西用不同的觀點去看進化性生命的大致走向。進化性生命的大致趨勢是往更複雜 更多元化更專業化 具洞察力無所不及 與最重要的 適者生存律。這些生物上的特性也可以在科技中發現。這也是科技的走向。 事實上科技是在加速生命中的各個面向。這些例子比比皆是。 正如生命的多樣性我們製造出來的東西越來越多樣化了。生命是由通用細胞開始再形成特殊化的組織細胞然後有了肌肉跟腦細胞。 同樣的事也發生在科技。鐵鎚一開始也是通用的然後變得更精緻。所以我想說在生物分類學的六界裡我們可以加入科技變成生命的第七界。是從人類分出來的一支 但是科技有它自己的要面對的問題就像其他的東西一樣。比如說現在我們有四分之三的能源是用在支撐科技本身。在運輸裡， 運送的不是我們而是我們製造跟買的東西。我用""想要""這一詞。 科技也會想要!這是一個機器人想自己插電。你的貓也會想要更多的食物。連沒有意識的細菌細胞也""想要""移向有亮光的地方他們有一股主見。 科技也是。 在另一方面它也想給我們物質上的滿足基本上我們也得到進步。讓我們來看看各種的曲線如果我們扣除成本關於進步是毫無疑問的。困擾我們大多數人的是到底這些進步是不是真的我們懷疑所付出的環境代價為何? 我查了一下我家裡所有家當的種類總共有六千種 有些人有到一萬種英國的享利國王去世的時候他家裡有一萬八千多件東西但那是當時整個英國的財富。不過即使擁有了全英國的財富享利國王買不到抗生素也買不到電冰箱 他也沒法參加能遊千里的團。而這位印度的手拉車伕他卻可以買到抗生素家裡也有冰箱。他可以買到用享利國王財富買不到的東西。這就是進步。 科技是自私的 科技也是慷慨的這個衝突會永遠跟著我們有時它會為所欲為有時它會為我們服務。對新科技應有的看法我們還不很明白。當一個新科技來臨時目前我們的預設立場與原則是要特別的小心謹慎。在歐洲這很常見。基本上遇上新科技時 ""什麼也別做""停下來直到可以證明它是無害的。我想這真的會阻礙進步。 或許有一個更好的辦法叫“積極行動原則”， 就是你主動參與發展你去試用看看。在參與的過程中用小心謹慎的原則和保守態度去預測可能的結果不時的去評估再三的檢視當你對它出現異狀的時候我們再加重風險的比重並把舊的東西也加入一起評估。我們去修正它 而最重要的是""再定位""的概念。我的意思是說去找到一個新的用途。 例如核能用來做原子彈真是個壞主意不過""重新定位""可能就變好了轉去做自轉式核能動力可以取代燒煤 成為新電力。當壞點子出現的時候 我們的反應最好不要 不知所措 或是 停止思考。反擊壞點子最好是像對這個鎢絲燈泡是找到更好的點子, 對吧?對我們不喜歡的科技想辦法去把它變好變成更好的科技。實際上從某個角度看 科技是一種產生更好點子的方法如果你能這麼想的話 你看 用飛機噴DDT殺蟲劑真是瘋了但在住家附近噴消滅瘧疾沒有比這更有效的辦法了因為DDT殺蟲劑可以抑制蚊子繁殖這就讓科技適得其所。 因此身為人類的天職就是去孕育新的概念是為這些主意找到好朋友以及好的用途。這麽一來 每種科技都是一股創新的力量都在找適合的用途。這張相片裡頭 是我的兒子是真的! (笑聲)沒有所謂的壞科技就像沒有所謂的壞小孩一樣。小孩無所謂好或壞最重要的是幫他們找到適合的地方。 所以科技為我們帶來的從盤古開天起經歷巨大的演進到動物植物的創造到生命的進化 腦的進化科技持續地為我們帶來的是越來越多的不同和變化。越來越多樣化 越來越多的選項越來越多的選擇 機會可能性與自由。這是科技一直帶給我們的。這也是人們為何離開小村落進入城市的理由。 因為人們總是往有選擇、 有不同可能性的地方走。這背後必須付出代價我們也清楚地知道我們付出了什麼代價我們願意為自由而付為選擇 為機會而付出。 即使科技也想要乾淨的水。問題是科技是否完全地違反自然呢?因為科技是生命的延伸它與生命想要的是並行不悖的。所以我認為科技愛生物學如果我們允許它的話。數十億年前就開始的偉大變動正在通過我們 而且繼續向前。我們對科技的選擇真的讓我們能搭上這股遠比我們更偉大的力量 所以科技不只是你口袋裡的小玩具不只是酷炫的新玩意 也不只是人類的發明而已它實際上是源遠流長故事裡的一個部份一個始於數十億年前的偉大故事這故事正通過我們我們正在擴張跟加速這有秩序的自我組織。我們可以透過調整科技來成為其中的一部份我們創造並參與於其中。非常感謝大家今天的用心, 謝謝大家(掌聲)"
