Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_briggs_the_bridge_between_suicide_and_life	"I recently retired from the California Highway Patrol after 23 years of service. The majority of those 23 years was spent patrolling the southern end of Marin County, which includes the Golden Gate Bridge. The bridge is an iconic structure, known worldwide for its beautiful views of San Francisco, the Pacific Ocean, and its inspiring architecture. Unfortunately, it is also a magnet for suicide, being one of the most utilized sites in the world. The Golden Gate Bridge opened in 1937. Joseph Strauss, chief engineer in charge of building the bridge, was quoted as saying, ""The bridge is practically suicide-proof. Suicide from the bridge is neither practical nor probable."" But since its opening, over 1,600 people have leapt to their death from that bridge. Some believe that traveling between the two towers will lead you to another dimension — this bridge has been romanticized as such — that the fall from that frees you from all your worries and grief, and the waters below will cleanse your soul. But let me tell you what actually occurs when the bridge is used as a means of suicide. After a free fall of four to five seconds, the body strikes the water at about 75 miles an hour. That impact shatters bones, some of which then puncture vital organs. Most die on impact. Those that don't generally flail in the water helplessly, and then drown. I don't think that those who contemplate this method of suicide realize how grisly a death that they will face. This is the cord. Except for around the two towers, there is 32 inches of steel paralleling the bridge. This is where most folks stand before taking their lives. I can tell you from experience that once the person is on that cord, and at their darkest time, it is very difficult to bring them back. I took this photo last year as this young woman spoke to an officer contemplating her life. I want to tell you very happily that we were successful that day in getting her back over the rail. When I first began working on the bridge, we had no formal training. You struggled to funnel your way through these calls. This was not only a disservice to those contemplating suicide, but to the officers as well. We've come a long, long way since then. Now, veteran officers and psychologists train new officers. This is Jason Garber. I met Jason on July 22 of last year when I get received a call of a possible suicidal subject sitting on the cord near midspan. I responded, and when I arrived, I observed Jason speaking to a Golden Gate Bridge officer. Jason was just 32 years old and had flown out here from New Jersey. As a matter of fact, he had flown out here on two other occasions from New Jersey to attempt suicide on this bridge. After about an hour of speaking with Jason, he asked us if we knew the story of Pandora's box. Recalling your Greek mythology, Zeus created Pandora, and sent her down to Earth with a box, and told her, ""Never, ever open that box."" Well one day, curiosity got the better of Pandora, and she did open the box. Out flew plagues, sorrows, and all sorts of evils against man. The only good thing in the box was hope. Jason then asked us, ""What happens when you open the box and hope isn't there?"" He paused a few moments, leaned to his right, and was gone. This kind, intelligent young man from New Jersey had just committed suicide. I spoke with Jason's parents that evening, and I suppose that, when I was speaking with them, that I didn't sound as if I was doing very well, because that very next day, their family rabbi called to check on me. Jason's parents had asked him to do so. The collateral damage of suicide affects so many people. I pose these questions to you: What would you do if your family member, friend or loved one was suicidal? What would you say? Would you know what to say? In my experience, it's not just the talking that you do, but the listening. Listen to understand. Don't argue, blame, or tell the person you know how they feel, because you probably don't. By just being there, you may just be the turning point that they need. If you think someone is suicidal, don't be afraid to confront them and ask the question. One way of asking them the question is like this: ""Others in similar circumstances have thought about ending their life; have you had these thoughts?"" Confronting the person head-on may just save their life and be the turning point for them. Some other signs to look for: hopelessness, believing that things are terrible and never going to get better; helplessness, believing that there is nothing that you can do about it; recent social withdrawal; and a loss of interest in life. I came up with this talk just a couple of days ago, and I received an email from a lady that I'd like to read you her letter. She lost her son on January 19 of this year, and she wrote this me this email just a couple of days ago, and it's with her permission and blessing that I read this to you. ""Hi, Kevin. I imagine you're at the TED Conference. That must be quite the experience to be there. I'm thinking I should go walk the bridge this weekend. Just wanted to drop you a note. Hope you get the word out to many people and they go home talking about it to their friends who tell their friends, etc. I'm still pretty numb, but noticing more moments of really realizing Mike isn't coming home. Mike was driving from Petaluma to San Francisco to watch the 49ers game with his father on January 19. He never made it there. I called Petaluma police and reported him missing that evening. The next morning, two officers came to my home and reported that Mike's car was down at the bridge. A witness had observed him jumping off the bridge at 1:58 p.m. the previous day. Thanks so much for standing up for those who may be only temporarily too weak to stand for themselves. Who hasn't been low before without suffering from a true mental illness? It shouldn't be so easy to end it. My prayers are with you for your fight. The GGB, Golden Gate Bridge, is supposed to be a passage across our beautiful bay, not a graveyard. Good luck this week. Vicky."" I can't imagine the courage it takes for her to go down to that bridge and walk the path that her son took that day, and also the courage just to carry on. I'd like to introduce you to a man I refer to as hope and courage. On March 11 of 2005, I responded to a radio call of a possible suicidal subject on the bridge sidewalk near the north tower. I rode my motorcycle down the sidewalk and observed this man, Kevin Berthia, standing on the sidewalk. When he saw me, he immediately traversed that pedestrian rail, and stood on that small pipe which goes around the tower. For the next hour and a half, I listened as Kevin spoke about his depression and hopelessness. Kevin decided on his own that day to come back over that rail and give life another chance. When Kevin came back over, I congratulated him. ""This is a new beginning, a new life."" But I asked him, ""What was it that made you come back and give hope and life another chance?"" And you know what he told me? He said, ""You listened. You let me speak, and you just listened."" Shortly after this incident, I received a letter from Kevin's mother, and I have that letter with me, and I'd like to read it to you. ""Dear Mr. Briggs, Nothing will erase the events of March 11, but you are one of the reasons Kevin is still with us. I truly believe Kevin was crying out for help. He has been diagnosed with a mental illness for which he has been properly medicated. I adopted Kevin when he was only six months old, completely unaware of any hereditary traits, but, thank God, now we know. Kevin is straight, as he says. We truly thank God for you. Sincerely indebted to you, Narvella Berthia."" And on the bottom she writes, ""P.S. When I visited San Francisco General Hospital that evening, you were listed as the patient. Boy, did I have to straighten that one out."" Today, Kevin is a loving father and contributing member of society. He speaks openly about the events that day and his depression in the hopes that his story will inspire others. Suicide is not just something I've encountered on the job. It's personal. My grandfather committed suicide by poisoning. That act, although ending his own pain, robbed me from ever getting to know him. This is what suicide does. For most suicidal folks, or those contemplating suicide, they wouldn't think of hurting another person. They just want their own pain to end. Typically, this is accomplished in just three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol, or death. In my career, I've responded to and been involved in hundreds of mental illness and suicide calls around the bridge. Of those incidents I've been directly involved with, I've only lost two, but that's two too many. One was Jason. The other was a man I spoke to for about an hour. During that time, he shook my hand on three occasions. On that final handshake, he looked at me, and he said, ""Kevin, I'm sorry, but I have to go."" And he leapt. Horrible, absolutely horrible. I do want to tell you, though, the vast majority of folks that we do get to contact on that bridge do not commit suicide. Additionally, that very few who have jumped off the bridge and lived and can talk about it, that one to two percent, most of those folks have said that the second that they let go of that rail, they knew that they had made a mistake and they wanted to live. I tell people, the bridge not only connects Marin to San Francisco, but people together also. That connection, or bridge that we make, is something that each and every one of us should strive to do. Suicide is preventable. There is help. There is hope. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我最近剛退休，之前在加州高速公路巡警局服務了 23 年。這 23 年間大部份時間都在馬林郡南邊巡邏，而這包含了金門大橋。這座大橋是個地標，聞名全球，因為看得到舊金山、太平洋的美景，以及具啟發性的建築結構。 不幸的是，它吸引許多自殺者的前來，是世界著名的自殺地點之一。金門大橋於 1937 年開放，負責建立這座橋的首席工程師約瑟夫．史特勞斯當時還被引用說：「這座橋完全是防自殺的。從這座橋上自殺既不實際也不可行。」但自它開放以來，超過 1600 人從這裡一躍而下結束生命。有些人相信行走於前後兩座塔中間可以帶領你到另一個次元，這座橋如此被浪漫化——從那跳下可以消除你所有擔憂及哀傷，而底下的水可以洗滌你的靈魂。 但，容我告訴各位當這座橋被用來作為自殺工具的實際情況。在 4~5 秒的自由落體後，身體會撞擊水面，此時的時速約 75 英哩。這種衝擊會導致骨折，甚至造成內臟破裂。多數人死於這種衝擊。那些沒因此死亡的人通常會在水上無助掙扎，終被淹死。我不認為那些思考過這種自殺方式的人知道他們將面對的有多嚇人。這是鋼纜。除了兩塔周圍以外，還有 32 英吋的鋼梁與橋平行。這裡是大部份人結束生命前所站的地方。我可以根據經驗告訴各位一旦站上那鋼梁，在他們最黑暗的時刻，是很難把他們帶回來的。這張照片是去年拍的，這位年輕女士正和一位警官講話，思索她的人生。我很高興地告訴各位，我們那天成功讓她爬過欄杆。 我一開始負責處理大橋案件時並沒受正式訓練。每次接到通報都掙扎著該如何處理。這不只對這些尋求自殺的人是種傷害，也對警官們是種危害。但到目前，我們已經有很大的進步。現在，退休警官以及心理學家負責培訓新警官。 這位是傑森．嘉博。我去年 7 月 22 日認識傑森，當時我接到一通電話告訴我有可能的自殺者站在橋中央的鋼梁上。我回應了那通電話，當我抵達時我看到傑森正在跟金門大橋的警官談話。傑森當時才 32 歲，從鈕澤西飛到這。事實上，他之前已從鈕澤西飛過來兩次試圖跳橋自殺。跟傑森談了約一小時後，他問我們是否知道潘朵拉的盒子這故事。幫大家溫習一下希臘神話，宙斯創造了潘朵拉，讓她帶著一個盒子下凡，並告訴她：「千萬不能打開盒子。」有一天，潘朵拉因為好奇過頭打開了盒子。盒中飛出了瘟疫、憂傷，以及各種針對人類的邪惡。盒中僅存的美好，是希望。傑森接著問我們：「要是你打開盒子而希望不存在怎麼辦？」他停了幾秒後，往右傾，跳了下去。這位來自鈕澤西的和善、聰明年輕男子自殺了。 我當天晚上通知傑森的雙親，我想，我與他們談話時聽起來好像沒把此案處理得很好，因為隔天他們家裡的猶太拉比打電話給我。傑森的父母要求他這麼做。自殺的間接傷害會影響許多人。 我問各位幾個問題：如果你的家庭成員、朋友、摯愛的人有自殺傾向，你會怎麼做？你會說些什麼？你會知道該說什麼嗎？根據我的經驗，其實不止要談話還要傾聽。傾聽並理解。不要爭論、怪罪，或告訴對方你懂他們的感受，因為你或許並不懂。只要陪著他們，或許就能成為他們需要的轉折點。如果你認為某人有自殺傾向，別害怕當面問他們這個問題。問問題的其中一個方式可以是：「其他與你有相同處境的人想過了結他們的生命，你有這樣想過嗎？」直接面對這個人或許能拯救他們並成為其生命的轉折點。可以從這些跡象中看出端倪：絕望：深信事情糟糕透頂且永遠不會好轉；無助：相信你對任何事都無能為力；突然從社會抽離以及對人生失去興趣。 我幾天前想好演講內容，當時收到一位女士寄給我的 email，我想唸給你們聽。她今年 1 月 19 日失去兒子，她幾天前寫這封 email 給我，我經過她同意，且獲得她的祝福，將信唸給各位聽。 「嗨，凱文。你應該在 TED 會場了吧。這一定是個很棒的經驗。我想我這週末要去金門大橋走走。只是想寫信告訴給你，希望你能告訴更多人讓他們回家可以談論這件事，告訴他們的朋友，他們再告訴更多人。我現在還是很麻木，但越來越常意識到麥克不會回家了。麥克從佩塔盧馬開車到舊金山跟父親一起看美式足球比賽，就在 1 月 19 日這天。他從未抵達目的地。我當晚打給佩塔盧馬警察通報他失蹤。隔天早上兩名警察到我家通知我麥克的車在大橋附近被發現。有目擊者看到他跳下橋，就在前一天的下午 1:58 分。非常感謝你挺身而出為那些短暫軟弱，無法為自己發聲的人挺身而出。哪一位有心理疾病的人不曾經歷過低潮？但不應該這麼輕易結束生命。我祈禱你一切順利。GGB，金門大橋應該是一條道路連結我們美麗的海灣而非墳墓。祝你這週好運，維琪。」 我無法想像她需要多少勇氣到那座橋並行走她兒子那天走的道路，也無法想像她繼續下去的勇氣。 我想跟各位介紹一位男子，我稱他為希望與勇氣的象徵。2005 年 3 月 11 日，我接到通報，有位疑似要自殺的人在橋的人行道上，就在北塔附近。我騎摩托車到人行道旁，並觀察這位男子凱文．博西亞站在人行道上。他看到我時，立刻穿越人行道護欄，並站在那延伸到高塔周圍的小管線上。接下來的一個半小時，我傾聽凱文講述他的絕望與無助。凱文那天自己決定爬過欄杆並再給生命一次機會。當凱文跨過來時，我恭喜了他：「這是一個新開始、新生命。」但我問他，「是什麼讓你決定跨過來並再給生命一次機會？」你們知道他說什麼嗎？他說：「因為你傾聽了。你讓我說話，並安靜傾聽。」 在那次事件過後不久，我收到凱文母親的信。今天也把那封信帶來了，想唸給各位聽。 「親愛的布里格斯先生，3 月 11 日的事件無法在記憶中抹滅，但你是凱文仍與我們同在的原因之一。我真的相信凱文當時正哭求著有人協助。他已經被診斷出有心理疾病也已接受適當治療。我在凱文還六個月大時領養了他，完全不知道他有什麼樣的遺傳。但，感謝上帝，我們現在知道了。如凱文所說，他已經沒事了。我們真的感謝上帝有你。對你著實感激不盡。納維拉．博西亞。」最後她寫道：「P.S. 我當天傍晚去舊金山綜合醫院時看到你也是那裡的病人。天哪，我用膝蓋想就知道為什麼。」 現在凱文是個慈愛的父親，也對社會有所貢獻。他公開談論那天發生的事情以及他的憂鬱情況，希望他的故事能啓發他人。 自殺並非只是我工作上所會遇到的，這還與我切身相關。我祖父服毒自殺，此舉雖了結他的痛苦，卻也奪走我認識他的機會。這就是自殺的影響。大多數有自殺傾向的人，或是思考過自殺的人，並不會想傷害別人，他們只想結束自己的痛苦。通常有三種方式可以達成：睡覺、毒品或酒精、死亡。我的事業生涯中回應過、也處理過上百件大橋上的心理疾病及自殺案件。在我直接接觸的案件中只失去了兩個人。但兩個就已太多了。其中一位是傑森，而另一位男士我跟他談了約一小時。那時候，他跟我握手了三次。最後一次握手時，他看著我，說了：「凱文，對不起，我還是必須要走。」然後他一躍而下。真的很可怕。 但我想告訴各位，我們在那橋上接觸的大部份人都沒有自殺。除此之外，跳下橋卻生還的極少數人可以談論他們的經驗，約有 1%~2% 的人，而他們中大部份的人都說他們放開欄杆的那一刻就知道這是個錯誤的決定，他們想要活下去。我常說，這座橋不只連結馬林到舊金山，但也將人們連結在一起。那種連結，或是我們創造的橋樑是我們每個人都需要努力追尋的。自殺是可以避免的。這世界存在幫助，和希望。 非常感謝各位。 （掌聲）
