Talk	en	zh-tw
kim_gorgens_protecting_the_brain_against_concussion	"So, a funny thing happened on my way to becoming a brilliant, world-class neuropsychologist: I had a baby. And that's not to say I ever went on to become a brilliant, world-class neuropsychologist. Sorry, TED. But I did go on to be a reasonably astute, arguably world-class worrier. One of my girlfriends in graduate school, Marie, said, ""Kim, I figured it out. It's not that you're more neurotic than everyone else; it's just that you're more honest about how neurotic you are."" So in the spirit of full disclosure, I brought some pictures to share. Awwww. (Laughter) I'll just say: July. (Laughter) Zip! (Laughter) For safety. (Laughter) Water wings — an inch of water. And then, finally, all suited up for the 90-minute drive to Copper Mountain. So you can get kind of a feel for this. So my baby, Vander, is eight years old now. And, despite being cursed with my athletic inability, he plays soccer. He's interested in playing football. He wants to learn how to ride a unicycle. So why would I worry? Because this is what I do. This is what I teach. It's what I study. It's what I treat. And I know that kids get concussed every year. In fact, more than four million people sustain a concussion every year, and these data are just among kids under 14 who were seen in emergency rooms. And so when kids sustain a concussion, we talk about them getting dinged or getting their bell rung, but what is it that we're really talking about? Let's take a look. [Concussive Force] ""Starsky and Hutch""? Arguably, yes. So, a car accident. Forty miles an hour into a fixed barrier: 35 Gs. A heavyweight boxer punches you straight in the face: 58 Gs. (Music) In case you missed it, we'll look again. So look to the right-hand side of the screen. (Music) What would you say? How many Gs? Close. Seventy-two? Would it be crazy to know: 103 Gs? The average concussive impact is 95 Gs. Now, when the kid on the right doesn't get up, we know they've had a concussion. But how about the kid on the left, or the athlete that leaves the field of play? How do we know if he or she has sustained a concussion? How do we know that legislation that would require they be pulled from play, cleared for return to play, applies to them? The definition of concussion doesn't actually require a loss of consciousness. It requires only a change in consciousness, and that can be any one or a number of symptoms, including feeling foggy, feeling dizzy, hearing a ringing in your ear, being more impulsive or hostile than usual. So given all of that and given how darn neurotic I am, how do I get any sleep at all? Because I know our brains are resilient. They're designed to recover from an injury. If — God forbid — any of us left here tonight and sustained a concussion, most of us would go on to fully recover inside of a couple hours to a couple of weeks. But kids are more vulnerable to brain injury. In fact, high-school athletes are three times more likely to sustain catastrophic injuries relative even to their college-age peers, and it takes them longer to return to a symptom-free baseline. After that first injury, their risk for second injury is exponentially greater. From there, their risk for a third injury, greater still, and so on. And here's the really alarming part: We don't fully understand the long-term impact of multiple injuries. You guys may be familiar with this research that's coming out of the NFL. In a nutshell, this research suggests that, among retired NFL players with three or more career concussions, the incidence of early-onset dementing disease is much greater than it is for the general population. So you've all seen that — New York Times, you've seen it. What you may not be familiar with is that this research was spearheaded by NFL wives who said, ""Isn't it weird that my 46-year-old husband is forever losing his keys?"" ""Isn't it weird that my 47-year-old husband is forever losing the car?"" ""Isn't it weird that my 48-year-old husband is forever losing his way home in the car, from the driveway?"" I may have forgotten to mention that my son is an only child. So it's going to be really important that he be able to drive me around someday. (Laughter) So, how do we guarantee the safety of our kids? How can we 100 percent guarantee the safety of our kids? Let me tell you what I've come up with. (Laughter) If only. My little boy's right there, and he's like, ""She's not kidding. She's totally not kidding."" So in all seriousness: Should my kid play football? Should your kid play football? I don't know. But I do know there are three things you can do. The first: study up. You have to be familiar with the issues we're talking about today. There are some great resources out there. The CDC has a program, HEADS UP. It's at CDC.gov. HEADS UP is specific to concussion in kids. The second is a resource I'm personally really proud of. We've just rolled this out in the last couple months — CO Kids With Brain Injury. This is a great resource for student athletes, teachers, parents, professionals, athletic and coaching staff. It's a great place to start if you have questions. The second thing is: speak up. Just two weeks ago, a bill introduced by Senator Kefalas that would have required athletes, kids under 18, to wear a helmet when they're riding their bike, died in committee. It died, in large part, because it lacked constituent buy-in; it lacked stakeholder traction. Now, I'm not here to tell you what kind of legislation you should or shouldn't support, but I am going to tell you that, if it matters to you, your legislators need to know that. Speak up also with coaching staff. Ask about what kind of protective equipment is available. What's the budget for protective equipment? How old it is? Maybe offer to spearhead a fundraiser to buy new gear. Which brings us to: suit up. Wear a helmet. The only way to prevent a bad outcome is to prevent that first injury from happening. Recently, one of my graduate students, Tom, said, ""Kim, I've decided to wear a bike helmet on the way to class."" And Tom knows that that little bit of foam in a bike helmet can reduce the g-force of impact by half. Now, I thought it was because I have this totally compelling helmet crusade, this epiphany of Tom's. As it turns out, it occurred to Tom that a $20 helmet is a good way to protect a $100,000 graduate education. (Laughter) So ... Should Vander play football? I can't say no, but I can guarantee that every time he leaves the house, that kid's wearing a helmet — like, to the car, or at school. So whether athlete, scholar, overprotected kid, neurotic mom, or otherwise, here's my baby, Vander, reminding you to mind your matter. Thank you. (Applause)"	有意思的事情發生了，在我變成世界級著名的神經心理學家的過程中：我懷孕了這不是說我真的成了一個傑出的世界級著名的神經心理學家對不起TED但是我成為了一個足夠敏銳可以說是世界級的杞人憂天者我在研究生學校的一個女伴，Marie說，“Kim，我發現了這不是因為你比其他人更神經質而是你更誠實地看待自己的神經質 所以在這種論調下我帶來了一些照片來分享恩我只說，七月（笑聲）這個為了安全。水在流動一英尺的水然後，最終，全副武裝為了到Copper山的90分鐘車程所以你能感覺到大概的意思所以我的孩子，Vander現在8歲了同我缺乏運動能力不同他踢足球他對橄欖球感興趣他還想要騎獨輪車。 所以我為什麽要擔憂呢？因為這是我研究的領域和我教授的東西。這也是我所學習和要解決的問題。我知道每年都會有兒童遭受腦震蕩。事實上，每年超過四百萬的人遭受腦震蕩，並且這只是14歲以下的兒童在緊急救護室的數據。所以當兒童遭受腦震蕩，我們告訴他們要註意，但是我們究竟在說些什麽呢？現在請看。 對。可以說是“警界雙雄”場景。是的。一場車禍。每小時40英裏的速度裝上庫頂的圍欄 -對腦顱撞擊力是35克數指。一個重量級的拳擊手重重地打在你的臉上 -58克撞擊力。如果你沒註意，我們再看一遍。所以看屏幕的右邊。你會說什麽呢？多少克？接近了。72克。如果我告訴你答案你會很震驚吧103克。平均的腦震蕩的撞擊力是95克。現在，當右邊的孩子沒起來，我們知道他們發生了腦震蕩。 但是左邊的孩子呢，或者是離開場地的運動員呢？我們怎麽知道他或者她是否也遭受了腦震蕩呢？我們怎麽知道法律要求他們停止比賽，直到恢復才能繼續比賽，適用於他們？腦震蕩的定義事實上並不需要失去意識。它只需要意識的變化，可以是如下的癥狀，包括感覺模糊，眩暈，耳朵裏有響聲，比平常更沖動或具有敵意。 所以由於這些和我的神經質都有關，我怎麽能睡得著呢？因為我知道我們的大腦具有恢復性。它們被設計可自行從受傷中恢復。如果，上帝禁止，我們之中的人今晚離開這裏並且遭受腦震蕩，我們當中的大多數可以完全恢復在幾個小時到幾個星期內。但是兒童更易發生腦損傷。事實上，高中的運動員更可能遭受巨大的損傷機率是大學生的三倍並且他們需要更長的時間來恢復。在第一次損傷之後，他們第二次損傷的風險指數會增大。通過那數據，他們第三次損傷的概率更大，以此類推。 現在這是很嚴峻的情況：我們完全不知道多次損傷的長期影響。你們可能熟悉這個由NFL進行的研究。简单说来，這個研究表明在退役的NFL運動員中有三次或更多次職業性的腦震蕩，早期癡呆癥的概率比普通人更大。所以你們都看過這個 - 紐約時報，你看到了。你們可能不熟悉的是NFL隊員的妻子們倡導這個研究說，“我46歲的丈夫總是丟鑰匙，是不是很奇怪？我47歲的丈夫以老認不出自家車，是不是很奇怪？我48歲的丈夫驅車而行，總是記不得回家的路，是不是很奇怪？”所以我差點忘記說我的兒子只是個孩子。所以這更加重要他能夠在將來開車帶著我。 所以我們怎麽能夠保證我們孩子的安全呢？我們怎麽能夠百分之百保證我們孩子的安全？讓我告訴你們我想的。（笑聲）但願如此。那個小孩在這裏，他像是說，“她沒在開玩笑。她真的沒在開玩笑。”所以很嚴肅地，我的孩子應當玩橄欖球嗎？你們的孩子應當玩橄欖球嗎？我不知道。但是我知道有三件事你們能做。第一，學習。你們需要熟悉我們今天討論的東西。這裏有一些很好的資源。 美國疾病控制與預防中心有個項目，預防腦震蕩警告。這在CDC.gov的網站上。預防腦震蕩警告專門針對兒童的腦震蕩。對於這第二個資源，我很自豪。我們在過去幾個月完成了這個 -預防兒童的腦損傷。這對學生運動員，老師，家長，專家，職業運動員和教練來說，都是很好的資源。如果你有問題的話，這是一個可以幫助的地方。第二件事是說出來。就在兩周前，一個由參議院Kefalas提交的法案要求運動員，兒童，在18歲下在騎自行車時戴上頭盔，這法案在委員會被否決了。被否決主要是因為它缺乏選民的支持，它缺乏投票人的支持。現在我不是說什麽樣的立法你們應當，或不應當，支持，但是我要告訴你們，如果這和你們相關，你們的立法者應當知道這些。 同樣包括教練組成員去代言。詢問有什麽樣的保護設施。保護設施的預算是多少？使用時間多久了？可能要去尋找資金去買新的設備。讓我們準備好行裝，戴上頭盔。阻止壞結果發生的唯一途徑是防止第一次傷害的發生。最近，我的一個研究生，湯姆，他說，“Kim，我決定在上課的途中帶上自行車頭盔。”並且湯姆知道在自行車頭盔的小海綿能夠減少撞擊力的克數值一半。現在我覺得這是由於我強力地倡導帶頭盔，對，湯姆領悟到了。這表明，對湯姆而言，20塊錢的頭盔就能保護他繼續10萬元研究生教育，這再好不過了。 （笑聲） 所以，Vander要不要玩橄欖球？我不能說不，但是我能保證每次他離開家都戴上頭盔 -像在汽車裏，或是在學校。所以不論運動員，學者，過度保護的孩子，神經質的母親，或是其它的，這是我的孩子，Vander，提醒你們要關心你們預防腦震蕩的事情-戴頭盔。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
