Talk	en	zh-tw
kiran_bedi_a_police_chief_with_a_difference	"Now I'm going to give you a story. It's an Indian story about an Indian woman and her journey. Let me begin with my parents. I'm a product of this visionary mother and father. Many years ago, when I was born in the '50s — '50s and '60s didn't belong to girls in India. They belonged to boys. They belonged to boys who would join business and inherit business from parents, and girls would be dolled up to get married. My family, in my city, and almost in the country, was unique. We were four of us, not one, and fortunately no boys. We were four girls and no boys. And my parents were part of a landed property family. My father defied his own grandfather, almost to the point of disinheritance, because he decided to educate all four of us. He sent us to one of the best schools in the city and gave us the best education. As I've said, when we're born, we don't choose our parents, and when we go to school, we don't choose our school. Children don't choose a school. They just get the school which parents choose for them. So this is the foundation time which I got. I grew up like this, and so did my other three sisters. And my father used to say at that time, ""I'm going to spread all my four daughters in four corners of the world."" I don't know if he really meant [that], but it happened. I'm the only one who's left in India. One is a British, another is an American and the third is a Canadian. So we are four of us in four corners of the world. And since I said they're my role models, I followed two things which my father and mother gave me. One, they said, ""Life is on an incline. You either go up, or you come down."" And the second thing, which has stayed with me, which became my philosophy of life, which made all the difference, is: 100 things happen in your life, good or bad. Out of 100, 90 are your creation. They're good. They're your creation. Enjoy it. If they're bad, they're your creation. Learn from it. Ten are nature-sent over which you can't do a thing. It's like a death of a relative, or a cyclone, or a hurricane, or an earthquake. You can't do a thing about it. You've got to just respond to the situation. But that response comes out of those 90 points. Since I'm a product of this philosophy, of 90/10, and secondly, ""life on an incline,"" that's the way I grew up to be valuing what I got. I'm a product of opportunities, rare opportunities in the '50s and the '60s, which girls didn't get, and I was conscious of the fact that what my parents were giving me was something unique. Because all of my best school friends were getting dolled up to get married with a lot of dowry, and here I was with a tennis racket and going to school and doing all kinds of extracurricular activities. I thought I must tell you this. Why I said this, is the background. This is what comes next. I joined the Indian Police Service as a tough woman, a woman with indefatigable stamina, because I used to run for my tennis titles, etc. But I joined the Indian Police Service, and then it was a new pattern of policing. For me the policing stood for power to correct, power to prevent and power to detect. This is something like a new definition ever given in policing in India — the power to prevent. Because normally it was always said, power to detect, and that's it, or power to punish. But I decided no, it's a power to prevent, because that's what I learned when I was growing up. How do I prevent the 10 and never make it more than 10? So this was how it came into my service, and it was different from the men. I didn't want to make it different from the men, but it was different, because this was the way I was different. And I redefined policing concepts in India. I'm going to take you on two journeys, my policing journey and my prison journey. What you see, if you see the title called ""PM's car held."" This was the first time a prime minister of India was given a parking ticket. (Laughter) That's the first time in India, and I can tell you, that's the last time you're hearing about it. It'll never happen again in India, because now it was once and forever. And the rule was, because I was sensitive, I was compassionate, I was very sensitive to injustice, and I was very pro-justice. That's the reason, as a woman, I joined the Indian Police Service. I had other options, but I didn't choose them. So I'm going to move on. This is about tough policing, equal policing. Now I was known as ""here's a woman that's not going to listen."" So I was sent to all indiscriminate postings, postings which others would say no. I now went to a prison assignment as a police officer. Normally police officers don't want to do prison. They sent me to prison to lock me up, thinking, ""Now there will be no cars and no VIPs to be given tickets to. Let's lock her up."" Here I got a prison assignment. This was a prison assignment which was one big den of criminals. Obviously, it was. But 10,000 men, of which only 400 were women — 10,000 — 9,000 plus about 600 were men. Terrorists, rapists, burglars, gangsters — some of them I'd sent to jail as a police officer outside. And then how did I deal with them? The first day when I went in, I didn't know how to look at them. And I said, ""Do you pray?"" When I looked at the group, I said, ""Do you pray?"" They saw me as a young, short woman wearing a pathan suit. I said, ""Do you pray?"" And they didn't say anything. I said, ""Do you pray? Do you want to pray?"" They said, ""Yes."" I said, ""All right, let's pray."" I prayed for them, and things started to change. This is a visual of education inside the prison. Friends, this has never happened, where everybody in the prison studies. I started this with community support. Government had no budget. It was one of the finest, largest volunteerism in any prison in the world. This was initiated in Delhi prison. You see one sample of a prisoner teaching a class. These are hundreds of classes. Nine to eleven, every prisoner went into the education program — the same den in which they thought they would put me behind the bar and things would be forgotten. We converted this into an ashram — from a prison to an ashram through education. I think that's the bigger change. It was the beginning of a change. Teachers were prisoners. Teachers were volunteers. Books came from donated schoolbooks. Stationery was donated. Everything was donated, because there was no budget of education for the prison. Now if I'd not done that, it would have been a hellhole. That's the second landmark. I want to show you some moments of history in my journey, which probably you would never ever get to see anywhere in the world. One, the numbers you'll never get to see. Secondly, this concept. This was a meditation program inside the prison of over 1,000 prisoners. One thousand prisoners who sat in meditation. This was one of the most courageous steps I took as a prison governor. And this is what transformed. You want to know more about this, go and see this film, ""Doing Time, Doing Vipassana."" You will hear about it, and you will love it. And write to me on KiranBedi.com, and I'll respond to you. Let me show you the next slide. I took the same concept of mindfulness, because, why did I bring meditation into the Indian prison? Because crime is a product of a distorted mind. It was distortion of mind which needed to be addressed to control. Not by preaching, not by telling, not by reading, but by addressing your mind. I took the same thing to the police, because police, equally, were prisoners of their minds, and they felt as if it was ""we"" and ""they,"" and that the people don't cooperate. This worked. This is a feedback box called a petition box. This is a concept which I introduced to listen to complaints, listen to grievances. This was a magic box. This was a sensitive box. This is how a prisoner drew how they felt about the prison. If you see somebody in the blue — yeah, this guy — he was a prisoner, and he was a teacher. And you see, everybody's busy. There was no time to waste. Let me wrap it up. I'm currently into movements, movements of education of the under-served children, which is thousands — India is all about thousands. Secondly is about the anti-corruption movement in India. That's a big way we, as a small group of activists, have drafted an ombudsman bill for the government of India. Friends, you will hear a lot about it. That's the movement at the moment I'm driving, and that's the movement and ambition of my life. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you."	"我接下來要講的故事是關於一個印度女人的旅程先從我的父母講起吧。我的爸媽非常有遠見在我出生的50年代—50、60年代時在印度女生是不受重視的。男孩子才是寶男生要開創事業或是繼承家族事業女生呢，被催著趕快結婚。我的家庭在當時是非常特別的。我們家四個小孩很幸運，一個男孩都沒有四個通通是女孩。我們家世代都是大地主我爸違抗了他爺爺幾乎鬧到要被斷絕繼承權的地步只因為他決定要讓我們四個女生都上學。他送我們去念當地最好的學校給我們最好的教育我說過，做子女的無法選擇父母做學生的，不能選擇學校孩子無法自己選學校學校都是父母親做決定的。這就是我的基礎我和三個姐妹在這樣子的環境長大。我爸以前常常說「我的四個女兒將來要分散到世界四個角落」我不知道他是開玩笑還是認真的，不過後來成真了我是唯一留在印度的。一個姐妹是英國人、一個是美國人一個是加拿大人我們四個就這樣在世界四個角落。 我的父母是我的模範我遵循他們教我的兩件事第一：「人生是斜坡」「你不是向上爬」「就是向下滾」第二件事，我一直惦記在心後來變成我人生哲學也改變了很多事就是：生命中發生的100件事，無論好壞其中90件是你的所作所為。若是好事，是你所做，享受吧。若是壞事，是你所為，就從中學習。只有10件是你無法控制的像是親戚過世、氣旋、颶風、地震你無法改變結果但你必須對情況作出反應。你會做什麼反應，都是由另外90件事得來的。我是這種哲學下的產物90/10哲學還有「人生是斜坡」這兩種觀點我在這樣的想法下長大我珍惜我所擁有的我也是好運下的產物。在50、60年代那種女孩子無法上學的狀況下我有幸能上學我明白我父母親給我的是很獨特的東西因為我學校好友都被催著帶著一堆嫁妝，趕快嫁人我則是帶著網球拍上學參加一堆課外活動。我一定要跟各位說這些因為這是我的背景。 接下來我要說我考上了印度警察時是一個堅強的女子，我是個不屈不撓、有耐力的女人因為以前追尋網球頭銜練成的最後我加入了印度警察部門那時對“警察”有了新的定義。對我來說，警察代表了糾正的權利遏止犯罪的權利和偵察的權利。這是印度警界的新定義 —遏止犯罪的權利。通常大家都會覺得有偵察的權利或者處罰的權利就夠了。但我決定，最重要的是遏止犯罪的權利因為我成長過程中學到的就是如何避免那10件事，並控制在10之內這就是我後來很重視這點的原因也是和其他男警官不同的地方。我不想要刻意營造出男女警官的不同處，但這是事實也是我與他人的相異處我重新定義了印度警察。我要和各位分享兩段旅程我的警察之旅與監獄之旅。你可以看到標題「總理座車被拖吊」這是印度總理首次被開了違規停車罰單。（笑聲）這在印度是第一次我可以告訴你，也會是最後一次以後不會再發生了絕對是空前絕後。因為我觀察敏銳富同情、特別對不公平的事抱不屈而且我正義勇為就是因為這原因，身為女人的我加入了印度警察我有其他路可以走，但我卻選擇這條 並勇敢走下去。所以我要說的是關於嚴厲、平等的警務執行。大家都知道，我是個什麼都聽不進去的女人隨便什麼崗位就丟給我一些其他人不想做的工作後來我被派去監獄執行警務。通常，警察不想被賦予監獄任務但他們給我這任務，是想把我關起來因為監獄裏沒有車也就不會有特權人士再被開單把她關起來吧。所以我被指派到監獄去面對處理一大堆的罪犯也果真如此。但 10,000人中只有400名婦女，10,000人中，9600個是男人是恐怖分子、強姦犯小偷、流氓—有些還是我當警察時送進去坐牢的。我告訴各位我怎麼應付他們。我第一天進去不知該視線要往哪裏擺我問：「你們禱告嗎？」我看著這群人說：「你們禱告嗎？」他們看著我這個年輕矮小、穿著制服的女警我繼續問：「你們禱告嗎？」他們一句話都不說我說：「你們禱告嗎？你們想禱告嗎？」他們說：「是的」我說：「好，我們來禱告」我為他們禱告，然後事情開始有了轉變。這是監獄裡受教育的景象 各位，這是前所未見的監獄裡每個人都讀著書這個計畫是靠地方社區的支持開始的。政府沒有這樣的預算。這變成世上最棒、最大自動自發的監獄之一。最初是在德里監獄開始的你看到的是其中一例這是囚犯在教書好幾百堂的課9點到11點，每個囚犯都參與教育課程在這裡，他們原以為進了監獄就會被眾人遺忘。我們將之改造成靜修處透過教育，將監獄轉變為靜修處。我想這是更大的改變這成為轉變的開始老師們是囚犯自己，是自願的書是學校教科書捐來的文具是捐來的每樣東西都是別人捐的。因為沒有監獄教育這種預算如果我沒這麼做這裡會是很糟的地方 這是第二個里程碑。我帶各位看看我過去這段旅程裏面可能會有你從未見過的東西第一是：人數之多會讓你驚訝第二是這個概念本身。這是監獄裡的冥想計畫數千名犯人一起參與這是一千名犯人一起冥想。這是我身為典獄長時最勇敢的舉動這就是轉變的過程。如果你想知道更多可以去看看《牢關、內觀》這部片你會聽到更多的事，並且愛上這轉變或是到KiranBedi.com寫信給我我會回覆的。下一張幻燈片一樣也是正念、内觀的概念為什麼我把冥想帶進印度監獄？因為犯罪是思想扭曲的成品思想扭曲是需要控制的不是說教、講道理也不是透過閱讀，而是直接面對心靈。一樣的作法，我帶到警界因為警察，也是自己內心的囚犯他們覺得跟犯人的差距就是""你、我""並覺得人人都不好好合作。這奏效了 這個意見回饋盒叫做""陳情箱""這是我發起的一個概念來聆聽抱怨、傾聽委屈。這是個神秘寶盒是個很敏感的盒子這是犯人畫他們心中的監獄你看到穿藍色衣服這個人他是犯人，也是老師可以看到，大家都很忙，沒閒時間浪費。 我來做結吧我正在推行一些運動關於教育的運動關於經費不足的孩子們現在有數千名這樣的孩子，印度都用千來計算的。第二，就是印度的反腐敗活動這是個很大的行動我們身為一小群的積極分子我們已經擬好監察、申訴專員草案，要交給印度政府。各位，你們將會聽到更多消息這些就是我目前正推行的運動也是我一生的野心所在。 非常感謝（掌聲）謝謝 非常感謝 謝謝謝謝 謝謝 謝謝"
