Talk	en	zh-tw
kirk_citron_and_now_the_real_news	We are drowning in news. Reuters alone puts out three and a half million news stories a year. That's just one source. My question is: How many of those stories are actually going to matter in the long run? That's the idea behind The Long News. It's a project by The Long Now Foundation, which was founded by TEDsters including Kevin Kelly and Stewart Brand. And what we're looking for is news stories that might still matter 50 or 100 or 10,000 years from now. And when you look at the news through that filter, a lot falls by the wayside. To take the top stories from the A.P. this last year, is this going to matter in a decade? Or this? Or this? Really? Is this going to matter in 50 or 100 years? Okay, that was kind of cool. (Laughter) But the top story of this past year was the economy, and I'm just betting that, sooner or later, this particular recession is going to be old news. So, what kind of stories might make a difference for the future? Well, let's take science. Someday, little robots will go through our bloodstreams fixing things. That someday is already here if you're a mouse. Some recent stories: nanobees zap tumors with real bee venom; they're sending genes into the brain; a robot they built that can crawl through the human body. What about resources? How are we going to feed nine billion people? We're having trouble feeding six billion today. As we heard yesterday, there's over a billion people hungry. Britain will starve without genetically modified crops. Bill Gates, fortunately, has bet a billion on [agricultural] research. What about global politics? The world's going to be very different when and if China sets the agenda, and they may. They've overtaken the U.S. as the world's biggest car market, they've overtaken Germany as the largest exporter, and they've started doing DNA tests on kids to choose their careers. We're finding all kinds of ways to push back the limits of what we know. Some recent discoveries: There's an ant colony from Argentina that has now spread to every continent but Antarctica; there's a self-directed robot scientist that's made a discovery — soon, science may no longer need us, and life may no longer need us either; a microbe wakes up after 120,000 years. It seems that with or without us, life will go on. But my pick for the top Long News story of this past year was this one: water found on the moon. Makes it a lot easier to put a colony up there. And if NASA doesn't do it, China might, or somebody in this room might write a big check. My point is this: In the long run, some news stories are more important than others. (Applause)	我們淹沒在新聞中單是路透社一家一年就發佈350萬則新聞注意這只是一家通信社啊 我的問題是： 這些新聞會有幾則用長期的角度來看哪些真正是重要的這正是「長遠新聞」想要傳達的理念為「長遠當代基金會」執行的計劃由數名TEDsters所包括凱文凱立和史都華布蘭德我們想要找出那些在50、100 或10,000年後仍然會有深遠影響的新聞故事經過前述的標準篩選後許多現在的新聞就會會被丟在一邊 拿去年美聯社的頭條新聞來說這個在十年後會有人在乎嗎？這個呢？還是這個？真的重要嗎？這在50或100年後還影響深遠嗎？好吧，剛剛那則還滿酷的(笑聲)去年的頭條是全球經濟問題但我敢打賭過遲早♪這波經濟衰退新聞就會變成陳年往事 所以，到底什麼樣的新聞可能對未來造成影響？我們看醫學新聞好了®有朝一日，迷你機器人能夠穿梭我們血液管道中進行身體器官修復對於老鼠，這個有朝一日早就到了最近新聞報導奈米蜜蜂用真蜂毒液殺死腫瘤©©™科學家把基因送到腦部人們已經造了一個可以在人體爬行的機器人 資源方面呢？我們要如何養活90億人，我們現在連填飽60億人的肚子都有困難。就如我們在昨天演講中所聽到，有超過10億人正處於饑餓中。我們也聽到，如果沒有轉基因作物，英國人早就餓死了。還好比爾蓋茲投入了十億美元在農業研究上 那麼國際政治方面呢？這個世界會重視的議題將會很不一樣，如果讓中國來設置議程的話，而中國真的有能力做到的因為中國已經超過美國成為世界上最大的汽車市場，中國也已超過德國成為最大的出口國，他們甚至已經開始在兒童身上做DNA測試，來給他們選擇職業。 我們尋找各種途徑，突破知識的極限以下是一些新發現阿根廷有一個蟻群現已傳播到每一個大陸 除了南極洲例外另外科學家機器人已經可以自我引導的作出科學上的新發現，所以很快的所以很快的，科學研究可能不再需要人類了，說不定連生命都不需要人類了一種微生物在120,000年在沉睡12萬年之後復活似乎有沒有人類，生命都會延續下去 我由去年的“長遠新聞”選出的第一名是這一個 月亮上找到了水的蹤跡如此一來人類要移居月球就容易多了如果NASA不願在月亮上建立殖民地，也許中國會作。也或許在座的某些人就會提供資金將其實現。 我今天演講的重點就是長遠來看，某些新聞故事就硬是比其他新聞重要的♫(掌聲)
