Talk	en	zh-tw
krista_donaldson_the_80_prosthetic_knee_that_s_changing_lives	"Nine years ago, I worked for the U.S. government in Iraq, helping rebuild the electricity infrastructure. And I was there, and I worked in that job because I believe that technology can improve people's lives. One afternoon, I had tea with a storekeeper at the Al Rasheed Hotel in Baghdad, and he said to me, ""You Americans, you can put a man on the moon, but when I get home tonight, I won't be able to turn on my lights."" At the time, the U.S. government had spent more than two billion dollars on electricity reconstruction. How do you ensure technology reaches users? How do you put it in their hands so that it is useful? So those are the questions that my colleagues and I at D-Rev ask ourselves. And D-Rev is short for Design Revolution. And I took over the organization four years ago and really focused it on developing products that actually reach users, and not just any users, but customers who live on less than four dollars a day. One of the key areas we've been working on recently is medical devices, and while it may not be obvious that medical devices have something in common with Iraq's electricity grid then, there are some commonalities. Despite the advanced technology, it's not reaching the people who need it most. So I'm going to tell you about one of the projects we've been working on, the ReMotion Knee, and it's a prosthetic knee for above-knee amputees. And this project started when the Jaipur Foot Organization, the largest fitter of prosthetic limbs in the world, came to the Bay Area and they said, ""We need a better knee."" Chances are, if you're living on less than four dollars a day, and you're an amputee, you've lost your limb in a vehicle accident. Most people think it's land mines, but it's a vehicle accident. You're walking by the side of the road and you're hit by a truck, or you're trying to to jump on a moving train, you're late for work, and your pant leg gets caught. And the reality is that if you don't have much money, like this young named Kamal right here, the option you really have is a bamboo staff to get around. And how big a problem is this? There's over three million amputees every year who need a new or replacement knee. And what are their options? This is a high-end. This is what we'd call a ""smart knee."" It's got a microprocessor inside. It can pretty much do anything, but it's 20,000 dollars, and to give you a sense of who wears this, veterans, American veterans coming back from Afghanistan or Iraq would be fit with something like this. This is a low-end titanium knee. It's a polycentric knee, and all that that means is the mechanism, is a four-bar mechanism, that mimics a natural human knee. But at 1,400 dollars, it's still too expensive for people like Kamal. And lastly, here you see a low-end knee. This is a knee that's been designed specifically for poor people. And while you have affordability, you've lost on functionality. The mechanism here is a single axis, and a single axis is like a door hinge. So you can think about how unstable that would be. And this is the type of mechanism that the Jaipur Foot Organization was using when they were looking for a better knee, and I just wanted to give you a sense of what a leg system looks like, because I'm showing you all these knees and I imagine it's hard to think  how it all fits together. So at the top you have a socket, and this fits over someone's residual limb, and everyone's residual limb is a little bit different. And then you have the knee, and here I've got a single axis on the knee so you can see how it rotates, and then a pylon, and then a foot. And we've been able to develop a knee, a polycentric knee, so that type of knee that acts like a human knee, mimics human gait, for 80 dollars retail. (Applause) But the key is, you can have this great invention, you can have this great design, but how do you get it to the people who most need it? How do you ensure it gets to them and it improves their lives? So at D-Rev, we've done some other projects, and we looked at three things that we really believe gets technologies to customers, to users, to people who need it. And the first thing is that the product  needs to be world class. It needs to perform on par or better than the best products on the market. Regardless of your income level, you want the most beautiful, the best product that there is. I'm going to show you a video now of a man named Ash. You can see him walking. He's wearing the same knee system here with a single axis knee. And he's doing a 10-meter walk test. And you'll notice that he's struggling  with stability as he's walking. And something that's not obvious, that you can't see, is that it's psychologically draining to walk and to be preventing yourself from falling. Now this is a video of Kamal. You remember Kamal earlier, holding the bamboo staff. He's wearing one of the earlier versions of our knee, and he's doing that same 10-meter walk test. And you can see his stability is much better. So world class isn't just about technical performance. It's also about human performance. And most medical devices, we've learned, as we've dug in, are really designed for Westerners, for wealthier economies. But the reality is our users, our customers, they do different things. They sit cross-legged more. We see that they squat. They kneel in prayer. And we designed our knee to have the greatest range of motion of almost any other knee on the market. So the second thing we learned, and this leads into my second point, which is that we believe that products need to be designed to be user-centric. And at D-Rev, we go one step further and we say you need to be user-obsessed. So it's not just the end user that you're thinking about, but everyone who interacts with the product, so, for example, the prosthetist who fits the knee, but also the context in which the knee is being fit. What is the local market like? How do all these components get to the clinic? Do they all get there on time? The supply chain. Everything that goes into ensuring that this product gets to the end user, and it goes in as part of the system, and it's used. So I wanted to show you some of the iterations we did between the first version, the Jaipur Knee, so this is it right here. (Clicking) Notice anything about it? It clicks. We'd seen that users had actually modified it. So do you see that black strip right there? That's a homemade noise dampener. We also saw that our users had modified it in other ways. You can see there that that particular amputee, he had wrapped bandages around the knee. He'd made a cosmesis. And if you look at the knee, it's got those pointy edges, right? So if you're wearing it under pants or a skirt or a sari, it's really obvious that you're wearing a prosthetic limb, and in societies where there's social stigma around being disabled, people are particularly acute about this. So I'm going to show you some of the modifications we did. We did a lot of iterations, not just  around this, but some other things. But here we have the version three,  the ReMotion Knee, but if you look in here, you can see the noise dampener. It's quieter. The other thing we did is that we smoothed the profile. We made it thinner. And something that's not obvious is that we designed it for mass production. And this goes into my last point. We really, truly believe that if a product is going to reach users at the scale that it's needed, it needs to be market-driven, and market-driven means that products are sold. They're not donated. They're not heavily subsidized. Our product needs to be designed to offer value to the end user. It also has to be designed to be very affordable. But a product that is valued by a customer is used by a customer, and use is what creates impact. And we believe that as designers, it holds us accountable to our customers. And with centralized manufacturing, you can control the quality control, and you can hit that $80 price point with profit margins built in. And now, those profit margins are critical, because if you want to scale, if you want to reach all the people in the world who possibly need a knee, it needs to be economically sustainable. So I want to give you a sense of where we are at. We have fit over 5,000 amputees, and one of the big indicators we're looking at, of course, is, does it improve lives? Well, the standard is, is someone still wearing their knee six months later? The industry average is about 65 percent. Ours is 79 percent, and we're hoping to get that higher. Right now, our knees are worn in 12 countries. This is where we want to get, though, in the next three years. We'll double the impact in 2015, and we'll double it each of the following years after that. But then we hit a new challenge, and that's the number of skilled prosthetists who are able to fit knees. So I want to end with a story of Pournima. Pournima was 18 years old when she was in a car accident where she lost her leg, and she traveled 12 hours by train to come to the clinic to be fit with a knee, and while all of the amputees who wear our knees affect us as the designers, she's particularly meaningful to me  as an engineer and as a woman, because she was in school, she had just started school to study engineering. And she said, ""Well, now that I can walk again, I can go back and complete my studies."" And to me she represents the next generation of engineers solving problems and ensuring meaningful technologies reach their users. So thank you. (Applause)"	九年前我在伊拉克為美國政府工作幫助重建電力基礎設施我會在那裡做這樣的工作是因為我相信科技可以使人的生活更好有天下午我跟一個倉庫管理員在巴格達拉希德飯店裡喝茶時他這麼跟我說：你們美國人啊你們有本事把一個人送上月球但是我今天晚上回到家卻連燈都打不開當時美國政府總共投入超過了二十億的美金在這些電力設備的重整規劃上我們如何能確保消費者真的有因為科技而受益又或者你如何能確定你做的正是人們需要的 這些是我和同事們在D-Rev所在思考的D-Rev是非營利組織「科技革新」(Design Revolution)的簡稱我四年前開始接管這個機構專注於研發產品讓真正有需求的人可以使用並非給每個人使用而是給一天不到四塊美金過活的人使用我們最近專攻的領域是醫療器材，或許這兩者中間看起來就是醫療器材跟當時在伊拉克所蓋的電路設備好像沒有太大的關連但其實是有共通點的即使有先進的技術真正需要的人卻無法受惠 所以我要跟大家分享我們的一個研究計畫「活動膝蓋」，這是人工膝蓋的一種專為膝上截肢者所設計這個計畫始於世界最大的義肢製造組織也就是齋浦爾足機構（Jaipur Foot Organization）來灣區拜訪我們說我們需要有更好的人工膝蓋如果你一天生活費不到四塊美金在一場車禍中失去你的腿腳又剛好截肢的話大家都以為你是因為誤踩地雷但其實是因為一場車禍你在路旁走著走著就被一台卡車給撞到了又或者你是因為試著要跳上行駛中的火車因為上班已經遲到，卻很不巧褲管被夾到而如果現實情況是你並沒有錢就好像這位名叫卡莫（Kamal）的年輕人你真正能選擇的就是拄著一根竹竿走這個問題究竟有多嚴重？每年有超過三百萬人必須面臨截肢他們都需要一個新的或可替代的膝蓋 他們有哪些選擇呢?這個相當高級，我們稱之為 「智慧膝蓋」裡面裝了一個微處理器幾乎可以做任何動作但是要價兩萬美金讓大家有個概念這類產品都是什麼樣的人在用退役軍人，特別是從阿富汗或伊拉克回來的美國退役軍人他們就能穿得起這樣的義肢這款是比較低階的鈦金屬人工膝蓋這是一種多軸心膝關節，意味著裡面的構造是四連桿的結構是照著原本的膝蓋結構來設計但一組要1,400美金，還是太貴了特別是對像卡莫這樣的人來說最後，這是另一款低階的人工膝蓋是專門為經濟拮据的人而設計是專門為經濟拮据的人而設計雖然價格低廉但功能也就被犧牲了這個構造是單軸的結構單軸就跟門軸是一樣的你可以想像這有多麼不牢靠而這種人工膝蓋也就是 齋浦爾足機構找到另一個更好替代方案前所使用的這裡我想先讓大家看看一副完整的義肢長怎樣因為我剛剛呈現給大家的都只是膝關節大概很難看得出來是怎麼穿戴的你們可以看到頂部有一個凹槽這個會包覆住截肢後的殘肢但每個人的殘肢都些許的不同再來是人工膝關節的部份這裡有個單軸的膝關節大家可以看到它是怎麼轉動然後是小腿跟足部我們目前已研發出多軸心的膝蓋，就是能夠正常活動就好像真的膝蓋，可以跟正常人一樣走路但只要80塊美金就可以買到 (掌聲) 重點是，擁有偉大的發明跟絕佳的設計，但是要怎麼樣才能確保那些真正需要這項產品的人可以用得到呢？你怎麼確定他們真的用得到而且確實對他們生活有幫助呢？ 針對這點在D-Rev我們還有進行別的計畫我們相信透過下列三點可以使得這些新科技或技術讓真正有需求的顧客或使用者使用 首先就是產品必須要有世界級的水準必須在水準之上或比市面上最好的產品更好不管你的收入有多少人總是會渴望買到最美或者是最好的產品我現在要播放一段影片影片裡的男子叫艾許(Ash)大家可以看他怎麼走路他所穿戴的就是跟這組義肢一樣是單軸結構的膝關節他在進行一項十公尺的步行測驗可以注意到他走路時會有不平穩的問題並且另外一個大家可能不會注意到的問題如果走路必須隨時提防跌倒就會讓人心力交瘁現在影片上出現的是卡莫還記得先前我們提到拿拄著竹竿的卡莫他所穿的是我們前幾代出產的人工膝關節做一樣的十公尺步行測試可以注意到他走路的穩定性提高很多 世界級指的不僅是技術層面也是要適合全世界的人穿戴我們發現大部份的醫療器材當我們越深入研究，就發現大都是為西方人或是經濟較富裕的國家而設計但是事實上我們的客群或使用者他們的生活習慣是不一樣的，他們比較常盤腿坐我們發現他們會蹲著或跪著禱告而我們所設計的膝關節跟市面上其他產品比起來能做最多的動作 所以我們學到的第二件事也是我接下來要說的第二點我們相信產品必須針對使用者的需求設計在D-Rev我們甚至更進一步表示我們設計的原則是使用者至上所以這裡講到的不光是使用產品本身的人也包含要把其他會跟這個產品相關的人考量進去比方說，為患者穿戴義肢的矯具師患者會在什麼樣的情況下穿戴義肢？當地的義肢行情是怎樣？這些組件會怎麼被運送到診所裡？是否能夠都準時送到呢？這就關係到生產線每一個環節都是為了確保末端使用者能夠真正拿到一副完整的義肢，並且知道如何穿戴 接下來想讓大家看一下過去我們最早所研發出來的齋浦爾膝關節(Jaipur Knee)就是我手上的這個(咯喀聲)有注意到些什麼嗎它會發出咯喀聲我們真的有客人自己改良它有看到畫面上黑色那塊嗎？那是自製的消音器還有其他客戶用不同的方式還有其他客戶用不同的方式大家看到這位截肢患者他用繃帶纏裹自己的膝蓋嘗試美化它如果你靠近一點看有些地方會凸凸的，對吧這樣穿褲子、裙子或印度傳統紗麗的時候，別人一看就會知道你裝了義肢而若社會風氣是歧視殘障人士時人們總是對這點特別敏銳 接下來是我們所作的修正我們做了許多嘗試除了剛講到的還有調整其他部份這是第三版：移動膝蓋(ReMotion Knee)如果往裡面看，就會看到消音器，比剛剛的聲音還要小另外一點是我們把表面做得更平滑厚度也變得也更薄可能不是那麼容易看出來的是這是專門為了大量生產而做的設計 而這也是我分享的最後一點我們真的相信如果一個產品要能廣泛到所有需求者都可以用得到那它必須得是市場導向的產品市場導向表示產品要能賣得出去而並非透過捐贈方式，也無需申請大量補助除了產品的設計必須是對消費者有益除了產品的設計必須是對消費者有益也要讓價格平易近人但是一個對消費者有益的產品跟一個被消費者使用的產品只有被使用了才能真正帶來影響我們相信身為設計師對於顧客負有相當的責任而透過中央統一生產品管就可以有保障雖然價位在美金八十塊卻也仍是有利潤講到這裡，利潤是相當關鍵的因為如果你希望達到最大的效益或希望世界上每個需要膝關節的人都可以擁有那勢必要是能持續獲益的 也再跟大家分享我們的一些心得目前有超過五千名截肢患者使用了我們的產品而我們所關注的一項最重要的指標當然就是：是否真的有助於改善生活？衡量的標準是這個人是否六個月後還是穿戴這副人工膝關節一般業界平均值是 65%而我們的產品則達 79%我們仍在嘗試能提升這個數據目前有我們的膝關節使用者遍及 12 個國家這是我們接下來三年要努力的目標這是我們接下來三年要努力的目標希望可以在 2015 年有雙倍成長並在那之後每年雙倍成長但之後又會面臨另一個新的挑戰就是是否有足夠協助穿戴膝關節的優秀矯具師就是是否有足夠協助穿戴膝關節的優秀矯具師 最後，我想跟大家分享普利尼瑪(Prinima)的故事普利尼瑪當時十八歲她在一場車禍裡失去了一條腿她搭了十二個小時的火車來到診所裡試穿人工膝關節而當這些截肢患者穿戴上我們的膝關節時是我們身為設計者最感動的時刻她身為一位工程師又是女性對我而言意義非凡因為她當時還在念書剛開始準備研讀工程學她說，我現在又可以走路了就也可以回到學校繼續就學了她就好像是代表了下一個世代即將興起的工程師不光解決現有問題還會確保這些意義非凡的科技落實於有需求的人 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
