Talk	en	zh-tw
kristen_ashburn_s_heart_rending_pictures_of_aids	When I first arrived in beautiful Zimbabwe, it was difficult to understand that 35 percent of the population is HIV positive. It really wasn't until I was invited to the homes of people that I started to understand the human toll of the epidemic. For instance, this is Herbert with his grandmother. When I first met him, he was sitting on his grandmother's lap. He has been orphaned, as both of his parents died of AIDS, and his grandmother took care of him until he too died of AIDS. He liked to sit on her lap because he said that it was painful for him to lie in his own bed. When she got up to make tea, she placed him in my own lap and I had never felt a child that was that emaciated. Before I left, I actually asked him if I could get him something. I thought he would ask for a toy, or candy, and he asked me for slippers, because he said that his feet were cold. This is Joyce who's — in this picture — 21. Single mother, HIV positive. I photographed her before and after the birth of her beautiful baby girl, Issa. And I was last week walking on Lafayette Street in Manhattan and got a call from a woman who I didn't know, but she called to tell me that Joyce had passed away at the age of 23. Joyce's mother is now taking care of her daughter, like so many other Zimbabwean children who've been orphaned by the epidemic. So a few of the stories. With every picture, there are individuals who have full lives and stories that deserve to be told. All these pictures are from Zimbabwe. Chris Anderson: Kirsten, will you just take one minute, just to tell your own story of how you got to Africa? Kirsten Ashburn: Mmm, gosh. CA: Just — KA: Actually, I was working at the time, doing production for a fashion photographer. And I was constantly reading the New York Times, and stunned by the statistics, the numbers. It was just frightening. So I quit my job and decided that that's the subject that I wanted to tackle. And I first actually went to Botswana, where I spent a month — this is in December 2000 — then went to Zimbabwe for a month and a half, and then went back again this March 2002 for another month and a half in Zimbabwe. CA: That's an amazing story, thank you. KB: Thanks for letting me show these.	當我第一次到美麗的辛巴威時我很難想像這個國家有35%的人口感染愛滋病毒直到我受邀進入那些病患的家裡我才開始了解人類為傳染病所付出的代價舉個例子，這是Herbert跟他的祖母當我第一次看到他時，他坐在他祖母的大腿上他因為雙親死於愛滋而成為孤兒然後他的祖母照顧他直到他也死於愛滋他喜歡坐在她的大腿上因為他說躺在床上會覺得痛當祖母起身去泡茶時，她把Herbert放在我的大腿上我從來沒有抱過這麼瘦弱的孩子在我離開前，我問他是否想要什麼我原本以為他會想要玩具或是糖果之類但他想要的卻是拖鞋因為他說他的腳會冷 這是Joyce 21歲時的照片她是單親媽媽，也感染了愛滋病毒我在她生下寶貝女兒 Issa的前、後都替她拍照當我上禮拜走在曼哈頓的拉法葉街時接到一通我不認識的女人打來的電話她跟我說Joyce在23歲時過世現在是Joyce的媽媽在照顧她的女兒就像很多因傳染病變成孤兒的辛巴威兒童一樣這是眾多案例中的幾個故事但在每張照片中每位都有值得被傳頌的生命歷程和故事所有照片都來自辛巴威 Chris Anderson：Kirsten，能不能請你花個一分鐘簡單的告訴我們你怎麼會想去非洲的故事 Kirsten Ashburn：嗯.... CA：只要... KA：事實上，我那時候正為一位時尚攝影師做製作的工作那時我一直都在看紐約時報對愛滋病相關的統計和數字感到震驚那些資料非常嚇人所以我辭掉工作決定從事我真正想做的主題2000年的十二月我花了一整個月待在Botswana然後再去辛巴威待了一個半月接著在2002年的三月我又回去辛巴威待了一個半月 CA：那是個很棒的故事，謝謝你的分享 謝謝你給我機會分享
