Talk	en	zh-tw
kristina_gjerde_making_law_on_the_high_seas	"Today I'm going to take you on a voyage to some place so deep, so dark, so unexplored that we know less about it than we know about the dark side of the moon. It's a place of myth and legend. It's a place marked on ancient maps as ""here be monsters."" It is a place where each new voyage of exploration brings back new discoveries of creatures so wondrous and strange that our forefathers would have considered them monstrous indeed. Instead, they just make me green with envy that my colleague from IUCN was able to go on this journey to the south of Madagascar seamounts to actually take photographs and to see these wondrous creatures of the deep. We are talking about the high seas. The ""high seas"" is a legal term, but in fact, it covers 50 percent of the planet. With an average depth of the oceans of 4,000 meters, in fact, the high seas covers and provides nearly 90 percent of the habitat for life on this Earth. It is, in theory, the global commons, belonging to us all. But in reality, it is managed by and for those who have the resources to go out and exploit it. So today I'm going to take you on a voyage to cast light on some of the outdated myths and legends and assumptions that have kept us as the true stakeholders in the high seas in the dark. We're going to voyage to some of these special places that we've been discovering in the past few years to show why we really need to care. And then finally, we're going to try to develop and pioneer a new perspective on high seas governance that's rooted in ocean-basin-wide conservation, but framed in an arena of global norms of precaution and respect. So here is a picture of the high seas as seen from above — that area in the darker blue. To me, as an international lawyer, this scared me far more than any of the creatures or the monsters we may have seen, for it belies the notion that you can actually protect the ocean, the global ocean, that provides us all with carbon storage, with heat storage, with oxygen, if you can only protect 36 percent. This is indeed the true heart of the planet. Some of the problems that we have to confront are that the current international laws — for example, shipping — provide more protection to the areas closest to shore. For example, garbage discharge, something you would think just simply goes away, but the laws regulating ship discharge of garbage actually get weaker the further you are from shore. As a result, we have garbage patches the size of twice-Texas. It's unbelievable. We used to think the solution to pollution was dilution, but that has proved to be no longer the case. So what we have learned from social scientists and economists like Elinor Ostrom, who are studying the phenomenon of management of the commons on a local scale, is that there are certain prerequisites that you can put into place that enable you to manage and access open space for the good of one and all. And these include a sense of shared responsibility, common norms that bind people together as a community. Conditional access: You can invite people in, but they have to be able to play by the rules. And of course, if you want people to play by the rules, you still need an effective system of monitoring and enforcement, for as we've discovered, you can trust, but you also need to verify. What I'd also like to convey is that it is not all doom and gloom that we are seeing in the high seas. For a group of very dedicated individuals — scientists, conservationists, photographers and states — were able to actually change a tragic trajectory that was destroying fragile seascapes such as this coral garden that you see in front of you. That is, we're able to save it from a fate of deep-sea bottom trawling. And how did we do that? Well, as I said, we had a group of photographers that went out on board ships and actually photographed the activities in process. But we also spent many hours in the basements of the United Nations, trying to work with governments to make them understand what was going on so far away from land that few of us had ever even imagined that these creatures existed. So within three years, from 2003 to 2006, we were able to get norm in place that actually changed the paradigm of how fishers went about deep-sea bottom trawling. Instead of ""go anywhere, do anything you want,"" we actually created a regime that required prior assessment of where you're going and a duty to prevent significant harm. In 2009, when the U.N. reviewed progress, they discovered that almost 100 million square-kilometers of seabed had been protected. This does not mean that it's the final solution, or that this even provides permanent protection. But what it does mean is that a group of individuals can form a community to actually shape the way high seas are governed, to create a new regime. So I'm looking optimistically at our opportunities for creating a true, blue perspective for this beautiful planet. Sylvia's wish provides us with that leverage, that access to the heart of human beings, you might say, who have rarely seen places beyond their own toes, but are now hopefully going to become interested in the full life-cycle of creatures like these sea turtles, who indeed spend most of their time in the high seas. Today, we're just going to voyage to a small sampling of some of these special areas, just to give you an idea of the flavor of the riches and wonders they do contain. The Sargasso Sea, for example, is not a sea bounded by coastlines, but it is bounded by oceanic currents that contain and envelope this wealth of sargassum that grows and aggregates there. It's also known as the spawning ground for eels from Northern European and Northern American rivers that are now so dwindling in numbers that they've actually stopped showing up in Stockholm, and five showed up in the U.K. just recently. But the Sargasso Sea, the same way it aggregates sargassum weed, actually is pulling in the plastic from throughout the region. This picture doesn't exactly show the plastics that I would like it to show, because I haven't been out there myself. But there has just been a study that was released in February that showed there are 200,000 pieces of plastic per square-kilometer now floating in the surface of the Sargasso Sea, and that is affecting the habitat for the many species in their juvenile stages who come to the Sargasso Sea for its protection and its food. The Sargasso Sea is also a wondrous place for the aggregation of these unique species that have developed to mimic the sargassum habitat. It also provides a special habitat for these flying fish to lay their eggs. But what I'd like to get from this picture is that we truly do have an opportunity to launch a global initiative for protection. Thus, the government of Bermuda has recognized the need and its responsibility as having some of the Sargasso Sea within its national jurisdiction — but the vast majority is beyond — to help spearhead a movement to achieve protection for this vital area. Spinning down to someplace a little bit cooler than here right now: the Ross Sea in the Southern Ocean. It's actually a bay. It's considered high seas, because the continent has been put off limits to territorial claims. So anything in the water is treated as if it's the high seas. But what makes the Ross Sea important is the vast sea of pack ice that in the spring and summer provides a wealth of phytoplankton and krill that supports what, till recently, has been a virtually intact near-shore ecosystem. But unfortunately, CCAMLR, the regional commission in charge of conserving and managing fish stocks and other living marine resources, is unfortunately starting to give in to fishing interests and has authorized the expansion of toothfish fisheries in the region. The captain of a New Zealand vessel who was just down there is reporting a significant decline in the number of the Ross Sea killer whales, who are directly dependent on the Antarctic toothfish as their main source of food. So what we need to do is to stand up boldly, singly and together, to push governments, to push regional fisheries management organizations, to declare our right to declare certain areas off-limits to high seas fishing, so that the freedom to fish no longer means the freedom to fish anywhere and anytime. Coming closer to here, the Costa Rica Dome is a recently discovered area — potentially year-round habitat for blue whales. There's enough food there to last them the summer and the winter long. But what's unusual about the Costa Rica Dome is, in fact, it's not a permanent place. It's an oceanographic phenomenon that shifts in time and space on a seasonal basis. So, in fact, it's not permanently in the high seas. It's not permanently in the exclusive economic zones of these five Central American countries, but it moves with the season. As such, it does create a challenge to protect, but we also have a challenge protecting the species that move along with it. We can use the same technologies that fishers use to identify where the species are, in order to close the area when it's most vulnerable, which may, in some cases, be year-round. Getting closer to shore, where we are, this was in fact taken in the Galapagos. Many species are headed through this region, which is why there's been so much attention put into conservation of the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape. This is the initiative that's been coordinated by Conservation International with a variety of partners and governments to actually try to bring integrated management regime throughout the area. That is, it provides a wonderful example of where you can go with a real regional initiative. It's protecting five World Heritage sites. Unfortunately, the World Heritage Convention does not recognize the need to protect areas beyond national jurisdiction, at present. So a place like the Costa Rica Dome could not technically qualify the time it's in the high seas. So what we've been suggesting is that we either need to amend the World Heritage Convention, so that it can adopt and urge universal protection of these World Heritage sites, or we need to change the name and call it Half-the-World Heritage Convention. But what we also know is that species like these sea turtles do not stay put in the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape. These happen to go down to a vast South Pacific Gyre, where they spend most of their time and often end up getting hooked like this, or as bycatch. So what I'd really like to suggest is that we need to scale-up. We need to work locally, but we also need to work ocean-basin-wide. We have the tools and technologies now to enable us to take a broader ocean-basin-wide initiative. We've heard about the Tagging of Pacific Predators project, one of the 17 Census of Marine Life projects. It's provided us data like this, of tiny, little sooty shearwaters that make the entire ocean basin their home. They fly 65,000 kilometers in less than a year. So we have the tools and treasures coming from the Census of Marine Life. And its culminating year that's going to be launched in October. So stay tuned for further information. What I find so exciting is that the Census of Marine Life has looked at more than the tagging of pacific predators; it's also looked in the really unexplored mid-water column, where creatures like this flying sea cucumber have been found. And fortunately, we've been able, as IUCN, to team up with the Census of Marine Life and many of the scientists working there to actually try to translate much of this information to policymakers. We have the support of governments now behind us. We've been revealing this information through technical workshops. And the exciting thing is that we do have sufficient information to move ahead to protect some of these significant hope spots, hotspots. At the same time we're saying, ""Yes, we need more. We need to move forward."" But many of you have said, if you get these marine protected areas, or a reasonable regime for high seas fisheries management in place, how are you going to enforce it? Which leads me to my second passion besides ocean science, which is outer space technology. I wanted to be an astronaut, so I've constantly followed what are the tools available to monitor Earth from outer space — and that we have incredible tools like we've been learning about, in terms of being able to follow tagged species throughout their life-cycles in the open ocean. We can also tag and track fishing vessels. Many already have transponders on board that allow us to find out where they are and even what they're doing. But not all the vessels have those to date. It does not take too much rocket science to actually try to create new laws to mandate, if you're going to have the privilege of accessing our high seas resources, we need to know — someone needs to know — where you are and what you're doing. So it brings me to my main take-home message, which is we can avert a tragedy of the commons. We can stop the collision course of 50 percent of the planet with the high seas. But we need to think broad-scale. We need to think globally. We need to change how we actually go about managing these resources. We need to get the new paradigm of precaution and respect. At the same time, we need to think locally, which is the joy and marvel of Sylvia's hope spot wish, is that we can shine a spotlight on many of these previously unknown areas, and to bring people to the table, if you will, to actually make them feel part of this community that truly has a stake in their future management. And third is that we need to look at ocean-basin-wide management. Our species are ocean-basin-wide. Many of the deep-sea communities have genetic distribution that goes ocean-basin-wide. We need to better understand, but we also need to start to manage and protect. And in order to do that, you also need ocean-basin management regimes. That is, we have regional management regimes within the exclusive economic zone, but we need to scale these up, we need to build their capacity, so they're like the Southern Ocean, where they do have the two-pronged fisheries and conservation organization. So with that, I would just like to sincerely thank and honor Sylvia Earle for her wish, for it is helping us to put a face on the high seas and the deep seas beyond national jurisdiction. It's helping to bring an incredible group of talented people together to really try to solve and penetrate these problems that have created our obstacles to management and rational use of this area that was once so far away and remote. So on this tour, I hope I provided you with a new perspective of the high seas: one, that it is our home too, and that we need to work together if we are to make this a sustainable ocean future for us all. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我將要帶大家進行一次航行到那些深海昏暗無光，未被探索比起我們對月球背面的瞭解知之更少這是一個富有神秘氣息和傳奇色彩的世界它在古代地圖上被標注為‘怪物出沒’每一次到這裡新的探索都帶回了許多驚奇特異生物的發現它們曾被我們的祖先們認為是怪物然而，它們卻讓我充滿羡慕嫉妒因為我的IUCN(國際自然保護聯盟)的同事能夠到馬達加斯加海嶺南部進行這次探索旅行拍到真實的照片並且親眼看到這些驚奇的深海生物 我們談論的是公海公海是一個法律概念但實際上，公海的範圍覆蓋了整個地球的一半公海平均深度為四千米事實上，公海提供了幾乎百分之九十的生存場所為地球上的生命理論上說，它是全球所共有的屬於我們大家但是實際上它的管理者是那些能夠有條件去公海航行和探索的人們所以今天我會帶大家進行一次航行去消除一些陳舊的謎團傳說和假設這些一直阻礙我們成為真正的利益相關者在昏暗的公海海洋中我們將要去的是一些十分特別的地方這些地方我們已經在過去幾年有了很多探索和發現我要向大家展示我們應該真正關心公海的原因而且最終我們將會嘗試去發展和開創出一個嶄新的觀念對於公海管理根植于海盆的保護但是卻有著國際準則的框架的預防和重視 這是一張公海的圖片正如我們之前所看到這些範圍用深藍色表示我作為一個國際法工作者這讓我感到害怕比任何我們可能見過的生物或怪物更為害怕因為這證明了我們沒有真正地保護海洋全球海域它提供給我們所有的碳熱，還有氧如果你只保護了其中的百分之三十六這是這個星球的真正的心臟我們不得不面對的一些問題是現在的國際法例如，航行條例提供了保護更多的是對那些靠近海岸的海域例如，垃圾排放有些你考慮到的僅僅是略過但是監管航船垃圾排放的法律當你越遠離海岸實際上越鬆散結果，我們排放的垃圾面積有兩個德克薩斯大真是難以置信我們曾經想過解決污染的辦法那就是稀釋但是那已被證實無法繼續奏效 所以我們從一些社會學家和像Elinor Ostrom這樣的經濟學家他們研究的現象是局部地區公共財產的管理學習到的是有一些特定前提條件你需要置定這些條件讓你能夠管理和接觸公共領域為了個人和社會的利益這些包括一種共同的責任感讓人們組成社會的共同規範有條件准入：你可以邀請人們進來但是他們必須能遵守遊戲規則當然，如果你想要人們遵守規則你仍然需要一個有效的系統監管和執行的系統在我們已經瞭解的範圍內你可以相信但仍然需要核實 我想要傳達的是劫難和陰暗並不是我們在公海上所看到的全部對於那些十分具有奉獻精神的人們科學家，生態環境保護者攝影師和國家等有能力去阻止一個悲劇的發生摧毀那些脆弱的海洋風光正如這個珊瑚群你們所看到的這個我們有能力拯救它免受深海海底拖網作業的破壞我們是如何做到的呢正如我所說，我們有一群攝影師，他們登上開往公海的船拍攝這些拖網作業活動的照片另外我們也投入大量時間在聯合國的機構努力與各國政府合作并讓他們瞭解到遠離陸地的深海上鎖發生的這一切這些我們從未能想像得到這些生物的存在 在這三年中二〇〇三年到二〇〇六年我們能夠建立規範這些規範改變了過去的範式關於捕魚業者去深海海底的拖網作業他們不再想到哪兒就到哪兒，想做什麽就做什麽我們創造了一種制度它要求我們對我們的去處進行先期評估它要求我們承擔避免重大損害的責任在二〇〇九年，當聯合國回顧我們的項目時他們發現差不多有一億平方公里的海床得到了保護這並不意味著這就是公海問題的最終解決方案也不意味著這為公海提供了永久的保護但是這意味著一群個體能夠組成一個社會去塑造公海時代的管理方法去創造新的規範制度所以我十分看好我們的機遇創造一個真正的蔚藍樣貌為這個美麗的星球西爾維婭的希望(項目名稱)為我們提供了捷徑到人類的內心也許你會說這些人幾乎沒看過自己腳尖外一點的地方現在卻好像越來越感興趣像海龜這樣的生物的生命週期這些人在公海方面投入了大量的時間和精力 今天我們只是航行到一個很小的海域它只是這些特別海域的一個樣本只是爲了讓大家能有一些對於公海內涵的豐富和奇妙的一些初步認識例如，馬尾藻海域這不是一個被海岸線包圍的海域而是被洋流所環繞這些洋流帶來了海藻所需要的養分這些養分讓這裡的海藻十分旺盛地繁衍和聚集這個海域也作為鰻魚的產卵地而著名這些鰻魚來自北歐和北美的河流他們的數量正在大量減少因為它們在斯德哥爾摩便停止了活動而且才在英國有了一些活動的跡象 但是馬尾藻海域正如它不斷集聚了馬尾藻的種子也正在不斷集聚塑料垃圾這些垃圾來自北大西洋地區這張圖片並沒有準確的展示我想要展示的那些塑料垃圾，因為我自己從未到過那裡但是有最新的研究已經在二月份在那裡進行這個研究表明那裡每平方公里有二十萬個塑料垃圾現在它們正漂浮在馬尾藻海域的表面研究還表明它們正嚴重影響著許多物種幼蟲階段的生存發育環境這些生物來到馬尾藻海域正是爲了得到這片海域的保護和養分馬尾藻海域也是一個令人驚奇的地方因為這裡集聚了大量奇特的生物它們已經適應了馬尾藻海的生存環境它也提供了一個特殊的場所為這些飛魚產卵但是我從這張圖片中所感受到的是我們真的擁有一個機會去開創一種全球化的保護百慕大政府已經發現了這樣的必要性和自己的責任因為它在部份馬尾藻海域擁有司法管轄權力但是在廣袤的其他海域卻沒有百慕大政府正帶頭發起一次行動來保護這個極其重要的海域 現在讓我們轉到一個比馬尾藻海域冷一點的地方南太平洋的羅斯海域實際上這是一個海灣它被視為公海，因為這裡在任何國家的管轄範圍之外沒有任何主權領土宣稱所以這裡水下的一切都與公海內的同樣對待但是讓羅斯海域十分重要的是這裡大量的海冰在春夏季節這些海冰為浮游植物和磷蝦提供了養分直到今天，這些生物仍支持著這個事實上原封未動未受損害的近海生態系統但是不幸的是，CAMLAR它是一個地域性的委員會負責保護和管理漁業資源和其他一些海洋資源十分不幸的是它目前開始在漁業利益上讓步并授權增加這個海域的圓鱈魚捕撈量一個新西蘭船長他才去過羅斯海報告了那裡虎鯨數量的急劇減少這些虎鯨十分依賴南極地區的圓鱈魚作為他們的主要食物所以我們要做的是勇敢的站起來我們一起向政府施壓向那些地區漁業管理機構施壓表明我們的權利表明一些公海漁業捕撈量的合理上限來阻止捕撈自由成為一種何時何地都能捕撈的無限自由 換一個比較靠近我們的海域，中部美洲西海岸是一個最近才開發的地區潛在的藍鯨的週期性生存海域這裡有足夠食物支持它們度過四季但是這片海域特殊之處在于實際上它不是一個永久固定的地方這是一種海洋學現象會隨著時間和地域季節性變動所以事實上，它并非是在公海上永久固定它也沒有固定在中美五國的專屬經濟區內它隨著季節不斷移動正因如此，這向我們的保護提出了挑戰也向我們保護隨著它一起移動的生物提出了挑戰我們可以用捕魚者使用的技術來確認這些生物在哪裡爲了靠近這個海域當它十分脆弱時有時是以年為週期 當我們靠近海岸一點便會發現這正是加拉帕戈斯群島所發生的許多物種都從這個區域通過這正是這裡在保護工作方面被重視的原因這個地區在東太平洋的熱帶部份這是第一次保護工作的配合國際保護組織和許多合作夥伴和政府一起嘗試建立共同管理規範在這一片區域這次合作提供了一個十分好的關於能在哪裡活動的示範在一個真正的地區主動管理下它正保護著五個世界遺產不幸的是，世界遺產協會尚未認識到保護這片區域的重要性而且這個地區當前並沒有在某國的管轄範圍內所以一個像中美西海岸這樣的地區嚴格來說無法說明公海的全部情況所以我們建議要么我們需要對世界遺產協會進行一些修正以讓它適應和推動這些世界遺產的普遍保護要么我們需要給它改名稱呼它為一半世界遺產協會同時我們也知道像海龜這樣的物種並非一直待在東太平洋的熱帶海域它們有時會南下到廣闊的南太平洋涡流在那裡度過它們大部份的時光而且它們常常最後被像這樣被鉤著或者被漁業混獲 所以我非常建議的是我們需要擴展我們需要在當地協作同時我們也需要在海盆上開展保護工作我們現在擁有科技和技術能夠讓我們在更廣闊的海盆上開創保護工作我們已經聽聞了關於給太平洋肉食動物標記的項目這個項目是十七個海洋生物普查工作之一它為我們提供了像烏黑的小海鷗等海洋生物的數據整個海盆都是這些小海鷗的家它們飛行六萬五千公里在一年之內所以我們有著來自海洋生物普查項目的測量技術和數據而且這個項目的結束會在十月份所以當前爲了更多的數據信息它正在調整我認為這個項目令人興奮的是海洋生物的普查並不只限於海洋肉食動物的標記工作它也關注了尚未被探索的海水中層生物那裡有像這樣遊動的海參它們已經被發現更幸運的是，因為IUCN的努力，我們已經有能力與海洋生物普查項目和許多在這個項目中工作的科學家們一起合作嘗試去為政策制定者解讀這些數據中的大量信息我們現在擁有了政府機構的支持我們一直通過科技小組進行著這些信息的解讀工作一個令人振奮的是我們的確擁有了足夠的信息來更進一步保護這些十分富有希望的地區，熱點地區同時我們也在號召對，我們需要更多，我們需要前進 然而我們中的一部份人問過如果你們讓這些海域得到了保護或者為公海漁業管理創造了合理的規範你如何去執行它呢這個問題引起了我對於海洋科學聆之外領域的濃烈興趣這邊是太空科技我曾經想成為一個宇航員所以我一直關注著有些什麽樣的技術能夠對地球進行檢測從外太空我也看到了我們擁有一些難以置信的技術，正如我們已經知道的跟蹤那些被標注的生物的科技在他們整個的生命週期在遼闊的海洋我們同樣也能標記和追蹤捕魚船許多捕魚船已經在船上裝備了轉發器能夠讓我們知道他們在哪裡並且能知道他們在幹什麼可是並非所有的船隻都裝備了這個我們並不需要很多高科技來制定和執行新的法律如果你將擁有特權能夠獲得我們公海上的資源我們需要知道—有人需要知道—你在哪裡和你在做什麽 所以又回到了我的主題就是我們能避免公用資源的悲劇我們能夠阻止那些衝突這些衝突發生在占這個星球一半的公海上然而我們需要從一個廣闊的角度來思考 我們需要全球化的思考我們需要改變我們現在的做法管理這些資源我們需要制定新的規範來預防和重視同時，我們也需要當地化的思考這正是西爾維婭的希望取得成果的原因我們能夠突出一個熱點在這些之前并不為人所知的地區然後把人們帶到問題面前—如果你願意—來讓他們感到他們是我們這個社會的一部份這個社會擁有一個對於他們未來的管理十分重大的利益我想說的第三點是我們需要關注整個海盆的管理許多生物都是在海盆活動許多深海生態系統有著基因配置在整個海盆的範圍內的配置我們需要懂得我們也需要開始管理和保護另外爲了做好這一點我們也需要一些海盆管理的規範正如我們有著區域性的管理規範在專屬經濟區內但我們也需要將他們整合，我們需要創建這些規範的權限例如南太平洋那片海域有自相衝突的漁業和保護組織 所以在這一點上，我真誠地感謝和讚揚Sylvia Earle的希望因為它幫助我們重視公海和沒有被國家主權覆蓋的遠洋它幫助我們組建了一個令人不可思議的團隊這個團隊有各種富有才華的人一起真正的去解決和發現這些成為了我們管理和合理使用這片曾經如此遙遠的公海海域的問題 所以通過這樣的一次旅行，我希望我已經為大家展示了一種關於公海的新的視角公海同樣是我們的家園我們需要一起努力如果我們想讓公海在未來成為一片可持續發展的共有海洋 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
