Talk	en	zh-tw
lakshmi_pratury_on_letter_writing	"So I thought, ""I will talk about death."" Seemed to be the passion today. Actually, it's not about death. It's inevitable, terrible, but really what I want to talk about is, I'm just fascinated by the legacy people leave when they die. That's what I want to talk about. So Art Buchwald left his legacy of humor with a video that appeared soon after he died, saying, ""Hi! I'm Art Buchwald, and I just died."" And Mike, who I met at Galapagos, a trip which I won at TED, is leaving notes on cyberspace where he is chronicling his journey through cancer. And my father left me a legacy of his handwriting through letters and a notebook. In the last two years of his life, when he was sick, he filled a notebook with his thoughts about me. He wrote about my strengths, weaknesses, and gentle suggestions for improvement, quoting specific incidents, and held a mirror to my life. After he died, I realized that no one writes to me anymore. Handwriting is a disappearing art. I'm all for email and thinking while typing, but why give up old habits for new? Why can't we have letter writing and email exchange in our lives? There are times when I want to trade all those years that I was too busy to sit with my dad and chat with him, and trade all those years for one hug. But too late. But that's when I take out his letters and I read them, and the paper that touched his hand is in mine, and I feel connected to him. So maybe we all need to leave our children with a value legacy, and not a financial one. A value for things with a personal touch — an autographed book, a soul-searching letter. If a fraction of this powerful TED audience could be inspired to buy a beautiful paper — John, it'll be a recycled one — and write a beautiful letter to someone they love, we actually may start a revolution where our children may go to penmanship classes. So what do I plan to leave for my son? I collect autographed books, and those of you authors in the audience know I hound you for them — and CDs too, Tracy. I plan to publish my own notebook. As I witnessed my father's body being swallowed by fire, I sat by his funeral pyre and wrote. I have no idea how I'm going to do it, but I am committed to compiling his thoughts and mine into a book, and leave that published book for my son. I'd like to end with a few verses of what I wrote at my father's cremation. And those linguists, please pardon the grammar, because I've not looked at it in the last 10 years. I took it out for the first time to come here. ""Picture in a frame, ashes in a bottle, boundless energy confined in the bottle, forcing me to deal with reality, forcing me to deal with being grown up. I hear you and I know that you would want me to be strong, but right now, I am being sucked down, surrounded and suffocated by these raging emotional waters, craving to cleanse my soul, trying to emerge on a firm footing one more time, to keep on fighting and flourishing just as you taught me. Your encouraging whispers in my whirlpool of despair, holding me and heaving me to shores of sanity, to live again and to love again."" Thank you."	我原先在想：「我會談論死亡。」那似乎是我今天要跟你分享的主題。但事實上，我將分享的與死亡無關。死亡是不可避免而又令人愄懼的，但我真正想談論的是我被人們死去時所留下的遺產吸引著。這就是我想分享的主題。 如包可華(Art Buchwald) 透過影像留下他那一絲幽默影帶在他死後隨即出現，說著：「嗨! 我是包可華(Art Buchwald)，我剛剛死了。」我透過TED的旅程，在加拉巴哥(Galapagos)遇到米可,當時他透過互聯網在個人空間上記述他患上癌症的經歷。而我的父親則透過一些信件和一本記事本留下他那手寫的遺產。這個生病了的爸爸在生命中的最後兩年把自己對我的看法都寫滿在記事本上。他寫下我的長處和短處並提出一些能助我改正的方法同時亦引用特殊的例子，為我的生活提供反思。 在他離世後，我發現沒有人再寫信給我了。書寫這門藝術正漸漸地消失。我平日會用電子郵件，也會一面思考一面打字但為何要為了新的事物而捨棄舊有的習慣?為何書信和電子郵件不能與我們的生活融合在一起?有一段時間我因為太忙碌而沒有坐下來跟我父親聊聊天有時，我真的很想換回那幾年然後再以那些時光來換爸爸的一個擁抱。可是已經太遲了。但每當我拿出並細閱他的信我感到與他緊密相連,因為他觸摸過的那張信紙就在我手中。 也許，我們需要留給我們的孩子的不是金錢上的遺產而是那種擁有真正的價值和意義的遺產。透過觸碰去留下有價值的物品—一本手寫書，一封真摰的信件。假如這些甚有影響力的TED觀眾的其中小部分能被感動而去買一張漂亮的紙—約翰，那會是一張環保再生紙— 然後寫一封美麗的信給他們深愛的人，我們或許要開始實行一個大變革讓我們的孩子去上手寫課。 那麼，我應該留些什麼給我的兒子呢？我在蒐集手寫書, 同時也在蒐集一些唱片, 翠絲。而坐在觀眾席上的一些作家都知道我正為這出版的事宜而緊跟著他們—我亦計畫出版自己的筆記。在我目睹我父親的遺體被火吞噬時，我坐在他葬禮的柴火旁，寫下我不知道我將如何過日子但後來我決定要將他和我的一些想法輯錄成一本書、出版, 然後留給我的兒子。 我想以一首我在父親葬禮中寫的短詩來結束今天的分享。讀語言的學者們, 請饒恕我的文法因為我至少有十年沒讀到這首詩了。這是我第一次將它公開在這裡。「在相框中的照片,在甕裡的骨灰,無窮的力量被緊封於甕內它迫使我面對現實迫使我逐漸成長。我確實聽到你的話, 而我知道你想我堅強但此刻, 我被這些肆虐的情緒浪潮吞沒、包圍，這一切令我窒息就如你所敎導一樣我渴望我的靈魂能被洗滌, 讓我能嘗試浮出水面再一次踏穩每一步, 繼續奮鬥和茁壯地成長。當我感到絕望和混亂時, 我聽到你在我耳邊低聲鼓勵我、扶持我、並把我拉到岸邊, 使我清醒,讓我能重生和再次去愛。」謝謝。
