Talk	en	zh-tw
lalitesh_katragadda_making_maps_to_fight_disaster_build_economies	In 2008, Cyclone Nargis devastated Myanmar. Millions of people were in severe need of help. The U.N. wanted to rush people and supplies to the area. But there were no maps, no maps of roads, no maps showing hospitals, no way for help to reach the cyclone victims. When we look at a map of Los Angeles or London, it is hard to believe that as of 2005, only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geo-codable level of detail. The U.N. ran headfirst into a problem that the majority of the world's populous faces: not having detailed maps. But help was coming. At Google, 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120,000 kilometers of roads, 3,000 hospitals, logistics and relief points. And it took them four days. The new software they used? Google Mapmaker. Google Mapmaker is a technology that empowers each of us to map what we know locally. People have used this software to map everything from roads to rivers, from schools to local businesses, and video stores to the corner store. Maps matter. Nobel Prize nominee Hernando De Soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land. For example, a trillion dollars of real estate remains uncapitalized in India alone. In the last year alone, thousands of users in 170 countries have mapped millions of pieces of information, and created a map of a level of detail never thought viable. And this was made possible by the power of passionate users everywhere. Let's look at some of the maps being created by users right now. So, as we speak, people are mapping the world in these 170 countries. You can see Bridget in Africa who just mapped a road in Senegal. And, closer to home, Chalua, an N.G. road in Bangalore. This is the result of computational geometry, gesture recognition, and machine learning. This is a victory of thousands of users, in hundreds of cities, one user, one edit at a time. This is an invitation to the 70 percent of our unmapped planet. Welcome to the new world. (Applause)	在2008年，Nargis颱風侵襲了緬甸造成數百萬人急需救助聯合國想要運送人員物資進災區但是沒有標示道路的地圖標示醫院的地圖也沒有，以致無法幫助受災民衆。 當我們看看洛杉磯，倫敦的地圖時你很難去相信到2005年全世界只有15%的地區的地圖達到可數位化的精確度聯合國跟世界大部分的居民遭遇到同樣的問題：沒有夠詳盡的地圖。 但是救兵來了在Google 有40位志願者使用了一套軟體標註了12萬公里的道路3000間醫院，運輸和救護站他們一共花了四天的時間他們使用的軟體？叫做Google Mapmaker Google Mapmaker 是一個允許我們標註在地資訊的科技人們使用這套軟體標註了道路，河流學校，當地企業錄影帶出租店，到轉角的便利商店 地圖很重要諾貝爾獎被提名人Hermando De Soto認爲開發中國家要發展經濟最重要的關鍵是去掌握大量未清查的土地舉例來説，光在印度就有價值一兆美元的土地沒被列入控管 光在去年170個國家數千個使用者就標註了幾百萬筆資訊並創造了前所未有的精確度這項任務得以實現要歸功於全球各地熱情的使用者 現在讓我們來看看使用者標註地圖的實況。我們在此演説的同時170 個國家的人也在標註地圖你可以看到在非洲的Bridget 剛為塞内加爾標註了一條道路離這裡近一點，Chulua 剛為Bangalore 標註了NG路 這是融合了計算機幾何學動作識別和機器學習的結果這也是在數百個城市裏數千個使用者的勝利一個使用者一次編輯一筆資訊 這也是對70%未被涵蓋區域的居民的一個邀請：歡迎來到嶄新的世界。（掌聲）
