Talk	en	zh-tw
larry_smith_why_you_will_fail_to_have_a_great_career	"I want to discuss with you this afternoon why you're going to fail to have a great career. (Laughter) I'm an economist. I do dismal. End of the day, it's ready for dismal remarks. I only want to talk to those of you who want a great career. I know some of you have already decided you want a good career. You're going to fail, too. (Laughter) Because — goodness, you're all cheery about failing. (Laughter) Canadian group, undoubtedly. (Laughter) Those trying to have good careers are going to fail, because, really, good jobs are now disappearing. There are great jobs and great careers, and then there are the high-workload, high-stress, bloodsucking, soul-destroying kinds of jobs, and practically nothing in-between. So people looking for good jobs are going to fail. I want to talk about those looking for great jobs, great careers, and why you're going to fail. First reason is that no matter how many times people tell you, ""If you want a great career, you have to pursue your passion, you have to pursue your dreams, you have to pursue the greatest fascination in your life,"" you hear it again and again, and then you decide not to do it. It doesn't matter how many times you download Steven J.'s Stanford commencement address, you still look at it and decide not to do it. I'm not quite sure why you decide not to do it. You're too lazy to do it. It's too hard. You're afraid if you look for your passion and don't find it, you'll feel like you're an idiot, so then you make excuses about why you're not going to look for your passion. They are excuses, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to go through a whole long list — your creativity in thinking of excuses not to do what you really need to do if you want to have a great career. So, for example, one of your great excuses is: (Sigh) ""Well, great careers are really and truly, for most people, just a matter of luck. So I'm going to stand around, I'm going to try to be lucky, and if I'm lucky, I'll have a great career. If not, I'll have a good career."" But a good career is an impossibility, so that's not going to work. Then, your other excuse is, ""Yes, there are special people who pursue their passions, but they are geniuses. They are Steven J. I'm not a genius. When I was five, I thought I was a genius, but my professors have beaten that idea out of my head long since."" (Laughter) ""And now I know I am completely competent."" Now, you see, if this was 1950, being completely competent — that would have given you a great career. But guess what? This is almost 2012, and saying to the world, ""I am totally, completely competent,"" is damning yourself with the faintest of praise. And then, of course, another excuse: ""Well, I would do this, I would do this, but, but — well, after all, I'm not weird. Everybody knows that people who pursue their passions are somewhat obsessive. A little strange. Hmm? Hmm? Okay? You know, a fine line between madness and genius. ""I'm not weird. I've read Steven J.'s biography. Oh my goodness — I'm not that person. I am nice. I am normal. I'm a nice, normal person, and nice, normal people — don't have passion."" (Laughter) ""Ah, but I still want a great career. I'm not prepared to pursue my passion, so I know what I'm going to do, because I have a solution. I have a strategy. It's the one Mommy and Daddy told me about. Mommy and Daddy told me that if I worked hard, I'd have a good career. So, if you work hard and have a good career, if you work really, really, really hard, you'll have a great career. Doesn't that, like, mathematically make sense?"" Hmm. Not. But you've managed to talk yourself into that. You know what? Here's a little secret: You want to work? You want to work really, really, really hard? You know what? You'll succeed. The world will give you the opportunity to work really, really, really, really hard. But, are you so sure that that's going to give you a great career, when all the evidence is to the contrary? So let's deal with those of you who are trying to find your passion. You actually understand that you really had better do it, never mind the excuses. You're trying to find your passion — (Sigh) and you're so happy. You found something you're interested in. ""I have an interest! I have an interest!"" You tell me. You say, ""I have an interest!"" I say, ""That's wonderful! And what are you trying to tell me?"" ""Well, I have an interest."" I say, ""Do you have passion?"" ""I have an interest,"" you say. ""Your interest is compared to what?"" ""Well, I'm interested in this."" ""And what about the rest of humanity's activities?"" ""I'm not interested in them."" ""You've looked at them all, have you?"" ""No. Not exactly."" Passion is your greatest love. Passion is the thing that will help you create the highest expression of your talent. Passion, interest — it's not the same thing. Are you really going to go to your sweetie and say, ""Marry me! You're interesting."" (Laughter) Won't happen. Won't happen, and you will die alone. (Laughter) What you want, what you want, what you want, is passion. It is beyond interest. You need 20 interests, and then one of them, one of them might grab you, one of them might engage you more than anything else, and then you may have found your greatest love, in comparison to all the other things that interest you, and that's what passion is. I have a friend, proposed to his sweetie. He was an economically rational person. He said to his sweetie, ""Let us marry. Let us merge our interests."" (Laughter) Yes, he did. ""I love you truly,"" he said. ""I love you deeply. I love you more than any other woman I've ever encountered. I love you more than Mary, Jane, Susie, Penelope, Ingrid, Gertrude, Gretel — I was on a German exchange program then. I love you more than —"" All right. She left the room halfway through his enumeration of his love for her. After he got over his surprise at being, you know, turned down, he concluded he'd had a narrow escape from marrying an irrational person. Although, he did make a note to himself that the next time he proposed, it was perhaps not necessary to enumerate all of the women he had auditioned for the part. (Laughter) But the point stands. You must look for alternatives so that you find your destiny, or are you afraid of the word ""destiny""? Does the word ""destiny"" scare you? That's what we're talking about. And if you don't find the highest expression of your talent, if you settle for ""interesting,"" what the hell ever that means, do you know what will happen at the end of your long life? Your friends and family will be gathered in the cemetery, and there beside your gravesite will be a tombstone, and inscribed on that tombstone it will say, ""Here lies a distinguished engineer, who invented Velcro."" But what that tombstone should have said, in an alternative lifetime, what it should have said if it was your highest expression of talent, was, ""Here lies the last Nobel Laureate in Physics, who formulated the Grand Unified Field Theory and demonstrated the practicality of warp drive."" (Laughter) Velcro, indeed! (Laughter) One was a great career. One was a missed opportunity. But then, there are some of you who, in spite of all these excuses, you will find, you will find your passion. And you'll still fail. You're going to fail, because — because you're not going to do it, because you will have invented a new excuse, any excuse to fail to take action, and this excuse, I've heard so many times: ""Yes, I would pursue a great career, but, I value human relationships — (Laughter) more than accomplishment. I want to be a great friend. I want to be a great spouse. I want to be a great parent, and I will not sacrifice them on the altar of great accomplishment."" (Laughter) What do you want me to say? Now, do you really want me to say now, tell you, ""Really, I swear I don't kick children."" (Laughter) Look at the worldview you've given yourself. You're a hero no matter what. And I, by suggesting ever so delicately that you might want a great career, must hate children. I don't hate children. I don't kick them. Yes, there was a little kid wandering through this building when I came here, and no, I didn't kick him. (Laughter) Course, I had to tell him the building was for adults only, and to get out. He mumbled something about his mother, and I told him she'd probably find him outside anyway. Last time I saw him, he was on the stairs crying. (Laughter) What a wimp. (Laughter) But what do you mean? That's what you expect me to say. Do you really think it's appropriate that you should actually take children and use them as a shield? You know what will happen someday, you ideal parent, you? The kid will come to you someday and say, ""I know what I want to be. I know what I'm going to do with my life."" You are so happy. It's the conversation a parent wants to hear, because your kid's good in math, and you know you're going to like what comes next. Says your kid, ""I have decided I want to be a magician. I want to perform magic tricks on the stage."" (Laughter) And what do you say? You say, you say, ""That's risky, kid. Might fail, kid. Don't make a lot of money at that, kid. I don't know, kid, you should think about that again, kid. You're so good at math, why don't you —"" The kid interrupts you and says, ""But it is my dream. It is my dream to do this."" And what are you going to say? You know what you're going to say? ""Look kid. I had a dream once, too, but — But —"" So how are you going to finish the sentence with your ""but""? ""But. I had a dream too, once, kid, but I was afraid to pursue it."" Or are you going to tell him this: ""I had a dream once, kid. But then, you were born."" (Laughter) (Applause) Do you really want to use your family, do you really ever want to look at your spouse and your kid, and see your jailers? There was something you could have said to your kid, when he or she said, ""I have a dream."" You could have said — looked the kid in the face and said, ""Go for it, kid! Just like I did."" But you won't be able to say that, because you didn't. So you can't. (Laughter) And so the sins of the parents are visited on the poor children. Why will you seek refuge in human relationships as your excuse not to find and pursue your passion? You know why. In your heart of hearts, you know why, and I'm being deadly serious. You know why you would get all warm and fuzzy and wrap yourself up in human relationships. It is because you are — you know what you are. You're afraid to pursue your passion. You're afraid to look ridiculous. You're afraid to try. You're afraid you may fail. Great friend, great spouse, great parent, great career. Is that not a package? Is that not who you are? How can you be one without the other? But you're afraid. And that's why you're not going to have a great career. Unless — ""unless,"" that most evocative of all English words — ""unless."" But the ""unless"" word is also attached to that other, most terrifying phrase, ""If only I had ..."" ""If only I had ..."" If you ever have that thought ricocheting in your brain, it will hurt a lot. So, those are the many reasons why you are going to fail to have a great career. Unless — Unless. Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天下午我想與各位談論的主題是為什麼你就不能有偉大的事業。（笑聲） 我是一名經濟學家。我負責讓人沮喪。在一天的結束的時候，正適合發表讓人沮喪的評論。我只想跟你們之中的想要有偉大的事業的人談。我知道你們之中的一些人已經決定想要有一個偉大的事業。當然你也會失敗 — — （笑聲） — —因為 — — 我的天啊! 你們已經對失敗這麼開心了。從加拿大來的，沒錯吧。（笑聲）那些想要有好的事業都會失敗，因為，實際上，好的工作機會正在逐漸消失。有一些很好的就業機會和偉大的事業，然後還有另一些是高工作量、 高壓力，吸血的，毀滅靈魂的工作，兩者之間幾乎不存在其他類型的了。 所以找好工作的人都會失敗。我要談一談那些尋找偉大的工作，偉大的職業的之所以要找這樣的工作，還有為什麼你會失敗。第一個原因是，無論別人告訴你多少次""如果您想要偉大的事業，你必須追求你的熱情，你要追尋自己的夢想，你要追求在你一生中最大的夢想""你一再的聽到這樣的說法，然後你決定不做這樣的事。不管你下載了多少次史蒂芬-賈伯斯 的史丹福大學畢業典禮演講，您仍然會看著它，然後決定不去這樣做。 我並不太確定為什麼你決定不去這樣做。你太懶了而不想做。或是這件事太難了。你會擔心如果你去追尋你的熱情，而沒有找到它你會覺得你是白癡，於是你找藉口來說明為何你不去追尋你的熱情。這些都是藉口，女士們，先生們。我們會談過一整串長長的清單，你的創造力，還有思考力，去想出藉口不去做你真的該做的事情，去成就你想要的偉大事業。 比方說，你偉大的藉口之一是，""嗯，偉大的事業，對大多數人來說，實際上的確都是只是運氣好，所以我打算站在旁邊看，我要試著變得幸運，而且如果我是幸運的我就會有偉大的事業。如果不幸運，我還是有一個好的職業。""但好的職業是不可能的，所以這樣是行不通的。 然後你的另一個藉口是，""是的，有些特別的人能夠追求他們的熱情，但是這些人是天才。他們是 史蒂夫-賈伯斯，我並不是天才。當我五歲的時候，我以為我是個天才，但是我的指導教授已經把這樣的想法趕出我的腦袋了，從那次... ""（笑聲）對吧？""如今我知道我只是稱職的員工。""現在，你看，如果這是 1950 年，一個稱職的員工就可以算是帶給你一個偉大的事業。但你猜怎麼著？現在已經快 2012了，若你對外說:""我是個完全稱職的員工""就好像用這種微弱的讚美來咒罵你自己一般 然後，當然，另一個藉口：""嗯，我想這樣做，我想這樣做，但是，但是，嗯，畢竟，我並不奇怪。大家都知道，追求他們的激情的那些人是有點偏執。有點奇怪的吧？對吧? 對吧? 是吧?你知道，瘋狂與天才之間的微小差別。我並不奇怪。我讀過 史蒂夫-賈伯斯 的傳記。我的老天。我不是那樣的人。我是個好人。我是正常的。我是個 正常的好人，而正常的好人是沒有熱情的。啊。但我仍想要有偉大的事業。我不打算追求我的熱情，所以我知道我該要做什麼，因為我有，我有一種解決方案，我有一種戰略。它是一個我媽媽和爸爸告訴過我的媽媽和爸爸告訴我，如果我努力工作，我會有良好的職業。所以，如果你努力工作有良好的職業，如果你工作真的，真的，真的很努力，你就會有偉大的事業。這不就是像數學一樣的合理嗎？""呃...。 錯。（笑聲）但你已經設法說服自己去相信。 你知道嗎？這裡有一個小秘密。您想要工作嗎？您真的，真的，想要很認真地工作嗎？你知道嗎？你將會成功。這個世界會給你一個機會去真的，真的，真的，真的很認真地工作，但是你真的相信, 這樣就會帶給你一個偉大的職業生涯嗎? 當所有的證據都是指向相反的結論？ 所以讓我們假定，讓我們來看看你們這些正在尋找你的熱情的人。你真的理解你是真的想要這樣做，不去管那些藉口。你會試著去尋找你的熱情，而你也高興如此做。你發現一些你感興趣的東西。 我有興趣 ！我有興趣 ！你告訴我。你說，""我有興趣 ！""我說，""這太棒了 ！你打算告訴我什麼呢? 那你 — —""""嗯，我有興趣。""我說，""你對這有熱情嗎？""你說：""我有興趣，""。你的興趣, 跟什麼來相比呢？""我是對此有興趣。""那關於其餘的人類的活動呢？""我對那些沒有興趣。""你有看過那些全部了吧，你有嗎？""沒有，不是這樣的。"" 熱情是你的最愛。熱情是能夠幫你建立你的天份的最高表現。熱情、 興趣 — — 這兩個不是同一碼事。你會跑去跟你心愛的人說""嫁給我吧 ！我對你有興趣。""（笑聲）這不會成功的。這不會成功的，你將會孤獨地死去的。（笑聲） 你想要什麼，你想要什麼，你想要什麼，就是熱情。它超越了興趣。您可以有 20 種興趣，然後是其中之一，其中之一可能會抓住你，其中之一可能會讓你投入超過其他的任何事情, 然後你才可能算是找到你最愛的，比較過之後，都超過了所有其他你感興趣的事情，這就是所謂的熱情。 我有一個朋友，向他的愛人求婚。他是一個經濟上很理性的人。他跟他的愛人說，""讓我們結婚吧。讓我們合併我們的利益吧。"" （笑聲） 對啦, 他最好是這樣說.""我真的愛你，""他說。""我愛你如此的深。我愛你超過了我遇過的任何其他女人。我愛你超過了 瑪麗、 珍、 蘇茜、 潘娜洛普、茵格麗、格特魯德、格萊特 — —那時我正在德國當交換學生。""（笑聲）""我愛你超過了 — —""好吧！她離開了房間，在他列舉著他對她的愛的時候。你知道嗎，當他從令他吃驚的求婚被拒絕中清醒過來，他下了一個結論，這算是死裡逃生差點跟一個不理性的人結婚了，雖然他也注意到要記得，自己下一次求婚的時候，也許不需要列舉他曾經面試過的那些女人的那部分。（笑聲） 但是這個論點是對的。你必須尋找替代方案這樣，你才能發現你的命運中注定的，或者你會害怕聽到 ""命運"" 這個詞嗎？""命運""這個詞會嚇到你嗎？這就是我們在談的，如果你找不到能展現你才華的最高境界的事情，而屈就於""有興趣的""，不管這個代表什麼意思你知道當你漫長一生結束時將發生什麼？您的朋友和家人將聚集在墓地在你墳墓旁會有一塊墓碑，在墓碑上面刻的會是這樣的:""這裡埋的是發明魔鬼氈的工程師。""但是這個墓碑上應該刻的內容如果在不同方式度過的一生，墓碑上應該科的是關於你的天分的最高發揮比方說是 ""這裡埋的是 諾貝爾物理獎得主，他建立了大統一場論並且展示了曲速飛行 (科幻影集中星際航行的方式) 的實際可能性。 （笑聲）魔鬼氈，的確。（笑聲） 一個會是偉大的事業。另一個則是失去了一個機會。但是，你們之中的一些人儘管有各式各樣的藉口，你會發現，你會發現你的熱情，而你仍會失敗。 你會失敗，因為，因為你不會去做，因為你會發明新的藉口，任何可以不去做的藉口，而這種藉口我已經聽了很多次。""是的，我原本想追求偉大的事業，但我認為人際關係比個人成就更有價值我想要當個好朋友。我想要當個好的配偶。我想成為一個好的家長，我不打算犧牲這些來換取偉大的成就。"" （笑聲） 你要我說什麼？現在，你真的要我告訴你，""說真的，我發誓我不會踢小孩。""（笑聲）嗯？看看你已經給自己設下的世界觀。你是個英雄，無論如何，就算我如此微妙的暗示說你希望有偉大的事業的話，你必須討厭小孩。我不討厭小孩。我不會踢他們。是的，曾經有一個小孩遊蕩通過這座大樓當我來到這裡，噢，沒有，我沒有踢他。（笑聲） 當然，我必須告訴他，這座大樓只有大人能進來你必須離開。他咕嚕了一些跟媽媽有關的話然後我告訴他，他媽媽也許會在外面找到他。上次我見到他，他正在樓梯上哭。（笑聲）真是很軟弱啊。（笑聲） 但你是什麼意思呢？這就是你希望我說的。你真的認為，你真的認為這樣做是適當的?你應該實際上把兒童當作擋箭牌嗎？你知道總有一天，會發生一些事你，你這個理想的父母，你呢？有一天小孩會來找你，說，""我知道我想要變成什麼樣的人。我知道我要怎樣的生活。你將會是那麼快樂。這是那種親子對話父母想要聽到的, 因為你孩子的數學很好而且你知道，你將會喜歡接下來的你的孩子說，""我已經決定我想要當一個魔術師。我想要在舞臺上表演魔術。""（笑聲） 那你會說什麼呢？你說，你說，""嗯......這有點不保險啊，孩子。可能會失敗啊，孩子。這賺不了錢的，孩子，你知道的，我不知道耶，孩子，您應該再考慮考慮，孩子，你是那麼擅長數學，你為什麼不 — —"" 這時候孩子打斷了你，並說，""但這是我的夢想。我一直夢想要做這個。""那你接著要說什麼?你知道你要說的嗎？""孩子啊。我也有過夢想，但是 — — 但。""你打算如何講完這句話呢?""...但是。我也曾有過一個夢想，但我不敢去追求它。""或者，你會這樣跟他說嗎?""我曾有一個夢想，孩子。但後來你出生了...。（笑聲） （笑聲）（掌聲） 你，真的要用你的家人，你真的想要看著你的配偶看著你的小孩，就好像他們是你的獄卒那樣?也許有一些你可以說的，當你的小孩跟你說，""我有一個夢想。"" 的時候你可以，看著孩子的臉，說：""去努力爭取吧，孩子，就像我曾經做過的那樣""。但你沒辦法這樣說,因為你並沒有做過。所以你不能那樣說。（笑聲） 所以，父母的罪過會再次造訪無辜的孩子們.你為什麼會拿人際關係來當擋箭牌作為你不去找尋與追求熱情的藉口?你知道為什麼。在你的心中，你知道為什麼，而我是非常認真的。你知道為什麼你會感到溫暖和舒適把自己包在人際關係裡面。這是因為你想要 — —你知道你想要做什麼。 你害怕追求你的熱情。你害怕被別人取笑你不敢嘗試。你害怕你可能會失敗。很好的朋友，偉大的配偶，偉大的父母，偉大的事業。這不是一個整體嗎？這不就是你這個人嗎?你怎麼能只選擇其中之一而放棄其他的?但你害怕。 這就是為什麼你不會有偉大的事業，除非 — —除非，這是所有英語單詞中最令人回味的 — —除非。但這個 除非 還附加在其他的，最可怕的短語，""如果我那時候有......""""如果我那時候有......""如果您的腦袋裡曾經有過這些念頭衝撞著這會很痛苦的 因此，有很多原因解釋為什麼你會失敗無法成就偉大的事業，除非...... 除非。 謝謝。（掌聲）"
