Talk	en	zh-tw
laurel_braitman_depressed_dogs_cats_with_ocd_what_animal_madness_means_for_us_humans	"Oliver was an extremely dashing, handsome, charming and largely unstable male that I completely lost my heart to. (Laughter) He was a Bernese mountain dog, and my ex-husband and I adopted him, and about six months in, we realized that he was a mess. He had such paralyzing separation anxiety that we couldn't leave him alone. Once, he jumped out of our third floor apartment. He ate fabric. He ate things, recyclables. He hunted flies that didn't exist. He suffered from hallucinations. He was diagnosed with a canine compulsive disorder and that's really just the tip of the iceberg. But like with humans, sometimes it's six months in before you realize that the person that you love has some issues. (Laughter) And most of us do not take the person we're dating back to the bar where we met them or give them back to the friend that introduced us, or sign them back up on Match.com. (Laughter) We love them anyway, and we stick to it, and that is what I did with my dog. And I was a — I'd studied biology. I have a Ph.D. in history of science from MIT, and had you asked me 10 years ago if a dog I loved, or just dogs generally, had emotions, I would have said yes, but I'm not sure that I would have told you that they can also wind up with an anxiety disorder, a Prozac prescription and a therapist. But then, I fell in love, and I realized that they can, and actually trying to help my own dog overcome his panic and his anxiety, it just changed my life. It cracked open my world. And I spent the last seven years, actually, looking into this topic of mental illness in other animals. Can they be mentally ill like people, and if so, what does it mean about us? And what I discovered is that I do believe they can suffer from mental illness, and actually looking and trying to identify mental illness in them often helps us be better friends to them and also can help us better understand ourselves. So let's talk about diagnosis for a minute. Many of us think that we can't know what another animal is thinking, and that is true, but any of you in relationships — at least this is my case — just because you ask someone that you're with or your parent or your child how they feel doesn't mean that they can tell you. They may not have words to explain what it is that they're feeling, and they may not know. It's actually a pretty recent phenomenon that we feel that we have to talk to someone to understand their emotional distress. Before the early 20th century, physicians often diagnosed emotional distress in their patients just by observation. It also turns out that thinking about mental illness in other animals isn't actually that much of a stretch. Most mental disorders in the United States are fear and anxiety disorders, and when you think about it, fear and anxiety are actually really extremely helpful animal emotions. Usually we feel fear and anxiety in situations that are dangerous, and once we feel them, we then are motivated to move away from whatever is dangerous. The problem is when we begin to feel fear and anxiety in situations that don't call for it. Mood disorders, too, may actually just be the unfortunate downside of being a feeling animal, and obsessive compulsive disorders also are often manifestations of a really healthy animal thing which is keeping yourself clean and groomed. This tips into the territory of mental illness when you do things like compulsively over-wash your hands or paws, or you develop a ritual that's so extreme that you can't sit down to a bowl of food unless you engage in that ritual. So for humans, we have the ""Diagnostic and Statistical Manual,"" which is basically an atlas of the currently agreed-upon mental disorders. In other animals, we have YouTube. (Laughter) This is just one search I did for ""OCD dog"" but I encourage all of you to look at ""OCD cat."" You will be shocked by what you see. I'm going to show you just a couple examples. This is an example of shadow-chasing. I know, and it's funny and in some ways it's cute. The issue, though, is that dogs can develop compulsions like this that they then engage in all day. So they won't go for a walk, they won't hang out with their friends, they won't eat. They'll develop fixations like chasing their tails compulsively. Here's an example of a cat named Gizmo. He looks like he's on a stakeout but he does this for many, many, many hours a day. He just sits there and he will paw and paw and paw at the screen. This is another example of what's considered a stereotypic behavior. This is a sun bear at the Oakland Zoo named Ting Ting. And if you just sort of happened upon this scene, you might think that Ting Ting is just playing with a stick, but Ting Ting does this all day, and if you pay close attention and if I showed you guys the full half-hour of this clip, you'd see that he does the exact same thing in the exact same order, and he spins the stick in the exact same way every time. Other super common behaviors that you may see, particularly in captive animals, are pacing stereotypies or swaying stereotypies, and actually, humans do this too, and in us, we'll sway, we'll move from side to side. Many of us do this, and sometimes it's an effort to soothe ourselves, and I think in other animals that is often the case too. But it's not just stereotypic behaviors that other animals engage in. This is Gigi. She's a gorilla that lives at the Franklin Park Zoo in Boston. She actually has a Harvard psychiatrist, and she's been treated for a mood disorder among other things. Many animals develop mood disorders. Lots of creatures — this horse is just one example — develop self-destructive behaviors. They'll gnaw on things or do other things that may also soothe them, even if they're self-destructive, which could be considered similar to the ways that some humans cut themselves. Plucking. Turns out, if you have fur or feathers or skin, you can pluck yourself compulsively, and some parrots actually have been studied to better understand trichotillomania, or compulsive plucking in humans, something that affects 20 million Americans right now. Lab rats pluck themselves too. In them, it's called barbering. Canine veterans of conflicts of Iraq and Afghanistan are coming back with what's considered canine PTSD, and they're having a hard time reentering civilian life when they come back from deployments. They can be too scared to approach men with beards or to hop into cars. I want to be careful and be clear, though. I do not think that canine PTSD is the same as human PTSD. But I also do not think that my PTSD is like your PTSD, or that my anxiety or that my sadness is like yours. We are all different. We also all have very different susceptibilities. So two dogs, raised in the same household, exposed to the very same things, one may develop, say, a debilitating fear of motorcycles, or a phobia of the beep of the microwave, and another one is going to be just fine. So one thing that people ask me pretty frequently: Is this just an instance of humans driving other animals crazy? Or, is animal mental illness just a result of mistreatment or abuse? And it turns out we're actually so much more complicated than that. So one great thing that has happened to me is recently I published a book on this, and every day now that I open my email or when I go to a reading or even when I go to a cocktail party, people tell me their stories of the animals that they have met. And recently, I did a reading in California, and a woman raised her hand after the talk and she said, ""Dr. Braitman, I think my cat has PTSD."" And I said, ""Well, why? Tell me a little bit about it."" So, Ping is her cat. She was a rescue, and she used to live with an elderly man, and one day the man was vacuuming and he suffered a heart attack, and he died. A week later, Ping was discovered in the apartment alongside the body of her owner, and the vacuum had been running the entire time. For many months, up to I think two years after that incident, she was so scared she couldn't be in the house when anyone was cleaning. She was quite literally a scaredy cat. She would hide in the closet. She was un-self-confident and shaky, but with the loving support of her family, a lot of a time, and their patience, now, three years later, she's actually a happy, confident cat. Another story of trauma and recovery that I came across was actually a few years ago. I was in Thailand to do some research. I met a monkey named Boonlua, and when Boonlua was a baby, he was attacked by a pack of dogs, and they ripped off both of his legs and one arm, and Boonlua dragged himself to a monastery, where the monks took him in. They called in a veterinarian, who treated his wounds. Eventually, Boonlua wound up at an elephant facility, and the keepers really decided to take him under their wing, and they figured out what he liked, which, it turned out, was mint Mentos and Rhinoceros beetles and eggs. But they worried, because he was social, that he was lonely, and they didn't want to put him in with another monkey, because they thought with just one arm, he wouldn't be able to defend himself or even play. And so they gave him a rabbit, and Boonlua was immediately a different monkey. He was extremely happy to be with this rabbit. They groomed each other, they become close friends, and then the rabbit had bunnies, and Boonlua was even happier than he was before, and it had in a way given him a reason to wake up in the morning, and in fact it gave him such a reason to wake up that he decided not to sleep. He became extremely protective of these bunnies, and he stopped sleeping, and he would sort of nod off while trying to take care of them. In fact, he was so protective and so affectionate with these babies that the sanctuary eventually had to take them away from him because he was so protective, he was worried that their mother might hurt them. So after they were taken away, the sanctuary staff worried that he would fall into a depression, and so to avoid that, they gave him another rabbit friend. (Laughter) My official opinion is that he does not look depressed. (Laughter) So one thing that I would really like people to feel is that you really should feel empowered to make some assumptions about the creatures that you know well. So when it comes to your dog or your cat or maybe your one-armed monkey that you happen to know, if you think that they are traumatized or depressed, you're probably right. This is extremely anthropomorphic, or the assignation of human characteristics onto non-human animals or things. I don't think, though, that that's a problem. I don't think that we can not anthropomorphize. It's not as if you can take your human brain out of your head and put it in a jar and then use it to think about another animal thinking. We will always be one animal wondering about the emotional experience of another animal. So then the choice becomes, how do you anthropomorphize well? Or do you anthropomorphize poorly? And anthropomorphizing poorly is all too common. (Laughter) It may include dressing your corgis up and throwing them a wedding, or getting too close to exotic wildlife because you believe that you had a spiritual connection. There's all manner of things. Anthropomorphizing well, however, I believe is based on accepting our animal similarities with other species and using them to make assumptions that are informed about other  animals' minds and experiences, and there's actually an entire industry that is in some ways based on anthropomorphizing well, and that is the psychopharmaceutical industry. One in five Americans is currently taking a psychopharmaceutical drug, from the antidepressants and antianxiety medications to the antipsychotics. It turns out that we owe this entire psychopharmaceutical arsenal to other animals. These drugs were tested in non-human animals first, and not just for toxicity but for behavioral effects. The very popular antipsychotic Thorazine first relaxed rats before it relaxed people. The antianxiety medication Librium was given to cats selected for their meanness in the 1950s and made them into peaceable felines. And even antidepressants were first tested in rabbits. Today, however, we are not just giving these drugs to other animals as test subjects, but they're giving them these drugs as patients, both in ethical and much less ethical ways. SeaWorld gives mother orcas antianxiety medications when their calves are taken away. Many zoo gorillas have been given antipsychotics and antianxiety medications. But dogs like my own Oliver are given antidepressants and some antianxiety medications to keep them from jumping out of buildings or jumping into traffic. Just recently, actually, a study came out in ""Science"" that showed that even crawdads responded to antianxiety medication. It made them braver, less skittish, and more likely to explore their environment. It's hard to know how many animals are on these drugs, but I can tell you that the animal pharmaceutical industry is immense and growing, from seven billion dollars in 2011 to a projected 9.25 billion by the year 2015. Some animals are on these drugs indefinitely. Others, like one bonobo who lives in Milwaukee at the zoo there was on them until he started to save his Paxil prescription and then distribute it among the other bonobos. (Laughter) (Applause) More than psychopharmaceuticals, though, there are many, many, many other therapeutic interventions that help other creatures. And here is a place where I think actually that veterinary medicine can teach something to human medicine, which is, if you take your dog, who is, say, compulsively chasing his tail, into the veterinary behaviorist, their first action isn't to reach for the prescription pad; it's to ask you about your dog's life. They want to know how often your dog gets outside. They want to know how much exercise your dog is getting. They want to know how much social time with other dogs and other humans. They want to talk to you about what sorts of therapies, largely behavior therapies, you've tried with that animal. Those are the things that often tend to help the most, especially when combined with psychopharmaceuticals. The thing, though, I believe, that helps the most, particularly with social animals, is time with other social animals. In many ways, I feel like I became a service animal to my own dog, and I have seen parrots do it for people and people do it for parrots and dogs do it for elephants and elephants do it for other elephants. I don't know about you; I get a lot of Internet forwards of unlikely animal friendships. I also think it's a huge part of Facebook, the monkey that adopts the cat or the great dane who adopted the orphaned fawn, or the cow that makes friends with the pig, and had you asked me eight, nine years ago, about these, I would have told you that they were hopelessly sentimental and maybe too anthropomorphic in the wrong way and maybe even staged, and what I can tell you now is that there is actually something to this. This is legit. In fact, some interesting studies have pointed to oxytocin levels, which are a kind of bonding hormone that we release when we're having sex or nursing or around someone that we care for extremely, oxytocin levels raising in both humans and dogs who care about each other or who enjoy each other's company, and beyond that, other studies show that oxytocin raised even in other pairs of animals, so, say, in goats and dogs who were friends and played with each other, their levels spiked afterwards. I have a friend who really showed me that mental health is in fact a two-way street. His name is Lonnie Hodge, and he's a veteran of Vietnam. When he returned, he started working with survivors of genocide and a lot of people who had gone through war trauma. And he had PTSD and also a fear of heights, because in Vietnam, he had been rappelling backwards out of helicopters over the skids, and he was givena service dog named Gander, a labradoodle, to help him with PTSD and his fear of heights. This is them actually on the first day that they met, which is amazing, and since then, they've spent a lot of time together visiting with other veterans suffering from similar issues. But what's so interesting to me about Lonnie and Gander's relationship is about a few months in, Gander actually developed a fear of heights, probably because he was watching Lonnie so closely. What's pretty great about this, though, is that he's still a fantastic service dog, because now, when they're both at a great height, Lonnie is so concerned with Gander's well-being that he forgets to be scared of the heights himself. Since I've spent so much time with these stories, digging into archives, I literally spent years doing this research, and it's changed me. I no longer look at animals at the species level. I look at them as individuals, and I think about them as creatures with their own individual weather systems guiding their behavior and informing how they respond to the world. And I really believe that this has made me a more curious and a more empathetic person, both to the animals that share my bed and occasionally wind up on my plate, but also to the people that I know who are suffering from anxiety and from phobias and all manner of other things, and I really do believe that even though you can't know exactly what's going on in the mind of a pig or your pug or your partner, that that shouldn't stop you from empathizing with them. The best thing that we could do for our loved ones is, perhaps, to anthropomorphize them. Charles Darwin's father once told him that everybody could lose their mind at some point. Thankfully, we can often find them again, but only with each other's help. Thank you. (Applause)"	奧利佛是超級瀟灑、帥氣、有魅力，卻又「不安於室」的男性，讓我深深著迷。 牠是隻「伯恩山犬」。我和我前夫收養牠。但在不到6個月的相處，我們就發現牠大有問題，牠有非常嚴重的「分離焦慮症」，我們不能讓牠獨處。牠有一次從3樓的家直接往下跳。牠會吃布料、或是其他回收物，牠會去撲不存在的蒼蠅，深受幻覺困擾。牠最後被診斷出「犬類強迫症」，但這只是牠問題的冰山一角。 當問題出現在人身上，不用花6個月你就會發現，你愛著的這個人有問題。我們通常不會把那個人，丟回當初認識的酒吧；或是叫介紹你們的朋友把他帶走，或幫他重新登相親網站。我們會愛他，而且繼續愛著他。我也是這樣對我的狗。我是念生物的，我是MIT的科學史博士。若你10年前問我，我愛的狗或者就一般狗而言，牠們會不會有情緒，我的答案是「會」。但那時候的我可能不知道，他們會變成焦慮症，還要靠吃藥和醫生幫忙。但我墜入愛河，而且知道原來會變這樣，然後我想幫牠克服牠的恐慌和焦慮。我的人生因此改變，視野因此開闊。在過去的七年，我開始研究動物的精神疾病。那些病跟人類的一樣嗎？如果是，對我們又有什麼意義？我發現到的是我相信動物也深受精神疾病所苦。去試著理解牠們的這些病痛，讓人類成為牠們更稱職的朋友，也幫助我們更加了解自己。 簡單講一下診斷過程。我們大多認為我們不知道其他動物在想什麼。是這樣沒錯，但無論友情愛情親情，至少我的體會是，不會只因為你問另一半、你爸媽或小孩他們的感覺，他們就跟你說。他們可能自己也不知道怎麼表達自己的感覺，或根本沒察覺到那些情緒。這其實是最近才開始，覺得我們必須要溝通才會發覺情緒低落的傾向。在20世紀早期以前，心理醫生診斷精神疾病，都只靠觀察。而且另一方面有人認為，動物的精神問題也不見得是壞事。在美國大部分人罹患的精神病，是恐慌或是焦慮症。但「恐慌」和「焦慮」，其實是非常重要的動物本能。通常我們在感到危險的時候，才會有這種情緒反應。而一旦有這種反應，我們會想要遠離任何讓我們感到危險的東西。問題是在沒有危險的時候，我們也恐慌焦慮。「情緒障礙」也可能是有感覺的動物很麻煩的一點。強迫症換個角度想，其實是一種健康的表徵，因為想讓自己乾淨整潔。但從精神疾病的角度看，只會看到你一直重複洗手，或是重複某個儀式，直到你覺得心滿意足，才有辦法好好坐下來吃飯。 所以我們有一本人類的「診斷與統計手冊」，基本上是一本集合現有精神疾病的手冊。那其他動物呢，我們有「YouTube」。這是我輸入「強迫症 狗」的畫面，但我比較推薦，去看「強迫症 貓」。保證驚奇不斷。這邊分享幾個例子：這隻狗在和影子「玩」。雖然很有趣而且還蠻可愛的，但狗狗若有強迫症，就可能整天追著自己的影子。牠們會不想散步、不和朋友玩、不吃不喝，最後產生「固著」行為，比如追著尾巴一直轉。 這是隻叫「吉斯莫」貓，看起來牠在監視鄰居，但牠一天會花上幾個小時這樣。牠就坐在那，用前掌反覆地撥弄窗簾。這個也是被視為理所當然的行為，這隻是在奧克蘭動物園，叫做「丁丁」的馬來熊。如果你剛好看到這個畫面，可能會覺得丁丁只是在玩樹枝吧。但牠會玩一整天。如果你們願意，我可以播半個小時的錄影，你會發現牠真的在做一樣的事，一樣的步驟，和一樣的方式去轉那些樹枝。另一個也很常見，通常是受困動物，用固定方式走或晃來晃去。其實人也會這樣，我們會動來動去、從這邊晃到那邊。我們大多是為了放鬆一下。對大部分的動物也是如此。 但牠們做的，不只是這些重複的行為。這是「琪琪」，住在波士頓富蘭克林動物公園的黑猩猩。牠有一個哈佛大學的精神醫師，幫牠治療情緒障礙和其他問題。很多動物都有情緒障礙。有很多生物...比如說這隻馬，就有自我毀滅的行為。牠會去亂啃東西，或做一些能舒緩情緒的事，就算這些事是在自我毀滅。就和有些人會想要割手臂、手腕的道理一樣。 還有拔毛！如果你有皮毛、羽毛或皮膚，你可能會一直去拔毛，有些針對鸚鵡的研究，試圖找出人類的「拔毛癖」或拔毛強迫症的原因。因為現在有2千萬的美國人，正在受這個病症折磨。實驗室的老鼠也拔自己的毛，但那比較是在梳理。從「以阿衝突」退役的軍犬，回來之後被發現患有「創傷後症候群」。對牠們從戰場融入普通生活，是一大障礙。牠們會害怕接近有鬍子的人，或不敢跳上車。 但在這邊我要強調，我不認為狗的創傷後症候群，跟人的一樣；我也不覺得我的創傷後症候群，會跟你的一樣。或說我的焦慮或低潮跟你的一樣。我們是不同的。我們對每件事的感受也不同。所以就算兩隻養在一起的狗，接觸到相同的刺激，有一隻可能會怕機車或微波爐的嗶嗶聲，但另一隻就不會。 所以我很常被問：會不會是因為主人把他們的寵物逼瘋？或問動物的精神疾病是不是只是主人虐待、飼養方式有問題？其實我們的角色，比這些問題還要複雜許多。 最近我出版了一本跟這些問題有關的書。然後從那之後，我每天打開信箱、去演講、甚至只是去一個酒會，都會有人跟我分享，他們知道的動物故事。上次我在加州演講的時候，有一個女生在會後舉手說：「布雷特曼博士，我覺得我的貓有創傷後症候群。」 所以我說，「怎麼說？再多講一點。」 她的貓「萍」，是被救出來的。牠之前的主人是一位老先生。有一天老先生在吸地板，結果突然心臟病發過世了。一個禮拜之後才有人發現，萍就在遺體旁邊，而且吸塵器一直開著。好幾個月後，可能持續有2年之久，牠都還在怕，牠不能待在打掃中的房間。牠完全是一隻被嚇壞的貓。牠會躲進衣櫃，非常沒自信又一直顫抖。但還好家人的愛與支持，時間和大量的耐心，3年後的現在，萍變成開心有自信的貓。 另一個我遇到的創傷和復原的故事，是幾年前，我在泰國做研究時，遇到一隻叫「布魯瓦」的猴子。布魯瓦很小的時候，被一群狗攻擊。牠的雙腳還有一隻手臂被扯斷，但牠拖著自己到一間佛寺，結果和尚就收留牠。他們幫牠找來獸醫，讓牠接受治療。最後布魯瓦到了一間大象的收容所。所長決定要收留布魯瓦。然後他們還發現牠喜歡薄荷曼陀珠、獨角仙還有蛋。但他們很擔心牠，因為牠很寂寞。他們不想把牠跟其他猴子放在一起，因為他們擔心只有一隻手臂，沒辦法保護自己或跟同伴玩。所以他們送牠一隻兔子朋友，結果布魯瓦完全變了個樣。牠好喜歡跟兔子膩在一起，牠們會互相梳理、變成很好的朋友。之後兔子生了兔寶寶，布魯瓦比之前更開心。這讓牠有理由每天很早起床，甚至因為太想起床，結果牠根本沒睡。牠超級照顧這些兔寶寶，不眠不休，還會在照顧寶寶的時候打瞌睡。因為牠真的太保護寶寶、太有父愛，結果收容所不得不讓小兔子和牠分開。因為牠過度保護到擔心兔媽媽會傷害小兔子。把小兔子帶走以後，收容所擔心牠會難過，為了不害牠傷心，他們送牠新的兔子朋友。我的專業判斷，牠現在是真的很難過。 我很想讓大家了解到，其實你可以比想像中更精準地對那些你很了解的生物做出假設。所以無論是你的狗、你的貓、或是你剛好認識的獨臂猴，當你覺得他們很受傷或很難過，通常你是對的。這對非人的動物或東西而言是很擬人、充滿人性的一種感覺。但我不覺得那會是問題。我不反對去擬人化。因為那不是叫你把大腦從頭殼拿出來放進罐子裡，然後用它想其他動物在想什麼。而是人類做為動物的一種，去思考其他動物的情緒體會。 所以問題是：你要怎麼好好去擬人？或是你是不是不會擬人？不會擬人的例子...比比皆是。這包括你幫柯基穿衣服、辦婚禮，或是靠野生動物太近，因為你相信你們有「靈的連結」，或是類似的東西。要適當的擬人我認為要去接受我們跟其他物種的相似性，用這種相似去做假設，依據動物的想法和經歷。其實有這麼一個產業，就建構在良好的擬人上，那就是「精神藥品製藥業」。 每5個美國人裡，就有1個在吃精神藥物。從抗憂鬱、抗焦慮，到治療精神疾病。結果就是，這個產業虧欠其他動物太多了。這些藥都會先在其他動物身上試驗，不只看有沒有毒，還看會不會影響行為。最有名的精神藥「冬眠靈」，第一個緩解的是老鼠而不是人類。抗焦慮的「利眠靈」，50年代是先在那些異常「刻薄」的貓咪身上試驗，讓牠們變的乖巧溫順。就連抗憂鬱的藥都先在兔子身上做實驗。 現在我們給這些動物藥，不是因為要試驗，而是要治療牠們。不管是用在合乎道德與否的理由。「美國海洋世界」在帶走殺人鯨寶寶的時候，會餵殺人鯨媽媽抗焦慮藥。很多動物園的大猩猩，都會吃精神藥或抗焦慮。而像我的奧利佛，吃這些抗憂鬱和抗焦慮是為了防止牠又跳樓或衝進馬路撞車。最近《科學》期刊上才有研究說就連小龍蝦都對抗焦慮藥有反應。讓牠們更勇敢、不怯懦，而且更勇於探索周遭環境。 很難知道多少動物會上癮，但我知道動物的製藥業是很龐大而且在成長的。從2011年的70億美元，預估會到2015年的92.5億美元。 現在已知有些動物出現藥癮。也有些，比如說在密爾沃基動物園，本來以為一隻侏儒黑猩猩上癮了，結果發現牠會屯下「百可舒」，然後當藥頭分給其他同伴。 這已經有點超越精神藥的範圍了。但這之外還有很多很多，幫助其他生物的治療方法。而我真的發現，人類診療可以和獸醫診療，借鏡的一個地方。比如說當你帶你的狗，假設牠強迫症追自己尾巴，去給動物行為治療師看。醫生不會馬上就拿紙開處方，而是會問你狗狗的生活。他們會問你的狗常出去嗎？看你的狗運動量是多少。會想知道牠和其他狗或是人類互動時間多不多。也會想問你有沒有哪種治療，特別是行為治療，已經在牠身上試過。這些療法通常最有幫助，尤其和精神藥物雙管齊下。 但我相信最有效的治療，特別是針對社會性動物，是多花時間和其他動物相處。我常常覺得，我好像在服侍、幫忙我的狗，我也看過鸚鵡對人、人對鸚鵡、狗對大象、大象對大象等等。我不知道你怎麼想，但我在網路上找到很多，看起來不可思議的友情。也有很多像在臉書上的例子：「猴子收養了貓咪」、或「大丹犬收養了小鹿斑比」、「牛和豬成為朋友了」。如果你8、9年前問我，我可能會說這些人太神經，或是把擬人用錯地方了，甚至覺得這些照片是假的；但我現在要跟你說真實的、沒有造假的有趣發現：哺乳動物的催產素是一種「結合激素」。當我們在性愛或是哺育的時候，或是當我們和重要的對象在一起時，人類或狗的催產素都會上升。無論是因為互相關懷，或是沉醉在相互的陪伴。而且研究還發現催產素，在不同種的動物配對上也有效果。比如說山羊和狗是好朋友一起玩，催產素也會因此上升。 我有一個朋友向我證明了，心理健康真的會相互影響。我朋友叫隆尼‧哈吉，是一名越戰退役軍人。回來以後就跟大屠殺的倖存者，和其他經歷戰爭創傷的人一起工作。他有創傷後症候群和懼高症。因為在越南他曾經失速從直升機向後垂降過。那時候他有被分到一隻叫「甘德」的拉布拉多貴賓狗，幫助他面對創傷後症候群和懼高症。這張照片是他們第一天見面拍的。我覺得拍得很好。在那之後，他們幾乎都一起拜訪有類似問題的退休軍人。但我覺得有趣的是，在幾個月以後，甘德也開始懼高了。可能是因為牠一直跟著隆尼。但這個故事最感人的地方，是甘德帶來一些改變。因為如果他們都在很高的地方，隆尼會擔心甘德的狀況，以至於他忘記自己也怕高。 因為我花很多時間挖掘這些故事、去翻檔案，我花好多年時間做研究，然後我有很大的改變。我不再用「物種」的角度去看動物，我重視牠們身為每個「個體」，有一套情緒系統，會指引牠們的行為，讓牠們去回應這個世界。而且我相信這讓我變成一個更好奇、更具同理心的人。不只是對和我同床共枕的寵物，還有每天吃的動物；還對那些我所知道，深受焦慮、恐懼或其他病症所苦的人。而且我相信，就算你不能完全了解豬的腦袋裡在想什麼，或是你的寵物、你的伴侶在想什麼，也不會停止你對他們發揮同理心。我能對摯愛做的最好的事，應該就是去「擬人化」他們吧！ 達爾文的爸爸曾跟他說：「任何人都可能會喪失理智，但好險，我們大多都能把它重新找回來，只要我們能夠互相幫忙。」 謝謝！
