Talk	en	zh-tw
laurie_santos	"I want to start my talk today with two observations about the human species. The first observation is something that you might think is quite obvious, and that's that our species, Homo sapiens, is actually really, really smart — like, ridiculously smart — like you're all doing things that no other species on the planet does right now. And this is, of course, not the first time you've probably recognized this. Of course, in addition to being smart, we're also an extremely vain species. So we like pointing out the fact that we're smart. You know, so I could turn to pretty much any sage from Shakespeare to Stephen Colbert to point out things like the fact that we're noble in reason and infinite in faculties and just kind of awesome-er than anything else on the planet when it comes to all things cerebral. But of course, there's a second observation about the human species that I want to focus on a little bit more, and that's the fact that even though we're actually really smart, sometimes uniquely smart, we can also be incredibly, incredibly dumb when it comes to some aspects of our decision making. Now I'm seeing lots of smirks out there. Don't worry, I'm not going to call anyone in particular out on any aspects of your own mistakes. But of course, just in the last two years we see these unprecedented examples of human ineptitude. And we've watched as the tools we uniquely make to pull the resources out of our environment kind of just blow up in our face. We've watched the financial markets that we uniquely create — these markets that were supposed to be foolproof — we've watched them kind of collapse before our eyes. But both of these two embarrassing examples, I think, don't highlight what I think is most embarrassing about the mistakes that humans make, which is that we'd like to think that the mistakes we make are really just the result of a couple bad apples or a couple really sort of FAIL Blog-worthy decisions. But it turns out, what social scientists are actually learning is that most of us, when put in certain contexts, will actually make very specific mistakes. The errors we make are actually predictable. We make them again and again. And they're actually immune to lots of evidence. When we get negative feedback, we still, the next time we're face with a certain context, tend to make the same errors. And so this has been a real puzzle to me as a sort of scholar of human nature. What I'm most curious about is, how is a species that's as smart as we are capable of such bad and such consistent errors all the time? You know, we're the smartest thing out there, why can't we figure this out? In some sense, where do our mistakes really come from? And having thought about this a little bit, I see a couple different possibilities. One possibility is, in some sense, it's not really our fault. Because we're a smart species, we can actually create all kinds of environments that are super, super complicated, sometimes too complicated for us to even actually understand, even though we've actually created them. We create financial markets that are super complex. We create mortgage terms that we can't actually deal with. And of course, if we are put in environments where we can't deal with it, in some sense makes sense that we actually might mess certain things up. If this was the case, we'd have a really easy solution to the problem of human error. We'd actually just say, okay, let's figure out the kinds of technologies we can't deal with, the kinds of environments that are bad — get rid of those, design things better, and we should be the noble species that we expect ourselves to be. But there's another possibility that I find a little bit more worrying, which is, maybe it's not our environments that are messed up. Maybe it's actually us that's designed badly. This is a hint that I've gotten from watching the ways that social scientists have learned about human errors. And what we see is that people tend to keep making errors exactly the same way, over and over again. It feels like we might almost just be built to make errors in certain ways. This is a possibility that I worry a little bit more about, because, if it's us that's messed up, it's not actually clear how we go about dealing with it. We might just have to accept the fact that we're error prone and try to design things around it. So this is the question my students and I wanted to get at. How can we tell the difference between possibility one and possibility two? What we need is a population that's basically smart, can make lots of decisions, but doesn't have access to any of the systems we have, any of the things that might mess us up — no human technology, human culture, maybe even not human language. And so this is why we turned to these guys here. These are one of the guys I work with. This is a brown capuchin monkey. These guys are New World primates, which means they broke off from the human branch about 35 million years ago. This means that your great, great, great great, great, great — with about five million ""greats"" in there — grandmother was probably the same great, great, great, great grandmother with five million ""greats"" in there as Holly up here. You know, so you can take comfort in the fact that this guy up here is a really really distant, but albeit evolutionary, relative. The good news about Holly though is that she doesn't actually have the same kinds of technologies we do. You know, she's a smart, very cut creature, a primate as well, but she lacks all the stuff we think might be messing us up. So she's the perfect test case. What if we put Holly into the same context as humans? Does she make the same mistakes as us? Does she not learn from them? And so on. And so this is the kind of thing we decided to do. My students and I got very excited about this a few years ago. We said, all right, let's, you know, throw so problems at Holly, see if she messes these things up. First problem is just, well, where should we start? Because, you know, it's great for us, but bad for humans. We make a lot of mistakes in a lot of different contexts. You know, where are we actually going to start with this? And because we started this work around the time of the financial collapse, around the time when foreclosures were hitting the news, we said, hhmm, maybe we should actually start in the financial domain. Maybe we should look at monkey's economic decisions and try to see if they do the same kinds of dumb things that we do. Of course, that's when we hit a sort second problem — a little bit more methodological — which is that, maybe you guys don't know, but monkeys don't actually use money. I know, you haven't met them. But this is why, you know, they're not in the queue behind you at the grocery store or the ATM — you know, they don't do this stuff. So now we faced, you know, a little bit of a problem here. How are we actually going to ask monkeys about money if they don't actually use it? So we said, well, maybe we should just, actually just suck it up and teach monkeys how to use money. So that's just what we did. What you're looking at over here is actually the first unit that I know of of non-human currency. We weren't very creative at the time we started these studies, so we just called it a token. But this is the unit of currency that we've taught our monkeys at Yale to actually use with humans, to actually buy different pieces of food. It doesn't look like much — in fact, it isn't like much. Like most of our money, it's just a piece of metal. As those of you who've taken currencies home from your trip know, once you get home, it's actually pretty useless. It was useless to the monkeys at first before they realized what they could do with it. When we first gave it to them in their enclosures, they actually kind of picked them up, looked at them. They were these kind of weird things. But very quickly, the monkeys realized that they could actually hand these tokens over to different humans in the lab for some food. And so you see one of our monkeys, Mayday, up here doing this. This is A and B are kind of the points where she's sort of a little bit curious about these things — doesn't know. There's this waiting hand from a human experimenter, and Mayday quickly figures out, apparently the human wants this. Hands it over, and then gets some food. It turns out not just Mayday, all of our monkeys get good at trading tokens with human salesman. So here's just a quick video of what this looks like. Here's Mayday. She's going to be trading a token for some food and waiting happily and getting her food. Here's Felix, I think. He's our alpha male; he's a kind of big guy. But he too waits patiently, gets his food and goes on. So the monkeys get really good at this. They're surprisingly good at this with very little training. We just allowed them to pick this up on their own. The question is: is this anything like human money? Is this a market at all, or did we just do a weird psychologist's trick by getting monkeys to do something, looking smart, but not really being smart. And so we said, well, what would the monkeys spontaneously do if this was really their currency, if they were really using it like money? Well, you might actually imagine them to do all the kinds of smart things that humans do when they start exchanging money with each other. You might have them start paying attention to price, paying attention to how much they buy — sort of keeping track of their monkey token, as it were. Do the monkeys do anything like this? And so our monkey marketplace was born. The way this works is that our monkeys normally live in a kind of big zoo social enclosure. When they get a hankering for some treats, we actually allowed them a way out into a little smaller enclosure where they could enter the market. Upon entering the market — it was actually a much more fun market for the monkeys than most human markets because, as the monkeys entered the door of the market, a human would give them a big wallet full of tokens so they could actually trade the tokens with one of these two guys here — two different possible human salesmen that they could actually buy stuff from. The salesmen were students from my lab. They dressed differently; they were different people. And over time, they did basically the same thing so the monkeys could learn, you know, who sold what at what price — you know, who was reliable, who wasn't, and so on. And you can see that each of the experimenters is actually holding up a little, yellow food dish. and that's what the monkey can for a single token. So everything costs one token, but as you can see, sometimes tokens buy more than others, sometimes more grapes than others. So I'll show you a quick video of what this marketplace actually looks like. Here's a monkey-eye-view. Monkeys are shorter, so it's a little short. But here's Honey. She's waiting for the market to open a little impatiently. All of a sudden the market opens. Here's her choice: one grapes or two grapes. You can see Honey, very good market economist, goes with the guy who gives more. She could teach our financial advisers a few things or two. So not just Honey, most of the monkeys went with guys who had more. Most of the monkeys went with guys who had better food. When we introduced sales, we saw the monkeys paid attention to that. They really cared about their monkey token dollar. The more surprising thing was that when we collaborated with economists to actually look at the monkeys' data using economic tools, they basically matched, not just qualitatively, but quantitatively with what we saw humans doing in a real market. So much so that, if you saw the monkeys' numbers, you couldn't tell whether they came from a monkey or a human in the same market. And what we'd really thought we'd done is like we'd actually introduced something that, at least for the monkeys and us, works like a real financial currency. Question is: do the monkeys start messing up in the same ways we do? Well, we already saw anecdotally a couple of signs that they might. One thing we never saw in the monkey marketplace was any evidence of saving — you know, just like our own species. The monkeys entered the market, spent their entire budget and then went back to everyone else. The other thing we also spontaneously saw, embarrassingly enough, is spontaneous evidence of larceny. The monkeys would rip-off the tokens at every available opportunity — from each other, often from us — you know, things we didn't necessarily think we were introducing, but things we spontaneously saw. So we said, this looks bad. Can we actually see if the monkeys are doing exactly the same dumb things as humans do? One possibility is just kind of let the monkey financial system play out, you know, see if they start calling us for bailouts in a few years. We were a little impatient so we wanted to sort of speed things up a bit. So we said, let's actually give the monkeys the same kinds of problems that humans tend to get wrong in certain kinds of economic challenges, or certain kinds of economic experiments. And so, since the best way to see how people go wrong is to actually do it yourself, I'm going to give you guys a quick experiment to sort of watch your own financial intuitions in action. So imagine that right now I handed each and every one of you a thousand U.S. dollars — so 10 crisp hundred dollar bills. Take these, put it in your wallet and spend a second thinking about what you're going to do with it. Because it's yours now; you can buy whatever you want. Donate it, take it, and so on. Sounds great, but you get one more choice to earn a little bit more money. And here's your choice: you can either be risky, in which case I'm going to flip one of these monkey tokens. If it comes up heads, you're going to get a thousand dollars more. If it comes up tails, you get nothing. So it's a chance to get more, but it's pretty risky. Your other option is a bit safe. Your just going to get some money for sure. I'm just going to give you 500 bucks. You can stick it in your wallet and use it immediately. So see what your intuition is here. Most people actually go with the play-it-safe option. Most people say, why should I be risky when I can get 1,500 dollars for sure? This seems like a good bet. I'm going to go with that. You might say, eh, that's not really irrational. People are a little risk-averse. So what? Well, the ""so what?"" comes when start thinking about the same problem set up just a little bit differently. So now imagine that I give each and every one of you 2,000 dollars — 20 crisp hundred dollar bills. Now you can buy double to stuff you were going to get before. Think about how you'd feel sticking it in your wallet. And now imagine that I have you make another choice But this time, it's a little bit worse. Now, you're going to be deciding how you're going to lose money, but you're going to get the same choice. You can either take a risky loss — so I'll flip a coin. If it comes up heads, you're going to actually lose a lot. If it comes up tails, you lose nothing, you're fine, get to keep the whole thing — or you could play it safe, which means you have to reach back into your wallet and give me five of those $100 bills, for certain. And I'm seeing a lot of furrowed brows out there. So maybe you're having the same intuitions as the subjects that were actually tested in this, which is when presented with these options, people don't choose to play it safe. They actually tend to go a little risky. The reason this is irrational is that we've given people in both situations the same choice. It's a 50/50 shot of a thousand or 2,000, or just 1,500 dollars with certainty. But people's intuitions about how much risk to take varies depending on where they started with. So what's going on? Well, it turns out that this seems to be the result of at least two biases that we have at the psychological level. One is that we have a really hard time thinking in absolute terms. You really have to do work to figure out, well, one option's a thousand, 2,000; one is 1,500. Instead, we find it very easy to think in very relative terms as options change from one time to another. So we think of things as, ""Oh, I'm going to get more,"" or ""Oh, I'm going to get less."" This is all well and good, except that changes in different directions actually effect whether or not we think options are good or not. And this leads to the second bias, which economists have called loss aversion. The idea is that we really hate it when things go into the red. We really hate it when we have to lose out on some money. And this means that sometimes we'll actually switch our preferences to avoid this. What you saw in that last scenario is that subjects get risky because they want the small shot that there won't be any loss. That means when we're in a risk mindset — excuse me, when we're in a loss mindset, we actually become more risky, which can actually be really worrying. These kinds of things play out in lots of bad ways in humans. They're why stock investors hold onto losing stocks longer — because they're evaluating them in relative terms. They're why people in the housing market refused to sell their house — because they don't want to sell at a loss. The question we were interested in is whether the monkeys show the same biases. If we set up those same scenarios in our little monkey market, would they do the same thing as people? And so this is what we did, we gave the monkeys choices between guys who were safe — they did the same thing every time — or guys who were risky — they did things differently half the time. And then we gave them options that were bonuses — like you guys did in the first scenario — so they actually have a chance more, or pieces where they were experiencing losses — they actually thought they were going to get more than they really got. And so this is what this looks like. We introduced the monkeys to two new monkey salesmen. The guy on the left and right both start with one piece of grape, so it looks pretty good. But they're going to give the monkeys bonuses. The guy on the left is a safe bonus. All the time, he adds one, to give the monkeys two. The guy on the right is actually a risky bonus. Sometimes the monkeys get no bonus — so this is a bonus of zero. Sometimes the monkeys get two extra. For a big bonus, now they get three. But this is the same choice you guys just faced. Do the monkeys actually want to play it safe and then go with the guy who's going to do the same thing on every trial, or do they want to be risky and try to get a risky, but big, bonus, but risk the possibility of getting no bonus. People here played it safe. Turns out, the monkeys play it safe too. Qualitatively and quantitatively, they choose exactly the same way as people, when tested in the same thing. You might say, well, maybe the monkeys just don't like risk. Maybe we should see how they do with losses. And so we ran a second version of this. Now, the monkeys meet two guys who aren't giving them bonuses; they're actually giving them less than they expect. So they look like they're starting out with a big amount. These are three grapes; the monkey's really psyched for this. But now they learn these guys are going to give them less than they expect. They guy on the left is a safe loss. Every single time, he's going to take one of these away and give the monkeys just two. the guy on the right is the risky loss. Sometimes he gives no loss, so the monkeys are really psyched, but sometimes he actually gives a big loss, taking away two to give the monkeys only one. And so what do the monkeys do? Again, same choice; they can play it safe for always getting two grapes every single time, or they can take a risky bet and choose between one and three. The remarkable thing to us is that, when you give monkeys this choice, they do the same irrational thing that people do. They actually become more risky depending on how the experimenters started. This is crazy because it suggests that the monkeys too are evaluating things in relative terms and actually treating losses differently than they treat gains. So what does all of this mean? Well, what we've shown is that, first of all, we can actually give the monkeys a financial currency, and they do very similar things with it. They do some of the smart things we do, some of the kind of not so nice things we do, like steal it and so on. But they also do some of the irrational things we do. They systematically get things wrong and in the same ways that we do. This is the first take-home message of the Talk, which is that if you saw the beginning of this and you thought, oh, I'm totally going to go home and hire a capuchin monkey financial adviser. They're way cuter than the one at ... you know — Don't do that; they're probably going to be just as dumb as the human one you already have. So, you know, a little bad — Sorry, sorry, sorry. A little bad for monkey investors. But of course, you know, the reason you're laughing is bad for humans too. Because we've answered the question we started out with. We wanted to know where these kinds of errors came from. And we started with the hope that maybe we can sort of tweak our financial institutions, tweak our technologies to make ourselves better. But what we've learn is that these biases might be a deeper part of us than that. In fact, they might be due to the very nature of our evolutionary history. You know, maybe it's not just humans at the right side of this chain that's duncey. Maybe it's sort of duncey all the way back. And this, if we believe the capuchin monkey results, means that these duncey strategies might be 35 million years old. That's a long time for a strategy to potentially get changed around — really, really old. What do we know about other old strategies like this? Well, one thing we know is that they tend to be really hard to overcome. You know, think of our evolutionary predilection for eating sweet things, fatty things like cheesecake. You can't just shut that off. You can't just look at the dessert cart as say, ""No, no, no. That looks disgusting to me."" We're just built differently. We're going to perceive it as a good thing to go after. My guess is that the same thing is going to be true when humans are perceiving different financial decisions. When you're watching your stocks plummet into the red, when you're watching your house price go down, you're not going to be able to see that in anything but old evolutionary terms. This means that the biases that lead investors to do badly, that lead to the foreclosure crisis are going to be really hard to overcome. So that's the bad news. The question is: is there any good news? I'm supposed to be up here telling you the good news. Well, the good news, I think, is what I started with at the beginning of the Talk, which is that humans are not only smart; we're really inspirationally smart to the rest of the animals in the biological kingdom. We're so good at overcoming our biological limitations — you know, I flew over here in an airplane. I didn't have to try to flap my wings. I'm wearing contact lenses now so that I can see all of you. I don't have to rely on my own near-sightedness. We actually have all of these cases where we overcome our biological limitations through technology and other means, seemingly pretty easily. But we have to recognize that we have those limitations. And here's the rub. It was Camus who once said that, ""Man is the only species who refuses to be what he really is."" But the irony is that it might only be in recognizing our limitations that we can really actually overcome them. The hope is that you all will think about your limitations, not necessarily as unovercomable, but to recognize them, accept them and then use the world of design to actually figure them out. That might be the only way that we will really be able to achieve our own human potential and really be the noble species we hope to all be. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我今天要跟各位分享有關人類這個物種的2個觀察結果。第一個發現，你可能會覺得這超明顯的，我們這個物種，靈長類，真的非常非常聰明，聰明的很誇張，你現在可以做的所有事情，目前地球上沒有其他物種可以做的到。當然，這絕對不是你第一次聽到這件事。當然，除了聰明，我們還是個非常自大的物種。所以我們才會講自己有多聰明。我可以講出一堆偉人的名字，從莎士比亞到史提芬-科伯(美國知名主持人)點出這些事情就像在講說我們有高貴的理性、無窮的能力，遠超過地球上任何生物的驚嘆成就。這一切都與大腦有關。 第二個有關我們人類這個物種的發現，我想要特別說明這一點，這個發現就是即使我們真的很聰明，有時候還會蹦出更聰明的人，但是當涉及某些領域的決策時，我們仍然會做出極度荒謬的蠢事。我發現有些人在偷笑。別擔心，我並不是在特別指名某某某在某些領域方面的錯誤。不過，就在2年前，我就發現了一些人類史無前例的愚蠢行為。我們用自己打造的獨特工具從大自然裡挖出天然資源，而我們正在自食這種行為的惡果。我們也看過那我們特別建構的金融市場—那個被認為是萬無一失的金融市場—就這樣活生生的在我們眼前崩潰。 我想，這2個令人尷尬的例子，還並不是我心中所認為最尷尬的人類行為，我們可能都會覺得犯錯的來源是壞蛋所做的偏差行為，或「爆笑部落格(FAIL Blog)」裡張貼的那些行為。事實上，社會學家根據我們的行為做研究，提出的相關研究顯示，人會犯一些特定的錯誤。其實我們所犯的錯都是可以預期的。但我們卻讓它一而再的發生。而且會對這種行為免疫。當我們某個行為得到負面的回應時，下一次當我們遇到同樣情形時，我們還是會犯同樣的錯。作為一個研究人類的學者，這種現象真的讓我百思不得其解。而我最好奇的地方是，像我們這麼聰明的物種，怎麼會一直犯錯，甚至犯同樣的錯? 我們是最聰明的物種，但為什麼我們找不出原因?在某種意義上，我們所犯的錯誤是從何而來?稍微思考一下後，我找出幾種可能性。第一個可能性是，根本不是我們的錯。因為我們是聰明的物種，我們能創造出各式各樣非常複雜的體制，即使是我們一手創造的，有時候弄得太複雜，連自己都搞不懂。像是，我們創造了超複雜的金融市場。我們搞了一堆自己無法負荷的貸款條件。若我們真的身處在一個無法應付的體制中，某些時候我們也許會把情況弄得更加混亂。不過若真的情況一發不可收拾，我們有一種最簡易的通用解決方案。我們會這樣講，好吧，既然已經無法應付這個情況，那讓我們來想點法子吧—這法子就是丟掉它們吧，去設計別的體制，這樣才能讓我們成為自己期望的高貴物種。 那另一種可能性，反而讓我有點擔憂，也許不是體制亂不亂的問題。也許是我們人類本身就有缺陷。這個徵兆，是我從社會學家，研究人類犯錯的過程中得到的。我們發現，人類傾向用同樣的方式犯錯而且會一而再、再而三的發生。這感覺好像我們會在某些領域不斷犯錯。這就是讓我擔心的另一項可能性，因為，若是我們本身就是無法捉摸，那我們根本不知道要如何應對這樣的問題。我們只能接受自己傾向犯錯的事實，然後想出新方法來修補錯誤。 這問題是我和我的學生想了解的。所以究竟是可能性一還是可能性二?我們需要一個群體來實驗，這群體要夠聰明，可以做許多決策，但必須從未接觸過人為的系統，沒接觸過會把我們搞瘋的體制，沒有人類的技術、文化，甚至不用人類的語言。這就是為什麼我們會找上這群傢伙。這是我們其中一個伙伴，一隻褐色的僧帽猴。牠們屬於新世界靈長類(註:根據演化分為新世界和舊世界)，牠們大約在3500萬年前跟人類分開演化。這意思就是說你的曾曾曾曾曾曾....祖父，大概5百萬個曾；還有你的曾曾曾曾曾曾...祖母大概5百萬個曾，是跟畫面的荷莉出自同一物種。各位請放寬心，這小傢伙跟我們幾乎是不同的，即使我們在演化史上有深厚的關係。荷莉跟我們有完全不同的發展，這對牠而言也是個好消息。牠很聰明，很可愛的小動物，屬於靈長類，而且牠沒有那些我們自己都搞不懂的東西。看來是個不錯的實驗對象。 那我們該把荷莉放在人類的哪一個情境呢?牠是否會跟我犯同樣的錯誤呢?牠是否不會從經驗中學得教訓呢?這些都是我們想探討的問題。我們在好幾年前就對這實驗非常期待。我們想說丟給荷莉一些人類才有的問題，看看牠會有什麼反應。第一個問題來了，要從哪裡開始?實驗對我們來說很好，但對人類就很難。因為我們在各種不同領域會犯不同的錯誤。所以，我們的實驗到底要從哪裡開始?正好實驗開始時是在次貸風暴的時候，同時新聞也不斷的報導抵押品回收的消息，我們想，也許就從金融的領域開始好了。讓我們來觀察猴子在經濟方面的決策，看看牠們是不是也會犯跟我們一樣的錯誤。 當然，第二個問題就隨之而來，就是有關教學的問題，各位可能不知道，猴子是不使用貨幣的。因為各位沒跟猴子接觸過。這就是為什麼當你在雜貨店或是在提款機前面時，沒看過猴子排在你後面，牠們才不會做這種事情。所以猴子不用錢這件事算是個問題。若猴子不用錢，那要怎樣讓猴子開始用錢?我們就想，好吧，稍微忍耐一下，先從教猴子用錢開始。所以教學就開始了。各位看到我手上拿的這個就是非人類貨幣的基本單位。我們在做這項研究的時候沒什麼創意，所以我們都叫它代幣。我們在耶魯大學教猴子使用這些貨幣和人類做交易，教他們用來買不同種的水果。看起來不起眼，也沒什麼價值 就像我們的硬幣一樣，用金屬做的。就像各位旅行後帶回家的各種外幣，一但你回到家，這錢就沒辦法用了。在猴子們了解能用代幣做什麼之前，對猴子來說這東西一點用也沒有。當我們首次把代幣放到籠子裏面時，牠們撿了起來，看著這些代幣。這對牠們來說是很怪的東西。不過很快的，猴子們很快的就瞭解到牠們可以用這些代幣跟實驗室裡的人換食物。可以看到其中一隻猴子，五月天，就正在做這件事。A圖到B圖是牠正對這些代幣感到一點好奇，因為牠從來沒看過代幣。圖C是實驗人員伸出手在等著，五月天很快的就懂了，看起來人類是想要這個代幣。牠交出代幣，然後就拿到一些食物了。不只是五月天，實驗室裡所有的猴子都懂。下面一個小短片讓大家看看這情形。牠是五月天。牠將使用代幣換食物，牠開心的等待，之後也順利拿到食物。牠是菲力，猴子群的老大，是個大傢伙。但也同樣耐心的等待食物的到來。 可見猴子們對交易這件事挺在行的。只需要一點點訓練牠們的表現就意外的好。我們只是放手讓牠們自己做選擇。這時候的問題就是：這像人類的貨幣使用情形媽?市場運作就是這樣而已?或是我們應該用奇特的心理手段引誘猴子們去做一些事情，看似聰明又不用很聰明的事情。所以我們想，如果這真是牠們的貨幣，用起來真的像錢，猴子會做有怎樣的自然反應?各位可以想像一下，當牠們開始用貨幣彼此做交易的時候就是開始作聰明人會做的事了。牠們會開始注意到價格，注意到該用多少價格去買，可以說是追蹤猴子幣的使用情形。看看猴子們是否有做這些事情了呢? 猴子市集誕生了。這運作的方式如下，我們讓猴子們生活在一個類似動物園的透明籠子裡。當牠們表現出想要做交易的時候，我們會讓牠們移轉到一個可以進入市場的透明箱子裡。一進入這個市場—-這個市場可比人類的市場有趣多了，因為，當猴子一進入這市場，人類會給牠們一個裝滿代幣的錢包，牠們可以用代幣和畫面中的其中一個人做交易，2個不同的銷售員，猴子們可以從他們身上買到不同東西。這2位是我實驗室裡的學生。不同人穿著不同衣服。隨著時間推移，銷售人員會一直做同樣的事情，所以猴子就能學習到誰賣的是什麼價格，誰比較可靠等等之類的事情。各位能看到這2位銷售人員都拿著一個小小的黃色食物盤，猴子可以用一個代幣買盤子裡的東西。其實每個商品都是價值一個代幣，但有時候一個代幣可以買到比較多的東西，也就是買到比較多的葡萄。 讓我給各位看看這個猴子市集的運作情形。這是從猴子的視點來錄製，所以比較矮。牠是小可愛。她有點不耐煩的等待市場開張。突然間市場開張了，牠有2個選擇：買1個葡萄或2個葡萄。各位可以發現小可愛是個很棒的市場經濟學家，牠跟賣較多葡萄的人做交易了。牠可以幫我們的財務學教授上課了。不只是小可愛，大多數的猴子都會跟葡萄較多的人做交易。大多數的猴子都會跟持有較好食物的人交易。開始與猴子作買賣後，我們發現猴子會專注在這件事情上。牠們會在意猴子幣的真正價值。最令人驚訝的是，當我們開始與經濟學家合作觀察猴子使用經濟工具的情形時，不管是在質性研究上，還是在量性研究上，牠們的使用情形與我們人類在市場上做的一樣。以至於在量性的研究上，你根本沒辦法分辨出這數據結果是人類的還是猴子的。 我們已經成功做到引介給猴子一些東西，至少猴子與我們將代幣運作的跟金融貨幣差不多。另一個問題是：猴子會不會跟我們用一樣的方法把這制度搞亂?其實我們有觀察到一些現象。第一，在猴子市場中我們沒發現到任何儲蓄的證據，沒發現像我們人一樣的儲蓄行為。猴子進入市場後，會把所有錢花光，然後再跳回猴群中。我們自然而然的發現另一件事，非常尷尬，就是自發性的竊盜行為。猴子會用任何機會來偷代幣，偷同伴的、偷我們的。我沒有必要在這方面做太多著墨，但是我們看到了這個行為。 這看起來很糟糕。我們是否能夠看到猴子們做出跟人類一樣愚蠢的事情?有個方法是先創立猴子金融市場，然後再讓這個市場停擺，不過，這樣做實驗可能得耗上好幾年。我們有點等不及，所以我們讓實驗進行的快一點。我們就想，那就給這些小猴子們面對一些問題，這些問題是人類經常會犯錯的一些經濟議題，或是一些經濟的試驗。想要了解人類是怎麼犯錯的，最棒的方式就是自己做一次。所以我要給各位一個小試驗，請各位用你的財務直覺來回答。 請各位現在想像一下，我給現場每個人各1千美金，用10張百元鈔票成一捆的1千美金。把它放進你的皮夾裡花點時間想想你要拿這筆錢做什麼。這是你的錢了，你可以買任何想要的東西。捐出去，花掉，隨便你。不錯吧?不過再給你另一個機會，讓你能拿1千美金以上的錢。第一種選擇：冒個險拿多一些，我用丟猴子代幣來決定這個選擇的結果 。如果代幣出現頭像，你可以多得1000美金。如果出現字面，你就只有本金。有機會拿到比較多，但是要冒點風險。而另一個較安全的選擇：讓你再拿一筆確切的金額。不過只能拿500美金。你可以把這筆錢放在皮夾或是馬上花掉。你的直覺決定好了嗎?大部分的人會選擇不冒險的選項。這些人想說，我確定能拿1500美金幹麻還要去冒險?這似乎是一個不錯的選擇，我選這個。各位也許覺得這樣選沒錯阿，人是風險趨避者，有問題嗎? 人是不是風險趨避者的問題，請思考過另一個相似問題後，再來做判斷。現在再想像一下，我現在給各位2000美金，20張百元鈔票成一捆。你剛剛想買的物品可以多買一倍。想想這筆錢在皮夾裡的感覺。現在，選擇的一刻又來了，但這次，條件比較糟糕。因為你將決定""失去金錢""的方式，一樣要從中做個選擇。第一個選擇是有風險的損失—一樣用丟硬幣，出現頭像，你會損失1000美金。如果出現反面，你1毛都不用丟，2000美金好好放著。或是不冒險，也就是說你乖乖把皮夾拿出來，然後給我5張100元鈔票。 我看到很多人眉頭深鎖著喔。測試各位的這個問題，也許各位有著同樣直覺的答案，當這些選項攤開給大家選擇時，人們不會選安全的方案，而會選擇冒險。明明是有著同樣選擇的2種情境下，後者竟然變得喜歡風險。拿到1000或2000元的機會各50%，或是100%拿到1500元。而人們對於風險多寡的直覺居然是來自一開始手上有多少籌碼來決定。 這是怎麼回事?恩，這答案來自我們心裡層面上的2項偏誤。一個是我們沒有足夠的時間去計算絕對價值。你應該要找時間好好考慮清楚，一個選擇是拿1000或2000，一個是拿1500。相反的，如果選項改成相對價值的話，就比較容易釐清了。選項改成：""拿到更多""或""拿比較少""。這樣的話很好，只不過稍微改變一下手法，就會影響我們對於選項是好是壞的觀感。這會引導出第二項偏誤，經濟學家稱這個為""損失趨避""(loss aversion)。 這概念是說，我們會非常討厭任何損失。我們會極度不願意失去任何金錢。這點指出我們會轉移我們的偏好來避免任何損失。剛剛再第二個情境裏面人們會選擇冒險，因為不想放過任何""零損失""的機會。這也點出了我們對於風險的心態—-當我們進入""避免損失""的模式時，我們會變得更喜歡風險，這就是最令人擔憂的部份。人類的負面行為也因此而暴露出來。也是為什麼股票投資者會死抱著不斷下跌的股票，因為他們用相對價值來計算後得到的結論。這也是為什麼房市裡的投資客不願意賣掉房子，因為他們不想要房子貶值的時候賣掉。 我們感興趣的問題是猴子們是否也會有同樣的偏誤。若我們設計同樣的問題在猴子市場裡，他們是否會做出跟人一樣的行為?所以我們讓猴子在2個傢伙之間做選擇，一位是安全的交易者，他會一直拿出同樣的商品量；另一位是有風險的交易者，他有一半的時間會拿出不同商品。我們提供有紅利的選項—-就像剛剛的第一情境—-因此猴子們同樣也有機會拿到更多，或是嚐到一些損失，實際上牠們會覺得自己會拿到比較多的葡萄。 這是實驗的模樣。我們將2位新的猴子銷售員引介給猴子們。左邊和右邊一開始都是拿出1粒葡萄，看起來很公平。但是這2位會給猴子一些紅利。左邊提供的是安全紅利。從頭到尾，他會多給猴子1粒葡萄。右邊的是提供風險紅利。有時候猴子拿不到任何紅利，所以牠不會多拿任何葡萄。但有時候猴子能多拿2粒葡萄。很棒的紅利，所以猴子能一次拿3粒葡萄。這跟剛剛給各位的實驗內容是一樣的。那麼，猴子是會去選擇有安全紅利的交易，就是那位每次交易都會提供同樣東西的人；或是，牠們會去選有風險的紅利雖然要冒點險，有可能拿不到任何紅利，但是若能拿到就賺翻了。人類傾向選擇安全的一方。結果，沒想到猴子也會選擇安全的一方。在質性研究和量化研究裡，在同樣的測試內容下，猴子與人類有一致的行為反應。 各位也許會覺得，也許是因為猴子不喜歡冒險。也許我們應該看看猴子面對損失時的行為。所以我們就做了第二種版本的實驗。現在，猴子們會面對這2個傢伙，他們不會再給猴子紅利了；他們會給拿走猴子預期的葡萄數。所以他們一開始就拿出較多的葡萄。一開始就拿出3粒葡萄；這是猴子最想看到的情形。不過他們發現，這2個傢伙會給予比預期還少的數量。左邊這位，他提供固定的損失量。每次他都會固定少給猴子一粒葡萄，也就是只給他們2粒。右邊這位提供有風險的損失量。有時候一個都不會少，完全符合猴子期待，但有時候他會拿走很多，也就是只給猴子1粒葡萄。 猴子們會怎麼決定?跟剛才一樣，牠們可以作保險的交易，每次交易都拿固定的2粒葡萄，或是做有風險的交易，拿1粒或拿3粒。最值得我們注意的是，當提供給猴子們這種選擇時，牠們出現跟人類同樣非理性的行為。根據實驗人員的起始條件猴子們變得傾向冒險。這真是太瘋狂了，因為猴子居然也用相對價值來評估，而且在面對損失和面對獲得之間有著非常不同的行為。 這帶來什麼啟示?我們先做歸納，首先，我們給予猴子一種財務貨幣，然後教牠們做一些簡單的交易行為。牠們會做出跟人類一樣聰明的事情，也會做出跟人類一樣不太好的事情，像是偷錢之類的。同時牠們也會做出跟人類一樣非理性的行為。他們有條理地做出錯誤行為，就跟我們一樣。今天演講中給各位的第一個結論，如果你只聽到開頭的部份，你可能會想—我回家後真該雇用一隻僧帽猴當我的財務大臣。這傢伙的可愛程度遠超家裡的那位...但你可千萬別這麼做，因為這些猴子的糊塗程度跟你家裡的那位差不多。這是有點糟糕的..各位聽我說一下。請猴子來當投資客不太好。 當然，各位笑的點在於人一樣不擅於當投資客。這問題的答案在剛才就已經證明給大家看了。而我們為了想了解這些錯誤從何而來，就抱著某些希望，像是在某種程度上調整我們的金融機構，或調整我們的財務手法使自己過的更好。但我們已經了解到其實這2種偏誤會深深的影響我們。事實上，這些偏誤會影響我們這麼深，因為它們在老早就深植在我們的進化過程中。各位，也許笨蛋不只是圖中這進化鏈中最右邊的人類，也許變笨蛋的來源是從古早就有了。若我們相信這些針對猴子的實驗結果，也就表示我們承認這種愚蠢對策早在3500萬年前就出現了。這存在已久的對策已經默默的影響我們很久。 我們對這類的對策了解多少?我們了解的其中一項事實就是，我們很難去改變它。想一想我們最先進化的部份就是懂得吃甜食、高油脂的食物，如起士蛋糕。你沒辦法閉嘴不吃。你沒辦法對著裝滿推車的點心說：""我才不吃，這些令我作嘔。""但人與人之間存在著差異性。我們會追求自己認為好的事物。所以我推測人們對於財務上的決策也會有不同的認知見解。你會傻愣愣地看持有的股票價格直線下墜，或是看著自己持有的不動產貶值，而你不會去注意到事情的真相，因為我們與生俱來就是有這樣的行為。這種心理上的偏差會讓投資者做出糟糕的決定，所以像這次的次貸危機就變得很難去避免。 聽起來都是壞消息。那有沒有好消息呢?我這裡是有一些好消息告訴各位。我想這個好消息就是，就如同我在演講時的開頭就說的，人類不只是聰明而已；我們比起生物界裡的其他動物，都要聰明許多。我們非常擅長克服我們先天上的不足—-就像我是搭飛機來這裡。我不需要把手當翅膀拍動來飛。我帶著隱形眼鏡才能清楚看見各位。不需要依賴我這雙大近視的眼睛。我們有這麼多例子都是用科技或其他方式來突破我們生物限制的事實，讓一切看起來是這麼簡單。但我們也必須了解自己的極限在哪裡， 而這是最難的地方。就像卡謬曾說(1957年諾貝爾文學獎得主)：""人是唯一搞不清楚自己是什麼的物種。""諷刺的是我們得知道人類的極限在哪，才能克服它們。希望各位都能意識到自己的極限在哪，它並不是不可逾越，了解它，接受它，然後發展出讓世人更了解人類極限的工具。想要能激發出人類潛力同時成為那種我們心裡所想達成的高貴物種，這也許是唯一的辦法。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)"
