Talk	en	zh-tw
laura_carstensen_older_people_are_happier	"People are living longer and societies are getting grayer. You hear about it all the time. You read about it in your newspapers. You hear about it on your television sets. Sometimes, I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease. But make no mistake, longer lives can — and, I believe, will improve quality of life at all ages. Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute. More years were added to average life expectancy in the 20th century than all years added across all prior millennia of human evolution combined. In the blink of an eye, we nearly doubled the length of time that we're living. So if you ever feel like you don't have this aging thing quite pegged, don't kick yourself. It's brand new. And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age, is being reshaped into a rectangle. And now, if you're the kind of person who can get chills from population statistics, (Laughter) these are the ones that should do it. Because what that means is that for the first time in the history of the species, the majority of babies born in the developed world are having the opportunity to grow old. How did this happen? Well, we're no genetically hardier than our ancestors were 10,000 years ago. This increase in life expectancy is the remarkable product of culture — the crucible that holds science and technology and wide-scale changes in behavior that improve health and well-being. Through cultural changes, our ancestors largely eliminated early death so that people can now live out their full lives. Now there are problems associated with aging — diseases, poverty, loss of social status. It's hardly time to rest on our laurels. But the more we learn about aging, the clearer it becomes that a sweeping downward course is grossly inaccurate. Aging brings some rather remarkable improvements — increased knowledge, expertise — and emotional aspects of life improve. That's right, older people are happy. They're happier than middle-aged people, and younger people, certainly. (Laughter) Study after study is coming to the same conclusion. The CDC recently conducted a survey where they asked respondents simply to tell them whether they experienced significant psychological distress in the previous week. And fewer older people answered affirmatively to that question than middle-aged people, and younger people as well. And a recent Gallup poll asked participants how much stress and worry and anger they had experienced the previous day. And stress, worry, anger all decrease with age. Now social scientists call this the paradox of aging. I mean, after all, aging is not a piece of cake. So we've asked all sorts of questions to see if we could undo this finding. We've asked whether it may be that the current generations of older people are and always have been the greatest generations. That is that younger people today may not typically experience these improvements as they grow older. We've asked, well, maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence. (Laughter) But the more we've tried to disavow this finding, the more evidence we find to support it. Years ago, my colleagues and I embarked on a study where we followed the same group of people over a 10-year period. Originally, the sample was aged 18 to 94. And we studied whether and how their emotional experiences changed as they grew older. Our participants would carry electronic pagers for a week at a time, and we'd page them throughout the day and evenings at random times. And every time we paged them, we'd ask them to answer several questions — ""On a one to seven scale, how happy are you right now?"" ""How sad are you right now?"" ""How frustrated are you right now?"" — so that we could get a sense of the kinds of emotions and feelings they were having in their day-to-day lives. And using this intense study of individuals, we find that it's not one particular generation that's doing better than the others, but the same individuals over time come to report relatively greater positive experience. Now you see this slight downturn at very advanced ages. And there is a slight downturn. But at no point does it return to the levels we see in early adulthood. Now it's really too simplistic to say that older people are ""happy."" In our study, they are more positive. But they're also more likely than younger people to experience mixed emotions — sadness at the same time you experience happiness; you know, that tear in the eye when you're smiling at a friend. And other research has shown that older people seem to engage with sadness more comfortably. They're more accepting of sadness than younger people are. And we suspect that this may help to explain why older people are better than younger people at solving hotly charged emotional conflicts and debates. Older people can view injustice with compassion, but not despair. And all things being equal, older people direct their cognitive resources, like attention and memory, to positive information more than negative. If we show older, middle-aged, younger people images, like the ones you see on the screen, and we later ask them to recall all the images that they can, older people, but not younger people, remember more positive images than negative images. We've asked older and younger people to view faces in laboratory studies, some frowning, some smiling. Older people look toward the smiling faces and away from the frowning, angry faces. In day-to-day life, this translates into greater enjoyment and satisfaction. But as social scientists, we continue to ask about possible alternatives. We've said, well, maybe older people report more positive emotions because they're cognitively impaired. (Laughter) We've said, could it be that positive emotions are simply easier to process than negative emotions, and so you switch to the positive emotions? Maybe our neural centers in our brain are degraded such that we're unable to process negative emotions anymore. But that's not the case. The most mentally sharp older adults are the ones who show this positivity effect the most. And under conditions where it really matters, older people do process the negative information just as well as the positive information. So how can this be? Well, in our research, we've found that these changes are grounded fundamentally in the uniquely human ability to monitor time — not just clock time and calendar time, but lifetime. And if there's a paradox of aging, it's that recognizing that we won't live forever changes our perspective on life in positive ways. When time horizons are long and nebulous, as they typically are in youth, people are constantly preparing, trying to soak up all the information they possibly can, taking risks, exploring. We might spend time with people we don't even like because it's somehow interesting. We might learn something unexpected. (Laughter) We go on blind dates. (Laughter) You know, after all, if it doesn't work out, there's always tomorrow. People over 50 don't go on blind dates. (Laughter) As we age, our time horizons grow shorter and our goals change. When we recognize that we don't have all the time in the world, we see our priorities most clearly. We take less notice of trivial matters. We savor life. We're more appreciative, more open to reconciliation. We invest in more emotionally important parts of life, and life gets better, so we're happier day-to-day. But that same shift in perspective leads us to have less tolerance than ever for injustice. By 2015, there will be more people in the United States over the age of 60 than under 15. What will happen to societies that are top-heavy with older people? The numbers won't determine the outcome. Culture will. If we invest in science and technology and find solutions for the real problems that older people face and we capitalize on the very real strengths of older people, then added years of life can dramatically improve quality of life at all ages. Societies with millions of talented, emotionally stable citizens who are healthier and better educated than any generations before them, armed with knowledge about the practical matters of life and motivated to solve the big issues can be better societies than we have ever known. My father, who is 92, likes to say, ""Let's stop talking only about how to save the old folks and start talking about how to get them to save us all."" Thank you. (Applause)"	現代人較為長壽社會中銀髮族也愈來愈多你不停聽到人家這麽說報紙上這麽說電視上也這麽說有時候我會擔心我們聼太多了我們變成用種自滿甚至輕鬆的態度來接受長壽的事實但是別誤會了我認爲長壽可以也將會讓各種年紀的人增進生活品質 為了正確的看待這件事先讓我暫時抽離主題20世紀時所增加的人類平均壽命比起先前人類演化幾千年以來所增加的歲數都還要來的多只是在一眨眼間我們的壽命幾乎就增加了兩倍所以如果你對長壽沒有特別的感覺別怪你自己這是個全新的現象 同時間因為生育率下降平均壽命延長用來表示人口年齡分佈的金字塔底層原本有很多年輕人經篩選後只剩金字塔尖端的少數人成功地存活到老年現在金字塔正逐漸變型成為長方形 如果你是對人口統計資料特別有興趣的人這些便是讓你「有感覺」的資料因為這表示人類歷史上第一次在已開發國家中出生的大多數嬰兒有機會能夠活到老 這是怎麽辦到的？我們的基因組合並沒有比我們1萬年前的祖先還來得強韌平均壽命的增加是令人讚嘆的文化產物 —是經過嚴峻考驗透過科學和科技和大規模的行為改變以增進健康和福祉透過文化變遷我們的祖先大量地排除了早逝的機會所以現在人們能度過完整的一生 現今老化也帶來了一些問題 —疾病、貧窮、失去社會地位幾乎無法安享晚年但當我們對老化了解越多我們更清楚這種越老越糟的人生觀是非常不正確的老化也帶來一些非常卓越的改進 —智慧的增加、學有專精 —還有改善生活的情感部分沒錯老年人很快樂他們確實比中年人和年輕人快樂研究一再顯示相同的結果 疾病管制局最近做了一個調查他們要受訪者告訴他們在過去一週裡，是否有經歷重大的精神苦難回答是的老年人人數很少相較於中年人和年輕人最近一次的蓋洛普民調問受訪者在受訪的前一天經歷了多少壓力、擔憂和憤怒這些壓力、擔憂和憤怒都隨年齡增加而減低 社會科學家稱這為老化的矛盾畢竟變老不是件簡單的事所以我們問了各式各樣的問題看是否能找出解答我們想知道是不是因為目前這一代的老年人一直以來都是最棒的世代意思是說，現今的年輕人變老時可能也無法再經歷這樣的進步我們也問或許老年人只是試著在令人沮喪的生存中過得樂觀一點（笑聲）但當我們試著要推翻這理論我們也發現越多可支持它的證據 幾年前，我和我的同事作了個研究我們用10年的時間追蹤了一組人一開始這組樣本的年紀為18歲到94歲我們研究他們的情感經歷是否隨著年齡增長而改變參加的人要戴著電子呼叫器每次一個星期我們會在白天和晚上隨意地呼叫他們每當我們呼叫他們時我們會問幾個問題 —用1分到七7分來評分，你現在有多開心你現在有多難過你現在有多沮喪於是我們可以了解在日復一日的生活中當下他們有何種情感和感覺 透過這種密集的個體研究我們發現沒有特別一個世代表現得比其它還要好但是經過時間歷練同一個人相對地會呈現更正面的經驗你可以看到年紀很大的時候此曲線微微往下彎曲即使往下彎曲但這曲線不可能回到你所看到的成人早期時的水平 我們不能過分單純地下定論說老年人過得很「開心」在我們的研究中，他們較積極但他們比起年輕人較能體驗綜合的情緒體驗開心時同時覺得傷心；你懂吧，當你對一個朋友微笑時眼眶中泛著淚水的感覺另外一個研究顯示出老年人似乎能更坦然地和悲傷共處比起年輕人，他們更能接受悲傷我們的懷疑是，這可能有助於解釋為什麼老年人比年輕人更能解決激烈的情緒衝突和爭論老年人可以用同情心而非絕望來看待不正義 在一切平等的情況下老年人將他們的認知能力像是注意力和記憶導向正面，而非負面的資訊如果我們展示影像給老年人、中年人和年輕人像是你在螢幕上看到的照片之後我們要求他們盡可能回想所有的影像老年人，而非年輕人想起的正面影像多於負面影像在實驗室研究中我們也要求老年人和年輕人看不同的臉有些在皺眉，有些在微笑老年人看著微笑的臉避開皺眉，生氣的臉在日復一日的生活中這些轉變成較多的享受和滿足感 但身為社會科學家，我們持續的問其他可能的原因我們想過或老年人有較正面的情感是因為他們認知受損(笑聲)我們也想過，有沒有可能處理正面情感比負面情感還來的容易所以人們會轉換成正面情感？或許我們腦中的神經中心已經退化到不再能處理負面的情感的程度但這些都不是解答愈是思考敏銳的老年人越能顯示出正面的結果當處於危急的情況下老年人會處理負面資訊像他們處理正面資訊一樣 這倒底是怎麼辦到的？在我們的研究中我們發現這些改變是建立在人類獨特的控制時間能力的基礎上 —不單單只是時鐘和日曆的時間還有人一生的時間如果說老化有矛盾那就是體認到我們沒有永生改變了我們對生命的見解變得更正面當我們覺得時間既長又朦朧如同典型的青年時期人們一直在準備試著盡可能沉浸在所有資訊中作冒險的事，探索世界我們可能會花時間在我們不喜歡的人身上為了些看似有趣的原因我們可能學習到未預期的東西(笑聲)我們和不認識的人約會(笑聲)畢竟就算行不通，總還是有明天超過50歲的人不會和不認識的人約會 (笑聲) 當我們年紀愈來愈大我們的時間水平線也變短我們的目標改變當我們意識到我們沒有世界上所有的時間我們更清晰地了解事物的優先順序我們比較不注意繁瑣小事我們品嘗生命我們更有欣賞力更能接受和解我們投資在生命中情感上要重要的部分於是生活得更好所以我們一天比一天開心但這種看法上的轉變引導我們更不能容忍不正義 到2015年時在美國，超過60歲的人比15歲以下的人還要多。老年人占大多數的社會會發生什麼事？人數不會決定結果文化會如果我們投資科學和技術而且找出老年人所面臨真正問題的解決方案而且善加利用老年人的優點那麼年齡的增加可以大幅地改善所有年齡層的生活品質社會中有了幾百萬位有才能的，情緒穩定的居民而且他們比任何更早的世代更健康且教育水平更高擁有實際生活經驗的知識而且積極地想解決重大問題這可以成為比任何我們知道的還要更好的社會 我父親，今年92歲喜歡說：「不要一再只說要如何拯救老年人要開始說如何讓他們拯救我們。」 謝謝。 (掌聲)
