Talk	en	zh-tw
laura_snyder_the_philosophical_breakfast_club	"I'd like you to come back with me for a moment to the 19th century, specifically to June 24, 1833. The British Association for the Advancement of Science is holding its third meeting at the University of Cambridge. It's the first night of the meeting, and a confrontation is about to take place that will change science forever. An elderly, white-haired man stands up. The members of the Association are shocked to realize that it's the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who hadn't even left his house in years until that day. They're even more shocked by what he says. ""You must stop calling yourselves natural philosophers."" Coleridge felt that true philosophers like himself pondered the cosmos from their armchairs. They were not mucking around in the fossil pits or conducting messy experiments with electrical piles like the members of the British Association. The crowd grew angry and began to complain loudly. A young Cambridge scholar named William Whewell stood up and quieted the audience. He politely agreed that an appropriate name for the members of the association did not exist. ""If 'philosophers' is taken to be too wide and lofty a term,"" he said, ""then, by analogy with 'artist,' we may form 'scientist.'"" This was the first time the word scientist was uttered in public, only 179 years ago. I first found out about this confrontation when I was in graduate school, and it kind of blew me away. I mean, how could the word scientist not have existed until 1833? What were scientists called before? What had changed to make a new name necessary precisely at that moment? Prior to this meeting, those who studied the natural world were talented amateurs. Think of the country clergyman or squire collecting his beetles or fossils, like Charles Darwin, for example, or, the hired help of a nobleman, like Joseph Priestley, who was the literary companion to the Marquis of Lansdowne when he discovered oxygen. After this, they were scientists, professionals with a particular scientific method, goals, societies and funding. Much of this revolution can be traced to four men who met at Cambridge University in 1812: Charles Babbage, John Herschel, Richard Jones and William Whewell. These were brilliant, driven men who accomplished amazing things. Charles Babbage, I think known to most TEDsters, invented the first mechanical calculator and the first prototype of a modern computer. John Herschel mapped the stars of the southern hemisphere, and, in his spare time, co-invented photography. I'm sure we could all be that productive without Facebook or Twitter to take up our time. Richard Jones became an important economist who later influenced Karl Marx. And Whewell not only coined the term scientist, as well as the words anode, cathode and ion, but spearheaded international big science with his global research on the tides. In the Cambridge winter of 1812 and 1813, the four met for what they called philosophical breakfasts. They talked about science and the need for a new scientific revolution. They felt science had stagnated since the days of the scientific revolution that had happened in the 17th century. It was time for a new revolution, which they pledged to bring about, and what's so amazing about these guys is, not only did they have these grandiose undergraduate dreams, but they actually carried them out, even beyond their wildest dreams. And I'm going to tell you today about four major changes to science these men made. About 200 years before, Francis Bacon and then, later, Isaac Newton, had proposed an inductive scientific method. Now that's a method that starts from observations and experiments and moves to generalizations about nature called natural laws, which are always subject to revision or rejection should new evidence arise. However, in 1809, David Ricardo muddied the waters by arguing that the science of economics should use a different, deductive method. The problem was that an influential group at Oxford began arguing that because it worked so well in economics, this deductive method ought to be applied to the natural sciences too. The members of the philosophical breakfast club disagreed. They wrote books and articles promoting inductive method in all the sciences that were widely read by natural philosophers, university students and members of the public. Reading one of Herschel's books was such a watershed moment for Charles Darwin that he would later say, ""Scarcely anything in my life made so deep an impression on me. It made me wish to add my might to the accumulated store of natural knowledge."" It also shaped Darwin's scientific method, as well as that used by his peers. [Science for the public good] Previously, it was believed that scientific knowledge ought to be used for the good of the king or queen, or for one's own personal gain. For example, ship captains needed to know information about the tides in order to safely dock at ports. Harbormasters would gather this knowledge and sell it to the ship captains. The philosophical breakfast club changed that, working together. Whewell's worldwide study of the tides resulted in public tide tables and tidal maps that freely provided the harbormasters' knowledge to all ship captains. Herschel helped by making tidal observations off the coast of South Africa, and, as he complained to Whewell, he was knocked off the docks during a violent high tide for his trouble. The four men really helped each other in every way. They also relentlessly lobbied the British government for the money to build Babbage's engines because they believed these engines would have a huge practical impact on society. In the days before pocket calculators, the numbers that most professionals needed — bankers, insurance agents, ship captains, engineers — were to be found in lookup books like this, filled with tables of figures. These tables were calculated using a fixed procedure over and over by part-time workers known as — and this is amazing — computers, but these calculations were really difficult. I mean, this nautical almanac published the lunar differences for every month of the year. Each month required 1,365 calculations, so these tables were filled with mistakes. Babbage's difference engine was the first mechanical calculator devised to accurately compute any of these tables. Two models of his engine were built in the last 20 years by a team from the Science Museum of London using his own plans. This is the one now at the Computer History Museum in California, and it calculates accurately. It actually works. Later, Babbage's analytical engine was the first mechanical computer in the modern sense. It had a separate memory and central processor. It was capable of iteration, conditional branching and parallel processing, and it was programmable using punched cards, an idea Babbage took from Jacquard's loom. Tragically, Babbage's engines never were built in his day because most people thought that non-human computers would have no usefulness for the public. [New scientific institutions] Founded in Bacon's time, the Royal Society of London was the foremost scientific society in England and even in the rest of the world. By the 19th century, it had become a kind of gentleman's club populated mainly by antiquarians, literary men and the nobility. The members of the philosophical breakfast club helped form a number of new scientific societies, including the British Association. These new societies required that members be active researchers publishing their results. They reinstated the tradition of the Q&A after scientific papers were read, which had been discontinued by the Royal Society as being ungentlemanly. And for the first time, they gave women a foot in the door of science. Members were encouraged to bring their wives, daughters and sisters to the meetings of the British Association, and while the women were expected to attend only the public lectures and the social events like this one, they began to infiltrate the scientific sessions as well. The British Association would later be the first of the major national science organizations in the world to admit women as full members. [External funding for science] Up to the 19th century, natural philosophers were expected to pay for their own equipment and supplies. Occasionally, there were prizes, such as that given to John Harrison in the 18th century, for solving the so-called longitude problem, but prizes were only given after the fact, when they were given at all. On the advice of the philosophical breakfast club, the British Association began to use the extra money generated by its meetings to give grants for research in astronomy, the tides, fossil fish, shipbuilding, and many other areas. These grants not only allowed less wealthy men to conduct research, but they also encouraged thinking outside the box, rather than just trying to solve one pre-set question. Eventually, the Royal Society and the scientific societies of other countries followed suit, and this has become — fortunately it's become — a major part of the scientific landscape today. So the philosophical breakfast club helped invent the modern scientist. That's the heroic part of their story. There's a flip side as well. They did not foresee at least one consequence of their revolution. They would have been deeply dismayed by today's disjunction between science and the rest of culture. It's shocking to realize that only 28 percent of American adults have even a very basic level of science literacy, and this was tested by asking simple questions like, ""Did humans and dinosaurs inhabit the Earth at the same time?"" and ""What proportion of the Earth is covered in water?"" Once scientists became members of a professional group, they were slowly walled off from the rest of us. This is the unintended consequence of the revolution that started with our four friends. Charles Darwin said, ""I sometimes think that general and popular treatises are almost as important for the progress of science as original work."" In fact, ""Origin of Species"" was written for a general and popular audience, and was widely read when it first appeared. Darwin knew what we seem to have forgotten, that science is not only for scientists. Thank you. (Applause)"	我希望你可以跟著我暫時回到十九世紀，準確來說，是1833年的6月24日。英國科學協會（The British Association for the Advancement of Science）正在劍橋大學舉行第三次會議。這是會議的第一個晚上，而即將發生的一場爭執將永遠改變科學的面貌。 一位頭髮花白的長者站了起來。科學協會的成員驚訝地發現他是詩人山姆.泰勒.柯勒律治(Samuel Taylor Coleridge)，一位多年足不出戶的詩人－直到那天。更讓他們驚訝的是他所說的話。 「你不能再稱自己為自然哲學家。」 柯勒律治覺得哲學家們，像他自己本身，都是坐在扶手椅上思索宇宙的。他們並沒有把煤坑搞得一團糟或是用電子零件作混亂的實驗，不像英國科學協會的人一樣。 會議成員開始生氣，還大聲抗議。一位年輕的劍橋學者，威廉.修艾爾(William Whewell)站了起來他讓所有人安靜下來。他很禮貌地指出一個適合協會成員使用的稱號並不存在。 「如果“哲學家”這個稱號過於廣義和高尚，」他說。「那麼，參考“藝術家”(artist)這個稱呼，我們可以自稱為“科學家”(scientist)。」這是「科學家」三個字第一次在公開場合出現，而這只是179年前的事。 我是在研究所的時候第一次聽到這個故事，這讓我有點震驚。我是說，「科學家」這個詞怎麼可能在1833年以前都不存在？那他們以前被稱為甚麼呢？是甚麼改變了，導致在當時必須產生一個新詞？在會議之前，那些研究自然世界的人都是有才能的業餘愛好者。想想那些鄉村裡的牧師或地主收集甲蟲或化石，像查爾斯.達爾文 (Charles Darwin)，或是貴族雇用的幫手，像約瑟夫.普利斯特里 (Joseph Priestley)，他曾是蘭斯多恩侯爵 (Marquis of Lansdowne) 的伙伴，在他發現氧氣的時候。在這之後，他們全成了科學家，成了專精於某種科學研究方法的專業人士，有著科學研究目標、學會和資助。 這個進化可以歸功於四個人他們在1812年於劍橋大學相遇：查爾斯.巴貝奇、約翰.赫歇爾、理查.鐘斯和威廉.休厄爾。他們都是非常聰明的、有雄心的人也有不少出色的成就。查爾斯.巴貝奇(Charles Babbage)，我想你們多數人都知道他，他發明了世上第一個力學計算機和第一個現化電腦的原型。約翰.赫歇爾 (John Herschel)畫下了南半球的星圖，並在他空閒的時間和別人一起發明了相機。我相信我們都可以有如此的有生產力只要Facebook和Twitter不再佔用我們的時間。理查.鐘斯 (Richard Jones)成為了一名重要的經濟學家他後來影響了卡爾.馬克斯 (Karl Marx)。而休厄爾(William Whewell)不但創造了科學家一詞，以及陽極、陰極和離子這些詞，他也成為世界科學的先鋒以一份關於潮汐的國際研究。1812及13年的劍橋冬日，這四個年輕人在他們的「哲學早餐會」聚會他們談論科學和科學革新的必要。他們覺得科學正停滯不前，自十七世紀的科學革命以後便一直如此。事實後有所改變了，他們嘗試提出這一點，而他們出色的地方在於他們不只有這些大學生的偉大夢想，他們更把夢想帶到現實實行，即使這些夢想聽起來像天馬行空。而我今天要告訴你們這些年輕人帶來的四個重大改變。 在200年前，法蘭西斯.培根 (Francis Bacon) 和之後的艾薩克.牛頓 (Issac Newton)，曾提出歸納科學方法。此科學方法基於觀察和實驗而後將結果歸納成大自然的規則，這些規則將持續被修正，甚至被否決，如果有新的證據出現的話。可是，在1809年，當大衛.李嘉圖 (David Ricardo)認為經濟這門科學該以和歸納法不同的演譯法來研究。問題在於牛津一群有影響力的人也開始認為演譯法既然在經濟學上有效，這方法也應該適用於自然科學才對。哲學早餐會的幾位成員反對。他們為了推廣歸納法著書立說，在所有科學領域包含自然哲學家大學生和公眾皆能閱讀的書刊上出版，閱讀赫歇爾的其中一本著作對達爾文來說是一個分水嶺後來他說：「在我的人生中很少有這麼讓我印象深刻的東西。它讓我想要參與貢獻去成就一個更大的自然知識資料庫。」赫歇爾的書也助達爾文訂立了他的科學研究方法，同時也影響了他的同儕。[成就公益的科學] 在這以前，科學知識常被認為是用於滿足國王或皇后甚至個人的需求或欲望。例如，船長們需要知道潮汐漲退的資料以安全停泊到港口。港口主人們會搜集這些資訊賣給船長們。哲學早餐會改變了這樣的情況，在眾人合力之下，休厄爾的世界潮汐研究讓公開的潮汐表和地圖得以面世這些曾是港口主人的專門知識船長們終於可以免費取得。赫歇爾的貢獻包括觀察潮汐變化，在南非海岸還有，他也曾向休厄爾訴苦說他觀察途中曾因強烈的潮汐而在甲板上狠狠跌倒。他們四個真的在各方面互相幫忙。他們也不間斷地遊說英國政府出資給巴貝奇建造引擎因為他們相信這些引擎將會對社會有重大影響。在沒有計算機的年代，專業人士最需要的數字﹣﹣銀行家、保險從業員、船長、工程師們﹣﹣都在像這樣的工具書裡，在這些密密麻麻的圖表間。這些圖表是用固定的程序重複地計算出來的這些打工的計算人員被稱為﹣﹣電腦，不可思議吧但這些都是很困難的算式。我是說，這些航海天文曆包含了每個月的月球活動差異。每個月需要1365次計算，所以這些圖表都有不少錯漏。巴貝奇想製造的計算機器是最早的機械計算器是為了準確計算出圖表所需資料而設計的。在過去的20年間，他這個機器的兩個版本由倫敦科學博物館一組人員根據他的想法製造出來。這就是現在加洲電腦歷史博物館內的展品它計算結果很準確。它是有效的。之後，巴貝奇的分析機器是世上首部現代機械計算機。它有獨立的記憶體和中央處理器。它可以進行複述、條件分支 (conditional branching)和平行處理 (parallel processing)。它也可以使用孔卡紙 (punched cards) 運算程式，這是巴貝奇參考提花織機所設計的。很可惜他設計的這部機器在他在世時並沒有被實正製作出來因為很多人以為純機器的「電腦」對於公眾來說是沒有用處的。[新科學機構] 倫敦皇家學會在培根的年代創立，它曾是英國最先進的科學學會甚至在全世界來說也是。直至19世紀，它已變成一種紳士的俱樂部成員主要為考古學家、文人和貴族。哲學早餐會的成員們協助了數個新科學學會成立，其中包括了英國協會 (the British Association)。這些新學會要求他們的會員必須為活躍的研究者，並出版他們的研究成果。他們恢復了科學研究論文公開後設問答環節的傳統，這傳統曾被皇家學會下令停止原因是這不應是紳士所為。而這也是第一次他們接納女性進入科學的世界。他們歡迎會員帶同妻子、女兒或姊妹到英國協會的會議，他們只預期女性參加公開演說和類似答辯會之類的社交活動但漸漸地女性也開始參加科學會議。英國協會隨後成為世上最重要的幾個科學組織之首接納女性成為會員的協會。[支持科學研究的外來資金] 直至19世紀，自然哲學家都是自掏腰包購買他們所需的設備和儀器。他們偶爾會得到獎金，就像18世紀時約翰.哈里森 (John Harrison)解答所謂經度問題所得的獎金，但這些獎賞都是研究有成果後才有可能得到的有時即使完成了研究也拿不到。哲學早餐會的成員建議，英國協會可以把多餘的資金會議所得的金錢授予科學家作天文、潮汐、化石魚、造船等等方面的研究。這些補助不但幫助不甚富有的科學家進行研究，也鼓勵了他們更有創意、提出新的問題，而非只是解答已被提出的問題。最後，皇家學會和其他國家的科學學會都採用了這種方法，而這種補助形式也很幸運地成為了今天科學研究的主流。 所以哲學早餐會其實對現代科學家的出現大有貢獻。這是他們偉大的故事。故事也有另外一面。他們並沒有想像到他們所作的事將會帶來甚麼改變。他們會對今天科學和其他文化層面漸行漸遠的現象感到驚訝和沮喪。這是非常令人震驚的只有百分之二十八的美國成年人對科學有基本的認識，用一個簡單的問題就可以測試出來，「人類和恐龍曾同時住在這個地球上嗎？」或是「地球表面有多少百分比是被水覆蓋的？」當科學成為一種專業後，這些學問也距離普通人愈來愈遠了。這不是科學改革想見到的後果是我們這四位朋友所為的後果。 (註：指哲學早餐會四人) 達爾文說過，「我有時會覺得，一般的或時下流行的論文對科學的發展和原創的研究差不多重要。」其實，《物種起源》一開始是為了普羅大眾而寫的，在它出版後也被廣泛閱讀。達爾文知道我們或許已經遺忘的事實：即科學不是科學家的專利。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
