Talk	en	zh-tw
leah_buechley_how_to_sketch_with_electronics	Today, I'm going to talk to you about sketching electronics. I'm, among several other things, an electrical engineer, and that means that I spend a good amount of time designing and building new pieces of technology, and more specifically designing and building electronics. And what I've found is that the process of designing and building electronics is problematic in all sorts of ways. So it's a really slow process, it's really expensive, and the outcome of that process, namely electronic circuit boards, are limited in all sorts of kind of interesting ways. So they're really small, generally, they're square and flat and hard, and frankly, most of them just aren't very attractive, and so my team and I have been thinking of ways to really change and mix up the process and the outcome of designing electronics. And so what if you could design and build electronics like this? So what if you could do it extremely quickly, extremely inexpensively, and maybe more interestingly, really fluidly and expressively and even improvisationally? Wouldn't that be so cool, and that wouldn't that open up all sorts of new possibilities? I'm going to share with you two projects that are investigations along these lines, and we'll start with this one. (Video) Magnetic electronic pieces and ferrous paper. A conductive pen from the Lewis lab at UIUC. Sticker templates. Speed x 4. Making a switch. Music: DJ Shadow. Adding some intelligence with a microcontroller. Sketching an interface. (Music) (Laughter) (Applause) Pretty cool, huh? We think so. So now that we developed these tools and found these materials that let us do these things, we started to realize that, essentially, anything that we can do with paper, anything that we can do with a piece of paper and a pen we can now do with electronics. So the next project that I want to show you is kind of a deeper exploration of that possibility. And I'll kind of let it speak for itself. (Music) (Applause) So the next step for us in this process is now to find a way to let all of you build things like this, and so the way that we're approaching that is by teaching workshops to people where we explain how they can use these kinds of tools, and then also working to get the tools and the materials and techniques out into the real world in a variety of ways. And so sometime soon, you'll be able to play and build and sketch with electronics in this fundamentally new way. So thank you very much. (Applause)	今日，我想跟大家談談起草電路構圖。 我銜頭之一，是位電子工程師，代表我的時間，一大部分是花在設計和建置新的科技結晶，具體點來說，是設計和建置電路。我發現的是，設計和建置電路的過程問題重重，多個環節都有困囿。所以真的是個「慢」長的過程，擔子實在很沉重，而且過程最後的結果，亦所謂電子電路板，其實在多個方面怎的也有所局限。所以它們真的很微小，而一般而言，它們呈方形，扁平而堅強，但老實說，絕大部分就是都不太吸引人，所以我與我的團隊一直致力在想，究竟有甚麼方式，能夠真正改變並將設計電路的過程與結果融合起來。 譬如說，如果可以這樣設計和建置電路，會怎樣呢？如果能非常非常低成本地達到目的，甚至乎，可以非常流暢，允許發揮創意，甚至能玩即興的，又會怎樣呢？不是酷極了嗎？不是就能開創出各種新的可能性嗎？ 接下來，我想跟大家分享兩個探討上述構想的專案，就以這個開始。（影片） 磁力電路板塊和帶銅的紙。具導性的原子筆，由 UIUC 的 Lewis 實驗室研發。貼子範本。四倍畫速。製作開關。音樂：DJ Shadow。用微型控制器增添智能。起草介面。 （音樂）（眾笑）（掌聲） 很酷，對吧？至少我們覺得是。好了，現在我們開發了這些工具，也發現了能夠用來實踐的材料，我們開始醒覺，基本上，任何用紙做得到的事，任何用紙筆做得到的事，現在我們都能應用到電路上。接下來想為大家介紹另一個專案，較深入的探討剛才提及的那種可能性。事不宜遲，馬上親眼看看。 （音樂）（掌聲） 所以，在這個過程中，我們下一步就是想尋求方法，讓在座每一位都能有機會親身感受一下這個建置的過程，所以接下來我們邁向的方向，就是通過設立工作坊，向別人教授知識，為他們解釋他們能夠如何善加利用這些工具，並著力於將這些工具、材料和技巧帶到真實的世界中實踐，在各個範疇發揮所長。不久的將來，你都將能用這種打從基礎上嶄新的方式，自由發揮、草畫電路構圖，並從中得到樂趣。萬分感謝在座各位。（掌聲）
