Talk	en	zh-tw
leana_wen_what_your_doctor_won_t_disclose	"They told me that I'm a traitor to my own profession, that I should be fired, have my medical license taken away, that I should go back to my own country. My email got hacked. In a discussion forum for other doctors, someone took credit for ""Twitter-bombing"" my account. Now, I didn't know if this was a good or bad thing, but then came the response: ""Too bad it wasn't a real bomb."" I never thought that I would do something that would provoke this level of anger among other doctors. Becoming a doctor was my dream. I grew up in China, and my earliest memories are of being rushed to the hospital because I had such bad asthma that I was there nearly every week. I had this one doctor, Dr. Sam, who always took care of me. She was about the same age as my mother. She had this wild, curly hair, and she always wore these bright yellow flowery dresses. She was one of those doctors who, if you fell and you broke your arm, she would ask you why you weren't laughing because it's your humerus. Get it? See, you'd groan, but she'd always make you feel better after having seen her. Well, we all have that childhood hero that we want to grow up to be just like, right? Well, I wanted to be just like Dr. Sam. When I was eight, my parents and I moved to the U.S., and ours became the typical immigrant narrative. My parents cleaned hotel rooms and washed dishes and pumped gas so that I could pursue my dream. Well, eventually I learned enough English, and my parents were so happy the day that I got into medical school and took my oath of healing and service. But then one day, everything changed. My mother called me to tell me that she wasn't feeling well, she had a cough that wouldn't go away, she was short of breath and tired. Well, I knew that my mother was someone who never complained about anything. For her to tell me that something was the matter, I knew something had to be really wrong. And it was: We found out that she had stage IV breast cancer, cancer that by then had spread to her lungs, her bones, and her brain. My mother was brave, though, and she had hope. She went through surgery and radiation, and was on her third round of chemotherapy when she lost her address book. She tried to look up her oncologist's phone number on the Internet and she found it, but she found something else too. On several websites, he was listed as a highly paid speaker to a drug company, and in fact often spoke on behalf of the same chemo regimen that he had prescribed her. She called me in a panic, and I didn't know what to believe. Maybe this was the right chemo regimen for her, but maybe it wasn't. It made her scared and it made her doubt. When it comes to medicine, having that trust is a must, and when that trust is gone, then all that's left is fear. There's another side to this fear. As a medical student, I was taking care of this 19-year-old who was biking back to his dorm when he got struck and hit, run over by an SUV. He had seven broken ribs, shattered hip bones, and he was bleeding inside his belly and inside his brain. Now, imagine being his parents who flew in from Seattle, 2,000 miles away, to find their son in a coma. I mean, you'd want to find out what's going on with him, right? They asked to attend our bedside rounds where we discussed his condition and his plan, which I thought was a reasonable request, and also would give us a chance to show them how much we were trying and how much we cared. The head doctor, though, said no. He gave all kinds of reasons. Maybe they'll get in the nurse's way. Maybe they'll stop students from asking questions. He even said, ""What if they see mistakes and sue us?"" What I saw behind every excuse was deep fear, and what I learned was that to become a doctor, we have to put on our white coats, put up a wall, and hide behind it. There's a hidden epidemic in medicine. Of course, patients are scared when they come to the doctor. Imagine you wake up with this terrible bellyache, you go to the hospital, you're lying in this strange place, you're on this hospital gurney, you're wearing this flimsy gown, strangers are coming to poke and prod at you. You don't know what's going to happen. You don't even know if you're going to get the blanket you asked for 30 minutes ago. But it's not just patients who are scared; doctors are scared too. We're scared of patients finding out who we are and what medicine is all about. And so what do we do? We put on our white coats and we hide behind them. Of course, the more we hide, the more people want to know what it is that we're hiding. The more fear then spirals into mistrust and poor medical care. We don't just have a fear of sickness, we have a sickness of fear. Can we bridge this disconnect between what patients need and what doctors do? Can we overcome the sickness of fear? Let me ask you differently: If hiding isn't the answer, what if we did the opposite? What if doctors were to become totally transparent with their patients? Last fall, I conducted a research study to find out what it is that people want to know about their healthcare. I didn't just want to study patients in a hospital, but everyday people. So my two medical students, Suhavi Tucker and Laura Johns, literally took their research to the streets. They went to banks, coffee shops, senior centers, Chinese restaurants and train stations. What did they find? Well, when we asked people, ""What do you want to know about your healthcare?"" people responded with what they want to know about their doctors, because people understand health care to be the individual interaction between them and their doctors. When we asked, ""What do you want to know about your doctors?"" people gave three different answers. Some want to know that their doctor is competent and certified to practice medicine. Some want to be sure that their doctor is unbiased and is making decisions based on evidence and science, not on who pays them. Surprisingly to us, many people want to know something else about their doctors. Jonathan, a 28-year-old law student, says he wants to find someone who is comfortable with LGBTQ patients and specializes in LGBT health. Serena, a 32-year-old accountant, says that it's important to her for her doctor to share her values when it comes to reproductive choice and women's rights. Frank, a 59-year-old hardware store owner, doesn't even like going to the doctor and wants to find someone who believes in prevention first, but who is comfortable with alternative treatments. One after another, our respondents told us that that doctor-patient relationship is a deeply intimate one — that to show their doctors their bodies and tell them their deepest secrets, they want to first understand their doctor's values. Just because doctors have to see every patient doesn't mean that patients have to see every doctor. People want to know about their doctors first so that they can make an informed choice. As a result of this, I formed a campaign, Who's My Doctor? that calls for total transparency in medicine. Participating doctors voluntarily disclose on a public website not just information about where we went to medical school and what specialty we're in, but also our conflicts of interest. We go beyond the Government in the Sunshine Act about drug company affiliations, and we talk about how we're paid. Incentives matter. If you go to your doctor because of back pain, you might want to know he's getting paid 5,000 dollars to perform spine surgery versus 25 dollars to refer you to see a physical therapist, or if he's getting paid the same thing no matter what he recommends. Then, we go one step further. We add our values when it comes to women's health, LGBT health, alternative medicine, preventive health, and end-of-life decisions. We pledge to our patients that we are here to serve you, so you have a right to know who we are. We believe that transparency can be the cure for fear. I thought some doctors would sign on and others wouldn't, but I had no idea of the huge backlash that would ensue. Within one week of starting Who's My Doctor? Medscape's public forum and several online doctors' communities had thousands of posts about this topic. Here are a few. From a gastroenterologist in Portland: ""I devoted 12 years of my life to being a slave. I have loans and mortgages. I depend on lunches from drug companies to serve patients."" Well, times may be hard for everyone, but try telling your patient making 35,000 dollars a year to serve a family of four that you need the free lunch. From an orthopedic surgeon in Charlotte: ""I find it an invasion of my privacy to disclose where my income comes from. My patients don't disclose their incomes to me."" But your patients' sources of income don't affect your health. From a psychiatrist in New York City: ""Pretty soon we will have to disclose whether we prefer cats to dogs, what model of car we drive, and what toilet paper we use."" Well, how you feel about Toyotas or Cottonelle won't affect your patients' health, but your views on a woman's right to choose and preventive medicine and end-of-life decisions just might. And my favorite, from a Kansas City cardiologist: ""More government-mandated stuff? Dr. Wen needs to move back to her own country."" Well, two pieces of good news. First of all, this is meant to be voluntary and not mandatory, and second of all, I'm American and I'm already here. (Laughter) (Applause) Within a month, my employers were getting calls asking for me to be fired. I received mail at my undisclosed home address with threats to contact the medical board to sanction me. My friends and family urged me to quit this campaign. After the bomb threat, I was done. But then I heard from patients. Over social media, a TweetChat, which I'd learned what that was by then, generated 4.3 million impressions, and thousands of people wrote to encourage me to continue. They wrote with things like, ""If doctors are doing something they're that ashamed of, they shouldn't be doing it."" ""Elected officials have to disclose campaign contributions. Lawyers have to disclose conflicts of interests. Why shouldn't doctors?"" And finally, many people wrote and said, ""Let us patients decide what's important when we're choosing a doctor."" In our initial trial, over 300 doctors have taken the total transparency pledge. What a crazy new idea, right? But actually, this is not that new of a concept at all. Remember Dr. Sam, my doctor in China, with the goofy jokes and the wild hair? Well, she was my doctor, but she was also our neighbor who lived in the building across the street. I went to the same school as her daughter. My parents and I trusted her because we knew who she was and what she stood for, and she had no need to hide from us. Just one generation ago, this was the norm in the U.S. as well. You knew that your family doctor was the father of two teenage boys, that he quit smoking a few years ago, that he says he's a regular churchgoer, but you see him twice a year: once at Easter and once when his mother-in-law comes to town. You knew what he was about, and he had no need to hide from you. But the sickness of fear has taken over, and patients suffer the consequences. I know this firsthand. My mother fought her cancer for eight years. She was a planner, and she thought a lot about how she wanted to live and how she wanted to die. Not only did she sign advance directives, she wrote a 12-page document about how she had suffered enough, how it was time for her to go. One day, when I was a resident physician, I got a call to say that she was in the intensive care unit. By the time I got there, she was about to be intubated and put on a breathing machine. ""But this is not what she wants,"" I said, ""and we have documents."" The ICU doctor looked at me in the eye, pointed at my then 16-year-old sister, and said, ""Do you remember when you were that age? How would you have liked to grow up without your mother?"" Her oncologist was there too, and said, ""This is your mother. Can you really face yourself for the rest of your life if you don't do everything for her?"" I knew my mother so well. I understood what her directives meant so well, but I was a physician. That was the single hardest decision I ever made, to let her die in peace, and I carry those words of those doctors with me every single day. We can bridge the disconnect between what doctors do and what patients need. We can get there, because we've been there before, and we know that transparency gets us to that trust. Research has shown us that openness also helps doctors, that having open medical records, being willing to talk about medical errors, will increase patient trust, improve health outcomes, and reduce malpractice. That openness, that trust, is only going to be more important as we move from the infectious to the behavioral model of disease. Bacteria may not care so much about trust and intimacy, but for people to tackle the hard lifestyle choices, to address issues like smoking cessation, blood-pressure management and diabetes control, well, that requires us to establish trust. Here's what other transparent doctors have said. Brandon Combs, an internist in Denver: ""This has brought me closer to my patients. The type of relationship I've developed — that's why I entered medicine."" Aaron Stupple, an internist in Denver: ""I tell my patients that I am totally open with them. I don't hide anything from them. This is me. Now tell me about you. We're in this together."" May Nguyen, a family physician in Houston: ""My colleagues are astounded by what I'm doing. They ask me how I could be so brave. I said, I'm not being brave, it's my job."" I leave you today with a final thought. Being totally transparent is scary. You feel naked, exposed and vulnerable, but that vulnerability, that humility, it can be an extraordinary benefit to the practice of medicine. When doctors are willing to step off our pedestals, take off our white coats, and show our patients who we are and what medicine is all about, that's when we begin to overcome the sickness of fear. That's when we establish trust. That's when we change the paradigm of medicine from one of secrecy and hiding to one that is fully open and engaged for our patients. Thank you. (Applause)"	人們說我背叛了自己的職業，我應該被炒魷魚，我的醫師執照應被吊銷，甚至要我回到我自己的國家去。我的電子信箱被駭。在另一個醫生論壇裡，有人聲稱他「推特轟炸」我的帳號。我不知道那究竟是好還是壞，後來卻看到回覆說：「真可惜那不是真的炸彈」。 我從來沒想到我做的事會激起其他醫生這種程度的仇恨。成為醫生是我的夢想。我在中國大陸長大，我最早的兒時記憶就是被緊急送醫，因為我有很嚴重的氣喘，幾乎每週都去醫院。當時一直照顧我的是山姆醫生，她大概和我的母親一樣大。披著一頭很亂的捲髮，她總是穿著鮮黃印花的洋裝。她這種醫生就是如果你摔倒斷了手臂，她會問你為何不笑呢？因為那是你的肱骨（英文與幽默同音）。明白嗎？你在痛苦呻吟，但她總能讓你見到她之後覺得舒服一點。我們都有兒時崇拜的英雄，希望長大後成為那樣的人，對吧？我從小就想成為山姆醫生那樣。八歲時我隨父母搬到美國，我們的生活和典型的移民一樣。父母靠打掃飯店房間、做洗碗工和為人加油賺錢，讓我可以追求我的夢想。後來我學了夠多的英語，在我進入醫學院為治療和服務宣誓那天，我的父母非常開心。 但有一天，一切都改變了。媽媽打電話告訴我她覺得很不舒服，咳嗽咳很久都不會好，而且呼吸困難又疲憊。我知道媽媽是那種從不抱怨任何事的人。當她告訴我這些身體的不適時，我就覺得這件事很不妙。結果也是如此：我們發現她是乳癌第四期，那時癌細胞已經擴散到她的肺、骨頭和腦部。我媽媽當時還是很勇敢並懷抱希望。她經歷了手術和放射治療，然後在做第三階段的化療時，她找不到她的通訊錄。她試著在網路上找腫瘤醫生的電話，她找到了，但她也找到了其他東西。在一些網站上，她的醫生被列為一家製藥公司的高薪發言人，而且他其實常代言他開給她的化療方案。她驚慌地打電話給我，我不知道該相信什麼。也許這個化療方案對她來說是對的，但也可能不是對的。這讓她感到恐懼和懷疑。當涉及到藥物時，信任是必須的，但當信任消失後，剩下的只有恐懼。 這個恐懼還有另外一面。當我還是醫學院學生的時候，我照顧一位 19 歲的年輕人，他在騎腳踏車回宿舍時被一輛休旅車撞倒，並輾了過去。他的七根肋骨骨折，臀骨粉碎，他當時腹部和顱內都在出血。現在，你想像他的父母從兩千多英里外的西雅圖坐飛機過來，看到他們的兒子仍然昏迷。你一定想知道他現在是什麼狀況吧？他們請求參與我們的病房巡視，那時我們會討論病人的現況和處理方案，我認為這是很合理的請求，並且也給我們機會展示我們是多麼努力和關心。然而主治醫生卻拒絕了，他列出了各種理由，例如他們會妨礙護士工作、或許他們會阻止實習醫師提問。他甚至說：「如果他們看到我們出差錯，起訴我們怎麼辦？」我看到在每個藉口背後是深深的恐懼，因此我學到：要成為醫生，我們要穿上白袍，築起一道牆，把自己藏在牆後。其實在醫療界有一個隱藏的 「傳染病」。當然，病人就醫時總是心存恐懼。想像你因腹部劇痛而醒來，你去醫院看病，你躺在這個奇怪的地方，你在醫院的病床上，你穿著單薄的病服，陌生人們過來對你又戳又刺。你不知道接下來會發生什麼事。你甚至不知道會不會拿到30 分鐘前要的毛毯。然而害怕的不只是病人；醫生其實也害怕。我們害怕病人發現我們的真面目，並且洞悉醫療的真相。所以我們怎麼辦呢？我們穿上白袍，將自己藏在後面。當然，我們藏得越多，就越多人好奇我們究竟在隱藏什麼。過多的恐懼演變為不信任和不良的醫療處置。我們現在不只是害怕生病，我們也患了恐懼症。 我們能在病人所需和醫生所為之間的斷層搭起橋樑嗎？我們能克服恐懼症嗎？讓我換個方式提問：如果隱藏不是正確的答案時，假如我們反其道而行，會怎麼樣呢？如果醫生變成必須對病人完全透明，會怎麼樣呢？ 去年秋天，我做了一項實地調查，為了了解關於醫療大家最想知道的是什麼。我不想只研究醫院裡病人的想法，而是一般常人的想法。所以我的兩個學生──蘇哈維．塔克和勞拉．約翰，直接到街上做調查，他們去了銀行、咖啡館、老人活動中心、中餐館和火車站。你猜他們發現了什麼？當我們問民眾：「對於你的醫療，你最想知道的是什麼？」民眾回應說，他們想了解的是他們的醫生，因為人們所了解的醫療是他們自己與醫生之間的個別互動。那我們就問： 「你想知道關於你醫生的什麼呢？」他們給了三種不同的答案。有些人想知道他們的醫生是否稱職，是否有從事醫療工作的認證。有些人想確定他們的醫生是公正的，會依靠證據和科學做出決定，而不是根據誰付錢。讓我們感到驚訝的是，很多人想知道醫生其他的事情。喬納森，28 歲的法學院學生，表示他在找能夠接受 「非異性戀患者」，並且專長於「非異性戀疾病」治療的醫生。 賽琳娜，32 歲的會計師，表示醫生認同她的價值觀對她而言很重要，尤其是涉及生育選擇和女性權利時。弗蘭克，59 歲的五金行老闆，甚至不喜歡去看醫生，他想找的是相信預防優先，並且能接受另類療法的醫生。一個接一個的受訪者告訴我們醫生和病人之間的關係其實是非常親密的，在讓他們的醫生看到自己的身體並告訴他們自己最深層的秘密之前，他們想先了解醫生的價值準則。僅僅因為醫生需要看他們所有的病人，並不意味著病人需要去看所有的醫生。人們想先了解醫生，他們才可以做出有根據的選擇。 根據這個調查結果，我發起了一個活動，「我的醫生是誰？」呼籲醫學界完全透明化。參與的醫生自願在一個公共網站上公開，不僅是關於我們讀哪所醫學院和我們的醫療專長，並且公開我們的利益衝突。我們超越政府在陽光法案中醫生和藥廠的關係要公開的規定，我們公布自己的收入來源。金錢誘因是很重要的。如果你因為背痛去看醫生，你也許想知道他幫你做脊椎手術會賺到五千美元，而推薦你去看復健師只能賺到 25 美元，或者不管他推薦哪一種，收入都一樣。然後，我們再進一步。我們在談到婦女健康、非異性戀者的健康、另類醫療、預防保健和臨終決定時會提出自己的價值觀。我們對病人宣誓要服務你們，所以你們有權了解我們。我們相信這種透明可以治療恐懼症。 我原以為有些醫生會加入我們，有些不會，但我從沒想到會因此引起強烈反彈。在「我的醫生是誰」發起的一周內，醫景 (Medscape) 公共論壇和一些醫生社團網站出現上千則關於這個話題的貼文。這裡有一些例子。 波特蘭的腸胃科醫生說：「我奉獻了 12 年的生命做奴隸。我有一些貸款和房貸。我得靠製藥公司提供午餐才能服務患者。」生活在這個時代每個人都很困難，但是你可以試試告訴那些每年賺三萬五千美元養活一家四口的病人你需要免費的午餐。 來自夏洛特的一名整形外科醫生說：「我認為公開收入來源是侵犯我的隱私。」「我的病人也不向我公開他們的收入。」但是病人的收入來源不影響你的健康。 來自紐約市的一名精神科醫生寫道：「不久後我們就必須公開我們喜歡貓還是狗、開哪種車、用哪種衛生紙。」你對豐田汽車或者綿柔衛生紙的看法不會影響病人的健康，但是你對於婦女選擇權、預防醫學和臨終決定的觀點，就可能會影響。我最喜歡的一則是來自堪薩斯市的心臟科醫生說：「更多政府強制管理的鳥事？溫醫生可以回自己的國家去​​了。」好的，我有兩個好消息。首先，這是自願而不是強制的，其次，我是美國人，我已經在這裡了。（笑聲）（掌聲） 在一個月之內，我的僱主接到很多來電要求解僱我。我在從未公開的住家地址收到威脅要聯繫醫務委員制裁我的郵件。我的朋友和家人力勸我放棄這個活動。在收到炸彈威脅後，我停止了活動。後來我卻收到來自病人的訊息。在社交媒體推特聊天室上，當時我才知道那個網站，這件事出現在 430 萬人次的版上，有數千人留言鼓勵我堅持下去。他們留言說：「如果醫生在做他們自己都感到羞恥的事情，他們就不該繼續做。」「民選官員必須公開選舉經費明細。律師必須要公開是否有利益衝突，為什麼醫生就不行？」最後，還有很多人留言：「讓我們這些病人來決定選醫生要看什麼才重要。」我們初次嘗試的時候，超過三百位醫生參與了這項完全透明的承諾。很瘋狂的想法，對吧？其實這個概念根本沒那麼新。記得山姆醫生嗎？我在中國的醫生，會說些傻笑話、頭髮很亂的那位。她是我的醫生，也是我們的鄰居，就住在對面。我和她的女兒上同一所學校。我和爸媽都很信任她，因為我們都知道她是誰，還有她的價值觀點，她也沒必要向我們隱瞞。這在上一代的美國也很常見。你知道你的家庭醫生有兩個十幾歲的兒子，他在幾年前戒了煙，他說他常上教堂做禮拜，但是你一年才會見到他兩次，一次在復活節，一次在他的岳母來探望他時。你知道他的事情，他也沒必要向你隱瞞。但是恐懼症席捲了這一切，而病人承擔後果。 我也親自體會過。我媽媽和癌症抗爭了八年。她是善於計劃的人，她思考了她要如何活以及她要如何死。她不僅簽了臨終醫療指示，還寫了一份 12 頁的文章敘述她已經受夠了痛苦，是她該離開的時候了。我還是住院醫師的某一天，接到電話說她在加護病房。我趕過去的時候，她就快被插管， 而且要接上呼吸機了。我說：「這不是她要的治療。我們有她簽的指示文件。」加護病房的醫生看著我的眼睛，指著我 16 歲的妹妹，然後說：「你還記得在你妹妹那般年紀時，你會要過沒有媽媽的日子嗎？」她的腫瘤科醫師也在那裡，說道：「這可是你的母親，如果你不為她做出任何行動的話，你真的能在未來的日子裡坦然面對自己嗎？」我太了解我母親了。我很清楚理解她的指示，但我是一個醫生。我此生做過最艱難的決定就是讓她平靜的過世。我每天都記得那些醫生對我說的話。 我們可以在病人所需和醫生所為之間的斷層搭起橋樑。我們能做到，因為我們做過，而且我們知道公開透明必將得到信任。研究告訴我們公開也會幫助醫生，藉由公開醫療紀錄，願意討論醫療過失，就能提升病人對我們的信任感，改善治療結果，進而減少醫療疏失。那份透明，那份信任，在從關注疾病的傳染轉為關注疾病的行為模式時，會更加為重要。細菌並不關心信任和人際關係，但是人們面對選擇攸關性命的生活模式時，像是在戒煙、血壓控制和糖尿病控制，就需要建立彼此的信任。 這裡是其他支持醫療透明化的醫生所說的。 布蘭德．柯布，來自丹佛的內科醫生說：「這（透明化）縮短了我和病人之間的距離，我建立的醫病關係，是我從事醫療工作的原因。」 艾倫．斯泰普，來自丹佛的內科醫生：「我告訴我的病人，我對他們完全公開。我不向他們隱瞞任何事情。這就是我，告訴我你的故事，我們一起解決你的問題。」 阮梅，休斯頓的家庭醫師說：「我的同事對我做的事感到震驚，他們問我為什麼能如此勇敢。」我回答：「 這不是勇敢，我只是在做我的工作而已。」 在此，我留下最後一點讓大家思考。完全透明是一件十分恐怖的事情。你有一種全身赤裸、毫無遮掩、脆弱的感覺，然而那份脆弱感，那份謙遜，對行醫會有極大的好處。當醫生願意放下架子，脫下白袍，並且向病人展示我們是怎樣的人，以及醫療是怎樣運作的時候，這才是我們開始克服恐懼症的開始。那才是我們建立信任的時候，那才是我們改變醫療模式的時候，對我們的病人從隱藏躲閃，到完全公開、全心全意的投入。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
