Talk	en	zh-tw
lee_cronin_making_matter_come_alive	"What I'm going to try and do in the next 15 minutes or so is tell you about an idea of how we're going to make matter come alive. Now this may seem a bit ambitious, but when you look at yourself, you look at your hands, you realize that you're alive. So this is a start. Now this quest started four billion years ago on planet Earth. There's been four billion years of organic, biological life. And as an inorganic chemist, my friends and colleagues make this distinction between the organic, living world and the inorganic, dead world. And what I'm going to try and do is plant some ideas about how we can transform inorganic, dead matter into living matter, into inorganic biology. Before we do that, I want to kind of put biology in its place. And I'm absolutely enthralled by biology. I love to do synthetic biology. I love things that are alive. I love manipulating the infrastructure of biology. But within that infrastructure, we have to remember that the driving force of biology is really coming from evolution. And evolution, although it was established well over 100 years ago by Charles Darwin and a vast number of other people, evolution still is a little bit intangible. And when I talk about Darwinian evolution, I mean one thing and one thing only, and that is survival of the fittest. And so forget about evolution in a kind of metaphysical way. Think about evolution in terms of offspring competing, and some winning. So bearing that in mind, as a chemist, I wanted to ask myself the question frustrated by biology: What is the minimal unit of matter that can undergo Darwinian evolution? And this seems quite a profound question. And as a chemist, we're not used to profound questions every day. So when I thought about it, then suddenly I realized that biology gave us the answer. And in fact, the smallest unit of matter that can evolve independently is, in fact, a single cell — a bacteria. So this raises three really important questions: What is life? Is biology special? Biologists seem to think so. Is matter evolvable? Now if we answer those questions in reverse order, the third question — is matter evolvable? — if we can answer that, then we're going to know how special biology is, and maybe, just maybe, we'll have some idea of what life really is. So here's some inorganic life. This is a dead crystal, and I'm going to do something to it, and it's going to become alive. And you can see, it's kind of pollinating, germinating, growing. This is an inorganic tube. And all these crystals here under the microscope were dead a few minutes ago, and they look alive. Of course, they're not alive. It's a chemistry experiment where I've made a crystal garden. But when I saw this, I was really fascinated, because it seemed lifelike. And as I pause for a few seconds, have a look at the screen. You can see there's architecture growing, filling the void. And this is dead. So I was positive that, if somehow we can make things mimic life, let's go one step further. Let's see if we can actually make life. But there's a problem, because up until maybe a decade ago, we were told that life was impossible and that we were the most incredible miracle in the universe. In fact, we were the only people in the universe. Now, that's a bit boring. So as a chemist, I wanted to say, ""Hang on. What is going on here? Is life that improbable?"" And this is really the question. I think that perhaps the emergence of the first cells was as probable as the emergence of the stars. And in fact, let's take that one step further. Let's say that if the physics of fusion is encoded into the universe, maybe the physics of life is as well. And so the problem with chemists — and this is a massive advantage as well — is we like to focus on our elements. In biology, carbon takes center stage. And in a universe where carbon exists and organic biology, then we have all this wonderful diversity of life. In fact, we have such amazing lifeforms that we can manipulate. We're awfully careful in the lab to try and avoid various biohazards. Well what about matter? If we can make matter alive, would we have a matterhazard? So think, this is a serious question. If your pen could replicate, that would be a bit of a problem. So we have to think differently if we're going to make stuff come alive. And we also have to be aware of the issues. But before we can make life, let's think for a second what life really is characterized by. And forgive the complicated diagram. This is just a collection of pathways in the cell. And the cell is obviously for us a fascinating thing. Synthetic biologists are manipulating it. Chemists are trying to study the molecules to look at disease. And you have all these pathways going on at the same time. You have regulation; information is transcribed; catalysts are made; stuff is happening. But what does a cell do? Well it divides, it competes, it survives. And I think that is where we have to start in terms of thinking about building from our ideas in life. But what else is life characterized by? Well, I like think of it as a flame in a bottle. And so what we have here is a description of single cells replicating, metabolizing, burning through chemistries. And so we have to understand that if we're going to make artificial life or understand the origin of life, we need to power it somehow. So before we can really start to make life, we have to really think about where it came from. And Darwin himself mused in a letter to a colleague that he thought that life probably emerged in some warm little pond somewhere — maybe not in Scotland, maybe in Africa, maybe somewhere else. But the real honest answer is, we just don't know, because there is a problem with the origin. Imagine way back, four and a half billion years ago, there is a vast chemical soup of stuff. And from this stuff we came. So when you think about the improbable nature of what I'm going to tell you in the next few minutes, just remember, we came from stuff on planet Earth. And we went through a variety of worlds. The RNA people would talk about the RNA world. We somehow got to proteins and DNA. We then got to the last ancestor. Evolution kicked in — and that's the cool bit. And here we are. But there's a roadblock that you can't get past. You can decode the genome, you can look back, you can link us all together by a mitochondrial DNA, but we can't get further than the last ancestor, the last visible cell that we could sequence or think back in history. So we don't know how we got here. So there are two options: intelligent design, direct and indirect — so God, or my friend. Now talking about E.T. putting us there, or some other life, just pushes the problem further on. I'm not a politician, I'm a scientist. The other thing we need to think about is the emergence of chemical complexity. This seems most likely. So we have some kind of primordial soup. And this one happens to be a good source of all 20 amino acids. And somehow these amino acids are combined, and life begins. But life begins, what does that mean? What is life? What is this stuff of life? So in the 1950s, Miller-Urey did their fantastic chemical Frankenstein experiment, where they did the equivalent in the chemical world. They took the basic ingredients, put them in a single jar and ignited them and put a lot of voltage through. And they had a look at what was in the soup, and they found amino acids, but nothing came out, there was no cell. So the whole area's been stuck for a while, and it got reignited in the '80s when analytical technologies and computer technologies were coming on. In my own laboratory, the way we're trying to create inorganic life is by using many different reaction formats. So what we're trying to do is do reactions — not in one flask, but in tens of flasks, and connect them together, as you can see with this flow system, all these pipes. We can do it microfluidically, we can do it lithographically, we can do it in a 3D printer, we can do it in droplets for colleagues. And the key thing is to have lots of complex chemistry just bubbling away. But that's probably going to end in failure, so we need to be a bit more focused. And the answer, of course, lies with mice. This is how I remember what I need as a chemist. I say, ""Well I want molecules."" But I need a metabolism, I need some energy. I need some information, and I need a container. Because if I want evolution, I need containers to compete. So if you have a container, it's like getting in your car. ""This is my car, and I'm going to drive around and show off my car."" And I imagine you have a similar thing in cellular biology with the emergence of life. So these things together give us evolution, perhaps. And the way to test it in the laboratory is to make it minimal. So what we're going to try and do is come up with an inorganic Lego kit of molecules. And so forgive the molecules on the screen, but these are a very simple kit. There's only maybe three or four different types of building blocks present. And we can aggregate them together and make literally thousands and thousands of really big nano-molecular molecules the same size of DNA and proteins, but there's no carbon in sight. Carbon is banned. And so with this Lego kit, we have the diversity required for complex information storage without DNA. But we need to make some containers. And just a few months ago in my lab, we were able to take these very same molecules and make cells with them. And you can see on the screen a cell being made. And we're now going to put some chemistry inside and do some chemistry in this cell. And all I wanted to show you is we can set up molecules in membranes, in real cells, and then it sets up a kind of molecular Darwinism, a molecular survival of the fittest. And this movie here shows this competition between molecules. Molecules are competing for stuff. They're all made of the same stuff, but they want their shape to win. They want their shape to persist. And that is the key. If we can somehow encourage these molecules to talk to each other and make the right shapes and compete, they will start to form cells that will replicate and compete. If we manage to do that, forget the molecular detail. Let's zoom out to what that could mean. So we have this special theory of evolution that applies only to organic biology, to us. If we could get evolution into the material world, then I propose we should have a general theory of evolution. And that's really worth thinking about. Does evolution control the sophistication of matter in the universe? Is there some driving force through evolution that allows matter to compete? So that means we could then start to develop different platforms for exploring this evolution. So you imagine, if we're able to create a self-sustaining artificial life form, not only will this tell us about the origin of life — that it's possible that the universe doesn't need carbon to be alive; it can use anything — we can then take [it] one step further and develop new technologies, because we can then use software control for evolution to code in. So imagine we make a little cell. We want to put it out in the environment, and we want it to be powered by the Sun. What we do is we evolve it in a box with a light on. And we don't use design anymore. We find what works. We should take our inspiration from biology. Biology doesn't care about the design unless it works. So this will reorganize the way we design things. But not only just that, we will start to think about how we can start to develop a symbiotic relationship with biology. Wouldn't it be great if you could take these artificial biological cells and fuse them with biological ones to correct problems that we couldn't really deal with? The real issue in cellular biology is we are never going to understand everything, because it's a multidimensional problem put there by evolution. Evolution cannot be cut apart. You need to somehow find the fitness function. And the profound realization for me is that, if this works, the concept of the selfish gene gets kicked up a level, and we really start talking about selfish matter. And what does that mean in a universe where we are right now the highest form of stuff? You're sitting on chairs. They're inanimate, they're not alive. But you are made of stuff, and you are using stuff, and you enslave stuff. So using evolution in biology, and in inorganic biology, for me is quite appealing, quite exciting. And we're really becoming very close to understanding the key steps that makes dead stuff come alive. And again, when you're thinking about how improbable this is, remember, five billion years ago, we were not here, and there was no life. So what will that tell us about the origin of life and the meaning of life? But perhaps, for me as a chemist, I want to keep away from general terms; I want to think about specifics. So what does it mean about defining life? We really struggle to do this. And I think, if we can make inorganic biology, and we can make matter become evolvable, that will in fact define life. I propose to you that matter that can evolve is alive, and this gives us the idea of making evolvable matter. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Just a quick question on timeline. You believe you're going to be successful in this project? When? Lee Cronin: So many people think that life took millions of years to kick in. We're proposing to do it in just a few hours, once we've set up the right chemistry. CA: And when do you think that will happen? LC: Hopefully within the next two years. CA: That would be a big story. (Laughter) In your own mind, what do you believe the chances are that walking around on some other planet is non-carbon-based life, walking or oozing or something? LC: I think it's 100 percent. Because the thing is, we are so chauvinistic to biology, if you take away carbon, there's other things that can happen. So the other thing that if we were able to create life that's not based on carbon, maybe we can tell NASA what really to look for. Don't go and look for carbon, go and look for evolvable stuff. CA: Lee Cronin, good luck. (LC: Thank you very much.) (Applause)"	"我想在接下來的15分鍾左右的時間和大家談談我們怎樣賦予物質生命這在目前似乎有點好高騖遠但是如果你看你自己，看你的手你會意識到自己是活着的所以這是一個開始這種探索始於40億年前的地球在地球上已經有四十億年的有機的生命體我是無機化學家我的朋友和同事們在有機、有生命的世界和無機、無生命的世界之間劃出區分我想要告訴大家我們怎樣可以把無機、無生命的物質轉化為生命體和無機生物 在開始之前我想先談談生物學我對生物學非常着迷我喜歡做合成生物學我喜歡有生命的東西也喜歡操控生物學的基礎結構但是在那個結搆內我們必須記得生物學的驅動力實際上是來自進化進化理論雖然早在100年前就由達爾文所創立了大多數的人還是覺得進化論有些難以理解當我提到達爾文的進化論時只是想說明一件事，唯一的一件事就是適者生存因此不要用形而上學（純哲學）的方法去思考進化論讓我們從後代子孫彼此競爭有輸有贏的角度來思考進化論吧 請記得我作為化學家，想問自己一些讓生物學家痛苦的問題：什麼是達爾文進化論中進化的最小物質單位？這看來是一個很有深度的問題但是作為化學家我們不習慣每天問有深度的問題因此當我思考這個問題的時候我忽然意識到生物學已經給了我們答案實際上，物質可以獨立進化的最小的單位是單細胞－－一個細菌 因此這導出三個真正重要的問題：什麼是生命？生物學有什麼特別的嗎？生物學家似乎認為它是特別的物質可以進化嗎？現在我們逆序回答這些問題從第三個問題問起：物質可以進化嗎？如果我們可以回答這個問題我們就會知道生物學有多特殊然後，可能，但僅是可能我們會暸解生命究竟是什麼 這裡有一些無機生命這是死水晶我想要對它做些事讓它活過來然後你會看到它會授粉，萌芽，成長這是一個無機管所有在這個顯微鏡下的水晶都是在幾分鍾前死去的，它們看起來就像還是活的當然，它們已經死了這是我做的一個化學試驗，在其中我做了一個水晶園當我看到這個，我被深深吸引因為它看起來栩栩如生我現在停幾秒鍾，我們來看看螢幕妳可以看到建築物在生長，填補了空虛而這是死的所以我很肯定我們可以做出模仿生命的物質讓我們再進一步看看我們是否可以製造生命 但是有一個問題因為大約在十年前我們只知道生命是不可能製造的我們是宇宙中最不可思議的奇蹟實際上，我們是宇宙中唯一的人類現在看來，這麼說有點無聊作為化學家我想說：「等等，怎麼回事？難道生命的出現真的那麼不可思議嗎？」這才是真正的問題我想第一個細胞的出現可能和第一個星球的出現一樣不可思議吧實際上，如果我們再進一步看比如說如果宇宙是由聚變物理（融合物理）構成的可能生命物理學也是一樣那麼化學家的問題也是一樣的但是這也是我們巨大的優勢所在－－也就是我們專注於元素在生物學中，碳非常重要一個有碳存在的宇宙中就有有機生物學我們就有了這樣豐富多采的生物多樣性實際上，我們可以製造這樣奇妙的生命形式在實驗室裏，我們非常小心地嘗試和避免各種生物危害 那麼物質呢？如果我們可以使物質變活，那麼我們會不會製造物質危害呢？想想看，這是一個很嚴肅的問題如果你的鋼筆可以複製的話恐怕會是個問題吧所以我們必須從不同角度思考如果我們想要讓物質有生命我們必須意識到這些問題但是在我們可以製造生命之前讓我們思考幾秒鍾生命是以什麼為特徴呢？請原諒這複雜的圖表其實這就是細胞裡的一組通路組合細胞對我們來說顯然是引人入勝的合成生物學可以操控細胞化學家正嘗試着透過研究分子來治療疾病現在你有所有的這些同時發生的通路你有規則訊息已經抄錄了水晶已經做好，一切就緒細胞會怎樣呢？細胞會分裂、競爭然後存活我想這就是我們必須開始的地方以建立我們思想中的生命 那麼，還有什麼是生命的特徴呢？我喜歡把生命想成是瓶子裏的一把火我們這裡有一個對於單細胞複製、新陳代謝、以及在化學過程中燃燒的描述所以我們必須理解如果我們想人工製造生命或者理解生命的來源我們需要給予其一定力量因此在真的開始製造生命之前我們必須想一想它是從哪裡來的達爾文在給一位同事的信中說到他覺得生命可能是起源於某地一個溫暖的小湖泊中－－可能不在蘇格蘭，可能是在非洲也可能在其它地方但是真實的答案是：我們不知道原因是生命起源有些問題想像我們回到四十五億年前有一大碗的化學湯而我們就從這湯而來 所以當你想到我將在接下來的幾分鐘內告訴你關於不可思議的大自然時切記我們來自於地球上的某樣東西我們都經歷了各種不同的世界RNA（核糖核酸）專家們會談到RNA世界而我們則會提到蛋白質和DNA（脫氧核糖核酸）然後再回到最早的祖先進化開始發生－－這是最棒的部分就是這個但是有一個無法踰越的路障你可以解碼基因組合，你可以回顧歷史你可以靠一個線粒體DNA把我們聯繫在一起但是我們不可能比上一輩祖先走得更遠最後的可見的細胞我們可以將之排列，或者從歷史的角度回顧所以我們不知道我們是怎樣來到世界上的 這裡有兩個選擇：智慧的設計，直接或非直接的－－神或是我的朋友有人說是外星人（E.T.）或者其它的生命體把我們放到這裡的這就把問題更加複雜化了我不是政治家，我是科學家另外一件值得思考的事就是化學複雜性的出現看來這是最有可能的我們有一些原始湯而這正好是所有的20種氨基酸的一個良好來源而且，不知怎麼地這些氨基酸混在一起生命便開始了但是""生命開始""意味著什麼呢？什麼是生命？這個是生命的什麼東西呢？ 所以在1950年米勒和尤列做了一個很棒的弗蘭肯斯坦化學試驗他們的試驗是模仿化學世界他們把基本的原料放到一個罐子裡然後將其點燃接著讓很多電壓通過然後再看看湯裡有什麼東西他們發現了氨基酸但是什麼都沒有產生、沒有細胞所以整個試驗就此暫停了一段時間直到80年代才重新開始因為當時分析技術和電腦科技開始興盛 在我自己的實驗室裡我們創造無機生命的方式是使用許多不同的反應格式所以我們想要尋求的是反應－－不是一個燒瓶，而是在幾十個燒瓶裡把它們連結在一起你可以看到這個流動系統，和所有的管子我們可用微流體方法操作，可用光刻誘導的方式進行也可在3D列表機上進行我們可以讓同事在滴液中操作關鍵在於有許多複雜的化學反應開始發生但這可能以失敗告終因此我們必需更加努力些 而答案，當然就在實驗鼠身上這讓我想起我作為化學家所需要的東西我說：「好，我要分子。」可實際上我需要的是新陳代謝，需要一些能量我需要一些訊息，還需要一個容器因為我想要進化我需要容器來幫助它們競爭所以如果你有容器就好像你進入你的車，說：「這是我的車，我要到處開，炫耀一下我的車。」我想在生命形成的細胞生物學上也是一樣的情況也許這些事情加在一起給我們進化而在實驗室裏進行試驗就是使其最小化 因此，我們打算嘗試做的是得出一種無機分子的樂高積木組件抱歉，螢幕上的分子看起來很複雜但這是一些非常簡單的積木目前大概只有三、四種不同類型的積木我們可以將它們組合在一起製造出成千上萬種巨大的奈米分子大小相當於DNA及蛋白質但其中不含碳碳是被禁止的所以使用這些樂高積木即使沒有DNA我們也可以擁有儲存複雜訊息所需的多樣性可是我們需要製造一些容器幾個月前在我得實驗室裡我們能夠用這些非常相似的分子製造細胞你可以在螢幕上看見，一個細胞正被製造我們現在打算在這個細胞裡加上一些化學物質，使其進行化學反應我想讓你們知道我們可以把分子建立在細胞膜和真實細胞上然後建立一種達爾文主義分子一種適者生存的分子 這部影片顯示出分子間的競爭分子彼此競爭這些物質它們都是由相同的物質所組成希望自己的形狀取勝它們也希望自己的形狀留存下來這就是其中關鍵如果我們可以鼓勵這些分子彼此交流並且做成正確的形狀和競爭它們就會開始形成細胞這些細胞會複製和競爭如果我們能成功做這些就要忘記分子的細節 讓我們回頭來看這可能意味著什麼我們擁有這個只適用於有機生物及人類的特殊進化論如果我們想要在物質世界中進化我建議我們需要一個一般進化論這是很值得深思熟慮的進化是否得以控制宇宙中的複雜物質呢？是否在進化中有一些驅動力促使物質相互競爭呢？這說明我們可以開始開發不同的平台來探索這一演變請想像一下如果我們能創造一個自立的人造生命形式我們就不僅能瞭解生命的起源—很可能在宇宙中，不需要碳元素也能形成生命生命可以由任何元素形成之後，我們可以更進一步，開發一些新技術因為我們可以使用軟體控制將演化過程的編碼嵌入 因此，想像我們製造一個小細胞我們希望將它放入環境中希望它藉由太陽獲取能量我們所做的是，將它置於一個光照的箱中再也不需做任何設計。我們發現這樣很有效我們應該從生物學中得到啟示生物學不在乎設計除非它能產生作用因此，這將重新建構我們設計生命的方式不僅如此還要開始思考該如何開始發展生物學之間的共生關係如果將這些人造生物細胞和生物細胞融合來處理我們無法解決的問題那不是很棒嗎？細胞生物學真正的問題在於我們永遠無法理解一切因為這是一個由進化產生的多層面問題進化是無法分割的你必需以某種方式找到適合的功能對我來說，最深刻的啟發是如果這個想法行得通自私基因的概念會在某個階段介入我們就可以真正開始討論關於自私物質的概念 在這個目前人類身為最高等生命形式的宇宙中這意味著什麼？你們正坐在椅子上它們並非生物，它們沒有生命但你由物質形成，你使用物質也掌控物質因此，使用生物學和無機生物的進化概念對我來說相當有吸引力，相當振奮人心我們真的很快就將瞭解賦予物質生命的關鍵步驟同樣的，當你考慮到這個可能性是多麼微乎其微時別忘了，五十億年前人類並不存在，生命亦不存在那麼，對於生命的起源和意義 這又能告訴我們什麼呢？也許，對身為化學家的我來說我不想籠統地思考這個問題我希望能思考得更具體一點那麼，這對定義生命來說意味著什麼？我們確實還在努力解決這個問題但是，我想，如果我們可以製造出無機生物可以使物質開始進化這實際上就是定義生命了我想告訴你們可以進化的物質就是活的這使我們有了製造可演化物質的想法 謝謝 （掌聲） Chris Anderson: 時間有限，問個簡短的問題你相信這個計劃能成功嗎？什麼時候能成功呢？ Lee Cronin: 許多人認為生命得歷經數百萬年才能形成而我們認為只要能建立正確的化學結構那麼，生命可在短短幾個小時內完成 CA: 你覺得什麽時候會實現呢？ LC: 希望在未來兩年中完成 CA: 這將是件了不得的大事（笑聲）你認為其他星球上可能有非以碳為基礎的生命存在或正在形成的機率有多少？ LC: 我認為有100％的機率因為事實上我們對生物抱著相當沙文主義的想法如果將碳除去，依然會有其他生命形成因此，另一方面如果我們能創造出非以碳為基礎的生命也許我們可以告訴NASA真正該尋找的是什麼別尋找碳元素，去尋找可演化的物質吧！ CA: Lee Cronin，祝你好運。（LC：非常感謝） （掌聲）"
