Talk	en	zh-tw
lee_mokobe_a_powerful_poem_about_what_it_feels_like_to_be_transgender	"The first time I uttered a prayer was in a glass-stained cathedral. I was kneeling long after the congregation was on its feet, dip both hands into holy water, trace the trinity across my chest, my tiny body drooping  like a question mark all over the wooden pew. I asked Jesus to fix me, and when he did not answer I befriended silence in the hopes that my sin would burn and salve my mouth would dissolve like sugar on tongue, but shame lingered as an aftertaste. And in an attempt to reintroduce me to sanctity, my mother told me of the miracle I was, said I could grow up  to be anything I want. I decided to be a boy. It was cute. I had snapback, toothless grin, used skinned knees as street cred, played hide and seek with  what was left of my goal. I was it. The winner to a game  the other kids couldn't play, I was the mystery of an anatomy, a question asked but not answered, tightroping between awkward boy and apologetic girl, and when I turned 12, the boy phase wasn't deemed cute anymore. It was met with nostalgic aunts who missed seeing my knees in the shadow of skirts, who reminded me that my kind of attitude would never bring a husband home, that I exist for heterosexual marriage and child-bearing. And I swallowed their insults along with their slurs. Naturally, I did not come out of the closet. The kids at my school opened it without my permission. Called me by a name I did not recognize, said ""lesbian,"" but I was more boy than girl, more Ken than Barbie. It had nothing to do with hating my body, I just love it enough to let it go, I treat it like a house, and when your house is falling apart, you do not evacuate, you make it comfortable enough to house all your insides, you make it pretty enough to invite guests over, you make the floorboards strong enough to stand on. My mother fears I have named myself after fading things. As she counts the echoes left behind by Mya Hall, Leelah Alcorn, Blake Brockington. She fears that I'll die without a whisper, that I'll turn into ""what a shame"" conversations at the bus stop. She claims I have turned myself into a mausoleum, that I am a walking casket, news headlines have turned my identity into a spectacle, Bruce Jenner on everyone's lips while the brutality of living in this body becomes an asterisk  at the bottom of equality pages. No one ever thinks of us as human because we are more ghost than flesh, because people fear that my gender expression is a trick, that it exists to be perverse, that it ensnares them without their consent, that my body is a feast for their eyes and hands and once they have fed off my queer, they'll regurgitate all the parts they did not like. They'll put me back into the closet, hang me with all the other skeletons. I will be the best attraction. Can you see how easy it is to talk people into coffins, to misspell their names on gravestones. And people still wonder why there are boys rotting, they go away in high school hallways they are afraid of becoming another hashtag in a second afraid of classroom discussions becoming like judgment day and now oncoming traffic is embracing more transgender children than parents. I wonder how long it will be before the trans suicide notes start to feel redundant, before we realize that our bodies become lessons about sin way before we learn how to love them. Like God didn't save all this breath and mercy, like my blood is not the wine that washed over Jesus' feet. My prayers are now getting stuck in my throat. Maybe I am finally fixed, maybe I just don't care, maybe God finally listened to my prayers. Thank you. (Applause)"	我第一次禱告是在有彩繪玻璃的大教堂。 會眾起立後我長跪著， 雙手沉浸在聖水中， 在我的胸膛畫十字架， 我渺小的身體像個問號般低垂， 布滿整張木頭座席。 我祈求耶穌治癒我， 當時祂未應許， 我便與靜默為友，冀盼我的罪能燒盡、 並慰藉我的口，就像糖在舌上般融化， 但恥辱卻如同餘味久不散去。 為了讓我再次聖潔， 我的母親告訴我有如奇蹟一般的我， 長大以後可以隨心所欲。 我決定要當個男孩。 真是可愛。 我戴鴨舌帽、滿口無牙咧嘴而笑， 以破皮膝蓋取得街頭信譽， 逃避現實，遊戲人間。 我就是那樣。 我是這場遊戲贏家，其他孩子連玩都不會， 我在解剖學中是個謎， 是個被提出卻無解的問題， 走在彆扭男孩與抱歉女孩間的繩索上， 然而來到十二歲，男孩樣在別人眼中已不再可愛。 當年我和那念舊的阿姨見面，惦記我雙膝在裙影下的她 提醒我這種態度永遠都找不到老公， 我的存在是為了嫁為人婦、懷孕生子。 我嚥下他們的冷嘲熱諷、譏笑辱罵。 可想而知，我沒有出櫃。 同校的孩子擅自張揚，而我卻毫不知情。 他們用一個我沒聽過的名字叫我： 「蕾絲邊」（女同志）， 但我像男孩，而非女孩；我像肯尼，而非芭比。 我不討厭我的身體， 我只是夠愛它，接受任何模樣的它， 我將身體看做房子， 當你的房子垮下， 你沒有就此逃離， 你讓它舒適得可以容納自己內在的一切， 你讓它漂亮得可以邀請客人登門拜訪， 你讓地板堅固得可以讓你站穩腳步。 我的母親害怕我已認定自己如同已逝之人。 她細數（跨性別自殺）何米亞李拉赫、卜雷克留下的蜚短流長。 她害怕我會一聲不響離開人世， 我會成為公車站牌下大家口中的悲劇主角。 她聲稱我已讓自己步入陵墓， 我是具活棺木， 新聞頭條已將我的身分塑造為奇人異士， 布魯斯．詹納成為話題，而生在這軀殼內的殘酷現實 卻化為一顆星號，出現在平等頁面的最後一行。 甚至沒有人認為我們也是人， 因為比起血肉之軀，我們更像鬼魂， 因為大家害怕我的性別表現是個把戲， 生來是為了和大家作對， 不經意地蠱惑人心， 我的身體是眾人目光與雙手的饗宴， 一旦他們享盡我的酷兒形象， 就會反芻所有不討喜的部分。 他們會將我放回櫃子，置身在所有骷髏之間。 我會成為最引人注目的那一個。 你可曾發現說服人們踏進棺材、 在墓碑上寫錯他們的名字有多麼容易。 而大家仍疑惑為何有男孩自甘墮落， 他們遠離高中大門， 他們害怕轉眼間成為下一個社群媒體的主題標籤， 害怕教室裡議論紛紛，變得像是審判日， 而當代潮流是開始擁抱跨性別孩童，而非家長。 我疑惑要多久時間才會 讓變性人自殺遺言顯得過於累贅， 讓我們了解身體不是罪的教訓， 然後學會如何愛身體。 就像上帝未曾拯救我的一絲氣息與憐憫， 就像我的血液不是洗淨耶穌雙腳的酒。 我的禱告此刻哽在喉中。 也許我終於被治癒了， 也許我根本毫不在乎， 也許上帝終於聽進了我的禱告。 謝謝。（掌聲）
