Talk	en	zh-tw
leila_hoteit_3_lessons_on_success_from_an_arab_businesswoman	"""Mom, who are these people?"" It was an innocent question from my young daughter Alia around the time when she was three. We were walking along with my husband in one of Abu Dhabi's big fancy malls. Alia was peering at a huge poster standing tall in the middle of the mall. It featured the three rulers of the United Arab Emirates. As she tucked in my side, I bent down and explained that these were the rulers of the UAE who had worked hard to develop their nation and preserve its unity. She asked, ""Mom, why is it that here where we live, and back in Lebanon, where grandma and grandpa live, we never see the pictures of powerful women on the walls? Is it because women are not important?"" This is probably the hardest question I've had to answer in my years as a parent and in my 16-plus years of professional life, for that matter. I had grown up in my hometown in Lebanon, the younger of two daughters to a very hard-working pilot and director of operations for the Lebanese Airlines and a super-supportive stay-at-home mom and grandma. My father had encouraged my sister and I to pursue our education even though our culture emphasized at the time that it was sons and not daughters who should be professionally motivated. I was one of very few girls of my generation who left home at 18 to study abroad. My father didn't have a son, and so I, in a sense, became his. Fast-forward a couple of decades, and I hope I didn't do too badly in making my father proud of his would-be son. As I got my Bachelor's and PhD in electrical engineering, did R&D in the UK, then consulting in the Middle East, I have always been in male-dominated environments. Truth be told, I have never found a role model I could truly identify with. My mother's generation wasn't into professional leadership. There were some encouraging men along the way, but none knew the demands and pressures I was facing, pressures that got particularly acute when I had my own two beautiful children. And although Western women love to give us poor, oppressed Arab women advice, they live different lives with different constraints. So Arab women of my generation have had to become our own role models. We have had to juggle more than Arab men, and we have had to face more cultural rigidity than Western women. As a result, I would like to think that we poor, oppressed women actually have some useful, certainly hard-earned lessons to share, lessons that might turn out useful for anyone wishing to thrive in the modern world. Here are three of mine. [""Convert their sh*t into your fuel.""] (Laughter) (Applause) There is this word that everybody is touting as the key to success: resilience. Well, what exactly is resilience, and how do you develop it? I believe resilience is simply the ability to transform shit into fuel. In my previous job, well before my current firm, I was working with a man we will call John. I had teamed up with John and was working hard, hoping he would notice how great I was and that he would come to support my case to make partner at the firm. I was, in addition to delivering on my consulting projects, writing passionately on the topic of women economic empowerment. One day, I got to present my research to a roomful of MBA students. John was part of the audience listening for the first time to the details of my study. As I proceeded with my presentation, I could see John in the corner of my eye. He had turned a dark shade of pink and had slid under his chair in apparent shame. I finished my presentation to an applauding audience and we rushed out and jumped into the car. There he exploded. ""What you did up there was unacceptable! You are a consultant, not an activist!"" I said, ""John, I don't understand. I presented a couple of gender parity indices, and some conclusions about the Arab world. Yes, we do happen to be today at the bottom of the index, but what is it that I said or presented that was not factual?"" To which he replied, ""The whole premise of your study is wrong. What you are doing is dangerous and will break the social fabric of our society."" He paused, then added, ""When women have children, their place is in the home."" Time stood still for a long while, and all I could think and repeat in the chaos of my brain was: ""You can forget about that partnership, Leila. It's just never going to happen."" It took me a couple of days to fully absorb this incident and its implications, but once I did, I reached three conclusions. One, that these were his issues, his complexes. There may be many like him in our society, but I would never let their issues become mine. Two, that I needed another sponsor, and fast. (Laughter) I got one, by the way, and boy, was he great. And three, that I would get to show John what women with children can do. I apply this lesson equally well to my personal life. As I have progressed in my career, I have received many words of encouragement, but I have also often been met by women, men and couples who have clearly had an issue with my husband and I having chosen the path of a dual-career couple. So you get this well-meaning couple who tells you straight out at a family gathering or at a friends gathering, that, come on, you must know you're not a great mom, given how much you're investing in your career, right? I would lie if I said these words didn't hurt. My children are the most precious thing to me, and the thought that I could be failing them in any way is intolerable. But just like I did with John, I quickly reminded myself that these were their issues, their complexes. So instead of replying, I gave back one of my largest smiles as I saw, in flashing light, the following sign in my mind's eye. [Be happy, it drives people crazy.] (Applause) You see, as a young woman in these situations, you have two options. You can either decide to internalize these negative messages that are being thrown at you, to let them make you feel like a failure, like success is way too hard to ever achieve, or you can choose to see that others' negativity is their own issue, and instead transform it into your own personal fuel. I have learned to always go for option two, and I have found that it has taken me from strength to strength. And it's true what they say: success is the best revenge. Some women in the Middle East are lucky enough to be married to someone supportive of their career. Correction: I should say ""smart enough,"" because who you marry is your own choice, and you'd better marry someone supportive if you plan to have a long career. Still today, the Arab man is not an equal contributor in the home. It's simply not expected by our society, and even frowned upon as not very manly. As for the Arab woman, our society still assumes that her primary source of happiness should be the happiness and prosperity of her children and husband. She mostly exists for her family. Things are changing, but it will take time. For now, it means that the professional Arab woman has to somehow maintain the perfect home, make sure that her children's every need is being taken care of and manage her demanding career. To achieve this, I have found the hard way that you need to apply your hard-earned professional skills to your personal life. You need to work your life. Here is how I do this in my personal life. One thing to know about the Middle East is that nearly every family has access to affordable domestic help. The challenge therefore becomes how to recruit effectively. Just like I would in my business life, I have based the selection of who would support me with my children while I'm at work on a strong referral. Cristina had worked for four years with my sister and the quality of her work was well-established. She is now an integral member of our family, having been with us since Alia was six months old. She makes sure that the house is running smoothly while I'm at work, and I make sure to empower her in the most optimal conditions for her and my children, just like I would my best talent at work. This lesson applies whatever your childcare situation, whether an au pair, nursery, part-time nanny that you share with someone else. Choose very carefully, and empower. If you look at my calendar, you will see every working day one and a half hours from 7pm to 8:30pm UAE time blocked and called ""family time."" This is sacred time. I have done this ever since Alia was a baby. I do everything in my power to protect this time so that I can be home by then to spend quality time with my children, asking them about their day, checking up on homework, reading them a bedtime story and giving them lots of kisses and cuddles. If I'm traveling, in whatever the time zone, I use Skype to connect with my children even if I am miles away. Our son Burhan is five years old, and he's learning to read and do basic maths. Here's another confession: I have found that our daughter is actually more successful at teaching him these skills than I am. (Laughter) It started as a game, but Alia loves playing teacher to her little brother, and I have found that these sessions actually improve Burhan's literacy, increase Alia's sense of responsibility, and strengthen the bonding between them, a win-win all around. The successful Arab women I know have each found their unique approach to working their life as they continue to shoulder the lion's share of responsibility in the home. But this is not just about surviving in your dual role as a career woman and mother. This is also about being in the present. When I am with my children, I try to leave work out of our lives. Instead of worrying about how many minutes I can spend with them every day, I focus on turning these minutes into memorable moments, moments where I'm seeing my kids, hearing them, connecting with them. [""Join forces, don't compete.""] Arab women of my generation have not been very visible in the public eye as they grew up. This explains, I think, to some extent, why you find so few women in politics in the Arab world. The upside of this, however, is that we have spent a lot of time developing a social skill behind the scenes, in coffee shops, in living rooms, on the phone, a social skill that is very important to success: networking. I would say the average Arab woman has a large network of friends and acquaintances. The majority of those are also women. In the West, it seems like ambitious women often compare themselves to other women hoping to be noticed as the most successful woman in the room. This leads to the much-spoken-about competitive behavior between professional women. If there's only room for one woman at the top, then you can't make room for others, much less lift them up. Arab women, generally speaking, have not fallen for this psychological trap. Faced with a patriarchal society, they have found that by helping each other out, all benefit. In my previous job, I was the most senior woman in the Middle East, so one could think that investing in my network of female colleagues couldn't bring many benefits and that I should instead invest my time developing my relationships with male seniors and peers. Yet two of my biggest breaks came through the support of other women. It was the head of marketing who initially suggested I be considered as a young global leader to the World Economic Forum. She was familiar with my media engagements and my publications, and when she was asked to voice her opinion, she highlighted my name. It was a young consultant, a Saudi lady and friend, who helped me sell my first project in Saudi Arabia, a market I was finding hard to gain traction in as a woman. She introduced me to a client, and that introduction led to the first of very many projects for me in Saudi. Today, I have two senior women on my team, and I see making them successful as key to my own success. Women continue to advance in the world, not fast enough, but we're moving. The Arab world, too, is making progress, despite many recent setbacks. Just this year, the UAE appointed five new female ministers to its cabinet, for a total of eight female ministers. That's nearly 28 percent of the cabinet, and more than many developed countries can claim. This is today my daughter Alia's favorite picture. This is the result, no doubt, of great leadership, but it is also the result of strong Arab women not giving up and continuously pushing the boundaries. It is the result of Arab women deciding every day like me to convert shit into fuel, to work their life to keep work out of their life, and to join forces and not compete. As I look to the future, my hopes for my daughter when she stands on this stage some 20, 30 years from now are that she be as proud to call herself her mother's daughter as her father's daughter. My hopes for my son are that by then, the expression ""her mother's son"" or ""mama's boy"" would have taken on a completely different meaning. Thank you. (Applause)"	「媽媽，這些人是誰?」這是來自我小女兒Alia的天真的疑問，大概是在她三歲的時候。我們正與我丈夫走在一塊，在阿布達比的某一間大型豪華購物中心中。Alia仔細端詳著立在購物中心中央的巨幅海報。它標示著三位阿拉伯聯合大公國的統治者。當她拽著我的衣角，我彎下身然後描述著這就是阿拉伯聯合大公國的統治者，他們很努力地發展他們的國家，保持他們的團結性。她問說:「媽媽，為什麼這裡，我們住的地方，和黎巴嫩(Lebanon)，爺爺跟奶奶住的地方，我們從沒有看過在牆上有厲害的女人的圖片？這是因為女人不重要嗎?」 這大概是我身為父母以及16年多的職業生涯中曾回答過的最困難的問題了。我在我的家鄉黎巴嫩(Lebanon)長大，是兩個女兒中的小女兒，父親是努力工作的飛行員，同時也是黎巴嫩航空的操作總監。有個超級顧家的母親與祖母。我的父親很鼓勵我們求學，即使我們的文化，特別強調在那個時間點，那是只有兒子而不是女兒應該要被啟發的(職業積極性)。我是在我那個年代極少數女孩的其中一個，在18歲離開家出國念書。我的父親沒有兒子，所以，在某種意義上來說，我變成了兒子。 快轉數十年，我希望我沒有做得太差，在讓我父親以他試圖打造的「兒子」為傲的方面。當我電子工程方面取得學士與博士學位，在英國從事研發，此外在中東諮詢，我總是處在男權至上的環境。老實說，我從未找到能讓我共鳴的榜樣。我母親的年代對職業的領導地位不感興趣。在我的經歷中遇見過很多激勵並鼓舞人心的男士，但沒有人知道我當時正面對的需求與壓力。當我擁有兩個美麗的小孩時，這壓力變得特別嚴重。而雖然西方女性喜歡給予貧窮的、受欺壓的阿拉伯女性忠告，但她們過著不一樣的生活，有著不一樣的束縛。 所以我這一代的阿拉伯女性不得不成為我們的楷模。我們不得不比阿拉伯男性兼顧更多，我們也不得不去面對比起西方女性會遇到的更頑固的文化。到最後，我想，對於我們這些貧窮、受壓迫的女性確實有一些實用的、來之不易的經驗能夠去分享，這些經驗可能很有用，對任何一位希望在這現代化的世界成長茁壯的人。我這裡有三個經驗分享。 「轉換他們的負面能量成為你的動力。」 (笑聲) (掌聲) 每個人都認為這是成功的金鑰匙：適應性。恩，什麼是適應性，你要怎麼發展適應性呢？我相信適應性簡單來說就是把負面能量轉換成自身動力的能力 在進入我現在這間公司之前，在我的工作中，我與一個男人共事，我們稱他約翰好了。我跟約翰組成一組，很努力地工作，希望他能注意到我很能幹。而他能夠幫助我的業務並成為我的公司夥伴。此外，我正集中完成我的諮詢項目，情緒激昂地著手寫著關於女性經濟自主的主題。有一天，我給滿屋子的工商管理學的碩士生呈現我的研究成果。約翰是其中的聽眾，第一次聆聽我的研究細節。當我在進行陳述時，我眼角可以看到約翰。他的臉變成暗粉紅色，因為明顯的羞愧而滑下他的椅子。 我在充滿掌聲的觀眾中完成了演講，而我們快速離開並跳上車子。在那裡他大發雷霆。「你做的事情是不可接受的！你是個顧問，不是個激進主義分子！」我說「約翰，我不明白。我展示了數個性別待遇平等指數，和一些關於阿拉伯世界的結論。是的，我們現在碰巧地是在這指數的底部，但是有什麼我說的是不符合事實的地方嗎？」 他回答，「你研究的所有前提都是錯的。你正在做的事情很危險而且將會破壞我們的社會結構。」他停了下來，又補充，「當女人有小孩，他們歸屬就是在家裡面。」 好長一會兒，時間彷彿靜止了，而在混亂中，我腦中想的與重複的是：「你可以忘記那個夥伴關係，蕾拉。這樣下去不會有什麼結果的。」這讓我花了幾天去完全消化這件事與它的含義，但最後，我得到三個結論。第一，那是他的問題，他的病態心理。在我們的社會中存在著很多像他一樣的人，他們的觀點我絕不會苟同。第二，我需要其他的支持者，而且要快。 (笑聲) 順帶一提，我找到了另一半，他真的很棒。而第三，我要展示給約翰，有小孩的女人可以做什麼。這個經驗在我的個人生活中也是一樣好用。當我在職業上有進展時，我得到很多言語的鼓勵，但我也常遇到一些女人、男人與夫妻，他們很明確地對我們夫婦選擇雙薪家庭的道路存有質疑。他們很明確地對我們夫婦選擇雙薪家庭的道路存有質疑。 所以你知道這些出於好心的夫婦在家庭聚會，或是在朋友聚會，直接了當地告訴你，哎呀，你必須知道你不是個好媽媽，投資了多少在你的職業生涯，對吧?如果我說這些言語不傷人，那我絕對在說謊。我的孩子是我最珍視的事情，而要我辜負他們的想法無論如何都是無法忍受的。但就像我對約翰所做的，我很快地提醒我自己這些都是他們的問題，他們的自卑心態。所以我不回答他們，只是回敬一個我最大的微笑，當時我看到，在閃爍的光芒下，在我腦海中的跡象。 「要幸福快樂，讓人們嫉妒瘋狂吧。」 (掌聲) 你們看，作為一個年輕女人遇到這些狀況，你有兩個選擇。你可以決定去內化這些被丟在你身上的負面訊息，任憑他們讓你自我貶低，就像成功是遙不可及般的，或者你可以選擇去看待：別人的負面能量是他們自己的問題，而取而代之地轉換這些變成你的個人動力。我已經學會總是選第二個選擇，然後我發現這帶領我不斷強大。而他們說得是正確的：成功就是最好的復仇 有些中東的女性夠幸運地可以嫁給某個支持她職業生涯的人。修正一下「我應該說是『夠聰明』」因為你嫁的人是你的選擇，而你最好可以嫁給很支持你的人，如果你計畫要有很長的職業生涯。時至今日，阿拉伯男姓在家中仍不是個公平的貢獻者。在我們的社會簡而易見地不被期待，甚至會因為沒有男人味而被人不滿。對阿拉伯女性來說，我們的社會仍然認為阿拉伯女性主要的幸福快樂應該來自於她小孩與丈夫的幸福與成功。她幾乎是為了她的家庭而存在。事態正在改變，但這會需要些時間。 現在來說，它代表著職業阿拉伯女性必須以某種方法維持她的完美家庭，確保她孩子的每個需求都有被照顧到然後經營她耗費盡精力的職業生涯。為了完成這項成就，我發現了難處在於你需要在你的私生活中去運用你得來不易的職業技能。你需要巧妙地安排你的生活。 以下就是我在我個人生活中做的事.關於中東需要知道的一件事,就是幾乎每個家庭都能找到可負擔費用的家務代理。難題因此變成如何有效地召募(家務代理人)。就如同在我的商業生活中，我很大程度上根據誰能在我工作時夠幫助我打理孩子來挑選。根據誰能在我工作時夠幫助我打理孩子來挑選。Cristina曾與我姐姐一同工作4年，而她工作的品質是受到公認的。她現在是我們家庭中不可或缺的一員，從Alia六個月大的時候就跟我們在一塊了。她確保當我在工作時我們家庭運作順暢，而我保障她對她和我的孩子來說，在最佳的狀況下。就像我用最好的天賦在工作一樣這個經驗很通用，無論你的小孩的照護狀況事怎樣的，也不管是年輕女性的換工互惠生，托兒所，你與某些人共用的臨時保母。請特別小心地選擇，然後賦予他們自主權。 如果你檢閱我的行事曆，你會看到每個工作日，從晚上7點到8點30的一個半小時的阿拉伯聯合大公國時間被占據了而且稱作「家庭時間」。這是個神聖的時刻。我從Alia還是嬰兒的時候就這麼做了。我竭盡所能地去保留這段時間，所以我可以在這個時間前回到家與我的孩子們共度寶貴時光，問問他們的日常，檢查他們的作業，給他們讀睡前故事，然後給他們許多的吻和擁抱。如果我正在旅行，無論在哪個時區，我用Skype與孩子們聯繫即使我在數哩之外。我們的兒子Burhan現年5歲，而他正在學習閱讀和作基礎運算。 這是我另一個懺悔：我發現我們的女兒實際上比起我更成功地在教他這些技能。 (笑聲) 這是從一場遊戲裡開始的，而Alia愛上去扮演她弟弟的老師，而我發現到這些活動實際上改善了Burhan的讀寫能力，增加了Alia的責任感，也強化了他們之間的連結，一切是雙贏的局面。 我所知道的成功的阿拉伯女性個個都發現他們獨特的方法去安排他們的生活，當他們繼續去承擔最大部分的家庭責任的時候。 但這不僅僅是關於在你的作為一個職業女性與一個母親的雙重角色下存活，但這不僅僅是關於在你的作為一個職業女性與一個母親的雙重角色下存活，這也是關於當下的生活。當我跟孩子在一起時，我嘗試讓工作離開我們的生活。與其擔心有多少時間我每天可以陪著他們，我專注在把這些分分秒秒都變成難忘的片刻。這些時刻我正在看我的孩子，聆聽他們，與跟他們連結。 「一起合作吧，不要彼此鬥爭。」 我這代的阿拉伯女性在他們成長時在大眾眼中不是很引人注目，我這代的阿拉伯女性在他們成長時在大眾眼中不是很引人注目，這些描述，我認為，在某種程度上解釋了為什麼你發現在阿拉伯世界的政治人物中只有極少數的女性。好處是，我們花費許多時間，在幕後發展社交技巧，在咖啡店，在客廳，在電話中，有一種社交技巧是對成功來說是非常重要的：「建立人脈」。我要說一般阿拉伯女性有很廣的朋友與泛泛之交人脈。而大部分也都是女人。 在西方，有野心的女性似乎經常把自己跟其他女性做比較，希望被注意到是屋子裡最成功的女人。這導致了常被提到的在職業女性之間的競爭行為。如果只有容得下一位最優異女性的空間，那你不能為其他人挪出空間，更不用說激勵她們。 阿拉伯女性，一般來說，沒有掉入這個心理陷阱。面對這個父權社會，她們發現藉由幫助彼此，所有人都能得到好處。 在我前一份工作中，我在中東是最資深的女性，所以能想到投資在我女性同事的人脈並不能帶來很大的效益，而我應該要把時間投資在發展我跟男性前輩與同儕的關係。儘管我最大的兩個突破來自其他女人的幫助。那是來自於一位行銷領導，她最初建議我成為一個世界經濟論壇年輕的全球領導人。她很熟悉我的媒體參與和我發表的東西，而當她被要求表達意見時，她強調了我的名字。這是一位年輕的顧問，一位沙烏地女士，是我的朋友，她幫我在沙烏地阿拉伯賣出了我第一個項目，作為一個女人，我發現很難在這市場得到吸引力。她向我介紹一名客戶，而這場介紹開始了我在沙烏地眾多的項目的第一道曙光。如今，在我的團隊內有兩個資深的女性，而我看見，讓她們成功，就是開啟我成功之路的鑰匙。女性持續在世界上進步，還不算快，但我們正在努力。 阿拉伯世界，也是如此，正在有所進展儘管現在有很多障礙。就在這年，阿拉伯聯合大公國指派五名新的女部長進入內閣，總計有8位女部長。那相當於內閣人數的28%，可以說比許多已開發國家還多。時至今日這是我女兒Alia最愛的圖片。不用懷疑，這是在偉大的領導之下的結果。但這也是傑出的阿拉伯女性的成就，不放棄並且不斷的推動界線。這是阿拉伯女性每天像我一樣生活的結果，我們把負面能量轉換成動力，去安排他們的生活在生活外保持發展，然後團結合作不對抗彼此。 當我看向未來，我希望我的女兒從現在開始20.30年後，在那時，她能以自己是母親的女兒為傲，就跟是她父親的女兒一樣驕傲。 我希望我的兒子，在那時也是一樣，描述自己是「母親的兒子」或是「媽媽的男孩」，將會帶給我們完全不一樣的意義。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
