Talk	en	zh-tw
lemon_andersen_performs_please_don_t_take_my_air_jordans	"""My Air Jordans cost a hundred with tax. My suede Starters jacket says Raiders on the back. I'm stylin', smilin', lookin' real mean, because it ain't about being heard, just being seen. My leather Adidas baseball cap matches my fake Gucci backpack. (Laughter) Ain't nobody who looks as good as me, but this costs money, it sure ain't free, and I gots no job, no money at all, but it's easy to steal all this from the mall. Parents say I shouldn't, but I knows I should. Got to do what I can to make sure I look good, and the reason I have to look real good, well, to tell you the truth, man, I don't know why. Guess it makes me feel special inside. When I'm wearing fresh gear I don't have to hide, and I really must get some new gear soon or my ego will pop like a 10-cent balloon. But security is tight at all the shops. Every day there are more and more cops. My crew is laughing at me because I'm wearing old gear. School's almost over. Summer is near. And I'm sportin' torn Jordans. I need something new. Only one thing left to do. Cut school Friday, catch the subway downtown, check out my victims hangin' around. Maybe I'll get lucky and find easy prey. Got to get some new gear. There's no other way. I'm ready and willing. I'm packing my gun. This is serious business. This ain't no fun. And I can't have my posse laughin' at me. I'mma cop something dope, just wait, you'll see. Come out of the station, West 4th near the park, brothers shooting hoops and someone remarks, 'Hey homes, where you get them Nik's?' I says to myself, 'Yeah. I likes 'em, I likes.' They were Q-tip white, bright and blinding my eyes. The red emblem of Michael looked as if it could fly. Not one spot of dirt. The Airs were brand new. Had my pistol and knew just what to do. Waited until it was just the right time, followed him very closely behind. He made a left turn on Houston, I pulled out my gun, and I said, 'Gimme them Jordans!' And the punk tried to run. Took off fast, didn't get far. I fired,'Pow!' Fool fell between two parked cars. He was coughing, crying, blood spilled on the street. And I snatched them Air Jordans off of his feet. While laying there dying, all he could say was, ""Please man, don't take my Air Jordans away."" You'd think he'd be worried about staying alive. As I took off with his sneakers, there was tears in his eyes. Very next day, I bopped into school with my brand new Air Jordans, man, I was cool. I killed to get 'em, but hey, I don't care, because now I needs a new jacket to wear."" Thank you. (Applause) For the last 15 years that I have been performing, all I ever wanted to do was transcend poetry to the world. See, it wasn't enough for me to write a book. It wasn't enough for me to join a slam competition, and while those things hold weight, it wasn't the driving force that pushes the pen to the pad. The hunger and thirst was, and still remains: How do I get people who hate poetry to love me? Because I'm an extension of my work, and if they love me, then they will love my work, and if they love my work, then they will love poetry, and if they love poetry, then I will have done my job, which is to transcend it to the world. And in 1996, I found the answer in principles in a master spoken-word artist named Reg E. Gaines, who wrote the famous poem, ""Please Don't Take My Air Jordans."" And I followed this guy everywhere until I had him in the room, and I read him one of my pieces, and you know what he told me? ""Yo' wack. You know what the problem is with you, homie? You don't read other people's poetry, and you don't got any subordination for verbal measures to tonal consideration."" (Laughter) Now he kept on rambling about poetry and styles and Nuyorican Friday nights. Now I could have quit. I should have quit. I mean, I thought poetry was just self-expression. I didn't know you actually have to have creative control. So instead of quitting, I followed him everywhere. When he was writing a Broadway show, I would be outside of the door. I would wake him up at, like, 6:30 in the morning to ask him who's the best poet. I remember eating the eyes of a fish right out of the sea because he told me it was brain food. Then one day I told him, ""Reg E., what is subordination for verbal measures to tonal consideration?"" (Laughter) And he handed me a black-and-white printed out thesis on a poet named Etheridge Knight and the oral nature of poetry, and from that point, Reggie stopped becoming the best to me, because what Etheridge Knight taught me was that I could make my words sound like music, even my small ones, the monosyllables, the ifs, ands, buts, whats, the gangsta in my slang could fall right on the ear, and from then on, I started chasing Etheridge Knight. I wanted to know which poet he read, and I landed on a poem called [""Dark Prophecy: Sing of Shine""], a toast signifying that got me on the biggest stage a poet could ever be: Broadway, baby. And from that point, I learned how to pull the mic away and attack the poetry with my body. But that wasn't the biggest lesson I ever learned. The biggest lesson I learned was many years later when I went to Beverly Hills and I ran into a talent agent who looked at me up and down and said I don't look like I have any experience to be working in this business. And I said to him, ""Listen, punk fool, you're a failed actor who became an agent, and you know why you failed as an actor? Because people like me took your job. I've traveled all the way from Cleveland and Essex in East New York, took the local 6 line up to the hookers of Hunt's Point who were in my way on my way to master the art of space, and the one-to-infinite amount of man, woman and child you can fit in there only so I can push them to the back of the wall with my experience. People have bought tickets to my experience and used them as refrigerator magnets to let them know that the revolution is near, so stock up. I'm so experienced that when you went to a privileged school to learn a Shakespearean sonnet, I was getting those beats kicked and shoved into me. I can master shock of ""The Crying Game"" with the awe of a child being called an AIDS victim by a bully who didn't know that it was his father who gave it to my mother, and that's a double entendre. I'm so experienced that when you went to the Fell School and all the rich little fairy boys decided to sponsor a child in it, that was me, but kicked me out when I was caught teaching the fairy boys how to rob the PATS off a pair of Lee Jeans and bring them to VIM. Let me see Chekhov pull that off. Sanford Meisner was my Uncle Artie yelling silently to himself, ""Something's always wrong when nothing's always right."" Method acting is nothing but a mixture of multiple personalities, believing your own lies are reality, like in high school cool Kenny telling me he wanted to be a cop. Dude, you go to Riker's Island Academy. I could make David Mamet psychoanalyze my attack on dialogue, Stanislavski be as if he were Bruce Lee kicking your roster of talentless students up and down Crenshaw. So what, your actors studied guerrilla theater at the London Rep? Let me tell you an ancient Chinese Saturday afternoon kung fu secret. Boards don't hit back. You think black entertainers have it hard finding work in this business? I'm a suspicious mulatto, which means I'm too black to be white and too white to be doing it right. Forget the American ghetto. I've cracked stages in Soweto, buried abortion babies in potter's field and still managed to keep a smile on my face, so whatever you curse at me to your caddyshack go-for-this, go-for-that assistant when I walk out that door, whatever slander you send my way, your mother. Thank you. (Applause)"	"「我的喬丹鞋，連稅要百元一雙。我的絨毛棒球外套，背後寫明『特別攻擊隊』。我有型，笑臉迎人，街頭招搖橫行，因為不要千里聞名，只要當下有臉示人。我的真皮愛迪達棒球帽，配以我的 A 貨古馳背包，絕不俗套。(眾笑)世界上有誰，能及我好看，但花費真多，沒一樣從天而降，但我沒工作，空空錢包一個，但商場偷竊，也再簡單不過。父母說我不該，但我休管福禍。為了外表好看，不惜一切後果，而扮帥哥的原因，老實說，老兄我也不知為何。想是一份尊榮感，埋藏心窩。當我穿新貨，再也毋需左閃右躲，而我必須盡快補貨，不然那份自尊，就要消失千里之外。不過店舖嚴密保安，巡警每日漸多。朋友譏諷我，衣衫襤褸不堪。學期快終結，暑假降臨。而我仍在磨蹭舊的喬丹球鞋。我急需新貨。選擇只得一個。就是週五蹺課，乘地鐵到市中心一趟，看看有沒有大魚上當。若幸運之神眷顧，輕鬆就有斬獲。以入新貨之名，惟有如此境況。我準備就緒。手槍裝妥。要來真的一趙。不是隨便開玩笑。小弟真槍出馬，不容輕視利害。必定斬獲而歸，旁人拭目而待。步出車站，西邊四街公園附近，一班小混聚集，某人驚云：「哪兒弄來的耐吉球鞋？羨急旁人」我心想，「我就喜歡，做我囊中物。」球鞋純白可愛，耀目光彩迷人。麥可喬丹紅色標誌，簡直栩栩如生。一塵不染。一對全新球鞋。手槍握緊，知道隨後計劃。我緊隨其後，伺機而行。那人在侯斯頓街左轉，我拔槍示人，高呼：「喬丹球鞋給我！」那傢伙拔足而逃。跑得快，但走不遠，我開槍，「嘭！」傢伙中槍，躺在兩車停泊之間。喘氣、哭叫，血濺在街。而我就從他腳上奪走球鞋。當他垂死掙扎，只顧口中唸道：「求你，不要奪走我的喬丹鞋。」你可以想見他怕活不過來。當我取着球鞋逃走，他眼淚盈眶。翌日，我如常上學，穿着全新的喬丹鞋，老兄，我至酷。我以別人的性命換取回來，我不在意，因為現在要為新外衣張羅。」 多謝。(掌聲) 在過去十五年，我一直在表演，我一直想做的，就是將詩詞傳達世界。看，讓我寫一本書，並不足夠。參加一個比賽，對我而言也不足，雖然這些事情有其份量，它們並不是將筆桿推向筆記本的推動力。心中推動的一份飢渴，由始到終，都是；我怎樣才能夠讓討厭詩詞的人喜歡我？因為我的創作延伸自我，倘若他們愛我，他們也會愛我的作品，倘若他們愛我的作品，他們也會愛詩詞，倘若他們愛詩詞，我也完成了我的工作，就是將詩詞傳達世界。 在 1996 年，我找到原則上的答案，是來自一位說唱藝術家大師瑞格·伊·坎尼斯 (Reg E. Gaines)，他寫了著名的詩：《請不要奪走我的喬丹鞋》。之後我到處跟蹤他，直到一次相會，我讀了其中一篇拙作給他聽，你知道他怎麼說嗎？「怪咖。你知道你的問題出在哪裏嗎？小弟。你不閱讀他人的詩詞，並且欠缺從節拍到音調的協調。」(眾笑)然後他繼續嘮叨，有關詩詞、風格以及黎各 (Nuyorican) 詩人咖啡室的週五夜。 此時我可以退出。我應該輟筆。當時我想，我以為詩詞只是表達自我。我當時不知道，詩詞原來要有創意規範。 所以我沒有退出，卻到處跟隨他。當他在為百老匯音樂劇寫劇本時，我會在房門外伺候。我會在早上約六時半就吵醒他，問他誰是最棒的詩人。我記得我吃過新鮮海魚的魚眼，因為他說補腦。 然後有一天，我問他，「瑞格·伊，甚麼是從節拍到音調的協調？」 (眾笑)然後他遞給我，一份黑白打印的論文，內容是關於一位名叫艾瑟裏奇·奈特 (Etheridge Knight) 的詩人以及詩詞的口誦性質，而自此之後，瑞格伊不再是我心目中最棒的，因為艾瑟裏奇·奈特教曉我，原來我可以將詩語，變得像音樂一樣，即使微細的部分，單音節詞，那些「如」、「若」、「及」、「但」，匪幫俚語原來可以字字鏗鏘，而自此之後，我開始追隨艾瑟裏奇·奈特。我想知道他閱讀哪位詩人的作品，而我適逢其會，接觸到一篇名為 [""Dark Prophecy: Sing of Shine""] 的詩，這是個轉捩點，那詩篇將我帶上一位詩人能夠踏上的最大舞台：百老匯，寶貝。而自此，我學會怎樣拉遠麥克風並將身體投入詩詞中。 然而那不是我學會的最大一課。我學會的最大一課是在多年後，當我去比佛利山 (Beverly Hills)，並遇上一名星探，他將我全身打量一番後說，我看來不像是有過任何在這個行業工作的經驗。 然後我回敬道：「聽好了，笨蛋，你演藝事業失敗，才轉行做星探，而你知道你為何幹不成演員嗎？就是因為有我這種人，搶了你的飯碗。我千里迢迢．從紐約東部出發，走過克里夫蘭 (Cleveland)和雅息士郡 (Essex)，乘搭六號綫到亨茨波恩特 (Hunt's Point)，沿途妓女一群，為正在掌握空間藝術到半途的我，添困，而一班男女小孩，我一個人彷彿對着無窮人海，你可以置身其中，好讓我可以使出混身解數，讓你們驚嘆，由我的經驗，帶來的體驗。人們買票，就是為了來看我的過往所堆砌出來的經驗，並像雪櫃門的磁石貼一樣，提醒他們，新一輪革命，勢將開創，準備好了。我的經驗何其豐富，當你到高尚學府，仍在學習莎士比亞十四行詩(Shakespearean sonnet) 的一課，我已將這些節拍，深深收入腦海。我能掌握“亂世浮生” (The Crying Game) 錯愕的神髓，七情上臉演繹一個小孩，被人欺負說是愛滋病孩，那小霸王卻不知那是他爸爸，把愛滋病傳給我的媽媽，而那叫做語帶雙關。我的經驗何其豐富，當你到訪 Fell School，而那裏那些不吃人間煙火的富家哥兒，說要助養貧困小孩，我就是待考慮的一個，但最終不果，因為我被發現帶壞富家哥兒，教他們怎麼除去一對Lee 牛仔褲上的 PATS 防盜標貼，並拿到 VIM 變賣。還是讓契訶夫 (Chekhov) 妙筆作罷。史丹佛·梅斯納 (Sanford Meisner) 是我的阿蒂叔叔 (Uncle Artie)，他心裏大喊：「諸事不順，就是有些不妥。」所謂，方法演技 (Method acting) ，說穿了，豈非就是混合多重人格，相信謊話真實不假，就像高中時代，酷爆的 Kenny 對我明志想做警察。老兄，你入里克斯島 (Riker's Island) 監獄學校，倒更有資格。我能讓大衛馬密 (David Mamet)心理分析我對白中的激宕起跌，讓史坦尼斯拉夫斯基(Stanislavski) 猶如李小龍上身．對你一班，毫無天賦的學生，出拳踢腳，在克倫肖 (Crenshaw) 街頭糾結。你的演員，在倫敦劇院的短期輪演 (London Rep) ，研習街頭諷刺短劇 (guerrilla theater)，又有何噱頭？讓我為你道出，在古代中國，每逢週六，午後苦練功夫的秘密解構。板面出拳頭，板子不還手。你以為黑人戲子很難在這行吃飯？我是個穆拉託人(黑白混血兒)，人看我相貌離奇，說我做黑做白，也難以黑白雙煞。美國的黑人聚集區就別記。我曾在索維托 (Soweto) 登台做戲，將墮胎遺骸葬在公墓，仍臉掛笑容，所以，當我走出房門時，你怎樣向我咀咒，對着你那個唯唯諾諾的窩囊隨從饒舌，心裏暗爽，你怎樣在我背後誣衊我，彼此相同，我將一切回敬你令堂。多謝。(掌聲)"
