Talk	en	zh-tw
leonard_susskind_my_friend_richard_feynman	"I decided when I was asked to do this that what I really wanted to talk about was my friend, Richard Feynman. I was one of the fortunate few that really did get to know him and enjoyed his presence. And I'm going to tell you about the Richard Feynman that I knew. I'm sure there are people here who could tell you about the Richard Feynman they knew, and it would probably be a different Richard Feynman. Richard Feynman was a very complex man. He was a man of many, many parts. He was, of course, foremost, a very, very, very great scientist. He was an actor. You saw him act. I also had the good fortune to be in those lectures, up in the balcony. They were fantastic. He was a philosopher. He was a drum player. He was a teacher par excellence. Richard Feynman was also a showman, an enormous showman. He was brash, irreverent. He was full of macho, a kind of macho one-upmanship. He loved intellectual battle. He had a gargantuan ego. But the man had, somehow, a lot of room at the bottom. And what I mean by that is a lot of room, in my case — I can't speak for anybody else, but in my case — a lot of room for another big ego. Well, not as big as his, but fairly big. I always felt good with Dick Feynman. It was always fun to be with him. He always made me feel smart. How can somebody like that make you feel smart? Somehow he did. He made me feel smart. He made me feel he was smart. He made me feel we were both smart, and the two of us could solve any problem whatever. And in fact, we did sometimes do physics together. We never published a paper together, but we did have a lot of fun. He loved to win, win these little macho games we would sometimes play. And he didn't only play them with me, but with all sorts of people. He would almost always win. But when he didn't win, when he lost, he would laugh and seem to have just as much fun as if he had won. I remember once he told me a story about a joke the students played on him. I think it was for his birthday — they took him for lunch to a sandwich place in Pasadena. It may still exist; I don't know. Celebrity sandwiches was their thing. You could get a Marilyn Monroe sandwich. You could get a Humphrey Bogart sandwich. The students went there in advance, and arranged that they'd all order Feynman sandwiches. One after another, they came in and ordered Feynman sandwiches. Feynman loved this story. He told me this story, and he was really happy and laughing. When he finished the story, I said to him, ""Dick, I wonder what would be the difference between a Feynman sandwich and a Susskind sandwich."" And without skipping a beat at all, he said, ""Well, they'd be about the same. The only difference is a Susskind sandwich would have a lot more ham."" ""Ham"" as in bad actor. (Laughter) Well, I happened to have been very quick that day, and I said, ""Yeah, but a lot less baloney."" (Laughter) (Applause) The truth of the matter is that a Feynman sandwich had a load of ham, but absolutely no baloney. What Feynman hated worse than anything else was intellectual pretense — phoniness, false sophistication, jargon. I remember sometime during the mid-'80s, Dick and I and Sidney Coleman would meet a couple of times up in San Francisco — at some very rich guy's house — up in San Francisco for dinner. And the last time the rich guy invited us, he also invited a couple of philosophers. These guys were philosophers of mind. Their specialty was the philosophy of consciousness. And they were full of all kinds of jargon. I'm trying to remember the words — ""monism,"" ""dualism,"" categories all over the place. I didn't know what those meant, neither did Dick or Sydney, for that matter. And what did we talk about? Well, what do you talk about when you talk about minds? There's one obvious thing to talk about: Can a machine become a mind? Can you build a machine that thinks like a human being that is conscious? We sat around and talked about this — we of course never resolved it. But the trouble with the philosophers is that they were philosophizing when they should have been science-ophizing. It's a scientific question, after all. And this was a very, very dangerous thing to do around Dick Feynman. (Laughter) Feynman let them have it — both barrels, right between the eyes. It was brutal; it was funny — ooh, it was funny. But it was really brutal. He really popped their balloon. But the amazing thing was — Feynman had to leave a little early; he wasn't feeling too well, so he left a little bit early. And Sidney and I were left there with the two philosophers. And the amazing thing is these guys were flying. They were so happy. They had met the great man; they had been instructed by the great man; they had an enormous amount of fun having their faces shoved in the mud ... And it was something special. I realized there was something just extraordinary about Feynman, even when he did what he did. Dick — he was my friend; I did call him Dick — Dick and I had a little bit of a rapport. I think it may have been a special rapport that he and I had. We liked each other; we liked the same kind of things. I also like the intellectual macho games. Sometimes I would win, mostly he would win, but we both enjoyed them. And Dick became convinced at some point that he and I had some kind of similarity of personality. I don't think he was right. I think the only point of similarity between us is we both like to talk about ourselves. But he was convinced of this. And the man was incredibly curious. And he wanted to understand what it was and why it was that there was this funny connection. And one day, we were walking. We were in France, in Les Houches. We were up in the mountains, 1976. And Feynman said to me, ""Leonardo ..."" The reason he called me ""Leonardo"" is because we were in Europe, and he was practicing his French. (Laughter) And he said, ""Leonardo, were you closer to your mother or your father when you were a kid?"" I said, ""Well, my real hero was my father. He was a working man, had a fifth-grade education. He was a master mechanic, and he taught me how to use tools. He taught me all sorts of things about mechanical things. He even taught me the Pythagorean theorem. He didn't call it the hypotenuse, he called it the shortcut distance."" And Feynman's eyes just opened up. He went off like a lightbulb. And he said that he had had basically exactly the same relationship with his father. In fact, he had been convinced at one time that to be a good physicist, it was very important to have had that kind of relationship with your father. I apologize for the sexist conversation here, but this is the way it really happened. He said he had been absolutely convinced that this was necessary, a necessary part of the growing up of a young physicist. Being Dick, he, of course, wanted to check this. He wanted to go out and do an experiment. (Laughter) Well, he did. He went out and did an experiment. He asked all his friends that he thought were good physicists, ""Was it your mom or your pop that influenced you?"" They were all men, and to a man, every single one of them said, ""My mother."" (Laughter) There went that theory, down the trash can of history. (Laughter) But he was very excited that he had finally met somebody who had the same experience with his father as he had with his father. And for some time, he was convinced this was the reason we got along so well. I don't know. Maybe. Who knows? But let me tell you a little bit about Feynman the physicist. Feynman's style — no, ""style"" is not the right word. ""Style"" makes you think of the bow tie he might have worn, or the suit he was wearing. It's something much deeper than that, but I can't think of another word for it. Feynman's scientific style was always to look for the simplest, most elementary solution to a problem that was possible. If it wasn't possible, you had to use something fancier. No doubt, part of this was his great joy and pleasure in showing people that he could think more simply than they could. But he also deeply believed, he truly believed, that if you couldn't explain something simply, you didn't understand it. In the 1950s, people were trying to figure out how superfluid helium worked. There was a theory. It was due to a Russian mathematical physicist. It was a complicated theory; I'll tell you what it was soon enough. It was a terribly complicated theory, full of very difficult integrals and formulas and mathematics and so forth. And it sort of worked, but it didn't work very well. The only way it worked is when the helium atoms were very, very far apart. And unfortunately, the helium atoms in liquid helium are right on top of each other. Feynman decided, as a sort of amateur helium physicist, that he would try to figure it out. He had an idea, a very clear idea. He would try to figure out what the quantum wave function of this huge number of atoms looked like. He would try to visualize it, guided by a small number of simple principles. The small number of simple principles were very, very simple. The first one was that when helium atoms touch each other, they repel. The implication of that is that the wave function has to go to zero, it has to vanish when the helium atoms touch each other. The other fact is that in the ground state — the lowest energy state of a quantum system — the wave function is always very smooth; it has the minimum number of wiggles. So he sat down — and I imagine he had nothing more than a simple piece of paper and a pencil — and he tried to write down, and did write down, the simplest function that he could think of, which had the boundary conditions that the wave function vanish when things touch and is smooth in between. He wrote down a simple thing — so simple, in fact, that I suspect a really smart high-school student who didn't even have calculus could understand what he wrote down. The thing was, that simple thing that he wrote down explained everything that was known at the time about liquid helium, and then some. I've always wondered whether the professionals — the real professional helium physicists — were just a little bit embarrassed by this. They had their super-powerful technique, and they couldn't do as well. Incidentally, I'll tell you what that super-powerful technique was. It was the technique of Feynman diagrams. (Laughter) He did it again in 1968. In 1968, in my own university — I wasn't there at the time — they were exploring the structure of the proton. The proton is obviously made of a whole bunch of little particles; this was more or less known. And the way to analyze it was, of course, Feynman diagrams. That's what Feynman diagrams were constructed for — to understand particles. The experiments that were going on were very simple: you simply take the proton, and you hit it really sharply with an electron. This was the thing the Feynman diagrams were for. The only problem was that Feynman diagrams are complicated. They're difficult integrals. If you could do all of them, you would have a very precise theory, but you couldn't — they were just too complicated. People were trying to do them. You could do a one-loop diagram. Don't worry about one loop. One loop, two loops — maybe you could do a three-loop diagram, but beyond that, you couldn't do anything. Feynman said, ""Forget all of that. Just think of the proton as an assemblage, a swarm, of little particles."" He called them ""partons."" He said, ""Just think of it as a swarm of partons moving real fast."" Because they're moving real fast, relativity says the internal motions go very slow. The electron hits it suddenly — it's like taking a very sudden snapshot of the proton. What do you see? You see a frozen bunch of partons. They don't move, and because they don't move during the course of the experiment, you don't have to worry about how they're moving. You don't have to worry about the forces between them. You just get to think of it as a population of frozen partons."" This was the key to analyzing these experiments. Extremely effective. Somebody said the word ""revolution"" is a bad word. I suppose it is, so I won't say ""revolution,"" but it certainly evolved very, very deeply our understanding of the proton, and of particles beyond that. Well, I had some more that I was going to tell you about my connection with Feynman, what he was like, but I see I have exactly half a minute. So I think I'll just finish up by saying: I actually don't think Feynman would have liked this event. I think he would have said, ""I don't need this."" But ... (Laughter) How should we honor Feynman? How should we really honor Feynman? I think the answer is we should honor Feynman by getting as much baloney out of our own sandwiches as we can. Thank you. (Applause)"	"當我被要求做這演說我立即想到要說的就是我的好友費因曼我是少數幾個夠幸運能真正的認識他以及享受他的相處我將告訴你們我所知道的費因曼我相信這裡也有其他人能告訴你們他們認識的費因曼也可能會不同於我說的 費因曼是個非常複雜的人他是個非常非常多樣的人當然節大部分 他是非常非常偉大的科學家他是個演員 你們都看過他的演出我也曾聽過幾次的課堂演說就在那閣樓這些演講都是精采萬分他是一個哲學家他是個鼓手他是個傑出的教師費因曼是個愛出風頭的人是個非常愛出風頭他有時傲慢 玩世不恭他是非常有男子氣概一種 one-upsmanship 的男子氣概他喜歡挑戰智力他非常的自我但是 他又是非常有肚量我的意思是肚量是... 這是以我為例別人我就無法代言所以就我而言肚量卻是為了再放一個自我不是非常大但足夠和費因曼相處 我是愉快的 是非常的有趣他總是讓我覺得聰明怎麼可能像他這樣的天才能夠讓你覺得自己聰明呢?不曉得為什麼 他就是他讓我覺得聰明 也讓我覺得他是聰明的它讓我覺得我們都是聰明的好像我們兩個可以解決所有問題事實上, 我們也真的有時一起討論物理但我們從未一起發表論文我們還是有很多的趣事他喜歡贏從我們常玩的一斜男人遊戲他不只與我玩 也與各式各樣的人玩他幾乎總是贏當他輸時他會笑 就像是贏一樣的歡樂 我記得有一次 他告訴我一個故事是學生們開在他身上的玩笑我想是在他的生日上 他們帶他去午餐午餐是去Pasadena 的三明治餐廳或許還在那裡 我不清楚名人三明治 就是餐廳的特色比方說 你可以點 瑪麗蓮‧夢露 三明治或是 亨弗萊‧鮑嘉 三明治學生先前去過就商量安排 所有學生全部都點 費因曼三明治學生一個接一個 進來都點 費因曼三明治費因曼很喜歡這個故事他是真的快樂與高興的敘說這個故事當他說完這故事 我跟他說""Dick, 我好奇費因曼三明治 和 我的三明治會有什麼不同""連停都沒停他就說 ""嗯, 大致上會是差不多這唯一的差異是 你的三明治會有很多的火腿""火腿是差的角色(笑聲)我剛好那天反應很快我說 ""是的 但會少很多的 baloney (扯淡)"" (笑聲) 實際上呢!費因曼三明治有很多的火腿絕對沒有 baloney (扯淡)費因曼最討厭的事就是假聰明做作世故 滿嘴名詞我記得80年代或是80年代中Dick 與 我 以及 Sidney Coleman三個人一起見過好幾次某個舊金山有錢人家用晚餐最後一次那有錢人的晚宴也邀請了一些哲學家那些是腦學的哲學家他們專長在人類意識的哲學探討他們用了一大堆的名詞讓我想想這些詞兒 —""一元論"" ""二元論"" 到處是分類名詞我不曉得這些意涵 Dick 也不知道Sydney 也不清楚 那我們在講些什麼?談到腦 你們會談些什麼?大概只有這件事 —-機器能像腦一樣嗎?能夠建造一個機器能像人類一樣思考就是一樣的有意識我們坐下討論 —- 當然是無法有結論的但是哲學家的問題是他們急想要把事情哲學化而實際上應該先科學化那只是個科學問題與費因曼共室時 這樣的自以為是是非常的危險費因曼當時就立即給他們難堪相當嚴厲 也是有趣的 —- 是有趣的但也真的是殘酷他真的戳破他們的說法 妙的事是 —-費因曼 必需提前離開他有些不適 所以得先離開Sidney 與我只好繼續留下妙的是 這兩位哲學家是快樂的他們遇到一位偉人他們讓這偉人親自指教他們非常地享受即使是當眾顏面掃地但是個美妙的相遇我才明白關於費因曼的不平凡即使是像這樣的情況 Dick 是我的朋友 我都是這麼叫他 Dick我們兩個是有些一致性我想這共同性就是我們互相喜歡對方; 也會喜歡相同的事我也喜歡一些 男人的智力遊戲我有時贏 但大多數時間是他贏但我們都享受這些遊戲Dick 有時也相信我們有著類似的個性我不這麼認為我以為我們唯一的相似點是我們都喜歡談論自己他也這麼贊同我的說法他很好奇他是個非常好奇的人他喜歡弄明白事情的本質與緣由是不是有有趣的關聯 有一天我們在法國散步那是在 La Zouche那是1976年 的山上山林中 費因曼對我說他說 ""Leonardo""他叫我 ""Leonardo""是因為我們在歐洲他在練習法文他說 ""Leonardo你是比較親近妳的母親還是你的父親當你還是個孩子時?""我說: ""我心中真正的英雄是我父親他是個勞工只有小學五年級的教育他是個機械專家 他教我如何使用工具他教我所有關於機械的事他還教我畢氏定理他不是稱那為 直角的斜邊他說是 捷徑距離""費因曼的眼睛亮了起來就像個電燈泡他說他也有與他的父親像是這樣的關係事實上 他也曾認為要成為一個好的物理學家是非常需要有與父親這樣的關係抱歉 這裡的性別論點但這是曾經發生的 他說 他是完全的相信一個年輕的物理學家成長 是需要這樣的關係Dick 當然想驗證這點他曾想做個實驗他也真的做這個實驗他跑去問所有他以為是好物理學家的人""是你的母親或是父親影響你?""每個人 都是男性每個人都這麼回答""我的母親""(笑聲)所以這假說只好扔進歷史的垃圾桶但他是十分興奮 總算找到個有著類似父子關係的人有時候 他也認為這就是為什麼我們是合得來的我不曉得 又或許是 誰知道? 讓我再多告訴你們一些這位物理學家 費因曼費因曼的風格不 風格用得不對風格會讓你想到的是 他繫的領帶或是他的西裝有更深沉的東西但我卻想不出更好的說法費因曼的科學風格就是總是找出最簡單的最簡單的解答 可能性才高若不對 就得再找複雜的毫無疑問他做學問的樂趣就是表現他能想出比別人更簡單的解答他也深深相信如果你無法將事物解釋的夠簡單那表示你不明白它在1950年代 大家試圖理解超流體氦 的原理 有一個理論由蘇俄物理數學家提出的但是個極複雜的理論很快的告訴大家那是個遭透了的複雜理論一大堆複雜的積分, 程式以及數學等等它似乎能解釋 但並不完善只有當兩個氦原子相隔很遠時只有那時該理論是可用不幸的是 氦在液態時氦原子是緊緊相連 費因曼決定 以一業餘的氦物理學家來解解看他有了個清楚的點子他試著發展如此龐大數目原子的量子波動函數也試著 能視覺化用的就只是少數量的簡單原理這些就都是非常簡單的第一個是當氦原子碰到另一個氦原子時 會排斥意味著波函數會降到零波函數會消失當兩個氦原子相連另一個證據是基態 也就是量子系統的最小能階波函數是非常平滑的有最小的擾動 他就坐下 —-我可以想見他沒有其他東西只用了鉛筆和一張紙 —-試著也真的寫下他認為最簡單的函式開始有著邊界條件:波函式會歸零當物體相碰觸也需要是連續平滑的發生他寫下簡單的式子是非常的簡單易懂我想一個聰明的高中生不用懂微積分也能懂他所寫下的式子那些簡單的式子便能解釋那時所觀察到一切有關液態氦的情況 我常好奇那些真的氦物理專家會不會因此而感到窘困他們也有著高超的技巧卻沒有解好所以這個高超的技巧就是 費因曼的圖形學 (笑聲) 他在1968年又作了一次1968年 在我自己的大學我當時不在他們正在探索有關質子質子明顯是由一群小粒子組成這些是隱約明白的去理解這件事 當然是用費因曼圖學也是費因曼圖學的最初設計目的理解基本粒子理論實驗是相當簡單就是把質子用高速電子撞擊這就是費因曼圖學的設計目的唯一的困擾是費因曼圖學是複雜的是困難的積分如果能全解決 那就是個完整的理論但是卻無法完成 因為太複雜了大家試著解題可以作出一迴圈 一點都不擔心一迴圈 兩迴圈 甚至可能可以解出三迴圈但是超過就不太能解開 費因曼說 ""忘了那些解法只要把質子想成是小粒子的集合一群小粒子的集合""他叫它們是 部份子 (parton)他說: ""就想像質子是一群 部份子 組成快速移動""因為是快速運動相對論說明內部運動實際是慢的當電子瞬間撞上就像是對質子拍一張快照會看到什麼?就會看到一群靜止的部份子因為這樣的實驗造成的靜止狀態你就暫時不用操心它們是如何運動你就不用操心他們之間的作用力只需想像是一群靜止部份子的集合這就是解題的關鍵非常有效有些人認為""革命""是個不好的詞可能吧! 所以我不會說這是革命但它真的徹徹底底的改變我們所理解的質子以及其他未來的基本粒子 嗯, 我還想告訴大家一些其他事關於我和費因曼的故事以及他是怎樣的人但我似乎只剩半分鐘了所以我最好在此作結束我實際上相信 費因曼本人不會喜歡這整件活動我想他會說:""我不需要這個""但是我們又該如何紀念費因曼呢?我們真的該如何紀念費因曼呢?我想答案就是在生活與研究上不再隨便膨風吹噓 謝謝 (掌聲)"
