Talk	en	zh-tw
lesley_hazelton_on_reading_the_koran	"You may have heard about the Koran's idea of paradise being 72 virgins, and I promise I will come back to those virgins. But in fact, here in the Northwest, we're living very close to the real Koranic idea of paradise, defined 36 times as ""gardens watered by running streams."" Since I live on a houseboat on the running stream of Lake Union, this makes perfect sense to me. But the thing is, how come it's news to most people? I know many well-intentioned non-Muslims who've begun reading the Koran, but given up, disconcerted by its ""otherness."" The historian Thomas Carlyle considered Muhammad one of the world's greatest heroes, yet even he called the Koran ""as toilsome reading as I ever undertook; a wearisome, confused jumble."" (Laughter) Part of the problem, I think, is that we imagine that the Koran can be read as we usually read a book — as though we can curl up with it on a rainy afternoon with a bowl of popcorn within reach, as though God — and the Koran is entirely in the voice of God speaking to Muhammad — were just another author on the best-seller list. Yet, the fact that so few people do actually read the Koran is precisely why it's so easy to quote — that is, to misquote. (Laughter) Phrases and snippets taken out of context in what I call the ""highlighter version,"" which is the one favored by both Muslim fundamentalists and anti-Muslim Islamophobes. So this past spring, as I was gearing up to begin writing a biography of Muhammad, I realized I needed to read the Koran properly — as properly as I could, that is. My Arabic is reduced by now to wielding a dictionary, so I took four well-known translations and decided to read them side by side, verse by verse, along with a transliteration and the original seventh-century Arabic. Now, I did have an advantage. My last book was about the story behind the Shi'a-Sunni split, and for that, I'd worked closely with the earliest Islamic histories, so I knew the events to which the Koran constantly refers, its frame of reference. I knew enough, that is, to know that I'd be a tourist in the Koran — an informed one, an experienced one, even, but still an outsider, an agnostic Jew reading someone else's holy book. (Laughter) So I read slowly. (Laughter) I'd set aside three weeks for this project, and that, I think, is what is meant by ""hubris"" — (Laughter) because it turned out to be three months. (Laughter) I did resist the temptation to skip to the back, where the shorter and more clearly mystical chapters are. But every time I thought I was beginning to get a handle on the Koran — that feeling of ""I get it now"" — it would slip away overnight, and I'd come back in the morning, wondering if I wasn't lost in a strange land. And yet, the terrain was very familiar. The Koran declares that it comes to renew the message of the Torah and the Gospels. So one-third of it reprises the stories of Biblical figures like Abraham, Moses, Joseph, Mary, Jesus. God himself was utterly familiar from his earlier manifestation as Yahweh, jealously insisting on no other gods. The presence of camels, mountains, desert wells and springs took me back to the year I spent wandering the Sinai Desert. And then there was the language, the rhythmic cadence of it, reminding me of evenings spent listening to Bedouin elders recite hours-long narrative poems entirely from memory. And I began to grasp why it's said that the Koran is really the Koran only in Arabic. Take the Fatihah, the seven-verse opening chapter that is the Lord's Prayer and the Shema Yisrael of Islam combined. It's just 29 words in Arabic, but anywhere from 65 to 72 in translation. And yet the more you add, the more seems to go missing. The Arabic has an incantatory, almost hypnotic quality that begs to be heard rather than read, felt more than analyzed. It wants to be chanted out loud, to sound its music in the ear and on the tongue. So the Koran in English is a kind of shadow of itself, or as Arthur Arberry called his version, ""an interpretation."" But all is not lost in translation. As the Koran promises, patience is rewarded, and there are many surprises — a degree of environmental awareness, for instance, and of humans as mere stewards of God's creation, unmatched in the Bible. And where the Bible is addressed exclusively to men, using the second- and third-person masculine, the Koran includes women — talking, for instance, of believing men and believing women, honorable men and honorable women. Or take the infamous verse about killing the unbelievers. Yes, it does say that, but in a very specific context: the anticipated conquest of the sanctuary city of Mecca, where fighting was usually forbidden. And the permission comes hedged about with qualifiers. Not ""You must kill unbelievers in Mecca,"" but you can, you are allowed to, but only after a grace period is over, and only if there's no other pact in place, and only if they try to stop you getting to the Kaaba, and only if they attack you first. And even then — God is merciful; forgiveness is supreme — and so, essentially, better if you don't. (Laughter) This was perhaps the biggest surprise — how flexible the Koran is, at least in minds that are not fundamentally inflexible. ""Some of these verses are definite in meaning,"" it says, ""and others are ambiguous."" The perverse at heart will seek out the ambiguities, trying to create discord by pinning down meanings of their own. Only God knows the true meaning. The phrase ""God is subtle"" appears again and again, and indeed, the whole of the Koran is far more subtle than most of us have been led to believe. As in, for instance, that little matter of virgins and paradise. Old-fashioned orientalism comes into play here. The word used four times is ""houris,"" rendered as dark-eyed maidens with swelling breasts, or as fair, high-bosomed virgins. Yet all there is in the original Arabic is that one word: houris. Not a swelling breast or high bosom in sight. (Laughter) Now this may be a way of saying ""pure beings,"" like in angels, or it may be like the Greek ""kouros"" or ""kore,"" an eternal youth. But the truth is, nobody really knows. And that's the point. Because the Koran is quite clear when it says that you'll be ""a new creation in paradise,"" and that you will be ""recreated in a form unknown to you,"" which seems to me a far more appealing prospect than a virgin. (Laughter) And that number 72 never appears. There are no 72 virgins in the Koran. That idea only came into being 300 years later, and most Islamic scholars see it as the equivalent of people with wings sitting on clouds and strumming harps. Paradise is quite the opposite. It's not virginity; it's fecundity; it's plenty. It's gardens watered by running streams. Thank you. (Applause)"	你或許有聽說過古蘭經裡關於天堂的描述那裡有72位處女我保證一會兒會回到處女這一部份事實上，在美國東北部我們的身處之處近似於古蘭經裡所描述的天堂古蘭經裡對天堂的定義出現了36次意為「流水滋養的花園」因為我住在聯合湖水流過的船屋裡所以要理解這個概念輕而易舉但是，為何大部分的人卻是首次聽到這樣的概念我了解很多心懷善意的非穆斯林開始閱讀古蘭經，但最後放棄了對於它的奇異感到困惑歷史學家湯瑪斯卡來爾認為穆罕默德是世上極為偉大的英雄即便如此，對於古蘭經，他曾說道「我從沒讀過這麼讓人費解的書，乏味不堪、讓人既困惑又混亂」 （笑聲） 這裡的問題，我想，一部分是因為我們把古蘭經想成是一本我們平常就會閱讀的書籍彷彿我們可以在一個午後的雨天，抱著它蜷縮於一角閱讀同時還有一碗觸手可及的爆米花彷彿真主－因為古蘭經裡全是真主對穆罕默德的話語－彷彿真主就只是某個暢銷書作家而事實上，真正讀古蘭經的人少之又少這正是為什麼古蘭經這麼容易被引用－也就是說，誤引。詞組與短語被斷章取義截出的的版本，我稱它為「標明版本」穆斯林基本教義派和反穆斯林的恐伊斯蘭教者都偏愛此版本 所以在這個春天當我正準備著手撰寫穆罕默德的傳記時我意識到自己必須要好好的讀古蘭經盡我所能好好讀一讀我的阿拉伯語已經退步到需要依賴字典的地步所以我拿了四本著名的譯本決定將它們並排開來同時讀一句接著一句並且參照音譯本和一本七世紀阿拉伯語原版我確實有一項優勢我最新的一本書是有關什葉派和遜尼派分裂的故事為了這本書，我鑽研伊斯蘭早期的歷史所以古蘭經裡反覆提及的事情我都很熟悉也就是它的信仰準則我已了解夠多，也就是說我就像一個旅客在遊歷古蘭經是有見地的一位旅客更甚是一位經驗豐富的旅客但依舊是個局外人是一個不可知論的猶太人閱讀著其他宗教的聖書（笑聲）所以我就慢慢的讀。（笑聲）為了這個計畫，我空出了三星期而這在我看來，就是所謂的狂妄自大（笑聲）因為最終我花了三個月才完成我確實止住了跳到書的後半段的誘惑因為後面的章節更短，更富神秘性。 但每當我以為我漸漸了解古蘭經的精要時那種「我明白了」的感覺－在一夜過後便消失無蹤當我早上醒來，便會開始納悶我是否曾迷失在某個異地但是卻又非常熟悉的地方。古蘭經聲明它的目的是來更新摩西五經和福音書的神訊所以裡面有三分之一都在重述聖經人物的故事像是亞伯拉罕、摩西約瑟夫、聖母瑪莉和耶穌真主本身是極為熟悉的從祂早時以耶和華為化身心存嫉妒，堅稱祂是世上唯一的神書裡的駱駝、高山沙漠水井和泉水將我帶回了我在西奈沙漠遊走的那年再者是書裡的語言帶著抑揚頓挫的節奏一再讓我想起那些夜晚，聆聽貝都因老人吟詠著好幾時長的敘事詩他們全部憑著記憶吟詠然後我開始了解為什麼人們會說只有以阿拉伯文書寫的古蘭經才是真正的古蘭經。 拿首章「法諦海」來說開篇的七節經文是由主禱文和伊斯蘭猶太施瑪篇所組成在阿拉伯文裡只有29個字但翻譯後的版本卻變成65到72個字而你加進去的字義越多本意似乎也流失越多阿拉伯語有一種咒語般幾近催眠的特色它邀人聆聽，而非閱讀它感受它，而非解析它它希望你大聲吟詠它發出它的音樂聲，繚繞於耳並且停於舌尖所以英文版的古蘭經是原版的影子或者如同亞瑟阿伯理形容他的版本為「一種詮釋」。但並非所有含意都會在翻譯中流失 一如古蘭經所許諾，耐心將會有所回報其中有許多的驚喜之處－例如對於環境保護的認知或者，人類僅僅只是真主造物的幫手與聖經所言有過之而無不及。相較於聖經裡單單只針對男性敘述使用第二和第三人稱的陽性詞彙古蘭經的敘述則包含了女人例如講到信男信女－可敬的男女。那句惡名昭彰的句子談及的是屠殺異教徒沒錯，古蘭經裡真的這麼說不過是在某個特定的脈絡下對麥加聖城的入侵計畫 －聖城通常是禁止打鬥的。而屠殺的許可卻附帶著限制條件不是說，你必須殺死麥加城裡的異教徒而是說，你可以這麼做，並且受到允許不過僅能在寬限期結束之後並且不存在任何其他條約的時候只能在他們試圖阻止你去卡巴聖堂朝觀的時候只有在他們首先發動攻擊的時候即便在這個時候－真主還是慈悲的寬恕至上－所以，根本上而言你最好別殺（笑聲）這或許是最大的驚喜－古蘭經是多麼的靈活彈性至少對於那些並非完全固不可化的人來說是如此 「有些語句意義很明確。」它說「而有些則含混不清。」心術不正者會找尋有歧義之處藉由自己所闡述的解釋企圖製造矛盾只有真主知道真義「真主難以捉摸」的詞句一再的出現誠然，整部古蘭經更是難以捉摸其程度超過我們原本所盲目相信的一切例如有關於處女和天堂這一小部份老派的東方主義在此發揮了作用有個字出現了四次就是「天堂女神」(Houris)譯文作解為擁有豐胸的黑眼少女或者是，白皙挺乳的處女然而在阿拉伯文原版中，卻僅僅那個一個字那就是：天堂女神(Houris)根本沒有豐胸、挺乳這樣的形容詞（笑聲）這或許是用來描述純潔生物的一種方式－像是形容天使－或者像是希臘語中的Kouros或Kórē意指長生不老的青年 但事實在於，沒有人知道真正的釋義而這就是重點所在因為古蘭經明確表述你將會「在天堂獲得新生」你將會被「重新創造成你未知的形式」比起成為一個處女，這個觀點對我而言更具有吸引力（笑聲）而72這個數字從未出現過72個處女從沒有出現在古蘭經裡。這個說法在300年後才開始出現而大多數的伊斯蘭學者視其等同於坐在雲端上彈奏豎琴的翼人。天堂的景象則大不相同它和處女無關它是豐饒是富庶它是一處花園被潺潺流水滋養著 謝謝 （掌聲）
