Talk	en	zh-tw
lesley_hazleton_the_doubt_essential_to_faith	"Writing biography is a strange thing to do. It's a journey into the foreign territory of somebody else's life, a journey, an exploration that can take you places you never dreamed of going and still can't quite believe you've been, especially if, like me, you're an agnostic Jew and the life you've been exploring is that of Muhammad. Five years ago, for instance, I found myself waking each morning in misty Seattle to what I knew was an impossible question: What actually happened one desert night, half the world and almost half of history away? What happened, that is, on the night in the year 610 when Muhammad received the first revelation of the Koran on a mountain just outside Mecca? This is the core mystical moment of Islam, and as such, of course, it defies empirical analysis. Yet the question wouldn't let go of me. I was fully aware that for someone as secular as I am, just asking it could be seen as pure chutzpah. (Laughter) And I plead guilty as charged, because all exploration, physical or intellectual, is inevitably in some sense an act of transgression, of crossing boundaries. Still, some boundaries are larger than others. So a human encountering the divine, as Muslims believe Muhammad did, to the rationalist, this is a matter not of fact but of wishful fiction, and like all of us, I like to think of myself as rational. Which might be why when I looked at the earliest accounts we have of that night, what struck me even more than what happened was what did not happen. Muhammad did not come floating off the mountain as though walking on air. He did not run down shouting, ""Hallelujah!"" and ""Bless the Lord!"" He did not radiate light and joy. There were no choirs of angels, no music of the spheres, no elation, no ecstasy, no golden aura surrounding him, no sense of an absolute, fore-ordained role as the messenger of God. That is, he did none of the things that might make it easy to cry foul, to put down the whole story as a pious fable. Quite the contrary. In his own reported words, he was convinced at first that what had happened couldn't have been real. At best, he thought, it had to have been a hallucination — a trick of the eye or the ear, perhaps, or his own mind working against him. At worst, possession — that he'd been seized by an evil jinn, a spirit out to deceive him, even to crush the life out of him. In fact, he was so sure that he could only be majnun, possessed by a jinn, that when he found himself still alive, his first impulse was to finish the job himself, to leap off the highest cliff and escape the terror of what he'd experienced by putting an end to all experience. So the man who fled down the mountain that night trembled not with joy but with a stark, primordial fear. He was overwhelmed not with conviction, but by doubt. And that panicked disorientation, that sundering of everything familiar, that daunting awareness of something beyond human comprehension, can only be called a terrible awe. This might be somewhat difficult to grasp now that we use the word ""awesome"" to describe a new app or a viral video. With the exception perhaps of a massive earthquake, we're protected from real awe. We close the doors and hunker down, convinced that we're in control, or, at least, hoping for control. We do our best to ignore the fact that we don't always have it, and that not everything can be explained. Yet whether you're a rationalist or a mystic, whether you think the words Muhammad heard that night came from inside himself or from outside, what's clear is that he did experience them, and that he did so with a force that would shatter his sense of himself and his world and transform this otherwise modest man into a radical advocate for social and economic justice. Fear was the only sane response, the only human response. Too human for some, like conservative Muslim theologians who maintain that the account of his wanting to kill himself shouldn't even be mentioned, despite the fact that it's in the earliest Islamic biographies. They insist that he never doubted for even a single moment, let alone despaired. Demanding perfection, they refuse to tolerate human imperfection. Yet what, exactly, is imperfect about doubt? As I read those early accounts, I realized it was precisely Muhammad's doubt that brought him alive for me, that allowed me to begin to see him in full, to accord him the integrity of reality. And the more I thought about it, the more it made sense that he doubted, because doubt is essential to faith. If this seems a startling idea at first, consider that doubt, as Graham Greene once put it, is the heart of the matter. Abolish all doubt, and what's left is not faith, but absolute, heartless conviction. You're certain that you possess the Truth — inevitably offered with an implied uppercase T — and this certainty quickly devolves into dogmatism and righteousness, by which I mean a demonstrative, overweening pride in being so very right, in short, the arrogance of fundamentalism. It has to be one of the multiple ironies of history that a favorite expletive of Muslim fundamentalists is the same one once used by the Christian fundamentalists known as Crusaders: ""infidel,"" from the Latin for ""faithless."" Doubly ironic, in this case, because their absolutism is in fact the opposite of faith. In effect, they are the infidels. Like fundamentalists of all religious stripes, they have no questions, only answers. They found the perfect antidote to thought and the ideal refuge of the hard demands of real faith. They don't have to struggle for it like Jacob wrestling through the night with the angel, or like Jesus in his 40 days and nights in the wilderness, or like Muhammad, not only that night on the mountain, but throughout his years as a prophet, with the Koran constantly urging him not to despair, and condemning those who most loudly proclaim that they know everything there is to know and that they and they alone are right. And yet we, the vast and still far too silent majority, have ceded the public arena to this extremist minority. We've allowed Judaism to be claimed by violently messianic West Bank settlers, Christianity by homophobic hypocrites and misogynistic bigots, Islam by suicide bombers. And we've allowed ourselves to be blinded to the fact that no matter whether they claim to be Christians, Jews or Muslims, militant extremists are none of the above. They're a cult all their own, blood brothers steeped in other people's blood. This isn't faith. It's fanaticism, and we have to stop confusing the two. We have to recognize that real faith has no easy answers. It's difficult and stubborn. It involves an ongoing struggle, a continual questioning of what we think we know, a wrestling with issues and ideas. It goes hand in hand with doubt, in a never-ending conversation with it, and sometimes in conscious defiance of it. And this conscious defiance is why I, as an agnostic, can still have faith. I have faith, for instance, that peace in the Middle East is possible despite the ever-accumulating mass of evidence to the contrary. I'm not convinced of this. I can hardly say I believe it. I can only have faith in it, commit myself, that is, to the idea of it, and I do this precisely because of the temptation to throw up my hands in resignation and retreat into silence. Because despair is self-fulfilling. If we call something impossible, we act in such a way that we make it so. And I, for one, refuse to live that way. In fact, most of us do, whether we're atheist or theist or anywhere in between or beyond, for that matter, what drives us is that, despite our doubts and even because of our doubts, we reject the nihilism of despair. We insist on faith in the future and in each other. Call this naive if you like. Call it impossibly idealistic if you must. But one thing is sure: Call it human. Could Muhammad have so radically changed his world without such faith, without the refusal to cede to the arrogance of closed-minded certainty? I think not. After keeping company with him as a writer for the past five years, I can't see that he'd be anything but utterly outraged at the militant fundamentalists who claim to speak and act in his name in the Middle East and elsewhere today. He'd be appalled at the repression of half the population because of their gender. He'd be torn apart by the bitter divisiveness of sectarianism. He'd call out terrorism for what it is, not only criminal but an obscene travesty of everything he believed in and struggled for. He'd say what the Koran says: Anyone who takes a life takes the life of all humanity. Anyone who saves a life, saves the life of all humanity. And he'd commit himself fully to the hard and thorny process of making peace. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	撰寫傳記是一件不可思議的事情記下別人的一生就如異國旅程一樣這段旅程讓你探索那些從未想過的地方即使曾去過那裏，你自己都不敢相信尤其當你像我一樣，是一位不可知論者、 一位猶太人而你所探索的旅程就是「穆罕默德」的生平舉例來說，五年前當每天在晨霧彌漫的西雅圖醒來時我常想到一個很困難的問題隔著半個地球，半頁歷史在沙漠中某個夜晚到底發生了什麼事？西元 610 年的某個夜晚當穆罕默德在麥加郊外一處山上第一次領受古蘭經啟示時到底發生了什麼事？這是伊斯蘭教最關鍵的神秘時刻那當然啦是無法對其進行實例分析的然而這問題揮之不去我完全瞭解像我這樣的非宗教人士問這樣的問題真是放肆無禮（笑聲）我承認這一點因為肉體上或精神上的任何探索都無法避免地有褻瀆且冒犯之意然而，有些領域的邊界更為寬廣所以當人類遇到了神性時正如伊斯蘭教徒相信穆罕默德一樣對於理性主義者來說，這並不是事實而是一廂情願的想像就像在座各位一樣，我認為我是理性的這或許就是當我查看有關那夜最早的記錄時為什麼那夜發生的事情較沒有發生的事情更令我吃驚的穆罕穆德未曾如同在空中行走從山上衝下來他沒有邊跑邊大喊：「哈利路亞！」和「上帝保佑你！」他沒有散發著耀眼的光芒和喜悅沒有天使的合唱，沒有餘音繞梁沒有洋洋得意，沒有欣喜若狂周圍沒有出現金色光環沒有一點這樣的感覺他正是上帝所差遣的使者他也沒做過任何讓大家覺得很邪惡的事情把所有故事看成不可能實現的神話剛好相反根據他自己的描述他最初以為所發生的事並不是真實的頂多也只是幻覺也許被一對眼睛或耳朵戲弄或是腦袋跟他作對往壞處想他被邪惡的神怪附身了要來欺騙他甚至來取他的性命事實上，他非常肯定他只是惡魔附身被神怪佔有所以當他發現還活著時心裡的念頭就是了結生命從最高的懸崖跳下了結所有一切來脫離恐怖的親身經歷那夜他從山上摔下來不是因為喜悅而顫抖而是赤裸裸的原始恐懼他心中沒有堅定的信念，只有疑惑正是那種起於恐慌的迷失離開一切熟悉的事物對超越人類理解範圍的事物令人怯步的覺察才可令人敬畏三分這可能有點難理解現在我們常用「真棒」來評價一款新應用程式或一段熱門影片大地震的影片也許除外我們免於受到真正的畏懼我們關上門，蹲下來相信一切都在掌控之中或者，至少希望受到控制我們儘管忽略一項事實我們並不常有敬畏之心也不是一切事情都能解釋然而，無論你是理性主義者或是神祕主義者無論你認為穆罕穆德那夜聽到的聲音是發自內心，還是來自外面他確實地親身經歷過他這樣做，有一種力量削弱他的感覺和他的世界並使這心裡謙遜的人轉變為社會公正和經濟公正的激進提倡者恐懼是唯一合乎情理的反應唯一乎合人性的反應對某些人來說，太人性化了就像那些保守的穆斯林神學家斷言穆罕穆德想要自殺根本不應該被提及，儘管事實是最早的伊斯蘭傳記已有記載他們堅持認為穆罕穆德從未有一刻懷疑過，更別說絕望了要追求完美，所以拒絕容忍人性的不完美那麼，懷疑的不完美到底是什麼呢？當我閱讀這些早期文獻時，我意識到這正是穆罕穆德的懷疑讓他活現眼前讓我開始更全面認識他把他和現實聯繫起來我越想越覺得他的懷疑是源自於懷疑是相信的必要部分如果最初聽起來讓人吃驚的話就試想一下葛蘭姆．葛林說過的話懷疑是事情的核心部分去除所有懷疑後，剩下的不會是信心只有絕對的、沒有感情的確定你確信你擁有真理──必然地附有一個大寫的「T」 ──同時這種確信很快轉移為教條主義和正義就是一種由於無比的正確而帶有喜怒形於色的過分自負的驕傲簡言之即是原教旨主義的傲慢這必定是歷史上許多諷刺之一伊斯蘭原教旨主義者喜愛的一句咒駡語和基督教原教旨主義者曾使用的相同以十字軍著名的「異教徒」源自於拉丁語中的「沒有信仰」更加諷刺的是，他們的絕對主義事實上正是信心的對立面實際上，他們才是異教徒像所有不同宗教的原教旨主義者一樣他們沒有發問問題，只有答案為思想找到了完美的對抗手段為對真正的信仰提供理想避難所他們不必像雅各那樣掙扎整夜與天使摔角或像耶穌一樣在荒野外耗上四十晝夜或像穆罕穆德一樣，不只在那夜的山頂而且他作為先知的日子中因著《可蘭經》，一直使他不要失望同時指責那些高聲宣揚自己無所不知以及只有他自己才正確的人然而，我們這些沉默的大多數已把舞台讓給少數的極端主義者我們已經允許暴力的以救世主自居的約旦河西岸定居者自我宣稱為猶太教懼怕同性戀的偽君子和厭惡女人的偏執狂自我宣稱為基督徒自殺式炸彈襲擊者自我宣稱為伊斯蘭教允許我們自己對這樣的事實視而不見不管他們自我宣稱為基督教徒猶太人或伊斯蘭教徒而激進的極端主義者並不是以上任何一種教徒他們屬於邪教血腥兄弟干預他人的血海深仇這不是有關信仰的而是狂熱主義，我們須避免混淆二者我們須認識到真正的信仰從來沒有簡單答案它是困難的、固執而不順從的牽涉不間斷的掙扎要不斷懷疑自以為知道的它是一場爭議和想法之爭在不停的對話中它和懷疑如影隨形某時有意地蔑視懷疑作為一名不可知論者這種有意識地蔑視懷疑就是為什麼我仍然要有信仰例如，我相信中東地區和平是可行的儘管越來越多證據證明事實恰恰相反我不相信這點也很難說我相信我只能護衛著信仰致力於它的理念我這樣做正因為誘惑讓我舉起雙手投降並退回到沉默中因為絕望是一種自我實現如果我們認為某些事不可能我們就以這樣的方式行動使它真的不可能實現對我來說，我拒絕這樣生活事實上，我們大多數也會拒絕無論我們是無神論者或有神論者或中間派或超越二者，就此而言讓我們前進的是：儘管我們會懷疑甚至因為我們懷疑正是我們排斥絶望的虛無主義我們堅持信仰對未來和對彼此皆是隨便你叫它做天真叫它做不可能的理想主義但這點是確定的叫它做人性穆罕穆德能徹底改變他的世界嗎？沒有信仰不拒絕退讓給抱成見的固執傲慢者？我認為不會在過去五年裡作為一位陪伴他的作家我看到他十足憤怒對那些被稱為激進的原教旨主義者對那些今天在中東和其他地方藉他的名行事對半數人口因為她們的性別而受到壓抑他會感到大為震驚他會被宗派主義之間充滿仇恨的分歧所折磨他會大聲叫喊那是恐怖主義不僅是罪犯，還是對他所相信的、所奮鬥的令人厭惡的拙劣模仿他會照著《古蘭經》說：任何人奪走一條生命就奪走了全人類的生命任何人拯救一條生命就拯救了全人類的生命他會全心全力地投入這條艱難的、充滿荊棘的和平之路謝謝（掌聲）謝謝！（掌聲）
