Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_gansky_the_future_of_business_is_the_mesh	"I'm speaking to you about what I call the ""mesh."" It's essentially a fundamental shift in our relationship with stuff, with the things in our lives. And it's starting to look at — not always and not for everything — but in certain moments of time, access to certain kinds of goods and service will trump ownership of them. And so it's the pursuit of better things, easily shared. And we come from a long tradition of sharing. We've shared transportation. We've shared wine and food and other sorts of fabulous experiences in coffee bars in Amsterdam. We've also shared other sorts of entertainment — sports arenas, public parks, concert halls, libraries, universities. All these things are share-platforms, but sharing ultimately starts and ends with what I refer to as the ""mother of all share-platforms."" And as I think about the mesh and I think about, well, what's driving it, how come it's happening now, I think there's a number of vectors that I want to give you as background. One is the recession — that the recession has caused us to rethink our relationship with the things in our lives relative to the value — so starting to align the value with the true cost. Secondly, population growth and density into cities. More people, smaller spaces, less stuff. Climate change: we're trying to reduce the stress in our personal lives and in our communities and on the planet. Also, there's been this recent distrust of big brands, global big brands, in a bunch of different industries, and that's created an opening. Research is showing here, in the States, and in Canada and Western Europe, that most of us are much more open to local companies, or brands that maybe we haven't heard of. Whereas before, we went with the big brands that we were sure we trusted. And last is that we're more connected now to more people on the planet than ever before — except for if you're sitting next to someone. (Laughter) The other thing that's worth considering is that we've made a huge investment over decades and decades, and tens of billions of dollars have gone into this investment that now is our inheritance. It's a physical infrastructure that allows us to get from point A to point B and move things that way. It's also — Web and mobile allow us to be connected and create all kinds of platforms and systems, and the investment of those technologies and that infrastructure is really our inheritance. It allows us to engage in really new and interesting ways. And so for me, a mesh company, the ""classic"" mesh company, brings together these three things: our ability to connect to each other — most of us are walking around with these mobile devices that are GPS-enabled and Web-enabled — allows us to find each other and find things in time and space. And third is that physical things are readable on a map — so restaurants, a variety of venues, but also with GPS and other technology like RFID and it continues to expand beyond that, we can also track things that are moving, like a car, a taxicab, a transit system, a box that's moving through time and space. And so that sets up for making access to get goods and services more convenient and less costly in many cases than owning them. For example, I want to use Zipcar. How many people here have experienced car-sharing or bike-sharing? Wow, that's great. Okay, thank you. Basically Zipcar is the largest car-sharing company in the world. They did not invent car-sharing. Car-sharing was actually invented in Europe. One of the founders went to Switzerland, saw it implemented someplace, said, ""Wow, that looks really cool. I think we can do that in Cambridge,"" brought it to Cambridge and they started — two women — Robin Chase being the other person who started it. Zipcar got some really important things right. First, they really understood that a brand is a voice and a product is a souvenir. And so they were very clever about the way that they packaged car-sharing. They made it sexy. They made it fresh. They made it aspirational. If you were a member of the club, when you're a member of a club, you're a Zipster. The cars they picked didn't look like ex-cop cars that were hollowed out or something. They picked these sexy cars. They targeted to universities. They made sure that the demographic for who they were targeting and the car was all matching. It was a very nice experience, and the cars were clean and reliable, and it all worked. And so from a branding perspective, they got a lot right. But they understood fundamentally that they are not a car company. They understand that they are an information company. Because when we buy a car we go to the dealer once, we have an interaction, and we're chow — usually as quickly as possible. But when you're sharing a car and you have a car-share service, you might use an E.V. to commute, you get a truck because you're doing a home project. When you pick your aunt up at the airport, you get a sedan. And you're going to the mountains to ski, you get different accessories put on the car for doing that sort of thing. Meanwhile, these guys are sitting back, collecting all sorts of data about our behavior and how we interact with the service. And so it's not only an option for them, but I believe it's an imperative for Zipcar and other mesh companies to actually just wow us, to be like a concierge service. Because we give them so much information, and they are entitled to really see how it is that we're moving. They're in really good shape to anticipate what we're going to want next. And so what percent of the day do you think the average person uses a car? What percentage of the time? Any guesses? Those are really very good. I was imagining it was like 20 percent when I first started. The number across the U.S. and Western Europe is eight percent. And so basically even if you think it's 10 percent, 90 percent of the time, something that costs us a lot of money — personally, and also we organize our cities around it and all sorts of things — 90 percent of the time it's sitting around. So for this reason, I think one of the other themes with the mesh is essentially that, if we squeeze hard on things that we've thrown away, there's a lot of value in those things. What set up with Zipcar — Zipcar started in 2000. In the last year, 2010, two car companies started, one that's in the U.K. called WhipCar, and the other one, RelayRides, in the U.S. They're both peer-to-peer car-sharing services, because the two things that really work for car-sharing is, one, the car has to be available, and two, it's within one or two blocks of where you stand. Well the car that's one or two blocks from your home or your office is probably your neighbor's car, and it's probably also available. So people have created this business. Zipcar started a decade earlier, in 2000. It took them six years to get 1,000 cars in service. WhipCar, which started April of last year, it took them six months to get 1,000 cars in the service. So, really interesting. People are making anywhere between 200 and 700 dollars a month letting their neighbors use their car when they're not using it. So it's like vacation rentals for cars. Since I'm here — and I hope some people in the audience are in the car business — (Laughter) — I'm thinking that, coming from the technology side of things — we saw cable-ready TVs and WiFi-ready Notebooks — it would be really great if, any minute now, you guys could start rolling share-ready cars off. Because it just creates more flexibility. It allows us as owners to have other options. And I think we're going there anyway. The opportunity and the challenge with mesh businesses — and those are businesses like Zipcar or Netflix that are full mesh businesses, or other ones where you have a lot of the car companies, car manufacturers, who are beginning to offer their own car-share services as well as a second flanker brand, or as really a test, I think — is to make sharing irresistible. We have experiences in our lives, certainly, when sharing has been irresistible. It's just, how do we make that recurrent and scale it? We know also, because we're connected in social networks, that it's easy to create delight in one little place. It's contagious because we're all connected to each other. So if I have a terrific experience and I tweet it, or I tell five people standing next to me, news travels. The opposite, as we know, is also true, often more true. So here we have LudoTruck, which is in L.A., doing the things that gourmet food trucks do, and they've gathered quite a following. In general, and maybe, again, it's because I'm a tech entrepreneur, I look at things as platforms. Platforms are invitations. So creating Craigslist or iTunes and the iPhone developer network, there are all these networks — Facebook as well. These platforms invite all sorts of developers and all sorts of people to come with their ideas and their opportunity to create and target an application for a particular audience. And honestly, it's full of surprises. Because I don't think any of us in this room could have predicted the sorts of applications that have happened at Facebook, around Facebook, for example, two years ago, when Mark announced that they were going to go with a platform. So in this way, I think that cities are platforms, and certainly Detroit is a platform. The invitation of bringing makers and artists and entrepreneurs — it really helps stimulate this fiery creativity and helps a city to thrive. It's inviting participation, and cities have, historically, invited all sorts of participation. Now we're saying that there's other options as well. So, for example, city departments can open up transit data. Google has made available transit data API. And so there's about seven or eight cities already in the U.S. that have provided the transit data, and different developers are building applications. So I was having a coffee in Portland, and half-of-a-latte in and the little board in the cafe all of a sudden starts showing me that the next bus is coming in three minutes and the train is coming in 16 minutes. And so it's reliable, real data that's right in my face, where I am, so I can finish the latte. There's this fabulous opportunity we have across the U.S. now: about 21 percent of vacant commercial and industrial space. That space is not vital. The areas around it lack vitality and vibrancy and engagement. There's this thing — how many people here have heard of pop-up stores or pop-up shops? Oh, great. So I'm a big fan of this. And this is a very mesh-y thing. Essentially, there are all sorts of restaurants in Oakland, near where I live. There's a pop-up general store every three weeks, and they do a fantastic job of making a very social event happening for foodies. Super fun, and it happens in a very transitional neighborhood. Subsequent to that, after it's been going for about a year now, they actually started to lease and create and extend. An area that was edgy-artsy is now starting to become much cooler and engage a lot more people. So this is an example. The Crafty Fox is this woman who's into crafts, and she does these pop-up crafts fairs around London. But these sorts of things are happening in many different environments. From my perspective, one of the things pop-up stores do is create perishability and urgency. It creates two of the favorite words of any businessperson: sold out. And the opportunity to really focus trust and attention is a wonderful thing. So a lot of what we see in the mesh, and a lot of what we have in the platform that we built allows us to define, refine and scale. It allows us to test things as an entrepreneur, to go to market, to be in conversation with people, listen, refine something and go back. It's very cost-effective, and it's very mesh-y. The infrastructure enables that. In closing, and as we're moving towards the end, I just also want to encourage — and I'm willing to share my failures as well, though not from the stage. (Laughter) I would just like to say that one of the big things, when we look at waste and when we look at ways that we can really be generous and contribute to each other, but also move to create a better economic situation and a better environmental situation, is by sharing failures. And one quick example is Velib, in 2007, came forward in Paris with a very bold proposition, a very big bike-sharing service. They made a lot of mistakes. They had some number of big successes. But they were very transparent, or they had to be, in the way that they exposed what worked and didn't work. And so B.C. in Barcelona and B-cycle and Boris Bikes in London — no one has had to repeat the version 1.0 screw-ups and expensive learning exercises that happened in Paris. So the opportunity when we're connected is also to share failures and successes. We're at the very beginning of something that, what we're seeing and the way that mesh companies are coming forward, is inviting, it's engaging, but it's very early. I have a website — it's a directory — and it started with about 1,200 companies, and in the last two-and-a-half months it's up to about 3,300 companies. And it grows on a very regular daily basis. But it's very much at the beginning. So I just want to welcome all of you onto the ride. And thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我要跟你們談談我稱之爲“網”的東西這基本上是個重大的變革影響我們在生活中與其他東西的關係它使大家開始認為—雖然不是對所有東西都如此，但某些時候能夠使用某些物品或者服務勝過必需擁有它們這就是一種追求：要讓好東西更容易被分享。在歷史的長河中我們早已形成了資源共享的傳統我們共享交通工具我們共享美酒與美食還有其他各種美妙的經驗譬如在阿姆斯特丹的咖啡店裏。我們也共享其他的娛樂像體育館，公園演奏廳，圖書館大學等等。以上這些都是可供分享的平台但是資源共享始終來自於－一種我稱之為：“分享平台之母”的東西。 當我想到這個“網”時我想到的是，它背後的驅動力和它現在發生的原因接下來我將告訴大家幾個我認為的背景原因。其中之一是經濟衰退經濟衰退已迫使我們重新由”價值“的觀點來思考我們與生活中所有事物的關係以至於我們開始衡量何謂真正的“物有所值”。第二，人口的成長以及城市的人口密度越來越多的人，越來越小的空間和愈來愈少的資源。氣候變遷我們試著減低加諸在個人生活、群體、和這個星球的壓力。還有最近大家對各行各業中的知名品牌、國際知名品牌的不信任。這創造了一個契機研究顯示，在美國加拿大和西歐消費者更趨向於本土企業和一些我們從未聽聞的品牌。而在此之前，我們追隨那些知名品牌我們相信名牌。最後就是，如今我們與地球上其他人的關係是前所未有的緊密—除了你跟你旁邊那個人。 （笑聲） 另一個值得思考的問題是在過去的幾十年裏我們做了個大投資數百億美元的金額都用來做這個投資現在它變成我們的資產指的就是基礎建設使我們能從甲地到乙地人員或是貨物的運輸。網路和移動通訊設備也讓我們可以彼此聯繫並創造各種平台和系統。這種對科技和基礎建設的投資才是我們真正的財富。使我們能投入新潮有趣的方式 對我而言，一個經典的網狀企業會整合三件事人們相互溝通的能力－大部分的人隨時隨地都帶著内建GPS和上網功能的數位行動裝置這使我們能找到彼此並在特定時空裡找到東西。第三點是實體的東西在地圖上已可被讀取像餐廳，各式各樣的場所在GPS上或其他科技上也可讀取例如""無線射頻辨識系統""（RFID）而且這種技術還不斷在擴展我們也可追蹤正在移動的事物像是一台車，一台計程車，一種運輸系統或是一個運輸中的箱子這使得在很多情況下，對商品及服務的使用比擁有它們還來得更便利、更經濟 例如，我想使用Zipcar在場有多少人曾經""汽車共享""或""腳踏車共享""過?哇~ 還不錯。好，謝謝。基本上，Zipcar是全世界最大的汽車共享公司他們並沒有發明""汽車共享""，""汽車共享""其實是歐洲人發明的。其中一位創立者到瑞士看到它的實際應用就說，""哇~ 這真是太酷了!""”我想我們也可以在劍橋試試看“於是就把這個制度帶回劍橋。於是她們 － 兩個女人－就開始了Robin Chase是另外一個創立人Zipcar掌握了幾個要點第一，他們真正了解品牌是聲音，產品則是紀念品所以他們非常聰明因為他們包裝""汽車共享""的方式非常有吸引力、非常新奇他們把它變成人人都想要的東西如果你是這個社團的成員之一當你是該社團的社員，你就是“Zipcar國”的他們選的車子不會看起來像淘汰的警車整個被挖空還是怎樣他們選了一些有吸引力的車子目標鎖定大學他們確保被鎖定的族群一定會喜歡這些車這是一個非常棒的經驗這些車乾淨、可靠，且確實能運作 從品牌的角度，他們做得很對他們完全了解自己不是汽車製造公司他們了解自己是資訊公司因為當我們買一部車我們走向銷售員，彼此交流，然後走人通常越快越好然而當你共享一台車，你就有""汽車共享""的服務你可能開電動車通勤你可能因為要整修房子而弄來一台卡車當你從機場接阿姨回家，你可能得要一台轎車當你到高山去滑雪你需要一台可以讓你載送不同裝備的車在此同時，這些人也正在收集各樣資訊，是有關我們的行為以及我們對服務的評價所以這對他們來說不只是一種選擇而是必要的手段對Zipcar和其他“網絡公司”而言，這是他們讓人驚艷的原因就像在完成一項貼心的飯店服務，因為我們給了他們那麼多的資訊，他們才能確切知道我們是如何動作的他們在預測方面很厲害，能夠知道我們接下來想要什麼。 你認為平均一個人在一天內使用一台車的時間占多少比例?占多少呢?想猜猜看嗎?猜得滿準的。一開始我想可能是20%左右。但在美國和西歐測得的數據是8％基本上，即使你以為有到10%還有90%的時間，那個花費我們大量金錢的東西，我們還配合它來規劃城市以及很多其他東西－但90%的時間，它都是被擱在一旁的。正因如此，我認為“網狀”經濟另一個很好的地方，就是如果我們能充分利用那些被我們丟棄的東西，就會發現，其實那些東西還有不少價值。Zipcar的成立－Zipcar成立於2000年 去年，2010，兩家汽車公司成立，一家在英國，叫Whipcar，另一家在美國，叫RelayRides。他們都是提供點對點汽車出租服務，汽車共享要成功，有兩個要素，一. 要有車二. 離你近一到二個路口那麼近離你家或公司如此近的，大概是你鄰居的車而且應該是被擱置的所以有人開始了這個企業。Zipcar成立十年多了在2000年他們花了六年，拿到1000台車可以做此服務Whipcar，去年四月成立，他們花六個月也同樣拿到1000台車。真的很有趣提供自己車讓別人“共享”的人一個月可以拿到200到700美金的出租費，讓他們的鄰居可以使用他們一時用不到的車這就像提供度假租車服務，既然我在這裡－我希望在座的各位有人是在汽車業工作(笑聲)我在想，從科技的角度來看，我們有 有線電視，無線上網的筆記型電腦，如果你們可以馬上成立汽車共享服務，那該有多好。因為那可以創造更多的機動性，也提供車主更多選擇。總之，我認為我們正在往那條路發展 隨著網絡公司而來的機會和挑戰，像Zipcar或Netflix這種完全依賴網狀交易的公司，或是其它很多類似的汽車公司、汽車製造商，他們都開始提供，自己獨特的汽車共享服務，就連新廠商也不例外，或許他們都在測試吧，我想讓“分享”成為無法抗拒的事毫無疑問，我們在生活中有些經驗告訴我們分享是不可抗拒的只是，我們要如何複製成功經驗並且擴大它的規模？而且因為我們在社交網絡中是彼此聯結的，我們知道在小小的地方很容易創造歡樂因為我們之間的聯繫，這歡樂是會傳染的所以如果我有一個很棒的經驗我把它傳到Tweeter上，或者讓五個人站在我旁邊，這消息就傳開了反之亦然，就我們所知，人們更會因為消息而聚集 所以在LA我們有 LudoTruck跟其他餐車沒甚麼不同都有很多支持者一般來說，重申一下，因為我是一個科技人我把東西都看作平台平台就像邀請函所以Craigslist的創立或iTunes , 以及iPhone 的開發都是靠網絡－Facebook也不例外這些平台邀請各種開發人員以及所有人運用他們的想法和機會去創造一個應用程式給特定的使用群老實說，這充滿著驚奇因為我不認為在座有任何人之前就預見到今天在Facebook上出現的、以及因為Facebook而產生的種種應用程式舉例來說，兩年前當Mark宣佈他們將要架設一個平台 這種情形下，我認為城市也是平台所以底特律當然是個平台這個邀請帶來了製造業、藝術家、和企業家這個平台真的幫助他們激發創意然後協助這個城市繁榮這個平台邀請所有人的參予一直以來，城市都邀請各式各樣的參與現在我們說它還有其他的功能舉例來說，城市部門可以開放大眾交通的資訊Google已經有大眾運輸的應用程式所以在美國已經有七、八個城市提供大眾運輸的資訊不同的開發人員正在設計應用程式所以我在波特蘭喝咖啡拿鐵才喝了一半，咖啡店裡的小螢幕突然顯示，告訴我下一班公車將在三分鐘後到火車將在16分鐘之內到來這些數據是可信的、真實的數據直接顯示在我面前讓我可以喝完拿鐵 這是現在我們在美國各地都可以享有的大好機會大約21%的商業和工業空間是被閒置的這些空間沒有活力它們周圍的區域缺少生命力缺乏活力及參與這個東西－在座有多少人聽過pop-up商店?哦 太棒了! 我是這種商店的大粉絲.它是非常“網狀”的東西基本上，在奧克蘭我住的地方附近有各式各樣的餐廳每三個禮拜會有一個pop-up雜貨店來他們很厲害，能把食物這件事弄得像社交活動這真的超有趣，而且通常發生在轉型中的社區後來，持續大約一年後他們租了地方、擴大並創造新市場從前亂七八糟的地方現在開始越來越酷愈來愈多人參與這就是我說的例子The Crafty Fox 是一位喜愛藝術的女士她在倫敦附近舉辦這些pop-up藝術祭其實這些東西一直都有在不同的地方在我來看，pop-up商店的訴求就是創造時效性和急迫性它創造了每個生意人都喜歡的二個字：售完而這種讓人集中信任和注意力的機會是一件美好的事 所以很多我們在”網“上看到的東西以及很多我們在網路平台上建立的東西可以讓我們去定義、改善、和擴展它讓一個企業家可以去測試如何進入市場如何在與人交談的同時聆聽、改善一些東西，然後回去實行這是個非常有效率的方法而且結構非常緊密基礎建設使這些成為可能 我的結論是，這場演講快尾聲了我只是想鼓勵大家－我也願意分享我的失敗經驗但不是在這種公開場合(笑聲)我只是想要強調當我們看待浪費、以及大方共享、互助互利這二件事時，我們可以藉由一件事來創造更好的經濟型態以及更好的環境那就是分享失敗的經驗再舉一個簡短的例子2007年時，Velib公司帶了一個非常大膽的提案來到巴黎是一個規模很大的腳踏車共享服務他們出了許多錯也有很多成功的地方但他們很坦率，或者說他們不得不展示他們成功、和不成功的地方於是巴賽隆納的B.C.、這裡的B-cycle還有倫敦的Boris Bikies就不需要去重蹈在巴黎發生的“凸搥大全1.0“那些昂貴的“學費”Velib在巴黎都付過了所以這個使我們聯繫在一起的機會也讓我們可以分享失敗和成功的經驗 我們正處於某種時代的開端現在我們看到的以及網絡公司發展的方式是具有開放性的、吸引人的、但還在起始階段我有一個入口網站一開始有大約1200家廠商參與過去的二個半月以來增加到了差不多有3300家公司每天都還在規律地成長但它也只是剛開始而已 所以我想邀請各位一起共襄盛舉非常感謝 (掌聲)"
