Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_margonelli_the_political_chemistry_of_oil	"So I'm going to talk to you about you about the political chemistry of oil spills and why this is an incredibly important, long, oily, hot summer, and why we need to keep ourselves from getting distracted. But before I talk about the political chemistry, I actually need to talk about the chemistry of oil. This is a photograph from when I visited Prudhoe Bay in Alaska in 2002 to watch the Minerals Management Service testing their ability to burn oil spills in ice. And what you see here is, you see a little bit of crude oil, you see some ice cubes, and you see two sandwich baggies of napalm. The napalm is burning there quite nicely. And the thing is, is that oil is really an abstraction for us as the American consumer. We're four percent of the world's population; we use 25 percent of the world's oil production. And we don't really understand what oil is, until you check out its molecules, And you don't really understand that until you see this stuff burn. So this is what happens as that burn gets going. It takes off. It's a big woosh. I highly recommend that you get a chance to see crude oil burn someday, because you will never need to hear another poli sci lecture on the geopolitics of oil again. It'll just bake your retinas. So there it is; the retinas are baking. Let me tell you a little bit about this chemistry of oil. Oil is a stew of hydrocarbon molecules. It starts of with the very small ones, which are one carbon, four hydrogen — that's methane — it just floats off. Then there's all sorts of intermediate ones with middle amounts of carbon. You've probably heard of benzene rings; they're very carcinogenic. And it goes all the way over to these big, thick, galumphy ones that have hundreds of carbons, and they have thousands of hydrogens, and they have vanadium and heavy metals and sulfur and all kinds of craziness hanging off the sides of them. Those are called the asphaltenes; they're an ingredient in asphalt. They're very important in oil spills. Let me tell you a little bit about the chemistry of oil in water. It is this chemistry that makes oil so disastrous. Oil doesn't sink, it floats. If it sank, it would be a whole different story as far as an oil spill. And the other thing it does is it spreads out the moment it hits the water. It spreads out to be really thin, so you have a hard time corralling it. The next thing that happens is the light ends evaporate, and some of the toxic things float into the water column and kill fish eggs and smaller fish and things like that, and shrimp. And then the asphaltenes — and this is the crucial thing — the asphaltenes get whipped by the waves into a frothy emulsion, something like mayonnaise. It triples the amount of oily, messy goo that you have in the water, and it makes it very hard to handle. It also makes it very viscous. When the Prestige sank off the coast of Spain, there were big, floating cushions the size of sofa cushions of emulsified oil, with the consistency, or the viscosity, of chewing gum. It's incredibly hard to clean up. And every single oil is different when it hits water. When the chemistry of the oil and water also hits our politics, it's absolutely explosive. For the first time, American consumers will kind of see the oil supply chain in front of themselves. They have a ""eureka!"" moment, when we suddenly understand oil in a different context. So I'm going to talk just a little bit about the origin of these politics, because it's really crucial to understanding why this summer is so important, why we need to stay focused. Nobody gets up in the morning and thinks, ""Wow! I'm going to go buy some three-carbon-to-12-carbon molecules to put in my tank and drive happily to work."" No, they think, ""Ugh. I have to go buy gas. I'm so angry about it. The oil companies are ripping me off. They set the prices, and I don't even know. I am helpless over this."" And this is what happens to us at the gas pump — and actually, gas pumps are specifically designed to diffuse that anger. You might notice that many gas pumps, including this one, are designed to look like ATMs. I've talked to engineers. That's specifically to diffuse our anger, because supposedly we feel good about ATMs. (Laughter) That shows you how bad it is. But actually, I mean, this feeling of helplessness comes in because most Americans actually feel that oil prices are the result of a conspiracy, not of the vicissitudes of the world oil market. And the thing is, too, is that we also feel very helpless about the amount that we consume, which is somewhat reasonable, because in fact, we have designed this system where, if you want to get a job, it's much more important to have a car that runs, to have a job and keep a job, than to have a GED. And that's actually very perverse. Now there's another perverse thing about the way we buy gas, which is that we'd rather be doing anything else. This is BP's gas station in downtown Los Angeles. It is green. It is a shrine to greenishness. ""Now,"" you think, ""why would something so lame work on people so smart?"" Well, the reason is, is because, when we're buying gas, we're very invested in this sort of cognitive dissonance. I mean, we're angry at the one hand and we want to be somewhere else. We don't want to be buying oil; we want to be doing something green. And we get kind of in on our own con. I mean — and this is funny, it looks funny here. But in fact, that's why the slogan ""beyond petroleum"" worked. But it's an inherent part of our energy policy, which is we don't talk about reducing the amount of oil that we use. We talk about energy independence. We talk about hydrogen cars. We talk about biofuels that haven't been invented yet. And so, cognitive dissonance is part and parcel of the way that we deal with oil, and it's really important to dealing with this oil spill. Okay, so the politics of oil are very moral in the United States. The oil industry is like a huge, gigantic octopus of engineering and finance and everything else, but we actually see it in very moral terms. This is an early-on photograph — you can see, we had these gushers. Early journalists looked at these spills, and they said, ""This is a filthy industry."" But they also saw in it that people were getting rich for doing nothing. They weren't farmers, they were just getting rich for stuff coming out of the ground. It's the ""Beverly Hillbillies,"" basically. But in the beginning, this was seen as a very morally problematic thing, long before it became funny. And then, of course, there was John D. Rockefeller. And the thing about John D. is that he went into this chaotic wild-east of oil industry, and he rationalized it into a vertically integrated company, a multinational. It was terrifying; you think Walmart is a terrifying business model now, imagine what this looked like in the 1860s or 1870s. And it also the kind of root of how we see oil as a conspiracy. But what's really amazing is that Ida Tarbell, the journalist, went in and did a big exposé of Rockefeller and actually got the whole antitrust laws put in place. But in many ways, that image of the conspiracy still sticks with us. And here's one of the things that Ida Tarbell said — she said, ""He has a thin nose like a thorn. There were no lips. There were puffs under the little colorless eyes with creases running from them."" (Laughter) Okay, so that guy is actually still with us. (Laughter) I mean, this is a very pervasive — this is part of our DNA. And then there's this guy, okay. So, you might be wondering why it is that, every time we have high oil prices or an oil spill, we call these CEOs down to Washington, and we sort of pepper them with questions in public and we try to shame them. And this is something that we've been doing since 1974, when we first asked them, ""Why are there these obscene profits?"" And we've sort of personalized the whole oil industry into these CEOs. And we take it as, you know — we look at it on a moral level, rather than looking at it on a legal and financial level. And so I'm not saying these guys aren't liable to answer questions — I'm just saying that, when you focus on whether they are or are not a bunch of greedy bastards, you don't actually get around to the point of making laws that are either going to either change the way they operate, or you're going to get around to really reducing the amount of oil and reducing our dependence on oil. So I'm saying this is kind of a distraction. But it makes for good theater, and it's powerfully cathartic as you probably saw last week. So the thing about water oil spills is that they are very politically galvanizing. I mean, these pictures — this is from the Santa Barbara spill. You have these pictures of birds. They really influence people. When the Santa Barbara spill happened in 1969, it formed the environmental movement in its modern form. It started Earth Day. It also put in place the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act. Everything that we are really stemmed from this period. I think it's important to kind of look at these pictures of the birds and understand what happens to us. Here we are normally; we're standing at the gas pump, and we're feeling kind of helpless. We look at these pictures and we understand, for the first time, our role in this supply chain. We connect the dots in the supply chain. And we have this kind of — as voters, we have kind of a ""eureka!"" moment. This is why these moments of these oil spills are so important. But it's also really important that we don't get distracted by the theater or the morals of it. We actually need to go in and work on the roots of the problem. One of the things that happened with the two previous oil spills was that we really worked on some of the symptoms. We were very reactive, as opposed to being proactive about what happened. And so what we did was, actually, we made moratoriums on the east and west coasts on drilling. We stopped drilling in ANWR, but we didn't actually reduce the amount of oil that we consumed. In fact, it's continued to increase. The only thing that really reduces the amount of oil that we consume is much higher prices. As you can see, our own production has fallen off as our reservoirs have gotten old and expensive to drill out. We only have two percent of the world's oil reserves; 65 percent of them are in the Persian Gulf. One of the things that's happened because of this is that, since 1969, the country of Nigeria, or the part of Nigeria that pumps oil, which is the delta — which is two times the size of Maryland — has had thousands of oil spills a year. I mean, we've essentially been exporting oil spills when we import oil from places without tight environmental regulations. That has been the equivalent of an Exxon Valdez spill every year since 1969. And we can wrap our heads around the spills, because that's what we see here, but in fact, these guys actually live in a war zone. There's a thousand battle-related deaths a year in this area twice the size of Maryland, and it's all related to the oil. And these guys, I mean, if they were in the U.S., they might be actually here in this room. They have degrees in political science, degrees in business — they're entrepreneurs. They don't actually want to be doing what they're doing. And it's sort of one of the other groups of people who pay a price for us. The other thing that we've done, as we've continued to increase demand, is that we kind of play a shell game with the costs. One of the places we put in a big oil project in Chad, with Exxon. So the U.S. taxpayer paid for it; the World Bank, Exxon paid for it. We put it in. There was a tremendous banditry problem. I was there in 2003. We were driving along this dark, dark road, and the guy in the green stepped out, and I was just like, ""Ahhh! This is it."" And then the guy in the Exxon uniform stepped out, and we realized it was okay. They have their own private sort of army around them at the oil fields. But at the same time, Chad has become much more unstable, and we are not paying for that price at the pump. We pay for it in our taxes on April 15th. We do the same thing with the price of policing the Persian Gulf and keeping the shipping lanes open. This is 1988 — we actually bombed two Iranian oil platforms that year. That was the beginning of an escalating U.S. involvement there that we do not pay for at the pump. We pay for it on April 15th, and we can't even calculate the cost of this involvement. The other place that is sort of supporting our dependence on oil and our increased consumption is the Gulf of Mexico, which was not part of the moratoriums. Now what's happened in the Gulf of Mexico — as you can see, this is the Minerals Management diagram of wells for gas and oil. It's become this intense industrialized zone. It doesn't have the same resonance for us that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge has, but it should, I mean, it's a bird sanctuary. Also, every time you buy gasoline in the United States, half of it is actually being refined along the coast, because the Gulf actually has about 50 percent of our refining capacity and a lot of our marine terminals as well. So the people of the Gulf have essentially been subsidizing the rest of us through a less-clean environment. And finally, American families also pay a price for oil. Now on the one hand, the price at the pump is not really very high when you consider the actual cost of the oil, but on the other hand, the fact that people have no other transit options means that they pay a large amount of their income into just getting back and forth to work, generally in a fairly crummy car. If you look at people who make $50,000 a year, they have two kids, they might have three jobs or more, and then they have to really commute. They're actually spending more on their car and fuel than they are on taxes or on health care. And the same thing happens at the 50th percentile, around 80,000. Gasoline costs are a tremendous drain on the American economy, but they're also a drain on individual families and it's kind of terrifying to think about what happens when prices get higher. So, what I'm going to talk to you about now is: what do we have to do this time? What are the laws? What do we have to do to keep ourselves focused? One thing is — we need to stay away from the theater. We need to stay away from the moratoriums. We need to focus really back again on the molecules. The moratoriums are fine, but we do need to focus on the molecules on the oil. One of the things that we also need to do, is we need to try to not kind of fool ourselves into thinking that you can have a green world, before you reduce the amount of oil that we use. We need to focus on reducing the oil. What you see in this top drawing is a schematic of how petroleum gets used in the U.S. economy. It comes in on the side — the useful stuff is the dark gray, and the un-useful stuff, which is called the rejected energy — the waste, goes up to the top. Now you can see that the waste far outweighs the actually useful amount. And one of the things that we need to do is, not only fix the fuel efficiency of our vehicles and make them much more efficient, but we also need to fix the economy in general. We need to remove the perverse incentives to use more fuel. For example, we have an insurance system where the person who drives 20,000 miles a year pays the same insurance as somebody who drives 3,000. We actually encourage people to drive more. We have policies that reward sprawl — we have all kinds of policies. We need to have more mobility choices. We need to make the gas price better reflect the real cost of oil. And we need to shift subsidies from the oil industry, which is at least 10 billion dollars a year, into something that allows middle-class people to find better ways to commute. Whether that's getting a much more efficient car and also kind of building markets for new cars and new fuels down the road, this is where we need to be. We need to kind of rationalize this whole thing, and you can find more about this policy. It's called STRONG, which is ""Secure Transportation Reducing Oil Needs Gradually,"" and the idea is instead of being helpless, we need to be more strong. They're up at NewAmerica.net. What's important about these is that we try to move from feeling helpless at the pump, to actually being active and to really sort of thinking about who we are, having kind of that special moment, where we connect the dots actually at the pump. Now supposedly, oil taxes are the third rail of American politics — the no-fly zone. I actually — I agree that a dollar a gallon on oil is probably too much, but I think that if we started this year with three cents a gallon on gasoline, and upped it to six cents next year, nine cents the following year, all the way up to 30 cents by 2020, that we could actually significantly reduce our gasoline consumption, and at the same time we would give people time to prepare, time to respond, and we would be raising money and raising consciousness at the same time. Let me give you a little sense of how this would work. This is a gas receipt, hypothetically, for a year from now. The first thing that you have on the tax is — you have a tax for a stronger America — 33 cents. So you're not helpless at the pump. And the second thing that you have is a kind of warning sign, very similar to what you would find on a cigarette pack. And what it says is, ""The National Academy of Sciences estimates that every gallon of gas you burn in your car creates 29 cents in health care costs."" That's a lot. And so this — you can see that you're paying considerably less than the health care costs on the tax. And also, the hope is that you start to be connected to the whole greater system. And at the same time, you have a number that you can call to get more information on commuting, or a low-interest loan on a different kind of car, or whatever it is you're going to need to actually reduce your gasoline dependence. With this whole sort of suite of policies, we could actually reduce our gasoline consumption — or our oil consumption — by 20 percent by 2020. So, three million barrels a day. But in order to do this, one of the things we really need to do, is we need to remember we are people of the hydrocarbon. We need to keep or minds on the molecules and not get distracted by the theater, not get distracted by the cognitive dissonance of the green possibilities that are out there. We need to kind of get down and do the gritty work of reducing our dependence upon this fuel and these molecules. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想和大家談談漏油事件的政治化學性質以及這件事非常重要的原因冗長，油膩，炎熱的夏天以及我們必須持續聚焦在這件事情上的原因在我開始談政治化學之前我必須先談談石油的化學性質 這是一張我在2002年造訪阿拉斯加的普拉德霍灣時的照片我去巡視礦產管理服務並測試他們的能力在寒冰上燃燒漏油在這裡你可以看到一點原油一些冰塊看到兩個三明治大小的凝固汽油彈凝固汽油彈正在燃燒對於我們這些美國消費者來說石油是一種抽象過程我們的人口佔全世界的4％我們卻使用了全世界油產的25％然而我們卻不了解石油是什麼除非我們來檢視一下它的分子在看到這東西燃燒之前，我們也無法徹底了解這就是石油燃燒的景象它賤起火花，轟的一聲我強烈推薦大家有機會的話去看一下原油燃燒的景象如此一來你便不需要再去聽別的波利科技講座是有關石油地緣政治學的演講了它將烘烤你的視網膜就像這樣, 烘烤視網膜 讓我來講一下石油的化學性質石油是碳氫化合物分子的混合物剛開始的時候非常小1個碳原子,4個氫原子這就是漂浮在上面的甲烷然後還有各種的介質混合中等數量的碳你們可能聽說過苯環，它的致癌性很高苯環在散佈整個過程中變成這些大型高厚度的東西它們包含數百個碳原子以及數百個氫原子還有釩、重金屬和硫以及各種瘋狂的東西緊貼在兩側它們被稱為瀝青質，瀝青的元素它們在漏油事件裡扮演重要的角色 讓我再來講一下在水裡的石油化學成分也是讓石油變成災難的化學成分石油在水裡不會下沈，而是漂浮在水面如果它真的下沈了，漏油事件就會變的完全不一樣而它的另外一個性質是在它碰到水後會散撥出去。它散播開來，變成薄薄的一層所以你很難將它網起。接下來發生的事是輕烴蒸發和一些有毒的東西飄進水柱並殺死魚卵和較小的魚類等，以及蝦子。然後還有瀝青質 - 這是關鍵的東西 -瀝青質被海浪掀起乳化成泡沫，類似蛋黃醬面積變成三倍油膩膩的，骯髒混亂的在水中這使得它很難處理這也使得它非常粘稠當威望沉沒在西班牙海岸有大的漂浮的沙發墊的大小的靠墊乳化油有口香糖一般的濃度及黏稠度非常困難去清理而當它散播在水中每一個油有不同的狀況 當油和水的化學性質也影響到我們的政治這是相當爆炸性的這是第一次，美國消費者將看到石油供應鏈呈現在自己面前他們目前有一個“eureka！”當我們突然明白石油在不同的狀況那麼，我現在就要談論一點點有關這些政治的起源因為它是讓我們真正的理解至關要件為什麼今年夏天是如此重要，為什麼我們需要集中精力沒有人早上起床，然後想著“哇！我要去買一些3碳到12碳的分子然後放進我的油箱和然後愉快地開車去工作。“不，他們會認為，“喔不，我必須去購買天然氣。我真是感到不開心。石油公司像在搶劫我。我甚至不知道他們什麼時候會調高價格這樣會讓我很無奈。“這就是發生我們在加油站的狀況。而實際上，加油站有特別的設計去化解這種憤怒。您可能會注意到，許多加油站，包括這一個，設計看起來像自動取款機。我有和工程師談論過。這是專門設計減低我們的憤怒，因為據說我們在自動取款機前會感覺良好。（眾笑）這表明你是多麼糟糕。 但實際上，我的意思是，這種無奈的感覺大多數美國人實際感受到石油價格是一個陰謀的結果不是世界石油市場所形成的。而事實上也是我們也對於我們消費的金額感到很無奈這是某些理由因為，事實上，這是我們造成的在那裡，如果你想找到一份工作，要有車可以開是很重要的這樣才能有一份工作，保持一份工作而這其實是很反常的 現在有另一種有害的東西是有關我們買天然氣我們寧願做別的這是BP的加油站在洛杉磯市中心它是綠色的。是淺綠色。現在，你想想，為什麼這東西會如此跛腳對人卻是這麼聰明？“是的，原因是，因為當我們買天然氣我們非常投入在這樣的認知失調我的意思是，一方面，我們感到憤怒，我們想要去別處。我們不想要去買石油我們希望做一些環保的事我們被自己哄騙我的意思是 - 這是很有趣的事在這裡這件事看起來很有趣但事實上，這就是為什麼這個口號“超越石油”是有效的。但在我們的能源政策中它是一個固有的一部分這我們不談論減少我們使用石油的數量，我們談論能源獨立。我們談論氫汽車。我們談論還沒有發明的生物燃料因此，認知失調我們處理石油的方式是不可或缺的一部分，處理溢油是真正重要的。 OK，政治石油美國是很不道德的。石油工業是像一個無底洞對於工程及財務和其他一切但我們真正看到它在道德上。這是一張早期的照片。你可以看到，我們有這些噴油井。記者看著這些早期漏油，他們說，“這是一個骯髒的行業。”但他們也從中看到了人們的生活越來越富裕且不勞而獲。他們不是農民，他們只是得到豐富的東西出自於地底。這是“暴發戶”基本上是這樣。但在一開始，這個被認為是一個非常不道德的事情，不久，就成為笑話。 當然，還有約翰洛克菲勒。和他有關的的事情是...他走進這未開發的東部石油工業，他合理化它垂直整合成一個公司，一家跨國公司。這是非常可怕的。就像你認為沃爾瑪現今是一個可怕的商業模式，這看上去就像19世紀 60年代或19世紀 70年代。它也是一種我們如何看到油作為一個陰謀。但真正令人驚訝的是，井田塔貝爾，一位記者，深入了解並爆料洛克菲勒並使得反托拉斯法到位。但在許多方面，這種陰謀仍然與我們同在。而在這有一件事開發協會塔貝爾說。她說：“他有一個很細的鼻子像一根刺。沒有嘴唇。有無色的小眼睛皺摺的運行他們。“（眾笑）好了，那傢伙實際上仍然和我們在一起。（眾笑）我的意思是，這是一個非常普遍的 - 這是我們的DNA的一部分。然後還有這個傢伙，沒問題。 所以，你可能想知道為什麼它是，每次我們有高油價或漏油，我們叫這些老總到華盛頓，我們與他們在公眾面前談論問題，我們試圖羞辱他們。這些就是我們一直在做的事情，從1947年起當我們第一次問他們：“為什麼會賺這些黑心錢？”我們已經有點個性化的石油行業就在這些CEO。你知道的，我們把它當作我們看它在一個道德水平，而不是看它的法律和財務方面。所以我不是說這些人沒有責任回答問題，我只是想說，當人們關注無論他們是不是一群貪婪的雜種，你實際上並不迴避的問題制定法律要嘛改變運營方式，否則就會有漏網之魚真正的石油量減少並減少對石油的依賴。所以我說這是一種分散注意力。這真是一場好戲它有力的宣洩，你也許看到的最後一周。 因此，對漏油的事件在政治上是非常狂熱的。我的意思是，這些照片 - 這是從聖巴巴拉蔓延。你有這些照片的鳥類。他們真的影響人。當漏油發生在聖巴巴拉 1969年，在當時成了最熱門的環保運動。這就是地球日的由來。它也設立了國家環境政策法清潔空氣法案，清潔水法案。一切真的是源於這個時期。我認為，重要的是要種看看這些照片的鳥類並了解其發生在我們身上。我們通常站在加油站，而且感到一絲無奈。我們看看這些照片，我們理解，這是第一次，我們的角色在這個供應鏈。我們連接點的供應鏈。而且我們有這種 -作為選民，我們有一種“尤里卡！”時刻。這就是為什麼這些時刻，這些漏油是如此重要。但我們不要分心也很重要在看這齣劇或它的道德。我們實際上需要去與工作有關的問題的根源。 其中一個發生的事情與前兩次漏油我們真正的工作是針對一些症狀。我們非常被動的，反對預先處裡將會發生的事。我們所做的是，提出暫停在東部和西部海岸鑽井。我們停下來鑽 ANWR，但實際上我們並未減少石油的消耗量事實上，消耗量仍持續增加唯一可以真正減少石油消耗量的作法是將價格抬高如同您所見到的，我們的產量已經下降這是因為儲存槽的老化以及昂貴的開採成本我們只擁有全世界百分之2的石油礦藏。另外有百分之65在波斯灣。 有一件事即因此而發生從1969年起在奈及利亞開採石油的地區，這個地區是一個三角洲 —比美國馬里蘭州大上兩倍—但每年都有無數的石油洩漏出去意思是，這就如同出口石油外洩當我們從另一個地方進口石油，而當地又缺乏嚴謹的環境法規這就如同Exxon Valdez(阿拉斯加港灣漏油事件)一樣從1969年起，年復一年。當然我們清楚了解有關石油外洩的一切是因為我們在這裡看到了所有相關的資訊。但事實上，這些人是住在戰區每年有上千人在這裡死於無情戰火就在這個面積比馬里蘭州大上兩倍的地區這些都和石油息息相關這些人，如果他們都生在美國他們都有可能會在這裡他們可能有政治學的學位，也可能會有商學學位他們更可能是企業家。事實上他們並不想做現在他們正在做的事。他們其實是另外一群人另外一群為我們付出無數代價的人 而另外一件我們所做的事就是我們持續增加對石油的需求那就像賭博是需要付出代價的例如在其中一個我們投資了大型石油開採專案的地區在查德，由Exxon公司負責主導理所當然，美國納稅人為此專案買單世界銀行的部分，Exxon則為其支付了所需的款項我們投入許多精力在這個專案。但這其實是一個非常嚴重的竊盜問題2003年時我在那裡我們沿著這條陰暗的道路駕駛前進，然後那位穿著綠色衣服的人走了出去我說：「阿哈，就是這個了」而後又有一個穿著Exxon公司制服的人走了出去我們知道一切都沒問題了因為他們擁有私人軍隊駐守在油田周圍但就在同時查德的局勢因此變得更加的不穩定但是我們在加油站加油時並不會因為這些而負擔任何費用我們只在4月15日納稅時用我們所繳的稅金去支持這個專案 也同樣以這些作為監管波斯灣的費用以及維持航道暢通在1988年那一年我們炸毀了兩座伊朗的鑽油平台而且美國對當地的干涉程度正開始逐步上升但同樣我們在加油站加油時也不會因為這些而額外支付任何費用我們同樣只在4月15日時以稅金支付而且我們甚至無法計算這樣的投入中間所需付出的成本還有另外一個同樣支撐著我們對於石油的依賴以及不斷增加的消耗量的地區是墨西哥灣墨西哥灣並不是暫停開採的地區而現在墨西哥灣發生了什麼事...就如同你所見到的這是和礦產管理相關在天然氣氣井以及石油部分的圖表這裡已經變成了密密麻麻的工業區雖然這和我們之間並沒有任何共同點但與北極國家野生動物保護區卻有因為這裡原本應該是個鳥類保護區而且當你每次在美國本土購買汽油實際上約有一半是沿著墨西哥灣海岸精煉的因為此海灣大約占了總生產量的百分之50且擁有許多碼頭所以在此海灣生活的人實際上是在一不太乾淨的環境下工作，來支撐我們對於石油的需求 但其實每一個美國家庭也需要為石油付出代價一方面，加油站所制訂的汽油價格並不是太高我指的是在你考慮了所有與石油相關的成本的情況下但在另一方面是因為人們沒有其他的交通方式可選擇意即這些花費占了收入中的一大部分但只是為了在工作與回家之間往返而且通常是使用相當低等的車種如果你看到有人每年賺5萬美元，並有兩個小孩他們可能會有三個工作，甚至是更多所以他們需要花費許多時間通勤來回往返這些人花費於汽車以及燃料的費用大於他們納稅的金額或是用於身體保健的花費而且同樣是百分之50大約是8萬元其實汽油的耗費對於美國的經濟而言是一大損失且對於每個家庭而言也是一筆為數不小的花費令人只要一想到當汽油價格上漲時發生的情況就感到害怕 所以，現在我要說的是現在我們需要怎麼做?有哪些相關法令?又有哪些是我們需要持續關注的?其中一項就是我們需要暫停我們需要停止關注那些暫停計畫我們需要再次注意石油的分子雖然延期是好事，但我們仍須注意石油的分子我們也必需做一件事我們必須試著別再欺騙自己去想像你可以有一個環保的環境在減少石油用量之前我們必須集中於減少油品的使用 看這個圖就是一個藍圖石油在美國經濟中被使用多少換句話說—有用的物質是深灰色的而無用的物質稱為不良能源、廢料非常地浪費你可以了解到廢料遠多於真正能使用的總計你必須做一件事就是不單是提升交通工具使用的燃料效率也使它們更有效率地被使用但我們也必須使全體的經濟復甦 我們必須屏除「多使用燃料」這種不正當的動機舉例來說，我們有一種保險制度有人每年駕駛20000哩的地方和有人駕駛3000哩的地方付一樣的保險費我們真心鼓勵人們多開一點車我們有增加獎勵金的政策，有完整的配套我們必需擁有更多彈性的選擇我們必需使瓦斯的價格能夠更加反映石油的成本我們必需從製油工廠轉換獎勵金一年最少100億來使中產階級找到更好的通勤方式或是買一輛更節能的車也像是要建立一個市場給將來使用新燃料的新車這就是我們要達成的目標我們必需合理化全部的東西你可以找到更多這種政策它叫做STRONG是「確實地漸漸減少大眾運輸工具的用油需求」的政策這個主意是來自於「解決無助的處境，我們必需更堅強」都在NewAmerica.net.可以找到重要的是我們試著去改變對油井感到無助的想法去變得非常積極主動真的去想想我們是誰給自己一個特別的時間在政策上做一個有效的結合 恐怕現在的德克薩斯石油是第三條美國政策—禁飛空域說真的—我同意一加崙一美元可能太貴了但我想如果我們開始一年用三分錢買一加崙的石油在隔年又上漲為六分，下一年就會是九分直至2020年上升到30分錢我們真的能夠明顯地減少石油的消費同時我們給人們時間去準備去做應變措施我們應該要籌錢同時提高自覺我來給你認識一下這世界是怎麼運作的 這是一張瓦斯費的收據，假設從現在開始一年你必需繳的第一張稅單是一份使美國更繁榮的稅—33分錢所以在油井，你不是無助的你第二個擁有的是一個警告標識和你可能會找到的非常類似一個香菸盒總是說「國立的科學學術機關認定你用的車製造每加侖的瓦斯會增加29分你身體上的負擔」這太多了由此你可以了解到你很少注意自己的健康成本也希望你能開始轉到一個比較好的循環同時，你可以打一個號碼取得更多通勤的相關資訊或是低利率的貸款來支付不同款式的車不論如何你正需要去真正的減少你對石油的依賴用一整套政策我們可以真正減少我們的石油消費或是油品的消費20%在2020就是一天減少三百萬桶石油 但為了這個目的有一件事我們真的必需做，就是我們必需記得我們是由碳水化合物組合成的人類我們必需記住石油的成分不要被外界所欺騙不要被認知所蒙蔽還有很多環保的可能性減少對石油的依賴認真地減少對燃料的依賴 謝謝大家 (拍手)
