Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_dyson_a_forgotten_space_age_technology_could_change_how_we_grow_food	Imagine you are a part of a crew of astronauts traveling to Mars or some distant planet. The travel time could take a year or even longer. The space on board and the resources would be limited. So you and the crew would have to figure out how to produce food with minimal inputs. What if you could bring with you just a few packets of seeds, and grow crops in a matter of hours? And what if those crops would then make more seeds, enabling you to feed the entire crew with just those few packets of seeds for the duration of the trip? Well, the scientists at NASA actually figured out a way to do this. What they came up with was actually quite interesting. It involved microorganisms, which are single-celled organisms. And they also used hydrogen from water. The types of microbes that they used were called hydrogenotrophs, and with these hydrogenotrophs, you can create a virtuous carbon cycle that would sustain life onboard a spacecraft. Astronauts would breathe out carbon dioxide, that carbon dioxide would then be captured by the microbes and converted into a nutritious, carbon-rich crop. The astronauts would then eat that carbon-rich crop and exhale the carbon out in the form of carbon dioxide, which would then be captured by the microbes, to create a nutritious crop, which then would be exhaled in the form of carbon dioxide by the astronauts. So in this way, a closed-loop carbon cycle is created. So why is this important? We need carbon to survive as humans, and we get our carbon from food. On a long space journey, you simply wouldn't be able to pick up any carbon along the way, so you'd have to figure out how to recycle it on board. This is a clever solution, right? But the thing is, that research didn't really go anywhere. We haven't yet gone to Mars. We haven't yet gone to another planet. And this was actually done in the '60s and '70s. So a colleague of mine, Dr. John Reed, and I, were interested, actually, in carbon recycling here on Earth. We wanted to come up with technical solutions to address climate change. And we discovered this research by reading some papers published in the '60s — 1967 and later — articles about this work. And we thought it was a really good idea. So we said, well, Earth is actually like a spaceship. We have limited space and limited resources, and on Earth, we really do need to figure out how to recycle our carbon better. So we had the idea, can we take some of these NASA-type ideas and apply them to our carbon problem here on Earth? Could we cultivate these NASA-type microbes in order to make valuable products here on Earth? We started a company to do it. And in that company, we discovered that these hydrogenotrophs — which I'll actually call nature's supercharged carbon recyclers — we found that they are a powerful class of microbes that had been largely overlooked and understudied, and that they could make some really valuable products. So we began cultivating these products, these microbes, in our lab. We found that we can make essential amino acids from carbon dioxide using these microbes. And we even made a protein-rich meal that has an amino acid profile similar to what you might find in some animal proteins. We began cultivating them even further, and we found that we can make oil. Oils are used to manufacture many products. We made an oil that was similar to a citrus oil, which can be used for flavoring and for fragrances, but it also can be used as a biodegradable cleaner or even as a jet fuel. And we made an oil that's similar to palm oil. Palm oil is used to manufacture a wide range of consumer and industrial goods. We began working with manufacturers to scale up this technology, and we're currently working with them to bring some of these products to market. We believe this type of technology can indeed help us profitably recycle carbon dioxide into valuable products — something that's beneficial for the planet but also beneficial for business. That's what we're doing today. But tomorrow, this type of technology and using these types of microbes actually could help us do something even greater if we take it to the next level. We believe that this type of technology can actually help us address an issue with agriculture and allow us to create a type of agriculture that's sustainable, that will allow us to scale to meet the demands of tomorrow. And why might we need a sustainable agriculture? Well, actually, it is estimated that the population will reach about 10 billion by 2050, and we're projecting that we will need to increase food production by 70 percent. In addition, we will need many more resources and raw materials to make consumer goods and industrial goods. So how will we scale to meet that demand? Well, modern agriculture simply cannot sustainably scale to meet that demand. There are a number of reasons why. One of them is that modern agriculture is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases. In fact, it emits more greenhouse gases than our cars, our trucks, our planes and our trains combined. Another reason is that modern ag simply takes up a whole lot of land. We have cleared 19.4 million square miles for crops and livestock. What does that look like? Well, that's roughly the size of South America and Africa combined. Let me give you a specific example. In Indonesia, an amount of virgin rainforest was cleared totaling the size of approximately Ireland, between 2000 and 2012. Just think of all of the species, the diversity, that was removed in the process, whether plant life, insects or animal life. And a natural carbon sink was also removed. So let me make this real for you. This clearing happened primarily to make room for palm plantations. And as I mentioned before, palm oil is used to manufacture many products. In fact, it is estimated that over 50 percent of consumer products are manufactured using palm oil. And that includes things like ice cream, cookies ... It includes cooking oils. It also includes detergents, lotions, soaps. You and I both probably have numerous items in our kitchens and our bathrooms that were manufactured using palm oil. So you and I are direct beneficiaries of removed rainforests. Modern ag has some problems, and we need solutions if we want to scale sustainably. I believe that microbes can be a part of the answer — specifically, these supercharged carbon recyclers. These supercharged carbon recyclers, like plants, serve as the natural recyclers in their ecosystems where they thrive. And they thrive in exotic places on Earth, like hydrothermal vents and hot springs. In those ecosystems, they take carbon and recycle it into the nutrients needed for those ecosystems. And they're rich in nutrients, such as oils and proteins, minerals and carbohydrates. And actually, microbes are already an integral part of our everyday lives. If you enjoy a glass of pinot noir on a Friday night, after a long, hard work week, then you are enjoying a product of microbes. If you enjoy a beer from your local microbrewery — a product of microbes. Or bread, or cheese, or yogurt. These are all products of microbes. But the beauty and power associated with these supercharged carbon recyclers lies in the fact that they can actually produce in a matter of hours versus months. That means we can make crops much faster than we're making them today. They grow in the dark, so they can grow in any season and in any geography and any location. They can grow in containers that require minimal space. And we can get to a type of vertical agriculture. Instead of our traditional horizontal agriculture that requires so much land, we can scale vertically, and as a result produce much more product per area. If we implement this type of approach and use these carbon recyclers, then we wouldn't have to remove any more rainforests to make the food and the goods that we consume. Because, at a large scale, you can actually make 10,000 times more output per land area than you could — for instance, if you used soybeans — if you planted soybeans on that same area of land over a period of a year. Ten thousand times over a period of a year. So this is what I mean by a new type of agriculture. And this is what I mean by developing a system that allows us to sustainably scale to meet the demands of 10 billion. And what would be the products of this new type of agriculture? Well, we've already made a protein meal, so you can imagine something similar to a soybean meal, or even cornmeal, or wheat flour. We've already made oils, so you can imagine something similar to coconut oil or olive oil or soybean oil. So this type of crop can actually produce the nutrients that would give us pasta and bread, cakes, nutritional items of many sorts. Furthermore, since oil is used to manufacture multiple other goods, industrial products and consumer products, you can imagine being able to make detergents, soaps, lotions, etc., using these types of crops. Not only are we running out of space, but if we continue to operate under the status quo with modern agriculture, we run the risk of robbing our progeny of a beautiful planet. But it doesn't have to be this way. We can imagine a future of abundance. Let us create systems that keep planet Earth, our spaceship, not only from not crashing, but let us also develop systems and ways of living that will be beneficial to the lives of ourselves and the 10 billion that will be on this planet by 2050. Thank you very much. (Applause)	想像你是太空人團隊的一員，正前往火星或某個遙遠的星球。旅行時間可能需要一年或甚至更長。太空艙的空間和資源有限。所以，你和組員必須有以最小的投入來生產食物的方法。如果你只能帶幾包種子，並且在幾個小時內種出農作物來？如果這些作物生出更多的種子，使你可以僅用最初的那幾包種子，在旅程上充分供食給全體組員？ 美國太空總署的科學家已想出辦法。他們想出了挺有意思的辦法，牽涉到微生物，是單細胞有機體，而且用到水中的氫。他們用的微生物被稱為「嗜氫菌」，用這些嗜氫菌就可以創建一個良性的「碳循環」，足以維持太空船上的生命。太空人呼出二氧化碳，然後微生物捕獲二氧化碳，並轉換成富含營養與碳的作物。太空人吃下這些富含碳的作物，以二氧化碳的形式呼出碳來，微生物再度捕獲這些二氧化碳，製造出營養作物，再經由太空人以二氧化碳的形式呼出來。如此，形成了封閉的碳循環。 為什麼這很重要？人類需要碳來維生，並從食物中獲取碳。在漫長的太空旅程中，根本無法沿途取得任何碳，所以必須想辦法在艙裡，將碳回收再利用。 這是個聰明的解法，對吧？但事實上，這些研究並未獲得實證。我們還沒去過火星，還沒去過其他的星球。這項研究實際上是在60和70年代完成的。我的同事約翰 • 里德博士和我，對於地球的碳循環很有興趣。我們希望對於氣候變遷提供技術解決方案。透過閱讀60年代已發表的論文－自1967年以後的論文－我們發現了這項研究。我們認為這是很棒的主意。地球其實像艘太空船。我們的空間和資源有限，我們確實需要在地球上找出更有效的碳回收再利用法。 因此，我們有個想法：是不是能採用某些太空總署的方法，來解決地球的碳問題呢？能不能培養太空總署類的微生物做成對地球有價值的產品呢？我們成立了公司，來實踐這個想法。我們公司發現這些嗜氫菌－我稱它們為大自然的「超級碳回收員」－我們發現這些在過去多半被忽略、缺少研究的強大微生物，可以被做成極有價值的產品。 於是我們開始在實驗室裡培養這些微生物。我們發現能用這些微生物把二氧化碳製成必需氨基酸。我們甚至做出了富含蛋白質的餐點，其中含有類似動物蛋白的氨基酸。我們進一步培養它們，發現能製出油來。油可用於製造許多產品。我們做出類似柑橘油的油品，可用於調味和當作香料，也可當作可生物分解的清潔劑，甚至做為噴射機的燃料。我們做出了類似棕櫚油的油品。棕櫚油被用來製成各式各樣的消費品和工業產品。 我們開始與廠商合作，拓展技術，目前我們正合作要將一些產品上市。我們相信這一類技術確能幫助我們回收二氧化碳做成有價值且能獲利的產品，對地球和企業都有益的產品。這就是我們現今正在做的事情。但未來，這類型的技術和微生物的應用，可幫助我們成就更大的事業，如果我們將它提昇到另一層次。我們認為這類型的技術，將能幫助我們解決農業問題，建立可永續經營的農業形態，擴展產能以滿足未來的需求。 為何我們需要可永續經營的農業呢？事實上，預測顯示：到2050年，世界將達到百億人口，預期我們需增加70%的糧食產能。此外，我們還需要更多的資源和原物料，來製造消費品和工業產品。因此，我們要如何擴展產能以滿足需求呢？ 現代農業根本無法持續擴展，以滿足此一需求。有許多的原因 :其中一個原因是，現代農業是最大的溫室氣體排放源之一。事實上，農業排放的溫室氣體，比我們汽車、卡車、飛機與火車加總的排放量還要多。另一原因是，現代農業使用大量的土地。我們已用了1,940萬平方英里的土地來種作物和養牲畜。那有多大呢？面積約為南美洲和非洲的總和。 讓我給你一個具體的例子。在印尼，約當愛爾蘭面積大小的原始熱帶雨林在2000至2012年間被剷除。試想，在這過程中所傷害的各式物種與其多樣性，無論是植物，昆蟲，或動物。而且，天然的碳匯也被破壞了。 讓我為你呈現真實的樣貌。剷除這些雨林地，主要是為了騰出空間來種植棕櫚樹。正如我前面所提到的，棕櫚油用來製造許多產品。事實上，估計顯示超過50％的消費產品是以棕櫚油為生產原料。包括：冰淇淋、餅乾、食用油、清潔劑、乳液、肥皂。在你我的廚房和浴室中，可能都有許多棕櫚油的製成品。所以，你和我皆是消失雨林的直接受益者。 現代農業存在一些問題，必須有解決方案才能擴大和永續經營。我相信微生物是答案的一部分；尤其是這些超級碳回收員，這些超級碳回收員，像植物一樣，在它們活躍的生態系統中，扮演著自然資源回收者的角色。它們活躍在地球上特異的地方，像是深海溫泉區和溫泉中。在這些生態系統中，它們將碳回收再利用，轉換成這些生態系統所需的養分。而它們含豐富的營養成分，例如：油、蛋白質、礦物質，和碳水化合物。 事實上，微生物已是我們日常生活中不可或缺的一部分。如果你喜歡在星期五晚上喝杯黑皮諾紅酒，以犒賞一週工作的辛苦，那你即是在享受微生物的作品。若你喜飲本地小酒廠釀製的啤酒，那也是微生物的產物。其他像是麵包、乳酪、優酪乳，也都是微生物的產品。但是，這些超級碳回收員的力與美，在於它們能夠在短短的數小時內產出產品，而不是耗費幾個月。這意味著我們可以遠比今日更快的速度來生產作物。它們毋需陽光生長，所以它們可以在任何季節、任何區域或地點生長。它們可以在極小的容器中生長。我們可以進行垂直型農業。不同於我們傳統的水平型農業，垂直型所需的土地不多，可垂直擴展，結果是每單位面積能生產更多的產品。 如果施行這類型的農法，並且使用這些碳回收員，就毋需砍伐更多的熱帶雨林，來供給我們的食品與貨物的消耗。因為，若大規模生產，每單位土地面積將有萬倍的產出；例如，如果種植大豆，在同一塊土地上種植一年後，一年會有一萬倍的產出。這是我要傳達的新型農業，是個能夠永續經營，滿足百億人口需求的農業。 這種新型農業生產什麼樣的產品呢？我們已經做出了蛋白粉，所以不難想像我們可做出類似大豆粉、玉米粉或甚至麵粉。我們已做出油，所以不難想像亦可做出類似於椰子油、橄欖油，或大豆油的東西。這類型的作物真能產生營養成分，供應我們麵條、麵包、蛋糕，和許多種類的營養品。此外，因為油被廣泛用來製造許多其他商品、工業產品和消費類產品，可想像用這類作物來製造清潔劑、肥皂、乳液等。 總而言之，不僅地球所剩的空間有限，若我們繼續以現狀施行農法，我們將面臨剝奪後代擁有美麗地球的風險。但是毋需這樣，我們可以想像豐饒的未來。讓我們創造一個不僅讓地球－我們的太空船－免於崩潰的系統，也發展益於我們自己、益於2050年後的百億地球人所生存的生活方式與系統。 非常感謝你。 （掌聲）
