Talk	en	zh-tw
liz_diller_plays_with_architecture	"Aside from keeping the rain out and producing some usable space, architecture is nothing but a special-effects machine that delights and disturbs the senses. Our work is across media. The work comes in all shapes and sizes. It's small and large. This is an ashtray, a water glass. From urban planning and master planning to theater and all sorts of stuff. The thing that all the work has in common is that it challenges the assumptions about conventions of space. And these are everyday conventions, conventions that are so obvious that we are blinded by their familiarity. And I've assembled a sampling of work that all share a kind of productive nihilism that's used in the service of creating a particular special effect. And that is something like nothing, or something next to nothing. It's done through a form of subtraction or obstruction or interference in a world that we naturally sleepwalk through. This is an image that won us a competition for an exhibition pavilion for the Swiss Expo 2002 on Lake Neuchatel, near Geneva. And we wanted to use the water not only as a context, but as a primary building material. We wanted to make an architecture of atmosphere. So, no walls, no roof, no purpose — just a mass of atomized water, a big cloud. And this proposal was a reaction to the over-saturation of emergent technologies in recent national and world expositions, which feeds, or has been feeding, our insatiable appetite for visual stimulation with an ever greater digital virtuosity. High definition, in our opinion, has become the new orthodoxy. And we ask the question, can we use technology, high technology, to make an expo pavilion that's decidedly low definition, that also challenges the conventions of space and skin, and rethinks our dependence on vision? So this is how we sought to do it. Water's pumped from the lake and is filtered and shot as a fine mist through an array of high-pressure fog nozzles, 35,000 of them. And a weather station is on the structure. It reads the shifting conditions of temperature, humidity, wind direction, wind speed, dew point, and it processes this data in a central computer that calibrates the degree of water pressure and distribution of water throughout. And it's a responsive system that's trained on actual weather. So, this is just in construction, and there's a tensegrity structure. It's about 300 feet wide, the size of a football field, and it sits on just four very delicate columns. These are the fog nozzles, the interface, and basically the system is kind of reading the real weather, and producing kind of semi-artificial and real weather. So, we're very interested in creating weather. I don't know why. Now, here we go, one side, the outside and then from the inside of the space you can see what the quality of the space was. Unlike entering any normal space, entering Blur is like stepping into a habitable medium. It's formless, featureless, depthless, scaleless, massless, purposeless and dimensionless. All references are erased, leaving only an optical whiteout and white noise of the pulsing nozzles. So, this is an exhibition pavilion where there is absolutely nothing to see and nothing to do. And we pride ourselves — it's a spectacular anti-spectacle in which all the conventions of spectacle are turned on their head. So, the audience is dispersed, focused attention and dramatic build-up and climax are all replaced by a kind of attenuated attention that's sustained by a sense of apprehension caused by the fog. And this is very much like how the Victorian novel used fog in this way. So here the world is put out of focus, while our visual dependence is put into focus. The public, you know, once disoriented can actually ascend to the angel deck above and then just come down under those lips into the water bar. So, all the waters of the world are served there, so we thought that, you know, after being at the water and moving through the water and breathing the water, you could also drink this building. And so it is sort of a theme, but it goes a little bit, you know, deeper than that. We really wanted to bring out our absolute dependence on this master sense, and maybe share our kind of sensibility with our other senses. You know, when we did this project it was a kind of tough sell, because the Swiss said, ""Well, why are we going to spend, you know, 10 million dollars producing an effect that we already have in natural abundance that we hate?"" And, you know, we thought — well, we tried to convince them. And in the end, you know, they adapted this as a national icon that came to represent Swiss doubt, which we — you know, it was kind of a meaning machine that everybody kind of laid on their own meanings off of. Anyway, it's a temporary structure that was ultimately destroyed, and so it's now a memory of an apparition, actually, but it continues to live in edible form. And this is the highest honor to be bestowed upon an architect in Switzerland — to have a chocolate bar. Anyway, moving along. So in the '80s and '90s, we were mostly known for independent work, such as installation artist, architect, commissioned projects by museums and non-for-profit organizations. And we did a lot of media work, also a lot of experimental theater projects. In 2003, the Whitney mounted a retrospective of our work that featured a lot of this work from the '80s and '90s. However, the work itself resisted the very nature of a retrospective, and this is just some of the stuff that was in the show. This was a piece on tourism in the United States. This is ""Soft Sell"" for 42nd Street. This was something done at the Cartier Foundation. ""Master/Slave"" at the MOMA, the project series, a piece called ""Parasite."" And so there were many, many of these kinds of projects. Anyway, they gave us the whole fourth floor, and, you know, the problem of the retrospective was something we were very uncomfortable with. It's a kind of invention of the museum that's supposed to bring a kind of cohesive understanding to the public of a body of work. And our work doesn't really resolve itself into a body in any way at all. And one of the recurring themes, by the way, that in the work was a kind of hostility toward the museum itself, and asking about the conventions of the museum, like the wall, the white wall. So, what you see here is basically a plan of many installations that were put there. And we actually had to install white walls to separate these pieces, which didn't belong together. But these white walls became a kind of target and weapon at the same time. We used the wall to partition the 13 installations of the project and produce a kind of acoustic and visual separation. And what you see is — actually, the red dotted line shows the track of this performing element, which was a new piece that created — that we created for the — which was a robotic drill, basically, that went all the way around, cruised the museum, went all around the walls and did a lot of damage. So, the drill was mounted on this robotic arm. We worked with, by the way, Honeybee Robotics. This is the brain. Honeybee Robotics designed the Mars Driller, and it was really very much fun to work with them. They weren't doing their primary work, which was for the government, while they were helping us with this. In any case, the way it works is that an intelligent navigator basically maps the entire surface of these walls. So, unfolded it's about 300 linear feet. And it randomly generates points within a three-dimensional matrix. It selects a point, it guides the drill to that point, it pierces the dry wall, leaving a half-inch hole before traveling to the next location. Initially these holes were lone blemishes, and as the exhibition continued the walls became increasingly perforated. So eventually holes on both sides of the wall aligned, opening views from gallery to gallery. Clusters of holes randomly opened up sections of wall. And so this was a three-month performance piece in which the wall was made into kind of an increasingly unstable element. And also the acoustic separation was destroyed. Also the visual separation. And there was also this constant background groan, which was very annoying. And this is one of the blackout spaces where there's a video piece that became totally not useful. So rather than securing a neutral background for the artworks on display, the wall now actively competed for attention. And this acoustical nuisance and visual nuisance basically exposed the discomfort of the work to this encompassing nature of the retrospective. It was really great when it started to break up all of the curatorial text. Moving along to a project that we finished about a year ago. It's the ICA — the Institute of Contemporary Art — in Boston, which is on the waterfront. And there's not enough time to really introduce the building, but I'll simply say that the building negotiates between this outwardly focused nature of the site — you know, it's a really great waterfront site in Boston — and this contradictory other desire to have an inwardly focused museum. So, the nature of the building is that it looks at looking — I mean that's its primary objective, both its program and its architectural conceit. The building incorporates the site, but it dispenses it in very small doses in the way that the museum is choreographed. So, you come in and you're basically squeezed by the theater, by the belly of the theater, into this very compressed space where the view is turned off. Then you come up in this glass elevator right near the curtain wall. This elevator's about the size of a New York City studio apartment. And then, this is a view going up, and then you could come into the theater, which can actually deny the view or open it up and become a backdrop. And many musicians choose to use the theater glass walls totally open. The view is denied in the galleries where we receive just natural light, and then exposed again in the north gallery with a panoramic view. The original intention of this space, which was unfortunately never realized, was to use lenticular glass which allowed only a kind of perpendicular view out. In this very narrow space that connects east and west galleries the intention was really to not get a climax, but to have the view stalk you, so the view would open up as you walked from one end to the other. This was eliminated because the view was too good, and the mayor said, ""No, we just want this open."" The architect lost here. But culminating — and that's where this hooks into the theme of my little talk — is this Mediatheque, which is suspended from the cantilevered portion of the building. So this is an 80-foot cantilever — it's quite substantial. So, it's already sticking out into space enough, and then from that is this, is this small area called the Mediatheque. The Mediatheque has something like 16 stations where the public can get onto the server and look at digital artworks or also curated artworks off the web. And this was really a kind of very important part of this building, and here is a point where architecture — this is like technology-free — architecture is only a framing device, it only edits the harbor view, the industrial harbor just through its walls, its floors and its ceiling, to only expose the water itself, the texture of water, much like a hypnotic effect created by electronic snow or a lava lamp or something like that. And here is where we really felt that there was a great convergence of the technological and the natural in the project. But there is just no information, it's just — it's just hypnosis. Moving along to Lincoln Center. These are the guys that did the project in the first place, 50 years ago. We're taking over now, doing work that ranges in scale from small-scale repairs to major renovations and major facility expansions. But we're doing it with a lot less testosterone. This is the extent of the work that's to be completed by 2010. And for the purposes of this talk, I wanted to isolate just a part of a project that's even a part of a project that touches a little bit on this theme of architectural special effects, and it happens to be our current obsession, and it plays a little bit with the purging and adding of distraction. It's Alice Tully Hall, and it's tucked under the Juilliard Building and descends several levels under the street. So, this is the entrance to Tully Hall as it used to be, before the renovation, which we just started. And we asked ourselves, why couldn't it be exhibitionistic, like the Met, or like some of the other buildings at Lincoln Center? And one of the things that we were asked to do was give it a street identity, expand the lobbies and make it visually accessible. And this building, which is just naturally hermetic, we stripped. We basically did a striptease, architectural striptease, where we're framing with this kind of canopy — the underside of three levels of expansion of Juilliard, about 45,000 square feet — cutting it to the angle of Broadway, and then exposing, using that canopy to frame Tully Hall. Before and after shot. (Applause) Wait a minute, it's just in that state, we have a long way to go. But what I wanted to do was take a couple of seconds that I have left to just talk about the hall itself, which is kind of where we're really doing a massive amount of work. So, the hall is a multi-purpose hall. The clients have asked us to produce a great chamber music hall. Now, that's really tough to do with a hall that has 1,100 seats. Chamber and the notion of chamber has to do with salons and small-scale performances. They asked us to bring an intimacy. How do you bring an intimacy into a hall? Intimacy for us means a lot of different things. It means acoustic intimacy and it means visual intimacy. One thing is that the subway is running and rumbling right under the hall. Another thing that could be fixed is the shape of the hall. It's like a coffin, it basically sends all the sound, like a gutter-ball effect, down the aisles. The walls are made of absorptive surface, half absorptive, half reflective, which is not very good for concert sound. This is Avery Fisher Hall, but the notion of junk — visual junk — was very, very important to us, to get rid of visual noise. Because we can't eliminate a single seat, the architecture is restricted to 18 inches. So it's a very, very thin architecture. First we do a kind of partial box and box separation, to take away the distraction of the subway noise. Next we wrap the entire hall — almost like this Olivetti keyboard — with a material, with a wood material that basically covers all the surfaces: wall, ceiling, floor, stage, steps, everything, boxes. But it's acoustically engineered to focus the sound into the house and back to the stage. And here's an acoustic shelf. Looking up the hall. Just a section of the stage. Just everything is lined, it incorporates — every single thing that you could possibly imagine is tucked into this high-performance skin. But one more added feature. So now that we've stripped the hall of all visual distraction, everything that prevents this intimacy which is supposed to connect the house, the audience, with the performers, we add one little detail, one piece of architectural excess, a special effect: lighting. We very strongly believe that the theatrics of a concert hall is as much in the space of intermission and the space of arrival as it is when the concert starts. So what we wanted to do was produce this effect, this lighting effect, which made us have to bioengineer the wood walls. And what it entails is the use of resin, of this very thick resin with a veneer of the same kind of wood that's used throughout the hall, in a kind of seamless continuity that wraps the hall in light, like a belt of light: rather than separating, like a proscenium would separate the audience from performers, it connects audience with players. And this is a mockup that is in Salt Lake City that gives you a sense of what this is going to look like in full-scale. And this is a guy from Salt Lake City, this is what they look like out there. (Laughter) And for us, I mean it's really kind of a very strange thing, but the moments in the hall that the buzz kind of dies down when the audience is waiting for the performance to begin, very similar to the parting of curtains or the raising of a chandelier, the walls will just exude this glow, temporarily stealing attention from the stage. And this is Tully in construction now. I have no ending to say, except that I'm a couple of minutes over. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"除了遮風避雨以及創造有用空間外建築只不過是個能令人開心或惱人的特效機器 我們的工作是跨媒體的。這工作裡伴隨著各式的形狀和大小。它有大有小。這是個煙灰缸，這是水杯。從市郊計劃和宏觀計劃到劇院以及各種其它東西所有這些都共有的特點是它們挑戰了人們關於傳統空間的種種假設。這些是日常慣例，這些慣例太常見，以致於我們太熟悉而忽略。我做了抽樣的工作資料都包含了有效率的虛無主義這個概念被用來創造一些特殊的效果。這效果就像是沒有，或近乎沒有。這是從我們自然幻想的世界中，在各種干擾或影響之下實現的。 這副圖幫我們贏得2002年在離日內瓦不遠的Neuchatel湖舉辦的瑞士世博會的展廳的競賽我們不希望水只是背景而已而是一種主要的建築材料。我們想建一座大氣建築。所以，沒有牆，屋頂，沒有用途 —只有一片霧化的水氣和一大片雲朵。這個提案只是對最近國內和世界各地對於新興技術的過份飽和所做的反應。這些新技術滿足了我們對更精湛的數位科技帶來的視覺刺激的不懈追求。在我們的目標裡，高識別度是新的正統觀念。而我們問了一個問題,我們能否應用高科技，將一座的明顯識別度低的展廳，去挑戰傳統空間和外觀設計，並來重新思考我們對其視覺的依賴？ 所以這是我們想出來的辦法。水從湖裡泵上並過濾通過一排高壓水霧的噴嘴，打出液體噴霧的效果共三萬五千個噴嘴。還建有一座氣象站。用來檢測環境溫度，濕度，風向，風速，霧點等變化，把這些數據透過中央電腦處理來調節水的壓力和水霧的分散程度。這是一個依據實際天氣變化的可靠的系統。這是還在建構中，那裡有一個張拉整體結構。大約300英尺寬，一個足球場的大小，坐落在四支非常精美的柱子上。這是水霧的噴嘴，和交界處，這個系統實際上是在監控實際的天氣，來創造一個半人工的真實氣候，我們很衷情於創造天氣。我也不知道為什麼。 這裡是一邊，這是外邊。這是從裡面看你能看出這一個空間的質感。不同於任何其它的正常的空間，進入Blur大樓就像是進入一個適合居住的環境。它沒有形式、特徵、深度、尺度、質量，也沒有目的、維度。除去所有的輪廓只留下一個光學上的乳白景象和間歇的噴嘴聲。這是一個展覽大廳裡頭沒有展覽品，也沒有活動我們很自豪，這是一個壯觀的""新世界""在這裡所有傳統的概念都被打破了。觀眾們被分散集中的注意力、累積的戲劇效果和高潮被因霧氣而持續產生的憂慮感所取代而造成注意力的減弱這就很像維多利亞小說裡使用霧氣的方式。所以當沒有焦點的時候，我們視覺的依賴就會成為焦點。大眾一但迷失方向反而能走到較高角度的甲板上然後再回到水的邊緣。所有的水世界都在這裡我們想，在水邊玩過了在水裡穿梭過了，也呼吸過了，你還能喝這座建築。 它有點像是個主題，但它又比這更深一層。我們真的很想把我們對這些主觀的依賴感完全展現出來，並把我們的感觀和其它感覺連結起來。我們做這個計畫的時候，是很棘手的因為瑞士政府說：「那麼，我們為什麼要花一千萬來建造一個效果，而這個效果在平常就已經多到讓我們厭煩了？」我們試圖說服他們。最終，他們接受這個做為國家標誌的提案它代表了瑞士人的疑惑，它像是個有意義的機器每個人都能各自表述他們的定義總之，這是一座臨時建築，最終還是要被拆掉所以它現在其實是一種幻像的記憶。但它還是存在在可感知的形式裡。在瑞士，建築的最高榮譽就是能被授予一塊巧克力。 繼續這一話題。在八九十年代，獨立工作是最被熟知的，比如裝置藝術家，建築師為非盈利組織或博物館所做的計畫。我們還做了很多媒體工作，還有一些實驗性的劇院計畫。在2003年，Whitney組織了一次回顧性的展覽，展出我們八九十年代的工作。但這些工作本身和回顧的性質是相牴觸的這是其中一些展品。這是關於美國旅遊的一個作品。這是對第42街的""軟推銷""，這是建在卡地亞基金會前。在現代藝術「主人與奴隸」，是「寄生」系列中的一部。有許許多多這樣的例子。 總之，他們給了我們完整的第四層樓，關於回顧的最大問題是這是一個我們很不習慣的話題。這有點像是博物館的發明其實應該帶來大眾對某一作品的實體統一的理解。但我們的工作並不能表現任何一種實體有一個不斷重複的主題是，是作品本身中蘊含對博物館的抵制。其本身在質疑博物館的故有形式，比如說白牆。你現在看到的其實是一個把很多裝置組裝在一起的計劃。而且我們其實是需要裝白牆的來分隔這些不同的作品。但同時這些白牆似乎也變成了目標和武器。我們用這些白牆來分隔計畫裡的十三個裝置從而產生一種聽覺和視覺的區隔。 你看到的，其實是紅點連成的線顯示了這個表演元素的路線,這是個新作品，我們創作它是為了這作品是個機器鑽頭，基本上可以到處移動，在博物館裡，穿梭在牆旁，大肆破壞。這個鑽頭是焊在機械手臂上的。我們用這種叫蜜蜂的機械。這是主機。蜜蜂機械設計了火星鑽頭，用這些東西工作，真是件很有樂趣的事。他們沒有做他們的主要工作，為政府工作，他們在幫我們做事。不管怎樣，其工作的原理就是一個智慧導航系統記錄下所有這裡的牆面全部展開大概有300英尺。它在三維空間裡隨意地生成點。它選擇一個點，引導鑽頭去點的位置，再鑿穿那面牆，留下一個半英尺的洞，然後再去下一個點，最開始這些洞是孤立的瑕疵，但在展覽進行中牆上有越來越多的孔。 所以漸漸地，牆兩邊的洞就排成一排了。然後人們能從一個展廳看到另一個展廳裡。一個個隨意打的洞打開了一些牆面。這是一個為期三個月的展覽作品這裡的牆已經變成越來越不堅固的元素了。同時聽覺的區隔也被破壞了。視覺的也是。還有背景中持續不斷的嗡嗡聲，這很令人討厭。這是其中的一個不透光的空間這裡的影像完全沒了用處。所以與其讓牆充當展示作品的素凈背景，現在牆開始主動得到人們的注意力，這種聽覺和視覺上的擾動，基本上釋放了作品對於回顧這個概念的本質的不適應。它開始打破策展準則，這是一件特別好的事。 下一個案子是我們一年前做的。在波士頓的當代藝術協會(ICA)位在碼頭區內。我們沒有時間真正介紹這棟建築。我想簡單說這棟建築是關於兩方面的妥協一方面要著重於外部的自然環境—你們知道，波士頓有很棒的海旁用地—矛盾的是，另一方面內部空間卻著重於博物館。所以，這棟建築的本質是它的外觀—我是說這是這棟建築的首要目的。包括它的實用目的和它的設計效果。建築要融入其環境中，但又不被影響很多，這個博物館是精心設計的。所以你進來的時候，你基本上是被劇院壓扁的，在劇院的中段，進入這個特別壓迫的空間視野關閉的地方。之後你乘坐這個玻璃電梯上升到幕牆附近。這個電梯的大小基本上相當於紐約小型公寓房間。 這裡視線就開闊了，之後你就能進入劇場，這裡能透過布幕打開或者切斷視野。很多音樂家選擇讓劇場的玻璃全部開著。視野在展覽是被阻斷的，我們只能用自然光，然後在朝北的展廳重新開放全景。這個空間的最早創意，雖說很可惜從來沒有實現，是想使用雙凸透镜透過它只能看到一種垂直的景象。在這個連接東和西的狹小的空間裡，這創意不是想創造什麼高潮，而是有一個跟隨你的景色，當你走出前一個景色時，後一個就展現開來了.這個創意被否決了，因為景色實在是太好了，於是市長說「 不，我們只想讓它開著。」建築的想法在這裡派不上用場。 但最後，這是我把這個聯繫到我演講的主題上，是媒體中心，這是懸掛在建設的懸臂部分。這是一具80英尺高的懸臂，它很大很結實。它已經在空間中很突出了，從它上面出來的這個小區域是媒體中心。媒體中心上面有16個工作站大眾能從這裡連到服務器上來觀看數位藝術或網上的藝術策劃。這其實真的是建築中很重要的一部分，有一種說法，沒有技術的建築就只是一個有架構的裝置，它只規劃了海景，這座工業港景色就穿過了它的牆，地板和天花板，只顯示水，水的質感。很像是一個電擊產生的催眠效果或者是熔岩燈什麼之類的。就是在這裡，我們才真正感受到了這個案子裡技術和自然的融合。但這裡並沒有信息，只是假設。 下個例子是林肯中心。50年前，有一群人首先做了這個案子。我們現在接手了，做大規模的改變從小規模的修復，到大的改造和主要設施的擴建。但我們用很少的人力。這是2010年完工後的樣子。為了這次的演講，我想從案子裡分出一個部分，再從這部分拿一部分出來這部分和特殊建築效果有一定關聯。而且它恰好是我們現在執著做的事，它用了一點清除和增加干擾的概念。這是Alice Tully廳，它被塞在Juilliard大樓下又是在這街下的地下好幾層。這是它改造前原來的入口，我們剛剛開始它的改造。我們問自己，為什麼它不能是展覽性的呢，就像大都會歌劇院，或像林肯中心裡的其它建築那樣呢？我們有一件要做的事就是在街上定位出來，擴建大廳，讓人們在路上就能看到它。我們扒光了這個本來密不透風的建築。我們基本上是讓這棟建築跳了一場脫衣舞，我們用這樣的罩篷做了框架，在Juilliard大樓下面三層有一個四萬五千平方英尺的空間，鄰近百老匯，並再用這種罩篷搭了Tully廳的框架。改造之前和之後。等一下，它現在只是這樣，我們還有很多要做。 但我想做的就是用最後剩下的幾秒鐘，來談談這個大廳，這是我們真正做了很多工作的地方。這個大廳是個多功能大廳。客戶要求我們做一個好的小音樂廳。但很難要去規劃一座有1,100個座位的大廳。小音樂廳的概念是用於沙龍和小型演出的。他們希望我們讓建築具備親切感。該如何把親切感帶進大廳？親切感對我們而言有很多不同的理解。包括聽覺和視覺的親切感。 有一件事是地鐵正好在下面穿過，另一件能做的事是改變大廳的形狀。它像個棺材，基本上是把所有的聲音，像保齡球一樣，沿著走廊傳下去。牆是用吸音材料做的，半吸收，半反射，這對於音樂會的音效並不是很好。 這是Avery Fisher大廳, 但關於垃圾，視覺垃圾的概念這對我們除去視覺雜物來說是很重要的。因為我們不能減少座位,建築被侷限在18英吋裡。是個特別特別狹小的建築。一開始我們做了盒狀的空間來區隔，消除地鐵的干擾雜音。之後我們把整個廳包起來，幾乎就像是Olivetti的鍵盤用的是一種木質材料基本上蓋住了所有表面。牆，天花板，地面，舞台，台階和所有東西但其聲學設計是要把聲音集中獻給觀眾再傳回舞台。這是一個聲貨架。向上看大廳裡，只是舞台的一部分。所有東西都是排列整齊的，任何一件你能想像得到的東西都是用這種高性能的表面覆蓋的，還有另一樣特點。 現在我們已經把大廳裡所有形成視覺干擾的元素都除去了，所有阻礙親切感的東西，大廳應該是能把觀眾們與表演聯繫起來的，我們加入了另一個細節，一個額外的建築設計，特殊效果：光，我們相信一個音樂廳的戲劇性表現在中間休息時間和開場的時候。我們想做的就是創造這麼一種效果光影效果，為此我們對木質牆做了生物工程改造。它牽涉到樹脂的使用，一種很厚的樹脂它表面有一層薄板，用和整個大廳的木質材料類似的材料用一種無縫的連續性把整個大廳包起來，像一條光做的帶子，不像台口是把觀眾和表演者分開，這些光把觀眾和表演都聯繫起來。 這是鹽湖城的一個模型它大概能讓你知道完成後會是什麼樣子。這是一個鹽湖城的小伙子那裡的人基本都長這樣。（笑聲）對我們而言，這真的是一件很奇怪的事，但當站在那個廳裡，聽到雜音一點點消失，當觀眾等待演出開始，當幕布或燈光的升起的時，這些牆將會發出光彩，暫時從舞台上偷走一點注意力。這是Tully廳在建造中的樣子。 除了說我多講了幾分鐘外，我沒什麼結語想說。 非常感謝。（掌聲）"
