Talk	en	zh-tw
liz_coleman_s_call_to_reinvent_liberal_arts_education	"College presidents are not the first people who come to mind when the subject is the uses of the creative imagination. So I thought I'd start by telling you how I got here. The story begins in the late '90s. I was invited to meet with leading educators from the newly free Eastern Europe and Russia. They were trying to figure out how to rebuild their universities. Since education under the Soviet Union was essentially propaganda serving the purposes of a state ideology, they appreciated that it would take wholesale transformations if they were to provide an education worthy of free men and women. Given this rare opportunity to start fresh, they chose liberal arts as the most compelling model because of its historic commitment to furthering its students' broadest intellectual, and deepest ethical potential. Having made that decision they came to the United States, home of liberal arts education, to talk with some of us most closely identified with that kind of education. They spoke with a passion, an urgency, an intellectual conviction that, for me, was a voice I had not heard in decades, a dream long forgotten. For, in truth, we had moved light years from the passions that animated them. But for me, unlike them, in my world, the slate was not clean, and what was written on it was not encouraging. In truth, liberal arts education no longer exists — at least genuine liberal arts education — in this country. We have professionalized liberal arts to the point where they no longer provide the breadth of application and the enhanced capacity for civic engagement that is their signature. Over the past century the expert has dethroned the educated generalist to become the sole model of intellectual accomplishment. (Applause) Expertise has for sure had its moments. But the price of its dominance is enormous. Subject matters are broken up into smaller and smaller pieces, with increasing emphasis on the technical and the obscure. We have even managed to make the study of literature arcane. You may think you know what is going on in that Jane Austen novel — that is, until your first encounter with postmodern deconstructionism. The progression of today's college student is to jettison every interest except one. And within that one, to continually narrow the focus, learning more and more about less and less; this, despite the evidence all around us of the interconnectedness of things. Lest you think I exaggerate, here are the beginnings of the A-B-Cs of anthropology. As one moves up the ladder, values other than technical competence are viewed with increasing suspicion. Questions such as, ""What kind of a world are we making? What kind of a world should we be making? What kind of a world can we be making?"" are treated with more and more skepticism, and move off the table. In so doing, the guardians of secular democracy in effect yield the connection between education and values to fundamentalists, who, you can be sure, have no compunctions about using education to further their values: the absolutes of a theocracy. Meanwhile, the values and voices of democracy are silent. Either we have lost touch with those values or, no better, believe they need not or cannot be taught. This aversion to social values may seem at odds with the explosion of community service programs. But despite the attention paid to these efforts, they remain emphatically extracurricular. In effect, civic-mindedness is treated as outside the realm of what purports to be serious thinking and adult purposes. Simply put, when the impulse is to change the world, the academy is more likely to engender a learned helplessness than to create a sense of empowerment. This brew — oversimplification of civic engagement, idealization of the expert, fragmentation of knowledge, emphasis on technical mastery, neutrality as a condition of academic integrity — is toxic when it comes to pursuing the vital connections between education and the public good, between intellectual integrity and human freedom, which were at the heart — (Applause) — of the challenge posed to and by my European colleagues. When the astronomical distance between the realities of the academy and the visionary intensity of this challenge were more than enough, I can assure you, to give one pause, what was happening outside higher education made backing off unthinkable. Whether it was threats to the environment, inequities in the distribution of wealth, lack of a sane policy or a sustainable policy with respect to the continuing uses of energy, we were in desperate straits. And that was only the beginning. The corrupting of our political life had become a living nightmare; nothing was exempt — separation of powers, civil liberties, the rule of law, the relationship of church and state. Accompanied by a squandering of the nation's material wealth that defied credulity. A harrowing predilection for the uses of force had become commonplace, with an equal distaste for the alternative forms of influence. At the same time, all of our firepower was impotent when it came to halting or even stemming the slaughter in Rwanda, Darfur, Myanmar. Our public education, once a model for the world, has become most noteworthy for its failures. Mastery of basic skills and a bare minimum of cultural literacy eludes vast numbers of our students. Despite having a research establishment that is the envy of the world, more than half of the American public don't believe in evolution. And don't press your luck about how much those who do believe in it actually understand it. Incredibly, this nation, with all its material, intellectual and spiritual resources, seems utterly helpless to reverse the freefall in any of these areas. Equally startling, from my point of view, is the fact that no one was drawing any connections between what is happening to the body politic, and what is happening in our leading educational institutions. We may be at the top of the list when it comes to influencing access to personal wealth. We are not even on the list when it comes to our responsibility for the health of this democracy. We are playing with fire. You can be sure Jefferson knew what he was talking about when he said, ""If a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization, it expects what never was, and never will be."" (Applause) On a more personal note, this betrayal of our principles, our decency, our hope, made it impossible for me to avoid the question, ""What will I say, years from now, when people ask, 'Where were you?'"" As president of a leading liberal arts college, famous for its innovative history, there were no excuses. So the conversation began at Bennington. Knowing that if we were to regain the integrity of liberal education, it would take radical rethinking of basic assumptions, beginning with our priorities. Enhancing the public good becomes a primary objective. The accomplishment of civic virtue is tied to the uses of intellect and imagination at their most challenging. Our ways of approaching agency and authority turn inside out to reflect the reality that no one has the answers to the challenges facing citizens in this century, and everyone has the responsibility for trying and participating in finding them. Bennington would continue to teach the arts and sciences as areas of immersion that acknowledge differences in personal and professional objectives. But the balances redressed, our shared purposes assume an equal if not greater importance. When the design emerged it was surprisingly simple and straightforward. The idea is to make the political-social challenges themselves — from health and education to the uses of force — the organizers of the curriculum. They would assume the commanding role of traditional disciplines. But structures designed to connect, rather than divide mutually dependent circles, rather than isolating triangles. And the point is not to treat these topics as topics of study, but as frameworks of action. The challenge: to figure out what it will take to actually do something that makes a significant and sustainable difference. Contrary to widely held assumptions, an emphasis on action provides a special urgency to thinking. The importance of coming to grips with values like justice, equity, truth, becomes increasingly evident as students discover that interest alone cannot tell them what they need to know when the issue is rethinking education, our approach to health, or strategies for achieving an economics of equity. The value of the past also comes alive; it provides a lot of company. You are not the first to try to figure this out, just as you are unlikely to be the last. Even more valuable, history provides a laboratory in which we see played out the actual, as well as the intended consequences of ideas. In the language of my students, ""Deep thought matters when you're contemplating what to do about things that matter."" A new liberal arts that can support this action-oriented curriculum has begun to emerge. Rhetoric, the art of organizing the world of words to maximum effect. Design, the art of organizing the world of things. Mediation and improvisation also assume a special place in this new pantheon. Quantitative reasoning attains its proper position at the heart of what it takes to manage change where measurement is crucial. As is a capacity to discriminate systematically between what is at the core and what is at the periphery. And when making connections is of the essence, the power of technology emerges with special intensity. But so does the importance of content. The more powerful our reach, the more important the question ""About what?"" When improvisation, resourcefulness, imagination are key, artists, at long last, take their place at the table, when strategies of action are in the process of being designed. In this dramatically expanded ideal of a liberal arts education where the continuum of thought and action is its life's blood, knowledge honed outside the academy becomes essential. Social activists, business leaders, lawyers, politicians, professionals will join the faculty as active and ongoing participants in this wedding of liberal education to the advancement of the public good. Students, in turn, continuously move outside the classroom to engage the world directly. And of course, this new wine needs new bottles if we are to capture the liveliness and dynamism of this idea. The most important discovery we made in our focus on public action was to appreciate that the hard choices are not between good and evil, but between competing goods. This discovery is transforming. It undercuts self-righteousness, radically alters the tone and character of controversy, and enriches dramatically the possibilities for finding common ground. Ideology, zealotry, unsubstantiated opinions simply won't do. This is a political education, to be sure. But it is a politics of principle, not of partisanship. So the challenge for Bennington is to do it. On the cover of Bennington's 2008 holiday card is the architect's sketch of a building opening in 2010 that is to be a center for the advancement of public action. The center will embody and sustain this new educational commitment. Think of it as a kind of secular church. The words on the card describe what will happen inside. We intend to turn the intellectual and imaginative power, passion and boldness of our students, faculty and staff to developing strategies for acting on the critical challenges of our time. So we are doing our job. While these past weeks have been a time of national exhilaration in this country, it would be tragic if you thought this meant your job was done. The glacial silence we have experienced in the face of the shredding of the constitution, the unraveling of our public institutions, the deterioration of our infrastructure is not limited to the universities. We the people have become inured to our own irrelevance when it comes to doing anything significant about anything that matters concerning governance, beyond waiting another four years. We persist also in being sidelined by the idea of the expert as the only one capable of coming up with answers, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary. The problem is there is no such thing as a viable democracy made up of experts, zealots, politicians and spectators. (Applause) People will continue and should continue to learn everything there is to know about something or other. We actually do it all the time. And there will be and should be those who spend a lifetime pursuing a very highly defined area of inquiry. But this single-mindedness will not yield the flexibilities of mind, the multiplicity of perspectives, the capacities for collaboration and innovation this country needs. That is where you come in. What is certain is that the individual talent exhibited in such abundance here, needs to turn its attention to that collaborative, messy, frustrating, contentious and impossible world of politics and public policy. President Obama and his team simply cannot do it alone. If the question of where to start seems overwhelming you are at the beginning, not the end of this adventure. Being overwhelmed is the first step if you are serious about trying to get at things that really matter, on a scale that makes a difference. So what do you do when you feel overwhelmed? Well, you have two things. You have a mind. And you have other people. Start with those, and change the world. (Applause)"	說起創造力和想像力人們往往不會先想到大學校長所以，我覺得有必要先告訴各位今天我來到這裡的淵源 起源至1990年代我接觸了一些重要的教育家他們來自新成立的東歐各國以及俄羅斯他們想重建當地大學因為過去蘇維埃的教育本質上是政治宣傳服務于國家的意識形態他們認識到，如果要提供配得上民主國家人民的教育他們的教育還需要全方位的變革有了這樣一次重新開始的機會他們認定博雅教育是最適切的一種模式因為，古往今來，博雅教育就致力於擴展學生的智識潛能和樹立堅實的道德水準 此番決定之後，他們來到美國—博雅教育的發源地—與我們中一些人進行交流因為我們被認作與這種教育有著緊密聯繫的一批人他們帶著殷切的熱情和知識份子的使命感來和我們進行交流對我來說，這種渴望，在過往的幾十年中，已變得十分陌生就像一個被遺忘的理想事實上，我們與這種點燃他們的熱情已經光年之遠了但是，我卻不一樣我的熱情仍未殆盡雖然現狀差強人意。 事實上，博雅教育已經消失了。至少在這個國家，真正的博雅教育已經不復存在。我們所謂專業化的博雅教育并沒有實現知識應用的廣度以及公民參與的程度這是現在博雅教育的特徵在過去的一個世紀有專家摘下了通才的桂冠認為他們不再是智識成就的唯一代表 專家固然必不可少但是他們的主導地位的代價是巨大的學科門類正在逐漸細分產生了很多小領域並且逐漸強調技術和晦澀的知識我們甚至把文學變成了艱深難懂的知識你以為自己明白了簡·奧斯汀的一部小說確實除非你碰到後現代解構主義 當今大學生傾向於保留一個興趣，拋棄其他所有的而在這一個興趣中，又不斷的細化學習越來越久，但是卻越來越狹隘雖然周圍有很多證據顯示知識的關聯性這一傾向已然存在爲了不讓你們覺得我在誇大其詞我在這裡列出人類學分支的冰山一角隨著人在求學道路上越走越遠技能以外的價值受到了越來越多的質疑如下問題”我們在創造一個什麼樣的世界？“”我們應該創作一個什麼樣的世界？“”我們能夠創造什麼樣的世界？“面臨著越來越多的懷疑并逐漸從人們的話題中消失 這樣以來，世俗民主的衛士們實際上將教育和價值觀之間的聯繫拱手讓給了原教主義者可以確信的是這些人不會有任何顧慮利用教育來推廣他們的觀念也就是政教合一同時，民主的價值觀和聲音銷聲匿跡不是我們腦中這種價值觀分崩離析就是我們不再認為這些價值觀是可以傳授的對社會價值觀的背離可能與目前社區服務的興起背道而馳儘管對這些努力的關注很多它們仍然是作為一種課外活動實際上，公德心已經被排除在所謂的嚴肅思想和成人追求之外了簡單來說，如果抱有改變世界的衝動學術界更容易產生一種知識份子的無助而缺乏一種責任和擔當 這種對公民參與的過度簡化對專家作用的理想化知識的零散化強調技能掌握將學術誠實基於立場不明對於教育和公共利益之間的聯繫對於知識份子的品德和人類自由的聯繫是有毒害作用的這些威脅存在於這些歐洲同行心中也是他們所面臨的核心挑戰現實和願景之間的差別十分巨大這種差別帶來的挑戰的程度之深足以讓人們不止一次駐足思考高等教育之外的種種是我們不得不有所作為 不管是對環境的威脅財富分配不均還是能源的利用的一些理智的和環保的政策我們身處困境更不幸的是，這僅僅是開始我們腐朽的政治氛圍已經成了活生生的噩夢各方面都無一倖免從分權，公民自由到法治還有宗教和政治的關係此外，還有讓人難以置信的對資源不加節制的濫用熱衷使用武力這些都屢見不鮮對於其他正面的影響卻不予考慮與此同時當盧旺達，達爾富爾和緬甸飽受屠殺之苦時我們的炮火卻沒有為他們爭取平安，顯得格外無力 我們的公共教育，一度是世界的楷模現在卻是每況愈下而聲名狼藉很多學生缺乏對基本技能的掌握文化常識也少得可憐儘管我們的研究機構是世界一流的卻有超過半數的美國人不相信進化論你們也不要試圖相信那些相信進化論的人確實理解 難以置信的是這個擁有豐富物質，知識和精神財富的國家卻無法應對這些方面的每況愈下似乎徹徹底底地無可救藥在我看來更驚人的是沒有人意識到發生在社會中政治和一流教育機構所面臨變化之間的關係談及對財富創造渠道的影響教育是邀功的但是說到對民主社會的責任教育機構卻規避我們正在玩火自焚當傑斐遜說到“在一個文明國家，若指望在無知中得到自由過去從未有過，將來也絕辦不到”他清楚地知道他要表達什麽(鼓掌) 用我自己的話來說對我們的建國理念我們社會的要義和希望的背叛使我不得不面臨這樣一個問題當數年之後，人們問我“你那時在幹什麼去了？”我該如何回答？作為一個博雅教育的校長尤其當這個學校富有革新傳統我有義不容辭的責任所以，本寧頓首先展開了討論我們意識到如果要復原博雅教育的真實面貌對於一些基本的前提我們需要做一些本質的思考從最重要的方面開始首要目標是提升公共利益要形成良好的公民道德離不開學生充分調動他們的智力和想像力 我們面對政府和各種機構發現沒有人能找到本世紀人民所面臨問題的靈丹妙藥但是，人人都有責任參與進來，尋找應對挑戰的方法本寧頓將矢志不渝教授人文和科學學科交叉授課，照顧個人和職業需求但是權重改變了共同目標現在贏得了至少相同的重視 這套設計其實十分簡單和直白主要就是，將政治，社會問題包括醫療，教育武力使用作為課程設計的風向標與傳統課程想必，他們處於至高地位但是，我們構想的目的是融合學科，而不是孤立是讓學科之間密不可分而不是斷絕的結點很重要的一點是不要將它們學術化而是當做行文準則挑戰在於，認識到需要什麽才能真正的帶來一些意義重大影響深遠的變化 與傳統的觀點不同強調行動會促進思考理解公正，公平真理的價值觀的意義變得日趨明朗正如學生發現那樣單單靠興趣他們不能認識到在反思醫療，教育公平經濟時他們需要什麼樣的知識歷史的價值也顯現出來很多過往人物都在思考這些問題正如台下的你不會是第一個也不會是最後一個思考這些問題的人一樣更珍貴的是透過歷史我們可以看到一些認識所帶來的確實和理想變化 用我學生的話來說就是“當你考慮如何做重要的事時，”深思熟慮很必要。“提倡這種以行動為導向的博雅教育正在興起包括研究如何使語言發揮最大效力的修辭學還有組織萬物的藝術—設計冥想和即興反應都在新的框架中享有一席之地定量推理也必不可少對於認識一些變化測量是十分重要的系統區分核心問題和邊緣問題的能力也是同樣重要的 此外，當融合成為關鍵科技的力量會愈益顯現但是，內容也同樣重要我們的觸角伸得越廣“關於什麽”的問題就愈發重要當即興創作，足智多謀和想像力成為關鍵當我們設計行動方略時藝術家終於確立了他們的位置我們設想的博雅教育其意義有廣闊的外延連續的思考和行動是這種教育模式的生命所系學術之外習得的知識是必不可少的社會活動家，商業領袖律師，政治家以及各業界精英將積極參與，成為長期教員促進博雅教育和公共利益的協調發展相反地，學生的格局將超越教室與這個世界進行直接互動 當然新酒需要新瓶裝如果要體現這一理念的生機和活力在我們強調公共服務的過程中我們最重要的收穫是意識到這些艱難選擇不存在於好壞之間而是如何做到利益最大化這一收穫有著革新意義自以為是會受到非議應對紛爭的氣氛和方式將大大改變並且極大促進形成共同立場的可能性意識形態，狂熱沒有支撐的觀點將無濟於事可以確信，這會是一次政治教育但是，是涉及原則的政治而不是黨派立場本寧頓面臨的最大挑戰就是去踐行這一切 在本寧頓2008年的賀卡上描繪著一副設計作品這是一個將於2010年投入使用的推進公共參與的中心這個中心將整合并為喜這一全新的教育理念不妨將此看做一個世俗教堂賀卡上的話語描繪了這個中心的願景我們會將學生，教師和其他職工強大，充滿激情十分果敢的智力和想像力的致力於設計能應對當今時代核心挑戰的策略 我們正在努力雖然過去幾周我們的國家一片歡騰但是如果你認為任務已經完成那只怕是十分可悲的我們經歷了冰封般的沉寂對憲法的蔑視公共機構的無能基礎設施的破敗并不限於大學內作為人民我們已經習慣於漠不關心對於重大的事我們毫無作為尤其對於不滿意的治理者我們什麽都不做，只是再等一個四年我們總是認為專家才能給出答案進而把我們自己的答案排除在外儘管大量事實與此相反 事實上，根本沒有一種民主制度是由專家，狂熱分子，政治家和旁觀者組成的（鼓掌）人們將要繼續，也應該繼續學習聯繫的知識我們其實一直致力於此此外，將會有，並且應該產生一批傾其一生專研一個領域的學者但是這種一門心思的興趣不會妨礙多角度的靈活思考不會壓縮協作和創新的空間我們的國家需要這些這就是你們參與的時刻可以確信的是活躍於此的聰明才智需要把目光投向那個協作，混亂，令人沮喪，充滿爭議和不可理喻的充滿政治和公共政策的世界僅僅靠奧巴馬總統團隊不能完成這個艱巨任務 假如從何下手是一個壓倒性的問題你已經站在了起點，而不是這終點如果你真的想瞭解一些真正重要的事情並且做出一些貢獻壓倒性的感受往往是第一階段當你感到這種壓倒性的時候，你會怎麼做？你有兩樣東西可以利用第一是你的大腦，第二是你的同胞就以此為始，改變世界 （鼓掌）
