Talk	en	zh-tw
louise_fresco_on_feeding_the_whole_world	"I'm not at all a cook. So don't fear, this is not going to be a cooking demonstration. But I do want to talk to you about something that I think is dear to all of us. And that is bread — something which is as simple as our basic, most fundamental human staple. And I think few of us spend the day without eating bread in some form. Unless you're on one of these Californian low-carb diets, bread is standard. Bread is not only standard in the Western diet. As I will show to you, it is actually the mainstay of modern life. So I'm going to bake bread for you. In the meantime I'm also talking to you, so my life is going to be complicated. Bear with me. First of all, a little bit of audience participation. I have two loaves of bread here. One is a supermarket standard: white bread, pre-packaged, which I'm told is called a Wonderbread. (Laughter) I didn't know this word until I arrived. And this is more or less, a whole-meal, handmade, small-bakery loaf of bread. Here we go. I want to see a show of hands. Who prefers the whole-meal bread? Okay let me do this differently. Is anybody preferring the Wonderbread at all? (Laughter) I have two tentative male hands. (Laughter) Okay, now the question is really, why is this so? And I think it is because we feel that this kind of bread really is about authenticity. It's about a traditional way of living. A way that is perhaps more real, more honest. This is an image from Tuscany, where we feel agriculture is still about beauty. And life is really, too. And this is about good taste, good traditions. Why do we have this image? Why do we feel that this is more true than this? Well I think it has a lot to do with our history. In the 10,000 years since agriculture evolved, most of our ancestors have actually been agriculturalists or they were closely related to food production. And we have this mythical image of how life was in rural areas in the past. Art has helped us to maintain that kind of image. It was a mythical past. Of course, the reality is quite different. These poor farmers working the land by hand or with their animals, had yield levels that are comparable to the poorest farmers today in West Africa. But we have, somehow, in the course of the last few centuries, or even decades, started to cultivate an image of a mythical, rural agricultural past. It was only 200 years ago that we had the advent of the Industrial Revolution. And while I'm starting to make some bread for you here, it's very important to understand what that revolution did to us. It brought us power. It brought us mechanization, fertilizers. And it actually drove up our yields. And even sort of horrible things, like picking beans by hand, can now be done automatically. All that is a real, great improvement, as we shall see. Of course we also, particularly in the last decade, managed to envelop the world in a dense chain of supermarkets, in a chain of global trade. And it means that you now eat products, which can come from all around the world. That is the reality of our modern life. Now you may prefer this loaf of bread. Excuse my hands but this is how it is. But actually the real relevant bread, historically, is this white Wonder loaf. And don't despise the white bread because it really, I think, symbolizes the fact that bread and food have become plentiful and affordable to all. And that is a feat that we are not really conscious of that much. But it has changed the world. This tiny bread that is tasteless in some ways and has a lot of problems has changed the world. So what is happening? Well the best way to look at that is to do a tiny bit of simplistic statistics. With the advent of the Industrial Revolution with modernization of agriculture in the last few decades, since the 1960s, food availability, per head, in this world, has increased by 25 percent. And the world population in the meantime has doubled. That means that we have now more food available than ever before in human history. And that is the result, directly, of being so successful at increasing the scale and volume of our production. And this is true, as you can see, for all countries, including the so-called developing countries. What happened to our bread in the meantime? As food became plentiful here, it also meant that we were able to decrease the number of people working in agriculture to something like, on average, in the high income countries, five percent or less of the population. In the U.S. only one percent of the people are actually farmers. And it frees us all up to do other things — to sit at TED meetings and not to worry about our food. That is, historically, a really unique situation. Never before has the responsibility to feed the world been in the hands of so few people. And never before have so many people been oblivious of that fact. So as food became more plentiful, bread became cheaper. And as it became cheaper, bread manufacturers decided to add in all kinds of things. We added in more sugar. We add in raisins and oil and milk and all kinds of things to make bread, from a simple food into kind of a support for calories. And today, bread now is associated with obesity, which is very strange. It is the basic, most fundamental food that we've had in the last ten thousand years. Wheat is the most important crop — the first crop we domesticated and the most important crop we still grow today. But this is now this strange concoction of high calories. And that's not only true in this country, it is true all over the world. Bread has migrated to tropical countries, where the middle classes now eat French rolls and hamburgers and where the commuters find bread much more handy to use than rice or cassava. So bread has become from a main staple, a source of calories associated with obesity and also a source of modernity, of modern life. And the whiter the bread, in many countries, the better it is. So this is the story of bread as we know it now. But of course the price of mass production has been that we moved large-scale. And large-scale has meant destruction of many of our landscapes, destruction of biodiversity — still a lonely emu here in the Brazilian cerrado soybean fields. The costs have been tremendous — water pollution, all the things you know about, destruction of our habitats. What we need to do is to go back to understanding what our food is about. And this is where I have to query all of you. How many of you can actually tell wheat apart from other cereals? How many of you actually can make a bread in this way, without starting with a bread machine or just some kind of packaged flavor? Can you actually bake bread? Do you know how much a loaf of bread actually costs? We have become very removed from what our bread really is, which, again, evolutionarily speaking, is very strange. In fact not many of you know that our bread, of course, was not a European invention. It was invented by farmers in Iraq and Syria in particular. The tiny spike on the left to the center is actually the forefather of wheat. This is where it all comes from, and where these farmers who actually, ten thousand years ago, put us on the road of bread. Now it is not surprising that with this massification and large-scale production, there is a counter-movement that emerged — very much also here in California. The counter-movement says, ""Let's go back to this. Let's go back to traditional farming. Let's go back to small-scale, to farmers' markets, small bakeries and all that."" Wonderful. Don't we all agree? I certainly agree. I would love to go back to Tuscany to this kind of traditional setting, gastronomy, good food. But this is a fallacy. And the fallacy comes from idealizing a past that we have forgotten about. If we do this, if we want to stay with traditional small-scale farming we are going, actually, to relegate these poor farmers and their husbands — among whom I have lived for many years, working without electricity and water, to try to improve their food production — we relegate them to poverty. What they want are implements to increase their production: something to fertilize the soil, something to protect their crop and to bring it to a market. We cannot just think that small-scale is the solution to the world food problem. It's a luxury solution for us who can afford it, if you want to afford it. In fact we do not want this poor woman to work the land like this. If we say just small-scale production, as is the tendency here, to go back to local food means that a poor man like Hans Rosling cannot even eat oranges anymore because in Scandinavia we don't have oranges. So local food production is out. But also we do not want to relegate to poverty in the rural areas. And we do not want to relegate the urban poor to starvation. So we must find other solutions. One of our problems is that world food production needs to increase very rapidly — doubling by about 2030. The main driver of that is actually meat. And meat consumption in Southeast Asia and China in particular is what drives the prices of cereals. That need for animal protein is going to continue. We can discuss alternatives in another talk, perhaps one day, but this is our driving force. So what can we do? Can we find a solution to produce more? Yes. But we need mechanization. And I'm making a real plea here. I feel so strongly that you cannot ask a small farmer to work the land and bend over to grow a hectare of rice, 150,000 times, just to plant a crop and weed it. You cannot ask people to work under these conditions. We need clever low-key mechanization that avoids the problems of the large-scale mechanization that we've had. So what can we do? We must feed three billion people in cities. We will not do that through small farmers' markets because these people have no small farmers' markets at their disposal. They have low incomes. And they benefit from cheap, affordable, safe and diverse food. That's what we must aim for in the next 20 to 30 years. But yes there are some solutions. And let me just do one simple conceptual thing: if I plot science as a proxy for control of the production process and scale. What you see is that we've started in the left-hand corner with traditional agriculture, which was sort of small-scale and low-control. We've moved towards large-scale and very high control. What I want us to do is to keep up the science and even get more science in there but go to a kind of regional scale — not just in terms of the scale of the fields, but in terms of the entire food network. That's where we should move. And the ultimate may be, but it doesn't apply to cereals, that we have entirely closed ecosystems — the horticultural systems right at the top left-hand corner. So we need to think differently about agriculture science. Agriculture science for most people — and there are not many farmers among you here — has this name of being bad, of being about pollution, about large-scale, about the destruction of the environment. That is not necessary. We need more science and not less. And we need good science. So what kind of science can we have? Well first of all I think we can do much better on the existing technologies. Use biotechnology where useful, particularly in pest and disease resistance. There are also robots, for example, who can recognize weeds with a resolution of half an inch. We have much cleverer irrigation. We do not need to spill the water if we don't want to. And we need to think very dispassionately about the comparative advantages of small-scale and large-scale. We need to think that land is multi-functional. It has different functions. There are different ways in which we must use it — for residential, for nature, for agriculture purposes. And we also need to re-examine livestock. Go regional and go to urban food systems. I want to see fish ponds in parking lots and basements. I want to have horticulture and greenhouses on top of residential areas. And I want to use the energy that comes from those greenhouses and from the fermentation of crops to heat our residential areas. There are all kinds of ways we can do it. We cannot solve the world food problem by using biological agriculture. But we can do a lot more. And the main thing that I would really ask all of you as you go back to your countries, or as you stay here: ask your government for an integrated food policy. Food is as important as energy, as security, as the environment. Everything is linked together. So we can do that. In fact in a densely populated country like the River Delta, where I live in the Netherlands, we have combined these functions. So this is not science fiction. We can combine things even in a social sense of making the rural areas more accessible to people — to house, for example, the chronically sick. There is all kinds of things we can do. But there is something you must do. It's not enough for me to say, ""Let's get more bold science into agriculture."" You must go back and think about your own food chain. Talk to farmers. When was the last time you went to a farm and talked to a farmer? Talk to people in restaurants. Understand where you are in the food chain, where your food comes from. Understand that you are part of this enormous chain of events. And that frees you up to do other things. And above all, to me, food is about respect. It's about understanding, when you eat, that there are also many people who are still in this situation, who are still struggling for their daily food. And the kind of simplistic solutions that we sometimes have, to think that doing everything by hand is going to be the solution, is really not morally justified. We need to help to lift them out of poverty. We need to make them proud of being a farmer because they allow us to survive. Never before, as I said, has the responsibility for food been in the hands of so few. And never before have we had the luxury of taking it for granted because it is now so cheap. And I think there is nobody else who has expressed better, to me, the idea that food, in the end, in our own tradition, is something holy. It's not about nutrients and calories. It's about sharing. It's about honesty. It's about identity. Who said this so beautifully was Mahatma Gandhi, 75 years ago, when he spoke about bread. He did not speak about rice, in India. He said, ""To those who have to go without two meals a day, God can only appear as bread."" And so as I'm finishing my bread here — and I've been baking it, and I'll try not to burn my hands. Let me share with those of you here in the first row. Let me share some of the food with you. Take some of my bread. And as you eat it, and as you try it — please come and stand up. Have some of it. I want you to think that every bite connects you to the past and the future: to these anonymous farmers, that first bred the first wheat varieties; and to the farmers of today, who've been making this. And you don't even know who they are. Every meal you eat contains ingredients from all across the world. Everything makes us so privileged, that we can eat this food, that we don't struggle every day. And that, I think, evolutionarily-speaking is unique. We've never had that before. So enjoy your bread. Eat it, and feel privileged. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我不是一位廚師，所以別害怕，我不是來示範如何烹飪的，我想要跟各位談一些我覺得對每一個人都很重要的事情，也就是麵包，就是我們人類最基本的主食。很少有人一整天都沒吃到一塊麵包，除非你崇尚的是加州低碳水化合物的飲食，否則麵包應該是標準飲食。對西方人而言，麵包不只是標準飲食而已，我待會兒會讓你們知道，麵包還是現代生活的支柱。 我要幫你們烤一些麵包，順便再說說話，所以會有點複雜，請容忍一下。首先，我要讓你們也參與一下，我這裡有二條麵包，一條是超市裡賣的標準麵包，白麵包、包裝過的麵包，有人說這是「神奇麵包」。(笑聲)來之前我還不知道有人這樣稱呼這種麵包。這一條則是手工製作的全麥麵包，由小型烘焙坊所製作的麵包。好，現在我要你們舉手投票，喜歡全麥麵包的請舉手？好，我們再試另外一種，有誰喜歡「神奇麵包」？(笑聲)有二個男性伸出他們猶豫的手哦...(笑聲) 好，真正的問題來了，為什麼會這樣？我認為這是因為大家覺得這種麵包比較真實，代表我們傳統的生活方式，比較真實、也比較誠實。這是來自托斯卡尼的印象，我們認為那裡的農業很美，生活也很美，吃這種麵包就表示有品味、重視傳統。我們為什麼會有這種印象？為什麼我們會覺得這種麵包會比這種來得真實？我覺得這和我們的歷史有關，自從農業發展一萬年以來，我們大部分的祖先都從事農業，或是從事和食物生產極為相關的行業，所以我們才會有這種錯誤的印象，認為以前的人都是住在鄉村，而藝術作品也強化了這種印象，讓我們誤解了過去的生活。當然，真實情形是截然不同的，這些窮苦的農夫，用雙手或牲畜在農地上工作，他們所產出的糧食數量僅能和今日西非最窮苦的農夫相比。但我們竟然在過去幾個世紀、甚至幾十年裡，對過去的農村生活產生了錯誤的印象。 工業革命迄今，也不過二百年而已，在我一邊幫你們烘烤麵包的同時，我要讓你們知道，工業革命對我們造成了什麼影響。工業革命帶來了電力、機械和肥料，提昇了農業生產力，就連以往最難處理的部分，像是用手挑揀豆子，都可以用自動機械來取代。這是一大改善，也是很棒的改善。尤其是在過去十年裡，我們形成了一個全球交易市場，我們試圖把整個世界都裝進超級市場裡，這表示你現在所吃的食物，有可能來自全世界各地，這才是我們現代生活的真實樣貌。你現在可能比較喜歡這條麵包，原諒我的手很髒，但做麵包就是會這樣， 實際上過去真正的麵包，其實是這條「神奇麵包」白麵包，而且不要瞧不起這條白麵包，因為我認為，這條白麵包象徵了我們的麵包及食物豐腴無缺，而且每個人都買得起；這個輝煌的成績，雖不被世人所重視，但卻改變了全世界。這塊小麵包嚐起來淡而無味，還有許多瑕疵，卻改變了世界。到底發生了什麼事？要瞭解這件事，最簡單的作法就是做一份簡單的統計。由於工業革命的興起，在過去數十年間，帶來農業現代化，自1960年起，世界上每個人所能享有的食物，已增加了百分之25。在此同時，全世界的人口亦增加了一倍之多，這表示，我們現在所能享有的食物，是人類有史以來最多的時刻。這得歸功於我們在擴展農業的規模及產量上的非凡成就，而且每個國家都有相同的成就，就連開發中國家也是如此。 在這期間，我們的麵包發生了什麼事？由於食物的供給變多，這表示我們可以減少農業勞動人口，在高收入國家裡，平均來說，大約只有低於百分之五的人從事農業，美國則只有百分之一的人口務農。這讓我們其他人有餘力去做其他事情，像是坐在這裡聽TED演講，而不必擔心食物沒有著落。這在人類的歷史上，的確是非常特殊的情況，在此之前，歷史上從來沒有一刻，由這麼少的人負起供應全世界糧食的重任；而歷史上也從來沒有發生過，有這麼多人不必擔心糧食問題。 一旦食物供給增加，麵包也變得便宜了；一旦麵包變得便宜，麵包工廠就決定加入其他材料，像是加更多的糖、葡萄乾、油和牛奶等，加入各種材料來製作麵包，把麵包從單純的食物變成會增加卡路里的食物。現在，麵包已和肥胖連在一起了，這真的很奇怪，因為麵包是我們過去一千年來所吃的最基本的食物。小麥是最重要的農作物，也是我們最早開始耕作、到目前還在持續耕作的最重要的農作物， 但是卻因為現代添加了許多奇怪的材料，而被視為高卡路里的食物，而且不只我們國家的人民這麼想，全世界的人都這麼想。麵包已經傳到熱帶國家了，那裡的中產階級享用著法國捲和漢堡，通勤的人則發現麵包比米飯或樹薯粉做成的食物更易於攜帶。所以麵包已經從主食的角色，變成卡路里的來源，還和肥胖扯上關係，同時也代表了時尚和現代化的生活。在許多國家裡，愈白的麵包就表示愈好， 這就是我們現在所認識的麵包。但是，大規模的農業生產是要付出代價的，大規模農作就表示要破壞我們的景觀、破壞生物的多樣性，這裡有隻孤單的鴯鶓，站在巴西生態保護區的黃豆田裡。我們付出了昂貴的代價，包括水源污染、生態破壞，以及你所知道的一切破壞。 我們現在要做的，是回過頭去瞭解我們所吃的食物，這也是我要問你們的問題，你們有誰能分辨小麥和其他穀物？你們有誰可以用這種方法製作麵包，而不需要使用麵包機，或是不添加人工香料？你會烘烤麵包嗎？你知道一條麵包的真正價值嗎？我們現在已經變得愈來愈不瞭解麵包的真正意義，以演化的角度來說，這是很奇怪的事。事實上，你們之中可能只有少數人知道麵包不是歐洲人發明的，麵包其實是伊拉克和敘利亞的農夫發明的。從左邊到中間的這些麥穗，其實是小麥的祖先，這是小麥的演化過程。一千年以前，農夫就是用這些小麥為我們製作出麵包的， 但現在，在我們擁有大規模生產的能力之後，竟然產生了一股相反的潮流，加州也興起這股潮流，這股潮流倡議：「我們要回歸過去，回歸過去的傳統農業，重回小規模農作，讓農夫經營自己的小型市場，我們要小型的麵包烘焙坊。」很棒吧？有誰會不同意？我就很贊成。我也希望能重回托斯卡尼的生活，那裡有傳統的擺設、傳統的烹調方式，還有美味的食物。但是這種論調不對，這種論調是把我們過去的生活理想化了，但過去生活的真實樣貌卻沒人記得。 如果我們真的這樣做，真的回復到傳統的小規模農作，我們將會讓這些農夫回復到沒水、沒電的日子，整天只想著如何提高產量，我在過去數年已陪伴許多農夫度過這種日子。我們會讓他們再度體會貧窮，農夫所需要的就是能幫助他們提高產量的農具，像是能滋養土地的肥料，讓他們能保護他們的農作，以便到市場販賣。我們不能以為小規模農作可以解決世界糧食問題，那是我們這種負擔得起的人想出來的奢侈方法，還得要你願意負擔才行。事實上，我們不希望看到這位窮苦的女性像這樣在農地上工作。如果我們說小規模農作只是這裡的趨勢而已，我們希望自給自足，但這就表示像Hans Rosling這種窮人，再也吃不到橘子了，因為斯堪地那維亞並不產橘子。所以自給自足這招行不通。我們不希望鄉村回復到貧窮狀態，我們也不希望都市裡的窮人挨餓，所以我們一定要找到其他的解決方法。 快速增加全球糧食供給會是我們首要解決的問題之一，在2030年前必須讓糧食供給倍增，最主要的原因是肉品的消耗，因為在南亞及中國，肉品的消耗導致穀物價格的波動。人們對動物性蛋白的需求量會持續增加，我們當然可以找一天來談談是否有其他替代方案，但這確實是導致穀物需求增加的主要因素，那我們該怎麼辦？我們可以想什麼辦法來增加產量嗎？可以的，但我們得靠機械化生產。在此，我要提出一個誠懇的呼籲，我強烈希望大家不要要求一個小農夫，在一公頃的稻田裡彎身工作，他得彎身15萬次，才能種好所有的稻米，才能完成除草工作。你不能要求任何人在這種環境下工作，我們需要機械的幫助，但我們不要大規模機械耕種所會帶來的問題， 那我們該怎麼做？我們要供應三十億都市人的糧食，小型農夫市場無法提供這種規模的糧食，因為這些都市人口無法負擔小型農夫市場的價格，他們的收入微薄，他們需要的是便宜、負擔得起的、安全的各類型食物，這是我們未來20年到30年需要努力的目標。 但我們還有其他的解決方案，讓我先做一個簡單的概念性示範：如果我把科學進步的程度當成衡量指標，用以衡量生產的過程與規模，你會看到在我們的左手邊，是傳統型的農業，也就是小規模農作，可控制程度很低；接下來則向大規模農作發展，可控制程度很高。我希望做的，是維持科學控制的程度，甚至提高控制程度，以達到區域性規模，也就是不以農地的規模做為衡量基準，而是以整個食物供應網絡做為基準，那是我們應該努力的目標。最終的結果雖然不能適用在穀物上，但我們最終會得到一個全然封閉的生態體系，也就是園藝體系會落在這張圖的左上角。所以我們得以不同的角度來思考農業科學，在座應該沒有幾個人務農，對大多數的人來說，農業科學一直代表著不好的意義，代表污染、代表大規模開發、代表對環境的破壞，但這是不對的，我們會需要科學的幫助，我們需要的是好的科學， 那我們可以運用什麼樣的科學？首先，我認為我們可以利用現有科技做更好的事情，我們可以利用生物科技，來對抗病蟲害；我們也可以利用機械，幫助我們剷除雜草，只要機械的解晰度能達到半英吋即可；我們有更先進的灌溉系統，可以依我們的需求調節灑水時間。我們得平心靜氣地想一想，小規模耕作與大規模耕作有什麼優缺點；我們也必須體認土地具有多重功能，具有各種不同的功能，我們可以多方面地運用土地，成為住宅區、自然保護區、農業區等。我們也得回頭看看畜牧業，看看整個區域，看看都市裡的糧食體系，我希望看到停車場和地下室裡有養魚的池塘，我希望看到住宅區的屋頂上有園藝和溫室，我希望我們能利用溫室或農作物發酵所產生的熱能，為住宅區提供暖氣。有各式各樣的方式可以做，我們可能不能運用生物農業來改善世界糧食問題，但我們可以做其他的事情。 我要拜託各位做一件事，在你們回國之後，或就算你待在這裡，要求你們國家的政府提出一套完整的糧食政策，因為糧食就和能源、國家安全、環境等一樣重要，每件事都環環相扣。這是我們能做的事。事實上，在人口稠密國家，像是我所居住的荷蘭的河口三角洲地區，就已經將不同功能的土地利用結合了，這不是科幻小說的情節，我們真的可以結合不同功能，舉例來說，我們可以把鄉村地區移到更接近慢性病患者居住的地方。我們可以做的事真的很多， 但有一件事你一定得做，不能只靠我在這裡說，「請為農業注入更多創新的科技元素」，你得回去好好想想我們的食物供應鏈。你得和農夫們談談，你上次去農場和農夫交談是什麼時候？和餐廳裡的人聊聊，瞭解你在食物鏈裡扮演什麼角色，瞭解你的食物從哪裡來，瞭解你自己就是整個巨大體系的一環，這樣你才有餘裕去做其他的事情。對我來說，食物代表的是尊重，當你享用食物的時候，你要瞭解還有許多人還陷在每日為糧食奔走的情況裡，而我們偶爾興起的單純念頭，認為用手工製作的東西，就可以解決這種問題，在道德上絕對站不住腳。我們得幫助他們脫離貧窮，我們要讓他們以身為農人為榮，因為是他們幫助我們存活下來。就如同我前面所說的，歷史上從未有一刻能讓這麼少的人負起供應糧食的責任；也從未有一刻能讓我們把這視為理所當然，只因為糧食的價格很低。 我想，除了在我們的傳統裡，認為食物是神聖的東西之外，現在已經沒有人這樣想了。食物不只帶給我們養份和卡路里，食物也代表分享、誠實和身份地位。甘地曾在75年前，以優美的語句形容過麵包，而不是米飯，他說：「對一天吃不到二餐的人來說，麵包就是上帝的神蹟。」 現在，我的麵包烤好了，我烤了有一陣子了，我會小心不要燙到手，讓我和坐在第一排的人一起分享這塊麵包，分享食物，嚐嚐看我做的麵包。當你吃這塊麵包的時候—請站起來，靠過來，你可以嚐嚐看。我要你想像一下，每一口都能讓你想到過去與未來，想到那些無名的農夫，想到第一次播種，想到早期小麥的品種，想到現代種植小麥的農夫，雖然你不知道他們是誰。你所吃的每一餐，食材都來自全世界，每一種食材都讓我們享有尊榮，讓我們可以享用食物，但卻不必辛苦勞動。因此，我認為，這是演化過程裡的特別時刻，是前所未有的時刻。請好好享用你的麵包，細細咀嚼，享受尊榮。謝謝大家。(掌聲)
