Talk	en	zh-tw
louie_schwartzberg_nature_beauty_gratitude	"When I graduated UCLA, I moved to northern California, and I lived in a little town called Elk on the Mendocino coast, and I didn't have a phone or TV, but I had U.S. mail, and life was good back then, if you could remember it. I'd go to the general store for a cup of coffee and a brownie, and I'd ship my film to San Francisco, and lo and behold, two days later, it would end up on my front door, which was way better than having to fight the traffic of Hollywood. (Music) I didn't have much money, but I had time and a sense of wonder. (Music) So I started shooting time-lapse photography. It would take me a month to shoot a four-minute roll of film, because that's all I could afford. I've been shooting time-lapse flowers continuously, non-stop, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, for over 30 years, and to see them move is a dance I'll never get tired of. Their beauty immerses us with color, taste, touch. It also provides a third of the food we eat. (Music) Beauty and seduction is nature's tools for survival, because we protect what we fall in love with. It opens our hearts, and makes us realize we are a part of nature and we're not separate from it. When we see ourselves in nature, it also connects us to every one of us, because it's clear that it's all connected in one. When people see my images, a lot of times they'll say, ""Oh my God."" Have you ever wondered what that meant? The ""oh"" means it caught your attention, makes you present, makes you mindful. The ""my"" means it connects with something deep inside your soul. It creates a gateway for your inner voice to rise up and be heard. And ""God""? God is that personal journey we all want to be on, to be inspired, to feel like we're connected to a universe that celebrates life. Did you know that 80 percent of the information we receive comes through our eyes? And if you compare light energy to musical scales, it would only be one octave that the naked eye could see, which is right in the middle? And aren't we grateful for our brains that can, you know, take this electrical impulse that comes from light energy to create images in order for us to explore our world? And aren't we grateful that we have hearts that can feel these vibrations in order for us to allow ourselves to feel the pleasure and the beauty of nature? (Music) Nature's beauty is a gift that cultivates appreciation and gratitude. (Music) So I have a gift I want to share with you today, a project I'm working on called Happiness Revealed, and it'll give us a glimpse into that perspective from the point of view of a child and an elderly man of that world. Child: When I watch TV, it's just some shows that you just — that are pretend, and when you explore, you get more imagination than you already had, and when you get more imagination, it makes you want to go deeper in so you can get more and see beautifuller things, like the path, if it's a path, it could lead you to a beach, or something, and it could be beautiful. (Music) Elderly Man: You think this is just another day in your life? It's not just another day. It's the one day that is given to you today. It's given to you. It's a gift. It's the only gift that you have right now, and the only appropriate response is gratefulness. If you do nothing else but to cultivate that response to the great gift that this unique day is, if you learn to respond as if it were the first day in your life and the very last day, then you will have spent this day very well. Begin by opening your eyes and be surprised that you have eyes you can open, that incredible array of colors that is constantly offered to us for pure enjoyment. Look at the sky. We so rarely look at the sky. We so rarely note how different it is from moment to moment, with clouds coming and going. We just think of the weather, and even with the weather, we don't think of all the many nuances of weather. We just think of good weather and bad weather. This day, right now, has unique weather, maybe a kind that will never exactly in that form come again. That formation of clouds in the sky will never be the same as it is right now. Open your eyes. Look at that. Look at the faces of people whom you meet. Each one has an incredible story behind their face, a story that you could never fully fathom, not only their own story, but the story of their ancestors. We all go back so far, and in this present moment, on this day, all the people you meet, all that life from generations and from so many places all over the world flows together and meets you here like a life-giving water, if you only open your heart and drink. (Music) Open your heart to the incredible gifts that civilization gives to us. You flip a switch and there is electric light. You turn a faucet and there is warm water and cold water, and drinkable water. It's a gift that millions and millions in the world will never experience. So these are just a few of an enormous number of gifts to which we can open your heart. And so I wish you that you will open your heart to all these blessings, and let them flow through you, that everyone whom you will meet on this day will be blessed by you, just by your eyes, by your smile, by your touch, just by your presence. Let the gratefulness overflow into blessing all around you, and then it will really be a good day. (Music) (Applause) Louie Schwartzberg: Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我從加州大學洛杉磯分校畢業後搬到加州北部我住在一個名為麋鹿林的小鎮位於門多西諾海岸我沒有電話和電視但是我有美國郵政如果你還記得，那時的生活十分美好我會到雜貨店裡去喝杯咖啡、買布朗尼蛋糕然後帶著膠捲搭船到舊金山待個兩天，四處看看最後回到家這樣的方式比起在好萊塢繁忙的交通裡開車好多了（音樂）我沒有很多錢不過我有時間和好奇心（音樂） 因此我開始拍攝縮時影片拍攝四分鐘長的膠捲要花一個月的時間因為那是我可以負擔的極限 一直以來，我持續拍攝花朵的縮時影片毫不間斷，一天二十四小時，一週七天歷經三十年，看著它們像跳舞般的變化是我永遠不會厭煩的事情它們的美讓我們沉浸在色彩、味道和觸感之中它們也提供了我們三分之一的食物來源（音樂）美麗和魅力是大自然賴以生存的工具因為我們會保護我們愛的事物它打開我們的心胸讓我們了解我們是大自然的一部份而且密不可分當我們看見自己身處在大自然裡它也讓我們聯繫了彼此因為很顯然的，一切皆合而為一。 大部份的人看了我的影片會說「喔！我的天啊！」你可曾思考過這句話的意義？「喔！」意味著它吸引了你的注意力讓你活在當下、留心此時此刻「我的」則代表了某樣東西和你靈魂深處的某樣東西有了連結它為你內在的聲音打開了一扇門來幫助你被看見、被聽見「天」則是每個人夢寐以求的地方我們想要得到啟發並感受到自己和讚揚生命的宇宙連結 你知道我們所接受到的訊息中有百分之八十透過眼睛嗎?如果你將光能和音階相比人類裸視時只能看得見一個八度的範圍剛好是正中間的那個八度？難道我們不該感謝我們的大腦讓我們可以從藉由光能、按下快門、創造影像來探索世界？難道我們不該感謝我們擁有心讓我們可以有這些感受感覺到喜悅以及大自然的美麗？（音樂） 大自然的美麗是一份禮物讓我們培養感謝與感恩之情（音樂）今天我想和你分享一份禮物這是我目前正在進行的計畫名為「展現喜悅」這個計畫將讓我們透過孩童與老人的觀點來看這個世界 孩童：當我看電視時那只是一些作假的電視節目當你探索時你得到多於以往的想像當你得到更多的想像那會讓你想要更深入探究你就可以看到更多漂亮的事物像是一條小徑如果那是一條小徑，它可以指引你到海邊或是其它地方，那可能是漂亮的地方（音樂） 老人：你覺得這只是生活中另一個平凡的日子嗎？這是與眾不同的一天這是特別給你的一天那就是「今天」這是老天給你的恩典是一份禮物這是你現在僅有的禮物而唯一適當的回應就是感謝如果你好好的回應這樣特別的一天是多麼棒的禮物如果你學著去回應就如同這是你生命中的第一天也是最後一天那麼你就會好好地渡過這一天 以睜開你的雙眼開始能夠睜開眼睛是多麼令人驚喜的事美麗的五光十色帶給我們單純的喜悅看看天空我們很少仔細仰望天空我們極少寫下每一刻的不同以及雲朵來來去去的變化我們只想到天氣即使是天氣我們也不曾察覺天氣的細微差異只去分辨天氣是好是壞今天，此刻，有獨一無二的天氣也許是永遠不會再出現的樣子了雲朵在天空的景象將不會再次出現相同的模樣打開你的眼睛看看它 仔細端詳身旁人們的臉龐在每一張臉孔背後都有獨一無二的故事一個你永遠不會想到的故事不只是他們自己的故事，還有他們祖先的故事我們都有歷史的而在此時此刻所有與你相遇的人們歷經了數個世代、從地球上各個角落聚集在一起然後在此地與你相遇的人們就像是生命的泉水只要你敞開心，然後喝下那泉水（音樂） 為文明帶給我們的禮物打開你的心只要你打開開關，燈光就在眼前只要你打開水龍頭就會有溫水和冷水以及可以飲用的水這是一份禮物是世上千萬人無法體驗到的 這些僅是可以打開你心房的無數禮物之一希望你為這些祝福打開你的心房讓它們進入你的心讓所有將與你見面的人都得到你的祝福只要透過你的眼睛你的微笑你的觸碰或僅僅是你的出現讓你身邊的感謝轉化為祝福如此一來，今天就會是美好的一天（音樂） （掌聲） Louie Schwartzberg：謝謝！謝謝大家！（掌聲）
