Talk	en	zh-tw
louie_schwartzberg_hidden_miracles_of_the_natural_world	"What is the intersection between technology, art and science? Curiosity and wonder, because it drives us to explore, because we're surrounded by things we can't see. And I love to use film to take us on a journey through portals of time and space, to make the invisible visible, because what that does, it expands our horizons, it transforms our perception, it opens our minds and it touches our heart. So here are some scenes from my 3D IMAX film, ""Mysteries of the Unseen World."" (Music) There is movement which is too slow for our eyes to detect, and time lapse makes us discover and broaden our perspective of life. We can see how organisms emerge and grow, how a vine survives by creeping from the forest floor to look at the sunlight. And at the grand scale, time lapse allows us to see our planet in motion. We can view not only the vast sweep of nature, but the restless movement of humanity. Each streaking dot represents a passenger plane, and by turning air traffic data into time-lapse imagery, we can see something that's above us constantly but invisible: the vast network of air travel over the United States. We can do the same thing with ships at sea. We can turn data into a time-lapse view of a global economy in motion. And decades of data give us the view of our entire planet as a single organism sustained by currents circulating throughout the oceans and by clouds swirling through the atmosphere, pulsing with lightning, crowned by the aurora Borealis. It may be the ultimate time-lapse image: the anatomy of Earth brought to life. At the other extreme, there are things that move too fast for our eyes, but we have technology that can look into that world as well. With high-speed cameras, we can do the opposite of time lapse. We can shoot images that are thousands of times faster than our vision. And we can see how nature's ingenious devices work, and perhaps we can even imitate them. When a dragonfly flutters by, you may not realize, but it's the greatest flier in nature. It can hover, fly backwards, even upside down. And by tracking markers on an insect's wings, we can visualize the air flow that they produce. Nobody knew the secret, but high speed shows that a dragonfly can move all four wings in different directions at the same time. And what we learn can lead us to new kinds of robotic flyers that can expand our vision of important and remote places. We're giants, and we're unaware of things that are too small for us to see. The electron microscope fires electrons which creates images which can magnify things by as much as a million times. This is the egg of a butterfly. And there are unseen creatures living all over your body, including mites that spend their entire lives dwelling on your eyelashes, crawling over your skin at night. Can you guess what this is? Shark skin. A caterpillar's mouth. The eye of a fruit fly. An eggshell. A flea. A snail's tongue. We think we know most of the animal kingdom, but there may be millions of tiny species waiting to be discovered. A spider also has great secrets, because spiders' silk thread is pound for pound stronger than steel but completely elastic. This journey will take us all the way down to the nano world. The silk is 100 times thinner than human hair. On there is bacteria, and near that bacteria, 10 times smaller, a virus. Inside of that, 10 times smaller, three strands of DNA. And nearing the limit of our most powerful microscopes, single carbon atoms. With the tip of a powerful microscope, we can actually move atoms and begin to create amazing nano devices. Some could one day patrol our body for all kinds of diseases and clean out clogged arteries along the way. Tiny chemical machines of the future can one day, perhaps, repair DNA. We are on the threshold of extraordinary advances, born of our drive to unveil the mysteries of life. So under an endless rain of cosmic dust, the air is full of pollen, micro-diamonds and jewels from other planets and supernova explosions. People go about their lives surrounded by the unseeable. Knowing that there's so much around us we can't see forever changes our understanding of the world, and by looking at unseen worlds, we recognize that we exist in the living universe, and this new perspective creates wonder and inspires us to become explorers in our own backyards. Who knows what awaits to be seen and what new wonders will transform our lives. We'll just have to see. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	在科技、藝術和科學的交會處，我們能發現什麼？好奇心與萬物驚奇，因為它讓我們有動力去探索，因為我們四周充滿匿跡隱形的事物。我喜歡利用攝影帶大家進行一段旅程，穿越時空，讓不為人知的事物為人知曉。因為這能夠拓展我們的視野、改變我們的觀點、開啟我們的心胸，並感動人心。這些片段出自我的 3D IMAX 電影《世界不為人知的奧祕》。 （音樂） 有些萬物變化太慢以致於人眼難以偵測。縮時攝影讓我們能察覺這些變化，並讓人生視野更加開闊。我們能看見生物體的形成與成長，藤蔓是如何從森林地表探出頭來仰望日光。大規模來看，縮時攝影讓我們能看見地球的一舉一動。不只能看到大自然的生生不息，還能觀察人類不停息的活動。每條線都代表客機的行經路線，藉著將航空交通數據轉為縮時影像，就能看到在我們上空，不斷活動卻讓人看不見的東西：美國上空廣大的航空網。也能如此觀察海洋船舶活動。我們能將數據轉換為全球經濟活動的縮時影像。幾十年的數據讓我們能夠將整個星球視為單一有機體。洋流穿過各大洋、雲團盤繞於大氣層中，與閃電一起脈動北極光有如王冠一般。這可能是終極縮時影像。地球的千變萬化活生生的呈現在眼前。 相反地，有些活動快到人眼無法捕捉，但我們也有技術可以破解這難題。有了高速攝影機，可達到與縮時攝影相反的效果。可以拍攝到比人類視覺極限快上幾千倍的影像。我們可以看到大自然的造化神功，或許還能加以模仿。當蜻蜓振翅飛過時，你可能沒發現，但牠們是自然界最棒的飛行家，可以盤旋在空中、向後飛，甚至倒著飛。利用追蹤標記牠們的翅膀，可以看到牠們創造出的氣流。沒有人知道這個秘密，但高速攝影幫助我們看見了蜻蜓可以向不同方向同時移動四隻翅膀。我們所學到的，可以讓我們創造出新型飛行器，將人類視野擴展到重要且偏遠的世界角落。 我們是巨人，無法察覺週遭太渺小的事物。電子顯微鏡能發射出電子，產生影像，將事物放大到百萬倍之多。這是蝴蝶的卵。你身體上也有看不見的生物，包含塵蟎，終其一生都躲在你的眼睫毛中，夜晚時爬過你的肌膚。猜得出這是什麼嗎？鯊魚皮。毛毛蟲的嘴巴。果蠅的眼睛。蛋殼。跳蚤。蝸牛的舌頭。我們以為早已了解動物世界，但或許還有上百萬微小物種等待被發掘。 蜘蛛也有很多秘密，因為蜘蛛絲甚至比同等重量的鋼鐵還要強韌，但是充滿彈性。我將帶你一窺奈米的世界，蜘蛛絲比人類的頭髮還細一百倍。上頭有細菌，在細菌附近，比他更小十倍的，是病毒。病毒裡，更小十倍的地方，有三串 DNA，幾乎達到我們最強大顯微鏡的極限時，觀察到單一碳原子。 利用強大顯微鏡的頂端，我們甚至可以移動原子，開始創造驚人的奈米儀器。它們有天或許能在人體中流動，對付各種疾病，沿路清掉阻塞的動脈。未來的微小化學儀器有天或許能夠修復 DNA。我們離非凡成就僅有一步之遙，讓動力驅使我們揭開生命的秘密。 在持續落下的宇宙塵埃裡，空氣充滿花粉、來自其他星球的微鑽石或珠寶，還有超級星爆炸。我們日常生活中充滿看不見的東西。知道身邊有那麼多東西值得我們張大眼睛看，將永遠改變人類對世界的認知。藉由一窺這些不為人知的世界，我們能了解到我們活在具生命的宇宙中，這個新觀點將能創造驚奇，並賦予我們靈感，成為探險家，就算是家中後院也好。 誰知道還有哪些東西等待被發掘，或是有哪些新奇東西將改變人類生命。 讓我們等著瞧吧。（掌聲）謝謝。（掌聲）
