Talk	en	zh-tw
louie_schwartzberg_the_hidden_beauty_of_pollination	"It's great being here at TED. You know, I think there might be some presentations that will go over my head, but the most amazing concepts are the ones that go right under my feet. The little things in life, sometimes that we forget about, like pollination, that we take for granted. And you can't tell the story about pollinators — bees, bats, hummingbirds, butterflies — without telling the story about the invention of flowers and how they co-evolved over 50 million years. I've been filming time-lapse flowers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, for over 35 years. To watch them move is a dance I'm never going to get tired of. It fills me with wonder, and it opens my heart. Beauty and seduction, I believe, is nature's tool for survival, because we will protect what we fall in love with. Their relationship is a love story that feeds the Earth. It reminds us that we are a part of nature, and we're not separate from it. When I heard about the vanishing bees, Colony Collapse Disorder, it motivated me to take action. We depend on pollinators for over a third of the fruits and vegetables we eat. And many scientists believe it's the most serious issue facing mankind. It's like the canary in the coalmine. If they disappear, so do we. It reminds us that we are a part of nature and we need to take care of it. What motivated me to film their behavior was something that I asked my scientific advisers: ""What motivates the pollinators?"" Well, their answer was, ""It's all about risk and reward."" Like a wide-eyed kid, I'd say, ""Why is that?"" And they'd say, ""Well, because they want to survive."" I go, ""Why?"" ""Well, in order to reproduce."" ""Well, why?"" And I thought that they'd probably say, ""Well, it's all about sex."" And Chip Taylor, our monarch butterfly expert, he replied, ""Nothing lasts forever. Everything in the universe wears out."" And that blew my mind. Because I realized that nature had invented reproduction as a mechanism for life to move forward, as a life force that passes right through us and makes us a link in the evolution of life. Rarely seen by the naked eye, this intersection between the animal world and the plant world is truly a magic moment. It's the mystical moment where life regenerates itself, over and over again. So here is some nectar from my film. I hope you'll drink, tweet and plant some seeds to pollinate a friendly garden. And always take time to smell the flowers, and let it fill you with beauty, and rediscover that sense of wonder. Here are some images from the film. (Music) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	很榮幸來到TED原本我想說的演講可能是其他的主題但令人驚歎的主題其實是發生在我的腳下的故事生活中有些小事有時候我們忘了像授粉，我們覺得那是理所當然我們沒辦法只單純去描述蜜蜂、蝙蝠，蜂鳥、蝴蝶這些傳粉動物的事而不去提到花是怎麼來到這世界上的還有他們在這50億年來是如何共同演化的 我每天24個小時，一星期7天有超過35年的時間都在用縮時攝影拍攝花朵看他們如何綻放那是我百看不厭的舞這讓我感到驚奇，也打開了我的心房我相信美麗和誘惑是大自然的生存工具因為我們會保護我們愛上的東西他們的關係是一段能滋養地球的愛情故事也提醒我們，我們是大自然的一部分我們和他們密不可分 當我聽到蜜蜂消失，蜂群衰竭失調這促使我採取行動有超過三分之一我們吃的蔬菜水果都需要這些傳粉動物許多科學家相信這會是人類要面對最困難的問題這就像在煤礦坑裡的金絲雀如果他們消失了，我們也會跟著滅絕這提醒我們，我們是大自然的一部分我們必須保護他們 促使我拍他們的行為的原因是我問我的科學顧問們傳粉動物們為何去傳遞花粉呢？他們告訴我「這其實是風險與報酬。」我像個張大眼睛的孩子又問「為什麼呢？」他們說「因為他們要生存。」我問「為什麼？」「為了要繁衍後代。」「為什麼？」我原以為他們會說「好吧，這一切都與性有關。」但我們的帝王蝶專家Chip Taylor他說「世上無永垂不朽，萬物皆有定時。」 這一席話感動我因為我意識到繁衍後代在大自然中是一種生命延續的機制一種透過我們去傳遞的生命動力讓我們在生命的演化上有所關聯很難用肉眼去捕捉介於動物和植物間的交會瞬間這是非常神奇的一刻這個神秘的時刻裡生命在創造繁衍一代又一代 以下是我電影中的精華我希望你們能品嘗體會然後種些花草創造一座美麗的花園找時間聞一下花朵的芬芳感受美麗重新發現驚喜以下是影片的一些片段 (音樂) (掌聲) 謝謝非常謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
