Talk	en	zh-tw
lucianne_walkowicz_finding_planets_around_other_stars	Planetary systems outside our own are like distant cities whose lights we can see twinkling, but whose streets we can't walk. By studying those twinkling lights though, we can learn about how stars and planets interact to form their own ecosystem and make habitats that are amenable to life. In this image of the Tokyo skyline, I've hidden data from the newest planet-hunting space telescope on the block, the Kepler Mission. Can you see it? There we go. This is just a tiny part of the sky the Kepler stares at, where it searches for planets by measuring the light from over 150,000 stars, all at once, every half hour, and very precisely. And what we're looking for is the tiny dimming of light that is caused by a planet passing in front of one of these stars and blocking some of that starlight from getting to us. In just over two years of operations, we've found over 1,200 potential new planetary systems around other stars. To give you some perspective, in the previous two decades of searching, we had only known about 400 prior to Kepler. When we see these little dips in the light, we can determine a number of things. For one thing, we can determine that there's a planet there, but also how big that planet is and how far it is away from its parent star. That distance is really important because it tells us how much light the planet receives overall. And that distance and knowing that amount of light is important because it's a little like you or I sitting around a campfire: You want to be close enough to the campfire so that you're warm, but not so close that you're too toasty and you get burned. However, there's more to know about your parent star than just how much light you receive overall. And I'll tell you why. This is our star. This is our Sun. It's shown here in visible light. That's the light that you can see with your own human eyes. You'll notice that it looks pretty much like the iconic yellow ball — that Sun that we all draw when we're children. But you'll notice something else, and that's that the face of the Sun has freckles. These freckles are called sunspots, and they are just one of the manifestations of the Sun's magnetic field. They also cause the light from the star to vary. And we can measure this very, very precisely with Kepler and trace their effects. However, these are just the tip of the iceberg. If we had UV eyes or X-ray eyes, we would really see the dynamic and dramatic effects of our Sun's magnetic activity — the kind of thing that happens on other stars as well. Just think, even when it's cloudy outside, these kind of events are happening in the sky above you all the time. So when we want to learn whether a planet is habitable, whether it might be amenable to life, we want to know not only how much total light it receives and how warm it is, but we want to know about its space weather — this high-energy radiation, the UV and the X-rays that are created by its star and that bathe it in this bath of high-energy radiation. And so, we can't really look at planets around other stars in the same kind of detail that we can look at planets in our own solar system. I'm showing here Venus, Earth and Mars — three planets in our own solar system that are roughly the same size, but only one of which is really a good place to live. But what we can do in the meantime is measure the light from our stars and learn about this relationship between the planets and their parent stars to suss out clues about which planets might be good places to look for life in the universe. Kepler won't find a planet around every single star it looks at. But really, every measurement it makes is precious, because it's teaching us about the relationship between stars and planets, and how it's really the starlight that sets the stage for the formation of life in the universe. While it's Kepler the telescope, the instrument that stares, it's we, life, who are searching. Thank you. (Applause)	在我們太陽系之外的行星系就好像遙遠的城市，我們可以看見有燈火在閃爍，但是卻有一條難以踰越的街道。然而通過研究這些閃爍，我們可以瞭解到恆星時如何與行星互相作用來形成他們自己的生態系統並創造出能夠承載生命的棲息地。 在這張東京市的圖片中，我將從最新型的行星探測空間望遠鏡，凱普勒任務，所獲得的數據隱藏在了這個街區里。看的見嗎？在這裡。這只是凱普對勒觀測行星的範圍中的一小塊。通過每半個小時一次精確地測量全部15萬顆行星的光譜。 我們想要尋找是行星在移動過程中經過恆星時阻擋住射向我們的一部份光線所造成的黯淡。在僅僅兩年的運行後我們發現了1200個可能是圍繞其他恆星運轉的行星系統。相比較下，在凱普勒任務之前的長達二十年的搜尋中，我們只發現了400顆行星。 黨發現這光亮的減弱我們可以確認一些事情。一是可以確認那裡有一顆行星，還有它的尺寸，和距離它所圍繞的恆星的距離。這距離是非常重要的，因為它能告訴我們大致上這行星接收到了多少光。對距離與光照強弱的瞭解是非常關鍵的，這就好像我們坐在一個篝火邊上。你會想要靠的夠進好讓自己取暖，但是又不可以太近，導致溫度太高把自己燙傷。 然而，除了整體上行星會接收到多少光線，對恆星的還有許多其他的信息需要瞭解。讓我來告訴你原因。這是我們的行星，太陽。這裡所呈現的是可見光。就是我們人類的眼睛可以看見的光。大家發現這基本上就是典型的我們小時候所畫的黃色圓球。但大家有沒有看到還有一些別的東西，這就是太陽的表面有一些斑點。這些斑點被稱作太陽黑子，他們是太陽磁場活動的表現之一。它使得恆星發出的光產生變化。這個現象是可以用凱普勒望遠鏡非常精確地測量與追蹤的。 而這也才只是冰山一角而已。如果我們能看見UV射線與X射線，我們會真正認識到太陽磁場活動所產生的活躍又激烈的景象。其他的恆星上也發生著同樣的事情。想像一下，即使窗外烏雲密佈，這樣壯觀的景象在我們的天空之上時刻都在發生。黨我們想要瞭解一顆行星是否適宜居住，是否能承載生命，我們不僅想要知道它接收到多少陽光，溫度有多高，我們還想知道它的太空氣候。由恆星產生的強力的輻射線，比如UV射線與X射線。行星就沐浴在這些強力的射線中。 還有，我們從自己的太陽系中觀察所得的信息要比從其他恆星的行星上觀察得到的詳細的多我這裡展示的時金星，地球和火星這三顆我們太陽系中的行星基本上大小相同，而其中只有一顆適合生命生存。但是我們可以做的是通過測量我們恆星發出的光，研究恆星與各個行星之間的關係。來摸索出一些線索好讓我們知道在茫茫太空中哪些行星可能是會找到生命的地方。 凱普勒不會在每一顆它所觀察的恆星周圍發現行星。但它所做的每一個測量都非常寶貴。因為它告訴我們恆星與行星間的關係，還有星光才是真正在宇宙中為生命的形成提供條件的角色。雖然是凱普勒望遠鏡在凝視著太空但最終是我們，在不斷地搜尋。 謝謝 掌聲。
