Talk	en	zh-tw
lucianne_walkowicz_let_s_not_use_mars_as_a_backup_planet	We're at a tipping point in human history, a species poised between gaining the stars and losing the planet we call home. Even in just the past few years, we've greatly expanded our knowledge of how Earth fits within the context of our universe. NASA's Kepler mission has discovered thousands of potential planets around other stars, indicating that Earth is but one of billions of planets in our galaxy. Kepler is a space telescope that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them, blocking just a little bit of that light from reaching us. Kepler's data reveals planets' sizes as well as their distance from their parent star. Together, this helps us understand whether these planets are small and rocky, like the terrestrial planets in our own Solar System, and also how much light they receive from their parent sun. In turn, this provides clues as to whether these planets that we discover might be habitable or not. Unfortunately, at the same time as we're discovering this treasure trove of potentially habitable worlds, our own planet is sagging under the weight of humanity. 2014 was the hottest year on record. Glaciers and sea ice that have been with us for millennia are now disappearing in a matter of decades. These planetary-scale environmental  changes that we have set in motion are rapidly outpacing our ability to alter their course. But I'm not a climate scientist, I'm an astronomer. I study planetary habitability as influenced by stars with the hopes of finding the places in the universe where we might discover life beyond our own planet. You could say that I look for choice alien real estate. Now, as somebody who is deeply embedded in the search for life in the universe, I can tell you that the more you look for planets like Earth, the more you appreciate our own planet itself. Each one of these new worlds invites a comparison between the newly discovered planet and the planets we know best: those of our own Solar System. Consider our neighbor, Mars. Mars is small and rocky, and though it's a bit far from the Sun, it might be considered a potentially habitable world if found by a mission like Kepler. Indeed, it's possible that Mars was habitable in the past, and in part, this is why we study Mars so much. Our rovers, like Curiosity, crawl across its surface, scratching for clues as to the origins of life as we know it. Orbiters like the MAVEN mission sample the Martian atmosphere, trying to understand how Mars might have lost its past habitability. Private spaceflight companies now offer not just a short trip to near space but the tantalizing possibility of living our lives on Mars. But though these Martian vistas resemble the deserts of our own home world, places that are tied in our imagination to ideas about pioneering and frontiers, compared to Earth Mars is a pretty terrible place to live. Consider the extent to which we have not colonized the deserts of our own planet, places that are lush by comparison with Mars. Even in the driest, highest places on Earth, the air is sweet and thick with oxygen exhaled from thousands of miles away by our rainforests. I worry — I worry that this excitement about colonizing Mars and other planets carries with it a long, dark shadow: the implication and belief by some that Mars will be there to save us from the self-inflicted destruction of the only truly habitable planet we know of, the Earth. As much as I love interplanetary exploration, I deeply disagree with this idea. There are many excellent reasons to go to Mars, but for anyone to tell you that Mars will be there to back up humanity is like the captain of the Titanic telling you that the real party is happening later on the lifeboats. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. But the goals of interplanetary exploration and planetary preservation are not opposed to one another. No, they're in fact two sides of the same goal: to understand, preserve and improve life into the future. The extreme environments of our own world are alien vistas. They're just closer to home. If we can understand how to create and maintain habitable spaces out of hostile, inhospitable spaces here on Earth, perhaps we can meet the needs of both preserving our own environment and moving beyond it. I leave you with a final thought experiment: Fermi's paradox. Many years ago, the physicist Enrico Fermi asked that, given the fact that our universe has been around for a very long time and we expect that there are many planets within it, we should have found evidence for alien life by now. So where are they? Well, one possible solution to Fermi's paradox is that, as civilizations become technologically advanced enough to consider living amongst the stars, they lose sight of how important it is to safeguard the home worlds that fostered that advancement to begin with. It is hubris to believe that interplanetary colonization alone will save us from ourselves, but planetary preservation and interplanetary exploration can work together. If we truly believe in our ability to bend the hostile environments of Mars for human habitation, then we should be able to surmount the far easier task of preserving the habitability of the Earth. Thank you. (Applause)	我們正處在人類歷史上的一個轉折點，人類正徘迴在「取得」其它星球及「失去」我們稱之為家的地球之間。 即使在過去的幾年中，我們對於地球如何在宇宙中生存的知識已經有大幅度的擴展。美國太空總署(NASA)的Kepler任務已經在銀河系發現成千上萬的潛在行星圍繞著其它恆星，並指出地球在銀河系數十億行星裡並非是唯一的行星。Kepler是一個太空望遠鏡，藉由行星從恆星前方掠過的「凌日現象」來鎖定觀察恆星少許的亮度變化。Kepler的數據揭示了行星的大小以及它們與直系恆星之間的距離。總之，這有助於我們了解這些行星是否像是我們太陽系裡的類地行星具有小及岩石多樣性的特性。以及了解它們從它們的直系太陽接收到多少光。因此這提供了我們所發現的這些行星是否適合居住的線索。 不幸的是，當我們在探索其他適合人居的珍貴世界的同時，我們自己的地球也正在急速地失去它的人性。2014年是紀錄中最熱的一年，與我們相處好幾千年的冰川和海冰在近幾十年裡，一直在消失中...這些由我們造成行星級規模的環境變化正將快速地超越我們扭轉它們既定方向的能力。 但我不是一個氣候學家，我是一個天文學家。我研究行星受恆星影響的適居性，在宇宙中尋找一個可能有非地球生命地方的希望之地。你可以這樣說，我期待選擇「外星人不動產仲介」... 身為一個大量投入在宇宙中尋找生命的人，我可以告訴各位，你越是想尋找像地球的行星你會越珍惜我們的地球。每一個新發現的世界都會被拿來做比較，比較新發現的行星與我們最孰悉的太陽系行星之間有甚麼差別。 想想我們的鄰居，火星...火星，既小又具岩石多樣性，雖然離太陽有點遠，它如果被Kepler任務發現的話，可能也會被認為是一個潛在的可居住世界，的確，過去火星可能具有可居住性，雖只有某些部分，但這也是為什麼我們會研究火星的原因。我們的火星車「好奇心號」爬行過火星的表面，找到了我們認知的原始生命跡象。MAVEN任務的軌道飛行器採集了火星上的大氣層樣本，試著了解火星過去是如何失去它的可居住性。私人太空飛行公司現在不只提供短暫的近太空旅行也提供生活在火星上誘人的可能性。 但是儘管這些火星景觀類似於我們地球上的沙漠—一些被我們的既有想像所限制而不會想去開發的地方，相對於地球，火星根本是一個糟糕到無法住人的地方。比起火星，我們地球上還沒有開墾的沙漠地相對火星而言還是很奢侈的。即是在地球最乾、最高的地方，從千里遠的雨林釋放出來的氧氣仍是香甜而豐盛的。 我擔心— 我擔心這種關於火星和其他行星的殖民熱潮會帶來漫長而黑暗的陰影：一些人對火星有如此的隱喻和信仰—「當人類在我們唯一真正能居住的地球上發生自我毀滅衝突時，火星會在那解救我們。」我不同意這種想法的程度就如我熱愛的星際探索一樣深，是有很多完美的因素要去火星，但要是哪一個人告訴你，火星會在那裡拯救人類時...他就像鐵達尼號上的船長告訴你「等一下會有人開救生船來救你 」一樣的胡扯。( 笑聲 )( 掌聲 ) 謝謝你 但星球探索與星球維護這二件事的目標互不衝突，雖然是二碼事， 但有共同目標 :在未來共同了解、維護、改善生活。我們地球上極端的環境是外星人眼裡的美景。它們只是離家較近。如果我們可以在自己的地球上了解如何創造並維護友善的、親切的可居住環境，也許我們可以滿足既保護我們的環境又可以搬到外星球的需求。 最後我告訴各位一個思維實驗論述 :「費米謬論」。許多年前，物理學家恩里科．費米提出了一個問題 :我們的宇宙已經存在很久是個事實，而我們也了解有很多的行星在宇宙之中，所以我們現在應該早就該找到外星生命的證據...但他們在哪?「費米謬論」的其中一種可能就是 :一個存在於星際之間科技相當先進的文明物種，他們一開始就忽視了如何保護家園及培養進步的重要性。所以去相信只靠星際殖民可以解救我們的這件事是狂妄自大的。星球維護與星際探索可以一起進行。 如果我們真的相信我們有能力可以去扭轉火星的惡劣環境來讓人類居住，那麼我們應該可輕而易舉地克服維護地球可居住性的這項簡單任務。 謝謝你。 ( 掌聲 )
