Talk	en	zh-tw
lucy_mcrae_how_can_technology_transform_the_human_body	I call myself a body architect. I trained in classical ballet and have a background in architecture and fashion. As a body architect, I fascinate with the human body and explore how I can transform it. I worked at Philips Electronics in the far-future design research lab, looking 20 years into the future. I explored the human skin, and how technology can transform the body. I worked on concepts like an electronic tattoo, which is augmented by touch, or dresses that blushed and shivered with light. I started my own experiments. These were the low-tech approaches to the high-tech conversations I was having. These are Q-tips stuck to my roommate with wig glue. (Laughter) I started a collaboration with a friend of mine, Bart Hess — he doesn't normally look like this — and we used ourselves as models. We transformed our apartments into our laboratories, and worked in a very spontaneous and immediate way. We were creating visual imagery provoking human evolution. Whilst I was at Philips, we discussed this idea of a maybe technology, something that wasn't either switched on or off, but in between. A maybe that could take the form of a gas or a liquid. And I became obsessed with this idea of blurring the perimeter of the body, so you couldn't see where the skin ended and the near environment started. I set up my studio in the red-light district and obsessively wrapped myself in plumbing tubing, and found a way to redefine the skin and create this dynamic textile. I was introduced to Robyn, the Swedish pop star, and she was also exploring how technology coexists with raw human emotion. And she talked about how technology with these new feathers, this new face paint, this punk, the way that we identify with the world, and we made this music video. I'm fascinated with the idea of what happens when you merge biology with technology, and I remember reading about this idea of being able to reprogram biology, in the future, away from disease and aging. And I thought about this concept of, imagine if we could reprogram our own body odor, modify and biologically enhance it, and how would that change the way that we communicate with each other? Or the way that we attract sexual partners? And would we revert back to being more like animals, more primal modes of communication? I worked with a synthetic biologist, and I created a swallowable perfume, which is a cosmetic pill that you eat and the fragrance comes out through the skin's surface when you perspire. It completely blows apart the way that perfume is, and provides a whole new format. It's perfume coming from the inside out. It redefines the role of skin, and our bodies become an atomizer. I've learned that there's no boundaries, and if I look at the evolution of my work i can see threads and connections that make sense. But when I look towards the future, the next project is completely unknown and wide open. I feel like I have all these ideas existing embedded inside of me, and it's these conversations and these experiences that connect these ideas, and they kind of instinctively come out. As a body architect, I've created this limitless and boundless platform for me to discover whatever I want. And I feel like I've just got started. So here's to another day at the office. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you! Thank you!	"我自稱自己是一位人體建築師我學過古典芭蕾也有建築和時尚的相關背景身為一位人體建築師，我對人體深度著迷以及該如何改造人體我現在任職於飛利浦電子公司旗下一個前衛設計的研究實驗室我們著眼於二十年後的未來我探索過人類皮膚，以及如何運用科技改造人體我也研究過透過觸摸就能完成電子紋身還有可以用光照射或照映出圖樣的裙子我還做了實驗這是我沒有用太多技術所做出來的科技設計其實就是用棉棒加上假髮膠貼在我室友的身上(笑聲)我還和我的朋友Bart Hess合作過他平常不是這樣的—我們把自己當作模特兒我們將公寓改造成實驗室這樣就能隨時隨地實驗我們的新想法我們現在正在創作用視覺圖像來表現人類的演化同時，在飛利浦，我們正在討論一個想法，可能是科技我是說一種非具體型態的概念可能是氣體或液體作為形式的概念然後我對於將身體邊緣模糊化感到非常有興趣在此種情況下，你就不能知道皮膚和外界環境的具體界線在哪我還在紅燈區成立了自己的工作室然後著魔似的用管子纏滿了自己的身體我發現這樣可以重新界定皮膚而且這也是一種動態的紡織品我想給各位介紹Robyn，她是位瑞典流行歌手她也在探索著如何用科技和我們原始情感巧妙結合的方法然後她跟我說如何用科技創造這些新型態的 ""羽毛""這樣的妝容，龐克風，還有我們定義這個世界的方式後來我們完成了這部音樂影片我非常喜歡這個想法就是將科技和生物學結合在一起會產生什麼我記得以前看過一個想法，是有關我們在未來可以透過改變生物基因來抵抗疾病和老化我還想到了另一個點子想像一下，如果我們可以重新改變體味，改變而且增強其生物性能這會如何影響我們相互交流的方式呢？又會如何影響我們尋找另一半的方法呢？我們會不會又退回到最初像是動物那樣用最原始的方式來交流？我曾和一位合成生物學家共事過我們創造出了一種可食用的香水其實就是種可食用的化妝藥片服用後，在流汗的時候，香味就會從皮膚表面散發出來這徹底顛覆了過去大家對香水的印象並且提供一種全新的方式這種香水從內而外的散發出來也重新定義了我們皮膚的功能，人體變成一只香水瓶我現在知道了我的工作是無限的我如果回顧我的工作經歷我可以看出來這當中的每個關聯性不過當我展望未來時我的下一個作品又是完全未知而開放的我覺得我充滿了不同的想法就是這些對話與經歷讓我本能地將我的想法給組合起來身為一位人體建築師我為自己創造了一個無拘無束，無所限制的平台讓我可以去尋找我想要的我現在感覺一切才剛開始新的一天裡也要開始工作(笑聲)(掌聲)謝謝各位謝謝"
