Talk	en	zh-tw
madeleine_albright_on_being_a_woman_and_a_diplomat	"Pat Mitchell: What is the story of this pin? Madeleine Albright: This is ""Breaking the Glass Ceiling."" PM: Oh. That was well chosen, I would say, for TEDWomen. MA: Most of the time I spend when I get up in the morning is trying to figure out what is going to happen. And none of this pin stuff would have happened if it hadn't been for Saddam Hussein. I'll tell you what happened. I went to the United Nations as an ambassador, and it was after the Gulf War, and I was an instructed ambassador. And the cease-fire had been translated into a series of sanctions resolutions, and my instructions were to say perfectly terrible things about Saddam Hussein constantly, which he deserved — he had invaded another country. And so all of a sudden, a poem appeared in the papers in Baghdad comparing me to many things, but among them an ""unparalleled serpent."" And so I happened to have a snake pin. So I wore it when we talked about Iraq. (Laughter) And when I went out to meet the press, they zeroed in, said, ""Why are you wearing that snake pin?"" I said, ""Because Saddam Hussein compared me to an unparalleled serpent."" And then I thought, well this is fun. So I went out and I bought a lot of pins that would, in fact, reflect what I thought we were going to do on any given day. So that's how it all started. PM: So how large is the collection? MA: Pretty big. It's now traveling. At the moment it's in Indianapolis, but it was at the Smithsonian. And it goes with a book that says, ""Read My Pins."" (Laughter) PM: So is this a good idea. I remember when you were the first woman as Secretary of State, and there was a lot of conversation always about what you were wearing, how you looked — the thing that happens to a lot of women, especially if they're the first in a position. So how do you feel about that — the whole — MA: Well, it's pretty irritating actually because nobody ever describes what a man is wearing. But people did pay attention to what clothes I had. What was interesting was that, before I went up to New York as U.N. ambassador, I talked to Jeane Kirkpatrick, who'd been ambassador before me, and she said, ""You've got to get rid of your professor clothes. Go out and look like a diplomat."" So that did give me a lot of opportunities to go shopping. But still, there were all kinds of questions about — ""did you wear a hat?"" ""How short was your skirt?"" And one of the things — if you remember Condoleezza Rice was at some event and she wore boots, and she got criticized over that. And no guy ever gets criticized. But that's the least of it. PM: It is, for all of us, men and women, finding our ways of defining our roles, and doing them in ways that make a difference in the world and shape the future. How did you handle that balance between being the tough diplomatic and strong voice of this country to the rest of the world and also how you felt about yourself as a mother, a grandmother, nurturing ... and so how did you handle that? MA: Well the interesting part was I was asked what it was like to be the first woman Secretary of State a few minutes after I'd been named. And I said, ""Well I've been a woman for 60 years, but I've only been Secretary of State for a few minutes."" So it evolved. (Laughter) But basically I love being a woman. And so what happened — and I think there will probably be some people in the audience that will identify with this — I went to my first meeting, first at the U.N., and that's when this all started, because that is a very male organization. And I'm sitting there — there are 15 members of the Security Council — so 14 men sat there staring at me, and I thought — well you know how we all are. You want to get the feeling of the room, and ""do people like me?"" and ""will I really say something intelligent?"" And all of a sudden I thought, ""Well, wait a minute. I am sitting behind a sign that says 'The United States,' and if I don't speak today then the voice of the United States will not be heard,"" and it was the first time that I had that feeling that I had to step out of myself in my normal, reluctant female mode and decide that I had to speak on behalf of our country. And so that happened more at various times, but I really think that there was a great advantage in many ways to being a woman. I think we are a lot better at personal relationships, and then have the capability obviously of telling it like it is when it's necessary. But I have to tell you, I have my youngest granddaughter, when she turned seven last year, said to her mother, my daughter, ""So what's the big deal about Grandma Maddie being Secretary of State? Only girls are Secretary of State."" (Laughter) (Applause) PM: Because in her lifetime — MA: That would be so. PM: What a change that is. As you travel now all over the world, which you do frequently, how do you assess this global narrative around the story of women and girls? Where are we? MA: I think we're slowly changing, but obviously there are whole pockets in countries where nothing is different. And therefore it means that we have to remember that, while many of us have had huge opportunities — and Pat, you have been a real leader in your field — is that there are a lot of women that are not capable of worrying and taking care of themselves and understanding that women have to help other women. And so what I have felt — and I have looked at this from a national security issue — when I was Secretary of State, I decided that women's issues had to be central to American foreign policy, not just because I'm a feminist, but because I believe that societies are better off when women are politically and economically empowered, that values are passed down, the health situation is better, education is better, there is greater economic prosperity. So I think that it behooves us — those of us that live in various countries where we do have economic and political voice — that we need to help other women. And I really dedicated myself to that, both at the U.N. and then as Secretary of State. PM: And did you get pushback from making that a central tenant of foreign policy? MA: From some people. I think that they thought that it was a soft issue. The bottom line that I decided was actually women's issues are the hardest issues, because they are the ones that have to do with life and death in so many aspects, and because, as I said, it is really central to the way that we think about things. Now for instance, some of the wars that took place when I was in office, a lot of them, the women were the main victims of it. For instance, when I started, there were wars in the Balkans. The women in Bosnia were being raped. We then managed to set up a war crimes tribunal to deal specifically with those kinds of issues. And by the way, one of the things that I did at that stage was, I had just arrived at the U.N., and when I was there, there were 183 countries in the U.N. Now there are 192. But it was one of the first times that I didn't have to cook lunch myself. So I said to my assistant, ""Invite the other women permanent representatives."" And I thought when I'd get to my apartment that there'd be a lot of women there. I get there, and there are six other women, out of 183. So the countries that had women representatives were Canada, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Trinidad Tobago, Jamaica, Lichtenstein and me. So being an American, I decided to set up a caucus. (Laughter) And so we set it up, and we called ourselves the G7. (Laughter) PM: Is that ""Girl 7?"" MA: Girl 7. And we lobbied on behalf of women's issues. So we managed to get two women judges on this war crimes tribunal. And then what happened was that they were able to declare that rape was a weapon of war, that it was against humanity. (Applause) PM: So when you look around the world and you see that, in many cases — certainly in the Western world — women are evolving into more leadership positions, and even other places some barriers are being brought down, but there's still so much violence, still so many problems, and yet we hear there are more women at the negotiating tables. Now you were at those negotiating tables when they weren't, when there was maybe you — one voice, maybe one or two others. Do you believe, and can you tell us why, there is going to be a significant shift in things like violence and peace and conflict and resolution on a sustainable basis? MA: Well I do think, when there are more women, that the tone of the conversation changes, and also the goals of the conversation change. But it doesn't mean that the whole world would be a lot better if it were totally run by women. If you think that, you've forgotten high school. (Laughter) But the bottom line is that there is a way, when there are more women at the table, that there's an attempt to develop some understanding. So for instance, what I did when I went to Burundi, we'd got Tutsi and Hutu women together to talk about some of the problems that had taken place in Rwanda. And so I think the capability of women to put themselves — I think we're better about putting ourselves into the other guy's shoes and having more empathy. I think it helps in terms of the support if there are other women in the room. When I was Secretary of State, there were only 13 other women foreign ministers. And so it was nice when one of them would show up. For instance, she is now the president of Finland, but Tarja Halonen was the foreign minister of Finland and, at a certain stage, head of the European Union. And it was really terrific. Because one of the things I think you'll understand. We went to a meeting, and the men in my delegation, when I would say, ""Well I feel we should do something about this,"" and they'd say, ""What do you mean, you feel?"" And so then Tarja was sitting across the table from me. And all of a sudden we were talking about arms control, and she said, ""Well I feel we should do this."" And my male colleagues kind of got it all of a sudden. But I think it really does help to have a critical mass of women in a series of foreign policy positions. The other thing that I think is really important: A lot of national security policy isn't just about foreign policy, but it's about budgets, military budgets, and how the debts of countries work out. So if you have women in a variety of foreign policy posts, they can support each other when there are budget decisions being made in their own countries. PM: So how do we get this balance we're looking for, then, in the world? More women's voices at the table? More men who believe that the balance is best? MA: Well I think one of the things — I'm chairman of the board of an organization called the National Democratic Institute that works to support women candidates. I think that we need to help in other countries to train women to be in political office, to figure out how they can in fact develop political voices. I think we also need to be supportive when businesses are being created and just make sure that women help each other. Now I have a saying that I feel very strongly about, because I am of a certain age where, when I started in my career, believe it or not, there were other women who criticized me: ""Why aren't you in the carpool line?"" or ""Aren't your children suffering because you're not there all the time?"" And I think we have a tendency to make each other feel guilty. In fact, I think ""guilt"" is every woman's middle name. And so I think what needs to happen is we need to help each other. And my motto is that there's a special place in hell for women who don't help each other. (Applause) PM: Well Secretary Albright, I guess you'll be going to heaven. Thank you for joining us today. MA: Thank you all. Thanks Pat. (Applause)"	"Pat Mitchell：今天您別胸針有什麼意義嗎？ Madeleine Albright：這代表打破透明的天花板 PM：喔這真是非常適合TEDWomen的場合 MA：每天早上起床我大部分的時間花在思考等一下要做的事但我從不去想要戴上哪個胸針這起因於Saddam Hussein(前伊拉克總統)我跟你說我擔任大使前往聯合國在波灣戰爭後我被指派為大使表達停火之意在制裁決議上我的用意是要持續說明Saddam Hussein做的可怕的事這是他該受到的譴責，他侵略了其他國家當時在巴格達的報紙上刊載了一首詩拿我和很多東西比較其中一項就是無敵的蛇我剛好有一隻蛇的胸針我就在談論伊拉克時戴上它(笑聲)當我出來面對記者的時候他們對著我，問我""為什麼戴那個蛇的胸針？""我說""因為Saddam Hussein把我比喻成一隻無敵的蛇""那時候我覺得這挺好玩的所以後來我買了很多的胸針這事實上反映了當天我覺得我要做的事這就是關於我的胸針的故事 PM：所以你大概有多少個胸針？ MA：非常多他們現在正在旅行現在這時候他們在印第安納波里前陣子在史密森博物館他們跟我的書在一起，書名是《看我的胸針》 (笑聲) PM：你覺得這想法如何？我記得當你成為第一位女性的國務卿總是有很多人在談論關於你的穿著你看起來的樣子這種事總會發生在很多女人身上特別是他們第一次擔任某種職位你如何看待這件事？ MA：好吧，這其實很惱人因為從沒有人討論過男人的穿著但大家總愛關注我穿的衣服有趣的是在我到紐約出任聯合國大使前我跟Jeane Kirkpatrick聊過，她是前一任的大使她跟我說""你不能再穿那些看起來像是教授的衣服""""你需要看起來像是外交官""所以這讓我有很多機會可以去購物但仍然還是有很多問題像是你要戴帽子嗎？你的裙子的多長？還有一件事如果你還記得Condoleezza Rice在某些場合穿了靴子而她受到許多批評沒有哪個男人因為穿著受過批評，至少女性也該享有相同的待遇 PM：沒錯，我們，不分男女要以自己的方式定義自己的角色用各種方法，讓世界改變塑造未來你扮演不同角色，你是如何拿捏分寸的？要擔任一位強勢的外交官為這個國家在面對其他國家時有力的發聲以及你覺得自己身為一位母親、或一位祖母去教養家庭你是怎麼做到的？ MA：要說有趣的部分是有人問我成為第一位女性國務卿是什麼感覺在我被任命為國務卿的幾分鐘後有人這樣問我回答說，“我當女人已經60多年了但我才剛當上國務卿幾分鐘而已""所以應該會進步的(笑聲)不過基本上我喜歡""女人""這個角色事實上我相信在座的某些人應該能認同我第一次到聯合國參加會議事情是這樣發生的因為那是一個男性主導的機構我坐在那裏，那裏有15個安理會成員國的代表所以有14個男人坐在那裏看著我我想，你們應該想的到那畫面你想要融入那場合讓其他人認同我我真的需要說出很有智慧的話嗎？突然間我想，等等我正坐在一個寫著""美國""的牌子的後面如果我今天不說話那今天美國的意見就不會被聽到了那是我第一次有那種感覺我必須跳脫自我跳脫我平常被動的女性模式我必須代表我們的國家說話之後很多場合都需要這樣表現但我真的認為在許多方面當女人是有很大的優勢我認為我們強過男人像在人際關係上我們明顯地有能力在必要的時候跟別人講事情不過我要跟你們說，我那最小的孫女去年她剛滿七歲跟她媽媽說，就是我女兒""奶奶當上國務卿有什麼大不了的""""國務卿不都是女的"" (笑聲) (掌聲) PM：那是從她出生後才這樣 (MA：那真的是) PM：這是一大改變當你在世界各地走動的時後你經常出國你如何看待全球各地婦女們和女孩們的新聞？我們現在該怎麼看待這些事？ MA：我想這些慢慢在改變了但顯然也是有很多地方是完全沒有改變的這意味著我們必須記住一件事雖然我們有很多很大的機會Pat，你在你的工作領域裡你是一位很好的領導人但還是有很多地方很多女性他們沒有能力注意自己和照顧自己也沒有意識到女人是可以幫助其他女人的所以我覺得我必須關注這件事認為這是國家安全的議題當我是國務卿的時候，我決定要把女性議題擺在美國外交政策的重心這不是因為我是女性主義者這是因為我認為社會會變得更好唯有女性在政治和經濟上被賦予權利權利下放健康醫療改善教育改善經濟也會更繁榮因此，我認為我們應當我們和那些女人生活在不同國家在我們的國家，我們在經濟和政治上可以有所作為所以我們必須幫助他們我真的致力在做這些事不管是在聯合國還是國務卿的工作 PM：那你有遇到反對的聲音嗎？要讓這議題成為外交政策的重點的時候？ MA：是有一些人反對我覺得因為他們覺得這是個軟性議題但我的原則是我覺得女性議題是最困難的議題因為女性會直接面對攸關生死的重大事件在很多層面上因為，如同我說過的在我們考慮很多事情時，這議題往往都是重點例如曾經發生過的一些戰爭當我還是國務卿的時候很多戰亂中，女性都是主要的受害者例如在巴爾幹半島有場戰爭在波斯尼亞的婦女被強暴然後我們設法建立一個戰爭罪行的法庭專門處理這些問題對了，我在那時候還做了一件事我去聯合國的時候那時候聯合國的成員國有183個國家現在有192個國家那是我第一次沒有自己做午飯我跟我助理說""去邀請其他女性的常駐代表""我原本以為我回到我公寓的時候會有很多女性朋友在那裏但我回去的時候，只有6位，183個成員國裡只有6位那些是女性代表的國家是加拿大、哈薩克、菲律賓千里達、牙買加列支敦士登公國和我們美國然後身為美國人，我決定成立一個核心小組(笑聲)所以我們真的組了這個小組我們叫自己G7 (笑聲) PM：是女生七人組(girl seven)嗎？(MA：對，女生七人組) MA：我們試著遊說這些女性議題我們企圖要有兩位女性法官在戰爭罪行的法庭參與審判後來他們可以宣布強暴也是一種戰爭的武器而且違反人性 (掌聲) PM：所以當你環顧世界你看到，在許多情況下當然在西方世界女性可以獲得更多的領導職務在其他地方某些限制也慢慢解除了但還是有很多地方充滿暴力充斥許多問題但我們還沒有很多人可以在談判桌上發聲現在，你在談判桌上當時沒有，也許你當時有也許只有一兩個人為這議題說話你能否跟我們說，你是否相信未來將會有很大的改變像是暴力問題和平和衝突，還有其他的解決方法能否在合理的基礎下做到？ MA：我當然相信，如果有更多的女性朋友願意出力還有談論的氣氛改變以及談論的目標改變的話當然這不表示整個世界都會變好當然不會全部由女性主導一切的工作如果你有那樣的想法，你大概忘了高中是什麼樣子(笑聲)但原則是總是會有辦法的當有更多女性能出現在談判桌上那就是一個機會可以增進男性對這方面議題的了解像是當我在蒲隆地我們找了圖西族和胡圖族的婦女一起談論一些問題是發生在盧安達的所以，我覺得女性有能力有所作為我認為我們將能夠從別人的角度去看事情並有更多的同理心我認為這有助於這方面的支持如果當時有其他的女性參與會議的話 當我還是國務卿的時候只有13個國家是女性擔任外交大臣因此，當其中一個人能夠出席會議是很好的例如，其中一位她現在是芬蘭總統但Tarja Halonen當時是芬蘭的外交大臣也同時是歐盟的主席那是相當了不起的我說個例子我想你們應該可以了解我們出席會議在我的代表團裡的男性代表當我說""我覺得我應該針對這事情做些什麼""然後他們問""你說你覺得是什麼意思？""然後Tarja坐在我對面的位子上當我們在談論武器控管的問題時她說""我覺得我們應該這樣做""然後我的男同事們突然就了解那是什麼意思了當然我覺得這很有幫助有一位有地位的女性參與一系列的外交政策的會議其他我認為也很重要的是很多國家安全政策不只是外交政策是有關預算，軍事預算以及如何制定出國債如果有女性擔任各種外交政策的職位他們能互相支持當他們自己的國家在作出預算編列的決定 PM：那我們要如何在這個世界做到這樣的平衡？讓更多的女性參與會議？讓更多的男性認同男女平等是最好的狀態？ MA：事情是這樣我是一個機構的董事長那個機構是國際民主研究所我們做的事情是支持女性候選人我認為我們需要幫助其他國家去訓練女性爭取政治上的地位讓他們了解他們能做的事情增進他們在政治上的力量我想我們還需要支持他們設立企業確保女性會互相幫助彼此我現在要說我很強烈的感覺到因為我已經到了這個年紀當我開始我的職業生涯你們知道嗎，也是有其他的女性朋友批評我""妳為什麼不和別人共同擔任這份工作？""或是""你的小孩一定很辛苦因為你都不在他們的身邊""我認為我們有一種想讓別人感到內疚傾向其實我覺得“內疚”存在每個女人的個性裡所以我認為我們需要互相幫助而我的座右銘是在地獄裡有一個特殊的地方是留給那些不願幫助其他女性朋友的女人 (掌聲) PM：恩，國務卿Albright女士，你一定會上天堂的謝謝你今天來參加我們的活動 MA：謝謝各位。謝謝你Pat。 (掌聲)"
