Talk	en	zh-tw
magnus_larsson_turning_dunes_into_architecture	"It's a bit funny to be at a conference dedicated to things not seen, and present my proposal to build a 6,000-kilometer-long wall across the entire African continent. About the size of the Great Wall of China, this would hardly be an invisible structure. And yet it's made from parts that are invisible, or near-invisible, to the naked eye: bacteria and grains of sand. Now, as architects we're trained to solve problems. But I don't really believe in architectural problems; I only believe in opportunities. Which is why I'll show you a threat, and an architectural response. The threat is desertification. My response is a sandstone wall made from bacteria and solidified sand, stretching across the desert. Now, sand is a magical material of beautiful contradictions. It is simple and complex. It is peaceful and violent. It is always the same, never the same, endlessly fascinating. One billion grains of sand come into existence in the world each second. That's a cyclical process. As rocks and mountains die, grains of sand are born. Some of those grains may then cement naturally into sandstone. And as the sandstone weathers, new grains break free. Some of those grains may then accumulate on a massive scale, into a sand dune. In a way, the static, stone mountain becomes a moving mountain of sand. But, moving mountains can be dangerous. Let me try and explain why. Dry areas cover more than one third of the Earth's land surfaces. Some are already deserts; others are being seriously degraded by the sand. Just south of the Sahara we find the Sahel. The name means ""edge of the desert."" And this is the region most closely associated with desertification. It was here in the late '60s and early '70s that major droughts brought three million people to become dependent upon emergency food aid, with about up to 250,000 dying. This is a catastrophe waiting to happen again. And it's one that gets very little attention. In our accelerated media culture, desertification is simply too slow to reach the headlines. It's nothing like a tsunami or a Katrina: too few crying children and smashed up houses. And yet desertification is a major threat on all continents, affecting some 110 countries and about 70 percent of the world's agricultural drylands. It seriously threatens the livelihoods of millions of people, and especially in Africa and China. And it is largely an issue that we've created for ourselves through unsustainable use of scarce resources. So, we get climate change. We get droughts, increased desertification, crashing food systems, water scarcity, famine, forced migration, political instability, warfare, crisis. That's a potential scenario if we fail to take this seriously. But, how far away is it? I went to Sokoto in northern Nigeria to try and find out how far away it is. The dunes here move southward at a pace of around 600 meters a year. That's the Sahara eating up almost [two meters] a day of the arable land, physically pushing people away from their homes. Here I am — I'm the second person on the left — (Laughter) with the elders in Gidan-Kara, a tiny village outside of Sokoto. They had to move this village in 1987 as a huge dune threatened to swallow it. So, they moved the entire village, hut by hut. This is where the village used to be. It took us about 10 minutes to climb up to the top of that dune, which goes to show why they had to move to a safer location. That's the kind of forced migration that desertification can lead to. If you happen to live close to the desert border, you can pretty much calculate how long it will be before you have to carry your kids away, and abandon your home and your life as you know it. Now, sand dunes cover only about one fifth of our deserts. And still, those extreme environments are very good places if we want to stop the shifting sands. Four years ago, 23 African countries came together to create the Great Green Wall Sahara. A fantastic project, the initial plan called for a shelter belt of trees to be planted right across the African continent, from Mauritania in the west, all the way to Djibouti in the east. If you want to stop a sand dune from moving, what you need to make sure to do is to stop the grains from avalanching over its crest. And a good way of doing that, the most efficient way, is to use some kind of sand catcher. Trees or cacti are good for this. But, one of the problems with planting trees is that the people in these regions are so poor that they chop them down for firewood. Now there is an alternative to just planting trees and hoping that they won't get chopped down. This sandstone wall that I'm proposing essentially does three things. It adds roughness to the dune's surface, to the texture of the dune's surface, binding the grains. It provides a physical support structure for the trees, and it creates physical spaces, habitable spaces inside of the sand dunes. If people live inside of the green barrier they can help support the trees, protect them from humans, and from some of the forces of nature. Inside of the dunes we find shade. We can start harvesting condensation, and start greening the desert from within. Sand dunes are almost like ready-made buildings in a way. All we need to do is solidify the parts that we need to be solid, and then excavate the sand, and we have our architecture. We can either excavate it by hand or we can have the wind excavate it for us. So, the wind carries the sand onto the site and then it carries the redundant sand away from the structure for us. But, by now, you're probably asking, how am I planning to solidify a sand dune? How do we glue those grains of sand together? And the answer is, perhaps, that you use these guys, Bacillus pasteurii, a micro-organism that is readily available in wetlands and marshes, and does precisely that. It takes a pile of loose sand and it creates sandstone out of it. These images from the American Society for Microbiology show us the process. What happens is, you pour Bacillus pasteurii onto a pile of sand, and it starts filling up the voids in between the grains. A chemical process produces calcite, which is a kind of natural cement that binds the grains together. The whole cementation process takes about 24 hours. I learned about this from a professor at U.C. Davis called Jason DeJong. He managed to do it in a mere 1,400 minutes. Here I am, playing the part of the mad scientist, working with the bugs at UCL in London, trying to solidify them. So, how much would this cost? I'm not an economist, very much not, but I did, quite literally, a back of the envelope calculation — (Laughter) — and it seems that for a cubic meter of concrete we would have to pay in the region of 90 dollars. And, after an initial cost of 60 bucks to buy the bacteria, which you'll never have to pay again, one cubic meter of bacterial sand would be about 11 dollars. How do we construct something like this? Well, I'll quickly show you two options. The first is to create a kind of balloon structure, fill it with bacteria, then allow the sand to wash over the balloon, pop the balloon, as it were, disseminating the bacteria into the sand and solidifying it. Then, a few years afterwards, using permacultural strategies, we green that part of the desert. The second alternative would be to use injection piles. So, we pushed the piles down through the dune, and we create an initial bacterial surface. We then pull the piles up through the dune and we're able to create almost any conceivable shape inside of the sand with the sand acting as a mold as we go up. So, we have a way of turning sand into sandstone, and then creating these habitable spaces inside of the desert dunes. But, what should they look like? Well, I was inspired, for my architectural form, by tafoni, which look a little bit like this, this is a model representation of it. These are cavernous rock structures that I found on the site in Sokoto. And I realized that if I scaled them up, they would provide me with good spatial qualities, for ventilation, for thermal comfort, and for other things. Now, part of the formal control over this structure would be lost to nature, obviously, as the bacteria do their work. And I think this creates a kind of boundless beauty actually. I think there is really something in that articulation that is quite nice. We see the result, the traces, if you like, of the Bacillus pasteurii being harnessed to sculpt the desert into these habitable environments. Some people believe that this would spread uncontrollably, and that the bacteria would kill everything in its way. That's not true at all. It's a natural process. It goes on in nature today, and the bacteria die as soon as we stop feeding them. So, there it is — architectural anti-desertification structures made from the desert itself. Sand-stopping devices, made from sand. The world is likely to lose one third of its arable land by the end of the century. In a period of unprecedented population growth and increased food demands, this could prove disastrous. And quite frankly, we're putting our heads in the sand. If nothing else, I would like for this scheme to initiate a discussion. But, if I had something like a TED wish, it would be to actually get it built, to start building this habitable wall, this very, very long, but very narrow city in the desert, built into the dunescape itself. It's not only something that supports trees, but something that connects people and countries together. I would like to conclude by showing you an animation of the structure, and leave you with a sentence by Jorge Luis Borges. Borges said that ""nothing is built on stone, everything is built on sand, but we must build as if the sand were stone."" Now, there are many details left to explore in this scheme — political, practical, ethical, financial. My design, as it takes you down the rabbit hole, is fraught with many challenges and difficulties in the real world. But, it's a beginning, it's a vision. As Borges would have it, it's the sand. And I think now is really the time to turn it into stone. Thank you. (Applause)"	這似乎有些好笑在會議上談論肉眼看不到的東西並提出我的建議建立一條6000公里長的牆橫跨全非洲大陸大約像中國長城的規模這會是個你很難不看到的結構雖然它的組成來自於幾乎看不見，或接近肉眼看不見的程度也就是細菌和沙粒 身為建築師我們 被訓練來解決問題但我並不相信建築上的問題我只相信機會這就是為什麼我將向你們說明這個威脅以及一個建築上的因應措施所謂的威脅是沙漠化我的因應措施是建一座砂岩牆由細菌和固化沙組成延伸橫跨沙漠 沙是一種神奇的物質美麗又矛盾簡單又複雜和平又狂暴它看來永遠一個樣，卻又那麼不同無窮的迷人特質這世界每秒鐘有10億粒沙形成這是一個循環過程當岩石和山脈消逝沙粒則形成有些沙粒之後可能自然地凝固為砂岩當砂岩受到風化，新的沙就會脫離有些沙粒則大規模累積形成沙丘 在某種情況下，靜止的岩山會變成一座移動的沙山但移動的山很危險，讓我試著解釋原因超過1/3的地球表面覆蓋著乾燥的區域有一些已成為沙漠其他的則是正嚴重地受到沙的侵蝕我們發現撒哈拉沙漠南方的薩赫耳薩赫耳意謂「沙漠的邊緣」。這區域是最近乎於沙漠化的地方在60年代末期及70年代初期，嚴重的乾旱造成三百萬人急需仰賴緊急食物救援而將近有25萬人死亡 這是一場即將再次發生的災難而這個災難卻沒獲得多少注意在我們的快速媒體文化當中由於沙漠化的緩慢使它從未登上頭版，不受媒體重視它不像海嘯或是卡崔那颶風看不到什麼哭泣的兒童及毀壞的房屋然而，沙漠化在所有陸地上都是重大威脅它影響110個國家以及世界上約 70%的農作陸地 它嚴重威脅數千萬人的生活特別是非洲及中國這主要也是由於我們濫用珍貴資源所導致的問題所以我們面臨著氣候異常乾旱沙漠化擴大崩潰的食物系統、水荒飢荒、被迫遷徙政治不穩定、戰爭、危機這些將是潛在的情況如果我們不認真看待這個問題的話但是，這個威脅離我們有多遠呢？ 我去了奈吉利亞北部的索科托（Sokoto）試圖瞭解它離我們有多遠這裏的沙丘南移速度約是一年600公尺這等於是撒哈拉每天侵吞下一公尺的耕作用地完全將人們趕離他們的家園我在這裡—我是左邊數過來第二個（笑聲）與一些長者在索科托近郊的小村落Gidan-Kara 他們必須於1997年遷移這個村莊因當時遭受一個巨大沙丘吞沒的威脅於是將整個村莊的一間間小屋陸續遷移這是村莊之前所在處我們花了約 10 分鐘爬上沙丘頂端可以看出他們為什麼必須遷移到安全地點這是一種強迫性的遷徙沙漠化會導致這種後果如果你碰巧住在靠近沙漠邊緣你幾乎可以計算出在這之前還剩多少時間你得帶著你的孩子離開放棄你的家庭和生活，當你知道會發生這種狀況時 目前沙丘只覆蓋我們的沙漠約1/5儘管如此，這些極端環境依然是很好的地方如果我們阻止沙的移動四年前，23個非洲國家聚首提議建立「撒哈拉綠色長城」這是一個了不起的計畫，初步的規劃是種植防護林帶橫越整個非洲大陸從西部的茅利塔尼亞一直到東部的吉布地如果想阻止沙丘移動你必須確保能阻止沙粒從沙丘頂端崩塌有個好方法，也是最有效的方法是使用某種能捕捉沙粒的東西樹木或仙人掌很有用但是，種樹木的問題之一是這裡的居民很貧窮他們把樹木砍來當柴燒 現在有個替代方案 能取代只是種植樹木並希望它們不會被砍伐我建議的這個砂岩牆主要可達成三項任務添加粗糙物到沙丘表面為沙丘表面紋理增添粗糙面，黏住沙粒它為樹木提供自然的支撐結構並建立了實際空間就是沙丘中的可居住空間如果人們生活在綠色壁壘中他們可以協助支撐樹木，保護樹木不受人類及其他自然破壞力的侵害沙丘中我們有蔭涼處我們可以取得冷凝水而開始從內部綠化沙漠 沙丘有點像是現成的建築物我們所要做的是固化我們所需的部份然後將沙挖掘出來這就是我們的建築物我們可以徒手挖掘讓風來幫我們代勞所以風將沙吹到當地又幫我們將多餘的沙從結構中吹走 現在你們可能要問我如何固化沙丘？我們要如何將沙粒黏合在一起或許答案就是，你該用這東西巴氏芽孢桿菌一種在濕地和沼澤中都可以找到的微生物它需要一堆鬆散的沙子並由此創造出砂岩這些美國微生物學會的影像，展示出固化的過程 所發生的就是，你將巴氏芽孢桿菌倒入一堆沙中這些菌開始填滿沙粒間的空隙經過化學過程，產生方解石這是一種天然的水泥可使沙粒結合在一起整個膠結過程約需24小時我跟加州大學戴維斯分校Jason DeJong副教授學到這個方法他僅在1400分鐘內就能成功做到這一點這是我，就像一位瘋狂的科學家在倫敦 UCL 裏操作這些桿菌試圖使它們固化 這需要多少費用？我不是經濟學家，差遠了但我毫不誇張地 粗步估算一下（笑聲）1立方公尺的水泥我們大約要支付90美元第一次購買這些細菌的60美元後你就不需要再買細菌1立方公尺的細菌沙約11美元 究竟我們要如何建造這樣的建築？我很快的提供你兩個選項第一個是建造一種似氣球的結構用細菌填滿它，然後讓沙浸過氣球打破氣球，可以這麼說，將細菌散入沙中使它固化然後，數年後使用永續策略我們綠化了那部分的沙漠 第二種選項是使用灌樁我們將樁打入沙丘創造出一個初始化的細菌表面然後將樁抽離沙丘如此我們能夠在沙丘內創造出任何想要的形狀在搭建起來時把沙當成模我們就有將沙轉換為沙岩的方式而且在沙丘裡創造出可居住的空間 但是，這些建築會長成什麼樣子呢？對於建築外型的靈感源於風化穴長得有點像這個，這是模型的示意這些是有我在Sokoto找到的洞穴狀岩石結構然後我發覺，若我將規模拉大它們可以提供我通風、保溫及其他方面良好且特別的品質這架構的形式控制一部份將隨大自然消逝，想當然爾地因為細菌有所作用我覺得 這實際上創造出一種無限的美感認為由這個所表現出的確實有某些相當不錯的理念我們看到其結果和進程，若你願意，就是利用巴氏芽孢桿菌將沙漠雕塑成這些居住環境 有些人相信這方式會一發不可收拾細菌會在運作的過程中侵蝕每一件事物這完全不正確這是個自然的過程，到今日都在自然界發生只要我們停止餵食細菌，細菌就會死亡這就是由沙漠所製成的反沙漠化建築結構擋沙裝置是由沙所製成在本世紀末　地球很可能減少三分之一的耕地在這史無前例的人口爆炸年代食物需求激增 這些都代表著災難老實說我們仍是鴕鳥心態 若沒有其他資源，我希望這個計畫可以引發討論但是若我有像TED的願景那將是能夠真正將它實現開始建造這種可居住的牆這將是沙漠中非常長　且狹窄的城市內建在沙丘結構本身它不只可以支撐樹木也可以將人們及國家串連在一起我想以一段結構的動畫影片作為總結並附上波赫士所說的一句話 波赫士說：「沒有建物是建築在岩石上的所有的建物都是建在沙上但我們必須視沙猶如岩石般來建立一切 現在這個計畫仍有許多細節有待探索如政治、實際操作、道德、財務等面向如同帶你仙境一遊般我的設計在現實生活中是充滿許多挑戰及困難不過這是個開端，是個願景如同波赫士所言　它是沙我認為現在是將它們變成石頭的時候了　謝謝（掌聲）
