Talk	en	zh-tw
maira_kalman_the_illustrated_woman	"What I am always thinking about is what this session is about, which is called simplicity. And almost, I would almost call it being simple-minded, but in the best sense of the word. I'm trying to figure out two very simple things: how to live and how to die, period. That's all I'm trying to do, all day long. And I'm also trying to have some meals, and have some snacks, and, you know, and yell at my children, and do all the normal things that keep you grounded. So, I was fortunate enough to be born a very dreamy child. My older sister was busy torturing my parents, and they were busy torturing her. I was lucky enough to be completely ignored, which is a fabulous thing, actually, I want to tell you. So, I was able to completely daydream my way through my life. And I finally daydreamed my way into NYU, at a very good time, in 1967, where I met a man who was trying to blow up the math building of NYU. And I was writing terrible poetry and knitting sweaters for him. And feminists hated us, and the whole thing was wretched from beginning to end. But I kept writing bad poetry, and he didn't blow up the math building, but he went to Cuba. But I gave him the money, because I was from Riverdale so I had more money than he did. (Laughter) And that was a good thing to help, you know, the cause. But, then he came back, and things happened, and I decided I really hated my writing, that it was awful, awful, purple prose. And I decided that I wanted to tell — but I still wanted to tell a narrative story and I still wanted to tell my stories. So I decided that I would start to draw. How hard could that be? And so what happened was that I started just becoming an editorial illustrator through, you know, sheer whatever, sheer ignorance. And we started a studio. Well, Tibor really started the studio, called M&Co. And the premise of M&Co was, we don't know anything, but that's all right, we're going to do it anyway. And as a matter of fact, it's better not to know anything, because if you know too much, you're stymied. So, the premise in the studio was, there are no boundaries, there is no fear. And I — and my full-time job, I landed the best job on Earth, was to daydream, and to actually come up with absurd ideas that — fortunately, there were enough people there, and it was a team, it was a collective, it was not just me coming up with crazy ideas. But the point was that I was there as myself, as a dreamer. And so some of the things — I mean, it was a long history of M&Co, and clearly we also needed to make some money, so we decided we would create a series of products. And some of the watches there, attempting to be beautiful and humorous — maybe not attempting, hopefully succeeding. That to be able to talk about content, to break apart what you normally expect, to use humor and surprise, elegance and humanity in your work was really important to us. It was a very high, it was a very impersonal time in design and we wanted to say, the content is what's important, not the package, not the wrapping. You really have to be journalists, you have to be inventors, you have to use your imagination more importantly than anything. So, the good news is that I have a dog and, though I don't know if I believe in luck — I don't know what I believe in, it's a very complicated question, but I do know that before I go away, I crank his tail seven times. So, whenever he sees a suitcase in the house, because everybody's always, you know, leaving, they're always cranking this wonderful dog's tail, and he runs to the other room. But I am able to make the transition from working for children and — from working for adults to children, and back and forth, because, you know, I can say that I'm immature, and in a way, that's true. I don't really — I mean, I could tell you that I didn't understand, I'm not proud of it, but I didn't understand let's say 95 percent of the talks at this conference. But I have been taking beautiful notes of drawings and I have a gorgeous onion from Murray Gell-Mann's talk. And I have a beautiful page of doodles from Jonathan Woodham's talk. So, good things come out of, you know, incomprehension — (Laughter) — which I will do a painting of, and then it will end up in my work. So, I'm open to the possibilities of not knowing and finding out something new. So, in writing for children, it seems simple, and it is. You have to condense a story into 32 pages, usually. And what you have to do is, you really have to edit down to what you want to say. And hopefully, you're not talking down to kids and you're not talking in such a way that you, you know, couldn't stand reading it after one time. So, I hopefully am writing, you know, books that are good for children and for adults. But the painting reflects — I don't think differently for children than I do for adults. I try to use the same kind of imagination, the same kind of whimsy, the same kind of love of language. So, you know, and I have lots of wonderful-looking friends. This is Andrew Gatz, and he walked in through the door and I said, ""You! Sit down there."" You know, I take lots of photos. And the Bertoia chair in the background is my favorite chair. So, I get to put in all of the things that I love. Hopefully, a dialog between adults and children will happen on many different levels, and hopefully different kinds of humor will evolve. And the books are really journals of my life. I never — I don't like plots. I don't know what a plot means. I can't stand the idea of anything that starts in the beginning, you know, beginning, middle and end. It really scares me, because my life is too random and too confused, and I enjoy it that way. But anyway, so we were in Venice, and this is our room. And I had this dream that I was wearing this fantastic green gown, and I was looking out the window, and it was really a beautiful thing. And so, I was able to put that into this story, which is an alphabet, and hopefully go on to something else. The letter C had other things in it. I was fortunate also, to meet the man who's sitting on the bed, though I gave him hair over here and he doesn't have hair. Well, he has some hair but — well, he used to have hair. And with him, I was able to do a project that was really fantastic. I work for the New Yorker, and I do covers, and 9/11 happened and it was, you know, a complete and utter end of the world as we knew it. And Rick and I were on our way to a party in the Bronx, and somebody said Bronxistan, and somebody said Ferreristan, and we came up with this New Yorker cover, which we were able to — we didn't know what we were doing. We weren't trying to be funny, we weren't trying to be — well, we were trying to be funny actually, that's not true. We hoped we'd be funny, but we didn't know it would be a cover, and we didn't know that that image, at the moment that it happened, would be something that would be so wonderful for a lot of people. And it really became the — I don't know, you know, it was one of those moments people started laughing at what was going on. And from, you know, Fattushis, to Taxistan to, you know, for the Fashtoonks, Botoxia, Pashmina, Khlintunisia, you know, we were able to take the city and make fun of this completely foreign, who are — what's going on over here? Who are these people? What are these tribes? And David Remnick, who was really wonderful about it, had one problem. He didn't like Al Zheimers, because he thought it would insult people with Alzheimer's. But you know, we said, ""David, who's going to know? They're not."" (Laughter) So it stayed in, and it was, and, you know, it was a good thing. You know, in the course of my life, I never know what's going to happen and that's kind of the beauty part. And we were on Cape Cod, a place, obviously, of great inspiration, and I picked up this book, ""The Elements of Style,"" at a yard sale. And I didn't — and I'd never used it in school, because I was too busy writing poems, and flunking out, and I don't know what, sitting in cafes. But I picked it up and I started reading it and I thought, this book is amazing. I said, people should know about this book. (Laughter) So I decided it needed a few — it needed a lift, it needed a few illustrations. And basically, I called the, you know, I convinced the White Estate, and what an intersection of like, you know, Polish Jew, you know, main WASP family. Here I am, saying, I'd like to do something to this book. And they said yes, and they left me completely alone, which was a gorgeous, wonderful thing. And I took the examples that they gave, and just did 56 paintings, basically. So, this is, I don't know if you can read this. ""Well, Susan, this is a fine mess you are in."" And when you're dealing with grammar, which is, you know, incredibly dry, E.B. White wrote such wonderful, whimsical — and actually, Strunk — and then you come to the rules and, you know, there are lots of grammar things. ""Do you mind me asking a question? Do you mind my asking a question?"" ""Would, could, should, or would, should, could."" And ""would"" is Coco Chanel's lover, ""should"" is Edith Sitwell, and ""could"" is an August Sander subject. And, ""He noticed a large stain in the center of the rug."" (Laughter) So, there's a kind of British understatement, murder-mystery theme that I really love very much. And then, ""Be obscure clearly! Be wild of tongue in a way we can understand."" E.B. White wrote us a number of rules, which can either paralyze you and make you loathe him for the rest of time, or you can ignore them, which I do, or you can, I don't know what, you know, eat a sandwich. So, what I did when I was painting was I started singing, because I really adore singing, and I think that music is the highest form of all art. So, I commissioned a wonderful composer, Nico Muhly, who wrote nine songs using the text, and we performed this fantastic evening of — he wrote music for both amateurs and professionals. I played the clattering teacup and the slinky in the main reading room of the New York Public Library, where you're supposed to be very, very quiet, and it was a phenomenally wonderful event, which we hopefully will do some more. Who knows? The New York TimesSelect, the op-ed page, asked me to do a column, and they said, you can do whatever you want. So, once a month for the last year, I've been doing a column called ""The Principles of Uncertainty,"" which, you know, I don't know who Heisenberg is, but I know I can throw that around now. You know, it's the principles of uncertainty, so, you know. I'm going to read quickly — and probably I'm going to edit some, because I don't have that much time left — a few of the columns. And basically, I was so, you know, it was so amusing, because I said, ""Well, how much space do I have?"" And they said, ""Well, you know, it's the Internet."" And I said, ""Yes, but how much space do I have?"" And they said, ""It's unlimited, it's unlimited."" OK. So, the first one I was very timid, and I'll begin. ""How can I tell you everything that is in my heart? Impossible to begin. Enough. No. Begin with the hapless dodo."" And I talk about the dodo, and how the dodo became extinct, and then I talk about Spinoza. ""As the last dodo was dying, Spinoza was looking for a rational explanation for everything, called eudaemonia. And then he breathed his last, with loved ones around him, and I know that he had chicken soup also, as his last meal."" I happen to know it for a fact. And then he died, and there was no more Spinoza. Extinct. And then, we don't have a stuffed Spinoza, but we do have a stuffed Pavlov's dog, and I visited him in the Museum of Hygiene in St. Petersburg, in Russia. And there he is, with this horrible electrical box on his rump in this fantastic, decrepit palace. ""And I think it must have been a very, very dark day when the Bolsheviks arrived. Maybe amongst themselves they had a few good laughs, but Stalin was a paranoid man, even more than my father."" (Laughter) You don't even know. ""And decided his top people had to be extinctified."" Which I think I made up, which is a good thing. And so, this is a chart of, you know, just a small chart, because the chart would go on forever of all the people that he killed. So, shot dead, smacked over the head, you know, thrown away. ""Nabokov's family fled Russia. How could the young Nabokov, sitting innocently and elegantly in a red chair, leafing through a book and butterflies, imagine such displacement, such loss?"" And then I want to tell you that this is a map. So, ""My beautiful mother's family fled Russia as well. Too many pogroms. Leaving the shack, the wild blueberry woods, the geese, the River Sluch, they went to Palestine and then America."" And my mother drew this map for me of the United States of America, and that is my DNA over here, because that person who I grew up with had no use for facts whatsoever. Facts were actually banished from our home. And so, if you see that Texas — you know, Texas and California are under Canada, and that South Carolina is on top of North Carolina, this is the home that I grew up in, OK? So, it's a miracle that I'm here today. But actually, it's not. It's actually a wonderful thing. But then she says Tel Aviv and Lenin, which is the town they came from, and, ""Sorry, the rest unknown, thank you."" But in her lexicon, ""sorry, the rest unknown, thank you"" is ""sorry, the rest unknown, go to hell,"" because she couldn't care less. (Laughter) ""The Impossibility of February"" is that February's a really wretched month in New York and the images for me conjure up these really awful things. Well, not so awful. I received a box in the mail and it was wrapped with newspaper and there was the picture of the man on the newspaper and he was dead. And I say, ""I hope he's not really dead, just enjoying a refreshing lie-down in the snow, but the caption says he is dead."" And actually, he was. I think he's dead, though I don't know, maybe he's not dead. ""And this woman leans over in anguish, not about that man, but about all sad things. It happens quite often in February."" There's consoling. This man is angry because somebody threw onions all over the staircase, and basically — you know, I guess onions are a theme here. And he says, ""It is impossible not to lie. It is February and not lying is impossible."" And I really spend a lot of time wondering, how much truth do we tell? What is it that we're actually — what story are we actually telling? How do we know when we are ourselves? How do we actually know that these sentences coming out of our mouths are real stories, you know, are real sentences? Or are they fake sentences that we think we ought to be saying? I'm going to quickly go through this. A quote by Bertrand Russell, ""All the labor of all the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of human genius are destined to extinction. So now, my friends, if that is true, and it is true, what is the point?"" A complicated question. And so, you know, I talk to my friends and I go to plays where they're singing Russian songs. Oh my God, you know what? Could we have — no, we don't have time. I taped my aunt. I taped my aunt singing a song in Russian from the — you know, could we have it for a second? Do you have that? (Music) OK. I taped my — my aunt used to swim in the ocean every day of the year until she was about 85. So — and that's a song about how everybody's miserable because, you know, we're from Russia. (Laughter) I went to visit Kitty Carlisle Hart, and she is 96, and when I brought her a copy of ""The Elements of Style,"" she said she would treasure it. And then I said — oh, and she was talking about Moss Hart, and I said, ""When you met him, you knew it was him."" And she said, ""I knew it was he."" (Laughter) So, I was the one who should have kept the book, but it was a really wonderful moment. And she dated George Gershwin, so, you know, get out. Gershwin died at the age of 38. He's buried in the same cemetery as my husband. I don't want to talk about that now. I do want to talk — the absolute icing on this cemetery cake is the Barricini family mausoleum nearby. I think the Barricini family should open a store there and sell chocolate. (Laughter) And I would like to run it for them. And I went to visit Louise Bourgeoise, who's also still working, and I looked at her sink, which is really amazing, and left. And then I photograph and do a painting of a sofa on the street. And a woman who lives on our street, Lolita. And then I go and have some tea. And then my Aunt Frances dies, and before she died, she tried to pay with Sweet'N Low packets for her bagel. (Laughter) And I wonder what the point is and then I know, and I see that Hy Meyerowitz, Rick Meyerowitz's father, a dry-cleaning supply salesman from the Bronx, won the Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest in 1931. That's actually Hy. And I look at a beautiful bowl of fruit, and I look at a dress that I sewed for friends of mine. And it says, ""Ich habe genug,"" which is a Bach cantata, which I once thought meant ""I've had it, I can't take it anymore, give me a break,"" but I was wrong. It means ""I have enough."" And that is utterly true. I happen to be alive, end of discussion. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我常在想這場名為「簡單」的討論是要做什麼而且，我甚至會稱這是場「頭腦簡單」的討論但是我是以最崇高的方式去解讀這句「簡單」我一直在試著理解兩件很簡單的小事如何過活? 以及如何死亡? 就這樣。整天就在想著這兩件事當然我也還是會吃飯，偶爾來些點心對孩子咆哮，以及其他日常瑣事好讓我感覺日子踏實 我非常幸運，從小就愛做白日夢我的姐姐總是對爸媽疲勞轟炸我爸媽也同樣忙著折磨她於是我在家中很幸運能被完全忽視這真的超棒的! 真的不騙你!所以我整天做著我的白日夢夢著夢著就夢進了紐約大學 — 當時是1967年我在那裡遇見了一個男人，他整天盤算著要炸掉數學大樓我則是一邊寫著糟糕的詩，一邊幫他織著毛衣女性主義者討厭我們，整個生活從一開始就讓人難受直到最後但我還是繼續寫著很糟的詩詞，他當然沒炸毀數學大樓卻去了古巴旅費用的是我的錢，因為我來自里佛岱爾(Riverdale)區所以理當比他寬裕些(笑聲)這是件好事，你知道的，能夠贊助他不過，他回來之後，事情開始不同我開始受不了自己寫的那些東西寫得很差勁，華麗而空洞我還是想說些...但我還是想說一段故事關於我的故事我想就用畫的吧。畫畫還能有多難?於是我開始畫畫我成為報章雜誌的插畫家，真的是，真的是誤入歧途 我們成立了工作室應該說，Tibor(講者的丈夫)成立了工作室，命名為M&Co在成立這個工作室之前，我們什麼都不懂不過沒關係，我們還是勇往直前事實上，一無所知反而比較好知道太多反而會讓你裹足不前所以這個工作室的初衷就是不設限，不畏懼我呢 — 還有我的全職工作，我得到了全世界最棒的工作那就是繼續做夢，想些異想天開的點子幸好，也有很多人也像我一樣 —我們組成一個團隊，大家集思廣益而不只是我一個人想著那些怪誕的點子。但重點是，我是以我個人，一個夢想家的角色參與工作室所以有些事 — 這其實是M&Co工作室的老歷史而當然我們也必須賺錢我們決定設計一系列的產品例如這些手錶就是我們企圖讓設計兼具美感與樂趣 —或許也並不只是憑空妄想，而是期待真的發揮效果 —才能思索設計的內涵是什麼才能打破既有的框架，運用點滴的趣味與驚喜成品本身的質感與人性，是我們非常重視的當時普遍的設計，是非常缺乏人味的我們想傳達的是，產品本身才是最重要的而非包在外面的盒子和包裝紙你必須成為一個抽絲剝繭的記者，一個突破創新的發明家你必須全心發揮你的想像力，不顧一切 所以，好消息是，我有一隻狗雖然我不確定自己是否相信運氣 —我不知道自己究竟相信什麼，這問題很難解 —但我的確知道，每次在我出遠門之前，我都會晃晃牠的尾巴七次所以牠看到家裡擺出了行李箱因為家中每個人總是時不時的出遠門每個人也總是會在離開前晃晃牠可愛的尾巴於是牠就會跑進其他房間躲起來。我能自由穿梭、轉換角度，為兒童創作或 —在為成人以及為兒童創作之間反覆轉換因為，我會認為那是因為，我是個很不成熟的人某種程度來說，這也是事實我並不 — 我的意思是，我能篤定的告訴你，我無法聽懂 —我並沒有因此沾沾自喜，但我無法聽懂這場論壇裡將近百分之95的演說但在聽講時，我還是畫下美麗的筆記我在聽Murray Gell-Mann(美國物理學家)的演講時，畫了一個絢麗的洋蔥在Jonathan Woodham(英國設計史學家)的演講，我畫了一整頁美麗的塗鴉所以，好事的降臨，總是出現在我們內心充滿問號的時刻 —(笑聲)— 那些時刻會讓我想要創作，最後就成為我的作品所以，我對於自己的無知感到很自在也同時找到新鮮的靈感 為兒童創作好像是件很簡單的事，它確實是如此一般而言，你必須在32頁以內塞進一個故事你往往需要從你原本想講的內容裡刪掉許多你也希望講故事的語氣不要顯得高高在上不要用這種說教的方式讓人讀過一遍後就不肯再碰那本書所以，我很希望自己寫的書能讓孩童或是成人有些收穫但插畫觸發讀者內心投射的力量就我看來，對孩子或對大人並無不同我試著運用一樣的想像力，一樣的胡思亂想一樣充滿愛的語言所以— 你們知道的，我有很多外貌姣好的朋友 這位是Andrew Gatz，他那時正要從門口進來「你，過來這邊坐好」然後我照了許多相片背景中那張Harry Bertoia(義大利家具設計師)設計的椅子，是我最喜歡的椅子於是，我能夠把所有我熱愛的東西擺進畫框希望在各種不同的理解層次，促成孩子和大人之間的對話希望擦撞出各種不同的趣味和火花這些書都像日記一樣，紀錄著我的生命我從不 — 我不喜歡編劇情也不懂何謂劇情我無法忍受「任何事總要有個開頭」的想法你知道的，起承轉合，這些真令我害怕因為我的生命充滿太多的變數與困惑而我很享受這樣的日子 總之，當時我在，我們當時在威尼斯這是我們的房間，我做了這樣的夢夢中我身穿這件漂亮的綠色長禮服望向窗外這真的很美如此美麗的畫面，我才得以將它放進這個字母的故事(講者以字母為主題創作《What Pete Ate from A to Z》)希望還會演變出其他的可能字母C還會有其他的故事我也很幸運，能夠認識這位坐在床上的男子雖然畫中的他頭髮茂密，實際上他是個禿頭恩...是有一些頭髮，不過...或者說，他的確「曾經」有頭髮因為有他，我才能進行這個很棒的計畫我幫《紐約客》雜誌畫封面，接著911事件發生對當時的我們來說，那就是世界末日 當時，我和Rick (Meyerowitz) 正要前往參加位在布隆克斯區的派對我們談話中就迸出「布隆克斯坦」(Bronxistan) 這個新詞 (「-斯坦」為中東語系的常用字尾)還有「遠得要斯坦」(Fareerristan)就這樣，我們創造出這期《紐約客》的封面我們能...我們沒有意識到自己在創作的是什麼我們無意要搞笑，我們也不是打算...不，應該說我們本來只打算搞笑我們希望它很有趣，卻沒預料到它會成為封面我們也沒預料到，當它登上封面時會這麼受到大家的歡迎而且成為...我不確定該怎麼形容人們開始能夠幽默看待這次的事件從「黎巴嫩沙拉區(Fattushis)」到拉瓜地亞機場旁的「小黃斯坦(Taxistan)」「臭氣沖天區(Fashtoonks)」、「肉毒桿菌區(Botoxia)」、「喀什米爾披肩區(Pashmina)」、「柯林頓辦公區(Khlintunesia)」等等我們將這座城市的各個地區用模擬中東語調的方式命名，幽默地傳達這個地區的特色是什麼住著什麼樣的人，屬於什麼樣的族裔David Remnick(美國作家、編輯)對這個概念也感到很有趣但只有一點存疑：他覺得「阿茲海默區(Al Zheimers)」的名稱不洽當他覺得，那可能會讓實際患有失智症(阿茲海默症)的人們感覺被冒犯但我們跟他說：「他們有誰會記得這件事呢?」他們不會記得的(笑聲)所以我們還是留下它，完成了一幅有趣的作品無論是在哪個人生階段，我永遠無法預期下一刻會發生什麼這也是生命的美好之處 我們曾在鱈魚角待過一陣子，那裡充滿啟發和想像我在某次車庫二手拍賣找到了一本書，《英文寫作指南》我從沒在求學期間翻過它因為當時我忙著寫詩，還被退學坐在咖啡店裡無所事事但當我拿起這本書開始閱讀，我領略到它的驚奇我認為，每個人都該知道這本書才對(笑聲)我覺得它可以用更好的方式呈現，它可以搭配一些插畫於是我打給作者E. B. White的代理人 ，並且試著說服他電話的另一頭是一位波蘭裔猶太人，來自白人精英家庭。於是我說我想為這本書加些什麼他們同意了，就完全讓我自由發揮我難以形容當時有多興奮我將作者在書中所舉的例子畫成圖差不多是56幅而這幅..我不確定你們能不能讀得到字「蘇珊，妳站在一團混亂裡」當你在學習文法時一般是很枯燥乏味的E.B. White用逗趣的方式...實際上是William Strunk, Jr.(另一位作者，White的老師)你認識到那些規則，你知道的文法的規則多如牛毛：「你方便我問問題嗎？」(Do you mind me asking a question? 非正式文法)「你方便讓我問個問題嗎？」(Do you mind my asking a question? 正確文法)「將要、能夠、應當」(Would, could, should)，或是「將要、應當、能夠」(would, should, could)would就像是可可·香奈兒的情人，should是伊迪絲·西特韋爾(Edith Sitwell，英國詩人)could則是奧古斯特．桑德(August Sander，德籍攝影師)的精神這幅是「他發現地毯中央的一個大污點」(笑聲) 這是以英式的輕描淡寫，描述秘密謀殺案的現場我很喜歡這樣的場景「請清楚地表達那些晦澀的句子！在我們的理解範圍內，盡情放縱你的言語。」E.B. White為我們列的許多規則中某些很可能會冗贅、麻煩到讓你從此討厭這個作者或者你也可以像我一樣，忽視這些囉嗦的規則或是你也可以，我不知道，也許吃個三明治打發過去。我的作法是，我一邊畫畫時，也一邊哼著歌因為我真的很喜歡唱歌我認為音樂是最崇高的藝術形式所以，我委託優秀的作曲家Nico Muhly幫忙他用書中的文字，寫了九首歌我們在這個美妙的夜晚，演奏了...他的音樂雅俗共賞我敲擊茶杯和螺旋彈簧玩具(slinky)來演奏在紐約公共圖書館內最大的閱覽室那裡原本是個肅靜的空間卻成就了一場令人驚豔的演出讓我們期待能有更多的嘗試 誰預料得到呢? 紐約時報線上選集的論壇專頁邀請我設立一個專欄，並且毫不設限地任由我發揮所以在過去的一年內，我每月發表一次專欄，名為「測不準原理」我並不了解海森堡(德國物理學家，提出測不準原理)的成就但我知道我還是能夠借用它的名氣畢竟這是「測不準原理」，所以我要快速地讀過 — 也許我會修改一些字句因為時間所剩不多 —讀一部分我的專欄文章基本上我一開始真的是...當時真的很好笑因為那時我問「我的專欄有哪些限制?」他們回答「你知道的，這專欄是在網路發布的」我說「對，但是我的專欄究竟有哪些限制?」他們說「沒有限制，沒有限制。」好吧。第一篇我還相當畏縮，接著我就開始了。「我要怎麼做，才能把心中所有的想法都告訴你們？根本無法動筆。受夠了一再猶豫。我開始畫倒楣的渡渡鳥。我描寫關於牠的故事，以及牠是如何滅絕的，然後我談到斯賓諾莎「當世上最後一隻渡渡鳥死去的時候，斯賓諾莎正不斷尋找一個適用萬物的理性解釋稱之為『理性主義』在他所愛的人們陪伴下，他嚥下最後一口氣，我還知道他生命的最後一餐，吃的是雞湯。」我是恰巧知道這件關於他臨終前的事。然後他就過世了，世上再也沒有另一個斯賓諾莎，絕種了。 我們沒有斯賓諾莎的標本，但我們還有帕夫洛夫的實驗狗標本我到俄國聖彼得堡的衛生博物館去找牠牠就在那裡，臀部戴著可怕的通電盒子，住在這座荒唐、衰敗的城堡裡。「我想，當布爾什維克(俄國工黨多數派)掌握政權時，那一天想必是徹底黑暗的。也許他們之中有些人有不錯的幽默感但是史達林是個激進的偏執狂，比我爸還激進。」(笑聲)你們不會懂的。「他下令國內的資產階級應該要被處以「絕種」(extinctified)。」這個字好像是我自創的，還不賴。這是一幅表格...，你知道，這只是其中的一小部分這幅表格會隨著他所殺害的人們，無止盡的延伸出去。射殺，重擊頭部，然後丟棄。「納博科夫(俄裔美國作家)舉家逃離俄國。還幼小的他純真、優雅地坐在紅色椅子上翻過蝴蝶百科的書頁想像時空的落差，那種失落。」我想告訴你們的是，這是一幅地圖 「我美麗的母親，從前也是舉家逃離俄國那裡太多的屠殺。他們離開了小屋，離開了藍苺林，離開了鵝群，離開了那條名叫Sluch的河流他們搬到巴勒斯坦，然後再遷往美國。」然後，我的母親為我畫了這張美國地圖我的基因就是來自於這裡。對於這位我從小相依為命的女人而言現實中的地理毫無意義。她的地理，就是一張被家園放逐的地圖。所以，當你找到地圖上的德州 — 德州和加州是在加拿大下方，南卡羅萊那州則位在北卡羅萊那州的上方這就是我從小生長的家，好嗎?所以，今天我竟然能站在這個台上，真是個奇蹟但實際上並非如此，生長在這個家其實是很美好的但接著她寫到以色列的特拉維夫，還有列寧，那是她們來美國前所住的城市，並且說「很抱歉，除此之外我一無所知，謝謝。」在她的詞彙中，「抱歉，除此之外一無所知」的意思是「抱歉其他我不知道，管它的」因為她一點都不在乎其他地方。(笑聲) 二月不可能發生的事在紐約，二月是個很憂鬱的月份我腦中的這個畫面，就幻化為這些嚇人的東西 —嗯...也許也沒那麼可怕。我在信箱收到這個用報紙包裹的盒子然後，這張圖是一個男人死在報紙上於是我寫說「我希望他並沒有真的死掉，只是在享受躺在雪地上的清爽但標題寫說他已經死了。」事實上，他真的死了。我猜他是死於...我不知道也許他根本沒死。「這位女士痛苦地倚靠著，並不是因為那個死去的男人而是因為所有的那些哀傷的事，常常發生在二月。」這是關於慰問的圖。這個男人感到很憤怒，因為有人在樓梯上灑滿了洋蔥而實際上 — 我認為洋蔥應該是個主題 —於是他說「人不可能不說謊現在是二月，不說謊是不可能的。」我真的花了很多時間在思考我們到底講了多少實話？哪些是我們真的...實際上我們究竟在說什麼樣的故事呢?我們怎麼知道，哪些時刻我們是真正的自己？我們怎麼確切知道，嘴裡講出的這些句子是真實的故事，是真的敘述?或是那只是我們認為我們應該要說的話? 我要很快地帶過去這一段伯特蘭·羅素曾說過「所有勞動人力的壽命，所有的奉獻，所有的靈感，所有宛如日正當中的人類才智終究會走向滅絕。所以現在，我的朋友，如果這是真的 —而且這也的確是 — 那麼，重點是什麼?」這是一個大哉問所以，我和我的朋友談論我去欣賞有演唱俄語歌曲的戲劇我的天，你猜怎麼著?我們可不可以...不，我們沒時間了我錄下我阿姨的聲音，錄下她唱一首俄語歌曲，來自...我們能稍微播放一點點嗎?你那邊有嗎?(音樂)好，我錄下我的...我阿姨之前常在海中游泳天天去游，全年無休，一直持續到她85歲這首歌是在說，每個人都過得如何地悲慘因為，我們是從俄國來的(笑聲) 我去拜訪吉蒂•卡莉斯爾•哈特(Kitty Carlisle Hart，美國歌手、演員)，她已經96歲當我給她一本《英文寫作指南》時她說她會好好珍藏它我說，喔，然後她談到她的丈夫Moss Hart(美國劇作家，1961年逝)，我說「當妳遇到他時，妳知道就是他了(you knew it was ""him"")」她說「我知道就是他了(I knew it was ""he"")」(笑聲)所以，我應該把書留著的，不過當時還是很愉快她婚前曾和喬治·蓋希文交往的事情已經為人所知喬治·蓋希文在38歲時去世他和我丈夫葬在同一個墓園(Westchester Hills Cemetery)我現在不打算談這個我想說的是...真正道地的「墓園蛋糕」的糖霜是旁邊Barricini家族(知名糖果商)墓園所製作的我認為他們家應該在那裡開間店販賣招牌巧克力(笑聲)我很樂意去幫他們經營的我去拜訪露易絲‧布爾喬亞(Louise Bourgeoise，法裔美國藝術家)她還持續在創作，我看了她的洗手台那真的很令人吃驚我對路旁的沙發照了張相，然後把這個畫面畫下一個與我們住在同一條街的女人，洛莉塔(Lolita)我去喝了下午茶我的阿姨Frances過世，在她臨終前她打算用Sweet 'n Low代糖糖果的包裝紙，拿去買貝果(笑聲)我想知道，真正的重點究竟是什麼，然後我發現Hy Meyerowitz，Rick Meyerowitz的父親這位布朗克斯的衣物乾洗劑推銷員贏得了1931年卓別林模仿賽的冠軍這就是他我看著一只漂亮的容器裝著水果我看著一件我為朋友繡上裝飾的洋裝寫著「Ich habe genug」，這是一首巴赫的清唱劇我曾經將它解讀為，「我已經有了，夠了饒了我吧!」但是我錯了它的意思是，「我擁有的夠多了」— 而這點完全正確我何其有幸能夠擁有生命，今天的演講到此結束，謝謝大家。(掌聲)"
