Talk	en	zh-tw
majora_carter_3_stories_of_local_ecoactivism	"So today, I'm going to tell you about some people who didn't move out of their neighborhoods. The first one is happening right here in Chicago. Brenda Palms-Farber was hired to help ex-convicts reenter society and keep them from going back into prison. Currently, taxpayers spend about 60,000 dollars per year sending a person to jail. We know that two-thirds of them are going to go back. I find it interesting that, for every one dollar we spend, however, on early childhood education, like Head Start, we save 17 dollars on stuff like incarceration in the future. Or — think about it — that 60,000 dollars is more than what it costs to send one person to Harvard as well. But Brenda, not being phased by stuff like that, took a look at her challenge and came up with a not-so-obvious solution: create a business that produces skin care products from honey. Okay, it might be obvious to some of you; it wasn't to me. It's the basis of growing a form of social innovation that has real potential. She hired seemingly unemployable men and women to care for the bees, harvest the honey and make value-added products that they marketed themselves, and that were later sold at Whole Foods. She combined employment experience and training with life skills they needed, like anger-management and teamwork, and also how to talk to future employers about how their experiences actually demonstrated the lessons that they had learned and their eagerness to learn more. Less than four percent of the folks that went through her program actually go back to jail. So these young men and women learned job-readiness and life skills through bee keeping and became productive citizens in the process. Talk about a sweet beginning. Now, I'm going to take you to Los Angeles, and lots of people know that L.A. has its issues. But I'm going to talk about L.A.'s water issues right now. They have not enough water on most days and too much to handle when it rains. Currently, 20 percent of California's energy consumption is used to pump water into mostly Southern California. Their spending loads, loads, to channel that rainwater out into the ocean when it rains and floods as well. Now Andy Lipkis is working to help L.A. cut infrastructure costs associated with water management and urban heat island — linking trees, people and technology to create a more livable city. All that green stuff actually naturally absorbs storm water, also helps cool our cities. Because, come to think about it, do you really want air-conditioning, or is it a cooler room that you want? How you get it shouldn't make that much of a difference. So a few years ago, L.A. County decided that they needed to spend 2.5 billion dollars to repair the city schools. And Andy and his team discovered that they were going to spend 200 million of those dollars on asphalt to surround the schools themselves. And by presenting a really strong economic case, they convinced the L.A. government that replacing that asphalt with trees and other greenery, that the schools themselves would save the system more on energy than they spend on horticultural infrastructure. So ultimately, 20 million square feet of asphalt was replaced or avoided, and electrical consumption for air-conditioning went down, while employment for people to maintain those grounds went up, resulting in a net-savings to the system, but also healthier students and schools system employees as well. Now Judy Bonds is a coal miner's daughter. Her family has eight generations in a town called Whitesville, West Virginia. And if anyone should be clinging to the former glory of the coal mining history, and of the town, it should be Judy. But the way coal is mined right now is different from the deep mines that her father and her father's father would go down into and that employed essentially thousands and thousands of people. Now, two dozen men can tear down a mountain in several months, and only for about a few years' worth of coal. That kind of technology is called ""mountaintop removal."" It can make a mountain go from this to this in a few short months. Just imagine that the air surrounding these places — it's filled with the residue of explosives and coal. When we visited, it gave some of the people we were with this strange little cough after being only there for just a few hours or so — not just miners, but everybody. And Judy saw her landscape being destroyed and her water poisoned. And the coal companies just move on after the mountain was emptied, leaving even more unemployment in their wake. But she also saw the difference in potential wind energy on an intact mountain, and one that was reduced in elevation by over 2,000 feet. Three years of dirty energy with not many jobs, or centuries of clean energy with the potential for developing expertise and improvements in efficiency based on technical skills, and developing local knowledge about how to get the most out of that region's wind. She calculated the up-front cost and the payback over time, and it's a net-plus on so many levels for the local, national and global economy. It's a longer payback than mountaintop removal, but the wind energy actually pays back forever. Now mountaintop removal pays very little money to the locals, and it gives them a lot of misery. The water is turned into goo. Most people are still unemployed, leading to most of the same kinds of social problems that unemployed people in inner cities also experience — drug and alcohol abuse, domestic abuse, teen pregnancy and poor heath, as well. Now Judy and I — I have to say — totally related to each other. Not quite an obvious alliance. I mean, literally, her hometown is called Whitesville, West Virginia. I mean, they are not — they ain't competing for the birthplace of hip hop title or anything like that. But the back of my T-shirt, the one that she gave me, says, ""Save the endangered hillbillies."" So homegirls and hillbillies we got it together and totally understand that this is what it's all about. But just a few months ago, Judy was diagnosed with stage-three lung cancer. Yeah. And it has since moved to her bones and her brain. And I just find it so bizarre that she's suffering from the same thing that she tried so hard to protect people from. But her dream of Coal River Mountain Wind is her legacy. And she might not get to see that mountaintop. But rather than writing yet some kind of manifesto or something, she's leaving behind a business plan to make it happen. That's what my homegirl is doing. So I'm so proud of that. (Applause) But these three people don't know each other, but they do have an awful lot in common. They're all problem solvers, and they're just some of the many examples that I really am privileged to see, meet and learn from in the examples of the work that I do now. I was really lucky to have them all featured on my Corporation for Public Radio radio show called ThePromisedLand.org. Now they're all very practical visionaries. They take a look at the demands that are out there — beauty products, healthy schools, electricity — and how the money's flowing to meet those demands. And when the cheapest solutions involve reducing the number of jobs, you're left with unemployed people, and those people aren't cheap. In fact, they make up some of what I call the most expensive citizens, and they include generationally impoverished, traumatized vets returning from the Middle East, people coming out of jail. And for the veterans in particular, the V.A. said there's a six-fold increase in mental health pharmaceuticals by vets since 2003. I think that number's probably going to go up. They're not the largest number of people, but they are some of the most expensive — and in terms of the likelihood for domestic abuse, drug and alcohol abuse, poor performance by their kids in schools and also poor health as a result of stress. So these three guys all understand how to productively channel dollars through our local economies to meet existing market demands, reduce the social problems that we have now and prevent new problems in the future. And there are plenty of other examples like that. One problem: waste handling and unemployment. Even when we think or talk about recycling, lots of recyclable stuff ends up getting incinerated or in landfills and leaving many municipalities, diversion rates — they leave much to be recycled. And where is this waste handled? Usually in poor communities. And we know that eco-industrial business, these kinds of business models — there's a model in Europe called the eco-industrial park, where either the waste of one company is the raw material for another, or you use recycled materials to make goods that you can actually use and sell. We can create these local markets and incentives for recycled materials to be used as raw materials for manufacturing. And in my hometown, we actually tried to do one of these in the Bronx, but our mayor decided what he wanted to see was a jail on that same spot. Fortunately — because we wanted to create hundreds of jobs — but after many years, the city wanted to build a jail. They've since abandoned that project, thank goodness. Another problem: unhealthy food systems and unemployment. Working-class and poor urban Americans are not benefiting economically from our current food system. It relies too much on transportation, chemical fertilization, big use of water and also refrigeration. Mega agricultural operations often are responsible for poisoning our waterways and our land, and it produces this incredibly unhealthy product that costs us billions in healthcare and lost productivity. And so we know ""urban ag"" is a big buzz topic this time of the year, but it's mostly gardening, which has some value in community building — lots of it — but it's not in terms of creating jobs or for food production. The numbers just aren't there. Part of my work now is really laying the groundwork to integrate urban ag and rural food systems to hasten the demise of the 3,000-mile salad by creating a national brand of urban-grown produce in every city, that uses regional growing power and augments it with indoor growing facilities, owned and operated by small growers, where now there are only consumers. This can support seasonal farmers around metro areas who are losing out because they really can't meet the year-round demand for produce. It's not a competition with rural farm; it's actually reinforcements. It allies in a really positive and economically viable food system. The goal is to meet the cities' institutional demands for hospitals, senior centers, schools, daycare centers, and produce a network of regional jobs, as well. This is smart infrastructure. And how we manage our built environment affects the health and well-being of people every single day. Our municipalities, rural and urban, play the operational course of infrastructure — things like waste disposal, energy demand, as well as social costs of unemployment, drop-out rates, incarceration rates and the impacts of various public health costs. Smart infrastructure can provide cost-saving ways for municipalities to handle both infrastructure and social needs. And we want to shift the systems that open the doors for people who were formerly tax burdens to become part of the tax base. And imagine a national business model that creates local jobs and smart infrastructure to improve local economic stability. So I'm hoping you can see a little theme here. These examples indicate a trend. I haven't created it, and it's not happening by accident. I'm noticing that it's happening all over the country, and the good news is that it's growing. And we all need to be invested in it. It is an essential pillar to this country's recovery. And I call it ""hometown security."" The recession has us reeling and fearful, and there's something in the air these days that is also very empowering. It's a realization that we are the key to our own recovery. Now is the time for us to act in our own communities where we think local and we act local. And when we do that, our neighbors — be they next-door, or in the next state, or in the next country — will be just fine. The sum of the local is the global. Hometown security means rebuilding our natural defenses, putting people to work, restoring our natural systems. Hometown security means creating wealth here at home, instead of destroying it overseas. Tackling social and environmental problems at the same time with the same solution yields great cost savings, wealth generation and national security. Many great and inspiring solutions have been generated across America. The challenge for us now is to identify and support countless more. Now, hometown security is about taking care of your own, but it's not like the old saying, ""charity begins at home."" I recently read a book called ""Love Leadership"" by John Hope Bryant. And it's about leading in a world that really does seem to be operating on the basis of fear. And reading that book made me reexamine that theory because I need to explain what I mean by that. See, my dad was a great, great man in many ways. He grew up in the segregated South, escaped lynching and all that during some really hard times, and he provided a really stable home for me and my siblings and a whole bunch of other people that fell on hard times. But, like all of us, he had some problems. (Laughter) And his was gambling, compulsively. To him that phrase, ""Charity begins at home,"" meant that my payday — or someone else's — would just happen to coincide with his lucky day. So you need to help him out. And sometimes I would loan him money from my after-school or summer jobs, and he always had the great intention of paying me back with interest, of course, after he hit it big. And he did sometimes, believe it or not, at a racetrack in Los Angeles — one reason to love L.A. — back in the 1940s. He made 15,000 dollars cash and bought the house that I grew up in. So I'm not that unhappy about that. But listen, I did feel obligated to him, and I grew up — then I grew up. And I'm a grown woman now, and I have learned a few things along the way. To me, charity often is just about giving, because you're supposed to, or because it's what you've always done, or it's about giving until it hurts. I'm about providing the means to build something that will grow and intensify its original investment and not just require greater giving next year — I'm not trying to feed the habit. I spent some years watching how good intentions for community empowerment, that were supposed to be there to support the community and empower it, actually left people in the same, if not worse, position that they were in before. And over the past 20 years, we've spent record amounts of philanthropic dollars on social problems, yet educational outcomes, malnutrition, incarceration, obesity, diabetes, income disparity, they've all gone up with some exceptions — in particular, infant mortality among people in poverty — but it's a great world that we're bringing them into as well. And I know a little bit about these issues, because, for many years, I spent a long time in the non-profit industrial complex, and I'm a recovering executive director, two years clean. (Laughter) But during that time, I realized that it was about projects and developing them on the local level that really was going to do the right thing for our communities. But I really did struggle for financial support. The greater our success, the less money came in from foundations. And I tell you, being on the TED stage and winning a MacArthur in the same exact year gave everyone the impression that I had arrived. And by the time I'd moved on, I was actually covering a third of my agency's budget deficit with speaking fees. And I think because early on, frankly, my programs were just a little bit ahead of their time. But since then, the park that was just a dump and was featured at a TED2006 Talk became this little thing. But I did in fact get married in it. Over here. There goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding. The South Bronx Greenway was also just a drawing on the stage back in 2006. Since then, we got about 50 million dollars in stimulus package money to come and get here. And we love this, because I love construction now, because we're watching these things actually happen. So I want everyone to understand the critical importance of shifting charity into enterprise. I started my firm to help communities across the country realize their own potential to improve everything about the quality of life for their people. Hometown security is next on my to-do list. What we need are people who see the value in investing in these types of local enterprises, who will partner with folks like me to identify the growth trends and climate adaptation as well as understand the growing social costs of business as usual. We need to work together to embrace and repair our land, repair our power systems and repair ourselves. It's time to stop building the shopping malls, the prisons, the stadiums and other tributes to all of our collective failures. It is time that we start building living monuments to hope and possibility. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	今天，我要向各位介紹一些從未離開過家鄉的人。第一位來自芝加哥。Brenda Palms-Farber ，她的工作是幫助有前科的人重返社會並防止他們再犯罪。目前統計，我們納稅人每年要支付近 6 萬美元來供養一位監獄的囚犯。而我們都知道，有三分之二的人會再回到監獄裡。但有趣的是，如果我們多花一元在幼兒教育上，像Head Start (美國政府的幼兒教育計畫)，在未來，我們就能少花17元在監禁犯身上。從另一個角度來想，有6萬美元的話，把一個人送去哈佛念書還綽綽有餘。 但 Brenda 並沒有被這些事情困擾，她接受眼前的挑戰，並採取了一個看起來不太起眼的解決方案:成立一家公司專門生產蜂蜜成分的護膚品。好吧，我知道對各位來說可能沒什麼特別，但對我來說剛好相反。一個社會創新企業的成長動力來自於它的潛力。表面上，她雇用了一些失業的男女去照顧蜜蜂，採收蜂蜜製造有附加價值的產品，然後作行銷，隨後在 Whole Foods 銷售(美國最大的有機超市)。她將工作經驗和訓練融入成為他們的生活技能，像是把情緒管理和團隊合作合併，也教員工如何能向未來的新進人員訴說他們所學到的教訓，以及他們對於學習的熱忱。在她的公司中再回到監獄的員工足足低於4%。這些男女透過照顧蜜蜂得到工作技能和生活技能，同時也變成有生產力的人民。這是一個美妙的開端。 現在，我要帶各位前往洛杉磯。大多數人都知道洛杉磯有很多問題待解決。而我現在要討論的是洛杉磯的食水問題。在大多數的日子裡，洛杉磯都有缺乏飲用水的問題，但是下雨的話水量又太多。近年來，加州有20%的用電都是用來抽取地下水以便支援南加州的缺水。同時又要花大筆的金錢將下大雨後的泛濫大水引導到大海裡。Andy Lipkis 的工作就是協助洛杉磯政府削減水資源管理和熱島效應所帶來的成本支出，將樹木、人、科技串聯起來創造一個更適人居住的城市。綠色的大樹能吸收大量的水分，同時又幫助城市降溫。各位可以想像一下，你需要的是一台冷氣，還是一間比較涼爽的房間?不管使用那種方法，只要能夠達到預期的效果就行了。 就在幾年前，洛杉磯縣決定投入二十五億美元修整全市的學校。Andy 和他的團隊得知政府將把其中兩億美元用於給學校四周的路面鋪上瀝青。通過展示一個非常經濟實惠的案例，他們說服洛杉磯政府改變計畫，將瀝青換成綠樹和其它綠化帶，這樣學校在綠化建設方面節省更多人力物力。最後，鋪兩千萬平方英尺瀝青路的計畫被取消了，同時，使用空調所需的電力消耗降低了，綠化帶需要人照顧，這樣，許多人找到了工作，成本就這樣被降低了，同時，師生們得到了更健康的生活環境。 這是 Judy Bonds。一個煤炭礦工的女兒。她家庭的八代人都住在西維吉尼亞州一個叫做 Whitesville 的小鎮上。如果有誰會以這個小鎮光輝的煤炭開採史為榮，以小鎮為榮，那非 Judy 莫屬了。然而，現在的煤炭開採與過去她的父親以及祖父當年在深井裡幾千人同時作業的開採方式，大不相同。現在只要二十幾個人就能在幾個月內把一座山開採一空，而開採出的煤炭只夠使用幾年。這種開採技術叫做山巔移除採礦法。它能使一座山在短短數月裡從這樣變成那樣。想像一下周圍的空氣品質－到處彌漫著易爆物和煤炭殘渣。我們去到那裡的時候，同行的一些人莫名其妙地開始咳嗽我們只在那裡停留了幾個小時－不僅是礦工，所有人都有同樣症狀。 Judy 眼睜睜看著家園被破壞，水體被污染。煤礦公司一旦把山挖空就一走了之，使越來越多礦工失業。然而，她還看到了一座完整山體上風能的潛力比另一座海拔相對低了兩千英尺的山體要多出許多。用三年時間來開採污染環境的能源，相比開發能夠持續幾百年的清潔能源，究竟哪個更合算呢?前者會使許多人丟了工作，而後者卻有潛力發展專業技能，提高技術效率，根據當地情況最大程度地開發和利用風力資源。她計算了初始成本以及回報，結果表明這對地方，國家，乃至全球經濟都會帶來更高的淨收益。相比開採山頂煤礦，風能可以帶來長期回報，而且這種風能源回報甚至是永久的。開採山頂煤礦給當地居民的回報很少，並且還讓他們吃不少苦頭。原本潔淨的水變成了臭水。大多數人沒有工作，由此，這裡的失業人群與大城市裡失業的人們面臨著同樣的社會問題－吸毒、酗酒、家庭暴力，未成年少女懷孕以及糟糕的健康狀況。 現在 Judy 和我－我可以這麼說－我們志同道合。我們關係好得很。你看，她的家鄉是西維吉尼亞州的 Whitesville。他們不是－他們可沒在跟時尚嘻哈族群爭地盤，絲毫也沒有。但是，在她送我的T恤衫背面，寫著：「拯救瀕臨絕種的鄉下人」。就這樣嘻哈女孩和鄉巴佬走在一起，非常明確各自的使命。然而就在幾個月前，Judy 被診斷出患末期的肺癌。真的。而且已經蔓延到了她的骨頭和大腦。這真是太荒謬了，她竭盡全力幫助人們防止肺癌，而自己卻得了肺癌。但是她的「煤河山風力發電專案」仍將繼續。也許，她等不到專案完成的那一天了。她並沒有僅僅留下一紙宣言，而是她正詳細劃定實施專案的具體計畫。我的這位姐妹正在忙這件事情。我為她感到驕傲。 （眾人鼓掌） 這三個人彼此並不相識，但是他們有著驚人的相似之處。他們都是解決問題的帶頭人，我非常幸運能夠結識他們並且向他們學習，我在工作中見識到了許多榜樣，他們就是其中幾位模範。我很幸運地將他們的事蹟在我網路公共廣播電臺的節目作為主秀中展示稱為“應許之地 (ThePromisedLand.org)”。他們都是有遠見的實業家。他們仔細審視眼前的需求－美容產品，健康的校園，電力－並想辦法滿足這些需求。如果你想通過削減員工人數來解決問題，那麼將有許多人失業，而這些人可不是省油的燈。事實上，我認為他們是最奢侈的公民，他們其中有許多人是從中東戰場上退伍回鄉的傷兵，他們世世代代貧窮，受傷痛之苦；另外還有刑滿釋放的人。拿那些老兵來說，根據退伍軍人事務部公佈的資料，自2003年以來退伍軍人服用的精神方面的藥物增加了六倍。我認為這個數字目前仍然在上升。他們並不是最龐大的群體，但卻是開銷最大的群體之一。他們是家庭暴力，吸毒酗酒的高危人群，他們的子女在學校普遍不如其他家庭的孩子，由於承受巨大壓力，他們的身體健康非常差。我所提到的這三位都懂得如何有效地把資金引入地方經濟以滿足市場需求，解決現存的社會問題，並防止新問題的產生。 這樣的例子不可勝數。例一: 廢物處理與失業問題。當我們思考或討論如何回收再用時，許多可回收物品已經被焚化或掩埋了，這加大了城市的回收分流難度，使回收過程更複雜。這些廢物都在哪裡被處理? 一般在貧困的社區裡。大家知道，在生態工業的運作模式中有這樣一種模式，它在歐洲被稱為生態工業園區。在這裡，你既可以把一家公司的廢物交給另一家公司做原料，也可以把材料回收利用生產出新的商品。我們可以在當地鼓勵和創造這樣的當地市場需求，使回收後的材料成為製造業的原材料。在我家鄉，我們已經在 Bronx 嘗試過這種模式，可惜我們的市長更想在那裡建一個監獄，幸好，我們本想可以創造幾百個就業機會-而多年以後，這個城市居然決定在這裡建造監獄，感謝主，政府已經打消了這個念頭。 還有一個問題: 不健康食品以及失業問題。工人階級以及城市貧困的美國人並沒有從現有的糧食系統得到經濟利益。這個體系過度使用交通運輸，化學肥料，大量水資源，以及冷藏處理。大規模農業操作不僅污染了水源以及土壤，還生產出對人體健康危害極高的產品讓我們在醫療衛生方面損失了大把金錢，並降低了生產力。同時，城市農業現在成為了一個熱門話題，但它是以園藝為主的，這對社區建設具有重大意義—但是卻不能增加就業機會，也不能對食品生產做貢獻。園藝在這些方面的作用不顯著。我的任務之一就是為把城市農業與農產品體系結合起來做準備工作，這樣就能創造出一個城市農業的國內品牌，遙運沙律的現狀就會儘早退出市場了，這樣，每個城市都能使用本地的耕種資源增加自耕農所擁有和經營的室內種植設施，而現在這個市場裡只有消費者。這可以很好地扶持大城市裡的季節性農戶，他們由於無力滿足全年生產的需求而逐漸衰落。這不是在搶鄉村農民的飯碗，而是助他們一臂之力。這是一個良性的具有經濟活力的食品體系。 它目標在於滿足城市裡來自醫院、養老院、學校、托兒所的需求，並能創造一個地方就業網路。這是非常精明的基礎設施安排。我們對城市環境的建設時時刻刻都影響著人們的健康與幸福。我們城鄉地區的政府負責基礎設施的具體操作事項包括廢物處理、能源需求、由失業、輟學、入獄所帶來的社會損失，還有公共醫療成本的種種影響。精明的基礎設施管理能夠幫助城鄉政府協調好基礎設施和社會需求。我們希望把那些光靠社會稅收救濟的人群轉變為納稅人。想像一下: 一個能夠創造地方就業機會，巧妙佈置基礎設施，並提高地方經濟穩定的全國性商業模式。希望大家能夠看到這裡有一個主題。 這些事例反應了一個趨勢。這不是我有意製造的，也不是一個巧合。我早就發現這趨勢已經在全國範圍內發生了，更令人開心的是，這趨勢正不斷增強。而且，我們都必須參與進去。這是我們國家經濟復甦的重要基石。我把它稱為「家鄉安全」。經濟的衰退讓我們驚慌失措，然而，這些日子來，另一股力量正在孕育而生。那就是我們意識到了經濟復甦的關鍵在於我們自身。現在，我們應當行動起來憂地方所憂，為當地社區做實事。不管我們的鄰居是住在隔壁，住在鄰州，還是住在鄰國我們都能給他們創造利益。當地的總和就是全球。「家鄉安全」的意義在於重建自然防禦，給人們工作，重築自然系統。「家鄉安全」是爲了家園創造財富，而不是糟蹋千里之外的財富。把社會問題與環境問題結合起來同時用同一方法解決，能夠節省大量人力物力，創造財富，並保障國家安全。許多許多絕妙的點子在美國各地迸發。我們目前所面臨的問題是如何找到並培育更多的好點子。 儘管「家鄉安全」有照顧好自己的意思，但這跟「仁愛先及親友」這句老話還是有本質區別的。我最近讀了一本名為《愛的領導力》的書，作者是 John Hope Bryant。書中寫道，在一個被恐懼所充斥的世界裡如何成為一個領導人。讀了這本書以後，我重新審視了我的理論，因為我必須清楚地解釋其中的道理。大家看，這是我父親，他在很多方面都非常出色。他在種族隔離時期的南方長大，在最艱苦的時期，逃過了私刑的迫害，他給我和兄弟姐妹們提供了一個安穩的家，他還幫助了許多生活困難的人們建立了自己的家。但是，和所有人一樣，他有些壞毛病。（笑聲）他沉迷賭博，無法自拔。對於他而言“仁愛先及親友”意味著我的發薪日或其他人的發薪日正好就是他賭博發財的那一天。他需要幫助。有時候，我會把學校打工和暑假工作掙得的錢借給他，他只要手氣好，就會堅持連本帶利把錢還給我。有時候，他很幸運，信不信由你，他在洛杉磯的賽馬場上贏了一些錢洛杉磯受歡迎的原因之一: 那時是二十世紀四十年代的事了，他賺了一萬五千美元現金，買下了一間房子，我就是在這間房子裡長大的。對此，我並沒有什麼意見。但是，我對他應負有義務之責。我漸漸長大。現在我已經是成年人了。在成長的過程中，我學會了很多道理。 對於我而言，仁愛往往意味著給予，是你分內的事情，是你一直在做的事情，也可能是你一廂情願的付出。我認為仁愛是推動事情的發展將最初的投入增值和最大化，而不是為下一年增大投入-我不想縱容父親的壞毛病。我花了幾年時間觀察那些意在幫助並支持社區的良好動機如何讓人們裹足不前。在過去的20年裡，我們為解決社會問題花了不少捐助款項，然而教育的成果，營養不良，牢獄，肥胖，糖尿病，工資分配不均等問題都在加劇，也有例外比如貧困人口中嬰兒死亡率有所下降—但是我們的目標是讓他們過上幸福的美好人生。 我多少瞭解這些問題的實際情況，因為我曾在非營利性行業裡工作過很多年。我現在是一名執行理事，足足幹了兩年。（笑聲）在那段時間裡，我意識到，只有因地制宜地發展我們才能造福當地社區。我碰到了資金方面的問題。我們的工程做得越火，贊助機構給的錢就越少。實話說，在同一年裡既被邀來在TED講話，又獲得了“麥克亞瑟獎”大家都以為我已經是個成功人士了。其實，為了讓我的工作繼續下去，我依靠演講所獲得的收入支付了我機構三分之一的開銷。早些時候，坦白說，我的專案也就比計畫提前一點完成了。在此之後，這一片垃圾掩埋場—我在 TED2006 年的演講中重點提到過它—後來成了這個小公園。我還在這裡舉行了婚禮呢。就在這裡。我的狗正把我牽到婚禮舉行的地點。南布朗克斯綠化帶在2006年還只是圖紙上的一幅畫。在那之後，我們得到了將近五千萬美元的一攬子刺激計畫資金來建設綠化帶。我們很開心，我看到施工就很愉快，應為我們能親眼見證工程的發展。 我希望大家看到把公益事業轉變為企業事業是多麼重要。我開辦了自己的公司，就是為了幫助全國各地的社區實踐他們的自身潛力從而進一步從方方面面提高人們的生活品質。「家鄉安全」就是我的下一步行動。我們需要吸引那些有遠見的人向這些類型的當地企業進行投資，吸引那些願意和我這樣的人合作的夥伴我們都力求找到發展的趨勢，適應氣候變化的要求，並理解商業發展的社會成本是不斷增加的。我們必須齊心協力，擁抱並修復我們的土地，恢復電力系統，並進行自我反省。不要再為商業廣場、監獄、體育館、和其它設施浪費錢了。我們應該開始構築充滿生氣與可能性的希望之巔。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
