Talk	en	zh-tw
majora_carter_s_tale_of_urban_renewal	"If you're here today — and I'm very happy that you are — you've all heard about how sustainable development will save us from ourselves. However, when we're not at TED, we are often told that a real sustainability policy agenda is just not feasible, especially in large urban areas like New York City. And that's because most people with decision-making powers, in both the public and the private sector, really don't feel as though they're in danger. The reason why I'm here today, in part, is because of a dog — an abandoned puppy I found back in the rain, back in 1998. She turned out to be a much bigger dog than I'd anticipated. When she came into my life, we were fighting against a huge waste facility planned for the East River waterfront despite the fact that our small part of New York City already handled more than 40 percent of the entire city's commercial waste: a sewage treatment pelletizing plant, a sewage sludge plant, four power plants, the world's largest food-distribution center, as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week. The area also has one of the lowest ratios of parks to people in the city. So when I was contacted by the Parks Department about a $10,000 seed-grant initiative to help develop waterfront projects, I thought they were really well-meaning, but a bit naive. I'd lived in this area all my life, and you could not get to the river, because of all the lovely facilities that I mentioned earlier. Then, while jogging with my dog one morning, she pulled me into what I thought was just another illegal dump. There were weeds and piles of garbage and other stuff that I won't mention here, but she kept dragging me, and lo and behold, at the end of that lot was the river. I knew that this forgotten little street-end, abandoned like the dog that brought me there, was worth saving. And I knew it would grow to become the proud beginnings of the community-led revitalization of the new South Bronx. And just like my new dog, it was an idea that got bigger than I'd imagined. We garnered much support along the way, and the Hunts Point Riverside Park became the first waterfront park that the South Bronx had had in more than 60 years. We leveraged that $10,000 seed grant more than 300 times, into a $3 million park. And in the fall, I'm going to exchange marriage vows with my beloved. (Audience whistles) Thank you very much. (Applause) That's him pressing my buttons back there, which he does all the time. (Laughter) (Applause) But those of us living in environmental justice communities are the canary in the coal mine. We feel the problems right now, and have for some time. Environmental justice, for those of you who may not be familiar with the term, goes something like this: no community should be saddled with more environmental burdens and less environmental benefits than any other. Unfortunately, race and class are extremely reliable indicators as to where one might find the good stuff, like parks and trees, and where one might find the bad stuff, like power plants and waste facilities. As a black person in America, I am twice as likely as a white person to live in an area where air pollution poses the greatest risk to my health. I am five times more likely to live within walking distance of a power plant or chemical facility, which I do. These land-use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity, diabetes and asthma. Why would someone leave their home to go for a brisk walk in a toxic neighborhood? Our 27 percent obesity rate is high even for this country, and diabetes comes with it. One out of four South Bronx children has asthma. Our asthma hospitalization rate is seven times higher than the national average. These impacts are coming everyone's way. And we all pay dearly for solid waste costs, health problems associated with pollution and more odiously, the cost of imprisoning our young black and Latino men, who possess untold amounts of untapped potential. Fifty percent of our residents live at or below the poverty line; 25 percent of us are unemployed. Low-income citizens often use emergency-room visits as primary care. This comes at a high cost to taxpayers and produces no proportional benefits. Poor people are not only still poor, they are still unhealthy. Fortunately, there are many people like me who are striving for solutions that won't compromise the lives of low-income communities of color in the short term, and won't destroy us all in the long term. None of us want that, and we all have that in common. So what else do we have in common? Well, first of all, we're all incredibly good-looking. (Laughter) Graduated high school, college, post-graduate degrees, traveled to interesting places, didn't have kids in your early teens, financially stable, never been imprisoned. OK. Good. (Laughter) But, besides being a black woman, I am different from most of you in some other ways. I watched nearly half of the buildings in my neighborhood burn down. My big brother Lenny fought in Vietnam, only to be gunned down a few blocks from our home. Jesus. I grew up with a crack house across the street. Yeah, I'm a poor black child from the ghetto. These things make me different from you. But the things we have in common set me apart from most of the people in my community, and I am in between these two worlds with enough of my heart to fight for justice in the other. So how did things get so different for us? In the late '40s, my dad — a Pullman porter, son of a slave — bought a house in the Hunts Point section of the South Bronx, and a few years later, he married my mom. At the time, the community was a mostly white, working-class neighborhood. My dad was not alone. And as others like him pursued their own version of the American dream, white flight became common in the South Bronx and in many cities around the country. Red-lining was used by banks, wherein certain sections of the city, including ours, were deemed off-limits to any sort of investment. Many landlords believed it was more profitable to torch their buildings and collect insurance money rather than to sell under those conditions — dead or injured former tenants notwithstanding. Hunts Point was formerly a walk-to-work community, but now residents had neither work nor home to walk to. A national highway construction boom was added to our problems. In New York State, Robert Moses spearheaded an aggressive highway-expansion campaign. One of its primary goals was to make it easier for residents of wealthy communities in Westchester County to go to Manhattan. The South Bronx, which lies in between, did not stand a chance. Residents were often given less than a month's notice before their buildings were razed. 600,000 people were displaced. The common perception was that only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the South Bronx. And if you are told from your earliest days that nothing good is going to come from your community, that it's bad and ugly, how could it not reflect on you? So now, my family's property was worthless, save for that it was our home, and all we had. And luckily for me, that home and the love inside of it, along with help from teachers, mentors and friends along the way, was enough. Now, why is this story important? Because from a planning perspective, economic degradation begets environmental degradation, which begets social degradation. The disinvestment that began in the 1960s set the stage for all the environmental injustices that were to come. Antiquated zoning and land-use regulations are still used to this day to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood. Are these factors taken into consideration when land-use policy is decided? What costs are associated with these decisions? And who pays? Who profits? Does anything justify what the local community goes through? This was ""planning"" — in quotes — that did not have our best interests in mind. Once we realized that, we decided it was time to do our own planning. That small park I told you about earlier was the first stage of building a Greenway movement in the South Bronx. I wrote a one-and-a-quarter-million dollar federal transportation grant to design the plan for a waterfront esplanade with dedicated on-street bike paths. Physical improvements help inform public policy regarding traffic safety, the placement of the waste and other facilities, which, if done properly, don't compromise a community's quality of life. They provide opportunities to be more physically active, as well as local economic development. Think bike shops, juice stands. We secured 20 million dollars to build first-phase projects. This is Lafayette Avenue — and that's redesigned by Mathews Nielsen Landscape Architects. And once this path is constructed, it'll connect the South Bronx with more than 400 acres of Randall's Island Park. Right now we're separated by about 25 feet of water, but this link will change that. As we nurture the natural environment, its abundance will give us back even more. We run a project called the Bronx [Environmental] Stewardship Training, which provides job training in the fields of ecological restoration, so that folks from our community have the skills to compete for these well-paying jobs. Little by little, we're seeding the area with green-collar jobs — and with people that have both a financial and personal stake in their environment. The Sheridan Expressway is an underutilized relic of the Robert Moses era, built with no regard for the neighborhoods that were divided by it. Even during rush hour, it goes virtually unused. The community created an alternative transportation plan that allows for the removal of the highway. We have the opportunity now to bring together all the stakeholders to re-envision how this 28 acres can be better utilized for parkland, affordable housing and local economic development. We also built New York City's first green and cool roof demonstration project on top of our offices. Cool roofs are highly-reflective surfaces that don't absorb solar heat, and pass it on to the building or atmosphere. Green roofs are soil and living plants. Both can be used instead of petroleum-based roofing materials that absorb heat, contribute to urban ""heat island"" effect and degrade under the sun, which we in turn breathe. Green roofs also retain up to 75 percent of rainfall, so they reduce a city's need to fund costly end-of-pipe solutions — which, incidentally, are often located in environmental justice communities like mine. And they provide habitats for our little friends! [Butterfly] (Laughter) So cool! Anyway, the demonstration project is a springboard for our own green roof installation business, bringing jobs and sustainable economic activity to the South Bronx. [Green is the new black ...] (Laughter) (Applause) I like that, too. Anyway, I know Chris told us not to do pitches up here, but since I have all of your attention: We need investors. End of pitch. It's better to ask for forgiveness than permission. Anyway — (Laughter) (Applause) OK. Katrina. Prior to Katrina, the South Bronx and New Orleans' Ninth Ward had a lot in common. Both were largely populated by poor people of color, both hotbeds of cultural innovation: think hip-hop and jazz. Both are waterfront communities that host both industries and residents in close proximity of one another. In the post-Katrina era, we have still more in common. We're at best ignored, and maligned and abused, at worst, by negligent regulatory agencies, pernicious zoning and lax governmental accountability. Neither the destruction of the Ninth Ward nor the South Bronx was inevitable. But we have emerged with valuable lessons about how to dig ourselves out. We are more than simply national symbols of urban blight or problems to be solved by empty campaign promises of presidents come and gone. Now will we let the Gulf Coast languish for a decade or two, like the South Bronx did? Or will we take proactive steps and learn from the homegrown resource of grassroots activists that have been born of desperation in communities like mine? Now listen, I do not expect individuals, corporations or government to make the world a better place because it is right or moral. This presentation today only represents some of what I've been through. Like a tiny little bit. You've no clue. But I'll tell you later, if you want to know. (Laughter) But — I know it's the bottom line, or one's perception of it, that motivates people in the end. I'm interested in what I like to call the ""triple bottom line"" that sustainable development can produce. Developments that have the potential to create positive returns for all concerned: the developers, government and the community where these projects go up. At present, that's not happening in New York City. And we are operating with a comprehensive urban-planning deficit. A parade of government subsidies is going to propose big-box and stadium developments in the South Bronx, but there is scant coordination between city agencies on how to deal with the cumulative effects of increased traffic, pollution, solid waste and the impacts on open space. And their approaches to local economic and job development are so lame it's not even funny. Because on top of that, the world's richest sports team is replacing the House That Ruth Built by destroying two well-loved community parks. Now, we'll have even less than that stat I told you about earlier. And although less than 25 percent of South Bronx residents own cars, these projects include thousands of new parking spaces, yet zip in terms of mass public transit. Now, what's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis between not fixing an unhealthy, environmentally-challenged community, versus incorporating structural, sustainable changes. My agency is working closely with Columbia University and others to shine a light on these issues. Now let's get this straight: I am not anti-development. Ours is a city, not a wilderness preserve. And I've embraced my inner capitalist. And, but I don't have — (Laughter) You probably all have, and if you haven't, you need to. (Laughter) So I don't have a problem with developers making money. There's enough precedent out there to show that a sustainable, community-friendly development can still make a fortune. Fellow TEDsters Bill McDonough and Amory Lovins — both heroes of mine by the way — have shown that you can actually do that. I do have a problem with developments that hyper-exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit. That it continues is a shame upon us all, because we are all responsible for the future that we create. But one of the things I do to remind myself of greater possibilities, is to learn from visionaries in other cities. This is my version of globalization. Let's take Bogota. Poor, Latino, surrounded by runaway gun violence and drug trafficking; a reputation not unlike that of the South Bronx. However, this city was blessed in the late 1990s with a highly-influential mayor named Enrique Peñalosa. He looked at the demographics. Few Bogotanos own cars, yet a huge portion of the city's resources was dedicated to serving them. If you're a mayor, you can do something about that. His administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three, outlawed parking on those streets, expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes, created public plazas, created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world. For his brilliant efforts, he was nearly impeached. But as people began to see that they were being put first on issues reflecting their day-to-day lives, incredible things happened. People stopped littering. Crime rates dropped, because the streets were alive with people. His administration attacked several typical urban problems at one time, and on a third-world budget, at that. We have no excuse in this country, I'm sorry. But the bottom line is: their people-first agenda was not meant to penalize those who could actually afford cars, but rather, to provide opportunities for all Bogotanos to participate in the city's resurgence. That development should not come at the expense of the majority of the population is still considered a radical idea here in the U.S. But Bogota's example has the power to change that. You, however, are blessed with the gift of influence. That's why you're here and why you value the information we exchange. Use your influence in support of comprehensive, sustainable change everywhere. Don't just talk about it at TED. This is a nationwide policy agenda I'm trying to build, and as you all know, politics are personal. Help me make green the new black. Help me make sustainability sexy. Make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations. Help me fight for environmental and economic justice. Support investments with a triple-bottom-line return. Help me democratize sustainability by bringing everyone to the table, and insisting that comprehensive planning can be addressed everywhere. Oh good, glad I have a little more time! Listen — when I spoke to Mr. Gore the other day after breakfast, I asked him how environmental justice activists were going to be included in his new marketing strategy. His response was a grant program. I don't think he understood that I wasn't asking for funding. I was making him an offer. (Applause) What troubled me was that this top-down approach is still around. Now, don't get me wrong, we need money. (Laughter) But grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process. Of the 90 percent of the energy that Mr. Gore reminded us that we waste every day, don't add wasting our energy, intelligence and hard-earned experience to that count. (Applause) I have come from so far to meet you like this. Please don't waste me. By working together, we can become one of those small, rapidly-growing groups of individuals who actually have the audacity and courage to believe that we actually can change the world. We might have come to this conference from very, very different stations in life, but believe me, we all share one incredibly powerful thing. We have nothing to lose and everything to gain. Ciao, bellos! (Applause)"	今天在這裡的聽眾，我很高興各位來到這裡，各位會聽到永續發展的概念，是拯救我們的良方。然而，當我們不是在TED聽演講時，我們常會聽到永續發展的政策其實是不可行的，尤其是在像是紐約這一類的大型都會區裡。這是因為大部分有決策權的人，不管是在公家單位或是私人企業，全都不知道自己已身處險境。 今天我之所以會在這裡，有一部分是因為一隻狗，一隻我1998年的一場大雨裡，帶回家的一隻流浪小狗。她後來長的比我預期的還要大很多。當她加入我的生活時，我們正在抗議一個龐大的廢棄物處理廠的設置，他們計畫設在河東濱水區，完全不考慮我們這個區域已經為整個紐約市處理了超過四成的商業廢棄物。一座污水處理廠、一座淤泥處理廠、四座發電廠、加上世界上最大的食品分銷中心，還有其他產業，每週有超過6萬趟柴油卡車來到這個區域。這一區同時也是全市公園對人口比最低的地方。 所以當公園單位找上我，要我進行一項初始規模只有1萬美金的計畫，來發展濱水區域，我真的覺得他們的想法很有意義，但是太過天真了點。我從小到大都住在這一區，但卻從不能走到河邊，因為河邊有我剛才提到的那些工廠。有一天早晨，我帶我的狗慢跑時，她把我拉到一個我以為只是個違法傾倒廢物的地方。到處都是成堆的垃圾，和其他我不會在這裡提到的東西，但她還是把我往前拖，像是在說：看，最後面就是河了！我知道這條早已被遺忘的巷尾，就像那隻帶我到這裡來、被遺棄的狗一樣被人遺忘，但我們應該拯救它。我知道有一天這裡將會成為一個令人驕傲的起步點，成為南布朗克斯區重生的象徵。 而像我的狗一樣，這個構想變得比我想像的還要大。我們在一路上獲得了許多的幫助。獵點河濱公園於是成為南布朗克斯區60年來第一座親水公園，我們將初始規模只有1萬美金的計畫，建成了300倍規模的3百萬美金的公園， 而就在這個秋天，我就要－－我就要和我的愛人結婚。他就在後面幫我放投影片，這是他的工作。(笑聲)(掌聲) 我們這些能夠活在具有環境正義社區裡的人，畢竟只是鳳毛麟角，我們現在就有環保的問題，而且已經持續一陣子了。環境正義，如果你們有些人不太了解這個名詞的話，它的意思是：沒有一個社區應該比其他社區負擔更多的污染，卻比其他人獲取更少的環境利益。 但不幸的是，種族和階級常常是最可靠的指標，可以用來判斷什麼人會有好東西，像是公園和樹木，以及什麼人會有不好的東西，像發電廠或廢棄物處理廠。而在美國生為一個黑人，我比白人多出兩倍的機會，會去住在一個會威脅我健康的空氣污染社區中。我比白人多出五倍的機會，會去住在附近就有發電廠或化學工廠的地方，而我真的住在這種地方。這種土地利用的規劃，導致我們更容易得到像肥胖、糖尿病和氣喘之類的疾病。誰會願意離開家裡到充滿毒物的社區裡散步呢？我們的社區居民有27％過胖，這個比率就算以全國來說也算是高的，糖尿病則跟著肥胖而來，而每四個南布朗克斯區的小孩中，就有一個有氣喘。我們的氣喘住院率比全國平均高七倍。這些嚴重地衝擊到我們社區的每個人身上，每個人都為這些廢棄物的處理付出代價，甚至承受污染所帶來的健康問題，而更明顯的是，我們將年輕的黑人及拉丁裔男性囚禁起來的成本更是無法估計，因為他們擁有大量未經開發的潛能。這裡有半數的居民生活在貧窮線之下，四分之一的人沒有工作，而低收入的市民，則經常把急診室當成他們基本的醫療照顧。這些高額的成本都要由全體納稅人買單，但卻無法產生相對應的效益。貧窮的人不只是窮而已，他們的身體也很不健康。 幸好，還是有許多像我一樣的人在為他們找尋解決之道，讓他們短期內不必再住在這種有色人種的低收入社區，長期來說，則要保護我們全體不受傷害。大家都不想要這樣，但是我們卻同樣受苦。我們還有什麼相似的地方呢？ 首先，我們每個都非常的漂亮－－(笑聲)－－都有高中畢業、大學、研究生學位，到過有趣的地方旅遊，沒有在青少年時就懷孕，財富來源穩定，從來沒被關過。好。很好。(笑聲) 但除了身為一位黑人女性，我在其他方面也和你們不同。我親眼目睹了社區裡將進半數的建築被火災焚毀。我大哥藍尼打過越戰，卻在離我們家幾步路外被人槍殺。天啊！我住的地方對街就有人在販賣毒品。是的，我是一個貧民區裡的黑人小孩。就是這些事情讓你我不同。但你我之間共通的事物，又使我和社區裡的其他人不同，我就像是活在兩個世界的中間，但我投入全部的心力去爭取公平正義。 我們為什麼會有這麼大的差異？在40年代末期，我爸爸，他是普爾曼的搬運工，也是奴隸的兒子，在南布朗克斯的獵點社區買了一間房子，幾年後他娶了我媽媽。在那個年代，社區裡大多是白人勞工階級，但我爸爸並不孤單。而當其他像他一樣的人們追求自己的美國夢時，白人遷離南布朗克斯區和其他城市，變成越來越普遍的現象。而那些白人遷離的區域，包括我們這一區，就被銀行畫了紅線，禁止任何投資。許多地主認為，把他們的建築用火燒掉，收取的保險費還比在那種狀況下賣掉來的好，完全不考慮房客的死傷。 獵點社區以前曾經是個可以走路去工作的社區，但現在當地的居民要不沒有工作，要不就是連家也沒有。後來全國性的高速公路擴張計畫，更使我們雪上加霜。在紐約州，羅勃．莫斯提出了一個很有野心的高速公路擴張計畫，其中一個主要目的就是要讓比較富有的威徹斯特郡居民能夠更容易到達曼哈頓，但介於其中的南布朗克斯，則一點好處也沒有。居民們常常在自己的房子要被夷平前不到一個月才收到通知，有六萬居民被迫搬遷。大家都認為南布朗克斯區是色情行業的大本營，但如果你在一出生，就有人告訴你社區裡沒有一樣好東西，全都是壞人和醜陋的勾當，這怎麼不會對你產生影響呢？我們的房子現在一點價值也沒有，只因為它是我們的家，也是我們唯一的財產所以才保存下來。我很幸運，能在這個家裡得到滿滿的愛，還有師長的協助，以及朋友的幫忙，這樣就夠了。 這個故事有什麼值得一提的地方嗎？就規劃的角度而言，經濟的衰退，會導致環境的衰敗，還會引發社會的動亂。而這種不投資於我們社區的策略始於1960年代，因此導致目前我們所看到環境上的不公不義的現象。我們被視為被廢棄的區域，而不合時宜的土地使用法規仍在沿用，大家繼續在我們的社區設置污染的設施，在大家決定土地使用政策時，是否有將這些因素考慮在內呢？這種政策會需要付出什麼樣的代價呢？誰要來背負這些成本呢？誰又從中獲利？我們的社區有又得到了什麼好處？而這就是大家所謂的規畫，完全沒有把我們的利益考慮在內。 一旦我們瞭解了這整件事，我們就決定要自己做規畫。我剛才告訴各位的小公園，只是我們開始建造南布朗克斯區綠色走廊的第一階段。我撰寫了一個125萬美元的聯邦交通預算計畫，要設計一個設有腳踏車道的河濱步道。這個建設計畫，可以讓大眾瞭解交通安全的重要性，也瞭解到這附近設有廢棄物處理廠及其他相關設施，如果我們能處理妥當，就不必犠牲居民的生活品質。這個計畫讓附近的民眾可以有機會出來活動，也可以為地方帶來繁榮。想想看，到時會有腳踏車店、果汁攤，我們保留了二千萬美金來做第一階段的計畫。這是拉法葉大道，將由馬修-尼爾森建築師事務所重新設計。而一旦這條大道修整完畢，它會將南布朗克斯區與超過400公畝的蘭德島公園連接在一起。現在，這中間被一條寬約25英呎的河流隔開，但這條道路將會改變這一點。 只要我們復育這附近的自然環境，大自然就會回饋給我們更多。我們有一個名為布朗克斯生態講座的訓練，可以為民眾講解生態復育的相關知識，這樣我們社區的居民就可以和別人一起競爭那些高薪的職位了。漸漸地，我們這附近就會有許多綠領的工作出現，這裡的居民就可以在自家附近獲取經濟與人脈優勢。在羅勃．莫斯的計畫裡有一條謝瑞登快速道路，將附近的社區一分為二，但目前的使用率不高，即使在尖峰時段，都沒有什麼車通行，因此我們的社區提出一個替代方案，希望能將高速公路移除。現在我們有一個大好機會，可以將所有的利益關係人聚在一起，重新思考該怎麼利用這28英畝的土地，要放進公園、人們可以負擔得起的房子，還要兼顧當地的經濟發展。 我們也在我們的辦公大樓上，建造了紐約市第一個綠能涼爽屋頂的示範。涼爽屋頂的表面能有效反射太陽能所產生的熱，是可以阻絕建築物或空氣升溫的屋頂。綠能屋頂則是佈滿土壤和綠色植物的屋頂。兩者都能取代原本以石油做為原料而做成的吸熱屋頂，這些屋頂會加重都市熱島效應，並在烈焰下漸漸變質，讓我們吸入有毒的空氣。但綠能屋頂可以儲存75%的雨水，讓都市人不必再花大錢來解決用水問題，而原本這些負擔都會加諸在我們這種社區上的。當然，這些屋頂也為我們的小小朋友提供了棲地！看...(笑聲)...很酷吧！總之，這個示範計畫是我們綠能屋頂安裝事業的跳板，可以為南布朗克斯社區帶來工作機會，並持續供給經濟動能。(笑聲)(掌聲)我也很喜歡！ 我知道克里斯曾囑附我們不要在這裡推銷產品，但既然你們都注意到了：我們需要資金！推銷結束！請求原諒還是比請求准許好吧？是吧...(笑聲)(掌聲) 好，在卡崔娜颶風來襲之前，南布朗克斯社區和紐奧良的第九區有許多相似之處，這二個地方都有大量的窮困有色人種，也是文化創意的溫床：想想看嘻哈音樂和爵士樂吧。二地都是臨水的社區，工廠和社區都緊鄰彼此。在卡崔娜之後，我們還是有許多共同點，我們都是最不被重視和破壞最嚴重的社區，有最粗心的法令、社區充滿毒害、地方政府也最鬆散，不管是南布朗克斯區或是第九區，這些破壞都是可以避免的，但我們卻都在付出慘痛代價後，才學得寶貴的教訓。我們不只是這個國家都市衰亡的象徵，也不只是歷屆總統競選時答應要解決問題的空頭支票，我們只想知道，政府是否打算讓卡崔娜災區荒廢個十幾二十年？就像南布朗克斯區這樣？或是我們打算採取積極的態度，向那些類似我們這種因為對社區絕望而發展出來的草根團體們，學習如何重建家園？ 現在請注意，我並不期望個人、公司或是政府會因為道德或對錯的因素，而來改善這個世界，今天的演講只是為了呈現我曾經經歷過的事，都是些微不足道的事，你們根本不會瞭解。但如果你們真的想知道的話，我待會可以告訴你們。但是，我知道這已經是底限了，每個人對這件事的認知不同，但這卻是推進我們走到底的動力。我對我自己所謂的「三層利益」很感興趣，那是永續發展所會帶來的「三層利益」。「發展」可以為所有相關人士帶正向的回報，包括開發商、政府及各項發展計畫所在的社區。但現在，你在紐約市看不到這種發展，反而因為都市開發而產生了一大堆負面的影響。某個政府團體正計畫提出在南布朗克斯區興建大型購物中心與體育館的計畫。但是政府官員卻沒有花時間來協調如何處理交通流量增加、污染及廢棄物等所帶來的影響，更別提對開放空間的衝擊了。而他們對當地經濟及就業市場的評估，根本不具說服力。因為在那之前，世界上最有錢的棒球隊(洋基隊)，就已經把居民喜愛的二座社區公園拆了，改建成洋基棒球場。這比我先前告訴各位的還要糟。即使南布朗克斯區的居民只有不到25%的人擁有汽車，但這些計畫卻規畫了數以千計的停車空間，反而對大眾運輸系統隻字未提。各位所聽到的各種爭論裡，唯一缺乏的就是一份完整的成本效益分析，看看不去拯救環境瀕臨危險的社區會需要付出什麼代價，看看有系統、可維持長久的改變又有什麼好處。我的經紀人和哥倫比亞大學及其他人正進行密切的合作，他們打算在這些議題上提出一些振奮人心的想法。 讓我把話講清楚，我不是一個反對發展的人，我們要保護的是城市，不是荒野。我的內心是個資本主義者，各位大概也是資本主義者，如果不是，就趕快加入吧。所以我不反對開發商賺錢，早有許多的案例證實，注重環保、對社區友好的開發案，仍然可以賺錢。TED成員比爾．麥當諾和艾茉莉．勒明斯，兩位都是我心目中的英雄，他們已經告訴各位這真的可行。我反而是對那些超會剝削在政治上處於弱勢社區的人，感到忿忿不平。這一直是我們的恥辱，因為我們可是得為我們所創建的未來負責任的啊！因此我會做一件讓我自己看見希望的事，就是去向其他城市有遠見的人學習。這是我對全球化的見解， 讓我們看看波哥大。貧窮的拉丁人，到處是走私槍械的暴力事件和毒品買賣，就像南布朗克斯過去一樣。然而，這座城市在1990年代末期，被一位很有影響力的市長恩瑞克．潘納羅沙改變了。他觀察了波哥大的人口結構，只有少數人擁有汽車，但是這座城市裡有絕大部分的資源都是用來服侍這些有錢人。如果你是市長，你絕對可以改變這種狀況。他下令將市內道路從五線縮減到三線，禁止人們在那些街道停車，擴建了許多條人行道，還有腳踏車道，他又設立了公共廣場，建設了世界上數一數二極有效率的大眾運輸系統。為了他的這些創舉，他差點被罷免掉。但當人們開始看到自己每天日常所會遇到的問題，被擺到第一位時，令人驚訝的事情就發生了，大家不再亂丟垃圾，犯罪率也降低了，因為街上的人們全都生氣勃勃。他的政策一次就解決了好幾項典型的都市問題，並且是用一個第三世界的國家經費完成的，很抱歉，我們美國可不能再有什麼藉口了吧。但重點是，他們的親民政策並不是要懲罰那些可以負擔汽車的人，而是要提供給所有波哥大市民一個參與市區復甦的機會。城市發展的代價不應該只由大眾負擔，這個觀念到目前為止，美國人還是認為太過積進，但波哥大的例子卻證明了這有可能做到。 在座的各位，你們是具有影響力的人，所以你們才坐在這裡，並重視我們所傳達的資訊。請運用你們的影響力，去支持每個地方的環保蛻變。不要只是在TED裡面討論。我打算為全國制訂政策，而各位都知道，政治是很個人的。請幫助我把綠色變成吸引人的黑色，請幫我讓環保議題變得更引人注目，讓它成為你們茶餘飯後的話題。請幫我爭取環境和經濟正義，支持具有三層利益的投資案，幫助我把每個人都帶來這裡瞭解環保的好處，並且強烈要求每一個地方都要有完善的規畫。喔，還好，我還有一些時間！ 有一天，當我在早餐後碰到高爾先生時，我問他，要怎麼把我們這些環保正義人士納入他的新的行銷政策裡，他回答我，那需要一大筆預算。我覺得他並不了解我不是在尋求資金，我是在幫他的忙！(掌聲) 這種隨處可見的上對下式談話，還是困擾著我。但，不要想錯了，我們還是需要錢。(笑聲)但我們這些草根團體最需要的是：加入決策過程。在高爾先生提醒我們每天所會浪費的90%的能量中，希望各位不要再把精力、智慧以及辛苦得來的經驗加到浪費的清單上。(掌聲) 我花了很長的時間才走到這一步，請不要浪費我。我們可以依靠團隊合作，成為一個小型、卻快速成長的團體，我們要有勇氣、要有自信，相信自己真的能改變世界。會來參加今天會議的各位，生活背景及人生經驗都不相同，但請相信我，我們都擁有一個超強的信念：我們沒有什麼好損失的，但卻有機會贏得一切！再見了！各位！(掌聲)
