Talk	en	zh-tw
malcolm_gladwell	"Thank you. It's a real pleasure to be here. I last did a TED Talk I think about seven years ago or so. I talked about spaghetti sauce. And so many people, I guess, watch those videos. People have been coming up to me ever since to ask me questions about spaghetti sauce, which is a wonderful thing in the short term — (Laughter) but it's proven to be less than ideal over seven years. And so I though I would come and try and put spaghetti sauce behind me. (Laughter) The theme of this morning's session is Things We Make. And so I thought I would tell a story about someone who made one of the most precious objects of his era. And the man's name is Carl Norden. Carl Norden was born in 1880. And he was Swiss. And of course, the Swiss can be divided into two general categories: those who make small, exquisite, expensive objects and those who handle the money of those who buy small, exquisite, expensive objects. And Carl Norden is very firmly in the former camp. He's an engineer. He goes to the Federal Polytech in Zurich. In fact, one of his classmates is a young man named Lenin who would go on to break small, expensive, exquisite objects. And he's a Swiss engineer, Carl. And I mean that in its fullest sense of the word. He wears three-piece suits; and he has a very, very small, important mustache; and he is domineering and narcissistic and driven and has an extraordinary ego; and he works 16-hour days; and he has very strong feelings about alternating current; and he feels like a suntan is a sign of moral weakness; and he drinks lots of coffee; and he does his best work sitting in his mother's kitchen in Zurich for hours in complete silence with nothing but a slide rule. In any case, Carl Norden emigrates to the United States just before the First World War and sets up shop on Lafayette Street in downtown Manhattan. And he becomes obsessed with the question of how to drop bombs from an airplane. Now if you think about it, in the age before GPS and radar, that was obviously a really difficult problem. It's a complicated physics problem. You've got a plane that's thousands of feet up in the air, going at hundreds of miles an hour, and you're trying to drop an object, a bomb, towards some stationary target in the face of all kinds of winds and cloud cover and all kinds of other impediments. And all sorts of people, moving up to the First World War and between the wars, tried to solve this problem, and nearly everybody came up short. The bombsights that were available were incredibly crude. But Carl Norden is really the one who cracks the code. And he comes up with this incredibly complicated device. It weighs about 50 lbs. It's called the Norden Mark 15 bombsight. And it has all kinds of levers and ball-bearings and gadgets and gauges. And he makes this complicated thing. And what he allows people to do is he makes the bombardier take this particular object, visually sight the target, because they're in the Plexiglas cone of the bomber, and then they plug in the altitude of the plane, the speed of the plane, the speed of the wind and the coordinates of the target. And the bombsight will tell him when to drop the bomb. And as Norden famously says, ""Before that bombsight came along, bombs would routinely miss their target by a mile or more."" But he said, with the Mark 15 Norden bombsight, he could drop a bomb into a pickle barrel at 20,000 ft. Now I cannot tell you how incredibly excited the U.S. military was by the news of the Norden bombsight. It was like manna from heaven. Here was an army that had just had experience in the First World War, where millions of men fought each other in the trenches, getting nowhere, making no progress, and here someone had come up with a device that allowed them to fly up in the skies high above enemy territory and destroy whatever they wanted with pinpoint accuracy. And the U.S. military spends 1.5 billion dollars — billion dollars in 1940 dollars — developing the Norden bombsight. And to put that in perspective, the total cost of the Manhattan project was three billion dollars. Half as much money was spent on this Norden bombsight as was spent on the most famous military-industrial project of the modern era. And there were people, strategists, within the U.S. military who genuinely thought that this single device was going to spell the difference between defeat and victory when it came to the battle against the Nazis and against the Japanese. And for Norden as well, this device had incredible moral importance, because Norden was a committed Christian. In fact, he would always get upset when people referred to the bombsight as his invention, because in his eyes, only God could invent things. He was simply the instrument of God's will. And what was God's will? Well God's will was that the amount of suffering in any kind of war be reduced to as small an amount as possible. And what did the Norden bombsight do? Well it allowed you to do that. It allowed you to bomb only those things that you absolutely needed and wanted to bomb. So in the years leading up to the Second World War, the U.S. military buys 90,000 of these Norden bombsights at a cost of $14,000 each — again, in 1940 dollars, that's a lot of money. And they trained 50,000 bombardiers on how to use them — long extensive, months-long training sessions — because these things are essentially analog computers; they're not easy to use. And they make every one of those bombardiers take an oath, to swear that if they're ever captured, they will not divulge a single detail of this particular device to the enemy, because it's imperative the enemy not get their hands on this absolutely essential piece of technology. And whenever the Norden bombsight is taken onto a plane, it's escorted there by a series of armed guards. And it's carried in a box with a canvas shroud over it. And the box is handcuffed to one of the guards. It's never allowed to be photographed. And there's a little incendiary device inside of it, so that, if the plane ever crashes, it will be destroyed and there's no way the enemy can ever get their hands on it. The Norden bombsight is the Holy Grail. So what happens during the Second World War? Well, it turns out it's not the Holy Grail. In practice, the Norden bombsight can drop a bomb into a pickle barrel at 20,000 ft., but that's under perfect conditions. And of course, in wartime, conditions aren't perfect. First of all, it's really hard to use — really hard to use. And not all of the people who are of those 50,000 men who are bombardiers have the ability to properly program an analog computer. Secondly, it breaks down a lot. It's full of all kinds of gyroscopes and pulleys and gadgets and ball-bearings, and they don't work as well as they ought to in the heat of battle. Thirdly, when Norden was making his calculations, he assumed that a plane would be flying at a relatively slow speed at low altitudes. Well in a real war, you can't do that; you'll get shot down. So they started flying them at high altitudes at incredibly high speeds. And the Norden bombsight doesn't work as well under those conditions. But most of all, the Norden bombsight required the bombardier to make visual contact with the target. But of course, what happens in real life? There are clouds, right. It needs cloudless sky to be really accurate. Well how many cloudless skies do you think there were above Central Europe between 1940 and 1945? Not a lot. And then to give you a sense of just how inaccurate the Norden bombsight was, there was a famous case in 1944 where the Allies bombed a chemical plant in Leuna, Germany. And the chemical plant comprised 757 acres. And over the course of 22 bombing missions, the Allies dropped 85,000 bombs on this 757 acre chemical plant, using the Norden bombsight. Well what percentage of those bombs do you think actually landed inside the 700-acre perimeter of the plant? 10 percent. 10 percent. And of those 10 percent that landed, 16 percent didn't even go off; they were duds. The Leuna chemical plant, after one of the most extensive bombings in the history of the war, was up and running within weeks. And by the way, all those precautions to keep the Norden bombsight out of the hands of the Nazis? Well it turns out that Carl Norden, as a proper Swiss, was very enamored of German engineers. So in the 1930s, he hired a whole bunch of them, including a man named Hermann Long who, in 1938, gave a complete set of the plans for the Norden bombsight to the Nazis. So they had their own Norden bombsight throughout the entire war — which also, by the way, didn't work very well. (Laughter) So why do we talk about the Norden bombsight? Well because we live in an age where there are lots and lots of Norden bombsights. We live in a time where there are all kinds of really, really smart people running around, saying that they've invented gadgets that will forever change our world. They've invented websites that will allow people to be free. They've invented some kind of this thing, or this thing, or this thing that will make our world forever better. If you go into the military, you'll find lots of Carl Nordens as well. If you go to the Pentagon, they will say, ""You know what, now we really can put a bomb inside a pickle barrel at 20,000 ft."" And you know what, it's true; they actually can do that now. But we need to be very clear about how little that means. In the Iraq War, at the beginning of the first Iraq War, the U.S. military, the air force, sent two squadrons of F-15E Fighter Eagles to the Iraqi desert equipped with these five million dollar cameras that allowed them to see the entire desert floor. And their mission was to find and to destroy — remember the Scud missile launchers, those surface-to-air missiles that the Iraqis were launching at the Israelis? The mission of the two squadrons was to get rid of all the Scud missile launchers. And so they flew missions day and night, and they dropped thousands of bombs, and they fired thousands of missiles in an attempt to get rid of this particular scourge. And after the war was over, there was an audit done — as the army always does, the air force always does — and they asked the question: how many Scuds did we actually destroy? You know what the answer was? Zero, not a single one. Now why is that? Is it because their weapons weren't accurate? Oh no, they were brilliantly accurate. They could have destroyed this little thing right here from 25,000 ft. The issue was they didn't know where the Scud launchers were. The problem with bombs and pickle barrels is not getting the bomb inside the pickle barrel, it's knowing how to find the pickle barrel. That's always been the harder problem when it comes to fighting wars. Or take the battle in Afghanistan. What is the signature weapon of the CIA's war in Northwest Pakistan? It's the drone. What is the drone? Well it is the grandson of the Norden Mark 15 bombsight. It is this weapon of devastating accuracy and precision. And over the course of the last six years in Northwest Pakistan, the CIA has flown hundreds of drone missiles, and it's used those drones to kill 2,000 suspected Pakistani and Taliban militants. Now what is the accuracy of those drones? Well it's extraordinary. We think we're now at 95 percent accuracy when it comes to drone strikes. 95 percent of the people we kill need to be killed, right? That is one of the most extraordinary records in the history of modern warfare. But do you know what the crucial thing is? In that exact same period that we've been using these drones with devastating accuracy, the number of attacks, of suicide attacks and terrorist attacks, against American forces in Afghanistan has increased tenfold. As we have gotten more and more efficient in killing them, they have become angrier and angrier and more and more motivated to kill us. I have not described to you a success story. I've described to you the opposite of a success story. And this is the problem with our infatuation with the things we make. We think the things we make can solve our problems, but our problems are much more complex than that. The issue isn't the accuracy of the bombs you have, it's how you use the bombs you have, and more importantly, whether you ought to use bombs at all. There's a postscript to the Norden story of Carl Norden and his fabulous bombsight. And that is, on August 6, 1945, a B-29 bomber called the Enola Gay flew over Japan and, using a Norden bombsight, dropped a very large thermonuclear device on the city of Hiroshima. And as was typical with the Norden bombsight, the bomb actually missed its target by 800 ft. But of course, it didn't matter. And that's the greatest irony of all when it comes to the Norden bombsight. the air force's 1.5 billion dollar bombsight was used to drop its three billion dollar bomb, which didn't need a bombsight at all. Meanwhile, back in New York, no one told Carl Norden that his bombsight was used over Hiroshima. He was a committed Christian. He thought he had designed something that would reduce the toll of suffering in war. It would have broken his heart. (Applause)"	"謝謝能來到這裡真是我的一大榮幸上一次我在TED做演講我想大概是七年前我講了意大利麵條的醬．有很多人，看這了個視頻．從那之後就經常有人來找我問我關於意大利麵條的醬的事在短期內這是件很高興的事(笑聲)但持續了七年，就不是那麼理想了．所以我想我要再來一次試著把麵條這事翻過去． (笑聲) 今天早上這部分的主題是我們創造的東西．所以我想我來講個故事是關於一個人創造了他那個時代最珍貴的東西．這人的名字叫Carl Norden.Carl Norden出生於1880年他是瑞士人．當然，瑞士人可以被分為兩大類：那些創造細小的，精緻的昂貴的東西的人和那些管理這些做細小精緻昂貴東西的人的錢財的人．Carl Norden是堅定地屬於第一個陣營．他是個工程師．他就讀於苏黎士联邦理工学院．事實上，他有一個同學名字 Lenin這個同學經常把那些細小精緻昂貴的東西搞壞． Carl，是一個瑞士的工程師．他是最當得起這稱號的．他穿三件套的西裝；他有一個特別特別小但很重要的小鬍子；他盛氣凌人他自戀他有動力還特別自負；而且他每天工作16個小時；他對交流電路很在行；他覺得被太陽晒黑是一種道德上軟弱的表現；他喝特別多的咖啡；他最好的工作都是在他母親在蘇黎士的廚房裡完成的，他能安安靜靜地工作幾個小時而手頭只有一把滑尺． 不管怎樣，Carl Norden在第一次世界大戰前移民到了美國在曼哈頓市中心的拉法葉街上開了一間作坊．然後他迷戀上了如何從飛機上扔炸彈下來這個問題．如果你來想這個問題,在GPS和雷達發明之前,這顯然是一個很困難的問題.這個一個複雜的物理問題.你有一架飛在幾千英尺高空的飛機,以每小時幾百英里的速度飛行你試圖想扔下一個東西,一個炮彈,想讓它擊中一個靜止不動的物體在有各種風向和雲朵以及各種其它障礙存在的時候.而且有許多各種各樣的人,在第一次世界大戰以及在兩次戰爭中間,想解決這個問題,但都沒能如愿.當時可用的投彈瞄準器是相當的粗略的. 但Carl Norden幾乎就成了那個攻克難題的人.他創造了這個特別複雜的設備.設備大約有50磅重.名字叫作Norden 牌15 型投彈瞄準器.這上面有各種各樣的杠桿,球軸承小工具以及計量器.他創造了這個複雜的東西.這工具能實現的就是投彈手可以拿著這個工具,看准目標,把它放在炸彈的有機玻璃椎的范圍內,然後他們輸入飛機的高度速度,以及風速和目標物體的坐標.然後投彈瞄準器就會告訴投彈手什麼時候放炸彈.Norden的一句名言是這樣說的,""在這個投彈瞄準儀發明前,炸彈會常規性地偏離目標一英里或者更多.""他說, 如果用他的這種投彈瞄準儀,他可以把炸彈從兩萬英尺高的高空仍到一個咸菜桶裡. 我無法向你們形容當美國部隊得知Norden的投彈瞄準儀時他們是多麼的激動.感覺像是從天堂來的甘露.一邊是一支剛剛經歷過一戰的部隊,有幾百萬的士兵在戰壕中打仗,沒有出路,沒有進展而另一邊是一個人發明了一個設備,可以讓他們從敵方的領土上空飛過,以極準確的精確度摧毀所有他們想摧毀的. 美國的軍隊花了十五億美元十五億1940年的美元來推廣Norden的投彈瞄準儀.這是一個什麼概念呢?曼哈頓項目的總體開銷是三十億美元.相當於曼哈頓項目一半的錢花在了Norden的儀器上,而曼哈頓項目是近代歷史上最有名的軍工合作項目.而軍隊裡的策略家們他們真心認為這樣一個儀器將會在與納粹和日本人的戰鬥中決定出勝負. 而Norden也認為這個設備很有道德意義,因為他是個虔誠的基督徒事實上, 當他聽到人們稱他為投彈瞄準儀的發明人的時候,他總是很沮喪,因為在他眼裡,只有上帝能發明東西.他只是照著上帝的想法在做事而已.什麼是上帝的意愿呢?上帝的意愿是,在任何一場戰爭中人家承受的痛苦應該越小越好. Norden的設備是做什麼的呢?它的作用就是讓你只炸那些你必須要炸和想炸的東西.所以在二戰來臨前的那些年,美國軍隊買了九萬個這樣的投彈瞄準儀每一個價值一萬四千美元在1940年,這是很大一筆錢呀.他們訓練了五萬個投彈手來使用這個儀器幾個月長的高強度的訓練—因為這東西實際上類似於計算機;不很容易用.而且他們讓每一個使用這儀器的投彈手發誓,讓他們發誓如果他們被敵人抓了,他們不能洩露一點關於這個設備的細節,因為不讓敵方知道哪怕一丁點關於這個特別重要的儀器的信息是相當必要的. 每次當把Norden的投彈瞄準儀放到一個飛機上去時,都有一隊荷槍實彈的保衛護送.它被放在一個盒子裡，盒子上蓋的是帆布的壽衣．而且這個盒子是和一個士兵﨧在一起的．從來不允許拍照．還有一個燃燒彈的裝置在里面所以如果飛機被撞了，這設備也會被毀，這樣敵軍就無論如何也無法得到它．Norden的投彈瞄準儀被當作了聖杯 所以二戰時發生了什麼呢？事實證明，它並不是聖杯．在實戰中，Norden的投彈瞄準儀是可以把炸彈從兩萬英尺高的高空仍到一個咸菜桶裡.但那是在完美條件下．當然，在戰爭中條件總是不完美的．首先，它真的很難操作．不是所有那五萬名投彈手都有能力控制一個類似於計算機的程序．其次，它經常會壞．它裡面裝滿了各種陀螺儀，滑輪，小工具以及球軸承在戰場的熱浪中，這些東西不像它們本來那樣工作． 第三點，當Norden做計算的時候，他假設飛機是以較慢的速度在較低的高空飛行．但在實際戰爭中，不是這樣的．飛機這樣飛行會被擊中的．飛機實際上是以很快的速度在很高的高空飛行．Norden的投彈瞄準儀在這樣的條件下表現並不好． 最重要的一點是，Norden的投彈瞄準儀需要投彈手能用眼睛看到目標物．但什麼是實際情況呢？天上會有雲，它需要沒有雲朵的天空來進行準確的瞄準．你猜在1940年到1945年這幾年中在中歐的天空上，到底有多少天是沒有雲朵的呢？並不非常多． 大概給你一個印象，知道Norden的投彈瞄準儀到底有多不準確．在1944年有一個有名的例子，盟軍在德國洛伊納炸了一個化學工廠這個工廠有757公頃那麼大．在22輪轟炸過程中盟軍用Norden的投彈瞄準儀在這片757公頃的化學工廠上方投下了八萬五千個炸彈．你認為大概有多少炸彈實際上落在了這七百多公頃的工廠上？只有百分之十．而且在這百分之十的炸彈中，有百分之十六的炸彈都沒有炸開,是啞彈．這家化學工廠在經歷了戰爭史上最強勁的轟炸後，幾個星期內就又重新開始工作了． 另外，所有那些為了不讓納粹知道有關Norden投彈瞄準儀的措施呢？結果是Carl Norden對德國的工程師們特別偏愛．就像別的瑞士人一樣．所以在三十年代，他雇佣了一些德國工程師．其中一個叫Hermann Long.他在1938年把關於Norden投彈瞄準儀計劃的一整套信息給了納粹．所以在戰爭期間，納粹有他們自己的Norden投彈瞄準儀，雖然這些也不怎麼好用． (笑聲) 如果這樣，那我們為什麼要談Norden投彈瞄準儀呢？那是因為我們生活在一個充滿Norden投彈瞄準儀的時代．我們生活在一個到處都是非常非常聰明的人的時代，他們到處奔走，說他們發明了能從此改變世界的新奇東西．他們發明了能讓人們自由的網站．他們發明了這樣那樣的東西能讓我們的世界從此變得更美好． 如果你去軍隊中，你會發現有好多好多Carl Norden.如果你去五角大樓，他們會說＂你知道嗎？我們現在真的能把炸彈從兩萬英尺高的高空投到一個咸菜桶裡.而且，他們說的確實是事實．但我們得非常清楚這樣做是多麼的難． 在伊拉克戰爭中，在最開始的階段，美國的軍隊，空軍派出了兩支F-15E鷹式戰鬥機的部隊到伊拉克的沙漠裡帶著這些五百萬美金的照相機從而能看到整個沙漠表面．他們的任務是尋找，并且摧毀－－還記得飛毛腿導彈發射器嗎？那些伊拉克人用來襲擊以色列人的地對空導彈．這兩支部隊的任務就是去摧毀這些飛毛腿導彈發射器．所以他們白天黑夜地執行任務，投下了幾千枚炸彈，他們執行了幾千次任務試圖想除掉這些發射器． 戰爭結束後，曾有過一個審核這是軍隊中，空軍中的慣例—他們問我們到底除掉了多少發射器？猜猜結果如何？零，一個都沒有．為什麼呢？他們的設備不夠準確嗎？不是，那些設備相當的精確．他們可以從二萬五千英尺的高空輕鬆除掉那小東西．問題是他們不知道這些飛毛腿導彈發射器在哪裡．關於炸彈和咸菜桶，問題不在於如何把炸彈投到咸菜桶裡，而是如果找到咸菜桶．這總是戰爭中很難的問題． 再來看看阿富汗戰爭．中央情報局用在西北巴基斯坦的標誌性的武器是什麼？無人駕駛飛機．什麼是無人駕駛飛機？其實它就是Norden投彈瞄準儀的孫子輩的產物．它有極高的精確性和準確度．在過去六年裡在巴基斯坦的西北部，中央情報局用了幾百次這個設備，殺掉了二千多名巴基斯坦和塔利班的武裝人員．那這些無人駕駛的飛機準確度有多高呢？那是相當驚人的．我們現在認為大約有百分之九十五的準確度當我們用無人駕駛的飛機時有百分之九十五的想要擊中的人被擊中了，對吧？這是現在戰爭史上最好的記錄了． 但你知道最重要的是什麼嗎？在這相同的時間裡，在我們用這種相當準確的無人駕駛飛機的同時，在阿富汗的針對美軍的襲擊事件，自殺式襲擊和恐怖襲擊的數量增加了十倍．在我們變得越來越效率地殺害敵軍的同時，他們變得越來越生氣也越來越有動力殺我們．我不是在告訴你一個成功的故事．我說的恰恰是一個成功故事的反面． 這是我們在發明了新東西後伴隨的心理膨脹．我們認為我們創造的東西能解決我們的問題，但我們的問題要遠比這複雜得多．問題不在於你發明的炸彈能投得多准，而是你要如何用它們．更重要的是，你是否應該用它們． Norden和他著名的投彈瞄準儀的故事其實還有一段後記．在1945年八月六號，一個叫作恩諾拉蓋伊的B-29轟炸機從日本上空飛過使用Norden投彈瞄準儀在廣島上空投下了一個巨大的熱核設備．像其它Norden投彈瞄準儀一樣炸彈偏離了目標800英尺．當然了，這並不重要．Norden投彈瞄準儀最諷刺的也就是在這裡．空軍花了十五億美元的投彈瞄準儀用來扔下了價值三十億美元的炸彈而這炸彈其實根本不需要瞄準儀． 同時，在紐約沒有人跟Carl Norden提過他的瞄準儀被用在了廣島上．他是個虔誠的基督教徒．他認為他發明了一樣東西能減少在戰爭中受折磨的人數．這會讓他傷心至極． (掌聲)"
