Talk	en	zh-tw
mallika_sarabhai	"One day a one-eyed monkey came into the forest. Under a tree she saw a woman meditating furiously. The one-eyed monkey recognized the woman, a Sekhri. She was the wife of an even more famous Brahmin. To watch her better, the one-eyed monkey climbed onto the tree. Just then, with a loud bang, the heavens opened. (Claps) And the god Indra jumped into the clearing. Indra saw the woman, a Sekhri. Ah-hah. The woman paid him no heed. So, Indra, attracted, threw her onto the floor, and proceeded to rape her. Then Indra disappeared. (Clap! Clap!) And the woman's husband, the Brahmin, appeared. He realized at once what had happened. So, he petitioned the higher gods so that he may have justice. So, the god Vishnu arrived. ""Are there any witnesses?"" ""Just a one-eyed monkey,"" said the Brahmin. Now, the one-eyed monkey really wanted for the woman, a Sekhri, to get justice, so she retold events exactly as they had happened. Vishnu gave his judgment. ""The god Indra has sinned, in that he has sinned against ... a Brahmin. May he be called to wash away his sins."" So, Indra arrived, and performed the sacrifice of the horse. And so it transpired that a horse was killed, a god was made sin-free, a Brahmin's ego was appeased, a woman ... was ruined, and a one-eyed monkey was left ... very confused at what we humans call justice. In India there is a rape every three minutes. In India, only 25 percent of rapes come to a police station, and of these 25 percent that come to a police station, convictions are only in four percent of the cases. That's a lot of women who don't get justice. And it's not only about women. Look around you, look at your own countries. There is a certain pattern in who gets charged with crimes. If you're in Australia, it's mostly aboriginals who are in jail. If you're in India, it's either Muslims or Adivasis, our tribals, the Naxalites. If you're in the U.S., it's mostly the blacks. There is a trend here. And the Brahmins and the gods, like in my story, always get to tell their truth as The Truth. So, have we all become one-eyed — two-eyed instead of one-eyed — monkeys? Have we stopped seeing injustice? Good morning. (Applause) You know, I have told this story close to 550 times, in audiences in 40 countries, to school students, to black-tie dinners at the Smithsonian, and so on and so forth, and every time it hits something. Now, if I were to go into the same crowd and say, ""I want to lecture you about justice and injustice,"" they would say, ""Thank you very much, we have other things to do."" And that is the astonishing power of art. Art can go through where other things can't. You can't have barriers, because it breaks through your prejudices, breaks through everything that you have as your mask, that says, ""I am this, I am that, I am that."" No. It breaks through those. And it reaches somewhere where other things don't. And in a world where attitudes are so difficult to change, we need a language that reaches through. Hitler knew it; he used Wagner to make all the Nazis feel wonderful and Aryan. And Mr. Berlusconi knows it, as he sits atop this huge empire of media and television and so on and so forth. And all of the wonderful creative minds who are in all the advertising agencies, and who help corporate sell us things we absolutely don't require, they also know the power of the arts. For me it came very early. When I was a young child, my mother, who was a choreographer, came upon a phenomenon that worried her. It was a phenomenon where young brides were committing suicide in rural Gujarat, because they were being forced to bring more and more money for their in-laws' families. And she created a dance piece which then Prime Minister Nehru saw. He came to talk to her and said, ""What is this about?"" She told him and he set out the first inquiry into what today we call Dowry Dance. Imagine a dance piece for the first inquiry into something that even today kills thousands of women. Many years later, when I was working with the director Peter Brook in ""The Mahabharata"" playing this feisty feminine feminist called Draupadi, I had similar experiences. Big fat black mamas in the Bronx used to come and say, ""Hey girl, that's it!"" And then these trendy young things in the Sorbonne would say, ""Madame Draupadi, on n'est pas feministe, mais ça? Ça!"" And then aboriginal women in Africa would come and say, ""This is it!"" And I thought, ""This is what we need, as a language."" We had somebody from public health. And Devdutt also mentioned public health. Well, millions of people around the world die of waterborne disease every year. And that's because there is no clean water to drink, or in countries like India, people don't know that they need to soap their hands before defecation. So, what do they do? They drink the water they know is dirty, they get cholera, they get diarrhea, they get jaundice and they die. And governments have not been able to provide clean water. They try and build it. They try and build pipelines; it doesn't happen. And the MNCs give them machines that they cannot afford. So what do you do? Do you let them die? Well, somebody had a great idea. And it was a simple idea. It was an idea that could not profit anybody but would help health in every field. Most houses in Asia and India have a cotton garment. And it was discovered, and WHO endorses this, that a clean cotton garment folded eight times over, can reduce bacteria up to 80 percent from water sieved through. So, why aren't governments blaring this on television? Why isn't it on every poster across the third world? Because there is no profit in it. Because nobody can get a kickback. But it still needs to get to people. And here is one of the ways we get it to people. [Video] Woman: Then get me one of those fancy water purifiers. Man: You know how expensive those are. I have a solution that requires neither machine, nor wood, nor cooking gas. Woman: What solution? Man: Listen, go fetch that cotton sari you have. Boy: Grand-dad, tell me the solution please. Man: I will tell all of you. Just wait. Woman: Here father. (Man: Is it clean?) Woman: Yes, of course. Man: Then do as I tell you. Fold the sari into eight folds. Woman: All right, father. Man: And you, you count that she does it right. (Boy: All right, grand-dad.) Man: One, two, three, four folds we make. All the germs from the water we take. Chorus: One, two, three, four folds we make. All the germs from the water we take. Five, six, seven, eight folds we make. Our drinking water safe we make. Five, six, seven, eight folds we make. Our drinking water safe we make. Woman: Here, father, your eight-times folded cotton sari. Man: So this is the cotton sari. And through this we will have clean water. (Applause) I think it's safe to say that all of us here are deeply concerned about the escalating violence in our daily lives. While universities are trying to devise courses in conflict resolution, and governments are trying to stop skirmishes at borders, we are surrounded by violence, whether it's road rage, or whether it's domestic violence, whether it's a teacher beating up a student and killing her because she hasn't done her homework, it's everywhere. So, why are we not doing something to actually attend that problem on a day to day basis? What are we doing to try and make children and young people realize that violence is something that we indulge in, that we can stop, and that there are other ways of actually taking violence, taking anger, taking frustrations into different things that do not harm other people. Well, here is one such way. (Video) (Laughs) You are peaceful people. Your parents were peaceful people. Your grandparents were peaceful people. So much peace in one place? How could it be otherwise? (Music) But, what if ... Yes. What if ... One little gene in you has been trying to get through? From your beginnings in Africa, through each generation, may be passed on to you, in your creation. It's a secret urge, hiding deep in you. And if it's in you, then it's in me too. Oh, dear. It's what made you smack your baby brother, stamp on a cockroach, scratch your mother. It's the feeling that wells up from deep inside, when your husband comes home drunk and you wanna tan his hide. Want to kill that cyclist on the way to work, and string up your cousin 'cause she's such a jerk. Oh, dear. And as for outsiders, white, black or brown, tar and feather them, and whip them out of town. It's that little gene. It's small and it's mean. Too small for detection, it's your built-in protection. Adrenaline, kill. It'll give you the will. Yes, you'd better face it 'cause you can't displace it. You're V-I-O-L-E-N-T. Cause you're either a victim, or on top, like me. Goodbye, Abraham Lincoln. Goodbye, Mahatma Gandhi. Goodbye, Martin Luther King. Hello, gangs from this neighborhood killing gangs from that neighborhood. Hello governments of rich countries selling arms to governments of poor countries who can't even afford to give them food. Hello civilization. Hello, 21st century. Look what we've ... look what they've done. (Applause) Mainstream art, cinema, has been used across the world to talk about social issues. A few years ago we had a film called Rang De Basanti, which suddenly spawned thousands of young people wanting to volunteer for social change. In Venezuela, one of the most popular soap operas has a heroine called Crystal. And when, onscreen, Crystal got breast cancer, 75,000 more young women went to have mammographies done. And of course, ""The Vagina Monologues"" we know about. And there are stand-up comics who are talking about racial issues, about ethnic issues. So, why is it, that if we think that we all agree that we need a better world, we need a more just world, why is it that we are not using the one language that has consistently showed us that we can break down barriers, that we can reach people? What I need to say to the planners of the world, the governments, the strategists is, ""You have treated the arts as the cherry on the cake. It needs to be the yeast."" Because, any future planning, if 2048 is when we want to get there, unless the arts are put with the scientists, with the economists, with all those who prepare for the future, badly, we're not going to get there. And unless this is actually internalized, it won't happen. So, what is it that we require? What is it that we need? We need to break down our vision of what planners are, of what the correct way of a path is. And to say all these years of trying to make a better world, and we have failed. There are more people being raped. There are more wars. There are more people dying of simple things. So, something has got to give. And that is what I want. Can I have my last audio track please? Once there was a princess who whistled beautifully. (Whistling) Her father the king said, ""Don't whistle."" Her mother the queen said, ""Hai, don't whistle."" But the princess continued whistling. (Whistling) The years went by and the princess grew up into a beautiful young woman, who whistled even more beautifully. (Whistling) Her father the king said, ""Who will marry a whistling princess?"" Her mother the queen said, ""Who will marry a whistling princess?"" But the king had an idea. He announced a Swayamvara. He invited all the princes to come and defeat his daughter at whistling. ""Whoever defeats my daughter shall have half my kingdom and her hand in marriage!"" Soon the palace filled with princes whistling. (Whistling) Some whistled badly. Some whistled well. But nobody could defeat the princess. ""Now what shall we do?"" said the king. ""Now what shall we do?"" said the queen. But the princess said, ""Father, Mother, don't worry. I have an idea. I am going to go to each of these young men and I am going to ask them if they defeated correctly. And if somebody answers, that shall be my wish."" So she went up to each and said, ""Do you accept that I have defeated you?"" And they said, ""Me? Defeated by a woman? No way, that's impossible! No no no no no! That's not possible."" Till finally one prince said, ""Princess, I accept, you have defeated me."" ""Uh-huh ..."" she said. ""Father, mother, this man shall be my wife."" (Whistling) Thank you. (Applause)"	有一天，一隻獨眼猴子來到了森林中。在樹下，牠看見了一位女子正在沉思冥想。獨眼猴認出了這位女子，是一位剎帝利人。(註：剎帝利人在印度種姓制度中地位次高)她的丈夫是位有名的婆羅門。(註：婆羅門為印度種姓制度中地位最高者)獨眼猴子爬上了樹以便更清楚的看看這位女子。就在這個時候，伴隨著一聲巨響，天堂打開了。(拍手)天神因陀羅跳到了林中空地上。(註：因陀羅，印度吠陀經中眾神之首，為最強戰鬥之神；此神性易怒、縱酒慾、好美色。佛教經典中譯名為帝釋天。)因陀羅看見了這個剎帝利女子。啊~哈~女子並沒有注意到祂。因陀羅受到了女子吸引，祂把女子推倒在地，接著強暴了她。之後因陀羅就消失了。(啪!啪!)隨後女子的婆羅門丈夫來到了這裡。他很快的了解到，剛剛發生了什麼事。於是他向更高階的神祇陳情控訴，以還他公道。因此，毗濕奴神現身了。(註：毗濕奴為印度教三相神之一，主掌「維護」，在印度神話中為保護之神。其中一個毗濕奴的化身曾三七二十一次殺光人間侵犯婆羅門利益的剎帝利人。) 有目擊證人嗎？ 「只有一隻獨眼猴子看到。」婆羅門回答。 獨眼猴子這時候真的很希望能幫這位剎帝利女子討回公道，所以，牠將整個事情經過詳細的講了一遍。毗濕奴神做出了裁決。 「因陀羅神是有罪的。」「祂的罪行是對一位......婆羅門犯下的。」「祂應該被叫回這裡洗清祂的罪。」 於是，因陀羅現身了。並且以一匹馬作為贖罪的犧牲品。這個罪行就這樣煙消雲散了。有一匹馬被殺了，有一位神祇的狂癲罪行得以贖罪，有一位婆羅門的尊嚴得到了安撫，有一個女人......被糟蹋了，然後留下一隻獨眼猴子......牠非常地困惑，什麼是人類口中的正義？ 在印度，每三分鐘發生一起強暴案。在印度，只有百分之二十五的強暴案件有去報警，而在這有報警的百分之二十五之中，只有百分之四是受害者自己去報警。有非常多的女性沒有被公平正義的對待。 而且這不只是跟女性有關。看看你的四週，看看你自己的國家。在那些犯罪被起訴的人們之中可以發現特有的模式與族群。如果是在澳洲，那關在牢裡的人大部分是澳洲原住民。如果是在印度，那就是穆斯林或是印度原住民，或我們的族人，Naxalites黨員。 (註：Naxalitism為活動於印度的共產主義。)如果是在美國，那大多就是黑人。從中可以看的到一個趨勢。而如同我故事中的婆羅門與天神們，總是能讓他們口中的「真相」成為現實真正的真相。因此，是不是我們都成為了獨眼的或是雙目健全的旁觀猴子？是否我們對不公平、不正義的事已經視若無睹了？ 早安。(掌聲)你知道嗎，我已經說過這個故事將近550次，在四十幾個國家的觀眾面前，從學校裡的學生，到史密森尼博物館的高級禮服晚宴，諸如此類的。每一次，都打動了一些聽眾。不過如果當時我只是走向那群人然後對他們說，「我想對你們闡述何謂正義與非正義。」他們會回我說：「非常謝謝你，不過我們有些別的事要忙。」而用故事的形式就能夠打動聽眾就是因為來自藝術驚人的力量。 藝術能夠直達人心到其他東西到不了的地方。你不會有任何障礙，因為藝術能打破所有偏見。打破所有你拿來當面具的東西。那些會說，「我是這樣的，我是那樣的，我是那樣想的。」不。藝術把他們全部打破。並且抵達其他事物到不了的地方。而在這個很難改變人們態度的世界，我們需要一種能穿越並且抵達的語言。 希特勒了解這件事；他利用了華格納的音樂使納粹黨員感覺良好並懷著亞利安人的驕傲。義大利總理貝爾魯斯康尼先生也知道這件事，他鎮坐在這巨大的媒體與電視帝國的最高處，諸如此類不勝枚舉。以及所有擁有著豐富創造力的廣告人，這些人幫助公司銷售那些我們完全不需要的商品，他們也全都了解這種藝術的力量。 對我自己而言，藝術的力量很早就發生在我眼前。那是我還是個小孩子，我的母親，她是一位編舞家，當時她很擔憂一個社會現象。這社會現象發生在鄉下地方古及拉特，有許多年輕的新娘相繼自殺身亡。因為她們被強迫要從娘家帶回更多更多的錢。我母親因為這件事編了一支舞，之後尼赫魯總理看見了這支舞。他走向我母親並問她：「這支舞是在說什麼？」她告訴了總理，使得總理對這件事首次展開調查，這就是我們今天稱之為「嫁妝之舞」的舞。想像一支舞，使得某社會事件開始被調查，即使直到今天這件事仍奪走上千婦女的性命。 很多年以後，當我和彼德布魯克導演一起工作，在《The Mahabharata》之中扮演一個火爆且有女人味的女性主義者叫做Draupadi，我仍有類似的經驗。出身於布朗克斯的黑人胖大娘總是會上前然後說：「嘿!小妞，這樣就對了!」還有那些巴黎索邦大學的時髦年輕女孩們會說，「Draupadi夫人不會是個女權主義者，是吧？是吧!」而來自非洲的原住民女性則會前來說，「就，是，這樣!」而我自己覺得：「這就是我們需要的，一種共通的語言。」 我們有些來自於公共衛生領域的人員。Devdutt博士也有提到公共衛生的議題。嗯，每一年，世界上好幾百萬人死於因為以水為媒介傳播的疾病。只是因為缺乏乾淨的飲用水，或是在像印度這樣的國家，人們不知道在上完大號後得用肥皂洗手。那麼，他們到底做了什麼？他們喝下他們自己知道不乾淨的水，他們感染了霍亂，感染了瘧疾，感染了黃疸最後因此而死。而政府還是沒有辦法提供乾淨的水源。政府試著做到這件事。政府試著建造輸水系統；卻無法實踐。許多跨國企業提供的機器設備政府又負擔不起。那你該怎麼辦？你要眼睜睜的看著他們死去？ 嗯，有個傢伙想出了很好的解決之道。而且非常簡單。雖然這個解決之道沒辦法替任何人賺到錢，但是可以幫助所有地區的人更健康。在多數亞洲與印度的家中都會有件棉質的長袍。有人發現到，而且WHO世界衛生組織也同意這一點，將這乾淨的棉質長袍摺疊八次以上，可以過濾掉水中百分之八十以上的細菌。既然如此，為什麼政府不在電視上大力宣導這件事？為什麼不在第三世界國家的每張海報上做宣導？就因為做這件事沒有利益可圖。就因為沒有一個人能因此得到回扣。可是這仍然非常需要傳達給人民知道。而這裡，我們有一個可以讓民眾了解這件事的方法。 【影像】女人：那就給我一個高級淨水器吧。 男人：你知道那些淨水器很貴的。我知道一個不需要用到那些淨水器的好辦法，不用燒柴，也不用煮瓦斯。 女人：什麼辦法？ 男人：聽著，去把你那件棉質紗麗拿來。 男孩：爺爺，拜託你告訴我這個辦法。 男人：等等，我一定會跟你們全部都說的。 女人：爸爸，紗麗在這。(男人：它是乾淨的嗎？)女人：當然是啊。 男人：接著按照我所說的。把紗麗對摺八次。 女人：沒問題，父親。 男人：還有你，你幫忙算她有沒有摺對。(男孩：好的，爺爺。) 男人：一、二、三，我們摺了四次。我們除掉了水中的病菌。 歌隊：一、二、三，我們摺了四次。我們除掉了水中的病菌。五、六、七，我們摺了八次。我們得到了乾淨的飲用水。五、六、七，我們摺了八次。我們得到了乾淨的飲用水。 女人：爸爸，這是你要的對摺了八次的乾淨棉紗麗。 男人：嗯，這就是我們需要的棉紗麗。靠它我們就能得到乾淨的水了。 (掌聲) 我想，可以說我們在場的所有人對於我們日常生活中日漸增加的暴力行為都相當關心。許多間大學正在嘗試開設有關於解決衝突之類的課程，也有許多政府嘗試著阻止邊境上的小規模戰爭，我們的生活正被暴力包圍著，不論是行車糾紛，或者是家暴事件，又或者是老師毆打學生甚至置之於死地只是因為她功課沒寫完，到處都是這種事情。那麼，為什麼我們不做點什麼？在日常生活中確確實實的面對這些問題？ 我們正試著讓孩子與年輕人了解到目前這個沉溺於暴力的狀態，我們是可以將它停止的，而且還有其他不同的方法能夠確實的解決暴力、解決憤怒、解決挫折，以不同於暴力的方法而且不會傷害到任何人。是的，這裡就有一個方法。 【影像】(笑聲)你是個平和的人。你的父母都是平和的人。你的組父母也都是平和的人。這麼多的平和集中在這裡？怎麼會有什麼其他可能呢？ (音樂) 但是，如果說......對。如果說......你體內的一點點小基因試著想要傳承下去？從你來自非洲最源頭的祖先身上，穿越過一代又一代，或許就這樣在你被創造出來的時候，傳到了你身上。一股隱密的衝動，深深藏在你體內。如果說你身體裡有這東西，那就代表我也有。喔，親愛的， 就是這玩意兒讓你痛扁你的小弟，踩扁一隻蟑螂、抓傷你媽媽。這種感覺從你內心深處慢慢的浮現，讓你看到你老公喝得醉醺醺的回到家時想痛揍他一頓。讓你在趕去上班的路上想殺光那些腳踏車騎士，讓你想把那個混蛋表姊狠狠勒死。喔，親愛的。至於那些外來者，不論白人、黑人、咖啡色皮膚的人，最好把他們灑滿柏油後黏上羽毛，然後一路鞭打到滾出我們的小鎮。 就是這個小小的基因。就是這麼微小又這麼凶狠。這就是你內建的防衛機制，微小的難以察覺。腎上腺訴、殺意。就是它給了你這樣的慾望。嗯哼，你最好面對它，因為你永遠都移除不掉它。你就是「ㄅㄠ四聲、ㄌㄧ四聲」（暴力）的。因為你要麼就是成為它的犧牲者，不然就是像我一樣，超越它。 再見了，亞伯拉罕林肯。再見了，聖雄甘地。再見了，馬丁路德金。哈囉啊，這個社區的幫派殺了來自另外一個社區的幫派。哈囉啊，有錢國家的政府們把大量軍火賣到窮困國家，那些窮到人民沒有食物吃的窮困國家。哈囉啊，文明世界。哈囉，二十一世紀。看看我們有些什麼......看看他們，做了些什麼。(掌聲) 主流藝術，電影，早已成為全世界用來討論社會議題的工具。幾年前有一部叫做Rang De Basanti的電影。(註：台灣譯青春無敵，印度電影。)這部電影突然間鼓舞了成千上萬的年輕人自願自發的為社會改革貢獻一己之力。在委內瑞拉，一齣大受歡迎的肥皂劇中的女主角叫做Crystal。其中有一幕是Crystal得了乳癌，超過七萬五千名女性因此前往醫院接受乳腺X光攝影檢查術。當然，還有我們都知道的「陰道獨白」。再加上那些脫口秀藝人他們講不完的種族、人種話題。 好，那麼是為什麼，我猜想我們全都同意，我們需要一個更好的世界，一個更為公正的世界，那為什麼我們沒有在使用剛剛說的那個世界共通的唯一語言？它明明很清楚的展現出，它可以打破人跟人之間的藩籬並且直達人心。我必須對那些有權力規劃整個世界運作的人們說，對那些政府，那些謀略家們說「你們總是把藝術看成不過是蛋糕上的櫻桃。藝術必須成為蛋糕的酵母。」因為，不論是任何未來的計畫，如果我們還希望活到2048年，除非藝術能與科學結合，與經濟結合，跟那些未來規劃藍圖結合，否則很不幸地，我們是不可能活到那時候的。除非這藝術的力量已經被全然內化吸收，不然未來不可能成真。 所以，我們要準備些什麼？我們要有哪些必備條件？我們必須要打破那些有權力規畫世界的人原本的眼界，打破那些原本以為是正確的路徑。然後大聲承認這些年來為了打造更理想的世界所做的努力，全都失敗了。這世界有更多的人慘遭強暴。這世界有越來越多的戰爭。這世界有更多人因為枝微末節的小事而失去了生命。所以，我們應該要付出的更多。而這就是我所希冀的。可以麻煩幫我在放一下剛剛最後那段聲音檔嗎？ 很久以前，有一個以口哨聲優美出名的公主。(吹口哨)她的父王說：「不要吹口哨。」她的母后說：「不要吹口哨。」但是公主仍然吹著她的口哨。(吹口哨) 一年又一年，公主長大成為了一位美麗的妙齡女子，而她的口哨聲也越來越動聽。(吹口哨)她的父王說：「誰會娶一個愛吹口哨的公主？」她的母后說：「誰會娶一個愛吹口哨的公主？」 不過國王想出了一個好主意。他宣布要徵選駙馬。(註：Swayamvara在古印度指父親位女兒舉辦徵選生活伴侶活動。)他邀請了所有王子向他女兒挑戰吹口哨。「誰戰勝了我的女兒就能得到我一半的王國以及與我女兒成親!」很快的廣場上擠滿了吹著口哨的王子們。(吹口哨)有些吹得很爛。有些吹得很好。不過沒有一個可以贏過公主。 「我們現在怎麼辦才好？」國王說。「我們現在怎麼辦才好？」皇后說。然而公主說：「爸爸、媽媽，不用擔心。我有個辦法。我要過去每一個年輕男士面前，然後我會一個一個問他們，是不是真的被我打敗了。如果有人肯承認，那麼他就是我的歸宿。」 於是公主走到每一個王子面前說：「你能接受我打敗你的事實嗎？」他們都回答：「我？被一個女人打敗？不可能，這不可能! 不不不不! 這是不可能的。」直到最後一個王子，他說：「公主，我承認，你確實是打敗了我。」「嗯~哼......」公主說。「爸爸、媽媽，這個男的可以做我老婆。」(吹口哨) 謝謝大家。(掌聲)
