Talk	en	zh-tw
marc_koska_the_devastating_toll_of_syringe_reuse	Twenty-five-and-a-quarter years ago I read a newspaper article which said that one day syringes would be one of the major causes of the spread of AIDS, the transmission of AIDS. I thought this was unacceptable. So I decided to do something about it. Sadly, it's come true. Malaria, as we all know, kills approximately one million people a year. The reuse of syringes now exceeds that and kills 1.3 million people a year. This young girl and her friend that I met in an orphanage in Delhi were HIV positive from a syringe. And what was so sad about this particular story was that once their parents had found out — and don't forget, their parents took them to the doctor — the parents threw them out on the street. And hence they ended up in an orphanage. And it comes from situations like this where you have either skilled or unskilled practitioners, blindly giving an injection to someone. And the injection is so valuable, that the people basically trust the doctor, being second to God, which I've heard many times, to do the right thing. But in fact they're not. And you can understand, obviously, the transmission problem between people in high-virus areas. This video we took undercover, which shows you, over a half an hour period, a tray of medicines of 42 vials, which are being delivered with only 2 syringes in a public hospital in India. And over the course of half an hour, not one syringe was filmed being unwrapped. They started with two and they ended with two. And you'll see, just now, a nurse coming back to the tray, which is their sort of modular station, and dropping the syringe she's just used back in the tray for it to be picked up and used again. So you can imagine the scale of this problem. And in fact in India alone, 62 percent of all injections given are unsafe. These kids in Pakistan don't go to school. They are lucky. They already have a job. And that job is that they go around and pick up syringes from the back of hospitals, wash them, and in the course of this, obviously picking them up they injure themselves. And then they repackage them and sell them out on markets for literally more money than a sterile syringe in the first place, which is quite bizarre. In an interesting photo, their father, while we were talking to him, picked up a syringe and pricked his finger — I don't know whether you can see the drop of blood on the end — and immediately whipped out a box of matches, lit one, and burned the blood off the end of his finger, giving me full assurance that that was the way that you stopped the transmission of HIV. In China, recycling is a major issue. And they are collected en mass — you can see the scale of it here — and sorted out, by hand, back into the right sizes, and then put back out on the street. So recycling and reuse are the major issues here. But there was one interesting anecdote that I found in Indonesia. In all schools in Indonesia, there is usually a toy seller in the playground. The toy seller, in this case, had syringes, which they usually do, next door to the diggers, which is obviously what you would expect. And they use them, in the breaks, for water pistols. They squirt them at each other, which is lovely and innocent. And they are having great fun. But they also drink from them while they're in their breaks, because it's hot. And they squirt the water into their mouths. And these are used with traces of blood visible. So we need a better product. And we need better information. And I think, if I can just borrow this camera, I was going to show you my invention, which I came up with. So, it's a normal-looking syringe. You load it up in the normal way. This is made on existing equipment in 14 factories that we license. You give the injection and then put it down. If someone then tries to reuse it, it locks and breaks afterwards. It's very, very simple. Thank you. (Applause) And it costs the same as a normal syringe. And in comparison, a Coca-Cola is 10 times the price. And that will stop reusing a syringe 20 or 30 times. And I have an information charity which has done huge scale amount of work in India. And we're very proud of giving information to people, so that little kids like this don't do stupid things. Thank you very much. (Applause)	二十五年又三個月前我在報紙上讀到一篇文章說在未來針筒將成爲傳染愛滋病，散播愛滋病的主要原因之一。我覺得這是令人無法接受的。所以我決定要有所改變 可悲的是，這已是事實。虐疾，如我們所知每年奪走大約一百萬條人命重復使用的針筒已經比這還嚴重每年奪走一百三十萬條人命這個小女孩和她的朋友是我在德里的孤兒院遇到的她們是因爲針筒而成爲愛滋病帶原者這個故事最讓人感到心酸的是當她們的父母發現她們得病時別忘了，最初是父母帶她們到醫生那裏去看病才染病的就把她們遺棄在街上從此她們就只能被孤兒院收容 這種情況的起因是因爲這些有照或無照的醫護人員盲目地幫人打針打針在那裏是如此地珍貴人們基本上十分信任醫生我常常聽到這種説法說，醫生是僅次於上帝會做正確的事。事實並非如此。很明顯地，你不難去了解在病毒密度高的地方的傳染問題 我們用隱藏的攝影機拍攝這個影片你可以看到在半個鐘頭裏面這推車上有42管的注射劑這在印度的一個公立醫院裏，全部只用兩支針筒來注射在半個鐘頭的影片裏沒有看到任何拆封新針筒的畫面這兩支針筒從頭用到尾你可以看到，這裡，護士回到這個推車這是類似她們的護理站把她剛用過的針筒放下來放在推車上等一下再拿起來繼續使用你可以想見這個問題的嚴重性事實上光在印度百分之62的注射是不安全的。 這些巴基斯坦的小孩子不上學他們很幸運，他們已經有工作了他們的工作是到醫院的後面去收集針筒並清洗針筒，這麽做的同時他們當然會扎傷自己他們把針筒重新包裝拿到市場上去賣可以賣到很好的價錢比全新無菌的針筒還貴。這挺奇怪的。在這個照片裏，我們跟小孩的爸爸談話他拿起了一個針筒時扎傷了自己我不知道你們有沒有看到流出的血滴他趕快拿出一盒火柴點亮一支火柴把手指上的血燒乾他跟我保證這麽做就可以防止愛滋病的傳染。 在中國針筒的回收是個大問題針筒被大批地回收，你可以在這裡看到它的規模按大小來分類，全部用手再送囘市場上去賣所以再回收再使用在這裡是個大問題。我在印尼倒是遇到一個有趣的故事在印尼所有的學校裏在操場上通常有一個賣玩具的人在這裡這個賣玩具的人把針筒當玩具賣，這並不少見針筒和鏟子一類的玩具擺在一起這是常可預見的。學童們在下課時間用針筒當水槍玩他們把水射來射去，看來很天真可愛他們玩得很開心但他們也從針筒裏喝水在下課的時間，因爲天氣很熱他們用針筒把水射到嘴裏而在這些針筒裏面常常還有殘留的血。 所以我們需要更好的產品，更好的資訊我想，讓我借這台攝影機我要讓你們看看我的發明我的新主意。這看起來跟一般的針筒沒兩樣用一樣的方法把藥劑吸入我們發給了十四家廠商許可來製造這針筒打完了針以後放下針筒如果有人要再去使用它它會鎖死並會斷裂這是十分十分簡單的。謝謝（掌聲）這和一般的針筒的價格是一樣的跟可口可樂比起來可口可樂比它貴了十倍這可以防止針筒重復被使用20或30遍。 我有一個資訊慈善機構在印度已經做了很多工作我們對提供資訊給人們感到很自豪這使得小朋友們不會去作傻事謝謝你們（掌聲）
