Talk	en	zh-tw
marco_annunziata_welcome_to_the_age_of_the_industrial_internet	"Einstein said that ""I never think about the future — it comes soon enough."" And he was right, of course. So today, I'm here to ask you to think of how the future is happening now. Over the past 200 years, the world has experienced two major waves of innovation. First, the Industrial Revolution brought us machines and factories, railways, electricity, air travel, and our lives have never been the same. Then the Internet revolution brought us computing power, data networks, unprecedented access to information and communication, and our lives have never been the same. Now we are experiencing another metamorphic change: the industrial Internet. It brings together intelligent machines, advanced analytics, and the creativity of people at work. It's the marriage of minds and machines. And our lives will never be the same. In my current role, I see up close how technology is beginning to transform industrial sectors that play a huge role in our economy and in our lives: energy, aviation, transportation, health care. For an economist, this is highly unusual, and it's extremely exciting, because this is a transformation as powerful as the Industrial Revolution and more, and before the Industrial Revolution, there was no economic growth to speak of. So what is this industrial Internet? Industrial machines are being equipped with a growing number of electronic sensors that allow them to see, hear, feel a lot more than ever before, generating prodigious amounts of data. Increasingly sophisticated analytics then sift through the data, providing insights that allow us to operate the machines in entirely new ways, a lot more efficiently. And not just individual machines, but fleets of locomotives, airplanes, entire systems like power grids, hospitals. It is asset optimization and system optimization. Of course, electronic sensors have been around for some time, but something has changed: a sharp decline in the cost of sensors and, thanks to advances in cloud computing, a rapid decrease in the cost of storing and processing data. So we are moving to a world where the machines we work with are not just intelligent; they are brilliant. They are self-aware, they are predictive, reactive and social. It's jet engines, locomotives, gas turbines, medical devices, communicating seamlessly with each other and with us. It's a world where information itself becomes intelligent and comes to us automatically when we need it without having to look for it. We are beginning to deploy throughout the industrial system embedded virtualization, multi-core processor technology, advanced cloud-based communications, a new software-defined machine infrastructure which allows machine functionality to become virtualized in software, decoupling machine software from hardware, and allowing us to remotely and automatically monitor, manage and upgrade industrial assets. Why does any of this matter at all? Well first of all, it's already allowing us to shift towards preventive, condition-based maintenance, which means fixing machines just before they break, without wasting time servicing them on a fixed schedule. And this, in turn, is pushing us towards zero unplanned downtime, which means there will be no more power outages, no more flight delays. So let me give you a few examples of how these brilliant machines work, and some of the examples may seem trivial, some are clearly more profound, but all of them are going to have a very powerful impact. Let's start with aviation. Today, 10 percent of all flights cancellations and delays are due to unscheduled maintenance events. Something goes wrong unexpectedly. This results in eight billion dollars in costs for the airline industry globally every year, not to mention the impact on all of us: stress, inconvenience, missed meetings as we sit helplessly in an airport terminal. So how can the industrial Internet help here? We've developed a preventive maintenance system which can be installed on any aircraft. It's self-learning and able to predict issues that a human operator would miss. The aircraft, while in flight, will communicate with technicians on the ground. By the time it lands, they will already know if anything needs to be serviced. Just in the U.S., a system like this can prevent over 60,000 delays and cancellations every year, helping seven million passengers get to their destinations on time. Or take healthcare. Today, nurses spend an average of 21 minutes per shift looking for medical equipment. That seems trivial, but it's less time spent caring for patients. St. Luke's Medical Center in Houston, Texas, which has deployed industrial Internet technology to electronically monitor and connect patients, staff and medical equipment, has reduced bed turnaround times by nearly one hour. If you need surgery, one hour matters. It means more patients can be treated, more lives can be saved. Another medical center, in Washington state, is piloting an application that allows medical images from city scanners and MRIs to be analyzed in the cloud, developing better analytics at a lower cost. Imagine a patient who has suffered a severe trauma, and needs the attention of several specialists: a neurologist, a cardiologist, an orthopedic surgeon. If all of them can have instantaneous and simultaneous access to scans and images as they are taken, they will be able to deliver better healthcare faster. So all of this translates into better health outcomes, but it can also deliver substantial economic benefits. Just a one-percent reduction in existing inefficiencies could yield savings of over 60 billion dollars to the healthcare industry worldwide, and that is just a drop in the sea compared to what we need to do to make healthcare affordable on a sustainable basis. Similar advances are happening in energy, including renewable energy. Wind farms equipped with new remote monitorings and diagnostics that allow wind turbines to talk to each other and adjust the pitch of their blades in a coordinated way, depending on how the wind is blowing, can now produce electricity at a cost of less than five cents per kilowatt/hour. Ten years ago, that cost was 30 cents, six times as much. The list goes on, and it will grow fast, because industrial data are now growing exponentially. By 2020, they will account for over 50 percent of all digital information. But this is not just about data, so let me switch gears and tell you how this is impacting already the jobs we do every day, because this new wave of innovation is bringing about new tools and applications that will allow us to collaborate in a smarter and faster way, making our jobs not just more efficient but more rewarding. Imagine a field engineer arriving at the wind farm with a handheld device telling her which turbines need servicing. She already has all the spare parts, because the problems were diagnosed in advanced. And if she faces an unexpected issue, the same handheld device will allow her to communicate with colleagues at the service center, let them see what she sees, transmit data that they can run through diagnostics, and they can stream videos that will guide her, step by step, through whatever complex procedure is needed to get the machines back up and running. And their interaction gets documented and stored in a searchable database. Let's stop and think about this for a minute, because this is a very important point. This new wave of innovation is fundamentally changing the way we work. And I know that many of you will be concerned  about the impact that innovation might have on jobs. Unemployment is already high, and there is always a fear  that innovation will destroy jobs. And innovation is disruptive. But let me stress two things here. First, we've already lived through mechanization of agriculture, automation of industry, and employment has gone up, because innovation is fundamentally about growth. It makes products more affordable. It creates new demand, new jobs. Second, there is a concern that in the future, there will only be room for engineers, data scientists, and other highly-specialized workers. And believe me, as an economist, I am also scared. But think about it: Just as a child can easily figure out how to operate an iPad, so a new generation of mobile and intuitive industrial applications will make life easier for workers of all skill levels. The worker of the future will be more like Iron Man than the Charlie Chaplin of ""Modern Times."" And to be sure, new high-skilled jobs will be created: mechanical digital engineers who understand both the machines and the data; managers who understand their industry and the analytics and can reorganize the business to take full advantage of the technology. But now let's take a step back. Let's look at the big picture. There are people who argue that today's innovation is all about social media and silly games, with nowhere near the transformational power of the Industrial Revolution. They say that all the growth-enhancing innovations are behind us. And every time I hear this, I can't help thinking that even back in the Stone Age, there must have been a group of cavemen sitting around a fire one day looking very grumpy, and looking disapprovingly at another group of cavemen rolling a stone wheel up and down a hill, and saying to each other, ""Yeah, this wheel thing, cool toy, sure, but compared to fire, it will have no impact. The big discoveries are all behind us."" (Laughter) This technological revolution is as inspiring and transformational as anything we have ever seen. Human creativity and innovation have always propelled us forward. They've created jobs. They've raised living standards. They've made our lives healthier and more rewarding. And the new wave of innovation which is beginning to sweep through industry is no different. In the U.S. alone, the industrial Internet could raise average income by 25 to 40 percent over the next 15 years, boosting growth to rates we haven't seen in a long time, and adding between 10 and 15 trillion dollars to global GDP. That is the size of the entire U.S. economy today. But this is not a foregone conclusion. We are just at the beginning of this transformation, and there will be barriers to break, obstacles to overcome. We will need to invest in the new technologies. We will need to adapt organizations and managerial practices. We will need a robust cybersecurity approach that protects sensitive information and intellectual property and safeguards critical infrastructure from cyberattacks. And the education system will need to evolve to ensure students are equipped with the right skills. It's not going to be easy, but it is going to be worth it. The economic challenges facing us are hard, but when I walk the factory floor, and I see how humans and brilliant machines are becoming interconnected, and I see the difference this makes in a hospital, in an airport, in a power generation plant, I'm not just optimistic, I'm enthusiastic. This new technological revolution is upon us. So think about the future — it will be here soon enough. Thank you. (Applause)"	愛因斯坦說：「我從不去想未來——它來得夠快。」 當然，他是對的。所以今天，我在這邀請大家一起來思考如何從此刻預見未來。過去兩百年來，世界已經歷了兩波巨大的革新浪潮：第一個，是工業革命。它帶給我們機器、工廠、鐵路、電力、航空飛行，使得我們的生活劇烈改變。再來是網路革命，它帶給我們速算能力、資料系統、以及前所未有的資訊來源和溝通方式，而我們的生活不再與從前相同。 現在，我們正經歷著另一項蛻變——也就是「工業網路」。它融合了智慧型機器、進階分析以及人類的創造力，它是頭腦和機器的聯姻，而我們的生活將大大改變。 以我現在的角色，我緊密觀察著科技是如何開始改變那些在我們的經濟以及生活中都扮演重大角色的工業因素：能源、飛航、運輸，以及健康照護。對一個經濟學家而言，這非比尋常，而且十分令人興奮。因為這是一個比起工業革命，力量有過之而無不及的改變。而且在工業革命前，世界尚未有顯著的經濟成長。 那麼這「工業網路」究竟是什麼呢？工業機器開始配備了更多的電子感應器，使得它們能夠看到、聽到、感受到得到比以前更多的訊息，並產生驚人的資料量。接著更加複雜的分析機制便開始過濾這些資料，從中提供許多訊息讓我們能用全新方式運用這些機器，大幅提升效率。不只是單獨的機器，連火車、飛機，甚至輸電系統、醫院內部都能跟進，這是資本最大化和系統的最佳運用。當然，電子感應器已經存在很久，但有件事卻改變了：感應器價格的大幅下跌。並且，因為雲端運算的進步，儲存與運算資料的價格都正迅速下降。 所以我們正朝一個新世界前進，跟我們一起工作的機器不但有智慧，甚至才華洋溢，它們會自我警覺、有預言能力，能做出反應並且還有社交能力，它們可以是噴射引擎、火車頭、蒸氣渦輪、醫療器材，與彼此或與我們無縫地溝通，這將會是個新世界。資訊本身變得有智慧並在我們需要的時候自動朝我們而來，而我們不需去找尋它，我們正開始在整個工業系統內部署內建的虛擬化程式，多核心的作業科技先進的雲端溝通，新的、構築在軟體上的機器基礎設施能使機器的功能在軟體中被虛擬化，將機器的軟體型態從硬體中分離開來，讓我們能夠遠端並且自動地監控、管理，以及升級工業資本。 上述的這些到底有什麼意義呢？首先，它已經使我們能夠改採取有預防功用的依情況而定的維修方式。等同於在機器壞掉前就把它們修復而不必浪費時間定期檢查它們，而這進而將我們推向零無預警故障的時代。也就是說不再會有停電，也不再會有誤點班機。 所以讓我給你們一些例子呈現出這些聰明機器是如何運作。而有些例子看似無關緊要，而另有一些就明顯地比較深奧，但它們全部都將產生強大的影響力。 先從航空開始吧。今日，有 10% 的班機取消以及誤點情況，是因為無預警地需要維修，無法預料地，機器出了差錯，這造成了全球航空產業每年八十億美元的損失，更不用提對我們造成的影響：壓力、不方便、錯過的會議，而我們只能無助地坐在機場的候機大廳。在此情況下，工業網路能派上什麼用場呢？我們已開發出了一個預防性的維修系統能安裝在任何飛行器上，它有自我學習功能，且能預測到操作員可能遺漏的事件。飛行器在飛行時能和地面的技術人員溝通，在它降落前，他們就已經知道哪裡需要服務。光是在美國，這樣的系統每年就能預防超過六萬個誤點和取消班機，幫助七百萬個乘客準時抵達目的地。 或者，以健康照護為例，今日，護士平均每個班次要花 21 分鐘的時間尋找醫療器材，這看起來瑣碎又微不足造，但占用掉的是照顧病患的時間。座落在德州休士頓的聖路克醫療中心已經布署了工業網路的科技，電子化管理且連結病患、醫護人員和醫療器材，成功減少了將近一小時的換床時間。如果需要手術的話，一小時可是很重要的，這代表有更多病患可接受治療，有更多生命可被拯救。另有一個在華盛頓州的醫療中心正領先運用這種概念讓掃描器和核磁共振所產生的影像能在雲端被分析，用較低的價格發展出更好的分析學。想像一個病患受到嚴重創傷，急需各種專家的注意：神經學家、心臟病權威以及整形外科醫生。如果都能在病患接受掃描時同時取得及時的圖片，他們就能更迅速地提供治療。這一切不但意味著更佳的健康照護成果，也代表鉅額的經濟利益。只要現存的效率不佳能減少 1% ，就能在全世界的醫療產業中省下超過六百億美金。而這只是滄海一粟，要打造價格實惠的永續發展的醫療，我們需要做的還有很多。 相似的進步也正發生在能源業界，包括可再生能源。安裝了新型遠端遙控和診斷器的風力發電機容許風力渦輪彼此溝通並彼此配合，依風向而定調整葉片。這使得它們現在能產生每度低於五分錢的電。十年前，價格是三十分錢，比起現在是六倍。 這樣的例子源源不絕，而且會快速成長，因為工業資料現在成級數成長。2020 年以前，它們就會在數位資訊中佔據超過一半， 但這不只和資料有關，所以讓我轉換話題並告訴大家我們每天所做的工作已經如何受到影響，因為這波革新浪潮帶給我們新的工具和應用程式使我們能以更聰明、更快的方式合作，把我們的工作變得更有效率，也更有回報。想像一個維修工程師抵達風力發電廠，攜帶著一台手持裝置，那裝置正告訴她哪些渦輪需要修理，她已經準備好所有的替換零件，因為機器的問題都被提前診斷出來了。而且假如她遇到突發狀況，也可使用那台裝置聯絡位於服務中心的同仁，傳輸現場影像給他們看，傳輸資料讓他們進行診斷，而他們就可以傳來指導影片，無論再複雜的程序，她都能依指示一步步修復，直到機器修好恢復運作。而他們兩方的互動會被記錄並存檔在一個可搜尋的資料庫。 讓我們停下來思考個一分鐘，因為這是一個很重要的點：這波革新浪潮，正從根本處改變我們工作的方式。而我知道你們之中有很多人擔憂這波革新對工作帶來的影響。失業率已經很高了，而大家總是擔心這波革新會摧毀工作，而且它破壞性很強。但讓我在此強調兩件事：首先，我們已經經歷了農業機械化以及工業自動化，而工作率是上升的，因為革新基本上就是著眼於成長。它讓產品價格變的可負擔，同時產生了新需求、新工作。第二，大家擔憂未來只會有工程師、資料科學家以及其他高專業工作者的生存空間。相信我，身為一個經濟學者，我自己也很害怕。但想想看：即便是個孩子，也能輕易上手 iPod ，所以對於各種技術層面的工作者而言，一個隨身直觀應用科技的新時代將會使生活更加便利。未來的工作者會更像「鋼鐵人」，而不是《摩登時代》裡的查理·卓別林。更確切一點，新的高技術職業將會出現：同時了解機器和資料的數位機械工程師、對自己產業有充分了解的經理人、以及懂得充分利用科技能夠重整企業的分析師。 但現在讓我們退後一步，遙望整個大前景。有些人認為現在的革新完全著重於大眾媒體和愚蠢的遊戲，和工業革命所具備的改變力量根本沾不上邊，他們說，所有能提升產能的革新前人都已經做完了。每當我聽見這種話，就忍不住要想：即便在石器時代，也必定曾有一群山頂洞人，圍坐在火堆邊，一臉忿忿不平的樣子，用極不認同的眼光瞧著其他在山坡來回滾動石輪的山頂洞人，並對彼此說：「誠然，這種叫輪子的東西，確是新奇的玩具，但比起火而言實在毫無影響力。所有的大發現都是前人所為。」（笑聲） 這場科技革命是與我們已知的任何事物同樣鼓舞人心、同樣有改變力量。人類的創意和革新始終驅動著我們前進，它們產生了工作，它們提升了生活品質，它們使我們的生命更加健康、更值得活。而這波全新的革命，不例外的已開始橫掃產業界，光是在美國，工業網路在未來 15 年內就能將平均薪資提升 25% 至 40% ，讓成長率久違地高，並使全球 GDP 增加 10 到 15 兆美元。那是今日全美經濟的規模。 但這不是一個已成定局的結論，我們處在這場轉變的起點，將有壁壘要打破，有障礙要跨越，我們需要投資新科技，我們需要調整現有的組織和管理作業，我們需要一個健全的網路安全措施，保護著敏感資訊和智慧財產並防衛好重要的基礎設施，免於駭客入侵，而教育系統必須進化，確保學生具備正確的技能，這一切將困難重重，但絕對值得。我們所面臨的經濟挑戰十分艱困，但每當我走在工廠裡看見人類和智慧型機器是如何在互動連結時，當我看到這情景在醫院、機場、發電廠造成如何的改變時，我不僅是十分樂觀，我還充滿熱情，這波新的科技革命正迎面而來。 所以想想未來——它很快就會到來。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
