Talk	en	zh-tw
marcin_jakubowski	Hi, my name is Marcin — farmer, technologist. I was born in Poland, now in the U.S. I started a group called Open Source Ecology. We've identified the 50 most important machines that we think it takes for modern life to exist — things from tractors, bread ovens, circuit makers. Then we set out to create an open source, DIY, do it yourself version that anyone can build and maintain at a fraction of the cost. We call this the Global Village Construction Set. So let me tell you a story. So I finished my 20s with a Ph.D. in fusion energy, and I discovered I was useless. I had no practical skills. The world presented me with options, and I took them. I guess you can call it the consumer lifestyle. So I started a farm in Missouri and learned about the economics of farming. I bought a tractor — then it broke. I paid to get it repaired — then it broke again. Then pretty soon, I was broke too. I realized that the truly appropriate, low-cost tools that I needed to start a sustainable farm and settlement just didn't exist yet. I needed tools that were robust, modular, highly efficient and optimized, low-cost, made from local and recycled materials that would last a lifetime, not designed for obsolescence. I found that I would have to build them myself. So I did just that. And I tested them. And I found that industrial productivity can be achieved on a small scale. So then I published the 3D designs, schematics, instructional videos and budgets on a wiki. Then contributors from all over the world began showing up, prototyping new machines during dedicated project visits. So far, we have prototyped eight of the 50 machines. And now the project is beginning to grow on its own. We know that open source has succeeded with tools for managing knowledge and creativity. And the same is starting to happen with hardware too. We're focusing on hardware because it is hardware that can change people's lives in such tangible material ways. If we can lower the barriers to farming, building, manufacturing, then we can unleash just massive amounts of human potential. That's not only in the developing world. Our tools are being made for the American farmer, builder, entrepreneur, maker. We've seen lots of excitement from these people, who can now start a construction business, parts manufacturing, organic CSA or just selling power back to the grid. Our goal is a repository of published designs so clear, so complete, that a single burned DVD is effectively a civilization starter kit. I've planted a hundred trees in a day. I've pressed 5,000 bricks in one day from the dirt beneath my feet and built a tractor in six days. From what I've seen, this is only the beginning. If this idea is truly sound, then the implications are significant. A greater distribution of the means of production, environmentally sound supply chains, and a newly relevant DIY maker culture can hope to transcend artificial scarcity. We're exploring the limits of what we all can do to make a better world with open hardware technology. Thank you. (Applause)	嗨，我的名字是Marcin是個農夫，也是技術專家我在波蘭出生，現在則在美國我創立了一個名為Open Source Ecology的團隊我們已經鑒別出維持現代生活運轉所需五十種最重要的機器諸如拖拉機烤麵包機, 電路製造機然後我們創設了資源共享,DIY, 自己動手做的版本也就是任何人都能建造並以少數花費來維護的機器我們稱這為全球村建構集 讓我來說個故事在我二十歲時獲得了融合能源的博士學位我了解到我根本一無是處我沒有任何的實質技能世界給了我不同的選擇我也接受了我想你們可以說那是消費者的生活方式所以我開始在密蘇里當起了農夫並且學習經營農場的經濟學我買了台拖拉機, 然後它壞了我花了錢將它修復好然後它又壞了沒多久我也跟著沒錢了 我瞭解到我需要真正合適, 低成本的工具來打造出一個還不存在的永續農場和住所我需要堅固的, 模組化的高效率並最佳化低成本,以當地可回收材料做成的工具而不只是設計用來作為過渡用我瞭解到我必須自己建造它們而我也就這麼做了並且測試它們我瞭解到工業化的生產效率是可以小量的達成 所以我在維基創立3D設計,解析圖,操作指南影片和預算而之後世界各地的贊助者開始出現並在造訪我們的計畫中創造多種新的原創機器到目前為止, 我們的五十種機器中有八項是原創設計而現在這個計畫正開始自我茁壯 我們知道資源共享是藉由軟體的使用來駕馭知識與創意而成功而相同的事正開始發生在硬體上我們著眼在硬體因為正是硬體設施這樣實質形體的事物能改變人的生活如果我們能降低耕作, 建築, 製造的成本我們就能釋放出人類大量的潛能 這不僅僅只發生在開發中國家美國的農夫, 建築業者, 企業家, 生產者也建構出我們的機器我們看見了這些人因能開創一個建構事業或者是製造業有機 CSA或僅僅販售這些機器而感到開心興奮我們的目標是一份已知設計的知識寶典如此的簡單, 如此的完整只要一片DVD就收錄著文明開創的成套設備 我曾在一天中種了一百顆樹我曾在一天中將我腳下的土壓製成五千塊磚頭並在六天內建造出一台拖拉機在我眼裡, 這些都只是個開始 如果這點子真的管用那它的影響一定十分重大製造的意義將能有更好的分佈,聽起來更環保的供應鏈,和一個全新價值的DIY製造者文化期望能優於過往過度工業化的製程我們正探索著藉由硬體科技資源共享使世界更好的極限 謝謝 (鼓掌)
