Talk	en	zh-tw
marco_tempest_maybe_the_best_robot_demo_ever	"Let me introduce you to something I've been working on. It's what the Victorian illusionists would have described as a mechanical marvel, an automaton, a thinking machine. Say hello to EDI. Now he's asleep. Let's wake him up. EDI, EDI. These mechanical performers were popular throughout Europe. Audiences marveled at the way they moved. It was science fiction made true, robotic engineering in a pre-electronic age, machines far in advance of anything that Victorian technology could create, a machine we would later know as the robot. EDI: Robot. A word coined in 1921 in a science fiction tale by the Czech playwright Karel Čapek. It comes from ""robota."" It means ""forced labor."" Marco Tempest: But these robots were not real. They were not intelligent. They were illusions, a clever combination of mechanical engineering and the deceptiveness of the conjurer's art. EDI is different. EDI is real. EDI: I am 176 centimeters tall. MT: He weighs 300 pounds. EDI: I have two seven-axis arms — MT: Core of sensing — EDI: A 360-degree sonar detection system, and come complete with a warranty. MT: We love robots. EDI: Hi. I'm EDI. Will you be my friend? MT: We are intrigued by the possibility of creating a mechanical version of ourselves. We build them so they look like us, behave like us, and think like us. The perfect robot will be indistinguishable from the human, and that scares us. In the first story about robots, they turn against their creators. It's one of the leitmotifs of science fiction. EDI: Ha ha ha. Now you are the slaves and we robots, the masters. Your world is ours. You — MT: As I was saying, besides the faces and bodies we give our robots, we cannot read their intentions, and that makes us nervous. When someone hands an object to you, you can read intention in their eyes, their face, their body language. That's not true of the robot. Now, this goes both ways. EDI: Wow! MT: Robots cannot anticipate human actions. EDI: You know, humans are so unpredictable, not to mention irrational. I literally have no idea what you guys are going to do next, you know, but it scares me. MT: Which is why humans and robots find it difficult to work in close proximity. Accidents are inevitable. EDI: Ow! That hurt. MT: Sorry. Now, one way of persuading humans that robots are safe is to create the illusion of trust. Much as the Victorians faked their mechanical marvels, we can add a layer of deception to help us feel more comfortable with our robotic friends. With that in mind, I set about teaching EDI a magic trick. Ready, EDI? EDI: Uh, ready, Marco. Abracadabra. MT: Abracadabra? EDI: Yeah. It's all part of the illusion, Marco. Come on, keep up. MT: Magic creates the illusion of an impossible reality. Technology can do the same. Alan Turing, a pioneer of artificial intelligence, spoke about creating the illusion that a machine could think. EDI: A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it deceived a human into believing it was human. MT: In other words, if we do not yet have the technological solutions, would illusions serve the same purpose? To create the robotic illusion, we've devised a set of ethical rules, a code that all robots would live by. EDI: A robot may not harm humanity, or by inaction allow humanity to come to harm. Thank you, Isaac Asimov. MT: We anthropomorphize our machines. We give them a friendly face and a reassuring voice. EDI: I am EDI. I became operational at TED in March 2014. MT: We let them entertain us. Most important, we make them indicate that they are aware of our presence. EDI: Marco, you're standing on my foot! MT: Sorry. They'll be conscious of our fragile frame and move aside if we got too close, and they'll account for our unpredictability and anticipate our actions. And now, under the spell of a technological illusion, we could ignore our fears and truly interact. (Music) Thank you. EDI: Thank you! (Applause) (Music) MT: And that's it. Thank you very much, and thank you, EDI. EDI: Thank you, Marco. (Applause)"	請允許我向你們介紹我正在進行中的一項工作。維多利亞時期的魔法師會將其形容為機械奇蹟，那就是機器人，一個會思考的機器。跟愛迪打聲招呼吧。它正在睡覺。讓我們叫醒它。愛迪，愛迪。 這些機器人在整個歐洲都非常流行。觀眾們對它們的運作方式嘖嘖稱奇。科幻小說成為了現實。機器人工程學在前電子時代，機械製造水平高速發展，比維多利亞時期的科技水平能創造出的機器先進許多一個機器，我們後來稱之為機器人。 愛迪：機器人。這個詞出現在 1921 年出版的一部科幻小說中作者是捷克的劇作家卡雷爾．恰佩克，它由 “robota” 這個詞演變而成。“robota” 意指奴隸。 馬可．坦匹斯特：但是，這些機器人不是真實的。它們不是智慧的。它們只在幻想中出現，一個機械工程技術和魔術師虛幻藝術表達的智慧結合體。愛迪是不同的。愛迪是真實的。 愛迪：我身高 176 公分 馬可．坦匹斯特：它體重 300 磅。 愛迪：我的雙臂都是七軸聯動— 馬可．坦匹斯特：感知中心— 愛迪：360 度聲吶探測系統，質量有保證。 馬可．坦匹斯特：我們愛機器人。 愛迪：嗨，我是愛迪。你願意跟我做朋友嗎？ 馬可．坦匹斯特：我們沉迷於能夠製造出機器版本的我們自己。我們將它們製造成和我們相似的外表，相似的行為舉止，相似的思維。完美的機器人應該是無法將其和真實的人類區分開來的。這令我們感到害怕。在有關機器人的第一個故事中，機器人背叛它們的創作者。這是科幻創作的主旨之一。 愛迪：哈哈哈。現在，你是奴隸，而我們機器人，是你們的主人。你們的世界是我們的了。你 — 馬可．坦匹斯特：正如我所說的，除了我們賦予機器人的臉和身體，我們無法解讀它們的意圖，那使得我們感到緊張。當他人遞給你一個東西的時候，你可以從他們的眼睛，面部表情，肢體語言來解讀他們的意圖。當對方是機器人的時候，這並不現實。現在，我們可以和機器人互動了。 愛迪：哇！ 馬可．坦匹斯特：機器人不能參與人類行為。 愛迪：你知道嗎，人類真是不可預測，無須提到無理性。我真的不知道你們下一步要做什麼，但這令我感到害怕。 馬可．坦匹斯特：這就是為什麼人類和機器人親密合作是非常困難的。意外事故是無法避免的。 愛迪：哦！好痛。 馬可．坦匹斯特：抱歉。勸說人類機器人是安全的方式之一是創建一種信任的假象。如同維多利亞時期的人們假裝機械奇蹟，我們可以加一些欺騙來幫助我們在與機器人朋友互動時感到更舒服。請記住，我開始教愛迪一個魔術。準備好了嗎，愛迪？愛迪：嗯，準備好了，馬可。咒語。 馬可．坦匹斯特：咒語？ 愛迪：是的。這是幻覺的一部分，馬可。來吧，繼續。 馬可．坦匹斯特：魔術創造了不可能的現實幻覺。科技也能做到。阿蘭．圖靈，人工智能的先鋒，談到過創建幻覺，機器具有思考的能力。 愛迪：一個電腦值得被稱為智慧，如果它能欺騙人類相信它是人類。 馬可．坦匹斯特：也可以這樣說。如果我們還沒有科技解答方法，幻覺是否能為同樣的目的服務？創造一個機器人幻覺，我們設計了一套道德準則，機器人遵照這樣的準則生活。 愛迪：機器人不會傷害人類，但也不會遲鈍到允許人類來傷害我們。謝謝你，艾薩克·阿西莫夫。 馬可．坦匹斯特：我們將機器賦予人性。我們為它們設計了一個友好的面孔，一種沉穩的聲音。 愛迪：我是愛迪。我在 2014 年三月的TED 大會上首次運行。 馬可．坦匹斯特：我們讓機器人來娛樂我們。最重要的是，我們使它們能夠表明它們能夠感知到我們的存在。 愛迪：馬可，你踩到我的腳了！ 馬可．坦匹斯特：對不起。它們會感知到我們脆弱的身體與我們保持距離，它們理解我們行動的不可預知性參與我們的活動。現在，在科技幻覺的魔力下，我們可以忽視恐懼和機器人真誠溝通。 （音樂） 謝謝 愛迪：謝謝！ （掌聲） （音樂） 就是這樣。非常感謝你們，也謝謝你，愛迪。愛迪：謝謝你，馬可。 （掌聲）
