Talk	en	zh-tw
marco_tempest_the_magic_of_truth_and_lies_on_ipods	"So the type of magic I like, and I'm a magician, is magic that uses technology to create illusions. So I would like to show you something I've been working on. It's an application that I think will be useful for artists — multimedia artists in particular. It synchronizes videos across multiple screens of mobile devices. I borrowed these three iPods from people here in the audience to show you what I mean. And I'm going to use them to tell you a little bit about my favorite subject: deception. (Music) One of my favorite magicians is Karl Germain. He had this wonderful trick where a rosebush would bloom right in front of your eyes. But it was his production of a butterfly that was the most beautiful. (Recording) Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of life. (Applause) (Music) Marco Tempest: When asked about deception, he said this: Announcer: Magic is the only honest profession. A magician promises to deceive you — and he does. MT: I like to think of myself as an honest magician. I use a lot of tricks, which means that sometimes I have to lie to you. Now I feel bad about that. But people lie every day. (Ringing) Hold on. Phone: Hey, where are you? MT: Stuck in traffic. I'll be there soon. You've all done it. (Laughter) (Music) Right: I'll be ready in just a minute, darling. Center: It's just what I've always wanted. Left: You were great. MT: Deception, it's a fundamental part of life. Now polls show that men tell twice as many lies as women — assuming the women they asked told the truth. (Laughing) We deceive to gain advantage and to hide our weaknesses. The Chinese general Sun Tzu said that all war was based on deception. Oscar Wilde said the same thing of romance. Some people deceive for money. Let's play a game. Three cards, three chances. Announcer: One five will get you 10, 10 will get you 20. Now, where's the lady? Where is the queen? MT: This one? Sorry. You lose. Well, I didn't deceive you. You deceived yourself. Self-deception. That's when we convince ourselves that a lie is the truth. Sometimes it's hard to tell the two apart. Compulsive gamblers are experts at self-deception. (Slot machine) They believe they can win. They forget the times they lose. The brain is very good at forgetting. Bad experiences are quickly forgotten. Bad experiences quickly disappear. Which is why in this vast and lonely cosmos, we are so wonderfully optimistic. Our self-deception becomes a positive illusion — why movies are able to take us onto extraordinary adventures; why we believe Romeo when he says he loves Juliet; and why single notes of music, when played together, become a sonata and conjure up meaning. That's ""Clair De lune."" Its composer, called Debussy, said that art was the greatest deception of all. Art is a deception that creates real emotions — a lie that creates a truth. And when you give yourself over to that deception, it becomes magic. [MAGIC] (Music fades slowly) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"身為一位魔術師, 我所喜歡的魔術是運用科技來產生幻覺所以我要秀一段我已經玩了一陣子的東西它是一個應用程式我想對藝術家很有用尤其是對多媒體藝術家它可以同步在數個行動裝置螢幕上播的影片我向現場的幾位觀眾借了三個iPod來表演並解釋我的意思還要藉此闡述一點點我最喜歡的題目欺騙 (音樂) 有一位我很喜歡的魔術師叫做卡爾・日曼他的絕技是讓玫瑰花苞在你眼前盛開但是他最厲害的還是變出一隻蝴蝶最令人驚艷 (錄音)主持人:各位先生女士生命的創造 (鼓掌) (音樂) 馬可: 有人問他對欺騙的看法他回答 主持人: 魔術是世上唯一誠實的職業若一個魔術師承諾要騙你他就會騙你 馬可: 我認為我是一個誠實的魔術師我運用多種手法也就是說有時候我得說假話而我對這事感到難過但是我們每天都在說謊 (電話鈴響) 等一下 電話裡的女生: 嘿, 你在哪? 馬可: 大塞車啊! 我很快就到了.你們一定都做過這事吧 (笑聲) 女士: 我馬上就好, 親愛的 男士: 這正是我想要的 女生: 你氣色不錯 馬可: 欺騙是生活的基本民意調查顯示男人說謊的次數比女人多兩倍假設這些受訪的女人都是說真話 (笑聲) 欺騙使我們取得優勢隱藏弱點中國的軍事家孫子說兵者詭道也奧斯卡王爾德說愛情也是如此 有些人為了錢行騙我們來玩一個遊戲三張卡, 三次機會 主持人: 押5得10, 押10成雙現在紅心Q在哪?紅心皇后在哪? 馬可: 這張嗎?抱歉, 你輸了我沒有騙你喔是你自己騙了自己自我欺騙是我們說服自己謊言是真的有時候的確很難分辨這兩者強迫性賭徒就是自我欺騙專家(吃角子老虎的聲音)他們相信自己一定會贏卻忘了輸的時候 大腦很會遺忘事物不好的經驗總是很快就忘了不好的經驗很快就消失了這就是為什麼在浩瀚宇宙中我們無可救藥的樂觀我們的自我欺騙是一個肯定性的錯覺為甚麼電影可以帶我們去一段非凡大冒險為什麼我們相信羅密歐說他愛茱麗葉為什麼簡單的音符可以串成一首奏鳴曲, 令人無限遐想 這首曲子是""月光""作曲家叫德布西他說藝術是世上最偉大的騙術藝術是一種欺騙卻讓你產生真實的感動假語變真言而當你投身於如此的騙局我們稱之為魔術 (掌聲) 謝謝. 非常感謝. (掌聲)"
