Talk	en	zh-tw
marc_pachter_the_art_of_the_interview	"The National Portrait Gallery is the place dedicated to presenting great American lives, amazing people. And that's what it's about. We use portraiture as a way to deliver those lives, but that's it. And so I'm not going to talk about the painted portrait today. I'm going to talk about a program I started there, which, from my point of view, is the proudest thing I did. I started to worry about the fact that a lot of people don't get their portraits painted anymore, and they're amazing people, and we want to deliver them to future generations. So, how do we do that? And so I came up with the idea of the living self-portrait series. And the living self-portrait series was the idea of basically my being a brush in the hand of amazing people who would come and I would interview. And so what I'm going to do is, not so much give you the great hits of that program, as to give you this whole notion of how you encounter people in that kind of situation, what you try to find out about them, and when people deliver and when they don't and why. Now, I had two preconditions. One was that they be American. That's just because, in the nature of the National Portrait Gallery, it's created to look at American lives. That was easy, but then I made the decision, maybe arbitrary, that they needed to be people of a certain age, which at that point, when I created this program, seemed really old. Sixties, seventies, eighties and nineties. For obvious reasons, it doesn't seem that old anymore to me. And why did I do that? Well, for one thing, we're a youth-obsessed culture. And I thought really what we need is an elders program to just sit at the feet of amazing people and hear them talk. But the second part of it — and the older I get, the more convinced I am that that's true. It's amazing what people will say when they know how the story turned out. That's the one advantage that older people have. Well, they have other, little bit of advantage, but they also have some disadvantages, but the one thing they or we have is that we've reached the point in life where we know how the story turned out. So, we can then go back in our lives, if we've got an interviewer who gets that, and begin to reflect on how we got there. All of those accidents that wound up creating the life narrative that we inherited. So, I thought okay, now, what is it going to take to make this work? There are many kinds of interviews. We know them. There are the journalist interviews, which are the interrogation that is expected. This is somewhat against resistance and caginess on the part of the interviewee. Then there's the celebrity interview, where it's more important who's asking the question than who answers. That's Barbara Walters and others like that, and we like that. That's Frost-Nixon, where Frost seems to be as important as Nixon in that process. Fair enough. But I wanted interviews that were different. I wanted to be, as I later thought of it, empathic, which is to say, to feel what they wanted to say and to be an agent of their self-revelation. By the way, this was always done in public. This was not an oral history program. This was all about 300 people sitting at the feet of this individual, and having me be the brush in their self-portrait. Now, it turns out that I was pretty good at that. I didn't know it coming into it. And the only reason I really know that is because of one interview I did with Senator William Fulbright, and that was six months after he'd had a stroke. And he had never appeared in public since that point. This was not a devastating stroke, but it did affect his speaking and so forth. And I thought it was worth a chance, he thought it was worth a chance, and so we got up on the stage, and we had an hour conversation about his life, and after that a woman rushed up to me, essentially did, and she said, ""Where did you train as a doctor?"" And I said, ""I have no training as a doctor. I never claimed that."" And she said, ""Well, something very weird was happening. When he started a sentence, particularly in the early parts of the interview, and paused, you gave him the word, the bridge to get to the end of the sentence, and by the end of it, he was speaking complete sentences on his own."" I didn't know what was going on, but I was so part of the process of getting that out. So I thought, okay, fine, I've got empathy, or empathy, at any rate, is what's critical to this kind of interview. But then I began to think of other things. Who makes a great interview in this context? It had nothing to do with their intellect, the quality of their intellect. Some of them were very brilliant, some of them were, you know, ordinary people who would never claim to be intellectuals, but it was never about that. It was about their energy. It's energy that creates extraordinary interviews and extraordinary lives. I'm convinced of it. And it had nothing to do with the energy of being young. These were people through their 90s. In fact, the first person I interviewed was George Abbott, who was 97, and Abbott was filled with the life force — I guess that's the way I think about it — filled with it. And so he filled the room, and we had an extraordinary conversation. He was supposed to be the toughest interview that anybody would ever do because he was famous for being silent, for never ever saying anything except maybe a word or two. And, in fact, he did wind up opening up — by the way, his energy is evidenced in other ways. He subsequently got married again at 102, so he, you know, he had a lot of the life force in him. But after the interview, I got a call, very gruff voice, from a woman. I didn't know who she was, and she said, ""Did you get George Abbott to talk?"" And I said, ""Yeah. Apparently I did."" And she said, ""I'm his old girlfriend, Maureen Stapleton, and I could never do it."" And then she made me go up with the tape of it and prove that George Abbott actually could talk. So, you know, you want energy, you want the life force, but you really want them also to think that they have a story worth sharing. The worst interviews that you can ever have are with people who are modest. Never ever get up on a stage with somebody who's modest, because all of these people have been assembled to listen to them, and they sit there and they say, ""Aw, shucks, it was an accident."" There's nothing that ever happens that justifies people taking good hours of the day to be with them. The worst interview I ever did: William L. Shirer. The journalist who did ""The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich."" This guy had met Hitler and Gandhi within six months, and every time I'd ask him about it, he'd say, ""Oh, I just happened to be there. Didn't matter."" Whatever. Awful. I never would ever agree to interview a modest person. They have to think that they did something and that they want to share it with you. But it comes down, in the end, to how do you get through all the barriers we have. All of us are public and private beings, and if all you're going to get from the interviewee is their public self, there's no point in it. It's pre-programmed. It's infomercial, and we all have infomercials about our lives. We know the great lines, we know the great moments, we know what we're not going to share, and the point of this was not to embarrass anybody. This wasn't — and some of you will remember Mike Wallace's old interviews — tough, aggressive and so forth. They have their place. I was trying to get them to say what they probably wanted to say, to break out of their own cocoon of the public self, and the more public they had been, the more entrenched that person, that outer person was. And let me tell you at once the worse moment and the best moment that happened in this interview series. It all has to do with that shell that most of us have, and particularly certain people. There's an extraordinary woman named Clare Boothe Luce. It'll be your generational determinant as to whether her name means much to you. She did so much. She was a playwright. She did an extraordinary play called ""The Women."" She was a congresswoman when there weren't very many congresswomen. She was editor of Vanity Fair, one of the great phenomenal women of her day. And, incidentally, I call her the Eleanor Roosevelt of the Right. She was sort of adored on the Right the way Eleanor Roosevelt was on the Left. And, in fact, when we did the interview — I did the living self-portrait with her — there were three former directors of the CIA basically sitting at her feet, just enjoying her presence. And I thought, this is going to be a piece of cake, because I always have preliminary talks with these people for just maybe 10 or 15 minutes. We never talk before that because if you talk before, you don't get it on the stage. So she and I had a delightful conversation. We were on the stage and then — by the way, spectacular. It was all part of Clare Boothe Luce's look. She was in a great evening gown. She was 80, almost that day of the interview, and there she was and there I was, and I just proceeded into the questions. And she stonewalled me. It was unbelievable. Anything that I would ask, she would turn around, dismiss, and I was basically up there — any of you in the moderate-to-full entertainment world know what it is to die onstage. And I was dying. She was absolutely not giving me a thing. And I began to wonder what was going on, and you think while you talk, and basically, I thought, I got it. When we were alone, I was her audience. Now I'm her competitor for the audience. That's the problem here, and she's fighting me for that, and so then I asked her a question — I didn't know how I was going to get out of it — I asked her a question about her days as a playwright, and again, characteristically, instead of saying, ""Oh yes, I was a playwright, and this is what blah blah blah,"" she said, ""Oh, playwright. Everybody knows I was a playwright. Most people think that I was an actress. I was never an actress."" But I hadn't asked that, and then she went off on a tear, and she said, ""Oh, well, there was that one time that I was an actress. It was for a charity in Connecticut when I was a congresswoman, and I got up there,"" and she went on and on, ""And then I got on the stage."" And then she turned to me and said, ""And you know what those young actors did? They upstaged me."" And she said, ""Do you know what that is?"" Just withering in her contempt. And I said, ""I'm learning."" (Laughter) And she looked at me, and it was like the successful arm-wrestle, and then, after that, she delivered an extraordinary account of what her life really was like. I have to end that one. This is my tribute to Clare Boothe Luce. Again, a remarkable person. I'm not politically attracted to her, but through her life force, I'm attracted to her. And the way she died — she had, toward the end, a brain tumor. That's probably as terrible a way to die as you can imagine, and very few of us were invited to a dinner party. And she was in horrible pain. We all knew that. She stayed in her room. Everybody came. The butler passed around canapes. The usual sort of thing. Then at a certain moment, the door opened and she walked out perfectly dressed, completely composed. The public self, the beauty, the intellect, and she walked around and talked to every person there and then went back into the room and was never seen again. She wanted the control of her final moment, and she did it amazingly. Now, there are other ways that you get somebody to open up, and this is just a brief reference. It wasn't this arm-wrestle, but it was a little surprising for the person involved. I interviewed Steve Martin. It wasn't all that long ago. And we were sitting there, and almost toward the beginning of the interview, I turned to him and I said, ""Steve,"" or ""Mr. Martin, it is said that all comedians have unhappy childhoods. Was yours unhappy?"" And he looked at me, you know, as if to say, ""This is how you're going to start this thing, right off?"" And then he turned to me, not stupidly, and he said, ""What was your childhood like?"" And I said — these are all arm wrestles, but they're affectionate — and I said, ""My father was loving and supportive, which is why I'm not funny."" (Laughter) And he looked at me, and then we heard the big sad story. His father was an SOB, and, in fact, he was another comedian with an unhappy childhood, but then we were off and running. So the question is: What is the key that's going to allow this to proceed? Now, these are arm wrestle questions, but I want to tell you about questions that are more related to empathy and that really, very often, are the questions that people have been waiting their whole lives to be asked. And I'll just give you two examples of this because of the time constraints. One was an interview I did with one of the great American biographers. Again, some of you will know him, most of you won't, Dumas Malone. He did a five-volume biography of Thomas Jefferson, spent virtually his whole life with Thomas Jefferson, and by the way, at one point I asked him, ""Would you like to have met him?"" And he said, ""Well, of course, but actually, I know him better than anyone who ever met him, because I got to read all of his letters."" So, he was very satisfied with the kind of relationship they had over 50 years. And I asked him one question. I said, ""Did Jefferson ever disappoint you?"" And here is this man who had given his whole life to uncovering Jefferson and connecting with him, and he said, ""Well ..."" — I'm going to do a bad southern accent. Dumas Malone was from Mississippi originally. But he said, ""Well,"" he said, ""I'm afraid so."" He said, ""You know, I've read everything, and sometimes Mr. Jefferson would smooth the truth a bit."" And he basically was saying that this was a man who lied more than he wished he had, because he saw the letters. He said, ""But I understand that."" He said, ""I understand that."" He said, ""We southerners do like a smooth surface, so that there were times when he just didn't want the confrontation."" And he said, ""Now, John Adams was too honest."" And he started to talk about that, and later on he invited me to his house, and I met his wife who was from Massachusetts, and he and she had exactly the relationship of Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. She was the New Englander and abrasive, and he was this courtly fellow. But really the most important question I ever asked, and most of the times when I talk about it, people kind of suck in their breath at my audacity, or cruelty, but I promise you it was the right question. This was to Agnes de Mille. Agnes de Mille is one of the great choreographers in our history. She basically created the dances in ""Oklahoma,"" transforming the American theater. An amazing woman. At the time that I proposed to her that — by the way, I would have proposed to her; she was extraordinary — but proposed to her that she come on. She said, ""Come to my apartment."" She lived in New York. ""Come to my apartment and we'll talk for those 15 minutes, and then we'll decide whether we proceed."" And so I showed up in this dark, rambling New York apartment, and she called out to me, and she was in bed. I had known that she had had a stroke, and that was some 10 years before. And so she spent almost all of her life in bed, but — I speak of the life force — her hair was askew. She wasn't about to make up for this occasion. And she was sitting there surrounded by books, and her most interesting possession she felt at that moment was her will, which she had by her side. She wasn't unhappy about this. She was resigned. She said, ""I keep this will by my bed, memento mori, and I change it all the time just because I want to."" And she was loving the prospect of death as much as she had loved life. I thought, this is somebody I've got to get in this series. She agreed. She came on. Of course she was wheelchaired on. Half of her body was stricken, the other half not. She was, of course, done up for the occasion, but this was a woman in great physical distress. And we had a conversation, and then I asked her this unthinkable question. I said, ""Was it a problem for you in your life that you were not beautiful?"" And the audience just — you know, they're always on the side of the interviewee, and they felt that this was a kind of assault, but this was the question she had wanted somebody to ask her whole life. And she began to talk about her childhood, when she was beautiful, and she literally turned — here she was, in this broken body — and she turned to the audience and described herself as the fair demoiselle with her red hair and her light steps and so forth, and then she said, ""And then puberty hit."" And she began to talk about things that had happened to her body and her face, and how she could no longer count on her beauty, and her family then treated her like the ugly sister of the beautiful one for whom all the ballet lessons were given. And she had to go along just to be with her sister for company, and in that process, she made a number of decisions. First of all, was that dance, even though it hadn't been offered to her, was her life. And secondly, she had better be, although she did dance for a while, a choreographer because then her looks didn't matter. But she was thrilled to get that out as a real, real fact in her life. It was an amazing privilege to do this series. There were other moments like that, very few moments of silence. The key point was empathy because everybody in their lives is really waiting for people to ask them questions, so that they can be truthful about who they are and how they became what they are, and I commend that to you, even if you're not doing interviews. Just be that way with your friends and particularly the older members of your family. Thank you very much."	國家肖像藝廊是一個展示大美國生活和有趣人物的地方。就是關於這些。我們用肖像圖，來塑像作為傳遞這個人物生命的手法，但僅是如此。今天我不打算談那些畫作。我今天準備去談談我正在開展的計劃，這個計劃，從我的角度，我認為是我所做過最值得驕傲的事。 我開始擔心，事實上，有許多人並不再製作自己的肖像畫，而他們是很有意思的人，我們又想把他們承傳到下一代。那麼，我們可以做些什麼?於是，我開始構想一個活著的自我塑像系列。這個活著的自我塑像系列基本是由我作為畫筆的把他們描畫出來，找來那些有意思的人，讓我來訪談。 我想跟你說的，不是這個節目能大熱起來的原因，而是給你整個概念。就是你怎樣在特定的處境之下遇見這個人，而你盡力的去發掘關於他們的東西，那些他們想告訴你的，或是那些他們不想告訴你的，以及為什麼。 對於訪問對象，我是有兩個條件的。第一，他們需要是美國人。這只是因為, 基本上, 這是國家肖像藝廊，這個是用來探討美國的生活。這個容易, 但我也做了一個決定,或是隨便的想法,他們需要是一個到了某個年紀的人,就在這裡, 我創造了這個節目,看來很老的。六十歲, 七十歲, 八十歲甚至是九十歲。很明顯的, 其實對我來說, 這些人並不是很老。 我為什麼要這樣做?好, 是因為, 我們活在一個執著於年青的文化裡,所以我認為我們需要一個給長者的節目,只是坐在大人物的腳下, 聽聽他們怎樣說。但第二部份, 當我愈來愈老的時候,我愈是認為,當他們能說出自己的故事是怎樣發展出來的, 這是有趣的。這也是老人家的其中一個優勢,同時, 他們也有一點其他的優勢,但他們也有點劣勢，但重點是, 當他們或我們到達了人生的某個階段,我們知道自己的故事怎樣發生。於是, 我們可以回到自己的生活,如果剛好有一個訪談員能明白,並且能反映出我們怎樣會變成這樣。總結過去所有的發生過的偶然創造了我們對生命的描述。 所以我覺得這個構思可以了,我可以做些什麼讓它變得可行?我們都知道這裡有許多不同的訪談,有新聞性的訪談,會冀望是尖銳的訪問形式。就是想著怎樣突破被訪者的抗拒和戒備。接著, 也有些名人的訪談,誰人做訪問者去問問題, 比起誰人去答問題更重要。就好像 Barbara Walters 和其他的, 我們都喜歡的。有Frost 跟Nixon 的訪問, 過程中好像Frost 比起 Nixon更重要。這就够了。 但我想有一個跟這些不一樣的訪談。我想的是, 我後來覺得, 應該是有同理心吧,意思是, 能感受到他們想說的東西作為他們自我表達的代理人。這好像經常在公眾節目中發生,但這不是口述歷史節目,這是大約有三百人, 坐在這個人的腳下,用我作為這幅自我肖像的畫筆, 現在, 我的技術已經變得了頗為精湛,我也不知道怎樣變成的。我只知道唯一的原由是因為, 有一次我跟William Fullbright 參議員做了一個訪問,這是他中風後六個月的事。他自從中風後一直沒有公開露面,這不是一個嚴重的中風,但卻影響了他的說話能力,但我卻認為值得一試,他也認為值得一試,所以我們一起走上台。我們大概談他的生活談了一小時,接著, 有一個女人走過來,就是這樣的,她說: 『你在那裡被訓練成當醫生?』 我說: 『我從來沒有受過醫生的訓練, 我也沒有這樣自稱過。』 她說: 『但有些很奇怪的東西發生了。當他開始一句說話時, 尤其是在早段的訪問之中,他停下來, 你就給他一個字,讓他連結句子的尾段,最後,他可以自己完整的說出了整句句子。』我並不知道發生什麼事,因為我投入了這個過程。 於是, 我想, 好的, 我是能够體諒他的,或是同情, 在不同的層次裡,這是這類訪問最重要的東西。跟著, 我開始想著其他事,在這樣的背景之中, 誰可以做偉大的訪談?這大概跟智力沒有什麼關係,也跟智力的質素沒有什麼關係,有些人非常出色,有些人,你知呢, 平常人很少會自稱是智者,這不是智力的問題,這是有關能量的。是那種能創造非一般訪談以及非一般生命的能量,我是認同的。這跟年輕的能量沒有關係,有些人活到了九十歲。 事實上, 我訪問的第一個人George Abbott, 他已經九十七歲了，但他仍然充滿生命的力量我就是這樣想著, 充滿力量。而他也讓整個房間充滿了力量,於是, 我們有了很不一樣的對談。他原本是被認為最難纏的訪問對象因為他最出名的是保持沈默,他可以一直不說話除了可能是一個字, 兩個字。但事實上, 他最後竟然可以開放自己 —其實, 從其他的方面, 我們可以窺見他的能量。他接著在102歲高齡結婚,所以, 你也會知道, 他其實是有許多生命的力量。 但這個訪問 之後, 我收到一個電話,一把十分粗暴的聲音, 是一個女人來的,我並不知道她是誰,她說: 『你讓George Abbott說話?』 我說: 『對, 明顯的, 我有。』 她說: 『我是他的舊女友, Maureen Stapleton，但我永遠都做不到。』她後來讓我聽了一個錄音帶証明George Abbott 的確是能說話的。 所以, 你需要能量,你需要生命的力量,但你更需要他們同時也認為自己有一個值得分享的故事。我做過最差的訪問是跟那些謙虛的人做的訪問。永遠不要跟一個謙虛的人走上講台因為當所有人聚集在那裡準備去聽他們的故事時, 他們坐在那裡說,『啊, 沒什麼的, 這只是一個意外。』這些沒有什麼的事情, 其實並不值得別人用上那天最好的時間在他們身上。 我做過更壞的訪問: WIlliam L. Shirer那個做了『第三帝國的起落』的記者他曾經在六個月之內遇見過希特勒和甘地,每次我問有關這個部份, 他都會說: 『啊, 我只有剛好就在那裡沒有什麼的.....』諸如此類...可怕!我永遠不會跟那些謙虛平庸的人做訪問。他們需要覺得自己做了一些想跟別人分享的東西。 然後, 接下來就是怎樣去處理我們面前的障礙。我們都是活在私人和公眾的空間之中,如果你只想讓別人看見被訪者的公眾形象,這是沒有意思的。因為這是預定的。這是代言的廣告,我們都會有自己人生的代言廣告,我們會知道那些偉大的台詞, 那些感動的時刻,我們也知道有些什麼是不會分享的,以及為了不讓別人尷尬而點到即止。但這不是——也許有些人都會記得Mike Wallace' 的舊訪問—-強硬, 進取等等。這些訪談也有一定的地位。 我就儘量去讓他們說一些也許他們想說的東西，去突破他們那些公眾認知形象背後的包袱，如果他們愈是公眾人物，這種公眾的束縳便愈是根深蒂固。讓我告訴你, 在整個訪問系列裡我最壞和最好的時刻。這些都跟我們的自我保護外殼有關的，尤其是一些特定的人。 這裡有個很不一般的女人名叫 Clare Boothe Luce。那就說出你生於什麼年代如果她的名字對你來說是很熟悉的。她做了許多事, 她是一位劇作家。她曾寫下一個十分出色的劇作, 名叫《女人們》她也是一位眾議員當年並不很多女性的眾議員。她是雜誌Vanity Fair 的編輯,她是一位在她的年代裡十分經典的女性。有一次, 偶然的, 我叫她做右派的羅斯福夫人。她是被右派所推崇就好像羅斯福夫人被左派所推崇的一樣。事實上, 我們做了這個訪談,我也給她做了活著的自我肖像,當時三個前中央情報局的指揮官坐在她的腳下,在欣賞她的訪問。 我在想, 這應該一切都會順利得易如反掌,因為, 我通常都會跟受訪者有些熱身的閒聊大概是十至十五分鐘。我們並沒有說到正題, 因為如果你預先談過了,你便有不能把正題再次放在台上了。我跟她有一段愉悅的對話。 接著我們走上台前—是那種, 很壯觀的樣子。因為這是Clare Boothe Luce 看起來的模樣。她穿著一襲晚裝。在訪問的那天, 她差不多八十歲了她在這裡, 我在那裡,我只是開始去問問題。她竟然在戒備著我, 這簡直是難以置信!我問的任何問題, 她都會迴避, 然後略過,而我就在那裡, 好像大家一樣在這個娛樂至上的世界知道什麼是死在台上。我已經快要死去, 但她仍是決絕的不給我任何東西。 我開始去思考究竟發生了什麼事,一直在說, 一直在想,後來,我想, 我知道了。當只有我們的時候, 我是她的聽眾。但在台上, 我便和她在爭奪聽眾。這就是問題, 她在跟我爭奪,跟著, 我問了她一個問題—我其實並不知道我該怎樣從這處境之中逃脫—我問了她一個她過去做劇作家的問題,再次的,很經典的,她沒有說: 『啊對, 我是劇作家........什麼..... 什麼......』她卻說: 『啊, 劇作家, 每個人都知道我是劇作家,很多人都以為我是演員, 我從來沒做過演員。』但我還沒有問及, 她卻竟然流下淚來,她說, 『對, 曾經有一次, 我是一個演員,那次只是為Connecticut 做一個慈善的演員, 我那時還是眾議員,我上了台』, 她繼續說: 『 我上了台。』 接著, 她轉向對我說,『你知道當時那些年青演員做些什麼?他們把我的風頭都搶走了。』然後她說: 『你知道什麼是搶風頭嗎?』我在她的輕蔑之中低下頭來。 我說: 『我正在學習。』 笑聲 她看一看我, 然後她看來好像在我們的角力之中勝出了,接著, 她說出了一段她偉大的生命故事的演辭。 我就說到此, 這是我對Clare Boothe Luce的感謝辭。再次的, 她是一個很出色的人物,我不是因為政治的立場而被她吸引, 我是因為她的生命力,而我被她吸引。而她當時正邁向死亡—-她當時正患腦癌的末期。在你可以想像的情況下, 這可能是很可怖的一種死亡方法,我們被邀請到一個晚飯派對。 而她卻在很可怕的痛症之中。我們都是知道。她留在她的房間內。每一個人來到, 男僕人在給我們夾心麵包,很平常的事。直到某個時間, 門開了她穿著十分講究整齊的出現了。那個公眾形象的她，美人，智者，她四處走動去跟每個人談著跟著回到她的房間, 然後往後沒有再見到她。她想去控制她最後的時刻, 她也做得十分令人驚訝。 現在, 其實也有另外的方法來讓別人開放的表白自己,這只是一個簡單的參考。這不是臂力較勁,但也會讓有關的人感到點點驚奇。在不久之前, 我訪問了史提芬 馬田 (Steve Martin).我們坐在那裡,在快要到訪問的開始的時候,我轉頭跟他說: 『史提芬，或者，馬田先生，有人說過, 所有的笑匠, 都曾有一個不快樂的童年。你的童年不快樂嗎?』 他看著我, 你知道嗎，好像在說：『你就這樣開始這個訪問, 是嗎?』接著, 他轉向我, 並不愚蠢的,他說: 『那你的童年又如何?』 我會說—-這些全是較勁的, 但仍然很有風度—我說:『 我的父親對我很好, 也很支持我,所以我並不有趣。』 笑聲 他看著我, 跟著我們聽到了一個大悲慘故事。他的父親是一個狗娘養的,事實上, 他的父親也是另一個有著悲慘童年的笑匠。就在這, 我們的對話起跑了。所以問題是:在讓這些過程開展之中, 究竟有什麼的關鍵? 看來, 好像是一些有較勁的問題,但我想告訴你問題其實這些問題跟同理心更有關係但它們，通常，是那些人們用了一生的時間來等待被問的那些問題。因為時間的關係,我給你們兩個例子。 其中一個是, 我曾訪問美國一位出名的傳記作者。再次的, 也許有些人會認識他, 大部份人也許不認識他 Dumas Malone.他共寫了五冊湯瑪斯•傑弗遜（Thomas Jefferson）的傳記，差不多用了自己整個生命跟Thomas Jefferson在一起,打岔一下，就在那時, 我問他,『你喜歡遇上他嗎?』 他說: 『當然!但事實上, 我比起任何人都更了解他,因為我曾閱讀他的所有書信。』所以, 他對於跟Thomas Jefferson有過這五十多年的關係而感到很榮幸。 我接著再問他一個問題,我問: 『那Thomas Jefferson曾經讓你失望嗎?』 我眼前的人, 他曾付出他的整個生命去發掘Thomas Jefferson,以及跟他聯繫,他接著說:『 這個…… 』— 我會用不好的南方口音演繹。Dumas Malone 原本來自密西西比。但他說: 『這…… 大概是有的。』他說: 『你知嗎? 我讀過所有東西，有時, Mr. Jefferson會把真相潤飾一下。』 他基本上在說著, 人都是撒一些他不是太自願的謊因為他曾看過那些信件。他說: 『但我會體諒的。』 他說, 『我會體諒的。』他說: 『我們南方的人都會喜歡一些較圓滑的外表，只是因為他不想有太多的直接對質而已。』 他接著說: 『反而 John Adams 是太誠實了。』他便於是開始轉話題了, 之後, 他曾邀請我到他的家,我認識了他那來自Massachusetts的太太,他和她有著跟Thomas Jefferson 和John Adams相同的關係。她是新英倫人, 也有點粗野,但他卻是宮廷的隨從。 但事實上, 我問過的最重要的問題是,那些我經常掛在口邊的,或是那些讓人在我的大膽和進取之中凝住呼吸的,我可以告訴你, 那些就是對的問題。這是給Agnes de Mille的。Agnes de Mille 是我們歷史上最偉大的編舞者。她創造了Oklahoma 的舞蹈,改變了美國的劇場。一個很出色的女性。 當我想邀請她時—其實,我應該更早的邀請她, 她是如此的出色—我邀請她前來。她說:『 來我的公寓吧。』她住在紐約。『來我的公寓, 我們可以談約十五分鐘,那我們就可以決定是否要繼續進行。』 於是, 我到了那個黑漆的紐約公寓,她睡在床上, 大聲的叫我。我已經知道她曾經中風,但已經是十年前了的。所以, 她生命的大部份時間都是耗在床上,但, 我想說的是生命力—-她的頭髮有點凌亂。她還沒有準備為這場合而整裝。 她坐著的地方被書本重重圍著,在那一刻, 她最著緊的是她的遺囑, 就放在她的身邊。她並沒有為這而不快樂, 她看破了。她說：『我會把這遺囑放在床邊,因為我會常常更新只是因為我想這樣做。』她喜歡死後的來生, 就好像她喜愛自己的生命一樣。我想，這就是我想放在節目系列裡的人， 她同意。她來了, 當然她是坐著輪椅前來。她有半身不能動彈, 但另半身卻沒有問題。她當然是, 好好的整裝來到,但這是個身體非常殘缺的女性。我們有一段對話,我問了她一個從未想過的問題。我說: 『不漂亮會是你人生的難題嗎? 』 那些聽眾只是—- 你知道，他們常常是站在受訪者那一邊，他們會覺得這是一種攻擊，但這竟然是一個她一生都想別人來問的問題。她開始談到她的童年，當她還是很漂亮的時候，跟著她轉到 — 那時的她, 在那殘缺的身軀裡 —接著, 她轉向聽眾形容她自己好像是妙齡少女般有著紅色頭髮和輕盈的步伐，然後她說: 『接著青春期便來了。』 她開始談到所有發生在她臉上和身體上的事,現在她已經不可以再依靠自己的美麗，還有家裡認為她已成了醜陋的姊姊，而美麗的妹妹都可以去上所有的芭蕾舞課。而她只能陪著妹妹去上堂，在這過程裡, 她做了許多決定。第一, 跳舞, 即使並沒有安排給她, 卻是她的生命。第二, 她雖然只跳了一段時間的舞, ,但她還是認為當一個編舞師較好因為作為編舞師, 樣子不是一個大問題。當這個夢想能成真的時候, 她是真的激動不已。 能做這樣的一個系列, 是一個很大的榮幸。還有其他的讓人激動的時刻, 也有一些沉默的時刻。最大的重點是同理心因為每一個人在他的人生之中是真切的等待別人去問他們問題,於是, 他們就能够坦誠的面對自己是誰以及自己怎樣去變成這樣的我,我會勸告你們, 即使你不是在做訪談。即使只是和朋友閒聊，尤其是一些較年長的家人相處，也要保持這樣的方式。 謝謝大家!
