Talk	en	zh-tw
margaret_heffernan_the_dangers_of_willful_blindness	"In the northwest corner of the United States, right up near the Canadian border, there's a little town called Libby, Montana, and it's surrounded by pine trees and lakes and just amazing wildlife and these enormous trees that scream up into the sky. And in there is a little town called Libby, which I visited, which feels kind of lonely, a little isolated. And in Libby, Montana, there's a rather unusual woman named Gayla Benefield. She always felt a little bit of an outsider, although she's been there almost all her life, a woman of Russian extraction. She told me when she went to school, she was the only girl who ever chose to do mechanical drawing. Later in life, she got a job going house to house reading utility meters — gas meters, electricity meters. And she was doing the work in the middle of the day, and one thing particularly caught her notice, which was, in the middle of the day she met a lot of men who were at home, middle aged, late middle aged, and a lot of them seemed to be on oxygen tanks. It struck her as strange. Then, a few years later, her father died at the age of 59, five days before he was due to receive his pension. He'd been a miner. She thought he must just have been worn out by the work. But then a few years later, her mother died, and that seemed stranger still, because her mother came from a long line of people who just seemed to live forever. In fact, Gayla's uncle is still alive to this day, and learning how to waltz. It didn't make sense that Gayla's mother should die so young. It was an anomaly, and she kept puzzling over anomalies. And as she did, other ones came to mind. She remembered, for example, when her mother had broken a leg and went into the hospital, and she had a lot of x-rays, and two of them were leg x-rays, which made sense, but six of them were chest x-rays, which didn't. She puzzled and puzzled over every piece of her life and her parents' life, trying to understand what she was seeing. She thought about her town. The town had a vermiculite mine in it. Vermiculite was used for soil conditioners, to make plants grow faster and better. Vermiculite was used to insulate lofts, huge amounts of it put under the roof to keep houses warm during the long Montana winters. Vermiculite was in the playground. It was in the football ground. It was in the skating rink. What she didn't learn until she started working this problem is vermiculite is a very toxic form of asbestos. When she figured out the puzzle, she started telling everyone she could what had happened, what had been done to her parents and to the people that she saw on oxygen tanks at home in the afternoons. But she was really amazed. She thought, when everybody knows, they'll want to do something, but actually nobody wanted to know. In fact, she became so annoying as she kept insisting on telling this story to her neighbors, to her friends, to other people in the community, that eventually a bunch of them got together and they made a bumper sticker, which they proudly displayed on their cars, which said, ""Yes, I'm from Libby, Montana, and no, I don't have asbestosis."" But Gayla didn't stop. She kept doing research. The advent of the Internet definitely helped her. She talked to anybody she could. She argued and argued, and finally she struck lucky when a researcher came through town studying the history of mines in the area, and she told him her story, and at first, of course, like everyone, he didn't believe her, but he went back to Seattle and he did his own research and he realized that she was right. So now she had an ally. Nevertheless, people still didn't want to know. They said things like, ""Well, if it were really dangerous, someone would have told us."" ""If that's really why everyone was dying, the doctors would have told us."" Some of the guys used to very heavy jobs said, ""I don't want to be a victim. I can't possibly be a victim, and anyway, every industry has its accidents."" But still Gayla went on, and finally she succeeded in getting a federal agency to come to town and to screen the inhabitants of the town — 15,000 people — and what they discovered was that the town had a mortality rate 80 times higher than anywhere in the United States. That was in 2002, and even at that moment, no one raised their hand to say, ""Gayla, look in the playground where your grandchildren are playing. It's lined with vermiculite."" This wasn't ignorance. It was willful blindness. Willful blindness is a legal concept which means, if there's information that you could know and you should know but you somehow manage not to know, the law deems that you're willfully blind. You have chosen not to know. There's a lot of willful blindness around these days. You can see willful blindness in banks, when thousands of people sold mortgages to people who couldn't afford them. You could see them in banks when interest rates were manipulated and everyone around knew what was going on, but everyone studiously ignored it. You can see willful blindness in the Catholic Church, where decades of child abuse went ignored. You could see willful blindness in the run-up to the Iraq War. Willful blindness exists on epic scales like those, and it also exists on very small scales, in people's families, in people's homes and communities, and particularly in organizations and institutions. Companies that have been studied for willful blindness can be asked questions like, ""Are there issues at work that people are afraid to raise?"" And when academics have done studies like this of corporations in the United States, what they find is 85 percent of people say yes. Eighty-five percent of people know there's a problem, but they won't say anything. And when I duplicated the research in Europe, asking all the same questions, I found exactly the same number. Eighty-five percent. That's a lot of silence. It's a lot of blindness. And what's really interesting is that when I go to companies in Switzerland, they tell me, ""This is a uniquely Swiss problem."" And when I go to Germany, they say, ""Oh yes, this is the German disease."" And when I go to companies in England, they say, ""Oh, yeah, the British are really bad at this."" And the truth is, this is a human problem. We're all, under certain circumstances, willfully blind. What the research shows is that some people are blind out of fear. They're afraid of retaliation. And some people are blind because they think, well, seeing anything is just futile. Nothing's ever going to change. If we make a protest, if we protest against the Iraq War, nothing changes, so why bother? Better not to see this stuff at all. And the recurrent theme that I encounter all the time is people say, ""Well, you know, the people who do see, they're whistleblowers, and we all know what happens to them."" So there's this profound mythology around whistleblowers which says, first of all, they're all crazy. But what I've found going around the world and talking to whistleblowers is, actually, they're very loyal and quite often very conservative people. They're hugely dedicated to the institutions that they work for, and the reason that they speak up, the reason they insist on seeing, is because they care so much about the institution and want to keep it healthy. And the other thing that people often say about whistleblowers is, ""Well, there's no point, because you see what happens to them. They are crushed. Nobody would want to go through something like that."" And yet, when I talk to whistleblowers, the recurrent tone that I hear is pride. I think of Joe Darby. We all remember the photographs of Abu Ghraib, which so shocked the world and showed the kind of war that was being fought in Iraq. But I wonder who remembers Joe Darby, the very obedient, good soldier who found those photographs and handed them in. And he said, ""You know, I'm not the kind of guy to rat people out, but some things just cross the line. Ignorance is bliss, they say, but you can't put up with things like this."" I talked to Steve Bolsin, a British doctor, who fought for five years to draw attention to a dangerous surgeon who was killing babies. And I asked him why he did it, and he said, ""Well, it was really my daughter who prompted me to do it. She came up to me one night, and she just said, 'Dad, you can't let the kids die.'"" Or I think of Cynthia Thomas, a really loyal army daughter and army wife, who, as she saw her friends and relations coming back from the Iraq War, was so shocked by their mental condition and the refusal of the military to recognize and acknowledge post-traumatic stress syndrome that she set up a cafe in the middle of a military town to give them legal, psychological and medical assistance. And she said to me, she said, ""You know, Margaret, I always used to say I didn't know what I wanted to be when I grow up. But I've found myself in this cause, and I'll never be the same."" We all enjoy so many freedoms today, hard-won freedoms: the freedom to write and publish without fear of censorship, a freedom that wasn't here the last time I came to Hungary; a freedom to vote, which women in particular had to fight so hard for; the freedom for people of different ethnicities and cultures and sexual orientation to live the way that they want. But freedom doesn't exist if you don't use it, and what whistleblowers do, and what people like Gayla Benefield do is they use the freedom that they have. And what they're very prepared to do is recognize that yes, this is going to be an argument, and yes I'm going to have a lot of rows with my neighbors and my colleagues and my friends, but I'm going to become very good at this conflict. I'm going to take on the naysayers, because they'll make my argument better and stronger. I can collaborate with my opponents to become better at what I do. These are people of immense persistence, incredible patience, and an absolute determination not to be blind and not to be silent. When I went to Libby, Montana, I visited the asbestosis clinic that Gayla Benefield brought into being, a place where at first some of the people who wanted help and needed medical attention went in the back door because they didn't want to acknowledge that she'd been right. I sat in a diner, and I watched as trucks drove up and down the highway, carting away the earth out of gardens and replacing it with fresh, uncontaminated soil. I took my 12-year-old daughter with me, because I really wanted her to meet Gayla. And she said, ""Why? What's the big deal?"" I said, ""She's not a movie star, and she's not a celebrity, and she's not an expert, and Gayla's the first person who'd say she's not a saint. The really important thing about Gayla is she is ordinary. She's like you, and she's like me. She had freedom, and she was ready to use it."" Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"在美國的東北角緊挨著加拿大邊境有一個在蒙大拿州的小鎮叫Libby四周被松樹和湖泊所環繞還有令人讚歎不已的野生動物那些高大的樹木直達蒼穹在那裏有一個叫Libby的小鎮我去過那裏，覺得那裏好像有幾分孤單也有一點與世隔絕 在Libby有一位頗不尋常的女士她叫蓋拉貝尼菲爾德儘管她在那兒生活了幾乎一輩子她總感覺自己是一名異鄉客她是一個有俄國血統的女人在去學校的路上她對我說她是唯一一個選擇念機械製圖的女孩 那之後她找到一份工作一家一戶地讀家用碼錶—天然氣表，電錶並且她每天在中午開始她的工作有一件事特別引起她的注意那就是在正中午的時候她碰見了許多待在家裏的男人有中壯年男性，也有中老年男性他們之中似乎許多人是插著氧氣管的為此她感到十分詫異幾年後她的爸爸在59歲時在他應該領退休金安度晚年的五天前去世了他當了一輩子的礦工她以為是工作強度壓垮了她的爸爸 但是幾年之後她的媽媽也去世了這更是令人感到奇怪因為她的媽媽家族裡有很多人都活到很大的歲數事實上蓋拉的叔叔至今仍健在他還去學跳華爾滋所以蓋拉的媽媽沒道理這麼年輕就過世這是個異常的現象她一直對這些異常現象百思不解有一天一個想法啓發了她她記得，舉個例子當她媽媽腿部骨折去醫院就診她拍了好多X光片其中兩次是腿部X光這很合理但是另外六次是胸部X光這就讓人不明白了 她對自己和她父母生活中的每一個細節都仔細思索想嘗試理解眼前發生的事情 她想到居住的小鎮在那兒有一個蛭石礦蛭石被當做土壤改良劑它能幫助植物長得更快更好蛭石也被當做隔熱物質在漫長的蒙大拿冬季它被大量地放置在屋頂下具有保暖的作用它也用在戶外場地上用在足球場用在溜冰場上當她開始著手解決這個問題時她發現蛭石是一種毒性很強的石棉 當她找出了疑問的根源她開始告訴她所遇見的每一個人過去已經發生了什麽包括發生她父母身上的經歷那些她看見在家插氧氣管的人又遭遇了什麽事情但是令她感到不可思議的是她認為當人們知道真相後他們會嘗試去改變但其實沒有人願意知道真相事實上，她因為堅持把真相告訴她的鄰居，朋友和社區裏的人而使得自己遭到別人的厭煩最後有一群人聚集在一起做了一張保險桿標語貼紙並且自豪地貼在汽車上貼紙上寫著“沒錯，我來自蒙大拿州的Libby鎮但是我沒有得石棉沉滯症。” 但是蓋拉沒有放棄她繼續著她的研究網路的出現幫了她很大一個忙她告訴所有人她知道的東西她一直爭辯著最後當一位研究當地礦井歷史學者經過了這個小鎮時她巧遇了這位學者她把這些事情告訴了學者像大家一樣，學者一開始並不相信她但是他回到西雅圖自己做了調查後他發現蓋拉是對的 現在她有了一名支持者儘管如此，人們仍舊不願意相信他們經常這樣說“如果真的那麼危險的話肯定會有人告訴我們的。""“如果那真是人們死因的元兇，醫生會告訴我們的。”一些過去常常做繁重工作的人說，’我不想成為受害者我也沒有可能成為受害者再說每一個行業都會有意外發生。"" 但是蓋拉仍舊堅持著最後她成功請到了聯邦機構來小鎮檢查小鎮的居民 —共1萬5千人—他們發現了當地居民的死亡率比美國任何地方高出了80倍那時是2002年甚至在那個時刻也沒有人舉起手說，""蓋拉看看你的子孫玩耍的戶外場地那裡鋪滿了蛭石啊。” 那並不是忽視那是“刻意無視”“刻意無視”是一個法律概念如果是一個你應該知道而且能夠得知的資訊但是你以某種方式試圖不去獲知那麼法律上認為你是“刻意無視”你只是選擇了不去獲知現今周圍有許多“刻意無視”的現象在銀行中可以發現“刻意無視”的情況當成千上萬的人把房貸貸給那些根本負擔不起的人們在銀行你還可以看見當利率被操縱而且人們都知道發生了什麽事情但是人們故意忽視了它刻意無視的情況也發生在天主教堂裏幾十年孩子被虐待的狀況被漠視刻意無視的現象也發生在伊拉克戰爭中刻意無視不僅發生在像剛所提到的那些大範圍中它也存在於十分微小的層面上在家族裏，在家庭裏，也在社區裏特別是在組織和機構裏那些接受“刻意無視”現象研究的公司經常被問這樣的問題“在工作上有沒有員工不願意提出來的問題？”當研究機構對這樣的美國公司做研調時他們發現85%的人給出了肯定答案85%的人知道存在問題但是他們什麽也不會說我在歐洲重複這項調查時問了一樣的問題我得到了完全一樣的數據結果85%。那是靜靜的死寂那是赤裸裸的無視有趣的是，我訪查瑞士的公司時他們告訴我：“那是瑞士獨有的問題”而去德國時，他們說“噢，是的，那是德國人的毛病。”去英國公司時，他們會說“哦，對啊，英國人在這方面挺差勁的“但真相是，那是人類的通病在特定情況下，我們都“刻意無視” 研究結果表明有些人因為害怕而無視他們擔心遭到報復有些人無視因為他們認為看清一切也是徒勞的沒有什麽會因此而改變如果我們提出抗議如果我們抗議伊拉克戰爭不會發生什麽改變，那又何必為此操心？還是不看見這樣的事情為好 我不斷遇到人們這樣說“嗯，你知道那些看清問題的人，是告密者我們都知道他們將遭遇什麽”所以對於那些告密者人們存在著嚴重的誤解首先，一般認為他們都是瘋子但是我走遍全球和那些告密者聊天時發現，事實上他們十分忠誠，而且通常都是很保守的人他們在自己工作的組織奉獻自己他們站出來指出問題堅持看見的問題的原因是他們對自己的組織十分關心並希望它健康發展。 關於告密者，另外一件大家常常談論的事是那沒有用啦因為他們的遭遇你也看見了他們被打壓了沒有人願意經歷像這樣的事情但是，當我和告密者交談時他們的語氣中總是帶著自豪感 我想起了喬伊達比我們都記得Abu Ghraib的照片（注：美軍虐待戰俘事件）那張照片震驚了世界讓人們看到了伊拉克戰爭的面目但是誰還記得喬伊達比那是位十分服從命令的好士兵是他發現那些照片並且發佈了它們他說：你知道嗎，我不是那種狡猾的揭發者但是有些事做得太誇張了有人說無知者是幸福的但是你不能容忍像這樣的事情發生 我和史蒂夫波爾森交談過他是一位英國醫生他努力抗爭了五年讓人們注意那些誤殺嬰兒的危險手術我問他爲什麽這樣做他說：是我的女兒鼓勵我這樣做的一天晚上她來見我她說：爸，你不能讓那些孩子喪命了 也或者我會想到辛西婭托馬斯她是一位忠誠的軍人女兒也是一名軍人的妻子當她看見她的親友從伊拉克戰場上回來時辛西婭對他們的精神狀態感到震驚也對軍方拒絕承認他們得了“創傷後壓力症候群”感到震驚於是她在軍方的小鎮中心開了一家咖啡館為那些士兵提供法律上心理上和醫療上的協助她對我說：瑪格麗特我以前都說我不知道我長大後要做什麼但是因這個事件我找到了自我價值我已經煥然一新了 如今我們享受著廣泛的自由那是來之不易的自由無需擔心審查的寫作和出版自由是我上次到匈牙利時他們所還沒有的自由選舉的自由特別是婦女們奮鬥所爭取的選舉自由不同種族，不同文化，不同性取向的人可以依照他們渴望的生活方式生活的自由但是如果你不使用自由，它就形同虛設那些告密者和像蓋拉貝尼菲爾德那樣做的人他們的所作所為代表他們真正行使了所擁有的自由並且他們已經充分的意識到是的，那樣做將會面對爭議而且我的鄰居，同事和朋友都會反對自己但是在這個衝突中我會變得非常好我會面對那些反對者因為他們會使我的論述變得更好更完善我可以和反對者合作來讓自己更善於處理我正著手在做的事那些人有極大的持久力不可思議的耐心和不可動搖的決心他們不願意視而不見 當我去Libby時我拜訪了由蓋拉創建的石棉沉滯症診所一開始有些人想要得到幫助和醫療關注時都會從後門進入因為他們不想承認蓋拉是正確的我坐在餐廳裏觀察著卡車行駛在高速路一車車運走花園裏的土壤然後替換上新鮮的，無污染的土壤 我和我12歲的女兒在一起因為我真心希望她見見蓋拉 女兒問道：爲什麽？這有什麼了不起的 我說：她不是一位影星她也不是名人，更不是專家但是她是第一個說自己不是聖人的蓋拉的閃亮之處就在於她的平凡她和你一樣，也和我一樣她擁有自由，並善用了它 非常感謝 （掌聲）"
