Talk	en	zh-tw
mark_kendall_demo_a_needle_free_vaccine_patch_that_s_safer_and_way_cheaper	It's a pleasure to be here in Edinburgh, Scotland, the birthplace of the needle and syringe. Less than a mile from here in this direction, in 1853 a Scotsman filed his very first patent on the needle and syringe. His name was Alexander Wood, and it was at the Royal College of Physicians. This is the patent. What blows my mind when I look at it even today is that it looks almost identical to the needle in use today. Yet, it's 160 years old. So we turn to the field of vaccines. Most vaccines are delivered with the needle and syringe,  this 160-year-old technology. And credit where it's due — on many levels, vaccines are a successful technology. After clean water and sanitation, vaccines are the one technology that has increased our life span the most. That's a pretty hard act to beat. But just like any other technology, vaccines have their shortcomings, and the needle and syringe is a key part within that narrative — this old technology. So let's start with the obvious: Many of us don't like the needle and syringe. I share that view. However, 20 percent of the population have a thing called needle phobia. That's more than disliking the needle; that is actively avoiding being vaccinated because of needle phobia. And that's problematic in terms  of the rollout of vaccines. Now, related to this is another key issue, which is needlestick injuries. And the WHO has figures that suggest about 1.3 million deaths per year take place due to cross-contamination with needlestick injuries. These are early deaths that take place. Now, these are two things that  you probably may have heard of, but there are two other shortcomings of the needle and syringe you  may not have heard about. One is it could be holding back the next generation of vaccines in terms of their immune responses. And the second is that it could be responsible for the problem of the cold chain that I'll tell you about as well. I'm going to tell you about some work that my team and I are doing in Australia at the University of Queensland on a technology designed to  tackle those four problems. And that technology is called the Nanopatch. Now, this is a specimen of the Nanopatch. To the naked eye it just looks like a square smaller than a postage stamp, but under a microscope what you see are thousands of tiny projections that are invisible to the human eye. And there's about 4,000 projections on this particular square compared to the needle. And I've designed those projections to serve a key role, which is to  work with the skin's immune system. So that's a very important function tied in with the Nanopatch. Now we make the Nanopatch with a technique called deep reactive ion etching. And this particular technique  is one that's been borrowed from the semiconductor industry, and therefore is low cost and can be rolled out in large numbers. Now we dry-coat vaccines to  the projections of the Nanopatch and apply it to the skin. Now, the simplest form of application is using our finger, but our finger has some limitations, so we've devised an applicator. And it's a very simple device — you could call it a sophisticated finger. It's a spring-operated device. What we do is when we apply  the Nanopatch to the skin as so — (Click) — immediately a few things happen. So firstly, the projections on the Nanopatch breach through the tough outer layer and the vaccine is very quickly released — within less than a minute, in fact. Then we can take the Nanopatch off and discard it. And indeed we can make  a reuse of the applicator itself. So that gives you an idea of the Nanopatch, and immediately you can see some key advantages. We've talked about it being needle-free — these are projections that you can't even see — and, of course, we get around the needle phobia issue as well. Now, if we take a step back and think about these other two really important advantages: One is improved immune  responses through delivery, and the second is getting rid of the cold chain. So let's start with the first one,  this immunogenicity idea. It takes a little while to get our heads around, but I'll try to explain it in simple terms. So I'll take a step back and explain to you how vaccines work in a simple way. So vaccines work by introducing into our body a thing called an antigen which is a safe form of a germ. Now that safe germ, that antigen, tricks our body into mounting an immune response, learning and remembering  how to deal with intruders. When the real intruder comes along the body quickly mounts an immune response to deal with that vaccine and neutralizes the infection. So it does that well. Now, the way it's done today  with the needle and syringe, most vaccines are delivered that way — with this old technology and the needle. But it could be argued that the needle  is holding back our immune responses; it's missing our immune sweet spot in the skin. To describe this idea, we need to take a journey through the skin, starting with one of those projections and applying the Nanopatch to the skin. And we see this kind of data. Now, this is real data — that thing that we can see there is one projection from the Nanopatch that's been applied to the skin and those colors are different layers. Now, to give you an idea of scale, if the needle was shown here, it would be too big. It would be 10 times bigger than the size of that screen, going 10 times deeper as well. It's off the grid entirely. You can see immediately that we  have those projections in the skin. That red layer is a tough outer layer of dead skin, but the brown layer and the magenta layer are jammed full of immune cells. As one example, in the brown layer there's a certain type of cell  called a Langerhans cell — every square millimeter of our body is jammed full of those Langerhans cells, those immune cells, and  there's others shown as well that we haven't stained in this image. But you can immediately see that the Nanopatch achieves that penetration indeed. We target thousands upon thousands  of these particular cells just residing within a hair's width of the surface of the skin. Now, as the guy that's invented this thing and designed it to do that, I found that exciting. But so what? So what if you've targeted cells? In the world of vaccines, what does that mean? The world of vaccines is getting better. It's getting more systematic. However, you still don't really know if a vaccine is going to work until you roll your sleeves up and vaccinate and wait. It's a gambler's game even today. So, we had to do that gamble. We obtained an influenza vaccine, we applied it to our Nanopatches and we applied the Nanopatches to the skin, and we waited — and this is in the live animal. We waited a month, and this is what we found out. This is a data slide showing the immune responses that we've generated with a Nanopatch compared to the needle and syringe into muscle. So on the horizontal axis we have  the dose shown in nanograms. On the vertical axis we have  the immune response generated, and that dashed line indicates  the protection threshold. If we're above that line it's considered protective; if we're below that line it's not. So the red line is mostly below that curve and indeed there's only one point that  is achieved with the needle that's protective, and that's with a high dose of 6,000 nanograms. But notice immediately the distinctly different curve that we achieve with the blue line. That's what's achieved with the Nanopatch; the delivered dose of the Nanopatch is a completely different immunogenicity curve. That's a real fresh opportunity. Suddenly we have a brand new lever in the world of vaccines. We can push it one way, where we can take a vaccine  that works but is too expensive and can get protection with a hundredth of the dose  compared to the needle. That can take a vaccine that's suddenly  10 dollars down to 10 cents, and that's particularly important  within the developing world. But there's another angle to this as well — you can take vaccines that currently don't work and get them over that line and get them protective. And certainly in the world of vaccines that can be important. Let's consider the big three: HIV, malaria, tuberculosis. They're responsible for about  7 million deaths per year, and there is no adequate vaccination  method for any of those. So potentially, with this new lever  that we have with the Nanopatch, we can help make that happen. We can push that lever to help get those  candidate vaccines over the line. Now, of course, we've worked within my lab with many other vaccines that have attained similar responses and similar curves to this, what we've achieved with influenza. I'd like to now switch to talk about another key shortcoming of today's vaccines, and that is the need to maintain the cold chain. As the name suggests — the cold chain — it's the requirements of keeping  a vaccine right from production all the way through to when the vaccine is applied, to keep it refrigerated. Now, that presents some logistical challenges but we have ways to do it. This is a slightly extreme case in point but it helps illustrate the logistical challenges, in particular in resource-poor settings, of what's required to get vaccines refrigerated and maintain the cold chain. If the vaccine is too warm the vaccine breaks down, but interestingly it can be too cold and the vaccine can break down as well. Now, the stakes are very high. The WHO estimates that within Africa, up to half the vaccines used there are considered to not be working properly because at some point the  cold chain has fallen over. So it's a big problem, and it's tied  in with the needle and syringe because it's a liquid form vaccine, and  when it's liquid it needs the refrigeration. A key attribute of our Nanopatch is that the vaccine is dry, and when it's dry it doesn't need refrigeration. Within my lab we've shown that we can keep the vaccine stored at 23 degrees Celsius for more than a year without  any loss in activity at all. That's an important improvement. (Applause) We're delighted about it as well. And the thing about it is that we have well and truly proven the Nanopatch within the laboratory setting. And as a scientist, I love that and I love science. However, as an engineer, as a biomedical engineer and also as a human being, I'm not going to be satisfied until we've rolled this thing  out, taken it out of the lab and got it to people in large numbers and particularly the people that need it the most. So we've commenced this particular journey, and we've commenced this  journey in an unusual way. We've started with Papua New Guinea. Now, Papua New Guinea is an example  of a developing world country. It's about the same size as France, but it suffers from many of the key barriers existing within the world of today's vaccines. There's the logistics: Within this country there are only 800  refrigerators to keep vaccines chilled. Many of them are old, like this one in Port Moresby, many of them are breaking down and many are not in the Highlands  where they are required. That's a challenge. But also, Papua New Guinea has the  world's highest incidence of HPV, human papillomavirus, the  cervical cancer [risk factor]. Yet, that vaccine is not available in large numbers because it's too expensive. So for those two reasons, with  the attributes of the Nanopatch, we've got into the field and  worked with the Nanopatch, and taken it to Papua New Guinea and we'll be following that up shortly. Now, doing this kind of work is not easy. It's challenging, but there's nothing else in  the world I'd rather be doing. And as we look ahead I'd like to share with you a thought: It's the thought of a future where the 17 million deaths per year that we currently have due to infectious disease is a historical footnote. And it's a historical footnote that has been achieved by improved, radically improved vaccines. Now standing here today in front of you at the birthplace of the needle and syringe, a device that's 160 years old, I'm presenting to you an alternative approach that could really help make that happen — and it's the Nanopatch with its attributes  of being needle-free, pain-free, the ability for removing the cold chain and improving the immunogenicity. Thank you. (Applause)	很高興來到蘇格蘭的愛丁堡注射器和針頭的發源地沿這個方向不到一英里處一個蘇格蘭人於 1853 年申請了他的第一項關於針頭和注射器的專利這個人就是亜歷山大．伍德他申請專利的地點是皇家內科醫學院這是他當時的專利令我驚訝的是專利上的針頭與我們現在所使用的一模一樣沒錯，它有 160 年的歷史了 現在我們來說一下疫苗的歷史有大半疫苗都是依靠這項 160 年的技術利用注射器和針頭注入人體鑒於它在於多層面上的功績疫苗注射是一項很成功的技術繼淨水處理系統和衛生系統出現之後注射疫苗是最能延長人類壽命的的發明這個成就難以超越 然而，和其他科技一樣疫苗注射也有不足之處而針頭和注射器就成了其中的關鍵部份我們要改進這項古老的技術讓我們先從明顯的地方入手許多人都不喜歡針頭和注射器我也一樣不過，有 20% 的人患有針頭恐懼症這是更加嚴重的厭惡針頭注射這些人會因為針頭恐懼症而主動避免注射疫苗這個問題自疫苗推行以來就難以解決 與其相關的是另一個關鍵問題即針刺傷口世界衛生組織的數據顯示每年有約 130 萬人死於針刺傷口的交叉污染這縮短了人們的壽命 你很可能聽說過上述兩個缺陷但另外兩種由針頭和注射器產生的影響你可能沒有聽說過一個是它會限制次世代疫苗引起免疫反應的能力第二點我等下會提到是其所仰賴的冷藏運輸出現的問題 接著我要為大家介紹我和我的團隊在澳大利亞昆士蘭大學的研究成果關於一項為解決以上四個問題而研發的技術這項技術叫做納米貼片這是一個納米貼片的樣本用肉眼看它看起來是個正方形比郵票小一些但還在顯微鏡下觀察可以看到成千上萬肉眼不可見的突起就在這個正方形上大概有 4 千個凸起與這支針頭相比我所設計的這些凸起作用於皮膚的免疫系統這是納米貼片的一項非常重要的功能 我們製作納米貼片應用到一項技術叫做深反應離子刻蝕這項特殊的技術源自半導體產業所以成本低廉可以大量製造 我們將乾燥疫苗附著在納米貼片的凸起上並將它貼在皮膚上最簡單的方式是用手指但用手指有侷限性所以我們設計了一款塗抹器很簡單的裝置你可以稱它為更靈巧的手指這款裝置內嵌彈簧我們要做的是將納米貼片貼在皮膚上（嗒）緊接著出現一些變化首先，納米貼片上的這些凸起會頂破堅硬的外殼隨後疫苗被迅速釋放事實上，不到一分鐘然後就可以摘下納米貼片丟掉而塗抹器可以再次使用 這就是納米貼片的使用方法你能夠立即見識到它的一些主要優勢我們談到了它無需使用針頭你甚至看不見上面的凸起當然，我們也避免了針頭恐懼症的問題 現在讓我們退一步思考另外兩個重大優勢其一個通過注射方式提高免疫反應另一個是不再需要冷藏運輸 先說第一個引起免疫反應的觀點這需要花一點時間弄清楚我將用簡單的術語進行講解回到上一步我要簡單的解釋一下疫苗是怎樣作用的疫苗是通過向人體內注入抗原而起作用抗原是一種不具傷害力的病原體安全的抗原(譯註：抗原指能引起免疫反應的物質)誘使人體進行免疫反應學習和記憶如何對抗病原體真正的入侵者出現時人體就能迅速做出免疫反應對抗病原體并消除感染效果很好 如今人們用針頭和注射器進行這項工作多數疫苗都是以用這種古老的技術用針頭注射但是有人指出針頭限制了人體的免疫反應因為它錯過了位於皮膚上的有效免疫區為了描述這個觀點讓我們仔細看看皮膚從貼到皮膚上奈米貼片的一個凸起開始可以看到這些數據真實的數據圖片上的是一個凸起位於貼在皮膚上的納米貼片上這些顏色代表不同的皮膚表層這讓你們有大小的概念如果用的是針頭就會巨大無比會比屏幕的尺寸大十倍也比它深十倍完全超出了屏幕範圍你可以看到凸起深入到皮膚裡紅色表示硬的角質層而棕色和洋紅色兩層滿滿的全是免疫細胞例如：棕色那層有一種細胞叫朗格漢斯細胞人體的每平方公釐都佈滿了朗格漢斯細胞這是一種免疫細胞而圖片中也有其他免疫細胞只是沒有特別標記顏色但你可以看到納米貼片確切到達了免疫細胞層我們把成千上萬的免疫細胞作為目標群細胞群只以一根頭髮的寬度存在于皮膚表面 這項發明可以達到如此效果我覺得這很激動人心但那又怎樣呢？即便鎖定了這些細胞又怎樣呢？在疫苗注射到這個區域有什麼意義？現在疫苗的使用越來越進步越來越系統化然而，除非捲起袖子施打你就仍無法確定疫苗是否有效注射疫苗，然後等待它發揮作用即便在今天看來這仍是一場豪賭 我們不得不進行這場賭博我們得到了一種流感疫苗將它用在納米貼片上然後將納米貼片貼在皮膚上等待它發揮作用我們用的是活體動物在等了一個月之後這就是我們的發現而幻燈片展示的是實驗數據分別使用納米貼片和肌肉注射時所發生的免疫反應水平座標以豪微克為單位表示疫苗的劑量垂直座標表示發生免疫反應的強度虛線表示達到產生保護作用的閾值虛線以上具有保護作用虛線以下則沒有而紅色線幾乎都位於虛線以下用針頭注射只有一點達到虛線以上要高達 6000 豪微克的劑量才能起到保護作用但是可以明顯看到藍色線條完全不同納米貼片的作用結果用納米貼片輸送的劑量是一個完全不同的免疫原性曲線這實在是一個嶄新的機會突然間我們在疫苗應用領域有了一個全新的方式我們可以這麼說過往有效卻昂貴的疫苗可以借此應用推行比起針管注射它只需要百分之一的劑量如此，疫苗的價錢就從十美元降至十美分在發展中國家這一點特別重要 也可以從另一個視角來看你可以使用目前因計量無法作用的疫苗用這個方法使其超過閾值的虛線而達到保護作用這在疫苗應用領域十分重要看看這三大疾病吧愛滋病、瘧疾、肺結核它們導致了每年 7 百萬的死亡人數每種疾病都缺少足夠的接種疫苗所以通過使用納米貼片的新方式很可能會解決上述問題我們可以通過這種方式使那些珍貴的疫苗達到保護標準當然，在我的實驗室許多疫苗都得到了像流感病毒一樣類似的反應曲線 現在我要將話題轉向傳統疫苗的另一個主要缺陷即是冷藏運輸的必要性就如同「冷鏈」這個名字從生產出一種疫苗開始一直保存到使用都必須確保疫苗冷藏這就給物流方面帶來了許多挑戰但我們有方法應對這是一個稍微極端的典型例子但它有助於說明在資源貧乏的環境裡物流方面的難度需要冷藏疫苗并維持冷藏運輸如果疫苗處在太過溫暖的環境就會損壞有意思的是：溫度過低也可能損壞疫苗 損壞風險非常高世界衛生組織評估非洲的情況後認為超過半數疫苗都沒有起到應有的作用效果是因為不健全的冷藏供應系統這是個嚴重的問題與使用注射器和針頭相關液體狀態的疫苗需要冷藏 納米貼片的一個關鍵屬性是疫苗是乾燥儲存這種疫苗不需要冷藏我的實驗室發現我們能將疫苗貯存在 23 攝氏度並長達一年以上而完全不失其活性這是一項重大改進(掌聲)對此，我們也很高興事實上我們已經在實驗室內證明納米貼片的作用作為一名科學家，我喜歡做出成果，我熱愛科學然而，作為一個工程師作為一名生物醫學工程師作為一個人除非我們已經推行該產品走出實驗室我就對結果仍不滿意讓更多人能使用特別是最需要它的人 我們已經開始了這段測試我們有個特別的起點我們從巴布亞新幾內亞開始 巴布亞新幾內亞是一個發展中國家與法國的大小相同但該國受許多關鍵性障礙困擾存在於今天的疫苗世界的關鍵障礙在物流方面在這個國家僅有800 臺冰箱可以冷藏疫苗很多冰箱都已經老化像莫爾斯比港的這一台，而且都逐漸損壞還有很多並沒有配備在所需的高地這是一項挑戰並且，人類乳頭瘤病毒在巴布亞新幾內亞有世界上最高的染病率人類乳頭瘤病毒是宮頸癌的風險隱患然而，該疫苗無法大量使用因為太貴了基於這兩個理由與納米貼片的特性我們進入這個領域生產納米貼片並送往巴布亞新幾內亞我們馬上會繼續跟進 做這種工作並不容易具有挑戰性但是這世上我只想做這件事當我們展望未來我想與你們分享一個想法關於未來的一個想法：每年有 1700 萬人死亡死於目前發現的傳染性疾病會因為疫苗的發展讓這個數字逐漸成為微不足道的歷史腳註今天大家所在的是針頭和注射器誕生的地方有 160 年歷史的技術今天，我介紹了另一種方法可以真正實現這個目標的方法無需針頭無疼痛的納米貼片不再需要冷藏運輸還可以提高免疫能力謝謝（掌聲）
