Talk	en	zh-tw
mark_bezos_a_life_lesson_from_a_volunteer_firefighter	"Back in New York, I am the head of development for a non-profit called Robin Hood. When I'm not fighting poverty, I'm fighting fires as the assistant captain of a volunteer fire company. Now in our town, where the volunteers supplement a highly skilled career staff, you have to get to the fire scene pretty early to get in on any action. I remember my first fire. I was the second volunteer on the scene, so there was a pretty good chance I was going to get in. But still it was a real footrace against the other volunteers to get to the captain in charge to find out what our assignments would be. When I found the captain, he was having a very engaging conversation with the homeowner, who was surely having one of the worst days of her life. Here it was, the middle of the night, she was standing outside in the pouring rain, under an umbrella, in her pajamas, barefoot, while her house was in flames. The other volunteer who had arrived just before me — let's call him Lex Luther — (Laughter) got to the captain first and was asked to go inside and save the homeowner's dog. The dog! I was stunned with jealousy. Here was some lawyer or money manager who, for the rest of his life, gets to tell people that he went into a burning building to save a living creature, just because he beat me by five seconds. Well, I was next. The captain waved me over. He said, ""Bezos, I need you to go into the house. I need you to go upstairs, past the fire, and I need you to get this woman a pair of shoes."" (Laughter) I swear. So, not exactly what I was hoping for, but off I went — up the stairs, down the hall, past the 'real' firefighters, who were pretty much done putting out the fire at this point, into the master bedroom to get a pair of shoes. Now I know what you're thinking, but I'm no hero. (Laughter) I carried my payload back downstairs where I met my nemesis and the precious dog by the front door. We took our treasures outside to the homeowner, where, not surprisingly, his received much more attention than did mine. A few weeks later, the department received a letter from the homeowner thanking us for the valiant effort displayed in saving her home. The act of kindness she noted above all others: someone had even gotten her a pair of shoes. (Laughter) In both my vocation at Robin Hood and my avocation as a volunteer firefighter, I am witness to acts of generosity and kindness on a monumental scale, but I'm also witness to acts of grace and courage on an individual basis. And you know what I've learned? They all matter. So as I look around this room at people who either have achieved, or are on their way to achieving, remarkable levels of success, I would offer this reminder: don't wait. Don't wait until you make your first million to make a difference in somebody's life. If you have something to give, give it now. Serve food at a soup kitchen. Clean up a neighborhood park. Be a mentor. Not every day is going to offer us a chance to save somebody's life, but every day offers us an opportunity to affect one. So get in the game. Save the shoes. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Mark, Mark, come back. (Applause) Mark Bezos: Thank you."	在紐約，我是“羅賓漢”社運團體發展部門的頭頭在我消滅貧窮之餘，我也消防我是義消公司的副指揮在我們的小鎮在一個義工都是成功人士的地方你必須要很早到火場才有可能加入戰況 我記得我第一場火我是第二個到火場的義工進火場的可能性蠻大的但你還得跑贏其它義工先找到總指揮讓他分配工作給你當我好不容易找到總指揮他正全神貫注地和屋主討論她顯然正經歷人生中最糟糕的一天當時是大半夜她站在滂沱大雨中穿著睡衣、打赤腳、撐著傘她的房子正在熊熊燃燒 另外一個比我先來一步的義工就叫他 Lex Luther （超人中的反派）好了（笑聲）先到了總指揮身邊他被分配到殺進火場去拯救屋主的小狗小狗哎！我嫉妒死了這個律師或財務經理終身都可以告訴別人他深入火場救出一條活生生的小狗就因為他比我早到五秒好吧，接下來輪到我了總指揮叫我過去他說，“Bezos，我需要你殺進火場我需要你上樓，越過火焰我需要你為這位女士拿雙鞋。“（笑聲）是真的，我發誓這不是我心裡想像的樣子但我去了上樓，走到走廊底，穿過那些”真正的“消防員他們差不多已經把火熄滅了我走進主臥室，拿了一雙鞋 我知道你在想甚麼但我非英雄（笑聲）我把我的任務帶下樓在前門遇見那位早我五秒的先生和他救出的那條狗我們帶著我們的寶藏走向前門毫無意外的他比我獲得更多關注幾個禮拜後我們部門收到從屋主來的一封信謝謝我們的拯救她家的義勇行為她特別提到一件溫馨的細節甚至有人為她拿來一雙鞋 （笑聲） 無論是我在“羅賓漢”的工作或是我身為義消的副業我目睹許多非常慷慨善行但我同時也目睹一個人的勇氣和慈悲能帶來多大的不同你知道我學到甚麼？它們都一樣重要。當我環顧四周這些成功的或正要成功的人士你們都有著令人激賞的成就我想在這裡提醒你們：不要等待不要等待你賺到第一個一百萬才開始改變別人的生活如果你有甚麼可以給予現在就開始付出無論是供應窮人食物、清掃社區公園做個榜樣 不是每一天我們都有機會拯救他人的生命但每一天我們都有機會影響他人的生命來吧：救那雙鞋。 謝謝各位 （掌聲） Bruno Giussani：Mark，Mark，回來 （掌聲） 謝謝各位
