Talk	en	zh-tw
mark_applebaum_the_mad_scientist_of_music	"I thought if I skipped it might help my nerves, but I'm actually having a paradoxical reaction to that, so that was a bad idea. (Laughter) Anyway, I was really delighted to receive the invitation to present to you some of my music and some of my work as a composer, presumably because it appeals to my well-known and abundant narcissism. (Laughter) And I'm not kidding, I just think we should just say that and move forward. (Laughter) So, but the thing is, a dilemma quickly arose, and that is that I'm really bored with music, and I'm really bored with the role of the composer, and so I decided to put that idea, boredom, as the focus of my presentation to you today. And I'm going to share my music with you, but I hope that I'm going to do so in a way that tells a story, tells a story about how I used boredom as a catalyst for creativity and invention, and how boredom actually forced me to change the fundamental question that I was asking in my discipline, and how boredom also, in a sense, pushed me towards taking on roles beyond the sort of most traditional, narrow definition of a composer. What I'd like to do today is to start with an excerpt of a piece of music at the piano. (Music) Okay, I wrote that. (Laughter) No, it's not — (Applause) Oh, why thank you. No, no, I didn't write that. In fact, that was a piece by Beethoven, and so I was not functioning as a composer. Just now I was functioning in the role of the interpreter, and there I am, interpreter. So, an interpreter of what? Of a piece of music, right? But we can ask the question, ""But is it music?"" And I say this rhetorically, because of course by just about any standard we would have to concede that this is, of course, a piece of music, but I put this here now because, just to set it in your brains for the moment, because we're going to return to this question. It's going to be a kind of a refrain as we go through the presentation. So here we have this piece of music by Beethoven, and my problem with it is, it's boring. I mean, you — I'm just like, a hush, huh — It's like — (Laughter) It's Beethoven, how can you say that? No, well, I don't know, it's very familiar to me. I had to practice it as a kid, and I'm really sick of it. So — (Laughter) I would, so what I might like to try to do is to change it, to transform it in some ways, to personalize it, so I might take the opening, like this idea — (Music) and then I might substitute — (Music) and then I might improvise on that melody that goes forward from there — (Music) (Music) So that might be the kind of thing — Why thank you. (Applause) That would be the kind of thing that I would do, and it's not necessarily better than the Beethoven. In fact, I think it's not better than it. The thing is — (Laughter) — it's more interesting to me. It's less boring for me. I'm really leaning into me, because I, because I have to think about what decisions I'm going to make on the fly as that Beethoven text is running in time through my head and I'm trying to figure out what kinds of transformations I'm going to make to it. So this is an engaging enterprise for me, and I've really leaned into that first person pronoun thing there, and now my face appears twice, so I think we can agree that this is a fundamentally solipsistic enterprise. (Laughter) But it's an engaging one, and it's interesting to me for a while, but then I get bored with it, and by it, I actually mean, the piano, because it becomes, it's this familiar instrument, it's timbral range is actually pretty compressed, at least when you play on the keyboard, and if you're not doing things like listening to it after you've lit it on fire or something like that, you know. It gets a little bit boring, and so pretty soon I go through other instruments, they become familiar, and eventually I find myself designing and constructing my own instrument, and I brought one with me today, and I thought I would play a little bit on it for you so you can hear what it sounds like. (Music) You gotta have doorstops, that's important. (Laughter) I've got combs. They're the only combs that I own. (Music) They're all mounted on my instruments. (Laughter) (Music) I can actually do all sorts of things. I can play with a violin bow. I don't have to use the chopsticks. So we have this sound. (Music) And with a bank of live electronics, I can change the sounds radically. (Music) (Music) Like that, and like this. (Music) And so forth. So this gives you a little bit of an idea of the sound world of this instrument, which I think is quite interesting and it puts me in the role of the inventor, and the nice thing about — This instrument is called the Mouseketeer ... (Laughter) and the cool thing about it is I'm the world's greatest Mouseketeer player. (Laughter) Okay? (Applause) So in that regard, this is one of the things, this is one of the privileges of being, and here's another role, the inventor, and by the way, when I told you that I'm the world's greatest, if you're keeping score, we've had narcissism and solipsism and now a healthy dose of egocentricism. I know some of you are just, you know, bingo! Or, I don't know. (Laughter) Anyway, so this is also a really enjoyable role. I should concede also that I'm the world's worst Mouseketeer player, and it was this distinction that I was most worried about when I was on that prior side of the tenure divide. I'm glad I'm past that. We're not going to go into that. I'm crying on the inside. There are still scars. Anyway, but I guess my point is that all of these enterprises are engaging to me in their multiplicity, but as I've presented them to you today, they're actually solitary enterprises, and so pretty soon I want to commune with other people, and so I'm delighted that in fact I get to compose works for them. I get to write, sometimes for soloists and I get to work with one person, sometimes full orchestras, and I work with a lot of people, and this is probably the capacity, the role creatively for which I'm probably best known professionally. Now, some of my scores as a composer look like this, and others look like this, and some look like this, and I make all of these by hand, and it's really tedious. It takes a long, long time to make these scores, and right now I'm working on a piece that's 180 pages in length, and it's just a big chunk of my life, and I'm just pulling out hair. I have a lot of it, and that's a good thing I suppose. (Laughter) So this gets really boring and really tiresome for me, so after a while the process of notating is not only boring, but I actually want the notation to be more interesting, and so that's pushed me to do other projects like this one. This is an excerpt from a score called ""The Metaphysics of Notation."" The full score is 72 feet wide. It's a bunch of crazy pictographic notation. Let's zoom in on one section of it right here. You can see it's rather detailed. I do all of this with drafting templates, with straight edges, with French curves, and by freehand, and the 72 feet was actually split into 12 six-foot-wide panels that were installed around the Cantor Arts Center Museum lobby balcony, and it appeared for one year in the museum, and during that year, it was experienced as visual art most of the week, except, as you can see in these pictures, on Fridays, from noon til one, and only during that time, various performers came and interpreted these strange and undefined pictographic glyphs. (Laughter) Now this was a really exciting experience for me. It was gratifying musically, but I think the more important thing is it was exciting because I got to take on another role, especially given that it appeared in a museum, and that is as visual artist. (Laughter) We're going to fill up the whole thing, don't worry. (Laughter) I am multitudes. (Laughter) So one of the things is that, I mean, some people would say, like, ""Oh, you're being a dilettante,"" and maybe that's true. I can understand how, I mean, because I don't have a pedigree in visual art and I don't have any training, but it's just something that I wanted to do as an extension of my composition, as an extension of a kind of creative impulse. I can understand the question, though. ""But is it music?"" I mean, there's not any traditional notation. I can also understand that sort of implicit criticism in this piece, ""S-tog,"" which I made when I was living in Copenhagen. I took the Copenhagen subway map and I renamed all the stations to abstract musical provocations, and the players, who are synchronized with stopwatches, follow the timetables, which are listed in minutes past the hour. So this is a case of actually adapting something, or maybe stealing something, and then turning it into a musical notation. Another adaptation would be this piece. I took the idea of the wristwatch, and I turned it into a musical score. I made my own faces, and had a company fabricate them, and the players follow these scores. They follow the second hands, and as they pass over the various symbols, the players respond musically. Here's another example from another piece, and then its realization. So in these two capacities, I've been scavenger, in the sense of taking, like, the subway map, right, or thief maybe, and I've also been designer, in the case of making the wristwatches. And once again, this is, for me, interesting. Another role that I like to take on is that of the performance artist. Some of my pieces have these kind of weird theatric elements, and I often perform them. I want to show you a clip from a piece called ""Echolalia."" This is actually being performed by Brian McWhorter, who is an extraordinary performer. Let's watch a little bit of this, and please notice the instrumentation. (Music) Okay, I hear you were laughing nervously because you too could hear that the drill was a little bit sharp, the intonation was a little questionable. (Laughter) Let's watch just another clip. (Music) You can see the mayhem continues, and there's, you know, there were no clarinets and trumpets and flutes and violins. Here's a piece that has an even more unusual, more peculiar instrumentation. This is ""Tlön,"" for three conductors and no players. (Laughter) This was based on the experience of actually watching two people having a virulent argument in sign language, which produced no decibels to speak of, but affectively, psychologically, was a very loud experience. So, yeah, I get it, with, like, the weird appliances and then the total absence of conventional instruments and this glut of conductors, people might, you know, wonder, yeah, ""Is this music?"" But let's move on to a piece where clearly I'm behaving myself, and that is my ""Concerto for Orchestra."" You're going to notice a lot of conventional instruments in this clip. (Music) (Music) This, in fact, is not the title of this piece. I was a bit mischievous. In fact, to make it more interesting, I put a space right in here, and this is the actual title of the piece. Let's continue with that same excerpt. (Music) It's better with a florist, right? (Laughter) (Music) Or at least it's less boring. Let's watch a couple more clips. (Music) So with all these theatric elements, this pushes me in another role, and that would be, possibly, the dramaturge. I was playing nice. I had to write the orchestra bits, right? Okay? But then there was this other stuff, right? There was the florist, and I can understand that, once again, we're putting pressure on the ontology of music as we know it conventionally, but let's look at one last piece today I'm going to share with you. This is going to be a piece called ""Aphasia,"" and it's for hand gestures synchronized to sound, and this invites yet another role, and final one I'll share with you, which is that of the choreographer. And the score for the piece looks like this, and it instructs me, the performer, to make various hand gestures at very specific times synchronized with an audio tape, and that audio tape is made up exclusively of vocal samples. I recorded an awesome singer, and I took the sound of his voice in my computer, and I warped it in countless ways to come up with the soundtrack that you're about to hear. And I'll perform just an excerpt of ""Aphasia"" for you here. Okay? (Music) So that gives you a little taste of that piece. (Applause) Yeah, okay, that's kind of weird stuff. Is it music? Here's how I want to conclude. I've decided, ultimately, that this is the wrong question, that this is not the important question. The important question is, ""Is it interesting?"" And I follow this question, not worrying about ""Is it music?"" — not worrying about the definition of the thing that I'm making. I allow my creativity to push me in directions that are simply interesting to me, and I don't worry about the likeness of the result to some notion, some paradigm, of what music composition is supposed to be, and that has actually urged me, in a sense, to take on a whole bunch of different roles, and so what I want you to think about is, to what extent might you change the fundamental question in your discipline, and, okay, I'm going to put one extra little footnote in here, because, like, I realized I mentioned some psychological defects earlier, and we also, along the way, had a fair amount of obsessive behavior, and there was some delusional behavior and things like that, and here I think we could say that this is an argument for self-loathing and a kind of schizophrenia, at least in the popular use of the term, and I really mean dissociative identity disorder, okay. (Laughter) Anyway, despite those perils, I would urge you to think about the possibility that you might take on roles in your own work, whether they are neighboring or far-flung from your professional definition. And with that, I thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	"我以為如果我跳一跳會比較不緊張但我其實有種矛盾的感受所以那是糟糕的主意（笑聲） 總之，我真的很開心接到邀請來向你們展示一些我身為作曲家的音樂和作品我想這是因為這滿足了我知名且嚴重的自戀傾向（笑聲）這並不是在開玩笑我只是覺得我們應該先開誠布公再繼續下去（笑聲） 但重點是，這產生一種矛盾就是我已漸漸對音樂感到無聊我也對我作曲家的身分感到無趣所以我決定將「無聊」這個想法成為我今天演講的主題我將會與你們分享我的音樂但我希望使用說故事的方式告訴你們一個故事有關我如何使用「無聊」來當創意和創造力的催化劑和「無聊」如何迫使我改變我在這個領域的基本問題還有「無聊」如何促使我讓作曲家這角色超越傳統、狹隘的定義 我今天要以一首短短的鋼琴節錄作品作為開始（音樂）對，這是我寫的（笑聲）不，這不是（掌聲）謝謝不，這不是我寫的事實上，這是貝多芬的曲子而我並不是擔任作曲家的身分我只是作為一位詮釋者所以我作為一位作品詮釋者詮釋什麼？一首曲子對吧？但我們可以問：""這是音樂嗎？""而我是故意這麼說因為當然，用任何標準我們必須勉強承認這當然是一首樂曲但是我這麼說是因為我想讓你的腦中停留著這個問題因為我們晚一點會回到這問題這會是這場演講中我們要不斷檢視的問題 我們在這聽這首貝多芬的曲子而我的問題是，這好無趣我的意思是，這就像...（笑聲）這是貝多芬，你怎麼能這麼說呢？我也不知道，我對這首曲子十分熟悉我小時候必須練這首曲子，而我真的很厭倦（笑聲）所以我想試著改變它讓它個人化所以我可能會把開頭（音樂）改成這樣（音樂）然後隨興發揮這個旋律它就會變成這樣（音樂）（音樂） 所以基本就是這樣謝謝（掌聲）就會變成我改編的這樣雖然它不一定比貝多芬好我覺得沒有比貝多芬好，但是（笑聲）這對我而言比較有趣，不無聊我一直強調「我」，因為我必須思考當我的手飛快的彈奏貝多芬的曲目時我要做什麼決定我也必須搞清楚我將要做什麼樣的改變所以這變成我目前致力的事業這就是為什麼我必須一直強調「我」這個第一人稱代名詞而我的臉已經出現兩次，所以我們可以同意這基本上是個「唯我論」的事業（笑聲）但這真的是迷人的事情，我也覺得很有趣但過了一陣子，我又覺得無聊了無聊的原因是鋼琴因為它是種常見的樂器但它的音域是被限制的至少當你彈琴時是這樣而如果你不去仔細聽它就像它被點上火之類的它很快地也變得有些無聊我嘗試過其它樂器，也漸漸熟悉它們最終我發現我在設計和打造我自己的樂器而我今天有帶其中一種來而我會用它彈奏一小段給你聽你就知道它聽起來是什麼樣子 （音樂） 你必須要有門擋，這很重要（笑聲）我也有梳子，這是我唯一擁有的梳子（音樂）它們全都在我的樂器之中（笑聲） （音樂） 我其實可以做很多事情我可以用琴弓演奏 不用筷子所以我們有這樣的聲音（音樂）若再加上一組電子儀器我可以徹底的改變聲音（音樂）（音樂）像這樣，和這樣（音樂）和其他類似這樣的 所以這讓你稍稍了解這個樂器的各種聲音我覺得蠻有趣的這讓我成為一位發明家很棒的是這樂器叫做「鼠劍客」（笑聲）而很酷的事是我是世界上「鼠劍客」最棒的演奏家（笑聲）OK？（掌聲）所以講到這，這是其中一件讓我感到榮幸讓我成為發明家順道一提當我跟你說我是世界上最棒的人如果你還記得，你知道我是很自戀和唯我論的而現在我還是個自我中心的人我知道你們有些人早就知道了（笑聲） 所以這是我很享受的一個角色我也應該承認我是世界上最差的「鼠劍客」演奏家而這讓我擔憂，我跟我之前的角色沒有太大的差別我很高興我已經不再擔憂我們就不繼續談這件事了我的內心仍在哭泣，心中有疤 我猜我想說的是所有這些事業都讓我對它們有不同的體驗當我展示給你們看時他們的確是很孤獨的事業而很快的我會想再跟其他人交流我會很開心能夠幫別人編曲我開始寫曲，有時是幫獨奏家所以我跟一個人合作有時候是跟整個樂團，會跟很多人合作而或許這個能力，創意家的角色是我最知名的專業現在，很多我寫的曲子看起來像這樣還有其他的像這樣有些像這樣我都是用手填寫的，非常枯燥乏味要花很多很多時間來填譜而現在我正在寫一首曲子譜總共有180頁占了我一大部分的生活，讓我抓頭髮我有很多頭髮，所以我想這是件好事（笑聲） 這讓我感到很無聊且勞累所以過了一陣子填譜變得很無聊但我其實希望這件事變得更有趣所以那促使我著手其他像這樣的計劃 這是一段摘錄從《填譜的形式學》這首曲子整首歌有72英呎長全都是用怪異的符號寫成讓我們放大檢視這個區塊，你可以看到它其實很詳細，我都是用有銳利手柄的模尺和曲線模板，用手畫而72英呎又分為12個6英呎長的嵌板裝在藝術中心大廳的台廊在那待了一年在那一年，大部分的時間，它被展示就像一般視覺藝術那樣，除了，如你所見的在星期五，中午到1點，只有在那段時間不同的演奏家來詮釋這些怪異無法定義的圖像 這對我而言是個值得興奮的經驗它在音樂上使人滿足，但我想重要的是，我很興奮因為我又有其他的角色特別是可以在藝術館展示那種我是視覺藝術家（笑聲）我們會慢慢把這整個頁面填滿，別擔心（笑聲）我很多才多藝的（笑聲） 所以有時候有些人會說""喔，你只是半調子的藝術家""也許的確如此，我可以了解為什麼因為我並非視覺藝術出身我也沒受過任何相關訓練但這只是種我希望我在編曲以外能做的事情像是某種創意強迫症的延伸 我可以了解這個問題：""這是音樂嗎？""因為那並不是傳統的樂譜我也可以了解那些含蓄的批評這是我住在哥本哈根時創作的作品""鐵路""我用哥本哈根的地鐵地圖並將所有的車站重新命名為抽象的音樂術語而演奏家們都帶著同步的碼表照著時刻表，是用幾時幾分顯示的 這例子就是真的改寫某種東西或是偷某種東西然後將它轉化為樂譜 另一個改編是這個作品我將手錶轉化成樂譜我自己製做錶面，請一間公司組裝而演奏家照著這個譜他們照著秒針演奏，當秒針經過不同的符號，演奏家也跟著做音樂性的回應這是另一個作品而這是成品 所以在這兩種才能中，我是拾荒者蒐集像是地鐵地圖，沒錯或也許像小偷，而我也是設計師像是設計這個手錶我再次說，這對我而言很有趣 我的另一個角色是表演藝術家我有些作品有這些怪異、戲劇化的元素而我經常演奏它們，我想給你們看一段影片是一首叫《模仿他人言語》的曲子這是Brian McWhorter所演奏的他是一位很棒的演奏家我們來看一小段，請注意其演奏方式 （音樂） 我可以聽見你們不安的笑聲因為你也聽到電鑽的聲音有些刺耳這首歌的音調似乎出了點問題（笑聲）我們再看另一段影片 （音樂） 你可以看到這破壞行動仍然持續進行而這裡並沒有豎笛、小喇叭長笛和小提琴而這裡有另一段影片更不尋常，有更怪異的演奏方式 這首是《Tlön》，有3個指揮但沒有演奏家（笑聲） 這是根據以下的經驗，觀看兩個人正在透過手語進行惡毒的爭吵完全沒有音量但卻有影響力、心理層面的「震撼」經驗 所以我了解，這些怪異的器具沒有任何常見樂器太多的指揮你可能會想""這是音樂嗎？"" 但讓我們在聽一首我很「安分」譜寫的曲子這是我的《給交響樂團的協奏曲》你會看到很多一般常見的樂器出現在這段影片中（音樂）（音樂） 這不是這首曲子的名稱我有一點調皮，只想讓它看更有趣我在這裡拿掉一個字，這才是真正的曲名《給花店老闆和交響樂團的協奏曲》我們再繼續聽這首《給花店老闆和交響樂團的協奏曲》（音樂）《給花店老闆和交響樂團的協奏曲》 我做花店老闆肯定不錯，對吧？（笑聲）（音樂）或至少沒有這麼無聊我們再多看幾個影片（音樂） 所以這些有戲劇性的元素讓我又進入另一個角色那就是戲劇家我很安分吧？因為我必須為樂團譜曲但這裡又有這個花店老闆所以我可以理解我們再度挑戰音樂的本質不是像我們一般熟悉的那樣這是我今天要與你們分享的最後一首歌 它叫《失語症》它讓手勢跟聲響同步而這又賦予我另一個角色，是最後一個那就是編舞家這首歌的譜看起來是這樣它指導我這個表演者在特定的時間做不同的手勢並與錄音帶同步，而那錄音帶是只用語音樣本所製成的我錄下一位很棒的歌手的聲音而我將他的聲音放到電腦並用各種方式扭曲這個聲音做成你現在要聽到的這首歌而我將表演《失語症》的其中一段給你看（音樂）所以你們大概知道這首歌的樣子（掌聲） 這首歌的確很奇怪它是音樂嗎？我將這麼結論我最終決定，這問題是錯誤的因為這問題並不重要重要的是：""它有趣嗎？""而我接續這個問題不再擔憂「是不是音樂」這件事也不擔憂到底該如何定義我的作品我讓我的創意引領我走向我感興趣的方向我並不擔心結果如何是不是合乎一些講述樂曲應該如何構成的見解和先例是不是合乎一些講述樂曲應該如何構成的見解和先例這某種程度促使我身兼許多角色所以我希望你們思考的是對於你領域的基本準則你會做何種程度的改變對於你領域的基本準則你會做何種程度的改變我要再註明一小件事因為，像我之前提到我有些心理上的缺點而我們在某些事情上都有不少的偏執行為就像某些人有妄想的行為我認為我們可以這麼論定是自我厭惡或用比較常見的說法是精神分裂症而我其實覺得這是自我認同分裂失調（笑聲）但除此之外，我鼓勵你思考你可以扮演其他角色的可能性在你的職場專業中，不管有關或是完全不相關 非常感謝（掌聲） （掌聲）"
