Talk	en	zh-tw
mark_shaw_one_very_dry_demo	"I'm here to show you how something you can't see can be so much fun to look at. You're about to experience a new, available and exciting technology that's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives. What I have here is a cinder block that we've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material. It's called Ultra-Ever Dry, and when you apply it to any material, it turns into a superhydrophobic shield. So this is a cinder block, uncoated, and you can see that it's porous, it absorbs water. Not anymore. Porous, nonporous. So what's superhydrophobic? Superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface. The rounder it is, the more hydrophobic it is, and if it's really round, it's superhydrophobic. A freshly waxed car, the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees. A windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees. But what you're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees, and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic. So as part of the demonstration, what I have is a pair of gloves, and we've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating, and let's see if you can tell which one, and I'll give you a hint. Did you guess the one that was dry? When you have nanotechnology and nanoscience, what's occurred is that we're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits. And we're talking really small here. The way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers, and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter, and to put some scale to that, if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick, and you put it side by side, and you had 50,000 of them, you'd be the width of a human hair. So very small, but very useful. And it's not just water that this works with. It's a lot of water-based materials like concrete, water-based paint, mud, and also some refined oils as well. You can see the difference. Moving onto the next demonstration, we've taken a pane of glass and we've coated the outside of it, we've framed it with the nanotechnology coating, and we're going to pour this green-tinted water inside the middle, and you're going to see, it's going to spread out on glass like you'd normally think it would, except when it hits the coating, it stops, and I can't even coax it to leave. It's that afraid of the water. (Applause) So what's going on here? What's happening? Well, the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface. You'd think it'd be smooth, but it's actually not. And it has billions of interstitial spaces, and those spaces, along with the nanoparticles, reach up and grab the air molecules, and cover the surface with air. It's an umbrella of air all across it, and that layer of air is what the water hits, the mud hits, the concrete hits, and it glides right off. So if I put this inside this water here, you can see a silver reflective coating around it, and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that's protecting the water from touching the paddle, and it's dry. So what are the applications? I mean, many of you right now are probably going through your head. Everyone that sees this gets excited, and says, ""Oh, I could use it for this and this and this."" The applications in a general sense could be anything that's anti-wetting. We've certainly seen that today. It could be anything that's anti-icing, because if you don't have water, you don't have ice. It could be anti-corrosion. No water, no corrosion. It could be anti-bacterial. Without water, the bacteria won't survive. And it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well. So imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work. And I'm going to leave you with one last demonstration, but before I do that, I would like to say thank you, and think small. (Applause) It's going to happen. Wait for it. Wait for it. Chris Anderson: You guys didn't hear about us cutting out the Design from TED? (Laughter) [Two minutes later...] He ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part. It's happening! (Applause)"	"我到這裡是來給你們展示那些你看不見的東西是怎樣變得看起來很有趣。你們將會經歷一次全新的、可應用的而且是令人興奮的技術，使我們進而重新思考我們是如何在生活中運用防水技術 現在我有一塊空心煤渣磚其中一邊我們塗上了奈米技術噴霧這個噴霧幾乎所有材料都能適用它叫做""超級乾燥""當你運用在任何材料上的時候它會形成一種超潑水防護層那麼，這裏有一塊未經噴塗的煤渣磚你可以看出它是有孔、可以滲透的，所以能吸收水分這邊就不會了。可滲透的，不可滲透的 那麼超潑水是什麼意思呢？超潑水是我們用來測量在表面上的水滴水滴形狀越圓，就代表越防水如果它真的特別的圓，那它就是超潑水一輛剛剛上了蠟的車，上頭的水分子會下降到大約90度。一面擋風玻璃表層則大約是110度但你現在看到，在這裡的是160到175度，只要超過150度的都算是超潑水那麼作為展示的一部分，我這裡有一雙手套我給其中一個做噴塗處理過採用奈米技術塗層然後我讓你們猜一下有塗過的是哪一個我會給你們一點提示 你猜出哪一個是乾的了嗎？ 當你有奈米技術和奈米科學的時候，隨即發生的是，我們現在有辦法看著原子和分子並且操控它們從而帶來好處。我們現在說的是非常小的事物是用毫微米來測量奈米技術而一毫微米是十億分之一米給他一個具體規模表示，如果你有一個奈米顆粒是一毫微米的厚度，然後將它一排排並排起來，一共有50,000個，那就是一絲頭髮的寬度了所以這非常的小，但非常好用 然後它還不只是對水才有作用而已很多以水為基底的材料都可以的，比如混凝土水性漆泥漿以及一些精煉油 你也看到了，這兩邊是不一樣的。 下一個展示當中，我們拿了一塊玻璃板並在它的外緣上做塗層我們把它嵌入奈米技術塗層的框架裏現在我們要把這個綠色的水倒入中間你會看到，水會在玻璃板上分散開就如同你們一般想像的一樣，只不過當它碰上邊緣的塗層，它就停下來了我甚至用手都無法將水撥出去這個塗層非常的怕水 （掌聲） 那麼現在怎麼樣了呢? 發生什麼呢?嗯，這個帶有噴霧塗層的表面實際上填滿了奈米顆粒這些顆粒會形成一個非常粗糙而且凹凸的表層你覺得它很光滑，不過實際上不是而且它其實有數十億的空隙而這些空隙呢，與其他的奈米顆粒一起伸向空氣分子並抓住它們然後在表面上罩上一層空氣。這相當於在上面撐起一層空氣保護傘這層空氣就是水會碰到的那個表層泥漿一碰到、混凝土一碰到，就立馬滑落。所以如果我把這個放到水裡你會看到一層銀色的塗層在反光而這層銀色反光塗層就是空氣層，它會保護這個槳不受水的侵襲，所以就會保持乾燥 那這個技術到底有哪些用處呢？我是指，你們很多人現在可能在想每個看到這個技術的人都會很興奮，然後說“哦，我可以用它來做這個、這個還有這個。”大致上來看，這個技術可以用來防濕那我們今天也確實看到了這個作用它還可以用來防止結冰因為如果沒有水，就不會有冰它也可以拿來防鏽沒有水，就不會腐蝕它也可以用來抗菌沒有水，這些細菌就無法生存還能用在任何需要自動清潔、耐髒汙的東西上面 所以想像一下這樣的東西要怎麼幫助你們在工作領域上做出變革我現在要向你們展示最後一樣，不過在此之前，我想要說謝謝你們以及思考微小的事物（掌聲）快出來了，等一下! 等一下! Chris Anderson：你們大家沒聽說過我們會把 TED 中的 Design 給刪掉了嗎？（笑） [兩分鐘後...] 在管理醫學研究部分他總是遇到各種問題出現了！（掌聲）"
