Talk	en	zh-tw
martin_reeves_how_to_build_a_business_that_lasts_100_years	"Imagine that you are a product designer. And you've designed a product, a new type of product, called the human immune system. You're pitching this product to a skeptical, strictly no-nonsense manager. Let's call him Bob. I think we all know at least one Bob, right? How would that go? Bob, I've got this incredible idea for a completely new type of personal health product. It's called the human immune system. I can see from your face that you're having some problems with this. Don't worry. I know it's very complicated. I don't want to take you through the gory details, I just want to tell you about some of the amazing features of this product. First of all, it cleverly uses redundancy by having millions of copies of each component — leukocytes, white blood cells — before they're actually needed, to create a massive buffer against the unexpected. And it cleverly leverages diversity by having not just leukocytes but B cells, T cells, natural killer cells, antibodies. The components don't really matter. The point is that together, this diversity of different approaches can cope with more or less anything that evolution has been able to throw up. And the design is completely modular. You have the surface barrier of the human skin, you have the very rapidly reacting innate immune system and then you have the highly targeted adaptive immune system. The point is, that if one system fails, another can take over, creating a virtually foolproof system. I can see I'm losing you, Bob, but stay with me, because here is the really killer feature. The product is completely adaptive. It's able to actually develop targeted antibodies to threats that it's never even met before. It actually also does this with incredible prudence, detecting and reacting to every tiny threat, and furthermore, remembering every previous threat, in case they are ever encountered again. What I'm pitching you today is actually not a stand-alone product. The product is embedded in the larger system of the human body, and it works in complete harmony with that system, to create this unprecedented level of biological protection. So Bob, just tell me honestly, what do you think of my product? And Bob may say something like, I sincerely appreciate the effort and passion that have gone into your presentation, blah blah blah — (Laughter) But honestly, it's total nonsense. You seem to be saying that the key selling points of your product are that it is inefficient and complex. Didn't they teach you 80-20? And furthermore, you're saying that this product is siloed. It overreacts, makes things up as it goes along and is actually designed for somebody else's benefit. I'm sorry to break it to you, but I don't think this one is a winner. If we went with Bob's philosophy, I think we'd actually end up with a more efficient immune system. And efficiency is always important in the short term. Less complex, more efficient, more bang for the buck. Who could say no to that? Unfortunately, there's one very tiny problem, and that is that the user of this product, you or I, would probably die within one week of the next winter, when we encountered a new strain of the influenza virus. I first became interested in biology and business, and longevity and resilience, when I was asked a very unusual question by the CEO of a global tech company. And the question was: What do we have to do to make sure that our company lasts 100 years? A seemingly innocent question, but actually, it's a little trickier than you might think, considering that the average US public company now can expect a life span of only 30 years. That is less than half of the life span that its employees can expect to enjoy. Now, if you were the CEO of such a company, badgered by investors and buffeted by change, we might forgive you for not even worrying too much about what happens 30 years out. But here's something that should keep you awake at night: the probability that your company will not be around in five year's time, on average, is now a staggering 32 percent. That's a one in three chance that your company will be taken over or will fail within just five years. Let's come back to our tech CEO's question. Where better to turn for advice than nature, that's been in the business of life and death for longer than any company? As a lapsed biologist, I decided to immediately call a real biologist, my friend Simon Levin, Professor of Biology and Mathematics at Princeton University. Together, we looked at a variety of biological systems, ranging from natural tropical rainforests through to managed forests and fisheries. And we asked ourselves the question: What makes these systems resilient and enduring? And what we found was that the same six principles that we saw underpinning the miracle of the human immune system actually cropped up again and again, from redundancy through to embeddedness. In fact, we saw these principles not only in biologically enduring systems, we also found them being very characteristic of long-lived social systems, like the Roman Empire and the Catholic Church, believe it or not. We also went on to look at business, and found that these very same properties also characterized businesses that were resilient and long-lived, and we noted their absence from ones which were short-lived. Let's first take a look at what happens when the corporate immune system collapses. This beautiful building is part of the Shitennoji Temple Complex in Osaka, Japan. In fact, it's one of the oldest temples in Japan. It was built by a Korean artisan, because at the time, Japan was not yet building temples. And this Korean artisan went on to found a temple-building company. Amazingly, his company, Kongō Gumi, was still around 1,428 years later. In fact, it became the oldest continuously operating company in the world. So how is Kongō Gumi doing today? Not too well, I'm afraid. It borrowed very heavily during the bubble period of the Japanese economy, to invest in real estate. And when the bubble burst, it couldn't refinance its loans. The company failed, and it was taken over by a major construction company. Tragically, after 40 generations of very careful stewardship by the Kongō family, Kongō Gumi succumbed to a spectacular lapse in the ability to apply a principle of prudence. Speaking of company failures: we're all familiar with the failure of Kodak, the company that declared bankruptcy in January 2012. Much more interesting, however, is the question: Why did Fujifilm — same product, same pressures from digital technology, same time — why was Fujifilm able to survive and flourish? Fujifilm used its capabilities in chemistry, material science and optics to diversify into a number of areas, ranging from cosmetics to pharmaceuticals, to medical systems to biomaterials. Some of these diversification attempts failed. But in aggregate, it was able to adapt its portfolio sufficiently to survive and flourish. As the CEO, Mr. Komori, put it, the strategy succeeded because it had ""more pockets and drawers"" than the rivals. He meant, of course, that they were able to create more options than the rivals. Fujifilm survived because it applied the principles of prudence, diversity and adaptation. A catastrophic factory fire, like the one we see here, completely wiped out, in one evening, the only plant which supplied Toyota with valves for car-braking systems. The ultimate test of resilience. Car production ground to a screeching halt. How was it, then, that Toyota was able to recover car production? Can you imagine how long it took? Just five days. From having no braking valves to complete recovery in five days. How was this possible? Toyota managed its network of suppliers in such a collaborative manner that it could work very quickly and smoothly with suppliers to repurpose production, fill the missing braking valve capacity and have car production come online again. Toyota applied the principles of modularity of its supply network, embeddedness in an integrated system and the functional redundancy to be able to repurpose, smoothly, existing capacity. Now fortunately, few companies succumb to catastrophic fires. But we do read in the newspaper every day about companies succumbing to the disruption of technology. How is it, then, that the consumer optics giant Essilor is able to avoid technology disruption, and even profit from it? And yes, technology disruption is not only a big deal in software and electronics. Essilor carefully scans the competitive environment for potentially disruptive technologies. It acquires those technologies very early, before they've become expensive or competitors have mobilized around them, and it then develops those technologies itself, even at the risk of failure or the risk of self-disruption. Essilor stays ahead of its game, and has delivered spectacular performance for over 40 years, by using the principles of prudence and adaptation. OK, if these principles are so powerful, you might be thinking, why are they not commonplace in business? Why do we not use these words every day? Well, change has to first start in the mind. If we think back to our pitch to Bob, in order to apply the principles that underpin the miracle of the human immune system, we first need to think differently about business. Now typically, when we think about business, we use what I call ""mechanical thinking."" We set goals, we analyze problems, we construct and we adhere to plans, and more than anything else, we stress efficiency and short-term performance. Now, don't get me wrong — this is a splendidly practical and effective way of addressing relatively simple challenges in relatively stable environments. It's the way that Bob — and probably many of us, myself included — process most business problems we're faced with every day. In fact, it was a pretty good mental model for business — overall — until about the mid-1980s, when the conjunction of globalization and a revolution in technology and telecommunications made business far more dynamic and unpredictable. But what about those more dynamic and unpredictable situations that we now increasingly face? I think in addition to the mechanical thinking, we now need to master the art of biological thinking, as embodied by our six principles. In other words, we need to think more modestly and subtly about when and how we can shape, rather than control, unpredictable and complex situations. It's a little like the difference between throwing a ball and releasing a bird. The ball would head in a straight line, probably towards the intended target, and the bird certainly would not. So what do you think? Sounds a little impractical, a little theoretical, perhaps? Not at all. Every small entrepreneurial company naturally thinks and acts biologically. Why? Because it lacks the resources to shape its environment through brute force. It lacks the scale to buffer change, and it's constantly thinking about the tough odds for a start-up to survive. Now, the irony is, of course, that every large company started off as a small, entrepreneurial company. But along the way somewhere, many have lost this ability to think and act biologically. They need to rejuvenate their ability to think biologically in order to survive and thrive in today's environment. So let's not just think about short-term performance. Every company I know spends plenty of time thinking about the central question of strategy: How good is our competitive game? In addition, let's also consider the second, more biological and equally important question: How long will that game last? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	想像一下，你現在是一位產品設計師。你已經設計好一個產品，一種新產品，叫做人類免疫系統。你正在向一個多疑、嚴格、少廢話的經理投售簡報你的這項產品。我們就叫他「包柏」吧。各位至少都有認識一位叫「包柏」的人，對吧？會如何進行呢？ 包柏，我有一個很棒的想法，一個全新型態的個人健康產品。它叫做人類免疫系統。我看到你臉上對這項產品充滿了狐疑。但別擔心，我知道這產品很複雜。我不會贅述那些無聊的細節，我只會告訴你一些這項產品的主要特色。首先，這項產品很聰明地運用了冗餘設計，它擁有上百萬的備用組織——白血球，白血球細胞——在必要的時候，會大量製造出來來對抗意外的發生。而且它還有「多樣性」的特徵，不僅有白血球，還有 B 細胞、Ｔ細胞、自然殺手細胞、抗體。成分並不是那麼重要，重點是，全部加在一起，這種多樣性的方式，幾乎可以解決演化中出現的所有問題。而且，它的設計十分「模塊化」，會讓你有人類皮膚表面的天然屏障功效、還有反應非常快的內部免疫系統，還有針對病因適應力極強的高效免疫系統，重點是，即使一種機制失效另一種也能及時補上創造出十分安全的系統。 我知道你開始聽不懂了，但包柏請聽我說完因為我接下來要介紹一個超殺的特色。這個產品有超強的適應力，它可以針對從未見過的病原制造出相應的抗體它還可以十分精準地發現並對各種微不足道的危機做出反應，除此之外，它還有記憶每一個危機的功能，萬一發生之前同樣的威脅時，它可以立刻抵抗。我今天向你投售報告的，其實不是一種獨立運作的產品這個產品與整個人體相結合完全與人體系統相容，創造出了前所未有的生物保護水準。所以包柏，老實說，你覺得我的產品如何？ 然後，包柏可能會這樣說，我真摯地讚賞你在展示中所表現出的努力和熱情。還有......（開始廢話） （笑聲） 但說實在的，好像沒什麼道理。你好像在說明，產品的主要賣點是沒什麼效率且複雜的。他們沒有教你 80/20 法則嗎？此外，你還提到，這個產品很浪費，它反應過於激烈制造出很多無效的東西，它的效益明顯不高。很抱歉，要讓你失望了，但我不認為你的產品可以勝出。 如果我們同意鮑勃的觀點我們實際上最終會生產出更高效的免疫系統而且效率在短期來說往往十分重要少些覆雜、多些效率、便宜又大碗，誰會想拒絕？很不幸的，還有一個很小的問題，就是這個產品的使用者，你或我，在下一個冬季，當我們遇上一個新型的流感病毒時可能在一個星期內就會死亡。 我第一次對生物學、事業、以及持久性和抗壓性變得這麼有興趣，是被一個全球科技公司的CEO問了一個問題的時後。那個問題是這樣：我們要如何確保公司持續運作超過100年？看上去是一個幼稚的問題，卻比你想像中的還要複雜，因為目前美國上市公司的預期平均壽命只有30年。這幾乎是它的員工工作壽命的一半。 現在，如果你就是這麼一家公司的CEO，被投資人煩的要死又要忙於應付市場的變化，我們也許還能體諒你沒時間思考公司未來的30年方向。但有件事應該會讓你晚上睡不著覺：你的公司在5年後倒閉的可能性平均在32%上下浮動也就是有將近三分之一的機率你的公司會在5年後被轉手或是倒閉。 讓我們回到科技總裁的問題。哪裏有向比大自然學習更好的方法呢？大自然已經在生死輪回的遊戲中比任何公司存活得還要久。身為一位外行的生物學家，我決定馬上去請教真正內行的生物學家，我的朋友賽門萊文，普林斯頓大學的生物數學教授。我們共同研究了許多生態系統，範圍從天然熱帶雨林到人造森林和漁業。我們問自己一個問題：是什麼使這些系統具有抗壓能力和持續性的？ 我們發現恰恰是支撐人體免疫系統的六條規律。從冗餘設計到鑲嵌性一次又一次的出現。實際上，我們發現到，這些準則不僅出現在生物永續系統中，它們在壽命長久的社會系統中也表現得十分突出，例如羅馬帝國及天主教教堂，信不信由你。我們還深入研究企業，也發現它們在堅韌且長久的企業中也表現的非常明顯。我們也注意到，缺乏這些要素的企業，通常也比較短命。 我們先來看看，當企業的免疫機制失效時會發生什麼。這一棟漂亮的建築物是日本大阪天王寺院的其中一部分。實際上，它是日本最古老的寺廟。由一位韓國工匠所建築的，因為當時，日本尚未開始蓋寺廟。這位韓國工匠前往日本設立了寺廟建築公司。令人驚訝的是，他的公司 Kongō Gumi，1480年後，依然存在。實際上，它是世界上持續經營最久的老公司。 那 Kongō Gumi 目前的公司狀況如何呢？恐怕不太好。它在日本泡沫經濟時，貸款了很多錢投資在房地產上。就在泡沫破滅後，公司已經無法再融資，所以公司倒了，最後被一家主流公司接手管理。可悲的是，經過了 Kongō 家族40世代的努力經營，這家公司最後還是臣服於沒有採取精準化經營而宣告停止營業。 談到公司倒閉：大家對柯達應該都耳熟能詳，這家公司在2012年一月宣布破產。然而，還有一個更有趣的問題：為什麼富士軟片——同樣的產品、數位科技的壓力、同一時期——為什麼富士軟片得以生存下來並發光發熱？ 因為富士軟片懂得把它的化工能力、材料科學及光學技術運用在不同領域，從化妝品、藥品、醫療系統到生物材料。有些多樣性的嘗試失敗了。但總體而言，它還是能採取有效的資產配置，來維持企業的生存與發展。就像其 CEO， Komori先生說的他們策略成功的原因是比對手有更多的＂口袋跟抽屜＂。當然，他的意思是，他們比對手有更多的選擇空間。富士軟片能生存的原因是，它採用了精準、多樣化、適應能力的準則。 一場災難性的工廠大火，如我們現在所看到的，就在一個晚上完全燒毀，這是唯一一家提供 豐田汽車煞車系統閥門的工廠。這是一場對抗壓能力的終極考驗。汽車產線完全被迫中止。但豐田汽車花了多久的時間回復產能？你們可以想像花了多久時間嗎？僅五天。從沒有剎車閥門到產能完全恢復只花了五天的時間。這怎麼辦到的？豐田快速整合了它的供應商網路，以同舟共濟的態度，與供應商一起快速流暢地重新規劃生產，填補掉煞車閥門被迫停產的漏洞，讓汽車的生產再度上線。豐田汽車採用了「供給網絡模塊化」原理、相互結合系統中的「鑲嵌」原理以及有效的冗餘設計來達到順利重整現有產能的目標。 很幸運的，如今僅有少數公司無法度過火災的難關。但每天新聞還是看到不少公司因顛覆性科技的破壞而瓦解。然而消費性光學巨人，依視路公司是如何避掉顛覆性科技的破壞甚至還能獲利呢？沒錯，顛覆性科技不僅僅在軟體產業和電子產業上意義重大。依視路仔細地在競爭環境中審視潛在的顛覆性科技。並將這些技術變貴或競爭對手掌握之前，盡快地取得它們，之後再發展該項技術，即使有失敗的風險或是研究中斷的風險。依視路過去四十年來一直是同業中的佼佼者，因為運用了精明和適應力準則所以業績表現一直都不錯。 好，如果這些準則這麼有效，你可能會問，為什麼它們在企業裡並不是那麼地常見？為什麼我們不每天使用這些準則？沒錯，改變需要從你的頭腦開始。如果我們回想一下對包柏做的投售報告，為了運用支撐人體免疫機制的幾條法則，我們首先需要換個角度思考企業的經營。基本上，當我們談論到企業經營，我們都常會陷入一種我稱之為「機械式思考」的迷思。我們設定目標後，會分析問題，擬定計畫並緊盯著計畫，最重要的是我們卻只著重在效率和短期表現千萬別誤會——在相對穩定的環境中，對解決相對簡單的挑戰上，這是一個相當實用而且有效的方法，這是包柏，——還有包括我在內的我們中許多人——處理我們每天面臨的大多數商業問題的辦法實際上，這曾是一個很好的商業思考模式總的來說——這個模式直到1980年代中期還都很好用，但當全球化的世代來臨、革命性科技與遠端通訊造成企業的經營，變化越來越快，越來越不可預測時， 當我們現在面臨更具變化和不可預測性的情況時該怎麼應對呢？我認為除了機械式思考外現在我們得掌握生物思考的藝術，就像我們的六條準則所傳達的一樣。換句話說，我們需要更審慎、敏感地思考，我們要何時、如何行塑這些不可測且複雜的情況，而不是控制它。這有點像扔一顆球和放飛一隻鳥的區別，球會直線往前飛行，還可能擊中你想打到的目標，但鳥顯然不能。 所以，你們怎麼想呢？是不是聽起來有點不實際，又有點純理論化了，是嗎？一點也不。每一個小型創業公司的想法與行動，天生就會有生物性的特質。為什麼？因為它們缺少塑造周圍環境條件的資源。它沒有足夠可以迎接改變的規模，且不斷地在思考如何讓初創公司度過這些艱困、零散的挑戰。現在，諷刺的是，當然每一個大型公司都是由小型企業開始。但是在發展的某一階段許多公司丟失了生物化思考和行動的能力。他們需要重拾生物化思考的能力以便在今日的環境中生存並繁榮。 讓我們不要再只考慮短期表現吧我所知道的每一個公司都花大量的時間思考他們的戰略核心：我們的競爭力還有多少榮景？除此之外，為什麼不考慮第二個，更為生物化而且同等重要的問題：這場遊戲還能持續多久？ 謝謝 （掌聲）
