Talk	en	zh-tw
martine_rothblatt_my_daughter_my_wife_our_robot_and_the_quest_for_immortality	"Chris Anderson: So I guess what we're going to do is we're going to talk about your life, and using some pictures that you shared with me. And I think we should start right here with this one. Okay, now who is this? Martine Rothblatt: This is me with our oldest son Eli. He was about age five. This is taken in Nigeria right after having taken the Washington, D.C. bar exam. CA: Okay. But this doesn't really look like a Martine. MR: Right. That was myself as a male, the way I was brought up. Before I transitioned from male to female and Martin to Martine. CA: You were brought up Martin Rothblatt. MR: Correct. CA: And about a year after this picture, you married a beautiful woman. Was this love at first sight? What happened there? MR: It was love at the first sight. I saw Bina at a discotheque in Los Angeles, and we later began living together, but the moment I saw her, I saw just an aura of energy around her. I asked her to dance. She said she saw an aura of energy around me. I was a single male parent. She was a single female parent. We showed each other our kids' pictures, and we've been happily married for a third of a century now. (Applause) CA: And at the time, you were kind of this hotshot entrepreneur, working with satellites. I think you had two successful companies, and then you started addressing this problem of how could you use satellites to revolutionize radio. Tell us about that. MR: Right. I always loved space technology, and satellites, to me, are sort of like the canoes that our ancestors first pushed out into the water. So it was exciting for me to be part of the navigation of the oceans of the sky, and as I developed different types of satellite communication systems, the main thing I did was to launch bigger and more powerful satellites, the consequence of which was that the receiving antennas could be smaller and smaller, and after going through direct television broadcasting, I had the idea that if we could make a more powerful satellite, the receiving dish could be so small that it would just be a section of a parabolic dish, a flat little plate embedded into the roof of an automobile, and it would be possible to have nationwide satellite radio, and that's Sirius XM today. CA: Wow. So who here has used Sirius? (Applause) MR: Thank you for your monthly subscriptions. (Laughter) CA: So that succeeded despite all predictions at the time. It was a huge commercial success, but soon after this, in the early 1990s, there was this big transition in your life and you became Martine. MR: Correct. CA: So tell me, how did that happen? MR: It happened in consultation with Bina and our four beautiful children, and I discussed with each of them that I felt my soul was always female, and as a woman, but I was afraid people would laugh at me if I expressed it, so I always kept it bottled up and just showed my male side. And each of them had a different take on this. Bina said, ""I love your soul, and whether the outside is Martin and Martine, it doesn't it matter to me, I love your soul."" My son said, ""If you become a woman, will you still be my father?"" And I said, ""Yes, I'll always be your father,"" and I'm still his father today. My youngest daughter did an absolutely brilliant five-year-old thing. She told people, ""I love my dad and she loves me."" So she had no problem with a gender blending whatsoever. CA: And a couple years after this, you published this book: ""The Apartheid of Sex."" What was your thesis in this book? MR: My thesis in this book is that there are seven billion people in the world, and actually, seven billion unique ways to express one's gender. And while people may have the genitals of a male or a female, the genitals don't determine your gender or even really your sexual identity. That's just a matter of anatomy and reproductive tracts, and people could choose whatever gender they want if they weren't forced by society into categories of either male or female the way South Africa used to force people into categories of black or white. We know from anthropological science that race is fiction, even though racism is very, very real, and we now know from cultural studies that separate male or female genders is a constructed fiction. The reality is a gender fluidity that crosses the entire continuum from male to female. CA: You yourself don't always feel 100 percent female. MR: Correct. I would say in some ways I change my gender about as often as I change my hairstyle. CA: (Laughs) Okay, now, this is your gorgeous daughter, Jenesis. And I guess she was about this age when something pretty terrible happened. MR: Yes, she was finding herself unable to walk up the stairs in our house to her bedroom, and after several months of doctors, she was diagnosed to have a rare, almost invariably fatal disease called pulmonary arterial hypertension. CA: So how did you respond to that? MR: Well, we first tried to get her to the best doctors we could. We ended up at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C. The head of pediatric cardiology told us that he was going to refer her to get a lung transplant, but not to hold out any hope, because there are very few lungs available, especially for children. He said that all people with this illness died, and if any of you have seen the film ""Lorenzo's Oil,"" there's a scene when the protagonist kind of rolls down the stairway crying and bemoaning the fate of his son, and that's exactly how we felt about Jenesis. CA: But you didn't accept that as the limit of what you could do. You started trying to research and see if you could find a cure somehow. MR: Correct. She was in the intensive care ward for weeks at a time, and Bina and I would tag team to stay at the hospital while the other watched the rest of the kids, and when I was in the hospital and she was sleeping, I went to the hospital library. I read every article that I could find on pulmonary hypertension. I had not taken any biology, even in college, so I had to go from a biology textbook to a college-level textbook and then medical textbook and the journal articles, back and forth, and eventually I knew enough to think that it might be possible that somebody could find a cure. So we started a nonprofit foundation. I wrote a description asking people to submit grants and we would pay for medical research. I became an expert on the condition — doctors said to me, Martine, we really appreciate all the funding you've provided us, but we are not going to be able to find a cure in time to save your daughter. However, there is a medicine that was developed at the Burroughs Wellcome Company that could halt the progression of the disease, but Burroughs Wellcome has just been acquired by Glaxo Wellcome. They made a decision not to develop any medicines for rare and orphan diseases, and maybe you could use your expertise in satellite communications to develop this cure for pulmonary hypertension. CA: So how on earth did you get access to this drug? MR: I went to Glaxo Wellcome and after three times being rejected and having the door slammed in my face because they weren't going to out-license the drug to a satellite communications expert, they weren't going to send the drug out to anybody at all, and they thought I didn't have the expertise, finally I was able to persuade a small team of people to work with me and develop enough credibility. I wore down their resistance, and they had no hope this drug would even work, by the way, and they tried to tell me, ""You're just wasting your time. We're sorry about your daughter."" But finally, for 25,000 dollars and agreement to pay 10 percent of any revenues we might ever get, they agreed to give me worldwide rights to this drug. CA: And so you put this drug on the market in a really brilliant way, by basically charging what it would take to make the economics work. MR: Oh yes, Chris, but this really wasn't a drug that I ended up — after I wrote the check for 25,000, and I said, ""Okay, where's the medicine for Jenesis?"" they said, ""Oh, Martine, there's no medicine for Jenesis. This is just something we tried in rats."" And they gave me, like, a little plastic Ziploc bag of a small amount of powder. They said, ""Don't give it to any human,"" and they gave me a piece of paper which said it was a patent, and from that, we had to figure out a way to make this medicine. A hundred chemists in the U.S. at the top universities all swore that little patent could never be turned into a medicine. If it was turned into a medicine, it could never be delivered because it had a half-life of only 45 minutes. CA: And yet, a year or two later, you were there with a medicine that worked for Jenesis. MR: Chris, the astonishing thing is that this absolutely worthless piece of powder that had the sparkle of a promise of hope for Jenesis is not only keeping Jenesis and other people alive today, but produces almost a billion and a half dollars a year in revenue. (Applause) CA: So here you go. So you took this company public, right? And made an absolute fortune. And how much have you paid Glaxo, by the way, after that 25,000? MR: Yeah, well, every year we pay them 10 percent of 1.5 billion, 150 million dollars, last year 100 million dollars. It's the best return on investment they ever received. (Laughter) CA: And the best news of all, I guess, is this. MR: Yes. Jenesis is an absolutely brilliant young lady. She's alive, healthy today at 30. You see me, Bina and Jenesis there. The most amazing thing about Jenesis is that while she could do anything with her life, and believe me, if you grew up your whole life with people in your face saying that you've got a fatal disease, I would probably run to Tahiti and just not want to run into anybody again. But instead she chooses to work in United Therapeutics. She says she wants to do all she can to help other people with orphan diseases get medicines, and today, she's our project leader for all telepresence activities, where she helps digitally unite the entire company to work together to find cures for pulmonary hypertension. CA: But not everyone who has this disease has been so fortunate. There are still many people dying, and you are tackling that too. How? MR: Exactly, Chris. There's some 3,000 people a year in the United States alone, perhaps 10 times that number worldwide, who continue to die of this illness because the medicines slow down the progression but they don't halt it. The only cure for pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, emphysema, COPD, what Leonard Nimoy just died of, is a lung transplant, but sadly, there are only enough available lungs for 2,000 people in the U.S. a year to get a lung transplant, whereas nearly a half million people a year die of end-stage lung failure. CA: So how can you address that? MR: So I conceptualize the possibility that just like we keep cars and planes and buildings going forever with an unlimited supply of building parts and machine parts, why can't we create an unlimited supply of transplantable organs to keep people living indefinitely, and especially people with lung disease. So we've teamed up with the decoder of the human genome, Craig Venter, and the company he founded with Peter Diamandis, the founder of the X Prize, to genetically modify the pig genome so that the pig's organs will not be rejected by the human body and thereby to create an unlimited supply of transplantable organs. We do this through our company, United Therapeutics. CA: So you really believe that within, what, a decade, that this shortage of transplantable lungs maybe be cured, through these guys? MR: Absolutely, Chris. I'm as certain of that as I was of the success that we've had with direct television broadcasting, Sirius XM. It's actually not rocket science. It's straightforward engineering away one gene after another. We're so lucky to be born in the time that sequencing genomes is a routine activity, and the brilliant folks at Synthetic Genomics are able to zero in on the pig genome, find exactly the genes that are problematic, and fix them. CA: But it's not just bodies that — though that is amazing. (Applause) It's not just long-lasting bodies that are of interest to you now. It's long-lasting minds. And I think this graph for you says something quite profound. What does this mean? MR: What this graph means, and it comes from Ray Kurzweil, is that the rate of development in computer processing hardware, firmware and software, has been advancing along a curve such that by the 2020s, as we saw in earlier presentations today, there will be information technology that processes information and the world around us at the same rate as a human mind. CA: And so that being so, you're actually getting ready for this world by believing that we will soon be able to, what, actually take the contents of our brains and somehow preserve them forever? How do you describe that? MR: Well, Chris, what we're working on is creating a situation where people can create a mind file, and a mind file is the collection of their mannerisms, personality, recollection, feelings, beliefs, attitudes and values, everything that we've poured today into Google, into Amazon, into Facebook, and all of this information stored there will be able, in the next couple decades, once software is able to recapitulate consciousness, be able to revive the consciousness which is imminent in our mind file. CA: Now you're not just messing around with this. You're serious. I mean, who is this? MR: This is a robot version of my beloved spouse, Bina. And we call her Bina 48. She was programmed by Hanson Robotics out of Texas. There's the centerfold from National Geographic magazine with one of her caregivers, and she roams the web and has hundreds of hours of Bina's mannerisms, personalities. She's kind of like a two-year-old kid, but she says things that blow people away, best expressed by perhaps a New York Times Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Amy Harmon who says her answers are often frustrating, but other times as compelling as those of any flesh person she's interviewed. CA: And is your thinking here, part of your hope here, is that this version of Bina can in a sense live on forever, or some future upgrade to this version can live on forever? MR: Yes. Not just Bina, but everybody. You know, it costs us virtually nothing to store our mind files on Facebook, Instagram, what-have-you. Social media is I think one of the most extraordinary inventions of our time, and as apps become available that will allow us to out-Siri Siri, better and better, and develop consciousness operating systems, everybody in the world, billions of people, will be able to develop mind clones of themselves that will have their own life on the web. CA: So the thing is, Martine, that in any normal conversation, this would sound stark-staring mad, but in the context of your life, what you've done, some of the things we've heard this week, the constructed realities that our minds give, I mean, you wouldn't bet against it. MR: Well, I think it's really nothing coming from me. If anything, I'm perhaps a bit of a communicator of activities that are being undertaken by the greatest companies in China, Japan, India, the U.S., Europe. There are tens of millions of people working on writing code that expresses more and more aspects of our human consciousness, and you don't have to be a genius to see that all these threads are going to come together and ultimately create human consciousness, and it's something we'll value. There are so many things to do in this life, and if we could have a simulacrum, a digital doppelgänger of ourselves that helps us process books, do shopping, be our best friends, I believe our mind clones, these digital versions of ourselves, will ultimately be our best friends, and for me personally and Bina personally, we love each other like crazy. Each day, we are always saying, like, ""Wow, I love you even more than 30 years ago. And so for us, the prospect of mind clones and regenerated bodies is that our love affair, Chris, can go on forever. And we never get bored of each other. I'm sure we never will. CA: I think Bina's here, right? MR: She is, yeah. CA: Would it be too much, I don't know, do we have a handheld mic? Bina, could we invite you to the stage? I just have to ask you one question. Besides, we need to see you. (Applause) Thank you, thank you. Come and join Martine here. I mean, look, when you got married, if someone had told you that, in a few years time, the man you were marrying would become a woman, and a few years after that, you would become a robot — (Laughter) — how has this gone? How has it been? Bina Rothblatt: It's been really an exciting journey, and I would have never thought that at the time, but we started making goals and setting those goals and accomplishing things, and before you knew it, we just keep going up and up and we're still not stopping, so it's great. CA: Martine told me something really beautiful, just actually on Skype before this, which was that he wanted to live for hundreds of years as a mind file, but not if it wasn't with you. BR: That's right, we want to do it together. We're cryonicists as well, and we want to wake up together. CA: So just so as you know, from my point of view, this isn't only one of the most astonishing lives I have heard, it's one of the most astonishing love stories I've ever heard. It's just a delight to have you both here at TED. Thank you so much. MR: Thank you. (Applause)"	克里斯·安德森：我們現在要做的就是談談你的生活點滴，跟大家分享你給我看的照片。我們就從這張開始。這位是誰？ 馬蒂娜·羅斯布拉特：這是我跟我大兒子伊萊。他那時大約五歲。這張照片是在奈及利亞拍的就在考完華盛頓特區律師考試。 克里斯：好的。 但這張照片看來不太像馬蒂娜。 馬蒂娜：是的。這是我還是男性的時候，我是以男兒身出生長大。在我從男性馬丁變為女性馬蒂娜之前。 克里斯：你是以馬丁·羅斯布拉特的身份長大。 馬蒂娜：是的。 克里斯：大約在拍了這張照片一年後，你娶了一位漂亮的女性。是一見鍾情嗎？那是甚麼樣的情形呢？ 馬蒂娜：是一見鍾情沒錯。我是在洛杉磯一家迪斯可舞廳遇見碧娜，後來我們開始同居，當我看見她那一刻，我就看見她散發著能量。我邀請她跳舞。她說她看見活力四射的我。我當時是單親爸爸，她是單親媽媽。我們看了彼此小孩的照片，我們沈浸在幸福的婚姻已達三分之一世紀。（掌聲） 克里斯：當時你自己開創了公司，經營人造衛星相關的行業。你有兩個成功的企業，然後你開始解決這個問題如何利用衛星來革新廣播業。請為我們說明一下。 馬蒂娜：我一直對太空科技很感興趣，衛星對我來說，就像我們祖先第一次推到水裡的獨木舟。我很興奮的是能夠參與遨遊浩瀚星海，我發展各式衛星通訊系統，我做的事主要是發射一個更大更強的衛星，如此一來接收天線可以非常的小，有了電視直播之後，我想如果能夠做一個更強大的衛星，接收盤可以做的很小它是拋物面天線反射器的一部分，一個可以裝設在車頂的小片，可以做全國性衛星廣播，也就是今天的「天狼星衛星廣播」。 克里斯：哇。這裡有人用過天狼星嗎？ （掌聲） 馬蒂娜：謝謝各位每月訂閱。 （笑聲） 克里斯：接下來儘管當時有各種猜測。那是一個巨大的商業上的成功，在那不久之後， 1990 年代初，你的生活有很大的轉變你成為馬蒂娜。 馬蒂娜：是的。克里斯：告訴我們，怎會這樣？馬蒂娜：我和碧娜以及四個可愛的小孩商量過，我各自和他們討論我覺得在我的心靈裡，我是女性，可是我擔心如果我講出來會被別人嘲笑，所以我把它藏在心裡只表現男性的一面。每個人的反應不同。碧娜說：「我愛你的靈魂」，不論外表是馬丁或是馬蒂娜，我不會再乎，我愛你的靈魂。我兒子說：你變成女人後，仍然是我爸爸嗎？我說：是，我永遠是你爸爸，我今天仍然是他的父親。我小女兒做了一個五歲小孩做的非常棒的事。她說：我愛我爸爸，她也愛我。她沒有性別混淆上的問題。 克里斯：之後的一二年，你出版這本書：「性別上的種族隔離」你對這本書有什麼論點呢？ 馬蒂娜：我的論點是，世界上有七十億人口，就有七十億獨特的方展現性別。人們有男性和女性的生殖器官，生殖器官不決定你的性別甚至你真正的性別特性。這是一個解剖學上的問題一個生殖問題,人們可以選擇他想要的性別如果他們不受社會分類為男性或女性就像南非過去將人分為黑人或白人。我們從人類學的角度來看種族是虛構的,即使種族歧視確實存在,從文化研究的角度，把人分為男性或女性是想像編造出來的。事實上性別是從男性到女性跨越連續整體。 克里斯：你自己不總是感覺自己百分百是女性。 馬蒂娜：是的，在某些方面我變換性別就像改變髮型一樣頻繁。 克里斯：（笑），好吧，這位是你美麗的女兒，吉納塞斯。我想她大概在那個時候經歷一個可怕的事情。 馬蒂娜：是的，她發現自己不能爬樓梯到自己的臥室。看了幾個月的醫生之後，她被診斷出患了一種罕見，致命的疾病叫做肺動脈高壓。 克里斯：你怎麼看待這件事？ 馬蒂娜：首先我們試著幫她找最好的醫生。我們最後在華盛頓特區找到國家兒童醫療中心。小兒心臟科主任告訴我們他會幫她取得肺做移植，但是沒有抱太大的希望，因為可以移植的肺很少，特別是小孩子的。他說得這種病的人都去世了，如果你們有人看過「羅倫佐的油」這部電影，有一幕是主角從樓梯滚下來為他兒子的命運哭泣和悲慟，這種感受就是我對吉納塞斯的感受一樣。 克里斯：但你不接受這只是你能夠做的事。你開始嘗試研究是否能夠找到一個治療方法。 馬蒂娜：是的。她在加護病房一住就好幾週，碧娜和我分工合作一個在醫院另一個就在家照顧其他小孩。當我在醫院而且她睡著之後，我到醫院的圖書館。我讀了所有我能找到的肺動脈高壓的文章。我沒接觸過生物學，甚至在大學也沒修過這個科目，所以我從入門生物學開始到大學等級的課本再到醫學教科書，期刊的文章，反覆地研讀，最後我有足夠的知識認為這是有可能可以到到治療的方法。我們成立一個非營利的基金會。我寫了一個說明書讓人們提出申請我們付醫療研究經費。我成了這方面的專家，馬蒂娜，醫生這麼對我說。我們非常感激你提供資金，但是我們無法即時找到治療的方法來挽救你女兒的生命。但是，有一種藥是由寶威藥廠所研發的可以讓控制病情惡化，寶威藥廠剛被葛蘭素惠康公司收購。他們決定不再開發罕見疾病的藥。或許你可以用你在衛星通訊的專長來開發肺動脈高壓的治療方法。 克里斯：你究竟是如何拿到這個藥呢？ 馬蒂娜：我去了葛蘭素惠康公司被他們摔門拒絶三次之後因為他們不願意將藥品的許可證發給一個衛星通訊專家，他們不願意將藥給任何人使用，他們想我沒這方面的專業知識，最後我說服一個小團隊和我合作建立相當的可信度。我減少他們抗拒的心理，他們對這個藥不抱任何希望，他們試圖告訴我，「你是在浪費時間。我們為你的女兒感到遺憾。」最後，以二萬五千美元的價格以及支付我們營收百分之十他們同意把這藥的全球使用權給我。 克里斯：你聰明地把藥推到市場，只收取能維持運作的成本價。 馬蒂娜：是的，克里斯但這不是一種成藥，當我簽下二萬五千美金的支票後，我問說：「吉納塞斯的藥在那裡？」他們說：「還沒有藥可治療吉納塞斯。這藥只是在老鼠身上測試過。」他們給我像這樣一個小的密封袋裡面裝有一些粉末。他們說：「不要給人吃這藥，」他們給我一張紙，說這是一個專利，從那時候開始，我們必須自己找出方法去製作這個藥。美國上百位頂尖大學的化學家都認為這個小小專利是無法變成成藥。就算可以作成藥，也不能販售因為這藥只有 45 分鐘的壽命。 克里斯：即使如此，一兩年後，你把它做成藥可以治療吉娜塞斯。 馬蒂娜：克里斯，令人意想不到的是這毫無價值粉末給予治療吉娜塞斯一線希望之光不但救了吉娜塞斯和其他人的生命，也創造了每年將近十五億美金的營收。 （掌聲） 克里斯：真是太棒了。你將這個公司上市，是嗎？還賺了大錢。在付了二萬五千美金之後，你付了多少錢給葛蘭素？ 馬蒂娜：每一年我們付十五億的百分之十，也就是一億五千萬，去年是付一億元。這是他們最好的投資報酬（笑） 克里斯：我猜最好的消息是這個。 馬蒂娜：是的。吉娜塞斯是個才華橫溢的女孩。她健康地活下來，今年 30 歲。這是我，碧娜和吉納塞斯。吉納塞斯最了不起的是：她可以自己做任何事情，相信我，如果在你成長的過程中人們對你說你得了一種致命疾病，我可能會跑大溪地，不想再遇到這些人。但她卻選擇在聯合治療公司工作。她說她要儘其所能幫助其他患有罕見疾病的人取得藥物，如今，她是我們遠程出席活動專案的負責人，協助整個公司進行數位聯合整合工作以取得治療肺高壓的方法。 克里斯：但並不是所有患有這種疾病的人都如此幸運。有許多人死於這種病，你也著手處理這個問題，你是如何辦到的？ 馬蒂娜：的確是，克里斯。美國每年大約有三千人，全世界的人數大約有 10 倍之多，死於這種疾病因為這個藥減緩病情但無法治療此病。唯一可以治療肺高壓、肺纖維化、囊腫性纖維化、肺氣腫、慢性阻塞性肺病，李納德·尼摩剛死於這種病，只有肺部移植一途，但遺憾的是，美國每年只可提供給二千個人進行肺部移植。每年有將近五十萬人死於末期肺衰竭。克里斯：你如何處理這個問題？馬蒂娜：我將可能性概念化就像我們可以讓汽車，飛機和建築物永遠存在無限制提供建築物和機器所需的零件，我們為何不建立一個無限量可供移植的器官讓人們一直生存下去，特別是有肺部疾病的人。所以我們與人類基因解密者克萊格·凡特，以及和他一起成立X-Prize 公司的彼得·戴曼迪斯一起合作，從基因方面去改造豬的基因組。這樣人的身體不會對豬的器官產生排斥作用，才可能提供無限量的可供移植的器官。我們透過我們的公司，聯合治療公司來做這件事。 克里斯：你很確信在十年內，可移植肺短缺的問題，可透過這方法解決？ 馬蒂娜：絶對可以，克里斯。我對這件事很確定，正如我對天狼星電視廣播系統的成功一樣肯定。它其實不是像火箭科學那麼高深。而是簡單的工程不斷地一個基因複製另一個。我們很幸運生於這個年代，基因定序是一個平常的事，合成基因組公司的優秀人員能夠聚焦在豬的基因組準確找到有問題基因，然後修復它們。 克理斯：不只是身體，這令人讚嘆。（掌聲）你現在的興趣，不只是身體上長壽。也是心靈上的長存。我想這圖片對你來說意義深遠。這代表什麼意義呢？ 馬蒂娜：這張圖是的雷·庫茲韋爾作品,計算機處理發展的速度包括硬體，靭體和軟體，都是以曲線的速度發展在 2020 以前，我們今天稍早的演講所看到的，資訊科技在處理我們所處世界的資訊達到與人腦相同的速度。 克里斯：因為如此，你已經準備好相信這個很快就會達成，將大腦的裡的東西永遠保存下來？你如何描述這個？ 馬蒂娜：克里斯，我們現在做的是創造一個情境人們可以建立一個心智資料檔案，心智資料檔收集個人獨特的特性，回憶、感覺、信仰、態度和價值觀。今天任何我們在谷歌，亞馬遜和臉書上傳的資料，這些保存在那裡的資訊，在往後的二三十年裡，一旦軟體能夠複述感官意識就可以將心智資料還原為感官意識。 克里斯：你不只是說說而已。你是認真看待這件事，這是誰？ 馬蒂娜：這是機器人版的我的老婆，碧娜。我們稱她為碧娜 48。她是由德州漢森機器人技術公司所設計。這是國家地理雜誌的中間摺頁和她的一個居家照顧者一起，她能上網她有數百小時碧娜的特性的資料。她像是一個兩歲小孩，她講的話會把人嚇一跳，最有力的評論來自於紐約時報記者普立茲獎得主艾米·哈蒙所說，她的回答經常讓人感到洩氣，但有時又和她採訪過的人的回答一樣令人信服。 克里斯：你認為，你希望這版本的碧娜可永生，或升級一些特徵的版本可以永生？馬蒂娜：是的，不只是碧娜，而是所有人。你知道，儲存心智資料檔案的成本幾乎是零臉書，Instagram，諸如此類的社群網站。社群媒體我認為是這個時代最好的發明。應用程式越來越多元讓我們把 Siri 這樣的應用程式做得更好，發展出有意識的作業系統，世界上的任何人，幾億人，能夠複製自己的思想。將他們的生活資料放在網路上。 克里斯：問題是，馬蒂娜，在平常的談話，這聽起來簡直是瘋了，你生活的點點滴滴，你做過的事，這個禮拜你所聽到的事，我們的大腦所建構出的事實，我的意思是，你會去做。 馬蒂娜：是，其實我沒做些什麼。有的話，我大概只當一個溝通者的角色為經營優秀的公司傳遞活動訊息那些公司在中國、日本、印度、美國和歐洲。有千萬人寫程式碼以表達更多的人類意識，你不是一個天才也可看出這些線索將會整合在一起，最後創造出人類意識，這是我們所重視的。人生中有許多的事要做，如果我們有一個面貌極像自己的機器人幫助我們讀書，購物，成為我們的好朋友，我認為複製我們的思想，那些數位版的自己，最終會成為我們最好的朋友，對我和碧娜而言，我們瘋狂地愛著對方。每天，我們都會說著這樣的話，「我比三十年前還愛你。」對我們來說，心靈複製的可能性身體的再生是我們的愛情關係，克里斯可以持續到永遠。我們從不彼此感到厭煩。我肯定以後也不會。 克里斯：碧娜在場，是嗎？馬蒂娜：是的，她在。克里斯：我會不會要求太多，有手持式麥克風嗎？碧娜，我們可以邀請你上台？我只有一個問題非問不可。除此之外，我們很想看看你。 （掌聲） 謝謝，謝謝。來和馬蒂娜坐一起。當你結婚的時候，如果有人告訴你，幾年之後，你嫁的這個男人會變成一個女人，然後再過幾年之後，你會變成一個機器人，（笑聲）這是怎麼一個情況？ 碧娜·羅新布拉特：這是一個令人非常興奮的旅程，我當時從沒想過，當我開始設定目標，著手執行目標完成一些事情，在意識到之前，我們不斷往前行到現在還沒停下來，這很棒。 克里斯：馬蒂娜告訴我一些美好的事，是在之前我們以 Skype 通話的時候，他希望能夠活個幾百年透過心智檔案資料的方式，但沒有你的話，他就不做這件事。 碧娜：對的，我們要一起做這件事。我們做人體冷藏法一起醒來。 克里斯：如你所知，從我的角度來看，這不僅是我聽過的最精彩的人生故事，也是我聽過最精彩的愛情故事之一。非常高興兩位能來到 TED。非常謝謝你。 馬蒂娜：謝謝你。 （掌聲）
