Talk	en	zh-tw
martin_jacques_understanding_the_rise_of_china	"The world is changing with really remarkable speed. If you look at the chart at the top here, you'll see that in 2025, these Goldman Sachs projections suggest that the Chinese economy will be almost the same size as the American economy. And if you look at the chart for 2050, it's projected that the Chinese economy will be twice the size of the American economy, and the Indian economy will be almost the same size as the American economy. And we should bear in mind here that these projections were drawn up before the Western financial crisis. A couple of weeks ago, I was looking at the latest projection by BNP Paribas for when China will have a larger economy than the United States. Goldman Sachs projected 2027. The post-crisis projection is 2020. That's just a decade away. China is going to change the world in two fundamental respects. First of all, it's a huge developing country with a population of 1.3 billion people, which has been growing for over 30 years at around 10 percent a year. And within a decade, it will have the largest economy in the world. Never before in the modern era has the largest economy in the world been that of a developing country, rather than a developed country. Secondly, for the first time in the modern era, the dominant country in the world — which I think is what China will become — will be not from the West and from very, very different civilizational roots. Now, I know it's a widespread assumption in the West that as countries modernize, they also westernize. This is an illusion. It's an assumption that modernity is a product simply of competition, markets and technology. It is not. It is also shaped equally by history and culture. China is not like the West, and it will not become like the West. It will remain in very fundamental respects very different. Now the big question here is obviously, how do we make sense of China? How do we try to understand what China is? And the problem we have in the West at the moment, by and large, is that the conventional approach is that we understand it really in Western terms, using Western ideas. We can't. Now I want to offer you three building blocks for trying to understand what China is like, just as a beginning. The first is this: that China is not really a nation-state. Okay, it's called itself a nation-state for the last hundred years, but everyone who knows anything about China knows it's a lot older than this. This was what China looked like with the victory of the Qin Dynasty in 221 B.C. at the end of the warring-state period — the birth of modern China. And you can see it against the boundaries of modern China. Or immediately afterward, the Han Dynasty, still 2,000 years ago. And you can see already it occupies most of what we now know as Eastern China, which is where the vast majority of Chinese lived then and live now. Now what is extraordinary about this is, what gives China its sense of being China, what gives the Chinese the sense of what it is to be Chinese, comes not from the last hundred years, not from the nation-state period, which is what happened in the West, but from the period, if you like, of the civilization-state. I'm thinking here, for example, of customs like ancestral worship, of a very distinctive notion of the state, likewise, a very distinctive notion of the family, social relationships like guanxi, Confucian values and so on. These are all things that come from the period of the civilization-state. In other words, China, unlike the Western states and most countries in the world, is shaped by its sense of civilization, its existence as a civilization-state, rather than as a nation-state. And there's one other thing to add to this, and that is this: Of course we know China's big, huge, demographically and geographically, with a population of 1.3 billion people. What we often aren't really aware of is the fact that China is extremely diverse and very pluralistic, and in many ways very decentralized. You can't run a place on this scale simply from Beijing, even though we think this to be the case. It's never been the case. So this is China, a civilization-state, rather than a nation-state. And what does it mean? Well, I think it has all sorts of profound implications. I'll give you two quick ones. The first is that the most important political value for the Chinese is unity, is the maintenance of Chinese civilization. You know, 2,000 years ago, Europe: breakdown — the fragmentation of the Holy Roman Empire. It divided, and it's remained divided ever since. China, over the same time period, went in exactly the opposite direction, very painfully holding this huge civilization, civilization-state, together. The second is maybe more prosaic, which is Hong Kong. Do you remember the handover of Hong Kong by Britain to China in 1997? You may remember what the Chinese constitutional proposition was. One country, two systems. And I'll lay a wager that barely anyone in the West believed them. ""Window dressing. When China gets its hands on Hong Kong, that won't be the case."" Thirteen years on, the political and legal system in Hong Kong is as different now as it was in 1997. We were wrong. Why were we wrong? We were wrong because we thought, naturally enough, in nation-state ways. Think of German unification, 1990. What happened? Well, basically the East was swallowed by the West. One nation, one system. That is the nation-state mentality. But you can't run a country like China, a civilization-state, on the basis of one civilization, one system. It doesn't work. So actually the response of China to the question of Hong Kong — as it will be to the question of Taiwan — was a natural response: one civilization, many systems. Let me offer you another building block to try and understand China — maybe not sort of a comfortable one. The Chinese have a very, very different conception of race to most other countries. Do you know, of the 1.3 billion Chinese, over 90 percent of them think they belong to the same race, the Han? Now, this is completely different from the world's [other] most populous countries. India, the United States, Indonesia, Brazil — all of them are multiracial. The Chinese don't feel like that. China is only multiracial really at the margins. So the question is, why? Well the reason, I think, essentially is, again, back to the civilization-state. A history of at least 2,000 years, a history of conquest, occupation, absorption, assimilation and so on, led to the process by which, over time, this notion of the Han emerged — of course, nurtured by a growing and very powerful sense of cultural identity. Now the great advantage of this historical experience has been that, without the Han, China could never have held together. The Han identity has been the cement which has held this country together. The great disadvantage of it is that the Han have a very weak conception of cultural difference. They really believe in their own superiority, and they are disrespectful of those who are not. Hence their attitude, for example, to the Uyghurs and to the Tibetans. Or let me give you my third building block, the Chinese state. Now the relationship between the state and society in China is very different from that in the West. Now we in the West overwhelmingly seem to think — in these days at least — that the authority and legitimacy of the state is a function of democracy. The problem with this proposition is that the Chinese state enjoys more legitimacy and more authority amongst the Chinese than is true with any Western state. And the reason for this is because — well, there are two reasons, I think. And it's obviously got nothing to do with democracy, because in our terms the Chinese certainly don't have a democracy. And the reason for this is, firstly, because the state in China is given a very special — it enjoys a very special significance as the representative, the embodiment and the guardian of Chinese civilization, of the civilization-state. This is as close as China gets to a kind of spiritual role. And the second reason is because, whereas in Europe and North America, the state's power is continuously challenged — I mean in the European tradition, historically against the church, against other sectors of the aristocracy, against merchants and so on — for 1,000 years, the power of the Chinese state has not been challenged. It's had no serious rivals. So you can see that the way in which power has been constructed in China is very different from our experience in Western history. The result, by the way, is that the Chinese have a very different view of the state. Whereas we tend to view it as an intruder, a stranger, certainly an organ whose powers need to be limited or defined and constrained, the Chinese don't see the state like that at all. The Chinese view the state as an intimate — not just as an intimate actually, as a member of the family — not just in fact as a member of the family, but as the head of the family, the patriarch of the family. This is the Chinese view of the state — very, very different to ours. It's embedded in society in a different kind of way to what is the case in the West. And I would suggest to you that actually what we are dealing with here, in the Chinese context, is a new kind of paradigm, which is different from anything we've had to think about in the past. Know that China believes in the market and the state. I mean, Adam Smith, already writing in the late 18th century, said, ""The Chinese market is larger and more developed and more sophisticated than anything in Europe."" And, apart from the Mao period, that has remained more or less the case ever since. But this is combined with an extremely strong and ubiquitous state. The state is everywhere in China. I mean, it's leading firms — many of them are still publicly owned. Private firms, however large they are, like Lenovo, depend in many ways on state patronage. Targets for the economy and so on are set by the state. And the state, of course, its authority flows into lots of other areas — as we are familiar with — with something like the one-child policy. Moreover, this is a very old state tradition, a very old tradition of statecraft. I mean, if you want an illustration of this, the Great Wall is one. But this is another, this is the Grand Canal, which was constructed in the first instance in the fifth century B.C. and was finally completed in the seventh century A.D. It went for 1,114 miles, linking Beijing with Hangzhou and Shanghai. So there's a long history of extraordinary state infrastructural projects in China, which I suppose helps us to explain what we see today, which is something like the Three Gorges Dam and many other expressions of state competence within China. So there we have three building blocks for trying to understand the difference that is China — the civilization-state, the notion of race and the nature of the state and its relationship to society. And yet we still insist, by and large, in thinking that we can understand China by simply drawing on Western experience, looking at it through Western eyes, using Western concepts. If you want to know why we unerringly seem to get China wrong — our predictions about what's going to happen to China are incorrect — this is the reason. Unfortunately, I think, I have to say that I think attitude towards China is that of a kind of little Westerner mentality. It's kind of arrogant. It's arrogant in the sense that we think that we are best, and therefore we have the universal measure. And secondly, it's ignorant. We refuse to really address the issue of difference. You know, there's a very interesting passage in a book by Paul Cohen, the American historian. And Paul Cohen argues that the West thinks of itself as probably the most cosmopolitan of all cultures. But it's not. In many ways, it's the most parochial, because for 200 years, the West has been so dominant in the world that it's not really needed to understand other cultures, other civilizations. Because, at the end of the day, it could, if necessary by force, get its own way. Whereas those cultures — virtually the rest of the world, in fact, which have been in a far weaker position, vis-a-vis the West — have been thereby forced to understand the West, because of the West's presence in those societies. And therefore, they are, as a result, more cosmopolitan in many ways than the West. I mean, take the question of East Asia. East Asia: Japan, Korea, China, etc. — a third of the world's population lives there. Now the largest economic region in the world. And I'll tell you now, that East Asianers, people from East Asia, are far more knowledgeable about the West than the West is about East Asia. Now this point is very germane, I'm afraid, to the present. Because what's happening? Back to that chart at the beginning, the Goldman Sachs chart. What is happening is that, very rapidly in historical terms, the world is being driven and shaped, not by the old developed countries, but by the developing world. We've seen this in terms of the G20 usurping very rapidly the position of the G7, or the G8. And there are two consequences of this. First, the West is rapidly losing its influence in the world. There was a dramatic illustration of this actually a year ago — Copenhagen, climate change conference. Europe was not at the final negotiating table. When did that last happen? I would wager it was probably about 200 years ago. And that is what is going to happen in the future. And the second implication is that the world will inevitably, as a consequence, become increasingly unfamiliar to us, because it'll be shaped by cultures and experiences and histories that we are not really familiar with, or conversant with. And at last, I'm afraid — take Europe; America is slightly different — but Europeans by and large, I have to say, are ignorant, are unaware about the way the world is changing. Some people — I've got an English friend in China, and he said, ""The continent is sleepwalking into oblivion."" Well, maybe that's true, maybe that's an exaggeration. But there's another problem which goes along with this — that Europe is increasingly out of touch with the world — and that is a sort of loss of a sense of the future. I mean, Europe once, of course, once commanded the future in its confidence. Take the 19th century, for example. But this, alas, is no longer true. If you want to feel the future, if you want to taste the future, try China — there's old Confucius. This is a railway station the likes of which you've never seen before. It doesn't even look like a railway station. This is the new [Wuhan] railway station for the high-speed trains. China already has a bigger network than any other country in the world and will soon have more than all the rest of the world put together. Or take this: now this is an idea, but it's an idea to be tried out shortly in a suburb of Beijing. Here you have a megabus, on the upper deck carries about 2,000 people. It travels on rails down a suburban road, and the cars travel underneath it. And it does speeds of up to about 100 miles an hour. Now this is the way things are going to move, because China has a very specific problem, which is different from Europe and different from the United States: China has huge numbers of people and no space. So this is a solution to a situation where China's going to have many, many, many cities over 20 million people. Okay, so how would I like to finish? Well, what should our attitude be towards this world that we see very rapidly developing before us? I think there will be good things about it and there will be bad things about it. But I want to argue, above all, a big-picture positive for this world. For 200 years, the world was essentially governed by a fragment of the human population. That's what Europe and North America represented. The arrival of countries like China and India — between them 38 percent of the world's population — and others like Indonesia and Brazil and so on, represent the most important single act of democratization in the last 200 years. Civilizations and cultures, which had been ignored, which had no voice, which were not listened to, which were not known about, will have a different sort of representation in this world. As humanists, we must welcome, surely, this transformation, and we will have to learn about these civilizations. This big ship here was the one sailed in by Zheng He in the early 15th century on his great voyages around the South China Sea, the East China Sea and across the Indian Ocean to East Africa. The little boat in front of it was the one in which, 80 years later, Christopher Columbus crossed the Atlantic. (Laughter) Or, look carefully at this silk scroll made by ZhuZhou in 1368. I think they're playing golf. Christ, the Chinese even invented golf. Welcome to the future. Thank you. (Applause)"	"這個世界正以驚人的速度在改變。如果你看這張圖表的上方，會看到在2025年根據高盛 (Goldman Sachs) 的預測，中國的經濟規模將會和美國幾乎相當 。再看看這張圖表，在2050年中國的經濟規模將會是美國的兩倍大，而印度的經濟規模將會和美國不相上下。我們必須記住的是，這些預測都是在西方金融危機之前制定的。 大約二週前，我在看法國巴黎銀行最新的預測，他們預測在什麽時候中國的經濟規模會超過美國。高盛預測會在2027年。而金融危機後的新預測是2020年。而這只不過十年。中國將會在兩個基本面上改變世界。首先，中國是個巨大的發展中國家擁有13億人口，在過去的30年中以每年近10%的速度成長。 在十年內將會成爲世界最大的經濟體。在現代史上，過去一向都是已開發國家而從來沒有任何一個發展中國家成爲世界最大的經濟體。其次，在現代史上首次主宰世界的國家— 我個人認為將會是中國 —不會是西方的國家，而是來自一個非常不一樣的文明根柢。 我知道西方國家普遍有這樣的假設:一個國家的現代化也就意味著西方化。這是個不切實際的說法。這樣的假設是簡單的將現代化看做是由競爭、市場和科技所構成的產物。而事實並非如此，現代化也均等的受到歷史和文化的影響。中國和西方國家不同，而且中國也不會變成像西方國家一樣，中國會持續的保留他和西方的根本差異。現在最大的問題，很明顯的就是我們該怎樣來解讀中國？我們該如何試著去了解，中國到底是怎樣的一個國家？大體上西方現在的問題，在於我們的傳統方法是用西方的術語和思想來了解中國。這是行不通的。現在我想提供三個基本理由，來試著了解中國，這只是一個開始。 首先，中國不能真正的稱為一個 ""國家""。好吧，雖然在近一百年來中國自稱是一個 ""國家""，但是任何熟悉中國的人都知道，中國的歷史遠超過一百年。這是西元前221年中國的地圖，秦朝統一天下，結束戰國時期的紛爭，為現代中國的萌芽。你們可以看到現代中國的邊界線。或是秦代之後的漢代，這一張是漢代的地圖，它還是兩千年前的地圖。你們可以看到當時中國已經佔領了現在中國東部的大部分。這個區域從過去到現在一直是絕大多數的中國人居住的地方。 是什麼讓它顯得奇特呢?關鍵在於是什麼讓中國感到 ""身為中國""，是什麼讓中國人覺得做為一個中國人的要素，這不應該從最近的一百年來看，也不該和西方的歷史一樣是從有 ""國家概念"" 的這段時期來看，而是從兩千年前的(中國) 文明""邦國""就開始了。我正在想的，舉例子來說，譬如，祭拜祖先的習俗、對 ""國家"" 的觀念賦予獨特的定義、和這類似地， 賦予""家庭"" 獨特的定義、社會人際“關係”、及儒家的倫理價值等等。這些都是從二千年前就流傳下來的文化。換句話說，中國和西方國家及世界上大部分的國家不同點，在於中國擁有自己獨特的文明以一種文明 ""邦國"" 的獨特方式存在，而非西方的 ""國家"" 觀念。針對這點我還可以補充説明：我們都知道，就人口和地理上來說，中國是個極龐大的國家，擁有13億人口。有一項事實我們經常沒有真正注意到，那即是，中國是個十分多樣性及多元化的國家，在很多方面中央的權力是下放的。要從北京管理這麽大的地方是不可能的，儘管我們習以為常的認為這是事實。但事實從來不是如此。 因此，這就是中國，建立在一種文明 ""邦國"" 架構下的國家，而非西方概念的 ""國家""。那麽，這是什麽意思？我認為這有很多深層的意涵。我將簡單的舉兩個例子來說明。首先，對中國人來說，最重要的政治價值是統一，是維護中華文明。大家都知道，2000年前歐洲因羅馬帝國的瓦解而分崩離析。從那時候開始就一直維持著分裂的狀態。但相較之下，中國確在同一時期走向正好相反的統一道路，費盡精神氣力以維護其龐大的文明，並維繫該文明 ""邦國"" 的統一。 其次是香港的議題，可能相對地沒有那麼突出。大家都還記得香港在1997年從英國的手上回歸中國？大家也可能還記得當時中國的憲法議案為：一國兩制。我敢打賭當時西方國家大概沒有人會相信這樣的政策。『認為只是裝飾門面，等中國真的接收香港後，不可能會實施一國兩制。』13年後的今天香港的政治和法律制度還是如同1997年一樣，跟中國的不同。我們錯了，這是爲什麽？我們錯了，因爲我們自然而然地將中國套上西方概念的 ""國家"" 方式。回想一下，1990年東西德的統一。發生什麼事呢？基本上東德被西德併吞了。一個國家，一個體制。這是西方的國家概念心態。但是你不能用西方的國家概念，以單一文明及單一體制為基礎，來治理像中國這樣以 ""文明邦國""為架構的國家。這是行不通的。因此，中國對香港議題的回應也將可以套用在臺灣的議題，很自然地回應，那即是：單一文明，多元體制。 現在讓我再提供另外一個觀點，以試著來了解中國，這個觀點也許不那麼令人怡悅。中國人對民族的觀念跟其他大部分的國家比起來有極大的差別。你知道嗎?在13億中國人裏有90%以上的人都認爲自己是屬於同一民族──漢族。這跟世界上其他人口衆多的國家是完全不一樣的，例如印度、美國印尼、巴西，這些國家都是多種族的中國人自己不認爲如此。若勉爲其難地稱中國是個多種族國家，那也就是在邊緣的那些少數民族。因此，我們要問，爲什麽會這樣呢？理由很簡單，我認為基本上還是回到老話題──中國是一個 ""文明邦國""。中國擁有超過2000年的歷史，其歷史充滿了征服、佔領、吸收、同化等等，在這經年累月的過程，而衍生了漢民族的概念；當然，這個概念逐漸地受到強力的文化認同感的滋養與增強。 這段歷史經驗的最大優點告訴我們，假若沒有漢民族，中國是不可能會統一的。漢民族一直像是膠合劑一樣將整個國家凝聚結合在一起。然而，這段歷史經驗的最大缺點就是漢民族對文化差異的觀念很微薄。漢族真的相信自己種族的優越性，同時他們對其它族群並不尊重。舉他們對待維吾爾人或西藏人的態度為例。 或是讓我來提出第三個理由──中國式的國家。現在，在中國，國家和社會的關係跟西方國家有極大的差異。現在我們西方國家絕大多數的人似乎會認為，至少在現今，國家的權力和合法性是民主的功能。這個論述的問題在於，在中國人民享有更多的合法性及權力如跟任何西方國家相比較。它的理由是因為──我認爲，原因有兩個。而且很明顯地和民主一點關係都沒有，因為以我們的術語來看，很確定的中國是沒有民主的。原因在於首先，在中國國家被賦予一個很特別的──享有很特殊的地位，國家同時是中華文明的代表及化身，也是中華文明及 ""文明邦國""的捍衛者。它的地位近乎一種精神式的象徵。 第二個原因，在歐洲及北美洲國家的權力不斷地受到挑戰──我指的是歐洲傳統上，在歷史上受到來自教廷、其他派別的貴族及商人等等的挑戰──然而，1000年以來""國家"" 的地位在中國從沒被挑戰過。中國還沒有強力的對手與之抗衡。因此你可以看出，中國權力建構的方式從我們西方的歷史經驗來看二者是十分迥異的。因此，中國對 ""國家"" 的觀念和我們截然不同。我們傾向視國家為侵入者、外來者，而且理所當然的，國家是一個機構，它的權利需要被限制、定義及約束，然而，中國人對 ""國家"" 的看法並非如此。在他們的觀念裏，國家和他們是緊密相連的──不僅是普通的親密，而是像家族成員一樣的，而且國家不僅是家族的一員更是家族的大家長。這是中國人的國家觀，非常迥異於我們的觀念。中國人的國家與社會連結的模式是有別於西方國家的。 我想要建議的是，我們現在所要處理的，是以中國為背景的一種新的模式，這跟我們西方國家過去所想的截然不同。知道嗎? 中國相信市場及國家的效用。我的意思是，亞當史密斯早在18世紀晚期就已經寫道：『中國市場比任何歐洲市場都還要大，都還要發達而且還要複雜。』除了在毛澤東時期外，一直到現在亞當斯密的觀點大致是正確的。但這樣的市場是因為有一個十分強力的國家為後盾。在中國，""國家"" 是無所不在的。國家帶領企業的發展，很多企業到現在還是國有。私人企業再怎麽大，在很多方面還是需要依賴國家的資助，例如聯想電腦。經濟成長等目標是由國家設定。此外，國家的權力還延伸至其他很多的領域，例如我們所熟知的一胎化政策。 再者，這是很悠久的國家傳統了，一項古老傳統的治國權術。我的意思是，如果你想要看這樣的例子，那麼萬里長城便是。這裡還有另一個例子──大運河，大運河的建設開始於公元前五世紀，最後完峻於公元七世紀。全長1114英里，連接了北京杭州和上海。因此，在中國由國家主導的大型基礎建設，已有很長的一段歷史。這或許可以幫助我們來解釋像三峽大壩這樣的建設，或是其他在中國境內可以展現國家實力的建設。因此，這就是我的三個根本理由用來試著了解中國和西方的差異：文明 ""邦國""、種族的觀念、和國家的本質以及國家和社會的關係。 然而，我們西方國家還是十分堅持地認為我們能了解中國，僅簡單的憑藉西方的經驗，用西方的眼光及概念來看中國。如果你想知道爲什麽我們老是誤解中國，爲什麽我們對中國的預測不準確，原因就在這裡。很不幸地，我必須指出，我認爲我們對中國的態度是一種小西方人的心態，這是一種高傲的心態。這種高傲也就是，認為我們是最好的，因此我們制定了普世的權衡標準。再來，是無知，我們拒絕真正地去處理差異性的問題。在著名的美國歷史學家保羅柯恩 ( Paul Cohen)的書裏，有一段很有趣的敘述。他表示西方國家認爲自己的文化大概是所有文化中最具有世界性的。事實並非如此。在很多方面它是最狹隘的，因爲200年以來西方國家一直在這世界上佔著優勢的地位，以至於他們不需要去了解其它的文化及文明。因為，到頭來真的有需要的話，可以用武力征服而達成目的。然而那些文化──實際上就是西方國家以外的文化，相對於西方文化它們一直處於弱勢，也因此被迫去了解西方文化，因為西方文化已在那些社會裏產生影響力。因此，這些社會反而在很多方面都比西方國家還具有世界性。 以東亞的問題來講，東亞國家如日本、韓國、中國等，世界上三分之一的人口住在那裏，現在是全球最大的經濟區域。我現在可以告訴你東亞地區的人們對西方國家的認識，遠遠超過西方國家對東亞的認識。恐怕我也必須說這個觀點跟目前的情勢是很切合的。到底怎麼了?再回到開始的那張高盛的圖表。以歷史的術語來說現在正在發生的事很快速地，帶領及影響這世界的，不再是過去的已開發國家，而是開發中國家。我們已經看到G20高峰會很快地就取代了G7高峰會或G8高峰會的地位。這產生了兩項結果：首先，西方國家對這世界的影響力正快速地削弱。一年前有一個很戲劇性的例子──哥本哈根的世界氣候會議。最後的談判桌上沒有歐洲的份。上次歐洲被摒除在談判桌外是什麽時候的事呢？我敢說大概是200年以前吧!而這也是未來將會發生的事。 其次，這個世界將無可避免地變得和我們越來越陌生，因為這世界將會受到我們所不熟悉的文化、經驗及歷史的影響。最後，我很怕拿歐洲來説，美國的情形稍微不一樣，但是我必須說，大體上歐洲人是無知的，他們還沒意識到世界正在改變的方式。有些人— 我有個在中國的英國朋友，他說：『歐洲大陸正在夢遊逐漸進入沉睡當中。』這可能是真的，也可能誇張了一點。但是隨著這個現象而來的另一個問題，就是歐洲已越來越和這個世界脫節，這其實也是對未來的無所適從。我的意思是歐洲曾經自信滿滿的引領未來。譬如說，在19世紀的時候但是，很可惜地，這已不再是如此。 你若是想要感覺或體會未來會是什麽樣，你該到中國看看，那兒有孔老夫子。這是個火車站，你從沒看過這樣的火車站。它甚至看起來還不像火車站。這是新的廣州火車站，廣州高速鐵路火車站。中國已經擁有全球最大的鐵路網路，而且不久就會超過全球鐵路網的總合。或是這個：這是新的主意，但是，很快的這個主意將會在北京的郊區試驗。這是一台超級公車，上層可乘載約2000人。它運行在鐵軌上，軌道下方是一條往郊區的道路，汽車就在軌道下方穿梭行駛。它的時速可以達到100英里。這是未來發展的趨勢，因為中國有個很特殊的問題，和歐洲不一樣，也和美國不一樣。問題在於，中國有龐大的人口但有限的空間。因此，北京的試驗可做為範例，為其它城市提供一個解決方案，因為中國將會有更多的城市其人口超過2千萬。 那麼，我該怎麽來下結論呢？我們該用什麽態度來面對這個在我們眼前快速發展的世界呢？我想對我們來説它是好壞參半。但是總而言之，我想為這世界提出較樂觀正向的藍圖。200年以來，這個世界基本上是由全球人口中的一部分人所統治的。歐洲和北美洲就是典型的代表。其它國家的崛起如中國和印度──這兩國擁有世界38%的人口──還有其他像印尼和巴西等等，展現了過去200年以來最重要的一次民主化過程。過去被忽略的、無聲的、不被傾聽的、不為人知的這些文明和文化將會用不同的方式呈現在這個世界。身為人道主義者，我們當然要歡迎這樣的轉變。而且我們將必須去學習這些文明。 這艘大船是15世紀初鄭和下西洋的船，經中國的東海、南海穿越印度洋到東非的偉大航行。在這艘船前方的小船是80年後哥倫布橫渡大西洋所駕馭的。（笑聲）或者，看仔細一點這個絲畫軸是朱周（音譯）在1368年畫的我想他們正在打高爾夫球。天哪，連高爾夫球也是中國人發明的！ 歡迎來到未來。謝謝大家。 （掌聲）"
