Talk	en	zh-tw
martin_hanczyc_the_line_between_life_and_not_life	"So historically there has been a huge divide between what people consider to be non-living systems on one side, and living systems on the other side. So we go from, say, this beautiful and complex crystal as non-life, and this rather beautiful and complex cat on the other side. Over the last hundred and fifty years or so, science has kind of blurred this distinction between non-living and living systems, and now we consider that there may be a kind of continuum that exists between the two. We'll just take one example here: a virus is a natural system, right? But it's very simple. It's very simplistic. It doesn't really satisfy all the requirements, it doesn't have all the characteristics of living systems and is in fact a parasite on other living systems in order to, say, reproduce and evolve. But what we're going to be talking about here tonight are experiments done on this sort of non-living end of this spectrum — so actually doing chemical experiments in the laboratory, mixing together nonliving ingredients to make new structures, and that these new structures might have some of the characteristics of living systems. Really what I'm talking about here is trying to create a kind of artificial life. So what are these characteristics that I'm talking about? These are them. We consider first that life has a body. Now this is necessary to distinguish the self from the environment. Life also has a metabolism. Now this is a process by which life can convert resources from the environment into building blocks so it can maintain and build itself. Life also has a kind of inheritable information. Now we, as humans, we store our information as DNA in our genomes and we pass this information on to our offspring. If we couple the first two — the body and the metabolism — we can come up with a system that could perhaps move and replicate, and if we coupled these now to inheritable information, we can come up with a system that would be more lifelike, and would perhaps evolve. And so these are the things we will try to do in the lab, make some experiments that have one or more of these characteristics of life. So how do we do this? Well, we use a model system that we term a protocell. You might think of this as kind of like a primitive cell. It is a simple chemical model of a living cell, and if you consider for example a cell in your body may have on the order of millions of different types of molecules that need to come together, play together in a complex network to produce something that we call alive. In the laboratory what we want to do is much the same, but with on the order of tens of different types of molecules — so a drastic reduction in complexity, but still trying to produce something that looks lifelike. And so what we do is, we start simple and we work our way up to living systems. Consider for a moment this quote by Leduc, a hundred years ago, considering a kind of synthetic biology: ""The synthesis of life, should it ever occur, will not be the sensational discovery which we usually associate with the idea."" That's his first statement. So if we actually create life in the laboratories, it's probably not going to impact our lives at all. ""If we accept the theory of evolution, then the first dawn of synthesis of life must consist in the production of forms intermediate between the inorganic and the organic world, or between the non-living and living world, forms which possess only some of the rudimentary attributes of life"" — so, the ones I just discussed — ""to which other attributes will be slowly added in the course of development by the evolutionary actions of the environment."" So we start simple, we make some structures that may have some of these characteristics of life, and then we try to develop that to become more lifelike. This is how we can start to make a protocell. We use this idea called self-assembly. What that means is, I can mix some chemicals together in a test tube in my lab, and these chemicals will start to self-associate to form larger and larger structures. So say on the order of tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of molecules will come together to form a large structure that didn't exist before. And in this particular example, what I took is some membrane molecules, mixed those together in the right environment, and within seconds it forms these rather complex and beautiful structures here. These membranes are also quite similar, morphologically and functionally, to the membranes in your body, and we can use these, as they say, to form the body of our protocell. Likewise, we can work with oil and water systems. As you know, when you put oil and water together, they don't mix, but through self-assembly we can get a nice oil droplet to form, and we can actually use this as a body for our artificial organism or for our protocell, as you will see later. So that's just forming some body stuff, right? Some architectures. What about the other aspects of living systems? So we came up with this protocell model here that I'm showing. We started with a natural occurring clay called montmorillonite. This is natural from the environment, this clay. It forms a surface that is, say, chemically active. It could run a metabolism on it. Certain kind of molecules like to associate with the clay. For example, in this case, RNA, shown in red — this is a relative of DNA, it's an informational molecule — it can come along and it starts to associate with the surface of this clay. This structure, then, can organize the formation of a membrane boundary around itself, so it can make a body of liquid molecules around itself, and that's shown in green here on this micrograph. So just through self-assembly, mixing things together in the lab, we can come up with, say, a metabolic surface with some informational molecules attached inside of this membrane body, right? So we're on a road towards living systems. But if you saw this protocell, you would not confuse this with something that was actually alive. It's actually quite lifeless. Once it forms, it doesn't really do anything. So, something is missing. Some things are missing. So some things that are missing is, for example, if you had a flow of energy through a system, what we'd want is a protocell that can harvest some of that energy in order to maintain itself, much like living systems do. So we came up with a different protocell model, and this is actually simpler than the previous one. In this protocell model, it's just an oil droplet, but a chemical metabolism inside that allows this protocell to use energy to do something, to actually become dynamic, as we'll see here. You add the droplet to the system. It's a pool of water, and the protocell starts moving itself around in the system. Okay? Oil droplet forms through self-assembly, has a chemical metabolism inside so it can use energy, and it uses that energy to move itself around in its environment. As we heard earlier, movement is very important in these kinds of living systems. It is moving around, exploring its environment, and remodeling its environment, as you see, by these chemical waves that are forming by the protocell. So it's acting, in a sense, like a living system trying to preserve itself. We take this same moving protocell here, and we put it in another experiment, get it moving. Then I'm going to add some food to the system, and you'll see that in blue here, right? So I add some food source to the system. The protocell moves. It encounters the food. It reconfigures itself and actually then is able to climb to the highest concentration of food in that system and stop there. Alright? So not only do we have this system that has a body, it has a metabolism, it can use energy, it moves around. It can sense its local environment and actually find resources in the environment to sustain itself. Now, this doesn't have a brain, it doesn't have a neural system. This is just a sack of chemicals that is able to have this interesting and complex lifelike behavior. If we count the number of chemicals in that system, actually, including the water that's in the dish, we have five chemicals that can do this. So then we put these protocells together in a single experiment to see what they would do, and depending on the conditions, we have some protocells on the left that are moving around and it likes to touch the other structures in its environment. On the other hand we have two moving protocells that like to circle each other, and they form a kind of a dance, a complex dance with each other. Right? So not only do individual protocells have behavior, what we've interpreted as behavior in this system, but we also have basically population-level behavior similar to what organisms have. So now that you're all experts on protocells, we're going to play a game with these protocells. We're going to make two different kinds. Protocell A has a certain kind of chemistry inside that, when activated, the protocell starts to vibrate around, just dancing. So remember, these are primitive things, so dancing protocells, that's very interesting to us. (Laughter) The second protocell has a different chemistry inside, and when activated, the protocells all come together and they fuse into one big one. Right? And we just put these two together in the same system. So there's population A, there's population B, and then we activate the system, and protocell Bs, they're the blue ones, they all come together. They fuse together to form one big blob, and the other protocell just dances around. And this just happens until all of the energy in the system is basically used up, and then, game over. So then I repeated this experiment a bunch of times, and one time something very interesting happened. So, I added these protocells together to the system, and protocell A and protocell B fused together to form a hybrid protocell AB. That didn't happen before. There it goes. There's a protocell AB now in this system. Protocell AB likes to dance around for a bit, while protocell B does the fusing, okay? But then something even more interesting happens. Watch when these two large protocells, the hybrid ones, fuse together. Now we have a dancing protocell and a self-replication event. Right. (Laughter) Just with blobs of chemicals, again. So the way this works is, you have a simple system of five chemicals here, a simple system here. When they hybridize, you then form something that's different than before, it's more complex than before, and you get the emergence of another kind of lifelike behavior which in this case is replication. So since we can make some interesting protocells that we like, interesting colors and interesting behaviors, and they're very easy to make, and they have interesting lifelike properties, perhaps these protocells have something to tell us about the origin of life on the Earth. Perhaps these represent an easily accessible step, one of the first steps by which life got started on the early Earth. Certainly, there were molecules present on the early Earth, but they wouldn't have been these pure compounds that we worked with in the lab and I showed in these experiments. Rather, they'd be a real complex mixture of all kinds of stuff, because uncontrolled chemical reactions produce a diverse mixture of organic compounds. Think of it like a primordial ooze, okay? And it's a pool that's too difficult to fully characterize, even by modern methods, and the product looks brown, like this tar here on the left. A pure compound is shown on the right, for contrast. So this is similar to what happens when you take pure sugar crystals in your kitchen, you put them in a pan, and you apply energy. You turn up the heat, you start making or breaking chemical bonds in the sugar, forming a brownish caramel, right? If you let that go unregulated, you'll continue to make and break chemical bonds, forming an even more diverse mixture of molecules that then forms this kind of black tarry stuff in your pan, right, that's difficult to wash out. So that's what the origin of life would have looked like. You needed to get life out of this junk that is present on the early Earth, four, 4.5 billion years ago. So the challenge then is, throw away all your pure chemicals in the lab, and try to make some protocells with lifelike properties from this kind of primordial ooze. So we're able to then see the self-assembly of these oil droplet bodies again that we've seen previously, and the black spots inside of there represent this kind of black tar — this diverse, very complex, organic black tar. And we put them into one of these experiments, as you've seen earlier, and then we watch lively movement that comes out. They look really good, very nice movement, and also they appear to have some kind of behavior where they kind of circle around each other and follow each other, similar to what we've seen before — but again, working with just primordial conditions, no pure chemicals. These are also, these tar-fueled protocells, are also able to locate resources in their environment. I'm going to add some resource from the left, here, that defuses into the system, and you can see, they really like that. They become very energetic, and able to find the resource in the environment, similar to what we saw before. But again, these are done in these primordial conditions, really messy conditions, not sort of sterile laboratory conditions. These are very dirty little protocells, as a matter of fact. (Laughter) But they have lifelike properties, is the point. So, doing these artificial life experiments helps us define a potential path between non-living and living systems. And not only that, but it helps us broaden our view of what life is and what possible life there could be out there — life that could be very different from life that we find here on Earth. And that leads me to the next term, which is ""weird life."" This is a term by Steve Benner. This is used in reference to a report in 2007 by the National Research Council in the United States, wherein they tried to understand how we can look for life elsewhere in the universe, okay, especially if that life is very different from life on Earth. If we went to another planet and we thought there might be life there, how could we even recognize it as life? Well, they came up with three very general criteria. First is — and they're listed here. The first is, the system has to be in non-equilibrium. That means the system cannot be dead, in a matter of fact. Basically what that means is, you have an input of energy into the system that life can use and exploit to maintain itself. This is similar to having the Sun shining on the Earth, driving photosynthesis, driving the ecosystem. Without the Sun, there's likely to be no life on this planet. Secondly, life needs to be in liquid form, so that means even if we had some interesting structures, interesting molecules together but they were frozen solid, then this is not a good place for life. And thirdly, we need to be able to make and break chemical bonds. And again this is important because life transforms resources from the environment into building blocks so it can maintain itself. Now today, I told you about very strange and weird protocells — some that contain clay, some that have primordial ooze in them, some that have basically oil instead of water inside of them. Most of these don't contain DNA, but yet they have lifelike properties. But these protocells satisfy these general requirements of living systems. So by making these chemical, artificial life experiments, we hope not only to understand something fundamental about the origin of life and the existence of life on this planet, but also what possible life there could be out there in the universe. Thank you. (Applause)"	在過去，有一個很大的鴻溝界於人,認為非生命系統的這一邊和生命系統的另外一邊。我們從這個美麗且複雜的非生命晶體，然後到另一邊美麗且複雜的貓。過去的一百五十年左右,科學家模糊了這樣在於非生命與生命系統之間的界限,現在我們認為有一種在於這二者之間的連續變化。我們先來看看這個例子:一個病毒是一個自然系統，對嗎？但是它非常簡單，它太過簡單了。它無法完全滿足所有的需求。它沒有生命系統的所有特質，而事實上它是寄生在其他生命系統上來繁殖和演化。 但是我們今晚將要在這裡討論的是在非生命這部份所作的實驗，實際上在實驗室裡所做的化學實驗混合了非生命的成分產生了新的結構，而且這些新的結構也許有些生命系統的特性。我在這裡所要說的是試著創造一種新的人造生命。 那麼在我剛剛所談到的有什麼特性呢？它們是如下：我們首先認為生命是有一個身體。現在有必要把個體從環境中區分出來。生命會新陳代謝，現在這是一個生命轉換的過程，從環境中的元素到構成要素,它可以維護並建造本身。生命有繼承的資訊。我們人類現在，在基因裡的DNA儲存資訊，然後傳遞這些訊息給我們的子孫。假如我們連結這二個—身體及代謝—我們可以得到一個可以移動且複製的系統，假如我們連結這些來繼承資訊,我們可以得到一個系統，那是更像是生命的，也許可以進化。這是我們將要試著在實驗室裡做的，做出一些實驗可有一個或多個特性的生命。 我們如何辦到呢？我們使用一個模型系統，我們稱之為原生細胞。你可以想像這個東西像是一個原始的細胞，他是一個活細胞的簡單化學模型，你可以把他看成一個細胞，在你的身體裡也許有不同類型的百萬個分子需要組成在一塊,組成一個複雜的網絡來產生我們賴以維生的東西。在實驗室裡，我們要做的就是像這樣，但是十種不同分子的順序—在複雜度上是大幅減少，但仍要產生像是真的生命型態。所以我們這樣做，我們開始用自己的方式產生生命系統。考慮一下這句在一百多年前的話，勒度克認為合成生物學:「生命的組成，應該是不斷發生,不會有令人興奮的事情被發現,因我們已認為是這樣 。」這是他第一個聲明，如果我們真的在實驗室裡創造了生命,也許也不會對我們的生命造成衝擊。 「假如我們接受進化論，合成生命的曙光一定在生產過程中,從無機到有機體的世界，或是從非生命到生命世界，產生只有生命的一些基本特性」所以，這個是我剛提到的「會慢慢的增加其他特性在這個發展過程與環境互動的演化」。所以我們開始製做一些簡單的結構,一些有生命的特性，而且我們試著發展令到可以更像是生命。這是我們開始製做一個原生細胞的方法。我們用一個叫做自我組合的觀點。意思是說，我可以在我的實驗室結合一些化學物質,這些化學物質會開始自我聯合變成大一點的結構。依此順序，從幾萬到幾十萬的分子會組合在一起形成一個從未存在過的大型結構。在這個例子中,我將一些膜分子混合在這個環境中,在短時間內，它就形成了複雜且漂亮的結構。在形態和功能上這些膜相當類似你身體裡的膜,我們可以使用這些來形成原生細胞的主體。 就像我們可以在油和水的系統中作業。你知道，當你把油和水放在一起,他們不會混合，但經過組裝我們可以得到一個油滴液,我們可以用這個當一個主體做為人工有機體或是原生細胞,你等一下會看到。這是剛成型的身體，對嗎？一些架構。在生命系統的其他方面會是如何？所以我們想出了原生細胞的模型,我現在顯示出來。我們開始用天然的粘土叫做蒙脫石。存在於天然的環境中，這種粘土會形成一個表面，這是化學活性。它會執行代謝程序。這個粘土喜歡與某種分子相連，舉例來說，像紅色的 RNA—這是相對的 DNA,這是帶有訊息的分子—它開始是單獨的，然後與其他粘土表面相連。這個結構，可以組成一個膜邊來圍繞著自身，可以變為液態分子的主體圍繞自己，這個綠色的是顯微照片。剛剛透過自行組裝，在實驗室裡混合在一起，我們可以說一個代謝的表面與一些訊息分子在這個膜的主體裡面，對嗎？ 所以我們已走向生命系統的路上。但假如你看到這個原生細胞，你不會和其他的真實生命混淆。它真的是沒有生命，它一旦成形,便沒有辦法做任何事。所以，一定是有東西漏掉了。有一些東西是漏掉了。一些漏掉的東西是,舉例來說，如果你有一道能量貫穿一個系統，我們想要一個原生細胞可以獲得一些能量來維持自身,就像生命系統所做的一樣。我們想出了一個不一樣的原生細胞模型，這個比先前一個更簡單。在這個原生細胞模型中，這只是一個油滴,但有個化學代謝在裡頭,可以讓原生細胞可以使用能源來做一些事情，變成動態的,像我們看到。你在這個系統加入這個油滴。這是個水池，這個原生細胞在這個系統開始自己移動起來。OK ? 油滴形成透過自我組合，有一個化學代謝在這裡頭，它可以使用能量,它用這些能量讓自己在這個環境裡移動。 先前我們聽過，動作在這類的生命系統中是非常重要的。它到處移動，探索這個環境,且重新塑造它的環境，如你所看到的,原生細胞所產生的這些化學波。它在動，某種意義，像是一個生命系統試著維護本身。我們帶了一樣會動的原生細胞,放在另一個實驗裡,讓它動。然後我加入一些食物在系統裡面,你看到這個藍色的，對不對？我加入一些食物在這個系統裡。原生細胞移動了，它遇到了食物。它重新調整了自己，然後爬上系統中濃度最高的食物，然後停留在那裡。對嗎？我們不只有一個系統像一個身體，它還有代謝,它可以使用能量來移動。它會感測到周圍的環境並在其中找到資源來維生。 現在，它還沒有大腦，它沒有神經系統，這只是一群化學品的集合，有這些有趣且像生命的複雜行為。假如我們算一下這系統內的化學物，包含了在盤子裡的水，我們有5 個化學物質可以完成這個。接著, 我們將這些原生細胞放在一個獨立的實驗中，觀察它們所做的,依照這些條件，我們有一些原生細胞在左邊往來移動著，像是要去碰這個環境下的其他結構。另一邊我們有二個移動的,各自成圈圈的原生細胞,它們開始一種舞蹈，互相做複雜的舞蹈。對嗎？不只是單獨的原生細胞有行為，我們的解釋是這個系統中的行為，我們有一個基本的人口水平行為,類似生物所擁有的。現在你們已是原生細胞的專家,我們要和這些原生細胞玩個遊戲。我們要做兩種不一樣的類型。原生細胞 A 有一種化學成分在裡面，當活躍時，這個原生細胞會開始在周圍動來動去，像在跳舞。所以請記住，這些是原始的舉動,這些跳舞的原生細胞，它們對我們是非常的有趣。 ( 笑聲 ) 第二個原生細胞有一個不一樣的化學成份在裡頭，當活躍時原生細胞會融合在一起變成一大個，對嗎？我們把這兩個放在同一個系統裡。這是人口A,這是人口B,我們啟動這個系統,原生細胞Bs , 它們是藍色的,全部組合成一塊。融合在一起形成一個大的滴夜，而其他的原生細胞在周圍跳舞。這發生在這個系統中，直到這些能源被用完為止，然後，遊戲結束。當我重覆這個實驗很多次後，有一次有趣的事發生了。我將這些原生細胞放在這個系統裡，原生細胞 A 和 原生細胞 B融合成一個混合的原生細胞 AB。這在以前從未發生，現在發生了。現在有了原生細胞 AB 在這個系統內。當原生細胞B 要做融合時,原生細胞 AB 喜歡到處跳舞，OK? 但是更有趣的事情發生了。看一下這兩個大的原生細胞,這個混合的，融合在一起。現在我們有一個跳舞的原生細胞和一個自我分裂的事件，對嗎。 ( 笑聲 )就是和化學點滴這個方法可行，你有一個簡單的系統，內有5個化學物質,一個簡單的系統，當它們混合時,你就創造出與原先不一樣的東西,較之前的複雜得多,你也得到另一種類似生命行為的東西,在這個情況下複製。 既然我們可以製作我們感到有趣的原生細胞，那麼有趣的顏色和有趣的行為，它們都可以很容易的製造出，而且它們擁有像生命行為的有趣特性，也許這些原生細胞可以告訴我們在有關地球上生命的起源，也許這展示一個較容易的一個步驟，第一步邁向地球的生命是如何開始的。肯定的是，這些是早期在地球上存在的分子，但是它們沒有像這些純化合物，這些我們在實驗室所做出來的，剛給各位看的實驗。而它們是真正複雜的各類混合物，因為無法控制的化學反應產生不同的有機化合物的混合物。想像它是一個原始軟泥，好嗎？這是一個池塘，太難以充分表現,即使用現代的方法,這個看起來棕色，像是焦油在左邊。一個純化合物在右邊，做個對比。 這個情形就好像當你在廚房使用純糖晶體,你放在鍋子裡，然後給他們能量。你把他們加熱，你開始製造或斷掉糖裡的化學鍵,形成了褐色的焦糖，對嗎？假如你管制的放任它們，你會繼續製造和斷掉化學鍵,形成多樣化的混合物分子，最後形成這種黑色的柏油樣的東西在鍋底，對嗎？這是非常難以清洗的，這也許是生命開始時所呈現的樣子。4億，4億5千萬年前,在早期的地球, 你需要從這樣的垃圾中淬取出生命。所以，這個挑戰是,要把你在實驗室裡的純化合物丟開,試著從這種原始軟泥，製造出類似生命特性的原生細胞。 我們可以看到這些油滴再次的自我組合,像先前所看到的,其中這個黑色的代表這種黑色焦油，這個多元複雜的有機黑色焦油。我們將它放入其中的一個實驗中，像之前看到的，然後我們看到它活潑的移動它它們看起來很好，非常好的運動,它們也呈現出某種行為,他們互相繞圈圈,而且跟著其他的繞和我們前面看到的很像，但是這是在原始的條件下,不是純化合物。這是焦油原生細胞，也是可以在它們的環境中找到資源。我想從左邊加入一些資源擴散到這個系統裡,你可以看到，它們非常喜歡。它們變得有活力，而且能夠在這個環境中找到資源,像我們之前所看到的那樣。但是，它們是在原始的條件下,真正很差的環境下,不是在那種無菌的實驗室裡。它們是事實上是骯髒的小原生細胞。 (笑聲)但重點是，它們有生命類的特性。 所以，做這些人工生命的實驗幫助我們定義介於生命與非生命的一條路,不只是這樣，它還幫助我們開拓我們對生命的視野,還有外太空生命的可能性 — 生命也許和我們在地球上發現的生命很不一樣。這引發了我下一期「奇特的生命」。這一期由史帝夫班納主導。這是在 2007 年的報告,美國國家研究理事會被引用，他們試著了解，為什麼我們可以在太空中尋找生命,尤其是對地球而言是非常不同的生命型態。假如我們去我們認為在那裡或許有生命的不同星球,我們是如何判定它是有生命的呢? 他們想出三種判定的標準,這是他們列出來的。第一，這個系統必須是非平衡的。 意思是事實上，不是已死掉。基本上，意思是它是有一個能量，輸入到這個系統,這個生命可以使用且被利用來維持自身。這就好像是有個太陽在地球上照亮，來行使光合作用驅動生態系統。沒有太陽，就沒有生命在這個星球上。第二，生命需是液態狀的,這個表示假如我們有一些有趣的結構，有趣的分子結合在一起，但它們是凍成固態的,這不是一個適合生命的地方。第三，我們需要可以製造和切斷化學鍵。而且這是非常重要的，因為生命從環境中的資源轉換到建構的機體，以至它可以維持下去。 現在，我所說的這個非常奇特且怪異的原生細胞，有一些包含了粘土,有一些當中有原始的軟泥,在它們裡面有一些有基本的油,而不是水。它們大部分都沒有 DNA,但是它們有類似生命的特性。這些原生細胞符合這些生命系統的一般要素。藉著製造這些化學，人工的生命經驗，我們希望不只是了解關於生命起源的基本原理和這個星球上的生命，同時生命也可能離開這裡去到宇宙，謝謝。(掌聲)
