Talk	en	zh-tw
martin_pistorius_how_my_mind_came_back_to_life_and_no_one_knew	"Imagine being unable to say, ""I am hungry,"" ""I am in pain,"" ""thank you,"" or ""I love you."" Being trapped inside your body, a body that doesn't respond to commands. Surrounded by people, yet utterly alone. Wishing you could reach out, to connect, to comfort, to participate. For 13 long years, that was my reality. Most of us never think twice about talking, about communicating. I've thought a lot about it. I've had a lot of time to think. For the first 12 years of my life, I was a normal, happy, healthy little boy. Then everything changed. I contracted a brain infection. The doctors weren't sure what it was, but they treated me the best they could. However, I progressively got worse. Eventually, I lost my ability to control my movements, make eye contact, and finally, my ability to speak. While in hospital, I desperately wanted to go home. I said to my mother, ""When home?"" Those were the last words I ever spoke with my own voice. I would eventually fail every test for mental awareness. My parents were told I was as good as not there. A vegetable, having the intelligence of a three-month-old baby. They were told to take me home and try to keep me comfortable until I died. My parents, in fact my entire family's lives, became consumed by taking care of me the best they knew how. Their friends drifted away. One year turned to two, two turned to three. It seemed like the person I once was began to disappear. The Lego blocks and electronic circuits I'd loved as a boy were put away. I had been moved out of my bedroom into another more practical one. I had become a ghost, a faded memory of a boy people once knew and loved. Meanwhile, my mind began knitting itself back together. Gradually, my awareness started to return. But no one realized that I had come back to life. I was aware of everything, just like any normal person. I could see and understand everything, but I couldn't find a way to let anybody know. My personality was entombed within a seemingly silent body, a vibrant mind hidden in plain sight within a chrysalis. The stark reality hit me that I was going to spend the rest of my life locked inside myself, totally alone. I was trapped with only my thoughts for company. I would never be rescued. No one would ever show me tenderness. I would never talk to a friend. No one would ever love me. I had no dreams, no hope, nothing to look forward to. Well, nothing pleasant. I lived in fear, and, to put it bluntly, was waiting for death to finally release me, expecting to die all alone in a care home. I don't know if it's truly possible to express in words what it's like not to be able to communicate. Your personality appears to vanish into a heavy fog and all of your emotions and desires are constricted, stifled and muted within you. For me, the worst was the feeling of utter powerlessness. I simply existed. It's a very dark place to find yourself because in a sense, you have vanished. Other people controlled every aspect of my life. They decided what I ate and when. Whether I was laid on my side or strapped into my wheelchair. I often spent my days positioned in front of the TV watching Barney reruns. I think because Barney is so happy and jolly, and I absolutely wasn't, it made it so much worse. I was completely powerless to change anything in my life or people's perceptions of me. I was a silent, invisible observer of how people behaved when they thought no one was watching. Unfortunately, I wasn't only an observer. With no way to communicate, I became the perfect victim: a defenseless object, seemingly devoid of feelings that people used to play out their darkest desires. For more than 10 years, people who were charged with my care abused me physically, verbally and sexually. Despite what they thought, I did feel. The first time it happened, I was shocked and filled with disbelief. How could they do this to me? I was confused. What had I done to deserve this? Part of me wanted to cry and another part wanted to fight. Hurt, sadness and anger flooded through me. I felt worthless. There was no one to comfort me. But neither of my parents knew this was happening. I lived in terror, knowing it would happen again and again. I just never knew when. All I knew was that I would never be the same. I remember once listening to Whitney Houston singing, ""No matter what they take from me, they can't take away my dignity."" And I thought to myself, ""You want to bet?"" Perhaps my parents could have found out and could have helped. But the years of constant caretaking, having to wake up every two hours to turn me, combined with them essentially grieving the loss of their son, had taken a toll on my mother and father. Following yet another heated argument between my parents, in a moment of despair and desperation, my mother turned to me and told me that I should die. I was shocked, but as I thought about what she had said, I was filled with enormous compassion and love for my mother, yet I could do nothing about it. There were many moments when I gave up, sinking into a dark abyss. I remember one particularly low moment. My dad left me alone in the car while he quickly went to buy something from the store. A random stranger walked past, looked at me and he smiled. I may never know why, but that simple act, the fleeting moment of human connection, transformed how I was feeling, making me want to keep going. My existence was tortured by monotony, a reality that was often too much to bear. Alone with my thoughts, I constructed intricate fantasies about ants running across the floor. I taught myself to tell the time by noticing where the shadows were. As I learned how the shadows moved as the hours of the day passed, I understood how long it would be before I was picked up and taken home. Seeing my father walk through the door to collect me was the best moment of the day. My mind became a tool that I could use to either close down to retreat from my reality or enlarge into a gigantic space that I could fill with fantasies. I hoped that my reality would change and someone would see that I had come back to life. But I had been washed away like a sand castle built too close to the waves, and in my place was the person people expected me to be. To some I was Martin, a vacant shell, the vegetable, deserving of harsh words, dismissal and even abuse. To others, I was the tragically brain-damaged boy who had grown to become a man. Someone they were kind to and cared for. Good or bad, I was a blank canvas onto which different versions of myself were projected. It took someone new to see me in a different way. An aromatherapist began coming to the care home about once a week. Whether through intuition or her attention to details that others failed to notice, she became convinced that I could understand what was being said. She urged my parents to have me tested by experts in augmentative and alternative communication. And within a year, I was beginning to use a computer program to communicate. It was exhilarating, but frustrating at times. I had so many words in my mind, that I couldn't wait to be able to share them. Sometimes, I would say things to myself simply because I could. In myself, I had a ready audience, and I believed that by expressing my thoughts and wishes, others would listen, too. But as I began to communicate more, I realized that it was in fact only just the beginning of creating a new voice for myself. I was thrust into a world I didn't quite know how to function in. I stopped going to the care home and managed to get my first job making photocopies. As simple as this may sound, it was amazing. My new world was really exciting but often quite overwhelming and frightening. I was like a man-child, and as liberating as it often was, I struggled. I also learned that many of those who had known me for a long time found it impossible to abandon the idea of Martin they had in their heads. While those I had only just met struggled to look past the image of a silent man in a wheelchair. I realized that some people would only listen to me if what I said was in line with what they expected. Otherwise, it was disregarded and they did what they felt was best. I discovered that true communication is about more than merely physically conveying a message. It is about getting the message heard and respected. Still, things were going well. My body was slowly getting stronger. I had a job in computing that I loved, and had even got Kojak, the dog I had been dreaming about for years. However, I longed to share my life with someone. I remember staring out the window as my dad drove me home from work, thinking I have so much love inside of me and nobody to give it to. Just as I had resigned myself to being single for the rest of my life, I met Joan. Not only is she the best thing that has ever happened to me, but Joan helped me to challenge my own misconceptions about myself. Joan said it was through my words that she fell in love with me. However, after all I had been through, I still couldn't shake the belief that nobody could truly see beyond my disability and accept me for who I am. I also really struggled to comprehend that I was a man. The first time someone referred to me as a man, it stopped me in my tracks. I felt like looking around and asking, ""Who, me?"" That all changed with Joan. We have an amazing connection and I learned how important it is to communicate openly and honestly. I felt safe, and it gave me the confidence to truly say what I thought. I started to feel whole again, a man worthy of love. I began to reshape my destiny. I spoke up a little more at work. I asserted my need for independence to the people around me. Being given a means of communication changed everything. I used the power of words and will to challenge the preconceptions of those around me and those I had of myself. Communication is what makes us human, enabling us to connect on the deepest level with those around us — telling our own stories, expressing wants, needs and desires, or hearing those of others by really listening. All this is how the world knows who we are. So who are we without it? True communication increases understanding and creates a more caring and compassionate world. Once, I was perceived to be an inanimate object, a mindless phantom of a boy in a wheelchair. Today, I am so much more. A husband, a son, a friend, a brother, a business owner, a first-class honors graduate, a keen amateur photographer. It is my ability to communicate that has given me all this. We are told that actions speak louder than words. But I wonder, do they? Our words, however we communicate them, are just as powerful. Whether we speak the words with our own voices, type them with our eyes, or communicate them non-verbally to someone who speaks them for us, words are among our most powerful tools. I have come to you through a terrible darkness, pulled from it by caring souls and by language itself. The act of you listening to me today brings me farther into the light. We are shining here together. If there is one most difficult obstacle to my way of communicating, it is that sometimes I want to shout and other times simply to whisper a word of love or gratitude. It all sounds the same. But if you will, please imagine these next two words as warmly as you can: Thank you. (Applause)"	想像一下無法表達「我餓了」、「我很不舒服」、「謝謝」或者「我愛妳」，被困在無法執行大腦指令的軀殼裡被困在無法執行大腦指令的軀殼裡被人群包圍卻極度地孤寂。一心指望自己能與外界接觸、和人有連結、給人慰藉、一同參與，那是我長達 13 年的遭遇。 大多數人都把表達與溝通視為理所當然，我卻已經想過不知幾回了，我有很長的時間可以思考。 在我生命的頭 12 年裡我是個平凡、快樂、健康的小男孩，後來所有事情都改變了 ，我的大腦受了感染，醫生們不確定那是什麼東西，不過他們竭盡所能治療我。然而我的狀況日漸惡化，最後，我失去行為能力，眼神交集，和說話的能力。 在醫院時，我極度渴望回家。我跟母親說：「何時、家？」，這是我迄今以我自己的聲音最後說出的詞彙，我通過不了所有對心智感知的測試。他們告訴我的父母，我就像不存在一樣，一個有著三個月大嬰兒智力的植物人，他們請我的父母帶我回家，儘量保持我舒適，直到死亡。 我的父母，我的家庭生活，都被他們如何能更好地照顧我這件事影響。他們的朋友逐漸疏遠他們。一年變成兩年，兩年變成三年。就像曾經的我逐漸消失；我喜愛的樂高積木和電子迴路被拿走，我從原本的臥房搬到一個對我來說更實際的房間，我成了一個鬼魂，一個人們曾經認識、喜愛的孩子的影子。 同時，我的神智正開始自我縫合，我的認知逐漸恢復，但是沒有人知道我已經回魂。我意識到每一件事，像正常人一樣，我看見及懂得每一件事，但是我無法讓別人知道。我的人格被埋藏在看似沉默的軀殼裡，活力充沛的思考虛掩在蛹繭裡。 我終於意識到，我將會困鎖在自己的軀殼裡度過餘生，全然孤獨。只有我的想法陪伴我，我將永遠無法獲救，沒有人會再對我顯現溫柔。我將永遠不能跟朋友說話。沒有人會愛我。我沒有夢想、希望、期許的東西，沒有任何喜樂。我活在恐懼裡，簡單來說，等著死亡來釋放我，等著全然孤寂的死於安養所。 我不知道是否真的有可能把無力溝通的經歷化為文字，那就像你的人格消失在大霧中，你所有的情緒和欲望，都被限制、窒息、閉鎖在內心。我認為，最糟的是無力可施的感受，僅僅只是苟活在世。這是一種很黑暗的感受，某個程度上說，你已經消失了。其他人掌握著我各方面的生活 －他們決定我何時吃以及吃些什麼，我該側躺還是綁在輪椅裡。我經常被擺置在電視前看「小博士邦尼」的重播。而「小博士邦尼」是如此快樂愉悅，就像在諷刺我，簡直是雪上加霜。 我全然無力改變生活裡的任何事，或是旁人對我的認知。我是人們以為沒人看到的時候，那個沈默，隱形的觀察者。不幸地，我不只是個觀察者。無法表達讓我成了最好下手的目標，一個無法自保的受害者，看似缺乏知覺，用來宣洩人們最陰暗的慾望。長達十年以上的時光，負責照料我的人傷害我的身體，責罵、性侵，或許他們不知道，但我是有知覺的。這些事第一次發生時我既吃驚且不可置信，他們怎麼能夠對我做這些事呢？我感到困惑，我造了什麼孽而活該如此？我一方面很想哭出來，另一方面又想要挺身而戰，疼痛、悲傷和憤怒淹沒了我。我感到卑賤，沒有人來慰藉我，我的雙親並不知道這些事，我活在恐懼裡，知道它會一而再、再而三的發生，我只是永遠不知道是什麼時候，我知道的一切就是我將永遠不再是原樣了。我記得曾經聽過惠妮．休士頓唱道：「不論他們從我這帶走什麼，他們無法帶走我的尊嚴」，我想：「妳要賭一下嗎?」。 或許我的雙親能夠發現、可以幫上忙，不過長年下不間斷的照護每兩個鐘頭起床一次幫我翻身，加上失去兒子的痛苦，對我父母造成無可挽回的傷害。在某個激烈的爭吵中，一個絕望和衝動的時刻，我母親轉向我，告訴我我該死，我很吃驚。但是當我認真思考她的話，我對我母親充滿了無盡的憐憫和愛意，然而我卻無能為力。 許多次我放棄了自己，陷入黑暗的深淵。我記得一個特別低潮的時候，當我父親衝進商店買個東西，把我單獨留在車內，一個奇怪的陌生人路過看著我，然後微笑，我也許永遠不知道為什麼，不過這個簡單的動作，這一閃即逝的交流，改變了我當時的感受，讓我想堅持下去。 我的生活被百無新意所荼害，一個不可承受之重的現實。在我的思緒中，我架構出錯綜複雜的幻想，像是螞蟻橫越地板。我教我自己透過注意陰影的位置來分辨時間，當我學會當時間一小時一小時經過影子如何移動時，我搞懂了在我被人接走還有帶回家前還有多長的時間，看著我的父親走進門來接我是每天最棒的時刻。 我的心思變成一個工具，我可以封閉自己，逃避現實，也可以放大到填塞我幻想之寬闊浩大的天地。我希望我的現實將會改變，會有人知道我已經恢復神智了，但是我就像個蓋得太靠近浪邊的沙堡，輕易地被沖走，而在我原來的位置上，是人們對我的想像。對有些人而言我是馬丁，一個空蕩蕩的外殼、植物人、本該受冷言酸語、漠視、甚至是虐待。對其他人而言，我是兒時損傷了大腦，悲慘地成長為男人的男孩。他們所善待以及照顧的某人。無論好壞，我是一片上頭投射了不同版本的空白畫布。 需要新的眼光，才能看到不同的我。一位香薰治療師，開始一週一次來到安養所，不論是透過直覺，或是對他人忽略細節的觀察入微，她開始認為我能理解別人的話。她鼓勵我的雙親讓我接受專家測試，以擴大與替代性的溝通方法。不到一年，我開始用電腦程式做溝通，多麼令人亢奮，雖然有時也很惱人。我的腦海裡有這麼多文字，我等不及有一天能分享它們；有時我跟自己說話，只是因為我能，在我自己內部早有個現成的聽眾，我相信透過表達我的想法和心願，其他人也會聽見。 不過當我開始表達更多，我發現這只是為自己創造一個新聲音的開始。我被猛推進了一個我不確定該如何運作的世界，我不再去安養所，有了我的第一份工作 － 影印，或許聽起來很簡單，但實在太棒了。我的新世界如此刺激，但也很恐怖，有時難以承受。我像個大人模樣的小孩，在獲得解脫的同時我也在掙扎努力。我也發現許多認識我有段時間的人，根本無法他們腦海裡對馬丁的概念。而那些初次遇見的人也很難跨越我在輪椅上沈默的男子的形象。我明白到有些人只有在我所言之物符合他們的預期時才會聽著我說。不然那些話只會被當成耳邊風，仍然依照他們認為適當的方式去做。 我發現真正的溝通，不只是傳達字面訊息，更是讓其中的意義被聽見，被尊重。就算如此，一切都發展的很好。我的身體慢慢地變得強壯。我做著喜歡的電腦運算的工作，甚至還有了我多年來夢寐以求的小狗 － 「寇賈」。 然而我渴求和某人分享我的生活。我記得在父親載我下班回家時，我凝望窗外，想著在我內心裡有著如此之多的愛，卻沒有給予的對象，正當我認命我將形單影隻度過餘生時，我遇見了瓊恩。她不但是我生命中最美好的事，瓊恩更幫助我重新思考我對自己的誤解。瓊恩，她是透過我的文字愛上我的。然而，在我歷經這一切之後，我無法相信有人能忽略我的殘疾，真正地看見我、接納我。 我很難接受，我是個男人的事實。第一次有人這樣稱呼我，我停下手邊的事，感覺就像在四下張望，並詢問：「誰？我嗎？」一切都因為瓊恩改變了。我們不但心靈相通，而且我領會到開放、誠實地溝通有多麼重要，我覺得安全，安全感讓我能自信誠實地說出想法。我再次感覺完整，一個值得被愛的男人。 我開始重新塑造我的命運，在工作上表達更多想法。我對周遭的人堅定說出我對獨立自強的需求，一旦有了溝通的意義，一切都改變了。我運用文字的力量和意志來質疑那些在我週遭的人以及我對自己的成見。 溝通讓我們成為一個人，讓我們能與身邊的人深入對談，相互理解 －訴說我們的故事，表達欲望、需求和渴求；或是真心聆聽別人的故事、欲望、需求和渴求，這就是世界認識我們的方法。要是不能溝通我們又是誰呢? 真正的溝通增進理解，創造一個更溫暖，更有同理心的世界。曾經，我被當作一件沒有生命的物體，一個沒有靈魂的鬼影，附身於輪椅上的小男孩。今天，我改頭換面，我是一位丈夫、兒子、朋友、兄弟、企業家、一級榮譽學位畢業生、熱情的業餘攝影師。我的溝通能力讓我獲得這些。 我們常聽人講「說的比做的容易」，但我懷疑，是這樣嗎？我們的文字，無論我們用什摩方法來溝通，都是飽含力量的。不論我們是用自己的聲音說，還是用眼睛打字，又或是用言語以外的方法，讓他人幫助我們說，文字是我們最有力的工具之一。 我來到你的面前，穿越恐怖的黑暗，被關愛我的靈魂和語言本身，從黑暗中被拉了出來。僅僅只是你的聆聽，讓我離光明更近，我們在這裡，一起發光。在我溝通的方式裡最困難的是，有時我想要大叫，有時我只是想要輕聲表達愛與感恩，卻只能發出同樣的一種聲音。但如果你能，請以最溫暖溫柔的方式，想像以下的兩個字：謝謝。 （掌聲）
