Talk	en	zh-tw
martin_rees_asks_is_this_our_final_century	"If you take 10,000 people at random, 9,999 have something in common: their interests in business lie on or near the Earth's surface. The odd one out is an astronomer, and I am one of that strange breed. (Laughter) My talk will be in two parts. I'll talk first as an astronomer, and then as a worried member of the human race. But let's start off by remembering that Darwin showed how we're the outcome of four billion years of evolution. And what we try to do in astronomy and cosmology is to go back before Darwin's simple beginning, to set our Earth in a cosmic context. And let me just run through a few slides. This was the impact that happened last week on a comet. If they'd sent a nuke, it would have been rather more spectacular than what actually happened last Monday. So that's another project for NASA. That's Mars from the European Mars Express, and at New Year. This artist's impression turned into reality when a parachute landed on Titan, Saturn's giant moon. It landed on the surface. This is pictures taken on the way down. That looks like a coastline. It is indeed, but the ocean is liquid methane — the temperature minus 170 degrees centigrade. If we go beyond our solar system, we've learned that the stars aren't twinkly points of light. Each one is like a sun with a retinue of planets orbiting around it. And we can see places where stars are forming, like the Eagle Nebula. We see stars dying. In six billion years, the sun will look like that. And some stars die spectacularly in a supernova explosion, leaving remnants like that. On a still bigger scale, we see entire galaxies of stars. We see entire ecosystems where gas is being recycled. And to the cosmologist, these galaxies are just the atoms, as it were, of the large-scale universe. This picture shows a patch of sky so small that it would take about 100 patches like it to cover the full moon in the sky. Through a small telescope, this would look quite blank, but you see here hundreds of little, faint smudges. Each is a galaxy, fully like ours or Andromeda, which looks so small and faint because its light has taken 10 billion light-years to get to us. The stars in those galaxies probably don't have planets around them. There's scant chance of life there — that's because there's been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron, the building blocks of planets and of life. We believe that all of this emerged from a Big Bang — a hot, dense state. So how did that amorphous Big Bang turn into our complex cosmos? I'm going to show you a movie simulation 16 powers of 10 faster than real time, which shows a patch of the universe where the expansions have subtracted out. But you see, as time goes on in gigayears at the bottom, you will see structures evolve as gravity feeds on small, dense irregularities, and structures develop. And we'll end up after 13 billion years with something looking rather like our own universe. And we compare simulated universes like that — I'll show you a better simulation at the end of my talk — with what we actually see in the sky. Well, we can trace things back to the earlier stages of the Big Bang, but we still don't know what banged and why it banged. That's a challenge for 21st-century science. If my research group had a logo, it would be this picture here: an ouroboros, where you see the micro-world on the left — the world of the quantum — and on the right the large-scale universe of planets, stars and galaxies. We know our universes are united though — links between left and right. The everyday world is determined by atoms, how they stick together to make molecules. Stars are fueled by how the nuclei in those atoms react together. And, as we've learned in the last few years, galaxies are held together by the gravitational pull of so-called dark matter: particles in huge swarms, far smaller even than atomic nuclei. But we'd like to know the synthesis symbolized at the very top. The micro-world of the quantum is understood. On the right hand side, gravity holds sway. Einstein explained that. But the unfinished business for 21st-century science is to link together cosmos and micro-world with a unified theory — symbolized, as it were, gastronomically at the top of that picture. (Laughter) And until we have that synthesis, we won't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom, quantum effects could shake everything. And so we need a theory that unifies the very large and the very small, which we don't yet have. One idea, incidentally — and I had this hazard sign to say I'm going to speculate from now on — is that our Big Bang was not the only one. One idea is that our three-dimensional universe may be embedded in a high-dimensional space, just as you can imagine on these sheets of paper. You can imagine ants on one of them thinking it's a two-dimensional universe, not being aware of another population of ants on the other. So there could be another universe just a millimeter away from ours, but we're not aware of it because that millimeter is measured in some fourth spatial dimension, and we're imprisoned in our three. And so we believe that there may be a lot more to physical reality than what we've normally called our universe — the aftermath of our Big Bang. And here's another picture. Bottom right depicts our universe, which on the horizon is not beyond that, but even that is just one bubble, as it were, in some vaster reality. Many people suspect that just as we've gone from believing in one solar system to zillions of solar systems, one galaxy to many galaxies, we have to go to many Big Bangs from one Big Bang, perhaps these many Big Bangs displaying an immense variety of properties. Well, let's go back to this picture. There's one challenge symbolized at the top, but there's another challenge to science symbolized at the bottom. You want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small, but we want to understand the very complex. And the most complex things are ourselves, midway between atoms and stars. We depend on stars to make the atoms we're made of. We depend on chemistry to determine our complex structure. We clearly have to be large, compared to atoms, to have layer upon layer of complex structure. We clearly have to be small, compared to stars and planets — otherwise we'd be crushed by gravity. And in fact, we are midway. It would take as many human bodies to make up the sun as there are atoms in each of us. The geometric mean of the mass of a proton and the mass of the sun is 50 kilograms, within a factor of two of the mass of each person here. Well, most of you anyway. The science of complexity is probably the greatest challenge of all, greater than that of the very small on the left and the very large on the right. And it's this science, which is not only enlightening our understanding of the biological world, but also transforming our world faster than ever. And more than that, it's engendering new kinds of change. And I now move on to the second part of my talk, and the book ""Our Final Century"" was mentioned. If I was not a self-effacing Brit, I would mention the book myself, and I would add that it's available in paperback. (Laughter) And in America it was called ""Our Final Hour"" because Americans like instant gratification. (Laughter) But my theme is that in this century, not only has science changed the world faster than ever, but in new and different ways. Targeted drugs, genetic modification, artificial intelligence, perhaps even implants into our brains, may change human beings themselves. And human beings, their physique and character, has not changed for thousands of years. It may change this century. It's new in our history. And the human impact on the global environment — greenhouse warming, mass extinctions and so forth — is unprecedented, too. And so, this makes this coming century a challenge. Bio- and cybertechnologies are environmentally benign in that they offer marvelous prospects, while, nonetheless, reducing pressure on energy and resources. But they will have a dark side. In our interconnected world, novel technology could empower just one fanatic, or some weirdo with a mindset of those who now design computer viruses, to trigger some kind on disaster. Indeed, catastrophe could arise simply from technical misadventure — error rather than terror. And even a tiny probability of catastrophe is unacceptable when the downside could be of global consequence. In fact, some years ago, Bill Joy wrote an article expressing tremendous concern about robots taking us over, etc. I don't go along with all that, but it's interesting that he had a simple solution. It was what he called ""fine-grained relinquishment."" He wanted to give up the dangerous kind of science and keep the good bits. Now, that's absurdly naive for two reasons. First, any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones. And also, when a scientist makes a discovery, he or she normally has no clue what the applications are going to be. And so what this means is that we have to accept the risks if we are going to enjoy the benefits of science. We have to accept that there will be hazards. And I think we have to go back to what happened in the post-War era, post-World War II, when the nuclear scientists who'd been involved in making the atomic bomb, in many cases were concerned that they should do all they could to alert the world to the dangers. And they were inspired not by the young Einstein, who did the great work in relativity, but by the old Einstein, the icon of poster and t-shirt, who failed in his scientific efforts to unify the physical laws. He was premature. But he was a moral compass — an inspiration to scientists who were concerned with arms control. And perhaps the greatest living person is someone I'm privileged to know, Joe Rothblatt. Equally untidy office there, as you can see. He's 96 years old, and he founded the Pugwash movement. He persuaded Einstein, as his last act, to sign the famous memorandum of Bertrand Russell. And he sets an example of the concerned scientist. And I think to harness science optimally, to choose which doors to open and which to leave closed, we need latter-day counterparts of people like Joseph Rothblatt. We need not just campaigning physicists, but we need biologists, computer experts and environmentalists as well. And I think academics and independent entrepreneurs have a special obligation because they have more freedom than those in government service, or company employees subject to commercial pressure. I wrote my book, ""Our Final Century,"" as a scientist, just a general scientist. But there's one respect, I think, in which being a cosmologist offered a special perspective, and that's that it offers an awareness of the immense future. The stupendous time spans of the evolutionary past are now part of common culture — outside the American Bible Belt, anyway — (Laughter) but most people, even those who are familiar with evolution, aren't mindful that even more time lies ahead. The sun has been shining for four and a half billion years, but it'll be another six billion years before its fuel runs out. On that schematic picture, a sort of time-lapse picture, we're halfway. And it'll be another six billion before that happens, and any remaining life on Earth is vaporized. There's an unthinking tendency to imagine that humans will be there, experiencing the sun's demise, but any life and intelligence that exists then will be as different from us as we are from bacteria. The unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go, here on Earth and probably far beyond. So we are still at the beginning of the emergence of complexity in our Earth and beyond. If you represent the Earth's lifetime by a single year, say from January when it was made to December, the 21st-century would be a quarter of a second in June — a tiny fraction of the year. But even in this concertinaed cosmic perspective, our century is very, very special, the first when humans can change themselves and their home planet. As I should have shown this earlier, it will not be humans who witness the end point of the sun; it will be creatures as different from us as we are from bacteria. When Einstein died in 1955, one striking tribute to his global status was this cartoon by Herblock in the Washington Post. The plaque reads, ""Albert Einstein lived here."" And I'd like to end with a vignette, as it were, inspired by this image. We've been familiar for 40 years with this image: the fragile beauty of land, ocean and clouds, contrasted with the sterile moonscape on which the astronauts left their footprints. But let's suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar, not just for 40 years, but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our Earth. What would they have seen? Over nearly all that immense time, Earth's appearance would have changed very gradually. The only abrupt worldwide change would have been major asteroid impacts or volcanic super-eruptions. Apart from those brief traumas, nothing happens suddenly. The continental landmasses drifted around. Ice cover waxed and waned. Successions of new species emerged, evolved and became extinct. But in just a tiny sliver of the Earth's history, the last one-millionth part, a few thousand years, the patterns of vegetation altered much faster than before. This signaled the start of agriculture. Change has accelerated as human populations rose. Then other things happened even more abruptly. Within just 50 years — that's one hundredth of one millionth of the Earth's age — the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise, and ominously fast. The planet became an intense emitter of radio waves — the total output from all TV and cell phones and radar transmissions. And something else happened. Metallic objects — albeit very small ones, a few tons at most — escaped into orbit around the Earth. Some journeyed to the moons and planets. A race of advanced extraterrestrials watching our solar system from afar could confidently predict Earth's final doom in another six billion years. But could they have predicted this unprecedented spike less than halfway through the Earth's life? These human-induced alterations occupying overall less than a millionth of the elapsed lifetime and seemingly occurring with runaway speed? If they continued their vigil, what might these hypothetical aliens witness in the next hundred years? Will some spasm foreclose Earth's future? Or will the biosphere stabilize? Or will some of the metallic objects launched from the Earth spawn new oases, a post-human life elsewhere? The science done by the young Einstein will continue as long as our civilization, but for civilization to survive, we'll need the wisdom of the old Einstein — humane, global and farseeing. And whatever happens in this uniquely crucial century will resonate into the remote future and perhaps far beyond the Earth, far beyond the Earth as depicted here. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	如果隨機挑選出 10,000 人, 其中 9,999人都會有一個共通點：他們所關心的事情都位在地表，或是接近地表的地方。剩下來那一個是天文學家，而我就是那種怪咖。（笑聲）我的演講分為兩個部份。首先我會從天文學家的角度談起,接著再從憂心於人類社會的一份子來討論。讓我們先來回顧達爾文的主張：人類是經過四十億年演化後的產物。而天文學和宇宙學所嚐試的，是回歸到達爾文的理論原點，將宇宙設定爲地球的背景。 我來播放幾張投影片。這是上星期發生在某顆彗星表面的撞擊。如果他們發射的是核子武器的話，效果應該會比上週一發生的這個景象更加壯觀得多。那是 NASA 的另一項計劃。這張則是新年時由歐洲太空總署的火星快車號拍攝到的火星。這是一架著陸裝置登陸土星巨大的衛星泰坦星（土衛六）時的景象，就宛如藝術家的創作轉為了實景。它登陸在泰坦星（土衛六）的表面。這張圖片是在降落途中拍攝的。這看起來像一條海岸線。它也的確是，只不過這片海洋是液態甲烷 —溫度是攝氏零下 170 度。如果放眼到太陽系之外的話，我們已經都知道星星並不是閃爍的光點。每一顆恆星都像太陽一樣，有若干行星環繞著它運行。我們也可以看到恆星形成的位置，如鷹星雲。我們也看到正在衰竭的恆星。六十億年後, 太陽就會變成這樣。有些恆星在超新星爆炸中壯麗的毀滅，剩下這樣的殘餘。 比例再放大一些, 我們可以看見由恆星組成的所有星系。我們看到整個生態系統裡的氣體被回收利用。對宇宙學家而言，這些星系都只不過是構成大規模宇宙空間的原子罷了。這照片顯示了一小片天空小到大概需要用上 100 張同樣尺寸的片段拼接才足以遮蔽天上的滿月。用小型望遠鏡去看的話，這個區域會顯得空無一物，但現在你們可以看見數百個小小的模糊斑點。每一個斑點都是一個星系，正如我們的太陽系或仙女座星系，看起來之所以微小又模糊, 是因為它的光線得經過一百億光年以上才能抵達地球。這些星系中的恆星未必有行星圍繞著。有生命存在的機會甚微 — 那是因為缺乏時間讓恆星足以進行核聚變，以製造構成行星和生命所必需的矽和碳和鐵等要素。我們相信這一切都源自於一次大爆炸 —一個灼熱, 濃密的狀態。而這個無定形的大爆炸又是如何演變出我們複雜的宇宙呢？ 我會播放一段模擬電影影片播放的速度是實際時間的 10 的16 次方倍速，影片中將演示宇宙的一小部份其膨脹的歷程。大家可以看到，當底部顯示時間以十億年爲單位進行時，空間物質結構會隨著引力作用於細小、密集的不規則狀物而演化，並加以發展。在經歷130億年之後，就會出現與我們生存的宇宙相似的結構。而我們將模擬得出的宇宙進行比較 —在演說結束前我會向各位展示一個更好的模擬結構 —用我們實際看到的天空做示範。好吧，我們可以追溯到大爆炸早期的階段，但我們仍然無從得知發生爆炸的主體和原因。 那是21世紀科學所面臨的一個挑戰。如果我的研究小組要選一個標誌的話，那應該就是這個圖片了：一條銜尾蛇, 在左邊你可看到微觀世界 —量子的世界 - 在右邊則是布滿行星, 恆星和星系的宏觀宇宙。我們都知道宇宙萬物實際上是一個整體的組合 —由圖片的左邊連結到右邊。日常世界取決於原子，亦即他們互相結合以組成分子的方式。恆星是透過這些原子核的交互反應以取得燃料。近年來我們也了解到，星系是由所謂暗物質的引力作用而連結在一起：暗物質是指大量群集的粒子，遠比原子核更加微小。但我們想了解的是圖片頂端的結合體（蛇吞尾）所象徵的意義。量子的微觀世界已被理解。在圖片右邊的宏觀世界中，萬有引力主宰一切。愛因斯坦已經闡明這一點。但 21 世紀科學的未竟的任務則是將宏觀與微觀的世界用一個統一理論加以聯繫 — 就如圖片頂端從美食的角度來加以闡釋的象徵。（笑聲）在我們找到那樣的結合體（統一理論）之前,我們無從理解宇宙太初的情形，因為當宇宙的尺吋等同一個原子的大小時，量子效應可以撼動一切。 因此我們需要一個能將極大與極小統一起來的理論，這點目前我們還沒能做到。順道提一下，有個想法 —而我用這個警示標誌來說明，接下來的部份僅是我的推測 —— 也就是我們最初的大爆炸並非唯一的一個。有一種發想是，我們的三維宇宙可能是鑲嵌在一個更高維度的空間之內，就好比這幾張紙，各位可以想像一下，在其中一張紙上的螞蟻認為這張紙就是一個二維宇宙，卻無從察覺其它紙張上還有別的螞蟻存在。因此也可能有另一個宇宙，就存在於距離我們一公釐之外，但我們卻無從察覺它的存在，因為那一公釐的距離是由某個四維空間的度量值所界定，而我們卻被禁錮在我們的三維空間裡。也因此我們相信可能有更多物理現實存在於我們通常稱之為宇宙 — 也就是大爆炸產物— 的範疇之外。這是另一張圖片。右下角所描繪的是我們的宇宙，位在水平線的邊緣上，不過就是遼闊的實相裡的一個泡沫罷了。很多人懷疑，隨著我們開始相信不只一個太陽系，而是有不計其數的太陽系存在，不只一個星系，而是有許多星系，我們也必須考慮可能不只有一次大爆炸，而是有很多次大爆炸。也許這些大爆炸顯示出一種極其多樣的屬性。 就讓我們回頭來看這張圖片。在這個圖案頂端有一個符號化了的科學挑戰，但在底部同樣有一個符號化了的科學挑戰。除了追求統合極大與極小兩端的理論之外，我們還想了解最複雜的部份。而最複雜的事物無非是介於原子與恆星之間的我們自己本身。我們倚賴恆星來製造構成我們實體的原子成份。我們倚賴化學作用來決定我們的複雜結構。相較於原子，我們顯然是龐大得多，以便承載層層疊疊的複雜結構。相較於恆星與行星，我們又顯然渺小得多 —否則我們會因引力作用而被壓碎。而事實上，我們介於兩者之間。要用相當於構成我們每個人體內的原子數的人數才能達到構成太陽的質量。質子質量和太陽質量的幾何平均數爲 50 公斤，約小於在座各位質量的一半。嗯，至少是在座大多數人。最具挑戰性的，可能就是研究人的複雜性科學，相較於左邊的微觀世界，和右邊的宏觀世界。而這正是這樣的科學研究，不僅啟迪了我們對於生物世界的了解，並且以前所未有的速度推動著世界的改變。尤有甚者，更引發了全新的變化產生。 接下來我將進入演講的第二個部份，之前已經有人提到了《人類的末世紀》這本書。若非身為一個謙遜低調的英國人。我就會自己提及那書，而且我還會補充說明，那本書也有發行平裝版。 （笑聲） 在美國這本書叫作《人類的最後一小時》（人類的最後關頭）因為美國人偏好即時滿足。 （笑聲） 但我的主題是在本世紀，科學不僅是以前所未有的速度改變世界，其方式更是嶄新且不同於以往。標靶治療藥物，基因改造，人工智慧，甚至於大腦植入技術等，可能會改變人類自身的新技術。而人類，在體型和特徵上，數千年來從未曾有所改變。可能在本世紀內就會產生變化。這是歷史上不曾發生的改變。而人類行為對於地球環境所造成的衝擊 — 溫室效應，生物大滅絕等等 – 也都是史無前例的。也因此，未來的這個世紀將成為人類的一大挑戰。生物科技和網路科技為環境保護提供了非凡的前景，使人類得以減輕能源運用方面的壓力。然而這些技術也有其負面性。在人類互相聯繫的世界裡，尖端科技亦可能讓一個狂熱分子，或某些編寫電腦病毒，心態偏差的怪人取得權力，從而造成某種程度上的災害。事實上，單純的技術意外事故也可能造成浩劫 —動作錯誤而非恐怖行動。然而當其後果可能是造成全球性災難時，即便發生的機率再小也不能被接受。 事實上，幾年前比爾．喬伊 寫了一篇文章表達了對機器人將取代人類的議題的極大關注，等等。我並不全然同意他的觀點，但有趣的是他提出了一個簡單的解決方案。他稱之為精挑細選的放棄。他主張放棄那類危險的科學，而選擇性保留那些好的科學。然而有兩個理由可以說明這個想法的荒謬幼稚。首先，任何科學探索皆有其良性的結果，同時也有其危險的一面。再者，當科學家從事一項探索時，他或她通常對結果的應用方面是沒有頭緒的。這意味著我們不得不承擔風險，如果我們期待享受科學帶來的效益，我們也不得不承擔科學可能帶來的危害。而我想我們必須回顧一下在戰後那個年代的狀況，在二次世界大戰後, 當那些參與製造原子彈的科學家們，普遍認為他們應該竭盡所能對核子武器的危險性提出警告時。 他們所受到啟發並非僅來自於年輕時代的愛因斯坦，亦即發明相對論時代的他，而是晚年的愛因斯坦，那個印在海報和 T-shirt 上，未及將統一物理定律的願望實現的偶像圖騰。他的想法或許未臻成熟。但他卻是道德的標竿 —鼓舞著關心軍備控制的科學家們。而我有幸認識，或許是在世最偉大的人物，喬．羅特布拉特。如各位所見，他的辦公室也同樣凌亂。他已經 96 高齡，是帕格沃什運動的發起人。是他成功說服了愛因斯坦採取行動去簽署著名的伯特蘭．羅素備忘錄。他為關心核武軍備的科學家們樹立了典範。我認為想得出駕馭科學的最佳方式，亦即選擇開啟哪些門而不碰哪些門，我們需要的是像約瑟夫．羅特布拉特這樣的當代人物。 我們所需要的不僅僅是參與運動的物理學家，也需要生物學家、電腦專家以及環境保護專家。而我認為學者和獨立企業主，具有特殊的義務，因為他們與公務員和有商業壓力的企業僱員相比之下，擁有更多的自由權限。我是以一個科學家的立場去創作《人類的末世紀》這本書，一個一般意義上的科學家。然而，身為一個宇宙學家，我也擁有一個特別的視角，亦即對於廣闊的未來的洞察力。進化過程中的巨大時間跨度如今已成為人類的共同文化 —至少，在美國聖經帶之外是這樣 —（笑聲）但絕大多數的人，即便是那些相當熟悉進化論的人們，也未曾注意到還有更長的時間等在眼前。 太陽已經照耀了45 億年，但還要 60 億年它的燃料才會耗盡。在這張時間看似無限的圖解上，我們正位於半途中。還要再過 60 億年地球上所有的生命體才會被蒸發殆盡。人們總是不假思索的認為那時候人類還依然存在，並見證太陽消亡的歷程，但實際上如果那個時候仍有智慧生命存在的話，也會與我們有極大的差異，正如同我們和細菌的差別。生物智能和複雜性的發展還有很遙遠的路程要走，除了地球，也許在更遙遠的地方也一樣。因此我們只不過還處於地球和更遙遠未知領域的複雜性演化的開端。如果以一年的時間來代表地球的整個生命週期，以一月代表地球誕生的時點，一直到十二月的滅亡，21 世紀就相當於六月份中的四分之一秒 —只是一年當中的一個瞬間。但即使是由這個將宇宙視為六角風琴般褶曲複雜的視角來看，我們的世紀仍是非常，非常特別的。這是第一個人類有能力去改變自身和他們所在行星的世紀。 正如我方才曾經說明的，人類將不會有機會見證到太陽消亡的時刻，那時候的生物與我們的差別，將會像此刻的我們與細菌的差別一樣懸殊。當愛因斯坦在1955年去世時，有一幅漫畫是用來對他在全球的地位表達敬意，由華盛頓郵報的 賀布洛克 所繪製。對話框中寫著：「阿爾伯特·愛因斯坦曾在這裡生活過。」受到這幅漫畫的啟發，我也想用一段小品文來結束我的談話。過去四十年來我們已經很熟悉這個影像：纖細而美麗的土地，海洋和雲層，與留下太空人足跡的貧瘠月球表面形成對比。且讓我們假設有某種外星生物一直在觀察著我們暗淡的藍點（地球）在遙遠的宇宙某處，觀察了不只四十年，而是持續了整個地球發展歷程的 45 億年。他們看到過些什麼？在漫長的時間洪流中，地球外貌的演變非常緩慢。僅有的全球性劇烈變化是來自巨大的小行星撞擊或超級火山噴發所造成。除了這些短暫的創傷之外，別無其它突發劇變。 大陸板塊緩緩漂移。冰蓋重複增厚又消融。新物種接續出現、進化、又滅絕。但在地球歷史的吉光片羽中，這近百萬分之一的片刻裡，短短的幾千年時間，植披改變速度比以往快了許多。這象徵著農業的起步。變化隨著人口成長而加快速度。接著有更多突如其來的變化產生。在短短的 50 年之中 —那不過是地球的年齡的一億分之一 —大氣中的二氧化碳含量開始增加，速度快得讓人不安。 這個星球變成一個無線電波的強烈發射器 —來源於所有的電視機、手機和雷達傳輸系統。此外還有其他的現象發生。金屬物體（人造衛星） - 雖然體積不大，最多只有幾噸重 —被發射至環繞地球運行的軌道上。有些甚至航行到月球或其它行星去。某些在遠處觀察著我們太陽系的高等外星生物雖然有把握預測地球終將在 60 億年後毀滅。但他們是否曾預測到這在地球壽命不到一半的時點會產生前所未有的生命活動高峰期呢？而這些人類所引發的改變儘管只發生在佔地球生命週期不到百萬分之一的時間裡，卻是以飛快的速度在產生著？如果他們持續監看，這些假想的外星人又將會在未來的百年內見證到些什麼呢？會不會因為某些劇變而扼殺了地球的未來？或者生物界的演變將趨於穩定？又或者某些自地球發射的金屬物體將植根於宇宙新綠洲，從而在他方延續後人類的生活？ 只要人類的文明尚存，愛因斯坦年輕時所完成的科學必將延續下去。至於文明的存續，我們需要的是愛因斯坦晚年的智慧 —悲天憫人，胸懷全球，並且目光遠大。在這個至為關鍵的世紀裡無論發生什麼事都將在遙遠的未來引發共鳴，影響所及並可能遠遠超出地球之外，遠遠超出了我在這裡所描述的地球。非常感謝各位。 （鼓掌）
