Talk	en	zh-tw
marwa_al_sabouni_how_syria_s_architecture_laid_the_foundation_for_brutal_war	"Hi. My name is Marwa, and I'm an architect. I was born and raised in Homs, a city in the central western part of Syria, and I've always lived here. After six years of war, Homs is now a half-destroyed city. My family and I were lucky; our place is still standing. Although for two years, we were like prisoners at home. Outside there were demonstrations and battles and bombings and snipers. My husband and I used to run an architecture studio in the old town main square. It's gone, as is most of the old town itself. Half of the city's other neighborhoods are now rubble. Since the ceasefire in late 2015, large parts of Homs have been more or less quiet. The economy is completely broken, and people are still fighting. The merchants who had stalls in the old city market now trade out of sheds on the streets. Under our apartment, there is a carpenter, sweetshops, a butcher, a printing house, workshops, among many more. I have started teaching part-time, and with my husband, who juggles several jobs, we've opened a small bookshop. Other people do all sorts of jobs to get by. When I look at my destroyed city, of course, I ask myself: What has led to this senseless war? Syria was largely a place of tolerance, historically accustomed to variety, accommodating a wide range of beliefs, origins, customs, goods, food. How did my country — a country with communities living harmoniously together and comfortable in discussing their differences — how did it degenerate into civil war, violence, displacement and unprecedented sectarian hatred? There were many reasons that had led to the war — social, political and economic. They all have played their role. But I believe there is one key reason that has been overlooked and which is important to analyze, because from it will largely depend whether we can make sure that this doesn't happen again. And that reason is architecture. Architecture in my country has played an important role in creating, directing and amplifying conflict between warring factions, and this is probably true for other countries as well. There is a sure correspondence between the architecture of a place and the character of the community that has settled there. Architecture plays a key role in whether a community crumbles or comes together. Syrian society has long lived the coexistence of different traditions and backgrounds. Syrians have experienced the prosperity of open trade and sustainable communities. They have enjoyed the true meaning of belonging to a place, and that was reflected in their built environment, in the mosques and churches built back-to-back, in the interwoven souks and public venues, and the proportions and sizes based on principles of humanity and harmony. This architecture of mixity can still be read in the remains. The old Islamic city in Syria was built over a multilayered past, integrating with it and embracing its spirit. So did its communities. People lived and worked with each other in a place that gave them a sense of belonging and made them feel at home. They shared a remarkably unified existence. But over the last century, gradually this delicate balance of these places has been interfered with; first, by the urban planners of the colonial period, when the French went enthusiastically about, transforming what they saw as the un-modern Syrian cities. They blew up city streets and relocated monuments. They called them improvements, and they were the beginning of a long, slow unraveling. The traditional urbanism and architecture of our cities assured identity and belonging not by separation, but by intertwining. But over time, the ancient became worthless, and the new, coveted. The harmony of the built environment and social environment got trampled over by elements of modernity — brutal, unfinished concrete blocks, neglect, aesthetic devastation, divisive urbanism that zoned communities by class, creed or affluence. And the same was happening to the community. As the shape of the built environment changed, so the lifestyles and sense of belonging of the communities also started changing. From a register of togetherness, of belonging, architecture became a way of differentiation, and communities started drifting apart from the very fabric that used to unite them, and from the soul of the place that used to represent their common existence. While many reasons had led to the Syrian war, we shouldn't underestimate the way in which, by contributing to the loss  of identity and self-respect, urban zoning and misguided, inhumane architecture have nurtured sectarian divisions and hatred. Over time, the united city has morphed into a city center with ghettos along its circumference. And in turn, the coherent communities became distinct social groups, alienated from each other and alienated from the place. From my point of view, losing the sense of belonging to a place and a sense of sharing it with someone else has made it a lot easier to destroy. The clear example can be seen in the informal housing system, which used to host, before the war, over 40 percent of the population. Yes, prior to the war, almost half of the Syrian population lived in slums, peripheral areas without proper infrastructure, made of endless rows of bare block boxes containing people, people who mostly belonged to the same group, whether based on religion, class, origin or all of the above. This ghettoized urbanism proved to be a tangible precursor of war. Conflict is much easier between pre-categorized areas — where the ""others"" live. The ties that used to bind the city together — whether they were social, through coherent building, or economic, through trade in the souk, or religious, through the coexistent presence — were all lost in the misguided and visionless modernization of the built environment. Allow me an aside. When I read about heterogeneous urbanism in other parts of the world, involving ethnic neighborhoods in British cities or around Paris or Brussels, I recognize the beginning of the kind of instability we have witnessed so disastrously here in Syria. We have severely destroyed cities, such as Homs, Aleppo, Daraa and many others, and almost half of the population of the country is now displaced. Hopefully, the war will end, and the question that, as an architect, I have to ask, is: How do we rebuild? What are the principles that we should adopt in order to avoid repeating the same mistakes? From my point of view, the main focus should be on creating places that make their people feel they belong. Architecture and planning need to recapture some of the traditional values that did just that, creating the conditions for coexistence and peace, values of beauty that don't exhibit ostentation, but rather, approachability and ease, moral values that promote generosity and acceptance, architecture that is for everyone to enjoy, not just for the elite, just as used to be in the shadowed alleys of the old Islamic city, mixed designs that encourage a sense of community. There is a neighborhood here in Homs that's called Baba Amr that has been fully destroyed. Almost two years ago, I introduced this design into a UN-Habitat competition for rebuilding it. The idea was to create an urban fabric inspired by a tree, capable of growing and spreading organically, echoing the traditional bridge hanging over the old alleys, and incorporating apartments, private courtyards, shops, workshops, places for parking and playing and leisure, trees and shaded areas. It's far from perfect, obviously. I drew it during the few hours of electricity we get. And there are many possible ways to express belonging and community through architecture. But compare it with the freestanding, disconnected blocks proposed by the official project for rebuilding Baba Amr. Architecture is not the axis around which all human life rotates, but it has the power to suggest and even direct human activity. In that sense, settlement, identity and social integration are all the producer and product of effective urbanism. The coherent urbanism of the old Islamic city and of many old European towns, for instance, promote integration, while rows of soulless housing or tower blocks, even when they are luxurious, tend to promote isolation and ""otherness."" Even simple things like shaded places or fruit plants or drinking water inside the city can make a difference in how people feel towards the place, and whether they consider it a generous place that gives, a place that's worth keeping, contributing to, or whether they see it as an alienating place, full of seeds of anger. In order for a place to give, its architecture should be giving, too. Our built environment matters. The fabric of our cities is reflected in the fabric of our souls. And whether in the shape of informal concrete slums or broken social housing or trampled old towns or forests of skyscrapers, the contemporary urban archetypes that have emerged all across the Middle East have been one cause of the alienation and fragmentation of our communities. We can learn from this. We can learn how to rebuild in another way, how to create an architecture that doesn't contribute only to the practical and economic aspects of people's lives, but also to their social, spiritual and psychological needs. Those needs were totally overlooked in the Syrian cities before the war. We need to create again cities that are shared by the communities that inhabit them. If we do so, people will not feel the need to seek identities opposed to the other identities all around, because they will all feel at home. Thank you for listening."	嗨。我的名字叫Marwa，我是建築師。我出生在霍姆斯，並在那裡長大，一個在敘利亞中西部的城市，我一直都住在這裡。六年的戰爭過去，霍姆斯有一半都被摧毀了。我和家人很幸遇；我們的住所仍然在那裡。儘管有兩年的時間，我們像囚犯一樣住在家裡。家外面有示威、鬥爭、炸彈和狙擊手。我和丈夫以前經營一家建築工作室，在舊城鎮的主廣場那裡。它已經不在了，正如舊城鎮大部分的地方一樣。城市裡其它社區有半數現在都變成了瓦礫。自從2015年末停戰以來，霍姆斯的大部分地區都比較安靜。經濟完全被破壞了，人們仍然在奮鬥。曾經在舊城市場有攤位的商人現在在街上的儲物棚外面做生意。在我們的公寓下面，有一個木匠舖、糖果商店、一個肉舖、一間印刷廠、工作坊，和許多其它的店鋪。我開始兼職教課，和我的丈夫一起，他同時接了幾份工作，我們開了一間小書店。其他人做各種各樣的工作來維持生計。 當然，我看到被摧毀的家園時，我自問：是什麼導致了這場毫無意義的戰爭？敘利亞曾經是一個有包容性的地方，從歷史的角度來說， 能夠適應多樣性，融合很多的信仰、出身、習俗、商品，食物。我的國家 －許多社區可以融洽地生活在一起並且可以很自然地談論這些差異的國家 －是如何淪為一個充滿了內戰、暴力、奪權，和空前的宗教仇恨的地方？導致戰爭的因素有很多：社會、政治，和經濟的。它們都起到了作用。但是我認為有一個關鍵的原因被忽視了，可是對這個原因的分析很有必要，因為它在很大程度上決定了我們能否確保這樣的戰爭不再發生。那個原因就是建築。 建築在我的國家起到了重要的作用，在製造，集中和擴大派系衝突方面，這可能在其他國家也是一樣的。有一種不容質疑的聯繫存在於一個地方的建築和定居在那裡的社區的特徵之間。建築在社區是分裂或是團結方面扮演關鍵作用。敘利亞社會經歷了很久的不同傳統和背景的共存。敘利亞人體驗了自由貿易和永續發展社區帶來的繁榮。他們享受了一個地方歸屬感的真正意義，這些都反映在他們的建築環境中，反映在連排的清真寺和教堂中，反映在交織的集市和公共街道中，也反映在根據人性與和諧原則而確定的比例和尺寸中。 這種混合性的建築風格仍然可以在遺跡中辨析出來。敘利亞裡的伊斯蘭古城建造在跌宕的歷史之上，與這段過去融合，並且容納了它的精神。它的社區也是如此。人們一起生活，一起工作，在一個給了他們歸屬感和讓他們賓至如歸的地方。他們共有著一種非同尋常的統一的生活方式。 但是在上個世紀中，這些地方美好的平衡逐漸受到了干擾；首先，是被殖民時期的城市規劃者，當法國人積極地行動，改造著他們認為非現代化的敘利亞城市的時候。他們炸毀了城市街道而且遷移了紀念碑。他們把這些叫做改善，但是它們是一場漫長、緩慢的破裂開始。我們城市傳統的城市生活和建築確保了身份和歸屬感，不是通過分裂，而是通過融合。但是隨著時光流逝，歷史變得毫無價值，新潮成為了人們的追求。建築環境和社會環境的和諧被現代化的元素取代 －令人不悅的尚未完工的混凝土街區，冷漠、審美的破壞、把社區依照階級、信仰或者財富劃分的分裂性城市生活。 同樣的事情也發生在社區中。隨著建築環境的特徵發生了改變，生活方式和社區的歸屬感也開始發生了變化。從團結和歸屬的記錄，建築變成了一種區分的方式，而且社區也開始逐漸疏遠，遠離那個曾經團結他們的社區結構，遠離那個曾經代表他們共同生活方式的典範。 儘管很多原因導致了敘利亞戰爭，我們不應該低估通過導致身份和自尊的喪失，城市分區和被誤導的而且非人性的建築催生宗教分裂和仇恨的方式。隨著時間流逝，一個團結的城市變成了一個市中心帶有遍佈在城市邊緣的貧民窟。接下來，和諧的社區變成了有區分的社會群體，彼此疏遠，和那個地方也變得疏遠。在我看來，失去對一個地方的歸屬感以及能與別人分享它的感覺讓摧毀這個地方變得更容易。 非正式的住房體系就是個清楚的案例，一個在戰爭前曾經容納了超過40%人口的住房體系。是的，在戰爭前，大概有一半的敘利亞人口住在貧民窟裡，住在沒有足夠基礎設施的邊緣地區，由無止境的一排排裸露的塊狀箱子組成，裡面住有人，基本上屬於同一個族群的人，不論是基於宗教、階級、出身或者是以上所有因素。 這種隔離式的城市生活已被證明是一種有形的戰爭前兆。衝突在未被歸類的地區之間更容易發生 －「其他人」住的地方。曾經讓城市團結在一起的聯繫，不論是通過和諧建築形成的社會聯繫，或者是通過集市貿易形成的經濟聯繫，還是通過共存的靈魂形成的宗教聯繫，都喪失在被誤導的而且毫無遠見的建築環境現代化的過程中。 請允許我說一句題外話。當我讀到世界其它地方各種各樣的城市生活的時候，包括英國城市中的種族社區，或者是在巴黎或布魯塞爾周邊，我意識到動盪的開始，那種我們在敘利亞見到的災難性的動盪。 我們有被嚴重破壞的城市，比如霍姆斯、阿勒坡、德拉和許多其它的城市，而且這個國家中差不多一半的人口都離開了。 但願戰爭將會結束，作為建築師，我想問的問題是：我們要如何重建？我們應該採取的原則是什麼才能避免同樣的錯誤？在我看來，重點應該集中在創建會讓人有歸屬感的地方上。建築和規劃需要再現一些曾經實現那種歸屬感的傳統價值觀，創造條件實現共同的生活方式，和平，追求美而不虛有其表而展現隨和與安逸的審美觀，提倡慷慨和寬容的道德觀，讓所有人，而不是貴族，都可以享受的建築，就像曾經在古老的伊斯蘭城市中陰暗小巷裡的那些建築一樣，鼓勵團體意識的混合式設計。 在霍姆斯，有個叫做Baba Amr的社區完全被摧毀了。大概兩年前，我把這個設計提交到一個為了重建它而舉辦的聯合國人居署比賽中。這個想法是創建一個城市結構，從一棵樹中得到的靈感，可以天然地增長和擴張，呼應鄰近古老小巷的傳統橋樑，並且包括公寓、私人庭院、商店、工作坊、停車、玩耍和娛樂的地方，樹木和庇蔭的地區。很明顯，它仍不夠完美。我在僅能通電的幾個小時裡畫出了它。還有很多方法來透過建築表示歸屬感和團體感。但是把它和獨立式、彼此分開的街區相比，由官方重建Baba Amr的項目提出的。 建築不是人類生活圍繞的軸心，但是它有建議、甚至指引人類活動的力量。從那個角度來看，定居、身份和社會融合都是精彩的城市生活的生產者和產品。例如，古老的伊斯蘭城市和許多歐洲城鎮和諧的城市生活促進了融合，然而一排排沒有生氣的住宅或者鐘樓街區，即使當它們很奢華的時候，卻很容易引起孤立和排他。即便是簡單的事情像城市內庇蔭的地方、果樹或者飲用水都能影響人們對這個地方的感受，影響人們是否認為那是一個寬容的地方，一個值得保留、建設的地方，或者他們是否把它當作一個令彼此疏遠的地方，充滿了憤怒的隱患。為了讓一個地方具備給予的特質，它的建築也應該具備這種特質。 我們的建築環境很重要。我們城市的結構反映在我們靈魂的構造中。不論是非正式的混凝土貧民窟，或者是破損的社會住房，或者是被踐踏的古老城鎮，或者是一幢幢的摩天大樓，現代的城市原型，已經出現在整個中東地區的城市原型，是我們社會排外和分裂的一個原因。 我們可以從中吸取教訓。我們可以學會如何以另一種方式重建，如何建造一個建築，不只是在人們生活的實用方面和經濟方面起到作用，也要滿足他們的社會需求、精神需求和心理需求。在戰爭以前，那些需求在敘利亞城市中完全被忽視了。我們需要重建那個由他們賴以生存的社區構成的城市。如果我們這樣做，人們不會覺得有必要 去尋找和周圍其他身份不同的身份，因為他們都會覺得賓至如歸。感謝你們的傾聽。
