Talk	en	zh-tw
mary_norris_the_nit_picking_glory_of_the_new_yorker_s_comma_queen	"I have spent the past 38 years trying to be invisible. I'm a copy editor. I work at The New Yorker, and copyediting for The New Yorker is like playing shortstop for a Major League Baseball team: every little movement gets picked over by the critics — God forbid you should commit an error. Just to clarify: copy editors don't choose what goes into the magazine. We work at the level of the sentence, maybe the paragraph, the words, the punctuation. Our business is in the details. We put the diaeresis, the double dot, over the ""i"" in ""naïve."" We impose house style. Every publication has a house style. The New Yorker's is particularly distinctive. We sometimes get teased for our style. Imagine — we still spell ""teen-ager"" with a hyphen, as if that word had just been coined. But you see that hyphen in ""teen-age"" and that diaeresis over ""coöperate,"" and you know you're reading The New Yorker. Copyediting at The New Yorker is a mechanical process. There is a related role called query proofreading, or page-OK'ing. Whereas copyediting is mechanical, query proofreading is interpretive. We make suggestions to the author through the editor to improve the emphasis of a sentence or point out unintentional repetitions and supply compelling alternatives. Our purpose is to make the author look good. Note that we give our proofs not directly to the author, but to the editor. This often creates a good cop/bad cop dynamic in which the copy editor — I'll use that as an umbrella term — is invariably the bad cop. If we do our job well, we're invisible, but as soon as we make a mistake, we copy editors become glaringly visible. Here is the most recent mistake that was laid at my door. [Last Tuesday, Sarah Palin, the pre-Trump embodiment of populist no-nothingism in the Republican Party, endorsed Trump.] ""Where were The New Yorker's fabled copy editors?"" a reader wrote. ""Didn't the writer mean 'know-nothingism'?"" Ouch. There's no excuse for this mistake. But I like it: ""no-nothingism."" It might be American vernacular for ""nihilism."" (Laughter) Here, another reader quotes a passage from the magazine: [Ruby was seventy-six, but she retained her authoritative bearing; only her unsteady gait belied her age.] He added: ""Surely, someone at The New Yorker knows the meaning of 'belied,' and that it is the opposite of how it is used in this sentence. Come on! Get it together."" Belie: to give a false impression. It should have been ""betrayed."" E.B. White once wrote of commas in The New Yorker: ""They fall with the precision of knives outlining a body."" (Laughter) And it's true — we get a lot of complaints about commas. ""Are there really two commas in 'Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard'?"" There may not be on the sign, but yes, that is New Yorker style for ""Jr."" One wag wrote: [""Please, could you expel, or, at least, restrain, the comma-maniac, on your editorial staff?""] (Laughter) Ah, well. In this case, those commas are well-placed, except that there should not be one between ""maniac"" and ""on."" (Laughter) Also, if we must have commas around ""at least,"" we might change it up by using dashes around that phrase: ""... — or, at least, restrain —"" Perfect. (Applause) Then there's this: ""Love you, love your magazine, but can you please stop writing massive numbers as text?"" [two and a half million ...] No. (Laughter) One last cri de coeur from a spelling stickler: [""Those long stringy things are vocal cords, not chords.""] The outraged reader added, ""I'm sure I'm not the first to write regarding this egregious proofreading error, but I'm equally sure I won't be the last. Fie!"" (Laughter) I used to like getting mail. There is a pact between writers and editors. The editor never sells out the writer, never goes public about bad jokes that had to be cut or stories that went on too long. A great editor saves a writer from her excesses. Copy editors, too, have a code; we don't advertise our oversights. I feel disloyal divulging them here, so let's have look at what we do right. Somehow, I've gotten a reputation for sternness. But I work with writers who know how to have their way with me. I've known Ian Frazier, or ""Sandy,"" since the early 80s. And he's one of my favorites, even though he sometimes writes a sentence that gives a copy editor pause. Here is one from a story about Staten Island after Hurricane Sandy: [A dock that had been broken in the middle and lost its other half sloped down toward the water, its support pipes and wires leaning forward like when you open a box of linguine and it slides out.] (Laughter) This would never have got past the grammarian in the days of yore. But what could I do? Technically, the ""like"" should be an ""as,"" but it sounds ridiculous, as if the author were about to embark on an extended Homeric simile — ""as when you open a box of linguine."" (Laughter) I decided that the hurricane conferred poetic justice on Sandy and let the sentence stand. (Laughter) Generally, if I think something is wrong, I query it three times. I told Sandy that not long ago in a moment of indiscretion and he said, ""Only three?"" So, he has learned to hold out. Recently, he wrote a story for ""Talk of the Town,"" that's the section at the front of the magazine with short pieces on subjects ranging from Ricky Jay's exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum to the introduction of doggie bags in France. Sandy's story was about the return to the Bronx of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. There were three things in it that I had to challenge. First, a grammar query. The justice was wearing black and Sandy wrote, [Her face and hands stood out like in an old, mostly dark painting.] Now, unlike with the hurricane, with this ""like,"" the author didn't have the excuse of describing hurricane damage. ""Like"" in this sense is a preposition, and a preposition takes an object, which is a noun. This ""like"" had to be an ""as."" ""As in an old, mostly dark painting."" Second, a spelling issue. The author was quoting someone who was assisting the justice: [""It will be just a minute. We are getting the justice mic'ed,""] Mic'ed? The music industry spells it ""mic"" because that's how it's spelled on the equipment. I'd never seen it used as a verb with this spelling, and I was distraught to think that ""mic'ed"" would get into the magazine on my watch. (Laughter) New Yorker style for ""microphone"" in its abbreviated form is ""mike."" Finally, there was a sticky grammar and usage issue in which the pronoun has to have the same grammatical number as its antecedent. [everyone in the vicinity held their breath] ""Their"" is plural and ""everyone,"" its antecedent, is singular. You would never say, ""Everyone were there."" Everyone was there. Everyone is here. But people say things like, ""Everyone held their breath"" all the time. To give it legitimacy, copy editors call it ""the singular 'their,'"" as if calling it singular makes it no longer plural. (Laughter) It is my job when I see it in print to do my best to eliminate it. I couldn't make it, ""Everyone held her breath,"" or ""Everyone held his breath,"" or ""Everyone held his or her breath."" Whatever I suggested had to blend in. I asked, through the editor, if the author would consider changing it to ""All in the vicinity held their breath,"" because ""all"" is plural. Nope. I tried again: ""All those present held their breath?"" I thought this sounded vaguely judicial. But the editor pointed out that we could not have ""present"" and ""presence"" in the same sentence. When the final proof came back, the author had accepted ""as"" for ""like,"" and ""miked"" for ""mic'ed."" But on ""Everyone held their breath,"" he stood his ground. Two out of three isn't bad. In the same issue, in that piece on doggie bags in France, there was the gratuitous use of the f-word by a Frenchman. I wonder, when the mail comes in, which will have offended the readers more. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我用過去38年的時間試圖將自己隱藏起來。我是文字編輯人員。我在《紐約客》工作，為《紐約客》做文字編輯就像是在一支職業大聯盟棒球隊中做游擊手一樣：每個小小的舉動都會被評論家挑出來評論 －上帝禁止你犯錯。 需要解釋一下：文字編輯人員無權選擇什麼內容會被收入雜誌。我們專注於句子的修改，也可能是段落，字詞，標點符號。我們的工作注重於細節。我們把分音符，那兩個點，放在單詞“naïve”中的“i”上。我們進行版面風格設計。每份出版物都有一種版面風格設計。《紐約客》的設計尤其特別。我們有時候因為我們的風格而被取笑。想像一下 － 我們在拼寫""teen-ager""的時候仍帶有連字符，就好像那個單詞剛被創造出來一樣。但是當你看見""teen-ager""中的連字符和""coöperate""中的分音符的時候，你知道你正在閱讀《紐約客》。 《紐約客》的文字編輯是死板的。有一個相關的崗位叫作校準，或是版面完美化。雖然文字編輯是機械的，但是校準是需要靈活應變的。我們通過主編向作者提出建議以便提高句子的重點或是指出非刻意的重複並且提供有專業水準的其它選擇。我們的目的是讓這個作者看起來完美。 請注意我們不是直接把我們的校對本給作者，而是給編輯。這經常帶來一種”好警察、壞警察”的動態循環在這其中，文字編輯人員 我將用它最為一個總稱永遠都是壞警察。如果我們的工作做得好，我們不會被人察覺，但是我們一旦犯錯，我們文字編輯人員就會格外引人注目。這是我最近一次犯的錯。 「上個星期二，莎拉裴琳，在川普之前就表現出民粹‘不可知論’特質的共和黨成員，表示支持川普。」 “《紐約客》著名的文字編輯人員在哪裡？“一位讀者寫到。難道作者不是想寫‘不可知論’ 嗎？ 哎呦。沒辦法為這個錯誤找藉口了。但是我喜歡這個單詞：“no-nothingism”。它可能在美國俚語中代表“虛無主義” （笑聲） 這有另一位讀者從雜誌上摘錄的語錄： 「魯比76歲，但是她保持著權威性的舉止；只有她不穩的步伐掩飾了她的年齡。」 他補充道：“當然，在《紐約客》工作的人知道‘belied’的意思是什麼，也知道這個句子中用的應該是和它相反的意思。喂，請集中精力！” 百利：證明...是錯的。正確的用詞應該是“暴露”。 艾爾文·布魯克斯·懷特曾經在《紐約客》中寫過關於逗號的評論：“它們用刀的精確度勾勒出身體的輪廓。” （笑聲） 這是真的 ， 我們有太多關於逗號的抱怨。“在馬丁,路德金Jr, 波樂瓦德'這個名字中真的有兩個逗號嗎？”在‘Jr.’後面可能沒有逗號，但是《紐約客》中的""Jr.""是有逗號的。有個喜歡開玩笑的人寫道： 「拜託，可以請你開除，或者，至少限制你們編輯人員中的逗號狂熱份子嗎？」 （笑聲） 嗯，好吧。在這個例子中，逗號用的很好，除了逗號不應該用在""瘋子""和""之上""之間。 （笑聲） 還有，如果我們必須要在""至少""前後用逗號，我們可以稍做修改，在那個短語附近加上破折號：""... — 或，至少， 抑制 —""完美。 （掌聲） 然後還有這樣一條留言：“喜歡你們，喜歡你們的雜誌，但是可以請你們不再用文字來表述龐大的數字嗎？ 「二百五十萬...」 沒錯。 （笑聲） 最後一份來自一位拼寫執著者的抱怨： 「“那些細長的東西是聲帶，不是和弦」 那個生氣的讀者補充道，“我確信我不是第一個寫信抱怨這個嚴重的校對錯誤的人，但是我同樣確信我不會是最後一個。太糟糕了！“ （笑聲） 我曾經喜歡收信件。 作家和編輯之間有協定。編輯永遠不會出賣作家，永遠不會讓必須刪減的不良笑話或者是太長的故事公佈於眾。優秀的編輯可以讓作家免於贅述。文字編輯人員也有規範；我們不公布無心的錯誤。我因為在這裡公佈它們而感到不忠，所以讓我們看看我們應該做什麼。 不知為什麼，我因為嚴苛出名。但是我與那些知道如何和我相處的作家共事。我從80年代初就認識伊恩·弗雷澤，或者是“桑迪”了。他是我最喜歡的作家之一，儘管他有時會寫讓文字編輯人員難以抉擇的句子。這有一個關於史坦頓島的故事發生在颶風桑迪之後： 「一個被攔腰折斷並丟失了一半的船塢滑落到了水中，它的支撐管和電線向前傾斜就像是你打開一盒義大利扁麵條時，麵條滑出來一樣。」 (笑聲) 這個句子在多年以前是不會被語法學家批准的。但是我能做什麼呢？嚴格來說，單詞""比如"" 應該換成""如同""，但是那聽起來很荒唐，就好像作者要使用一個很長的荷馬式比喻 －“就像當你打開一盒義大利扁麵條時。” (笑聲) 我斷定颶風給桑迪帶來了應有的懲罰並決定讓那個句子保持原樣。 (笑聲) 通常來說，如果我覺得有哪裡不對，我會質疑三次。不久之前，在一次不審慎的談話中，我把那個原則告訴了桑迪，然後他說， “只是三次？” 就這樣，他學會了不妥協。 最近，他為「街談巷議」寫了一個故事，那是在雜誌封面的一版帶有關於一些話題的短文，從雷基傑伊在大都會藝術博物館的展覽到法國推出食物袋。桑迪的故事是關於最高法院大法官索尼婭·索托馬尼爾回到布魯克斯的。那個故事中有三樣東西我不得不質疑。 首先，語法的質疑。那個法官穿著黑色的衣服，然後桑迪寫道， 「她的臉和手凸顯出來，像在一幅很舊，幾乎黑暗的畫中。」 這次，和颶風那次不一樣，使用這個“像”，作者沒有描述颶風災害的藉口了。“像”在這裡是一個介詞，介詞後面必須要有賓語，也就是一個名詞。這裡的“比如”應該用“如同”。""如同一副老舊的黑暗的畫."" 第二，拼寫問題。作者引用了一位法官助手的語錄： 「就一分鐘。我們會讓公正發聲。」 Mic'ed?音樂界把它拼作“mic”因為設備上就是這麼拼寫的。我從未見過這種拼寫方式作為動詞使用，而且我一想到那個""mic'ed""會出現在我管理的雜誌中就很心煩。 (笑聲) 在《紐約客》中， ""microphone""的縮寫是""mike""。 最後，有一個棘手的語法和使用問題，就是那個代詞必須與它代替的詞在語法上保持數的一致。 「附近的每個人都屏住他們的呼吸。」 “他們的”是複數，而它對應的“每個人”是單數。你從不會說，“每個人都在那。”每個人都在那。每個人都在這。但是人們一直這樣表達，“每個人都屏住他們的呼吸”。為了讓這種表達合理，文字編輯人員把它叫作單數的‘他們的’，就好像把它稱作單數它就不是複數了。 (笑聲) 我的工作就是，當我看到這種情況出現在印刷品中時，我要盡力消除它。我不能把句子改成，“每個人都屏住她的呼吸，”或者是“每個人都屏住他的呼吸，”或者是“ 每個人都屏住他的／她的呼吸。”我提出的任何建議必須具有融合性。我通過主編詢問，那個作者是否可以考慮把句子改為“所有的人都屏住他們的呼吸，”因為“所有人”是複數。不行。 我又試了一次：”在那裡的所有人都屏住他們的呼吸？”我認為這個句子聽起來稍微清楚些。但是主編指出我們不能讓""present""和""presence""出現在同一個句子裡。當最終的審核結果出來時，作者接受把""like""換成""as""，""mic'ed""換成""miked""。但是關於“每個人都屏住他們的呼吸，”他保持自己的立場。三個問題改了兩個，還不錯。 在同一期中，在那篇關於法國食物袋的文章中，一個法國人無端地使用了髒話。當我收到信件的時候，我想知道哪種情況會讓讀者更惱怒。 (笑聲) 謝謝。 (掌聲)"
