Talk	en	zh-tw
mary_roach_10_things_you_didn_t_know_about_orgasm	"Alright. I'm going to show you a couple of images from a very diverting paper in The Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine. I'm going to go way out on a limb and say that it is the most diverting paper ever published in The Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine. The title is ""Observations of In-Utero Masturbation."" (Laughter) Okay. Now on the left you can see the hand — that's the big arrow — and the penis on the right. The hand hovering. And over here we have, in the words of radiologist Israel Meisner, ""The hand grasping the penis in a fashion resembling masturbation movements."" Bear in mind this was an ultrasound, so it would have been moving images. Orgasm is a reflex of the autonomic nervous system. Now, this is the part of the nervous system that deals with the things that we don't consciously control, like digestion, heart rate and sexual arousal. And the orgasm reflex can be triggered by a surprisingly broad range of input. Genital stimulation. Duh. But also, Kinsey interviewed a woman who could be brought to orgasm by having someone stroke her eyebrow. People with spinal cord injuries, like paraplegias, quadriplegias, will often develop a very, very sensitive area right above the level of their injury, wherever that is. There is such a thing as a knee orgasm in the literature. I think the most curious one that I came across was a case report of a woman who had an orgasm every time she brushed her teeth. (Laughter) Something in the complex sensory-motor action of brushing her teeth was triggering orgasm. And she went to a neurologist, who was fascinated. He checked to see if it was something in the toothpaste, but no — it happened with any brand. They stimulated her gums with a toothpick, to see if that was doing it. No. It was the whole, you know, motion. And the amazing thing to me is that you would think this woman would have excellent oral hygiene. (Laughter) Sadly — this is what it said in the journal paper — ""She believed that she was possessed by demons and switched to mouthwash for her oral care."" It's so sad. (Laughter) When I was working on the book, I interviewed a woman who can think herself to orgasm. She was part of a study at Rutgers University. You've got to love that. Rutgers. So I interviewed her in Oakland, in a sushi restaurant. And I said, ""So, could you do it right here?"" And she said, ""Yeah, but you know I'd rather finish my meal if you don't mind."" (Laughter) But afterwards, she was kind enough to demonstrate on a bench outside. It was remarkable. It took about one minute. And I said to her, ""Are you just doing this all the time?"" (Laughter) She said, ""No. Honestly, when I get home, I'm usually too tired."" (Laughter) She said that the last time she had done it was on the Disneyland tram. (Laughter) The headquarters for orgasm, along the spinal nerve, is something called the sacral nerve root, which is back here. And if you trigger, if you stimulate with an electrode, the precise spot, you will trigger an orgasm. And it is a fact that you can trigger spinal reflexes in dead people — a certain kind of dead person, a beating-heart cadaver. Now this is somebody who is brain-dead, legally dead, definitely checked out, but is being kept alive on a respirator, so that their organs will be oxygenated for transplantation. Now in one of these brain-dead people, if you trigger the right spot, you will see something every now and then. There is a reflex called the Lazarus reflex. And this is — I'll demonstrate as best I can, not being dead. It's like this. You trigger the spot. The dead guy, or gal, goes... like that. Very unsettling for people working in pathology labs. (Laughter) Now, if you can trigger the Lazarus reflex in a dead person, why not the orgasm reflex? I asked this question to a brain death expert, Stephanie Mann, who was foolish enough to return my emails. (Laughter) I said, ""So, could you conceivably trigger an orgasm in a dead person?"" She said, ""Yes, if the sacral nerve is being oxygenated, you conceivably could."" Obviously it wouldn't be as much fun for the person. But it would be an orgasm — (Laughter) nonetheless. There is a researcher at the University of Alabama who does orgasm research. I said to her, ""You should do an experiment. You know? You can get cadavers if you work at a university."" I said, ""You should actually do this."" She said, ""You get the human subjects review board approval for this one."" (Laughter) According to 1930s marriage manual author, Theodoor van De Velde, a slight seminal odor can be detected on the breath of a woman within about an hour after sexual intercourse. Theodoor van De Velde was something of a semen connoisseur. (Laughter) This is a guy writing a book, ""Ideal Marriage,"" you know. Very heavy hetero guy. But he wrote in this book, ""Ideal Marriage"" — he said that he could differentiate between the semen of a young man, which he said had a fresh, exhilarating smell, and the semen of mature men, whose semen smelled, quote, ""Remarkably like that of the flowers of the Spanish chestnut. Sometimes quite freshly floral, and then again sometimes extremely pungent."" (Laughter) Okay. In 1999, in the state of Israel, a man began hiccupping. And this was one of those cases that went on and on. He tried everything his friends suggested. Nothing seemed to help. Days went by. At a certain point, the man, still hiccupping, had sex with his wife. And lo and behold, the hiccups went away. He told his doctor, who published a case report in a Canadian medical journal under the title, ""Sexual Intercourse as a Potential Treatment for Intractable Hiccups."" I love this article because at a certain point they suggested that unattached hiccuppers could try masturbation. (Laughter) I love that because there is like a whole demographic: unattached hiccuppers. (Laughter) Married, single, unattached hiccupper. In the 1900s, early 1900s, a lot of gynecologists believed that when a woman has an orgasm, the contractions serve to suck the semen up through the cervix and sort of deliver it really quickly to the egg, thereby upping the odds of conception. It was called the ""upsuck"" theory. (Laughter) If you go all the way back to Hippocrates, physicians believed that orgasm in women was not just helpful for conception, but necessary. Doctors back then were routinely telling men the importance of pleasuring their wives. Marriage-manual author and semen-sniffer Theodoor van De Velde — (Laughter) has a line in his book. I loved this guy. I got a lot of mileage out of Theodoor van De Velde. He had this line in his book that supposedly comes from the Habsburg Monarchy, where there was an empress Maria Theresa, who was having trouble conceiving. And apparently the royal court physician said to her, ""I am of the opinion that the vulva of your most sacred majesty be titillated for some time prior to intercourse."" (Laughter) It's apparently, I don't know, on the record somewhere. Masters and Johnson: now we're moving forward to the 1950s. Masters and Johnson were upsuck skeptics, which is also really fun to say. They didn't buy it. And they decided, being Masters and Johnson, that they would get to the bottom of it. They brought women into the lab — I think it was five women — and outfitted them with cervical caps containing artificial semen. And in the artificial semen was a radio-opaque substance, such that it would show up on an X-ray. This is the 1950s. Anyway, these women sat in front of an X-ray device. And they masturbated. And Masters and Johnson looked to see if the semen was being sucked up. Did not find any evidence of upsuck. You may be wondering, ""How do you make artificial semen?"" (Laughter) I have an answer for you. I have two answers. You can use flour and water, or cornstarch and water. I actually found three separate recipes in the literature. (Laughter) My favorite being the one that says — you know, they have the ingredients listed, and then in a recipe it will say, for example, ""Yield: two dozen cupcakes."" This one said, ""Yield: one ejaculate."" (Laughter) There's another way that orgasm might boost fertility. This one involves men. Sperm that sit around in the body for a week or more start to develop abnormalities that make them less effective at head-banging their way into the egg. British sexologist Roy Levin has speculated that this is perhaps why men evolved to be such enthusiastic and frequent masturbators. He said, ""If I keep tossing myself off I get fresh sperm being made."" Which I thought was an interesting idea, theory. So now you have an evolutionary excuse. (Laughter) Okay. (Laughter) All righty. There is considerable evidence for upsuck in the animal kingdom — pigs, for instance. In Denmark, the Danish National Committee for Pig Production found out that if you sexually stimulate a sow while you artificially inseminate her, you will see a six-percent increase in the farrowing rate, which is the number of piglets produced. So they came up with this five-point stimulation plan for the sows. There is posters they put in the barn, and they have a DVD. And I got a copy of this DVD. (Laughter) This is my unveiling, because I am going to show you a clip. (Laughter) So, okay. Now, here we go, la la la, off to work. It all looks very innocent. He's going to be doing things with his hands that the boar would use his snout, lacking hands. Okay. (Laughter) This is it. The boar has a very odd courtship repertoire. (Laughter) This is to mimic the weight of the boar. (Laughter) You should know, the clitoris of the pig is inside the vagina. So this may be sort of titillating for her. Here we go. (Laughter) And the happy result. (Applause) I love this video. There is a point in this video, towards the beginning, where they zoom in for a close up of his hand with his wedding ring, as if to say, ""It's okay, it's just his job. He really does like women."" (Laughter) Okay. When I was in Denmark, my host was named Anne Marie. And I said, ""So why don't you just stimulate the clitoris of the pig? Why don't you have the farmers do that? That's not one of your five steps."" I have to read you what she said, because I love it. She said, ""It was a big hurdle just to get farmers to touch underneath the vulva. So we thought, let's not mention the clitoris right now."" (Laughter) Shy but ambitious pig farmers, however, can purchase a — this is true — a sow vibrator, that hangs on the sperm feeder tube to vibrate. Because, as I mentioned, the clitoris is inside the vagina. So possibly, you know, a little more arousing than it looks. And I also said to her, ""Now, these sows. I mean, you may have noticed there. The sow doesn't look to be in the throes of ecstasy."" And she said, you can't make that conclusion, because animals don't register pain or pleasure on their faces in the same way that we do. Pigs, for example, are more like dogs. They use the upper half of the face; the ears are very expressive. So you're not really sure what's going on with the pig. Primates, on the other hand, we use our mouths more. This is the ejaculation face of the stump-tailed macaque. (Laughter) And, interestingly, this has been observed in female macaques, but only when mounting another female. (Laughter) Masters and Johnson. In the 1950s, they decided, okay, we're going to figure out the entire human sexual response cycle, from arousal, all the way through orgasm, in men and women — everything that happens in the human body. Okay, with women, a lot of this is happening inside. This did not stop Masters and Johnson. They developed an artificial coition machine. This is basically a penis camera on a motor. There is a phallus, clear acrylic phallus, with a camera and a light source, attached to a motor that is kind of going like this. And the woman would have sex with it. That is what they would do. Pretty amazing. Sadly, this device has been dismantled. This just kills me, not because I wanted to use it — I wanted to see it. (Laughter) One fine day, Alfred Kinsey decided to calculate the average distance traveled by ejaculated semen. This was not idle curiosity. Doctor Kinsey had heard — and there was a theory going around at the time, this being the 1940s — that the force with which semen is thrown against the cervix was a factor in fertility. Kinsey thought it was bunk, so he got to work. He got together in his lab 300 men, a measuring tape, and a movie camera. (Laughter) And in fact, he found that in three quarters of the men the stuff just kind of slopped out. It wasn't spurted or thrown or ejected under great force. However, the record holder landed just shy of the eight-foot mark, which is impressive. (Laughter) (Applause) Yes. Exactly. (Laughter) Sadly, he's anonymous. His name is not mentioned. (Laughter) In his write-up of this experiment in his book, Kinsey wrote, ""Two sheets were laid down to protect the oriental carpets."" (Laughter) Which is my second favorite line in the entire oeuvre of Alfred Kinsey. My favorite being, ""Cheese crumbs spread before a pair of copulating rats will distract the female, but not the male."" (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause) Thanks!"	好的，現在我要給大家看一些圖片取自一篇非常有趣的論文刊登在超音波醫學期刊上我要大膽的說, 這是超音波醫學期刊刊登過最具娛樂性的論文論文的標題是〈子宮內手淫的觀察〉（笑聲）好,現在左邊你看到的是手,在大箭頭所指的地方右邊是陰莖,在手的旁邊然後這邊我們看到的是引用放射線醫師Israel Meizner的話「手握住陰莖做出類似手淫的動作」請記住,這是超音波所以這應該是動態圖片 性高潮是自主神經系統的反射反應這部份神經系統處理的是我們無法以意志控制的事情就像是消化、心跳、性慾激發性高潮反射的外在刺激出乎意料的多樣生殖器官的刺激，老套！金賽博士就曾經訪談過一個女人只要有人撫摸她的眉毛就會達到性高潮脊椎有損傷的人像是下半身痲痹或四肢癱瘓的人身體會發展出一個非常敏感的區域通常在受傷區域上方無論傷處為何在文獻中也有所謂膝高潮的記錄 我覺得最有趣的則是一項案例報告中記錄一個只要刷牙就會高潮的女人（笑聲）也就是某種複雜、由刷牙的動作引發的感官刺激激起了性高潮她看的神經科醫師，也覺得驚訝不已連牙膏的成份都檢驗過了不過，跟牙膏無關。任何牙膏都同樣有效。他們還用牙籤刺激她的牙齦看看是否是牙齦的問題也不是，那是一整個...就是...動作讓我感到驚訝的是大家可能覺得這個女人牙齒一定超乾淨的（笑聲）不幸的，期刊論文上寫道「她深信自己被魔鬼附身了」「從此不敢刷牙只漱口」真的很可憐 （笑聲） 寫書的時候，我做了一些訪問我訪問過一個光想的就能高潮的女人她參與了 Rutgers 大學的一項研究Rutgers 真是太酷了我和她的訪問就在奧克蘭在一間日式料理餐廳中進行我問：「所以,妳在這邊也可以？」她答：「是啊，如果妳不介意的話我想先把飯吃完。」（笑聲）吃完飯後,她很好心的示範給我看在餐廳外的長椅上真是太神奇了!只花了一分鐘我跟她說「妳該不會常常這樣做吧？」（笑聲）她說：「才不，老實說我回到家時常常都累趴了。」（笑聲）她說上一次她這樣做是在迪士尼的單軌電車上 （笑聲） 性高潮的中樞位在脊神經我們稱為薦神經根的地方, 就在這裡如果你用電極刺激這個特定的區域, 就可以激發性高潮事實證明，你也能在死人身上刺激這樣的脊椎反射有一種特定的死亡狀態, 軀體死亡心臟還在跳動就是所謂的腦死法理上判定死亡, 確定腦死但是以呼吸器維持生命讓器官仍有充足氧氣供給以利移植如果在腦死病人身上刺激正確的區域你會看到一些斷斷續續的反應這種反射稱為 Lazarus 反射這個反射...我盡量示範給大家看, 不是示範腦死像這樣, 你刺激那個點死掉的男人或女人就會...像這樣這對在病理實驗室工作的人來說是很恐怖的事 （笑聲） 如果你可以刺激死去的人產生 Lazarus 反射那性高潮的反射也可以吧?我曾問過一個腦死方面的專家這個問題就是 Stephanie Mann，沒想到她竟然傻傻的回我的 e-mail（笑聲）我問 「那麼, 理論上」「你可以刺激死人讓他高潮嗎？」她回說「是， 只要薦神經有足夠氧氣」「理論上是可以的」當然死人一點都爽不到不過至少「高潮」了呀（笑聲）即使如此我還是建議....一位阿拉巴馬大學從事性高潮研究的研究員我告訴她：「妳該做這個實驗」「妳知道嗎？妳在大學工作可以取得屍體做研究耶」我說：「妳真的應該試看看。」她回我：「那妳幫我向人體實驗審查委員會取得這研究的許可」 （笑聲） 根據 1930 年代婚姻手冊的作者Theodoor Van de Velde,性行為後一小時內可以從女人的口氣中聞出些微精液的味道Theodoor Van de Velde 可以說是精液的大師（笑聲）這個人寫了一本書叫《理想的婚姻》他是個超級異性戀但是他在《理想的婚姻》中卻寫他可以分辨年輕男子的精液味道清新, 是令人神清氣爽的味道而成熟男人的精液我引述書的內容「聞起來非常像是西班牙栗樹的花香」「有時候是很類似清新的花香」「但是有時候卻極度辛辣刺鼻」 （笑聲）（5.還能治療打嗝喔！） 好的，1999年在以色列有個男人不停打嗝跟那些老掉牙的故事一樣他試過所有朋友介紹的偏方卻沒有任何幫助好幾天過去了，就在某天，這個還在打嗝的男人跟他老婆做愛誰知道他竟然停止打隔了!他告訴醫生這件事，他的醫生還因此發表了一篇報告某個加拿大醫學期刊下了這樣的標題〈性行為─止嗝的潛在療法〉我超愛這篇文章是因為在某個部分他們建議非持續性打嗝的人可以試著自慰來止嗝（笑聲）我愛這文章是因為裡頭有個統計：非持續性打嗝者（笑聲）已婚、未婚的非持續性打嗝者 在1900年代、1900年代早期有很多婦科專家相信當女人達到性高潮肌肉的收縮具有將精液往上吸進子宮頸的功能這樣可以使精子快點達到卵子因此增加受精機率被稱為「上吸」理論（笑聲）如果回溯到希波克拉底的時代治療師相信女人的性高潮不只能幫助受孕，還是受孕的必要條件那時候的醫生常常告訴男人們取悅妻子的重要性婚姻手冊作者兼精液氣味專家Theodore Van de Velde（笑聲）寫了一段話我太愛這個傢伙。我從他那邊學到很多東西他在書中寫了這麼一段話應該是來自哈布斯堡王朝以前那裡有位女王Maria Theresa她一直無法懷孕御醫告訴她說「我建議」「'女王您那神聖不可侵犯的外陰部位」「在性交前應該要經過一些時間的挑逗」（笑聲）應該是...我不知道...在某個文獻上有記載 時間來到1950年代，性學研究者Masters跟Johnson為「上吸」理論的懷疑論者換個有趣的說法：他們不吃這套而且決定，身為性學專家他們要追根究柢他們雇了幾個女人到實驗室，我想應該有五個替他們裝了子宮頸帽內含人工精液在人工精液裡加入了放射線不能透過去的物質因此可以呈現在X光照片中當時是1950年代那些女人坐在X光裝置的前面然後她們自慰Masters和Johnson觀察精液是否被吸上去並沒有發現任何「上吸」的現象你可能會想，人工精液怎麼做啊?（笑聲）我準備了兩個答案你可以用麵粉和水，或是玉米粉和水我還真的在文獻中找到三種不同的「食譜」（笑聲）我最喜歡的一個上面寫了你知道，食譜都會列出食材而且食譜中通常會寫，舉例來說「分量：24個小蛋糕」這個是寫：「分量：一次射精量」 （笑聲） 還有一個利用性高潮增加受精機率的方法這個方法牽涉到男人精子停留在身體裡超過一個星期後會開始產生異常這讓它們一路直衝到卵子的效率降低英國的性學家Roy Levin猜測這可能是為什麼男人們演化成對於自慰如此熱衷且頻繁他說：「如果我經常清理精液」「那我的身體就會製作更多新鮮的精子」我覺得這是個很有趣的想法、理論所以你現在自慰可以拿演化當藉口了 （笑聲） 很好 （笑聲）（7.豬農也受惠） 好了，在動物界卻有相當多的證據證明上吸理論例如，豬在丹麥的豬隻生產國家委員會發現如果愛撫母豬的同時進行人工授精每胎產下的小豬數量會增加百分之六所以他們想出了這個，對母豬進行「五點刺激步驟」的方法而且讓農夫們...在農場裡貼了一些海報他們還有DVD我這邊有拷貝一份（笑聲）我要在現場播放片段，將影片公諸於世 （笑聲） 所以，好現在我們看到的是...啦啦啦，重點來了現在看起來一點也不淫穢接下來他要用他的手做一些事就像豬公會用他的鼻子做的，因為沒有手，好（笑聲）就像這樣，豬公的前戲非常奇怪（笑聲）這是要模擬豬公的體重（笑聲）你們要知道，豬的陰蒂是在陰道裡面所以這是在激起母豬的性慾，開始了（笑聲）這是愛的結晶（掌聲）我真是超愛這段影片影片的某個部分，靠近開頭的地方鏡頭拉近照到他手上的結婚戒指好像是在說「沒關係啦!這只是工作而已，他真的愛女人」 （笑聲）（8.雌性動物比你想像的還享受性交過程） 好的，當我在丹麥的時候，招待我的人名叫Anne Marie我說「為什麼不就刺激豬的陰蒂就好？」「為什麼不讓農夫這樣做？」「這不是五個步驟之一」我非得唸出她的回答，因為我太愛這句話了她說：「要讓農夫們伸手進母豬的陰部」「對他們來說是很大的障礙」「所以我想，還是不要提到陰蒂的事好了」（笑聲）很害羞又想成功的豬農們還是可以買個...我說真的...一支母豬按摩棒附精子注入器又會震動因為就像我說的豬的陰蒂位在陰道裡面所以你知道的，這可能比看起來還挑逗點接著我說「你看這些母豬，你應該也注意到了」「母豬看起來並不享受這種痛苦的快感」然後她回答「你怎麼知道？」「因為動物沒有表情」「不能像我們一樣將痛苦和愉悅表現在臉上」以豬為例，牠們比較像狗用臉的上半部表達情緒，牠們耳朵的表情很豐富所以你很難了解這隻豬發生了什麼事 靈長類則相反，我們比較常用到嘴巴這是短尾恆河猴射精時的表情（笑聲）而且很有趣的，母的恆河猴也有這種表情但是只有在跟另外一隻母猴交配的時候才會看到 （笑聲）（9.在實驗室裡研究人的性高潮是一件很困難的事） 1950年代時，Masters和Johnson決定好，我們要搞清楚人類性反應的完整過程研究男人和女人，從性慾的激起，一直到性高潮人體發生的所有反應好，對女人來說，很多反應都是發生在體內的但是Masters和Johnson並未因此停止研究他們研發出一個人工性交機器基本上是裝了馬達的陰莖攝影機其實是一個陰莖透明壓克力做的陰莖，裝了攝影機和光源裝在一個這樣運動的馬達上然後女人就跟機器做愛這是他們想做的，很驚人吧!很可惜，這個裝置已經被拆除了我覺得好可惜，並不是因為我想試用是因為我想看它一眼 （笑聲）（10.這真的很具有娛樂價值） 某個美好的一天金賽博士決定要測量精液射出的平均距離這可不是出於無聊的好奇心金賽博士曾聽說...1940年代，當時流傳著一個理論精液射入子宮頸的力量是受精的因素之一金賽覺得根本是無稽之談，所以他要驗證他在實驗室募集到300個男人、一個量尺和一部攝影機（笑聲）而且事實上他發現有三分之一的男人那液體就只是溢出來並非有股力量把精液噴出來或射出來但是，紀錄保持者大約射了八英呎遠，真是驚人（笑聲）（掌聲）是啊，沒有錯！（笑聲）很可惜，他是匿名的，沒提到他的名字 在金賽博士的筆記中在他書中這個實驗的筆記金賽寫了「我得鋪兩條床單來保護地毯」（笑聲）在金賽博士的畢生作品中這是我第二喜歡的句子我最喜歡的是「在一對正在交配的老鼠前灑一些起司屑」「只有母的老鼠會分心，公的不會」 （笑聲） 謝謝大家 （掌聲） 謝謝!
