Talk	en	zh-tw
mary_robinson_why_climate_change_is_a_threat_to_human_rights	"A question I'm often asked is, where did I get my passion for human rights and justice? It started early. I grew up in the west of Ireland, wedged between four brothers, two older than me and two younger than me. So of course I had to be interested in human rights, and equality and justice, and using my elbows! (Laughter) And those issues stayed with me and guided me, and in particular, when I was elected the first woman President of Ireland, from 1990 to 1997. I dedicated my presidency to having a space for those who felt marginalized on the island of Ireland, and bringing together communities from Northern Ireland with those from the Republic, trying to build peace. And I went as the first Irish president to the United Kingdom and met with Queen Elizabeth II, and also welcomed to my official residence — which we call ""Áras an Uachtaráin,"" the house of the president — members of the royal family, including, notably, the Prince of Wales. And I was aware that at the time of my presidency, Ireland was a country beginning a rapid economic progress. We were a country that was benefiting from the solidarity of the European Union. Indeed, when Ireland first joined the European Union in 1973, there were parts of the country that were considered developing, including my own beloved native county, County Mayo. I led trade delegations here to the United States, to Japan, to India, to encourage investment, to help to create jobs, to build up our economy, to build up our health system, our education — our development. What I didn't have to do as president was buy land on mainland Europe, so that Irish citizens could go there because our island was going underwater. What I didn't have to think about, either as president or as a constitutional lawyer, was the implications for the sovereignty of the territory because of the impact of climate change. But that is what President Tong, of the Republic of Kiribati, has to wake up every morning thinking about. He has bought land in Fiji as an insurance policy, what he calls, ""migration with dignity,"" because he knows that his people may have to leave their islands. As I listened to President Tong describing the situation, I really felt that this was a problem that no leader should have to face. And as I heard him speak about the pain of his problems, I thought about Eleanor Roosevelt. I thought about her and those who worked with her on the Commission on Human Rights, which she chaired in 1948, and drew up the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For them, it would have been unimaginable that a whole country could go out of existence because of human-induced climate change. I came to climate change not as a scientist or an environmental lawyer, and I wasn't really impressed by the images of polar bears or melting glaciers. It was because of the impact on people, and the impact on their rights — their rights to food and safe water, health, education and shelter. And I say this with humility, because I came late to the issue of climate change. When I served as UN High Commissioner for Human Rights from 1997 to 2002, climate change wasn't at the front of my mind. I don't remember making a single speech on climate change. I knew that there was another part of the United Nations — the UN Convention on Climate Change — that was dealing with the issue of climate change. It was later when I started to work in African countries on issues of development and human rights. And I kept hearing this pervasive sentence: ""Oh, but things are so much worse now, things are so much worse."" And then I explored what was behind that; it was about changes in the climate — climate shocks, changes in the weather. I met Constance Okollet, who had formed a women's group in Eastern Uganda, and she told me that when she was growing up, she had a very normal life in her village and they didn't go hungry, they knew that the seasons would come as they were predicted to come, they knew when to sow and they knew when to harvest, and so they had enough food. But, in recent years, at the time of this conversation, they had nothing but long periods of drought, and then flash flooding, and then more drought. The school had been destroyed, livelihoods had been destroyed, their harvest had been destroyed. She forms this women's group to try to keep her community together. And this was a reality that really struck me, because of course, Constance Okollet wasn't responsible for the greenhouse gas emissions that were causing this problem. Indeed, I was very struck about the situation in Malawi in January of this year. There was an unprecedented flooding in the country, it covered about a third of the country, over 300 people were killed, and hundreds of thousands lost their livelihoods. And the average person in Malawi emits about 80 kg of CO2 a year. The average US citizen emits about 17.5 metric tons. So those who are suffering disproportionately don't drive cars, don't have electricity, don't consume very significantly, and yet they are feeling more and more the impacts of the changes in the climate, the changes that are preventing them from knowing how to grow food properly, and knowing how to look after their future. I think it was really the importance of the injustice that really struck me very forcibly. And I know that we're not able to address some of that injustice because we're not on course for a safe world. Governments around the world agreed at the conference in Copenhagen, and have repeated it at every conference on climate, that we have to stay below two degrees Celsius of warming above pre-Industrial standards. But we're on course for about four degrees. So we face an existential threat to the future of our planet. And that made me realize that climate change is the greatest threat to human rights in the 21st century. And that brought me then to climate justice. Climate justice responds to the moral argument — both sides of the moral argument — to address climate change. First of all, to be on the side of those who are suffering most and are most effected. And secondly, to make sure that they're not left behind again, when we start to move and start to address climate change with climate action, as we are doing. In our very unequal world today, it's very striking how many people are left behind. In our world of 7.2 billion people, about 3 billion are left behind. 1.3 billion don't have access to electricity, and they light their homes with kerosene and candles, both of which are dangerous. And in fact they spend a lot of their tiny income on that form of lighting. 2.6 billion people cook on open fires — on coal, wood and animal dung. And this causes about 4 million deaths a year from indoor smoke inhalation, and of course, most of those who die are women. So we have a very unequal world, and we need to change from ""business as usual."" And we shouldn't underestimate the scale and the transformative nature of the change which will be needed, because we have to go to zero carbon emissions by about 2050, if we're going to stay below two degrees Celsius of warming. And that means we have to leave about two-thirds of the known resources of fossil fuels in the ground. It's a very big change, and it means that obviously, industrialized countries must cut their emissions, must become much more energy-efficient, and must move as quickly as possible to renewable energy. For developing countries and emerging economies, the problem and the challenge is to grow without emissions, because they must develop; they have very poor populations. So they must develop without emissions, and that is a different kind of problem. Indeed, no country in the world has actually grown without emissions. All the countries have developed with fossil fuels, and then may be moving to renewable energy. So it is a very big challenge, and it requires the total support of the international community, with the necessary finance and technology, and systems and support, because no country can make itself safe from the dangers of climate change. This is an issue that requires complete human solidarity. Human solidarity, if you like, based on self-interest — because we are all in this together, and we have to work together to ensure that we reach zero carbon by 2050. The good news is that change is happening, and it's happening very fast. Here in California, there's a very ambitious emissions target to cut emissions. In Hawaii, they're passing legislation to have 100 percent renewable energy by 2045. And governments are very ambitious around the world. In Costa Rica, they have committed to being carbon-neutral by 2021. In Ethiopia, the commitment is to be carbon-neutral by 2027. Apple have pledged that their factories in China will use renewable energy. And there is a race on at the moment to convert electricity from tidal and wave power, in order that we can leave the coal in the ground. And that change is both welcome and is happening very rapidly. But it's still not enough, and the political will is still not enough. Let me come back to President Tong and his people in Kiribati. They actually could be able to live on their island and have a solution, but it would take a lot of political will. President Tong told me about his ambitious idea to either build up or even float the little islands where his people live. This, of course, is beyond the resources of Kiribati itself. It would require great solidarity and support from other countries, and it would require the kind of imaginative idea that we bring together when we want to have a space station in the air. But wouldn't it be wonderful to have this engineering wonder and to allow a people to remain in their sovereign territory, and be part of the community of nations? That is the kind of idea that we should be thinking about. Yes, the challenges of the transformation we need are big, but they can be solved. We are actually, as a people, very capable of coming together to solve problems. I was very conscious of this as I took part this year in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War in 1945. 1945 was an extraordinary year. It was a year when the world faced what must have seemed almost insoluble problems — the devastation of the world wars, particularly the Second World War; the fragile peace that had been brought about; the need for a whole economic regeneration. But the leaders of that time didn't flinch from this. They had the capacity, they had a sense of being driven by never again must the world have this kind of problem. And they had to build structures for peace and security. And what did we get? What did they achieve? The Charter of the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions, as they're called, The World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund. A Marshall Plan for Europe, a devastated Europe, to reconstruct it. And indeed a few years later, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2015 is a year that is similar in its importance to 1945, with similar challenges and similar potential. There will be two big summits this year: the first one, in September in New York, is the summit for the sustainable development goals. And then the summit in Paris in December, to give us a climate agreement. The sustainable development goals are intended to help countries to live sustainably, in tune with Mother Earth, not to take out of Mother Earth and destroy ecosystems, but rather, to live in harmony with Mother Earth, by living under sustainable development. And the sustainable development goals will come into operation for all countries on January 1, 2016. The climate agreement — a binding climate agreement — is needed because of the scientific evidence that we're on a trajectory for about a four-degree world and we have to change course to stay below two degrees. So we need to take steps that will be monitored and reviewed, so that we can keep increasing the ambition of how we cut emissions, and how we move more rapidly to renewable energy, so that we have a safe world. The reality is that this issue is much too important to be left to politicians and to the United Nations. (Laughter) It's an issue for all of us, and it's an issue where we need more and more momentum. Indeed, the face of the environmentalist has changed, because of the justice dimension. It's now an issue for faith-based organizations, under very good leadership from Pope Francis, and indeed, the Church of England, which is divesting from fossil fuels. It's an issue for the business community, and the good news is that the business community is changing very rapidly — except for the fossil fuel industries — (Laughter) Even they are beginning to slightly change their language — but only slightly. But business is not only moving rapidly to the benefits of renewable energy, but is urging politicians to give them more signals, so that they can move even more rapidly. It's an issue for the trade union movement. It's an issue for the women's movement. It's an issue for young people. I was very struck when I learned that Jibreel Khazan, one of the Greensboro Four who had taken part in the Woolworth sit-ins, said quite recently that climate change is the lunch counter moment for young people. So, lunch counter moment for young people of the 21st century — the sort of real human rights issue of the 21st century, because he said it is the greatest challenge to humanity and justice in our world. I recall very much the Climate March last September, and that was a huge momentum, not just in New York, but all around the world. and we have to build on that. I was marching with some of The Elders family, and I saw a placard a little bit away from me, but we were wedged so closely together — because after all, there were 400,000 people out in the streets of New York — so I couldn't quite get to that placard, I would have just liked to have been able to step behind it, because it said, ""Angry Grannies!"" (Laughter) That's what I felt. And I have five grandchildren now, I feel very happy as an Irish grandmother to have five grandchildren, and I think about their world, and what it will be like when they will share that world with about 9 billion other people in 2050. We know that inevitably it will be a climate-constrained world, because of the emissions we've already put up there, but it could be a world that is much more equal and much fairer, and much better for health, and better for jobs and better for energy security, than the world we have now, if we have switched sufficiently and early enough to renewable energy, and no one is left behind. No one is left behind. And just as we've been looking back this year — in 2015 to 1945, looking back 70 years — I would like to think that they will look back, that world will look back 35 years from 2050, 35 years to 2015, and that they will say, ""Weren't they good to do what they did in 2015? We really appreciate that they took the decisions that made a difference, and that put the world on the right pathway, and we benefit now from that pathway,"" that they will feel that somehow we took our responsibilities, we did what was done in 1945 in similar terms, we didn't miss the opportunity, we lived up to our responsibilities. That's what this year is about. And somehow for me, it's captured in words of somebody that I admired very much. She was a mentor of mine, she was a friend, she died much too young, she was an extraordinary personality, a great champion of the environment: Wangari Maathai. Wangari said once, ""In the course of history, there comes a time when humanity is called upon to shift to a new level of consciousness, to reach a higher moral ground."" And that's what we have to do. We have to reach a new level of consciousness, a higher moral ground. And we have to do it this year in those two big summits. And that won't happen unless we have the momentum from people around the world who say: ""We want action now, we want to change course, we want a safe world, a safe world for future generations, a safe world for our children and our grandchildren, and we're all in this together."" Thank you. (Applause)"	別人常問我一個問題，就是我對人權及正義的熱情從何而來？這從很早就開始了。我在西愛爾蘭長大，夾在四個兄弟之間，兩個哥哥、兩個弟弟。所以想當然爾我對人權、平等及正義產生興趣，當然還要會用我的手肘！ （笑聲） 這些議題隨著我、帶領我成長，特別是在我當選為愛爾蘭第一位女總統，任期在 1990 到 1997 年間。我在位期間，致力給予愛爾蘭島上覺得被邊緣化的人生存空間，並促使北愛爾蘭社群與共和國社群和解，試著建立和平。我是第一位拜訪英國的愛爾蘭總統，會晤女王伊莉莎白二世，並在我的官邸──我們稱之為「總統的房子」──接待皇室成員，特別包括王儲查爾斯王子。我知道在我當總統期間，愛爾蘭的經濟開始快速發展。我們是歐盟團結的受益者。確實，愛爾蘭於 1973 年首次加入歐盟時，部分地區可說是正在發展，包括我心愛的家鄉，梅奧郡。我曾領導商務代表團來訪美國，還有日本、印度，鼓勵投資、幫助創造就業機會、增進經濟發展，加強醫療系統、教育──各種發展。 但我身為總統不用做的是去歐洲大陸買塊地，讓愛爾蘭公民去那裡，因為我們的島就要沉到水裡去了。我都不用考慮──無論我是總統還是憲法專門律師──因為氣候變遷的影響造成的領土主權問題。但那是吉里巴斯共和國湯安諾總統每天早上醒來都要考慮的問題。他必須在斐濟買塊地當保單，他稱之為「有尊嚴的遷移」，因為他知道他的人民有一天必須棄島而去。我在聽湯總統描述情況的時候，我真的覺得這不是領導人應該面對的問題。我在聽他訴說這個問題帶來的痛苦時，我就想到愛蓮娜·羅斯福。我想到她和與她一同在聯合國人權委員會工作的人，她於 1948 年當主席，並起草《世界人權宣言》。他們大概無法想像一整個國家會因為人為的氣候變遷而消失。 我不是以科學家或環境律師開始關注氣候變遷，北極熊或冰河融化的照片也沒有特別打動我。我是因為這對人民的衝擊，對他們權力的衝擊──他們有權力獲得食物、乾淨的水、健康、教育及安身之處。我以謙卑的心說出這些，因為我太晚關注氣候變遷這個議題。我擔任聯合國人權事務高級專員是在 1997 到 2002 年間，當時氣候變遷在我心中沒什麼地位，我不記得我針對氣候變遷說過任何一場演講。我知道聯合國有另一個部分──聯合國氣候變化綱要公約──專門處理氣候變遷議題。我是在之後，開始在非洲國家處理發展及人權問題時，才開始注意到。我一直聽到大家都在說這句話：「噢！但現在情況更糟了，更糟了！」所以我就探究了背後的情況；原來是氣候變化──氣候衝擊，天氣改變。 我遇見康絲坦，她在東烏干達組織了一個婦女團體，她告訴我她成長的年代，她在村莊裡過著相當正常的生活，而且都不會挨餓，他們很確定四季會變化如常，他們知道何時播種、何時收割，所以他們有充足的食物。但是最近幾年，就是我們對談的時候，他們什麼都沒有，只有長期的旱災，及隨之而來的暴洪，然後就是更多的旱災。學校被摧毀，生活被摧毀，他們的收穫也被摧毀。她成立了這個婦女團體，試著不讓她的社區分崩離析。這個事實真的給我重重的一擊，因為當然，康絲坦無須為排放溫室氣體造成這個問題負上責任。 真的，我對今年一月馬拉威的情況甚感驚訝。這個國家發生了一場空前的洪水，淹沒了三分之一的國土，300 餘人因此喪命，成千上萬人流離失所。普通馬拉威人每年排放約 80 公斤的二氧化碳。普通美國人的排放量則約 17.5 噸。所以為此受到無比痛苦的人，不開車、不用電、也不怎麼消費，然而他們卻覺得愈來愈受氣候變遷的衝擊。這樣的變遷讓他們不知道該如何適當種植食物，該如何展望未來。我想真的是不公義的重要性強烈的衝擊我。 我知道我們無法解決那些不公義，因為我們沒有走向安全的世界。全世界的政府都在哥本哈根大會上同意，也在每一場氣候變遷會議上不斷看到，我們的暖化程度與工業革命前的標準相比，不可超過攝氏 2 度。我們卻朝著上升 4 度去。所以我們面對著地球未來的存亡關頭。這使我瞭解氣候變遷的確是 21 世紀人權最大的威脅。 這因而引起我關注氣候正義。氣候正義能回答道德爭論──無論是氣候變遷爭論的哪一方。首先，站在最痛苦最受影響的一方。第二，我們要確保在開始行動時，開始以氣候行動對付氣候變遷時，不能再遺忘他們，就像我們現在所為。 今天在這個非常不平等的世界，你會很驚訝有多少人被遺忘了。世界 72 億人口中，有 30 億人被遺忘。13 億人沒有電可用，他們以煤油及蠟燭點亮房屋，這兩者都很危險。事實上他們大部分的收入，都花在這種照明方式上。26 億人以露天爐灶煮飯，燒煤、木頭或動物糞便。這造成每年四百萬人口死亡，因為吸入室內煙霧，當然，大部分的死者是婦女。所以我們有個非常不平等的世界，我們必須改變「一切如常」的想法。我們不應該低估我們所需的改變規模及其轉變能力。因為我們的碳排放量必須在 2050 年達到零，才能讓暖化程度如預期保持低於攝氏 2 度。那意味著我們必須停止開採大約三分之二的已知資源，即化石燃料。 這是很大的改變。而且這意味著，顯然工業化國家必須減少排放量，必須變得更加節能，必須盡快發展使用再生能源。對開發中國家及新興經濟體而言，問題及挑戰在於零排放成長，因為他們必須開發，他們的居民非常貧窮。所以他們必須開發，又要零排放，這是不同類型的問題。確實，世界上沒有任何一個國家可以做到零排放成長。所有國家的開發都靠化石燃料，然後或許能轉變成依靠再生能源。所以這是非常大的挑戰，這需要國際社會全面支持，提供必要的資金和技術，系統及支援，因為沒有一個國家能在氣候變遷的危險下自掃門前雪。這個議題需要人類全面團結。人類團結，你也可以說是基於自我利益，因為我們同在一艘船上，我們必須合作以確保我們在 2050 年達到零碳排放量。 好消息是改變已經開始，而且發展得很快。在加州這裡，設定非常遠大的目標，以減少溫室氣體排放。在夏威夷，他們剛剛通過立法，要在 2045 年達到百分之百的再生能源。全世界的政府也抱著雄心壯志。哥斯大黎加承諾要在2021 年做到碳中和。衣索匹亞承諾要在2027 年達到碳中和。蘋果公司誓言要讓在中國的工廠使用再生能源。目前也有一場競賽，要從潮汐能發電，如此我們才能停止開採煤炭。這樣的改變既受歡迎也發展快速。但這還不夠，而且光有政治決心還是不夠。 讓我再回頭談談湯總統及吉里巴斯的人民。他們還是可以在他們的島上生活，而且有解決方案，但是這要下很大的政治決心。湯總統告訴我他的雄心壯志，要把民眾住的小島加高，甚至讓島漂起來。想當然爾，這絕非吉里巴斯憑一國之力就能做到。這需要其他國家的大團結及支援，這也需要那種富有想像力的構想，如同我們想在空中建造太空站時的集思廣義。但這不是很棒嗎？創造這種工程奇景，讓一個國家的人民能留在他們獨立自主的領土上，並成為國際社會的一部分？這才是我們應該思索的計畫。的確，我們所需的變革挑戰很大。但是我們可以克服這樣的挑戰。我們身為人，其實很有能力一同解決問題。 我對此非常清楚，因為我今年參加了1945 年二次世界大戰結束70 周年紀念。1945 年是非常不平凡的一年。那年，全世界面對了幾項看似幾乎無法解決的問題──兩次世界大戰的蹂躪，尤其是二次世界大戰；隨之而來不穩固的和平；整體經濟復興的需求。但是當時的領導人並不因此而退縮。他們有能力，他們的動力來自於絕不容許世界再發生相同的問題。他們必須為和平及安全建立架構。我們因此得到什麼？他們完成了什麼？聯合國憲章，及一般說的布雷頓森林協定，世界銀行，國際貨幣基金。歐洲的馬歇爾計劃，滿目瘡痍的歐洲，他們要重建此地。甚至在數年之後，還有世界人權宣言。 2015 年的重要性與 1945 年情況類似，有類似的挑戰也有類似的潛力。今年會有兩大高峰會，第一個會於九月在紐約舉行，是永續發展目標高峰會。然後十二月在巴黎的高峰會要給世人一份氣候協議。永續發展目標是為了幫助各國永續生存，與孕育萬物的大地融合，不要忽略大地，摧毀生態系統，而是藉由永續發展與大地和平共存。永續發展目標會在全球所有國家於 2016 年元旦開始實施。氣候協議──具有約束力的氣候協議是必要的，因為科學證據顯示地球目前的趨勢為上升 4 度，我們必須改變方向以維持低於 2 度。所以我們必須採取能受監測及審查的步驟，才能不斷增強野心，找出減少溫室氣體排放及加速以再生能源取代的方法，讓我們有一個安全的世界。 現實情況是這個問題太重要了，不能留給政治人物及聯合國處理。 （笑聲） 這是我們所有人的問題，而且這個問題需要愈來愈強的動力。的確，環保人士的陣容已經有所改變，改變來自於正義的重要性。現在這是宗教組織的問題了，教宗方濟各在這方面領導有方；當然還有英國國教會，他們拋售化石燃料資產。這也是商業界的問題，好消息是商業界的改變也非常快速，化石燃料產業除外。 （笑聲） 即使是他們也開始稍微改變語氣，不過只有一點點。 企業不但快速行動利用再生能源，也促使政治人物能給他們更多信號，讓他們能加快腳步。這是工會運動的問題。這是婦女運動的問題。這是年輕人的問題。 我非常驚訝，在我知道美國種族平權人士吉卜利·勒坎珊──他為「格林斯伯勒四」一員，曾參與伍爾沃斯公司靜坐抗議事件──最近才指出，氣候變遷是年輕人的民權運動。所以， 21 世紀年輕人的民權運動──21 世紀真正的人權問題，因為他說這是對全世界人類及正義最大的挑戰。 我還記得很清楚，去年九月在紐約舉行的氣候變遷大遊行，氣勢浩大，不只在紐約，全世界都是如此，我們必須乘勢而行。我跟曼德拉開創的「世界長老」幾位成員一起走，然後我看到一張抗議牌，離我不太遠，但是我們被擠得很靠近，因為畢竟有四十萬人聚集在紐約街頭上，所以我無法靠近那面牌子，要不然我真的很想站在那塊牌子後面，因為上面寫著：生氣的奶奶！ （笑聲） 那就是我的感受。我現在有五個孫子。我身為愛爾蘭祖母很開心自己有五個孫子，然後我思索著他們的世界，到時會是什麼樣子呢？當他們在 2050 年與九十億人一起同享這個世界是什麼樣子？我們知道無可避免那將是受到氣候限制的世界，受制於我們排放的溫室效應氣體；但是那也可能是一個更平等更公平的世界，更有利於健康、就業環境、能源安全的世界，比我們現有的還要好，只要我們能充分、及早改變為使用再生能源，並且不再遺忘任何人，不再遺忘任何人。 正如我們從今年回首當年──從 2015 年看 1945 年，回顧七十個年頭──我想他們也會回頭看，2050 年的世界也會回顧 35 年前，35 年前的 2015 年，他們會說：「他們在 2015 年做的不是很好嗎？我們真的很感謝他們下定決心要扭轉情勢，讓這個世界走在正確的路上，所以我們今天才能受惠。」他們會覺得我們或多或少負起了責任，我們與 1945 年的人一樣做了類似的事，我們沒有錯失機會，我們堅守了該負的責任。這就是今年的使命。 我總覺得對我而言，我非常欽佩的人說過一句話最能捕捉我的感覺。她是我的精神導師，也是個朋友。她死得太早，她有超凡的個性，是環境的偉大鬥士：旺加里·馬塔伊。旺加里曾說：「在漫漫歷史中，總有一段時間，人類被要求轉變到新的意識狀態，以達到更高的道德標準。」那正是我們該做的。我們必須達到新的意識狀態，更高的道德標準。我們必須在今年兩大高峰會中做到這點。這不會實現，除非我們從全世界人民得到動力，大家發聲說：「我們現在就要採取行動，我們現在就要改變趨勢，我們要一個安全的世界，留給後人一個安全的世界，留給子孫一個安全的世界，我們要為此同心協力。」 謝謝。 （掌聲）
