Talk	en	zh-tw
maryn_mckenna_what_do_we_do_when_antibiotics_don_t_work_any_more	"This is my great uncle, my father's father's younger brother. His name was Joe McKenna. He was a young husband and a semi-pro basketball player and a fireman in New York City. Family history says he loved being a fireman, and so in 1938, on one of his days off, he elected to hang out at the firehouse. To make himself useful that day, he started polishing all the brass, the railings on the fire truck, the fittings on the walls, and one of the fire hose nozzles, a giant, heavy piece of metal, toppled off a shelf and hit him. A few days later, his shoulder started to hurt. Two days after that, he spiked a fever. The fever climbed and climbed. His wife was taking care of him, but nothing she did made a difference, and when they got the local doctor in, nothing he did mattered either. They flagged down a cab and took him to the hospital. The nurses there recognized right away that he had an infection, what at the time they would have called ""blood poisoning,"" and though they probably didn't say it, they would have known right away that there was nothing they could do. There was nothing they could do because the things we use now to cure infections didn't exist yet. The first test of penicillin, the first antibiotic, was three years in the future. People who got infections either recovered, if they were lucky, or they died. My great uncle was not lucky. He was in the hospital for a week, shaking with chills, dehydrated and delirious, sinking into a coma as his organs failed. His condition grew so desperate that the people from his firehouse lined up to give him transfusions hoping to dilute the infection surging through his blood. Nothing worked. He died. He was 30 years old. If you look back through history, most people died the way my great uncle died. Most people didn't die of cancer or heart disease, the lifestyle diseases that afflict us in the West today. They didn't die of those diseases because they didn't live long enough to develop them. They died of injuries — being gored by an ox, shot on a battlefield, crushed in one of the new factories of the Industrial Revolution — and most of the time from infection, which finished what those injuries began. All of that changed when antibiotics arrived. Suddenly, infections that had been a death sentence became something you recovered from in days. It seemed like a miracle, and ever since, we have been living inside the golden epoch of the miracle drugs. And now, we are coming to an end of it. My great uncle died in the last days of the pre-antibiotic era. We stand today on the threshold of the post-antibiotic era, in the earliest days of a time when simple infections such as the one Joe had will kill people once again. In fact, they already are. People are dying of infections again because of a phenomenon called antibiotic resistance. Briefly, it works like this. Bacteria compete against each other for resources, for food, by manufacturing lethal compounds that they direct against each other. Other bacteria, to protect themselves, evolve defenses against that chemical attack. When we first made antibiotics, we took those compounds into the lab and made our own versions of them, and bacteria responded to our attack the way they always had. Here is what happened next: Penicillin was distributed in 1943, and widespread penicillin resistance arrived by 1945. Vancomycin arrived in 1972, vancomycin resistance in 1988. Imipenem in 1985, and resistance to in 1998. Daptomycin, one of the most recent drugs, in 2003, and resistance to it just a year later in 2004. For 70 years, we played a game of leapfrog — our drug and their resistance, and then another drug, and then resistance again — and now the game is ending. Bacteria develop resistance so quickly that pharmaceutical companies have decided making antibiotics is not in their best interest, so there are infections moving across the world for which, out of the more than 100 antibiotics available on the market, two drugs might work with side effects, or one drug, or none. This is what that looks like. In 2000, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC, identified a single case in a hospital in North Carolina of an infection resistant to all but two drugs. Today, that infection, known as KPC, has spread to every state but three, and to South America, Europe and the Middle East. In 2008, doctors in Sweden diagnosed a man from India with a different infection resistant to all but one drug that time. The gene that creates that resistance, known as NDM, has now spread from India into China, Asia, Africa, Europe and Canada, and the United States. It would be natural to hope that these infections are extraordinary cases, but in fact, in the United States and Europe, 50,000 people a year die of infections which no drugs can help. A project chartered by the British government known as the Review on Antimicrobial Resistance estimates that the worldwide toll right now is 700,000 deaths a year. That is a lot of deaths, and yet, the chances are good that you don't feel at risk, that you imagine these people were hospital patients in intensive care units or nursing home residents near the ends of their lives, people whose infections are remote from us, in situations we can't identify with. What you didn't think about, none of us do, is that antibiotics support almost all of modern life. If we lost antibiotics, here's what else we'd lose: First, any protection for people with weakened immune systems — cancer patients, AIDS patients, transplant recipients, premature babies. Next, any treatment that installs foreign objects in the body: stents for stroke, pumps for diabetes, dialysis, joint replacements. How many athletic baby boomers need new hips and knees? A recent study estimates that without antibiotics, one out of ever six would die. Next, we'd probably lose surgery. Many operations are preceded by prophylactic doses of antibiotics. Without that protection, we'd lose the ability to open the hidden spaces of the body. So no heart operations, no prostate biopsies, no Cesarean sections. We'd have to learn to fear infections that now seem minor. Strep throat used to cause heart failure. Skin infections led to amputations. Giving birth killed, in the cleanest hospitals, almost one woman out of every 100. Pneumonia took three children out of every 10. More than anything else, we'd lose the confident way we live our everyday lives. If you knew that any injury could kill you, would you ride a motorcycle, bomb down a ski slope, climb a ladder to hang your Christmas lights, let your kid slide into home plate? After all, the first person to receive penicillin, a British policeman named Albert Alexander, who was so ravaged by infection that his scalp oozed pus and doctors had to take out an eye, was infected by doing something very simple. He walked into his garden and scratched his face on a thorn. That British project I mentioned which estimates that the worldwide toll right now is 700,000 deaths a year also predicts that if we can't get this under control by 2050, not long, the worldwide toll will be 10 million deaths a year. How did we get to this point where what we have to look forward to is those terrifying numbers? The difficult answer is, we did it to ourselves. Resistance is an inevitable biological process, but we bear the responsibility for accelerating it. We did this by squandering antibiotics with a heedlessness that now seems shocking. Penicillin was sold over the counter until the 1950s. In much of the developing world, most antibiotics still are. In the United States, 50 percent of the antibiotics given in hospitals are unnecessary. Forty-five percent of the prescriptions written in doctor's offices are for conditions that antibiotics cannot help. And that's just in healthcare. On much of the planet, most meat animals get antibiotics every day of their lives, not to cure illnesses, but to fatten them up and to protect them against the factory farm conditions they are raised in. In the United States, possibly 80 percent of the antibiotics sold every year go to farm animals, not to humans, creating resistant bacteria that move off the farm in water, in dust, in the meat the animals become. Aquaculture depends on antibiotics too, particularly in Asia, and fruit growing relies on antibiotics to protect apples, pears, citrus, against disease. And because bacteria can pass their DNA to each other like a traveler handing off a suitcase at an airport, once we have encouraged that resistance into existence, there is no knowing where it will spread. This was predictable. In fact, it was predicted by Alexander Fleming, the man who discovered penicillin. He was given the Nobel Prize in 1945 in recognition, and in an interview shortly after, this is what he said: ""The thoughtless person playing with penicillin treatment is morally responsible for the death of a man who succumbs to infection with a pencillin-resistant organism."" He added, ""I hope this evil can be averted."" Can we avert it? There are companies working on novel antibiotics, things the superbugs have never seen before. We need those new drugs badly, and we need incentives: discovery grants, extended patents, prizes, to lure other companies into making antibiotics again. But that probably won't be enough. Here's why: Evolution always wins. Bacteria birth a new generation every 20 minutes. It takes pharmaceutical chemistry 10 years to derive a new drug. Every time we use an antibiotic, we give the bacteria billions of chances to crack the codes of the defenses we've constructed. There has never yet been a drug they could not defeat. This is asymmetric warfare, but we can change the outcome. We could build systems to harvest data to tell us automatically and specifically how antibiotics are being used. We could build gatekeeping into drug order systems so that every prescription gets a second look. We could require agriculture to give up antibiotic use. We could build surveillance systems to tell us where resistance is emerging next. Those are the tech solutions. They probably aren't enough either, unless we help. Antibiotic resistance is a habit. We all know how hard it is to change a habit. But as a society, we've done that in the past. People used to toss litter into the streets, used to not wear seatbelts, used to smoke inside public buildings. We don't do those things anymore. We don't trash the environment or court devastating accidents or expose others to the possibility of cancer, because we decided those things were expensive, destructive, not in our best interest. We changed social norms. We could change social norms around antibiotic use too. I know that the scale of antibiotic resistance seems overwhelming, but if you've ever bought a fluorescent lightbulb because you were concerned about climate change, or read the label on a box of crackers because you think about the deforestation from palm oil, you already know what it feels like to take a tiny step to address an overwhelming problem. We could take those kinds of steps for antibiotic use too. We could forgo giving an antibiotic if we're not sure it's the right one. We could stop insisting on a prescription for our kid's ear infection before we're sure what caused it. We could ask every restaurant, every supermarket, where their meat comes from. We could promise each other never again to buy chicken or shrimp or fruit raised with routine antibiotic use, and if we did those things, we could slow down the arrival of the post-antibiotic world. But we have to do it soon. Penicillin began the antibiotic era in 1943. In just 70 years, we walked ourselves up to the edge of disaster. We won't get 70 years to find our way back out again. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"這是我的叔公，我父親的父親的弟弟。他叫做喬•麥肯納。他是一位年輕的丈夫，一位半職業的棒球選手，也是一個紐約市的消防員。根據家族歷史記載，他熱愛著擔任消防員的工作。1938年的某一天，在他下班之後，他被排定在消防局內待命。為了想要幫忙，他開始擦拭隊上的黃銅製品，包括消防車上的扶手、牆上的配件，然而，當中有一座消防水槍，這個巨大又沉重的金屬製品，從架子上掉了下來，然後砸到他。過了幾天之後，他的肩膀開始疼痛，之後又過了兩天，他開始發高燒，他的體溫不斷升高，他的妻子在一旁照顧他，但是病情並沒有改善，即使請了醫生來看診，也莫可奈何。 他們叫了一部計程車，把他送到醫院，醫院的護士馬上判斷出，他受到了感染，當時他們將這種情況稱為""毒血症""。雖然他們當時沒有明說，但是他們都清楚知道，當時對於這種感染，是束手無策的。 原因在於，現在我們用來治療感染的藥品，在當時尚未問世。人類所發現的第一個抗生素－ 盤尼西林，是在事故發生的三年之後，才首次進行人體臨床實驗。在當時受到感染的患者，如果不是幸運的康復了，就是只有死亡。我的叔公並不幸運，他在醫院待了一個星期，過程中經歷了發抖、脫水、神智不清等症狀，由於器官衰竭，他陷入昏迷，他的情況變得非常危急，消防局的同仁們，排著隊要輸血給他，希望能藉由輸血，減輕他的感染現象， 但是所有的嘗試都無效，他最後還是死了。當時他只有30歲。 如果你回顧人類歷史，有許多人都像我叔公一樣，死於感染。而不是死於像癌症或是心臟病這一類現代西方所謂的「文明病」。他們沒有死於這些疾病，是因為他們活得不夠久，足以讓這些文明病形成。他們往往死於外傷，例如被牛的角撞傷、在戰場上中彈、或是在工業革命後的現代工廠裡受傷。大部分的外傷，都會演變成為感染，最後導致死亡。 當抗生素出現時，情況改變了。「感染」突然從死亡的代名詞，變成一個幾天就能康復的疾病。看起來就像是魔法一樣，從那個時候起，我們一直生活在擁有魔法藥物的黃金時代裡。 而到了現在，我們即將面臨這個時代的結束。我的叔公在「前抗生素時代」末期過世， (指抗生素尚未發明的時代)而我們正站在「後抗生素時代」的開端。像我的叔公 Joe 所得到的看起來毫不起眼的感染，現在可能捲土重來，再次奪走人們的生命。 事實上，這件事已經發生了。人們再次死於感染，因為出現了稱之為「抗生素抗藥性」的現象。簡單說，它是這樣運作的：為了爭奪資源與食物，細菌之間會相互競爭，並藉由製造致命的化學物質，來互相對抗。某些細菌為了保護自己，會發展出防禦系統，來對抗化學物質的攻擊。當我們早期製造抗生素時，就是把這些化學物質帶進實驗室，並模仿合成出抗生素。然而，細菌也不斷地用它們的方式，來回應我們的攻擊。 接下來的發展是：盤尼西林在1943年發明，而盤尼西林的抗藥性，出現在1945年。萬古黴素在1972年發明，而萬古黴素的抗藥性，出現在1988年。亞胺培南在1985年發明，而亞胺培南的抗藥性，出現在1998年。達托黴素，這是2003年的新藥之一，而它的抗藥性，僅僅一年之後在2004年就出現了。 70年來，我們研發的新藥，以及細菌的抗藥性，不斷地試圖「超越對方」，然後我們研發出另一種新藥，然後又出現新的抗藥性......現在，這個遊戲將要結束了。細菌產生抗藥性的速度愈來愈快，由於不符經濟效益，使得藥廠決定不再研發新的抗生素。於是，新的感染症再度蔓延全球，在目前市面上能購買得到的100多種抗生素當中，某些感染症只有兩種抗生素具有療效，而且還伴隨著副作用有些感染症只有一種抗生素可以治療，某種感染症甚至還沒有特效藥。 這就是目前的情況。西元2000年，疾病控制和預防中心，簡稱CDC證實了一個在北卡羅萊納州某一所醫院的案例，這個感染病例，幾乎對所有的藥物都有抗藥性，只有兩種藥物例外。現在我們知道，這種稱為 KPC 的感染症狀，已經散佈到美國各大州，僅有三個州倖免，另外還傳染到南美洲、歐洲，以及中東地區。在2008年，瑞典的醫生發現，有位印度男子得到一種有別以往的感染病，這個案例對所有的抗生素都有抗藥性，只有一種藥物例外。造成細菌產生抗藥性的基因，被稱為NDM，目前已經從印度散播到中國、亞洲、非洲、歐洲、加拿大，還有美國。 我們會理所當然地認為，這些感染病例，只是非常極端的例子；但事實上，在美國和歐洲，每年有五萬人死於無藥可治的感染病。這是來自英國政府所進行的一項關於抗藥性的調查報告，當中估計全球每年有七十萬人，因感染而死亡， 那是非常驚人的死亡人數。即使如此，你我大概尚未感受到危機，你可能想這些病例，主要是醫院裡的病人，長期於加護病房，或是接受安寧照顧臨終病患，這些受到感染的病患與我們相隔甚遠，他們處於我們無法理解的環境中。 但是你或是我們任何人，都未曾想到過，抗生素幾乎支持著我們生活中的一切。 如果我們失去了抗生素，我們還會失去以下的東西：首先是缺乏免疫系統功能的病患，他們會失去抗生素的保護，包括癌症病患、愛滋病患、接受器官移植的病患，以及早產兒。 接下來是，植入人造物品的所有醫療方式，包括中風治療用的血管支架、糖尿病幫浦、血液透析、人工關節。你能否想像戰後嬰兒潮世代，現在有多少人需要人工髖和膝關節？一個最近的研究估計顯示，如果沒有抗生素，每六個人當中就會有一位死亡。 接下來，我們很有可能無法進行各種手術。許多的手術過程，都需要施打預防劑量的抗生素。如果沒有這樣的保護，我們就無法切開身體的部位。所以，不會再有心臟手術，沒有攝護腺切片檢查，沒有剖腹生產。我們必須開始學著害怕那些現在看來毫不起眼的感染，抗生素尚未問世前，咽喉炎曾經引發心臟衰竭、皮膚感染曾可能導致截肢。過去即使在最乾淨的醫院中，因難產而死亡的案例，幾乎每一百位孕婦當中就有一位。每10位感染肺炎的兒童當中，就有3位因此而離開人世。 更糟的是，我們不再有足夠的自信，能在日常環境當中，平安地生活。如果你知道，任何的受傷都可能害死自己，你還會騎摩托車嗎？你還會從斜坡上進行滑雪跳躍？你還會爬上梯子，懸掛聖誕節燈泡？你還會讓你的孩子滑向本壘？當初第一位接受盤尼西林治療的人，一位名叫Albert Alexander的英國警察，曾經飽受細菌感染的折磨，甚至嚴重到頭皮發膿，醫生甚至必須摘除他的一隻眼睛，而他所受到的感染，卻是來自於生活中的事物：當他走進花園時，他的臉被尖刺劃過。我剛才提到的英國研究報告，估計每年全球死亡人數約七十萬人，另外它也預測了，如果我們無法在2050年之前控制住這些情況，不久之後，全球每年死亡人數將攀升至每年一千萬人。 我們為何會走到現在這個地步？使得我們必須面對眼前這樣的可怕的數字？令人難堪的答案是：由我們自己造成的。抗藥性，是一種必然出現的生物過程，但我們必須承擔加速它的責任，我們濫用抗生素，加速了它的發展，當時我們掉以輕心的態度，現在看來卻怵目驚心。直到1950年代為止，盤尼西林都可以在藥局專櫃購買，在許多發展中國家，民眾可以自行買到大部分抗生素。在美國，醫院所提供的抗生素，有50%其實都不是必要的。由醫生診療後所開出的處方籤，有45%都是抗生素無法發揮作用的。而這只不過是醫療界的情形。在地球上許多地方，大部分動物每天都在攝取抗生素，原因不是為了治療疾病，而是為了加速牠們成長，用來保護牠們，以適應工廠以及農舍的生活環境。在美國，每年約有80%的抗生素是賣給農場的動物，而不是人類，這使得農場培養出具有抗藥能力的細菌，並且透過水、塵埃，還有這些動物的肉品，散播各地。水產養殖也很依賴抗生素，尤其是在亞洲，水果種植也依賴抗生素，用來保護蘋果、梨子、柑橘，避免病蟲害。由於病菌之間可以互相傳遞DNA，就像一個旅客，在機場托運行李一樣，一旦我們激發出細菌的抗藥性，我們無法知道它會散播到哪裡。 這種情形是可以預見的。事實上，曾有一個預測，來自亞歷山大·弗萊明，他是發現盤尼西林的人。他在1945年得到諾貝爾獎，他在獲獎後不久，接受記者採訪時說過： ""那些輕率地濫用青黴素治療的人，應該對於那些由於細菌產生抗藥性受到感染而死亡的人背負道德責任。""他還補充說：""我希望這種罪惡是可以避免的。"" 我們可以避免嗎？有些公司致力於研發新型抗生素，來對抗從未見過的超級病毒。我們急切需要這些新的藥物，因此需要獎勵政策：補助研發、延長專利年限、提供獎金，以吸引其他企業重新投入抗生素的製造。 但是，只有這些仍然不夠。原因是：演化最後還是會獲得勝利。細菌每隔20分鐘就能繁殖出下一代。但是在藥物化學領域，研發一種新藥需要花費10年的時間。每一次我們使用抗生素，就提供了細菌數十億次的機會，來破解我們已經構築的防禦體系。沒有任何一種藥物，能完全抵抗細菌的攻擊。 這是一場不對稱的戰爭，但我們可以改變結果。我們可以建立一套系統來分析數據，自動化並且明確地告訴我們，抗生素的使用情況。我們可以建立藥物醫囑系統的把關機制，對每一個處方籤進行再次確認。我們可以要求種植農作物時不再使用抗生素。我們可以建立監視系統，告訴我們下一波的抗藥性細菌何處出現 這些都是運用高科技的解決方案。但是這些建議仍然不夠，除非我們願意付出心力。細菌會產生抗藥性，是一種必然的習性。我們都知道要改變習性是多麼的困難。但作為社會的一份子，我們過去曾經做到了。過去，人們習慣在路上丟棄垃圾、習慣開車時不繫安全帶、習慣在室內吸煙。可是現在，我們不會再做這些事。我們選擇""不再亂丟垃圾""、""避免意外事故的發生""，或是""不再讓別人暴露於致癌的環境中""，因為我們這些行為的代價高昂，且具有破壞性，違反個人的利益。因此，我們改變了這些社會規範。同樣的，我們可以改變濫用抗生素的社會風氣。 我知道，抗生素抗藥性的規模，已經勢不可擋，但如果你曾經因為關心氣候變遷而購買了節能燈泡；或是因為關心棕櫚樹林的砍伐，而在購買餅乾時仔細閱讀盒子上的成分標籤，你一定可以體會到那種感覺：""要解決大問題，必須從小事做起。”所以，我們也可以把這些行動，應用在抗生素的使用上。當我們無法確定抗生素是必需的。我們可以不使用。當我們的孩子感染中耳炎時，我們不必堅持用抗生素，直到我們找出病因為止。我們可以詢問每家餐廳或是超市，它們的肉品從何而來。我們可以承諾，不再購買長期施用抗生素的雞肉、蝦子或水果，如果我們能做到這些事情，就可能減緩 ""後抗生素世界"" 的到來。 但是，我們必須盡快採取行動。1943年，盤尼西林開啟了抗生素時代。在短短的70年後，我們卻讓自己走到了災難的邊緣。我們不再有另一個70年，可以尋找未來的出路。 非常謝謝大家。 (掌聲)"
