Talk	en	zh-tw
mary_bassett_why_your_doctor_should_care_about_social_justice	"When I moved to Harare in 1985, social justice was at the core of Zimbabwe's national health policy. The new government emerged from a long war of independence and immediately proclaimed a socialist agenda: health care services, primary education became essentially free. A massive expansion of rural health centers placed roughly 80 percent of the population less than a two-hour walk from these facilities, a truly remarkable accomplishment. In 1980, the year of independence, 25 percent of Zimbabwean children were fully immunized. By 1990, a mere decade later, this proportion stood at 80 percent. I felt tremendously privileged to be part of this transformation, a revolution. The excitement, the camaraderie, was palpable. Working side by side with brilliant Zimbabweans — scientists, doctors, activists — I felt connected not only to an African independence movement, but to a global progressive public health movement. But there were daunting challenges. Zimbabwe reported its first AIDS case in 1985, the year I arrived. I had taken care of a few patients with AIDS in the early 1980s, when I did my medical training at Harlem Hospital, but — we had no idea what lay in store for Africa. Infection rate stood at about two percent in my early days there. These would soar to one out of every four adults by the time I left Harare 17 years later. By the mid-1990s, I'd told hundreds of people in the prime of life that they were HIV-positive. I saw colleagues and friends die, my students, hospital patients, die. In response, my colleagues and I set up a clinic. We did condom demonstrations. We launched school education and workplace interventions. We did research. We counseled the partners of infected men about how to protect themselves. We worked hard, and at the time, I believed that I was doing my best. I was providing excellent treatment, such as it was. But I was not talking about structural change. Former UN Secretary Kofi Annan has spoken candidly about his personal failure leading to the Rwandan genocide. In 1994, he was head of the UN peacekeeping department. At a 10-year memorial for the genocide, he reflected, ""I believed at the time I was doing my best, but I realized after the genocide that there was more I could and should have done to sound the alarm and rally support."" The AIDS epidemic caught the health community unprepared, and today, when the World Health Organization estimates that 39 million people have lost their lives to this disease, I'm not alone in feeling remorse and regret at not having done more earlier. But while living in Zimbabwe, I didn't see my role as an advocacy or a political one. I was there for my technical skills, both my clinical and my research epidemiology skills. And in my mind, my job was to take care of patients and to do research to better understand the population patterns of transmission, and I hoped that we'd slow the spread of the virus. I was aware that socially marginalized populations were at disproportionate risk of getting and dying of AIDS. And on the sugar plantations, which really more closely resembled feudal fiefdoms than any modern enterprise, 60 percent of pregnant women tested HIV-positive. I worked to show how getting infected was not a moral failure but instead related to a culture of male superiority, to forced migrant labor and to colonialism. Whites were largely unscathed. As health professionals, our tools were pitifully weak: imploring people to change their individual behaviors, use condoms, reduce number of partners. Infection rates climbed, and when treatment became available in the West, treatment that remains our most potent weapon against this virus, it was unaffordable to the public sector across Africa. I didn't speak out about the unequal access to these life-saving drugs or about the underlying economic and political systems that were driving infection rates in such huge swaths of the population. I rationalized my silence by reminding myself that I was a guest in the country, that sounding the alarm could even get me kicked out, keep me from doing good work, taking care of my patients, doing much-needed research. So I didn't speak out about the government's early stance on AIDS. I didn't voice my concerns loudly enough. Many doctors, health professionals, may think I did nothing wrong. Our pact with our patients, the Hippocratic Oath and its variants, is about the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship. And I did everything I could for each and every patient of mine. But I knew that epidemics emerge along the fissures of our society, reflecting not only biology, but more importantly patterns of marginalization, exclusion, discrimination related to race, gender, sexuality, class and more. It was true of AIDS. It was true just recently of Ebola. Medical anthropologists such as Paul Farmer, who worked on AIDS in Haiti, call this structural violence: structural because inequities are embedded in the political and economic organization of our social world, often in ways that are invisible to those with privilege and power; and violence because its impact — premature deaths, suffering, illness — is violent. We do little for our patients if we fail to recognize these social injustices. Sounding the alarm is the first step towards doing public health right, and it's how we may rally support to break through and create real change together. So these days, I'm not staying quiet. I'm speaking up about a lot of things, even when it makes listeners uncomfortable, even when it makes me uncomfortable. And a lot of this is about racial disparities and institutionalized racism, things that we're not supposed to have in this country anymore, certainly not in the practice of medicine or public health. But we have them, and we pay for them in lives cut short. That's why sounding the alarm about the impact of racism on health in the United States, the ongoing institutional and interpersonal violence that people of color face, compounded by our tragic legacy of 250 years of slavery, 90 years of Jim Crow and 60 years of imperfect equality, sounding the alarm about this is central to doing my job right as New York City's Health Commissioner. In New York City, premature mortality — that's death before the age of 65 — is 50 percent higher for black men than white ones. A black woman in 2012 faced more than 10 times the risk of dying related to childbirth as a white woman. And though we've made enormous strides in reducing infant mortality rates, a black baby still faces nearly three times the risk of death in its first year of life as compared to a white baby. New York City's not exceptional. These statistics are paralleled by statistics found across the United States. A recent New York Times analysis reported that there are 1.5 million missing black men across the country. They noted that more than one out of every six black men who today should be between the ages of 25 and 54 years have disappeared from daily life, lost either to prison or premature death. There is great injustice in the daily and disproportionate violence faced by young black men, the focus of recent protests under the banner #BlackLivesMatter. But we have to remember that enduring and disparate rates and the occurrence and outcome of common medical conditions — heart disease, cancer, diabetes, HIV — diseases that may kill slowly and quietly and take even more black lives prematurely. As the #BlackLivesMatter movement unfolded, I felt frustrated and angry that the medical community has been reluctant to even use the word ""racism"" in our research and our work. You've probably felt something every time I've said it. Our medical students held die-ins in their white coats, but the medical community has largely stood by passively as ongoing discrimination continues to affect the disease profile and mortality. And I worry that the trend towards personalized and precision medicine, looking for biological or genetic targets to better tailor treatment, may inadvertently cause us to lose sight of the big picture, that it is the daily context, where a person lives, grows, works, loves, that most importantly determines population health, and for too many of us, poor health. As health professionals in our daily work, whether in the clinic or doing research, we are witness to great injustice: the homeless person who is unable to follow medical advice because he has more pressing priorities; the transgender youth who is contemplating suicide because our society is just so harsh; the single mother who has been made to feel that she is responsible for the poor health of her child. Our role as health professionals is not just to treat our patients but to sound the alarm and advocate for change. Rightfully or not, our societal position gives our voices great credibility, and we shouldn't waste that. I regret not speaking up in Zimbabwe, and I've promised myself that as New York City's Health Commissioner, I will use every opportunity I have to sound the alarm and rally support for health equity. I will speak out against racism, and I hope you will join me, and I will join you when you speak out against sexism or any other form of inequality. It's time for us to rise up and collectively speak up about structural inequality. We don't have to have all the answers to call for change. We just need courage. The health of our patients, the health of us all, depends on it. (Applause)"	"我於1985年搬到哈拉雷，社會公義是津巴布韋的醫療核心政策。長期爭取獨立戰爭而湧現的新政府立即宣布社會主義議程：醫療保健服務，小學敎育，大體上都成為免費的。農村醫療中心大規模的擴充。地方約人口80%能在兩小時內走到一個醫療中心。那是一個真正了不起的成就。在1980年獨立的那一年，津巴布韋只有25%兒童有接種全套兒童疫苗。到了1990年，僅僅10年後，兒童接種比率達到80%。 我感到十分榮幸參與了這個大轉變，一個革命。這種興奮，那種同志友情，無可言喻。能與優秀的津巴布韋市民並肩作戰 —當中包括科學家，醫生，運動家等等—我覺得不單只是與非洲獨立運動連結，也與全球公共醫療運動的進步連繫。 但我們曾有嚴峻的挑戰。1985年，我初到津巴布韋的那年，那裡出現首宗愛滋病病例。80年代初我就照顧過一些患有愛滋病的病人。當時我到哈萊姆醫院接受醫療訓練，但是 －－那時我們無法想像非洲今日會有這樣的情況。早期我在這裡時，感染率只有2%。這個數字不斷飊升，直到每4個成年人當中有一個愛滋病患者。那是我17年後離開哈拉雷時的感染率，在1990年代中期，我告訴過數百位在他們生命最高峰的人，他們患上愛滋病。我看著同事及朋友死去，看著我的學生，醫院內的病人離世。 因此，我與我的一些同事成立一了間診所。我們示範避孕套用法。我們在學校和工作場所提供預防的資訊。我們做研究。我們為被感染的男性夥伴做諮詢。告訴他們如何保護自己。我們非常努力工作。在那時，我相信我已竭盡所能。我提供了，就當時而言，最好的治療。我提供最好的治療。但我沒有談到有關架構的改變， 前聯合國秘書長-科菲·安南他坦誠因自己個人的失誤，而導致盧旺達種族滅絕。在1994年，他是聯合國維和部的負責人。在這個種族滅絕的10週年，他說， ""當時我以為已經竭盡所能了，但在種族滅絕之後，我才瞭解到原來我是可以，也應該可以做更多。就是發出警報並爭取支援。“ 愛滋病的流行讓衛生界猝不及防。今天，世界衛生組織估算約有3900萬人，因為愛滋病喪失生命。不只是我一個人感到自責和後悔沒有在早期採取更多行動。 但是，當我住在津巴布韋時，我不覺得我的角色是提倡鼓吹，或是政治性的角色。我是以我的專業技能在參與，我的臨床及研究流行病學兩方面的技能。我那時認為我的工作就是照顧病人，以及從研究中去了解傳染病在人口中的分佈模式。我希望我們會減慢病毒傳播。我知道社會邊緣化人群對患愛滋病風險或死於此病的比率特別高。在甘蔗種植園區，那裡其實比想像更是封建領地，比起現代任何企業，百分之60的懷孕婦女在愛滋病測試中呈陽性反應。 我致力於宣導愛滋病並不是表示道德敗壞。而是與男尊女卑的文化有關，與被迫害的農民工，和與殖民主義有關。白種人幾乎沒受到影響。 身為醫療專業人員，我們的工具非常薄弱：我們懇請人們改變他們的個人行為，使用安全套，和減少性伴侶。可惜感染率仍不斷上升。當西方國家有愛滋病的治療方法時，那治療是我們對抗這種病毒最有力的武器。對抗這種病毒在整個非洲的一般大眾無法負擔得起。我對於無法公平取得這些救命藥品，或引起高傳染率的基本經濟和政治體制沒有大聲疾呼。在如此龐大人口的區域，我對我的沈默自我合理化。我提醒自己我只是這國土的一位客人，我若發出警報，可能會被驅逐出境，讓我無法做好我的工作，不能照顧好我的病人，以及做急需的研究工作。所以我沒說出有關政府早期對愛滋病的態度。我沒大聲提出我的擔憂。 許多醫生，專業醫療人員，可能覺得我沒有做錯。我們和病人的協議，我們虛偽（成為醫師時）的宣誓，是關於醫患之間神聖關係。對於我的每位病人，我都做了我所能做到的。 但我那時就知道該疫情沿著我們的社會裂隙出現，不只反映在生理上，更重要的是，他們被邊緣化，排斥，以及由於種族，性別，性取向，階級和更多方面被歧視的模式。對愛滋病而言是如此。對最近發生的埃博拉病毒亦然。醫療人類學者如保羅·法瑪爾博士他在海地致力於愛滋病工作，稱之為架構性的暴力：它是架構性的，因為深植於不平等我們社會的政治和經濟組織內。那些有特權和權力的人通常是看不到的；它是暴力的，因為它所造成的影響 —過早死亡，痛苦，疾病 — 這就是暴力。我們為病人做得很少，如果我們沒有意識到這些社會的不公平。發警報是走向正確的公共醫療的第一步，我們也才得到支援，去突破及共同創造真正的改變。 因此現在，我不會再保持沉默。我會講出很多事情，即使聽眾聽起來不舒服，即使連自己也不舒服。許多是有關種族差異對待，及制度化的種族主義。這些其實不應該還存在於我們的國家，特別不應該在醫療，或公共衛生。但我們都還有這些問題，我們以許多的早夭的生命付出代價。這就是為什麼要响起警報在美國種族主義對醫療的影響，繼續在發生的對有色人種的機構性和人際的暴力，發出警報。這些加上我們的悲劇性的遺產更為嚴重：250年的奴隸制度，90多年的種族隔離，以及60多年來的不平等。對這些問題拉警報，是我做為紐約市衛生專員的工作核心。在紐約市，市民過早死亡 - 即65歲之前去逝 -黑人男性比白人高出50%。在 2012 年的黑人女性，在分娩時死亡的機率是白人婦女的十倍。儘管我們在降低嬰兒死亡率已有長足的進步，黑人嬰兒在出生後第一年內死亡風險是白人嬰兒的三倍左右。 紐約市也不例外。這些統計數字和整個美國地區的統計數據相似。最近紐約時報的一個分析，報導說全國各地有150萬黑人男性失蹤。他們指出在每六名黑人男性中至少有一位，他們現在的年齡應該是在25至54歲之間，從日常生活中消失。他們正被監禁或過早死亡。對於面對日常和過份暴力的年輕黑人男性很不公平。聚焦於最近舉著”黑人生命可貴“標語抗議活動。但是我們必須記著那忍耐能力和截然不同進度常見疾病的發生率和結果 －－心臟病，癌症，糖尿病，愛滋病等 －－那些慢慢地安靜地殺死我們的疾病，讓更多黑人更早逝。 由於”黑人生命可貴“運動展開，我感到沮喪和憤怒，因為醫學界，在我們的研究和工作中發現，甚至不願意用“種族主義”這字眼。每次我講到這裡可能你們已經感受到我們的醫學學生穿著白色外套舉行裝死示威，但是醫學界基本上是袖手旁觀著持續的歧視繼續影響著疾病的資料和死亡率.我擔心這個朝向個人化及精密醫療的趨勢,為創造出更好治療，尋找生物學的或遺傳學的目標，可能反而讓我們失焦於大局，這是每日的景況，一個人活著，成長，工作及愛，重度影響人群的健康，對我們多數而言，是不健康。 身為醫療專業人員的日常工作，無論是在門診或做研究，我們見證了極不正義：無家可歸的人實在無法遵從醫囑，因為他有更急迫的困境；一位變性青年正在考慮自殺，因為我們的社會對他們如此苛刻；社會讓單身媽媽感覺她們不負責任，因為她們的孩子健康很差。 我們作為醫療專業人員的角色，不只是治療我們的病人，還要發出警報，並倡導改革。理所當然與否，我們的社會地位使我們的聲音的可信程度變得很大，我們不應該浪費這個優勢。 我很後悔沒有在津巴布韋大聲疾呼，我對自己發誓，做為紐約市衛生專員，我將利用每一個機會，去發警報，以及爭取對醫療平等的支持。我會站出來反對種族主義，我希望你們會和我一起。當你站出來反對性別歧視時，我會支持你，包括任何其他形式的不平等。現在是我們奮起的時候，我們要集體聲討有關架構性的不平等。我們不必知道所有的答案，才呼籲改革。我們只需要勇氣。為了我們病人的健康，我們所有人的健康，全有賴於它。 （掌聲）"
