Talk	en	zh-tw
massimo_banzi_how_arduino_is_open_sourcing_imagination	"So a few weeks ago, a friend of mine gave this toy car to his 8-year-old son. But instead of going into a store and buying one, like we do normally, he went to this website and he downloaded a file, and then he printed it on this printer. So this idea that you can manufacture objects digitally using these machines is something that The Economist magazine defined as the Third Industrial Revolution. Actually, I argue that there is another revolution going on, and it's the one that has to do with open-source hardware and the maker's movement, because the printer that my friend used to print the toy is actually open-source. So you go to the same website, you can download all the files that you need in order to make that printer: the construction files, the hardware, the software, all the instruction is there. And also this is part of a large community where there are thousands of people around the world that are actually making these kinds of printers, and there's a lot of innovation happening because it's all open-source. You don't need anybody's permission to create something great. And that space is like the personal computer in 1976, like the Apples with the other companies are fighting, and we will see in a few years, there will be the Apple of this kind of market come out. Well, there's also another interesting thing. I said the electronics are open-source, because at the heart of this printer there is something I'm really attached to: these Arduino boards, the motherboard that sort of powers this printer, is a project I've been working on for the past seven years. It's an open-source project. I worked with these friends of mine that I have here. So the five of us, two Americans, two Italians and a Spaniard, we — (Laughter) You know, it's a worldwide project. (Laughter) So we came together in this design institute called the Interaction Design Institute Ivrea, which was teaching interaction design, this idea that you can take design from the simple shape of an object and you can move it forward to design the way you interact with things. Well, when you design an object that's supposed to interact with a human being, if you make a foam model of a mobile phone, it doesn't make any sense. You have to have something that actually interacts with people. So, we worked on Arduino and a lot of other projects there to create platforms that would be simple for our students to use, so that our students could just build things that worked, but they don't have five years to become an electronics engineer. We have one month. So how do I make something that even a kid can use? And actually, with Arduino, we have kids like Sylvia that you see here, that actually make projects with Arduino. I have 11-year-old kids stop me and show me stuff they built for Arduino that's really scary to see the capabilities that kids have when you give them the tools. So let's look at what happens when you make a tool that anybody can just pick up and build something quickly, so one of the examples that I like to sort of kick off this discussion is this example of this cat feeder. The gentleman who made this project had two cats. One was sick and the other one was healthy, so he had to make sure they ate the proper food. So he made this thing that recognizes the cat from a chip mounted inside on the collar of the cat, and opens the door and the cat can eat the food. This is made by recycling an old CD player that you can get from an old computer, some cardboard, tape, couple of sensors, a few blinking LEDs, and then suddenly you have a tool. You build something that you cannot find on the market. And I like this phrase: ""Scratch your own itch."" If you have an idea, you just go and you make it. This is the equivalent of sketching on paper done with electronics. So one of the features that I think is important about our work is that our hardware, on top of being made with love in Italy — as you can see from the back of the circuit — (Laughter) is that it's open, so we publish all the design files for the circuit online, so you can download it and you can actually use it to make something, or to modify, to learn. You know, when I was learning about programming, I learned by looking at other people's code, or looking at other people's circuits in magazines. And this is a good way to learn, by looking at other people's work. So the different elements of the project are all open, so the hardware is released with a Creative Commons license. So, you know, I like this idea that hardware becomes like a piece of culture that you share and you build upon, like it was a song or a poem with Creative Commons. Or, the software is GPL, so it's open-source as well. The documentation and the hands-on teaching methodology is also open-source and released as the Creative Commons. Just the name is protected so that we can make sure that we can tell people what is Arduino and what isn't. Now, Arduino itself is made of a lot of different open-source components that maybe individually are hard to use for a 12-year-old kid, so Arduino wraps everything together into a mashup of open-source technologies where we try to give them the best user experience to get something done quickly. So you have situations like this, where some people in Chile decided to make their own boards instead of buying them, to organize a workshop and to save money. Or there are companies that make their own variations of Arduino that fit in a certain market, and there's probably, maybe like a 150 of them or something at the moment. This one is made by a company called Adafruit, which is run by this woman called Limor Fried, also known as Ladyada, who is one of the heroes of the open-source hardware movement and the maker movement. So, this idea that you have a new, sort of turbo-charged DIY community that believes in open-source, in collaboration, collaborates online, collaborates in different spaces. There is this magazine called Make that sort of gathered all these people and sort of put them together as a community, and you see a very technical project explained in a very simple language, beautifully typeset. Or you have websites, like this one, like Instructables, where people actually teach each other about anything. So this one is about Arduino projects, the page you see on the screen, but effectively here you can learn how to make a cake and everything else. So let's look at some projects. So this one is a quadcopter. It's a small model helicopter. In a way, it's a toy, no? And so this one was military technology a few years ago, and now it's open-source, easy to use, you can buy it online. DIY Drones is the community; they do this thing called ArduCopter. But then somebody actually launched this start-up called Matternet, where they figured out that you could use this to actually transport things from one village to another in Africa, and the fact that this was easy to find, open-source, easy to hack, enabled them to prototype their company really quickly. Or, other projects. Matt Richardson: I'm getting a little sick of hearing about the same people on TV over and over and over again, so I decided to do something about it. This Arduino project, which I call the Enough Already, will mute the TV anytime any of these over-exposed personalities is mentioned. (Laughter) I'll show you how I made it. (Applause) MB: Check this out. MR: Our producers caught up with Kim Kardashian earlier today to find out what she was planning on wearing to her — MB: Eh? (Laughter) MR: It should do a pretty good job of protecting our ears from having to hear about the details of Kim Kardashian's wedding. MB: Okay. So, you know, again, what is interesting here is that Matt found this module that lets Arduino process TV signals, he found some code written by somebody else that generates infrared signals for the TV, put it together and then created this great project. It's also used, Arduino's used, in serious places like, you know, the Large Hadron Collider. There's some Arduino balls collecting data and sort of measuring some parameters. Or it's used for — (Music) So this is a musical interface built by a student from Italy, and he's now turning this into a product. Because it was a student project becoming a product. Or it can be used to make an assistive device. This is a glove that understands the sign language and transforms the gestures you make into sounds and writes the words that you're signing on a display And again, this is made of all different parts you can find on all the websites that sell Arduino-compatible parts, and you assemble it into a project. Or this is a project from the ITP part of NYU, where they met with this boy who has a severe disability, cannot play with the PS3, so they built this device that allows the kid to play baseball although he has limited movement capability. Or you can find it in arts projects. So this is the txtBomber. So you put a message into this device and then you roll it on the wall, and it basically has all these solenoids pressing the buttons on spray cans, so you just pull it over a wall and it just writes on the wall all the political messages. So, yeah. (Applause) Then we have this plant here. This is called Botanicalls, because there's an Arduino ball with a Wi-Fi module in the plant, and it's measuring the well-being of the plant, and it's creating a Twitter account where you can actually interact with the plant. (Laughter) So, you know, this plant will start to say, ""This is really hot,"" or there's a lot of, you know, ""I need water right now."" (Laughter) So it just gives a personality to your plant. Or this is something that twitters when the baby inside the belly of a pregnant woman kicks. (Laughter) Or this is a 14-year-old kid in Chile who made a system that detects earthquakes and publishes on Twitter. He has 280,000 followers. He's 14 and he anticipated a governmental project by one year. (Applause) Or again, another project where, by analyzing the Twitter feed of a family, you can basically point where they are, like in the ""Harry Potter"" movie. So you can find out everything about this project on the website. Or somebody made a chair that twitters when somebody farts. (Laughter) It's interesting how, in 2009, Gizmodo basically defined, said that this project actually gives a meaning to Twitter, so it was — a lot changed in between. (Laughter) So very serious project. When the Fukushima disaster happened, a bunch of people in Japan, they realized that the information that the government was giving wasn't really open and really reliable, so they built this Geiger counter, plus Arduino, plus network interface. They made 100 of them and gave them to people around Japan, and essentially the data that they gathered gets published on this website called Cosm, another website they built, so you can actually get reliable real-time information from the field, and you can get unbiased information. Or this machine here, it's from the DIY bio movement, and it's one of the steps that you need in order to process DNA, and again, it's completely open-source from the ground up. Or you have students in developing countries making replicas of scientific instruments that cost a lot of money to make. Actually they just build them themselves for a lot less using Arduino and a few parts. This is a pH probe. Or you get kids, like these kids, they're from Spain. They learned how to program and to make robots when they were probably, like, 11, and then they started to use Arduino to make these robots that play football. They became world champions by making an Arduino-based robot. And so when we had to make our own educational robot, we just went to them and said, you know, ""You design it, because you know exactly what is needed to make a great robot that excites kids."" Not me. I'm an old guy. What am I supposed to excite, huh? (Laughter) But as I — in terms of educational assets. (Laughter) There's also companies like Google that are using the technology to create interfaces between mobile phones, tablets and the real world. So the Accessory Development Kit from Google is open-source and based on Arduino, as opposed to the one from Apple which is closed-source, NDA, sign your life to Apple. Here you are. There's a giant maze, and Joey's sitting there, and the maze is moving when you tilt the tablet. Also, I come from Italy, and the design is important in Italy, and yet very conservative. So we worked with a design studio called Habits, in Milan, to make this mirror, which is completely open-source. This doubles also as an iPod speaker. So the idea is that the hardware, the software, the design of the object, the fabrication, everything about this project is open-source and you can make it yourself. So we want other designers to pick this up and learn how to make great devices, to learn how to make interactive products by starting from something real. But when you have this idea, you know, what happens to all these ideas? There's, like, thousands of ideas that I — You know, it would take seven hours for me to do all the presentations. I will not take all the seven hours. Thank you. But let's start from this example: So, the group of people that started this company called Pebble, they prototyped a watch that communicates via Bluetooth with your phone, and you can display information on it. And they prototyped with an old LCD screen from a Nokia mobile phone and an Arduino. And then, when they had a final project, they actually went to Kickstarter and they were asking for 100,000 dollars to make a few of them to sell. They got 10 million dollars. They got a completely fully funded start-up, and they don't have to, you know, get VCs involved or anything, just excite the people with their great project. The last project I want to show you is this: It's called ArduSat. It's currently on Kickstarter, so if you want to contribute, please do it. It's a satellite that goes into space, which is probably the least open-source thing you can imagine, and it contains an Arduino connected to a bunch of sensors. So if you know how to use Arduino, you can actually upload your experiments into this satellite and run them. So imagine, if you as a high school can have the satellite for a week and do satellite space experiments like that. So, as I said, there's lots of examples, and I'm going to stop here. And I just want to thank the Arduino community for being the best, and just every day making lots of projects. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause) And thanks to the community. Chris Anderson: Massimo, you told me earlier today that you had no idea, of course, that it would take off like this. MB: No. CA: I mean, how must you feel when you read this stuff and you see what you've unlocked? MB: Well, it's the work of a lot of people, so we as a community are enabling people to make great stuff, and I just feel overwhelmed. It's just, it's difficult to describe this. Every morning, I wake up and I look at all the stuff that Google Alerts sends me, and it's just amazing. It's just going into every field that you can imagine. CA: Thank you so much. (Applause) (Applause)"	幾個星期前，我的一個朋友送了一輛玩具車給他8歲的兒子這樣的禮物我們通常都是去商場買但他沒有，而是從這個網站下載了一個文檔然後把這個玩具車用這台印表機給列印了出來像這樣用電子設備創作東西的理念《經濟學人》雜誌稱其為第三次工業革命但我認為現在我們還經歷著另一場革命一場涉及開源硬體和創客的運動因為我的朋友使用的這台印表機實際上就是開源的任何人去這一網站都可以下載製作這台印表機所需要的各種檔：施工檔、 硬體、 軟體各種幫助都可以在網上找到這是一個很大的線上社區世界各地成千上萬的人都聚集在這裡製作像這樣的印表機創新時刻都在發生因為一切都是開源的你不需要徵求任何人的同意，就可以製作很棒的東西這種市場的問世就像1976年個人電腦問世一樣蘋果公司和其他電腦公司互相競爭幾年後我們也會看到這種市場中的蘋果公司出現同樣有趣的是就像我說的，所有的電子元件都是開源的這台機器的關鍵元件 是我個人最為關心的Arduino主機板 這台印表機的核心部分這是我的一個項目已經開展七年了是一個開源項目我和這些朋友一起合作一共五個人，兩個美國人，兩個義大利人一個西班牙人(也指一種植物)這確實，是一個全球項目我們都在（義大利）伊夫雷亞互動設計研究所工作這個研究所研究的是如何設計出形狀簡單但能夠與人互動的設備這種設備能夠與人互動如果僅僅製作一個手機的泡沫模型，這沒什麼意義我們製作出來的東西要與人互動才有意義因此，我們開發了Arduino以及其他一些項目這就給我們的學生建立了簡易的平臺方便他們使用讓他們有機會製作一些實用的東西不過他們沒有五年的時間成為電子工程師，我們只有一個月時間那麼，如何製作一個孩子都能用的東西呢？實際上，在Arduino的幫助下像你看到的這個孩子Sylvia就能做出自己的東西才11歲的孩子就能用Arduino做東西我感覺，一旦給了這些孩子工具他們表現出來的能力真的讓人有些害怕讓我們看看一些實例有了這樣一個工具 任何人都可以在它的幫助下很快製作想要的東西先看第一個例子這是一個給貓咪餵食的容器這個設計的主人有兩隻貓其中有一隻生病了所以他必須讓它們分開吃東西於是他設計了這個裝置通過貓咪項圈內安裝的晶片識別貓咪身份然後開門讓貓咪吃東西這個裝置使用了一張用過的CD播放機從一台舊電腦拆下來的還有一些紙板、膠帶、幾個感測器和閃爍的LED顯示幕就做好了這樣一個工具一個市場上買不到的東西有句話說的好：“撓自己的癢”如果有自己的想法，就得動手去實現這就像在紙上畫畫一樣只不過是用電子裝置完成的這個項目很重要的一個特點在於硬體當然首先是義大利傾情製造的從電路的背面可以看到更重要的是它是開源的我們把所有的設計檔都發佈在網上任何人都可以下載在指引下進行製作或者改裝，學習我當初學習程式設計的時候就是通過看其他人的代碼學習的或看其他人發表在雜誌上的電路圖通過看其他人的作品來學習這是一種很好的學習方式這個專案的各個元件都是開源的比如硬體就是在“知識共用授權合約”下公開發佈的我喜歡這種理念把硬體作為文化的一部分供大家分享和使用就像歌曲或詩歌一樣只不過擁有“知識共用”認證另外，軟體通過“通用公共許可”發佈，也是開源的各種檔和動手教學資源都是開源的，遵循“知識共用授權合約”這個協議只對專案的名稱起保護作用便於我們能告訴大家Arduino到底是什麼目前，Arduino包含很多不同的開源組件這些元件拆開來對於一個12歲的孩子使用起來太難了所以Arduino將這些元件組合成在一起呈現出一個整體的開源工具讓用戶們很快就能做好一個東西給他們最好的用戶體驗讓我們看看一些例子在智利，一些用戶決定自己製作電路板，而不去商店買建立自己的工作間或者為了省錢也有一些公司對Arduino做出一些修改以迎合某個市場的需要像這樣的改裝目前大概有150個比如這個由一家名叫Adafruit的公司製造公司老闆是一位名叫Limor Fried的女人人們也稱她Ladyada她是開源硬體活動和創客活動的領軍人物之一這是一種新興的理念在一個活躍的DIY社區裡人們提倡開源與合作不同地區的人聚集在一起在網上共事這是一本叫《Make》的雜誌讓很多志趣相投的人走到一起組成一個社區在這裡，複雜的項目通過簡單易懂的語言展示出來，板式也很漂亮也有一些網站，比如這個名叫Instructables人們在這裡互相教學我們現在看到的頁面正是關於Arduino專案的其實在這個網站你可以學到各式各樣的東西，比如做蛋糕現在讓我們看看其他例子這是一個四軸飛行器一個小型的直升機模型差不多是個玩具吧幾年前這還是軍方掌握的技術現在已經開源了使用方便，網上都買的到這個網站叫DIY Drones，他們設計了一種叫ArduCopter的飛行器後來有人搞了一個叫Matternet的創業項目他們發現可以用這個飛行器在非洲的村莊間運送物資正是因為資料好找都是開源的，且易上手他們很快便成立了公司同樣，看看這個項目“老是聽這些人出現在電視裡講話”“煩死我了，所以我決定採取點行動“”於是我做了這個Arduino項目”“我把它叫做“夠了！”“它能在這些上鏡頻率過高的人出現的時候”“自動將電視靜音”“我來演示一下這是怎麼做的”仔細聽“我們的製片人今天碰到Kim Kardashian（美國娛樂界名媛）”“瞭解到她將穿什麼去參加——”咦？“這個效果不錯”“讓我們不必聽到關於Kim Kardashian”“婚禮的細節”好。有趣的是Matt找到了一個模組可以讓Arduino處理電視信號同時他還找到了別人寫的一些代碼這些代碼可以向電視傳送紅外信號他把找到的這些東西組合在一起，做了這個有趣的東西當然，Arduino也用在一些正式的地方，比如大型強子對撞機這裡有Arduino的部件 在進行一些資料收集以及參數測量的工作還可以用在這裡（音樂）這是一個音樂互動媒體一個義大利學生製作的目前他正準備將它商業化這是一個例子學生的專案轉變為了產品另外一個例子。這是一個輔助裝置這個手套能夠識別手語能將人作出的手勢轉化成聲音還可以把字顯示在自帶的螢幕上同樣，這也是靠不同部件組成的這些部件和Arduino相容 都能在網上買到組合在一起便是成品這是一個紐約大學藝術學院互動媒體中心的項目這個男孩由於身體有缺陷不能玩PS3於是項目組製作了該工具讓這孩子能夠玩棒球克服了他自身的行動缺陷另外，也有在藝術方面的應用這是一台叫txtBomber（“文字炸彈”）的機器將資訊輸進這台機器然後將其滾過牆面因為它帶有電導管能觸發噴霧開關所以只需要將它在牆上一拉過去字就自動寫在了牆上這是一些政治宣言對再看看這顆植物這叫“植物人”這裡有一個Arduino元件，帶有WI-FI功能附於這顆植物上測量它的生長情況同時它連接著一個推特帳號所以我們實際上可以和這顆植物互動比如，它會說“天氣真熱”或者“我現在想喝水”這就讓這顆植物變得很有個性另外，這個裝置也連接著推特帳號孕婦穿著它，當寶寶踢動的時候會自動推出資訊這個來自智利的14歲男孩做了一個系統可以檢測地震並在推特上發佈消息他的推特上有28萬粉絲他的年紀只有14歲當地政府一年後才跟上他，發佈了類似系統再看這個該裝置可以分析一家人各自的推特狀況讓你知道他們在幹嘛，比如在看《哈利波特》關於此專案更多資訊可以在此網站上查看還有人做了一個當人放屁時發推特消息的椅子非常有趣2009年Gizmodo（著名科技網站）評價這個東西讓推特有了全新的意義所以——當然到現在很多事情都變了現在我們來看一個嚴肅的項目日本福島核事故發生時日本的一些人認為政府沒有做到資訊的完全公開發佈的資訊也不可靠於是他們設計了這個帶有Arduino模組和網路連接的蓋革計數器（一種用於探測電離輻射的粒子探測器）做了100個這樣的設備發放到日本各地的人手上把這些人收集的資訊彙集在一個叫Cosm的網站上這樣人們就可以看到來自實地的即時資訊並且資訊更加可靠現在我們看到的這台機器來自DIY生物科技運動它能完成DNA分析處理所必需的一個步驟這台儀器從頭到尾都是開源的另外，一些發展中國家地區的學生們自己製作科學儀器這些儀器很昂貴但他們自己組裝則不用花那麼錢只需用到Arduino和另外一些部件這是一個pH值探針再看看這些來自西班牙的孩子他們學會程式設計製作機器人大概也就是11歲的樣子後來他們用Arduino讓這些機器人踢足球他們製作基於Arduino的機器人，在國際上贏得了大獎當時我們需要教學用的機器人，於是就告訴他們“你們來設計，因為你們很清楚”“什麼樣的機器人能讓孩子們興奮起來”我就不行了，我一個老頭怎麼能讓人興奮？(笑聲)我指的是教育意義上的 (笑聲)也有一些公司，比如穀歌他們用這項技術在手機、掌上型電腦和現實世界之間建立起聯繫這個開發套件來自穀歌同樣也是開源的並且基於Arduino而蘋果公司的產品則是非開源的，受保密協定保護要跟蘋果公司簽合同這是一個巨型迷宮喬伊坐在那裡，搖擺手中的平板電腦，迷宮也跟著擺動我來自義大利，設計在義大利很重要但同時也非常保守我們和米蘭一家叫做Habits的公司合作製作了這個鏡子，當然也是完全開源的這面鏡子也是一個iPod音樂播放機的揚聲器總結起來，這種開源理念從設計到製作所有都是開源的大家可以自己動手製作我們希望其他創客也能這樣通過這種方式來學習製作互動產品製作一個實在的東西但有了創造的想法後接下來怎麼做呢？這樣的想法成千上萬我要全部講完得花7個小時不過我不會佔用7個小時的，謝謝我們以這個例子來說吧有這麼一群人他們創立了Pebble公司設計了一種可以通過藍牙與手機相連的手錶可以在手錶上設置顯示內容他們先製作了一個雛形用了一個舊的諾基亞手機的LCD顯示幕當然還有Arduino到專案最後階段他們去眾籌平臺Kickstarter網上希望籌集到10萬美元製作一些這樣的手錶來銷售結果他們籌到了1千萬美元資金充足他們得以起步不必涉及到風險投資只用全力做出讓大家驚喜的產品我想展示的最後一個設計叫做ArduSat，目前正在Kickstarter網上籌集資金如果大家想贊助，歡迎大家前去這是一個人造衛星你可能覺得這是最不可能開源的東西這個人造衛星裡嵌有Arduino連接有幾個感測器實際上你可以將你的實驗上傳到衛星上進行想像一下，如果一所中學能用上這樣一台儀器一個星期就能做這樣的太空實驗了正如我前面所說例子太多了，我就此打住我想感謝Arduino社區你們是最優秀的每天都有很棒的項目在進行謝謝（掌聲）感謝社區裡的成員們主持人Chris Anderson：Massimo，之前你說自己以前完全沒想到會發展到今天這個樣子演講人Massimo：沒想到主持人：當你看到這些東西發現自己開啟了這一切 你感覺怎樣？演講人：這是很多人努力的結果我們這一群人讓大家能夠做出很棒的東西，這一切讓我太激動了很難用言語描述這種感覺每天早上醒來後看到那麼多的穀歌提醒太不可思議了你能想像到的各個領域都有應用主持人：非常感謝（掌聲）
