Talk	en	zh-tw
mathias_jud_art_that_lets_you_talk_back_to_nsa_spies	"A year ago, we were invited by the Swiss Embassy in Berlin to present our art projects. We are used to invitations, but this invitation really thrilled us. The Swiss Embassy in Berlin is special. It is the only old building in the government district that was not destroyed during the Second World War, and it sits right next to the Federal Chancellery. No one is closer to Chancellor Merkel than the Swiss diplomats. (Laughter) The government district in Berlin also contains the Reichstag — Germany's parliament — and the Brandenburg Gate, and right next to the gate there are other embassies, in particular the US and the British Embassy. Although Germany is an advanced democracy, citizens are limited in their constitutional rights in its government district. The right of assembly and the right to demonstrate are restricted there. And this is interesting from an artistic point of view. The opportunities to exercise participation and to express oneself are always bound to a certain order and always subject to a specific regulation. With an awareness of the dependencies of these regulations, we can gain a new perspective. The given terms and conditions shape our perception, our actions and our lives. And this is crucial in another context. Over the last couple of years, we learned that from the roofs of the US and the British Embassy, the secret services have been listening to the entire district, including the mobile phone of Angela Merkel. The antennas of the British GCHQ are hidden in a white cylindrical radome, while the listening post of the American NSA is covered by radio transparent screens. But how to address these hidden and disguised forces? With my colleague, Christoph Wachter, we accepted the invitation of the Swiss Embassy. And we used this opportunity to exploit the specific situation. If people are spying on us, it stands to reason that they have to listen to what we are saying. (Laughter) On the roof of the Swiss Embassy, we installed a series of antennas. They weren't as sophisticated as those used by the Americans and the British. (Laughter) They were makeshift can antennas, not camouflaged but totally obvious and visible. The Academy of Arts joined the project, and so we built another large antenna on their rooftop, exactly between the listening posts of the NSA and the GCHQ. (Laughter) Never have we been observed in such detail while building an art installation. A helicopter circled over our heads with a camera registering each and every move we made, and on the roof of the US Embassy, security officers patrolled. Although the government district is governed by a strict police order, there are no specific laws relating to digital communication. Our installation was therefore perfectly legal, and the Swiss Ambassador informed Chancellor Merkel about it. We named the project ""Can You Hear Me?"" (Laughter) The antennas created an open and free Wi-Fi communication network in which anyone who wanted to would be able to participate using any Wi-Fi-enabled device without any hindrance, and be able to send messages to those listening on the frequencies that were being intercepted. Text messages, voice chat, file sharing — anything could be sent anonymously. And people did communicate. Over 15,000 messages were sent. Here are some examples. ""Hello world, hello Berlin, hello NSA, hello GCHQ."" ""NSA Agents, Do the Right Thing! Blow the whistle!"" ""This is the NSA. In God we trust. All others we track!!!!!"" (Laughter) ""#@nonymous is watching #NSA #GCHQ - we are part of your organizations. # expect us. We will #shutdown"" ""This is the NSA's Achilles heel. Open Networks."" ""Agents, what twisted story of yourself will you tell your grandchildren?"" ""@NSA My neighbors are noisy. Please send a drone strike."" (Laughter) ""Make Love, Not cyberwar."" We invited the embassies and the government departments to participate in the open network, too, and to our surprise, they did. Files appeared on the network, including classified documents leaked from the parliamentary investigation commission, which highlights that the free exchange and discussion of vital information is starting to become difficult, even for members of a parliament. We also organized guided tours to experience and sound out the power constellations on-site. The tours visited the restricted zones around the embassies, and we discussed the potential and the highlights of communication. If we become aware of the constellation, the terms and conditions of communication, it not only broadens our horizon, it allows us to look behind the regulations that limit our worldview, our specific social, political or aesthetic conventions. Let's look at an actual example. The fate of people living in the makeshift settlements on the outskirts of Paris is hidden and faded from view. It's a vicious circle. It's not poverty, not racism, not exclusion that are new. What is new is how these realities are hidden and how people are made invisible in an age of global and overwhelming communication and exchange. Such makeshift settlements are considered illegal, and therefore those living in them don't have a chance of making their voices heard. On the contrary, every time they appear, every time they risk becoming visible, merely gives grounds for further persecution, expulsion and suppression. What interested us was how we could come to know this hidden side. We were searching for an interface and we found one. It's not a digital interface, but a physical one: it's a hotel. We named the project ""Hotel Gelem."" Together with Roma families, we created several Hotel Gelems in Europe, for example, in Freiburg in Germany, in Montreuil near Paris, and also in the Balkans. These are real hotels. People can stay there. But they aren't a commercial enterprise. They are a symbol. You can go online and ask for a personal invitation to come and live for a few days in the Hotel Gelem, in their homes, eating, working and living with the Roma families. Here, the Roma families are not the travelers; the visitors are. Here, the Roma families are not a minority; the visitors are. The point is not to make judgments, but rather to find out about the context that determines these disparate and seemingly insurmountable contradictions. In the world of globalization, the continents are drifting closer to each other. Cultures, goods and people are in permanent exchange, but at the same time, the gap between the world of the privileged and the world of the excluded is growing. We were recently in Australia. For us, it was no problem to enter the country. We have European passports, visas and air tickets. But asylum seekers who arrive by boat in Australia are deported or taken to prison. The interception of the boats and the disappearance of the people into the detention system are veiled by the Australian authorities. These procedures are declared to be secret military operations. After dramatic escapes from crisis zones and war zones, men, women and children are detained by Australia without trial, sometimes for years. During our stay, however, we managed to reach out and work with asylum seekers who were imprisoned, despite strict screening and isolation. From these contexts was born an installation in the art space of the Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane. On the face of it, it was a very simple installation. On the floor, a stylized compass gave the direction to each immigration detention center, accompanied by the distance and the name of the immigration facility. But the exhibition step came in the form of connectivity. Above every floor marking, there was a headset. Visitors were offered the opportunity to talk directly to a refugee who was or had been imprisoned in a specific detention facility and engage in a personal conversation. In the protected context of the art exhibition, asylum seekers felt free to talk about themselves, their story and their situation, without fear of consequences. Visitors immersed themselves in long conversations about families torn apart, about dramatic escapes from war zones, about suicide attempts, about the fate of children in detention. Emotions ran deep. Many wept. Several revisited the exhibition. It was a powerful experience. Europe is now facing a stream of migrants. The situation for the asylum seekers is made worse by contradictory policies and the temptation of militarized responses. We have also established communication systems in remote refugee centers in Switzerland and Greece. They are all about providing basic information — weather forecasts, legal information, guidance. But they are significant. Information on the Internet that could ensure survival along dangerous routes is being censored, and the provision of such information is becoming increasingly criminalized. This brings us back to our network and to the antennas on the roof of the Swiss Embassy in Berlin and the ""Can You Hear Me?"" project. We should not take it for granted to be boundlessly connected. We should start making our own connections, fighting for this idea of an equal and globally interconnected world. This is essential to overcome our speechlessness and the separation provoked by rival political forces. It is only in truly exposing ourselves to the transformative power of this experience that we can overcome prejudice and exclusion. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Mathias. The other half of your artistic duo is also here. Christoph Wachter, come onstage. (Applause) First, tell me just a detail: the name of the hotel is not a random name. Gelem means something specific in the Roma language. Mathias Jud: Yes, ""Gelem, Gelem"" is the title of the Romani hymn, the official, and it means ""I went a long way."" BG: That's just to add the detail to your talk. But you two traveled to the island of Lesbos very recently, you're just back a couple of days ago, in Greece, where thousands of refugees are arriving and have been arriving over the last few months. What did you see there and what did you do there? Christoph Wachter: Well, Lesbos is one of the Greek islands close to Turkey, and during our stay, many asylum seekers arrived by boat on overcrowded dinghies, and after landing, they were left completely on their own. They are denied many services. For example, they are not allowed to buy a bus ticket or to rent a hotel room, so many families literally sleep in the streets. And we installed networks there to allow basic communication, because I think, I believe, it's not only that we have to speak about the refugees, I think we need to start talking to them. And by doing so, we can realize that it is about human beings, about their lives and their struggle to survive. BG: And allow them to talk as well. Christoph, thank you for coming to TED. Mathias, thank you for coming to TED and sharing your story. (Applause)"	一年前，我們應瑞士大使館的邀請，在柏林展示我們的藝術作品。我們習慣了受邀，但這次邀請卻真正讓我們激動不已。柏林的瑞士大使館非常特別。它是政府區內唯一一座沒有毀於二戰的古老建築，它就坐落在聯邦總理大樓的右邊。沒有人比瑞士的外交官們更貼近默克爾總理。 （笑聲） 柏林的政府區同樣包含了德國議會大廈（Reichstag）和布蘭登堡門，而緊鄰布蘭登堡門右側的是其他國家的大使館，主要是美國和英國大使館。 即便德國是一個民主發達國家，但公民在政府區內的憲法權益卻倍受約束。集會權和遊行權在這一區域是受限制的。以一個藝術家的角度來看這十分耐人尋味。集會活動及表達自己的機會常受限於某項命令且常受限於某些規定。意識到對於這些規定的依賴性，我們能獲得一個新的觀點。這些給定的條款與限制塑造了我們的看法、行為以及我們的生活。 而這在另一個背景裡是關鍵的。過去的幾年裡，我們了解到從美國和英國大使館的屋頂上，特務機關已經竊聽了整個區域，包括安格拉．默克爾的手機。英國政府通信總局的天線藏在一個白色的圓柱形天線罩下，而美國國安局的竊聽站被無線電透明屏幕遮蓋。 但要如何解決這些隱藏且偽裝的武力呢？我和我的同事 Christoph Wachter，接受了瑞士大使館的邀約。我們利用這次機會來探索這個特殊情況。 如果有人要監聽我們，那是因為，他們有不得不聽的理由。 （笑聲） 在瑞士大使館的屋頂，我們安裝了一系列的天線。它們沒有美國和英國用的那樣精密。 （笑聲） 這些臨時的天線湊合還能用，沒有偽裝和遮蓋，就完全是明顯可見的。藝術學院參與了這個項目，因此我們在學院屋頂上架設了另一個大型天線，恰好就在美國國安局和英國通信總局的監聽站中間。 （笑聲） 我們從來沒有在創作一個藝術作品時被觀察地那麼仔細。一架直升機在我們的頭頂盤旋，並用攝影機記錄下我們的一舉一動，在美國大使館的屋頂上有保全人員在巡邏。雖然政府區域有嚴苛的治安條令，但卻沒有明確的條令限制數位通訊，因此我們的安裝是完全合法的，而且瑞士大使也向總理默克爾知會了此事。我們把這個項目定名為“ 你能聽見我說話嗎？ ” （笑聲） 我們的天線創造了一個公開免費的無線通訊網絡，任何想要連接上去的人，都可以用具有WIFI功能的設備進行無障礙連接，連接後就可以向正在監聽截獲頻率的人傳簡訊。文字信息、語音聊天、文件共享—-任何東西都可以匿名傳送。人們以此來傳達溝通，傳送了超過1萬5千封簡訊。這裡舉幾個例子。 “你好世界，你好柏林你好美國國安局，你好英國通訊總局。” “美國國安局的特工們，做該做的事！去告密吧！” “這裡是美國國安局，我們只相信上帝。其他的我們都跟踪！！！！！！” （笑聲） “#@匿名者正在看著#美國國安局#英國通訊總局—我們跟你是同夥的。#期待我們。我們會#死當” “這裡是美國國安局阿基里斯的腳踝（致命傷），開放網路。” “特工們，你將來會給你的兒孫講哪些自己的變態故事呢？” “@美國國安局，我的鄰居太吵了。請派一架無人機解決他們。” （笑聲） “要愛但不要網路戰爭。” 我們也邀請了大使館和政府部門參與到這個開放的網路中，而另我們驚訝的是，他們真的加入了。文件出現在網絡上，包括從議會調查委員會洩露出來的機密文件，這也點出了自由地交換和討論重要資訊開始變得困難，即使是議會的成員。我們還組織了有解說的遊覽行程來體驗和探索現場的一系列的人事物。參觀團拜訪了大使館周圍的限制區，我們討論了溝通的潛力和重要性。 如果我們開始了解這些相關的人事物、溝通的術語與環境條件，它不僅開闊了我們的眼界，還能幫助我們回顧哪些規定限制了我們的世界觀、我們的特定社群、政治或審美觀習俗。 讓我們看一個真實的例子。那些住在巴黎郊區臨時住區人們的命運，正被隱藏並從我們的視線逐漸消逝。這是個惡性循環。這無關貧困、無關種族主義，也不是排外這類的新鮮事，新鮮事是這些事實是如何被隱藏的，那些人又是如何在這樣一個全球化訊息流通的世代被變不見的。這樣的臨時住區被認為是非法的，因此那些居住在裡面的人們沒有機會向世界發聲。矛盾的是，每一次他們的出現、冒險逃離就變得看的很清楚，而這帶來的僅是更深重的迫害、驅逐和鎮壓。我們感興趣的是我們如何能知道這隱藏的一面。我們當時在尋找一個對話窗口，而且我們找到了一個。它不是數位對話方式，而是一個實體；是一家旅館。 我們將這個計劃命名為“Gelem旅館”我們與羅姆之家一起在歐洲建立了幾處Gelem旅館，例如，德國的弗赖堡、巴黎附近的蒙翠爾，還有巴爾幹半島。它們是真正的旅館。人們可以在此居住。但它們不是一個商業性的企業。它們是一個象徵。你可以在線上申請Gelem旅館的個人招待，在Gelem旅館他們的家園裡居住幾日，與羅姆之家的人們一起吃飯、工作、生活。在這兒，羅姆之家並非旅行者；訪客們才是。在這兒，羅姆之家並非少數族群；訪客們才是。 重點並不在於做出評判，反而是去探索那些造成這些迥異和看似不可逾越的矛盾的來龍去脈。在這個全球化的世界，各大洲的距離正慢慢拉近。文化、貨物和人們在持續交流，但是與此同時，世界特權與排外所造成的隔閡正不斷地增長。 我們最近去了澳洲。對我們而言，進入這個國家毫無阻礙。我們有歐洲護照，簽證和機票。但是那些乘船到澳洲尋求避難的人不是被驅逐就是被羈押。那些被攔截的船隻以及在拘留系統裡消失的人們都被澳洲當局所掩蓋。這些行動對外宣稱是秘密的軍事行動。當他們戲劇性地從危險地帶和戰爭地帶逃出來時，這些男人、婦女和小孩卻受到了澳洲政府不加審訊地羈押，有時一羈押就是好幾年。 然而，我們待在澳洲的那段期間，儘管有嚴格的審查和隔離，我們仍設法向那些被羈押的尋求避難者伸出援手，在這樣的背景下，一件裝置藝術誕生在昆士蘭大學布利斯班科技學院的藝術空間中。 表面上看，它是個非常簡單的裝置。底部有一個特製的指南針，指向每一個移民拘留中心，同時顯示出距離和移民署的名字。但是這次藝展的流程是以是以溝通的形式來呈現，在每個樓層標示上面有一副耳機。參訪者有機會直接與剛被羈押或被羈押在拘留所一段時間的難民們展開一段私人的對話。在受到此次藝展的保護下，尋求庇護的難民可以自由地談論自己、不必擔心後果講述他們的故事和境遇。參訪者感同身受沉浸在那些漫長的交談中，談論關於難民的家破人亡、戰區大逃亡、嘗試自殺、拘留所孩子們的命運。感人至深，許多人流下眼淚。不少人甚至來了好幾次。這是個非常有影響力的體驗。 歐洲正面臨著一大批移民。這些尋求庇護者的情況，因為敵對的政策和武力回應的煽動而變得更糟。我們同樣在遙遠的瑞士和希臘的難民中心架設了通訊系統。它們旨在提供一些基礎信息——天氣預報、法律信息、指導。但它們至關重要。網路上那些能確保在危險路途上生存的資訊已經受到了審查，而且提供這種信息的行為開始被視作為犯罪。 這帶我們回到那個安裝在瑞士柏林大使館上的網路天線和 “你能聽見我說話嗎？”的 那個項目。我們不應該將無國界連接視為理所當然。我們應該開始建立我們自己的連結，為一個平等的、全球互相扶持的理想世界而奮鬥。這對克服我們的沉默以及由敵對政治勢力引發的分化來說至關重要。只有將我們自己真正地暴露於這種改革力量的經歷，我們才能克服偏見與排外。 謝謝。 （掌聲） Bruno Giussani: 謝謝你，Mathis。你的另一位藝術拍檔也來到了現場。Christoph Wachter請到台上來。 （掌聲） 首先，告訴我一點細節：那個旅館的名字並非隨機得來的。Gelem 在羅馬語中有特殊意義。 Mathias Jud: 是的，「Gelem，Gelem」是羅姆讚聖歌的名稱，它的意思是“我走了一段漫長的旅途。” BG：這只是補充你剛才演講的細節。但你們倆最近好像去了萊斯博斯島幾天前才回來，在希臘，過去幾個月，有成千上萬的難民陸續抵達，你們在那裡看到了什麼？又做了什麼呢？ CW：是的，萊斯博斯是希臘離土耳其很近的一個島嶼，我們在這那停留的期間，許多尋求庇護的難民乘坐擁擠的小艇到來，抵達后，他們必須獨自離開。他們被各種服務機構拒之門外。例如，他們不允許購買公車票或者不允許在旅店住宿。無數家庭露宿街頭。然後我們在那安裝了網絡讓他們進行最基本的通信，因為我認為，我堅信，我們不僅僅需要談論難民，我認為我們需要開始與他們對話。透過對話，我們才會了解到這些事情與人類、他們的生命、他們為生存所做的奮鬥有關。 BG：並且要讓他們發聲。Christoph，謝謝你來到TED。Mathias，謝謝你來到TED並且分享你們自己的故事。 （掌聲）
