Talk	en	zh-tw
matthew_carter_my_life_in_typefaces	"Type is something we consume in enormous quantities. In much of the world, it's completely inescapable. But few consumers are concerned to know where a particular typeface came from or when or who designed it, if, indeed, there was any human agency involved in its creation, if it didn't just sort of materialize out of the software ether. But I do have to be concerned with those things. It's my job. I'm one of the tiny handful of people who gets badly bent out of shape by the bad spacing of the T and the E that you see there. I've got to take that slide off. I can't stand it. Nor can Chris. There. Good. So my talk is about the connection between technology and design of type. The technology has changed a number of times since I started work: photo, digital, desktop, screen, web. I've had to survive those changes and try to understand their implications for what I do for design. This slide is about the effect of tools on form. The two letters, the two K's, the one on your left, my right, is modern, made on a computer. All straight lines are dead straight. The curves have that kind of mathematical smoothness that the Bézier formula imposes. On the right, ancient Gothic, cut in the resistant material of steel by hand. None of the straight lines are actually straight. The curves are kind of subtle. It has that spark of life from the human hand that the machine or the program can never capture. What a contrast. Well, I tell a lie. A lie at TED. I'm really sorry. Both of these were made on a computer, same software, same Bézier curves, same font format. The one on your left was made by Zuzana Licko at Emigre, and I did the other one. The tool is the same, yet the letters are different. The letters are different because the designers are different. That's all. Zuzana wanted hers to look like that. I wanted mine to look like that. End of story. Type is very adaptable. Unlike a fine art, such as sculpture or architecture, type hides its methods. I think of myself as an industrial designer. The thing I design is manufactured, and it has a function: to be read, to convey meaning. But there is a bit more to it than that. There's the sort of aesthetic element. What makes these two letters different from different interpretations by different designers? What gives the work of some designers sort of characteristic personal style, as you might find in the work of a fashion designer, an automobile designer, whatever? There have been some cases, I admit, where I as a designer did feel the influence of technology. This is from the mid-'60s, the change from metal type to photo, hot to cold. This brought some benefits but also one particular drawback: a spacing system that only provided 18 discrete units for letters to be accommodated on. I was asked at this time to design a series of condensed sans serif types with as many different variants as possible within this 18-unit box. Quickly looking at the arithmetic, I realized I could only actually make three of related design. Here you see them. In Helvetica Compressed, Extra Compressed, and Ultra Compressed, this rigid 18-unit system really boxed me in. It kind of determined the proportions of the design. Here are the typefaces, at least the lower cases. So do you look at these and say, ""Poor Matthew, he had to submit to a problem, and by God it shows in the results."" I hope not. If I were doing this same job today, instead of having 18 spacing units, I would have 1,000. Clearly I could make more variants, but would these three members of the family be better? It's hard to say without actually doing it, but they would not be better in the proportion of 1,000 to 18, I can tell you that. My instinct tells you that any improvement would be rather slight, because they were designed as functions of the system they were designed to fit, and as I said, type is very adaptable. It does hide its methods. All industrial designers work within constraints. This is not fine art. The question is, does a constraint force a compromise? By accepting a constraint, are you working to a lower standard? I don't believe so, and I've always been encouraged by something that Charles Eames said. He said he was conscious of working within constraints, but not of making compromises. The distinction between a constraint and a compromise is obviously very subtle, but it's very central to my attitude to work. Remember this reading experience? The phone book. I'll hold the slide so you can enjoy the nostalgia. This is from the mid-'70s early trials of Bell Centennial typeface I designed for the U.S. phone books, and it was my first experience of digital type, and quite a baptism. Designed for the phone books, as I said, to be printed at tiny size on newsprint on very high-speed rotary presses with ink that was kerosene and lampblack. This is not a hospitable environment for a typographic designer. So the challenge for me was to design type that performed as well as possible in these very adverse production conditions. As I say, we were in the infancy of digital type. I had to draw every character by hand on quadrille graph paper — there were four weights of Bell Centennial — pixel by pixel, then encode them raster line by raster line for the keyboard. It took two years, but I learned a lot. These letters look as though they've been chewed by the dog or something or other, but the missing pixels at the intersections of strokes or in the crotches are the result of my studying the effects of ink spread on cheap paper and reacting, revising the font accordingly. These strange artifacts are designed to compensate for the undesirable effects of scale and production process. At the outset, AT&T had wanted to set the phone books in Helvetica, but as my friend Erik Spiekermann said in the Helvetica movie, if you've seen that, the letters in Helvetica were designed to be as similar to one another as possible. This is not the recipe for legibility at small size. It looks very elegant up on a slide. I had to disambiguate these forms of the figures as much as possible in Bell Centennial by sort of opening the shapes up, as you can see in the bottom part of that slide. So now we're on to the mid-'80s, the early days of digital outline fonts, vector technology. There was an issue at that time with the size of the fonts, the amount of data that was required to find and store a font in computer memory. It limited the number of fonts you could get on your typesetting system at any one time. I did an analysis of the data, and found that a typical serif face you see on the left needed nearly twice as much data as a sans serif in the middle because of all the points required to define the elegantly curved serif brackets. The numbers at the bottom of the slide, by the way, they represent the amount of data needed to store each of the fonts. So the sans serif, in the middle, sans the serifs, was much more economical, 81 to 151. ""Aha,"" I thought. ""The engineers have a problem. Designer to the rescue."" I made a serif type, you can see it on the right, without curved serifs. I made them polygonal, out of straight line segments, chamfered brackets. And look, as economical in data as a sans serif. We call it Charter, on the right. So I went to the head of engineering with my numbers, and I said proudly, ""I have solved your problem."" ""Oh,"" he said. ""What problem?"" And I said, ""Well, you know, the problem of the huge data you require for serif fonts and so on."" ""Oh,"" he said. ""We solved that problem last week. We wrote a compaction routine that reduces the size of all fonts by an order of magnitude. You can have as many fonts on your system as you like."" ""Well, thank you for letting me know,"" I said. Foiled again. I was left with a design solution for a nonexistent technical problem. But here is where the story sort of gets interesting for me. I didn't just throw my design away in a fit of pique. I persevered. What had started as a technical exercise became an aesthetic exercise, really. In other words, I had come to like this typeface. Forget its origins. Screw that. I liked the design for its own sake. The simplified forms of Charter gave it a sort of plain-spoken quality and unfussy spareness that sort of pleased me. You know, at times of technical innovation, designers want to be influenced by what's in the air. We want to respond. We want to be pushed into exploring something new. So Charter is a sort of parable for me, really. In the end, there was no hard and fast causal link between the technology and the design of Charter. I had really misunderstood the technology. The technology did suggest something to me, but it did not force my hand, and I think this happens very often. You know, engineers are very smart, and despite occasional frustrations because I'm less smart, I've always enjoyed working with them and learning from them. Apropos, in the mid-'90s, I started talking to Microsoft about screen fonts. Up to that point, all the fonts on screen had been adapted from previously existing printing fonts, of course. But Microsoft foresaw correctly the movement, the stampede towards electronic communication, to reading and writing onscreen with the printed output as being sort of secondary in importance. So the priorities were just tipping at that point. They wanted a small core set of fonts that were not adapted but designed for the screen to face up to the problems of screen, which were their coarse resolution displays. I said to Microsoft, a typeface designed for a particular technology is a self-obsoleting typeface. I've designed too many faces in the past that were intended to mitigate technical problems. Thanks to the engineers, the technical problems went away. So did my typeface. It was only a stopgap. Microsoft came back to say that affordable computer monitors with better resolutions were at least a decade away. So I thought, well, a decade, that's not bad, that's more than a stopgap. So I was persuaded, I was convinced, and we went to work on what became Verdana and Georgia, for the first time working not on paper but directly onto the screen from the pixel up. At that time, screens were binary. The pixel was either on or it was off. Here you see the outline of a letter, the cap H, which is the thin black line, the contour, which is how it is stored in memory, superimposed on the bitmap, which is the grey area, which is how it's displayed on the screen. The bitmap is rasterized from the outline. Here in a cap H, which is all straight lines, the two are in almost perfect sync on the Cartesian grid. Not so with an O. This looks more like bricklaying than type design, but believe me, this is a good bitmap O, for the simple reason that it's symmetrical in both x and y axes. In a binary bitmap, you actually can't ask for more than that. I would sometimes make, I don't know, three or four different versions of a difficult letter like a lowercase A, and then stand back to choose which was the best. Well, there was no best, so the designer's judgment comes in in trying to decide which is the least bad. Is that a compromise? Not to me, if you are working at the highest standard the technology will allow, although that standard may be well short of the ideal. You may be able to see on this slide two different bitmap fonts there. The ""a"" in the upper one, I think, is better than the ""a"" in the lower one, but it still ain't great. You can maybe see the effect better if it's reduced. Well, maybe not. So I'm a pragmatist, not an idealist, out of necessity. For a certain kind of temperament, there is a certain kind of satisfaction in doing something that cannot be perfect but can still be done to the best of your ability. Here's the lowercase H from Georgia Italic. The bitmap looks jagged and rough. It is jagged and rough. But I discovered, by experiment, that there is an optimum slant for an italic on a screen so the strokes break well at the pixel boundaries. Look in this example how, rough as it is, how the left and right legs actually break at the same level. That's a victory. That's good, right there. And of course, at the lower depths, you don't get much choice. This is an S, in case you were wondering. Well, it's been 18 years now since Verdana and Georgia were released. Microsoft were absolutely right, it took a good 10 years, but screen displays now do have improved spatial resolution, and very much improved photometric resolution thanks to anti-aliasing and so on. So now that their mission is accomplished, has that meant the demise of the screen fonts that I designed for coarser displays back then? Will they outlive the now-obsolete screens and the flood of new web fonts coming on to the market? Or have they established their own sort of evolutionary niche that is independent of technology? In other words, have they been absorbed into the typographic mainstream? I'm not sure, but they've had a good run so far. Hey, 18 is a good age for anything with present-day rates of attrition, so I'm not complaining. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們以龐大的數量消耗著印刷文字在世界上絕大多數地方這是完全無可避免的但是很少有消費者會在意如果事實上 字體的創造有人類力量參與其中如果它不是從軟體環境裡自動生成那麼某一特定的字體從何而來或者何時由何人設計 但我必須關心這類問題因為這是我的工作我和另外少數人會因為T和E之間的間距問題而怒不可遏正如你們所見我得換掉那張幻燈片因為我無法忍受 克理斯也是這樣 總算好了 所以我的演講是關於技術與印刷文字之間的聯繫自從我開始工作以來技術經歷了幾次變革：相片 數位 桌面 螢幕 網頁我必須在這些變革中求得生存並且試圖理解這對我的設計工作意味著什麼這張是關於工具對形態的影響這兩個字母 兩個K你們左手邊 我的右手邊的 是現代設計在電腦上完成的所有的直線都絕對筆直這些曲線根據貝塞爾曲線公式都有種精準的平滑度右邊是古代哥德字母是用耐久的鋼材質手工切割的沒有一條絕對的直線曲線也相對微妙它有種來自人類手工的生命力這是機器或電腦程式永遠也無法捕捉的多麼強烈的對比 好吧 其實我撒謊了在TED上撒謊 真是很抱歉這兩種字體都是在電腦上製作的同樣的軟體 同樣是貝塞爾公式同樣的字體格式你們左邊這個是由 Emigre 的 Zuzana Licko 所創作的右邊這個是我製作的工具是一樣的 而字體卻不一樣這些字體的不同是由於設計者的不同僅此而已 Zuzana 想要那樣的字體而我想要這樣的字體 就是這樣印刷文字的適應性很強不像藝術品 如雕塑或建築印刷文字隱藏了手法我把自己看作是工業設計者我設計的東西要投入生產而且具有功能：滿足人們閱讀與表達的需要但字體的設計不止於此其中還有美學元素通過不同設計者的不同解讀這兩種字體為何變得不同？是什麼賦予了某些設計師的作品一種特有的個人風格就像你在時裝設計 汽車設計等作品中所能發現的那樣？ 我承認 作為一名設計師曾經有些時候我的確感受到技術的影響力這是從60年代中期開始金屬鑄排變成照相排版“熱排”變成“冷排”這帶來一些好處但同時也有一個弊端：文字間距系統只提供18個獨立的單位來讓我們調試字母這時 有人讓我設計一系列的壓縮無襯線字體要有盡可能多的變體但都限於這18個單位做了簡單的算數後我發現我其實只能製作三個有關設計 如大家所見Helvetica字體的壓縮版 超壓縮版和終極壓縮版這種嚴格的18單位的系統著實限制了我的發揮它一定程度上決定了設計的比例這是這三種字體的小寫體看著這些 你會不會說：可憐的馬修 他不得不屈服於一個問題上帝可鑒 結果就是這樣我不希望這樣如果這個任務放到今天我會用1000個單位而不是18個很明顯 我就能做更多變體但是這三種字體會變得更好嗎？若沒有著手去做 則很難說但我能告訴你 在1000/18的比例下他們絕不會變得更好我的直覺告訴你們 任何的改善都會微乎其微 因為它們在設計之初就被限於一個必須去適應的系統而我剛才說過 印刷文字的適應性很高印刷字的確隱藏了其手法所有的工業設計師都在制約內工作這不是藝術 問題是 制約會不會強加某種折衷？接受一種制約的同時你是否降低了工作標準？我不這樣認為查爾斯·伊姆斯的話一直鼓勵著我他說 他明白自己的工作受到一些制約但從不會降低工作品質制約和折衷之間的區別很微妙但卻是我工作態度的核心 還記得這種閱讀體驗嗎？電話簿 這張幻燈片會停一會讓你們享受懷舊的愉悅這是70年代中期，我設計的 Bell Centennial 字體在美國電話簿上的早期試驗這是我對數碼印刷字的初次體驗如思想洗禮一般我說過 這是為電話簿設計的要以微小字型大小印在新聞用紙上用高速的輪轉印刷機和煤油煤煙制的墨水這種工作環境對一個排印設計者來說並不舒適所以對我的挑戰就是設計的字體在這種惡劣的生產環境中能盡可能地表現出色如我所說 我們還處於數碼排印的初期我必須在方格紙上動手畫出每個字——Bell Centennial 字體有四種粗細——一個像素一個像素地畫 然後給每個光柵線編碼使它們適用於鍵盤我花了兩年時間 但學到了很多這些字母看起來像是被狗或其他什麼咬了一樣但是在筆劃的交叉點之所以有些像素缺失是因為我瞭解了墨水在廉價紙上會是什麼效果於是對字型做了相應修改設計這些奇怪的人造字型是為了抵消測量和生產過程所帶來的不理想的效果一開始 AT&T 想要在電話簿裡應用 Helvetica 字體但是正如我的朋友艾瑞克·史皮克曼在《Helvetica》這部紀錄片理所說如果大家看過的話Helvetica 字體的設計是為了讓所有字母都盡可能相似這並不是為了提高小號字的可讀性在幻燈片上看相當優美我必須在 Bell Centennial 字體中盡可能的區分每一個數字的樣式這是通過將這種樣式的形狀打開如最後一行這樣 這時已經快到80年代中期這是數碼輪廓字體和向量技術發展的早期當時有一個問題是關於字型的大小以及在電腦裡尋找和儲存一種字型所需要的數據量這限制了你能一次從排版系統中得到的字型的數量我對這些數據進行了分析發現 你們左手邊這種典型的襯線體需要的數據量幾乎是中間的無襯線體的兩倍這是因為做出優雅的襯線弧度所需要的那些點順便說一句 幻燈片底部的數字它們表示了儲存各種字體所需要的數據量所以位於中間的無襯線體去掉了襯線 則變得更省數據由原來的151變成81 我想：啊哈 工程師們遇到了問題我們設計師來解決 我便製作了一種襯線體 就是你們右邊這個去掉了彎曲的襯線我把它們變成了多邊形由許多線段組成且對襯線彎曲處進行了斜切看 結果跟無襯線體一樣節省數據右邊這種 我們叫它 Charter 字體 所以我帶著這些數據去找工程部主管 驕傲地說：我解決了你的問題 他說：哦 什麼問題？ 我說：你知道的 就是襯線體的數據量要求過大之類的 他說：我們上禮拜已經解決了我們寫了一個壓縮例程將所有字型的大小減小一個數量級現在你想在系統裡有多少字型就能有多少 我說：好吧 謝謝你讓我知道 再次受挫我手裡的這個設計方案卻是為了一個不存在的技術問題 但就在這裡 我突然來了興致我並沒有一氣之下扔掉我的設計我還要繼續一開始的一個技術性操作現在卻成了一個美學課題也就是說 我開始喜歡這個字體了別想一開始為什麼了 管他呢我就是喜歡這個字體本身Charter 的這種簡化形式給了它一種簡單明了的特質和不做作的留白這讓我很高興要知道 在技術革新的年代設計者想要被未知的想法所影響我們想回應未知 想推進自己探索未知的世界所以 Charter 是我給自己上的一課最終 技術和 Charter 的設計之間並沒有確切的因果聯繫我當時誤解了那些技術技術的確給了我一點啟發但並沒有迫使我做什麼而且我認為這時常發生 大家知道 工程師都很聰明除了偶爾因為自己不夠聰明而感到挫敗以外我一直都為能跟他們合作和向他們學習而感到高興說到這裡 在90年代中期我開始跟微軟談論螢幕字型的事情直到那時 所有的螢幕字型當然都還是從之前的印刷字改造而成但是微軟正確地預見到這次變革 這次向電子通訊的潮湧向螢幕閱讀和書寫的邁進而印刷產物可能會在重要性上位居第二 所以 重點任務就是開始嘗試他們想要一小組核心字型不是改編而來 而是專為螢幕設計來解決一些螢幕上的問題也就是他們低解析度的顯示螢幕我跟微軟說，專門為一項技術而設計的字體首先自身就過時了我過去設計了很多字體都為了緩解技術問題多虧工程師們 技術問題已經沒有了而我的設計也沒有了因為這種設計只是一個中轉站微軟回來告訴我負擔得起的解析度較高的電腦顯示器至少還需十年所以我想 十年 那還不算太糟起碼比中轉期要長 這樣我就被說服了我們開始合作製作出今天的 Verdana和Georgia字體第一次沒有在紙上工作而是從像素開始就直接在螢幕上操作那時 螢幕是二進制的像素要麼開 要麼關這是一個字母的輪廓大寫 H其中的細黑線便是輪廓這就是它如何在電腦裡儲存的輪廓置於點陣圖之上也就是灰色區域這就是它在熒幕上如何顯示的點陣圖在輪廓之內都被光柵化這裡 H 是由直線寫成所以輪廓和點陣圖在直角網格上完美同步而字母 O 就不是了這看起來更像壘磚 而不是字體設計但相信我 這是個很好的 O 形點陣圖就是因為它在 x 和 y 軸上都是對稱的在二進制的點陣圖上 能達到這樣其實就夠了有時我會為一個較麻煩的字母做3到4個不同版本比如小寫 a然後靠後站一點選擇一個最好的其實 沒有最好的那麼設計者就要判斷試圖去決定哪個是最不糟糕的這算一種折衷嗎？對我來說不是 因為這是技術有限的情況下的最高標準儘管這個標準可能遠低於理想水準你現在看到的是兩種不同的點陣圖字型我認為 上面一種的字母 a好於下面一種的字母 a但上面那個仍不是很好或許縮小點效果會更好好吧 或許不是 所以說我是個實用主義者而非理想主義者一切從需求出發對一種特定的性情都有一種特定的滿足感做的事或許不能完美但仍然是盡你所能這是小寫 h 的 Georgia 斜體點陣圖看起來邊緣不齊且粗糙但它就是這樣的但是通過實驗我發現對螢幕上的斜體來說有一個最佳的斜度從而讓筆畫在像素邊緣能合理地分割看看這個例子 儘管粗糙但是左邊和右邊卻在同一水平線分割這就是勝利 這樣就很好了當然了 在較低的色深你並無太多選擇這是 s 如果大家看不太出來的話 距離 Verdana 和 Georgia 的發佈已有18年了微軟當時是對的真的花了十年但現在的螢幕的確改善了空間解析度而且極大提高了光度解析度這多虧了反鋸齒之類的技術那麼微軟的使命完成了是否意味著我一開始為低解析度螢幕設計的字體又將被拋棄？在那批螢幕過時新的網頁字型湧入市場的情況下我設計的字體能生存下去嗎？或者 它們是否建立了自己的演化領域並獨立於技術？換句話說 它們是否被納入排印設計的主流？我不確定 但目前為止它們表現還不錯嘿 以今天的損耗率來看18年對任何事物都很長了所以我並沒抱怨什麼 謝謝 （掌聲）
