Talk	en	zh-tw
matthew_williams_special_olympics_let_me_be_myself_a_champion	"Hello. My name is Matthew Williams, and I am a champion. I have won medals in three different sports and national games in Canada, competed at the international level in basketball and was proud to represent Canada on the world stage. (Applause) I train five days a week for basketball and speed skating, work with top quality coaches and mental performance consultants to be at my best in my sport. By the way, all that is through Special Olympics. Does that change the way you think of me and my accomplishments? The world does not see all people like me as champions. Not long ago, people like me were shunned and hidden away. There has been lots of change since Special Olympics began in 1968, but in too many cases, people with intellectual disabilities are invisible to the wider population. People use the r-word in front of me, and they think it doesn't matter. That's the word ""retard"" or ""retarded"" used in a derogatory manner. They're not thinking about how much it hurts me and my friends. I don't want you to think I'm here because I'm a charity case. I am here because there is still a big problem with the way many people see individuals with intellectual disabilities, or, too often, how they don't see them at all. Did you know the World Games happened this year? I was one of over 6,500 athletes with intellectual disabilities from 165 countries who competed in LA. There was over 62,000 spectators watching opening ceremonies, and there was live coverage on TSN and ESPN. Did you even know that happened? What do you think of when you see someone like me? I am here today to challenge you to look at us as equals. Special Olympics transforms the self-identity of athletes with intellectual disabilities and the perceptions of everyone watching. For those of you who aren't familiar, Special Olympics is for athletes with intellectual disabilities. Special Olympics is separate from the Paralympics and Olympics. We offer high-quality, year round sports programs for people with intellectual disabilities that changes lives and perceptions. This movement has changed my life and those of so many others. And it has changed the way the world sees people with intellectual disabilities. I was born with epilepsy and an intellectual disability. Growing up, I played hockey until I was 12 years old. The older I got, the more I felt it was harder to keep up with everyone else, and I was angry and frustrated. For a while, I did not play any sports, didn't have many friends and felt left out and sad. There was a time when people with intellectual disabilities were hidden away from society. No one thought they could participate in sports, let alone be a valued member of society. In the 1960s, Dr. Frank Hayden, a scientist at the University of Toronto, was studying the effects of regular exercise on the fitness levels of children with intellectual disabilities. Using rigorous scientific research, Dr. Hayden and other researchers came to the conclusion that it was simply the lack of opportunity to participate that caused their fitness levels to suffer. Lots of people doubted that people with intellectual disabilities could benefit from fitness programs and sports competition opportunities. But pioneers like Dr. Hayden and Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the founder of Special Olympics, persevered, and Special Olympics athletes have proved them right four and a half million times over. (Applause) Before I joined Special Olympics, I was nervous because I was young, shy, not confident and didn't have many friends. When I got there, though, everyone was very encouraging, supportive, and let me be myself without being judged. Now, I am a basketball player and speed skater who has competed at provincial, national games, and this year made it all the way to the World Summer Games in LA, where I was part of the first ever Canadian basketball team to compete at World Games. (Applause) I am one of more than four and a half million athletes around the globe, and I've heard so many similar stories. Being Special Olympics athletes restores our pride and dignity. Special Olympics also addresses critical health needs. Studies have shown that, on average, men with intellectual disabilities die 13 years younger than men without, and women with intellectual disabilities die 20 years younger than women without. Special Olympics keeps us healthy by getting us active and participating in sport. Also, our coaches teach us about nutrition and health. Special Olympics also provides free health screening for athletes who have difficulty communicating with their doctor or accessing health care. At the 2015 World Summer Games, my Team Canada teammates and I played the Nigerian basketball team. The day before our game, the Nigerian basketball team went to the World Games Healthy Athlete screening, where seven of 10 members were given hearing aids for free and got to hear clearly for the first time. (Applause) The change in them was amazing. They were more excited, happy and confident, because their coach could vocally communicate with them. And they were emotional because they could hear the sounds of the basketball, the sounds of the whistle and the cheering fans in the stands — sounds that we take for granted. Special Olympics is transforming more than just the athlete in their sport. Special Olympics is transforming their lives off the field. This year, research findings showed that nearly half of the adults in the US don't know a single person with an intellectual disability, and the 44 percent of Americans who don't have personal contact with intellectual disabilities are significantly less accepting and positive. Then there's the r-word, proving that people with intellectual disabilities are still invisible to far too many people. People use it as a casual term or an insult. It was tweeted more than nine million times last year, and it is deeply hurtful to me and my four and a half million fellow athletes around the planet. People don't think it's insulting, but it is. As my fellow athlete and global messenger John Franklin Stephens wrote in an open letter to a political pundit who used the r-word as an insult, ""Come join us someday at Special Olympics. See if you walk away with your heart unchanged."" (Applause) This year, at the 2015 World Summer Games, people lined up for hours to get into the final night of powerlifting competition. So it was standing room only when my teammate Jackie Barrett, the Newfoundland Moose, deadlifted 655 pounds and lifted 611 pounds in the squat — (Applause) setting huge new records for Special Olympics. Jackie is a record holder among all powerlifters in Newfoundland — not just Special Olympics, all powerlifters. Jackie was a huge star in LA, and ESPN live-tweeted his record-breaking lifts and were wowed by his performance. Fifty years ago, few imagined individuals with intellectual disabilities could do anything like that. This year, 60,000 spectators filled the famous LA Memorial Coliseum to watch the opening ceremonies of World Games and cheer athletes from 165 countries around the world. Far from being hidden away, we were cheered and celebrated. Special Olympics teaches athletes to be confident and proud of themselves. Special Olympics teaches the world that people with intellectual disabilities deserve respect and inclusion. (Applause) Now, I have dreams and achievements in my sport, great coaches, respect and dignity, better health, and I am pursuing a career as a personal trainer. (Applause) I am no longer hidden, bullied and I am here doing a TED Talk. (Applause) The world is a different place because of Special Olympics, but there is still farther to go. So the next time you see someone with an intellectual disability, I hope you will see their ability. The next time someone uses the r-word near you, I hope you will tell them how much it hurts. I hope you will think about getting involved with Special Olympics. (Applause) I would like to leave you with one final thought. Nelson Mandela said, ""Sports has the power to change the world."" Special Olympics is changing the world by transforming four and a half million athletes and giving us a place to be confident, meet friends, not be judged and get to feel like and be champions. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	您好，我的名字是馬修．威廉姆斯。我是一位冠軍，我獲得了三個不同運動項目的獎牌，並參加了在加拿大全國賽事舉辦的國際級競爭籃球賽。我很驕傲，可以代表加拿大站上世界舞台。（掌聲）我每週訓練五天，訓練我的籃球和競速滑雪項目，我與頂尖的教練及心理諮詢師一起合作，讓我在運動場上有最佳的表現。順便說一下，這些成就都是特殊奧林匹克運動會的成就。這是否會改變你對我的看法？以及對我成就的看法？世界上看不到像我這樣的冠軍得獎者，不久前，像我這樣的人他們都迴避隱藏起來，自從1968年開始，有了特奧會後，其實已經改變了許多但， 有太多的例子可以舉，社會大眾根本無視智力缺陷人士的存在。人們在我面前用 「唾棄的字眼」 形容我而且他們認為這沒甚麼大不了，「唾棄的字眼」 的意思就是，用貶低的口氣形容我們「低能」、「智障」。大家其實沒有想過，這對我和我的朋友傷害有多重。我不希望你們認為我來這裡是因為我是個慈善案例，我在這裡，是因為存在一個大問題，就是，人們看待智能缺陷的方式或者，經常就是...他們是如何的完全無視他們的存在。你知道今年有舉辦世界運動會嗎？我是6,500位有智能缺陷的運動員之一，大家來自於165個國家來到洛杉磯競技，超過 62,000 人觀看開幕式，在TSN和ESPN有現場直播，你們知道這件事嗎？當你們看到像我這樣的人你們想到甚麼？今天，我在這裡要挑戰各位，請用平等的方式看待我們，特奧會改變了智力缺陷運動員的自我認同，以及每個人看我們賽事的想法，對於不熟悉的人來說，特奧會是為智能缺陷的運動員舉辦，特奧會不同於殘奧會和奧運會我們提供高品質、全年無休的體育節目給智能殘缺的人士，來改變他們的生活及觀念。這些活動已經改變了我的生命，以及許許多多的其他人。它已經改變了世界如何看待智能缺陷人士的方式，我出生時就有癲癇與智力缺陷。長大後，我打曲棍球打到12歲，年紀越大，我越覺得很難跟得上其他人，我很憤怒和沮喪，有一段時間，我沒有參加任何運動、沒有朋友、覺得受冷落和傷心。曾經有一段時間，智力缺陷人士從社會上隱藏起來，沒有人想到他們能參加運動，更遑論能在社會上成為有價值的一員，在1960年代，弗蘭克．海登博士，一位在多倫多大學的科學家，研究規律的運動對喜憨兒健康狀況的影響，採用嚴謹的科學研究，海登博士和其他研究人員得出的結論是：這只是缺乏參與的機會，導致他們的健康狀況受到影響。很多人懷疑智力缺陷人士可從健康計劃和體育比賽的機會中受益，但像先行者，海登博士和特奧會的創始人尤妮斯肯尼迪．施萊佛，他們堅持是可以的，而特奧運動員已經超過450萬次以上的證明，他們是對的。（掌聲）在我加入特奧會以前，我很緊張，因為我還年輕、害羞、沒自信也沒有很多的朋友。不過，當我到了那裡，每個人都非常令人鼓舞的、互相支持的，讓我可以不受批判地做我自己。現在，我是籃球員和競速滑雪選手，已經參加過省級與國家級的賽事，一路到今年洛杉磯的世界夏季奧運會。我是有史以來第一支加拿大籃球隊參與世界運動會比賽的其中一名球員。（掌聲）我是全球超過450萬位運動員之一，我聽過很多類似的故事。身為特奧運動員，我恢復了我們的驕傲和尊嚴。特奧會也強調健康需求的重要問題，已經有研究顯示，一般來說，男性的智力缺陷人士比一般男性壽命少 13 年；女性智力缺陷人士則比一般女性平均壽命少 20 年。特奧會讓我們積極參予運動，使我們身體保持健康。此外，我們的教練教我們營養和健康的知識。特奧會對於與醫生溝通困難的運動員，還提供免費健康檢查或取得健康照護。在 2015 年世界夏季運動會。我的加拿大國家隊的隊友和我，加入奈及利亞籃球隊。比賽前一天，奈及利亞籃球隊赴世界運動會，作運動員健康檢查。其中， 10 員中有 7 員，免費獲得助聽器，首次能聽清楚聲音。（掌聲）這對他們造成了驚人的改變。他們更興奮快樂與自信，因為他們與教練可以暢所欲言的溝通了。而且他們的情感激動，因為他們能聽到籃球的聲音，聽到笛子的聲音。聽到看台上球迷的歡呼聲，這些我們認為理所當然的聲音。特奧會改變很多，不僅僅是改變運動員，特奧會也改變他們在場外的生活。今年，研究結果呈現：美國近一半的成年人，連一位智力殘疾缺陷人士，都不曾認識過。而那些44％連一位智力缺陷人士都不曾接觸過的美國人，相當難以接納我們且不夠正面。於是他們使用 「唾棄的字眼」，這證明智力缺陷人士，仍然被太多人視而不見。人們把它當成隨興的字彙或侮辱。在推特上，去年發生多達 9 百萬筆次。它深深地傷害我，以及這個星球上 450 萬位運動員。人們不認為這是侮辱性的，但它就是。我的同伴運動員，也是全球特派員，約翰．富蘭克林．斯蒂芬斯寫了一封公開信給一位使用「唾棄的字眼」的政要，告訴他，他的行為是一種污辱。「找一天來加入我們特奧會，看你是否仍然可以帶著不變的心走開 。」（掌聲）今年，在 2015 年世界夏季運動會，人們排隊數小時，為了觀看最後一晚的舉重比賽。因此，座無虛席。當我的隊友，傑基．巴雷特，紐芬蘭的「麋鹿」，推舉項目 655 磅，蹲舉項目 611 磅，（掌聲）創了特奧會的超級新紀錄。傑基是紐芬蘭所有舉重項目的一位紀錄保持者—不僅在特奧會而已，且是所有的舉重選手。傑基是洛杉磯的一顆巨大的閃亮明星。ESPN在推特上現場播報他的舉重破紀錄，並驚嘆他的表現。五十年前，很少有人想像得到，智力缺陷人士可以做這樣的事情。今年 6 萬名觀眾，坐滿了著名的洛杉磯紀念體育館，觀看世界運動會的開幕式，向來自世界各地 165 個國家的運動員歡呼。別再逃避，我們被歡呼及喝彩著。特奧會教會了運動員：自信和自豪。特奧會教會了全世界： 智力缺陷人士是值得尊重和包容的。（掌聲）現在我擁有夢想，擁有運動成就感，擁有優秀的教練，擁有尊重和尊嚴，更健康，而且我正在追求成為私人教練的事業。（掌聲）我不再逃避或被霸凌，而我現在就在這裡做TED 演講。（掌聲）世界是因為特奧會而改變，但仍有更長遠的路要走。所以下次你看到智力缺陷人士時，我希望您會看到他們的能力，下一次，有人在你旁邊使用「 唾棄的字眼」時，我希望您能告訴他們，這樣是多麼地傷人。我希望您也能想想來參加特奧會。（掌聲）最後離開前，我想告訴各位，曼德拉說：「 體育有力量改變世界。」特奧會透過 450 萬位運動員的褪變，改變了世界。給了我們一個展現自信的地方，交朋友，不受批判，並感受和成為冠軍。非常感謝！（掌聲）
