Talk	en	zh-tw
matt_cutts_try_something_new_for_30_days	"A few years ago, I felt like I was stuck in a rut, so I decided to follow in the footsteps of the great American philosopher, Morgan Spurlock, and try something new for 30 days. The idea is actually pretty simple. Think about something you've always wanted to add to your life and try it for the next 30 days. It turns out 30 days is just about the right amount of time to add a new habit or subtract a habit — like watching the news — from your life. There's a few things I learned while doing these 30-day challenges. The first was, instead of the months flying by, forgotten, the time was much more memorable. This was part of a challenge I did to take a picture every day for a month. And I remember exactly where I was and what I was doing that day. I also noticed that as I started to do more and harder 30-day challenges, my self-confidence grew. I went from desk-dwelling computer nerd to the kind of guy who bikes to work. For fun! (Laughter) Even last year, I ended up hiking up Mt. Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa. I would never have been that adventurous before I started my 30-day challenges. I also figured out that if you really want something badly enough, you can do anything for 30 days. Have you ever wanted to write a novel? Every November, tens of thousands of people try to write their own 50,000-word novel, from scratch, in 30 days. It turns out, all you have to do is write 1,667 words a day for a month. So I did. By the way, the secret is not to go to sleep until you've written your words for the day. You might be sleep-deprived, but you'll finish your novel. Now is my book the next great American novel? No. I wrote it in a month. It's awful. (Laughter) But for the rest of my life, if I meet John Hodgman at a TED party, I don't have to say, ""I'm a computer scientist."" No, no, if I want to, I can say, ""I'm a novelist."" (Laughter) So here's one last thing I'd like to mention. I learned that when I made small, sustainable changes, things I could keep doing, they were more likely to stick. There's nothing wrong with big, crazy challenges. In fact, they're a ton of fun. But they're less likely to stick. When I gave up sugar for 30 days, day 31 looked like this. (Laughter) So here's my question to you: What are you waiting for? I guarantee you the next 30 days are going to pass whether you like it or not, so why not think about something you have always wanted to try and give it a shot! For the next 30 days. Thanks. (Applause)"	幾年之前我感覺生活枯燥乏味所以我決定追隨美國傑出的哲學家Morgan Spurlock的腳步用30天的時間嘗試新事物這個想法其實非常簡單想想那些你在生命中一直想做的事然後在接下來的三十天裡嘗試做這件事事實證明三十天剛好是一段合適的時間在你的生活中去養成一個新的習慣或改掉一個習慣—例如看新聞 而我在這三十天的挑戰裡，學到了一些事第一件事是和那些匆匆流逝或被遺忘的月份相比這段時間顯得更彌足珍貴，令人難忘在這三十天的挑戰裡，每天我要拍攝一張照片我清楚記得每一天我身在何處當天做了哪些事我也注意到隨著我開始做更多更難的三十天挑戰任務我的自信心也增強了我從一位老是窩在電腦桌前的宅男變成一位為了玩樂而騎腳踏車去上班的人去年我甚至完成了非洲的最高峰－乞力馬扎羅山的登山活動在我開始這三十天的挑戰之前我從來沒有這樣愛冒險過 我也發現如果你真的非常渴望做一些事情這三十天是最好的時間你曾想過寫小說嗎？每年十一月有數以萬計的人們打算用三十天的時間，從頭開始撰寫他們自己的五萬字小說結果你所要去做的事就是每天寫1,667個字寫上一個月而我做到了秘密就是除非你能在一天裡寫完1,667個字要不然你就別想睡覺你的睡眠時間可能被剝奪但你將會完成你的小說那麼我寫的書會成為下一部偉大的美國小說嗎不會，一個月就寫完的小說讀起來極其可怕但在我的後半輩子－如果我在一個TED派對上遇見John Hodgman我不一定得說：「我是一位電腦專家。」不，如果我想，我能說「我是一位小說家。」 (笑聲) 我最後想提的一件事是我學到了：當我做些小的持續性的改變就是一些我可以持續做的事情時這些事比較能夠有始有終又大又瘋狂的挑戰並沒有什麼不對事實上，那些挑戰樂趣無窮但是那些挑戰不太可能堅持下去當我要在三十天裡不吃糖第三十一天看上去就像這樣 (笑聲) 所以我想請問大家：你們還在等什麼？我保證大家在未來三十天會去經歷你喜歡或者不喜歡的事那為什麼不考慮一些你一直想去嘗試做的事並在未來三十天裡試試給自己一個機會 謝謝 (掌聲)
