Talk	en	zh-tw
matthew_childs_9_rules_of_rock_climbing	"It's pretty simple. There are nine, sort of, rules that I discovered after 35 years of rock climbing. Most of them are pretty basic. Number one: don't let go — very sure success method. But really, truly — often you think about letting go way before your body does. So hang in there, and you come up with some pretty peculiar solutions. Number two: hesitation is bad. This is a friction climb, up in Tuolumne Meadows, in the Yosemite high country. Friction climbing doesn't have any sort of hard positive edges. You're climbing on little dimples and nubbins in the rock. The most friction you have is when you first put your hand or your foot on the rock. And then from that point on, you're basically falling. So momentum is good. Don't stop. Rule number three: have a plan. This is a climb called the Naked Edge, in El Dorado Canyon, outside of Boulder. This climber is on the last pitch of it. He's actually right about where I fell. There is about 1,000 feet of air below him. And all the hard pitches are actually below him. Often what happens is you're planning so hard for like, ""How do I get through the hardest part? How do I get through the hardest part?"" And then what happens? You get to the last pitch. It's easy. And you're completely flamed out. Don't do it. You have to plan ahead to get to the top. But you also can't forget that each individual move you have to be able to complete. This is a climb called the Dike Route, on Pywjack Dome, up in the Yosemite high country. The interesting thing about this climb is it's not that hard. But if you're the leader on it, at the hardest move, you're looking at about 100 foot fall, onto some low angle slabs. So you've got to focus. You don't want to stop in the middle like Coleridge's Kubla Kahn. You've got to keep going. Rule number five: know how to rest. It's amazing. The best climbers are the ones that in the most extreme situations can get their bodies into some position where they can rest, regroup, calm themselves, focus, and keep going. This is a climb in the Needles, again in California. Fear really sucks because what it means is you're not focusing on what you're doing. You're focusing on the consequences of failing at what you're doing because any given move should require all your concentration and thought processes to execute it effectively. One of the things in climbing is, most people sort of take it straight on. And they follow the most obvious solution. This is the Devils Tower in Wyoming, which is a columnar basalt formation that most of you probably know from ""Close Encounters."" With this, typically crack climbers would put their hands in and their toes in and just start climbing. The cracks are too small to get your toes into so the only way to climb is using your fingertips in the cracks, and using opposing pressure and forcing yourself up. Rule number eight: strength doesn't always equal success. In the 35 years I've been a climbing guide and taught on indoor walls, and stuff like that, the most important thing I've learned was, guys will always try to do pull-ups. Beginning guys, it's like, they thrash, they thrash, they get 15 feet up — and they can do about 15 pull-ups right — And then they just flame out. Women are much more in balance because they don't have that idea that they're going to be able to do 100 pull-ups. They think about how to get the weight over their feet because it's sort of natural — they carry you all day long. So balance is really critical, and keeping your weight on your feet, which is your strongest muscle. And of course there is rule number nine. I came up with rule number nine after I actually didn't plan for a fall, and went about 40 feet and cracked a rib. Once you get to that point where you know it's going to happen, you need to start thinking about how you're going to let go because that is the critical piece of not getting hurt — how you're going to fall onto the rope, or if you're climbing without a rope, fall to a place where you can actually control the fall. So don't hang on till the bitter end. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	這其實很簡單。大概有九個規則是我從 35 年的攀岩經驗中所發掘出來的。它們大多很基本。 第一條：絕不放棄 —這是非常可靠的成功法則。但是事實上，的確 — 早在你的身體放棄前，你已時常想著要放棄了。所以堅持下去，然後你會想到某些十分獨特的解決方案。 第二條：遲疑是不好的。這是一個往泰倫恩草地的徒手自由攀登地點，位於優勝美地高地。自由攀登沒有任何明確的支撐施力的地方。你攀爬在岩石上的小凹凸處。你能得到最大支撐的時候就是當你將你的手或腳放上岩石的那一刻。然後從那一刻開始，基本上你已經開始在下滑了。所以保持慣性動量是好的。別停！ 第三條：預先計畫。這是在科羅拉多州波爾德市外黃金峽谷中一個叫做裸稜的攀岩地點。這個攀岩者只剩最後一步就登頂了。其實我就是在跟他差不多的地方失敗的。在他下面等著他的是千呎深的懸崖。但其實他早已經通過了那些困難的關卡。常常會發生的狀況是你非常認真地盤算計畫著，像是「我要如何通過最難的關卡？我要如何通過最難的關卡？」然後發生了什麼事？眼看你已經要成功了。一切是如此輕而易舉。而你卻也早已筋疲力竭了。別這樣做。你必須預先計畫如何登頂。 但是你也不能忘記你必須留有餘力來完成你計畫中的每一個步驟。這個攀岩地點叫做堤道。就在沛瑞特穹頂 ，位於優勝美地高地上。關於這次攀爬有趣的地方是，它並不太難。但是如果你是此次攀岩的領隊，在最困難的地方，要有墜落 100 呎至某些平緩岩台上的心理準備。所以你必須要專心。你不會希望像柯勒律治（英國詩人）筆下的忽必烈可汗一般被困在半途中。你必須一直向前走。 第五條：知道如何休息。驚人的是。最佳的攀岩者通常是那些在最險峻的狀況下還能使他們的身體保持某些姿態讓自己能夠好好休息的人。待他們重整、冷靜，重拾專注力後，再繼續向前。這還是在加州，一個叫做尼得市的地方。 恐懼真的很糟因為那意味著你沒有專心在你正在做的事上。你的注意力都放在如果你失敗以後的後果。但是任何一個動作都需要你百分之百的專注及思考才能夠正確有效地執行。 大多數人在攀岩的時候都是直來直往的。而且他們會採取最簡單的方法。這在懷俄明州的魔鬼塔，它是柱狀玄武岩地形大多數的你們可能在電影「第三類接觸」中看過它。當岩縫攀爬者遇到它的典型反應就是將手和腳趾插入岩石縫隙中，直接開始攀爬。某些縫細小到你甚至不能將你的腳趾差入其間所以當你遇到這種縫隙，你只能利用你的指尖來攀爬。並使用反作用力來推使你向上。 第八條：力量不一定等於成功。35 年來我一直擔任攀岩嚮導在室內岩場教學，並做些像這樣的工作，而我所學到的最重要的事情就是，男性們通常會做引體向上。初學的男士們，他們會一股腦地，猛力向上爬，離地 15 呎後。通常他們能做 15 下引體向上，對吧？他們就體力透支了。女士們則平衡得多因為她們並不覺得她們可以做 100 下引體向上。她們想著如何能讓重量傳遞到腳上支撐這是很自然的想法。你的腿整天背負著你的重量。所以平衡是很重要的關鍵，並用雙腿來支撐你的體重，因為你全身最強壯的肌肉就在這。 當然，最後是第九條。我之所以將第九條加入是因為我曾經沒有做好失手摔落時的計畫，因此跌落了 40 呎並且摔斷了一根肋骨。當你知道跌落是不可避免的時候，你必須開始思考你要如何放手因為這是讓你避免受傷的關鍵 —因為這是讓你避免受傷的關鍵 —你如何跌下後靠安全索支撐，或是你沒有使用安全索攀爬，那麼就跌落在你可以停止繼續下跌的地方。所以不要一直硬撐到最糟的狀況發生。非常謝謝你們。（掌聲）
