Talk	en	zh-tw
matthieu_ricard_on_the_habits_of_happiness	"So, I guess it is a result of globalization that you can find Coca-Cola tins on top of Everest and a Buddhist monk in Monterey. (Laughter) And so I just came, two days ago, from the Himalayas to your kind invitation. So I would like to invite you, also, for a while, to the Himalayas themselves. And to show the place where meditators, like me, who began with being a molecular biologist in Pasteur Institute, and found their way to the mountains. So these are a few images I was lucky to take and be there. There's Mount Kailash in Eastern Tibet — wonderful setting. This is from Marlboro country. (Laughter) This is a turquoise lake. A meditator. This is the hottest day of the year somewhere in Eastern Tibet, on August 1. And the night before, we camped, and my Tibetan friends said, ""We are going to sleep outside."" And I said, ""Why? We have enough space in the tent."" They said, ""Yes, but it's summertime."" (Laughter) So now, we are going to speak of happiness. As a Frenchman, I must say that there are a lot of French intellectuals that think happiness is not at all interesting. (Laughter) I just wrote an essay on happiness, and there was a controversy. And someone wrote an article saying, ""Don't impose on us the dirty work of happiness."" (Laughter) ""We don't care about being happy. We need to live with passion. We like the ups and downs of life. We like our suffering because it's so good when it ceases for a while."" (Laughter) This is what I see from the balcony of my hermitage in the Himalayas. It's about two meters by three, and you are all welcome any time. (Laughter) Now, let's come to happiness or well-being. And first of all, you know, despite what the French intellectuals say, it seems that no one wakes up in the morning thinking, ""May I suffer the whole day?"" (Laughter) Which means that somehow, consciously or not, directly or indirectly, in the short or the long term, whatever we do, whatever we hope, whatever we dream — somehow, is related to a deep, profound desire for well-being or happiness. As Pascal said, even the one who hangs himself, somehow, is looking for cessation of suffering. He finds no other way. But then, if you look in the literature, East and West, you can find incredible diversity of definition of happiness. Some people say, I only believed in remembering the past, imagining the future, never the present. Some people say happiness is right now; it's the quality of the freshness of the present moment. And that led Henri Bergson, the French philosopher, to say, ""All the great thinkers of humanity have left happiness in the vague so that each of them could define their own terms."" Well, that would be fine if it was just a secondary preoccupation in life. But now, if it is something that is going to determine the quality of every instant of our life, then we better know what it is, have some clearer idea. And probably, the fact that we don't know that is why, so often, although we seek happiness, it seems we turn our back to it. Although we want to avoid suffering, it seems we are running somewhat towards it. And that can also come from some kind of confusions. One of the most common ones is happiness and pleasure. But if you look at the characteristics of those two, pleasure is contingent upon time, upon its object, upon the place. It is something that — changes of nature. Beautiful chocolate cake: first serving is delicious, second one not so much, then we feel disgust. (Laughter) That's the nature of things. We get tired. I used to be a fan of Bach. I used to play it on the guitar, you know. I can hear it two, three, five times. If I had to hear it 24 hours, non-stop, it might be very tiring. If you are feeling very cold, you come near a fire, it's so wonderful. After some moments, you just go a little back, and then it starts burning. It sort of uses itself as you experience it. And also, again, it can — also, it's something that you — it is not something that is radiating outside. Like, you can feel intense pleasure and some others around you can be suffering a lot. Now, what, then, will be happiness? And happiness, of course, is such a vague word, so let's say well-being. And so, I think the best definition, according to the Buddhist view, is that well-being is not just a mere pleasurable sensation. It is a deep sense of serenity and fulfillment. A state that actually pervades and underlies all emotional states, and all the joys and sorrows that can come one's way. For you, that might be surprising. Can we have this kind of well-being while being sad? In a way, why not? Because we are speaking of a different level. Look at the waves coming near the shore. When you are at the bottom of the wave, you hit the bottom. You hit the solid rock. When you are surfing on the top, you are all elated. So you go from elation to depression — there's no depth. Now, if you look at the high sea, there might be beautiful, calm ocean, like a mirror. There might be storms, but the depth of the ocean is still there, unchanged. So now, how is that? It can only be a state of being, not just a fleeting emotion, sensation. Even joy — that can be the spring of happiness. But there's also wicked joy, you can rejoice in someone's suffering. So how do we proceed in our quest for happiness? Very often, we look outside. We think that if we could gather this and that, all the conditions, something that we say, ""Everything to be happy — to have everything to be happy."" That very sentence already reveals the doom, destruction of happiness. To have everything. If we miss something, it collapses. And also, when things go wrong, we try to fix the outside so much, but our control of the outer world is limited, temporary, and often, illusory. So now, look at inner conditions. Aren't they stronger? Isn't it the mind that translates the outer condition into happiness and suffering? And isn't that stronger? We know, by experience, that we can be what we call ""a little paradise,"" and yet, be completely unhappy within. The Dalai Lama was once in Portugal, and there was a lot of construction going on everywhere. So one evening, he said, ""Look, you are doing all these things, but isn't it nice, also, to build something within?"" And he said, ""[Without] that — even if you get a high-tech flat on the 100th floor of a super-modern and comfortable building, if you are deeply unhappy within, all you are going to look for is a window from which to jump."" So now, at the opposite, we know a lot of people who, in very difficult circumstances, manage to keep serenity, inner strength, inner freedom, confidence. So now, if the inner conditions are stronger — of course, the outer conditions do influence, and it's wonderful to live longer, healthier, to have access to information, education, to be able to travel, to have freedom. It's highly desirable. However, this is not enough. Those are just auxiliary, help conditions. The experience that translates everything is within the mind. So then, when we ask oneself how to nurture the condition for happiness, the inner conditions, and which are those which will undermine happiness. So then, this just needs to have some experience. We have to know from ourselves, there are certain states of mind that are conducive to this flourishing, to this well-being, what the Greeks called eudaimonia, flourishing. There are some which are adverse to this well-being. And so, if we look from our own experience, anger, hatred, jealousy, arrogance, obsessive desire, strong grasping, they don't leave us in such a good state after we have experienced it. And also, they are detrimental to others' happiness. So we may consider that the more those are invading our mind, and, like a chain reaction, the more we feel miserable, we feel tormented. At the opposite, everyone knows deep within that an act of selfless generosity, if from the distance, without anyone knowing anything about it, we could save a child's life, make someone happy. We don't need the recognition. We don't need any gratitude. Just the mere fact of doing that fills such a sense of adequation with our deep nature. And we would like to be like that all the time. So is that possible, to change our way of being, to transform one's mind? Aren't those negative emotions, or destructive emotions, inherent to the nature of mind? Is change possible in our emotions, in our traits, in our moods? For that we have to ask, what is the nature of mind? And if we look from the experiential point of view, there is a primary quality of consciousness that's just the mere fact to be cognitive, to be aware. Consciousness is like a mirror that allows all images to rise on it. You can have ugly faces, beautiful faces in the mirror. The mirror allows that, but the mirror is not tainted, is not modified, is not altered by those images. Likewise, behind every single thought there is the bare consciousness, pure awareness. This is the nature. It cannot be tainted intrinsically with hatred or jealousy because then, if it was always there — like a dye that would permeate the whole cloth — then it would be found all the time, somewhere. We know we're not always angry, always jealous, always generous. So, because the basic fabric of consciousness is this pure cognitive quality that differentiates it from a stone, there is a possibility for change because all emotions are fleeting. That is the ground for mind training. Mind training is based on the idea that two opposite mental factors cannot happen at the same time. You could go from love to hate. But you cannot, at the same time, toward the same object, the same person, want to harm and want to do good. You cannot, in the same gesture, shake hand and give a blow. So, there are natural antidotes to emotions that are destructive to our inner well-being. So that's the way to proceed. Rejoicing compared to jealousy. A kind of sense of inner freedom as opposite to intense grasping and obsession. Benevolence, loving kindness against hatred. But, of course, each emotion then would need a particular antidote. Another way is to try to find a general antidote to all emotions, and that's by looking at the very nature. Usually, when we feel annoyed, hatred or upset with someone, or obsessed with something, the mind goes again and again to that object. Each time it goes to the object, it reinforces that obsession or that annoyance. So then, it's a self-perpetuating process. So what we need to look for now is, instead of looking outward, we look inward. Look at anger itself. It looks very menacing, like a billowing monsoon cloud or thunderstorm. We think we could sit on the cloud, but if you go there, it's just mist. Likewise, if you look at the thought of anger, it will vanish like frost under the morning sun. If you do this again and again, the propensity, the tendencies for anger to arise again will be less and less each time you dissolve it. And, at the end, although it may rise, it will just cross the mind, like a bird crossing the sky without leaving any track. So this is the principal of mind training. Now, it takes time, because it took time for all those faults in our mind, the tendencies, to build up, so it will take time to unfold them as well. But that's the only way to go. Mind transformation — that is the very meaning of meditation. It means familiarization with a new way of being, new way of perceiving things, which is more in adequation with reality, with interdependence, with the stream and continuous transformation, which our being and our consciousness is. So, the interface with cognitive science, since we need to come to that, it was, I suppose, the subject of — we have to deal in such a short time — with brain plasticity. The brain was thought to be more or less fixed. All the nominal connections, in numbers and quantities, were thought, until the last 20 years, to be more or less fixed when we reached adult age. Now, recently, it has been found that it can change a lot. A violinist, as we heard, who has done 10,000 hours of violin practice, some area that controls the movements of fingers in the brain changes a lot, increasing reinforcement of the synaptic connections. So can we do that with human qualities? With loving kindness, with patience, with openness? So that's what those great meditators have been doing. Some of them who came to the labs, like in Madison, Wisconsin, or in Berkeley, did 20 to 40,000 hours of meditation. They do, like, three years' retreat, where they do meditate 12 hours a day. And then, the rest of their life, they will do three or four hours a day. They are real Olympic champions of mind training. (Laughter) This is the place where the meditators — you can see it's kind of inspiring. Now, here with 256 electrodes. (Laughter) So what did they find? Of course, same thing. The scientific embargo — if it's ever submitted to ""Nature,"" hopefully, it will be accepted. It deals with the state of compassion, unconditional compassion. We asked meditators, who have been doing that for years and years, to put their mind in a state where there's nothing but loving kindness, total availability to sentient being. Of course, during the training, we do that with objects. We think of people suffering, of people we love, but at some point, it can be a state which is all pervading. Here is the preliminary result, which I can show because it's already been shown. The bell curve shows 150 controls, and what is being looked at is the difference between the right and the left frontal lobe. In very short, people who have more activity in the right side of the prefrontal cortex are more depressed, withdrawn. They don't describe a lot of positive affect. It's the opposite on the left side: more tendency to altruism, to happiness, to express, and curiosity and so forth. So there's a basic line for people. And also, it can be changed. If you see a comic movie, you go off to the left side. If you are happy about something, you'll go more to the left side. If you have a bout of depression, you'll go to the right side. Here, the -0.5 is the full standard deviation of a meditator who meditated on compassion. It's something that is totally out of the bell curve. So, I've no time to go into all the different scientific results. Hopefully, they will come. But they found that — this is after three and a half hours in an fMRI, it's like coming out of a space ship. Also, it has been shown in other labs — for instance, Paul Ekman's labs in Berkeley — that some meditators are able, also, to control their emotional response more than it could be thought. Like the startle experiments, for example. If you sit a guy on a chair with all this apparatus measuring your physiology, and there's kind of a bomb that goes off, it's such an instinctive response that, in 20 years, they never saw anyone who would not jump. Some meditators, without trying to stop it, but simply by being completely open, thinking that that bang is just going to be a small event like a shooting star, they are able not to move at all. So the whole point of that is not, sort of, to make, like, a circus thing of showing exceptional beings who can jump, or whatever. It's more to say that mind training matters. That this is not just a luxury. This is not a supplementary vitamin for the soul. This is something that's going to determine the quality of every instant of our lives. We are ready to spend 15 years achieving education. We love to do jogging, fitness. We do all kinds of things to remain beautiful. Yet, we spend surprisingly little time taking care of what matters most — the way our mind functions — which, again, is the ultimate thing that determines the quality of our experience. Now, compassion is supposed to be put in action. That's what we try to do in different places. Just this one example is worth a lot of work. This lady with bone TB, left alone in a tent, was going to die with her only daughter. One year later, how she is. Different schools and clinics we've been doing in Tibet. And just, I leave you with the beauty of those looks that tells more about happiness than I could ever say. (Laughter) And jumping monks of Tibet. (Laughter) Flying monks. Thank you very much."	我想大概是拜全球化之賜喜馬拉雅山上跟加州蒙特瑞的僧侶手上都有可口可樂(笑聲)應大家盛情之邀，我兩天前才剛從喜馬拉雅山上到這裡因此，我也想邀請各位一訪喜馬拉雅看看像我一樣的靈修者冥想的地方瞭解像我這樣出身巴黎巴斯德研究所的分子生物學家如何走入山中 這是幾張有幸在當地拍下的照片這是西藏東部的剛仁波齊峰，景色絕美這則是「荒野大鏢客」實境版(全場大笑)這張是西藏綠松石湖靈修者這是 8 月 1 號在西藏東部拍的，那是一年中最熱的時候前一晚露營時，我的藏人朋友說要睡在野外「睡外面吧!」我說「幹嘛？帳棚夠大」他們說，「夏天嘛!」(全場大笑) 現在來談談快樂身為法國人，我必須承認許多法國學者對快樂一點都不感興趣(笑聲)我剛完成的關於快樂的論文有些爭議性有人寫了文章說「別硬逼我們快樂」(大笑)我們不在乎快樂，只需要活的有熱情我們就愛生命中的高低起伏、就喜歡受苦，因為苦難暫歇時的感覺加倍美好(笑聲) 這是我喜馬拉雅山上的隱居所窗外的景象隱居所約 2 乘 3 公尺見方，隨時歡迎大家來作客(大笑) 現在進入正題，聊聊「快樂」或「幸福」首先，大家都瞭解，不管法國學者怎麼說好像沒有人一早起床就希望「讓我受苦一整天吧！」(笑聲)這表示不管有意無意、直接或間接、時間長或短我們的作為、願望和夢想不知怎的都和對幸福或快樂的深切渴望有關法國天才學者帕斯卡說的好，就算是上吊自殺的人也想找到平息苦難的方法，找不到才出此下策不過，若深究東西方文學我們發現快樂的定義好多、好不一樣有些人說我只相信不忘過去展望未來，當下只是白駒過隙沒有關係另外一些人說快樂就是活在當下當下所有新鮮事就是快樂的起點這樣的狀況正如法國哲學家伯格森所說所有偉大的人文思想家都只籠統的定義快樂這樣一來，每個人都能有不同的詮釋 的確，快樂要是生命中的次要元素，就能如此將就不過，如果快樂決定了生命中每一刻品質的優劣那最好全盤瞭解、明確界定而且，這樣的不求甚解是否導致我們雖然追求快樂，卻常常與它背道而馳即使想要避開苦難，卻反而向它直奔而去觀念混淆也可能造成這樣的後果 最常見的就是將「快樂」與「享樂」混為一談不過要是深入研究兩者的特性「享樂」因時、物、地變異它的本質本來就是會變的一個好美的巧克力蛋糕，第一片好好吃第二片就不那麼好吃了，再吃更多就膩了(大笑)這是天性，大家都會膩我以前很迷巴哈，還曾經用吉他彈巴哈的樂曲我可以聽個 2、3、5 遍不過要是整天不停的聽，就覺得非常膩很冷的時候，一到火邊馬上覺得好舒服但是過了一陣子，就會退一步，因為發覺太燙了「享樂」在經驗的當下就開始自我消耗而且，享樂不是我們可以 …享樂不是由內而外的好比一個人感到極度的享樂時身邊的一些人同時卻深深受苦 那快樂到底是什麼？「快樂」這個字眼好籠統，我們就說「幸福」吧！我認為「幸福」的最佳定義就是佛家說的幸福並不僅止於享樂的感覺而是內心深度的平靜與圓滿那是一種在所有情緒狀態而且在所有喜悅和痛苦之中都存在的深層狀態各位聽了大概覺得驚訝悲傷的時候真的也能體會到幸福？某種程度可以！為什麼不？我們現在談的是一種更高的層次呀！ 看看拍擊岸邊的海浪在海浪底部的時候，當然會摔得很重撞到堅硬的石頭要是在浪頭乘著浪，不就意氣風發就這樣我們不斷從得意到失意，沒有深度不過要是我們從極高處看，海洋就如明鏡一般美麗平靜也許有風暴，但海還是那麼深，沒有改變怎麼會這樣呢？那是一種生命狀態，而不是轉瞬即逝的情緒、感覺甚至不是喜悅這種短暫的幸福雖然也是有扭曲的喜悅，我們會因為他人受苦而感到高興 那我們該如何追求快樂？很多時候，我們都向外求認為要是能得到某些事物、滿足所有條件要是能擁有一切，就能快樂擁有一切，就能快樂這句話就注定了毀滅快樂擁有一切，表示要是少一樣，就不成立此外，要是出了差錯，我們常常只想到彌補表面但我們對於外在世界的控制卻如此有限、短暫且常流於不切實際因此，現在起試著看看內在。那是不是更有力？將外在狀況詮釋成快樂或苦難的不正是「心」嗎？心，是不是更強大？因為經驗我們知道，即使身在天堂我們的內心也可能一點都不快樂 達賴喇嘛有次訪問葡萄牙當地到處都是建築工地一天傍晚，他問「你們費力修了這麼多外在的東西，」「要是也能努力修一些內在的東西，不是很好嗎？」然後他說「要不然，公寓蓋得再高科技」「即使蓋在 100 層樓的超級現代、舒適的大樓上」「要是內在極度的不快樂」「人只會想要找扇窗戶跳下去。」正因如此，我們反而發現許多人即使景況非常艱難還是可以保有平靜、內在力量、心靈的自由以及信心因此，要是內在條件更加堅強當然外在條件也有其影響而且活得更久、更健康也很好能夠得到資訊、教育、旅遊能夠擁有自由，這都非常吸引人但是，這些都不夠，都只是連帶的輔助、條件詮釋所有事物的經驗存乎於心所以我們好奇如何培養快樂的狀態快樂的內在狀態，而減損快樂的狀況又有哪些？回答這些問題需要經驗 我們從自身經驗中學到有些心態對孕育滋養幸福有益希臘人稱其為「幸福觀」、蓬勃煥發的幸福有些心態則對幸福有害因此，要是從自身經驗出發怒、恨、妒、妄、痴慾、頑執在經歷過後並不會留給我們好的心態所以他們對幸福有害因此我們知道這些心態越常在心裡出現就會像連鎖反應一樣，讓我們覺得更悲哀、痛苦相反的，大家內心深處都瞭解無私的慷慨付出即使來自遙遠的地方、就算沒人知道只要可以救一個孩子的命、讓某人快樂無需讚揚、不用感謝在去做的當下，便能讓我們的性靈如此滿足而且希望能時時刻刻保有這樣的感覺 那麼是不是可以改變生活的方式、改變人心？那些負面或毀滅性的情緒是不是與生俱來的固有天性？有沒有可能改變情緒、性格、心情？在這之前，我們必須先問，心的「天性」是什麼？如果從經驗法則的角度看首要條件就是要有意識也就是要有認知、要會感知意識就像一面反射所有事物形象的鏡子無論貌美、貌醜鏡子一律照實反映，不過鏡子本身不受影響不因上面浮現的影像而變、而異就像這樣，所有思緒背後都有純然的意識、純粹的感知這就是天性，本質上不能受恨或妒沾染因為要是受污染永遠存在，就像滲入布料的染料無論何時何地看都看的到但我們知道自己不總是生氣、嫉妒或慷慨 因此，就因為「意識」這塊底布就是純粹的感知天性特質，讓我們異於頑石改變是可能的，因為所有情緒轉瞬即逝這就是心靈訓練的基礎心靈訓練的基本觀念就是兩種互相抵觸的心靈因素無法同時存在我們可以由愛轉恨但是不能同時、對相同對象對同一個人，同時想幫又想害他我們不能用同一個手勢，與人握手同時給他一拳因此，負面的情緒可以自然的化解不再對我們的內在幸福有害這就是作法。用喜樂對抗妒恨以內在的自由抵抗極度的執念和痴慾以慈悲、充滿愛的良善對抗恨意如此說來，每種情緒就需要專門的解藥 另一種方法便是找到所有情緒通用的解藥這就要從天性裡求我們一旦討厭、恨或厭煩某人或是耽溺某件事，心思就不斷懸念著那個對象每次想起，無異強化了耽溺或厭煩之感這時候就可以試試一種自發的處理方法現在我們要想的就是，向內求，別向外求正視怒氣的本質看似頗具威脅性，就像雨季積聚的雨雲或雷電交加的暴風雨不過要是可以坐在雲上，我們就會發現看似嚇人的雲只是一團水霧同理，要是深究發怒的想法思緒它就會如朝陽照耀下的晨霧，轉瞬消散要是一直這樣做，發怒的傾向發怒的可能性將隨每一次的化解而越來越低終究到了最後，即使發怒，也是在心頭一閃即逝如鳥兒凌空飛掠，不留痕跡這就是心靈訓練的基本原則 不過，訓練心靈需要時間。起心動念需要時間當然要消弭也需要時間而修練就是唯一的方法心的轉變就是冥想的唯一真義代表慢慢熟悉新的生活方式用更切合現實、更互相依賴的方式，用源源不斷持續轉變性靈和心智的方式體會事物 然後，才到跟認知科學的交集我想既然一定要談到這個主題我們必須在很短時間內談談下一個的主題也就是大腦的可塑性。一般認為大腦可塑性不高所有對數和量等所謂的連結，普遍認為一但成年，可塑性就不高，直到過去 20 年間不過最近卻發現事實並非如此我們都聽過，小提琴家在練習 10000 小時後大腦中控制手部動作的部分發生很大的改變突觸連結強化且增加了那麼，在「人性」方面也能有一樣的效果嗎？透過關愛善行、透過修習、透過敞開心胸？ 偉大的修行者就是這麼做他們到麥迪遜、威斯康辛或柏克萊的實驗室中冥想 20 到 40000 小時他們閉關 3 年，每天冥想 12 小時然後，終其一生，每日冥想 3 或 4 小時真是名符其實的奧運心靈訓練冠軍(笑聲)這就是靈修的地方，很發人深省吧這個是貼上 256 個電擊片(笑聲) 有什麼發現？不用說，老問題科學上的忌諱。要是成果可以投稿到 Nature 期刊希望他們會接受為了研究同情、無條件的同情心我們請長年冥想的靈修者進入一種全然的關愛至善狀態知覺性靈全然開放當然練習的時候，會用對象輔助透過觀想受苦的人們、想著所愛的人們最後，就達到一種物我兩忘的境界現在我讓大家看的是因為已經發表過所以可以公開的初步成果鐘型曲線顯示出受監控的 150 個控制點我們想看的是左右額葉的不同運作簡單的說，右額葉比較活躍的人比較憂鬱、退縮，缺乏正面感情左邊活躍者則相反，傾向利他比較快樂、健談、好奇等所以，人雖然有區分的基準線，但卻是可以改變的看卡通時，左腦比較活躍滿意某件事時，便傾向左腦憂鬱時，便轉向右腦這裡顯示的 -0.5 是某靈修者冥想同情時表現出來的總體標準差這完全超出鐘型曲線 我沒時間所有詳述不同的科學結果希望日後會逐漸發表不過研究人員發現，在 MRI 掃描機器中待 3 個半小時後就像從太空船出來一樣而且其他實驗室也做出同樣結果例如，Paul Ekman 在柏克萊的實驗室他們發現某些靈修者可以以出乎意料的效率控制情緒反應以一個嚇人的實驗為例讓一個人坐在椅子上用一堆儀器測量生理反應然後突然放出小爆炸聲，我們的反射動作就是跳起來20 多年來，研究人員沒看過有人能不受影響有些靈修者，毋須特別壓抑只是完全的開放想著爆炸聲只會像流星一般轉瞬即逝他們竟然就能維持不動 實驗的重點不在於像馬戲團一樣，讓大家看那些能夠穩如泰山的奇人而在顯示訓練心靈並不難並不只是靈魂的補給品而已而是生命中每一刻品質優劣的決定因素大家願意花 15 年受教育熱愛慢跑、健身無所不用其極維持美貌卻只花極少的時間，關心真正重要的事：心靈運作的方式而我再次強調，那才是終將決定人生經驗品質優劣的標準 現在，該是發揮同情心的時候了這也是我們在其他許多地方想做到的事舉一個例子就勝過千言萬語這位女士患有骨結核，一個人在帳棚中，就要死在唯一的女兒身邊了一年後，看看她的樣子我們在西藏建了各種學校和診所 現在我只想用這些美麗的臉孔作結他們臉上閃現的快樂，勝過我的言語還有隔山打牛的西藏僧人(大笑)凌空飛躍的僧人謝謝各位
