Talk	en	zh-tw
maya_beiser_s_and_her_cello_s	(Music) (Applause) Thank you. Imagining a solo cello concert, one would most likely think of Johann Sebastian Bach unaccompanied cello suites. As a child studying these eternal masterpieces, Bach's music would intermingle with the singing voices of Muslim prayers from the neighboring Arab village of the northern Kibbutz in Israel where I grew up. Late at night, after hours of practicing, I would listen to Janis Joplin and Billie Holiday as the sounds of tango music would be creeping from my parents' stereo. It all became music to me. I didn't hear the boundaries. I still start every day practicing playing Bach. His music never ceases to sound fresh and surprising to me. But as I was moving away from the traditional classical repertoire and trying to find new ways of musical expression, I realized that with today's technological resources, there's no reason to limit what can be produced at one time from a single string instrument. The power and coherency that comes from one person hearing, perceiving and playing all the voices makes a very different experience. The excitement of a great orchestra performance comes from the attempt to have a collective of musicians producing one unified whole concept. The excitement from using multi-tracking, the way I did in the piece you will hear next, comes from the attempt to build and create a whole universe with many diverse layers, all generated from a single source. My cello and my voice are layered to create this large sonic canvas. When composers write music for me, I ask them to forget what they know about the cello. I hope to arrive at new territories to discover sounds I have never heard before. I want to create endless possibilities with this cello. I become the medium through which the music is being channeled, and in the process, when all is right, the music is transformed and so am I. (Music) (Applause)	(音樂) (掌聲) 謝謝 如果我請你們想像一場大提琴獨奏會大多數人都會想到巴赫的無伴奏大提琴組曲小時候我鑽研這些永恆的大師傑作巴赫的音樂總是融會鄰近阿拉伯村莊的穆斯林頌禱聲傳響以色列的北吉布茨我長大的地方深夜 經過長時間的練習我會聽珍妮絲•賈普林和比莉·哈樂黛的音樂探戈的樂音從我父母的立體音響蔓延至我的耳中這一切對我來說都是音樂我沒有聽見界限 我仍然每天一開始便練習演奏巴赫他的音樂始終令我感覺新鮮和驚訝但當我逐漸遠離傳統的經典曲目並試圖尋找新的方式來表達音樂我意識到 運用今天的技術資源我們沒有理由限制一根樂器弦的無限可能 那種力量以及凝聚性來自一個人的傾聽、感受和演奏給人的感受是不同的交響樂團表演之所以讓人興奮是因為一群音樂家嘗試產生唯一 一致的概念多軌重疊的興奮處在於喔 你們會在我下一段演奏聽到這種呈現它試圖建設和創造整個宇宙擁有許多不同層次的宇宙而且全都來自同個源頭我的大提琴和我的聲音分層揮灑出這片巨幅的樂音畫布 當作曲家為我寫音樂我要求他們忘記自己對大提琴的了解我希望能達到全新境界發掘我從沒聽過的樂音我想和我的大提琴創發無限可能我要成為發送音樂的媒介而在過程中 當什麼都對了的時候音樂便會蛻變我也是 （音樂） （鼓掌）
