Talk	en	zh-tw
mechai_viravaidya_how_mr_condom_made_thailand_a_better_place	"Welcome to Thailand. Now, when I was a young man — 40 years ago, the country was very, very poor with lots and lots and lots of people living in poverty. We decided to do something about it, but we didn't begin with a welfare program or a poverty reduction program. But we began with a family-planning program, following a very successful maternal child health activity, sets of activities. So basically, no one would accept family planning if their children didn't survive. So the first step: get to the children, get to the mothers, and then follow up with family planning. Not just child mortality alone, you need also family planning. Now let me take you back as to why we needed to do it. In my country, that was the case in 1974. Seven children per family — tremendous growth at 3.3 percent. There was just no future. We needed to reduce the population growth rate. So we said, ""Let's do it."" The women said, ""We agree. We'll use pills, but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills,"" and we had very, very few doctors. We didn't take no as an answer; we took no as a question. We went to the nurses and the midwives, who were also women, and did a fantastic job at explaining how to use the pill. That was wonderful, but it covered only 20 percent of the country. What do we do for the other 80 percent — leave them alone and say, ""Well, they're not medical personnel."" No, we decided to do a bit more. So we went to the ordinary people that you saw. Actually, below that yellow sign — I wish they hadn't wiped that, because there was ""Coca-Cola"" there. We were so much bigger than Coca-Cola in those days. And no difference, the people they chose were the people we chose. They were well-known in the community, they knew that customers were always right, and they were terrific, and they practiced their family planning themselves. So they could supply pills and condoms throughout the country, in every village of the country. So there we are. We went to the people who were seen as the cause of the problem to be the solution. Wherever there were people — and you can see boats with the women, selling things — here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives — wherever you find people, you'll find contraceptives in Thailand. And then we decided, why not get to religion because in the Philippines, the Catholic Church was pretty strong, and Thai people were Buddhist. We went to them and they said, ""Look, could you help us?"" I'm there — the one in blue, not the yellow — holding a bowl of holy water for the monk to sprinkle holy water on pills and condoms for the sanctity of the family. And this picture was sent throughout the country. So some of the monks in the villages were doing the same thing themselves. And the women were saying, ""No wonder we have no side-effects. It's been blessed."" That was their perception. And then we went to teachers. You need everybody to be involved in trying to provide whatever it is that make humanity a better place. So we went to the teachers. Over a quarter of a million were taught about family planning with a new alphabet — A, B for birth, C for condom, I for IUD, V for vasectomy. And then we had a snakes and ladders game, where you throw dice. If you land on anything pro-family planning, you move ahead. Like, ""Mother takes the pill every night. Very good, mother. Move ahead. Uncle buys a condom. Very good, uncle. Move ahead. Uncle gets drunk, doesn't use condom. Come back, start again."" (Laughter) Again, education, class entertainment. And the kids were doing it in school too. We had relay races with condoms, we had children's condom-blowing championship. And before long, the condom was know as the girl's best friend. In Thailand, for poor people, diamonds don't make it — so the condom is the girl's best friend. We introduced our first microcredit program in 1975, and the women who organized it said, ""We only want to lend to women who practice family planning. If you're pregnant, take care of your pregnancy. If you're not pregnant, you can take a loan out from us."" And that was run by them. And after 35/36 years, it's still going on. It's a part of the Village Development Bank; it's not a real bank, but it's a fund — microcredit. And we didn't need a big organization to run it — it was run by the villagers themselves. And you probably hardly see a Thai man there, it's always women, women, women, women. And then we thought we'd help America, because America's been helping everyone, whether they want help or not. (Laughter) And this is on the Fourth of July. We decided to provide vasectomy to all men, but in particular, American men to the front of the queue, right up to the Ambassador's residence during his [unclear]. And the hotel gave us the ballroom for it — very appropriate room. (Laughter) And since it was near lunch time, they said, ""All right, we'll give you some lunch. Of course, it must be American cola. You get two brands, Coke and Pepsi. And then the food is either hamburger or hotdog."" And I thought a hotdog will be more symbolic. (Laughter) And here is this, then, young man called Willy Bohm who worked for the USAID. Obviously, he's had his vasectomy because his hotdog is half eaten, and he was very happy. It made a lot of news in America, and it angered some people also. I said, ""Don't worry. Come over and I'll do the whole lot of you."" (Laughter) And what happened? In all this thing, from seven children to 1.5 children, population growth rate of 3.3 to 0.5. You could call it the Coca-Cola approach if you like — it was exactly the same thing. I'm not sure whether Coca-Cola followed us, or we followed Coca-Cola, but we're good friends. And so that's the case of everyone joining in. We didn't have a strong government. We didn't have lots of doctors. But it's everybody's job who can change attitude and behavior. Then AIDS came along and hit Thailand, and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight AIDS. But unfortunately, the government was in denial, denial, denial. So our work wasn't affected. So I thought, ""Well, if you can't go to the government, go to the military."" So I went to the military and asked to borrow 300 radio stations. They have more than the government, and they've got more guns than the government. So I asked them, could they help us in our fight against HIV. And after I gave them statistics, they said, ""Yes. Okay. You can use all the radio stations, television stations."" And that's when we went onto the airwaves. And then we got a new prime minister soon after that. And he said, ""Mechai, could you come and join?"" He asked me in because he liked my wife a lot. So I said, ""Okay."" He became the chairman of the National AIDS Committee and increased the budget fifty-fold. Every ministry, even judges, had to be involved in AIDS education — everyone — and we said the public, institutions, religious institutions, schools — everyone was involved. And here, every media person had to be trained for HIV. And we gave every station half a minute extra for advertising to earn more money. So they were happy with that. And then AIDS education in all schools, starting from university. And these are high school kids teaching high school kids. And the best teachers were the girls, not the boys, and they were terrific. And these girls who go around teaching about safe sex and HIV were known as Mother Theresa. And then we went down one more step. These are primary school kids — third, fourth grade — going to every household in the village, every household in the whole of Thailand, giving AIDS information and a condom to every household, given by these young kids. And no parents objected, because we were trying to save lives, and this was a lifesaver. And we said, ""Everyone needs to be involved."" So you have the companies also realizing that sick staff don't work, and dead customers don't buy. So they all trained. And then we have this Captain Condom, with his Harvard MBA, going to schools and night spots. And they loved him. You need a symbol of something. In every country, every program, you need a symbol, and this is probably the best thing he's ever done with his MBA. (Laughter) And then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets — everywhere, everywhere. In taxis, you get condoms. And also, in traffic, the policemen give you condoms — our ""cops and rubbers"" programs. (Laughter) So, can you imagine New York policemen giving out condoms? Of course I can. And they'd enjoy it immensely; I see them standing around right now, everywhere. Imagine if they had condoms, giving out to all sorts of people. And then, new change, we had hair bands, clothing and the condom for your mobile phone during the rainy season. (Laughter) And these were the condoms that we introduced. One says, ""Weapon of mass protection."" We found — you know — somebody here was searching for the weapon of mass destruction, but we have found the weapon of mass protection: the condom. And then it says here, with the American flag, ""Don't leave home without it."" But I have some to give out afterward. But let me warn you, these are Thai-sized, so be very careful. (Laughter) And so you can see that condoms can do so many things. Look at this — I gave this to Al Gore and to Bill Senior also. Stop global warming; use condoms. And then this is the picture I mentioned to you — the weapon of mass protection. And let the next Olympics save some lives. Why just run around? (Laughter) And then finally, in Thailand we're Buddhist, we don't have a God, so instead, we say, ""In rubber we trust."" (Laughter) So you can see that we added everything to our endeavor to make life better for the people. We had condoms in all the refrigerators in the hotels and the schools, because alcohol impairs judgment. And then what happened? After all this time, everybody joined in. According to the U.N., new cases of HIV declined by 90 percent, and according to the World Bank, 7.7 million lives were saved. Otherwise there wouldn't be many Thais walking around today. So it just showed you, you could do something about it. 90 percent of the funding came from Thailand. There was political commitment, some financial commitment, and everybody joined in the fight. So just don't leave it to the specialists and doctors and nurses. We all need to help. And then we decided to help people out of poverty, now that we got AIDS somewhat out of the way — this time, not with government alone, but in cooperation with the business community. Because poor people are business people who lack business skills and access to credit. Those are the things to be provided by the business community. We're trying to turn them into barefoot entrepreneurs, little business people. The only way out of poverty is through business enterprise. So, that was done. The money goes from the company into the village via tree-planting. It's not a free gift. They plant the trees, and the money goes into their microcredit fund, which we call the Village Development Bank. Everybody joins in, and they feel they own the bank, because they have brought the money in. And before you can borrow the money, you need to be trained. And we believe if you want to help the poor, those who are living in poverty, access to credit must be a human right. Access to credit must be a human right. Otherwise they'll never get out of poverty. And then before getting a loan, you must be trained. Here's what we call a ""barefoot MBA,"" teaching people how to do business so that, when they borrow money, they'll succeed with the business. These are some of the businesses: mushrooms, crabs, vegetables, trees, fruits, and this is very interesting — Nike ice cream and Nike biscuits; this is a village sponsored by Nike. They said, ""They should stop making shoes and clothes. Make these better, because we can afford them."" And then we have silk, Thai silk. Now we're making Scottish tartans, as you can see on the left, to sell to all people of Scottish ancestors. So anyone sitting in and watching TV, get in touch with me. And then this is our answer to Starbucks in Thailand — ""Coffee and Condoms."" See, Starbucks you awake, we keep you awake and alive. That's the difference. Can you imagine, at every Starbucks that you can also get condoms? You can order your condoms with your with your cappuccino. And then now, finally in education, we want to change the school as being underutilized into a place where it's a lifelong learning center for everyone. We call this our School-Based Integrated Rural Development. And it's a center, a focal point for economic and social development. Re-do the school, make it serve the community needs. And here is a bamboo building — all of them are bamboo. This is a geodesic dome made of bamboo. And I'm sure Buckminster Fuller would be very, very proud to see a bamboo geodesic dome. And we use vegetables around the school ground, so they raise their own vegetables. And then, finally, I firmly believe, if we want the MDGs to work — the Millennium Development Goals — we need to add family planning to it. Of course, child mortality first and then family planning — everyone needs family planning service — it's underutilized. So we have now found the weapon of mass protection. And we also ask the next Olympics to be involved in saving lives. And then, finally, that is our network. And these are our Thai tulips. (Laughter) Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	"歡迎來到泰國。40年前，當我還是個年輕人時，這個國家是非常非常窮困的，有許多許多的人民生活在貧苦的環境中。於是我們決定針對此點下手，但我們並不是從福利政策開始，也不是什麼扶貧計劃。我們打算從節育的政策著手，這意味著要有一個非常完善的婦幼衛生措施，由一系列活動組成。因為，如果人民的孩子不能順利的長大，根本沒人會願意接受節育。所以第一步就是：先保住小孩，保住母親，然後才能推行節育計畫。不是只顧兒童死亡率，還需要節育計畫配合。讓我帶各位回顧看看為什麼我們要這麼做。 讓我們回到1974年時的我的國家。當時一個家庭平均有7個小孩。人口成長率是極高的3.3%。未來毫無希望。我們需要降低人口成長率。所以我們就說：""那就開始做吧!""女人就說：""我們也同意，我們會用避孕藥，但我們需要醫生來幫我們開藥。""但我們的醫生很少。我們沒有放棄，我們致力於解決這個問題。於是我們向同樣是女人的護士和助產士求助，由她們來解釋避孕藥的使用方式，成果相當輝煌。看起來很棒，但這個政策只推行在全國20%的區域。 我們得對其他80%的人做點什麼—根本不管，他們幹嘛不請私人醫生啊？不對，我們決定針對他們多做一點。我們求助於如畫面所見的一些老百姓。在那黃色標牌背後—希望牌子還沒被拿走..因為後面是放可口可樂。我們當時可比可口可樂有名多了。他們一樣能做到，他們能幫助的人，正是我們要幫助的。他們對社區的人都很熟，他們也知道顧客永遠至上，他們這工作做得很好，而且他們自己也會跟著做節育計畫。所以他們能到處發送避孕藥和保險套，在這個國家的每個村落。我們希望人民能夠窺見問題的癥結點並共同解決問題。不論是什麼人—各位能看見船上有個女人，正在賣東西，這是一個水上市場，除了賣香蕉和螃蟹，還有各種避孕用品，不論你在泰國哪裡看到的人，你都能跟他買到避孕用品。 之後我們在想，何不加入宗教的元素呢?因為在菲律賓，天主教會的影響力很強，而泰國人都是佛教徒。所以我去找他們說：""你能幫我們嗎?""我在照片裡是穿藍色衣服的，不是黃色的，手中捧著裝盛水的碗準備讓僧侶把這些聖水潑灑在避孕藥和保險套上這是個神聖的儀式。這張照片到處流傳全國。讓有些村莊的僧侶也能自行做同樣的事情。女人們都認為：""難怪我們使用後都沒有副作用。原來是被賜福的。""這是他們的認知。 接著我們找上教師。我們需要每一個人去試著提供任何能讓這個地方變得更好的東西。所以我們跟學校老師聯繫。有超過25萬名教師利用新的字母接龍來宣導節育計畫—-A，B是生育(birth)，C是保險套(condom)，I是子宮節育器(IUD)，V是輸精管切除(vasectomy)。我們還發明了另類的蛇梯棋盤遊戲(snakes and ladders game)。如果你停在有利於節育計畫的格子，就能往前走。像是走到""媽媽天天吞避孕藥""這格。很好，媽媽，往前走。走到""舅舅買保險套""這格，很好，舅舅，往前走。走到""舅舅喝醉了沒用保險套""，請倒退回原來位置。(笑)這是教育和娛樂的結合。孩子們能在學校就接觸到這些。我們在學校辦保險套盃的接力賽。我們有吹保險套氣球錦標賽。不久以後，保險套成為女孩子的最佳好友。在泰國，對窮苦人家來說，鑽石太貴了。所以保險套取代鑽石成為女孩的好朋友。 我們在1975年引進微型貸款政策，負責這項計畫的女性說：""我們只將錢借給有執行節育計畫的女人。若妳懷孕了，請自己照顧身體。若沒有懷孕，才能從我們這裡貸款。""計畫就這樣展開了。三十五六年後的今天，這項計畫還在運行。現在這成為鄉村發展銀行的一部分。這不是真的銀行，它是一筆基金。我們不需要一個龐大的組織來運作這些。這些事情可以靠村民自己執行。你很難在這個地方看到泰國男性。這裡總是充斥著女人的身影。然後我們就想說，美國人也需要幫助，因為美國人總是在幫助別人，才不管別人要不要接受。(笑)這天是7月4日，我們決定為全國男性提供輸精管切除術，比較特別的是，排在隊列中的美國男性可以直接到美國大使館進行手術。飯店業者決定提供一間舞廳給我們。真恰當的場地。(笑)一直快到午餐時間時，該飯店人員說：""好吧，我們能提供午餐。當然，提供的是美國牌的碳酸飲料。有2種品牌，可口可樂和百事可樂。食物方面是漢堡或熱狗二選一。""我覺得熱狗比較有象徵意義。(笑)畫面上的這位年輕人，名為Willy Bohm，他替美國國際開發總署(USAID)工作。很明顯地，他已經做完手術了，因為他手上拿著吃一半的熱狗，看起來非常開心。這對美國人來說很稀奇，也有很多人因此不太高興。我就說：""別擔心，過來找我就有全套的服務。"" (笑) 結果如何?成果是這樣的，每家的7個孩子掉到1.5個。人口成長率從3.3%掉到0.5%。你可以說這叫做可口可樂法。這幾乎是同樣的事情。我不太確定是我們在追隨可口可樂，還是他們在追隨我們。但我們的合作關係良好。而且每個人都加入了這個行列。我們沒有強大的政府，我們的醫生也不夠多。但是每一個人都能靠自己改變態度跟行為。 接著，愛滋病襲擊泰國，我們必須停下手邊工作，來抵抗愛滋病。但不幸的是，政府對我們的提案總是否決、否決、否決。我們的行動就被受限了。因此我就想：""恩，既然我們走不進政府，那我們就走進軍方。""所以我去拜訪軍方，請求出借300個電台。他們擁有的電台比政府多，擁有的槍也比政府多。所以我請求他們，能否幫我們一起共同對抗愛滋病。然後給他們看一些統計數字。他們回應：""沒問題，你可以使用所有的電台和電視台。""接著我們就開始發送對抗愛滋的訊息。很快的一位新的總理上任。他說：""Mechai，你是否能加入行政團隊呢?""他會這樣問我是因為他暗戀我老婆。我就說：""好阿。""爾後，他成為國立愛滋預防委員會的主席，預算也增加了50倍。 每一個部長，甚至到法官，都必須接受愛滋病的培訓。每一個人，這指的是大眾、機構、宗教機構、學校..等等每個人都要。而且，每一位媒體朋友也都接受愛滋病毒知識的教育。做為回饋，我們讓電台多播放30秒的廣告以獲得更多收入。他們對此很滿意。所有學校都有愛滋病的課程，先從大學開始。之後，我們讓高中的孩子們互相教導。最棒的老師都是女孩子，而不是男孩。她們都很厲害。這些到處宣導安全性愛和愛滋病毒的女孩子們，被尊稱為德雷莎修女。後來我們把觸角伸的更深一點。這些國中3年級、4年級的孩子們，拜訪了村子裡的家家戶戶，拜訪了全泰國的家家戶戶，到這些地方發放有關愛滋病的資訊和保險套，這些東西是透過這些孩子發放。沒有任何家長反對，因為我們在做的是拯救生命，他們個個都是救生員。我們疾呼：""每個人都需要一起做。"" 公司也漸漸意識到，員工生病不用上班，消費者死掉就沒生意上門。所以所有人都會接受訓練。我們有一位哈佛大學MBA學位的套套隊長(Captain Condom)，他走訪學校和夜店。套套隊長受到歡迎。像這樣的代言人是必要的。任何國家、任何的政策，都需要代言人，當隊長大概是他用MBA學位所得到的最佳工作。(笑)我們在街上發放保險套，每一個角落都沒放過。計程車上你也拿得到。如果你遇到塞車路上還會有警察在發保險套。這就是我們的""警察與套套""計畫。(笑)你能想像的到紐約警察發給你保險套嗎?我就可以，而且他們一定會玩的很開心。我能想像警察就站在街頭巷尾發放。他們手拿著保險套，發給各式各樣的人。接下來我們又出新招，我們用保險套做成頭飾、衣服，還有手機袋雨季才有喔。 (笑) 這裡有一些我們生產的保險套。這一個上面寫""大規模防護性武器""。我們創立的句子。有些人還在找大規模毀滅性武器，不過我們已經找到大規模防護性武器了，就是保險套。這一個印有美國旗幟的寫：""出門前別忘了它""等一下我會發放幾個給各位，但話說在前頭，這是泰國尺寸，請衡量再使用。(笑)就如各位所見，保險套可以做很多事情。看這個。這件我也有給Al Gore和Bill Senior。""停止地球暖化—請使用保險套""。這圖案就是我剛給各位看過的，大規模防護性武器。下一屆的奧運該辦這類競賽，幹嘛老是賽跑阿?(笑)最後一件展示品，泰國人都是佛教徒，我們不是只有一位天神，所以相對的，我們說：""我們相信橡膠。""（笑聲）(此圖為美紙硬幣上的圖案，圖案旁鑄字為In God we trust)。我們盡力在各種物品上發揮，都是為了讓人們有更好的生活。我們在把保險套放在旅館的冰箱和學校，因為酒精很容易影響判斷力。 結果如何?在此當下，所有人都在為此努力。根據歐盟統計，愛滋病的新感染人數下降了90%。根據世界銀行的統計，770萬人的生命因而獲救。若不如此，今日不會有這麼多泰國人活在世上。人只需要盡一點點自身的綿薄之力即可。計畫的基金有90%是來自泰國。有來自公部門的贊助，也有來自金融業的贊助，每個人都加入了這個對抗的行列。別只會把這個問題丟給專業人士、醫生或是護士。我們都應該去試著幫助他人。 接著是要幫助人民脫離貧窮，現在愛滋病的問題解決了，這次不單只有政府，政府和商業界攜手合作了。因為貧苦的人也能是商人，他們只不過缺乏商業技能和借貸信用。而技能和信用是要靠商業界提供。我們試著把這些人轉為赤足企業家，讓他們能做點小生意。脫離貧窮的唯一方法就是透過創業。這是我們的成果。企業界投入資金，讓村莊人民去植樹。這當然不是免費的。村民種樹的利潤存入小額貸款基金中，也就是鄉村發展銀行。每個人都會加入，他們覺得自己擁有銀行，因為銀行的資金都來自他們。 在貸款之前，必須要先受過職業訓練。我們相信，若想幫助貧窮，若想幫助那些生活在貧窮裡的人，信用能力就必須要成為基本人權的一部份。信用能力必須要成為基本人權。否則他們永遠脫離不了窮困。而且在取得貸款之前，必須要先接受教育訓練。這個訓練課程我們稱為赤腳企管碩士班(barefoot MBA)，這課程在教導如何做生意之類的，唯有如此，等他們借到錢後，才有辦法經營成功的事業。目前出現的行業有：磨菇、螃蟹、蔬菜、植樹、水果、還有這個非常有趣的東西，Nike冰淇淋和Nike餅乾。這是由Nike贊助的村莊。這些村民說：""Nike應該不要再做鞋子和衣服。做這些事情更賺，因為我們買的起這些東西。""我們有泰國絲綢。我們織成蘇格蘭方格紋，就如畫面的左邊圖片，賣給那些蘇格蘭傳統人士。所有坐在下面的觀眾，若想購買請和我聯繫。這是在泰國的星巴克：""咖啡與保險套""星巴克能讓你清醒，但我們讓你清醒又保命。差異就在這裡。各位能否想像，在每一家星巴克裡你都能拿到保險套?你能同時點一個保險套跟一杯卡布奇諾。 最後，在教育上，我們希望改變學校的閒置空間，使之成為一個眾人終身學習的中心。我們稱這個計畫為—以學校為基礎的農村綜合發展計畫(School-Based Integrated Rural Development)。在農村的經濟和社會發展會有一個中心，一個聚點。我們把學校改造，讓它能符合社區居民的需求。這是一個竹建築。全用竹子蓋成的。那個多面體的圓頂是竹子構成的。我相信Buckminster Fuller看到這個建築時(註：第一位設計球形屋頂的建築師)，會感到非常非常驕傲。學校的四周讓人們可以種植自己所需的蔬菜。 最終，我仍然相信，若我們希望MDGs成功，也就是""千囍年發展目標""(聯合國在2000年制訂的八大目標)。我們就必須把節育計畫加入。當然，降低兒童死亡率應該優先於節育計畫。每個人都應該接受節育計畫。這目前不受重視。現在我們有了大規模防護性武器。也要求下一屆的奧運加入愛護生命的主題。這是我們的網站。這是屬於我們泰國的鬱金香。 (笑) 感謝各位 (掌聲)"
