Talk	en	zh-tw
meg_jay_why_30_is_not_the_new_20	"When I was in my 20s, I saw my very first psychotherapy client. I was a Ph.D. student in clinical psychology at Berkeley. She was a 26-year-old woman named Alex. Now Alex walked into her first session wearing jeans and a big slouchy top, and she dropped onto the couch in my office and kicked off her flats and told me she was there to talk about guy problems. Now when I heard this, I was so relieved. My classmate got an arsonist for her first client. (Laughter) And I got a twentysomething who wanted to talk about boys. This I thought I could handle. But I didn't handle it. With the funny stories that Alex would bring to session, it was easy for me just to nod my head while we kicked the can down the road. ""Thirty's the new 20,"" Alex would say, and as far as I could tell, she was right. Work happened later, marriage happened later, kids happened later, even death happened later. Twentysomethings like Alex and I had nothing but time. But before long, my supervisor pushed me to push Alex about her love life. I pushed back. I said, ""Sure, she's dating down, she's sleeping with a knucklehead, but it's not like she's going to marry the guy."" And then my supervisor said, ""Not yet, but she might marry the next one. Besides, the best time to work on Alex's marriage is before she has one."" That's what psychologists call an ""Aha!"" moment. That was the moment I realized, 30 is not the new 20. Yes, people settle down later than they used to, but that didn't make Alex's 20s a developmental downtime. That made Alex's 20s a developmental sweet spot, and we were sitting there, blowing it. That was when I realized that this sort of benign neglect was a real problem, and it had real consequences, not just for Alex and her love life but for the careers and the families and the futures of twentysomethings everywhere. There are 50 million twentysomethings in the United States right now. We're talking about 15 percent of the population, or 100 percent if you consider that no one's getting through adulthood without going through their 20s first. (Laughter) Raise your hand if you're in your 20s. I really want to see some twentysomethings here. Oh, yay! You are all awesome. If you work with twentysomethings, you love a twentysomething, you're losing sleep over twentysomethings, I want to see — Okay. Awesome, twentysomethings really matter. So, I specialize in twentysomethings because I believe that every single one of those 50 million twentysomethings deserves to know what psychologists, sociologists, neurologists and fertility specialists already know: that claiming your 20s is one of the simplest, yet most transformative, things you can do for work, for love, for your happiness, maybe even for the world. This is not my opinion. These are the facts. We know that 80 percent of life's most defining moments take place by age 35. That means that eight out of 10 of the decisions and experiences and ""Aha!"" moments that make your life what it is will have happened by your mid-30s. People who are over 40, don't panic. This crowd is going to be fine, I think. We know that the first 10 years of a career has an exponential impact on how much money you're going to earn. We know that more than half of Americans are married or are living with or dating their future partner by 30. We know that the brain caps off its second and last growth spurt in your 20s as it rewires itself for adulthood, which means that whatever it is you want to change about yourself, now is the time to change it. We know that personality changes more during your 20s than at any other time in life, and we know that female fertility peaks at age 28, and things get tricky after age 35. So your 20s are the time to educate yourself about your body and your options. So when we think about child development, we all know that the first five years are a critical period for language and attachment in the brain. It's a time when your ordinary, day-to-day life has an inordinate impact on who you will become. But what we hear less about is that there's such a thing as adult development, and our 20s are that critical period of adult development. But this isn't what twentysomethings are hearing. Newspapers talk about the changing timetable of adulthood. Researchers call the 20s an extended adolescence. Journalists coin silly nicknames for twentysomethings like ""twixters"" and ""kidults."" (Laughing) It's true! As a culture, we have trivialized what is actually the defining decade of adulthood. Leonard Bernstein said that to achieve great things, you need a plan and not quite enough time. (Laughing) Isn't that true? So what do you think happens when you pat a twentysomething on the head and you say, ""You have 10 extra years to start your life""? Nothing happens. You have robbed that person of his urgency and ambition, and absolutely nothing happens. And then every day, smart, interesting twentysomethings like you or like your sons and daughters come into my office and say things like this: ""I know my boyfriend's no good for me, but this relationship doesn't count. I'm just killing time."" Or they say, ""Everybody says as long as I get started on a career by the time I'm 30, I'll be fine."" But then it starts to sound like this: ""My 20s are almost over, and I have nothing to show for myself. I had a better résumé the day after I graduated from college."" And then it starts to sound like this: ""Dating in my 20s was like musical chairs. Everybody was running around and having fun, but then sometime around 30 it was like the music turned off and everybody started sitting down. I didn't want to be the only one left standing up, so sometimes I think I married my husband because he was the closest chair to me at 30."" Where are the twentysomethings here? Do not do that. (Laughter) Okay, now that sounds a little flip, but make no mistake, the stakes are very high. When a lot has been pushed to your 30s, there is enormous thirtysomething pressure to jump-start a career, pick a city, partner up, and have two or three kids in a much shorter period of time. Many of these things are incompatible, and as research is just starting to show, simply harder and more stressful to do all at once in our 30s. The post-millennial midlife crisis isn't buying a red sports car. It's realizing you can't have that career you now want. It's realizing you can't have that child you now want, or you can't give your child a sibling. Too many thirtysomethings and fortysomethings look at themselves, and at me, sitting across the room, and say about their 20s, ""What was I doing? What was I thinking?"" I want to change what twentysomethings are doing and thinking. Here's a story about how that can go. It's a story about a woman named Emma. At 25, Emma came to my office because she was, in her words, having an identity crisis. She said she thought she might like to work in art or entertainment, but she hadn't decided yet, so she'd spent the last few years waiting tables instead. Because it was cheaper, she lived with a boyfriend who displayed his temper more than his ambition. And as hard as her 20s were, her early life had been even harder. She often cried in our sessions, but then would collect herself by saying, ""You can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends."" Well one day, Emma comes in and she hangs her head in her lap, and she sobbed for most of the hour. She'd just bought a new address book, and she'd spent the morning filling in her many contacts, but then she'd been left staring at that empty blank that comes after the words ""In case of emergency, please call ..."" She was nearly hysterical when she looked at me and said, ""Who's going to be there for me if I get in a car wreck? Who's going to take care of me if I have cancer?"" Now in that moment, it took everything I had not to say, ""I will."" But what Emma needed wasn't some therapist who really, really cared. Emma needed a better life, and I knew this was her chance. I had learned too much since I first worked with Alex to just sit there while Emma's defining decade went parading by. So over the next weeks and months, I told Emma three things that every twentysomething, male or female, deserves to hear. First, I told Emma to forget about having an identity crisis and get some identity capital. By ""get identity capital,"" I mean do something that adds value to who you are. Do something that's an investment in who you might want to be next. I didn't know the future of Emma's career, and no one knows the future of work, but I do know this: Identity capital begets identity capital. So now is the time for that cross-country job, that internship, that startup you want to try. I'm not discounting twentysomething exploration here, but I am discounting exploration that's not supposed to count, which, by the way, is not exploration. That's procrastination. I told Emma to explore work and make it count. Second, I told Emma that the urban tribe is overrated. Best friends are great for giving rides to the airport, but twentysomethings who huddle together with like-minded peers limit who they know, what they know, how they think, how they speak, and where they work. That new piece of capital, that new person to date almost always comes from outside the inner circle. New things come from what are called our weak ties, our friends of friends of friends. So yes, half of twentysomethings are un- or under-employed. But half aren't, and weak ties are how you get yourself into that group. Half of new jobs are never posted, so reaching out to your neighbor's boss is how you get that unposted job. It's not cheating. It's the science of how information spreads. Last but not least, Emma believed that you can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends. Now this was true for her growing up, but as a twentysomething, soon Emma would pick her family when she partnered with someone and created a family of her own. I told Emma the time to start picking your family is now. Now you may be thinking that 30 is actually a better time to settle down than 20, or even 25, and I agree with you. But grabbing whoever you're living with or sleeping with when everyone on Facebook starts walking down the aisle is not progress. The best time to work on your marriage is before you have one, and that means being as intentional with love as you are with work. Picking your family is about consciously choosing who and what you want rather than just making it work or killing time with whoever happens to be choosing you. So what happened to Emma? Well, we went through that address book, and she found an old roommate's cousin who worked at an art museum in another state. That weak tie helped her get a job there. That job offer gave her the reason to leave that live-in boyfriend. Now, five years later, she's a special events planner for museums. She's married to a man she mindfully chose. She loves her new career, she loves her new family, and she sent me a card that said, ""Now the emergency contact blanks don't seem big enough."" Now Emma's story made that sound easy, but that's what I love about working with twentysomethings. They are so easy to help. Twentysomethings are like airplanes just leaving LAX, bound for somewhere west. Right after takeoff, a slight change in course is the difference between landing in Alaska or Fiji. Likewise, at 21 or 25 or even 29, one good conversation, one good break, one good TED Talk, can have an enormous effect across years and even generations to come. So here's an idea worth spreading to every twentysomething you know. It's as simple as what I learned to say to Alex. It's what I now have the privilege of saying to twentysomethings like Emma every single day: Thirty is not the new 20, so claim your adulthood, get some identity capital, use your weak ties, pick your family. Don't be defined by what you didn't know or didn't do. You're deciding your life right now. Thank you. (Applause)"	二十多歲時我見到我第一位心理治療病患我當時是柏克萊大學臨床心理學博士生她是名叫Alex的26歲女子Alex第一次前來會談時穿著牛仔褲和寬大上衣她一屁股坐在我辦公室的沙發上踢掉她的平底鞋告訴我她想談談她和男人的問題聽見這句話時，我感到如釋重負因為我同學的第一位病人是個縱火犯（笑聲）我的不過是想聊聊男人的年輕女子我以為我能搞定這件事 事實卻不然聽著Alex在會談中所說的有趣故事對我來說十分輕鬆，只需點頭避而不談真正的問題「三十歲不就是再活一次二十歲嘛」Alex說就我當時的想法，她說的沒錯工作、結婚都是之後的事孩子是之後的事，甚至死亡也是之後的事像 Alex 和我這樣二十歲世代的年輕人，有的是時間 但不久後，指導教授催促我督促 Alex 積極面對她的戀愛關係我不以為然 我說，「沒錯，她有固定約會對象」「她和一個蠢蛋上床」「但不代表她會和那個傢伙結婚」 於是指導教授說「目前是如此，但或許她會和下一個蠢蛋結婚」「此外，Alex 經營婚姻的最佳時機」「就是在她結婚前」 這就是心理學家所謂的「啊哈！」時刻那一刻，我領悟到你無法等到三十歲，再重頭過二十歲的生活沒錯，人們比以往更晚成家立業但不代表 Alex 的二十歲是她的發展停滯期而是 Alex 的最佳發展時機我們卻坐視這段時光白白流逝此時我才明白善意的忽視確實是個問題，而且會有嚴重的後果不僅對 Alex 和她的愛情生活來說如此對所有二十歲世代年輕人的事業、家庭和未來亦然 目前美國有五千萬名二十歲世代人口大約佔總人口的15%或者說100%，如果考慮到任何邁入成年期的人都曾經歷過二十多歲這個年紀 現場二十多歲的請舉手我非常希望在現場見到二十多歲的聽眾太好了！你們都棒極了如果你和二十歲世代年輕人共事你或是你的交往對象二十多歲或者是你非常關心二十歲世代我想知道你們在哪－好，棒極了二十歲的這個世代真的很重要 因此我專門研究二十歲這個世代因為我認為這五千萬名二十多歲年輕人中的每一位都該知道心理學家社會學家、神經學家及生育專家都知道的事二十歲的這個世代是最單純也最具可塑性的階段對工作、愛情和幸福來說也許甚至對全世界來說 這並非我個人的觀點，而是事實我們知道，人生中 80% 最具決定性的時刻發生於35歲前這意味著10個中有8個塑造你人生的決定、經歷和「啊哈！」時刻發生於30歲中旬前超過40歲的人別慌我想在座的各位應該沒問題我們知道一份職業的最初十年有舉足輕重的影響對你未來的收入而言我們知道半數以上的美國人30歲前結婚、同居或約會的對象就是你未來的終生伴侶我們知道大腦在二十多歲這個年紀會歷經第二次及最後一次成長高峰以轉型為成人期這意味著無論你打算如何改變自己此刻正是最佳時機我們知道性格在二十多歲這個年紀的變化勝於人生其他階段我們知道女性生育高峰期是28歲35歲後則每況愈下因此二十年華正是瞭解自我身體狀況及選擇的最佳時機 因此當我們談到兒童發展我們都知道最初五年是關鍵期對大腦的語言和情感依附發展來說這是日常生活對未來發展影響甚鉅的階段但我們較少聽說的是所謂的「成人發展」二十歲的這個年紀正是成人的發展關鍵期 但很少有二十多歲的年輕人聽說過這件事報紙談論的總是成人階段的變化研究人員稱二十歲世代為青春期的延續新聞記者賦予二十歲世代一些愚蠢的綽號例如「啃老族」和「大孩子」確實如此文化使然，我們輕忽了成人階段的決定性十年 倫納德‧伯恩斯坦（著名指揮家）說，欲達成偉大成就需要一個計畫和不甚充裕的時間事實不就是這樣嗎？因此你認為會發生什麼事當你拍著一位二十歲世代年輕人的頭說「你的人生還有十年才開始」什麼也不會發生你剝奪了那個人的迫切感和雄心不會發生任何結果 日復一日地這些聰明有趣的二十歲世代如同你們或你們的子女前來我辦公室說類似以下的話「我知道我男友不適合我」「但這段感情不能當真，只是打發時間罷了」或是，「每個人都說，我只要」「在30歲前展開事業就沒問題」 但之後他們開始這麼說：「我二字頭的人生即將結束但我卻一事無成」「我最好從大學畢業那天就開始投履歷表」 然後他們開始這麼說：「二十多歲時的約會就像玩大風吹」「大家四處遊蕩、樂在其中」「但30歲左右音樂逐漸停止」「大家開始就座」「我不想成為唯一站著的人」「因此有時我覺得和丈夫結婚」「只因為他是30歲時離我最近的椅子」 我們當中二十幾歲的年輕人們？千萬別這麼做 好，聽起來像是說笑，但別誤會其中的風險極大當許多事延宕到三十歲的時候將造成三十歲世代極大的壓力展開事業、選擇居住地、尋找伴侶在極短時間內生兩三個孩子這些事大多無法同時兼顧如近期研究結果顯示在三十世代同時完成這些事難度和壓力將變得更大 千禧年後的中年危機不在於是否買輛紅色跑車而在於意識到無法擁有目前想要的事業在於意識到無法生出這時候所想要的孩子或無法替孩子生出兄弟姊妹太多三十歲世代及四十歲世代的人看看自己然後望著坐在房間另一頭的我開始談論起他們的二十歲生活「我當時在做什麼？在想什麼？」 我希望改變二十歲世代的做法和想法 以下是關於如何著手的故事這是關於一位名叫Emma的女子的故事25歲時，Emma來到我辦公室因為她－根據她的說法－她正經歷身份危機她說她認為自己或許想從事藝術或娛樂工作，但尚未下定決心因此過去幾年她暫時擔任餐飲服務生為了省錢，她和男友同居他展現脾氣的能力更勝於雄心儘管她的二十歲生活充滿艱辛她之前的生活更是困難重重她經常於會談中哭泣但恢復平靜後，她說「你無法選擇家庭，但可以選擇朋友」 某天，Emma走進辦公室把頭倚在膝蓋上哭了將近一個小時她剛買了一本新通訊錄她花了整個上午填寫連絡人資料但接著她茫然地盯著以下文字後的空白「發生緊急情況時，請撥打…」她幾乎是歇斯底里地看著我說「如果出車禍，誰會陪在我身邊？」「如果得癌症，誰會照顧我？」 當時，我費盡心力才忍住說「我會」的衝動但 Emma 需要的並非一位對她關懷備至的治療師Emma 需要更好的生活我知道這是她的機會自從治療 Alex 後，我學到很多我不會坐視 Emma 的決定性十年白白流逝 因此接下來幾週、幾個月中我告訴 Emma三件每位二十歲世代年輕人無論男女都該聆聽的忠告 首先，我要Emma忘了她的身份危機累積一些身份資本至於累積身份資本，我指的是進行某些增加自我價值的事進行某些投資以達成理想中的自己我不知道 Emma 的工作前景沒人知道任何工作的前景但我確實知道這一點：身份資本將衍生身份資本因此此時正是接受那份跨國工作那份實習職位和你想嘗試的創業的時機我並非反對二十歲世代進行探索但我不贊同無意義的探索順帶一提，那並非探索而是浪費時間我要 Emma 進行有意義的工作探索 其次，我告訴Emma人們高估了城市部落（Urban Tribes）好友是載你去機場的絕佳人選但二十世代年輕人常聚集的對象在於志同道合的同齡族群，侷限於相識者彼此知道的事相似的思考模式和說話方式及工作地點新資本、新約會對象幾乎總是來自圈外新事物來自我們所謂的弱連結例如朋友的朋友的朋友因此－沒錯，半數二十多歲的人並未就業或擁有全職工作但其中一半並非如此，弱連結正是使你加入那個族群的方式半數新職位不曾公佈因此接觸鄰居的老闆正是得到那份未公佈工作的方法這並非投機，而是資訊傳播原理 最後，同樣重要的是，Emma 認為你無法選擇家庭，但可以選擇朋友以她的成長經歷來說確實如此但作為一個二十多歲的年輕人 Emma 很快就得選擇自己的家庭當她和某人結為連理建立屬於自己的家庭我告訴 Emma 此時正是她選擇家庭的時機你或許認為30歲是較適當的成家時機相較於20歲，甚至25歲我同意這一點但套牢某個和你同居或上床的人當所有Facebook上的朋友開始步入禮堂時這並非達成某項進展經營婚姻的最佳時機正是結婚前這是指用心看待愛情如同看待工作般家庭的選擇是有意識的選擇選擇你想要的人和生活而非僅是達成目標或打發時間與恰巧選擇你的人 Emma 的後續情況如何？好，我們翻閱那本通訊錄她發現一位前室友的親戚任職於他州的藝術博物館那個弱連結協助她在當地找到一份工作那份工作給了她離開同居男友的理由5年後的今天她成了博物館特殊活動規劃者她與一位用心選擇的人結婚她愛她的新職業，她愛她的新家庭她寄給我一張卡片，上面寫著「現在緊急連絡人一欄」「似乎不夠大了」 Emma 的故事使這件事顯得輕而易舉但這就是我喜愛輔導二十歲世代的原因幫助他們十分容易二十歲的世代就像剛離開洛杉磯國際機場的飛機準備前往西岸某處起飛後，航線稍微偏移即降落阿拉斯加或斐濟的差別同樣地，在21或25歲，甚至29歲一場有益的談話、一次充分的休息一場卓越的TED演講，都將造成極大影響對未來幾年、甚至幾代來說 因此這是一個值得分享的想法去分享給每位你所認識的二十歲世代這就像我於 Alex 的會談中所領悟到的道理一樣容易這就是我現在有幸能時時給予像 Emma 這樣的二十歲世代的忠告二十歲的人生不能在三十歲重來因此把握你的成年期累積一些身份資本，利用你的弱連結選擇你的家庭別受限於你不知道或不曾做過的事此刻你正在決定你的人生謝謝（掌聲）
