Talk	en	zh-tw
megan_washington_why_i_live_in_mortal_dread_of_public_speaking	"I didn't know when I agreed to do this whether I was expected to talk or to sing. But when I was told that the topic was language, I felt that I had to speak about something for a moment. I have a problem. It's not the worst thing in the world. I'm fine. I'm not on fire. I know that other people in the world have far worse things to deal with, but for me, language and music are inextricably linked through this one thing. And the thing is that I have a stutter. It might seem curious given that I spend a lot of my life on the stage. One would assume that I'm comfortable in the public sphere and comfortable here, speaking to you guys. But the truth is that I've spent my life up until this point and including this point, living in mortal dread of public speaking. Public singing, whole different thing. (Laughter) But we'll get to that in a moment. I've never really talked about it before so explicitly. I think that that's because I've always lived in hope that when I was a grown-up, I wouldn't have one. I sort of lived with this idea that when I'm grown, I'll have learned to speak French, and when I'm grown, I'll learn how to manage my money, and when I'm grown, I won't have a stutter, and then I'll be able to public speak and maybe be the prime minister and anything's possible and, you know. (Laughter) So I can talk about it now because I've reached this point, where — I mean, I'm 28. I'm pretty sure that I'm grown now. (Laughter) And I'm an adult woman who spends her life as a performer, with a speech impediment. So, I might as well come clean about it. There are some interesting angles to having a stutter. For me, the worst thing that can happen is meeting another stutterer. (Laughter) This happened to me in Hamburg, when this guy, we met and he said, ""Hello, m-m-m-my name is Joe,"" and I said, ""Oh, hello, m-m-m-my name is Meg."" Imagine my horror when I realized he thought I was making fun of him. (Laughter) People think I'm drunk all the time. (Laughter) People think that I've forgotten their name when I hesitate before saying it. And it is a very weird thing, because proper nouns are the worst. If I'm going to use the word ""Wednesday"" in a sentence, and I'm coming up to the word, and I can feel that I'm going to stutter or something, I can change the word to ""tomorrow,"" or ""the day after Tuesday,"" or something else. It's clunky, but you can get away with it, because over time I've developed this loophole method of using speech where right at the last minute you change the thing and you trick your brain. But with people's names, you can't change them. (Laughter) When I was singing a lot of jazz, I worked a lot with a pianist whose name was Steve. As you can probably gather, S's and T's, together or independently, are my kryptonite. But I would have to introduce the band over this rolling vamp, and when I got around to Steve, I'd often find myself stuck on the ""St."" And it was a bit awkward and uncomfortable  and it totally kills the vibe. So after a few instances of this, Steve happily became ""Seve,"" and we got through it that way. (Laughter) I've had a lot of therapy, and a common form of treatment is to use this technique that's called smooth speech, which is where you almost sing everything that you say. You kind of join everything together in this very singsong, kindergarten teacher way, and it makes you sound very serene, like you've had lots of Valium, and everything is calm. (Laughter) That's not actually me. And I do use that. I do. I use it when I have to be on panel shows, or when I have to do radio interviews, when the economy of airtime is paramount. (Laughter) I get through it that way for my job. But as an artist who feels that their work is based solely on a platform of honesty and being real, that feels often like cheating. Which is why before I sing, I wanted to tell you what singing means to me. It's more than making nice sounds, and it's more than making nice songs. It's more than feeling known, or understood. It's more than making you feel the things that I feel. It's not about mythology, or mythologizing myself to you. Somehow, through some miraculous synaptic function of the human brain, it's impossible to stutter when you sing. And when I was younger, that was a method of treatment that worked very well for me, singing, so I did it a lot. And that's why I'm here today. (Applause) Thank you. Singing for me is sweet relief. It is the only time when I feel fluent. It is the only time when what comes out of my mouth is comprehensively exactly what I intended. (Laughter) So I know that this is a TED Talk, but now i'm going to TED sing. This is a song that I wrote last year. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause) (Piano) ♪ I would be a beauty ♪ ♪ but my nose ♪ ♪ is slightly too big ♪ ♪ for my face ♪ ♪ And I would be a dreamer ♪ ♪ but my dream ♪ ♪ is slightly too big ♪ ♪ for this space ♪ ♪ And I would be an angel ♪ ♪ but my halo ♪ ♪ it pales in the glow ♪ ♪ of your grace ♪ ♪ And I would be a joker ♪ ♪ but that card looks silly when you play ♪ ♪ your ace ♪ ♪ I'd like to know ♪ ♪ Are there stars in hell? ♪ ♪ And I'd like to know ♪ ♪ know if you can tell ♪ ♪ that you make me lose everything I know ♪ ♪ That I cannot choose to or not let go ♪ ♪ And I'd stay forever ♪ ♪ but my home ♪ ♪ is slightly too far ♪ ♪ from this place ♪ ♪ And I swear I tried to ♪ ♪ slow it down ♪ ♪ when I am walking at your pace ♪ ♪ But all I could think ♪ ♪ idling through the cities ♪ ♪ do I look pretty in the rain? ♪ ♪ And I don't know how someone ♪ ♪ quite so lovely ♪ ♪ makes me feel ugly ♪ ♪ So much shame ♪ ♪ And I'd like to know ♪ ♪ Are there stars in hell? ♪ ♪ And I'd like to know ♪ ♪ know if you can tell ♪ ♪ that you make me lose everything I know ♪ ♪ that I cannot choose to or not let go ♪ Thank you very much. (Applause)"	當我答應來 TED 演講的時候，我不知道我應該要用講的？還是用唱的？不過當他們告訴我講題是關於「語言」之後，我覺得我得要花些時間來講一件事。 我有一個毛病，不是最糟糕的那一種，我很健康，這不是什麼十萬火急的事，我知道世上其他人有比我更嚴重的毛病得治療。但對我來說，語言和音樂，跟我這個毛病密不可分。 這個毛病就是：我講話會結巴。這聽起來一定讓人猜不透，因為我有很豐富的舞台經歷，大家一定以為我可以很自在的在公眾場合、以及在這裡對你們演說。但實情是，我這輩子截至目前，甚至此刻也不例外，上台說話都令我恐懼得要命。上台唱歌嘛，那完全是另一回事。（笑聲）這個待會兒再說。我以前從不曾這麼仔細地討論我的毛病，我想是因為我一直抱著希望，希望我長大以後，這毛病就會消失了。我好像一直以為等到我長大後，我就會學會說法語；長大後，我就會學好如何理財；而且長大後，我說話就不會再結巴，然後我就有能力公開演說，然後可能成為首相，然後任何事都有可能，你們知道的。（笑聲）所以，我現在能夠公開談論它，是因為我已經到了一個階段了——我是指，我 28 歲了，我非常確定自己算是已經長大了吧。（笑聲）而我是一個成年女性，以表演為職業，但是我有語言障礙。所以，我還是把問題說清楚吧。 講話結巴，以某些角度來看還挺有趣的，對我而言，最可怕的事情就是碰到另外一個講話也結巴的人。（笑聲）我在德國漢堡時就發生過。有個男生，我跟他碰面，而他說：「你好，我‧我‧我‧我‧我是喬！」我就說：「噢，你好，我‧我‧我‧我‧我是梅！」你們想想我當時有多害怕，因為我發現他以為我在嘲笑他。（笑聲） 人們常常誤以為我喝醉了。（笑聲） 人們也會以為我忘了他們的名字，因為我要叫名字之前都會停頓。而這點很奇怪，因為專有名詞最容易讓我結巴。假如我要在一個句子裡講到「星期三」，而在我快要講到「星期三」的時候，我就能感覺到我快要結巴了，我會把「星期三」改講成「明天」，或者是「星期二再過去的那天」，或者就是其他字眼。這樣子很拙劣，不過你可以避免口吃，因為長期下來我發展出這個在說話時鑽漏洞的方法，是在你快要講到那個字前的最後一刻，改變用字，騙過你的大腦。但是碰上人名，你就不能亂改了。（笑聲）我以前唱過很多爵士樂，當時我常跟一位叫史帝夫的鋼琴師合作。你們可能已經從我講話聽出來，s 和 t ，無論放在一起或是分開發音都是我的死穴。但是我必須要在不斷重複的間奏中，介紹我的樂團成員。當我介紹到史帝夫的時候，我常發現自己就卡在 St 這裡，現場就有點尷尬、難堪，而且熱烈的氣氛都被破壞了。所以經過幾次這樣的情形之後，史帝夫欣然接受了新名字「席夫」，我們就這樣過關了。（笑聲） 我曾經接受多種治療，其中有種很常見的療程，是一種技巧，叫「流暢說話」。就是你把所有想講的事幾乎是用唱的唱出來，（演唱）你好像把句子組織起來，用這種唱歌的語調，像幼稚園老師在講話，讓妳聽起來非常平靜，好像你嗑了很多鎮定劑一樣，然後一切都好祥和。（笑聲）這並不是真正的我，而我真的有在用這個技巧，真的，在我必須上談話性節目的時候、或是接受電台訪問的時候，都會用這技巧，因為電台轉播每次都搞得分秒必爭。（笑聲）在工作上，我用這方法讓自己逃過一劫，不過身為表演者，都覺得自己的作品必須要建立在坦誠的基礎上，而且要真實，所以用這種技巧，感覺好像在騙人。 所以在我唱歌之前，我要告訴你們唱歌對我而言，意義是什麼。其意義絕不只在發出好聽的聲音，意義也絕不只在做出好聽的歌曲，意義不僅限於那種被認識、被瞭解的感受，意義不只是要讓你們對我的感受起共鳴。這並不是神秘的事，我也不會故弄玄虛的呈現自我。不知道為什麼，某種奇蹟般的人類大腦突觸作用下，人在唱歌的時候，是不可能結巴的。在我小時候，唱歌是一種治療結巴的方法，這方法對我非常有效，也就是唱歌。所以我常常唱歌。這就是我今天在這裡的原因。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 唱歌對我來說是很棒的紓解，那是我唯一感覺到口齒流利的時刻。只有在唱歌時，從我口中出來的東西，才完全是我確切想表達的。（笑聲）所以我知道這是一場 TED 「演講」，不過現在我要來 TED「演唱」了。這是我在去年寫的歌， 非常謝謝大家。謝謝！ （掌聲） （鋼琴演奏） ♪ 我會成為個美人兒 ♪ ♪ 不過我的鼻子 ♪ ♪ 對我的臉來說 ♪ ♪ 有一點太大了 ♪ ♪ 我會成為一位夢想家 ♪ ♪ 但是我的夢想 ♪ ♪ 對這個世界來說 ♪ ♪ 有一點太大了 ♪ ♪ 我會成為一名天使 ♪ ♪ 但是我的光環 ♪ ♪ 相較於你高雅的光芒 ♪ ♪ 變得黯淡了 ♪ ♪ 我會是撲克牌裡的鬼牌 ♪ ♪ 但這張牌，在你打出你的紙牌 A 時 ♪ ♪ 卻看起來如此傻氣 ♪ ♪ 我想要知道 ♪ ♪ 在地獄裡有星星嗎？♪ ♪ 還有我想要知道 ♪ ♪ 你是否明白 ♪ ♪ 你讓我失去了我所知道的一切 ♪ ♪ 我連選擇是否放手的餘地都沒有 ♪ ♪ 我想要永遠留下來 ♪ ♪ 但是我的家 ♪ ♪ 離這個地方 ♪ ♪ 有一點太遠了 ♪ ♪ 我發誓，我總試著 ♪ ♪ 放慢自己 ♪ ♪ 因為我想學你緩步徐行 ♪ ♪ 但當我在城市間漫步時 ♪ ♪ 腦裡所想的一切 ♪ ♪ 就是我在雨中看起來漂亮嗎？♪ ♪ 除了你，我不知道還有誰 ♪ ♪ 這麼的惹人愛 ♪ ♪ 讓我感覺到自己這麼醜陋 ♪ ♪ 這麼的羞愧 ♪ ♪ 我想要知道 ♪ ♪ 地獄裡面有沒有星星？♪ ♪ 我想要知道 ♪ ♪ 是否你能明白 ♪ ♪ 你讓我失去了我所知道的一切 ♪ ♪ 我連選擇是否放手的餘地都沒有 ♪ 非常謝謝大家。（掌聲）
