Talk	en	zh-tw
megan_kamerick_women_should_represent_women_in_media	"Like most journalists, I'm an idealist. I love unearthing good stories, especially untold stories. I just didn't think that in 2011, women would still be in that category. I'm the President of the Journalism and Women Symposium — JAWS. That's Sharky. (Laughter) I joined 10 years ago because I wanted female role models, and I was frustrated by the lagging status of women in our profession and what that meant for our image in the media. We make up half the population of the world, but we're just 24 percent of the news subjects quoted in news stories. And we're just 20 percent of the experts quoted in stories. And now, with today's technology, it's possible to remove women from the picture completely. This is a picture of President Barack Obama and his advisors, tracking the killing of Osama bin Laden. You can see Hillary Clinton on the right. Let's see how the photo ran in an Orthodox Jewish newspaper based in Brooklyn. Hillary's completely gone. (Laughter) The paper apologized, but said it never runs photos of women; they might be sexually provocative. (Laughter) This is an extreme case, yes. But the fact is, women are only 19 percent of the sources in stories on politics, and only 20 percent in stories on the economy. The news continues to give us a picture where men outnumber women in nearly all occupational categories, except two: students and homemakers. (Laughter) So we all get a very distorted picture of reality. The problem is, of course, there aren't enough women in newsrooms. They report at just 37 percent of stories in print, TV and radio. Even in stories on gender-based violence, men get an overwhelming majority of print space and airtime. Case in point: This March, the New York Times ran a story by James McKinley about a gang rape of a young girl, 11 years old, in a small Texas town. McKinley writes that the community is wondering, ""How could their boys have been drawn into this?"" ""Drawn into this"" — like they were seduced into committing an act of violence. And the first person he quotes says, ""These boys will have to live with this the rest of their lives."" (Groans, laughter) You don't hear much about the 11-year-old victim, except that she wore clothes that were a little old for her and she wore makeup. The Times was deluged with criticism. Initially, it defended itself, and said, ""These aren't our views. This is what we found in our reporting."" Now, here's a secret you probably know already: Your stories are constructed. As reporters, we research, we interview. We try to give a good picture of reality. We also have our own unconscious biases. But The Times makes it sound like anyone would have reported this story the same way. I disagree with that. So three weeks later, The Times revisits the story. This time, it adds another byline to it with McKinley's: Erica Goode. What emerges is a truly sad, horrific tale of a young girl and her family trapped in poverty. She was raped numerous times by many men. She had been a bright, easygoing girl. She was maturing quickly, physically, but her bed was still covered with stuffed animals. It's a very different picture. Perhaps the addition of Ms. Goode is what made this story more complete. The Global Media Monitoring Project has found that stories by female reporters are more likely to challenge stereotypes than those by male reporters. At KUNM here in Albuquerque, Elaine Baumgartel did some graduate research on the coverage of violence against women. What she found was many of these stories tend to blame victims and devalue their lives. They tend to sensationalize, and they lack context. So for her graduate work, she did a three-part series on the murder of 11 women, found buried on Albuquerque's West Mesa. She tried to challenge those patterns and stereotypes in her work and she tried to show the challenges that journalists face from external sources, their own internal biases and cultural norms. And she worked with an editor at National Public Radio to try to get a story aired nationally. She's not sure that would have happened if the editor had not been a female. Stories in the news are more than twice as likely to present women as victims than men, and women are more likely to be defined by their body parts. Wired magazine, November 2010. Yes, the issue was about breast-tissue engineering. Now I know you're all distracted, so I'll take that off. (Laughter) Eyes up here. (Laughter) So — (Applause) Here's the thing: Wired almost never puts women on its cover. Oh, there have been some gimmicky ones — Pam from ""The Office,"" manga girls, a voluptuous model covered in synthetic diamonds. Texas State University professor Cindy Royal wondered in her blog how are young women like her students supposed to feel about their roles in technology, reading Wired. Chris Anderson, the editor of Wired, defended his choice and said there aren't enough women, prominent women in technology to sell a cover, to sell an issue. Part of that is true, there aren't as many prominent women in technology. Here's my problem with that argument: Media tells us every day what's important, by the stories they choose and where they place them; it's called agenda setting. How many people knew the founders of Facebook and Google before their faces were on a magazine cover? Putting them there made them more recognizable. Now, Fast Company Magazine embraces that idea. This is its cover from November 15, 2010. The issue is about the most prominent and influential women in technology. Editor Robert Safian told the Poynter Institute, ""Silicon Valley is very white and very male. But that's not what Fast Company thinks the business world will look like in the future, so it tries to give a picture of where the globalized world is moving."" By the way, apparently, Wired took all this to heart. This was its issue in April. (Laughter) That's Limor Fried, the founder of Adafruit Industries, in the Rosie the Riveter pose. It would help to have more women in positions of leadership in media. A recent global survey found that 73 percent of the top media-management jobs are still held by men. But this is also about something far more complex: our own unconscious biases and blind spots. Shankar Vedantam is the author of ""The Hidden Brain: How Our Unconscious Minds Elect Presidents, Control Markets, Wage Wars, and Save Our Lives."" He told the former ombudsman at National Public Radio, who was doing a report on how women fare in NPR coverage, unconscious bias flows throughout most of our lives. It's really difficult to disentangle those strands. But he did have one suggestion. He used to work for two editors who said every story had to have at least one female source. He balked at first, but said he eventually followed the directive happily, because his stories got better and his job got easier. Now, I don't know if one of the editors was a woman, but that can make the biggest difference. The Dallas Morning News won a Pulitzer Prize in 1994 for a series it did on women around the world, but one of the reporters told me she's convinced it never would have happened if they had not had a female assistant foreign editor, and they would not have gotten some of those stories without female reporters and editors on the ground, particularly one on female genital mutilation — men would just not be allowed into those situations. This is an important point to consider, because much of our foreign policy now revolves around countries where the treatment of women is an issue, such as Afghanistan. What we're told in terms of arguments against leaving this country is that the fate of the women is primary. Now, I'm sure a male reporter in Kabul can find women to interview. Not so sure about rural, traditional areas, where I'm guessing women can't talk to strange men. It's important to keep talking about this, in light of Lara Logan. She was the CBS News correspondent who was brutally sexually assaulted in Egypt's Tahrir Square, right after this photo was taken. Almost immediately, pundits weighed in, blaming her and saying things like, ""You know, maybe women shouldn't be sent to cover those stories."" I never heard anyone say this about Anderson Cooper and his crew, who were attacked covering the same story. One way to get more women into leadership is to have other women mentor them. One of my board members is an editor at a major global media company, but she never thought about this as a career path, until she met female role models at JAWS. But this is not just a job for super-journalists or my organization. You all have a stake in a strong, vibrant media. Analyze your news. And speak up when there are gaps missing in coverage, like people at The New York Times did. Suggest female sources to reporters and editors. Remember — a complete picture of reality may depend upon it. And I'll leave you with a video clip that I first saw in [1987] when I was a student in London. It's for The Guardian newspaper. It's actually long before I ever thought about becoming a journalist, but I was very interested in how we learn to perceive our world. Narrator: An event seen from one point of view gives one impression. Seen from another point of view, it gives quite a different impression. But it's only when you get the whole picture, you can fully understand what's going on. [The Guardian] Megan Kamerick: I think you'll all agree that we'd be better off if we all had the whole picture."	"像大部分記者一樣，我是位理想主義者我熱愛挖掘好的故事，特別是那些不被傳述的我從來沒想過，到 2011 年時女性的故事依然會被看做是不用傳述的 我是女性與新聞座談會的主席座談會簡稱鯊魚會（JAWS）（笑聲）十年前我因為想找尋女性典範而加入此會議而我卻因為女性在這專業領域中落後的狀態和在媒體中所投射出的形象而感到失望和在媒體中所投射出的形象而感到失望我們占全球人口總數的一半但在所有的新聞主題中我們只在其中的 24% 被提及也只有 20% 的女性專家會在新聞中被引述現在，隨著當今的科技是有辦法完全將女性從照片中去除的 這是總統歐巴馬的一張照片他和他的顧問團正關注者獵殺奧薩瑪賓拉登的行動你能看見希拉蕊柯林頓在右邊我們來看看這張照片是如何被刊登在布魯克林的保守猶太報紙上希拉蕊完全消失了（笑聲）報社道歉了，卻說它們從不刊登女性的照片因為這可能引起性挑逗（笑聲） 這是極端的例子沒錯，但是事實是當遇到政治相關的新聞時女性只占新聞來源的 19%和經濟新聞中的 20%新聞持續地給我們一種""男性在各項工作的人數都超過女性""的印象除了這兩個：學生、家庭主婦（笑聲）所以我們看到的是非常扭曲現實的景象 問題在於，當然新聞媒體產業裡的女性不夠多她們只在報章電視中報導 37% 的新聞她們只在報章電視中報導 37% 的新聞就算在那些性別暴力中的報導男性記者在版面和播報時間上得到了壓倒性的多數 例如今年三月《紐約時報》刊登了一則由 James McKlinley 報導的故事有關一個在德州小鎮的幫派強暴了一位十一歲大的女孩McKinley 寫出那個社區的困惑「他們的男孩怎麼會被扯進這種事?」""被扯進""好像他們是被引誘以致犯下暴力罪行然後他引述的第一位受訪者說「這些男孩將一輩子得和這樣的陰影生存」（觀眾反應）你看不到太多有關十一歲受害者的報導除了她穿得有點超齡和她當時有化妝 《時報》後來被批評淹沒一開始《時報》為自己辯護，說「這不是我們的看法這是我們在報導中找到的」這或許是個你已經知道的祕密你看到的故事都是被架構好的當一個記者，我們做研究、我們採訪我們試圖拼湊出事實的完整真相我們一樣會有自己不自覺的偏見但是《時報》讓這些聽起來好似任何人來採訪都會得到相同的結果我並不苟同 所以三週後，《時報》重新訪查這個故事這次除了 McKinley 外，署名的記者加了一個人Erica Goode所浮現的是個實在悲慘、可怕的故事小女孩和他的家人被貧窮所困她多次被不同男人強暴她以前一直是個開朗、隨和的女孩她生理上發育較早但她的床上仍佈滿許多動物玩偶這是全然不同的圖像或許是因為 Goode 小姐的加入才讓整個故事得以完整 全球媒體監督計畫發現女性撰寫的報導比男性寫的更可能挑戰刻板印象在阿布奎基的 KUNM 電台Elaine Baumgartel 針對「女性與暴力」的報導做了一些碩論研究Elaine Baumgartel 針對「女性與暴力」的報導做了一些碩論研究她發現許多這種故事報導都傾向去責怪受害者或去貶低她們的人生它們刻意使之聳動，也缺乏前因後果她在碩士論文中用三階段研究一位連續殺人魔她在碩士論文中用三階段研究一位連續殺人魔殺了十一位女性並將她們埋在阿布奎基的西區她試圖在研究中挑戰那些模式和刻板印象並試圖展現記者面臨到的挑戰不論是外在的消息來源並試圖展現記者面臨到的挑戰不論是外在的消息來源或是自身內心的偏見，還有社會文化上的規範她和國家公共廣播電台的一個編輯合作好讓故事在全國播送她不確定假使編輯不是女性整件事有沒有可能發生 相較於男性，新聞中把女性描繪為受害者是男性的兩倍相較於男性，新聞中把女性描繪為受害者是男性的兩倍而女性也更可能因為身體部位而被物化2010年十一月號的《Wired雜誌》該期雜誌是有關胸部拭紙巾的工業好我知道你們都分心了，所以我要換張圖（笑聲）眼睛看過來（笑聲） 所以（掌聲）我要說的是《Wired雜誌》幾乎不曾把女性放上封面噢，有過一些比較戲謔的美國影集《辦公室瘋雲》的 Pam漫畫女孩身上貼滿合成鑽石的妖豔模特兒德州州立大學教授 Cindy Royal 在網誌上提出質疑那些年輕的女性，像是她的學生在看《Wired雜誌》時要怎麼看待自己在科技界所扮演的角色?《Wired雜誌》的編輯 Chris Anderson 為自己的選擇辯護他說：「在科技界中沒有那麼多頂尖女性能夠擔綱封面，或讓該期雜誌熱銷」這有一部份是真的科技界中真的沒有那麼多突出的女性 但我認為這說法有問題媒體每天靠著他們選擇的故事，和刊登的位置來告訴我們甚麼是重要的媒體每天靠著他們選擇的故事，和刊登的位置來告訴我們甚麼是重要的這叫做「設定議題」多少人在臉書和 Google 創辦人上雜誌封面前就認識他們把他們放在那讓他們更具有知名度 如今，《Fast Company 雜誌》擁抱這個概念這是2010年11月15日這期的封面這期雜誌是有關科技界中最有影響力的傑出女性編輯 Robert Safian 跟 Poynter 機構說「矽谷是白人和男人的世界但是《Fast Company 雜誌》並不認為這會是矽谷未來的樣貌所以他們試圖描繪未來全球化下的趨勢」 對了，顯然《Wired 雜誌》也虛心受教這是他們四月的雜誌（笑聲）這是 Adafruit 工業的創辦者 Limor Fried擺著經典的女子鉚釘工人姿勢 若有更多女性在媒體的領導職位也會有所幫助一項近期的全球調查發現在頂尖媒體行業中仍然有 73% 的管理職位是被男性占據但這也是有關一個更複雜的現象：我們不自覺的偏見和盲點 Shankar Vedantam 寫了《隱藏的大腦－我們的下意識如何選出總統、控制市場、挑起戰爭和救自己一命》一書他告訴一位前調查員之前負責在國家公共廣播公司調查女性在廣播中被報導的方式看不自覺的偏見如何充斥著我們的人生要解開那些思結是非常難的但他還是有一個建議他曾為兩個編輯工作編輯們說「每個故事都該有個女性的觀點」他起初質疑，但最後欣然接受因為他的報導變得更好他起初質疑，但最後欣然接受因為他的報導變得更好而他的工作也變得更輕鬆 我並不知道是否兩位編輯中有一位是女性但是這也算很大的改變《達拉斯早晨新聞》在1994 年贏得普立茲獎是由於一系列針對全球女性所做的報導但其中一位記者告訴我她深信如果不是因為一位外籍女性編輯助理這一切報導不會發生她深信如果不是因為一位外籍女性編輯助理這一切報導不會發生如果不是因為一些當地的女性記者和編輯他們也不會採訪到那些故事如果不是因為一些當地的女性記者和編輯他們也不會採訪到那些故事特別是一篇有關女性生殖器切除的報導男性根本不被允許進入那些場合 這是該深思的重點因為我們當下許多的國外政策與許多女性是件議題的國家相關例如阿富汗有人說反對離開阿富汗的一個原因主要是為了當地女性的命運我確信男性記者能在喀布爾找到女性受訪者但較鄉下和傳統的地區則非如此我猜那裡的女性不會跟陌生男子講話 有鑑於 Lara Logan，持續討論這件事是很重要的有鑑於 Lara Logan，持續討論這件事是很重要的她是 CBS 新聞台的外派記者她在被拍完這張照片後沒多久在埃及的 Tahrir 廣場被粗暴地性侵害幾乎立刻地，權威人士們群起責怪她並說些話像是「或許女性不該被送去報導這些故事」我沒聽過有人對 Anderson Cooper 發表類似評論他和工作人員在報導同樣故事時也被襲擊 讓更多女性得到領導地位的方法是讓其它女性引導她們我們其中一位成員是個全球大媒體公司的編輯但她之前從未想過做這個工作我們其中一位成員是個全球大媒體公司的編輯但她之前從未想過做這個工作直到她在 JAWS 遇到了另一位女性典範 但這件事不是只屬於超級記者或我組織的工作你們都在強而有力的媒體中占一席你們都在強而有力的媒體中占一席分析你看的新聞並在新聞出現如《紐時報導》的缺失時發聲分析你看的新聞並在新聞出現如《紐時報導》的缺失時發聲向記者或編輯推薦女性消息來源記住，一個完整事實的圖像或許就仰賴在這件事上 最後我要放一段我在 1987 年第一次看到的短片當時我在倫敦求學這是《衛報》的廣告在我想當記者之前看的但我當時熱衷於研究我們如何感知我們的世界旁白：從一個角度觀察到的事件會留下一種印象從另一個角度觀察時又會留下另一種頗不同的印象但只有當你看到完整的事件時你才會真的了解到事情的全貌《衛報》我想你們都會認同越能掌握完整事實越是件好事吧"
