Talk	en	zh-tw
melati_and_isabel_wijsen_our_campaign_to_ban_plastic_bags_in_bali	"Melati Wijsen: Bali — island of gods. Isabel Wijsen: A green paradise. MW: Or ... a paradise lost. Bali: island of garbage. IW: In Bali, we generate 680 cubic meters of plastic garbage a day. That's about a 14-story building. And when it comes to plastic bags, less than five percent gets recycled. MW: We know that changes the image you may have of our island. It changed ours, too, when we learned about it, when we learned that almost all plastic bags in Bali end up in our drains and then in our rivers and then in our ocean. And those that don't even make it to the ocean, they're either burned or littered. IW: So we decided to do something about it. And we've been working for almost three years now to try to say no to plastic bags on our home island. And we have had some significant successes. MW: We are sisters, and we go to the best school on earth: Green School, Bali. Green School is not only different in the way that it is built out of bamboo, but also in the way that it teaches. We are taught to become leaders of today, something a normal textbook cannot match. IW: One day we had a lesson in class where we learned about significant people, like Nelson Mandela, Lady Diana and Mahatma Gandhi. Walking home that day, we agreed that we also wanted to be significant. Why should we wait until we were grown up to be significant? We wanted to do something now. MW: Sitting on the sofa that night, we brainstormed and thought of all the issues facing Bali. And one thing that stood out to us the most was the plastic garbage. But that is a huge problem. So we looked into what was a realistic target for us kids: plastic bags. And the idea was born. IW: We started researching, and let's just say, the more we learned, there was nothing good about plastic bags. And you know what? We don't even need them. MW: We were really inspired by the efforts to say no to plastic bags in many other places, from Hawaii to Rwanda and to severals cities like Oakland and Dublin. IW: And so the idea turned into the launch of ""Bye Bye Plastic Bags."" MW: In the years that we have been campaigning, we have learned a lot. Lesson number one: you cannot do it all by yourself. You need a big team of like-minded kids, and so we formed the Bye Bye Plastic Bags crew. The volunteer team includes children from all over the island, from both international and local schools. And together with them, we started a multi-layered approach, based on an on- and off-line signature petition, educational and inspirational presentations at schools and we raise general awareness at markets, festivals, beach clean-ups. And last but not least, we distribute alternative bags, bags like net bags, recycled newspaper bags or 100 percent organic material bags, all made by local initiatives on the island. IW: We run a pilot village, home of 800 families. The village mayor was our first friend and he loved our T-shirts, so that helped. We focused on making the customers aware, because that's where the change needs to happen. The village is already two-thirds along the way of becoming plastic bag free. Our first attempts to get the government of Bali on board failed. So we thought, ""Hmm ... a petition with one million signatures. They can't ignore us, right?"" MW: Right! IW: But, who would have guessed one million signatures is, like, a thousand times a thousand? (Laughter) We got stuck — till we learned lesson number two: think outside the box. Someone mentioned that the Bali airport handles 16 million arrivals and departures a year. MW: But how do we get into the airport? And here comes lesson number three: persistence. Off we headed to the airport. We got past the janitor. And then it was his boss's boss, and then the assistant office manager, and then the office manager, and then ... we got shuffled down two levels and thought, well, here comes the janitor again. And after several days knocking on doors and just being kids on a mission, we finally got to the commercial manager of Bali airports. And we gave him the ""Bali of plastic bags"" speech, and being a very nice man, he said, [imitating the man's voice] ""I cannot believe what I'm about say, but I'm going to give authorization to collect signatures behind customs and immigrations."" (Laughter) (Applause) IW: In our first hour and a half there, we got almost 1,000 signatures. How cool is that? Lesson number four: you need champions at all levels of society, from students to commercial managers to famous people. And thanks to the attraction of Green School, we had access to a steady stream of celebrities. Ban Ki Moon taught us that Secretary-Generals of the United Nations don't sign petitions — (Laughter) even if kids ask nicely. But he promised to spread the word, and now we work closely with the United Nations. MW: Jane Goodall taught us the power of a people's network. She started with just one Roots & Shoots group and now she has 4,000 groups around the world. We are one of them. She's a real inspiration. If you're a fellow Rotarian, nice to meet you. We're Interactors, the youngest department of Rotary International. IW: But we have also learned much about patience, MW: how to deal with frustrations, IW: leadership, MW: teamwork, IW: friendship, MW: we learned more about the Balinese and their culture IW: and we learned about the importance of commitment. MW: It's not always easy. Sometimes it does get a little bit hard to walk your talk. IW: But last year, we did exactly that. We went to India to give a talk, and our parents took us to visit the former private house of Mahatma Gandhi. We learned about the power of hunger strikes he did to reach his goals. Yes, by the end of the tour, when we met our parents again, we both made a decision and said, ""We're going on a hunger strike!"" (Laughter) MW: And you can probably imagine their faces. It took a lot of convincing, and not only to our parents but to our friends and to our teachers as well. Isabel and I were serious about doing this. So we met with a nutritionist, and we came up with a compromise of not eating from sunrise to sunset every day until the governor of Bali would agree to meet with us to talk about how to stop plastic bags on Bali. IW: Our ""mogak makan,"" as it is called in Bahasa Indonesia, started. We used social media to support our goal and already on day two, police started to come to our home and school. What were these two girls doing? We knew we weren't making the governor look his best by doing this food strike — we could have gone to jail. But, hey, it worked. Twenty-four hours later, we were picked up from school and escorted to the office of the governor. MW: And there he was — (Applause) waiting for us to meet and speak, being all supportive and thankful for our willingness to care for the beauty and the environment of Bali. He signed a promise to help the people of Bali say no to plastic bags. And we are now friends, and on a regular basis, we remind him and his team of the promises he has made. And indeed, recently he stated and committed that Bali will be plastic bag free by 2018. (Applause) IW: Also, at the International Airport of Bali, one of our supporters is planning to start a plastic bag-free policy by 2016. MW: Stop handing out free plastic bags and bring in your own reusable bag is our next message to change that mindset of the public. IW: Our short-term campaign, ""One Island / One Voice,"" is all about this. We check and recognize the shops and restaurants that have declared themselves a plastic bag-free zone, and we put this sticker at their entrance and publish their names on social media and some important magazines on Bali. And conversely, that highlights those who do not have the sticker. (Laughter) MW: So, why are we actually telling you all of this? Well, partly, it is because we are proud of the results that, together with our team, we have been able to reach. But also because along the way, we have learned that kids can do things. We can make things happen. Isabel and I were only 10 and 12 years old when we started this. We never had a business plan, nor a fixed strategy, nor any hidden agendas — just the idea in front of us and a group of friends working with us. All we wanted to do was stop those plastic bags from wrapping and suffocating our beautiful home. Kids have a boundless energy and a motivation to be the change the world needs. IW: So to all the kids of this beautiful but challenging world: go for it! Make that difference. We're not telling you it's going to be easy. We're telling you it's going to be worth it. Us kids may only be 25 percent of the world's population, but we are 100 percent of the future. MW: We still have a lot of work to do, but know that we still not stop until the first question asked when arriving at the Bali airports will be Both: ""Welcome to Bali, do you have nay plastic bags to declare?"" (Laughter) Om shanti shanti shanti om. Thank you. (Applause)"	"美樂蒂．維森：峇里島—神明之島。 伊莎貝爾．維森： 綠色天堂。 美樂蒂： 或者是 ．．．失落的天堂。 峇里島：垃圾之島。 伊莎貝爾：在峇里島，我們一天會生產６８０立方公尺的塑膠垃圾，這大約是１４層樓高，當涉及到塑膠袋時，它的回收率是少於５％的。 美樂蒂：我們知道塑膠袋已經改變了你對峇里島的印象，當我們意識到這件事的時候，它也改變了我們的—幾乎所有峇里島上的塑膠袋最後會流到我們的排水溝，之然後轉進我們的河流，最後流進我們的海洋。而那些沒有進到海洋的，它們不是被焚化就是被亂丟棄掉。 伊莎貝爾：所以，我們決定要做些事情，而且我們現在已經做了三年，嘗試在我們島上的家園，向塑膠袋說不，而我們有相當顯著的成功。 美樂蒂：我們是姊妹，我們在地球上最棒的學校上課：峇里島，格林學校。格林學校與一般學校不同的地方，除了它是由竹子建造而成，還有其教學方式。我們被教導成為今日的領袖，這是普通的教科書所無法比擬的。 伊莎貝爾：有一天，我們課堂上有一堂課，我們在學習有關重要的人士，像是尼爾森．曼德拉、戴安娜夫人、聖雄甘地。那天回家的路上，我們達成一個共識：我們也想成為重要的人，那為什麼我們要等到我們長大時才能變得重要呢？我們現在，就想做一些事。 美樂蒂：坐在沙發上的那一晚，我們腦力激盪並思考峇里島現在所面臨的問題。而其中一個對我們而言最突出的問題就是「塑膠垃圾」，但這可是一個大問題。所以我們調查我們小孩子可以實際達成的目標：塑膠袋。想法誕生了。 伊莎貝爾：我們開始研究，這麼說好了，我們了解得越多，越覺得塑膠袋一點好處也沒有，而且你知道嗎？我們根本不需要它們。 美樂蒂：我們對在不同的地方舉辦的「向塑膠袋說不」的活動感到極大的鼓舞，從夏威夷到盧安達，還有幾個城市，像是奧克蘭或都柏林。 伊莎貝爾：所以我們把想法轉換成「掰掰塑膠袋 」的活動。美樂蒂：這幾年我們一直在辦活動，這讓我們學到很多， 第一課：一個人的能力終究是有限的。你需要有一個志趣相投的小孩大團隊，所以我們招集了「掰掰塑膠袋 」組員。志工團隊來自所有島上的小孩，包含國際及當地學校，跟他們一起，我們開始一個多層級的接觸，主要是一些線上及線下的簽名請願書活動、含有教育寓意及鼓舞人心的學校演講，我們也在市場、節慶、海灘清潔活動上提高大眾的意識，最後但同樣重要的，我們分發替換袋，像是網袋、回收報紙袋、或是１００％有機物質袋，全部是當地島上的自發團體製做的。 伊莎貝爾：我們運作一個式範性的村莊，它有８００個家庭，村長是我們第一個朋友，而且他喜歡我們的Ｔ恤，這很有幫助。我們專注在建立顧客意識，因為它需要發生改變，村莊有三分之二的區域已經變成無塑膠袋的區域。 我們第一次嘗試邀請峇里島政府參加，但失敗了，所以我們在想，「嗯．．．如果有一百萬個簽名的請願書，他們就不會忽視我們，對吧？」 美樂蒂：對！ 伊莎貝爾：但，誰要不要猜一下，１００萬個簽名，是不是１０００乘以１０００啊？ （笑聲） 我們卡住了—直到我們學到的第二課：「跳脫框架，另類思考」某人提過，峇里島機場每年要處理１６００萬人次的出入境旅客。 美樂蒂：但我們要如何進去機場呢？所以有了第三課：「堅持」我們前往機場，我們通過看門警衛，然後去找他的長官的長官、然後是助理辦公室經理，然後是辦公室經理，接着．．．我們慢下腳步來到下兩層，並想著．．．好吧，又回到看門警衛這裡了。 經過了幾天的敲門以及成為有著使命感的小孩子，我們最後找到峇里島機場的商業部經理，然後我們向他講演了「全是塑膠袋的巴里島」的內容，他人很好，他說， [模仿他的聲音]「我不敢相信我要說的話，但我要授權給你們，可以在海關及移民局後面收集簽名 」。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 伊莎貝爾：我們在那裡的頭一小時半，就拿到快１０００個簽名，很酷吧? 第四課：你需要社會各層菁英的幫助，從學生到商業管理者到名人。謝謝格林學校的吸引力，讓我們有穩定的名人可以訪問。潘基文（韓國外交官、政治家）讓我們知道，聯合國秘書長不會簽請願書的— （笑聲） 即使我們好好地請求，但他答應要傳遞這些訊息，現在我們跟聯合國合作地相當密切， 美樂蒂：珍．古道爾教我們，一個人的人際網路的力量。她是從一個名叫「根與芽」的團體開始，現在她全世界有４０００個團體。我們是其中之一。她真的很鼓舞人心， 如果你是扶輪社的一員，很高興見到您，我們是少年服務團團員，國際扶輪社最年輕的部門。 伊莎貝爾：但我們也學到很多有關於耐心、 美樂蒂：如何處理挫折、 伊莎貝爾：領導力、 美樂蒂：團隊合作、 伊莎貝爾：友誼， 美樂蒂：我們也學到更多有關峇厘島人民及他們的文化。 伊莎貝爾：我們也學到承諾的重要性。 美樂蒂：它並不總是順利的。有時候，要實踐你說過的話會有點困難， 伊莎貝爾：但去年，我真的做到了。我們去印度演講，然後我們的父母帶我們去拜訪前聖雄甘地的私人住所。我們學到了絕食抗議的力量，他的確達成了他的目標，是的，就在旅行結束前，我們再次與父母親碰面，我們兩個都做了一個決定並跟他們說，「我們要絕食抗議 !」 （笑聲） 美樂蒂：你大概可以想像一下他們驚訝的表情，我們說服了好久，不只我們的父母，還包括我們的朋友及老師，伊莎貝爾和我都很認真看待這件事，所以，我們跟一位營養師碰面，然後我們達成了共識，每天日落到日出都不能吃東西，直到峇厘島政府願意見我們，來討論如何阻止峇厘島上的塑膠袋。 伊莎貝爾：我們的＂mogak makan＂印度語的＂絕食抗議＂，開始了。我們運用媒體支持我們的行動，就在第二天，警察開始來我們家裡跟學校，這兩個女孩在搞甚麼？我們知道我們不能藉由絕食抗議來要求政府做事—這樣我們可能會坐牢。但，嘿，有效了，２４小時後，我們從學校被帶走，並護送到政府辦公室， 伊莎貝爾：而他就在那— （掌聲） 等我們見面說話，並全力支持感謝我們對峇厘島環境與美麗所付出的努力和關心。 他簽署了一個承諾，來幫助峇厘島人民＂向塑膠袋說不＂。現在我們是朋友了，而且我們有規律地提醒他及他的團隊所承諾的事，的確，最近他公開表示並承諾，峇里島到２０１８年將不會再有塑膠袋。 （掌聲） 伊莎貝爾：而且，我們的支持者之一，峇厘島國際機場計畫在２０１６年前完成無塑膠袋政策。 美樂蒂：逛街時不要使用塑膠袋，並攜帶自己的可重複使用袋，是我們下一個要改變大眾觀念的訊息。 伊莎貝爾：我們的短期活動，「一個島／一個聲音」就是有關於這些事。我們會檢查並認證那些申明他們自己是無塑膠袋區的商店與餐廳，然後我們會在他們的入口處貼上這個貼紙，並在社交媒體及重要的峇厘島雜誌上公佈他們的店名，反之，凸顯那些沒有貼紙的店家。 （笑聲） 美樂蒂：那，為什麼我們一定要告訴你們這些呢？好吧，一部分原因是我們的團隊對我們有能力能達成這樣的成果感到很驕傲。但也有部分原因是，我們學到了: 小孩也能做有意義的事，我們能讓事情成真。伊莎貝爾和我開始在做這件事時，只有10歲、12歲。我們從來沒有商業計畫，或者固定的策略，也沒有隱瞞的議程—僅是我們眼前的一個理想，及一群與我們工作的團隊，我們想做的僅僅只是停止讓塑膠袋繼續包圍破壞我們美麗的家園。小孩有用不完的能量，以及，為世界需要的改變而努力的動機。 伊莎貝爾：給在這個美麗又充滿挑戰的世界上的所有小孩一句話：去做吧！去做些不一樣的事。我們並沒有說這將會很簡單，我們想告訴你的是，它是值得的。我們小孩子雖然僅占世界上25%的人口，但我們才是100%的未來。 美樂蒂：我們仍有很多事要做，但即使如此，我們也不會停下來，直到抵達峇厘島機場時，被問到的第一個問題將會是： ""歡迎來到峇厘島，你有塑膠袋要申報嗎？＂ （笑聲） （印度語）願宇宙萬物和平。謝謝！（掌聲）"
