Talk	en	zh-tw
melinda_gates_let_s_put_birth_control_back_on_the_agenda	"Today, I'd like to talk with you about something that should be a totally uncontroversial topic. But, unfortunately, it's become incredibly controversial. This year, if you think about it, over a billion couples will have sex with one another. Couples like this one, and this one, and this one, and, yes, even this one. (Laughter) And my idea is this — all these men and women should be free to decide whether they do or do not want to conceive a child. And they should be able to use one of these birth control methods to act on their decision. Now, I think you'd have a hard time finding many people who disagree with this idea. Over one billion people use birth control without any hesitation at all. They want the power to plan their own lives and to raise healthier, better educated and more prosperous families. But, for an idea that is so broadly accepted in private, birth control certainly generates a lot of opposition in public. Some people think when we talk about contraception that it's code for abortion, which it's not. Some people — let's be honest — they're uncomfortable with the topic because it's about sex. Some people worry that the real goal of family planning is to control populations. These are all side issues that have attached themselves to this core idea that men and women should be able to decide when they want to have a child. And as a result, birth control has almost completely and totally disappeared from the global health agenda. The victims of this paralysis are the people of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Here in Germany, the proportion of people that use contraception is about 66 percent. That's about what you'd expect. In El Salvador, very similar, 66 percent. Thailand, 64 percent. But let's compare that to other places, like Uttar Pradesh, one of the largest states in India. In fact, if Uttar Pradesh was its own country, it would be the fifth largest country in the world. Their contraception rate — 29 percent. Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, 10 percent. Chad, 2 percent. Let's just take one country in Africa, Senegal. Their rate is about 12 percent. But why is it so low? One reason is that the most popular contraceptives are rarely available. Women in Africa will tell you over and over again that what they prefer today is an injectable. They get it in their arm — and they go about four times a year, they have to get it every three months — to get their injection. The reason women like it so much in Africa is they can hide it from their husbands, who sometimes want a lot of children. The problem is every other time a woman goes into a clinic in Senegal, that injection is stocked out. It's stocked out 150 days out of the year. So can you imagine the situation — she walks all this way to go get her injection. She leaves her field, sometimes leaves her children, and it's not there. And she doesn't know when it's going to be available again. This is the same story across the continent of Africa today. And so what we've created as a world has become a life-and-death crisis. There are 100,000 women [per year] who say they don't want to be pregnant and they die in childbirth — 100,000 women a year. There are another 600,000 women [per year] who say they didn't want to be pregnant in the first place, and they give birth to a baby and her baby dies in that first month of life. I know everyone wants to save these mothers and these children. But somewhere along the way, we got confused by our own conversation. And we stopped trying to save these lives. So if we're going to make progress on this issue, we have to be really clear about what our agenda is. We're not talking about abortion. We're not talking about population control. What I'm talking about is giving women the power to save their lives, to save their children's lives and to give their families the best possible future. Now, as a world, there are lots of things we have to do in the global health community if we want to make the world better in the future — things like fight diseases. So many children today die of diarrhea, as you heard earlier, and pneumonia. They kill literally millions of children a year. We also need to help small farmers — farmers who plow small plots of land in Africa — so that they can grow enough food to feed their children. And we have to make sure that children are educated around the world. But one of the simplest and most transformative things we can do is to give everybody access to birth control methods that almost all Germans have access to and all Americans, at some point, they use these tools during their life. And I think as long as we're really clear about what our agenda is, there's a global movement waiting to happen and ready to get behind this totally uncontroversial idea. When I grew up, I grew up in a Catholic home. I still consider myself a practicing Catholic. My mom's great-uncle was a Jesuit priest. My great-aunt was a Dominican nun. She was a schoolteacher and a principal her entire life. In fact, she's the one who taught me as a young girl how to read. I was very close to her. And I went to Catholic schools for my entire childhood until I left home to go to university. In my high school, Ursuline Academy, the nuns made service and social justice a high priority in the school. Today, in the [Gates] Foundation's work, I believe I'm applying the lessons that I learned in high school. So, in the tradition of Catholic scholars, the nuns also taught us to question received teachings. And one of the teachings that we girls and my peers questioned was is birth control really a sin? Because I think one of the reasons we have this huge discomfort talking about contraception is this lingering concern that if we separate sex from reproduction, we're going to promote promiscuity. And I think that's a reasonable question to be asked about contraception — what is its impact on sexual morality? But, like most women, my decision about birth control had nothing to do with promiscuity. I had a plan for my future. I wanted to go to college. I studied really hard in college, and I was proud to be one of the very few female computer science graduates at my university. I wanted to have a career, so I went on to business school and I became one of the youngest female executives at Microsoft. I still remember, though, when I left my parents' home to move across the country to start this new job at Microsoft. They had sacrificed a lot to give me five years of higher education. But they said, as I left home — and I literally went down the front steps, down the porch at home — and they said, ""Even though you've had this great education, if you decide to get married and have kids right away, that's OK by us, too."" They wanted me to do the thing that would make me the very happiest. I was free to decide what that would be. It was an amazing feeling. In fact, I did want to have kids — but I wanted to have them when I was ready. And so now, Bill and I have three. And when our eldest daughter was born, we weren't, I would say, exactly sure how to be great parents. Maybe some of you know that feeling. And so we waited a little while before we had our second child. And it's no accident that we have three children that are spaced three years apart. Now, as a mother, what do I want the very most for my children? I want them to feel the way I did — like they can do anything they want to do in life. And so, what has struck me as I've travelled the last decade for the foundation around the world is that all women want that same thing. Last year, I was in Nairobi, in the slums, in one called Korogocho — which literally means when translated, ""standing shoulder to shoulder."" And I spoke with this women's group that's pictured here. And the women talked very openly about their family life in the slums, what it was like. And they talked quite intimately about what they did for birth control. Marianne, in the center of the screen in the red sweater, she summed up that entire two-hour conversation in a phrase that I will never forget. She said, ""I want to bring every good thing to this child before I have another."" And I thought — that's it. That's universal. We all want to bring every good thing to our children. But what's not universal is our ability to provide every good thing. So many women suffer from domestic violence. And they can't even broach the subject of contraception, even inside their own marriage. There are many women who lack basic education. Even many of the women who do have knowledge and do have power don't have access to contraceptives. For 250 years, parents around the world have been deciding to have smaller families. This trend has been steady for a quarter of a millennium, across cultures and across geographies, with the glaring exception of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. The French started bringing down their family size in the mid-1700s. And over the next 150 years, this trend spread all across Europe. The surprising thing to me, as I learned this history, was that it spread not along socioeconomic lines but around cultural lines. People who spoke the same language made that change as a group. They made the same choice for their family, whether they were rich or whether they were poor. The reason that trend toward smaller families spread was that this whole way was driven by an idea — the idea that couples can exercise conscious control over how many children they have. This is a very powerful idea. It means that parents have the ability to affect the future, not just accept it as it is. In France, the average family size went down every decade for 150 years in a row until it stabilized. It took so long back then because the contraceptives weren't that good. In Germany, this transition started in the 1880s, and it took just 50 years for family size to stabilize in this country. And in Asia and Latin America, the transition started in the 1960s, and it happened much faster because of modern contraception. I think, as we go through this history, it's important to pause for a moment and to remember why this has become such a contentious issue. It's because some family planning programs resorted to unfortunate incentives and coercive policies. For instance, in the 1960s, India adopted very specific numeric targets and they paid women to accept having an IUD placed in their bodies. Now, Indian women were really smart in this situation. When they went to get an IUD inserted, they got paid six rupees. And so what did they do? They waited a few hours or a few days, and they went to another service provider and had the IUD removed for one rupee. For decades in the United States, African-American women were sterilized without their consent. The procedure was so common it became known as the Mississippi appendectomy — a tragic chapter in my country's history. And as recently as the 1990s, in Peru, women from the Andes region were given anesthesia and they were sterilized without their knowledge. The most startling thing about this is that these coercive policies weren't even needed. They were carried out in places where parents already wanted to lower their family size. Because in region after region, again and again, parents have wanted to have smaller families. There's no reason to believe that African women have innately different desires. Given the option, they will have fewer children. The question is: will we invest in helping all women get what they want now? Or, are we going to condemn them to some century-long struggle, as if this was still revolutionary France and the best method was coitus interruptus? Empowering parents — it doesn't need justification. But here's the thing — our desire to bring every good thing to our children is a force for good throughout the world. It's what propels societies forward. In that same slum in Nairobi, I met a young businesswoman, and she was making backpacks out of her home. She and her young kids would go to the local jeans factory and collect scraps of denim. She'd create these backpacks and resell them. And when I talked with her, she had three children, and I asked her about her family. And she said she and her husband decided that they wanted to stop having children after their third one. And so when I asked her why, she simply said, ""Well, because I couldn't run my business if I had another child."" And she explained the income that she was getting out of her business afforded her to be able to give an education to all three of her children. She was incredibly optimistic about her family's future. This is the same mental calculus that hundreds of millions of men and women have gone through. And evidence proves that they have it exactly right. They are able to give their children more opportunities by exercising control over when they have them. In Bangladesh, there's a district called Matlab. It's where researchers have collected data on over 180,000 inhabitants since 1963. In the global health community, we like to say it's one of the longest pieces of research that's been running. We have so many great health statistics. In one of the studies, what did they do? Half the villagers were chosen to get contraceptives. They got education and access to contraception. Twenty years later, following those villages, what we learned is that they had a better quality of life than their neighbors. The families were healthier. The women were less likely to die in childbirth. Their children were less likely to die in the first thirty days of life. The children were better nourished. The families were also wealthier. The adult women's wages were higher. Households had more assets — things like livestock or land or savings. Finally, their sons and daughters had more schooling. So when you multiply these types of effects over millions of families, the product can be large-scale economic development. People talk about the Asian economic miracle of the 1980s — but it wasn't really a miracle. One of the leading causes of economic growth across that region was this cultural trend towards smaller families. Sweeping changes start at the individual family level — the family making a decision about what's best for their children. When they make that change and that decision, those become sweeping regional and national trends. When families in sub-Saharan Africa are given the opportunity to make those decisions for themselves, I think it will help spark a virtuous cycle of development in communities across the continent. We can help poor families build a better future. We can insist that all people have the opportunity to learn about contraceptives and have access to the full variety of methods. I think the goal here is really clear: universal access to birth control that women want. And for that to happen, it means that both rich and poor governments alike must make contraception a total priority. We can do our part, in this room and globally, by talking about the hundreds of millions of families that don't have access to contraception today and what it would do to change their lives if they did have access. I think if Marianne and the members of her women's group can talk about this openly and have this discussion out amongst themselves and in public, we can, too. And we need to start now. Because like Marianne, we all want to bring every good thing to our children. And where is the controversy in that? Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have some questions for Melinda. (Applause ends) Thank you for your courage and everything else. So, Melinda, in the last few years I've heard a lot of smart people say something to the effect of, ""We don't need to worry about the population issue anymore. Family sizes are coming down naturally all over the world. We're going to peak at nine or 10 billion. And that's it."" Are they wrong? Melinda Gates: If you look at the statistics across Africa, they are wrong. And I think we need to look at it, though, from a different lens. We need to look at it from the ground upwards. I think that's one of the reasons we got ourselves in so much trouble on this issue of contraception. We looked at it from top down and said we want to have different population numbers over time. Yes, we care about the planet. Yes, we need to make the right choices. But the choices have to be made at the family level. And it's only by giving people access and letting them choose what to do that you get those sweeping changes that we have seen globally — except for sub-Saharan Africa and those places in South Asia and Afghanistan. CA: Some people on the right in America and in many conservative cultures around the world might say something like this: ""It's all very well to talk about saving lives and empowering women and so on. But, sex is sacred. What you're proposing is going to increase the likelihood that lots of sex happens outside marriage. And that is wrong."" What would you say to them? MG: I would say that sex is absolutely sacred. And it's sacred in Germany, and it's sacred in the United States, and it's sacred in France and so many places around the world. And the fact that 98 percent of women in my country who are sexually experienced say they use birth control doesn't make sex any less sacred. It just means that they're getting to make choices about their lives. And I think in that choice, we're also honoring the sacredness of the family and the sacredness of the mother's life and the childrens' lives by saving their lives. To me, that's incredibly sacred, too. CA: So what is your foundation doing to promote this issue? And what could people here and people listening on the web — what would you like them to do? MG: I would say this — join the conversation. We've listed the website up here. Join the conversation. Tell your story about how contraception has either changed your life or somebody's life that you know. And say that you're for this. We need a groundswell of people saying, ""This makes sense. We've got to give all women access — no matter where they live."" And one of the things that we're going to do is do a large event July 11 in London, with a whole host of countries, a whole host of African nations, to all say we're putting this back on the global health agenda. We're going to commit resources to it, and we're going to do planning from the bottom up with governments to make sure that women are educated — so that if they want the tool, they have it, and that they have lots of options available either through their local healthcare worker or their local community rural clinic. CA: Melinda, I'm guessing that some of those nuns who taught you at school are going to see this TED Talk at some point. Are they going to be horrified, or are they cheering you on? MG: I know they're going to see the TED Talk because they know that I'm doing it and I plan to send it to them. And, you know, the nuns who taught me were incredibly progressive. I hope that they'll be very proud of me for living out what they taught us about social justice and service. I have come to feel incredibly passionate about this issue because of what I've seen in the developing world. And for me, this topic has become very close to heart because you meet these women and they are so often voiceless. And yet they shouldn't be — they should have a voice, they should have access. And so I hope they'll feel that I'm living out what I've learned from them and from the decades of work that I've already done at the foundation. CA: So, you and your team brought together today an amazing group of speakers to whom we're all grateful. Did you learn anything? (Laughter) MG: Oh my gosh, I learned so many things. I have so many follow-up questions. And I think a lot of this work is a journey. You heard the discussion about the journey through energy, or the journey through social design, or the journey in the coming and saying, ""Why aren't there any women on this platform?"" And I think for all of us who work on these development issues, you learn by talking to other people. You learn by doing. You learn by trying and making mistakes. And it's the questions you ask. Sometimes it's the questions you ask that helps lead to the answer the next person that can help you answer it. So I have lots of questions for the panelists from today. And I thought it was just an amazing day. CA: Melinda, thank you for inviting all of us on this journey with you. Thank you so much. MG: Great. Thanks, Chris."	今天，我想跟大家談談本來應該完全沒有爭議的話題。但不幸的是，這話題大受爭議。 今年，如果你想一下，超過百萬對伴侶會有性行為。像這對，這一對，還有這一對。是的，甚至這一對。 （笑聲） 我的信念是這樣，所有男人女人都應該可以自由決定他們要不要懷孕生子。他們應該可以用這些避孕法按著自己的決定行事。現在，我想你大概很難找到太多不同意這個想法的人。超過十億人毫不猶豫地避孕。他們想要有計畫自己人生的權力，及撫養更健康、教育程度更高、更富有的家庭。 然而，節育這個在私底下如此廣為接受的想法，在公眾顯然遭受很大反對。有些人認為我們談的避孕，是墮胎的代碼，事實並非如此。有些人──我們就打開天窗說亮話吧──覺得這個話題令他們不自在，因為這在談性行為。有些人擔心家庭計畫的真正目的是控制人口。但這些都是枝節的問題，攀附在這個核心信念上，即男人女人都應該能決定什麼時候要有小孩。結果是，節育幾乎已完全自全球衛生綱領上消失。 這個癱瘓政策的受害者，是撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲人及南亞人。在德國這裡，大眾使用避孕法的比例約為 66%。這數字跟預期差不多。在薩爾瓦多也很類似，66%。泰國，64%，但將此數字與其他地方相較，如印度的大省「北方邦」。事實上，如果北方邦獨立，會是世界上第五大國家。他們的避孕率，29%。奈及利亞，非洲人口最密集的國家，10%。查德，2%。就拿非洲的塞內加爾為例。他們的避孕率約為 12%。 但為什麼會這麼低？原因之一是拿不到最普遍使用的避孕用品。非洲女人會一再地告訴你，她們現在比較喜歡用注射法。她們在手臂上打一針，一年打四次，她們必須每三個月打一次。非洲婦女這麼喜歡這種方法的原因是她們可以向丈夫隱瞞，丈夫有時候想要很多小孩。問題是塞內加爾的女人去診所時，常常發現注射劑缺貨。每年有 150 天缺貨。你可以想像這種情況嗎？她走了好長一段路去打避孕針。她得丟下她的田，有時候還得丟下孩子，卻發現沒有藥。她也不知道什麼時候才會再進貨。這樣的故事每天都在非洲大陸上演。 我們全體共創的問題已經變成生死存亡的危機。每年有十萬名婦女說她們不想要懷孕，結果死於難產。每年十萬名婦女！每年還有六十萬名婦女說她們其實不想懷孕，但還是生下小孩，小孩卻在頭一個月內死亡。我知道每個人都想拯救這些母親及孩子，但是在拯救之路上，我們卻被自己的爭論困惑。然後我們就停止拯救這些生命。 所以，如果我們要在這項議題上有進展，我們必須很清楚明瞭我們的意圖是什麼。我們不是在談墮胎。我們不是在談人口控制。我在談的是給女性拯救自己生命的權力，拯救自己孩子的生命，並且給她們的家庭最好的未來。 那麼，從世界整體看，我們要為全球健康做很多事，如果我們想讓這個世界有更美好的未來，像對抗疾病這種就是要做的。你們之前聽到了，今天有太多孩子死於腹瀉及肺炎。這兩種病一年會殺死數百萬名孩童。我們也必須幫助非洲小農，他們耕種小塊土地，如此他們才能種植足夠的食物餵養孩子。我們必須確保全世界孩童都能受教育。但是還有一件既簡單又能帶來改變的事，就是讓每一個人都能取得節育的方法，就像幾乎每位德國人、美國人能拿到一樣，他們在人生的某個階段使用這些用品。我認為只要我們真的很清楚我們的意圖是什麼，就會產生全球性的運動，準備好支持這項完全沒有爭議的想法。 我在天主教家庭長大。我仍然視自己為虔誠的天主教徒。我母親的伯公是耶穌會修士。我的姑婆是道明會修女。她教鞭執了一輩子。事實上，她是我小時候教我認字的人。我跟她非常親。我整個童年都讀天主教學校，直到我離家去讀大學。在我的高中，聖吳甦樂學園，修女高度重視服務及社會正義。今天，我在蓋茲基金會的工作，我相信那正是在應用高中所學之道。 在天主教學者的傳統風氣下，修女也教導我們要質疑接受到的教誨。我們女孩子及同學常質疑的一項教條，就是節育真的是罪嗎？因為我認為我們對談論避孕會這麼不自在，是因為這個想法在作怪，即如果我們把性與繁衍後代分開，我們就在鼓勵淫亂。我想要談避孕的話，接下來這個問題就得提出來談──避孕對性道德會產生什麼影響？ 但是，就像大多數女性，我決定要節育與淫亂完全無關。我對未來有計畫。我想去上大學。我在大學非常認真讀書，我也很自傲自己是校內電腦科學系少數女性畢業生之一。我想要發展事業，所以我進了商學院，我也成為微軟的年輕女性高級主管一員。 但是我仍然記得在我離家，橫跨美國大陸到微軟開始新工作時的一景。他們犧牲了很多讓我接受五年的高等教育。但我離家時他們對我說──真的就在我走下前門台階的時候──他們說：「即使妳受了這麼好的教育，如果妳馬上就想結婚生小孩，我們也不會反對。」他們想要我去做讓自己最幸福的事。我可以自由決定要做什麼。這感覺真好。 事實上，我的確想要孩子，但我想在我準備好時再要。所以現在，比爾和我有三個孩子。我的大女兒出生時，我必須說我們不太清楚怎麼當好父母。可能在座有些人了解那種感覺。所以我們等了一陣子才懷第二個孩子。我們有三個孩子，每個間隔三年並非偶然。現在，身為母親，我最想要給我的孩子什麼？我想要他們跟我當時的感覺一樣，就是他們能做任何想做的事。所以，我很驚訝，當我過去十年為基金會在全世界奔走時，看到所有的女性都有同樣的心願。 去年，我在奈洛比一個叫科羅哥丘的貧民窟，翻譯出來就是「比肩繼踵 」的意思。我與這張照片上的當地婦女團體談話。這些婦女非常公開地談論她們在貧民窟中的生活是什麼樣子。她們也很親密地談論她們如何節育。瑪莉安，螢幕中間穿紅色毛衣的，她總結這場兩小時的對話，說了句我永遠忘不了的話。她說：「我想先給這個孩子最好的一切，再生下一個孩子。」我就想，就是這樣。這是普世皆然的想法。我們都想給孩子最好的一切。 但是怎麼給他們最好的卻非普世皆然。許多婦女遭受家暴。她們甚至無法提出避孕的話題，即使已經結婚了也不行。很多女性沒有受過基本教育。甚至許多受過教育、有能力的女性也無法拿到避孕品。 250 年來，全世界的父母都決定要小一點的家庭。這種潮流在過去250 年來都是如此，無論文化、無論地理位置，只有一個很明顯的例外，就是撒哈拉以南的非洲及南亞。法國自 18 世紀中開始減少家庭人口。接下來 150 年這個潮流席捲歐洲。我在讀這段歷史時很驚訝這不是以社經地位傳播，而是以文化為基礎傳播。說同樣語言的人以團體的形式做出改變。他們為了家庭做出相同的決定，無論他們是富是貧。小家庭趨勢能廣傳的原因，是整件事受這個想法驅使，就是夫婦能實行節育，自行決定他們要有多少孩子。這是很有影響力的想法。這意味著父母能影響未來，而非被動的接受。 在法國，平均家庭人口數每十年就縮小一次，持續了 150 年，直到穩定為止。要花這麼長的時間是因為過去的避孕效果不太好。德國於 1880 年代開始轉變，然後只花了 50 年就使這個國家的家庭人數達到穩定。在亞洲及南美，轉變始於 1960 年代，由於現代化的避孕法，這種轉變發展更快。 我認為，在我們討論歷史的同時，我們必須暫停一下，並回想為什麼這會變成如此受爭論的議題。這是因為某些家庭計畫使出不適宜的誘因和高壓政策。例如在 1960 年代，印度採用非常具體的數字目標，而且他們還付錢給女性，讓她們在體內裝上子宮環。印度女性在這方面真的很精明。她們每次去裝子宮環，就會得到六盧比。所以她們怎麼做呢？她們會等幾小時或幾天，然後去另一家醫院付一盧比取出子宮環。美國曾有數十年的歷史，非裔女性未經同意就被強迫絕育。這項手術普遍到被稱為「密西西比闌尾切除術」，真是我國歷史上悲慘的一章。即使近如 1990 年代，秘魯安地斯區域的女性還被施以麻醉，在不知情的狀況下被絕育。 這樣的事件最令人驚訝的，是這些高壓政策其實是不必要的。實施這些政策的地方，那裡的父母老早就想減少家庭人數。因為我們在世界各地，一次又一次地看見，父母都想要小一點的家庭。沒有理由相信非洲婦女有天生不同的要求。給她們選擇，她們會少生幾個孩子。問題是，我們現在就會投資幫助所有女性得到她們想要的嗎？還是，我們要迫使她們困在過去數百年的掙扎中，好像我們還在法國大革命時期，最好的避孕法是體外射精？ 授予父母自主權，這不需要理由。重點是，想把最好的都給孩子的願望，是促使世界各地「求善」的力量。這是推動社會前進的力量。在奈洛比同一所貧民窟，我遇見一名年輕的女生意人，她在家裡製作背包。她和年幼的孩子會去當地的牛仔褲工廠收集丹寧碎布。她製作成這些背包然後轉售。我跟她談的時候，她有三個小孩，我問她家裡的情況。她說她和丈夫決定他們生三個以後就不要再生了。我問她為什麼，她的回答很簡單：「嗯，如果我再生孩子，就不能做生意了。」她解釋她從生意賺到的收入足以讓她的三個小孩都受教育。她對她家的前景非常樂觀。同樣的想法在千千萬萬男女的心中盤算著。證據顯示他們算的很對。他們透過控制何時要小孩，就能給孩子更好的機會。 在孟加拉共和國有個行政區稱為麥特拉伯。研究人員自 1963 年起已從超過十八萬居民收集數據。在全球健康圈內，我們都說那是史上最長的研究。我們得到很多很棒的健康統計數字。其中一項研究，你猜他們做什麼？給予半數村民一些避孕用品。他們能拿到避孕用品，並學會如何使用。二十年後，追蹤這些村莊，我們發現他們的生活品質比鄰居更好。家人更健康。婦女比較不會因難產而死。他們的孩子比較不會在滿月前夭折。孩童營養較好。家庭更富有。成年女性的薪水較高。每戶人家擁有較多資產，像是更多家畜、土地或儲蓄。最後，他們的兒女就學機會更大。所以當你把這些效應乘上數百萬家庭，其結果就是大規模的經濟發展。大家都在談論 1980 年代亞洲經濟奇蹟，但這其實不是奇蹟。那塊區域經濟成長的主要原因之一，是小家庭文化的潮流。 要徹底改變，必須從各個家庭開始，每個家庭自己決定什麼對他們的孩子最好。當他們做出這樣的改變、這樣的決定，就會變成席捲區域及國家的潮流。當撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲家庭有了這樣的機會，能為自己做出這樣的決定，我想這就會在整個非洲大陸的社區內激發良性發展循環。我們能幫助貧窮家庭創造更好的前景。我們能堅決主張所有人都有機會學到避孕法，並能取得各式各樣的避孕用品。 我想這裡的目標非常明確：全面普及女性想要的節育。要實現這點，意味著無論貧富，所有的政府都必須將避孕列為優先。無論在這裡或在全球，我們都要盡自己的力量去告訴大家，這世界還有數不清的家庭到今天仍無法取得避孕用品，以及如果他們能拿到，生活會有什麼樣的改變。 我想如果瑪莉安及她的婦女團體成員能公開談論這件事，能在她們之間及在公眾前談這件事，我們也可以。而且我們必須現在就開始。因為就像瑪莉安，我們都想給孩子最好的一切。這有什麼爭議呢？謝謝。 （掌聲） 克里斯·安德森：謝謝妳。我有一些問題想問梅琳達。 （掌聲結束） 謝謝妳的勇氣和所作所為。 梅琳達，過去幾年我聽到很多自以為是的人說，大概是這個意思，「我們不用再擔心人口問題了。世界各地家庭人數正在自然減少。我們在 90 億或 100 億達到高峰。就這樣。」他們說錯了嗎？ 梅琳達·蓋茲：如果你看非洲的統計數字，他們的確說錯了。但我認為我們其實要從不同的角度看這件事。我們需要從底部向上看。我想這就是我們讓自己在避孕議題上陷入這麼大麻煩的原因之一。我們從上向下看，然後說隨著時間我們想要有不同的人口數。是，我們是很關心地球。是，我們需要做正確的決定。但是選擇必須是從家庭層面。只有給大家管道及讓他們選擇要做什麼，結果才是我們在全球看到的徹底改變，除了撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲及南亞幾個地方和阿富汗。 克：有些右翼美國人及全球許多保守派文化可能會說：「要談拯救生命及賦權女性等等是很好。但是，性是神聖的。妳所提出的可能會增加婚外性行為。這是不對的。」妳對他們有什麼要說的嗎？ 梅：我要說性絕對是神聖的。性在德國是神聖的，性在美國也是神聖的，在法國也是，在全世界許多地方都是。在我國，98% 有性行為的女性說她們節育並不會讓性行為變得不神聖。這只代表她們要選擇怎樣過生活。而且我覺得這樣的選擇，也讓我們尊榮家庭的神聖，當母親的神聖，及孩子的生活，因為這拯救了他們的生命。對我而言，這也非常神聖。 克：那麼妳的基金會如何宣導這項議題？在座的人及網路上聽的人又可以做什麼？妳希望他們做什麼？ 梅：我會這麼說，參與對話。我們在上面列了幾個網站。參與對話。告訴大家避孕如何改變了妳的生活，或是你知道誰的生活因此而改變。表達你的支持。我們需要高漲的輿論說：「這很有道理。我們要給所有女性取得的管道。無論她們住在哪裡。」而且有件我們即將要做的事，就是七月十一日在倫敦舉辦一場大型活動，許多國家，許多非洲國家都要參加，宣告我們要把這個放回全球健康議題。我們承諾要找出資源，我們會與政府一起從下而上計畫，要確保婦女要受教育，所以如果她們想要用品就會得到，而且她們還會有很多選擇，透過當地醫療人員或當地的社區診所拿到。 克：梅琳達，我猜某些在學校教過妳的修女可能也有機會看到這場 TED 演講。她們會嚇壞了，或是為妳加油打氣？ 梅：我知道她們會看這場 TED 演講，因為她們知道我在做這個，而且我也計畫要送一份給她們。你知道，教過我的幾位修女想法都非常先進，我很希望她們會以我為榮，因為我身體力行她們教導的社會正義及服務。我逐漸領悟到我對這項議題的熱情，來自我在發展中國家看到的現象，對我而言，這項議題已成為我全心關注的重點，因為妳與這些婦女接觸，她們常常沒有發言權。但她們不應如此，她們應該要有發言權，她們應該要有管道。所以我希望她們會覺得我身體力行從她們身上學到的東西，還有這數十年我在基金會的經驗。 克：妳和妳的團隊今天為我們帶來非常棒的講員。我們都很感謝。妳有學到什麼嗎？ （笑聲） 梅：天啊，我學到好多東西。我有好多後續問題想問。我想這工作很大部分是心路歷程。你聽人談過能源的心路歷程，社會設計的心路歷程，可能馬上就有這樣的心路歷程說：「為什麼沒有女性站在這個講台上？」我想對我們這些從事發展議題的人而言，你從對話中學習。你從做中學，從嘗試、從錯中學，還有你問的問題。有時候你問的問題，下一個人能幫你回答。所以我有很多問題想問今天的講員。我認為今天真是太棒了。 克：梅琳達，謝謝妳邀我們與妳同行。 謝謝妳。梅：謝謝克里斯。
