Talk	en	zh-tw
melissa_marshall_talk_nerdy_to_me	"Five years ago, I experienced a bit of what it must have been like to be Alice in Wonderland. Penn State asked me, a communications teacher, to teach a communications class for engineering students. And I was scared. (Laughter) Really scared. Scared of these students with their big brains and their big books and their big, unfamiliar words. But as these conversations unfolded, I experienced what Alice must have when she went down that rabbit hole and saw that door to a whole new world. That's just how I felt as I had those conversations with the students. I was amazed at the ideas that they had, and I wanted others to experience this wonderland as well. And I believe the key to opening that door is great communication. We desperately need great communication from our scientists and engineers in order to change the world. Our scientists and engineers are the ones that are tackling our grandest challenges, from energy to environment to health care, among others, and if we don't know about it and understand it, then the work isn't done, and I believe it's our responsibility as non-scientists to have these interactions. But these great conversations can't occur if our scientists and engineers don't invite us in to see their wonderland. So scientists and engineers, please, talk nerdy to us. I want to share a few keys on how you can do that to make sure that we can see that your science is sexy and that your engineering is engaging. First question to answer for us: so what? Tell us why your science is relevant to us. Don't just tell me that you study trabeculae, but tell me that you study trabeculae, which is the mesh-like structure of our bones because it's important to understanding and treating osteoporosis. And when you're describing your science, beware of jargon. Jargon is a barrier to our understanding of your ideas. Sure, you can say ""spatial and temporal,"" but why not just say ""space and time,"" which is so much more accessible to us? And making your ideas accessible is not the same as dumbing it down. Instead, as Einstein said, make everything as simple as possible, but no simpler. You can clearly communicate your science without compromising the ideas. A few things to consider are having examples, stories and analogies. Those are ways to engage and excite us about your content. And when presenting your work, drop the bullet points. Have you ever wondered why they're called bullet points? (Laughter) What do bullets do? Bullets kill, and they will kill your presentation. A slide like this is not only boring, but it relies too much on the language area of our brain, and causes us to become overwhelmed. Instead, this example slide by Genevieve Brown is much more effective. It's showing that the special structure of trabeculae are so strong that they actually inspired the unique design of the Eiffel Tower. And the trick here is to use a single, readable sentence that the audience can key into if they get a bit lost, and then provide visuals which appeal to our other senses and create a deeper sense of understanding of what's being described. So I think these are just a few keys that can help the rest of us to open that door and see the wonderland that is science and engineering. And because the engineers that I've worked with have taught me to become really in touch with my inner nerd, I want to summarize with an equation. (Laughter) Take your science, subtract your bullet points and your jargon, divide by relevance, meaning share what's relevant to the audience, and multiply it by the passion that you have for this incredible work that you're doing, and that is going to equal incredible interactions that are full of understanding. And so, scientists and engineers, when you've solved this equation, by all means, talk nerdy to me. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	五年前，我經歷了一個有點像愛麗絲夢游仙境的場景。賓州州立大學要我這個教傳播學的老師去教工科學生傳播學。當時，我很害怕。（笑聲）我真的嚇壞了，我很害怕這些頂著碩大腦袋的學生、害怕他們大部頭的書、還有他們又大又艱澀的詞彙；但，當我進一步和學生交談後，我經歷了愛麗絲曾經掉下去的兔子洞，我看到一扇通往新世界的門。這就是我和那些學生們談話後的感覺，我驚豔於他們的想法，我想要其他人一起經歷這個奇境。我相信，打開那扇門的鑰匙是絕佳的溝通力。 我們非常需要科學家和工程師們的溝通力來改變世界。我們的科學家和工程師是要解決我們最大挑戰的一群人，從能源到環境、醫療、以及其他等等，如果我們對它一無所悉，那工作便沒法完成。而我相信，我們這些非科學家有責任參與這樣的互動過程；但如果我們的科學家和工程師不邀請我們到他們奇幻之地的話，這些很棒的談話是不會發生的，所以科學家和工程師們，請和我們說說書呆子的事吧。 我要分享幾個妙方，這些妙方可以確保我們瞭解：你們的科學是性感的，你們的工程是可愛的。第一個要回答的問題是： 那又怎樣？告訴我們，為什麼你的科學和我們有關。不要只是告訴我你研究小樑骨，要告訴我你研究小樑骨，是因為透過這個重要的骨骼網格狀結構我們可以理解、治療骨質疏鬆症。 當你描述你的科學時，請小心使用行話，行話是我們理解你們想法的一個障礙。當然，你可以說「場域與時態性」（spatial and temporal），但為什麼不說「空間和時間」（space and time）就好？這讓我們更好理解，不是嗎？讓想法更容易理解，並不代表讓想法變笨；反而，就像愛因斯坦說的，要盡可能地，讓一切簡約，而不是變得更簡單。你可以清楚傳達你的科學，同時又不損害想法。有幾點是可以考慮的：用用例子、故事、和類比，這些是使我們對你的研究內容感到興趣的方法。此外，當上臺報告你的研究時，不要使用要點提示。你們有沒有想過：要點提示（bullet points）這個名稱是怎麼來的嗎？（笑聲）子彈（bullets）是拿來做什麼的？子彈殺人，它們也會毀了你們的報告。像這樣一張幻燈片，不僅乏味、無聊，它還佔據太多我們大腦的語言區，使我們不知所措；相反地，這個由 Genevieve Brown 所做的幻燈片看起來有效多了。它呈現小樑骨的特殊結構是如此強而有力，甚至啓發了埃菲爾鐵塔的獨特設計。這裡的竅門是，使用單一、 可讀的句子，使聽眾可以理解，假如他們沒跟上的話，然後提供視覺圖像，吸引我們注意讓我們對那被描述的東西獲得更深的理解。 所以我認為這些是鑰匙讓我們可以打開科學與工程奇境的大門。因為我共事過的工程師們教我如何真正地連結自己內在的書呆氣，所以我想要用個方程式進行摘要總結（笑聲）：把你的科學，減去你的要點提示、和你的行話，除以相關性，這意思是分享那些和聽眾有關的事然後，把它乘以你們對於這個超棒研究的熱情接著，將它乘以你們對於這個超棒研究的熱情這等於一個令人難以置信的充分理解的互動過程。這樣，科學家和工程師們，當你們解決了這個方程式後，就來和我說說書呆子的事吧！（笑聲）謝謝。（掌聲）
