Talk	en	zh-tw
melissa_walker_art_can_heal_ptsd_s_invisible_wounds	"You are a high-ranking military service member deployed to Afghanistan. You are responsible for the lives of hundreds of men and women, and your base is under attack. Incoming mortar rounds are exploding all around you. Struggling to see through the dust and the smoke, you do your best to assist the wounded and then crawl to a nearby bunker. Conscious but dazed by the blasts, you lay on your side and attempt to process what has just happened. As you regain your vision, you see a bloody face staring back at you. The image is terrifying, but you quickly come to understand it's not real. This vision continues to visit you multiple times a day and in your sleep. You choose not to tell anyone for fear of losing your job or being seen as weak. You give the vision a name, Bloody Face in Bunker, and call it BFIB for short. You keep BFIB locked away in your mind, secretly haunting you, for the next seven years. Now close your eyes. Can you see BFIB? If you can, you're beginning to see the face of the invisible wounds of war, commonly known as post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. While I can't say I have post-traumatic stress disorder, I've never been a stranger to it. When I was a little girl, I would visit my grandparents every summer. It was my grandfather who introduced me to the effects of combat on the psyche. While my grandfather was serving as a Marine in the Korean War, a bullet pierced his neck and rendered him unable to cry out. He watched as a corpsman passed him over, declaring him a goner, and then leaving him to die. Years later, after his physical wounds had healed and he'd returned home, he rarely spoke of his experiences in waking life. But at night I would hear him shouting obscenities from his room down the hall. And during the day I would announce myself as I entered the room, careful not to startle or agitate him. He lived out the remainder of his days isolated and tight-lipped, never finding a way to express himself, and I didn't yet have the tools to guide him. I wouldn't have a name for my grandfather's condition until I was in my 20s. Seeking a graduate degree in art therapy, I naturally gravitated towards the study of trauma. And while sitting in class learning about post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD for short, my mission to help service members who suffered like my grandfather began to take form. We've had various names for post-traumatic stress throughout the history of war: homesickness, soldier's heart, shell shock, thousand-yard stare, for instance. And while I was pursuing my degree, a new war was raging, and thanks to modern body armor and military vehicles, service members were surviving blast injuries they wouldn't have before. But the invisible wounds were reaching new levels, and this pushed military doctors and researchers to try and truly understand the effects that traumatic brain injury, or TBI, and PTSD have on the brain. Due to advances in technology and neuroimaging, we now know there's an actual shutdown in the Broca's, or the speech-language area of the brain, after an individual experiences trauma. This physiological change, or speechless terror as it's often called, coupled with mental health stigma, the fear of being judged or misunderstood, possibly even removed from their current duties, has led to the invisible struggles of our servicemen and women. Generation after generation of veterans have chosen not to talk about their experiences, and suffer in solitude. I had my work cut out for me when I got my first job as an art therapist at the nation's largest military medical center, Walter Reed. After working for a few years on a locked-in patient psychiatric unit, I eventually transferred to the National Intrepid Center of Excellence, NICoE, which leads TBI care for active duty service members. Now, I believed in art therapy, but I was going to have to convince service members, big, tough, strong, manly military men, and some women too, to give art-making as a psychotherapeutic intervention a try. The results have been nothing short of spectacular. Vivid, symbolic artwork is being created by our servicemen and women, and every work of art tells a story. We've observed that the process of art therapy bypasses the speech-language issue with the brain. Art-making accesses the same sensory areas of the brain that encode trauma. Service members can use the art-making to work through their experiences in a nonthreatening way. They can then apply words to their physical creations, reintegrating the left and the right hemispheres of the brain. Now, we've seen this can work with all forms of art — drawing, painting, collage — but what seems to have the most impact is mask-making. Finally, these invisible wounds don't just have a name, they have a face. And when service members create these masks, it allows them to come to grips, literally, with their trauma. And it's amazing how often that enables them to break through the trauma and start to heal. Remember BFIB? That was a real experience for one of my patients, and when he created his mask, he was able to let go of that haunting image. Initially, it was a daunting process for the service member, but eventually he began to think of BFIB as the mask, not his internal wound, and he would go to leave each session, he would hand me the mask, and say, ""Melissa, take care of him."" Eventually, we placed BFIB in a box to further contain him, and when the service member went to leave the NICoE, he chose to leave BFIB behind. A year later, he had only seen BFIB twice, and both times BFIB was smiling and the service member didn't feel anxious. Now, whenever that service member is haunted by some traumatic memory, he continues to paint. Every time he paints these disturbing images, he sees them less or not at all. Philosophers have told us for thousands of years that the power to create is very closely linked to the power to destroy. Now science is showing us that the part of the brain that registers a traumatic wound can be the part of the brain where healing happens too. And art therapy is showing us how to make that connection. We asked one of our service members to describe how mask-making impacted his treatment, and this is what he had to say. (Video) Service Member: You sort of just zone out into the mask. You zone out into the drawing, and for me, it just released the block, so I was able to do it. And then when I looked at it after two days, I was like, ""Holy crap, here's the picture, here's the key, here's the puzzle,"" and then from there it just soared. I mean, from there my treatment just when out of sight, because they were like, Kurt, explain this, explain this. And for the first time in 23 years, I could actually talk about stuff openly to, like, anybody. I could talk to you about it right now if I wanted to, because it unlocked it. It's just amazing. And it allowed me to put 23 years of PTSD and TBI stuff together in one place that has never happened before. Sorry. Melissa Walker: Over the past five years, we've had over 1,000 masks made. It's pretty amazing, isn't it? Thank you. (Applause) I wish I could have shared this process with my grandfather, but I know that he would be thrilled that we are finding ways to help today's and tomorrow's service members heal, and finding the resources within them that they can call upon to heal themselves. Thank you. (Applause)"	假想你是高層軍官被派駐阿富汗。你要為上百個男兵女兵的生命負責。你基地受到侵襲，迫擊砲彈在你四周爆炸，在塵埃和煙霧中，掙扎著想要看清，奮身救助傷者再爬到附近的掩體。 雖有知覺，但砲浪使你發呆，你躺在一邊試著思考剛才的經歷，當你視覺恢復時，一個血腥面孔就在眼前，瞠視著你。這一幕令人極恐懼，但你很快就察覺到，它不是真的。 但它每天數次浮現在腦海，也在夢中。你決定不說，怕失掉工作或被視為懦弱。這畫面你稱為「掩體的血臉」或縮寫為BFIB。你把BFIB鎖在心靈深處，不為人知地侵擾著你，七年不停。 現在閉上眼睛，你能看到BFIB嗎？如果你能看到，你就能夠開始感覺戰爭無形的傷口，通稱為「創傷後應激障礙」或「創傷性腦損傷」。 我雖沒親歷過創傷後應激障礙，但我也對它不陌生。 我小時候每個夏天都會探訪祖父母，是我的祖父讓我領會到戰爭帶來的心靈影響。當祖父在韓戰服役海軍時，一顆子彈穿入脖子令他不能發聲，他眼睜睜盯著走過的醫護兵以為他無藥可治，把他留下等待死亡。 多年後，他身上的傷都痊癒了，回到了家，在他清醒的幾乎從不談那經歷。但在深夜裡，我可聽到他的怒嚎謾罵，從他臥室沿著走廊滲出，白天我會提醒他，然後進入房間，怕驚嚇或激怒他。祖父就這樣渡過他餘生，孤立，緊張，找不到任何表達自己的方式。當時我也不懂如何引導他， 我也不知道他的疾病的名字，直到我二十多歲時。攻讀藝術治療的學位，我自然傾向創傷方面之研究。當我在教室裡學習創傷後應激障礙時，或縮寫為PTSD，想幫助像祖父般受害軍人的目標就開始立定了。 人類把創傷後應激障礙立了不少名稱，自有戰爭記錄後：思鄉症、神經性循環休克、砲彈休克症、一千碼的呆視等等。在我修讀學位時，一場新戰爭剛爆發。因為有了先進防彈衣和軍用車輛，軍人爆炸受傷的存活率達到歷史新高。但無形的創傷卻躍上了新高，這驅使軍醫和學者更急需全面了解創傷性腦損傷，也就是TBI，和創傷後應激障礙對腦之影響。 因科技和神經影像學之進步，我們現在能確知【布羅卡區】會關閉 就是大腦的語言系統區，在個人經歷創傷後。這個生理變化也常被稱為「無言之恐懼」，伴隨心理創傷，還有個人被批評和誤會的憂慮，甚至調離現有職責，都有可能導致軍人飽受內心煎熬。一代一代的退伍軍人都對他們的經歷守口如瓶，孤獨的忍受折磨。 我第一份工作好像為我量身訂做的，是一位藝術治療師，在全美最大的軍人醫院沃爾特列得國家軍人醫療中心。在精神科單位工作數年後，我最後調職到國家勇士優越中心，NICoE治療在職軍人之創傷性腦損傷。我深信藝術治療法，但我需要說服那些軍人：高大，粗獷，滿身肌肉的猛男軍兵，偶爾還有女性，來嘗試藝術創作做為心理治療方法。 結果功效非常可觀。真切，象徵性的藝術從我們的軍人親手創做出來，每件創作都在訴說一個故事。我們觀察到在藝療過程中，它能繞過大腦的語言區的障礙。藝療能接駁大腦存儲創傷經歷的同一個腦區，使治療者借創作來重審情緒經歷，在一種無批判之氛圍中。他們能夠再用文字來描述自己的創作，將左腦和右腦重新結合。 我們觀察到各類藝術媒介都有療效：素描，油畫，拼圖但最大療效是做面具。因為無形的創傷從此不只有名稱，它更有個實質面孔了。 當這些軍人做這些面具時，他們能用雙手雕塑心靈創傷，驚訝地，做面具讓他們突破心靈的創傷，開始痊癒。 大家還記得BFIB？那是我的一個病人的真實經歷，當他做了面具之後，他就能釋放心中的幽影。過程剛開始時，是極恐懼的，但最終軍人會視BFIB為面具，不再是內在的傷口了。他每次療程完畢時，他會遞那面具給我說，“梅麗莎，照顧好他。”最後我們把BFIB放盒裡。當這名軍兵離開NICoE 時，他選擇把BFIB留下。一年後，他只有見過BFIB兩次，兩次BFIB都是笑著的，而這軍人毫無焦慮。如今這軍人感到創傷帶來不安時，他就畫畫。而每次他畫這些擾人的形像後，這些形像就減少或停止出現了。 幾千年來哲學家已在說：創造能力與破壞能力是緊連的。今天科學證明在大腦區記憶創傷經歷的，也同時能引動自癒能力，而藝療展現出如何啟發這互動。 我們請一位受治療人說出他做面具的親身治療感受。他說了以下的話 （錄音）軍人：你把自己投射在面具上投射在圖畫上，對我，這就能釋放壓抑的情緒所以我就敢於創作。兩天後當我再看時，我感應到“咳！就是這圖畫，就是這鑰匙，就是這答案。”從這往後，一切就通了我意思是我的治療就成功了。作品就像是說：庫爾特解釋這個，解釋這個…二十三年來首次我可以無忌諱的和任何人談論。我現在也能和你談論因為整件事已被解開了。真不可思議它能使我能把二十三年的PTSD和TBI拼在一塊，這從沒發生過。不好意思。 梅麗莎沃克：過去五年我們做過一千多個面具。超乎想象！是不是？ 謝謝 （掌聲）我希望我能和祖父分享這療程，但我肯定他會驚喜我們已能找到方法幫助今時和未來的軍兵痊癒，啟發他們本身之自癒潛能，隨著他們的需要來治療自己。 謝謝 （掌聲）
