Talk	en	zh-tw
melinda_french_gates_what_nonprofits_can_learn_from_coca_cola	"One of my favorite parts of my job at the Gates Foundation is that I get to travel to the developing world, and I do that quite regularly. And when I meet the mothers in so many of these remote places, I'm really struck by the things that we have in common. They want what we want for our children and that is for their children to grow up successful, to be healthy, and to have a successful life. But I also see lots of poverty, and it's quite jarring, both in the scale and the scope of it. My first trip in India, I was in a person's home where they had dirt floors, no running water, no electricity, and that's really what I see all over the world. So in short, I'm startled by all the things that they don't have. But I am surprised by one thing that they do have: Coca-Cola. Coke is everywhere. In fact, when I travel to the developing world, Coke feels ubiquitous. And so when I come back from these trips, and I'm thinking about development, and I'm flying home and I'm thinking, ""We're trying to deliver condoms to people or vaccinations,"" you know, Coke's success kind of stops and makes you wonder: how is it that they can get Coke to these far-flung places? If they can do that, why can't governments and NGOs do the same thing? And I'm not the first person to ask this question. But I think, as a community, we still have a lot to learn. It's staggering, if you think about Coca-Cola. They sell 1.5 billion servings every single day. That's like every man, woman and child on the planet having a serving of Coke every week. So why does this matter? Well, if we're going to speed up the progress and go even faster on the set of Millennium Development Goals that we're set as a world, we need to learn from the innovators, and those innovators come from every single sector. I feel that, if we can understand what makes something like Coca-Cola ubiquitous, we can apply those lessons then for the public good. Coke's success is relevant, because if we can analyze it, learn from it, then we can save lives. So that's why I took a bit of time to study Coke. And I think there are really three things we can take away from Coca-Cola. They take real-time data and immediately feed it back into the product. They tap into local entrepreneurial talent, and they do incredible marketing. So let's start with the data. Now Coke has a very clear bottom line — they report to a set of shareholders, they have to turn a profit. So they take the data, and they use it to measure progress. They have this very continuous feedback loop. They learn something, they put it back into the product, they put it back into the market. They have a whole team called ""Knowledge and Insight."" It's a lot like other consumer companies. So if you're running Namibia for Coca-Cola, and you have a 107 constituencies, you know where every can versus bottle of Sprite, Fanta or Coke was sold, whether it was a corner store, a supermarket or a pushcart. So if sales start to drop, then the person can identify the problem and address the issue. Let's contrast that for a minute to development. In development, the evaluation comes at the very end of the project. I've sat in a lot of those meetings, and by then, it is way too late to use the data. I had somebody from an NGO once describe it to me as bowling in the dark. They said, ""You roll the ball, you hear some pins go down. It's dark, you can't see which one goes down until the lights come on, and then you an see your impact."" Real-time data turns on the lights. So what's the second thing that Coke's good at? They're good at tapping into that local entrepreneurial talent. Coke's been in Africa since 1928, but most of the time they couldn't reach the distant markets, because they had a system that was a lot like in the developed world, which was a large truck rolling down the street. And in Africa, the remote places, it's hard to find a good road. But Coke noticed something — they noticed that local people were taking the product, buying it in bulk and then reselling it in these hard-to-reach places. And so they took a bit of time to learn about that. And they decided in 1990 that they wanted to start training the local entrepreneurs, giving them small loans. They set them up as what they called micro-distribution centers, and those local entrepreneurs then hire sales people, who go out with bicycles and pushcarts and wheelbarrows to sell the product. There are now some 3,000 of these centers employing about 15,000 people in Africa. In Tanzania and Uganda, they represent 90 percent of Coke's sales. Let's look at the development side. What is it that governments and NGOs can learn from Coke? Governments and NGOs need to tap into that local entrepreneurial talent as well, because the locals know how to reach the very hard-to-serve places, their neighbors, and they know what motivates them to make change. I think a great example of this is Ethiopia's new health extension program. The government noticed in Ethiopia that many of the people were so far away from a health clinic, they were over a day's travel away from a health clinic. So if you're in an emergency situation — or if you're a mom about to deliver a baby — forget it, to get to the health care center. They decided that wasn't good enough, so they went to India and studied the Indian state of Kerala that also had a system like this, and they adapted it for Ethiopia. And in 2003, the government of Ethiopia started this new system in their own country. They trained 35,000 health extension workers to deliver care directly to the people. In just five years, their ratio went from one worker for every 30,000 people to one worker for every 2,500 people. Now, think about how this can change people's lives. Health extension workers can help with so many things, whether it's family planning, prenatal care, immunizations for the children, or advising the woman to get to the facility on time for an on-time delivery. That is having real impact in a country like Ethiopia, and it's why you see their child mortality numbers coming down 25 percent from 2000 to 2008. In Ethiopia, there are hundreds of thousands of children living because of this health extension worker program. So what's the next step for Ethiopia? Well, they're already starting talk about this. They're starting to talk about, ""How do you have the health community workers generate their own ideas? How do you incent them based on the impact that they're getting out in those remote villages?"" That's how you tap into local entrepreneurial talent and you unlock people's potential. The third component of Coke's success is marketing. Ultimately, Coke's success depends on one crucial fact and that is that people want a Coca-Cola. Now the reason these micro-entrepreneurs can sell or make a profit is they have to sell every single bottle in their pushcart or their wheelbarrow. So, they rely on Coca-Cola in terms of its marketing, and what's the secret to their marketing? Well, it's aspirational. It is associated that product with a kind of life that people want to live. So even though it's a global company, they take a very local approach. Coke's global campaign slogan is ""Open Happiness."" But they localize it. And they don't just guess what makes people happy; they go to places like Latin America and they realize that happiness there is associated with family life. And in South Africa, they associate happiness with seriti or community respect. Now, that played itself out in the World Cup campaign. Let's listen to this song that Coke created for it, ""Wavin' Flag"" by a Somali hip hop artist. (Video) K'Naan: ♫ Oh oh oh oh oh o-oh ♫ ♫ Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh ♫ ♫ Oh oh oh oh oh o-oh ♫ ♫ Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh o-oh ♫ ♫Give you freedom, give you fire♫ ♫ Give you reason, take you higher ♫ ♫ See the champions take the field now ♫ ♫ You define us, make us feel proud ♫ ♫ In the streets our heads are lifted ♫ ♫ As we lose our inhibition ♫ ♫ Celebration, it's around us ♫ ♫ Every nation, all around us ♫ Melinda French Gates: It feels pretty good, right? Well, they didn't stop there — they localized it into 18 different languages. And it went number one on the pop chart in 17 countries. It reminds me of a song that I remember from my childhood, ""I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing,"" that also went number one on the pop charts. Both songs have something in common: that same appeal of celebration and unity. So how does health and development market? Well, it's based on avoidance, not aspirations. I'm sure you've heard some of these messages. ""Use a condom, don't get AIDS."" ""Wash you hands, you might not get diarrhea."" It doesn't sound anything like ""Wavin' Flag"" to me. And I think we make a fundamental mistake — we make an assumption, that we think that, if people need something, we don't have to make them want that. And I think that's a mistake. And there's some indications around the world that this is starting to change. One example is sanitation. We know that a million and a half children die a year from diarrhea and a lot of it is because of open defecation. But there's a solution: you build a toilet. But what we're finding around the world, over and over again, is, if you build a toilet and you leave it there, it doesn't get used. People reuse it for a slab for their home. They sometimes store grain in it. I've even seen it used for a chicken coop. (Laughter) But what does marketing really entail that would make a sanitation solution get a result in diarrhea? Well, you work with the community. You start to talk to them about why open defecation is something that shouldn't be done in the village, and they agree to that. But then you take the toilet and you position it as a modern, trendy convenience. One state in Northern India has gone so far as to link toilets to courtship. And it works — look at these headlines. (Laughter) I'm not kidding. Women are refusing to marry men without toilets. No loo, no ""I do."" (Laughter) Now, it's not just a funny headline — it's innovative. It's an innovative marketing campaign. But more importantly, it saves lives. Take a look at this — this is a room full of young men and my husband, Bill. And can you guess what the young men are waiting for? They're waiting to be circumcised. Can you you believe that? We know that circumcision reduces HIV infection by 60 percent in men. And when we first heard this result inside the Foundation, I have to admit, Bill and I were scratching our heads a little bit and we were saying, ""But who's going to volunteer for this procedure?"" But it turns out the men do, because they're hearing from their girlfriends that they prefer it, and the men also believe it improves their sex life. So if we can start to understand what people really want in health and development, we can change communities and we can change whole nations. Well, why is all of this so important? So let's talk about what happens when this all comes together, when you tie the three things together. And polio, I think, is one of the most powerful examples. We've seen a 99 percent reduction in polio in 20 years. So if you look back to 1988, there are about 350,000 cases of polio on the planet that year. In 2009, we're down to 1,600 cases. Well how did that happen? Let's look at a country like India. They have over a billion people in this country, but they have 35,000 local doctors who report paralysis, and clinicians, a huge reporting system in chemists. They have two and a half million vaccinators. But let me make the story a little bit more concrete for you. Let me tell you the story of Shriram, an 18 month boy in Bihar, a northern state in India. This year on August 8th, he felt paralysis and on the 13th, his parents took him to the doctor. On August 14th and 15th, they took a stool sample, and by the 25th of August, it was confirmed he had Type 1 polio. By August 30th, a genetic test was done, and we knew what strain of polio Shriram had. Now it could have come from one of two places. It could have come from Nepal, just to the north, across the border, or from Jharkhand, a state just to the south. Luckily, the genetic testing proved that, in fact, this strand came north, because, had it come from the south, it would have had a much wider impact in terms of transmission. So many more people would have been affected. So what's the endgame? Well on September 4th, there was a huge mop-up campaign, which is what you do in polio. They went out and where Shriram lives, they vaccinated two million people. So in less than a month, we went from one case of paralysis to a targeted vaccination program. And I'm happy to say only one other person in that area got polio. That's how you keep a huge outbreak from spreading, and it shows what can happen when local people have the data in their hands; they can save lives. Now one of the challenges in polio, still, is marketing, but it might not be what you think. It's not the marketing on the ground. It's not telling the parents, ""If you see paralysis, take your child to the doctor or get your child vaccinated."" We have a problem with marketing in the donor community. The G8 nations have been incredibly generous on polio over the last 20 years, but we're starting to have something called polio fatigue and that is that the donor nations aren't willing to fund polio any longer. So by next summer, we're sighted to run out of money on polio. So we are 99 percent of the way there on this goal and we're about to run short of money. And I think that if the marketing were more aspirational, if we could focus as a community on how far we've come and how amazing it would be to eradicate this disease, we could put polio fatigue and polio behind us. And if we could do that, we could stop vaccinating everybody, worldwide, in all of our countries for polio. And it would only be the second disease ever wiped off the face of the planet. And we are so close. And this victory is so possible. So if Coke's marketers came to me and asked me to define happiness, I'd say my vision of happiness is a mother holding healthy baby in her arms. To me, that is deep happiness. And so if we can learn lessons from the innovators in every sector, then in the future we make together, that happiness can be just as ubiquitous as Coca-Cola. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我在蓋茲基金會的工作中其中一個令我最喜歡的部分就是有機會到開發中國家去而且我也常常這樣做當我在這麼多遙遠的地方中遇到一些媽媽們我對於我們之間所存在的共同點感到十分感動我們對於孩子們的期望是一樣的就是孩子們可以順利地長大成人要健康,並且擁有一個成功的人生同時，我也看到很多貧窮的景象就貧窮的規模和範圍來說都是十分令人不舒服的我第一次去印度的時候,去到一個人的家裡地板沒有鋪磚, 沒有自來水也沒有電力可用就跟我在全世界各地方看到的一樣簡短的說,我對於他們所沒有的東西感到驚訝但是我也對於他們有一個東西感到驚訝就是可口可樂 到處都有可口可樂事實上,當我去到開發中國家就感覺到可口可樂是無所不在的所以當我這些旅程中回來的時候我就在思考關於開發計畫的事情還在飛機上的時候, 就在思考當我們忙著發送保險套，或要他們去接種疫苗的時候可口可樂的成功案例，會讓我們想停下來思考一下他們是如何讓可口可樂廣泛地分佈到這些地方？如果他們可以做到為什麼政府和非政府組織不能做到同樣的事情？我並非第一個提出這個問題的人但是我認為, 做為一個社會群體我們還有許多要學習的地方如果你思考一下可口可樂的案例, 它是很驚人的他們每天賣出15億瓶的可樂那就像是地球上每一個男人,女人,小孩子在每個星期裡都喝一瓶可樂為什麼這件事情重要呢？如果想要加快我們所設定的千禧年發展目標進度並且前進的比以前更快我們就必須從這些創新者身上學習也包括來自於每一個領域中的創新者我覺得,如果我們可以了解讓可口可樂無所不在的原因我們就可以接著把那些經驗應用在公眾利益上 可口可樂的成功具有重大的意義因為如果我們可以分析,且從中學習我們就可以拯救生命這就是為什麼我花了些時間去研究可口可樂我認為, 可口可樂有三件事情是我們可以學習的第一: 他們採用即時性的資料而且會立即地把資料回饋到產品上第二: 他們結合當地的創業人才第三: 他們從事很棒的行銷讓我們先從資料談起可口可樂的底線很清楚他們必須向股東們負責、賺取利潤所以他們使用資料並且運用資料來衡量進度他們有一個持續性的回饋機制把從資料中學到的，再回饋到產品上然後回饋到市場上他們有一個健全的團隊叫做""知識與洞悉""它很像其他消費品公司一樣所以如果你為可口可樂經營納米比亞市場你的通路遍及全國107個選區你知道哪裡是罐裝和瓶裝的雪碧,芬達或可樂的銷售地點不管是街頭的小店超級市場或是推車小販如果銷售額開始往下掉人員就會確認出問題並且反映這個問題 我們把它和開發計畫間，作個一分鐘的比較在開發計畫中，評估會是在整個專案結束後才開始的我常常參與這樣子的會議等到要評估時才要運用所蒐集的資料就太慢了有一個來自非政府組織的人曾經向我描述這像是在黑暗中打保齡球他們說, ""你把球滾出去, 你聽到某些瓶子倒下的聲音在黑暗中,你無法看到哪些瓶子倒了,除非有了燈光你才可以看到你所帶來的影響即時性的資料可以把燈光打開 那可口可樂第二件擅長的事情是什麼？他們擅長於結合當地的創業人才可口可樂從1928年起就已經在非洲出現了但在大部分的時間裡他們無法觸及遙遠的市場因為他們原本的系統，跟已開發國家中的很相像是透過大卡車來過街道來進行配送然而在非洲, 這個遙遠的地方很難找到一條狀況良好的道路但是可口可樂注意到一件事情他們注意到當地的人們，都是先大量採購然後再去這些難以到達的地方做轉售所以他們花了一點時間來研究這件事情在1990年時他們決定要開始針對當地的創業人才進行訓練給予他們小額貸款他們把這些人設定為所謂的小型通路中心而這些當地創業人才會再去雇用銷售人員其再騎腳踏車及手推車外出進行商品的銷售現在有3000多家這種銷售中心在非洲雇用大約15,000人在坦尚尼亞及烏干達他們佔可口可樂銷售額的90％我們再來看看發展計畫這邊 政府單位和非政府組織可以從可口可樂這裡學到什麼呢？政府單位和非政府組織也必須結合當地的創業人才因為當地的人知道如何到達那些難以觸及的地方和他們的鄰居他們也知道什麼東西可以激勵人們做出改變我認為以下是一個很好的例子就是伊索比亞的擴大健康計畫政府單位發現在伊索比亞許多人距離診所非常遙遠離診所超過一天旅程的距離所以如果你有緊急的狀況, 或者你是一位即將臨盆的媽媽算了吧,根本別想要到健康中心去他們覺得這樣不好所以他們去印度, 去研究印度喀拉拉省因為那邊也有一個類似的系統然後他們針對伊索比亞而加以修改在2003年,伊索比亞政府在他們自己的國家裡開始實行這個新系統他們為此訓練了35,000位工作人員以便可以直接地照護人們在僅僅5年內他們就把1位工作人員對3萬人的比例降低到1位工作人員照顧2,500人 現在,請思考這將會如何地改變人們的生活擴大健康的工作人員可以協助處理很多事情不論是家庭計畫,產前照護小孩子的免疫工作或者是建議婦女按時去就診以求順利生產在伊索比亞這產生很大的影響這就是為什麼你看到孩童死亡率數字從2000年到2008年之間可以降低25%的原因在伊索比亞, 有數十萬的孩童因為這個擴大健康工作者計畫而存活下來那伊索比亞的下一步該怎麼走呢？他們已經開始在討論這個議題了他們談論著""該怎麼讓健康社群的工作者可以有他們自己的意見該怎麼以他們在偏遠村落裡所得到的影響為基礎來激勵他們？""那些就是如何結合當地創業人才以及開啟他們的潛力的方式 可口可樂第三個成功的元素就是行銷最終來說,可口可樂的成功取決於一個關鍵的因素那就是人們想要可口可樂而這些小型創業者可以販售或賺取利潤的原因就是他們必須賣掉在他們手推車裡的每一瓶飲料所以,就行銷層面而言,他們依賴著可口可樂而什麼是他們行銷的秘密呢？它具有高度的渴望性它將產品與人們所企盼的生活方式做出結合所以即便它是一家全球性的公司他們還是採取非常當地化的作法可口可樂全球活動的口號是""打開快樂""但是他們把它在地化而非僅去猜測什麼東西讓人們快樂他們去到像是拉丁美洲這樣的地方他們了解到那裡的快樂是和家庭生活結合在一起的而在南非他們將快樂與社會群體的尊重結合現階段, 他們在世足賽裡玩得不亦樂乎現在我們來聽聽可口可樂為世足賽創作的歌曲來自索馬利的嘻哈歌手所唱的 ""揮動旗幟"" 影片 K'Naan: ♫ 喔～ ♫♫ 喔～ ♫♫ 喔～ ♫♫ 喔～ ♫♫給你自由, 給你火花♫♫給你理由, 讓你更興奮♫♫看看冠軍們現在正在球場上♫♫是你讓我們明確, 讓我們感到驕傲♫♫在街道上我們抬起頭來♫♫就像我們丟掉壓抑一般♫♫歡慶正環繞這我們♫♫每一個國家都環繞著我們♪ Melinda French Gates: 感覺很棒, 對嗎?他們並未停止過他們將它在地化，翻譯成18種不同的語言它在17個國家的流行樂榜上排名第一名它讓我想起我自孩提時代起就記得的一首歌""我想要教這個世界唱歌""那也是一首排行榜第一名的歌曲這兩首歌之間有一樣的地方就是對於慶祝和團結有著相同的訴求而健康和開發的市場狀況呢？它是以避免為基礎沒有渴望性我確信你一定聽過一些這樣的訊息""使用保險套,就不會的愛滋病""""要洗手,不然有可能會腹瀉""對我而言，聽起來一點都不像""揮動旗幟"" 而且我認為我們犯了一個本質上的錯誤我們作了一個假設就是我們認為如果人們需要某種東西的話那我們並不需要去讓他們想要那個東西我認為這是一個錯誤不過世界上有一些跡象顯示這個情況正在改變衛生設備就是一個例子我們知道每一年有150萬個孩童死於痢疾而且很多是因為隨地大小便但是有一個解決方式: 建造廁所但是我們在全世界一再地發現如果你建造一個廁所然後把它放在那裡沒有人會去使用它人們會把它重新使用當作自己家裡的木板有時候他們會在裡面儲藏穀物我曾經看過裡面放雞籠(笑聲)但是需要什麼行銷活動才能讓公共衛生真正地去解決腹瀉問題？你在社群裡工作你開始跟他們談論為什麼隨地大小便是一件不應該在村莊裡做的事情然後他們會同意然後你帶來廁所並且把它定位為一個現代且流行的方便設施在北印度的一個省份目前已經開始把廁所和求婚連結在一起還蠻有效的, 看看這個標題(笑聲)我不是開玩笑的女性拒絕和沒有廁所的男性結婚沒有廁所, 沒有""我願意"" (笑聲) 它不只是好笑而已還很創新，它是個創新的行銷活動但是更重要的是它拯救了生命看看這個這是一個擠滿年輕人的房間和我的先生, 比爾你們猜得到這群年輕人在等待什麼嗎？他們等著要割包皮你相信嗎？我們知道割包皮可以降低男性感染愛滋病的機會達60%當我們第一次在基金會內部聽到這個結果我必須承認, 當時比爾跟我都抓了抓頭我們說'但是誰會志願參與這個程序呢？'結果是男人願意來因為他們從女朋友那邊得知這是她們偏好的方式而男人們也相信這樣會改善他們的性生活所以如果我們可以開始了解在健康和發展上人們真正想要的是什麼我們就可以改變社群進而可以改變整個國家 為什麼這一切如此重要呢？讓我們來談談當這些集合在一起的時候會發生什麼事情當你把這三件事情連結在一起我認為小兒麻痺症是最強而有力的範例我們目睹了小兒麻痺症在20年之內減少了99%如果你往回看到1988年那一年地球上大概有35萬個小兒麻痺症的病例在2009年，降低到只有1600個病例這是如何發生的呢？讓我們來看看印度這個國家有超過10億的人口但是有3萬5千位當地的醫生回報麻痺症還有臨床醫生, 和一個龐大的藥劑師回報系統他們有250萬個牛痘接種員讓我把故事說得更具體一點讓我來說Shriram的故事他是一個在Bihar的18個月男童那是在印度的一個北邊省分今年8月8日，他感覺到麻痺當月的13日，他的父母帶他去看醫生8月14日、15日，他們採集糞便樣本到了8月25日確認是第一類型的小兒麻痺症8月30日，完成基因測試然後我們知道Shriam得到的是哪一種血緣的小兒麻痺症 它可能是來自兩個地方的其中一個可能是來自北邊的尼泊爾越過邊境或是南邊的Jharkhand省幸運的是,基因測試證實事實上這是來自北邊因為如果它是來自南邊的話那麼在病情散佈上來說，將會有更廣泛的影響會有很多人感染那結局是怎樣呢？9月4日的時候，有一個大型的小兒麻痺症掃蕩活動他們來到Shriam居住的地方他們為2百萬人接種牛痘疫苗所以不到一個月的時間我們從一個麻痺病例來到一個有針對性的疫苗接種計劃我很高興地說，那個區域只有一個人得到小兒麻痺症這是他們如何阻止疾病蔓延的方式而且展現出，當人們手上有了資料之後，會發生什麼事就是能拯救生命 現在小兒麻痺症的其中一個挑戰還是行銷但是可能不是像你所想的那樣那不是指表面上的行銷這不是告訴父母親如果你看到麻痺症狀,就帶你的孩子到醫生那裡或者讓你的孩子接種疫苗在捐贈者的社群裡 我們有一個行銷的問題過去20年以來 G8各國對於小兒麻痺症出乎意料的慷慨但是我們開始遇到所謂的小兒麻痺症倦怠這是指捐贈的那些國家不願意再繼續資助小兒麻痺症所以下個夏天，我們就會把小兒麻痺基金用完在通往這個目標的路上我們已經完成了99%而我們就快把錢花完了而我認為如果行銷可以更具有渴望性如果我們可把社會焦點集中在我們做了些什麼以及可以消除這個疾病是多麼令人感到驚訝的我們就可以把小兒麻痺症倦怠和小兒麻痺症拋在腦後如果我們可以做到那樣我們就可以在全世界每一個國家停止注射小兒麻痺症的疫苗那它就可以變成有史以來第二個在地球上被消除的疾病而我們是如此的接近這個勝利是非常可能達到的 所以如果可口可樂的行銷人員來找我要我定義快樂我會說我對於快樂的願景是一個母親在她的懷裡抱著健康的嬰兒對我來說，那是一種深切的快樂如果我們能從每個行業的創新者中學到一些東西在未來，我們就可以一起來創造那種快樂而且那會是全世界普遍存在的就像可口可樂一樣 謝謝 (掌聲)"
