Talk	en	zh-tw
mena_trott_tours_her_blog_world	"Over the past couple of days, as I've been preparing for my speech, I've become more and more nervous about what I'm going to say and about being on the same stage as all these fascinating people. Being on the same stage as Al Gore, who was the first person I ever voted for. And — (Laughter) So I was getting pretty nervous and, you know, I didn't know that Chris sits on the stage, and that's more nerve-racking. But then I started thinking about my family. I started thinking about my father and my grandfather and my great-grandfather, and I realized that I had all of these Teds going through my bloodstream — (Laughter) that I had to consider this ""my element."" So, who am I? Chris kind of mentioned I started a company with my husband. We have about 125 people internationally. If you looked in the book, you saw this ... (Laughter) which I really was appalled by. (Laughter) And because I wanted to impress you all with slides, since I saw the great presentations yesterday with graphs, I made a graph that moves, and I talk about the makeup of me. (Laughter) So, besides this freakish thing, this is my science slide. This is math, and this is science, this is genetics. This is my grandmother, and this is where I get this mouth. (Laughter) So — I'm a blogger, which, probably, to a lot of you, means different things. You may have heard about the Kryptonite lock brouhaha, where a blogger talked about how you hack or break into a Kryptonite lock using a ballpoint pen, and it spread all over. Kryptonite had to adjust the lock, and they had to address it to avoid too many customer concerns. You may have heard about Rathergate, which was basically the result of bloggers realizing that the ""th"" in 111 is not typeset on an old typewriter; it's on Word. Bloggers exposed this, or they worked hard to expose this. You know, blogs are scary. This is what you see. I see this, and I'm sure scared — I swear on stage — shitless about blogs, because this is not something that's friendly. But there are blogs that are changing the way we read news and consume media, and these are great examples. These people are reaching thousands, if not millions, of readers, and that's incredibly important. During the hurricane, you had MSNBC posting about the hurricane on their blog, updating it frequently. This was possible because of the easy nature of blogging tools. You have my friend, who has a blog on PVRs, personal recorders. He makes enough money just by running ads, to support his family up in Oregon. That's all he does now, and this is something that blogs have made possible. And then you have something like this, which is Interplast. It's a wonderful organization of people and doctors who go to developing nations to offer plastic surgery to those who need it. Children with cleft palates get it, and they document their story. This is wonderful. I am not that caring. (Laughter) I talk about myself. That's what I am. I'm a blogger. I have always decided that I was going to be an expert on one thing, and I am an expert on this person, and so I write about it. So, the short story about my blog: it started in 2001, I was 23. I wasn't happy with my job, because I was a designer, but I wasn't being really stimulated. I was an English major in college. I didn't have any use for it, but I missed writing. So, I started to write a blog and I started to create things like these little stories. This was an illustration about my camp experience when I was 11 years old, and how I went to a YMCA camp, Christian camp, and basically by the end, I had made my friends hate me so much that I hid in a bunk, They couldn't find me, they sent a search party, and I overheard people saying they wish I had killed myself — jumped off Bible Peak. You can laugh, this is OK. (Laughter) This is me. This is what happened to me. And when I started my blog, it was really this one goal — I said, ""I am not going to be famous to the world, but I could be famous to people on the Internet."" And I set a goal. I said, ""I'm going to win an award,"" because I had never won an award in my entire life. And I said, ""I'm going to win the South by Southwest Weblog award."" And I won it — I reached all of these people, and I had tens of thousands of people reading about my life every day. And then I wrote a post about a banjo. I wrote a post about wanting to buy a banjo — a $300 banjo, which is a lot of money. And I don't play instruments; I don't know anything about music. I like music, and I like banjos, and I think I probably heard Steve Martin playing, and I said, ""I could do that."" And I said to my husband, ""Ben, can I buy a banjo?"" And he's like, ""No."" And my husband — (Laughter) this is my husband, who is very hot — he won an award for being hot. (Laughter) He told me, ""You cannot buy a banjo. You're just like your dad,"" who collects instruments. And I wrote a post about how I was so mad at him, he was such a tyrant — he would not let me buy this banjo. And those people who know me understood my joke — this is Mena, this is how I make a joke at people. Because the joke in this is that this person is not a tyrant, this person is so loving and so sweet that he lets me dress him up and post pictures of him to my blog. (Laughter) And if he knew I was showing this right now — I put this in today — he would kill me. But the thing was, my friends read it, and they're like, ""Oh, that Mena, she wrote a post about wanting a stupid thing and being stupid."" But I got emails from people that said, ""Oh my God, your husband is such an asshole. How much money does he spend on beer in a year? You could take that money and buy your banjo. Why don't you open a separate account?"" I've been with him since I was 17, we've never had a separate bank account. They said, ""Separate your bank account. Spend your money; spend his money, that's it."" And then I got people saying, ""Leave him."" (Laughter) I was like, ""OK, what? Who are these people? And why are they reading this?"" And I realized: I don't want to reach these people. I don't want to write for this public audience. And I started to kill my blog slowly. I'm like, I don't want to write this anymore. Slowly and slowly — And I did tell personal stories from time to time. I wrote this one, and I put this up because of Einstein today. I'm going to get choked up, because this is my first pet, and she passed away two years ago. And I decided to break from, ""I don't really write about my public life,"" because I wanted to give her a little memorial. But anyways, it's these sorts of personal stories — You know, you read the blogs about politics or about media, and gossip and all these things. These are out there, but it's more of the personal that interests me, and this is who I am. You see Norman Rockwell, and you have art critics say, ""Norman Rockwell is not art. Norman Rockwell hangs in living rooms and bathrooms, and this is not something to be considered high art."" And I think this is one of the most important things to us as humans. These things resonate with us, and, if you think about blogs, you think of high art blogs, the history paintings about, you know, all the biblical stories, and then you have this. These are the blogs that interest me: the people that just tell stories. One story is about this baby, and his name is Odin. His father was a blogger. And he was writing his blog one day, and his wife gave birth to her baby at 25 weeks. And he never expected this. One day, it was normal; the next day, it was hell. And this is a one-pound baby. So Odin was documented every single day. Pictures were taken every day: day one, day two ... You have day nine — they're talking about his apnea; day 39 — he gets pneumonia. His baby is so small, and I've never encountered such a — just — a disturbing image, but just so heartfelt. And you're reading this as it happens, so on day 55, everybody reads that he's having failures: breathing failures and heart failures, and it's slowing down, and you don't know what to expect. But then it gets better. Day 96, he goes home. And you see this post. That's not something you're going to see in a paper or magazine but this is something this person feels, and people are excited about it — 28 comments. That's not a huge amount of people reading, but 28 people matter. And today, he is a healthy baby, who, if you read his blog — it's snowdeal.org, his father's blog — he is taking pictures of him still, because he is still his son and he is, I think, at his age level right now because he had received such great treatment from the hospital. So, blogs. So what? You've probably heard these things before. We talked about the WELL, and about all these sorts of things throughout our online history. But I think blogs are basically just an evolution, and that's where we are today. It's this record of who you are, your persona. You have your Google search, where you say, ""What is Mena Trott?"" And then you find these things and you're happy or unhappy. But then you also find people's blogs, and those are the records of people that are writing daily — not necessarily about the same topic, but things that interest them. And we talk about the world flattens, being in this panel, and I am very optimistic — whenever I think about blogs, I'm like, ""We've got to reach all these people."" Hundreds of millions and billions of people. We're getting into China, we want to be there, but there are so many people that won't have the access to write a blog. But to see something like the $100 computer is amazing, because blogging software is simple. We have a successful company because of timing, and because of perseverance, but it's simple stuff — it's not rocket science. And so, that's an amazing thing to consider. So — the life record of a blog is something that I find incredibly important. And we started with a slide of my Teds, and I had to add this slide, because I knew the minute I showed this, my mom — my mom will see this, because she does read my blog and she'll say, ""Why wasn't there a picture of me?"" This is my mom. So, I have all the people that I know of. But this is basically the extent of the family that I know in terms of my direct line. I showed a Norman Rockwell painting before, and this one, I grew up with, looking at constantly. I would spend hours looking at the connections, saying, ""Oh, the little kid up at the top has red hair; so does that first generation up there."" And it's just these little things. This is not science, but this was enough for me to be really interested in how we have evolved and how we can trace our line. So that has always influenced me. I have this record, this 1910 census, of another Grabowski — that's my maiden name — and there's a Theodore, because there's always a Theodore. This is all I have, a couple of facts about somebody. I have their date of birth, their age, what they did in their household, if they spoke English, and that's it, that's all I know of these people. And it's pretty sad, because I only go back five generations, and that's it. I don't even know what happens on my mom's side, because she's from Cuba and I don't have that many things. Just doing this, I spent time in the archives — that's why my husband's a saint — I spent time in the Washington archives, just sitting there, looking for these things. Now it's online, but he sat through that. And so you have this record and — This is my great-great-grandmother. This is the only picture I have. And to think of what we have the ability to do with our blogs; to think about the people that are on those $100 computers, talking about who they are, sharing these personal stories — this is an amazing thing. Another photo that has greatly influenced me, or a series of photos, is this project that's done by an Argentinean man and his wife. And he's basically taking a picture of his family every day for the past, what is '76? — 20 ... Oh my God, I'm '77 — 29 years? Twenty-nine years. There was a joke, originally, about my graph that I left out, which is: You see all this math? I'm just happy I was able to add it up to 100, because that's my skill set. (Laughter) So you have these people aging, and now this is them today, or last year. And that's a powerful thing to have, to be able to track this. I wish that I would have this of my family. I know that one day my children will be wondering — or my grandchildren, or my great-grandchildren, if I ever have children — what I am going to — who I was. So I do something that's very narcissistic — I am a blogger — that is an amazing thing for me, because it captures a moment in time every day. I take a picture of myself — I've been doing this since last year — every single day. And, you know, it's the same picture; it's basically the same person. Only a couple of people read it. I don't write this for this audience; I'm showing it now, but I would go insane if this was really public. About four people probably read it, and they tell me, ""You haven't updated."" I'm probably going to get people telling me I haven't updated. But this is amazing, because I can go back to a day — to April 2005, and say, what was I doing this day? I look at it, I know exactly. It's this visual cue that is so important to what we do. I put the bad pictures up too, because there are bad pictures. (Laughter) And I remember instantly: I am in Germany in this — I had to go for a one-day trip. I was sick, and I was in a hotel room, and I wanted not to be there. And so you see these things, it's not just always smiling. Now I've kind of evolved it, so I have this look. If you look at my driver's license, I have the same look, and it's a pretty disturbing thing, but it's something that is really important. And the last story I really want to tell is this story, because this is probably the one that means the most to me in all of what I'm doing. I'll probably get choked up, because I tend to when I talk about this. So, this woman, her name was Emma, and she was a blogger on our service, TypePad. And she was a beta tester, so she was there right when we opened — you know, there was 100 people. And she wrote about her life dealing with cancer. She was writing and writing, and we all started reading it, because we had so few blogs on the service, we could keep track of everyone. And she was writing one day, and then she disappeared for a little bit. And her sister came on, and she said that Emma had passed away. And all of our support staff who had talked to her were really emotional, and it was a very hard day at the company. And this was one of those instances where I realized how much blogging affects our relationship, and flattening this sort of world. That this woman is in England, and she lives — she lived — a life where she was talking about what she was doing. But the big thing that really influenced us was, her sister wrote to me, and she said — and she wrote on this blog — that writing her blog during the last couple of months of her life was probably the best thing that had happened to her, and being able to talk to people and to share what was going on, and being able to write and receive comments. And that was amazing, to be able to know that we had empowered that, and that blogging was something that she felt comfortable doing, and the idea that blogging doesn't have to be scary, that we don't always have to be attack of the blogs, that we can be people who are open, and wanting to help and talk to people. That was an amazing thing. And so I printed out and sent a PDF of her blog to her family, and they passed it out at her memorial service, and even in her obituary, they mentioned her blog, because it was such a big part of her life. And that's a huge thing. So, this is her legacy, and I think that my call to action to all of you is: think about blogs, think about what they are, think about what you've thought of them, and then actually do it, because it's something that's really going to change our lives. So, thank you. (Applause)"	"我這幾天一直忙著準備今天的演講我變得越來越緊張，因為要站在許多傑出人士發表過演講的講台上談我自己的想法艾爾‧高爾也曾站在這裡，我人生的第一票就是投給他的而且（笑聲）我越來越緊張没想到克里斯會坐在台上這更讓我焦慮不安然後我想到我的家人我的爸爸、我的祖父我的曾祖父我發現他們全都叫泰德我的血液裡流著Teds呢（笑聲）所以呢，我得把Ted看成是我的一部分 好，我是誰？克里斯剛剛提到我先生和我一起創業我們公司全球有大約125名員工如果你看這本書你會看到這張照片這真的嚇了我一大跳（笑聲）我想用這些幻燈片來吸引各位昨天那些很棒的演講都有幻燈片所以我做了會動的幻燈片是關於我的化妝（笑聲）除了這張嚇人的我還準備了科學的，這張是數學這是遺傳學這是我祖母，我的嘴巴就是遺傳自她（笑聲） 好我是一個部落客對各位來說意義或許不盡相同你們或許聽過有一陣子吵得沸沸揚揚的Kryptonite防盜鎖事件，有部落客在網誌裡說如何用原子筆就可以打開它消息傳開，Kryptonite公司只得改變設計為了消除消費者的疑慮還做了公開說明你們或許聽過「拉瑟門」事件 (CBS Dan Rather「六十分鐘」主播)這事件之所以爆發，就是因為部落客注意到111後面的""th""不是老式打字機排版打出來的，是Word打出來的部落客揭露了這件事費了千辛萬苦揭穿這起偽造文件的事件你看，部落格蠻恐怖的看到這個，我覺蠻可怕的在這裡，說坦白話，部落格挺嚇人的有些部落格不怎麼友善但是也有一些部落格改變了我們閱讀新聞，看待媒體的方式有些很棒的部落格吸引了成千上萬的讀者這很重要在颶風發生的時候MSNBC會在他們的部落格及時更新颶風動態，這得歸功於部落格簡單好用的特性 我朋友的部落格寫的是關於個人數位紀錄器（Personal Digital Recorder）光靠部落格廣告的收入就能養活他在奧勒岡州的一家人寫網誌現在是他的全職工作這也是拜部落格所賜有一個很棒的組織叫做Interplast志工和醫生前往開發中國家為有需要的人提供整形外科手術唇顎裂的孩子將會得到醫療手術他們的故事被拍成紀錄片，這真是太棒了我没有那麼有愛心（笑聲）我談我自己，這就是我，一個部落客我早就下定決心要成為某方面的專家我對自己瞭若執掌所以我寫我自己 嗯長話短說，2001年，我23歲時開始寫部落格當時我不喜歡我的工作那時我是個設計師一個沒什麼靈感的設計師我大學主修英文，卻沒有學以致用我很想念寫作，所以開始寫部落格從一些小故事開始這是關於我11歲時去露營的漫畫是基督教青年會辦的營隊快結束時，朋友們每個都很討厭我所以我躲到床鋪底下，他們找不到還派了個搜索小隊來找我，我聽到有人說希望我乾脆自殺好了從Bible峰一躍而下 好笑吧，無所謂啦這就是我發生在我身上的事我開始寫部落格時心裡只有一個目標我知道我不會名揚四海但是在網路上成名總可以吧所以我定了個目標，我一定要得個什麼獎我一輩子還沒得過獎呢嗯，我要得這個西南偏南部落格大獎結果我真的得獎了！有人真的在讀我的網誌每天有成千上萬的人閱讀我生活中的點點滴滴 我寫了一篇班卓琴的網誌說我想要買班卓琴300美金，很貴耶但是我不會彈奏樂器我對音樂一竅不通我喜歡音樂，也喜歡班卓琴我聽過史提夫馬丁彈班卓琴心裡想我也可以彈吧所以我對我老公說「班，我可以買一把班卓琴嗎?」他說「不行」 我老公他超帥的喔因為長得帥還得過獎呢（笑聲）他說「不准買班卓琴」「妳跟你爸一樣，只是蒐集樂器而已」所以我在網誌裡寫我有多麼生他的氣說他是個暴君，不讓我買班卓琴認識我的人都知道我在開玩笑這就是米娜，這就是她一貫的搞笑風格這玩笑之所以好笑是因為我老公根本就不霸道他超有愛心又很善良他讓我幫他男扮女裝還把照片放在我的部落格裡（笑聲）要是他知道今天我會把這張照片秀出來，他會殺了我的！ 好，重點是，我寫了這篇網誌，朋友們讀了他們想：哦！這個米娜又來了，寫些有的沒的，裝瘋賣傻但是我收到email說「天啊！ 妳老公真是個混球！」「他一年喝啤酒喝掉多少錢？」「妳可以拿他的酒錢買班卓琴啊！」「妳自己再另外開一個戶頭啊！」我從17歲開始就和他在一起，我們從來就沒有獨立的銀行帳戶這些人說「開一個妳自己戶頭！」「花妳的錢，也花他的錢，這就對了」還有人說「離開他」嗯我想，這些人是誰啊？他們為什麼讀我的網誌？我發現：我並不想引起這些人的注意我寫的網誌並不想讓張三、李四看慢慢的，我停止寫部落格最後，我一點也不想寫了漸漸地停了 偶爾我會寫點自己的事情我寫了這篇是因為愛因斯坦我有點想哭耶，這是我的第一隻寵物她兩年前死了那時我打破自己不寫網誌的決定因為我想寫些東西紀念她嗯…這些是個人的小故事，你們會讀到有關政治媒體，八卦這類的部落格網路上多的是，但是真的吸引我的還是那些寫個人故事的部落格我就是這樣子的人 有些藝術評論說家諾曼‧洛克威爾的作品根本算不上藝術他的作品只能掛在客廳和廁所裡根本算不上高雅藝術我心裡想：根本算不上高雅藝術的作品對我們來說卻是最重要的因為它們能引起我們的共鳴提到部落格，你想到一些高雅藝術描繪聖經故事的歷史名畫然後還有這些平凡無奇的東西就是這些平凡無奇的故事吸引著我 有一個故事是關於一個名叫奧汀的baby他爸爸是個部落客有一天在寫網誌時他懷孕25周的太太早產了這是他始料未及的前一天一切都還好好的，然後隔天就如墜深淵一般這是一磅重的小嬰兒奧汀每天的生活都被記錄在部落格第一天、第二天…每天都有照片到第九天，奧汀呼吸暫停了第39天，奧汀得了肺炎他是那麼的小我從來沒看過那麼令人揪心的照片，但是充滿了真實的情感大家每天追蹤著奧汀的進展到了第55天，網誌寫著奧汀有呼吸和心跳的問題心跳變慢了，接下來不知道會怎樣但是情況好轉，第96天奧汀出院回家了這篇網誌在雜誌或報紙上是讀不到的這是奧汀爸爸的內心世界大家都好開心喔總共有28則留言，不是很多但是有28個人關心奧汀！現在他是個健康的孩子如果你看這個部落格Snowdeal.org奧汀的爸爸還是持續在拍他兒子的照片奧汀現在很健康想想看他之前在醫院裡接受了那麼多的治療 所以部落格怎麼樣呢？或許你聽說過人們討論WELL (最早期的網路虛擬社群)在這個網路時代大家會談論這類的話題我認為部落格就是一種進化歷程我們這身處於這個過程之中部落格訴說著你是誰、你的角色你可以google一下，查一查米娜．卓若特是何方神聖然後你會發現一堆你喜歡或不喜歡的東西你也會搜尋到別人的部落格每天一點一滴的紀錄不一定是相同的主題，而是他們感興趣的事因為部落格這個交流平台，我們說世界變平了對此我樂觀看待 想到部落格，我想到的是：哇！可以吸引那麼多的人耶！數百萬，數千萬，甚至十幾億的人耶！我們可以接觸到中國的網友但是，也有許多人沒有網路可用沒辦法寫部落格可是現在只要100美金就可以擁有一台電腦，很棒吧！部落格軟體簡單好用我們公司之所以成功就是因為時機對了而且我們不屈不撓，事實就是這麼簡單不是什麼深奥的大道理這值得深思好我認為記錄生命過程的部落格意義非凡 一開始大家看到我家人的幻燈片我加了這一張是因為我知道我媽媽總有一天會看到因為她會看我的部落格她一定會唸：「為什麼沒有我的照片？」我媽就是這樣，這些是我的家人基本上應該說他們是我的直系親屬剛剛也看了諾曼‧洛克威爾的畫作這幅畫伴隨著我長大我常常盯著它看盯著它好幾個鐘頭，找出其中的關聯「喔！最上面那個小孩頭髮是紅的」「他的第一代祖先也是紅頭髮耶！」就是這些無關緊要的小事不是甚麼大學問，就是這些芝麻蒜皮的小事讓我想知道我們是從哪裡來的我們如何找到自己的根這對我有深遠的影響 我找到另一家也是姓葛柏斯基的1910年戶口調查紀錄，我原本姓葛柏斯基還有一位西奧多，叫西奧多的大有人在這就是我找到的我有一些人的資料出生年月日，年齡他們的家庭，會不會說英文關於這些人我知道的就這麼多蠻悲哀的我只能往回追溯到前五代的人只能查到這些，我媽媽那邊我是一無所知她是古巴人，我查不到什麼資料我花了很多時間查檔案我老公真的很了不起我在國家檔案記錄管理局，花了好多時間坐在那裡讀這些資料，這一切現在都在網路上了我老公就坐在那裏陪我你可以隨時查這些紀錄這是我曾曾祖母這是我僅有的一張照片再想想部落格可以做的事想想那些使用100塊美金的電腦的人訴說著他自己，分享他的故事多麼奇妙啊 還有另外一張，嗯，一系列對我意義重大的照片這些照片是由一個阿根廷人和他的太太拍的他每天為他的家人攝影從1976年開始天啊！我是1977年出生的拍了29年？拍了29年耶！我幻燈片裡原本有個好笑的東西，後來刪掉了剛剛加加減減算這些年代，我最多只能加到100我的數學只能這樣你看到這一家人年歲漸增這是他們現在，嗯，去年的樣子這很令人震撼，可以回溯一個人一生的軌跡我也想瞭解我的家族歷史我知道有一天，我的孩子孫子，曾孫，他們會問起我的事假如我真的有小孩到時我要怎麼回答我是誰？所以我就很自戀的開始 當起一個部落客對我而言這很神奇每天一個短暫的片刻就此「停格」從去年開始，每天我拍我自己的照片幾乎是一樣的照片是同一個人沒有多少人看過，這是不公開的現在我秀給各位看，但是要是公開了，我一定會抓狂我有4個讀者他們還會提醒我沒有更新喔可能又有人會跟我說我沒有更新照片奇妙的是，我可以回到過去的某一天回到2005年的4月咦？那一天我在幹嗎？看一下我的部落格我就想起來了照片的視覺提示讓我們想起每天做了什麼我也會放些醜醜的照片真的蠻難看的（笑聲）我馬上就記得：這是在德國那天有一日遊的行程可是我生病了，待在旅館裡我一點也不想待在旅館；你看我不是每天都笑嘻嘻的，但是我有進步喔！你看我的駕照這是我的招牌笑容喔！人生不是每天都笑嘻嘻的但是每一天都很重要 最後一個故事我真的很想告訴各位這個故事對於我現在所做的一切這或許可以說是最重要的我可能又會哭耶，因為每次談到這個我都會哭這位女士叫做愛瑪，是個部落客也是我們的TypePad軟體測試者，我們公司剛創業時她是100位測試者其中之一她寫了她對抗癌症的故事她持續不斷的寫我們開始讀她的部落格，因為那時客戶很少所以可以讀每個客戶的網誌她持續的寫，突然她銷聲匿跡了一陣子然後她的妹妹在部落格裡說愛瑪過逝了，客服部所有曾經和她說過話的員工，每個人都很難過那天公司氣氛很沉重 這件事讓我明白部落格對於人際關係影響重大而且還把世界抹平了愛瑪是英國人她住在英國寫她自己的故事她在做什麼給我們帶來最大的影響的是她的妹妹在網誌上告訴我說在愛瑪生命中的最後幾個月寫網誌對她而言可能是最棒的事能夠和其他人交談，分享所發生的一切可以寫評論，看評論這多麼奇妙啊，知道是我們公司讓愛瑪辦到這一切寫部落格是愛瑪喜歡做的事情部落格不全都是那麼可怕我們也不會總是被部落格批評我們可以敞開自己去幫助他人，和別人交流這是件了不起的事！我把愛瑪的部落格轉成PDF檔，寄給她的家人他們把它印出來，在追思會上發給每一個人也印在愛瑪的訃文裡，說到她的部落格，因為那是她生命中很重要的一部分這件事意義重大 這是愛瑪的留給我們的東西因此我想對大家說想一想部落格，它究竟是什麼你如何看待部落格，然後開始寫你自己的故事，因為它真的會改變我們的生命謝謝各位（掌聲）"
