Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_bodekaer_this_virtual_lab_will_revolutionize_science_class	"Today, I am going to show you how this tablet and this virtual-reality headset that I'm wearing are going to completely revolutionize science education. And I'm also going to show you how it can make any science teacher more than twice as effective. But before I show you how all of this is possible, let's talk briefly about why improving the quality of science education is so vitally important. If you think about it, the world is growing incredibly fast. And with that growth comes a whole list of growing challenges, challenges such as dealing with global warming, solving starvation and water shortages and curing diseases, to name just a few. And who, exactly, is going to help us solve all of these great challenges? Well, to a very last degree, it is these young students. This is the next generation of young, bright scientists. And in many ways, we all rely on them for coming up with new, great innovations to help us solve all these challenges ahead of us. And so a couple of years back, my cofounder and I were teaching university students just like these, only the students we were teaching looked a little bit more like this here. (Laughter) And yes, this is really the reality out there in way too many universities around the world: students that are bored, disengaged and sometimes not even sure why they're learning about a topic in the first place. So we started looking around for new, innovative teaching methods, but what we found was quite disappointing. We saw that books were being turned into e-books, blackboards were being turned into YouTube videos and lecture hall monologues were being turned into MOOCs — massive online open courses. And if you think about it, all we're really doing here is taking the same content and the same format, and bringing it out to more students — which is great, don't get me wrong, that is really great — but the teaching method is still more or less the same, no real innovation there. So we started looking elsewhere. What we found was that flight simulators had been proven over and over again to be far more effective when used in combination with real, in-flight training to train the pilots. And so we thought to ourselves: Why not just apply that to science? Why not build a virtual laboratory simulator? Well, we did it. We basically set out to create a fully simulated, one-to-one, virtual reality laboratory simulator, where the students could perform experiments with mathematical equations that would simulate what would happen in a real-world lab. But not just simple simulations — we would also create advanced simulations with top universities like MIT, to bring out cutting-edge cancer research to these students. And suddenly, the universities could save millions of dollars by letting the students perform virtual experiments before they go into the real laboratory. And not only that; now, they could also understand — even on a molecular level inside the machine — what is happening to the machines. And then they could suddenly perform dangerous experiments in the labs as well. For instance also here, learning about salmonella bacteria, which is an important topic that many schools cannot teach for good safety reasons. And we, of course, quiz the students and then give the teachers a full dashboard, so they fully understand where the students are at. But we didn't stop there, because we had seen just how important meaning is for the students' engagement in the class. So we brought in game designers to create fun and engaging stories. For instance, here in this case, where the students have to solve a mysterious CSI murder case using their core science skills. And the feedback we got when we launched all of this was quite overwhelmingly positive. Here we have 300 students, all passionately solving CSI murder cases while learning core science skills. And what I love the most about this is really when the students come up to me sometimes afterwards, all surprised and a little confused, and say, ""I just spent two hours in this virtual lab, and ... and I didn't check Facebook."" (Laughter) That's how engaging and immersive this really is for the students. And so, to investigate whether this really worked, a learning psychologist did a study with 160 students — that was from Stanford University and Technical University of Denmark. And what they did is split the students into two groups. One group would only use the virtual laboratory simulations, the other group would only use traditional teaching methods, and they had the same amount of time. Then, interestingly, they gave the students a test before and after the experiment, so they could clearly measure the learning impact of the students. And what they found was a surprisingly high 76 percent increase in the learning effectiveness when using virtual laboratories over traditional teaching methods. But even more interestingly, the second part of this study investigated what the teacher's impact was on the learning. And what they found was that when you combined the virtual laboratories with teacher-led coaching and mentoring, then we saw a total 101 percent increase in the learning effectiveness, which effectively doubles the science teacher's impact with the same amount of time spent. So a couple of months back, we started asking ourselves — we have a wonderful team now of learning psychologists and teachers and scientists and game developers — and we started asking ourselves: How can we keep ourselves to our promise of constantly reimagining education? And today, I am really excited to be presenting what we came up with and have been working incredibly hard to create. I will explain briefly what this is. Basically, I take my mobile phone — most students already have these, smartphones — and I plug it into this virtual-reality headset, a low-cost headset. And now what I can effectively do is, I can literally step into this virtual world. We'll have some of you in the audience also get to try this, because it is really something that you have to try to fully feel how immersive it really is. It literally feels like I just stepped inside this virtual lab. Do you see me up on the screen? Audience: Yes. Michael Bodekaer: Great! Awesome. So basically, I have just turned my mobile phone into a fully simulated, million-dollar Ivy League laboratory with all this amazing equipment that I can interact with. I can, for instance, pick up the pipette and do experiments with it. I have my E-Ggel, my PCR and — oh, look there, I have my next-generation sequencing machine, and there I even have my electron microscope. I mean, who's carrying around an electron microscope in their pocket? And here I have my machine, I can do different experiments on the machine. And over here I have the door, I can go into other experiments, I can perform in the laboratories. And here, I have my learning tablet. This is an intelligent tablet that allows me to read about relevant theory. As you can see, I can interact with it. I can watch videos and see content that is relevant to the experiment that I'm performing right now. Then over here, I have Marie. She is my teacher — my lab assistant — and what she does is guides me through this whole laboratory. And very soon, the teachers will be able to literally teleport themselves into this virtual world that I'm in right now and help me, guide me, through this whole experiment. And now before I finalize this, I want to show you an even cooler thing, I think — something you cannot even do in real laboratories. This is a PCR machine. I'm now going to start this experiment. And what I just did is literally shrunk myself a million times into the size of a molecule — and it really feels like it, you have to try this. So now it feels like I'm standing inside the machine and I'm seeing all the DNA, and I see the molecules. I see the polymerase and the enzymes and so forth. And I can see how in this case, DNA is being replicated millions of times, just like it's happening inside your body right now. And I can really feel and understand how all of this works. Now, I hope that gives you a little bit of a sense of the possibilities in these new teaching methods. And I want to also emphasize that everything you just saw also works on iPads and laptops without the headsets. I say that for a very important reason. In order for us to really empower and inspire the next generation of scientists, we really need teachers to drive the adoption of new technologies in the classroom. And so in many ways, I believe that the next big, quantum leap in science education lies no longer with the technology, but rather with the teachers' decision to push forward and adopt these technologies inside the classrooms. And so it is our hope that more universities and schools and teachers will collaborate with technology companies to realize this full potential. And so, lastly, I'd like to leave you with a little story that really inspires me. And that is the story of Jack Andraka. Some of you might already know him. Jack invented a new, groundbreaking low-cost test for pancreatic cancer at the age 15. And when Jack shares his story of how he did this huge breakthrough, he also explains that one thing almost prevented him from making this breakthrough. And that was that he did not have access to real laboratories, because he was too inexperienced to be allowed in. Now, imagine if we could bring Ivy League, million-dollar virtual laboratories out to all these students just like Jack, all over the world, and give them the latest, greatest, most fancy machines you can imagine that would quite literally make any scientist in here jump up and down out of pure excitement. And then imagine how that would empower and inspire a whole new generation of young and bright scientists, ready to innovate and change the world. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	今天，我要向各位展示我手上這台平板電腦及頭上這台虛擬實境頭戴裝置將如何變革我們的科學教育。而我稍後也會向各位展示如何讓科學老師的教學效果提高兩倍。但在我向各位展示這些如何可以實現之前，讓我們先簡短聊聊，為什麼改善科學的教學質量這麼的重要。 各位想一下，世界的成長變化如此的快速。而伴隨著成長，相對地也帶來了一系列的挑戰，像是解決全球暖化問題、解決飢餓、水源不足、治療疾病，等等問題... 而又有誰，可以幫助我們解決這些問題呢？嗯，說到底，是這些青年學生。他們是下一代年輕的、聰明的科學家。在很多方面，我們都需要仰賴他們從創造出偉大的發明，到來幫助我們解決眼前所面臨的種種挑戰。幾年前，我和我的共同出資人在大學教類似這樣的學生，但我們教的學生，他們的上課狀況比較類似這樣... （笑聲） 沒錯，這就是外面的真實世界，全世界很多大學都有類似的情況：學生覺得老師上課無聊，自己也無精打采，有時候，他們甚至都無法了解最初為什麼要學這個話題。 所以，我們開始尋找新的創新教學方法，但我們找到的東西都相當令人失望。我們看到實體書變成了電子書，黑板變成了 YouTube 影片，而演講大廳裡的長篇演說變成了MOOCs —大量線上開放課程。如果你仔細想想，我們現在在做的事，只是把同樣的內容格式帶出去給更多的學生—這很棒，各位不要誤會，這真的很棒—但教學方法多多少少都還是一樣，沒有真正的創新。 所以，我們開始在其它領域尋找。我們發現，飛機模擬控制台，當與用來訓練飛行員的真實飛行訓練一起使用時，已經一次又一次地被證實相當有效。所以，我們自己在想：為什麼不把這個運用到科學教學上呢？為什麼不建立一個虛擬實驗室的模擬控制台呢？ 沒錯，我們辦到了。我們基本上創造出了一個全擬真，一對一的，虛擬實境實驗室的模擬控制台，在這裡，學生可以用數學公式進行將會模擬出真實實驗室情況的實驗。但並不是只有簡單的模擬——我們也與麻省理工學院這樣的知名大學合作建立了先進的模擬課程，帶給這些學生們最新的癌症研究體驗。突然間，校方也節省了很多經費，通過讓學生進行虛擬實驗在他們進入真正的實驗室之前。不僅如此，現在，他們也可以理解 －甚至在儀器中的分子層面 －了解到儀器裡面發生了甚麼變化。而且他們也可以即時地在虛擬實驗室裡從事危險的實驗。舉個例子，比如學習沙門氏菌一個相當重要但是很多學校出於安全原因，而無法提供的課題。當然，我們也會給學生做測試，然後給老師課程進度表以便他們全面性地了解學生們的學習狀況。 但是，我們並沒有停滯不前，因為我們已經看到鼓勵學生參與到課程中具有相當重要的意義。所以我們請遊戲設計者幫我們創造好玩又引人入勝的遊戲。比如，在這個案例中，學生要用他們的核心科學技術，來破解神秘的 CSI 暗殺事件。 當我們發表全部的設計後，得到的反饋都是相當正面的。這裡我們有 300 個學生，當他們在學核心科學技術時，都相當投入地想解開CSI 的暗殺之謎。而我讓我最享受的是，有時候真的有學生課後會來找我，然後用相當驚訝且有點困惑的表情說，「我剛剛竟然在虛擬實驗室度過了兩個小時，而且....我竟然沒有瀏覽 Facebook。」 （笑聲） 這就是虛擬實驗室對學生來說都有吸引力、多仿真。 為了調查這樣做是否真的可行，一位學習心理學家對160名學生做了研究 －他們來自史丹福大學及丹麥技術大學。他們把學生分成兩組。第一組學生只能進行虛擬實驗室模擬教學方式。另一組學生只能進行傳統的教學方式。他們上課的時間都一樣。接下來有趣的是，他們在實驗前與實驗後分別對學生進行測驗，這樣他們就可以測量出學生的學習效果。他們發現，虛擬實驗室教學方式比傳統教學方式提高了76%的教學效果。 但更有趣的是在研究調查的第二部分，有關老師在旁輔導的影響力。他們發現，如果你把虛擬實驗室與老師在旁協助結合在一起，學生的學習效果會提高 101% ，這實際上是傳統教師教學效果的兩倍。幾個月後，我們開始問我們自己—我們現在有很棒的團隊我們有學習心理學專家、老師、科學家、遊戲開發商—我們開始問我們自己：我們要如何保持我們對自己不斷創新教學的承諾？ 今天，我真的很興奮可以展示我們的成果，我們相當努力且不斷創新。我簡單的說明一下這是甚麼。基本上，我只要拿出我的手機—大多數的學生都有這個，智能手機—然後，我把它插進這頭戴裝置中，這個相當便宜的裝置。現在我可以有效率做的就是，我可以真的進入到這個虛擬的世界。觀眾當中有幾位已經拿到裝置準備嘗試了，因為你真的可以嘗試看看，體驗一下它有多麼的真實。我簡直就是已經進入到這個虛擬實驗室。你們有看到我嗎，有沒有在螢幕上？ 觀眾：有。 麥可：很好！太棒了！ 基本上，我已經把我的手機轉進到這個全擬真、價值百萬的常春藤聯盟實驗室裡了，這裡面有相當棒的儀器可以跟我互動。舉個例子，我可以拿起吸量管做實驗。我有 E-Ggel，PCR儀器，喔，你看那邊，我有次世代的定序儀器，我甚至有我的電子顯微鏡。我的意思是，有誰能把電子顯微鏡放在口袋？這裡，我有自己的儀器，我可以在儀器上做不同的實驗。這裡，還有一扇門，我可以進去做其它實驗，我可以在實驗室裡進行實驗。還有這個，我有自己的學習平板。這是一個智能平板，可以讓我閱讀相關的理論。就如你所見的，我可以與它互動。我可以看影片，也可以看我接下來準備要做的實驗的相關內容。然後這邊，這位是瑪莉。她是我的老師，我的實驗室助理，她做的就是，介紹給我實驗室的一切。很快的，老師們將可以把他們自己瞬間移動到我現在所處的虛擬世界裡來，並幫助我、導引我做完整個實驗。 在我要結束前，我想要向各位展示更酷的東西，我認為你在真實的實驗室裡甚至都沒辦法接觸到。就是這一台 PCR 儀器。（聚合脢連鎖反應儀器）我準備開始進行這項實驗。我剛剛做的就是，把我自己縮小到幾百萬倍，縮到跟一個分子一樣的大小—各位真的要嘗試一下，真的很酷。現在，我感覺好像站在儀器裡面，看著所有的 DNA 及分子。我看到聚合酶，還有酵素等等。我還可以看到，DNA 如何被複製好幾百萬倍出來，就像各位身體裡面現在正在發生的事情一樣。我真的可以感受並了解到這一切是如何運作的。 現在，我希望可以給各位一些關於這些新的教學方式的可行性。我也想強調各位剛剛看到的所有東西也可以在 iPad 及筆記型電腦上操作，可以不用頭戴式裝置。我說這是為了一個很重要的原因。為了讓我們支持並鼓勵我們的下一代對科學的熱情，我們真的需要老師們在課堂上主動採用新的科技教學方法。有了這麼多的方法，我相信下一個科學教育的巨大突破不再是靠科技，而是靠老師們在課堂上推動並採用這些科技的決心。所以我們希望，可以更多的大學、學校、老師可以與科技公司合作讓學生發揮出最大的潛力。 最後，我想給各位講一個小故事，一個激勵我的故事。就是這位傑克．安佐卡的故事。你們有些人也許已經認識這個人。傑克在他 15 歲的時候，發明了一個新的、開創性、低成本、快速的胰腺癌測試試紙，在傑克分享他如何做出這個突破性發明的故事時，他也說明了一件差點阻礙他做這項突破性發明的故事。就是，他因為太年輕沒有經驗，所以不允許進到實驗室裡做實驗。 現在，想像一下，如果我們可以把價值上百萬的常春藤大學的虛擬實驗室帶到外面的世界給所有像是傑克這樣的學生，讓他們也能接觸到最先進、最強大、最昂貴的儀器，這會讓在場所有的科學家，興奮地跳起來。然後想像一下，那會如何支持並激勵到全新一代的年輕聰明科學家們，讓他們準備好創新並改變世界。 非常謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
