Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_specter_the_danger_of_science_denial	"Let's pretend right here we have a machine. A big machine, a cool, TED-ish machine, and it's a time machine. And everyone in this room has to get into it. And you can go backwards, you can go forwards; you cannot stay where you are. And I wonder what you'd choose, because I've been asking my friends this question a lot lately and they all want to go back. I don't know. They want to go back before there were automobiles or Twitter or ""American Idol."" I don't know. I'm convinced that there's some sort of pull to nostalgia, to wishful thinking. And I understand that. I'm not part of that crowd, I have to say. I don't want to go back, and it's not because I'm adventurous. It's because possibilities on this planet, they don't go back, they go forward. So I want to get in the machine, and I want to go forward. This is the greatest time there's ever been on this planet by any measure that you wish to choose: health, wealth, mobility, opportunity, declining rates of disease ... There's never been a time like this. My great-grandparents died, all of them, by the time they were 60. My grandparents pushed that number to 70. My parents are closing in on 80. So there better be a nine at the beginning of my death number. But it's not even about people like us, because this is a bigger deal than that. A kid born in New Delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world did 100 years ago. Think about that, it's an incredible fact. And why is it true? Smallpox. Smallpox killed billions of people on this planet. It reshaped the demography of the globe in a way that no war ever has. It's gone. It's vanished. We vanquished it. Puff. In the rich world, diseases that threatened millions of us just a generation ago no longer exist, hardly. Diphtheria, rubella, polio ... does anyone even know what those things are? Vaccines, modern medicine, our ability to feed billions of people, those are triumphs of the scientific method. And to my mind, the scientific method — trying stuff out, seeing if it works, changing it when it doesn't — is one of the great accomplishments of humanity. So that's the good news. Unfortunately, that's all the good news because there are some other problems, and they've been mentioned many times. And one of them is that despite all our accomplishments, a billion people go to bed hungry in this world every day. That number's rising, and it's rising really rapidly, and it's disgraceful. And not only that, we've used our imagination to thoroughly trash this globe. Potable water, arable land, rainforests, oil, gas: they're going away, and they're going away soon, and unless we innovate our way out of this mess, we're going away too. So the question is: Can we do that? And I think we can. I think it's clear that we can make food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on. I think we can power this world with energy that doesn't also destroy it. I really do believe that, and, no, it ain't wishful thinking. But here's the thing that keeps me up at night — one of the things that keeps me up at night: We've never needed progress in science more than we need it right now. Never. And we've also never been in a position to deploy it properly in the way that we can today. We're on the verge of amazing, amazing events in many fields, and yet I actually think we'd have to go back hundreds, 300 years, before the Enlightenment, to find a time when we battled progress, when we fought about these things more vigorously, on more fronts, than we do now. People wrap themselves in their beliefs, and they do it so tightly that you can't set them free. Not even the truth will set them free. And, listen, everyone's entitled to their opinion; they're even entitled to their opinion about progress. But you know what you're not entitled to? You're not entitled to your own facts. Sorry, you're not. And this took me awhile to figure out. About a decade ago, I wrote a story about vaccines for The New Yorker. A little story. And I was amazed to find opposition: opposition to what is, after all, the most effective public health measure in human history. I didn't know what to do, so I just did what I do: I wrote a story and I moved on. And soon after that, I wrote a story about genetically engineered food. Same thing, only bigger. People were going crazy. So I wrote a story about that too, and I couldn't understand why people thought this was ""Frankenfoods,"" why they thought moving molecules around in a specific, rather than a haphazard way, was trespassing on nature's ground. But, you know, I do what I do. I wrote the story, I moved on. I mean, I'm a journalist. We type, we file, we go to dinner. It's fine. (Laughter) But these stories bothered me, and I couldn't figure out why, and eventually I did. And that's because those fanatics that were driving me crazy weren't actually fanatics at all. They were thoughtful people, educated people, decent people. They were exactly like the people in this room. And it just disturbed me so much. But then I thought, you know, let's be honest. We're at a point in this world where we don't have the same relationship to progress that we used to. We talk about it ambivalently. We talk about it in ironic terms with little quotes around it: ""progress."" Okay, there are reasons for that, and I think we know what those reasons are. We've lost faith in institutions, in authority, and sometimes in science itself, and there's no reason we shouldn't have. You can just say a few names and people will understand. Chernobyl, Bhopal, the Challenger, Vioxx, weapons of mass destruction, hanging chads. You know, you can choose your list. There are questions and problems with the people we used to believe were always right, so be skeptical. Ask questions, demand proof, demand evidence. Don't take anything for granted. But here's the thing: When you get proof, you need to accept the proof, and we're not that good at doing that. And the reason that I can say that is because we're now in an epidemic of fear like one I've never seen and hope never to see again. About 12 years ago, there was a story published, a horrible story, that linked the epidemic of autism to the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine shot. Very scary. Tons of studies were done to see if this was true. Tons of studies should have been done; it's a serious issue. The data came back. The data came back from the United States, from England, from Sweden, from Canada, and it was all the same: no correlation, no connection, none at all. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because we believe anecdotes, we believe what we see, what we think we see, what makes us feel real. We don't believe a bunch of documents from a government official giving us data, and I do understand that, I think we all do. But you know what? The result of that has been disastrous. Disastrous because here's a fact: The United States is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccine rate for measles is going down. That is disgraceful, and we should be ashamed of ourselves. It's horrible. What kind of a thing happened that we could do that? Now, I understand it. I do understand it. Because, did anyone have measles here? Has one person in this audience ever seen someone die of measles? Doesn't happen very much. Doesn't happen in this country at all, but it happened 160,000 times in the world last year. That's a lot of death of measles — 20 an hour. But since it didn't happen here, we can put it out of our minds, and people like Jenny McCarthy can go around preaching messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like ""Oprah"" and ""Larry King Live."" And they can do it because they don't link causation and correlation. They don't understand that these things seem the same, but they're almost never the same. And it's something we need to learn, and we need to learn it really soon. This guy was a hero, Jonas Salk. He took one of the worst scourges of mankind away from us. No fear, no agony. Polio — puff, gone. That guy in the middle, not so much. His name is Paul Offit. He just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a bunch of other people. It'll save the lives of 400 to 500,000 kids in the developing world every year. Pretty good, right? Well, it's good, except that Paul goes around talking about vaccines and says how valuable they are and that people ought to just stop the whining. And he actually says it that way. So, Paul's a terrorist. When Paul speaks in a public hearing, he can't testify without armed guards. He gets called at home because people like to tell him that they remember where his kids go to school. And why? Because Paul made a vaccine. I don't need to say this, but vaccines are essential. You take them away, disease comes back, horrible diseases. And that's happening. We have measles in this country now. And it's getting worse, and pretty soon kids are going to die of it again because it's just a numbers game. And they're not just going to die of measles. What about polio? Let's have that. Why not? A college classmate of mine wrote me a couple weeks ago and said she thought I was a little strident. No one's ever said that before. She wasn't going to vaccinate her kid against polio, no way. Fine. Why? Because we don't have polio. And you know what? We didn't have polio in this country yesterday. Today, I don't know, maybe a guy got on a plane in Lagos this morning, and he's flying to LAX, right now he's over Ohio. And he's going to land in a couple of hours, he's going to rent a car, and he's going to come to Long Beach, and he's going to attend one of these fabulous TED dinners tonight. And he doesn't know that he's infected with a paralytic disease, and we don't either because that's the way the world works. That's the planet we live on. Don't pretend it isn't. Now, we love to wrap ourselves in lies. We love to do it. Everyone take their vitamins this morning? Echinacea, a little antioxidant to get you going. I know you did because half of Americans do every day. They take the stuff, and they take alternative medicines, and it doesn't matter how often we find out that they're useless. The data says it all the time. They darken your urine. They almost never do more than that. (Laughter) It's okay, you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine? I'm totally with you. (Laughter) Dark urine. Dark. Why do we do that? Why do we do that? Well, I think I understand, we hate Big Pharma. We hate Big Government. We don't trust the Man. And we shouldn't: Our health care system sucks. It's cruel to millions of people. It's absolutely astonishingly cold and soul-bending to those of us who can even afford it. So we run away from it, and where do we run? We leap into the arms of Big Placebo. (Laughter) That's fantastic. I love Big Placebo. (Applause) But, you know, it's really a serious thing because this stuff is crap, and we spend billions of dollars on it. And I have all sorts of little props here. None of it ... ginkgo, fraud; echinacea, fraud; acai — I don't even know what that is but we're spending billions of dollars on it — it's fraud. And you know what? When I say this stuff, people scream at me, and they say, ""What do you care? Let people do what they want to do. It makes them feel good."" And you know what? You're wrong. Because I don't care if it's the secretary of HHS who's saying, ""Hmm, I'm not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammograms,"" or some cancer quack who wants to treat his patient with coffee enemas. When you start down the road where belief and magic replace evidence and science, you end up in a place you don't want to be. You end up in Thabo Mbeki South Africa. He killed 400,000 of his people by insisting that beetroot, garlic and lemon oil were much more effective than the antiretroviral drugs we know can slow the course of AIDS. Hundreds of thousands of needless deaths in a country that has been plagued worse than any other by this disease. Please, don't tell me there are no consequences to these things. There are. There always are. Now, the most mindless epidemic we're in the middle of right now is this absurd battle between proponents of genetically engineered food and the organic elite. It's an idiotic debate. It has to stop. It's a debate about words, about metaphors. It's ideology, it's not science. Every single thing we eat, every grain of rice, every sprig of parsley, every Brussels sprout has been modified by man. You know, there weren't tangerines in the garden of Eden. There wasn't any cantaloupe. (Laughter) There weren't Christmas trees. We made it all. We made it over the last 11,000 years. And some of it worked, and some of it didn't. We got rid of the stuff that didn't. Now we can do it in a more precise way — and there are risks, absolutely — but we can put something like vitamin A into rice, and that stuff can help millions of people, millions of people, prolong their lives. You don't want to do that? I have to say, I don't understand it. We object to genetically engineered food. Why do we do that? Well, the things I constantly hear are: Too many chemicals, pesticides, hormones, monoculture, we don't want giant fields of the same thing, that's wrong. We don't companies patenting life. We don't want companies owning seeds. And you know what my response to all of that is? Yes, you're right. Let's fix it. It's true, we've got a huge food problem, but this isn't science. This has nothing to do with science. It's law, it's morality, it's patent stuff. You know science isn't a company. It's not a country. It's not even an idea; it's a process. It's a process, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't, but the idea that we should not allow science to do its job because we're afraid, is really very deadening, and it's preventing millions of people from prospering. You know, in the next 50 years we're going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now, 70 percent. This investment in Africa over the last 30 years. Disgraceful. Disgraceful. They need it, and we're not giving it to them. And why? Genetically engineered food. We don't want to encourage people to eat that rotten stuff, like cassava for instance. Cassava's something that half a billion people eat. It's kind of like a potato. It's just a bunch of calories. It sucks. It doesn't have nutrients, it doesn't have protein, and scientists are engineering all of that into it right now. And then people would be able to eat it and they'd be able to not go blind. They wouldn't starve, and you know what? That would be nice. It wouldn't be Chez Panisse, but it would be nice. And all I can say about this is: Why are we fighting it? I mean, let's ask ourselves: Why are we fighting it? Because we don't want to move genes around? This is about moving genes around. It's not about chemicals. It's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones, our insistence on having bigger food, better food, singular food. This isn't about Rice Krispies, this is about keeping people alive, and it's about time we started to understand what that meant. Because, you know something? If we don't, if we continue to act the way we're acting, we're guilty of something that I don't think we want to be guilty of: high-tech colonialism. There's no other way to describe what's going on here. It's selfish, it's ugly, it's beneath us, and we really have to stop it. So after this amazingly fun conversation, (Laughter) you might want to say, ""So, you still want to get in this ridiculous time machine and go forward?"" Absolutely. Absolutely, I do. It's stuck in the present right now, but we have an amazing opportunity. We can set that time machine on anything we want. We can move it where we want to move it, and we're going to move it where we want to move it. We have to have these conversations and we have to think, but when we get in the time machine and we go ahead, we're going to be happy we do. I know that we can, and as far as I'm concerned, that's something the world needs right now. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you."	想像一下這裡有一臺機器，一臺巨大的、炫麗的、很 TED 的機器，它是一個時間機器，在這房間裡的每一個人都要走進這個時間機器你可以選擇回到過去、或走向未來你就是不能停在當下我在想你們會怎麼選，因為最近我問我朋友，他們的回答都是「回到過去」我不知道。他們想要回到沒有汽車、沒有 Twitter 或《美國偶像》（American Idol）的年代我搞不懂我肯定他們心裡有種懷舊的情愫或是癡心妄想這我能理解 但我必須承認，我跟他們不是同一掛的我不想回到過去，不是因為我喜歡冒險 —而是因為，這個地球的可能性無法從過去獲得，你要向未來前進也就是說，我想走進這個機器，走到未來這個時代是最美好的時代，不管你用何種方式來衡量，如：健康、財富、流動性、機遇、患病率不斷下降從未有過這麼好的時代我的曾祖父母在60歲的時候過世我的祖父母多一些，他們在70多歲時離去我的父母過世時已經80幾歲了所以，我希望我死去的時候是在一個9數字開頭左右的時候但這並不只和我們有關這關係著更多人的生命 今天，在新德里出生的某個小孩可以擁有100年前世界上最富有的人一樣長的壽命你想想，這是個多麼了不起的事!為什麼會出現這樣的事?是因為我們消滅了天花天花曾奪走地球上數以億計人的生命它重塑了地球的人口結構任何戰爭也無以比擬但今天，它消失了我們克服了它在當今富裕世界裡那曾經威脅上個世代數百萬人的疾病幾乎不再出現了白喉、德國麻疹、小兒麻痹......有人知道這些是什麼嗎?疫苗、現代醫學、以及人類為數百萬人提供食品的能力這些都是科學法則的勝利在我看來，科學方法就是不斷嘗試、檢驗、改變的過程它是人類最偉大的成就之一 因此這些都是好消息但不幸的是，好消息就這麼多因為我們遇到其他一些難題，它們也被提過很多次其中一個就是儘管我們取得進步，但目前，世界上還有10億人挨餓著每天，他們都忍受著饑餓的折磨這數字還在上升，上升的速度很快，令人感到羞愧除此之外，我們還使用自身的想像力給地球帶來巨大的垃圾飲用水、可耕地、熱帶雨林、石油、天然氣:這些資源都在流失，並且即將消失殆盡除非我們懂得創新否則我們也會跟著滅亡 問題是: 我們做得到嗎? 我想我們可以我認為我們可以產出足以養活數十億人的糧食而不會損害他們賴以維生的土地我認為，我們可以找到對環境友善的能源而不會毀壞環境我確實是這麼相信的，絕非一廂情願然而，有些事讓我輾轉難眠 —其中一個讓我徹夜難眠的事在我們的歷史上，從來沒有如今天這般急需科技的進步。從來沒有。在歷史上，我們也從未有過今天這樣的時機，讓我們可以按照自己的意願使用這些科技在許多領域中，我們都正處於驚人發現的時刻儘管如此，事實上，我認為我們必須回頭看看回到300年前，回到啓蒙時代以前只有在那個年代，才有人抵抗進步才有人比我們今天更加猛烈地抗拒科技的進步 人們總愛把自己放置於信仰裡他們捆綁自己，使自己無法脫身即便是真理也無法使他們獲得自由聽著，每個人都有權抱持他的觀點，他們甚至有權聲稱他們關於進步的意見但你知道你沒有權利做什麽嗎?你無權堅稱你自己所知道的事實。抱歉，你就是無法。我也是花了一段時間才領悟出來的 大約十年前，我在《紐約客》上寫一篇關於疫苗的小故事但我驚訝地發現，竟然有那麼多人反對我他們反對的是人類史上最有效的公共衛生預防措施我當時不知該怎麼做我就只做自己該做的。故事寫完，繼續搞其他事不久之後，我寫了一個關於基因轉殖食物的文章同樣地，我又收到大量的反對聲浪，比上次還要大人們簡直瘋了於是，我也就此寫了一篇文章我實在搞不懂為何人們會把這看作「科學怪人食物」?我不理解: 為何人們會認為，以特定的方式移動生物分子而非按任意的方式，就是在玩弄自然不過，你知道，我還是做我該做的。故事寫完，我就不管了。我是個記者，我們的工作就是打字、發表、吃飯，就這樣。 （笑聲） 但，這些故事還是困擾著我我也不知道是什麼原因，直到後來我才知道爲什麽。因為，那些曾把我逼瘋的狂熱分子事實上並非狂熱分子他們都是有想法的人、受過教育的人、正經人。他們完全就像這房裡的所有人，這實在讓我傷透腦筋...但後來我想，不如打開天窗說亮話吧:在我們今天所處的時代我們與進步的關係已經不同於以往了，我們現在以一種矛盾的情緒談論它，我們以諷刺的口吻來引用進步:“進步” (加上引號)好吧，我想這是有原因的，我們也知道原因是什麼我們對於政府機構已失去信任，有時對科學本身也是，我們確實有不信任的理由，說出幾個名字你就知道原因為何了車諾比、博帕爾、挑戰者號、Vioxx 抗關節炎藥、大規模殺傷性武器，充滿太多爭議你可以列出自己的清單我們過去深深確信的現在都出問題了所以，還是保持懷疑吧詢問問題、要求證據、千萬別凡事信以為真但要注意一點: 當你取得證據時你必須接受那樣的證據。我們卻並不善於這麼做。究其原因，我認為我們現在都得了一種恐懼傳染病一種我從未見過的、以後也不想再見的恐懼傳染病 大約十二年前，媒體報導一則消息一個非常可怕的故事它把自閉症和注射麻疹、腮腺炎、德國麻疹等疫苗連結在一起非常可怕爲了查明此事，人們展開大量研究是有必要做這些大量研究，因為那確實是一個嚴重的議題最後資料出來了來自美國、英國、瑞典、加拿大的資料檢驗出同樣的結論:自閉症和疫苗二者之間沒有關聯，毫無聯繫，根本毫不相關但這個結果對大眾沒多大意義因為我們相信小道消息，我們相信眼睛看到的、相信心裡所見到的、相信那些讓我們覺得真實的東西就是不相信一堆化驗資料不相信來自政府部門的檔案而我也理解這一點，我想我們所有人都理解這點可是你知道嗎?這導致了災難性的後果說它災難，因為這裡有個事實:美國是世界上唯一一個麻疹接種率正在下降的國家這實在令人羞愧我們應該為此感到慚愧這很可怕到底發生什麼事才使我們這麼做? 現在，我明白了。真的明白了。請問這裡有人得過麻疹嗎?你們當中，有人看過某人罹患麻疹死去嗎?不經常發生吧事實上它也不會發生在這個國家然而，過去一年裡，有十六萬人罹患麻疹而死去這是一個非常大量的麻疹致死率基本上，每小時有20人因此死去但因為它不在我們生活周遭，我們可以不管這件事像 Jenny McCarthy 那樣的人依然能夠在歐普拉和賴瑞·金的節目上散播恐懼和無知的資訊他們之所以這麼做是因為，他們沒有把原因與關聯性連結在一起他們不瞭解這些看起來似是而非的東西事實上從來都不是相同的東西我們必須從中汲取教訓，越早越好 這位先生是個英雄， Jonas Salk他發明小兒麻痹的疫苗，使我們避免了最嚴重的禍害再也沒有恐懼，再也沒有痛楚，小兒麻痹消失了中間那個男人就沒那麼風光了 (圖標: 恐怖分子)他叫 Paul Offit他與其他一票同仁一起發明了輪狀病毒疫苗這疫苗每年可以在發展中國家拯救四億五十萬孩子的生命聽起來是好事，不是嗎?確實很好，除了Paul 到處宣傳這一疫苗說它有多好並稱人們從此可以告別苦楚他確實是這麼說的於是，我們把 Paul 當成恐怖分子當 Paul 公開作證時他身邊必須要有武裝保安他在家裡會接到恐嚇電話因為，有人會跟他說他們知道他孩子在哪上學為什麼? 因為 Paul 發明了一種疫苗 我本不需要講這個的，但疫苗確實極其重要，一旦停止疫苗注射，疾病又會捲土重來，並且是非常可怕的疾病，這樣的事正在發生現在美國也出現麻疹了而且情況越來越糟不久之後，就會有孩子罹患此病而死，因為這只是數字遊戲罷了不僅僅是麻疹，還有小兒麻痹症呢! 誰敢說它不會重新出現?幾個星期前，我的一位大學同學寫信給我說她覺得我現在有點太張揚了以前沒人這麼說過她說她不打算給孩子接種小兒麻痹症疫苗絕對不會好吧為什麼? 因為這個國家沒有小兒麻痹症。但你知道嗎?昨天，我們沒有這個傳染病但今天? 我不知道，也許某人今早從 Lagos 上了飛機飛到洛杉磯機場，現在差不多抵達俄亥俄州幾個小時後，他的飛機就要降落，他會租一輛車來到 Long Beach來到這裡參加今晚其中一場超棒的 TED 晚宴他不知道自己感染了小兒麻痹症我們也不知道，因為這就是世界運作的方式這就是地球運轉的方式。別假裝它不是。 如今，我們喜歡相信謊言。我們超愛這麼做你們每個人早上都吃了維他命嗎?或者紫錐花? 或是一點的抗氧化劑?吞了那些你才感覺比較清醒你之所以這麼做，是因為每天有半數的美國人也這麼做他們會吃這些東西，也會吃替代藥物而且不管我們都已經知道事實上這些東西是無效的資料是這麼說的吃這些只會使得你的尿液顏色變深。除此以外，它們起不了任何作用（笑聲）假如你願意花280億美元獲得一些深色尿液，我一點也不反對（笑聲）深色的尿液，深色...我們幹嘛這麼做? 為什麼要做這些?嗯，我想我能理解，我們都討厭大藥商我們都討厭大政府，我們不信任這些人而我們也不需要。我們的健保系統很爛對幾百萬人來說，這是一個殘酷的系統而對於那些能夠支付起的人們來說這也絕對是一個非常冷酷無情的系統於是我們就想辦法逃離。但要逃到哪裡去呢?我們投入巨大安慰劑的懷抱之中。（笑聲）了不起。我喜歡大安慰劑。（掌聲） 但你知道，這真是一件嚴重的事因為這東西是一個爛貨但我們卻花了數以億計的美元來購買安慰劑我也帶來了各種各樣的樣品它們當中，沒有一樣是有效的，無論是銀杏、紫錐花、巴西紫莓...都沒用。我甚至不知道這是什麼，但我們花數十億美元購買它們，這簡直是詐騙但你知道嗎? 當我說到這時，人們對我大吼他們說:「你管他們幹嘛? 讓人們做自己要做的事就好啦，這至少讓他們心裡感到舒服啊。」但你知道嗎? 你錯了。因為我一點也不在乎假使美國健康與公共事業部部長說:「呃，我才不管專家找到的關於乳房X線照片的證據呢，」或是一個癌症庸醫想通過咖啡灌腸來醫治他的病人。假如你相信信仰和魔術而非證據與科學的話，你最終只會來到一個你不想去的地方你最終會來到姆貝基的南非 (Thabo Mbeki: 南非前總統)對於治療愛滋病，他因為堅信甜菜、蒜頭、和檸檬油比我們所知的可延緩愛滋病的抗逆轉錄病毒藥物更有效而殺死了40萬人成千上萬的人因此而死那裡剛好又是全球愛滋病最為蔓延的地區請別告訴我這些不會產生嚴重後果後果是有的 ，終究會有 現在，我們所遇到最無知的傳染病就是基因轉殖作物與有機菁英食品兩個陣營之間的愚蠢對抗這也是一個愚蠢的爭論，我們必須停止。因為這個辯論只是針對字眼和隱喻是關於意識形態的爭辯，而不是科學。我們吃進肚子裡的每一樣東西，每一顆穀物或飯粒每一根香菜每一顆球芽甘欖菜都曾被人類改變過你知道，在伊甸園裡本來是沒有橘子的、沒有哈密瓜、更不會有聖誕樹，這些都是人造出來的人類在過去一萬一千年裡造出了這些東西有些實驗成功，有些失敗那些失敗的嘗試就被拋棄而現在我們可以以一種更為精確的方式來做實驗這絕對會有風險但我們可以把維他命A置入水稻裡，這會幫助數百萬人延長他們的壽命你不願做這件事嗎?我必須說，我實在搞不懂。 我們反對基因作物為什麼?嗯，我經常聽到的理由是:含有太多化學成分、太多農藥、荷爾蒙、單一作物、我們不要巨大單一的農田確實，那樣不好我們不想讓大公司申請作物專利我們也不想讓大公司壟斷種子你知道我對所有這些意見的回應是什麽嗎?對，猜對了，我們一起來解決這些問題的確，我們遇到一個非常嚴重的食物問題，但這不是科學，這與科學無關這是法律、倫理、專利法的問題要知道，科學並非一家公司，也不是一個國家，甚至不是一個想法，它是一個過程這過程有時成功，有時失敗，但由於我們畏懼而認為我們不該讓科學家去做深入研究工作的這個想法是非常可怕的，這也會阻礙數百萬人走向繁榮 你知道嗎? 未來的五十年我們需要比現在種植70%更多的糧食這是過去三十年在非洲的農業投資總額令人慚愧，令人慚愧他們需要，我們卻偏偏不給為什麼? 因為那是基因食物我們不鼓勵人們去吃腐爛的食物，比如，壞掉的木薯世界上有五千萬人是靠吃木薯為生的那是一種類似馬鈴薯的作物就只有一堆卡路里，非常難吃沒有營養，也沒有蛋白質，而現在，有科學家正嘗試把這些營養素加到木薯裡吃到這些改良木薯的人就以避免失明也不再挨餓。你知道嗎?這是好事。雖然比不上 Chez Panisse (高檔餐廳)但也是好事一樁 我只能說，為什麼我們要反對呢?請大家問問自己: 我們為何要反對?因為我們不想移動基因組嗎?這只是移動一些基因組罷了，不是添加化學物質跟我們荒謬熱愛的荷爾蒙也毫無瓜葛我們總是要求獲得更大的食物、更好的食物、更專一的食物這和 Rice Krispies (棉花糖米香) 無關，而是試著讓人活下來現在是我們認真理解這件事的時刻了因為，你知道嗎?假如我們不這麼做，而是堅持現在的做法，我們未來將會因為一些我們不希望發生的事情而感到負罪感高科技殖民主義沒有其他別的詞語更合適於描述這一狀況了這是自私的、骯髒的使我們變得卑劣我們必須停止這麼做 好了，在這麼一場超級有趣的對話之後，（笑聲）你也許會說:「你還想走進這臺荒謬的時間機器，駛入未來嗎?」那當然，我絕對會那麼做。這機器現在停在當下，但我們遇到非常好的機會我們可以按自己的意願設置時間機器想去哪就去哪我們可以抵達我們真正要去的地方我們需要開展對話，我們需要思考，當我們進入時間機器，並且走向未來時，我們會為我們的選擇感到高興，我相信我們可以，而就我的理解，這就是現在世界所需要的東西。 謝謝大家 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲）
