Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_sandel_why_we_shouldn_t_trust_markets_with_our_civic_life	Here's a question we need to rethink together: What should be the role of money and markets in our societies? Today, there are very few things that money can't buy. If you're sentenced to a jail term in Santa Barbara, California, you should know that if you don't like the standard accommodations, you can buy a prison cell upgrade. It's true. For how much, do you think? What would you guess? Five hundred dollars? It's not the Ritz-Carlton. It's a jail! Eighty-two dollars a night. Eighty-two dollars a night. If you go to an amusement park and don't want to stand in the long lines for the popular rides, there is now a solution. In many theme parks, you can pay extra to jump to the head of the line. They call them Fast Track or VIP tickets. And this isn't only happening in amusement parks. In Washington, D.C., long lines, queues sometimes form for important Congressional hearings. Now some people don't like to wait in long queues, maybe overnight, even in the rain. So now, for lobbyists and others who are very keen to attend these hearings but don't like to wait, there are companies, line-standing companies, and you can go to them. You can pay them a certain amount of money, they hire homeless people and others who need a job to stand waiting in the line for as long as it takes, and the lobbyist, just before the hearing begins, can take his or her place at the head of the line and a seat in the front of the room. Paid line standing. It's happening, the recourse to market mechanisms and market thinking and market solutions, in bigger arenas. Take the way we fight our wars. Did you know that, in Iraq and Afghanistan, there were more private military contractors on the ground than there were U.S. military troops? Now this isn't because we had a public debate about whether we wanted to outsource war to private companies, but this is what has happened. Over the past three decades, we have lived through a quiet revolution. We've drifted almost without realizing it from having a market economy to becoming market societies. The difference is this: A market economy is a tool, a valuable and effective tool, for organizing productive activity, but a market society is a place where almost everything is up for sale. It's a way of life, in which market thinking and market values begin to dominate every aspect of life: personal relations, family life, health, education, politics, law, civic life. Now, why worry? Why worry about our becoming market societies? For two reasons, I think. One of them has to do with inequality. The more things money can buy, the more affluence, or the lack of it, matters. If the only thing that money determined was access to yachts or fancy vacations or BMWs, then inequality wouldn't matter very much. But when money comes increasingly to govern access to the essentials of the good life — decent health care, access to the best education, political voice and influence in campaigns — when money comes to govern all of those things, inequality matters a great deal. And so the marketization of everything sharpens the sting of inequality and its social and civic consequence. That's one reason to worry. There's a second reason apart from the worry about inequality, and it's this: with some social goods and practices, when market thinking and market values enter, they may change the meaning of those practices and crowd out attitudes and norms worth caring about. I'd like to take an example of a controversial use of a market mechanism, a cash incentive, and see what you think about it. Many schools struggle with the challenge of motivating kids, especially kids from disadvantaged backgrounds, to study hard, to do well in school, to apply themselves. Some economists have proposed a market solution: Offer cash incentives to kids for getting good grades or high test scores or for reading books. They've tried this, actually. They've done some experiments in some major American cities. In New York, in Chicago, in Washington, D.C., they've tried this, offering 50 dollars for an A, 35 dollars for a B. In Dallas, Texas, they have a program that offers eight-year-olds two dollars for each book they read. So let's see what — Some people are in favor, some people are opposed to this cash incentive to motivate achievement. Let's see what people here think about it. Imagine that you are the head of a major school system, and someone comes to you with this proposal. And let's say it's a foundation. They will provide the funds. You don't have to take it out of your budget. How many would be in favor and how many would be opposed to giving it a try? Let's see by a show of hands. First, how many think it might at least be worth a try to see if it would work? Raise your hand. And how many would be opposed? How many would — So the majority here are opposed, but a sizable minority are in favor. Let's have a discussion. Let's start with those of you who object, who would rule it out even before trying. What would be your reason? Who will get our discussion started? Yes? Heike Moses: Hello everyone, I'm Heike, and I think it just kills the intrinsic motivation, so in the respect that children, if they would like to read, you just take this incentive away in just paying them, so it just changes behavior. Michael Sandel: Takes the intrinsic incentive away. What is, or should be, the intrinsic motivation? HM: Well, the intrinsic motivation should be to learn. MS: To learn. HM: To get to know the world. And then, if you stop paying them, what happens then? Then they stop reading? MS: Now, let's see if there's someone who favors, who thinks it's worth trying this. Elizabeth Loftus: I'm Elizabeth Loftus, and you said worth a try, so why not try it and do the experiment and measure things? MS: And measure. And what would you measure? You'd measure how many — EL: How many books they read and how many books they continued to read after you stopped paying them. MS: Oh, after you stopped paying. All right, what about that? HM: To be frank, I just think this is, not to offend anyone, a very American way. (Laughter) (Applause) MS: All right. What's emerged from this discussion is the following question: Will the cash incentive drive out or corrupt or crowd out the higher motivation, the intrinsic lesson that we hope to convey, which is to learn to love to learn and to read for their own sakes? And people disagree about what the effect will be, but that seems to be the question, that somehow a market mechanism or a cash incentive teaches the wrong lesson, and if it does, what will become of these children later? I should tell you what's happened with these experiments. The cash for good grades has had very mixed results, for the most part has not resulted in higher grades. The two dollars for each book did lead those kids to read more books. It also led them to read shorter books. (Laughter) But the real question is, what will become of these kids later? Will they have learned that reading is a chore, a form of piecework to be done for pay, that's the worry, or may it lead them to read maybe for the wrong reason initially but then lead them to fall in love with reading for its own sake? Now, what this, even this brief debate, brings out is something that many economists overlook. Economists often assume that markets are inert, that they do not touch or taint the goods they exchange. Market exchange, they assume, doesn't change the meaning or value of the goods being exchanged. This may be true enough if we're talking about material goods. If you sell me a flat screen television or give me one as a gift, it will be the same good. It will work the same either way. But the same may not be true if we're talking about nonmaterial goods and social practices such as teaching and learning or engaging together in civic life. In those domains, bringing market mechanisms and cash incentives may undermine or crowd out nonmarket values and attitudes worth caring about. Once we see that markets and commerce, when extended beyond the material domain, can change the character of the goods themselves, can change the meaning of the social practices, as in the example of teaching and learning, we have to ask where markets belong and where they don't, where they may actually undermine values and attitudes worth caring about. But to have this debate, we have to do something we're not very good at, and that is to reason together in public about the value and the meaning of the social practices we prize, from our bodies to family life to personal relations to health to teaching and learning to civic life. Now these are controversial questions, and so we tend to shrink from them. In fact, during the past three decades, when market reasoning and market thinking have gathered force and gained prestige, our public discourse during this time has become hollowed out, empty of larger moral meaning. For fear of disagreement, we shrink from these questions. But once we see that markets change the character of goods, we have to debate among ourselves these bigger questions about how to value goods. One of the most corrosive effects of putting a price on everything is on commonality, the sense that we are all in it together. Against the background of rising inequality, marketizing every aspect of life leads to a condition where those who are affluent and those who are of modest means increasingly live separate lives. We live and work and shop and play in different places. Our children go to different schools. This isn't good for democracy, nor is it a satisfying way to live, even for those of us who can afford to buy our way to the head of the line. Here's why. Democracy does not require perfect equality, but what it does require is that citizens share in a common life. What matters is that people of different social backgrounds and different walks of life encounter one another, bump up against one another in the ordinary course of life, because this is what teaches us to negotiate and to abide our differences. And this is how we come to care for the common good. And so, in the end, the question of markets is not mainly an economic question. It's really a question of how we want to live together. Do we want a society where everything is up for sale, or are there certain moral and civic goods that markets do not honor and money cannot buy? Thank you very much. (Applause)	現在有個問題需要我們一起反思金錢和市場在我們的社會中該扮演什麼角色？ 現今，還有幾樣東西是金錢買不到的如果你在加州聖巴巴拉被判處有期徒刑你該知道如你不喜歡標準規格的住宿設施可花錢把牢房升級這是真的，你們認為需要多少錢？你猜猜看？500 美元？這可不是麗思卡爾頓飯店。這是監獄！每晚 82 元每晚 82 元如果你去遊樂園不想為了熱門的遊樂設施排隊等候現在有解決辦法了在許多主題公園，你能花多點錢搶到前頭這叫快速通關走道或 VIP 票 這不僅發生在遊樂園在華盛頓特區往往也要大排長龍才可出席重要的國會聽證會現在部分人不喜歡排長隊也許是通宵的，甚至淋雨所以現在那些極渴望參與聽證會的說客和其他人又不喜歡排隊的，有一些公司排隊公司你可找他們你只須向他們支付若干金額他們就雇用一些無家可歸人士或需要工作的人排隊等候，要等多久就多久說客只須在聽證會開始前取代排在前面的人並坐在會場的前排位置付費排隊 在更大的舞臺上，仰賴市場機制行銷思維和行銷解決方案這是正在發生的事看看我們的作戰方式在伊拉克和阿富汗，你知否私營軍事承包商的數量較美國軍隊人數還要多。現在並非因我們曾公開辯論是否要將戰爭外包給私人公司而是這已是既成事實 過去三十多年來我們度過了一場靜靜的革命我們幾乎難以察覺到經已由市場經濟漸漸快要成為市場社會二者的分別在於：市場經濟是一種工具一種有價值和有效益的工具用以組織生產活動但是市場社會是一處地方那裏差不多所有物件也可供出售這是一種生活方式行銷思維和市場價值開始主導生活各個層面個人關係、家庭生活、健康、教育政治、法律、公民生活 現在為什麼要擔心？為何要擔心我們的社會變成市場社會呢？我認為有兩大原因其中一個原因是不平等錢能買到的東西越多富裕程度就變得越重要如果錢只能讓人決定是否購買遊艇、豪華假期或寶馬那麼不平等就沒那麼重要但當金錢越來越能夠支配美好生活的元素—高品質的醫療保健、最好的教育選舉中的政治發言權和影響力—當金錢支配了一切不平等就變得非常重要因此，所有事物被市場化後凸顯出不平等的問題及其社會和公民效應這只是一個需要擔心的原因 除了對不平等的擔心第二個原因就是某些社會商品和常規當行銷思維和市場價值介入時或會因此改變那些常規的意義擠掉值得我們在意的態度和規範 給大家舉個例子關於市場機制運用的爭議金錢獎勵，看看你們怎麼想的許多學校面臨怎樣鼓勵孩子的挑戰尤其是來自弱勢背景的孩子，用功讀書表現良好、努力向上有些經濟學家建議出一套市場解決方案提供金錢獎勵，鼓勵孩子爭取好成績或高分或閱讀書籍他們也真的試過這方法他們在美國一些主要城市進行過實驗紐約、芝加哥、華盛頓特區他們的做法是：成續 A 等給 50 美元成續 B 等給 35 美元德州達拉斯有這樣一個計畫八歲學童每讀一本書就獎 2 美元 讓我們來看看 — 有些人支持有些人則反對使用錢鼓勵學生取得成就讓我們來看看這裡的人的看法假設你是一個主要學區的主管有人向你提出這建議假設是一個基金會，他們將會出錢學校無須負擔費用有多少人會贊成又多少人會反對試一試？透過以舉手方式表決，讓我們來看看 首先，多少人認為值得一試看看是否有效？請舉手 有多少人反對？多少 — 這裡多數人反對但相當一部分的少數也贊成我們來討論一下由反對的開始吧你們甚至在嘗試之前已排除這可能你的理由會是什麼呢？誰願意帶頭討論？你喔？ 海克摩西：大家好，我是海克我認為它只會抹殺學習的內在動機所以在這方面，如果學童喜歡讀書的話你只要把奬勵誘因拿走只給錢，這樣就會改變行為邁可‧桑德爾：把內在的奬勵誘因拿走 內在動機是什麼，或該是什麼？ HM：內在動機嘛該是學習吧 MS：去學習HM：為了認識世界然後如果你停止給他們錢，會發生什麼事？他們會否停止閱讀？ MS：現在讓我們看看有沒有人贊成誰認為值得試試 伊莉莎白‧羅芙特斯：我是伊莉莎白‧羅芙特斯 (Elizabeth Loftus)你說值得一試，所以為何不試試來做個小實驗並估量一下？MS：估量。你會估量些什麼？你要估量有多少...EL：他們讀了多少本書而當你不給錢後又繼續讀了多少本書 MS：噢，你不再給錢以後好，那又如何？ HM：老實說，我只認為我無意冒犯任何人，這是非常美式的作風 （笑聲） （掌聲） MS：好，這次討論出現了以下問題金錢獎勵會否侵蝕或擠掉或排擠更較高層面的動機我們希望表達的心聲即是要培養他們學習和閱讀的興趣是要為他們自己著想？大家對產生什麼樣的效果持不同意見但這似乎就是問題所在不知何故市場機制或金錢獎勵是錯誤的教導如果真的錯了，學童未來會變成怎樣？ 我該告訴你們這些實驗發生了什麼事情用錢鼓勵學生取得好成績，得出了不同的結果大部分學生的成績不會更好閱讀一本書就給兩美元確實使那些學童讀更多書也使他們看頁數較少的書 （笑聲） 但真正問題是未來這些孩子會變成怎樣？會否認為閱讀是件苦差事一項按件計酬的工作，那就令人擔心或許引領他們開始閱讀時動機不正但日後引領他們愛上閱讀，因興趣而讀？ 現在這簡短的辯論也指出很多經濟學家忽略的地方經濟學家時常假設市場是沒有生命的不會碰到或沾染進行交易的商品他們假設市場交易不會改變要進行交易的商品其意義和價值這或者是千真萬確的如果我們談的是物質產品如果你賣給我一部平面電視或送一部給我當禮物兩者都是同樣的產品兩種運作方式也一樣共同處就並不是正確的如果我們談的是非物質產品社會實踐如教學和學習或共同參與公民生活在那些領域，引進市場機制和金錢獎勵或會削弱或擠掉我們該關心的非市場價值和態度一旦我們了解到當市場和貿易超越物質領域時就可改變商品本身的特性就可改變社會實踐的意義即如教學和學習的例子我們必須問，哪裡是屬於市場的哪裡不屬於市場哪裡事實上破壞了值得我們關心的價值和態度但是透過此辯論我們必須去做一些不擅長的事情就是一起公開理性的辯論我們所珍視的社會實踐其價值和意義從我們的身體到家庭生活到私人關係到健康到公民生活的學習和教學 這些都是具爭議的問題所以我們傾向退縮事實上過去 30 年來當市場論據和行銷思維凝聚起力量且贏得到聲望這段期間我們的公共討論變得蕩然無存缺乏更深遠的道德意義因為害怕爭論，我們避而不談不過一旦我們了解到市場會改變商品的特性我們就必須討論這些更重要的問題怎樣給予商品評價 把每樣東西標價其中最具腐蝕作用之一就是共通性也就是我們全都混在一起的感覺在不平等情況與日俱增的背景下把生活各個層面市場化導致一個情況，富裕的人和過著節制生活的人逐漸地過著不同的生活我們生活、工作、購物和娛樂在不同的地方我們的子女就讀不同的學校 這對民主毫無益處也並不是令人滿意的生活方式即使我們能夠花錢搶到前頭原因如下民主不須要完全平等但必須要的就是公民可享有共同的生活重要的是不同社會背景的人不同身分的人互相接觸在日常生活中彼此相遇因為這樣才教我們學習協商及容忍彼此間的差異這樣我們才會關心共同利益 因此，到最後，市場問題主要並不是一項經濟問題而是我們到底想怎樣一起生活的問題我們是否想要一個所有物件也可出售的社會或是否存在某些德行和公民利益市場不重視而金錢買不到的？ 非常感謝大家 （掌聲）
