Talk	en	zh-tw
michele_l_sullivan_asking_for_help_is_a_strength_not_a_weakness	"We all have milestones in life that we remember so vividly. The first one for me was when I was entering kindergarten. My big brother was in school, and by golly, it was my time. And I went trottin' down that hallway. I was so excited, I almost wet myself. And I go to the door, and there was the teacher with a warm welcome, and she took me into the classroom, showed me my little cubbyhole — we all remember those little cubbyholes, don't we — and we put our stuff in there. And then she said, ""Go over to the circle and play with the kids until class starts."" So I went over there and plopped down like I owned the place, and I'm playing, and all of a sudden, the boy next to me, he was wearing a white shirt with blue shorts. I remember it like it was yesterday. Suddenly he stopped playing and he said, ""Why are you so short?"" And I just kept playing. I didn't think he was talking to me. (Laughter) And in a louder voice, he said, ""Hey, why are you so short?"" So I looked up and I said, ""What are you talking about? Let's just play. We're happy. I've been waiting for this."" And so we played, and about a minute later, the girl next to him, in a white shirt and a pink skirt, stood up, put her hands on her hips, and said, ""Yeah, why do you look so different?"" And I went, ""What are you talking about? I don't look different. I'm not short. Again, let's just play."" About this time, I looked all around the circle I was in, and all the kids had stopped playing and they were all looking at me. And I'm thinking — in today's language, it would be ""OMG"" or ""WTF."" (Laughter) What just happened? So all the confidence that I went in with that morning was withering away as the morning went on and the questions kept coming. And at the end of the morning, before I went home, the teacher had us in a circle, and I actually found myself outside of the circle. I couldn't look at anybody. I could not understand what just happened. And over the next few years, I hated to go out in public. I felt every stare, every giggle, every pointed finger, not the finger, but every pointed finger, and I hated it. I would hide behind my parents' legs like nobody could see me. And as a child, you can't understand another child's curiosity, nor an adult's ignorance. It became very apparent to me that the real world was not built for someone of my size, both literally or figuratively. And so I have no anonymity, as you can probably tell, and while you can see my size, we all go through many challenges through our lifetime. And some you can see, like mine. Most you can't. You can't tell if someone's dealing with a mental illness, or they're struggling with their gender identity, they're caring for an aging parent, they're having financial difficulty. You can't see that kind of stuff. So while you can see one of my challenges is my size, seeing does not mean you understand what it's truly to be me on a daily basis, or what I go through. And so I'm here to debunk a myth. I do not believe you can walk in someone else's shoes, and because of that, we must adopt a new way of giving of ourselves. Simply stated, I will never know what it's like to be you and you will never know what it's like to be me. I cannot face your fears or chase your dreams, and you can't do that for me, but we can be supportive of each other. Instead of trying to walk in each other's shoes, we must adopt a new way of giving of ourselves. I learned at an early age that I did have to do some things different than most people, but I also learned there were things I was on equal footing with, and one of those was the classroom. Heh, heh, heh. I was equal. As a matter of fact, I excelled in the classroom. This was vitally important, I discovered as I grew older and realized I wasn't going to be able to do a physical job. I needed an education. So I went on and got a university degree, but I felt to be one step ahead of everyone for employment, I needed to have an advanced university degree, so I went ahead and got that. Now I'm ready for my interview. Remember your first interview? What am I going to wear? What questions? And don't forget that firm handshake. I was right there with you. So 24 hours before my interview, a friend of mine who I've known all my life called and said, ""Michele, the building you're going in has steps."" And she knew I couldn't climb steps. So suddenly, my focus changed. In my shoes, I was worried about how am I going to get there? So I went early and found a loading dock and got in and had a great interview. They had no idea what I went through for the day and that's OK. You're probably thinking my greatest challenge that day was the interview, or getting in the building. In reality, my biggest challenge that day was getting through the loading dock without getting run over. I am very vulnerable in certain situations: airports, hallways, parking lots, loading docks. And so I have to be very careful. I have to anticipate and be flexible and move as quickly as I can sometimes. So I got the job, and in my current role I travel quite a bit. And travel is a challenge for all of us these days. And so you probably get to the airport, run through security, get to the gate. Did I get my aisle seat or my window seat? Did I get my upgrade? Me, first of all, I don't run through anything. (Laughter) And I especially don't run through the TSA because I get to experience the personal patdown. I won't comment on that. And then I make my way to the gate, and with my gift of gab that my parents said I was born with, I talk to the gate agent, and then I say, ""By the way, my scooter weighs this much, I have a dry cell battery, and I can drive it down to the door of the plane."" Also, the day before, I had called the city where I'm traveling to to find out where I could rent a scooter in case mine gets broken on the way. So in my shoes, it's a little bit different. When I get onto the plane, I use my gift of gab to ask the lady to put my bag up, and they graciously do. I try not to eat or drink on a plane because I don't want to have to get up and walk on the plane, but nature has its own schedule, and not long ago, it knocked and I answered. So I walked up to the front of the plane and gabbed with the flight attendant, and said, ""Can you watch the door? I can't reach the lock."" So I'm in there doing my business, and the door flies open. And there's a gentleman there with a look of horror on his face. I'm sure I had the same look. As I came out, I noticed that he was sitting right across from me, and he's in total, complete embarrassment. So I walk up to him and I quietly go, ""Are you going to remember this as much as I am?"" (Laughter) And he goes, ""I think so."" (Laughter) Now, while he's probably not talking about it publicly, I am. (Laughter) But we talked for the rest of the flight, and we got to know each other, our families, sports, work, and when we landed, he said, ""Michele, I noticed someone put your bag up. Can I get that for you?"" And I said, ""Of course, thank you."" And we wished each other well, and the most important thing that day was that he was not going to leave with that embarrassment, that experience of embarrassment. He won't forget it, and neither will I, but I think he will remember more our chat and our different perspectives. When you travel internationally, it can be even more challenging in certain ways. A few years ago, I was in Zanzibar, and I come wheeling in, and think about that. Short, white, blond woman in a chair. That doesn't probably happen every day. So I go up, and with my gift of gab, I start to talk to the agent. So friendly, and I ask about their culture and so forth, and I notice there wasn't a jet bridge. So I had to kind of say, ""Not only do you have to lift my chair, I could use some help getting up the steps."" So we got to spend about an hour together while we waited for the flight, and it was the most magnificent hour. Our perspective changed for both of us that day. And once I got on the flight, he patted me on the back and wished me well, and I thanked him so much. And again, I think he's going to remember that experience more than when I first came in, and there was a bit of hesitation. And as you notice, I get a lot of help. I would not be where I am today if it was not for my family, my friends, my colleagues and the many strangers that help me every single day of my life. And it's important that we all have a support system. Asking for help is a strength, not a weakness. (Applause) We all need help throughout our lifetime, but it is just as important that we are part of other people's support systems. We must adopt that way of giving back. We all obviously have a role to play in our own successes, but think about the role we have to play in other people's successes, just like people do for me every single day. It's vitally important that we help each other, because society is increasingly placing people in silos based on biases and ideologies. And we must look past the surface and be confronted with the truth that none of us are what you can see. There's more to us than that, and we're all dealing with things that you cannot see. So living a life free of judgment allows all of us to share those experiences together and have a totally different perspective, just like the couple of people I mentioned earlier in my stories. So remember, the only shoes you truly can walk in are your own. I cannot walk in yours. I know you can't walk in my size 1s — (Laughter) but you can try. But we can do something better than that. With compassion, courage and understanding, we can walk side by side and support one another, and think about how society can change if we all do that instead of judging on only what you can see. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you."	我們的生命中都會有一些記憶深刻的里程碑式的事件。對我來説，第一件這樣的事情發生在我進幼稚園的時候。我哥哥那時候已經上學了，哇，現在終於輪到我了。我沿著走廊一路小跑，感到非常興奮，差點要尿褲子。我到了門邊，老師已經在那裡，然後她熱烈地歡迎我，並把我領進教室，然後帶我去看我的小櫃子——大家應該都記得那樣的小櫃子吧，就是我們會把東西放裡面的那種。然後老師說：「先去圓圈那邊和小朋友們玩一會兒，然後我們再上課。」於是我就過去一屁股坐下，就像是我的地盤一樣，然後就開始玩耍，突然坐在我旁邊的男孩，他當時穿著白襯衣和藍短褲。我非常清楚地記得這點。他突然就不玩了，對我説：「你為什麼這麼矮？」而我繼續玩我的，壓根沒想到他是在和我説話。 （笑聲） 他更大聲地又問一遍：「喂，你為什麼這麼矮呀？」我擡起頭看看他說：「你在説什麽呀？我們就一起玩嘛，大家都很開心呀。我等這一天很久了。」我們接著玩了不到一分鐘，坐在他旁邊的一個女孩，她穿著白色襯衣和粉紅色裙子，站起來，背著手問：「對呀，你怎麼和我們不一樣？」我説：「你到底在説什麽呀？我沒有不一樣呀，我又不矮，我們就一起玩吧。」 這時我看了看周圍，所有的人都不再玩了，都在看著我。我當時就在想——用今天的話就是「我的媽呀」或者「什麼鬼」。 （笑聲） 到底發生了什麼？ 就這樣，我原本滿滿的信心隨著那個早上接二連三的提問一點一點喪失了。最後快到中午了，在回家之前，老師又讓我們圍成一個圈，那時候我已經不敢站到圈子裡面了。我不敢看任何人。而且完全不知道到底發生了什麼。 在接下來的幾年裡，我討厭去公共場所。我可以感受到每一次側目，每一聲嘲笑，每一次指指點點，不是說的手指本身，而是每一次的指指點點，我討厭這一切。我躲在我父母的身後，就像沒人能看見我一樣。當你還是孩子的時候，你不理解其他孩子的好奇心，也不理解成人的愚昧。對我來說，很顯然這個世界不是為我這樣的人建立的，不管是形體上還是心理上。 當你看到我的時候你大概就已經知道我沒辦法掩飾我的弱點，我們在生命裡都會經歷很多挑戰。有的挑戰你能夠看見，比如我的挑戰。但大多數是你看不見的。你不會知道某人正受精神疾病的困擾，或者他們為自己的性別而困擾，他們或許要照料年邁的父母，或許面臨經濟上的困難。你不會知道這些。你知道我所有的挑戰之一，就是我的身體，但看到並不等於你知道像我這樣到底意味著什麼，或者每天會經歷些什麼。所以在此我要打破一個幻想。我不相信你可以真正地從別人的立場看問題，正因如此，我們應該想想到底自己該怎麼做。簡單來説，就是我永遠不知道成為你是什麽感覺，而你也永遠不會知道成為我是什麼感覺。我不能體會你的恐懼，或為你追逐你的夢想，你也沒法幫我做這些，但是我們能支持彼此。我們不再追求一定要感同身受，而是學著用新的方式提供幫助。 我很小就知道我確實需要做很多和大家不一樣的事情，但我也知道我在一些地方理應被平等對待，其中一個就是在課堂上。哈哈，我是和大家一樣的。事實上，我在課堂上表現出色。這一點極其重要，因為當我漸漸長大並意識到我做不了體力勞動。我就需要念書。就這樣我一路拿到了大學文憑，但我想，如果要在求職中領先一步，我還必須要一個更高級的文憑，所以我又繼續拿到了這個文憑。 這樣的話我就準備好去面試了。你還記得你的第一次面試嗎？你會想面試要穿什麼？會被問到什麼問題？而且不要忘記要強有力地握手。我想的和你一樣。在距我面試還有 24 小時的時候，有一個我認識很長時間的朋友打電話給我說：「米歇爾，你要去的那座大廈有樓梯。」她知道我爬不了樓梯。就這樣突然間，我關心的事情變了。從我的角度來看，我擔心的是我該怎麼去到面試的地方？第二天我去得很早，找到了一個卸貨升降臺，順利地進到那座大廈並且面試得還不錯。他們都不知道我是怎麼進去的，不過沒關係。 你或許會認為我那天最大的挑戰是那場面試，或是怎麽進到那座大廈。但實際上我那天最大的挑戰是怎樣到達那個升降臺而不會被撞倒。在很多場所我是一個非常脆弱的人，比如機場、過道、停車場，還有升降臺。所以我不得不非常小心。我必须要預先判斷情況，然後靈活調整行動。有時要盡可能快地行動。 在最後我得到了那份工作，我現在的這份工作需要我頻繁地出差。去外地對我們所有人來説都是一個挑戰。你可能跑到了機場，通過安檢，到達登機門。要考慮我是坐在靠走道的還是靠窗位置？我能不能升等？對我來説，這都和我無關。 （笑聲） 特别的是，我不用通過運輸安全管理局的檢測，那是因為我需要接受全身搜查。對此我不想說什麽。然後我直接去了登機門，我特別多話喜歡聊天，我父母說我天生如此，我先和登機門的地勤聊天，然後說：「順帶一提，我的助步車大概這麼重。我有乾電池自動運行，我可以自己駕駛到機艙門口。」而且在頭一天，我已經打電話給我將要去的城市。問清楚了哪裡可以租助步車，以防我這輛半路壞掉。所以在我看來，旅途中往往有不一樣的考慮和擔憂。 上飛機以後，通過閒聊，我會請空姐幫我把包放好，她們總是願意無私地幫助我。我在飛機上一般盡量不吃喝東西。因爲我不想被迫在機艙内走動去洗手間，但這我是控制不住自己的，果然不久後我還是想上洗手間，於是我不得不做點什麼。我走到機艙的前部，小聲地告訴空姐：「可不可以幫我看下門？我夠不著鎖。」就在我使用洗手間時，門忽然被打開了。一位男士站在門口，表情非常恐慌。我相信我的表情也是一樣的恐慌。等我出來的時候，我發現他就坐我對面。他顯得非常尷尬。於是我走到他身邊，向他小聲地說：「你一定會和我一樣記住剛才那一幕吧？」 （大笑） 他說：「我想是這樣的。」 （笑聲） 他大概不會像我一樣公開談論這件事情。 （笑聲） 之後在飛機上我們一直在聊，我們開始認識彼此，聊到我們的家庭，喜歡的運動，工作等等飛機降落了，他説：「米歇爾，有人幫你把包放上去了，要我幫你拿下來嗎？」我說：「好呀，謝謝你。」我們祝彼此好運，最重要的是那一天我們沒有帶著尷尬分別，也不會一直想著那次尷尬的經歷。但是他不會忘記這件事，我也不會，我知道留在他記憶裡更多的是我們的聊天以及我們各自看問題的視角。 當你在國際的旅行中，也許會面對更多的挑戰。幾年前我去桑吉巴時，我坐在輪椅上，試想一下：一個矮小的金髮白女人坐在一個小椅子上。這肯定不是每天都能見到的場景。因此我又啓動了自己愛説話的技能，和地勤搭話。我友好地問他們關於他們文化一類的問題，這時我發現這趟航班没有空橋。於是我說：「看來你不僅要幫我抬助步車，可能還要幫我爬上臺階。」接下來等飛機的一個小時裡，我們都待在一起，那是非常美妙的一個小時。我們倆看待對方的視角都發生了改變。我登上飛機以後，他拍了拍我的背，祝我一切順利，我也再三感謝他。我想他會更多地記住我們的談話，而不是我走進來時的尷尬。 你應該知道，我得過很多人的幫助。如果沒有我的家庭，朋友，同事，還有無數的陌生人每天給我的幫助，我今天不會站在這裡。有一點非常重要的是，我們有一個互相支持與幫助的體系。懂得尋求幫助是一種能力，而不是一個弱點。 （掌聲） 終其一生我們都需要別人的幫助，同時也給予別人幫助也非常重要。我們應該學著用這樣的方式回饋他人。很顯然我們在各自的人生裡扮演著重要的角色，但同時也應該想想我們能在別人的人生裡扮演怎樣的角色，就像別人每天為我做的一切一樣。 互相幫助非常重要，因爲這個社會漸漸地把人們隔離在由偏見和意識形態建成的高塔裡。而我們不能單單看表面，我們要去瞭解事情的真相：你看不到我們每個人真正的内心。因為每個人都是那麼的豐富，而我們一直在和你看不到的東西打交道。所以我們不要去評判別人的人生，而是能夠一起分享我們的經歷，去從不同點角度看待事物，就像我之前提到的幾個故事一樣。 記住這一點：你只能穿著你自己的鞋子走路，就好比只有你瞭解自己。我不能穿你的鞋。我想你也穿不下我 1 號的鞋一樣—— （笑聲） 沒準你能試試。然而，我們能做得更好。帶著同情、勇氣和理解，我們可以並肩同行，支持彼此。如果我們都這樣做了，而不是僅僅依靠你所看見的東西判斷事物，想一想，這個社會會有怎樣的改變？ 謝謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝大家。
