Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_kimmel_why_gender_equality_is_good_for_everyone_men_included	"I'm here to recruit men to support gender equality. (Cheers) Wait, wait. What? What do men have to do with gender equality? Gender equality is about women, right? I mean, the word gender is about women. Actually, I'm even here speaking as a middle class white man. Now, I wasn't always a middle class white man. It all happened for me about 30 years ago when I was in graduate school, and a bunch of us graduate students got together one day, and we said, you know, there's an explosion of writing and thinking in feminist theory, but there's no courses yet. So we did what graduate students typically do in a situation like that. We said, OK, let's have a study group. We'll read a text, we'll talk about it, we'll have a potluck dinner. (Laughter) So every week, 11 women and me got together. (Laughter) We would read some text in feminist theory and have a conversation about it. And during one of our conversations, I witnessed an interaction that changed my life forever. It was a conversation between two women. One of the women was white, and one was black. And the white woman said — this is going to sound very anachronistic now — the white woman said, ""All women face the same oppression as women. All women are similarly situated in patriarchy, and therefore all women have a kind of intuitive solidarity or sisterhood."" And the black woman said, ""I'm not so sure. Let me ask you a question."" So the black woman says to the white woman, ""When you wake up in the morning and you look in the mirror, what do you see?"" And the white woman said, ""I see a woman."" And the black woman said, ""You see, that's the problem for me. Because when I wake up in the morning and I look in the mirror,"" she said, ""I see a black woman. To me, race is visible. But to you, race is invisible. You don't see it."" And then she said something really startling. She said, ""That's how privilege works. Privilege is invisible to those who have it."" It is a luxury, I will say to the white people sitting in this room, not to have to think about race every split second of our lives. Privilege is invisible to those who have it. Now remember, I was the only man in this group, so when I witnessed this, I went, ""Oh no."" (Laughter) And somebody said, ""Well what was that reaction?"" And I said, ""Well, when I wake up in the morning and I look in the mirror, I see a human being. I'm kind of the generic person. You know, I'm a middle class white man. I have no race, no class, no gender. I'm universally generalizable."" (Laughter) So I like to think that was the moment I became a middle class white man, that class and race and gender were not about other people, they were about me. I had to start thinking about them, and it had been privilege that had kept it invisible to me for so long. Now, I wish I could tell you this story ends 30 years ago in that little discussion group, but I was reminded of it quite recently at my university where I teach. I have a colleague, and she and I both teach the sociology of gender course on alternate semesters. So she gives a guest lecture for me when I teach. I give a guest lecture for her when she teaches. So I walk into her class to give a guest lecture, about 300 students in the room, and as I walk in, one of the students looks up and says, ""Oh, finally, an objective opinion."" All that semester, whenever my colleague opened her mouth, what my students saw was a woman. I mean, if you were to say to my students, ""There is structural inequality based on gender in the United States,"" they'd say, ""Well of course you'd say that. You're a woman. You're biased."" When I say it, they go, ""Wow, is that interesting. Is that going to be on the test? How do you spell 'structural'?"" (Laughter) So I hope you all can see, this is what objectivity looks like. (Laughter) (Applause) Disembodied Western rationality. (Laughter) And that, by the way, is why I think men so often wear ties. (Laughter) Because if you are going to embody disembodied Western rationality, you need a signifier, and what could be a better signifier of disembodied Western rationality than a garment that at one end is a noose and the other end points to the genitals? (Laughter) (Applause) That is mind-body dualism right there. So making gender visible to men is the first step to engaging men to support gender equality. Now, when men first hear about gender equality, when they first start thinking about it, they often think, many men think, well, that's right, that's fair, that's just, that's the ethical imperative. But not all men. Some men think — the lightning bolt goes off, and they go, ""Oh my God, yes, gender equality,"" and they will immediately begin to mansplain to you your oppression. They see supporting gender equality something akin to the cavalry, like, ""Thanks very much for bringing this to our attention, ladies, we'll take it from here."" This results in a syndrome that I like to call 'premature self-congratulation.' (Laughter) (Applause) There's another group, though, that actively resists gender equality, that sees gender equality as something that is detrimental to men. I was on a TV talk show opposite four white men. This is the beginning of the book I wrote, 'Angry White Men.' These were four angry white men who believed that they, white men in America, were the victims of reverse discrimination in the workplace. And they all told stories about how they were qualified for jobs, qualified for promotions, they didn't get them, they were really angry. And the reason I'm telling you this is I want you to hear the title of this particular show. It was a quote from one of the men, and the quote was, ""A Black Woman Stole My Job."" And they all told their stories, qualified for jobs, qualified for promotions, didn't get it, really angry. And then it was my turn to speak, and I said, ""I have just one question for you guys, and it's about the title of the show, 'A Black Woman Stole My Job.' Actually, it's about one word in the title. I want to know about the word 'my.' Where did you get the idea it was your job? Why isn't the title of the show, 'A Black Woman Got the Job?' or 'A Black Woman Got A Job?'"" Because without confronting men's sense of entitlement, I don't think we'll ever understand why so many men resist gender equality. (Applause) Look, we think this is a level playing field, so any policy that tilts it even a little bit, we think, ""Oh my God, water's rushing uphill. It's reverse discrimination against us."" (Laughter) So let me be very clear: white men in Europe and the United States are the beneficiaries of the single greatest affirmative action program in the history of the world. It is called ""the history of the world."" (Laughter) (Applause) So, now I've established some of the obstacles to engaging men, but why should we support gender equality? Of course, it's fair, it's right and it's just. But more than that, gender equality is also in our interest as men. If you listen to what men say about what they want in their lives, gender equality is actually a way for us to get the lives we want to live. Gender equality is good for countries. It turns out, according to most studies, that those countries that are the most gender equal are also the countries that score highest on the happiness scale. And that's not just because they're all in Europe. (Laughter) Even within Europe, those countries that are more gender equal also have the highest levels of happiness. It is also good for companies. Research by Catalyst and others has shown conclusively that the more gender-equal companies are, the better it is for workers, the happier their labor force is. They have lower job turnover. They have lower levels of attrition. They have an easier time recruiting. They have higher rates of retention, higher job satisfaction, higher rates of productivity. So the question I'm often asked in companies is, ""Boy, this gender equality thing, that's really going to be expensive, huh?"" And I say, ""Oh no, in fact, what you have to start calculating is how much gender inequality is already costing you. It is extremely expensive."" So it is good for business. And the other thing is, it's good for men. It is good for the kind of lives we want to live, because young men especially have changed enormously, and they want to have lives that are animated by terrific relationships with their children. They expect their partners, their spouses, their wives, to work outside the home and be just as committed to their careers as they are. I was talking, to give you an illustration of this change — Some of you may remember this. When I was a lot younger, there was a riddle that was posed to us. Some of you may wince to remember this riddle. This riddle went something like this. A man and his son are driving on the freeway, and they're in a terrible accident, and the father is killed, and the son is brought to the hospital emergency room, and as they're bringing the son into the hospital emergency room, the emergency room attending physician sees the boy and says, ""Oh, I can't treat him, that's my son."" How is this possible? We were flummoxed by this. We could not figure this out. (Laughter) Well, I decided to do a little experiment with my 16-year old son. He had a bunch of his friends hanging out at the house watching a game on TV recently. So I decided I would pose this riddle to them, just to see, to gauge the level of change. Well, 16-year-old boys, they immediately turned to me and said, ""It's his mom."" Right? No problem. Just like that. Except for my son, who said, ""Well, he could have two dads."" (Laughter) (Applause) That's an index, an indicator of how things have changed. Younger men today expect to be able to balance work and family. They want to be dual-career, dual-carer couples. They want to be able to balance work and family with their partners. They want to be involved fathers. Now, it turns out that the more egalitarian our relationships, the happier both partners are. Data from psychologists and sociologists are quite persuasive here. I think we have the persuasive numbers, the data, to prove to men that gender equality is not a zero-sum game, but a win-win. Here's what the data show. Now, when men begin the process of engaging with balancing work and family, we often have two phrases that we use to describe what we do. We pitch in and we help out. (Laughter) And I'm going to propose something a little bit more radical, one word: ""share."" (Laughter) Because here's what the data show: when men share housework and childcare, their children do better in school. Their children have lower rates of absenteeism, higher rates of achievement. They are less likely to be diagnosed with ADHD. They are less likely to see a child psychiatrist. They are less likely to be put on medication. So when men share housework and childcare, their children are happier and healthier, and men want this. When men share housework and childcare, their wives are happier. Duh. Not only that, their wives are healthier. Their wives are less likely to see a therapist, less likely to be diagnosed with depression, less likely to be put on medication, more likely to go to the gym, report higher levels of marital satisfaction. So when men share housework and childcare, their wives are happier and healthier, and men certainly want this as well. When men share housework and childcare, the men are healthier. They smoke less, drink less, take recreational drugs less often. They are less likely to go to the ER but more like to go to a doctor for routine screenings. They are less likely to see a therapist, less likely to be diagnosed with depression, less likely to be taking prescription medication. So when men share housework and childcare, the men are happier and healthier. And who wouldn't want that? And finally, when men share housework and childcare, they have more sex. (Laughter) Now, of these four fascinating findings, which one do you think Men's Health magazine put on its cover? (Laughter) ""Housework Makes Her Horny. (Not When She Does It.)"" (Laughter) Now, I will say, just to remind the men in the audience, these data were collected over a really long period of time, so I don't want listeners to say, ""Hmm, OK, I think I'll do the dishes tonight."" These data were collected over a really long period of time. But I think it shows something important, that when Men's Health magazine put it on their cover, they also called, you'll love this, ""Choreplay."" So, what we found is something really important, that gender equality is in the interest of countries, of companies, and of men, and their children and their partners, that gender equality is not a zero-sum game. It's not a win-lose. It is a win-win for everyone. And what we also know is we cannot fully empower women and girls unless we engage boys and men. We know this. And my position is that men need the very things that women have identified that they need to live the lives they say they want to live in order to live the lives that we say we want to live. In 1915, on the eve of one of the great suffrage demonstrations down Fifth Avenue in New York City, a writer in New York wrote an article in a magazine, and the title of the article was, ""Feminism for Men."" And this was the first line of that article: ""Feminism will make it possible for the first time for men to be free."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我在此邀請男士們支持性別平等。 (歡呼聲) 等等、等等，什麼?男士們和性別平等有什麼關係?性別平等只和女性有關，對吧?我是說，性別這個詞和女性有關。事實上，我以一位中產階級男性的身分在此演講。 但我並非一直都是中產階級的白人男性。這件事是大約30年前我在讀研究所時發生的，有一天，我們一群研究生聚在一起，我們說，女性主義理論的文章和思想正如爆炸般蔓延，卻還沒有人開設相關課程。所以我們做了研究生一般在此情況下會做的事，我們說，好，我們來成立一個讀書會，一起讀點文章、然後討論，當然還有一些晚餐聚會。 (笑聲) 所以每星期，我都和11位女性聚在一起。 (笑聲) 我們會讀一些女性主義理論的文章，然後討論。在其中一次討論中，我看到一個從此改變我一生的一個互動。那是兩個女性間的談話。其中一位是白人，另一位則是黑人。白人女性說 －現在聽起來會覺得非常不合時宜 －白人女性說：「所有女人都因女人的身分受到同樣的壓迫。所有女人在父權社會下都有類似處境，因此所有女人都出於直覺地有種團結或姐妹意識。」那位黑人女性說：「這我可不確定。我問你一個問題。」所以那位黑人女性對那位白人女性說：「當你早上起來，往鏡子裡看，你看到什麼?」白人女性說：「我看到一個女人。」黑人女性說：「你看，對我而言，那就是問題所在。因我當我早上起來時，我往鏡子裡看，我看到的是一個女黑人。對我來說，種族是看得見的。但對你來說，種族是隱形的。你看不見。」然後她接下來說的更令人吃驚。她說，「特權就是這樣運作的，擁有特權的人看不到它。」我要對在座的白人說，你們不用在生活中的每個時刻思考種族這回事，是件很奢侈的事。特權對於擁有者來說，是隱形的。 記得嗎？我是這個團體唯一的男人，當我目擊這一切時，我心想：「喔，糟了。」 (笑聲) 有人問：「你為什麼會有這種反應?」我回答：「嗯...因為當我早上起來照鏡子時，我看到的是一個人。我只是一個普通的人。我是一個中產階級白人，沒有種族、沒有階級、沒有性別。是個舉世通用的身分。」 (笑聲) 所以我喜歡這麼想：在那個時刻我才成為一個中產階級白人，階級、種族和性別不是只和別人有關，它們也跟我有關。我必須開始思考這些問題，因為特權讓我長久以來一直看不見它們。 現在，我倒希望這個故事就結束在30年前的那個小組討論，但最近又在我任教的大學被提醒了。我有個同事，她和我教同一堂性別社會學的課，開設在不同學期。所以她在我的課上擔任客座講師，我也在她的課上擔任客座講師。某次我走進她的班級當客座講師，教室裡大約有300個學生，而我走進去時，一個學生看到我就說，「喔，終於有客觀的意見了。」 那整個學期，我同事無論何時開口，都提到她的學生看到的是一個女人。我意思是，如果你對我的學生說：「美國在性別上有結構性的不平等，」他們會說：「當然你會這麼說，因為你是女人，你有偏見。」當我說的時候，他們會說，「哇，這很有趣，那會出現在考題嗎？『結構性』怎麼拼？」 (笑聲) 所以我希望你們都可以看到，客觀大概就長這樣。 (笑聲)(掌聲) 我代表了無形的西方理性。 (笑聲) 順便提一下，我想那是男人經常打領帶的原因。 (笑聲) 因為如果你要體現無形的西方理性，你需要一個信物，而對無形的西方理性而言，還有什麼比這個更好的信物 －把一端打結成絞索，另一端則指著生殖器的東西? (笑聲)(掌聲) 這就是身心二元論。 讓男人看到性別是讓他們支持男女平等的第一步。 當男人第一次聽到性別平等，當他們開始思考這個議題，他們通常認為 － 許多男人認為，對啊，那樣才對，那是公平、公正，那是道德義務。但並非所有男人。有些男人認為 － 閃電熄滅了，他們會想：「我的天，對，性別平等」然後立刻開始搬出男性至上的觀點對你們進行壓迫。他們認為支持性別平等等同苦難，他們會想，「女士們，感謝你們提出這個引起我們的注意，我們會看著辦。」形成一種我喜歡稱為「過早沾沾自喜」的症狀。 (笑聲)(掌聲) 當然還有一群人，積極打壓性別平等，他們將性別平等視為一種對男人有害的東西。我曾在一個電視談話節目面對四個白人男性。這是日後我寫下《憤怒的白人男性》這本書的起源。四個憤怒的白人男性，相信他們這些美國白人男性，是工作場合裡逆向性別歧視的受害者。他們訴說自己如何勝任一些工作、擁有升遷的資格，卻沒有得到機會，他們非常生氣。我之所以告訴各位這件事，是想讓大家聽聽這個節目的名稱。那是引述自其中一位的話，而這句話是：「一個女黑人偷了我的工作。」他們每個都訴說自己的故事，如何勝任工作、如何有資格升遷卻得不到，非常生氣。然後輪到我說話，我說：「我對你們只有一個問題，就是這個節目的名稱，『一個女黑人偷了我的工作』實際上，我的問題在其中一個詞。我想知道的是『我的』這個詞，你為什麼會認為這是你的工作?為什麼節目名稱不是『一位黑人女性得到那份工作』?或是『一位黑人女性得到一份工作』？因為如果不是和男人的權力感有所衝突，我不認為我們真能了解為何這麼多人打壓性別平等。 (掌聲) 請注意，我們認為這樣才是公平的競爭環境，所以任何政策只要讓它偏移一點，我們就想：「我的天，水往上流了。這是對我們的逆向歧視。」 (笑聲) 所以我要非常明白地說：在歐洲和美國的白人男性，是全世界的歷史上最大的平權活動中的受益者。這說的是「全世界的歷史」。 (笑聲)(掌聲) 所以，現在我已經製造了一些吸引男性的阻礙，但為什麼我們應該支持性別平等?當然，那才公平，那是正確的、正義的事。但不僅如此，性別平等也對男人有利。如果你聽聽男人談論自己在生命中想要的東西，性別平等其實是給予我們理想生活的一種方式。 性別平等對國家有利。根據大多數研究的結果，性別最平等的國家同時也是快樂指數最高的國家。而且不是因為他們都在歐洲。 (笑聲) 即使在歐洲的國家中，性別比較平等的國家也是快樂指數最高的。 對公司也有好處。由Catalyst和其他機構所做的研結果確切顯示公司越是性別平等，對員工的結果越好，因為他們的員工會越快樂。他們的流動率較低、工作摩擦較少。他們也比較容易招募到員工。他們擁有較高的員工留職率、工作滿意度、生產力也較高。所以企業經理人常常問我的問題是：「性別平等啊，那要花很多錢，是吧?」然後我說：「喔不，事實上，你得開始算算不這麼做已經花了你們多少錢，那才是最貴的花費。」所以性別平等對企業是有利的。 另一個好處是，它也對男人有利。它有利於我們想要過的生活，因為現在的年輕男人和過去有很大的不同，他們渴望和孩子擁有很棒的親子關係，來達成美好而動人的生活。他們期待他們的伴侶、配偶、妻子外出工作，和他們一樣專注於事業。 現在給各位一個能說明這個轉變的案例 －你們有些人可能記得這個。在我年輕許多時，曾被問過一個謎題，有些人可能會皺起眉頭、不太記得，但這個謎題是這樣的。 一個男人和他兒子行駛於高速公路上，他們出了一場嚴重車禍，父親當場死亡，兒子被送到一家醫院的急診室，而當他們將兒子推進急診室時，急診室的值班醫師看了這個男孩後說，「哦，我不能治療他，他是我兒子。」這怎麼可能呢? 這個謎題讓我們非常困惑，我們無法找出答案。 (笑聲) 所以，我決定對16歲的兒子進行一個小實驗，最近某天他和一群朋友待在家裡，看著電視裡的一場最近的比賽，我決定要問他們這個謎題，純粹為了測量一下這個轉變的程度。結果，這些16歲的男孩們，立即對我說：「那是他媽媽，對吧?」毫無猶豫、就那樣回答。除了我兒子，他說：「喔，他也可能有兩個爸爸。」 (笑聲)(掌聲) 這是一個指標，說明事情的轉變。今天的年輕男人希望能在工作和家庭間取得平衡。他們想要兩人都有事業、都能顧家的伴侶關係。他們想要和伴侶一起取得工作和家庭的平衡。他們想當陪著孩子長大的父親。 現在，結果發現，我們的關係越平等，伴侶之間就越快樂。對此，心理學家和社會學家的數據相當有說服力。我認為我們已頗具說服力的數字、數據，來對男人證明性別平等不是一個零和遊戲、而是雙贏局面。以下是數據告訴我們的：當男人開始參與這個平衡工作和家庭的過程，我們經常用兩個詞語描繪該做的事 －努力貢獻、好好幫忙。 (笑聲) 現在我要提一個更激進的，一個詞：「分擔」 (笑聲) 因為數據顯示：當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們的孩子在學校成績越好。他們的孩子曠課率較低、較能擁有成就感，被診斷為注意力不足過動症(ADHD)的機率較低。他們比較不需要看兒童精神醫師、也比較不需要藥物。 所以當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們的孩子比較快樂、比較健康，這當然是男人想要的。 當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們的老婆比較快樂 － 廢話。不僅如此，他們的老婆也比較健康。他們的老婆比較不需要心理醫生、比較不會得憂鬱症、比較不需要依賴藥物、比較會去健身房運動、也反應出較高的婚姻滿意度。所以當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們的老婆也會比較快樂、健康。這當然也是男人想要的。當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們自己也比較健康。他們較少抽煙、較少喝酒、較少使用娛樂性藥物。他們比較不會進急診室，但比較會去做例行健康檢查。他們比較不需要看心理醫生、比較不會得憂鬱症、也比較不需要長期藥物治療。所以當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，男人也比較快樂、比較健康。誰會不想要這個呢? 最後，當男人分擔家事和照顧小孩，他們有更多性生活。 (笑聲) 現在，在這四個迷人的發現裡，你認為哪一個該被《男人健康》雜誌放上封面? (笑聲) 「家事讓她有性緻，但不是讓她做。」 (笑聲) 現在，我想說一件事，純粹為了提醒在座的男士，這些數據是長時間收集而來的，所以希望聽到的人不要說：「嗯，好的，我想今晚我會洗碗。」這些數據是長時間收集而來的。但我想這顯示了一件很重要的事，就是當《男性健康》雜誌將此放上封面時，他們稱之為－我想妳們會喜歡：「家事前戲」。 所以，我們發現非常重要的是，性別平等相當有利於國家、企業、男人、還有他們的孩子跟伴侶。性別平等不是一個零和遊戲；不是你輸我贏。它對所有人而言，都是雙贏。我們也知道的是，除非我們讓所有男性都參與，否則很難真正達到男女平權。這我們都知道。所以我的立場是，男人需要參與那些女人列為讓她們能過想過的生活所需做的事，來讓我們能過自己想過的生活。 1915年，在一個偉大的選舉權遊行示威前夕，在紐約市第五大道，一位紐約的作者在一本雜誌上寫了一篇文章，文章的題目是《為男人好的女性主義》這是那篇文章的第一句話：「女性主義將是有史以來第一次，讓男人的自由有可能實現。」 謝謝！ (掌聲)
