Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_pawlyn_using_nature_s_genius_in_architecture	"I'd like to start with a couple of quick examples. These are spinneret glands on the abdomen of a spider. They produce six different types of silk, which is spun together into a fiber, tougher than any fiber humans have ever made. The nearest we've come is with aramid fiber. And to make that, it involves extremes of temperature, extremes of pressure and loads of pollution. And yet the spider manages to do it at ambient temperature and pressure with raw materials of dead flies and water. It does suggest we've still got a bit to learn. This beetle can detect a forest fire at 80 kilometers away. That's roughly 10,000 times the range of man-made fire detectors. And what's more, this guy doesn't need a wire connected all the way back to a power station burning fossil fuels. So these two examples give a sense of what biomimicry can deliver. If we could learn to make things and do things the way nature does, we could achieve factor 10, factor 100, maybe even factor 1,000 savings in resource and energy use. And if we're to make progress with the sustainability revolution, I believe there are three really big changes we need to bring about. Firstly, radical increases in resource efficiency. Secondly, shifting from a linear, wasteful, polluting way of using resources to a closed-loop model. And thirdly, changing from a fossil fuel economy to a solar economy. And for all three of these, I believe, biomimicry has a lot of the solutions that we're going to need. You could look at nature as being like a catalog of products, and all of those have benefited from a 3.8-billion-year research and development period. And given that level of investment, it makes sense to use it. So I'm going to talk about some projects that have explored these ideas. And let's start with radical increases in resource efficiency. When we were working on the Eden Project, we had to create a very large greenhouse in a site that was not only irregular, but it was continually changing because it was still being quarried. It was a hell of a challenge, and it was actually examples from biology that provided a lot of the clues. So for instance, it was soap bubbles that helped us generate a building form that would work regardless of the final ground levels. Studying pollen grains and radiolaria and carbon molecules helped us devise the most efficient structural solution using hexagons and pentagons. The next move was that we wanted to try and maximize the size of those hexagons. And to do that we had to find an alternative to glass, which is really very limited in terms of its unit sizes. And in nature there are lots of examples of very efficient structures based on pressurized membranes. So we started exploring this material called ETFE. It's a high-strength polymer. And what you do is you put it together in three layers, you weld it around the edge, and then you inflate it. And the great thing about this stuff is you can make it in units of roughly seven times the size of glass, and it was only one percent of the weight of double-glazing. So that was a factor-100 saving. And what we found is that we got into a positive cycle in which one breakthrough facilitated another. So with such large, lightweight pillows, we had much less steel. With less steel we were getting more sunlight in, which meant we didn't have to put as much extra heat in winter. And with less overall weight in the superstructure, there were big savings in the foundations. And at the end of the project we worked out that the weight of that superstructure was actually less than the weight of the air inside the building. So I think the Eden Project is a fairly good example of how ideas from biology can lead to radical increases in resource efficiency — delivering the same function, but with a fraction of the resource input. And actually there are loads of examples in nature that you could turn to for similar solutions. So for instance, you could develop super-efficient roof structures based on giant Amazon water lilies, whole buildings inspired by abalone shells, super-lightweight bridges inspired by plant cells. There's a world of beauty and efficiency to explore here using nature as a design tool. So now I want to go onto talking about the linear-to-closed-loop idea. The way we tend to use resources is we extract them, we turn them into short-life products and then dispose of them. Nature works very differently. In ecosystems, the waste from one organism becomes the nutrient for something else in that system. And there are some examples of projects that have deliberately tried to mimic ecosystems. And one of my favorites is called the Cardboard to Caviar Project by Graham Wiles. And in their area they had a lot of shops and restaurants that were producing lots of food, cardboard and plastic waste. It was ending up in landfills. Now the really clever bit is what they did with the cardboard waste. And I'm just going to talk through this animation. So they were paid to collect it from the restaurants. They then shredded the cardboard and sold it to equestrian centers as horse bedding. When that was soiled, they were paid again to collect it. They put it into worm recomposting systems, which produced a lot of worms, which they fed to Siberian sturgeon, which produced caviar, which they sold back to the restaurants. So it transformed a linear process into a closed-loop model, and it created more value in the process. Graham Wiles has continued to add more and more elements to this, turning waste streams into schemes that create value. And just as natural systems tend to increase in diversity and resilience over time, there's a real sense with this project that the number of possibilities just continue increasing. And I know it's a quirky example, but I think the implications of this are quite radical, because it suggests that we could actually transform a big problem — waste — into a massive opportunity. And particularly in cities — we could look at the whole metabolism of cities, and look at those as opportunities. And that's what we're doing on the next project I'm going to talk about, the Mobius Project, where we're trying to bring together a number of activities, all within one building, so that the waste from one can be the nutrient for another. And the kind of elements I'm talking about are, firstly, we have a restaurant inside a productive greenhouse, a bit like this one in Amsterdam called De Kas. Then we would have an anaerobic digester, which could deal with all the biodegradable waste from the local area, turn that into heat for the greenhouse and electricity to feed back into the grid. We'd have a water treatment system treating wastewater, turning that into fresh water and generating energy from the solids using just plants and micro-organisms. We'd have a fish farm fed with vegetable waste from the kitchen and worms from the compost and supplying fish back to the restaurant. And we'd also have a coffee shop, and the waste grains from that could be used as a substrate for growing mushrooms. So you can see that we're bringing together cycles of food, energy and water and waste all within one building. And just for fun, we've proposed this for a roundabout in central London, which at the moment is a complete eyesore. Some of you may recognize this. And with just a little bit of planning, we could transform a space dominated by traffic into one that provides open space for people, reconnects people with food and transforms waste into closed loop opportunities. So the final project I want to talk about is the Sahara Forest Project, which we're working on at the moment. It may come as a surprise to some of you to hear that quite large areas of what are currently desert were actually forested a fairly short time ago. So for instance, when Julius Caesar arrived in North Africa, huge areas of North Africa were covered in cedar and cypress forests. And during the evolution of life on the Earth, it was the colonization of the land by plants that helped create the benign climate we currently enjoy. The converse is also true. The more vegetation we lose, the more that's likely to exacerbate climate change and lead to further desertification. And this animation, this shows photosynthetic activity over the course of a number of years, and what you can see is that the boundaries of those deserts shift quite a lot, and that raises the question of whether we can intervene at the boundary conditions to halt, or maybe even reverse, desertification. And if you look at some of the organisms that have evolved to live in deserts, there are some amazing examples of adaptations to water scarcity. This is the Namibian fog-basking beetle, and it's evolved a way of harvesting its own fresh water in a desert. The way it does this is it comes out at night, crawls to the top of a sand dune, and because it's got a matte black shell, is able to radiate heat out to the night sky and become slightly cooler than its surroundings. So when the moist breeze blows in off the sea, you get these droplets of water forming on the beetle's shell. Just before sunrise, he tips his shell up, the water runs down into his mouth, has a good drink, goes off and hides for the rest of the day. And the ingenuity, if you could call it that, goes even further. Because if you look closely at the beetle's shell, there are lots of little bumps on that shell. And those bumps are hydrophilic; they attract water. Between them there's a waxy finish which repels water. And the effect of this is that as the droplets start to form on the bumps, they stay in tight, spherical beads, which means they're much more mobile than they would be if it was just a film of water over the whole beetle's shell. So even when there's only a small amount of moisture in the air, it's able to harvest that very effectively and channel it down to its mouth. So amazing example of an adaptation to a very resource-constrained environment — and in that sense, very relevant to the kind of challenges we're going to be facing over the next few years, next few decades. We're working with the guy who invented the Seawater Greenhouse. This is a greenhouse designed for arid coastal regions, and the way it works is that you have this whole wall of evaporator grills, and you trickle seawater over that so that wind blows through, it picks up a lot of moisture and is cooled in the process. So inside it's cool and humid, which means the plants need less water to grow. And then at the back of the greenhouse, it condenses a lot of that humidity as freshwater in a process that is effectively identical to the beetle. And what they found with the first Seawater Greenhouse that was built was it was producing slightly more freshwater than it needed for the plants inside. So they just started spreading this on the land around, and the combination of that and the elevated humidity had quite a dramatic effect on the local area. This photograph was taken on completion day, and just one year later, it looked like that. So it was like a green inkblot spreading out from the building turning barren land back into biologically productive land — and in that sense, going beyond sustainable design to achieve restorative design. So we were keen to scale this up and apply biomimicry ideas to maximize the benefits. And when you think about nature, often you think about it as being all about competition. But actually in mature ecosystems, you're just as likely to find examples of symbiotic relationships. So an important biomimicry principle is to find ways of bringing technologies together in symbiotic clusters. And the technology that we settled on as an ideal partner for the Seawater Greenhouse is concentrated solar power, which uses solar-tracking mirrors to focus the sun's heat to create electricity. And just to give you some sense of the potential of CSP, consider that we receive 10,000 times as much energy from the sun every year as we use in energy from all forms — 10,000 times. So our energy problems are not intractable. It's a challenge to our ingenuity. And the kind of synergies I'm talking about are, firstly, both these technologies work very well in hot, sunny deserts. CSP needs a supply of demineralized freshwater. That's exactly what the Seawater Greenhouse produces. CSP produces a lot of waste heat. We'll be able to make use of all that to evaporate more seawater and enhance the restorative benefits. And finally, in the shade under the mirrors, it's possible to grow all sorts of crops that would not grow in direct sunlight. So this is how this scheme would look. The idea is we create this long hedge of greenhouses facing the wind. We'd have concentrated solar power plants at intervals along the way. Some of you might be wondering what we would do with all the salts. And with biomimicry, if you've got an underutilized resource, you don't think, ""How am I going to dispose of this?"" You think, ""What can I add to the system to create more value?"" And it turns out that different things crystallize out at different stages. When you evaporate seawater, the first thing to crystallize out is calcium carbonate. And that builds up on the evaporators — and that's what that image on the left is — gradually getting encrusted with the calcium carbonate. So after a while, we could take that out, use it as a lightweight building block. And if you think about the carbon in that, that would have come out of the atmosphere, into the sea and then locked away in a building product. The next thing is sodium chloride. You can also compress that into a building block, as they did here. This is a hotel in Bolivia. And then after that, there are all sorts of compounds and elements that we can extract, like phosphates, that we need to get back into the desert soils to fertilize them. And there's just about every element of the periodic table in seawater. So it should be possible to extract valuable elements like lithium for high-performance batteries. And in parts of the Arabian Gulf, the seawater, the salinity is increasing steadily due to the discharge of waste brine from desalination plants. And it's pushing the ecosystem close to collapse. Now we would be able to make use of all that waste brine. We could evaporate it to enhance the restorative benefits and capture the salts, transforming an urgent waste problem into a big opportunity. Really the Sahara Forest Project is a model for how we could create zero-carbon food, abundant renewable energy in some of the most water-stressed parts of the planet as well as reversing desertification in certain areas. So returning to those big challenges that I mentioned at the beginning: radical increases in resource efficiency, closing loops and a solar economy. They're not just possible; they're critical. And I firmly believe that studying the way nature solves problems will provide a lot of the solutions. But perhaps more than anything, what this thinking provides is a really positive way of talking about sustainable design. Far too much of the talk about the environment uses very negative language. But here it's about synergies and abundance and optimizing. And this is an important point. Antoine de Saint-Exupery once said, ""If you want to build a flotilla of ships, you don't sit around talking about carpentry. No, you need to set people's souls ablaze with visions of exploring distant shores."" And that's what we need to do, so let's be positive, and let's make progress with what could be the most exciting period of innovation we've ever seen. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想先講幾個簡單的例子這些是蜘蛛吐絲的腺體位在蜘蛛的上腹部他們可以分泌出六種不同的絲變成纖維這比任何人類製作出的纖維還要強韌最接近這種特性的要算是芳綸纖維要作出這樣的纖維需要極端的溫度極端的壓力和大量的污染然而蜘蛛卻能在一般環境的溫度和壓力運用死掉蒼蠅和水當作原料做出來這種纖維它說明了我們還有需要學習的東西這種甲蟲可以偵測到遠在80公里森林火災這大約是 10,000倍人造火災探測器所能偵測的範圍更重要的是，這小昆蟲不需要電線連接燃燒燃料的發電站 這兩個例子說明了生物模擬是值得學習的如果我們能學會大自然的方式我們可以達到10倍，100倍甚至是1,000倍的節約資源和能源如果我們要有所進步達到永續發展我認為有三個非常大的變化是我們需要的第一，提高基本資源使用效率第二，把線性的，浪費的，污染的資源使用方式轉變成一個封閉的循環模式第三，從礦物燃料經濟轉變成太陽能經濟而對於這三點，我認為生物模擬提供很多的解決方法是我們需要的 你可以看一下大自然把它當作是樣本所有的東西都來自於3.8億年的研究和發展的累積如果就投資來說，運用這樣的概念是可行的所以我要談談一些計畫，也探討這些想法我們從第一點開始談提高基本資源使用效率當我們開始執行伊甸園計劃時我們必須蓋一座非常大的溫室在一個不僅不規則而且不斷變化的地方，因為這個地方仍在開採這是一個地獄般的挑戰不過它實際上是運用生物學的例子這提供了很多線索例如這參考肥皂泡泡的樣子，規劃出建築物的外觀不管最後地面高度多高都能做到研究花粉和放射蟲類和碳分子幫助我們做出最有效的結構設計運用六邊形和五邊形 下一步是我們想要把六邊形做到最大要做到這點我們必須用可替代玻璃的材質不過這材質能夠用的單位面積也相當受限在自然界中非常多的例子都能有效用在結構設計上，像是加壓膜技術因此我們開始探索ETFE這種材料這是一種高強度聚合物而我們把它做成三層把它周圍邊緣焊接起來，然後充氣這東西最了不起的地方是它的每一個單位可以大約是玻璃的七倍大重量卻只有雙層玻璃的百分之一所以這算是100倍的節約資源我們也發現到這帶動起良性循環新發現又會帶來另一個新發現在這樣大又輕的支撐下我們也能減少鋼材的使用少一點鋼材，陽光就能多一點進來換句話說，在冬天我們不用儲備太多的熱能加上在建築上層的整體重量也減少所以地基的建材也能節省許多在這項計畫完成的時候，我們發現上層建築的重量實際上低於建築物內空氣的重量 我認為伊甸園計劃是個相當好的例子說明從生物學學到的想法可以做到提高基本資源使用效率在提供相同的功能達到事半功倍的效果實際上大自然中有非常多這樣的例子是我們可以找到類似的解決方法例如我們能蓋出高效能的屋頂結構參考亞馬遜巨頭睡蓮的樣子整個建築靈感來自鮑魚殼超輕量橋樑設計靈感來自於植物細胞這個既美麗又有效率的世界值得探索運用大自然當作設計的工具 現在我要說明的如何從線性轉變成封閉式循環我們使用資源的方式是我們開採資源把資源做成生命週期短的產品，然後用完即丟但大自然的法則不是這樣的在生態系統裡每一種生物的廢棄物會轉變成另一種生物的營養來源還有其他例子是刻意模仿生態系統其中一項我最喜歡的是""從紙板到魚子醬""的計畫由Graham Wiles所做的在他們那個地區有非常多商店和餐廳造成許多食物、紙板和塑膠的廢棄物這些廢棄物最終都會到垃圾掩埋場但現在他們比較聰明會另外處理廢紙板我利用這個動畫跟你們解釋 他們負責從餐廳回收這些紙板然後把紙板碾碎賣給了馬術中心用作馬匹休息的墊草等到這些墊草髒了，他們再負責去回收接著把這些髒的墊草用來培育蠕蟲這樣可以繁殖出許多的蠕蟲，這些蠕蟲就拿來餵食西伯利亞鱘魚鱘魚生產出魚子醬，魚子醬再賣回去給餐廳這樣的過程就是從線性轉變成一個封閉式的循環每一個過程都創造出更多的價值Graham Wiles不斷加入更多的元素到這個循環讓廢棄物在這個計劃中創造出價值就像是自然生態一樣長期下來能增加多樣性和適應性這是計劃真正的目的也就是創造出更多的可能性而且不斷地增加價值我知道這是一個奇特的例子但我認為這是相當有效的影響因為這實際上可以讓我們把大的問題變成大的機會 特別在某些城市要處理垃圾問題就能運用這樣的概念這也是我接下來要談的另一個計畫莫比烏斯(Mobius)計畫也就是許多的活動都能在同一棟建築物裡完成所以每一種廢棄物都能變成原料我要講的概念是首先，我們在溫室裡有一間餐廳這有點像在阿姆斯特丹的De Kas溫室餐廳然後我們在裡面設了一座無氧消化器能處理當地所有可生物分解的廢棄物再轉變成溫室的熱能和電力回饋到輸電網我們有汙水處理系統把廢水變成乾淨的水從固體產生能量只利用一些植物和微生物我們有一個養魚池，用廚房的廚餘當作飼料還有堆肥裡的蠕蟲拿這些拿來餵魚，魚再供應給餐廳還會有一個咖啡廳，不要的咖啡渣可以做成種植蘑菇的培養土 我們把這些想法結合在一起成為一個食物、能源、水和廢棄物的循環這通通發生在同一棟建築物裡這挺有趣的，我們也針對倫敦市中心一個圓環提出這項計畫因為這個圓環目前要算是政府的眼中釘你們有些人可能認得這個地方運用一點點的規劃我們可以把一個以交通為主的空間轉變成可以提供給民眾的開放空間讓人與食物重新有交集讓廢棄物可以在封閉式循環中得到不同的處置 我要談的最後一項計畫是撒哈拉造林工程計畫，這是我們現階段正在努力做的這可能對在座的某些人來說聽到這消息有點驚訝，因為這一大片地方目前是沙漠但事實上這地方在不久之前其實有座森林例如當凱撒抵達北非的時候在北非有一大片區域被雪松和柏樹森林給覆蓋在地球開始繁衍出生命的時候土地都被占據被植物給佔據這有助於發展出適合居住的良好氣候反過來也是如此我們失去越多土地上的植被越可能加劇氣候變遷導致進一步的沙漠化這個動畫顯示了數年來的光合作用的活動我們可以看到這些沙漠的範圍他們變化很大這引發了一個問題我們是否能干預沙漠的界線去限制或是讓沙漠化的土地回復原本的樣子 你看一些生物可以適應在沙漠生活在適應缺水問題時也有一些令人驚訝的例子這是納米比亞的沐霧甲蟲牠自己演化出可以在沙漠收集淡水的方法牠的方式是牠在夜間出來活動爬到沙丘上頭因為他的粗糙黑色外殼能夠在夜晚散發熱能又能比其周圍環境低溫因此，當海上吹起了潮濕的微風甲蟲的殼就能讓水滴凝結在上面在日出前，牠把身體抬高，水就能流進嘴裡喝一口水，然後躲起來好好休息的一天如果要說，這是大自然的智慧更進一步看如果仔細觀察甲蟲的外殼外殼上有許多小的突起物而那些突起物具有親水性，能吸引水在每個突起物間有像臘一樣的溝槽可以排水這個作用是水滴在這些突起物上形成時水分會緊密而且呈現水珠狀所以更具流動性比起甲蟲殼上有一整片的水來的更容易移動因此即使當空氣中只有少量的水分它仍然能夠非常有效的獲取水分讓水流到口裡這是一個在適應上非常驚人的例子一個資源相當有限的環境這和我們是非常類似的我們要面對的挑戰在未來幾年，或幾十年 我們正與一位發明了海水溫室的人合作這是一種在乾旱沿海地區做的溫室設計這運作的方式是裡頭有整座蒸發器架讓海水滴流過這裡讓風吹過收集很多的水分然後在過程中冷卻所以裡面是涼爽和潮濕的適合不太需要水的植物生長在溫室後方能凝結大量的濕氣轉變為淡水這個過程實際上是和甲蟲是相同的而他們蓋的第一座海水溫室能生產很多的淡水而且多過裡頭植物所需要的因此他們開始推廣到附近的土地結合這一點和濕度升高這兩種條件讓這個地區有非常大的改變這張照片是在完工日那天拍的一年後看起來像這樣它就像一個綠色的墨漬從建築物擴散出去讓貧瘠的土地回復到有生命的樣子也就是說這不僅維持了生態平衡更達到恢復生機 因此我們希望可以擴大應用生物模擬的想法把效益最大化當我們想到的大自然我們大部分想到的是競爭但實際上在成熟的生態系統中你能發現很多例子都存在共生關係所以重要的生物模擬的原則是想辦法把不同的技術結合做到集體共生我們看中的技術是能和海水溫室的概念合作的太陽能源應用技術它使用能追蹤太陽能的鏡子集中太陽的熱能變成電力我想讓你們對太陽能源應用技術多一點了解想想看如果我們每年使用的電有10,000倍來自太陽能比較來自其他的發電方式同樣是10,000倍如果這樣我們的能源問題就不棘手問題在我們的創造力我現在要說的綜效是這兩種技術在高溫陽光充足的地方都能作用太陽能源應用技術需要去除礦物質的水而海水溫室能生產這樣的水太陽能源應用技術則產生大量的熱能我們可以用來讓大量的海水蒸發提高恢復效益(restorative benefits)然後在鏡子下的陰暗處可以增種各種作物能避免直接的日照這會是這個計劃的樣子我們會在迎風處建造一大片的溫室還有太陽能發電廠以固定的間距蓋在這條路上 在座某些人可能想知道我們會如何處理那些鹽分在生物模擬的概念下，如果你有一項還未被使用的資源你不會想""我該怎麼把這東西丟掉？""你反而會想""我該加什麼東西進來創造出更多的價值？""事實證明不同的物質在不同的階段會變成結晶開始蒸餾海水的時候，第一樣被結晶出來的是碳酸鈣碳酸鈣會凝聚在蒸發器上就會像左邊的圖片那樣逐漸被碳酸鈣給覆蓋經過一段時間，我們可以把這些取下來做成輕量的磚塊如果你問那碳呢？那是從大氣落到海裡的碳會凝結在這些建材裡 第二種是氯化鈉也是可以壓縮做成磚塊就像這裡這是玻利維亞的一間酒店之後還有其他各種化合物和元素是我們可以提煉出來的像磷酸鹽，這東西我們可以拿到沙漠施肥幾乎化學週期表上的所有元素都能從海水裡獲得所以是能從海水提煉出有價值的元素像高性能電池需要的鋰而在阿拉伯海灣地區海水裡的鹽份是穩定的在增加因為有廢鹵水從海水淡化廠排出這造成生態系統瀕臨崩潰現在我們能夠利用的所有的廢鹵水我們可以蒸餾它提高恢復效益(restorative benefits)同時取得鹽巴把一個急迫的汙染問題變成一的大的機會撒哈拉造林工程真的是一個很好的例子說明我們如何能夠創造零碳食品在地球上一些最缺水地區創造出豐富的可再生能源同時又能讓某些沙漠化的土地恢復生機 因此，回到那些我在開始時提到大的挑戰提高基本資源使用效率封閉式循環和太陽能經濟這些不只是可行，而且非常重要我深信研究大自然解決問題的方法可以提供人類更多的解決之道但也許更重要的是，思考能帶來正向的永續發展的設計太多有關環境的討論都用負面的言語但討論應該是有綜效的，豐富的和樂觀的這是非常重要的 安東尼聖艾修伯理曾說過：“如果你想建立一個船隊你不是坐下來談木工的工作你需要讓人的靈魂對探索遙遠的海岸充滿熱情""這才是我們要做的，我們一起樂觀點一起進步為這令人興奮且前所未有的創新來努力 謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
