Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_rubinstein_see_invisible_motion_hear_silent_sounds_cool_creepy_we_can_t_decide	"So over the past few centuries, microscopes have revolutionized our world. They revealed to us a tiny world of objects, life and structures that are too small for us to see with our naked eyes. They are a tremendous contribution to science and technology. Today I'd like to introduce you to a new type of microscope, a microscope for changes. It doesn't use optics like a regular microscope to make small objects bigger, but instead it uses a video camera and image processing to reveal to us the tiniest motions and color changes in objects and people, changes that are impossible for us to see with our naked eyes. And it lets us look at our world in a completely new way. So what do I mean by color changes? Our skin, for example, changes its color very slightly when the blood flows under it. That change is incredibly subtle, which is why, when you look at other people, when you look at the person sitting next to you, you don't see their skin or their face changing color. When we look at this video of Steve here, it appears to us like a static picture, but once we look at this video through our new, special microscope, suddenly we see a completely different image. What you see here are small changes in the color of Steve's skin, magnified 100 times so that they become visible. We can actually see a human pulse. We can see how fast Steve's heart is beating, but we can also see the actual way that the blood flows in his face. And we can do that not just to visualize the pulse, but also to actually  recover our heart rates, and measure our heart rates. And we can do it with regular cameras and without touching the patients. So here you see the pulse and heart rate we extracted from a neonatal baby from a video we took with a regular DSLR camera, and the heart rate measurement we get is as accurate as the one you'd get with a standard monitor in a hospital. And it doesn't even have to be a video we recorded. We can do it essentially with other videos as well. So I just took a short clip from ""Batman Begins"" here just to show Christian Bale's pulse. (Laughter) And you know, presumably he's wearing makeup, the lighting here is kind of challenging, but still, just from the video, we're able to extract his pulse and show it quite well. So how do we do all that? We basically analyze the changes in the light that are recorded at every pixel in the video over time, and then we crank up those changes. We make them bigger so that we can see them. The tricky part is that those signals, those changes that we're after, are extremely subtle, so we have to be very careful when you try to separate them from noise that always exists in videos. So we use some clever image processing techniques to get a very accurate measurement of the color at each pixel in the video, and then the way the color changes over time, and then we amplify those changes. We make them bigger to create those types of enhanced videos, or magnified videos, that actually show us those changes. But it turns out we can do that not just to show tiny changes in color, but also tiny motions, and that's because the light that gets recorded in our cameras will change not only if the color of the object changes, but also if the object moves. So this is my daughter when she was about two months old. It's a video I recorded about three years ago. And as new parents, we all want to make sure our babies are healthy, that they're breathing, that they're alive, of course. So I too got one of those baby monitors so that I could see my daughter when she was asleep. And this is pretty much what you'll see with a standard baby monitor. You can see the baby's sleeping, but  there's not too much information there. There's not too much we can see. Wouldn't it be better, or more informative, or more useful, if instead we could look at the view like this. So here I took the motions and I magnified them 30 times, and then I could clearly see that my daughter was indeed alive and breathing. (Laughter) Here is a side-by-side comparison. So again, in the source video, in the original video, there's not too much we can see, but once we magnify the motions, the breathing becomes much more visible. And it turns out, there's a lot of phenomena we can reveal and magnify with our new motion microscope. We can see how our veins and arteries are pulsing in our bodies. We can see that our eyes are constantly moving in this wobbly motion. And that's actually my eye, and again this video was taken right after my daughter was born, so you can see I wasn't getting too much sleep. (Laughter) Even when a person is sitting still, there's a lot of information we can extract about their breathing patterns, small facial expressions. Maybe we could use those motions to tell us something about our thoughts or our emotions. We can also magnify small mechanical movements, like vibrations in engines, that can help engineers detect and diagnose machinery problems, or see how our buildings and structures sway in the wind and react to forces. Those are all things that our society knows how to measure in various ways, but measuring those motions is one thing, and actually seeing those motions as they happen is a whole different thing. And ever since we discovered this new technology, we made our code available online so that  others could use and experiment with it. It's very simple to use. It can work on your own videos. Our collaborators at Quanta Research even created this nice website where you can upload your videos and process them online, so even if you don't have any experience in computer science or programming, you can still very easily experiment with this new microscope. And I'd like to show you just a couple of examples of what others have done with it. So this video was made by a YouTube user called Tamez85. I don't know who that user is, but he, or she, used our code to magnify small belly movements during pregnancy. It's kind of creepy. (Laughter) People have used it to magnify pulsing veins in their hands. And you know it's not real science unless you use guinea pigs, and apparently this guinea pig is called Tiffany, and this YouTube user claims it is the first rodent on Earth that was motion-magnified. You can also do some art with it. So this video was sent to me by a design student at Yale. She wanted to see if there's any difference in the way her classmates move. She made them all stand still, and then magnified their motions. It's like seeing  still pictures come to life. And the nice thing with  all those examples is that we had nothing to do with them. We just provided this new tool, a new way to look at the world, and then people find other interesting, new and creative ways of using it. But we didn't stop there. This tool not only allows us to look at the world in a new way, it also redefines what we can do and pushes the limits of what we can do with our cameras. So as scientists, we started wondering, what other types of physical phenomena produce tiny motions that we could now use our cameras to measure? And one such phenomenon that we focused on recently is sound. Sound, as we all know, is basically changes in air pressure that travel through the air. Those pressure waves hit objects and they create small vibrations in them, which is how we hear and how we record sound. But it turns out that sound also produces visual motions. Those are motions that are not visible to us but are visible to a camera with the right processing. So here are two examples. This is me demonstrating my great singing skills. (Singing) (Laughter) And I took a high-speed video of my throat while I was humming. Again, if you stare at that video, there's not too much you'll be able to see, but once we magnify the motions 100 times, we can see all the motions and ripples in the neck that are involved in producing the sound. That signal is there in that video. We also know that singers can break a wine glass if they hit the correct note. So here, we're going to play a note that's in the resonance frequency of that glass through a loudspeaker that's next to it. Once we play that note and magnify the motions 250 times, we can very clearly see  how the glass vibrates and resonates in response to the sound. It's not something you're used to seeing every day. But this made us think. It gave us this crazy idea. Can we actually invert this process and recover sound from video by analyzing the tiny vibrations that sound waves create in objects, and essentially convert those back into the sounds that produced them. In this way, we can turn everyday objects into microphones. So that's exactly what we did. So here's an empty bag of chips that was lying on a table, and we're going to turn that  bag of chips into a microphone by filming it with a video camera and analyzing the tiny motions that sound waves create in it. So here's the sound that we played in the room. (Music: ""Mary Had a Little Lamb"") And this is a high-speed video we recorded of that bag of chips. Again it's playing. There's no chance you'll be able to see anything going on in that video just by looking at it, but here's the sound we were able to recover just by analyzing the tiny motions in that video. (Music: ""Mary Had a Little Lamb"") I call it — Thank you. (Applause) I call it the visual microphone. We actually extract audio signals from video signals. And just to give you a sense of the scale of the motions here, a pretty loud sound will cause that bag of chips to move less than a micrometer. That's one thousandth of a millimeter. That's how tiny the motions are that we are now able to pull out just by observing how light bounces off objects and gets recorded by our cameras. We can recover sounds from other objects, like plants. (Music: ""Mary Had a Little Lamb"") And we can recover speech as well. So here's a person speaking in a room. Voice: Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow, and everywhere that Mary went, that lamb was sure to go. Michael Rubinstein: And here's that speech again recovered just from this video of that same bag of chips. Voice: Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow, and everywhere that Mary went, that lamb was sure to go. MR: We used ""Mary Had a Little Lamb"" because those are said to be the first words that Thomas Edison spoke  into his phonograph in 1877. It was one of the first sound recording devices in history. It basically directed the sounds onto a diaphragm that vibrated a needle that essentially engraved the sound on tinfoil that was wrapped around the cylinder. Here's a demonstration of recording and  replaying sound with Edison's phonograph. (Video) Voice: Testing, testing, one two three. Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow, and everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go. Testing, testing, one two three. Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow, and everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go. MR: And now, 137 years later, we're able to get sound in pretty much similar quality but by just watching objects vibrate to sound with cameras, and we can even do that when the camera is 15 feet away from the object, behind soundproof glass. So this is the sound that we were  able to recover in that case. Voice: Mary had a little lamb whose fleece was white as snow, and everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go. MR: And of course, surveillance is the first application that comes to mind. (Laughter) But it might actually be useful for other things as well. Maybe in the future, we'll be able to use it, for example, to recover sound across space, because sound can't travel in space, but light can. We've only just begun exploring other possible uses for this new technology. It lets us see physical processes that we know are there but that we've never been able to see with our own eyes until now. This is our team. Everything I showed you today is a result of a collaboration with this great group of people you see here, and I encourage you and welcome you to check out our website, try it out yourself, and join us in exploring this world of tiny motions. Thank you. (Applause)"	"幾世紀以來，顯微鏡對世界產生革命性的影響它為我們揭開了微小世界的物體、生命和結構那些因為太過微小而沒有辦法用肉眼觀察對於科學和科技是個巨大的貢獻今天我想介紹大家一種新的顯微鏡一種觀察變化的顯微鏡不像一般顯微鏡使用光線放大微小的物體而是使用攝影機和圖像處理來讓我們看見人與物的微小運動和顏色變化那些變化是我們沒有辦法用肉眼觀察的讓我們以全新的方式去看世界 而我所說的顏色變化到底是甚麼?舉例來說:皮膚我們的皮膚會產生極細微的顏色變化當我們的血液流過這個變化是極度細微的這也是為什麼當大家看向別人時當你看著坐在你身旁的人你不會看到他臉部皮膚的顏色變化當我們看到影片中的史蒂夫，顯示出的是一張靜態的圖片但當我們以新的、特殊的顯微鏡突然間看見一個全然不同的影像這裡你們看見的是史蒂夫臉部皮膚的微小顏色變化放大一百倍後變得肉眼可見我們可以真的看見人類的脈搏我們可以看見史蒂夫的心跳是多麼的快速而且我們也看見血液實際上如何流過他的臉部而且我們不只是將脈搏變得可見還能夠真的獲取我們的心跳和測量我們的心跳速率並且我們可以使用普通的鏡頭而不需要觸碰病人因此在這裡你們可以看見得自新生嬰兒的脈搏和心跳速率透過我們攝自普通的數位單眼相機我們測量出心跳速率是與醫院中標準監測設備一樣準確的而且甚至不需要使用我們拍攝的影片我們可以實質上使用在其他人拍攝的影片因此我擷取了""蝙蝠俠：開戰時刻""裡的一個片段來顯示克里斯汀·貝爾的脈搏(大笑)而你們知道，他大概有化妝這樣的明暗變化有點挑戰性但還是一樣，在這個影片我們仍能夠取得他的脈搏而且還蠻明顯的然而我們到底是怎麼做到的?基本上，我們分析記錄到的光線變化每一個畫面中的像素然後我們處理這些變化我們放大這些變化讓它們可以被看見其中最難處理的是那些訊號那些我們想要尋找的變化，是非常細微的所以當我們分離出變化時必須非常細心因為干擾會一直出現在影像中因此我們使用巧妙的圖像處理技巧自影像裡每個像素取得非常精確的顏色辨識和隨著時間產生的顏色變化然後我們放大這些變化我們讓變化增大制出改進的影像或是放大的影像而確實地向我們顯示出變化來[運動顯微鏡]但後來我們不僅能展示微小的顏色變化還能表現出細微的動作那是因為我們鏡頭紀錄的光線不只有物體顏色上的變化還有物體的運動這是我女兒，當時兩個月大這是我三年前拍攝的影片而且像所有的新手父母親一樣，我希望我們的小孩健康他們有沒有呼吸，還活著，想當然所以我也買了嬰兒監視器讓我能夠在我女兒睡覺時看見她一般嬰兒監視器拍到的差不多就像這樣你知道的，你可以看到嬰兒的睡眠但資訊顯現的不多我們能看見的不多如果換成這種觀看的視角更多的訊息、更有幫助會好很多所以我拍攝了這些動作並且放大30倍然後我可以清楚看見我的女兒的確活著而且有呼吸(大笑) 這裡並列的是比較圖在原始的影像裡並沒有太多可以觀察的而一旦經過我們放大動作，呼吸變得更容易觀察而這表示，許多現象的出現透過新式運動顯微鏡我們可以找且放大我們可以觀察我們的動脈和靜脈如何在我們身體裡脈動可以看見我們的眼睛是不斷的移動不穩定的擺動並且那實際上是我的眼睛再次，這個影片拍攝就在我女兒出生之後所以你看得出我那時候沒甚麼睡(大笑)就算一個人坐著還是有許多的訊息我們能夠獲取他們呼吸的模式、細微的臉部表情說不定我們可以運用這些運動從而得知我們的想法或情緒我們可以放大細微的機械運動像是引擎的顫動這可以幫助工程師檢測和診斷出機械問題或是我們的大樓和建築物在風吹、地震影響下的晃動在這個社會中知道各種不同測量物體的方式但這種測量是另一回事真的看見這些運動的發生是完全不同的事情自我們發現這個新科技後我們就將編碼放在網路上讓其他人能夠使用並測試它它是非常容易上手的它能夠運用在你的影片上我們量子研究的合作人還架設了一個很好的網站可以讓你上傳影片和在網路上進行處理所以即使你沒有任何電腦科學和寫軟體的經驗還是很容易就能測試新式顯微鏡並且在這裡我很樂意秀幾個例子給你們其他人如何去使用它而這是 YouTube 使用者Tamez85 所做的影片我並不知道使用者是誰但他或她，使用了編碼放大懷孕中腹部的細微運動是有點詭異(大笑)有人使用它去放大手部的靜脈脈博你們也知道只有用天竺鼠測試過才叫真的科學這隻天竺鼠叫做蒂芬妮這位YouTube使用者表示這是世界上第一隻囓齒動物使用動作放大化你還可以加入藝術這個影片是一位耶魯大學設計系的學生寄給我的她想要看到她同學的移動方式是否有所差異她讓同學們都站直不動然後放大他們的動作像把靜止的相片變得有生命而這些不錯的例子完全不是我們做出的我們只提供新工具，一種新的方式去觀察世界然後有人發現一些有趣、有創意的新方式去使用 而我們沒有就停在這裡這個工具並非只讓我們用新的方式看世界它還重新定義我們能夠做的並且將相機的使用推向極限所以身為科學家，我們開始想有哪些物理現象會產生細微的運動可以讓我們用相機去測量最近我們專注於聲音這個現象聲音就我們所知是一種大氣壓力的變化通過空氣壓力波動打在物體上使其產生微小的顫動而我們透過它聽見和紀錄聲音結果我們還發現聲音會產生可見的運動那些不能用肉眼觀察但相機可以看見且處理的而這裡是兩個例子這裡展示著我厲害的歌唱能力(唱歌)(大笑)而我拍攝了一段當我在唱歌時我喉嚨的高速影片再次，如果你注意這個影片並沒有太多東西你能看到的但一旦以 100 倍放大那些動作我們可以看見運動和波紋在脖子裡面，參與聲音的製造這個聲音訊息就在這部影片中我們還知道歌手可以唱破酒杯假設他們抓到了對的音所以這裡我們要來播放一個音在玻璃的共振頻率範圍內透過旁邊的擴音器一旦我們放出並且放大動作 250 倍可以清晰地看到玻璃是如何顫動和與聲音的共振這並非我們平日能夠所見但這讓我們思考。給我們一個瘋狂的想法我們能夠反過來處理並恢復影像中的聲音嗎?透過分析這些由聲音影響物體產生的微小顫動然後實際上還原出源頭的聲音透過這個方式，我們可以讓所有東西都變成麥克風而這裡是我們實際做的一個空的洋芋片包裝放在桌上然後我們要將那包洋芋片藉由拍攝將它變成我們的麥克風並且分析它因為聲音影響而生的細微運動這是我們在房間裡撥放的聲音 (音樂：Mary Had a Little Lamb) 這裡是我們拍攝包裝袋的高速影像聲音在撥放若只是用看的你無法看見影片中發生甚麼事但這裡我們能還原聲音就只依靠分析影片中的細微運動(音樂：Mary Had a Little Lamb)我稱呼它 — 謝謝(掌聲)我稱呼它為視覺麥克風我們真的從影像訊號中擷取聲音訊號而這裡給你了解運動的規模響亮的聲音只會讓洋芋片包裝袋移動不到一微米那是一千分之一毫米這就是我們現在找出的動作，如此細微只透過反射自物體的光線並且用我們的相機記錄 我們可以從物體上還原聲音，像植物(音樂：Mary Had a Little Lamb)還可以還原言語使用喇叭，這是一個人在房間裡講話聲音：瑪莉有一隻小羊，牠的毛和雪一樣白而不論瑪莉去哪裡，都會帶著小羊麥可·魯賓斯坦：這裡是那段話被再次還原正是從這影片中同樣的洋芋片包裝袋聲音：瑪莉有一隻小羊，牠的毛和雪一樣白而不論瑪莉去哪裡，都會帶著小羊 我們使用""Mary Had a Little Lamb""是因為這據說是愛迪生在 1877 年，第一次對他的留聲機所留這是歷史上第一個聲音紀錄裝置它基本上在一個隔膜上接受聲音而隔膜震動了針而雕刻錫板錫板是包裹在圓柱體上此處展示的是愛迪生的留聲機如何錄入和重放 (影片)聲音：測試，測試，一二三瑪莉有隻小羊羊毛像雪一般白而且瑪莉到哪裡，都會帶著小羊測試，測試，一二三瑪莉有隻小羊羊毛像雪一般白而且瑪莉到哪裡，都會帶著小羊 而現在，137 年後的現在我們能夠擷取聲音到非常相似的程度卻只是藉由相機觀察物體對聲音的顫動我們還能做到這件事在相機離物體 15 英呎在隔音玻璃外 而這是我們在這個情況下得到的聲音 聲音：瑪莉有隻小羊羊毛像雪一般白而且瑪莉到哪裡，都會帶著小羊 想當然，監控裝置是第一個被想到的應用方式（大笑）但這可能真的對其他事情很有用可能在未來我們能夠使用它，舉例來說在外太空還原聲音因為聲音不能在太空中傳播而光線可以 我們才剛開始探索這個裝置其他的運用可能它讓看見我們實際知道存在的物理運作但直到現在我們才能用肉眼觀察 這是我的團隊每一個在今天展示出的東西是團隊成果和你在這裡看到的一群偉大的人而我鼓勵各位並且歡迎各位看看我們的網站自己試試看並且加入我們一起探索世界中的微小運動 謝謝大家 （掌聲）"
