Talk	en	zh-tw
michel_laberge_how_synchronized_hammer_strikes_could_generate_nuclear_fusion	Wow, this is bright. It must use a lot of power. Well, flying you all in here must have cost a bit of energy too. So the whole planet needs a lot of energy, and so far we've been running mostly on fossil fuel. We've been burning gas. It's been a good run. It got us to where we are, but we have to stop. We can't do that anymore. So we are trying different types of energy now, alternative energy, but it proved quite difficult to find something that's as convenient and as cost-effective as oil, gas and coal. My personal favorite is nuclear energy. Now, it's very energy-dense, it produces solid, reliable power, and it doesn't make any CO2. Now we know of two ways of making nuclear energy: fission and fusion. Now in fission, you take a big nucleus, you break it in part, in two, and it makes lots of energy, and this is how the nuclear reactor today works. It works pretty good. And then there's fusion. Now, I like fusion. Fusion's much better. So you take two small nuclei, you put it together, and you make helium, and that's very nice. It makes lots of energy. This is nature's way of producing energy. The sun and all the stars in the universe run on fusion. Now, a fusion plant would actually be quite cost-effective and it also would be quite safe. It only produces short term radioactive waste, and it cannot melt down. Now, the fuel from fusion comes from the ocean. In the ocean, you can extract the fuel for about one thousandth of a cent per kilowatt-hour, so that's very, very cheap. And if the whole planet would run on fusion, we could extract the fuel from the ocean. It would run for billions and billions of years. Now, if fusion is so great, why don't we have it? Where is it? Well, there's always a bit of a catch. Fusion is really, really hard to do. So the problem is, those two nuclei, they are both positively charged, so they don't want to fuse. They go like this. They go like that. So in order to make them fuse, you have to throw them at each other with great speed, and if they have enough speed, they will go against the repulsion, they will touch, and they will make energy. Now, the particle speed is a measure of the temperature. So the temperature required for fusion is 150 billion degrees C. This is rather warm, and this is why fusion is so hard to do. Now, I caught my little fusion bug when I did my Ph.D. here at the University of British Columbia, and then I got a big job in a laser printer place making printing for the printing industry. I worked there for 10 years, and I got a little bit bored, and then I was 40, and I got a mid-life crisis, you know, the usual thing: Who am I? What should I do? What should I do? What can I do? And then I was looking at my good work, and what I was doing is I was cutting the forests around here in B.C. and burying you, all of you, in millions of tons of junk mail. Now, that was not very satisfactory. So some people buy a Porsche. Others get a mistress. But I've decided to get my bit to solve global warming and make fusion happen. Now, so the first thing I did is I looked into the literature and I see, how does fusion work? So the physicists have been working on fusion for a while, and one of the ways they do it is with something called a tokamak. It's a big ring of magnetic coil, superconducting coil, and it makes a magnetic field in a ring like this, and the hot gas in the middle, which is called a plasma, is trapped. The particles go round and round and round the circle at the wall. Then they throw a huge amount of heat in there to try to cook that to fusion temperature. So this is the inside of one of those donuts, and on the right side you can see the fusion plasma in there. Now, a second way of doing this is by using laser fusion. Now in laser fusion, you have a little ping pong ball, you put the fusion fuel in the center, and you zap that with a whole bunch of laser around it. The lasers are very strong, and it squashes the ping pong ball really, really quick. And if you squeeze something hard enough, it gets hotter, and if it gets really, really fast, and they do that in one billionth of a second, it makes enough energy and enough heat to make fusion. So this is the inside of one such machine. You see the laser beam and the pellet in the center. Now, most people think that fusion is going nowhere. They always think that the physicists are in their lab and they're working hard, but nothing is happening. That's actually not quite true. This is a curve of the gain in fusion over the last 30 years or so, and you can see that we're making now about 10,000 times more fusion than we used to when we started. That's a pretty good gain. As a matter of fact, it's as fast as the fabled Moore's Law that defined the amount of transistors they can put on a chip. Now, this dot here is called JET, the Joint European Torus. It's a big tokamak donut in Europe, and this machine in 1997 produced 16 megawatts of fusion power with 17 megawatts of heat. Now, you say, that's not much use, but it's actually pretty close, considering we can get about 10,000 times more than we started. The second dot here is the NIF. It's the National Ignition Facility. It's a big laser machine in the U.S., and last month they announced with quite a bit of noise that they had managed to make more fusion energy from the fusion than the energy that they put in  the center of the ping pong ball. Now, that's not quite good enough, because the laser to put that energy in was more energy than that, but it was pretty good. Now this is ITER, pronounced in French: EE-tairh. So this is a big collaboration of different countries that are building a huge magnetic donut in the south of France, and this machine, when it's finished, will produce 500 megawatts of fusion power with only 50 megawatts to make it. So this one is the real one. It's going to work. That's the kind of machine that makes energy. Now if you look at the graph, you will notice that those two dots are a little bit on the right of the curve. We kind of have fallen off the progress. Actually, the science to make those machines was really in time to produce fusion during that curve. However, there has been a bit of politics going on, and the will to do it was not there, so it drifted to the right. ITER, for example, could have been built in 2000 or 2005, but because it's a big international collaboration, the politics got in and it delayed it a bit. For example, it took them about three years to decide where to put it. Now, fusion is often criticized for being a little too expensive. Yes, it did cost a billion dollars or two billion dollars a year to make this progress. But you have to compare that to the cost of making Moore's Law. That cost way more than that. The result of Moore's Law is this cell phone here in my pocket. This cell phone, and the Internet behind it, cost about one trillion dollars, just so I can take a selfie and put it on Facebook. Then when my dad sees that, he'll be very proud. We also spend about 650 billion dollars a year in subsidies for oil and gas and renewable energy. Now, we spend one half of a percent of that on fusion. So me, personally, I don't think it's too expensive. I think it's actually been shortchanged, considering it can solve all our energy problems cleanly for the next couple of billions of years. Now I can say that, but I'm a little bit biased, because I started a fusion company and I don't even have a Facebook account. So when I started this fusion company in 2002, I knew I couldn't fight with the big lads. They had much more resources than me. So I decided I would need to find a solution that is cheaper and faster. Now magnetic and laser fusion are pretty good machines. They are awesome pieces of technology, wonderful machines, and they have shown that fusion can be done. However, as a power plant, I don't think they're very good. They're way too big, way too complicated, way too expensive, and also, they don't deal very much with the fusion energy. When you make fusion, the energy comes out as neutrons, fast neutrons comes out of the plasma. Those neutrons hit the wall of the machine. It damages it. And also, you have to catch the heat from those neutrons and run some steam to spin a turbine somewhere, and on those machines, it was all a bit of an afterthought. So I decided that surely there is a better way of doing that. So back to the literature, and I read about the fusion everywhere. One way in particular attracted my attention, and it's called magnetized target fusion, or MTF for short. Now, in MTF, what you want to do is you take a big vat and you fill that with liquid metal, and you spin the liquid metal to open a vortex in the center, a bit like your sink. When you pull the plug on a sink, it makes a vortex. And then you have some pistons driven by pressure that goes on the outside, and this compresses the liquid metal around the plasma, and it compresses it, it gets hotter, like a laser, and then it makes fusion. So it's a bit of a mix between a magnetized fusion and the laser fusion. So those have a couple of very good advantages. The liquid metal absorbs all the neutrons and no neutrons hit the wall, and therefore there's no damage to the machine. The liquid metal gets hot, so you can pump that in a heat exchanger, make some steam, spin a turbine. So that's a very convenient way of doing this part of the process. And finally, all the energy to make the fusion happen comes from steam-powered pistons, which is way cheaper than lasers or superconducting coils. Now, this was all very good except for the problem that it didn't quite work. (Laughter) There's always a catch. So when you compress that, the plasma cools down faster than the compression speed, so you're trying to compress it, but the plasma cooled down and cooled down and cooled down and then it did absolutely nothing. So when I saw that, I said, well, this is such a shame, because it's a very, very good idea. So hopefully I can improve on that. So I thought about it for a minute, and I said, okay, how can we make that work better? So then I thought about impact. What about if we use a big hammer and we swing it and we hit the nail like this, in the place of putting the hammer on the nail and pushing and try to put it in? That won't work. So what the idea is is to use the idea of an impact. So we accelerate the pistons with steam, that takes a little bit of time, but then, bang! you hit the piston, and, baff!, all the energy is done instantly, down instantly to the liquid, and that compresses the plasma much faster. So I decided, okay, this is good, let's make that. So we built this machine in this garage here. We made a small machine that we managed to squeeze a little bit of neutrons out of that, and those are my marketing neutrons, and with those marketing neutrons, then I raised about 50 million dollars, and I hired 65 people. That's my team here. And this is what we want to build. So it's going to be a big machine, about three meters in diameter, liquid lead spinning around, big vortex in the center, put the plasma on the top and on the bottom, piston hits on the side, bang!, it compresses it, and it will make some energy, and the neutron will come out in the liquid metal, going to go in a steam engine and make the turbine, and some of the steam will go back to fire the piston. We're going to run that about one time per second, and it will produce 100 megawatts of electricity. Okay, we also built this injector, so this injector makes the plasma to start with. It makes the plasma at about a lukewarm temperature of three million degrees C. Unfortunately, it doesn't last quite long enough, so we need to extend the life of the plasma a little bit, but last month it got a lot better, so I think we have the plasma compressing now. Then we built a small sphere, about this big, 14 pistons around it, and this will compress the liquid. However, plasma is difficult to compress. When you compress it, it tends to go a little bit crooked like that, so you need the timing of the piston to be very good, and for that we use several control systems, which was not possible in 1970, but we now can do that with nice, new electronics. So finally, most people think that fusion is in the future and will never happen, but as a matter of fact, fusion is getting very close. We are almost there. The big labs have shown that fusion is doable, and now there are small companies that are thinking about that, and they say, it's not that it cannot be done, but it's how to make it cost-effectively. General Fusion is one of those small companies, and hopefully, very soon, somebody, someone, will crack that nut, and perhaps it will be General Fusion. Thank you very much. (Applause)	哇嗚，好亮呀。一定用了不少電吧。各位飛來這裡也消耗了許多能源。整個地球需要非常多的能源，至今我們大多仰賴石化燃料。我們一直在燃燒汽油。至今進行得還不錯。汽油能夠帶我們帶到想去的地方，但是我們得就此打住了。我們不能再這麼做了。 我們不斷嘗試不同的能源，尋求替代能源，但是事實證明很難找到便宜又划算的東西能媲美石油、瓦斯和煤。我最喜歡的是核能。它的能量密度很高，能製造固態且穩定的能量，而且不會產生任何二氧化碳。 我們知道兩種生產核能方式：核分裂與核融合。在核分裂中要取一個大原子核，把它分成兩半，就會產生很多能源，現在的核能反應爐就是採取此法。運作得還不錯。還有另一種是核融合。我喜歡核融合，那好多了。取兩個小原子核，把它們放在一起就會變成氦，而氦是很棒的東西，可以產生很多能源。這是製造能源的自然方式，太陽和所有宇宙中的恆星都用核融合。而核融合發電廠十分符合成本效益，而且也很安全。它只會產生短期的放射性廢物，而且不能熔化。而核融合的燃料來自海洋。從海中提煉出燃料每度電只要千分之一美元，非常、非常便宜。如果整個地球持續進行核融合，我們就能從海裡提煉出燃料。此舉能永續經營好幾百億年。 那麼如果核融合這麼棒為什麼我們不能用？它在哪裡？嗯，總是會有些麻煩。核融合非常難做。麻煩在於那兩個原子核都帶正電，因此它們不想熔合。它們會像這樣來來去去。因此為了要讓它們熔合，你得用高速丟擲，讓它們彼此碰撞，如果速度夠快，就會克服排斥作用，當它們相互碰觸就會產生能量。而粒子速度就是一種測量溫度的方式。核融合需要達到攝氏 1500 億度。因為這溫度很高，所以核融合非常難做。 當我在英屬哥倫比亞大學讀博士時，解決了這個核融合的小麻煩，後來我在雷射印表機公司裡擔任要職，為印刷業做印刷。我在那裡做了 10 年，覺得有點無趣，40 歲時碰到了中年危機，你知道很平常的問題：我是誰？我該做什麼？我該做什麼？我可以做什麼？我開始檢視我的好工作，我做的事情是砍伐樹林，就在英屬哥倫比亞這裡，再用數不盡的垃圾信件掩埋在座的每一個人。那可讓人不太滿意。有人買了台保時捷；其他些有了小老婆。但是我決定致力於解決地球暖化，並讓核融合能實現。 首先，我深入研究文獻，了解核融合的運作方式。物理學家研究核融合已有一段時間，他們採取的其中一種方式稱為托卡馬克裝置 (tokamak)。那是個很大的磁性環形線圈、超導線圈，會在像這樣的環中產生磁場，而熱氣會在中央，稱為電漿，會被限制住。粒子不斷沿著圓圈的邊緣環繞，接著它們會在其中釋放大量熱能來加熱至核融合需要的溫度。這是那些甜甜圈的內部，你可以在右邊看到核融合的電漿在裡面。 進行核融合的第二種方式是使用雷射核融合。在雷射核融合中，你會有一顆乒乓球，把核融合的燃料放在中央，用環繞的大量雷射將它密封。雷射非常強，且會非常快速地擠壓乒乓球。如果你夠用力擠壓某種東西，那就會變熱，如果速度非常、非常快，在十億分之一秒之中就會有足夠的能源和熱能來產生核融合。這就是機器內部的模樣。你看雷射光束和小球在中央。 多數人認為核融合根本不會發生。大家總認為物理學家都在實驗室認真工作，但是什麼事也沒發生。那其實不太正確。這是核融合在最近 30 年左右的獲益曲線。你會發現我們目前做的核融合相較於剛開始時，還多了一萬倍左右。那獲益還不賴。事實上，那就和傳說中的摩爾定律一樣快，摩爾定律定義了一塊晶片中能容納電晶體的數量。這個點稱為 JET，歐洲聯合環形加速器 (Joint European Torus)。那是在歐洲的托卡馬克裝置大甜甜圈，這機器在 1997 年製造了 16 百萬瓦特的核融合電力和 17 百萬瓦特的熱能。你會說那其實不多，但那其實將近我們最初所能得到的一萬倍以上。這裡的第二點是 NIF，國家點火設施 (National Ignition Facility)。那是在美國的大型雷射機，上個月他們的宣布惹了些爭議，他們說會盡力從核融合製造更多核融合能源，比起在乒乓球中間放得還多。其實那還不夠好，因為用來把能源放入的雷射消耗的能源比那更多，但那很棒。 這是國際熱核融合實驗反應爐 (ITER)，法文是 EE-tairh。這是跨國合作的大計畫，將會打造一個很大的磁力圈，就在法國南邊，而當這個機器完工後就能製造 500 百萬瓦特核融合電力，只需耗費 50 百萬瓦特的電力。這是實體，它真的會運轉。那是會製造能源的那種機器。 如果你研究圖表就會發現那兩點稍微偏向曲線右側。我們的進度有些落後了。事實上，製造那些機器的科技其實在曲線中正好趕上生產核融合的速度。然而，有些政治事務仍需處理，而要做的目的並不在那，因此會趨向右邊。例如，國際熱核融合實驗反應爐在 2000 年或 2005 年已建造完成，但是因為那是大型的跨國合作，涉及政治就會延遲一些時間。例如，他們花了大約三年才決定要把它放在哪邊。 核融合常常被批評太昂貴了。當然，每年要花費一、二十億美元才能有此進展。但是應該要把它拿來和摩爾定律的花費做比較，摩爾定律的花費遠高於核融合。摩爾定律的產物是我口袋裡的行動電話。這電話和後頭網路的花費大約一萬億元，如此一來我就能自拍並傳到臉書上。當我爸看到那照片就會感到非常驕傲。我們每年也花了大約 6500 億美元用來補助石油、瓦斯和再生能源。而我們在核融合的花費只有它的 0.5%。因此我個人不認為那會太貴。我認為一直以來都被騙了，總認為那可以解決我們未來幾百億年所有潔淨能源的問題。 我可以說出來，但是我的立場有些爭議，因為我開了一間核融合公司，而且我還沒有臉書帳號。因此，當我在 2002 年開這間核融合公司時，我知道自己無法和一大群人對抗。他們擁有的資源遠多於我。因此我決定找出一個較便宜和快速的方法。 磁力和雷射核融合都是很棒的機器。它們都是科技的絕佳產物、完美的機器，而且也都證明了核融合真的能實現。然而，以發電廠來說，我不認為那很好。它們都太大、太複雜，也太貴了，而且，它們也不太能處理核融合能源。當你進行核融合，能源以中子呈現，高速中子來自電漿。那些中子撞擊機器的邊緣。中子破壞機器。而且，你要從那些中子捕捉熱能，並製造一些蒸汽來推動某處和那些機器上的渦輪機，但那都是後來的事了。我認為一定會有更好的方式能處理。 因此我回過頭看文獻，我到處研究核融合的資料。有一個方式特別吸引我的注意力，稱為磁化定位核聚變，或簡稱為 MTF。在 MTF 中，你會想要拿一個大桶子，在裡面裝滿液態金屬，然後旋轉液態金屬在中央展開一個旋渦，有點像你的水槽。當你拉起水槽的拉環，就會產生旋渦。接著你會有一些受壓力驅動的活塞會出現在外部，這麼做會壓縮在電漿周圍的液態金屬，活塞會壓縮液態金屬，它的溫度會上升，就像雷射一樣，之後就會產生核融合。因此那就像是混合了磁化定位核聚變和雷射核融合。那些都有一些不錯的優點。液態金屬會吸收所有的中子，而且沒有中子會撞擊牆面，因此機器不會損壞。液態金屬變熱，你就可以把它打入熱交換器中，製造些蒸汽，推動渦輪機。用這個方法來處理這個階段非常方便。最後，所有讓核融合產生的能量來自於由蒸汽推動的活塞，這比雷射和超導磁鐵還便宜。 這些都很棒，只不過它不太可行。（笑聲）無論如何都有個解套方式。當你壓縮它，電漿冷卻的速度就會快於壓縮的速度，因此你會試著壓縮它，但是電漿不斷冷卻，最後就會毫無作用。 我看到後覺得這還真是可惜，因為那是非常、非常棒的點子。但願我能改進它。我思考了一分鐘，自問我們要如何讓它運作得更好？後來我考慮用撞擊。如果我們用個大鐵鎚，揮動之後像這樣釘下釘子，在鐵鎚打入釘子、推擠，並試著置入它的地方？那不管用。因此我的想法是運用撞擊的想法。我們用蒸汽讓活塞加速，會花點時間，接著，成功！你會碰到活塞然後啵！所有能量就會馬上直接傳到液體，接著便更快速地壓縮電漿。我想這很棒，就決定就這麼做。 因此我們在這車庫打造了這台機器。我們做了台小機器，打算從裡面擠出一點中子，那些是我的行銷中子，有了那些行銷中子，我賺了五千萬美元，我雇了 65 個人，這是我的團隊。這是我們想做的東西。那會是台很大的機器，直徑大概有三公尺，液體會帶動旋轉，中央會有個大旋渦，將電漿放在上下方，活塞撞擊邊緣，砰！活塞壓縮電漿就會製造一些能量，中子就會在液態金屬裡出現，接著進入蒸汽機後就會產生渦輪，有些蒸氣會回過頭來引燃活塞。我們大概每秒要跑一次，如此就能產生 100 百萬瓦特的電力。 我們也製造了注射器，這個注射器會讓電漿開始運作。注射器讓電漿維持微溫的熱度，大約是攝氏三百萬度。不幸的是那並不持久，因此我們得稍微延長電漿的壽命，但上個月有了很大的進展，那麼我們現在就有了壓縮電漿。接著我們建立一個小球型，大概這麼大，有 14 個活塞環繞它，如此就能壓縮液體。可是電漿很難壓縮，當你壓縮它時，會變得像那樣有點變形，因此你需要選擇活塞運作最好的時機，為此我們用了幾個控制系統，在 1970 年時這根本不可能辦到，但是我們現在可以做到，透過良好、全新的電子設備即可。 最後，大多數人會認為核融合在未來也不會實現，但事實是，核融合已近在眼前。我們就快達成了。大型實驗室顯示了核融合是可行的，現在也有一些小公司在考量，他們發現那並非無法完成，而是要找出能符合成本效益的方法。公眾核融合 (General Fusion) 是其中一家小公司，如果順利的話，很快，就會有人解決那個難題，也許就會是公眾核融合公司。 非常感謝。 （掌聲）
