Talk	en	zh-tw
michelle_obama	"This is my first trip, my first foreign trip as a first lady. Can you believe that? (Applause) And while this is not my first visit to the U.K., I have to say that I am glad that this is my first official visit. The special relationship between the United States and the U.K. is based not only on the relationship between governments, but the common language and the values that we share, and I'm reminded of that by watching you all today. During my visit I've been especially honored to meet some of Britain's most extraordinary women — women who are paving the way for all of you. And I'm honored to meet you, the future leaders of Great Britain and this world. And although the circumstances of our lives may seem very distant, with me standing here as the First Lady of the United States of America, and you, just getting through school, I want you to know that we have very much in common. For nothing in my life's path would have predicted that I'd be standing here as the first African-American First Lady of the United States of America. There is nothing in my story that would land me here. I wasn't raised with wealth or resources or any social standing to speak of. I was raised on the South Side of Chicago. That's the real part of Chicago. And I was the product of a working-class community. My father was a city worker all of his life, and my mother was a stay-at-home mom. And she stayed at home to take care of me and my older brother. Neither of them attended university. My dad was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in the prime of his life. But even as it got harder for him to walk and get dressed in the morning — I saw him struggle more and more — my father never complained about his struggle. He was grateful for what he had. He just woke up a little earlier and worked a little harder. And my brother and I were raised with all that you really need: love, strong values and a belief that with a good education and a whole lot of hard work, that there was nothing that we could not do. I am an example of what's possible when girls from the very beginning of their lives are loved and nurtured by the people around them. I was surrounded by extraordinary women in my life: grandmothers, teachers, aunts, cousins, neighbors, who taught me about quiet strength and dignity. And my mother, the most important role model in my life, who lives with us at the White House and helps to care for our two little daughters, Malia and Sasha. She's an active presence in their lives, as well as mine, and is instilling in them the same values that she taught me and my brother: things like compassion, and integrity, and confidence, and perseverance — all of that wrapped up in an unconditional love that only a grandmother can give. I was also fortunate enough to be cherished and encouraged by some strong male role models as well, including my father, my brother, uncles and grandfathers. The men in my life taught me some important things, as well. They taught me about what a respectful relationship should look like between men and women. They taught me about what a strong marriage feels like: that it's built on faith and commitment and an admiration for each other's unique gifts. They taught me about what it means to be a father and to raise a family. And not only to invest in your own home but to reach out and help raise kids in the broader community. And these were the same qualities that I looked for in my own husband, Barack Obama. And when we first met, one of the things that I remember is that he took me out on a date. And his date was to go with him to a community meeting. (Laughter) I know, how romantic. (Laughter) But when we met, Barack was a community organizer. He worked, helping people to find jobs and to try to bring resources into struggling neighborhoods. As he talked to the residents in that community center, he talked about two concepts. He talked about ""the world as it is"" and ""the world as it should be."" And I talked about this throughout the entire campaign. What he said, that all too often, is that we accept the distance between those two ideas. And sometimes we settle for the world as it is, even when it doesn't reflect our values and aspirations. But Barack reminded us on that day, all of us in that room, that we all know what our world should look like. We know what fairness and justice and opportunity look like. We all know. And he urged the people in that meeting, in that community, to devote themselves to closing the gap between those two ideas, to work together to try to make the world as it is and the world as it should be, one and the same. And I think about that today because I am reminded and convinced that all of you in this school are very important parts of closing that gap. You are the women who will build the world as it should be. You're going to write the next chapter in history. Not just for yourselves, but for your generation and generations to come. And that's why getting a good education is so important. That's why all of this that you're going through — the ups and the downs, the teachers that you love and the teachers that you don't — why it's so important. Because communities and countries and ultimately the world are only as strong as the health of their women. And that's important to keep in mind. Part of that health includes an outstanding education. The difference between a struggling family and a healthy one is often the presence of an empowered woman or women at the center of that family. The difference between a broken community and a thriving one is often the healthy respect between men and women who appreciate the contributions each other makes to society. The difference between a languishing nation and one that will flourish is the recognition that we need equal access to education for both boys and girls. And this school, named after the U.K.'s first female doctor, and the surrounding buildings named for Mexican artist Frida Kahlo, Mary Seacole, the Jamaican nurse known as the ""black Florence Nightingale,"" and the English author, Emily Bronte, honor women who fought sexism, racism and ignorance, to pursue their passions to feed their own souls. They allowed for no obstacles. As the sign said back there, ""without limitations."" They knew no other way to live than to follow their dreams. And having done so, these women moved many obstacles. And they opened many new doors for millions of female doctors and nurses and artists and authors, all of whom have followed them. And by getting a good education, you too can control your own destiny. Please remember that. If you want to know the reason why I'm standing here, it's because of education. I never cut class. Sorry, I don't know if anybody is cutting class. I never did it. I loved getting As. I liked being smart. I liked being on time. I liked getting my work done. I thought being smart was cooler than anything in the world. And you too, with these same values, can control your own destiny. You too can pave the way. You too can realize your dreams, and then your job is to reach back and to help someone just like you do the same thing. History proves that it doesn't matter whether you come from a council estate or a country estate. Your success will be determined by your own fortitude, your own confidence, your own individual hard work. That is true. That is the reality of the world that we live in. You now have control over your own destiny. And it won't be easy — that's for sure. But you have everything you need. Everything you need to succeed, you already have, right here. My husband works in this big office. They call it the Oval Office. In the White House, there's the desk that he sits at — it's called the Resolute desk. It was built by the timber of Her Majesty's Ship Resolute and given by Queen Victoria. It's an enduring symbol of the friendship between our two nations. And its name, Resolute, is a reminder of the strength of character that's required not only to lead a country, but to live a life of purpose, as well. And I hope in pursuing your dreams, you all remain resolute, that you go forward without limits, and that you use your talents — because there are many; we've seen them; it's there — that you use them to create the world as it should be. Because we are counting on you. We are counting on every single one of you to be the very best that you can be. Because the world is big. And it's full of challenges. And we need strong, smart, confident young women to stand up and take the reins. We know you can do it. We love you. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	這是我第一次出訪是我作為第一夫人的第一次外交訪問很神奇吧﹖（掌聲）雖然這不是我第一次來英國，但我很高興首次官方訪問是來英國美國和英國之間的特殊關係不只是建立與政府間的往來更建立在我們共同的語言和價值觀上看見你們就使我想到這一點在訪問期間我特別榮幸地會見了英國一些最出色的女士。這些女士為你們鋪路 我也很榮幸見到你們這些英國和世界未來的領導者雖然我們的現狀很不一樣我作為美國第一夫人站在這裏而你們還正在上學我想讓你們知道我們有很多共同之處因為在我生命歷程中沒有任何東西曾經預告我會站在這裏作為美國的第一位非裔的第一夫人。我的資歷裏沒有什麼東西能使我站在這個位置上我不是用財富和資源養大的也談不上有什麼社會地位我是在芝加哥的南邊長大的那是芝加哥的真實部分我出身於工人階級我父親一輩子都是市政府的員工我母親是個家庭婦女她待在家裏照顧我和我哥我的父母都沒上過大學我爸爸被診斷有多發性硬化症在他壯年的時候但就在他變得難以行走到了早上都無法著衣時 —我看著他越來越困難我父親卻從來沒有抱怨過他的困境他對於自己擁有的一切心存感激他只是起得更早一點，工作得更努力一點我哥哥和我在成長過程中得到了人生真正需要的一切：愛，強有力的價值觀以及一個信念，就是靠著良好的教育還有大量的辛勤工作沒有什麼是我們做不到的。 我的例子就表明女孩子能創造奇跡只要她們從生命最開始的時候就受到周圍人的愛護和教養。我的生命中圍繞著非凡的女性。祖母，老師，姨媽，表姐妹，鄰居她們教會我沉默的力量和尊嚴。還有我母親，我生命中最重要的榜樣，她和我們住在白宮幫著照顧我們的兩個小女兒，馬利亞和薩莎她在孩子們和我的生活中都很活躍並正灌輸她們她曾經教給我和我哥的價值觀：同情心，正直自信和堅定。所有這些都包含在無條件的愛之中那是只有一個祖母才能給予的愛。 我也很幸運地從一些男性榜樣那裏得到珍愛和鼓勵包括我父親，我哥哥，叔伯和祖父。我生命中的男人們也教會我一些重要的東西。他們教會我互相尊重的男女關係應該是什麼樣子的。擁有一個牢固的婚姻是什麼感覺。那是建立在信念和承諾之上以及對彼此獨特天賦的讚賞。他們教我意識到什麼叫當一個父親維繫一個家庭而且不只是關注自己的家庭也要伸手去幫助那些廣大社區裏的孩子 這些同樣的品質也是我在我丈夫身上尋找的巴拉克•歐巴馬在我們最初相識的時候我記得，他帶我去約會他的約會是和他一起去開一個社區會議（笑聲）很浪漫吧（笑聲）我們相識的時候，巴拉克是一個社區組織幹部他的工作是幫助人家找工作以及努力把資源帶給有困難的鄰里當他對社區中心裏的居民演講的時候他談到兩個概念他談到“現實世界”和“理想世界”這也是我在競選過程中所談到的他說，我們常常接受這兩種觀念之間的差距。有的時侯我們接受了現實世界即使它沒有反映我們的價值觀和願望但是那天巴拉克提醒了我們，在那間屋子裏的所有人，我們都知道我們的世界應該是什麼樣子我們知道公平，正義和機會是什麼樣子我們全都知道他敦促那個會上的人們，那個社區裏的人們，把他們自己獻身於縮小那兩種觀念之間的差距，一起努力把現實世界變成和理想世界一樣。 我今天想起這些是因為我確信這所學校裏你們所有的人都是縮小這差距非常重要的因素。你們是要建立理想世界的女性。你們將寫出歷史的下一個篇章。不只是為你們自己，而且是為你們一代人以及未來的幾代人。這就是為什麼得到良好的教育是這麼的重要。這就是為什麼你們正在經歷的所有這一切好事和壞事，你們喜歡的和不喜歡的老師 —為什麼都這麼重要。因為社區和國家還有歸根結底這個世界，它們的強大取決於女性的健康記住這一點很重要 健康包括出類拔萃的教育一個艱困的家庭與一個健康的家庭之間的區別通常就是有一個或幾個說話算數的女人處於家庭的核心。一個破敗的社區與一個茁壯成長的社區的區別通常取決於男女間能否相互尊重他（她）們感激對方為社會所做的貢獻。一個日趨衰弱的國家與一個強盛的國家的區別就是其中的男孩和女孩是否有平等受教育的機會 這所學校以英國的第一個女醫生命名，學校的建築以其他三位女士命名：墨西哥畫家芙烈達·卡蘿瑪麗•希珂她是被稱為“黑人南丁格爾”的牙買加護士，以及英國作家愛蜜利•勃朗特這都是為了紀念這些女士，她們與性別歧視，種族歧視和無知做鬥爭，從而追求她們的激情以充實自己的靈魂她們沒有顧及任何障礙。就像後面這個標語寫的，“全然無限”她們沒想以其他的方式生活而只是追隨她們的夢想正因為如此，這四位女士去除了很多障礙她們創造了很多新的機會為成百上千萬的女醫生和女護士們女藝術家和女作家們，她們都追隨了這四位女士。通過得到良好的教育你們也可以掌控自己的命運。 請記住這一點。如果你們想知道我能站在這裏的原因，那就是因為教育我從來不蹺課。對不起，我不知道這裏是否有人蹺課。我從來沒那麼做。我喜歡得‘優’我喜歡做聰明人。我喜歡準時。我喜歡把我的功課做完我覺得做聰明人比世界上任何事都要酷按照同樣的價值觀，你們同樣可以掌控你們自己的命運。你們也可以鋪出路來。你們也可以實現你們的夢想，然後你們的任務就是伸出手去幫助像你們一樣的人實現夢想。歷史證明，無論是你們來自窮人家或來自富人家。 你們的成功取決於你們自己的堅韌，你們自己的信心，你們自己的辛勤工作。真是這樣。這就是我們所生活的世界的真實情況。你們的命運現在掌握在自己手上。但這並不容易。那是一定的。可是你們擁有你們所需要的一切。要成功所需的一切，你們已經都有了。 我丈夫在一個大辦公室裏工作。他們管它叫橢圓辦公室。在白宮裏，有一個他坐在那兒辦公的桌子。那個辦公桌名為“堅決桌”。桌子是用女王陛下“堅決號“船的木料打造的。是維多利亞女王送的。它是我們兩國之間友誼的永久象徵。它的名字，“堅決”，提醒我們要有這樣的風骨不只是領導一個國家，而且要度過一個有意義的人生。我希望在追求你們的夢想時，你們都能保持堅定，向前進而不受限制，發揮你們的才能 — 因為你們才華橫溢。我們見識過確實有才華。用你們的才華去創建那個理想世界因為我們指望著你們。我們指望著你們每一個人盡你們的全力，做到最好。因為這個世界很大。充滿了挑戰。我們需要堅強的，聰明的，自信的年輕女性站出來執掌乾坤。 我們知道你們能做到。我們愛你們。謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
