Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_pritchard_invents_a_water_filter	"Good morning everybody. I'd like to talk about a couple of things today. The first thing is water. Now I see you've all been enjoying the water that's been provided for you here at the conference, over the past couple of days. And I'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source. But what if it wasn't? What if it was from a source like this? Then statistics would actually say that half of you would now be suffering with diarrhea. I talked a lot in the past about statistics, and the provision of safe drinking water for all. But they just don't seem to get through. And I think I've worked out why. It's because, using current thinking, the scale of the problem just seems too huge to contemplate solving. So we just switch off: us, governments and aid agencies. Well, today, I'd like to show you that through thinking differently, the problem has been solved. By the way, since I've been speaking, another 13,000 people around the world are suffering now with diarrhea. And four children have just died. I invented Lifesaver bottle because I got angry. I, like most of you, was sitting down, the day after Christmas in 2004, when I was watching the devastating news of the Asian tsunami as it rolled in, playing out on TV. The days and weeks that followed, people fleeing to the hills, being forced to drink contaminated water or face death. That really stuck with me. Then, a few months later, Hurricane Katrina slammed into the side of America. ""Okay,"" I thought, ""here's a First World country, let's see what they can do."" Day one: nothing. Day two: nothing. Do you know it took five days to get water to the Superdome? People were shooting each other on the streets for TV sets and water. That's when I decided I had to do something. Now I spent a lot of time in my garage, over the next weeks and months, and also in my kitchen — much to the dismay of my wife. (Laughter) However, after a few failed prototypes, I finally came up with this, the Lifesaver bottle. Okay, now for the science bit. Before Lifesaver, the best hand filters were only capable of filtering down to about 200 nanometers. The smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers. So a 200-nanometer bacteria is going to get through a 200-nanometer hole. The smallest virus, on the other hand, is about 25 nanometers. So that's definitely going to get through those 200 nanometer holes. Lifesaver pores are 15 nanometers. So nothing is getting through. Okay, I'm going to give you a bit of a demonstration. Would you like to see that? I spent all the time setting this up, so I guess I should. We're in the fine city of Oxford. So — someone's done that up. Fine city of Oxford, so what I've done is I've gone and got some water from the River Cherwell, and the River Thames, that flow through here. And this is the water. But I got to thinking, you know, if we were in the middle of a flood zone in Bangladesh, the water wouldn't look like this. So I've gone and got some stuff to add into it. And this is from my pond. (Sniffs) (Coughs) Have a smell of that, mister cameraman. Okay. (Laughs) Right. We're just going to pour that in there. Audience: Ugh! Michael Pritchard: Okay. We've got some runoff from a sewage plant farm. So I'm just going to put that in there. (Laughter) Put that in there. There we go. (Laughter) And some other bits and pieces, chuck that in there. And I've got a gift here from a friend of mine's rabbit. So we're just going to put that in there as well. (Laughter) Okay. (Laughter) Now. The Lifesaver bottle works really simply. You just scoop the water up. Today I'm going to use a jug just to show you all. Let's get a bit of that poo in there. That's not dirty enough. Let's just stir that up a little bit. Okay, so I'm going to take this really filthy water, and put it in here. Do you want a drink yet? (Laughter) Okay. There we go. Replace the top. Give it a few pumps. Okay? That's all that's necessary. Now as soon as I pop the teat, sterile drinking water is going to come out. I've got to be quick. Okay, ready? There we go. Mind the electrics. That is safe, sterile drinking water. (Applause) Cheers. (Applause) There you go Chris. (Applause) What's it taste of? Chris Anderson: Delicious. Michael Pritchard: Okay. Let's see Chris's program throughout the rest of the show. Okay? (Laughter) Okay. Lifesaver bottle is used by thousands of people around the world. It'll last for 6,000 liters. And when it's expired, using failsafe technology, the system will shut off, protecting the user. Pop the cartridge out. Pop a new one in. It's good for another 6,000 liters. So let's look at the applications. Traditionally, in a crisis, what do we do? We ship water. Then, after a few weeks, we set up camps. And people are forced to come into the camps to get their safe drinking water. What happens when 20,000 people congregate in a camp? Diseases spread. More resources are required. The problem just becomes self-perpetuating. But by thinking differently, and shipping these, people can stay put. They can make their own sterile drinking water, and start to get on with rebuilding their homes and their lives. Now, it doesn't require a natural disaster for this to work. Using the old thinking, of national infrastructure and pipe work, is too expensive. When you run the numbers on a calculator, you run out of noughts. So here is the ""thinking different"" bit. Instead of shipping water, and using man-made processes to do it, let's use Mother Nature. She's got a fantastic system. She picks the water up from there, desalinates it, for free, transports it over there, and dumps it onto the mountains, rivers, and streams. And where do people live? Near water. All we've go to do is make it sterile. How do we do that? Well, we could use the Lifesaver bottle. Or we could use one of these. The same technology, in a jerry can. This will process 25,000 liters of water; that's good enough for a family of four, for three years. And how much does it cost? About half a cent a day to run. Thank you. (Applause) So, by thinking differently, and processing water at the point of use, mothers and children no longer have to walk four hours a day to collect their water. They can get it from a source nearby. So with just eight billion dollars, we can hit the millennium goal's target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water. To put that into context, The U.K. government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid. But why stop there? With 20 billion dollars, everyone can have access to safe drinking water. So the three-and-a-half billion people that suffer every year as a result, and the two million kids that die every year, will live. Thank you. (Applause)"	大家早安。我今天想談論兩件事情。第一項是水。我注意到這幾天來你們都享用著研討會提供的水。我相信你們都認為它的來源是安全的。 但如果它不是呢？如果它是來自這種地方呢？那麼我們能從統計資料推得你們之中有一半的人將現在患上腹瀉。我在過去談過許多關於統計和提供所有人安全的飲用水，但總是無法將這些訊息傳遞出去。我認為我找出原因了。因為，以當前的想法，這問題的規模大得無法意圖解決。所以我們就放棄。我們、政府、和援助機構。今天，我要來示範經過不一樣的思考後，問題已經被解決。順道一提，從我開始演講到現在，全球各地又有13,000人正在腹潟，而且四個孩子剛剛死去。 我發明了 Lifesaver 濾水瓶是因為我忿怒。我跟你們一樣在2004年聖誕節翌日，坐在那裏，看著電視不斷報導南亞海嘯摧毀性的新聞，在電視上不斷播放。在那之後的數週，人們逃到山丘上，被迫喝下被污染的水，要不然就面對死亡。那一直困擾著我。隨著數月後，卡崔納颶風往美國衝著而來。我想：「好吧，這是第一世界國家，來看看他們如何解決。」第一天：甚麼都沒有做。第二天：甚麼都沒有做。你知道他們花了五天才將水運到超級巨蛋嗎？人們在街上互相開槍，只為了電視機和水。我就在那時決定一定要做些事。 接下來的數月，我花了很多時間在我的車庫，還有在廚房裏面，令我的太太很沮喪。然而，經過幾次失敗的原型後，我最後還是完成了這個　─　Lifesaver 濾水瓶。 好了，現在來談它的科學面。在 Lifesaver 濾水瓶之前，最好的手動過濾器只能過濾小至200奈米。最小的細菌就差不多200奈米般大。所以一個200奈米的細菌將穿過一個200奈米大的洞。另一方面，最小的病毒大約是25奈米。所以它一定會穿過那些200奈米大的洞。Lifesaver 濾水瓶的孔隙只有15奈米大小。所以任何東西都穿不過。 好了，我要來示範一下給你們看。你們想看看嗎？我花了不少時間作出裝設，我想應該示範一下。我們正在美好的牛津城裡。有人已經將它準備好了。美好的牛津城，我做的是從流過牛津的查韋爾河和泰晤士河取了一些水。就是這些水。不過我想了一下，你知道嗎，如果我們身在發生水災的災區孟加拉，那麼水不會像這樣。所以我拿了一些東西來加進去。這是從我家裡池塘拿來的。 (嗅嗅)(咳嗽)　聞一下吧，攝影師先生。 可以了。(笑聲)　好的。我們來把它倒進去。 觀眾：啊！ 麥可．普立查：好的，我們還有一些從污水處理場流出物取得的。那我也把它倒進去。(笑聲)將它放進去。可以了。(笑聲)還有其他零碎物，把它丟進去。我這邊還有一位朋友的兔子送的小禮物。所以我們也把它放進去。(笑聲)好了。(笑聲) 現在， Lifesaver 濾水瓶的用法非常簡單。你只要將水勺起來。今天我要用一個水壺來展示給你們看。把那一些大便弄進去。這樣還不夠髒。我們來稍微攪拌一下。好的，現我要將這些非常骯髒的水，放進這裏來。你們想喝了嗎？(笑聲)好的，可以了。把蓋子蓋回去。稍微抽壓幾次，好嗎？就是只需要這樣做。當我拉開它的瓶蓋，無菌的飲用水將會流出來。我動作要快。準備好了嗎？可以了。小心電器。這是安全、無菌的飲用水。(掌聲)乾杯。(掌聲)拿去吧克里斯。(掌聲)喝起來如何？ 克里斯．安德森：非常好喝。 麥可．普立查：好的。我們來看看克里斯在接下來節目中的表現。好嗎？(笑聲) 好的。世界各地有上千人正在使用 Lifesaver 濾水瓶。它能轉換6,000公升的水。它過期時，利用故障自動保險技術，系統會自行關閉以保護使用者。將內筒取出，換一個新的進去，就能夠再過濾6,000公升。 我們來看看它的應用。災難發生時，傳統的做法是什麼？我們運送水。幾個禮拜過後，我們建立營地。人們被迫來到營地取用安全的飲用水。同時有20,000人聚集在營地會發生什麼事？病毒會傳染。會需要更多的資源。問題會一直自行延續下去。但經過不一樣的思考，以及運送這些水瓶，人們就可以留在原地。他們可以自行製造無菌飲用水，並開始重建他們的家園和生計。 其實，這些發明並不需要天然災害才可做到。以舊的想法，國家基礎建設和管道工程的費用實太昂貴了。如用計算機計算費用，算也算不完。這就是「用不同想法」看待問題的時候了。 與其運送水和使用人造過程去解決，我們應該利用大自然。她有一個很棒的系統。她從這裏提水，免費除去水中鹽分，運送到那裏，傾倒在山地、河川、以及溪流中。而人們住在哪裏呢？鄰近水源的地方。我們需要做的只是將它消毒而已。 那麼，我們可以使用 Lifesaver 濾水瓶。或是使用這種。利用一樣的技術，裝在五加侖裝的油罐裡。它能夠過濾25,000公升的水。這足夠一個四人家庭使用三年。那它花費多少呢？每天大約只需半分錢。謝謝。 (掌聲) 所以，以不同思考模式，在需要用水時即時過濾，媽媽和孩子不必再每天跋涉四小時來取得他們的水。他們可以取用附近的水源。那只需要八十億美元，我們便能達到千禧目標的目的，讓無法取得安全飲用水的人數減半。將上述套入此情況，英國政府每年花約120億英鎊於國際援助。但為何只做到這樣？有了200億元，每個人都能取得安全的飲用水。所以結果是每年因此受苦的三十五億人和死去的兩百萬個兒童都會活下來。謝謝。 (掌聲)
