Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_moschen_juggles_rhythm_and_motion	"I started juggling a long time ago, but long before that, I was a golfer, and that's what I was, a golfer. And as a golfer and as a kid, one of the things that really sort of seeped into my pores, that I sort of lived my whole life, is process. And it's the process of learning things. One of the great things was that my father was an avid golfer, but he was lefty. And he had a real passion for golf, and he also created this whole mythology about Ben Hogan and various things. Well, I learned a lot about interesting things that I knew nothing about at the time, but grew to know stuff about. And that was the mythology of skill. So, one of the things that I love to do is to explore skill. And since Richard put me on this whole thing with music — I'm supposed to actually be doing a project with Tod Machover with the MIT Media Lab — it relates a lot to music. But Tod couldn't come and the project is sort of somewhere, I'm not sure whether it's happening the way we thought, or not. But I'm going to explore skill, and juggling, and basically visual music, I guess. OK, you can start the music, thanks. (Music) (Applause) Thanks. Thank you. Now, juggling can be a lot of fun; play with skill and play with space, play with rhythm. And you can turn the mike on now. I'm going to do a couple of pieces. I do a big piece in a triangle and these are three sections from it. Part of the challenge was to try to understand rhythm and space using not just my hands — because a lot of juggling is hand-oriented — but using the rhythm of my body and feet, and controlling the balls with my feet. (Applause) Thanks. Now, this next section was an attempt to explore space. You see, I think Richard said something about people that are against something. Well, a lot of people think jugglers defy gravity or do stuff. Well, I kind of, from my childhood and golf and all that, it's a process of joining with forces. And so what I'd like to do is try to figure out how to join with the space through the technique. So juggling gravity — up, down. If you figure out what up and down really are, it's a complex physical set of skills to be able to throw a ball down and up and everything, but then you add in sideways. (Applause) Now, I look at it somewhat as a way — when you learn juggling what you learn is how to feel with your eyes, and see with your hands because you're not looking at your hands, you're looking at where the balls are or you're looking at the audience. So this next part is really a way of understanding space and rhythm, with the obvious reference to the feet, but it's also time — where the feet were, where the balls were. (Applause) Thanks. So, visual music: rhythm and complexity. I'm going to build towards complexity now. Juggling three balls is simple and normal. (Laughter) Excuse me. (Laughter) We're jugglers, OK. And remember, you're transposing, you're getting into a subculture here. (Laughter) And juggling — the balls cross and all that. OK, if you keep them in their assigned paths you get parallel lines of different heights, but then hopefully even rhythm. And you can change the rhythm — good, Michael. You can change the rhythm, if you get out of the lights. OK? Change the rhythm, so it's even. Or you can go back and change the height. Now, skill. But you're boxed in, if you can only do it up and down that way. So, you've got to go after the space down there. OK, then you've got to combine them, because then you have the whole spatial palette in front of you. And then you get crazy. (Applause) Now, I'm actually going to ask you to try something, so you've got to pay attention. Complexity: if you spend enough time doing something, time slows down or your skill increases, so your perceptions change. It's learning skills — like being in a high-speed car crash. Things slow down as you learn, as you learn, as you learn. You may not be able to affect it, it almost drifts on you. It goes. But that's the closest approximation I can have to it. So, complexity. Now, how many here are jugglers? OK, so most of you are going to have a similar reaction to this. OK? And whoever laughed there — you understood it completely, right? (Laughter) No, it looks like a mess. It looks like a mess with a guy there, who's got his hands around that mess, OK. Well, that's what juggling is about, right? It's being able to do something that other people can't do or can't understand. All right. So, that's one way of doing it, which is five balls down. OK? Another way is the outside. And you could play with the rhythm. Same pattern. Make it faster and smaller. Make it wider. Make it narrower. Bring it back up. OK. It's done. Thanks. (Applause) Now, what I wanted to get to is that you're all very bright, very tactile. I have no idea how computer-oriented or three-dimensionally-oriented you are, but let's try something. OK, so since you all don't understand what the five-ball pattern is, I'm going to give you a little clue. Enough of a clue? So, you get the pattern, right? OK. (Laughter) You're not getting off that easy. All right? Now, do me a favor: follow the ball that I ask you to follow. Green. Yellow. Pink. White. OK, you can do that? Yeah? OK. Now, let's actually learn something. Actually, let me put you in that area of learning, which is very insecure. You want to do it? Yeah? OK. Hands out in front of you. Palms up, together. What you're going to learn is this. (Laughter) OK? So what I want you to do is just listen to me and do it. Index finger, middle finger, ring, little. Little, ring, middle, index. And then open. Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. A little bit faster. Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. (Laughter) All right. A lot of different learning processes going on in here. (Laughter) One learning process that I see is this — (Laughter) OK. Another learning process that I see is this — (Laughter) OK. So, everybody take a deep breath in, breath out. OK. Now, one more time, and — finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Open. Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. OK. Shake your hands out. Now, I assume a lot of you spend a lot of time at a computer. OK? So, what you're doing is, you're going la, la, la, and you're getting this. OK? So that's exactly what I'm going to ask you to do, but in a slightly different way. You're going to combine it. So what I want you to do is — fingers. I'll tell you what to do with your fingers, same thing. But I want you to do is also, with your eyes, is follow the colored ball that I ask you to follow. (Laughter) OK? Here we go. So, we're going to start off looking at the white ball — and I'm going to tell you which color, and I'm also going to tell you to go with your fingers. OK? So white ball and — finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Pink. Finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Green. Finger, finger, finger, finger. Yellow. Finger, finger, finger, pink or finger. Pink, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. All right. (Applause) How did you do? Well? OK. The reason I wanted you to do this is because that's actually what most people face throughout their lives, a moment of learning, a moment of challenge. It's a moment that you can't make sense of. Why the hell should I learn this? OK? Does it really have anything to do with anything in my life? You know, I can't decipher — is it fun? Is it challenging? Am I supposed to cheat? (Laughter) You know, what are you supposed to do? You've got somebody up here who is the operative principle of doing that for his whole life. OK? Trying to figure that stuff out. But is it going to get you anywhere? It's just a moment. That's all it is, a moment. OK? I'm going to change the script for one second. Just let me do this. I don't need music for it. Talking about time in a moment. There's a piece that I recently developed which was all about that, a moment. And what I do as a creative artist is I develop vocabularies or languages of moving objects. What I've done for you here, I developed a lot of those tricks and I put the choreography together, but they're not original techniques. Now, I'm going to start showing you some original techniques that come from the work that I've developed. OK? So, a moment, how would you define a moment? Well, as a juggler, what I wanted to do was create something that was representational of a moment. Ahhh. All right, I'm going to get on my knees and do it. So, a moment. (Rattling) OK? And then, what I did as a juggler was say, OK, what can I do to make that something that is dependent on something else, another dynamic. (Rattling) So, a moment. (Rattling) Another moment. (Rattling) Excuse me, still getting there. A moment that travels. (Rattling) A moment — no, we'll try that again. It separates, and comes back together. Time. How can you look at time? And what do you dedicate it to, in exploring a particular thing? Well, obviously, there's something in here, and you can all have a guess as to what it is. There's a mystery. There's a mystery in the moment. And it has to settle. And then it's dependent on something else. And then it comes to rest. Just a little thing about time. Now, this has expanded into a much bigger piece, because I use ramps of different parabolas that I roll the balls on while I'm keeping time with this. But I just thought I'd talk about a moment. (Applause) All right. OK. Can we show the video of the triangle? Are we ready to do that? Yes? This is the piece that I told you about. It's a much bigger piece that I do exploring the space of a geometric triangle. (Applause) Thanks. The only thing I'll say about the last session is, you ever try juggling and driving the car with your knees at 120 miles an hour? (Laughter) The only other thing is, it was a real shock. I always drove motorcycles. And when I bought my first car, it shocked me that it cost three times more than my parents' house. Interesting. Anyway, balance: constant movement to find an approach to stillness. Cheating. (Laughter) Balance: making up the rules so you can't cheat, so you learn to approach stillness with different parts of your body. To have a conversation with it. To speak. To listen. (Laughter) Hup. Now, it's dependent on rhythm, and keeping a center of balance. When it falls, going underneath. So, there's a rhythm to it. The rhythm can get much smaller. As your skill increases, you learn to find those tinier spaces, those tinier movements. Thanks. (Applause) Now, I'm going to show you the beginnings of a piece that is about balance in some ways, and also — oh, actually, if you're bored, not here, here's one use for it. (Laughter) You can go with the ""Sticks One"" music. (Music) (Applause) Thanks. That has a certain kind of balance to it, which is all about plumb. I apprenticed with a carpenter and learned about plumb, square and level. And they influenced that, and this next piece, which I'll do a little segment of. ""Two Sticks,"" you can go with it. Thanks. Which is again exploring space, or the lines in space. (Music) (Applause) Working with space and the lines in space in a different way. Oh, let's see here. (Applause) So, I'll come back to that in a second. But working with one ball, now, what if you attach something to it, or change it. This is a little thing that I made because I really like the idea of curves and balls together. And then creating space and the rhythm of space, using the surface of the balls, the surface of the arms. Just a little toy. Which leads me to the next thing, which is — what have I got here? OK. All right. I'm actually leading up to something, the newest thing that I'm working on. This is not it. This is exploring geometry and the rhythm of shape. (Applause) Now, what I just did was I worked with the mathematics — the diameter and the circumference. Sometimes these pieces are mathematical, in that way that I look at a shape and say, what about if I use this and this and this. Sometimes what happens in life affects my choice of objects that I try to work with. The next piece that I'm going to do — which is the cylinders piece, if you want to get that up — it has to do with cylinder seals from about 5,000 years ago, which were stones with designs that were used to roll over wet clay with all sorts of great designs. I love ceramics and all of that. It's a combination of that, the beauty of that, the shape, and the stories that were involved in it, as well as the fact that they protected the contents. The second influence on this piece came from recycling and looking into a tin can recycling bin and seeing all that beautiful emptiness. So, if you want to go with the music for cylinders. (Music) (Applause) Talking about geometry and everything, if you take the circle and you split it in half — can you run ""S-Curve music?"" I'm going to do just a short version of it. Circles split in half and rotated, and mythology. (Music) (Applause) Anyway, that piece also has a kinetic sculpture in the middle of it, and I dance around a small stage so — two minutes, just to end? The latest piece that I'm working on — what I love is that I never know what I'm working on, why I'm working on it. They're not ideas, they're instincts. And the latest thing that I'm working on — (Clattering) — is something really — I don't know what it is yet. And that's good. I like not to know for as long as possible. Well, because then it tells me the truth, instead of me imposing the truth. And what it is, is working with both positive and negative space but also with these curves. And what it involves, and I don't know if my hands are too beaten up to do it or not, but I'll do a little bit of it. It initially started off with me stacking these things, bunches of them, and then playing with the sense of space, of filling in the space. And then it started changing, and become folding on themselves. And then changing levels. Because my attempt is to make visual instruments, not to just make — I'll try one other thing. For work in three dimensions, with your perceptions of space and time. Now, I don't know exactly where it's going, but I've got a bit of effort involved in this thing. And it's going to change as I go through it. But I really like it, it feels right. This may not be the right shape, and — look at this shape, and then I'll show you the first design I ever put to it, just to see, just to play, because I love all different kinds of things to play with. Let's see here. To work with the positive and negative in a different way. And to change, and to change. So, I'm off in my new direction with this to explore rhythm and space. We'll see what I come up with. Thanks for having me. (Applause)"	"從開始做雜技表演到現在已經有很長一段時間了但早在那之前，我原本是個高爾夫球員當我是個高爾夫球員、也是個孩子時讓我著迷的事物中，有一樣佔了我生活中非常重要的地位那就是—- 過程我指的是學習的過程很棒的是我父親是一位很有熱情的高爾夫球員，但他是左撇子他真的很熱愛高爾夫也創造了這整個關於班·霍根（Ben Hogan）的神話我從有趣的事情中學到很多雖然我在當下可能不自覺，但漸漸地體會箇中奧妙而這就是技藝創造的神話 探究技藝是我熱愛的事情之一而且既然理查（Richard）把我放在這個跟音樂相關的舞台上我就得真的和托德·麥克歐佛（Tod Machover）、和麻省理工學院的媒介實驗室做一個和音樂相關的計畫但是托德沒辦法來，整個計畫也有一點...不是很確定事情是不是照我們想像的方向走但我還是要探索這項技藝，做雜技表演我想基本上就都是「視覺音樂」音樂可以開始了，謝謝 （音樂） （掌聲） 謝謝、謝謝大家。雜技可以很有趣可以跟技術、空間、節奏一起玩可以開麥克風了。我現在要秀兩段一段比較長的是在一個三角形裡做其中包括三小節一部分的挑戰是必須要試著瞭解整個節奏和空間用的不只是我的雙手—- 因為很多雜技是以手作為基底的但我還會融合身體和雙腳的律動並用腳控制這些球 （掌聲） 謝謝。我記得理查說過有關人類喜歡挑戰很多人覺得雜技表演者喜歡做一些挑戰地心引力的事情我的話，則是從童年時和打高爾夫那時就開始了這是與力結合的過程所以我想做的是試著藉由我的技術找出融入「空間」的方法把地心引力拿來雜耍—- 上、下如果你真的明白了什麼是「上」、什麼是「下」你會知道它是一套錯綜複雜的物理技能才有辦法把球拋上丟下然後還可以橫著來 （掌聲） 現在，我是這樣的角度看它的—你在學雜技的時候你是學著用眼睛去感覺它，然後用手去看它因為你不是看著你的手你是看著球、或是觀眾的下一步就是真的要瞭解空間和律動了這和腳也脫不了關係還有時間點、腳在哪兒、球在哪兒 （掌聲） 謝謝。這包括了視覺音樂、律動以及複雜度我現在就要提高複雜度了拋三個球是很簡單、很正常的 （笑聲） 抱歉 （笑聲） 我們是雜技表演者。好，記得，你是在調換它的位置現在進入的是一個次文化 （笑聲） 然後把球拋過去OK，如果你把它們保持在固定的路線，你會得到平行線不同的高度，但希望是同樣的節奏然後你可以改變節奏—- 很好不在光線裡時，你可以變換節奏OK? 改變節奏讓它平均你也可以回到原狀然後改變高度。現在，技巧如果你只會這樣做上下的話，你會被侷限住你得把空間放大到這兒來然後你要把它們結合在一起整個空間就像是調色盤一樣在你面前然後瘋了 （掌聲） 現在，我真的要請你們做件事了你要很專心喔。複雜度，如果你花夠長的時間做一件事，時間會變慢或是你的技能會提昇，你的感官能力也起了變化學習技能像是經歷一場高速車禍事情會在你學習的過程中變慢，你學著、學著...或許你沒辦法影響它，你是隨著它漂流、前進的但這是我能做的最貼切的形容了 回到複雜度。在座有多少人是會做雜技表演呀？那大部分的人等一下將會有差不多的反應OK? 不管在那邊笑的是哪位你都完全瞭解了，對吧？ （笑聲） 這看起來亂七八糟。那位仁兄看起來好像遇到麻煩了兩手搞的一團亂的那一位反正這就是雜耍的真諦嘛，對吧？就是做一些別人做不到、或搞不懂的事嘛好，這是其中一種方式，五顆球朝下另一種方式是朝外的你可以跟著節奏玩同樣的手法只是要加速、縮小範圍拉大範圍或是窄一點帶回上頭來好，結束，謝謝！ （掌聲） 現在，你們看起來都很聰明、靈敏我雖然不知道對電腦、對三度空間有多在行但我們來試試看這個好，因為你們都不清楚剛剛那五顆球的路徑模式我現在要給你一點線索線索夠了吧？你抓住路線了，對吧？ （笑聲） 沒那麼容易，好嗎？現在，幫我個忙。看著我要你們看的那顆球綠色黃色粉紅色白色都做到了嗎？好 我們現在真的來學點東西讓我把你們放到「學習」的框框裡，讓人有不安的感覺吧想要試試看嗎？好伸出雙手、手掌向上、併攏你現在要學的是這個 （笑聲） OK嗎？現在你要聽我說，然後跟著做食指、中指、無名指、小指小指、無名指、中指、食指。然後打開手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指加快速度手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指 （笑聲） 好，現場就有很多不同的學習過程 （笑聲） 我看到的其中一種是這樣的 （笑聲） 還看到一種是這樣的 （笑聲） 好，大家深呼吸一口、吐氣。OK現在，再一次，預備—-手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、打開手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、好！甩甩手 我想很多人都花很多時間在電腦上吧？OK? 你都是這樣做— 啦啦啦然後變成這樣，OK?這正是我要叫你做的但有一點點不同。你要融合兩者我要你動的是手指我會跟你說你的手指頭要做什麼，跟剛才一樣但我還要你用眼睛一起跟著我叫你看的顏色的球 （笑聲） OK? 來吧我們先從白色球開始然後我會告訴你別的顏色然後還要你的手指一起配合，OK嗎？白球和—-手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、粉紅色手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、綠色手指、手指、手指、手指、黃色手指、手指、手指、手指、粉紅色、或是手指粉紅色、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指、手指好 （掌聲） 做的如何呀？不錯嗎？我要你們這麼做的原因是因為這是大部分人一生中一直在面對的學習的片刻、挑戰的片刻是個讓你沒有頭緒的瞬間我沒事幹嘛要學這個啊？這真的跟我的人生有關嗎？我也沒辦法解答—- 那好玩嗎？有挑戰性嗎？可以作弊嗎？ （笑聲） 你能怎麼辦呢？台上這個人做這套原理做了一輩子了，好嗎？想要搞懂它，但是它會幫你搞懂什麼嗎？那只是個瞬間。就這樣，OK?我要改一下腳本。讓我做一下這個這裡不用音樂。待會兒就會談到""時間""這一段是我最近發展出跟那相關的—-""一瞬間""。這也是身為創意藝術者所做的，要為這些移動物體找出適合他們的言語、詞彙 這邊我把幾個手法做了些變化然後編了舞蹈的成分進去但這些其實不是原創的技法現在我要開始表演一些原創的了是從我發展的進階變化而來的。好了嗎？""一瞬間""，你會如何定義一瞬間？身為雜技表演者，我想做的是創造出一項能代表一瞬間的東西 啊～好，我現在要跪著，然後開始了瞬間 （沙沙響） OK嗎？而我所要呈現的是如何讓一個依附在另一個物體的東西也成為另一個動態的物體 （沙沙響） 好，一瞬間 （沙沙響） 另一瞬間 （沙沙響） 抱歉，就快好了。行進的一瞬間 （沙沙響） 一瞬間 —- 不，要再試一次。分開，然後合在一起時間。你要怎麼看的到時間？你又要怎麼把它用於探索一個特定的東西？很明顯的，這裡面有東西你可以猜猜看是什麼那一瞬間裡有個秘密它得定下來。它是靠著另一樣東西的呼！然後靜止下來。這只是一點關於時間的東西 接下來這一段的規模擴大很多因為我利用多個拋物線的斜面當做球的落點同時要注意時間點我想說我要聊一下一瞬間 （掌聲） 好，OK，我們可以放一段關於三角型的影片嗎？準備好可以放了嗎？可以嗎？這一段是我之前提到的是探索幾何三角形時發展出來、規模大很多的一段表演。 （掌聲） 謝謝。關於最後一段，我要說的是，你有沒有試過玩雜技的同時邊用膝蓋開車飆到時速120英哩？ （笑聲） 令我最震驚的還有一件事我以前都騎摩托車。當我買第一輛車的時候，我嚇傻了因為它比我爸媽的房子還要貴三倍...真好笑。 好，平衡—-就是在平穩持續的移動中達到靜止作弊！ （笑聲） 平衡— 制定一些規則讓你不能作弊你才能學會怎麼用身體的不同部位達到靜止跟它對話。說話、聆聽 （笑聲） 現在，要跟著節奏在它落下時維持一個平衡的中心點，然後在下面接它有個節奏節奏可以變得小很多隨著你技術的精進，自然會找到那更小的空間、更小的移動。謝謝！ （掌聲） 我現在要呈現一段作品的開頭某方面而言它是跟平衡有關的，而且..喔，你無聊的時候，但不是現在，這還蠻有用的 （笑聲） 你可以用棍子、跟著音樂 （音樂） （掌聲） 謝謝。剛剛那段涵蓋著垂直原理的平衡是我當一位木匠的學徒時學的，學垂直、正方、水平那影響了剛剛那一段和接下來這一段表演，我等一下會把它做切割兩根棍子。可以下音樂，謝謝。同樣是探索空間、或是空間裡的線條的概念 （音樂） （掌聲） 用不同的方式在空間、空間中的線條運作喔，來看看這個 （掌聲） 等一下會回到這裡。先來一個球的表演如果你加點東西進去，或是做點變化這是我做的小變化因為我真的很喜歡曲線和球一起運作的感覺接著要創造一個空間和空間的節奏利用球的表面、手臂的表面只是個小玩具，但帶出下一樣東西那就是—我這兒有什麼？OK，好 我其實是要帶出一個東西的我最新研發的東西。不是這個。這是探索幾何學和形狀的律動 （掌聲） 我剛做的是跟數學的結合直徑和圓周的概念這些表演是因為這樣而和數學有關的我會看著一個形狀然後說：如果我試試用這個、這個、和這個呢？有時候周遭發生的事情會影響我選擇表演物體的決定 接下來我要做的是一個滾筒的表演如果你想知道的話它是跟5,000年前的滾筒印章有關滾筒印章是帶有雕刻設計的石頭、用來在濕泥土上滾動的有各式各樣的設計。我好愛那些和製陶相關的東西那是一個結合體，裡面包含的美、它的形狀、和它們所述說的故事當然它們還可以保護筒裡的東西 另一個影響這段表演的靈感來自於資源回收注視著資源回收桶裡的空罐時凝視著那空洞的美感好，現在請跟著滾筒的音樂 （音樂） （掌聲） 談到幾何學和相關的東西時若你把圓分成兩半可以放S曲線的音樂嗎？我現在只是要做一小段圓圈分成兩半、接著轉動、跟著神話 （音樂） （掌聲） 這裡頭還包含了個活動雕塑品我在小小的舞台上跳著舞兩分鐘讓我做個結尾？最新的一段表演—-我最愛的是我從不知道我在研發些什麼？為什麼要做這個？它們不是一些想法，而是直覺我在研發的最新一段 （鏗鏘聲） 是一個真的—-我還不知道是什麼的東西但這很好～能多久不知道算多久我希望它自然告訴我它是什麼而不是我強加在它身上使它發生的結果這不只是利用正負空間也結合了這些曲線它包含了—-我不知道我是不是有點手殘、沒辦法做這段我還是試著做做看 一開始是把這些東西做堆疊有一大堆要做，接著開始融入空間感充斥著整個空間的感覺。然後開始變化變成彼此交疊再來是層次的變換因為我想要試的是做出視覺樂器而不只是...我再試試看別的用你對空間和時間的感知做一個3D的表演我不確定它會變怎樣但我投了心力在這上面等一下隨著我的表演，它會有所變化但我真的很喜歡，感覺很對！這不一定會是對的形狀，但我會看著這個形狀然後我會讓你們看到我最初的設計就看看、玩一下因為我喜歡玩各式各樣不同的東西看看這個把正負空間用不同的手法呈現做變換、做變換 好，今天就到這兒，我要繼續在節奏和空間中探索新方向了看看我會找出什麼！謝謝你們的邀請 （掌聲）"
