Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_archer_how_we_ll_resurrect_the_gastric_brooding_frog_the_tasmanian_tiger	"I do want to test this question we're all interested in: Does extinction have to be forever? I'm focused on two projects I want to tell you about. One is the Thylacine Project. The other one is the Lazarus Project, and that's focused on the gastric-brooding frog. And it would be a fair question to ask, why have we focused on these two animals? Well, point number one, each of them represents a unique family of its own. We've lost a whole family. That's a big chunk of the global genome gone. I'd like it back. The second reason is that we killed these things. In the case of the thylacine, regrettably, we shot every one that we saw. We slaughtered them. In the case of the gastric-brooding frog, we may have ""fungicided"" it to death. There's a dreadful fungus that's moving through the world that's called the chytrid fungus, and it's nailing frogs all over the world. We think that's probably what got this frog, and humans are spreading this fungus. And this introduces a very important ethical point, and I think you will have heard this many times when this topic comes up. What I think is important is that, if it's clear that we exterminated these species, then I think we not only have a moral obligation to see what we can do about it, but I think we've got a moral imperative to try to do something, if we can. OK. Let me talk to you about the Lazarus Project. It's a frog. And you think, frog. Yeah, but this was not just any frog. Unlike a normal frog, which lays its eggs in the water and goes away and wishes its froglets well, this frog swallowed its fertilized eggs, swallowed them into the stomach, where it should be having food, didn't digest the eggs, and turned its stomach into a uterus. In the stomach, the eggs went on to develop into tadpoles, and in the stomach, the tadpoles went on to develop into frogs, and they grew in the stomach until eventually the poor old frog was at risk of bursting apart. It has a little cough and a hiccup, and out comes sprays of little frogs. Now, when biologists saw this, they were agog. They thought, this is incredible. No animal, let alone a frog, has been known to do this, to change one organ in the body into another. And you can imagine the medical world went nuts over this as well. If we could understand how that frog is managing the way its tummy works, is there information here that we need to understand or could usefully use to help ourselves? Now, I'm not suggesting we want to raise our babies in our stomach, but I am suggesting it's possible we might want to manage gastric secretion in the gut. And just as everybody got excited about it, bang! It was extinct. I called up my friend, Professor Mike Tyler in the University of Adelaide. He was the last person who had this frog, a colony of these things, in his lab. And I said, ""Mike, by any chance —"" This was 30 or 40 years ago. ""By any chance had you kept any frozen tissue of this frog?"" And he thought about it, and he went to his deep freezer, minus 20 degrees centigrade, and he poured through everything in the freezer, and there in the bottom was a jar and it contained tissues of these frogs. This was very exciting, but there was no reason why we should expect that this would work, because this tissue had not had any antifreeze put in it, cryoprotectants, to look after it when it was frozen. And normally, when water freezes, as you know, it expands, and the same thing happens in a cell. If you freeze tissues, the water expands, damages or bursts the cell walls. Well, we looked at the tissue under the microscope. It actually didn't look bad. The cell walls looked intact. So we thought, let's give it a go. What we did is something called somatic cell nuclear transplantation. We took the eggs of a related species, a living frog, and we inactivated the nucleus of the egg. We used ultraviolet radiation to do that. And then we took the dead nucleus from the dead tissue of the extinct frog and we inserted those nuclei into that egg. Now, by rights, this is kind of like a cloning project, like what produced Dolly, but it's actually very different, because Dolly was live sheep into live sheep cells. That was a miracle, but it was workable. What we're trying to do is take a dead nucleus from an extinct species and put it into a completely different species and expect that to work. Well, we had no real reason to expect it would, and we tried hundreds and hundreds of these. And just last February, the last time we did these trials, I saw a miracle starting to happen. What we found was most of these eggs didn't work, but then suddenly, one of them began to divide. That was so exciting. And then the egg divided again. And then again. And pretty soon, we had early-stage embryos with hundreds of cells forming those. We even DNA-tested some of these cells, and the DNA of the extinct frog is in those cells. So we're very excited. This is not a tadpole. It's not a frog. But it's a long way along the journey to producing, or bringing back, an extinct species. And this is news. We haven't announced this publicly before. We're excited. We've got to get past this point. We now want this ball of cells to start to gastrulate, to turn in so that it will produce the other tissues. It'll go on and produce a tadpole and then a frog. Watch this space. I think we're going to have this frog hopping glad to be back in the world again. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) We haven't done it yet, but keep the applause ready. The second project I want to talk to you about is the Thylacine Project. The thylacine looks a bit, to most people, like a dog, or maybe like a tiger, because it has stripes. But it's not related to any of those. It's a marsupial. It raised its young in a pouch, like a koala or a kangaroo would do, and it has a long history, a long, fascinating history, that goes back 25 million years. But it's also a tragic history. The first one that we see occurs in the ancient rain forests of Australia about 25 million years ago, and the National Geographic Society is helping us to explore these fossil deposits. This is Riversleigh. In those fossil rocks are some amazing animals. We found marsupial lions. We found carnivorous kangaroos. It's not what you usually think about as a kangaroo, but these are meat-eating kangaroos. We found the biggest bird in the world, bigger than that thing that was in Madagascar, and it too was a flesh eater. It was a giant, weird duck. And crocodiles were not behaving at that time either. You think of crocodiles as doing their ugly thing, sitting in a pool of water. These crocodiles were actually out on the land and they were even climbing trees and jumping on prey on the ground. We had, in Australia, drop crocs. They really do exist. (Laughter) But what they were dropping on was not only other weird animals but also thylacines. There were five different kinds of thylacines in those ancient forests, and they ranged from great big ones to middle-sized ones to one that was about the size of a chihuahua. Paris Hilton would have been able to carry one of these things around in a little handbag, until a drop croc landed on her. At any rate, it was a fascinating place, but unfortunately, Australia didn't stay this way. Climate change has affected the world for a long period of time, and gradually, the forests disappeared, the country began to dry out, and the number of kinds of thylacines began to decline, until by five million years ago, only one left. By 10,000 years ago, they had disappeared from New Guinea, and unfortunately, by 4,000 years ago, somebodies, we don't know who this was, introduced dingoes — this is a very archaic kind of a dog — into Australia. And as you can see, dingoes are very similar in their body form to thylacines. That similarity meant they probably competed. They were eating the same kinds of foods. It's even possible that aborigines were keeping some of these dingoes as pets, and therefore they may have had an advantage in the battle for survival. All we know is, soon after the dingoes were brought in, thylacines were extinct in the Australian mainland, and after that they only survived in Tasmania. Then, unfortunately, the next sad part of the thylacine story is that Europeans arrived in 1788, and they brought with them the things they valued, and that included sheep. They took one look at the thylacine in Tasmania, and they thought, hang on, this is not going to work. That guy is going to eat all our sheep. That was not what happened, actually. Wild dogs did eat a few of the sheep, but the thylacine got a bad rap. But immediately, the government said, that's it, let's get rid of them, and they paid people to slaughter every one that they saw. By the early 1930s, 3,000 to 4,000 thylacines had been murdered. It was a disaster, and they were about to hit the wall. Have a look at this bit of film footage. It makes me very sad because, while it's a fascinating animal, and it's amazing to think that we had the technology to film it before it actually plunged off that cliff of extinction, we didn't, unfortunately, at this same time, have a molecule of concern about the welfare for this species. These are photos of the last surviving thylacine, Benjamin, who was in the Beaumaris Zoo in Hobart. To add insult to injury, having swept this species nearly off the table, this animal, when it died of neglect — The keepers didn't let it into the hutch on a cold night in Hobart. It died of exposure, and in the morning, when they found the body of Benjamin, they still cared so little for this animal that they threw the body in the dump. Does it have to stay this way? In 1990, I was in the Australian Museum. I was fascinated by thylacines. I've always been obsessed with these animals. And I was studying skulls, trying to figure out their relationships to other sorts of animals, and I saw this jar, and here, in the jar, was a little girl thylacine pup, perhaps six months old. The guy who had found it and killed the mother had pickled the pup, and they pickled it in alcohol. I'm a paleontologist, but I still knew alcohol was a DNA preservative. But this was 1990, and I asked my geneticist friends, couldn't we think about going into this pup and extracting DNA, if it's there, and then somewhere down the line in the future, we'll use this DNA to bring the thylacine back? The geneticists laughed. But this was six years before Dolly. Cloning was science fiction. It had not happened. But then suddenly cloning did happen. And I thought, when I became director of the Australian Museum, I'm going to give this a go. I put a team together. We went into that pup to see what was in it, and we did find thylacine DNA. It was a eureka moment. We were very excited. Unfortunately, we also found a lot of human DNA. Every old curator who'd been in that museum had seen this wonderful specimen, put their hand in the jar, pulled it out and thought, ""Wow, look at that,"" plop, dropped it back in the jar, contaminating this specimen. And that was a worry. If the goal here was to get the DNA out and use the DNA down the track to try to bring a thylacine back, what we didn't want happening when the information was shoved into the machine and the wheel turned around and the lights flashed, was to have a wizened old horrible curator pop out the other end of the machine. It would've kept the curator very happy, but it wasn't going to keep us happy. So we went back to these specimens and we started digging around, and particularly, we looked into the teeth of skulls, hard parts where humans had not been able to get their fingers, and we found much better quality DNA. We found nuclear mitochondrial genes. It's there. So we got it. OK. What could we do with this stuff? Well, George Church, in his book, ""Regenesis,"" has mentioned many of the techniques that are rapidly advancing to work with fragmented DNA. We would hope that we'll be able to get that DNA back into a viable form, and then, much like we've done with the Lazarus Project, get that stuff into an egg of a host species. It has to be a different species. What could it be? Why couldn't it be a Tasmanian devil? They're related, distantly, to thylacines. And then the Tasmanian devil is going to pop a thylacine out the south end. Critics of this project say, hang on. Thylacine, Tasmanian devil? That's going to hurt. No, it's not. These are marsupials. They give birth to babies that are the size of a jelly bean. That Tasmanian devil's not even going to know it gave birth. It is, shortly, going to think it's got the ugliest Tasmanian devil baby in the world, so maybe it'll need some help to keep it going. Andrew Pask and his colleagues have demonstrated this might not be a waste of time. And it's sort of in the future, we haven't got there yet, but it's the kind of thing we want to think about. They took some of this same pickled thylacine DNA and they spliced it into a mouse genome, but they put a tag on it so that anything that this thylacine DNA produced would appear blue-green in the mouse baby. In other words, if thylacine tissues were being produced by the thylacine DNA, it would be able to be recognized. When the baby popped up, it was filled with blue-green tissues. And that tells us if we can get that genome back together, get it into a live cell, it's going to produce thylacine stuff. Is this a risk? You've taken the bits of one animal and you've mixed them into the cell of a different kind of an animal. Are we going to get a Frankenstein? Some kind of weird hybrid chimera? And the answer is no. If the only nuclear DNA that goes into this hybrid cell is thylacine DNA, that's the only thing that can pop out the other end of the devil. OK, if we can do this, could we put it back? This is a key question for everybody. Does it have to stay in a laboratory, or could we put it back where it belongs? Could we put it back in the throne of the king of beasts in Tasmania, restore that ecosystem? Or has Tasmania changed so much that that's no longer possible? I've been to Tasmania. I've been to many of the areas where the thylacines were common. I've even spoken to people, like Peter Carter here, who when I spoke to him, was 90 years old, but in 1926, this man and his father and his brother caught thylacines. They trapped them. And when I spoke to this man, I was looking in his eyes and thinking, ""Behind those eyes is a brain that has memories of what thylacines feel like, what they smelled like, what they sounded like."" He led them around on a rope. He has personal experiences that I would give my left leg to have in my head. We'd all love to have this sort of thing happen. Anyway, I asked Peter, by any chance, could he take us back to where he caught those thylacines. My interest was in whether the environment had changed. He thought hard. It was nearly 80 years before this that he'd been at this hut. At any rate, he led us down this bush track, and there, right where he remembered, was the hut, and tears came into his eyes. He looked at the hut. We went inside. There were the wooden boards on the sides of the hut where he and his father and his brother had slept at night. And he told me, as it all was flooding back in memories. He said, ""I remember the thylacines going around the hut wondering what was inside,"" and he said they made sounds like ""Yip! Yip! Yip!"" All of these are parts of his life and what he remembers. And the key question for me was to ask Peter, has it changed? And he said no. The southern beech forests surrounded his hut just like it was when he was there in 1926. The grasslands were sweeping away. That's classic thylacine habitat. And the animals in those areas were the same that were there when the thylacine was around. So could we put it back? Yes. Is that all we would do? And this is an interesting question. Sometimes you might be able to put it back, but is that the safest way to make sure it never goes extinct again? And I don't think so. I think gradually, as we see species all around the world, it's kind of a mantra that wildlife is increasingly not safe in the wild. We'd love to think it is, but we know it isn't. We need other parallel strategies coming online. And this one interests me. Some of the thylacines that were being turned in to zoos, sanctuaries, even at the museums, had collar marks on the neck. They were being kept as pets, and we know a lot of bush tales and memories of people who had them as pets, and they say they were wonderful, friendly. This particular one came in out of the forest to lick this boy and curled up around the fireplace to go to sleep. A wild animal. And I'd like to ask the question. We need to think about this. If it had not been illegal to keep these thylacines as pets then, would the thylacine be extinct now? And I'm positive it wouldn't. We need to think about this in today's world. Could it be that getting animals close to us so that we value them, maybe they won't go extinct? And this is such a critical issue for us because if we don't do that, we're going to watch more of these animals plunge off the precipice. As far as I'm concerned, this is why we're trying to do these kinds of de-extinction projects. We are trying to restore that balance of nature that we have upset. Thank you. (Applause)"	"試問一個大家都有興趣的問題絕種這回事是否絕對是永久的呢? 我想告訴你們兩個我所關注的計畫一個是關於袋狼一個是拉薩魯計劃一個關於胃育溪蟾的計畫大家可能會問為什麼我們要關注在這兩種動物上首先是因為牠們能代表各自所屬的特殊的科別我們已經失去這科別中所有的成員一個不小的全面性基因庫就此消失而我想要它再展從前之盛況第二個原因是因為我們就是這個問題的肇事者在袋狼的例子中，很不幸地我們屠殺了牠們而在胃育溪蟾的例子中我們可能讓""真菌""殺了牠們有一種散布於世界上的可怕真菌叫做""蛙壺菌""它感染了遍佈世界各地的蛙類我們認為這也許是胃育溪蟾滅絕的主因而人類正是散播這些真菌的始作俑者 而這引出了很重要的道德觀點我相信你們已經聽過很多次當滅絕的議題被提出來我認為重要的是我們過去是否清楚地研究這些物種此外我認為我們不僅因為義務看看我們還能做什麼，只要我們有能力我們有道德上的責任必須試著做些什麼 那我們來談談拉魯薩計畫這是青蛙，是的，青蛙但卻不是一般的青蛙不像一般的青蛙只是把蛋產在水裡然後就任其生長胃育溪蟾會把受精卵吞到本來應該要裝滿食物胃中卻不消化這些蛋而把胃當成子宮蛋便在胃裡發育成蝌蚪並且就在胃裡長成幼蛙他們在胃中長大直到可憐的母蛙冒著被撐破的危險在咳嗽或打嗝時使得幼蛙被噴出 現在，當生物學家看到這時他們感到無比的震撼紛紛不敢置信除了青蛙之外，從來沒有動物能做到這件事改變一個器官的功能可想而知醫界限入瘋狂如果我們能夠了解胃育溪蟾的胃如何運作那麼將會有許多資訊我們必須盡一步了解甚至運用來幫助更多人我並不是說要把嬰兒養在胃裡而是我們可能可以了解胃在內臟裡的分泌物當大家都對此感到興奮時，碰胃育溪蟾絕種了 我打給我朋友，邁克泰勒教授在阿德雷得大學他是最後一個曾有這種青蛙的人在他的實驗室中曾有ㄧ群這種青蛙 我說""麥克，有無可能這是30到40年前的事有無可能你還留著胃育溪蟾的組織 他想了想，到了他那負二十度的大冰箱把所有東西都拿出來在最底層是一個罐子裝著一些青蛙的組織這非常令人振奮但我們確沒有理由確信這會行的通因為這組織沒有摻入防凍劑低溫防護劑，確保冷凍樣品的狀況普遍來說，水結冰時會膨脹一樣的事也發生在細胞中若將組織冰動，其中的水會膨脹傷害或撐破細胞壁當我們從顯微鏡下看組織時竟然看起來不差。細胞壁完好無缺於是我們想，試試無妨 我們所作的稱為體細胞核移植我們拿了一隻活的，有血緣關係的卵然後使其核失去作用我們是用紫外光做到的再把胃育溪蟾的核從死去組織中抽出來注入失去核的活卵中這樣看起來的確有點像基因復製的過程像桃莉羊那樣，但其實是很不一樣的因為桃莉是活體之間的移植那是一個行得通的奇蹟而我們做的是取出絕種物種的死細胞核然後放進完全不同的物種並期許牠能作用我們是沒有理由期望牠會成功在試了幾百次後就在去年二月，最後ㄧ次的試驗我看到了奇蹟的發生大部份的卵儘管不能作用卻有一個突然開始分裂了當它又分裂時著實令人興奮接著它又不斷地分裂，很快地我們有了一個以數百個細胞組成的早期胚胎我們甚至對一些細胞進行DNA測試的確在那些細胞中含有胃育溪蟾的DNA我們感到非常興奮。那還不是蝌蚪也還不是青蛙。但它是一個讓絕種的胃育溪蟾起死回生的偉大旅程這可是一個我們從未宣布的大新聞對於將跨入令一個不同的階段我們感到鼓舞我們期望這團細胞球體能進入原腸胚階段以繼續繁殖其他組織最後將成為蝌蚪然後是青蛙看看這空間，我相信我們能讓胃育溪蟾在這裡活潑的跳來跳去 謝謝 我們還沒做到，但那些掌聲將來會用到的 另一個計畫是袋狼的計劃牠對大多數的人來說看起來有點像一隻狗或老虎，因為牠有斑紋但牠跟那些一點關係都沒有牠是有袋類。從小在袋中長大就像無尾熊或袋鼠而牠有一個可以追溯到2500萬年前久遠而美好的歷史但那卻也是一個悲慘的歷史 第一件事是發生在2500萬年前澳洲的古雨林裡國家地理協會幫忙我們去探勘化石沉積物。這裡是 Riverleigh在化石中有些令人驚艷的動物我們找到有袋的獅子肉食性的袋鼠並不是平常我們所見而是真的吃肉的袋鼠還有全世界最大的鳥類比馬達加斯加的還大牠也是一種巨大而奇怪的肉食性鴨子連鱷魚當時的行為都是不太一樣的你也許認為鱷魚就是髒髒的待在水裡牠們其實是在陸地上的甚至爬到樹上然後撲到獵物身上這種會跳下來的鱷魚確實存在過，就在澳洲而牠們撲倒的其中一種生物便是袋狼在那原始林中有五種不同的袋狼從極大的到中型的到小型如吉娃娃狗的尺寸連Paris Hilton都放一隻在小手提包中帶著走直到一隻鱷魚飛撲在她身上 無論如何，那是個令人驚奇的地方但不幸地，澳洲並未繼續保持下去氣候變遷已經影響這個世界好一陣子了而雨林日漸消失氣候逐漸乾燥袋狼數量也隨之銳減到了五百萬年前只剩下一隻一萬年前在新幾內亞絕種了，並且不幸地四千年前有不知名的人把澳洲野犬一種古代的狗，引進澳洲如你所見身形上兩者非常相似也就是說牠們曾是競爭關係吃同樣的食物甚至可能從前原住民曾經豢養一些澳洲野犬作為寵物，因此牠們可能在生存活命上有優勢我們所知道的是，當澳洲野犬被引進之後不久袋狼就從澳洲大陸上消失了此後只有塔思馬尼雅島有袋狼的蹤跡 然後，發生了袋狼生存史上另一件悲慘的事就是歐洲人在1788年移入並帶來具經濟價值的事物，包括綿羊他們看了看島上的袋狼並且心想，等等，這行不通的袋狼將會吃掉所有的綿羊但這件事其實從未發生過野狗的確吃了一些綿羊袋狼卻成了代罪羔羊但政府卻唐突的決定要除掉牠們，並獎賞那些屠殺袋狼的人到1930、40年代，已有3000到4000隻被屠殺。這是一場災難而牠們就快遇到瓶頸了 看看這部短片一部使我很感傷的影片我們有這樣的科技去錄影但在把牠推入絕種深淵之前很不幸地，我們沒有同時顧及這物種的存續這是一隻倖存的袋狼，Benjamin的照片在Hobart的Beaumaris動物園裡雪上加霜的是，這隻袋狼竟死於疏於照料使這物種的滅絕成為必然管理員並未在Hobart一個寒冷的夜晚把牠安置在屋內，牠便因此死去當Benjamin的屍體在早上被發現時也並未引起太多關注他們把牠的屍體丟到垃圾場了 事情真的必須這樣嗎？1990年，我在澳洲的博物館被袋狼深深地吸引了，我總是被動物吸引而我研究頭骨，想了解袋狼跟其他物種之間的關係而我看到這個罐子其中有一之母幼犬，大概六個月大殺了牠的人也殺了牠媽媽並撿起裝進酒精中我是一個古生物學家，但我仍知到DNA保存法但當時是1990年，而我問我遺傳學家的朋友我們可否在這隻狗中萃取DNA，如果有的話在將來的某一天我們會利用DNA讓袋狼再現那位遺傳學家笑了。但這是在桃莉羊事件的六年前生物複製仍然是很科幻的。他還未發生過。但不久之後就突然成真了我便想，當我成為博物館的負責人時我要讓這個計畫成真我組了一個小隊去研究幼犬的身體我們的確找到了DNA，這真是一個鼓舞人心的時刻。我們很興奮不幸的是，我們也找到很多人類的DNA每一位館內的老管理員都看過這玄妙的物種把他們的手伸進去，伸出來並想""哇，瞧瞧這"" 然後又把它放回去因此汙染了它們如果我們要萃取DNA讓袋狼復活的話這是一個很大的麻煩我們最不想要發生的事就是把遺傳訊息放入複製機器然後開始運作指示燈一閃一滅，從機器另一端跑出來的是一個又皺又老又可怕的管理員(笑)這可能會讓老管理員們很開心但對我們來說卻不會我們繼續找尋我們想要的答案我們特別檢查在頭骨中的牙齒部分一個比較硬的部分，人手沒有汙染的地方我們找到了品質比較好的DNA就在那裏，我們找到了核的粒腺體基因我們做到了 那麼，我們究竟可以用這些東西來做什麼呢？首先，George Church 《再生》這本書中提到這方面技術的進展專門討論這些DNA我們希望能尋回DNA善加利用，然後就像我們在拉薩魯計畫所做的放入一個寄宿物種的卵牠必須是一個不一樣的物種這宿主可能是什麼呢？為何不能是塔斯馬尼亞袋獾？牠們是和袋狼有關的物種呀塔斯馬尼亞袋獾就會生出一隻來自南端的袋狼但是批評這計畫的人說，等等袋狼和袋獾? 牠們會彼此傷害吧但其實牠們不會，因為牠們是有袋物種牠們生下的小寶寶跟雷根糖一樣大牠們甚至不會知道自己要生產了不久後袋獾只會覺得牠生下了全世界最醜的袋獾寶寶所以也許牠仍需要一些幫助讓事情順利發展 Andrew Pask 和他的同事們證明了這並非在浪費時間在未來是很有潛力的，我們還有一段路要走但是這件是我們要去思考的他們拿了一些袋狼的DNA然後插入老鼠的基因體並且標定這些基因如此一來所有這隻袋狼DNA產生的東西在幼鼠中會發出藍綠光換句話說，如果有由袋狼DNA生出的袋狼組織，就可以被分辨出來當幼鼠出生時，牠全身充滿了藍綠色的組織這告訴我們，假如我們可以重獲袋狼基因體把基因體送進一個活細胞中這細胞將會製造屬於袋狼的東西 這很冒險嗎？你拿了這動物的一部分然後把牠們送入別的動物的細胞我們想要得到一個科學怪人嗎？你知道的，那種奇怪的混合拼裝體答案當然不是的如果進到這複合細胞只有袋狼的核DNA，唯一會從袋獾那而跑出來的只有袋狼 好，如果我們做得到這件事那我們可以把袋狼放回自然界中嗎?這是一個很重要的問題牠是否一定得待在實驗室裡或事我們可以把它放回屬於牠的地方?讓牠重新變回塔斯馬尼亞島中的百獸之王，並重建生態系統還是塔斯馬尼亞島已改變太多無法再復原了?我曾去過塔斯馬尼亞，以及其他袋狼曾經很常見的地方我曾經跟許多人說，譬如Peter Carter當我和他談話時他已經90歲了但1926年時，他曾經和他的哥哥和父親抓到一些袋狼 他們困住袋狼當我在和他說話時我看著他的眼神並且想像這眼神背後隱含著他對袋狼的記憶袋狼的味道，聲音他利用繩子誘引牠們他的親身經歷是我夢寐以求想要得到的我們都想要讓這樣的事情成真於是，我問Peter，如果有任何機會他是否能帶我們回到他抓袋狼的地方我對於環境是否有改變有很大的興趣他覺得很困難，我的意思是，畢竟他在那小屋的事已經是80年前了不論如何，他帶我們到下面的小路而那裏，他所記得之處，曾經是那間小屋子他流下了眼淚他看著那個小屋，我們進到了屋裡在屋子的旁邊有一些木板是他和他的父親以及哥哥以前晚上睡的地方他告訴我們，像所有的記憶突然泉湧而上他說 ""我記得袋狼們就在這小屋的周圍想著屋子裡到底有什麼""他們發出""Yip Yip Yip' 的叫聲這些都是他所記得的一部分人生但有一個很重要的問題我想問Peter""那些事情改變了嗎?' 答案是否定的南海灘的樹林包圍了他的小屋就像1926年時的情景到處都是草地也是袋狼習於生活的地方其實這些地方並無太大改變生態環境跟以前有袋狼時差不多所以我們能把袋狼放回去嗎？我想是可以的 但我們真的要這做嗎？這是一個有趣的問題也許你能把牠放回去但這真的是最好的確保牠不會再絕種的方法嗎？我不這麼認為我想逐漸地，當我們看著全世界的動物這有點像是一種詛咒野生動物在野外會越來越不安全我們想這麼覺得，但其實是時並不是我們需要別的計畫共同推動而這個計畫對我來說很有趣有些袋狼被送進動物園避難所，甚至博物館這些地方都把牠們套上頸圈當作寵物養我們聽過人們有很多傳說和回憶他們曾經把袋狼拿來當寵物養他們都覺得袋狼很棒，很友善這隻奇特的袋狼從森林裡跑來這裡舔這個男孩然後蜷身然後蜷身在火爐旁睡著 這是一隻野生動物我想在這問一個我們必須思考的問題如果養袋狼不曾是非法的話那袋狼現在會絕種嗎？我很肯定是不會的在現今的世界我們必須好好地想一想把動物養在身邊然後疼愛牠，這樣牠們就不會絕種了是嗎？這是一個至關重要的問題因為如果我們不這麼做我們會看到更多的物種在絕種的懸崖邊掙扎 就我所知，這也是為什麼我們要做這些計畫的原因之一我們想重建我們曾經打亂的大自然的平衡 謝謝 (掌聲)"
