Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_mcdaniel_cheap_effective_shelter_for_disaster_relief	"So, I'm going to start off with kind of the buzzkill a little bit. Forty-two million people were displaced by natural disasters in 2010. Now, there was nothing particularly special about 2010, because, on average, 31 and a half million people are displaced by natural disasters every single year. Now, usually when people hear statistics or stats like that, you start thinking about places like Haiti or other kind of exotic or maybe even impoverished areas, but it happens right here in the United States every single year. Last year alone, 99 federally declared disasters were on file with FEMA, from Joplin, Missouri, and Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to the Central Texas wildfires that just happened recently. Now, how does the most powerful country in the world handle these displaced people? They cram them onto cots, put all your personal belongings in a plastic garbage bag, stick it underneath, and put you on the floor of an entire sports arena, or a gymnasium. So obviously there's a massive housing gap, and this really upset me, because academia tells you after a major disaster, there's typically about an 18-month time frame to — we kinda recover, start the recovery process, but what most people don't realize is that on average it takes 45 to 60 days or more for the infamous FEMA trailers to even begin to show up. Before that time, people are left to their own devices. So I became obsessed with trying to figure out a way to actually fill this gap. This actually became my creative obsession. I put aside all my freelance work after hours and started just focusing particularly on this problem. So I started sketching. Two days after Katrina, I started sketching and sketching and trying to brainstorm up ideas or solutions for this, and as things started to congeal or ideas started to form, I started sketching digitally on the computer, but it was an obsession, so I couldn't just stop there. I started experimenting, making models, talking to experts in the field, taking their feedback, and refining, and I kept on refining and refining for nights and weekends for over five years. Now, my obsession ended up driving me to create full-size prototypes in my own backyard — (Laughter) — and actually spending my own personal savings on everything from tooling to patents and a variety of other costs, but in the end I ended up with this modular housing system that can react to any situation or disaster. It can be put up in any environment, from an asphalt parking lot to pastures or fields, because it doesn't require any special setup or specialty tools. Now, at the foundation and kind of the core of this whole system is the Exo Housing Unit, which is just the individual shelter module. And though it's light, light enough that you can actually lift it by hand and move it around, and it actually sleeps four people. And you can arrange these things as kind of more for encampments and more of a city grid type layout, or you can circle the wagons, essentially, and form these circular pods out of them, which give you this semi-private communal area for people to actually spill out into so they're not actually trapped inside these units. Now this fundamentally changes the way we respond to disasters, because gone are the horrid conditions inside a sports arena or a gymnasium, where people are crammed on these cots inside. Now we have instant neighborhoods outside. So the Exo is designed to be simply, basically like a coffee cup. They can actually stack together so we get extremely efficient transportation and storage out of them. In fact, 15 Exos can fit on a single semi truck by itself. This means the Exo can actually be transported and set up faster than any other housing option available today. But I'm obsessive, so I couldn't just stop there, so I actually started modifying the bunks where you could actually slide out the bunks and slide in desks or shelving, so the same unit can now be used for an office or storage location. The doors can actually swap out, so you can actually put on a rigid panel with a window unit in it for climate control, or a connector module that would allow you to actually connect multiple units together, which gives you larger and kind of compartmentalized living spaces, so now this same kit of parts, this same unit can actually serve as a living room, bedroom or bathroom, or an office, a living space and secure storage. Sounds like a great idea, but how do you make it real? So the first idea I had, initially, was just to go the federal and state governments and go, ""Here, take it, for free."" But I was quickly told that, ""Boy, our government doesn't really work like that."" (Laughter) Okay. Okay. So maybe I would start a nonprofit to kind of help consult and get this idea going along with the government, but then I was told, ""Son, our government looks to private sector for things like this."" Okay. So maybe I would take this whole idea and go to private corporations that would have this mutually shared benefit to it, but I was quickly told by some corporations that my personal passion project was not a brand fit because they didn't want their logos stamped across the ghettos of Haiti. Now, I wasn't just obsessed. I was outraged. (Laughter.) So I decided, kind of told myself, ""Oh yeah? Watch this. I'll do it myself."" (Laughter) Now, this quickly, my day job sent me to work out of our Milan office for a few months, so I was like, what will I do? So I actually scheduled sleep on my calendar, and spent the 8-hour time difference on conference calls with material suppliers, manufacturers and potential customers. And we found through this whole process, we found this great little manufacturer in Virginia, and if his body language is any indication, that's the owner — (Laughter) — of what it's like for a manufacturer to work directly with a designer, you've got to see what happens here. (Laughter) But G.S. Industries was fantastic. They actually built three prototypes for us by hand. So now we have prototypes that can show that four people can actually sleep securely and much more comfortably than a tent could ever provide. And they actually shipped them here to Texas for us. Now, a funny thing started happening. Other people started to believe in what we were doing, and actually offered us hangar space, donated hangar space to us. And then the Georgetown Airport Authority was bent over backwards to help us with anything we needed. So now we had a hangar space to work in, and prototypes to demo with. So in one year, we've negotiated manufacturing agreements, been awarded one patent, filed our second patent, talked to multiple people, demoed this to FEMA and its consultants to rave reviews, and then started talking to some other people who requested information, this little group called the United Nations. And on top of that, now we have a whole plethora of other individuals that have come up and started to talk to us from doing it for mining camps, mobile youth hostels, right down to the World Cup and the Olympics. So, in closing, on this whole thing here is hopefully very soon we will not have to respond to these painful phone calls that we get after disasters where we don't really have anything to sell or give you yet. Hopefully very soon we will be there, because we are destined, obsessed with making it real. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要以一個掃興的事實來開講4200 萬人在 2010 年發生的自然災害中流離失所但 2010 年並沒有特別倒楣因為每年平均有 3150 萬人在自然災害中流離失所人們聽到這樣的統計資料通常會想到像海地這樣的外國或者是更遙遠、更貧困的地區然而這卻是每年發生在美國境內的數量僅去年一年，聯邦應急管理署 (FEMA) 認定並登記在案的天災有 99 件從密蘇里州的喬普林阿拉巴馬州的塔斯卡羅薩的龍捲風到最近發生在德州中部的野火這個全世界最強勢的國家又是怎樣安置災民的呢？他們讓災民塞在簡易窄床上，把你所有的東西裝進一個塑膠垃圾袋，塞在床下然後讓你住在體育場或者體育館的地板上 顯然，這是一個很大的居住匱乏問題這讓我非常痛心，因為學術界告訴我們在重大災害發生後，一般來說大概經過 18 個月後，我們才開始恢復開始重建過程但大多數人都不知道惡名昭彰的聯邦應急管理署平均要花45 到 60 天或更多的時間，才會派拖車到現場在這之前，災民只能自己想辦法 因此我沉迷於找出一個好辦法來填補這個缺口這件事讓我成為了創意狂熱者我推掉了所有的兼職工作開始專心研究這個問題 我開始畫草圖在卡崔娜颶風發生的兩天後，我開始整日畫著草圖試著腦力激盪出解決方案當想法開始成形我開始用電腦來繪圖我沉迷其中，無法就此停手我開始做實驗、做模型諮詢這個領域的專家，接受他們的反饋意見去蕪存菁，不斷改善利用晚上和週末的時間，研究了五年多 最終，我的狂熱導致我在自家後院裡製造了等比例的樣品模型（笑聲）花的是我自己的儲蓄來購買工具、申請專利以及負擔其他的各種成本最終我完成了這個組合式的房屋系統可以對任何情形或災害做出緊急應變它適用於任何環境包括柏油路面的停車場，或是草地、田野因為它無需任何特殊搭建或者特殊工具 整個系統的基礎與核心是 Exo 居住小屋是獨立的避難模組它的重量非常輕可以徒手舉起、搬動還能住進四個人 你可以將這些居住小屋安排成營地或是市景街道的棋盤式格局也可以圍成一圈可以如圖所示排列這樣就能形成一個半私密的公共區域人們可以在這裡透透氣而不必把自己關在小屋裡 這個發明從根本上改變了我們應對災害的方式因為體育場館裡的混亂狀況將不復存在人們不再需要擠在那些簡易窄床上我們在室外就有現成的社區 Exo 小屋基本上被設計成咖啡杯的樣子，能夠逐個疊起來所以運輸和儲存就變得效率非凡事實上，1.5 輛卡車就可以裝下 15 個 Exo 小屋這就意味著運輸和組裝 Exo 小屋比現有的任何一種組合屋都要快速但是我已深陷其中，無法就此罷手所以我開始調整床舖的位置以便能把床鋪方便地替換成桌子和擱架這樣一來同樣的小屋就能作為辦公室或儲藏室了門板也可以輕易拆卸所以你可以換成有窗戶的硬板來配合天氣做變化或者換成一種連接模組讓你可以組合這些小屋形成更大且可劃分的生活空間如此一來，同樣的組件，同樣的小屋可以作為客廳、臥房、浴室或是辦公室可以是居住的空間和安全的倉庫 聽起來是很好的想法，但如何實現呢？我的第一個想法就是去聯邦政府和州政府遊說「免費拿去用吧！」但很快我就被告知：「小夥子，我們的政府可不能這樣辦事。」（笑聲）好吧……我也許能設立一個非營利性組織向政府推廣這個想法，提供諮詢服務但我又被告知「小夥子，我們的政府只會向私營部門進行這種採購。」好吧……也許我該把我的想法分享給能夠創造雙贏局面的私營部門但很快我就聽一些公司說我個人的熱血計畫不符合他們的品牌訴求因為他們不想讓自己的商標遍佈海地的貧民區 這下我就不只是被迷惑了，我被激怒了！（笑聲）我暗自下定決心「哦，是嗎？走著瞧吧，我自己來！」（笑聲）不久之後，我的全職工作讓我離開米蘭的辦公室工作幾個月我問自己，能不能做點什麼？於是我在日曆列上睡眠的行程然後利用 8 小時的時差進行電話會議聯繫原料供應商、製造商和潛在客戶經過這段努力的過程我們找到了這家位在維吉尼亞州的優秀小廠商從這個人的動作可以看出他就是老闆（笑聲）這就是建築商與設計師直接共事的情形你們一定要看看這裡發生什麼事（笑聲） G.S 工業是一家了不起的企業他們用手工做出了三個樣品模型因此，我們現在擁有了展示模型顯示小屋可以安全地容納四個人生活這種生活也比以往住帳篷的方式要舒服得多他們把模型運來德州這時，一件有趣的事情發生了別人開始相信我們所做的事有人捐了一個停機棚給我們喬治城機場管理局也不遺餘力地幫助我們提供我們需要的一切現在我們能在停機棚裡工作也有展示模型 不出一年，我們談妥生產合約獲得一項專利，申請了第二項專利與各種各樣的人交流向聯邦應急管理署展示模型該署的諮詢師（對模型）給予很高的評價還把我們介紹給前來諮詢稱為聯合國的小團體除此之外還有無數的個人找到我們談合作包括採礦基地流動的青年旅館，供給世界盃和奧運會使用總而言之，至今為止發生的一切讓我們很可能不用再苦苦應付那些災後充滿痛苦的來電而拿不出任何可供銷售或捐贈的東西來應對災難我希望不久之後我們就能趕赴現場因為我們註定且狂熱地要讓夢想成真謝謝大家（掌聲）
