Talk	en	zh-tw
mick_ebeling_the_invention_that_unlocked_a_locked_in_artist	"I have had the distinct blessing in my life to have worked on a bunch of amazing projects. But the coolest I ever worked on was around this guy. This guy's name is TEMPT. TEMPT was one of the foremost graffiti artists in the 80s. And he came up home from a run one day and said, ""Dad, my legs are tingling."" And that was the onset of ALS. So TEMPT is now completely paralyzed. He only has use of his eyes. I was exposed to him. I have a company that does design and animation, so obviously graffiti is definitely an intricate part of what we admire and respect in the art world. And so we decided that we were going to sponsor Tony, TEMPT, and his cause. So I went and met with his brother and father and said, ""We're going to give you this money. What are you going to do with it?"" And his brother said, ""I just want to be able to talk to Tony again. I just want to be able to communicate with him and him to be able to communicate with me."" And I said, ""Wait a second, isn't that — I've seen Stephen Hawking — don't all paralyzed people have the ability to communicate via these devices?"" And he said, ""No, unless you're in the upper echelon and you've got really amazing insurance, you can't actually do that. These devices aren't accessible to people."" And I said, ""Well, how do you actually communicate?"" Has everyone seen the movie ""The Diving Bell and the Butterfly?"" That's how they communicate — so run their finger along. I said, ""That's archaic. How can that be?"" So I showed up with the desire to just write a check, and instead, I wrote a check that I had no freaking idea how I was going to cash. I committed to his brother and his father right then and there — I'm like, ""All right, here's the deal: Tony's going to speak, we're going to get him a machine, and we're going to figure out a way for him to do his art again. Because it's a travesty that someone who still has all of that in him isn't able to communicate it."" So I spoke at a conference a couple months after that. I met these guys called GRL, Graffiti Research Lab, and they have a technology that allows them to project a light onto any surface and then, with a laser pointer, draw on it, and it just registers the negative space. So they go around and do art installations like this. All the things that go up there, they said there's a life cycle. First it starts with the sexual organs, then it starts with cuss words, then it was Bush slanders and then people actually got to art. But there was always a life cycle to their presentations. So I went home and was having dinner with my wife and was telling her about this, and we were like, ""Well wait a second. If we know that this technology exists where you can use your eyes to control things, why don't we figure out a way for TEMPT to control a laser and he could do graf again? Well that would be awesome."" So that started the journey. And about two years later, about a year later, after a bunch of organization and a bunch of moving things around, we'd accomplished a couple things. One, we battered down the doors of the insurance companies, and we actually got TEMPT a machine that let him communicate — a Stephen Hawking machine. (Applause) Which was awesome. And he's seriously one of the funniest — I call him Yoda, because you talk to the guy, you get an email from him, and you're like, ""I'm not worthy. This guy's so amazing."" The other thing we did is we flew seven programmers from all over the world — literally every corner of the world — into our house. My wife and kids and I moved to our back garage, and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists took over our house. A lot of our friends thought we were absolutely stupid to do that and that we were going to come back and all the pictures on the wall would be removed and graf on the walls. But for over two weeks, we programmed, we went to the Venice boardwalk, my kids got involved, my dog got involved, and we created this. This is called the EyeWriter, and you can see the description. This is a cheap pair of sunglasses that we bought at the Venice Beach boardwalk, some copper wire and some stuff from Home Depot and Radio Shack. We took a PS3 camera, hacked it open, mounted it to an LED light, and now there's a device that is free — you build this yourself, we publish the code for free, you download the software for free. And now we've created a device that has absolutely no limitations. There's no insurance company that can say ""No."" There's no hospital that can say ""No."" Anybody who's paralyzed now has access to actually draw or communicate using only their eyes. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you guys very much. That was awesome. So at the end of the two weeks, we went back to TEMPT's room. I love this picture, because this is someone else's room and that's his room. So there's all this hustle and bustle going on for the big unveiling. And after over a year of planning, two weeks of programming, carb-fest and all-night sessions, Tony drew again for the first time in seven years. And this is an amazing picture, because this is his life support system, and he's looking over his life support system. We kicked his bed so that he could see out. And we set up a projector on a wall out in the parking lot outside of his hospital. And he drew again for the first time, in front of his family and friends — and you can only imagine what the feeling in the parking lot was. The funny thing was, we had to break into the parking lot too, so we totally felt like we were legit in the whole graf scene too. (Laughter) So at the end of this, he sent us an email, and this is what the email said: ""That was the first time I've drawn anything for seven years. I feel like I had been held underwater, and someone finally reached down and pulled my head up so I could breathe."" Isn't that awesome? (Applause) So that's kind of our battle cry. That's what keeps us going and keeps us developing. And we've got such a long way to go with this. This is an amazing device, but it's the equivalent of an Etch A Sketch. And someone who has that kind of artistic potential deserves so much more. So we're in the process of trying to figure out how to make it better, faster, stronger. Since that time, we've had all kinds of acknowledgment. We've won a bunch of awards. Remember, it's free; none of us are making any money on this thing. It's all coming out of our own pockets. So the awards were like, ""Oh, this is fantastic."" Armstrong Twittered about us, and then in December, Time magazine honored us as one of the top 50 inventions of 2010, which was really cool. (Applause) The coolest thing about this — and this is what's completing the whole circle — is that in April of this year, at the Geffen MOCA in downtown Los Angeles, there's going to be an exhibition called ""Art of the Streets."" And ""Art of the Streets"" is going to have pretty much the bad-asses of the street art scene — Banksy, Shepard Fairey, KAWS — all of these guys will be there. TEMPT's going to be in the show, which is pretty awesome. (Applause) So basically this is my point: If you see something that's not possible, make it possible. Everything in this room wasn't possible — this stage, this computer, this mic, the EyeWriter — wasn't possible at one point. Make it possible, everyone in this room. I'm not a programmer, never done anything with ocular recognition technology, but I just recognized something and associated myself with amazing people so that we could make something happen. And this is the question I want everyone to ask yourself every single day when you come up with something you feel that needs to be done: if not now, then when? And if not me, then who? Thank you guys. (Applause)"	"一直以來我都特別幸運能夠做一些很棒的計畫但是我做過最酷的計劃是跟這個人有關這個人名叫TEMPTTEMPT在80年代是最好的塗鴉藝術家之一有一天他跑步完回到家對他爸爸說：“爸，我的雙腿麻麻的”那就是ALS（漸凍症）的前兆現在TEMPT完全癱瘓了只有眼睛能動 我認識他是因為我的公司是做設計跟動畫的所以顯然對塗鴉藝術這塊精細的領域也很景仰所以我們決定要贊助Tony（就是TEMPT），幫助他的情況所以我去見了他的兄弟跟父親對他們說：”我們打算給你們這筆錢“”你們要怎麼用呢？“他的兄弟說：”我就是想能再跟Tony說說話“”只是想能跟他溝通“”而他也能跟我溝通“我說：”等等，這不是⋯我見過史蒂芬·霍金“”不是所有癱瘓的人都可以藉由這些儀器“”與人溝通嗎？”他說：“不是啊，除非你是上流階級”“有超好的保險”“不然是做不到的”“因為你負擔不起這些儀器”於是我說：“好吧，那你們是怎麼溝通的？”有人看過“潛水鐘與蝴蝶”這部電影嗎？那就是他們溝通的方法 －動手指我說：“那也太落後了吧！怎麼會這樣？” 我當時出現只是想開張支票然而，我卻寫了一張完全不知道該如何兌現的支票我當時向他的兄弟跟父親承諾我說：“好，就這麼辦吧 － ”“Tony要說話，我們會給他一台儀器“”而且我們還要想辦法讓他能再度創作“”因為最大的悲劇，莫過於一個仍然才華洋溢的藝術家“”卻沒有辦法揮灑“ 所以幾個月後我在一場研討會上演講我碰到這些叫GRL的人”塗鴉研究實驗室“ （GRL）他們有一個技術可以讓他們把光投影在任何物體的表面上然後用一枝雷射筆在上面畫就可以在陰影的地方造成明暗對比所以他們到處去做這樣的藝術裝置他們說他們所有的作品都有""生命周期""首先從性器官開始然後是髒話接著是罵小布希的話然後才真正到藝術的部份他們的作品一定都有一個生命周期我回到家跟太太吃晚飯邊吃邊聊到這個突然我們靈光一現：“如果現在有這個技術”“可以讓人用眼睛操控東西“”為什麼我們不想個法子讓TEMPT操控雷射““那他就可以重拾畫筆，這豈不很讚！“ 於是整個過程就開始了大約二年後，一年後在經歷過幾個機構和一些奔走之後我們有了幾項成就第一，我們幾乎把保險公司的大門敲破真給TEMPT弄來一部機器讓他能跟外界溝通－就是史蒂芬·霍金的那種（掌聲）這太棒了他真的是很幽默－我都叫他尤達（星際大戰的大師）因為當你跟他說話，收到他的email你會覺得：”我真不配，這傢伙太厲害了“ 我們做的另一件事是從世界各地找來七個程式設計師真的是從世界各個角落請他們來我們家我太太還有小孩，我們全家都搬到車庫去然後這些駭客、程式設計師、陰謀論者和無政府主義者，佔領了我們家很多朋友都覺得我們做這件事很蠢覺得等我們回來後就會發現牆上所有的照片都被搬走了，只留下一堆塗鴉然而二個多星期以來我們寫程式我們去洛杉磯的威尼斯海灘步道我的小孩加入我們連狗也參一腳然後我們創造了這個 叫做EyeWriter你們可以看這個關於它的描述這是一副便宜的太陽眼鏡我們在威尼斯海灘步道買的裝了些銅線，和一些從Home Depot（美國的”特力屋“）及Radio Shack（美國連鎖電器行）買來的東西我們拆解了一個PS3的攝影機把它裝在一個LED燈上於是這個裝置就產生了，還是免費的你可以DIY，我們免費開放程式碼你可以免費下載這個軟體我們創造的這個裝置完全沒有限制沒有保險公司可以說 “不”沒有醫院可以說 “不”任何癱瘓的人現在都可以用他們的眼睛去畫畫或是溝通 （掌聲） （謝謝）剛那樣太棒了，非常感謝！ 二週後我們回到TEMPT的病房我喜歡這張照片，因為這是別人的房間那是他的房間（一靜一動的對照）所有騷動都是為了”揭曉“的這一刻經過一年的計畫、二週的程式設計、以及高熱量大餐和熬夜Tony七年來首度能再提筆這張照片很棒吧這是他的維生系統他的視線越過維生系統我們升高他的床，好讓他可以看到外面我們也架起了一部投影機就在醫院外的停車場這是他癱瘓後第一次在親朋好友面前作畫你們可以想像我們在停車場那裡是怎樣的心情有趣的是，我們還是偷闖進停車場的所以我們完全覺得自己也是整個“塗鴉文化”的一部分 （笑聲） 這些事結束之後，他寄了封email給我們這是那封信的內容：”那是七年來我第一次能再度畫畫“”我感覺自己像是溺水了很久“”終於有人拉我一把“”讓我可以浮出水面，再度呼吸“這是不是很棒？！ （掌聲） 那封信激勵了我們的士氣支持著我們不斷進步靠這個我們已經向前跨了一大步這是個了不起的裝置但是它跟一個繪圖玩具差不多而一位如此有藝術潛能的人實在應該得到更好的所以我們正在研究如何使它更好、更快、更耐用 自那以後，我們獲得各方認可也得了一些獎請記得，只是免費的；我們沒有一個人從中獲利所有都是我們自掏腰包所以這些獎讓我們覺得：“噢，太好了”藍斯·阿姆斯壯在微博上提到我們12月的時代雜誌也推崇我們是2010年50大發明之一，這真的很酷 （掌聲） 最酷的是 -而且這個將使一切得以圓滿 -就是在今年四月在洛杉磯市中心的現代美術館將有一項“街頭藝術”的展覽而且這項展覽將請到幾乎所有街頭藝術界的大咖Banksy，Shepard Fairey，CAWs等等這些傢伙都會出席TEMPT也會去這真是太棒了 （掌聲） 所以我的重點是如果某件事看似不可能使它成爲可能這間房裏的所有東西在以前都不可能 -這個舞臺、電腦、麥克風、這個EyeWriter -曾幾何時都不可能使它成爲可能 - 是我們每一個人都可以做的我不是程式設計師從來也沒做過跟視覺辨識技術有關的東西我只是察覺到了什麽，然後主動結識一群了不起的人使一件事情成爲可能這個問題我希望在座的每一個人每天都可以問自己一遍當你想到某件事非做不可時若非此時，更待何時？捨我，其誰？ 謝謝大家 （掌聲）"
