Talk	en	zh-tw
miguel_nicolelis_brain_to_brain_communication_has_arrived_how_we_did_it	"On June 12, 2014, precisely at 3:33 in a balmy winter afternoon in São Paulo, Brazil, a typical South American winter afternoon, this kid, this young man  that you see celebrating here like he had scored a goal, Juliano Pinto, 29 years old, accomplished a magnificent deed. Despite being paralyzed and not having any sensation from mid-chest to the tip of his toes as the result of a car crash six years ago that killed his brother and produced a complete spinal cord lesion that left Juliano in a wheelchair, Juliano rose to the occasion, and on this day did something that pretty much everybody that saw him  in the six years deemed impossible. Juliano Pinto delivered the opening kick of the 2014 Brazilian  World Soccer Cup here just by thinking. He could not move his body, but he could imagine the movements needed to kick a ball. He was an athlete before the lesion. He's a para-athlete right now. He's going to be in the Paralympic Games, I hope, in a couple years. But what the spinal cord lesion  did not rob from Juliano was his ability to dream. And dream he did that afternoon, for a stadium of about 75,000 people and an audience of close to a billion watching on TV. And that kick crowned, basically, 30 years of basic research studying how the brain, how this amazing universe that we have between our ears that is only comparable to universe that we have above our head because it has about 100 billion elements talking to each other through electrical brainstorms, what Juliano accomplished took 30 years to imagine in laboratories and about 15 years to plan. When John Chapin and I, 15 years ago, proposed in a paper that we would build something that we called a brain-machine interface, meaning connecting a brain to devices so that animals and humans could just move these devices, no matter how far they are from their own bodies, just by imagining what they want to do, our colleagues told us that we actually needed professional help, of the psychiatry variety. And despite that, a Scot and a Brazilian persevered, because that's how we were raised in our respective countries, and for 12, 15 years, we made demonstration after demonstration suggesting that this was possible. And a brain-machine interface is not rocket science, it's just brain research. It's nothing but using sensors to read the electrical brainstorms that a brain is producing to generate the motor commands that have to be downloaded to the spinal cord, so we projected sensors that can read hundreds and now thousands of these brain cells simultaneously, and extract from these electrical signals the motor planning that the brain is generating to actually make us move into space. And by doing that, we converted these signals into digital commands that any mechanical, electronic, or even a virtual device can understand so that the subject can imagine what he, she or it wants to make move, and the device obeys that brain command. By sensorizing these devices with lots of different types of sensors, as you are going to see in a moment, we actually sent messages back to the brain to confirm that that voluntary motor will was being enacted, no matter where — next to the subject, next door, or across the planet. And as this message gave feedback back to the brain, the brain realized its goal: to make us move. So this is just one experiment that we published a few years ago, where a monkey, without moving its body, learned to control the movements of an avatar arm, a virtual arm that doesn't exist. What you're listening to is the sound of the brain of this monkey as it explores three different visually identical spheres in virtual space. And to get a reward, a drop of orange juice that monkeys love, this animal has to detect, select one of these objects by touching, not by seeing it, by touching it, because every time this virtual hand touches one of the objects, an electrical pulse goes back to the brain of the animal describing the fine texture of the surface of this object, so the animal can judge what is  the correct object that he has to grab, and if he does that, he gets a reward without moving a muscle. The perfect Brazilian lunch: not moving a muscle and getting your orange juice. So as we saw this happening, we actually came and proposed the idea that we had published 15 years ago. We reenacted this paper. We got it out of the drawers, and we proposed that perhaps we could get a human being that is paralyzed to actually use the brain-machine interface to regain mobility. The idea was that if you suffered — and that can happen to any one of us. Let me tell you, it's very sudden. It's a millisecond of a collision, a car accident that transforms your life completely. If you have a complete lesion of the spinal cord, you cannot move because your brainstorms cannot reach your muscles. However, your brainstorms continue to be generated in your head. Paraplegic, quadriplegic patients dream about moving every night. They have that inside their head. The problem is how to get that code out of it and make the movement be created again. So what we proposed was, let's create a new body. Let's create a robotic vest. And that's exactly why Juliano could kick that ball just by thinking, because he was wearing the first brain-controlled robotic vest that can be used by paraplegic, quadriplegic patients to move and to regain feedback. That was the original idea, 15 years ago. What I'm going to show you is how 156 people from 25 countries all over the five continents of this beautiful Earth, dropped their lives, dropped their patents, dropped their dogs, wives, kids, school, jobs, and congregated to come to Brazil for 18 months to actually get this done. Because a couple years after Brazil was awarded the World Cup, we heard that the Brazilian government wanted to do something meaningful in the opening ceremony in the country that reinvented and perfected soccer until we met the Germans, of course. (Laughter) But that's a different talk, and a different neuroscientist needs to talk about that. But what Brazil wanted to do is to showcase a completely different country, a country that values science and technology, and can give a gift to millions, 25 million people around the world that cannot move any longer because of a spinal cord injury. Well, we went to the Brazilian government and to FIFA and proposed, well, let's have the kickoff of the 2014 World Cup be given by a Brazilian paraplegic using a brain-controlled exoskeleton that allows him to kick the ball and to feel the contact of the ball. They looked at us, thought that we were completely nuts, and said, ""Okay, let's try."" We had 18 months to do everything from zero, from scratch. We had no exoskeleton, we had no patients, we had nothing done. These people came all together and in 18 months, we got eight patients in a routine of training and basically built from nothing this guy, that we call Bra-Santos Dumont 1. The first brain-controlled exoskeleton to be built was named after the most famous Brazilian scientist ever, Alberto Santos Dumont, who, on October 19, 1901, created and flew himself the first controlled airship on air in Paris for a million people to see. Sorry, my American friends, I live in North Carolina, but it was two years before the Wright Brothers flew on the coast of North Carolina. (Applause) Flight control is Brazilian. (Laughter) So we went together with these guys and we basically put this exoskeleton together, 15 degrees of freedom, hydraulic machine that can be commanded by brain signals recorded by a non-invasive technology called electroencephalography that can basically allow the patient to imagine the movements and send his commands to the controls, the motors, and get it done. This exoskeleton was covered with an artificial skin invented by Gordon Cheng, one of my greatest friends, in Munich, to allow sensation from the joints moving and the foot touching the ground to be delivered back to the patient through a vest, a shirt. It is a smart shirt with micro-vibrating elements that basically delivers the feedback and fools the patient's brain by creating a sensation that it is not a machine that is carrying him, but it is he who is walking again. So we got this going, and what you'll see here is the first time one of our patients, Bruno, actually walked. And he takes a few seconds because we are setting everything, and you are going to see a blue light cutting in front of the helmet because Bruno is going to imagine the movement that needs to be performed, the computer is going to analyze it, Bruno is going to certify it, and when it is certified, the device starts moving under the command of Bruno's brain. And he just got it right, and now he starts walking. After nine years without being able to move, he is walking by himself. And more than that — (Applause) — more than just walking, he is feeling the ground, and if the speed of the exo goes up, he tells us that he is walking again on the sand of Santos, the beach resort where he used to go before he had the accident. That's why the brain is creating a new sensation in Bruno's head. So he walks, and at the end of the walk — I am running out of time already — he says, ""You know, guys, I need to borrow this thing from you when I get married, because I wanted to walk to the priest and see my bride and actually be there by myself. Of course, he will have it whenever he wants. And this is what we wanted to show during the World Cup, and couldn't, because for some mysterious reason, FIFA cut its broadcast in half. What you are going to see very quickly is Juliano Pinto in the exo doing the kick a few minutes before we went to the pitch and did the real thing in front of the entire crowd, and the lights you are going to see just describe the operation. Basically, the blue lights pulsating indicate that the exo is ready to go. It can receive thoughts and it can deliver feedback, and when Juliano makes the decision to kick the ball, you are going to see two streams of green and yellow light coming from the helmet and going to the legs, representing the mental commands that were taken by the exo to actually make that happen. And in basically 13 seconds, Juliano actually did. You can see the commands. He gets ready,  the ball is set, and he kicks. And the most amazing thing is, 10 seconds after he did that, and looked at us on the pitch, he told us, celebrating as you saw, ""I felt the ball."" And that's priceless. (Applause) So where is this going to go? I have two minutes to tell you that it's going to the limits of your imagination. Brain-actuating technology is here. This is the latest: We just published this a year ago, the first brain-to-brain interface that allows two animals to exchange mental messages so that one animal that sees something coming from the environment can send a mental SMS, a torpedo, a neurophysiological torpedo, to the second animal, and the second animal performs the act that he needed to perform without ever knowing what the environment was sending as a message, because the message came from the first animal's brain. So this is the first demo. I'm going to be very quick because I want to show you the latest. But what you see here is the first rat getting informed by a light that is going to show up on the left of the cage that he has to press the left cage to basically get a reward. He goes there and does it. And the same time, he is sending a mental message to the second rat that didn't see any light, and the second rat, in 70 percent of the times is going to press the left lever and get a reward without ever experiencing the light in the retina. Well, we took this to a little higher limit by getting monkeys to collaborate  mentally in a brain net, basically to donate their brain activity and combine them to move the virtual arm that I showed you before, and what you see here is the first time the two monkeys combine their brains, synchronize their brains perfectly to get this virtual arm to move. One monkey is controlling the x dimension, the other monkey is controlling the y dimension. But it gets a little more interesting when you get three monkeys in there and you ask one monkey to control x and y, the other monkey to control y and z, and the third one to control x and z, and you make them all play the game together, moving the arm in 3D into a target to get the famous Brazilian orange juice. And they actually do. The black dot is the average of all these brains working in parallel, in real time. That is the definition of a biological computer, interacting by brain activity and achieving a motor goal. Where is this going? We have no idea. We're just scientists. (Laughter) We are paid to be children, to basically go to the edge and discover what is out there. But one thing I know: One day, in a few decades, when our grandchildren surf the Net just by thinking, or a mother donates her eyesight to an autistic kid who cannot see, or somebody speaks because of a brain-to-brain bypass, some of you will remember that it all started on a winter afternoon in a Brazilian soccer field with an impossible kick. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Bruno Giussani: Miguel, thank you for sticking to your time. I actually would have given you a couple more minutes, because there are a couple of points we want to develop, and, of course, clearly it seems that we need connected  brains to figure out where this is going. So let's connect all this together. So if I'm understanding correctly, one of the monkeys is actually getting a signal and the other monkey is reacting to that signal just because the first one is receiving it and transmitting the neurological impulse. Miguel Nicolelis:  No, it's a little different. No monkey knows of the existence of the other two monkeys. They are getting a visual feedback in 2D, but the task they have to accomplish is 3D. They have to move an arm in three dimensions. But each monkey is only getting the two dimensions on the video screen that the monkey controls. And to get that thing done, you need at least two monkeys to synchronize their brains, but the ideal is three. So what we found out is that when one monkey starts slacking down, the other two monkeys enhance their performance to get the guy to come back, so this adjusts dynamically, but the global synchrony remains the same. Now, if you flip without telling the monkey the dimensions that each brain has to control, like this guy is controlling x and y, but he should be controlling now y and z, instantaneously, that animal's brain forgets about the old dimensions and it starts concentrating on the new dimensions. So what I need to say is that no Turing machine, no computer can predict what a brain net will do. So we will absorb technology as part of us. Technology will never absorb us. It's simply impossible. BG: How many times have you tested this? And how many times have you succeeded versus failed? MN: Oh, tens of times. With the three monkeys? Oh, several times. I wouldn't be able to talk about this here unless I had done it a few times. And I forgot to mention, because of time, that just three weeks ago, a European group just demonstrated the first man-to-man brain-to-brain connection. BG: And how does that play? MN: There was one bit of information — big ideas start in a humble way — but basically the brain activity of one subject was transmitted to a second object, all non-invasive technology. So the first subject got a message, like our rats, a visual message, and transmitted it to the second subject. The second subject received a magnetic pulse in the visual cortex, or a different pulse, two different pulses. In one pulse, the subject saw something. On the other pulse, he saw something different. And he was able to verbally indicate what was the message the first subject was sending through the Internet across continents. Moderator: Wow. Okay, that's where we are going. That's the next TED Talk at the next conference. Miguel Nicolelis, thank you. MN: Thank you, Bruno. Thank you."	2014 年 6 月 12 日，更準確地說是下午3 點 33 分，在巴西聖保羅的一個溫暖冬日午後，一個典型的南美洲冬天午後，這個孩子，如你所看到的像是他射了門般地慶祝的年輕人，29 歲的朱利亞諾·平托完成了一個偉大的創舉。雖然他全身癱瘓而且從胸部到腳尖都沒有任何知覺。這是 6 年前的一場車禍造成同時也奪去他弟弟的生命，車禍造成脊椎損傷，讓朱利亞諾·平托必需依靠輪椅，朱利亞諾克服萬難，並在這一天，做了一件在這六年內看到他的人都覺得不可思議的事情。朱利亞諾·平托在巴西替 2014 年世界足球盃開球，僅僅透過他腦中的思考來達成。他無法移動他的身體，但他卻可以想像踢球需要的動作。他在脊椎損傷之前是個運動員，他現在是個殘障運動員。他即將進入殘障奧運會比賽，我希望能在幾年內達成。脊椎損傷並沒有奪走朱利亞諾實現夢想的能力。在那個下午他夢想成真，在容納七萬五千人的體育場內，還有在將近十億電視機前的觀眾。 那關鍵一踢，基本上，表揚了三十年來對於腦部的基礎研究，這個我們兩耳間的神奇宇宙，是如何運作的研究。它是唯一能和我們頭頂上的宇宙媲美的，因為它有大約有千億個元素，互相透過腦內的電子流溝通著，讓朱利亞諾達成夢想花了三十年在實驗室的構思，和大概十五年的計畫。 當約翰·蔡平和我在十五年前在一篇論文中提出我們應該建造一種叫做「腦機介面」的東西，意思是連接頭腦和裝置，讓動物和人類可以移動這些裝置，不論這些裝置離自己的身體有多遠，只要透過思考來達到他們想做的事，我們的同事當時跟我們說我們需要來自精神醫學的專業協助。儘管如此，一個蘇格蘭人和巴西人的堅持，因為那是我們在我們的國家從小所接受的觀念，而接下來 12，15 年中，我們做出一次次的實驗，證明這是可行的。 而一個腦機介面並不像是火箭科學，它只是個腦部研究。它只是利用感測器讀懂大腦所產生的電子流以下達運動命令而這指令需要傳至脊椎。所以我們設計了可以同時讀懂幾百種，現在是數千種腦細胞的感測器，並從電子訊號中知道大腦正在產生的動作計畫讓我們移動到對的位置。如此一來，我們把這些訊息轉換成數字指令，讓任何機械、電子、甚至虛擬設備能理解，使得個體可以想像他或她想做的動作，這個設備就會服從大腦的命令。藉著在這些有很多感測器的設備加上感知能力，正如你們等一下就會看到的，我們事實上是把訊息傳回給大腦來確認，隨意移動意志會被啟動，不管在哪裡，像是在個體旁邊、隔壁、或是地球的另一端。而當這個訊息被回饋給大腦時，大腦就會發現他的目標是要讓我們移動。這是幾年前我們發表的一個實驗，實驗中一隻猴子不用透過移動牠的身體可以控制一個虛擬手臂的動作，這個虛擬手臂並不真的存在。你現在聽到的是這隻猴子大腦所發出的聲音在虛擬空間裡探索三個看起來相同的球體。猴子得到的獎賞是一滴牠喜歡的柳橙汁，這隻動物需要偵查，透過觸碰選取其中一個物體，不是透過觀看，而是透過觸摸，因為每一次這個虛擬的手碰到任一個物品時，一個電脈衝會傳回動物的大腦描述這個物品的表面材質，所以牠才能判斷哪一個才是牠要拿的正確物品，如果拿對了，牠可以不動用肌肉就獲得獎賞。一個完美的巴西式午餐：不動用肌肉就獲得你的柳橙汁。 當我們看見發生這種事情，事實上我們十五年前就提出這個想法並發表它。我們重現這篇論文。我們把文章從抽屜裡拿出來，然後我們提出，或許我們可以讓一個癱瘓的人實際使用腦機介面來重獲行動能力。這個概念是，萬一你為此所苦而這可能會發生在我們任何一個人身上。我跟你們說，世事難料。只要千分之一秒的撞擊， 一場車禍就會完全改變你的人生。如果你的脊椎完全損傷，你就不能動了，因為你腦中的電子訊號無法到達你的肌肉。然而，電子訊號還是持續在你腦中產生。半身或全身癱瘓的患者每晚都會夢到他們在移動。在他們腦中有那種移動的感覺。問題是要如何把這個密碼取出且讓動作可以再被創造出來。 所以我們提出的想法是，我們來做個新的身體。我們來做個機械背心。而這正是為什麼朱利亞諾可以僅透過思考來踢球，因為他穿著第一件大腦控制的機械背心。這背心可以讓半身或全身癱瘓的病人移動，並且重獲移動的反饋。 這是十五年前的原創想法。我現在要展現給你們的是來自這美麗地球五大洲25 個國家的 156 個人，他們拋下他們的生活，拋下他們的父母，拋下他們的狗、妻子、孩子、學校、工作，然後聚集在巴西，待了十八個月把這個完成。這是因為巴西獲得世界杯足球賽主辦權的幾年後，我們聽說巴西政府想要在開幕典禮上做一些有意義的事，在這個重建並完善足球運動的國家裡，當然，那是在我們碰到德國人之前。(笑聲)但那會是另一個演講，而且要有一個不同的神經科學家來講這件事。不過巴西當時想要做的事是展現一個完全不同的國家，一個重視科學與科技的國家，而且可以送個禮物給世界上二十五萬因為脊椎受傷而失去行動能力的人。我們去巴西政府和國際足協，提議讓一個巴西的半癱瘓者來為 2014 世界盃開球，使用一個大腦控制的外骨骼機器人來踢球並感覺與球的接觸。他們看著我們，覺得我們簡直是怪胎，然後說：「好吧，我們來試試看。」我們以 18 個月的時間來做所有的事情，從零、從無開始。我們沒有外骨骼機器人，沒有病人，我們什麼都沒有。那些人全部聚集在一起，然後在 18 個月內，我們對 8 個病人做日常訓練，並且基本上是從無開始，這個傢伙，我們稱它為「巴西－桑托斯杜蒙一號」。世界第一個大腦控制的外骨骼機器人是以巴西有史以來最有名的科學家，亞伯托‧桑托斯‧杜蒙來命名，他在 1901 年 10 月 19 日，駕駛自己所創造的第一架飛行器，在巴黎上空一百萬人的注視下飛行。不好意思，我的美國朋友們，我住在北卡羅萊納州，但萊特兄弟是在二年之後才飛過北卡羅萊納州海岸。（掌聲）飛行管制是巴西人建立的。(笑聲) 所以我們跟這些人一起把這個外骨骼機器人組起來，15 個自由度，液壓控制的機器，由大腦訊號所控制被一個非侵入性的科技，叫腦波儀所記錄下來。這可以讓病人來想像動作，然後傳遞他的指令到控制系統與運動神經，來把動作完成。這個外骨骼機器人被一層人造皮膚覆蓋。這是我在慕尼黑最優秀的朋友之一，戈登‧鄭所發明的。這個人造皮可以讓關節移動和腳掌接觸地面的感覺，透過背心或上衣傳回病人身上。這是一件有微震動元件的智慧衣服，衣服傳遞反饋，給病患的大腦產生假象。創造一種不是機器在移動人，而是人自己走路的感覺。 所以我們讓這機器人可以運作，然後你將會看到的是，我們其中一個病人，布魯諾，第一次行走。他花了幾秒的時間，因為我們要設定所有東西，接著你會看到頭罩前面有一道藍光，因為布魯諾需要想像移動所需要做的動作，電腦會分析這個動作，布魯諾會確認它，當它被確認之後，這個裝置開始在布魯諾大腦的命令下移動。現在他剛站好，然後他開始走。在九年不能移動之後，他開始自己走路。而且不只如此（掌聲）不只是走路，他能感受地面，當外骨骼機器人的速度變快，他告訴我們他像是再一次走在桑托斯的沙灘上，那是他發生意外之前習慣去的海灘度假區。這是為什麼布魯諾的大腦會創造出一個全新的感受。 他行走，在結束行走的時候我快沒時間了他說：「各位，我結婚的時候需要跟你們借這個東西，因為我想要走到神父面前去看我的新娘，而且是我本人在場。」當然，他隨時都可以擁有。 這是我們在世界盃很想展示卻沒有展示的東西，因為某些神祕的原因，國際足協把直播給減半了。各位即將看到的是朱里亞諾‧平托穿著外骨骼機器人踢球這是在我們調整好後的幾分鐘，而且是觀眾面前做這件事，你們即將看到藍光描述這個過程。基本上，藍色光閃爍代表外骨骼機器人已經準備好運作。它可以接受想法並且傳遞回饋，而當朱利亞諾做出踢球的決定時，你們將會看到二道綠光和黃光從頭罩流到腿，這代表外骨骼機器人已經接獲指令來讓動作真的產生。在 13 秒內，朱利亞諾就做到了。你可以看到那些指令。他準備好，球放好，然後他踢球。最令人訝異的是，在他做完十秒後，他看著主控台上的我們，他跟我們說，歡欣鼓舞就像你們看到的樣子，「我感覺到球了。」那真是無價。(掌聲) 所以這會怎麼發展下去?我有兩分鐘可以告訴你們，受限於各位想像力。腦驅動的科技就在這裡。這是最近的，我們一年前才發表，第一個腦對腦介面能讓兩隻動物交換心靈訊息。所以一隻動物從環境中看到某些東西，可以傳一個心靈簡訊，一個魚雷，一個神經生理的魚雷，給另一隻動物。然後第二隻動物做出牠需要做的反應，甚至不知道環境給了什麼訊息，因為訊息是從第一隻動物的腦傳出來的。 所以這是第一個展示，我要加快腳步因為我想要給你們看最新的。你們看到的是第一隻老鼠，被籠子左邊出現的光提示要按左邊籠子來獲得獎賞。牠走到那邊然後按下去。在這同時，牠傳送一個心靈訊息，給沒有看到任何光線的第二隻老鼠，而第二隻老鼠，在百分之七十的試驗裡，會去按左邊控制桿然後獲得獎賞，牠的視網膜完全沒有感應到光。 我們加深這個的難度，讓猴子們在一個大腦網路中合作，貢獻牠們的大腦活動，然後結合它們來移動我之前給你們看過的虛擬手臂，各位在這邊看到的是兩隻猴子第一次結合牠們的大腦，完美地同步牠們的大腦來使這隻虛擬手臂移動。一隻猴子控制 X 方向，另外一隻猴子控制 Y 方向。但有三隻猴子的時候，事情變得更有趣。一隻猴子控制 X 和 Y，另一隻控制 Y 和 Z，第三隻控制 X 和 Z，讓牠們一起玩這個遊戲，在虛擬 3D 空間中移動手臂來獲得有名的巴西柳橙汁。而牠們真的做到。黑點是這三隻猴子的大腦同時、即時運作的平均值。這是生物電腦的定義，透過大腦活動互動並達到一個動作目標。 這會發展到哪裡？我們並不知道。我們只是科學家。(笑聲)我們被付錢來當孩子，往前邁進並探索外面的世界。但有一件事情我知道：在幾十年內的某天，當我們的孫子只要透過「思考」就能上網，或是一個母親可以把視力分享給看不見的自閉症孩子，或是某人透過腦對腦的傳遞說話，各位之中的某些人將會想起這是由一個冬天下午，在巴西足球場上不可能的一球開始的。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲) 謝謝各位。 布魯諾‧朱薩尼：米奎爾，感謝你遵守時間。老實說我希望可以多給你幾分鐘，因為我們想要繼續探究幾個點，而且，當然，很顯然我們需要相連接的大腦來弄清楚這會發展到哪裡。所以我們來把這些全部串起來。如果我理解正確，一隻猴子實際上獲得訊號，另外二隻猴子對那個訊號做出反應，這是因為第一隻接收到訊號，然後傳送這個神經脈衝。 不是，這有一點不一樣。沒有猴子知道其他兩隻猴子的存在。牠們獲得二維的視覺回饋，但是牠們要完成的任務是在三維空間。牠們要在三維空間中移動一隻手臂，但是每隻猴子只會在螢幕上看到自己控制的兩個維度。而要完成那件事情，你需要至少兩隻猴子同步牠們的大腦，但是理想上是三隻。所以我們發現的是，當其中一隻猴子開始鬆懈，另外兩隻猴子會表現得更好來讓那隻鬆懈的猴子跟上來，所以這會動態調整，不過整體的同步還是維持一樣。現在，假設你改變每個大腦要控制的維度，而不告訴猴子，比方說這隻控制 X 跟 Y，但牠現在要控制 Y 跟 Z，這隻動物的大腦立即忘記舊的維度，而牠開始專注在新的維度。所以我必須講的是沒有任何圖靈機，沒有電腦可以預測一個大腦網路會做什麼。我們會把科技變成我們的一部份。科技無法吞噬我們。這是不可能的。 布魯諾：你們做了多少次測試？還有，你們成功和失敗多少次? 米奎爾：噢，幾十次。三隻猴子的？噢，好幾次。除非我做了好幾次，不然我沒有辦法在這邊講這個議題。因為時間的關係，我忘記提及，三週前，有一個歐洲的團隊，剛展示了第一個人腦對人腦的連結。布魯諾：那表現如何？米奎爾：有一點點消息， 大的點子都從簡單的方式開始但基本上其中一個受試者的大腦活動被傳到另一個受試者上，全部是非侵入式科技。第一個受試者獲得一個訊息，和我們的老鼠一樣，是視覺訊息，而後傳給第二個受試者。第二個受試者的視覺皮層接受到磁場脈衝，或是其它脈衝，二種不同的脈衝。在一個脈衝中，受試者看到某個東西，在另一個脈衝中，他看到不同的東西，而且他能夠口頭說明第一個受試者透過網際網路所傳遞的訊息是什麼。 主持人：哇。好，那就是我們未來的方向。這會是下個會議的 TED 演講。米奎爾‧尼可雷立斯，謝謝你。謝謝你，布魯諾。謝謝大家。
