Talk	en	zh-tw
mike_rowe_celebrates_dirty_jobs	"The ""Dirty Jobs"" crew and I were called to a little town in Colorado, called Craig. It's only a couple dozen square miles. It's in the Rockies. And the job in question was sheep rancher. My role on the show, for those of you who haven't seen it — it's pretty simple. I'm an apprentice, and I work with the people who do the jobs in question. And my responsibilities are to simply try and keep up, and give an honest account of what it's like to be these people for one day in their life. The job in question: herding sheep. Great. We go to Craig and we check into a hotel, and I realize the next day that castration is going to be an absolute part of this work. Normally, I never do any research at all. But this is a touchy subject, and I work for the Discovery Channel, and we want to portray accurately whatever it is we do. And we certainly want to do it with a lot of respect for the animals. So I call the Humane Society and I say, ""Look, I'm going to be castrating some lambs. Can you tell me the deal?"" And they're like, ""Yeah, it's pretty straightforward."" They use a band, basically, a rubber band, like this, only a little smaller. This one was actually around the playing cards I got yesterday — (Laughter) But it had a certain familiarity to it. And I said, ""Well, what exactly is the process?"" And they said, ""The band is applied to the tail, tightly. And then another band is applied to the scrotum, tightly. Blood flow is slowly retarded; a week later the parts in question fall off. ""Great — got it."" OK, I call the SPCA to confirm this. They confirm it. I also call PETA just for fun, and they don't like it, but they confirm it. OK, that's basically how you do it. So the next day I go out. And I'm given a horse and we go get the lambs and we take them to a pen that we built, and we go about the business of animal husbandry. Melanie is the wife of Albert. Albert is the shepherd in question. Melanie picks up the lamb, one hand on both legs on the right, likewise on the left. Lamb goes on the post, she opens it up. Alright. Great. Albert goes in, I follow Albert, the crew is around. I always watch the process done the first time before I try it. Being an apprentice, you know, you do that. Albert reaches in his pocket to pull out, you know, this black rubber band, but what comes out instead is a knife. And I'm like, ""Hmm, that's not rubber at all,"" you know? (Laughter) And he kind of flicked it open in a way that caught the sun that was just coming over the Rockies, it was very — (Laughter) It was ... it was impressive. In the space of about two seconds, Albert had the knife between the cartilage of the tail, right next to the butt of the lamb, and very quickly, the tail was gone and in the bucket that I was holding. A second later, with a big thumb and a well-calloused forefinger, he had the scrotum firmly in his grasp. And he pulled it toward him, like so, and he took the knife and he put it on the tip. ""Now, you think you know what's coming, Michael, You don't, OK?"" (Laughter) He snips it, throws the tip over his shoulder, and then grabs the scrotum and pushes it upward, and then his head dips down, obscuring my view. But what I hear is a slurping sound, and a noise that sounds like Velcro being yanked off a sticky wall, and I am not even kidding. Can we roll the video? No, I'm kidding, we don't — (Laughter) I thought it best to talk in pictures. I do something now I've never, ever done on a ""Dirty Jobs"" shoot, ever. I say, ""Time out. Stop."" You guys know the show, we use take one; we don't do take two. There's no writing, there's no scripting, there's no nonsense. We don't fool around, we don't rehearse — we shoot what we get! I said, ""Stop. This is nuts."" I mean — (Laughter) ""This is crazy. We can't do this."" And Albert's like, ""What?"" And I'm like, ""I don't know what just happened, but there are testicles in this bucket, and that's not how we do it."" He said ""Well, that's how we do it."" I said, ""Why would you do it this way?"" And before I even let him explain, I said, ""I want to do it the right way, with the rubber bands."" And he says, ""Like the Humane Society?"" I said, ""Yes, like the Humane Society. Let's do something that doesn't make the lamb squeal and bleed. We're on in five continents, dude! We're on twice a day on the Discovery — we can't do this."" He says, ""OK."" He goes to his box and pulls out a bag of these little rubber bands. Melanie picks up another lamb, puts it on the post, band goes on the tail, band goes on the scrotum. Lamb goes on the ground, lamb takes two steps, falls down, gets up, shakes a little, takes another couple steps, falls down. I'm like, this is not a good sign for this lamb, at all. Gets up, walks to the corner. It's quivering, and it lies down and it's in obvious distress. And I'm looking at the lamb and I say, ""Albert, how long? When does he get up?"" He's like, ""A day?"" I said, ""A day! How long does it take them to fall off?"" ""A week."" Meanwhile, the lamb that he had just done his little procedure on is, you know, he's just prancing around, bleeding stopped. He's, you know, nibbling on some grass, frolicking. And I was just so blown away at how completely wrong I was, in that second. And I was reminded how utterly wrong I am, so much of the time. (Laughter) And I was especially reminded of what a ridiculously short straw I had that day, because now I had to do what Albert had just done, and there are like 100 of these lambs in the pen. And suddenly, this whole thing's starting to feel like a German porno, and I'm like — (Laughter) Melanie picks up the lamb, puts it on the post, opens it up. Albert hands me the knife. I go in, tail comes off. I go in, I grab the scrotum, tip comes off. Albert instructs, ""Push it way up there."" I do. ""Push it further."" I do. The testicles emerge. They look like thumbs, coming right at you. And he says, ""Bite 'em. Just bite 'em off."" (Laughter) And I heard him, I heard all the words — (Laughter) Like, how did I get here? How did — I mean — how did I get here? It's just — it's one of those moments where the brain goes off on its own, and suddenly, I'm standing there in the Rockies, and all I can think of is the Aristotelian definition of a tragedy. You know, Aristotle says a tragedy is that moment when the hero comes face to face with his true identity. (Laughter) And I'm like, ""What is this jacked-up metaphor? I don't like what I'm thinking right now."" And I can't get this thought out of my head, and I can't get that vision out of my sight, so I did what I had to do. I went in and I took them. I took them like this, and I yanked my head back. And I'm standing there with two testicles on my chin. (Laughter) And now I can't get — I can't shake the metaphor. I'm still in ""Poetics,"" in Aristotle, and I'm thinking — out of nowhere, two terms come crashing into my head, that I hadn't heard since my classics professor in college drilled them there. And they are ""anagnorisis"" and ""peripeteia."" Anagnorisis and peripeteia. Anagnorisis is the Greek word for discovery. Literally, the transition from ignorance to knowledge is anagnorisis. It's what our network does; it's what ""Dirty Jobs"" is. And I'm up to my neck in anagnorises every single day. Great. The other word, peripeteia, that's the moment in the great tragedies — Euripides and Sophocles. That's the moment where Oedipus has his moment, where he suddenly realizes that hot chick he's been sleeping with and having babies with is his mother. That's peripety, or peripeteia. And this metaphor in my head — I've got anagnorisis and peripeteia on my chin — (Laughter) I've got to tell you, it's such a great device, though. When you start to look for peripeteia, you find it everywhere. I mean, Bruce Willis in ""The Sixth Sense,"" right? Spends the whole movie trying to help the little kid who sees dead people, and then — boom! — ""Oh, I'm dead."" Peripeteia. You know? It's crushing when the audience sees it the right way. Neo in ""The Matrix,"" you know? ""Oh, I'm living in a computer program. That's weird."" These discoveries that lead to sudden realizations. And I've been having them, over 200 dirty jobs, I have them all the time, but that one — that one drilled something home in a way that I just wasn't prepared for. And, as I stood there, looking at the happy lamb that I had just defiled — but it looked OK; looking at that poor other little thing that I'd done it the right way on, and I just was struck by — if I'm wrong about that, and if I'm wrong so often, in a literal way, what other peripatetic misconceptions might I be able to comment upon? Because, look — I'm not a social anthropologist, but I have a friend who is. And I talk to him. (Laughter) And he says, ""Hey Mike, look. I don't know if your brain is interested in this sort of thing or not, but do you realize you've shot in every state? You've worked in mining, you've worked in fishing, you've worked in steel, you've worked in every major industry. You've had your back shoulder to shoulder with these guys that our politicians are desperate to relate to every four years, right?"" I can still see Hillary doing the shots of rye, dribbling down her chin, with the steel workers. I mean, these are the people that I work with every single day. ""And if you have something to say about their thoughts, collectively, it might be time to think about it. Because, dude, you know, four years."" So, that's in my head, testicles are on my chin, thoughts are bouncing around. And, after that shoot, ""Dirty Jobs"" really didn't change, in terms of what the show is, but it changed for me, personally. And now, when I talk about the show, I no longer just tell the story you heard and 190 like it. I do, but I also start to talk about some of the other things I got wrong; some of the other notions of work that I've just been assuming are sacrosanct, and they're not. People with dirty jobs are happier than you think. As a group, they're the happiest people I know. And I don't want to start whistling ""Look for the Union Label,"" and all that happy-worker crap. I'm just telling you that these are balanced people who do unthinkable work. Roadkill picker-uppers whistle while they work, I swear to God — I did it with them. They've got this amazing sort of symmetry to their life. And I see it over and over and over again. So I started to wonder what would happen if we challenged some of these sacred cows? Follow your passion — we've been talking about it here for the last 36 hours. Follow your passion — what could possibly be wrong with that? It's probably the worst advice I ever got. (Laughter) Follow your dreams and go broke, right? I mean, that's all I heard growing up. I didn't know what to do with my life, but I was told if you follow your passion, it's going to work out. I can give you 30 examples right now. Bob Combs, the pig farmer in Las Vegas who collects the uneaten scraps of food from the casinos and feeds them to his swine. Why? Because there's so much protein in the stuff we don't eat, his pigs grow at twice the normal speed, and he's one rich pig farmer. He's good for the environment, he spends his days doing this incredible service, and he smells like hell, but God bless him. He's making a great living. You ask him, ""Did you follow your passion here?"" and he'd laugh at you. The guy's worth — he just got offered like 60 million dollars for his farm and turned it down, outside of Vegas. He didn't follow his passion. He stepped back and he watched where everybody was going, and he went the other way. And I hear that story over and over. Matt Freund, a dairy farmer in New Canaan, Connecticut, who woke up one day and realized the crap from his cows was worth more than their milk, if he could use it to make these biodegradable flowerpots. Now he's selling them to Walmart, right? Follow his passion? The guy's — come on. So I started to look at passion, I started to look at efficiency vs. effectiveness. As Tim talked about earlier, that's a huge distinction. I started to look at teamwork and determination. And basically, all those platitudes they call ""successories"" that hang with that schmaltzy art in boardrooms around the world right now, that stuff — it's suddenly all been turned on its head. Safety. Safety first is ... Going back to OSHA and PETA and the Humane Society: What if OSHA got it wrong? I mean — this is heresy, what I'm about to say — but what if it's really safety third? Right? (Laughter) No, I mean, really. What I mean to say is: I value my safety on these crazy jobs as much as the people that I'm working with, but the ones who really get it done — they're not out there talking about safety first. They know that other things come first — the business of doing the work comes first, the business of getting it done. And I'll never forget, up in the Bering Sea, I was on a crab boat with the ""Deadliest Catch"" guys — which I also work on in the first season. We were about 100 miles off the coast of Russia: 50-foot seas, big waves, green water coming over the wheelhouse, right? Most hazardous environment I'd ever seen, and I was back with a guy, lashing the pots down. So I'm 40 feet off the deck, which is like looking down at the top of your shoe, you know, and it's doing this in the ocean. Unspeakably dangerous. I scamper down, I go into the wheelhouse and I say, with some level of incredulity, ""Captain — OSHA?"" And he says, ""OSHA? Ocean."" And he points out there. (Laughter) But in that moment, what he said next can't be repeated in the Lower 48. It can't be repeated on any factory floor or any construction site. But he looked at me and said, ""Son,"" — he's my age, by the way, he calls me ""son,"" I love that — he says, ""Son, I'm the captain of a crab boat. My responsibility is not to get you home alive. My responsibility is to get you home rich."" (Laughter) You want to get home alive, that's on you."" And for the rest of that day — safety first. I mean, I was like — So, the idea that we create this sense of complacency when all we do is talk about somebody else's responsibility as though it's our own, and vice versa. Anyhow, a whole lot of things. I could talk at length about the many little distinctions we made and the endless list of ways that I got it wrong. But what it all comes down to is this: I've formed a theory, and I'm going to share it now in my remaining 2 minutes and 30 seconds. It goes like this: we've declared war on work, as a society — all of us. It's a civil war. It's a cold war, really. We didn't set out to do it and we didn't twist our mustache in some Machiavellian way, but we've done it. And we've waged this war on at least four fronts, certainly in Hollywood. The way we portray working people on TV — it's laughable. If there's a plumber, he's 300 pounds and he's got a giant butt crack, admit it. You see him all the time. That's what plumbers look like, right? We turn them into heroes, or we turn them into punch lines. That's what TV does. We try hard on ""Dirty Jobs"" not to do that, which is why I do the work and I don't cheat. But, we've waged this war on Madison Avenue. So many of the commercials that come out there in the way of a message — what's really being said? ""Your life would be better if you could work a little less, didn't have to work so hard, got home a little earlier, could retire a little faster, punch out a little sooner."" It's all in there, over and over, again and again. Washington? I can't even begin to talk about the deals and policies in place that affect the bottom-line reality of the available jobs, because I don't really know; I just know that that's a front in this war. And right here, guys — Silicon Valley. I mean — how many people have an iPhone on them right now? How many people have their BlackBerry? We're plugged in; we're connected. I would never suggest for a second that something bad has come out of the tech revolution. Good grief, not to this crowd. (Laughter) But I would suggest that innovation without imitation is a complete waste of time. And nobody celebrates imitation the way ""Dirty Jobs"" guys know it has to be done. Your iPhone without those people making the same interface, the same circuitry, the same board, over and over — all of that — that's what makes it equally as possible as the genius that goes inside of it. So, we've got this new toolbox. You know? Our tools today don't look like shovels and picks. They look like the stuff we walk around with. And so the collective effect of all of that has been this marginalization of lots and lots of jobs. And I realized, probably too late in this game — I hope not, because I don't know if I can do 200 more of these things — but we're going to do as many as we can. And to me, the most important thing to know and to really come face to face with, is that fact that I got it wrong about a lot of things, not just the testicles on my chin. I got a lot wrong. So, we're thinking — by ""we,"" I mean me — (Laughter) that the thing to do is to talk about a PR campaign for work — manual labor, skilled labor. Somebody needs to be out there, talking about the forgotten benefits. I'm talking about grandfather stuff, the stuff a lot us probably grew up with but we've kind of — you know, kind of lost a little. Barack wants to create two and a half million jobs. The infrastructure is a huge deal. This war on work that I suppose exists, has casualties like any other war. The infrastructure is the first one, declining trade school enrollments are the second one. Every single year, fewer electricians, fewer carpenters, fewer plumbers, fewer welders, fewer pipe fitters, fewer steam fitters. The infrastructure jobs that everybody is talking about creating are those guys — the ones that have been in decline, over and over. Meanwhile, we've got two trillion dollars, at a minimum, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers, that we need to expend to even make a dent in the infrastructure, which is currently rated at a D minus. So, if I were running for anything — and I'm not — I would simply say that the jobs we hope to make and the jobs we hope to create aren't going to stick unless they're jobs that people want. And I know the point of this conference is to celebrate things that are near and dear to us, but I also know that clean and dirty aren't opposites. They're two sides of the same coin, just like innovation and imitation, like risk and responsibility, like peripeteia and anagnorisis, like that poor little lamb, who I hope isn't quivering anymore, and like my time that's gone. It's been great talking to you. And get back to work, will you? (Applause)"	"""幹盡苦差事""的工作人員和我前往科羅拉多州叫做”Craig“的小鎮它大概只有24平方英里，在洛磯山脈那天所要體驗的工作是“牧羊工人” 對那些還沒看過節目的人，我的角色很簡單在那些從事這些工作的人身邊做個學徒做他們所做的讓人們瞭解這些人的工作和生活是什麼樣子的經歷他們一天的生活今天的工作是 - 牧羊。很好。 我們到了這個地方，住進我們的旅館我才發現，閹割是明天工作中不可或缺的一部分平時，我從來不會做任何準備但因為這是個敏感的問題，我又為探索頻道工作無論如何，我們都要力求真實在一種尊重動物的前提下我打電話給一個關注動物權益的機構我說“我要閹割一些羊，你能告訴我那是怎麼回事嗎？” 他們說“其實很容易。”他們用一個圈 - 通常是一個橡皮圈，只是小一點我手上這個其實來自昨日我拿到的一些撲克牌……但它讓我有種似曾相識的感覺。 然後我說“所以，這過程到底是怎麼回事？” 他們回答“先緊緊圈住尾巴，另外一個緊緊圈住陰囊血液慢慢不流通一個禮拜以後，就會自動掉下來了。” “好耶！我懂了”我打給愛護動物協會核對一下 - 他們證實了我玩笑性的打給善待動物組織 - 他們不喜歡，但他們也證實了簡單來說，這就是大家公認的方法 隔天我出門工作他們給了我一匹馬然後我們帶羊去我們蓋的畜欄開始動手做些畜牧的事 梅洛妮是亞伯特的妻子亞伯特是今天的主角 - 牧羊人梅洛妮抱起羊 - 用她的雙手左手抓住兩腿，右腿也是羊到了指定的地方，她把腿拉開沒問題。很好。亞伯特來了，我跟著他，攝影團隊在旁邊在我親自動手做之前，我總是先看流程就像學徒該做的那樣亞伯特把手伸進他口袋，然後拿出，黑色的橡皮筋結果他拿出的竟然是一把刀我說：這可不是橡皮筋哪，大哥！他把刀一下甩開，陽光從洛磯山上照過來反射出一陣刀光，那實在是實在令人難忘 差不多在兩秒鐘的時間裏，亞伯特拿著刀在軟骨和尾巴間，就在羊屁股的旁邊很快地，刀起尾落，尾巴已經掉在我手上的桶裏了一秒後，在他的大拇指和變硬的食指間他緊抓著羊陰囊他把它拉到自己眼前把刀抵在那尖端你以為你知道事情會怎樣，麥克，你根本無法想像他割斷它，把那尖端扔到肩膀後抓住那陰囊往上推然後他低下頭，擋住我的視線我只能聽到一種稀裏呼嚕的聲音像從粘糊糊的牆上撕下巨大膠帶我可是說真的 不然我們來看看畫面吧？還是算了，我是開玩笑的（笑聲）我想還是靠我繪聲繪影的敍述就夠了™ 在那個時候，我做了一件我在節目上從來沒有做過的事，史無前例我說“等等，暫停”看過節目的你們知道，我們通常一鏡到底，沒有暫停沒有本子，沒有安排，沒有做戲我們不做假，也不排練拍完就完了！ 我說，“聽。這太瘋狂了。我說，拜託 -（笑聲）這真的太瘋狂了。我們不能這樣。 亞伯特覺得很奇怪，問”怎麼了？“ 我回”我不知道剛剛發生什麼事，但現在有些睾丸在桶子裏，但我覺得不應該是這樣。“ 他說”但是我們都是這麼做的。“ 我說”你為什麼會這樣做？“在他開口解釋前我說”我想用正確的方法，用橡皮筋。“ 他說”像那些動物保護人士嗎？“ 我說”對，像那些動物保護人士。“用一種羊不會尖叫流血的方法 -這可是要在五大洲播放的，大哥！我們一天在探索頻道播兩次啊！我們不能這樣做。” 他說，“那好吧。”他走到盒子面前，然後拿出一袋小小的橡皮筋梅洛妮挑了另一頭羊，把它壓在柱子上把橡皮筋圈在尾巴，橡皮筋圈在陰囊羊回到地上，它走了兩步，跌倒了爬起來，抖了抖再試著走了兩步，再跌倒我想，這羊看起來一點都不好，一點也不它站起來，走到角落去，渾身發抖它躺下，看起來萬分痛苦 我看著羊，我問“亞伯特，它會這樣多久？它何時才站得起來？"" 他回答“一天。“ 我說”一天！！這些東西多久才會掉下來？“ ""一個禮拜。” 這個時候，剛剛他動完小手術的那頭羊已經開始四處跳動，血也止住了它開始吃草，嬉戲我完全傻了。我無法相信我有多麼大錯特錯，那當下同時我也想到，有多少時候，我錯的更厲害（笑聲）尤其是，我突然想到我那天是多麼倒楣因為現在我得去做亞伯特剛才完成的事畜欄裏大概有一百多隻羊突然這整件事就像德國色情電影……我有點…… 梅洛妮挑出一隻羊把它壓在柱子上，拉開雙腿亞伯特把刀交給我我下刀，尾巴掉了下來我繼續，我抓著陰囊，尖端掉了下了亞伯特指導著，”把它推上去“我推了。”推遠點。“我這麼做了。 看起來像大拇指的睾丸在你眼前出現，正對著你他說”咬它們把它們咬下來。”我聽到他這麼說，我聽的再清楚不過了（笑聲）我想，我是 - 我是怎麼來到這裏的？！我是 - 你知道 - 我是說我究竟是怎麼來到這步田地的？（笑聲） 這就是那種，腦子開始不受控制，神遊太虛的時候我站在洛磯山脈中唯一能想到的是亞里斯多德對悲劇的定義亞里斯多德說，悲劇就發生在英雄和自己的真我面對面的時候。（笑聲） 我想“這是哪門子亂七八糟的隱喻？我討厭我現在這些想法。“但我無法擺脫腦中這個想法也無法擺脫我眼前這個景象我只有做我當做的我殺進去，拿下它們我這樣拿下它們然後狠狠地把臉甩開我就站在那裏臉上掛著兩個羊睾丸（笑聲）我就是無法 - 我無法甩開那個隱喻 我還在想亞里斯多德，想他那本”詩論“我在想，突然，兩個辭就這樣靈光一現兩個我從大學後就再沒有聽過，被古典學教授鑿在腦中的字它們是 anagnorisis 和 peripeteiaanagnorisis 和 peripeteiaAnagnorisis 是希臘文裏的”發現“字義上，從無知到有知的過程，就是 Anagnorisis也就是探索頻道所做的也就是“幹盡苦差事”所在做的這些發現每天都堆到了我的脖子這麼高很好。另外一個字，peripeteia則是在大悲劇中的那一刻，你知道欧里庇得斯和索福克勒斯在劇裏他突然意識到那位美女他同床共枕和生兒育女的 - 是他親娘。很好。這就是轉折或是 peripeteia我腦中的這個隱喻在我腮旁的”發現“和”轉折“（笑聲） 但我必須說，這真是很好的詞句但你開始找尋”轉折“它們隨處可見像布魯斯·威利在”靈異第六感“中整部電影都在幫助這個有陰陽眼的小孩然後，砰！原來我死了 - 轉折你知道吧？在那一瞬間，所有觀眾都看明白了像“駭客任務”中的尼歐哦，我竟然住在電腦程式裏，那真怪 這些發現都讓我意識到一些事實我已經做了，大概兩百個苦差事，我一天到晚都意識到一些新東西但這一項 - 這項驚心動魄，在我絲毫沒有思考準備的時候正在我站在那裏的時候看著那只開心的羊，我剛處理過的它看起來還不錯再看看另一隻可憐的小東西，我本來可以正確處理的，我突然想到如果我在這件事上犯錯如果我這樣常犯錯，實際地說我還能對其他那些錯誤觀念說什麼呢？ 因為，雖然我不是個社會人類學家但我有個朋友是我和他聊（笑聲）他說“嘿麥克我不知道你的腦子對這種事情有沒有興趣但 你有意識到你已經踏遍每一州了嗎？你在礦場裏幹過，你在漁業裏幹過你幹過鐵工，你幾乎在所有主要的行業裏都幹過你和這些傢伙們並肩共事像那些政治人物們每四年就要來一下的那個樣子嘛，對吧？“ 我仿佛還看到希拉蕊和鐵工們豪爽地喝著啤酒，從她下顎流下這些人可是我每天在一起共事的人如果你想為他們喉舌，把他們當成一個群體來說些什麼現在是你好後想想的時候了因為，你知道，這四年在我腦子裏，腮旁掛著睾丸腦中的想法晃蕩著在那次拍攝後，”幹盡苦差事“基本上沒有改變這個節目沒有改變但對我來說它改變了，我改變了 現在，當我談到這個節目我不會再說那些人人認同的故事我仍然會，但我開始談論其他那些我曾經誤解的事其他那些對工作的想法那些我曾經以為是神聖不可侵犯的卻不是的做這些工作的人比你想像的快樂很多就一個群體來說，他們是我見過最快樂的人我可不是要開始吹起口哨，唱起工會組曲或是其他那些歌頌快樂工人的狗屁我只是想說，這是一群和諧的人們，做著難以想像的工作我發誓，那些路邊撿屍塊的工人們一邊工作一邊吹口哨我和他們在一起他們的人生中有一種不可思議的平衡這是我一次又一次親眼所見的 我開始想像如果我們開始挑戰那些我們奉為絕對真理的追尋你的熱情 -我們過去36個小時在這裏一直談論到的追尋熱情 - 這有什麼問題？大概是我聽過最爛的建議（笑聲）追求夢想然後破產，對吧？這些都是我們如雷貫耳的話我不知道我該做什麼但別人總是告訴我，追尋你的熱情，一切都會順利的 我現在可以馬上給你三十個例子Bob Combs，拉斯維加斯的養豬戶他從賭場裏收集那些剩菜然後把它們拿去喂豬為什麼？因為在我們剩餘的食物裏有太多蛋白質他的豬以兩倍的速度成長他是個富有的豬農而且對環境有益他的所有時間都貢獻在這項了不起的服務上他聞起來真糟，但願神祝福他他過著很舒服的生活如果你問他“你在這裏追尋你的熱情嗎？""他會對你大笑。他的身價有 - 有人想用六千萬美金買下他在拉斯維加斯週邊的農場，他拒絕了。他沒有追尋他的熱情他退一步，看著大家都朝哪個方向去然後去了另一個方向這就是我一直反覆聽見的故事 Matt Froind，一個康涅狄格州的奶農一天醒來，突然意識到他的牛產出的牛糞比他們產出的牛奶值錢多了如果他能把它們做成生物所能分解的花盆現在，他和沃爾瑪做生意跟隨他的熱情 - 拜託 我開始仔細思考熱情我開始思考效率和效果如同 Tim 先前提到的，它們有很大的分別我開始思考團體合作和決心那些有關成功的陳腔濫調和那些矯情的藝術一起掛在全世界的會議室的東西那些玩意兒 -突然有點被沖昏頭了 安全 - 安全第一那些，職業安全與衛生署、善待動物組織，和動物權益組織如果職業安全與衛生署錯了呢？我說的這完全是邪魔外道，當然但如果不是安全第一，是安全第三呢？不是嗎？（笑聲）我說真的我要說的是，做這些瘋狂的工作時，我當然注重安全如同和我共事的那些人一樣但是那些真正完成事情的人他們不會在外面說：安全第一他們知道還有其他更重要的”把工作做好“最重要把工作完成。 我永遠不會忘記，在白令海那次，我在一部螃蟹船上和我第一季節目中共事過的一群致命勇士我們在俄羅斯海灣外一百英里處海深五十英尺，巨浪滔滔，綠水潑近舵手室我見過最危險的工作環境我和一個哥們兒在一起，把桶子掛下去我離甲板40尺遠感覺就像盯著自己的鞋尖然後，就這樣在海上亂轉很難形容的危險狀態 我匆忙逃下，跑進舵手室我喊，帶著懷疑”船長！職業安全條例！“ 他回答”職業安全？看看海底！“然後他把手往外一指（笑聲)那一刻，接下來他說的話不能在美國本土重複也不能在任何工廠或工地重複但他望著我，他說”小夥子 -他和我同歲，但他叫我小夥子，很好 -他說“小夥子，我是螃蟹船的船長我的職責不是讓你活著回家我的職責是讓你發財（笑聲）你想活著回去，那是你的事情於是後來，安全第一 我就像這樣 ——我們創造了這個虛假的這種自得自滿的情緒我們總是在談論他人的責任好像那是我們自己的，反之亦然總之，很多很多事我可以滔滔不絕地談論所有這些我們創造的小區別還有我那些無止無盡的錯誤認知但，最後我想跟你們分享我的結論在我剩下的兩分三十秒 是這麼說的 ——我們向工作宣戰這個社會，我們所有人一個全民的內戰或是冷戰，事實上我們沒有預備要這麼做也沒有馬基維利式地扭著我們的小鬍子但我們這麼做了。我們在四個方向拉開戰線其中絕對有好萊塢我們在電視上描繪工人的方式是可笑的一個水管工人，一定有三百磅重，還有個巨大的股溝，是吧你一定有看過這個畫面那就是水管工的形象，對嗎？我們塑造偶像，或是呼喊口號電視的功能就是這樣在”幹盡苦差事“中我們儘量不這麼做這就是我做工不做戲的原因 我們在麥迪森大街也拉上了戰線那裏製作了這麼多的廣告這些廣告都透露了什麼訊息？你的人生會更美好，如果你少工作一點如果你不要工作的這麼辛苦，如果你可以早些回家如果你能提早退休，如果你能提早下班這就是它們的資訊，反反復複播放 華盛頓特區 - 我甚至無法談論這些協定和法條它們影響了就業機會的底線因為我真的不瞭解我只知道這個戰爭有個前線 還有這裏，矽谷現在多少人手上拿著 iPhone？多少人帶著他們的黑莓機？我們在線上，聯結著我永遠不會說科技革命為我們帶來任何不好的影響要命，至少不是跟這群觀眾（笑聲）但我必須說，非經複製的創新完全就是浪費時間沒有人比”幹盡苦差事“的工作人員更懂得複製的藝術。你的 iPhone 如果沒有這些人反覆地做 面板做線路、配電盤，一而再再而三這些工作 — 它們為這件物品花費的心力等同於那些設計這些產品的聰明才智 今日我們有個新的工具箱我們的工具不再是鎬和鏟子它們看起來就像我們每天帶著走的這些物件這些東西的集體效應便是邊緣化許多許多的工作我意識到，雖然可能有點遲我但願不要，因為我不知道我還能不能完成另外兩百個苦差事但我們會盡力去做到我們所能做的對我來說，最重要的事情是便是面對真實我的錯誤認知和觀點不只是腮邊的睾丸而已我弄錯了很多事 我們在想 - 我是說我在想應該為工作做一個盛大的公關活動手工、技工有人需要到處去傳講這些被遺忘的好處我說的是那些祖父級的東西那些和我們一起長大的東西但我們已經有些 - 你知道，迷失了一些 歐巴馬要創造兩百五十萬個工作機會基礎建設是重點之一這場對工作的戰爭，也有傷兵像所有戰爭一樣基礎建設就是一項專業學校的註冊率下降是第二項每一年，電工減少了木工減少了，水管工人減少了焊接工減少了，管道安裝的技工減少了蒸汽管道工減少了每個人口裏說的那些基礎建設的工作就是這些人這些逐漸在減少的人，一年又一年按照美國土木工程協會的估計現在，我們最少需要擴張兩萬億美金如果我們想要在基礎建設上有點初步進展的話現在還是 D- 級別 如果我想要選舉的話，但我不是我會簡單的說那些我們想要製造的工作機會我們想要成就的工作除非它們是人們想要的工作，不然是不可能達到的我知道這次座談的重點是頌贊這些接近我們親近我們的但我也知道清潔和骯髒不全然是相對的它們是一個銅板的兩面就像革新和複製風險和責任像轉折和發現像那可憐的小羊，我希望它不再渾身發抖了像我的時間到了 很高興和你們談話回去幹活兒吧，行嗎？（掌聲）"
