Talk	en	zh-tw
mike_matas	"So for the past year and a half, my team at Push Pop Press and Charlie Melcher and Melcher Media have been working on creating the first feature-length interactive book. It's called ""Our Choice"" and the author is Al Gore. It's the sequel to ""An Inconvenient Truth,"" and it explores all the solutions that will solve the climate crisis. The book starts like this. This is the cover. As the globe spins, we can see our location, and we can open the book and swipe through the chapters to browse the book. Or, we can scroll through the pages at the bottom. And if we wanted to zoom into a page, we can just open it up. And anything you see in the book, you can pick up with two fingers and lift off the page and open up. And if you want to go back and read the book again, you just fold it back up and put it back on the page. And so this works the same way; you pick it up and pop it open. (Audio) Al Gore: I consider myself among the majority who look at windmills and feel they're a beautiful addition to the landscape. Mike Matas: And so throughout the whole book, Al Gore will walk you through and explain the photos. This photo, you can you can even see on an interactive map. Zoom into it and see where it was taken. And throughout the book, there's over an hour of documentary footage and interactive animations. So you can open this one. (Audio) AG: Most modern wind turbines consist of a large ... MM: It starts playing immediately. And while it's playing, we can pinch and peak back at the page, and the movie keeps playing. Or we can zoom out to the table of contents, and the video keeps playing. But one of the coolest things in this book are the interactive infographics. This one shows the wind potential all around the United States. But instead of just showing us the information, we can take our finger and explore, and see, state by state, exactly how much wind potential there is. We can do the same for geothermal energy and solar power. This is one of my favorites. So this shows ... (Laughter) (Applause) When the wind is blowing, any excess energy coming from the windmill is diverted into the battery. And as the wind starts dying down, any excess energy will be diverted back into the house — the lights never go out. And this whole book, it doesn't just run on the iPad. It also runs on the iPhone. And so you can start reading on your iPad in your living room and then pick up where you left off on the iPhone. And it works the exact same way. You can pinch into any page. Open it up. So that's Push Pop Press' first title, Al Gore's ""Our Choice."" Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: That's spectacular. Do you want to be a publisher, a technology licenser? What is the business here? Is this something that other people can do? MM: Yeah, we're building a tool that makes it really easy for publishers right now to build this content. So Melcher Media's team, who's on the East coast — and we're on the West coast, building the software — takes our tool and, every day, drags in images and text. CA: So you want to license this software to publishers to make books as beautiful as that? (MM: Yes.) All right. Mike, thanks so much. MM: Thank you. (CA: Good luck.) (Applause)"	"過去的一年半間,我在Push Pop Press(一數位創造出版平台)的團隊與查理米謝爾和米謝爾媒體公司共同投入創造第一本長篇的互動電子書.書名為""我們的選擇""作者是艾爾高爾(前美國副總統).本書為""不願面對的真相""之續作並探討所有可以解決氣候危機的方案. 這本書是這樣開始的. 這是它的封面.隨著地球轉動,我們可以看到我們的所在地.接著, 我們打開書拖曳過各個章節來瀏覽本書.或者, 我們可以滑過底下的書頁.如果我們想要放大某一頁,可以直接將這頁打開.你在這本書看到的所有東西,都可以用兩根手指挑起拉離頁面再打開.如果想回上一步繼續看這本書,你可以將它折起, 再放回頁面.而這也是以相同的方式; 將圖片挑起, 然後拉開圖片. (書中音效)AG: 我將我自己視為絕大部分會看著風車而認為它們為這片風景增加麗色的人. MM: 在這整本書中,高爾會從頭到尾的導讀並解釋所有的照片.這張照片裡, 你可以看到一張互動地圖.放大這張地圖就可以看到照片是在哪裡拍攝的.在本書中,有超過一小時的紀錄片和互動動畫.因此, 你可以打開這一個. (書中音效) AG: 多數的現代風力發電機具有一大... MM: 影片會馬上開始播放.在播放的同時, 我們可以捏起影片, 再將其置回頁面,影片還會繼續播放.或者, 我們可以縮小, 退至目錄,影片也還是繼續播放.但這本書其中一個最酷的特點,在於它的互動資料圖表.這張圖表顯示出美國各地的風力潛能.不只看到這些資訊,我們還可以用手指去探索,每一州的查看,到底那州有多少的風力潛能.同樣的, 我們也可以檢視地熱能和太陽能. 這張是我最喜愛的之一,這邊你可以看到...(笑聲)(掌聲)當風起時,所有來自風車的多餘能量都被轉移至電池中.隨著風慢慢平息,所有多餘的能量會轉移回到屋子中所以屋子裡永遠不會沒有電.而這整本書, 不只能在iPad操作,也可以在iPhone上使用.所以, 你可以在家裡的客廳用iPad開始讀這本書之後再以iPhone繼續往下讀.在iPhone上也是相同的操作方式.你可以挑起任何一頁.打開這個頁面. 那麼, 這就是Push Pop Press的第一本書,高爾的""我們的選擇"".謝謝.(掌聲) CA: 剛剛那真是太驚人了.你們想成為出版社,技術授權公司?你們公司是做什麼的?其他人也可以做一樣的事嗎? MM: 是的, 我們建立的是一項工具可讓出版社非常容易的建設書的內容.也就是說, 米謝爾媒體的團隊, 他們位於東岸—而我們在西岸建立這套軟體—利用我們的工具每天將圖片和文字拖曳入書中以編排內容. CA: 所以, 你們希望將這套軟體授權給出版社來製造出這麼美的書? (MM: 是的.)好的. 麥克, 非常感謝你. MM: 謝謝. (CA: 祝你好運.) (掌聲)"
