Talk	en	zh-tw
mike_degruy_hooked_by_octopus	"I first became fascinated with octopus at an early age. I grew up in Mobile, Alabama — somebody's got to be from Mobile, right? — and Mobile sits at the confluence of five rivers, forming this beautiful delta. And the delta has alligators crawling in and out of rivers filled with fish and cypress trees dripping with snakes, birds of every flavor. It's an absolute magical wonderland to live in — if you're a kid interested in animals, to grow up in. And this delta water flows to Mobile Bay, and finally into the Gulf of Mexico. And I remember my first real contact with octopus was probably at age five or six. I was in the gulf, and I was swimming around and saw a little octopus on the bottom. And I reached down and picked him up, and immediately became fascinated and impressed by its speed and its strength and agility. It was prying my fingers apart and moving to the back of my hand. It was all I could do to hold onto this amazing creature. Then it sort of calmed down in the palms of my hands and started flashing colors, just pulsing all of these colors. And as I looked at it, it kind of tucked its arms under it, raised into a spherical shape and turned chocolate brown with two white stripes. I'm going, ""My gosh!"" I had never seen anything like this in my life! So I marveled for a moment, and then decided it was time to release him, so I put him down. The octopus left my hands and then did the damnedest thing: It landed on the bottom in the rubble and — fwoosh! — vanished right before my eyes. And I knew, right then, at age six, that is an animal that I want to learn more about. So I did. And I went off to college and got a degree in marine zoology, and then moved to Hawaii and entered graduate school at the University of Hawaii. And while a student at Hawaii, I worked at the Waikiki Aquarium. And the aquarium had a lot of big fish tanks but not a lot of invertebrate displays, and being the spineless guy, I thought, well I'll just go out in the field and collect these wonderful animals I had been learning about as a student and bring them in, and I built these elaborate sets and put them on display. Now, the fish in the tanks were gorgeous to look at, but they didn't really interact with people. But the octopus did. If you walked up to an octopus tank, especially early in the morning before anyone arrived, the octopus would rise up and look at you and you're thinking, ""Is that guy really looking at me? He is looking at me!"" And you walk up to the front of the tank. Then you realize that these animals all have different personalities: Some of them would hold their ground, others would slink into the back of the tank and disappear in the rocks, and one in particular, this amazing animal ... I went up to the front of the tank, and he's just staring at me, and he had little horns come up above his eyes. So I went right up to the front of the tank — I was three or four inches from the front glass — and the octopus was sitting on a perch, a little rock, and he came off the rock and he also came down right to the front of the glass. So I was staring at this animal about six or seven inches away, and at that time I could actually focus that close; now as I look at my fuzzy fingers I realize those days are long gone. Anyway, there we were, staring at each other, and he reaches down and grabs an armful of gravel and releases it in the jet of water entering the tank from the filtration system, and — chk chk chk chk chk! — this gravel hits the front of the glass and falls down. He reaches up, takes another armful of gravel, releases it — chk chk chk chk chk! — same thing. Then he lifts another arm and I lift an arm. Then he lifts another arm and I lift another arm. And then I realize the octopus won the arms race, because I was out and he had six left. (Laughter) But the only way I can describe what I was seeing that day was that this octopus was playing, which is a pretty sophisticated behavior for a mere invertebrate. So, about three years into my degree, a funny thing happened on the way to the office, which actually changed the course of my life. A man came into the aquarium. It's a long story, but essentially he sent me and a couple of friends of mine to the South Pacific to collect animals for him, and as we left, he gave us two 16-millimeter movie cameras. He said, ""Make a movie about this expedition."" ""OK, a couple of biologists making a movie — this'll be interesting,"" and off we went. And we did, we made a movie, which had to be the worst movie ever made in the history of movie making, but it was a blast. I had so much fun. And I remember that proverbial light going off in my head, thinking, ""Wait a minute. Maybe I can do this all the time. Yeah, I'll be a filmmaker."" So I literally came back from that job, quit school, hung my filmmaking shingle and just never told anyone that I didn't know what I was doing. It's been a good ride. And what I learned in school though was really beneficial. If you're a wildlife filmmaker and you're going out into the field to film animals, especially behavior, it helps to have a fundamental background on who these animals are, how they work and, you know, a bit about their behaviors. But where I really learned about octopus was in the field, as a filmmaker making films with them, where you're allowed to spend large periods of time with the animals, seeing octopus being octopus in their ocean homes. I remember I took a trip to Australia, went to an island called One Tree Island. And apparently, evolution had occurred at a pretty rapid rate on One Tree, between the time they named it and the time I arrived, because I'm sure there were at least three trees on that island when we were there. Anyway, one tree is situated right next to a beautiful coral reef. In fact, there's a surge channel where the tide is moving back and forth, twice a day, pretty rapidly. And there's a beautiful reef, very complex reef, with lots of animals, including a lot of octopus. And not uniquely but certainly, the octopus in Australia are masters at camouflage. As a matter of fact, there's one right there. So our first challenge was to find these things, and that was a challenge, indeed. But the idea is, we were there for a month and I wanted to acclimate the animals to us so that we could see behaviors without disturbing them. So the first week was pretty much spent just getting as close as we could, every day a little closer, a little closer, a little closer. And you knew what the limit was: they would start getting twitchy and you'd back up, come back in a few hours. And after the first week, they ignored us. It was like, ""I don't know what that thing is, but he's no threat to me."" So they went on about their business and from a foot away, we're watching mating and courting and fighting and it is just an unbelievable experience. And one of the most fantastic displays that I remember, or at least visually, was a foraging behavior. And they had a lot of different techniques that they would use for foraging, but this particular one used vision. And they would see a coral head, maybe 10 feet away, and start moving over toward that coral head. And I don't know whether they actually saw crab in it, or imagined that one might be, but whatever the case, they would leap off the bottom and go through the water and land right on top of this coral head, and then the web between the arms would completely engulf the coral head, and they would fish out, swim for crabs. And as soon as the crabs touched the arm, it was lights out. And I always wondered what happened under that web. So we created a way to find out, (Laughter) and I got my first look at that famous beak in action. It was fantastic. If you're going to make a lot of films about a particular group of animals, you might as well pick one that's fairly common. And octopus are, they live in all the oceans. They also live deep. And I can't say octopus are responsible for my really strong interest in getting in subs and going deep, but whatever the case, I like that. It's like nothing you've ever done. If you ever really want to get away from it all and see something that you have never seen, and have an excellent chance of seeing something no one has ever seen, get in a sub. You climb in, seal the hatch, turn on a little oxygen, turn on the scrubber, which removes the CO2 in the air you breathe, and they chuck you overboard. Down you go. There's no connection to the surface apart from a pretty funky radio. And as you go down, the washing machine at the surface calms down. And it gets quiet. And it starts getting really nice. And as you go deeper, that lovely, blue water you were launched in gives way to darker and darker blue. And finally, it's a rich lavender, and after a couple of thousand feet, it's ink black. And now you've entered the realm of the mid-water community. You could give an entire talk about the creatures that live in the mid-water. Suffice to say though, as far as I'm concerned, without question, the most bizarre designs and outrageous behaviors are in the animals that live in the mid-water community. But we're just going to zip right past this area, this area that includes about 95 percent of the living space on our planet and go to the mid-ocean ridge, which I think is even more extraordinary. The mid-ocean ridge is a huge mountain range, 40,000 miles long, snaking around the entire globe. And they're big mountains, thousands of feet tall, some of which are tens of thousands of feet and bust through the surface, creating islands like Hawaii. And the top of this mountain range is splitting apart, creating a rift valley. And when you dive into that rift valley, that's where the action is because literally thousands of active volcanoes are going off at any point in time all along this 40,000 mile range. And as these tectonic plates are spreading apart, magma, lava is coming up and filling those gaps, and you're looking land — new land — being created right before your eyes. And over the tops of them is 3,000 to 4,000 meters of water creating enormous pressure, forcing water down through the cracks toward the center of the earth, until it hits a magma chamber where it becomes superheated and supersaturated with minerals, reverses its flow and starts shooting back to the surface and is ejected out of the earth like a geyser at Yellowstone. In fact, this whole area is like a Yellowstone National Park with all of the trimmings. And this vent fluid is about 600 or 700 degrees F. The surrounding water is just a couple of degrees above freezing. So it immediately cools, and it can no longer hold in suspension all of the material that it's dissolved, and it precipitates out, forming black smoke. And it forms these towers, these chimneys that are 10, 20, 30 feet tall. And all along the sides of these chimneys is shimmering with heat and loaded with life. You've got black smokers going all over the place and chimneys that have tube worms that might be eight to 10 feet long. And out of the tops of these tube worms are these beautiful red plumes. And living amongst the tangle of tube worms is an entire community of animals: shrimp, fish, lobsters, crab, clams and swarms of arthropods that are playing that dangerous game between over here is scalding hot and freezing cold. And this whole ecosystem wasn't even known about until 33 years ago. And it completely threw science on its head. It made scientists rethink where life on Earth might have actually begun. And before the discovery of these vents, all life on Earth, the key to life on Earth, was believed to be the sun and photosynthesis. But down there, there is no sun, there is no photosynthesis; it's chemosynthetic environment down there driving it, and it's all so ephemeral. You might film this unbelievable hydrothermal vent, which you think at the time has to be on another planet. It's amazing to think that this is actually on earth; it looks like aliens in an alien environment. But you go back to the same vent eight years later and it can be completely dead. There's no hot water. All of the animals are gone, they're dead, and the chimneys are still there creating a really nice ghost town, an eerie, spooky ghost town, but essentially devoid of animals, of course. But 10 miles down the ridge... pshhh! There's another volcano going. And there's a whole new hydrothermal vent community that has been formed. And this kind of life and death of hydrothermal vent communities is going on every 30 or 40 years all along the ridge. And that ephemeral nature of the hydrothermal vent community isn't really different from some of the areas that I've seen in 35 years of traveling around, making films. Where you go and film a really nice sequence at a bay. And you go back, and I'm at home, and I'm thinking, ""Okay, what can I shoot ... Ah! I know where I can shoot that. There's this beautiful bay, lots of soft corals and stomatopods."" And you show up, and it's dead. There's no coral, algae growing on it, and the water's pea soup. You think, ""Well, what happened?"" And you turn around, and there's a hillside behind you with a neighborhood going in, and bulldozers are pushing piles of soil back and forth. And over here there's a golf course going in. And this is the tropics. It's raining like crazy here. So this rainwater is flooding down the hillside, carrying with it sediments from the construction site, smothering the coral and killing it. And fertilizers and pesticides are flowing into the bay from the golf course — the pesticides killing all the larvae and little animals, fertilizer creating this beautiful plankton bloom — and there's your pea soup. But, encouragingly, I've seen just the opposite. I've been to a place that was a pretty trashed bay. And I looked at it, just said, ""Yuck,"" and go and work on the other side of the island. Five years later, come back, and that same bay is now gorgeous. It's beautiful. It's got living coral, fish all over the place, crystal clear water, and you go, ""How did that happen?"" Well, how it happened is the local community galvanized. They recognized what was happening on the hillside and put a stop to it; enacted laws and made permits required to do responsible construction and golf course maintenance and stopped the sediments flowing into the bay, and stopped the chemicals flowing into the bay, and the bay recovered. The ocean has an amazing ability to recover, if we'll just leave it alone. I think Margaret Mead said it best. She said that a small group of thoughtful people could change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has. And a small group of thoughtful people changed that bay. I'm a big fan of grassroots organizations. I've been to a lot of lectures where, at the end of it, inevitably, one of the first questions that comes up is, ""But, but what can I do? I'm an individual. I'm one person. And these problems are so large and global, and it's just overwhelming."" Fair enough question. My answer to that is don't look at the big, overwhelming issues of the world. Look in your own backyard. Look in your heart, actually. What do you really care about that isn't right where you live? And fix it. Create a healing zone in your neighborhood and encourage others to do the same. And maybe these healing zones can sprinkle a map, little dots on a map. And in fact, the way that we can communicate today — where Alaska is instantly knowing what's going on in China, and the Kiwis did this, and then over in England they tried to ... and everybody is talking to everyone else — it's not isolated points on a map anymore, it's a network we've created. And maybe these healing zones can start growing, and possibly even overlap, and good things can happen. So that's how I answer that question. Look in your own backyard, in fact, look in the mirror. What can you do that is more responsible than what you're doing now? And do that, and spread the word. The vent community animals can't really do much about the life and death that's going on where they live, but up here we can. In theory, we're thinking, rational human beings. And we can make changes to our behavior that will influence and affect the environment, like those people changed the health of that bay. Now, Sylvia's TED Prize wish was to beseech us to do anything we could, everything we could, to set aside not pin pricks, but significant expanses of the ocean for preservation, ""hope spots,"" she calls them. And I applaud that. I loudly applaud that. And it's my hope that some of these ""hope spots"" can be in the deep ocean, an area that has historically been seriously neglected, if not abused. The term ""deep six"" comes to mind: ""If it's too big or too toxic for a landfill, deep six it!"" So, I hope that we can also keep some of these ""hope spots"" in the deep sea. Now, I don't get a wish, but I certainly can say that I will do anything I can to support Sylvia Earle's wish. And that I do. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我第一次被章魚迷住是在小時候我在阿拉巴馬州的Mobile郡長大這裡總該有人是從那裡來的吧？Mobile位在五條河流的交會處形成美麗的三角洲這裡有短吻鱷出沒在河裡，水裡滿滿是魚柏樹上垂著蛇還有各式各樣的鳥那絕對是一個神奇的樂園最適合喜歡動物的孩子在那裡成長。三角洲的水流進Mobile灣，最後進了墨西哥灣 我記得我和章魚的第一次接觸大概是在五六歲時我在墨西哥灣游泳，在海底看到一隻小章魚。我伸手過去把牠拿起來，在那瞬間我被牠敏捷靈活有力的身手所震懾。牠掰開我的手指，然後爬到我的手背上。我所能做的，就是托著他然後他就在我的手掌上安靜下來開始改變體色不同顏色一直跳動我看著牠把觸手藏在身下變成圓形然後變成巧克力色，上面還有兩條白線我心想“天啊！”我這輩子從來沒看過這種東西。我讚嘆了一會兒，決定是時候把牠放走了所以我把牠放下章魚從我手上離開，然後拿出了它的絕招。他沈降到水底的亂石上，然後咻一下就不見了就在我眼前 就在那個當下，六歲的我就決定，這就是我想要瞭解學習更多的動物。而我也就這麼做了，我進了大學並拿到了海洋生物學的學位接著搬到夏威夷進了夏威夷大學的研究所當我在夏威夷唸書時，我在威基基水族館工作水族館裡有很多大魚缸但是無脊椎動物的展示並不多。既然我是研究無脊椎動物的，我想，好吧，我就自己去外面收集這些美妙的動物在我的學生生涯裡，我一直在研究牠們，把牠們帶回來，我精心佈置魚缸展示牠們。 現在，魚缸裡的魚看上去非常美麗可是牠們沒有真的和人互動。但章魚會如果你走向一個章魚缸特別是一大早，大家都還沒來的時候章魚會起身盯著你然後你會想“這傢伙真的在看我嗎？他在看我耶！”然後你走到缸子前，接著你會發現這些章魚們都有不同個性有些原地不動，有些溜到魚缸後頭，消失在岩石中。但是有一個很特別，這是個奇異的傢伙……我走到魚缸前，而牠就這麼瞪著我。牠有些小觸角慢慢從眼睛上方抬起來。於是我走到魚缸正前方。離魚缸玻璃不到十公分的距離。而這個章魚就坐在一塊小礁石的邊上，然後牠從石頭上溜下來，也來到魚缸玻璃前。我就這樣隔著大概十幾公分的距離盯著它，當時，我真的能看清楚那麼近的距離；現在當我看著自己的手指都模模糊糊時，我知道青春一去不復返了。總之，當時我們就是這樣，彼此對視，接著牠伸手到魚缸底，抓起一把小砂粒，然後在魚缸濾水機的出水口那裡鬆開觸手，然後“呲呲呲！”這把小砂粒打到魚缸的玻璃上，再沉到水底。他伸出觸手，又抓起一把砂粒，鬆開……“呲呲呲呲呲！”跟剛才一樣。接著他舉起一個觸手。於是我也抬起一邊手臂。然後他又舉起另外一邊。我也舉起另一邊。接著我就意識到這場舉手比賽是章魚贏了，因為我已經沒手可舉，而他還有六個呢。但對於那天我的所見所聞，我只有一種解釋那就是這個章魚在玩耍，這對於一隻區區無脊椎動物來說是相當複雜的行為。 而在我念這個學位的第三年，在我去辦公室的路上發生了一件有趣的事，這件事，確實地改變了我的人生。有一個人跑來水族館。說來話長，但是基本上，這個人派我和我的一些朋友去南太平洋，為他收集動物，在我們離開時，他給我們兩部16毫米攝影機。他說，“把這次考察活動拍成電影吧。”……好吧，一堆生物學家拍電影——應該會很有趣。於是我們就出發了，而且還真的拍了部電影，這肯定是電影史上最爛的片子了。但是它很有衝擊力；我玩得不亦樂乎。我還記得當時我突然靈機一動，想到，“等等。說不定我可以一直做這個。對，我要成為一個電影製片人。”於是，當我完成這工作回來，我當真退了學，掛上製片的招牌不過我從沒告訴過任何人我其實根本不知道自己在做什麽。到現在為止都很順利。而我在學校裡學到的東西其實都非常有用。如果你是一名野生動物製片人跑去野外拍攝動物，尤其是動物的行為，具備基本的知識背景是很有幫助的比如要拍的是怎樣一種動物，牠們如何活動，你們懂的，一些關於牠們行為的知識。 但讓我真正瞭解章魚是我在身為製片人，實地拍攝關於牠們電影的時候，在那裡你可以花大量的時間和這些動物在一起，在章魚們的家鄉，海洋觀察真正的章魚是怎樣的。我記得有次去澳洲，我去了一個名叫“一棵樹”的小島。而顯然，演化過程在“一棵樹”上以相當快的速度發生，就在他們給它命名到我到達的這段時間裡，因為我明明在島上看到至少三棵樹當我們抵達那裡的時候。總之，這個島緊挨著一片美麗的珊瑚礁。事實上，這裡有一條衝浪流道在那裡，潮汐一天兩次快速地來回沖刷，這裡還有一片美麗的珊瑚礁很多動物生活在這片複雜的珊瑚礁中，包括很多章魚。雖不是獨門行為，但澳洲的章魚，肯定是偽裝界的大師。事實上，在這個島上就有這樣的章魚。所以我們的第一個挑戰就是找到這些傢伙，而這的確是一個挑戰。但是我們會在那裡呆上一個月，我想讓章魚適應我們的存在。這樣我們才能看到它們未被騷擾時的行為。所以第一個星期就是儘量靠近它們每天都更近一點，更近一點，更近一點。然後你就知道底線在哪裡，再近牠們就要開始不安了，這時你就撤退，過幾個小時再回來，第一個星期以後，它們就忽視我們了。章魚可能覺得，“我也不知道這東西是啥，但是他對我沒什麽威脅。”於是就繼續忙自己的事了。就在三十公分的距離之外，我們觀察牠們交配，求偶和爭鬥，這真是一個令人難以置信的經驗。 而我記得的其中一個最奇妙的行為至少是我能視覺上觀察到的是捕食行為。牠們掌握了很多不同的技巧用以捕食。但這種技巧用到視覺。比如它們看到一塊珊瑚岬大約離著三公尺遠就開始朝著那裡移動過去。我也不知道牠們到底是看到有一隻螃蟹，還是猜想那裡可能有螃蟹，無論怎樣，牠們都是凌空而起，游過去，降落在這塊珊瑚岬的正頂部，然後各觸手之間的襟膜將珊瑚岬完全包裹起來，接著牠們把螃蟹從裡面趕出來。只要螃蟹一碰到觸手，牠就完蛋了。我總是想知道在襟膜包裹之下發生了些什麽。於是我們發明了一個方法去觀察。這樣我才第一次看到章魚那著名的嘴如何運動。真是太奇妙了。 如果你想拍攝關於某一群動物的大量影片，你可能也想選擇一種非常常見的動物。章魚就是；牠們生活在各個大洋裡。牠們也生活在深海。雖不能說章魚就是主因觸發我真正濃厚的興趣鑽進潛艇潛入深海，但不管怎樣，我都喜歡這一行。這個工作是無與倫比的。 如果你真的想從現實世界抽身而出，去看一些前所未見的東西，那一個絕好的機會就是鑽進一個潛水艇。你爬進去，密封艙門，釋放一些氧氣，啟動這個刷子，它能去除你呼出的二氧化碳，然後他們把你扔下船。你就開始下沉。與水面失去一切聯繫，除了一個相當時髦的無線電對講器。在下沉的過程中，水面上的顛簸平靜下來。四周變得安靜。一切開始變得非常美好。當你繼續下潛，剛才悅目的藍色海水變成越來越深邃的藍。最終，變成深紫色，而幾百公尺以下，就成了漆黑一團。現在你所在的是海洋的中間層區域。 你可以開一個講座就講生活在中間層的生物。就我所知，我可以這麼說，毫無疑問，最古怪的生理構造和最駭人聽聞的行為就存在於生活在中間層的動物群落中。但是我們要很快地離開這個區域，這個區域包括了我們星球95%的有生命存在的空間。我們要去的是洋中脊，我覺得這個地區更加光怪陸離。 洋中脊是一片巨大的山脈，六萬五千公里長，綿延了整個地球。而且它們都是巍峨的群山，幾百公尺高，有些甚至上千近萬，高聳出海面，形成像夏威夷這樣的海島。而這些山脈的頂部分開成兩半，形成裂谷。當你潛入到這裂谷，那裡才是所有事情發生的地方因為那裡真的有上千個活火山隨時會噴發，這些火山就分佈在這六萬五千公里長的洋中脊。當這些構造板塊移動分開的時後，岩漿和熔岩就會湧出來，填入這些空隙。你看到的就是大陸，新大陸正在你眼前創生。而在這之上是3到4千米的水體，產生巨大的壓力，促使海水向下穿裂壓向地心，直到擊中一個岩漿室，那裡的溫度極高充滿了大量的礦物質，造成水流逆轉，衝向洋面，像黃石公園的間歇泉一樣衝出地表。事實上，這整個區域就像一個全套的黃石公園。 這管流溫度高達三四百度。而周圍的水溫只比冰點高幾度。所以它馬上就冷卻了，無法再維持懸浮狀態，所有的物質熔化和凝析出來的東西，形成黑煙。然後又形成這些塔，這些煙囪，有三米高的，六米的，八米的。沿著這些煙囪上下都閃動著熱氣，爬滿了生物。這些海底黑煙柱隨處可見，煙囪上長滿管蟲可以長達兩三公尺。在這些管蟲的頂部，伸出這些美麗的紅色羽狀物。而生活在這團管蟲之間的，是一個完整的生物群落，有蝦，魚，龍蝦，螃蟹，蚌和一群一群的節肢動物，牠們彷彿在玩一個非常危險的遊戲，一邊是極熱，一邊是極冷。 而這整個生態系統一直不為人所知，直到33年前。它完全顛覆了科學常識。它促使科學家反思，地球上的生命起源自哪裡。在這些熱泉被發現以前，人們以為地球上的生命，生命起源的關鍵，在於太陽和光合作用，但是在這裡，完全不見陽光，也就沒有光合作用。這裡主要是化學合成環境，一切都是轉瞬即逝。當你拍攝這個不可思議的深海熱泉時，你可能會覺得自己是在另一個星球。想想看這其實是地球，多麼神奇！看上去卻像是生活在外星上的異形。但是當你8年以後回到同一個熱泉，它可能已經完全死亡。熱水枯竭了。所有的動物都不見了，死了。只有那些煙囪還在，簡直就是一個鬼城，陰森恐怖，鬼氣森森的鬼城，當然，沒有任何動物存在了。但是從洋中脊向下十六公里，噗絲絲絲絲！另一個火山在噴發。那裡已經形成了一個全新的深海熱泉生態群落。這種生物群落的生生死死每30到40年就輪迴一次，整個洋中脊都是如此。 深海熱泉生態圈這種短命特色和我見過的其他地區並沒有什麽不同。過去三十五年裡，我到處去拍攝電影。你去一個海灣拍了一系列非常棒的片子。然後你回到家，想，“嗯，我要拍什麽呢？啊，我知道我可以去哪裡拍攝了！有這麼一個美麗的海灣，那裡有很多軟珊瑚和口足動物。”然後當你到那裡時，那裡已經死了。珊瑚都不見了，長了大片海藻，海水好像豌豆湯。你會納悶，“阿？怎麼回事？”然後你張望四周，背後立起一座小丘，上頭正建造一片新社區，推土機來來回回推土。就在這裡，正在蓋一個高爾夫球場。這是熱帶。雨瘋狂下著。這些雨水沿著山坡向下沖刷，帶著工地裡的沉積物，覆蓋在珊瑚上，將它毒死。化肥和殺蟲劑從高爾夫球場流入海灣。殺蟲劑殺死了所有的珊瑚幼蟲和小動物，化肥造成浮游生物大肆繁殖，最後就成了豌豆湯。 但是，讓人鼓舞的是，我也見過相反的情況。我曾經去過一個污染嚴重的海灣。當我看到它時，我只能說，“噁心！”然後去島的另一頭工作。5年以後，我又來到這裡，同一個海灣現在非常美麗。賞心悅目。這裡有活躍的珊瑚，到處都是魚群，海水清澈透明，你會問，“怎麼會這樣？”那麼，怎麼會這樣呢，是當地的社區採取行動。他們發現在山坡上發生的種種問題，決定要喊停，他們通過法案，要經過許可才能進行負責任的建設和高爾夫球場的維護阻止沉積物沖刷進海灣，阻止化學物質流入海灣，然後海灣就恢復了生機。海洋有著驚人的修復能力，只要我們能不去打攪它。 我認為Margaret Mead說的最好。她說一小群深謀遠慮的人就能改變世界。確實，就是這麼簡單。正是一小群深謀遠慮的人改變了海灣。我非常贊成和支持民間組織。我去過很多地方講演，無論哪裡，到最後，無可避免地，第一個被問到的問題總是，“但是，我能做什麽呢？我就自己一個人，單槍匹馬，而那些問題都那麼大，全球性的，太超出我的能力了。”這的確是個問題。 我的回答是，不要老是盯著那些大的，世界性的問題。看看自己的後院。事實上，看看自己的內心。在你周圍有什麽你真正關心的地方出了問題。解決它。在你家社區建立一塊恢復自然的休養區，並鼓勵他人也這麼做。也許這些修復區會成為星星之火，散佈整個地圖。其實，今天我們溝通信息的方式，使得阿拉斯加的人能馬上就知道中國在發生什麽，紐西蘭人怎樣了，英國人又在幹什麼……誰和誰都能夠說上話這讓我們不再是地圖上分散的點，我們已經建立起一個網絡。也許這些修復區能開始擴展，甚至重疊，美好的事情就能發生。所以我就是這樣回答這個問題的。看看自己的後院，事實上，看看鏡子。你能做點什麽比你現在正在做的事負起更多責任？那就去做，並且到處宣傳。熱泉群落裡的動物們對自己的生死無能為力，只能聽天由命，但我們可以有所作為。理論上，我們會思考，我們是理性的人類。我們可以改變自己的行為來影響和改變環境。就像那些改變了海灣狀況的人們。 Sylvia的TED獲獎願望是呼籲我們盡我們所能，傾我們所有，劃出大片海域，而不是芝麻綠豆大的面積，作為保育區，她稱之為“希望小區”我為此而大聲鼓掌喝彩。我希望，這些希望小區當中能有些放在深海，這些地方在過去被嚴重忽略了，假如沒有被濫用的話——我想到“海拋”。不管什麼東西對垃圾掩埋場來說太大或太毒，那就扔海裡去。所以我希望我們也能在深海保留一些“希望小區”。現在我還不能許願，但我敢說我要盡我所能地支持Sylvia Earle的願望。我心甘情願。 非常感謝大家。（觀眾鼓掌）
