Talk	en	zh-tw
mike_velings_the_case_for_fish_farming	"So I come from the tallest people on the planet — the Dutch. It hasn't always been this way. In fact, all across the globe, people have been gaining height. In the last 150 years, in developed countries, on average, we have gotten 10 centimeters taller. And scientists have a lot of theories about why this is, but almost all of them involve nutrition, namely the increase of dairy and meat. In the last 50 years, global meat consumption has more than quadrupled, from 71 million tons to 310 million tons. Something similar has been going on with milk and eggs. In every society where incomes have risen, so has protein consumption. And we know that globally, we are getting richer. And as the middle class is on the rise, so is our global population, from 7 billion of us today to 9.7 billion by 2050, which means that by 2050, we are going to need at least 70 percent more protein than what is available to humankind today. And the latest prediction of the UN puts that population number, by the end of this century, at 11 billion, which means that we are going to need a lot more protein. This challenge is staggering — so much so, that recently, a team at Anglia Ruskin Global Sustainability Institute suggested that if we don't change our global policies and food production systems, our societies might actually collapse in the next 30 years. Currently, our ocean serves as the main source of animal protein. Over 2.6 billion people depend on it every single day. At the same time, our global fisheries are two-and-a-half times larger than what our oceans can sustainably support, meaning that humans take far more fish from the ocean than the oceans can naturally replace. WWF recently published a report showing that just in the last 40 years, our global marine life has been slashed in half. And another recent report suggests that of our largest predatory species, such as swordfish and bluefin tuna, over 90 percent has disappeared since the 1950s. And there are a lot of great, sustainable fishing initiatives across the planet working towards better practices and better-managed fisheries. But ultimately, all of these initiatives are working towards keeping current catch constant. It's unlikely, even with the best-managed fisheries, that we are going to be able to take much more from the ocean than we do today. We have to stop plundering our oceans the way we have. We need to alleviate the pressure on it. And we are at a point where if we push much harder for more produce, we might face total collapse. Our current systems are not going to feed a growing global population. So how do we fix this? What's the world going to look like in just 35 short years when there's 2.7 billion more of us sharing the same resources? We could all become vegan. Sounds like a great idea, but it's not realistic and it's impossibly hard to mandate globally. People are eating animal protein whether we like it or not. And suppose we fail to change our ways and continue on the current path, failing to meet demands. The World Health Organization recently reported that 800 million people are suffering from malnutrition and food shortage, which is due to that same growing, global population and the declining access to resources like water, energy and land. It takes very little imagination to picture a world of global unrest, riots and further malnutrition. People are hungry, and we are running dangerously low on natural resources. For so, so many reasons, we need to change our global food production systems. We must do better and there is a solution. And that solution lies in aquaculture — the farming of fish, plants like seaweed, shellfish and crustaceans. As the great ocean hero Jacques Cousteau once said, ""We must start using the ocean as farmers instead of hunters. That's what civilization is all about — farming instead of hunting."" Fish is the last food that we hunt. And why is it that we keep hearing phrases like, ""Life's too short for farmed fish,"" or, ""Wild-caught, of course!"" over fish that we know virtually nothing about? We don't know what it ate during its lifetime, and we don't know what pollution it encounters. And if it was a large predatory species, it might have gone through the coast of Fukushima yesterday. We don't know. Very few people realize the traceability in fisheries never goes beyond the hunter that caught the wild animal. But let's back up for a second and talk about why fish is the best food choice. It's healthy, it prevents heart disease, it provides key amino acids and key fatty acids like Omega-3s, which is very different from almost any other type of meat. And aside from being healthy, it's also a lot more exciting and diverse. Think about it — most animal farming is pretty monotonous. Cow is cow, sheep is sheep, pig's pig, and poultry — turkey, duck, chicken — pretty much sums it up. And then there's 500 species of fish being farmed currently. not that Western supermarkets reflect that on their shelves, but that's beside that point. And you can farm fish in a very healthy manner that's good for us, good for the planet and good for the fish. I know I sound fish-obsessed — (Laughter) Let me explain: My brilliant partner and wife, Amy Novograntz, and I got involved in aquaculture a couple of years ago. We were inspired by Sylvia Earle, who won the TED Prize in 2009. We actually met on Mission Blue I in the Galapagos. Amy was there as the TED Prize Director; me, an entrepreneur from the Netherlands and concerned citizen, love to dive, passion for the oceans. Mission Blue truly changed our lives. We fell in love, got married and we came away really inspired, thinking we really want to do something about ocean conservation — something that was meant to last, that could make a real difference and something that we could do together. Little did we expect that that would lead us to fish farming. But a few months after we got off the boat, we got to a meeting at Conservation International, where the Director General of WorldFish was talking about aquaculture, asking a room full of environmentalists to stop turning from it, realize what was going on and to really get involved because aquaculture has the potential to be just what our oceans and populations need. We were stunned when we heard the stats that we didn't know more about this industry already and excited about the chance to help get it right. And to talk about stats — right now, the amount of fish consumed globally, wild catch and farmed combined, is twice the tonnage of the total amount of beef produced on planet earth last year. Every single fishing vessel combined, small and large, across the globe, together produce about 65 million tons of wild-caught seafood for human consumption. Aquaculture this year, for the first time in history, actually produces more than what we catch from the wild. But now this: Demand is going to go up. In the next 35 years, we are going to need an additional 85 million tons to meet demand, which is one-and-a-half times as much, almost, as what we catch globally out of our oceans. An enormous number. It's safe to assume that that's not going to come from the ocean. It needs to come from farming. And talk about farming — for farming you need resources. As a human needs to eat to grow and stay alive, so does an animal. A cow needs to eat eight to nine pounds of feed and drink almost 8,000 liters of water to create just one pound of meat. Experts agree that it's impossible to farm cows for every inhabitant on this planet. We just don't have enough feed or water. And we can't keep cutting down rain forests for it. And fresh water — planet earth has a very limited supply. We need something more efficient to keep humankind alive on this planet. And now let's compare that with fish farming. You can farm one pound of fish with just one pound of feed, and depending on species, even less. And why is that? Well, that's because fish, first of all, float. They don't need to stand around all day resisting gravity like we do. And most fish are cold-blooded — they don't need to heat themselves. Fish chills. (Laughter) And it needs very little water, which is counterintuitive, but as we say, it swims in it but it hardly drinks it. Fish are the most resource-efficient animal protein available to humankind, aside from insects. How much we've learned since. For example, on top of that 65 million tons that's annually caught for human consumption, there's an additional 30 million tons caught for animal feed, mostly sardines and anchovies for the aquaculture industry that's turned into fish meal and fish oil. This is madness. Sixty-five percent of these fisheries, globally, are badly managed. Some of the worst issues of our time are connected to it. It's destroying our oceans. The worst slavery issues imaginable are connected to it. Recently, an article came out of Stanford saying that if 50 percent of the world's aquaculture industry would stop using fish meal, our oceans would be saved. Now think about that for a minute. Now, we know that the oceans have far more problems — they have pollution, there's acidification, coral reef destruction and so on. But it underlines the impact of our fisheries, and it underlines how interconnected everything is. Fisheries, aquaculture, deforestation, climate change, food security and so on. In the search for alternatives, the industry, on a massive scale, has reverted to plant-based alternatives like soy, industrial chicken waste, blood meal from slaughterhouses and so on. And we understand where these choices come from, but this is not the right approach. It's not sustainable, it's not healthy. Have you ever seen a chicken at the bottom of the ocean? Of course not. If you feed salmon soy with nothing else, it literally explodes. Salmon is a carnivore, it has no way to digest soy. Now, fish farming is by far the best animal farming available to humankind. But it's had a really bad reputation. There's been excessive use of chemicals, there's been virus and disease transfered to wild populations, ecosystem destruction and pollution, escaped fish breeding with wild populations, altering the overall genetic pool, and then of course, as just mentioned, the unsustainable feed ingredients. How blessed were the days when we could just enjoy food that was on our plate, whatever it was. Once you know, you know. You can't go back. It's not fun. We really need a transparent food system that we can trust, that produces healthy food. But the good news is that decades of development and research have led to a lot of new technologies and knowledge that allow us to do a lot better. We can now farm fish without any of these issues. I think of agriculture before the green revolution — we are at aquaculture and the blue revolution. New technologies means that we can now produce a feed that's perfectly natural, with a minimal footprint that consists of microbes, insects, seaweeds and micro-algae. Healthy for the people, healthy for the fish, healthy for the planet. Microbes, for example, can be a perfect alternative for high-grade fish meal — at scale. Insects are the — well, first of all, the perfect recycling because they're grown on food waste; but second, think of fly-fishing, and you know how logical it actually is to use it as fish feed. You don't need large tracts of land for it and you don't need to cut down rain forests for it. And microbes and insects are actually net water producers. This revolution is starting as we speak, it just needs scale. We can now farm far more species than ever before in controlled, natural conditions, creating happy fish. I imagine, for example, a closed system that's performing more efficiently than insect farming, where you can produce healthy, happy, delicious fish with little or no effluent, almost no energy and almost no water and a natural feed with a minimal footprint. Or a system where you grow up to 10 species next to each other — off of each other, mimicking nature. You need very little feed, very little footprint. I think of seaweed growing off the effluent of fish, for example. There's great technologies popping up all over the globe. From alternatives to battle disease so we don't need antibiotics and chemicals anymore, to automated feeders that feel when the fish are hungry, so we can save on feed and create less pollution. Software systems that gather data across farms, so we can improve farm practices. There's really cool stuff happening all over the globe. And make no mistake — all of these things are possible at a cost that's competitive to what a farmer spends today. Tomorrow, there will be no excuse for anyone to not do the right thing. So somebody needs to connect the dots and give these developments a big kick in the butt. And that's what we've been working on the last couple of years, and that's what we need to be working on together — rethinking everything from the ground up, with a holistic view across the value chain, connecting all these things across the globe, alongside great entrepreneurs that are willing to share a collective vision. Now is the time to create change in this industry and to push it into a sustainable direction. This industry is still young, much of its growth is still ahead. It's a big task, but not as far-fetched as you might think. It's possible. So we need to take pressure off the ocean. We want to eat good and healthy. And if we eat an animal, it needs to be one that had a happy and healthy life. We need to have a meal that we can trust, live long lives. And this is not just for people in San Francisco or Northern Europe — this is for all of us. Even in the poorest countries, it's not just about money. People prefer something fresh and healthy that they can trust over something that comes from far away that they know nothing about. We're all the same. The day will come where people will realize — no, demand — farmed fish on their plate that's farmed well and that's farmed healthy — and refuse anything less. You can help speed this up. Ask questions when you order seafood. Where does my fish come from? Who raised it, and what did it eat? Information about where your fish comes from and how it was produced needs to be much more readily available. And consumers need to put pressure on the aquaculture industry to do the right thing. So every time you order, ask for detail and show that you really care about what you eat and what's been given to you. And eventually, they will listen. And all of us will benefit. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我來自地球最高人種的國家—荷蘭。但不是只有荷蘭這樣。事實上，全世界的人都在長高。過去的 150 年，在已開發國家中，我們身高平均已經多了 10 公分。而科學家有很多有關於這方面的理論，但它們大部分都與營養有關，換句話說就是奶類與肉類。 在過去的 50 年，全球肉類的消費增長已經超過 4 倍，從七千一百萬萬噸上升到三億一千萬噸。牛奶和雞蛋也有相同的情況。在每個收入增加的社會，蛋白質的消耗量也跟著增加。我們知道全世界的人越來越有錢。當中產階級人口上升，全球的人口也跟著上升，到2050年之前，全球人口會從70 億增加到 97 億。也就是說，在 2050 年前，我們需要的蛋白質比現在供應給全人類的至少多出70％。根據聯合國的最新預測，到這個世紀末，人口數量會來到110億，意思就是我們會需要相當多的蛋白質。 這個挑戰很驚人—這麼的多，所以最近，安格利亞魯斯金的全球可持續發展研究所的一個小組表示，如果我們不改變我們全球食物生產的政策，我們的社會在下一個 30 年也許真的會崩潰。 目前，我們的海洋是動物性蛋白質的主要來源。超過 26 億人口，每天都要依賴它生活。與此同時，我們目前的全球漁穫是我們海洋可持續供應量的兩倍半。意思就是，人類從海洋取得的漁穫遠遠超過海洋本身的自然替換量。 WWF 世界野生動物基金會最近發表一篇報告指出近 40 年，全球海洋生物數量已經被削減了一半。另外最新一份報告表示，我們最大的捕食性魚類，像是劍魚和藍鰭鮪魚，從1950年代以來，超過 90% 已經消失。 全球有很多規模很大，可持續水產創業家正朝更好的實務經驗與漁業管理邁進。但最終，這些業者若一直保持不變的漁獲量繼續捕撈，那麼，即使有最好的漁業管理，我們也不太可能從海洋捕獲比現今更多的漁獲量。 我們必須停止用同樣的方式掠奪我們的海洋，我們必須減輕海洋的壓力。我們現在正在一個轉捩點上，如果我們為了更多的魚獲量而拼命捕獲，可能會面臨全面性的崩盤。我們目前的系統無法滿足全球持續成長的人口。 所以，我們要如何修正呢？如果多出的 27 億人口，享用同樣的資源，那麼往後的35年，世界會變怎麼樣？我們可以都變成素食者。聽起來這主意不錯，但不實際，而且根本不可能命令全世界人食素。 不管我們喜不喜歡，人們仍舊食用動物性蛋白。假設我們不改變我們的方式，繼續走原路，那肯定無法滿足需求。 WHO 全球衛生組織最近報告，目前有 8 億人口正苦於營養不良與食物短缺。原因就是不斷成長的全球人口，及可用資源的下降，像是水、能源、土地。用點想像力，就可以描繪出，一個動盪、暴亂和更多營養不良的世界。人們受飢餓，而且，我們的自然資源快要用完。因此，這麼多的原因，我們必須改變全球的食物生產系統。 我們必須做得更好，而且有一個解決方案。而這個解決方案就是水產養殖—養殖魚類、像海藻植物、貝類和甲殼類動物。偉大的海洋英雄Jacques Cousteau 曾經說過，「我們現在對待海洋必須像個農夫一樣，而不是獵人。這是身為公民應該做的事—養殖取代捕撈。」魚類是我們最後才能獵殺的食物。 而為什麼我們一直聽到這些話，像是，"" 生命如此短促，不值得去養魚。""或者 "" 當然要野生捕捉！""魚的一生，我們幾乎都不懂吧？我們不知道它這一生中，吃了甚麼，我們也不知道，它受到了甚麼污染，如果它是大型的肉食種類，它很有可能昨天才剛經過日本福島的海岸。我們不知道，很少人知道漁業的追蹤技術永遠追不上獵人打獵的技術技術。 讓我們回到剛剛提到的話題，並講一下為甚麼魚是最好的食物選擇？它對人類身體健康有益，可以避免心臟疾病，也是提供氨基酸的主要主要來源，和主要脂肪酸 例如Omega-3 ，與其他種類的肉非常不一樣，更不用說吃了會健康，而且它種類繁多，生氣勃勃。 思考一下—大部分畜牧業都非常雷同單調乏味，牛就是牛、羊就是羊、豬就是豬，和家禽—火雞、鴨、雞— 幾乎就是這幾樣而已。但目前大約有500種魚類被養殖著。並非西方社會超級市場架上展示的那一些產品，但這不是重點。 你可以用非常健康的方式養殖魚類，這對我們是有益的、對地球跟魚類都是好的。我知道我聽起來像個魚痴— （笑聲） 讓我解釋一下：我聰明的太太，Amy Novograntz 和我，幾年前一起踏入水產養殖業。我們是受 Sylvia Earle 啟發，她是 2009 年TED的年度獲獎者。我們實際是在 Galapagos 的藍色 1 號任務相識。Amy是 TED 獎項的負責人；我，一個來自荷蘭的企業家，關心社會的公民，喜歡潛水、熱愛海洋。 藍色任務真的改變了我們的生命，我們相戀、結婚，一路走來我們備受鼓舞，並很想為海洋保護做點事情，一些可足夠維持、能真正改變的事情，一些我們可以一起做的事情。 沒想到這會引領我們來到魚類養殖的領域。但我們下船後幾個月，出席國際保護協會的一個聚會，會上世界漁業總局的局長進行一次有關水產養殖的演講，要求場內眾多的環保人仕不要迴避這個議題，先了解發生了甚麼事，然後再投入參與，因為水產養殖有潛力同時滿足大海與人類的需求。 當我們聽到數字時，嚇了一跳，我們不知道這個產業已經到達這種種況，而且對幫助這個產業扶正感到相當興奮。 談到統計數字—目前，全球魚類的消費，包括野生獵捕與養殖的，去年全球的總噸數是牛肉的兩倍，全球的捕漁船，不管小的、大的加總起來每年共要捕撈野生海鮮 6500 萬噸供全人類消費。 養殖漁業今年的產量，從有歷史紀錄以來，第一次突破我們從海洋捕撈的總量。 但現在是這樣：需求一直上升，在未來的 35 年，我們還需要額外的8500 萬公噸來滿足需求，差不多是 1.5 倍於我們從全球海洋捕撈的總重量，相當大的數字， 可以肯定這些捕撈量不可能全部來自海洋。它需要來自養殖。而談到養殖業—養殖也需要資源。就像人類，需要每天吃東西長大維持生命一樣，所以動物也一樣。一隻牛需要吃 8~9 磅 的飼料，以及 8000 公升的水，才能產出 1 磅的肉。專家同意利用養牛的方式來滿足全球的需求是不可能的。我們根本沒有足夠的飼料與水源。 而且我們不能因此而砍掉雨林來滿足這個需求。還有新鮮的水—地球能提供的量相當有限。我們需要更高效率的東西來讓地球的人類生存。 現在，讓我們用這個與水產養殖做比較。你養殖一磅的魚只需要一磅的飼料，視乎不同的種類，有的甚至需要更少。為什麼會這樣？嗯，因為魚畢竟是用飄浮的。不用整天像我們一樣站立，需要對抗地心引力。而且大部分的魚屬於冷血動物—牠們不需要自己䐘起來。魚~冷! （笑聲） 而它只要非常少量的水，這是違反常理，但如我們所說的，它在水裡游，幾乎不喝水的。除了昆蟲，魚也是人類攝取蛋白質最有資源效率的食物。 我們目前了解多少？例如，除了每年有6500萬噸的捕撈供人類食用㚈還有另外300萬噸的捕撈供動物飼料，大部分的沙丁魚和鳳尾魚，是供水產養殖業用的，但現在轉變成魚粉和魚油。 這太瘋狂了。全球 65% 的這些補魚業者，大部分都管理不好。我們這世代最糟糕的事件都與他們有關。他們會毀掉我們的海洋。想像到的最駭人的奴工事件都與他們有關。最近，一篇來自史丹福大學的文章指出，如果 50% 的全球水產養殖業者可以停止使用魚粉，我們的海洋就有救了。現在，思考一下。 我們知道海洋有一大堆問題—有污染、有酸化、珊瑚礁破壞...等等。但它突顯了對我們漁業的影響、它也突顯了對每件事相互牽連的的影響。漁業、水產養殖、森林濫伐、氣候變化、食物安全...等等。 魚產業為了尋找替代品，大規模地已經恢復到以植物為基礎的替代品，像是大豆、產業雞糞、來自屠宰場的血粉...等等。 而我們知道這些選擇來自哪裡，但這不是正確的方法，這樣不穩定。不健康。你有看過雞在海底的嗎？當然沒有，如果你只餵大豆給鮭魚吃，它會直接爆炸。因為鮭魚是肉食性動物，他沒有辦法消化大豆。 目前為止，魚類養殖是人類最佳的動物養殖方式。但是聲譽欠佳，過量使用化學品，已經把病毒和疾病傳染給野生的動種、做成生態破壞和污染，逃避使用野生物種進行餵食改變了整體的基因庫、然後，當然，如剛剛提的，不穩定的餵食成分。 當我們可以享受盤裡的美食時，那會是多麼幸福的一天啊！無論它是甚麼都沒關係！一但你懂、你了解。你就回不去了、這並不好笑。我們需要一個值得信賴的透明食物系統。可以生產健康食品。 但，好消息是，幾十年來的研究發展已經創造了很多的新科技及知識，可以讓我們做得更好。我們現在可以無後顧之憂的養殖魚類。 我在綠色革命之前就思考過水產養殖—我們正處在水產業及藍色革命的點上。新的科技技術意味著，我們現在可以用最少的生態需要面積，來生產由微生物、昆蟲、海藻、微型藻所組成的純天然飼料，它們對人體是健康的。它們對魚類是健康的，對地球也是健康的。 例如，微生物如果大規模生產，可以成為一個完美的高檔魚飼料替代品。 昆蟲是—是的，首先，它可以循環再生，因為它們是吃廚餘長大的；但第二，想一下飛蠅釣，你就知道為什麼它其實可以成為魚飼料的原因。你不需要為它找大片土地，你也不用為它砍掉大片雨林。而微生物及昆蟲實際上就是網路水製造者。 就如我們所說的，這個革命已經開始，它只需要大規模生產。我們可以比過去養殖更多的種類，而且是在受管控、天然條件下製造開心的魚。 我在想、例如，一個比養殖昆蟲表現更有效率的封閉系統，讓你可以產出健康、開心、好吃的魚，用一個只有一點點或無污染、幾乎不需要能源及水、最少的生態面積的自然餵食方式。或者你可以養殖一個模仿自然，一個接一個的10 種品種以上的系統。你只需要非常少的餵食，非常少的生態面積。例如，我有想到海藻與魚共生的封閉系統。 全球有很多偉大的科技陸續推出。從替代方式到對抗疾病，那我們就再也不需要抗生素或化學藥劑，到自動餵食系統，它可以感覺到魚甚麼時候會餓，如此我們就可以減少餵食，並製造更少的污染。軟體系統收集整個魚田的資料，讓我們可以改善養殖的實務流程。 全世界真的有很多很酷的東西在發生。但請別誤會—今日這些事情是有可能讓一個養殖業者在有競爭力的成本下完成的。明天，每個人就沒有理由說不做正確的事。 所以有些人需要整合這些連結點，並給這些發展在屁股上用力一踢。而這就是我們最近幾年在做的事，這也是我們需要一起工作的原因—從最基礎開始，重新思考每件事，用一個橫跨整個價值鏈的歷史角度去思考，跟隨願意分享共同願景的偉大企業家，把全世界這些事情連結起來。 現在就是改變這個產業的最佳刻，並把它推向一個永續發展的方向。這個產業仍然很年輕，前頭仍有很大的成長空間。這是個大任務，但沒有你想像的那麼遙遠。它是有可能的。 所以我們需要釋放海洋的壓力。我們希望吃得好，吃得健康。如果我們要吃動物，它必須是那個擁有開心及健康生命的動物。 我們需要口分值得信賴的一餐，讓我們可以活得久。而這不僅是為了舊金山或北歐人民—這是為我們所有人。甚至是最貧窮的國家，這與金錢無關。人們喜歡他們信得過、新鮮健康的東西，遠勝於來自遠方他們完全不懂得東西。我們都一樣。 那一天會到來，人們將會了解，並要求，餐碟上是養殖魚類那是養得好、養得健康的魚。並拒絕任何不健康的東西。 你可以幫助這件事情加速發展。當你要點海鮮時，記得問問題。我的魚是來自哪裡？誰養的？它吃了甚麼？有關於你的魚的來源以及它如何生產出來的資訊，需要很容易取得。而消費者需要施加更多的壓力在水產養殖業上，給予水產養殖業他們去做正確的事。 所以，每次你點餐時，問清楚細節，並展現出你真的很在意你吃的是甚麼以及他們給你的是甚麼。最後，他們會聽進去。而大家都會受惠， 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
