Talk	en	zh-tw
milton_glaser_on_using_design_to_make_ideas_new	"'Theme and variations' is one of those forms that require a certain kind of intellectual activity, because you are always comparing the variation with the theme that you hold in your mind. You might say that the theme is nature and everything that follows is a variation on the subject. I was asked, I guess about six years ago, to do a series of paintings that in some way would celebrate the birth of Piero della Francesca. And it was very difficult for me to imagine how to paint pictures that were based on Piero until I realized that I could look at Piero as nature — that I would have the same attitude towards looking at Piero della Francesca as I would if I were looking out a window at a tree. And that was enormously liberating to me. Perhaps it's not a very insightful observation, but that really started me on a path to be able to do a kind of theme and variations based on a work by Piero, in this case that remarkable painting that's in the Uffizi, ""The Duke of Montefeltro,"" who faces his consort, Battista. Once I realized that I could take some liberties with the subject, I did the following series of drawings. That's the real Piero della Francesca — one of the greatest portraits in human history. And these, I'll just show these without comment. It's just a series of variations on the head of the Duke of Montefeltro, who's a great, great figure in the Renaissance, and probably the basis for Machiavelli's ""The Prince."" He apparently lost an eye in battle, which is why he is always shown in profile. And this is Battista. And then I decided I could move them around a little bit — so that for the first time in history, they're facing the same direction. Whoops! Passed each other. And then a visitor from another painting by Piero, this is from ""The Resurrection of Christ"" — as though the cast had just gotten of the set to have a chat. And now, four large panels: this is upper left; upper right; lower left; lower right. Incidentally, I've never understood the conflict between abstraction and naturalism. Since all paintings are inherently abstract to begin with there doesn't seem to be an argument there. On another subject — (Laughter) — I was driving in the country one day with my wife, and I saw this sign, and I said, ""That is a fabulous piece of design."" And she said, ""What are you talking about?"" I said, ""Well, it's so persuasive, because the purpose of that sign is to get you into the garage, and since most people are so suspicious of garages, and know that they're going to be ripped off, they use the word 'reliable.' But everybody says they're reliable. But, reliable Dutchman"" — (Laughter) — ""Fantastic!"" Because as soon as you hear the word Dutchman — which is an archaic word, nobody calls Dutch people ""Dutchmen"" anymore — but as soon as you hear Dutchman, you get this picture of the kid with his finger in the dike, preventing the thing from falling and flooding Holland, and so on. And so the entire issue is detoxified by the use of ""Dutchman."" Now, if you think I'm exaggerating at all in this, all you have to do is substitute something else, like ""Indonesian."" (Laughter) Or even ""French."" (Laughter) Now, ""Swiss"" works, but you know it's going to cost a lot of money. (Laughter) I'm going to take you quickly through the actual process of doing a poster. I do a lot of work for the School of Visual Arts, where I teach, and the director of this school — a remarkable man named Silas Rhodes — often gives you a piece of text and he says, ""Do something with this."" And so he did. And this was the text — ""In words as fashion the same rule will hold/ Alike fantastic if too new or old/ Be not the first by whom the new are tried/ Nor yet the last to lay the old aside."" I could make nothing of that. And I really struggled with this one. And the first thing I did, which was sort of in the absence of another idea, was say I'll sort of write it out and make some words big, and I'll have some kind of design on the back somehow, and I was hoping — as one often does — to stumble into something. So I took another crack at it — you've got to keep it moving — and I Xeroxed some words on pieces of colored paper and I pasted them down on an ugly board. I thought that something would come out of it, like ""Words rule fantastic new old first last Pope"" because it's by Alexander Pope, but I sort of made a mess out of it, and then I thought I'd repeat it in some way so it was legible. So, it was going nowhere. Sometimes, in the middle of a resistant problem, I write down things that I know about it. But you can see the beginning of an idea there, because you can see the word ""new"" emerging from the ""old."" That's what happens. There's a relationship between the old and the new; the new emerges from the context of the old. And then I did some variations of it, but it still wasn't coalescing graphically at all. I had this other version which had something interesting about it in terms of being able to put it together in your mind from clues. The W was clearly a W, the N was clearly an N, even though they were very fragmentary and there wasn't a lot of information in it. Then I got the words ""new"" and ""old"" and now I had regressed back to a point where there seemed to be no return. (Laughter) I was really desperate at this point. And so, I do something I'm truthfully ashamed of, which is that I took two drawings I had made for another purpose and I put them together. It says ""dreams"" at the top. And I was going to do a thing, I say, ""Well, change the copy. Let it say something about dreams, and come to SVA and you'll sort of fulfill your dreams."" But, to my credit, I was so embarrassed about doing that that I never submitted this sketch. And, finally, I arrived at the following solution. Now, it doesn't look terribly interesting, but it does have something that distinguishes it from a lot of other posters. For one thing, it transgresses the idea of what a poster's supposed to be, which is to be understood and seen immediately, and not explained. I remember hearing all of you in the graphic arts — ""If you have to explain it, it ain't working."" And one day I woke up and I said, ""Well, suppose that's not true?"" (Laughter) So here's what it says in my explanation at the bottom left. It says, ""Thoughts: This poem is impossible. Silas usually has a better touch with his choice of quotations. This one generates no imagery at all."" I am now exposing myself to my audience, right? Which is something you never want to do professionally. ""Maybe the words can make the image without anything else happening. What's the heart of this poem? Don't be trendy if you want to be serious. Is doing the poster this way trendy in itself? I guess one could reduce the idea further by suggesting that the new emerges behind and through the old, like this."" And then I show you a little drawing — you see, you remember that old thing I discarded? Well, I found a way to use it. So, there's that little alternative over there, and I say, ""Not bad,"" — criticizing myself — ""but more didactic than visual. Maybe what wants to be said is that old and the new are locked in a dialectical embrace, a kind of dance where each defines the other."" And then more self-questioning — ""Am I being simple-minded? Is this the kind of simple that looks obvious, or the kind that looks profound? There's a significant difference. This could be embarrassing. Actually, I realize fear of embarrassment drives me as much as any ambition. Do you think this sort of thing could really attract a student to the school?"" (Laughter) Well, I think there are two fresh things here — two fresh things. One is the sort of willingness to expose myself to a critical audience, and not to suggest that I am confident about what I'm doing. And as you know, you have to have a front. I mean — you've got to be confident; if you don't believe in your work, who else is going to believe in it? So that's one thing, to introduce the idea of doubt into graphics. That can be a big contribution. The other thing is to actually give you two solutions for the price of one; you get the big one and if you don't like that, how about the little one? (Laughter) And that too is a relatively new idea. And here's just a series of experiments where I ask the question of — does a poster have to be square? Now, this is a little illusion. That poster is not folded. It's not folded, that's a photograph and it's cut on the diagonal. Same cheap trick in the upper left-hand corner. And here, a very peculiar poster because, simply because of using the isometric perspective in the computer, it won't sit still in the space. At times, it seems to be wider at the back than the front, and then it shifts. And if you sit here long enough, it'll float off the page into the audience. But, we don't have time. (Laughter) And then an experiment — a little bit about the nature of perspective, where the outside shape is determined by the peculiarity of perspective, but the shape of the bottle — which is identical to the outside shape — is seen frontally. And another piece for the art directors' club is ""Anna Rees"" casting long shadows. This is another poster from the School of Visual Arts. There were 10 artists invited to participate in it, and it was one of those things where it was extremely competitive and I didn't want to be embarrassed, so I worked very hard on this. The idea was — and it was a brilliant idea — was to have 10 posters distributed throughout the city's subway system so every time you got on the subway you'd be passing a different poster, all of which had a different idea of what art is. But I was absolutely stuck on the idea of ""art is"" and trying to determine what art was. But then I gave up and I said, ""Well, art is whatever."" And as soon as I said that, I discovered that the word ""hat"" was hidden in the word ""whatever,"" and that led me to the inevitable conclusion. But then again, it's on my list of didactic posters. My intent is to have a literary accompaniment that explains the poster, in case you don't get it. (Laughter) Now this says, ""Note to the viewer: I thought I might use a visual cliche of our time — Magritte's everyman — to express the idea that art is mystery, continuity and history. I'm also convinced that, in an age of computer manipulation, surrealism has become banal, a shadow of its former self. The phrase 'Art is whatever' expresses the current inclusiveness that surrounds art-making — a sort of 'it ain't what you do, it's the way that you do it' notion. The shadow of Magritte falls across the central part of the poster a poetic event that occurs as the shadow man isolates the word 'hat,' hidden in the word 'whatever.' The four hats shown in the poster suggests how art might be defined: as a thing itself, the worth of the thing, the shadow of the thing, and the shape of the thing. Whatever."" (Applause) OK. (Applause) And the one that I did not submit, which I still like, I wanted to use the same phrase. There were wonderful experiments by Bruno Munari on letterforms some years ago — sort of, see how far you could go and still be able to read them. And that idea stuck in my head. But then I took the pieces that I had taken off and put them at the bottom. And, of course those are the remains, and they're so labeled. But what really happens is that you read it as: ""Art is whatever remains."" Thank you. (Applause)"	"思考 ""主題""和""主題的變化""需要相當的智力活動。因為你得不斷地比較烙印在你腦中的""主題""與其""變化""。你可以說""主題""是事物的根源而隨之而來的皆是這個主題的變化。 差不多在六年前，我受邀創作一系列的畫為了慶祝畢也洛.德拉.法蘭契斯卡的生日。對我而言以畢也洛為靈感去創作是件難事直到我領悟畢也洛就是這個靈感的根源。我可以以等同於觀看一棵窗外綠樹的態度去觀看畢也洛.德拉.法蘭契斯卡。這對我來說是個徹底的解放，或許這是種不太深刻的觀察，但這確實讓我找到一個辦法依照畢也洛(Piero)的作品， 進行主題和變動。以烏菲茲美術館中著名的藏品“烏爾班公爵-費德里柯.達.蒙特費爾托‘為例，他面對著他配偶 巴蒂絲達。當我明瞭可以不用受限於主題後，我創作了以下這系列的繪畫。這是畢也洛．德拉．法蘭契斯卡的原作。其中一幅在人類歷史上非常重要的肖像畫。這些我就不一一解說了。都是從原本的肖像發展出來的變化。這位公爵是在文藝復興時期非常重要的人物，馬基維利所寫君王論可能就是以他為榜樣。他顯然在某場戰役中失去了一隻眼睛，因此他總是以側面示人。這是巴蒂絲達。 接著我決定把他們稍加移動一下。做就史上第一次他們望向同一方向。哎呀! 他們擦身而過。接下來有位訪客，他來自畢也洛(Piero)所畫的""基督的復活(The Resurrection of Christ)""。擺出好像要聊天一樣的陣式。現在把圖分成四大格。這是左上。右上。左下。右下。順道一提，我從未搞懂為什麼抽象主義和自然主義之間會有衝突，因為所有的畫作都開始於一種與生俱來的抽象所以實在沒有道理有任何爭議存在。 換個話題， (笑聲) 有一天我和我太太在鄉間開著車，我看到一個標誌，(可靠的荷蘭人 汽車維修廠)我說：""這是一個很棒的設計。""她說：""你在說些什麼?""我說""嗯，這標誌非常有說服力，因為這標誌的目的就是希望你把車開進他的修車廠，而大多數人都不相信修車廠，覺得進去之後都會被騙，他們用了""可靠的""這個詞。但每一個人都說他們是可靠的。但是 ""可靠的荷蘭人 (reliable Dutchman)"" — (笑聲) 太了不起了!因為只要你聽到這詞""Dutchman""，這是一個古老的用語，已經沒有人用這字稱呼荷蘭人了，但是只要你聽到""Dutchman""你腦中就會浮現一個小孩站在堤防前，用他的手指堵住堤防的裂縫，避免洪水淹沒荷蘭等等之類的事。所以說這整個問題都因為用了""Dutchman""而解套。如果你覺得這種說法太過誇大，那你可以用其他字來取代它，像是""印尼人""。 (笑聲) 或甚至是法國人。 (笑聲) 瑞士人也可以，但你知道這將會花一大筆錢。 (笑聲) 我將帶你們快速瀏覽海報創作的實際過程。在我任教於視覺藝術學院(SVA)時，我為了這間學校做很多作品。這間學校的總監，一位很傑出的先生 - Silas Rhodes經常給人一段文字，然後說""用這段話做些什麼。""他也這樣對我做過。這段文字是""用詞和時尚皆擁有相同的規則，過於立異或守舊都同樣的荒唐，不要第一個去嘗試標新的東西，也不要當最後墨守成規的俗人。""我不知道該怎麼做。這讓我感到非常吃力。最初我做的作品缺乏了想法，我就把他們寫出來，並且把某些字放大，然後大概對背景做了一些設計，如同其他人一樣，我希望從中激發出些靈感。然後我又做了其他的嘗試，你必須一直嘗試。我把一些字印在不同的色紙上然後我把他們貼在一個不怎樣的板子上。我想有些字會特別浮現出來，像是""字、規則、完美、新、舊、第一、最後、波普""因為這是出自亞歷山大.波普，但是也被我搞的有些雜亂，我想我可以依照這方式，讓他們更清楚。但好像走進死胡同了。 有時候，在遇到這難纏的問題時，我會寫下我所了解的部份。你可以在上頭看到我一開始的想法，你可以看到""新(new)""從""舊(old)""浮現出來。事情就是這樣發生了。舊（old）和新（new）有種聯繫，""新（new）""是從""舊（old）"" 這字中間浮現出來。然後我做了一些變化。但是這樣的設計看起來一點都不協調。然後我做了另一個版本，加入一些有趣的想法依據你所能收集線索把他們拼湊起來。W清楚的顯示是個W，N也是一樣，雖然他們非常的不完整，也沒有太多的資訊在裡頭。然後我換種字型，但似乎我又走入了另一個死胡同。 (笑聲) 這時候我真的感到非常的絕望。 接下來我做了一些令人羞愧的事情，我拿了兩幅畫，這兩幅畫是為了其他事而作的我把他們放在一起這是關於夢的畫。然後我準備做件事情，我說：""嗯，改變一下這個版本。讓它說一些關於夢的事情，來視覺藝術學院你將會實現你的夢想。""但是對我來說，做這件事會讓我感到很不好意思，因此我從來沒有提出這份草稿。最後，我得到了以下的解答。這看起來不是這麼有趣，但確實存在某些意思在眾多海報中顯得與眾不同。但有一點，他違背了一張海報應有的特點，一張海報應該可以馬上被人了解、看懂，而不需要額外的解釋。在平面藝術裡，大家都懂一個道理 -""如果還需要解釋，那就行不通了。""但有一天我起床時，想到，""或許，這也不一定對？"" (笑聲) 所以左下角有我寫的註解這寫到 ""思想：這首詩是不可能的。Silas常常對於他所選擇的引證有比較好的感受。但這首詩在我腦中產生不出一點影像。""我現在正在剖析自己給我的觀眾。對吧?這種事你絕對不會想要做的很專業。""或許文字可以不需借助任何東西而變成圖像。這首詩所要表達的是什麼?你要認真就不要趕潮流。但製作廣告本身不就在趕潮流嗎？ 我想我們可以簡化這個想法假設""新""浮現在""舊""之後，然後穿越過，像是這個：""我展示給你一些畫作 -你記得剛剛那些被我丟棄的作品嗎？嗯，我找到方法去利用他。所以在這裡，我們有些不同的作法。我說""還不錯"" - 我評論我自己""但嘴巴上說得還是比看得到部份多。或許說這麼多，最重要的是新和舊互為唇齒。他們彼此共舞，相互輝映。""再一次的自我懷疑 — ""我是不是想簡單了呢?這種所謂的""簡單""，到底是就是看起來明顯，還是那種看起來艱深的呢?這中間有非常大的差異。這可以令人尷尬。實際上，我明白驅動著我是這種令人為難的恐懼，野心反而是其次。你覺得這樣的東西可以吸引學生來學校嗎?“ (笑聲) 嗯，在這裡我想出現了兩個新的想法 — 兩個嶄新的想法。其一是 - 樂意在挑剔的觀眾前面剖析自己，並且不去預設我對我所做的事情很有自信。如你所知的，你必須朝向前方。我的意思是 - 你必須有自信。如果你都不能相信你的作品，誰又能夠相信呢?這是一件，某程度上介紹""對圖像抱懷疑理念""的事。這可以是個相當大的貢獻。另一件事情是，用一個價錢，其實給自己提供兩個方案。你可以選一個比較偉大的如果你不喜歡那個，那選小巧的如何？ (笑聲) 這也是較為新的想法。這裡有一系列的實驗這裡我問我自己，海報一定要是方正的嗎？這個讓你有些錯覺。這海報沒有被摺疊。真的沒有摺疊，這就是一張圖片。只是在對角線上被切割了。同樣的招式用在左上角。而這個，一個非常特殊的海報，因為它用了電腦上的等角投影法，它不是很穩固的放在半空中。它似乎後面比前面更寬些，有一些位移。如果你坐在這裡夠久，他會從紙浮出來到你們面前。但我們沒有這麼多的時間。 (笑聲) 接著另一個實驗 -用到一點關於透視法的特性，外部的形狀被透視法的特性所決定了但是瓶子的形狀 — 他與外部的形狀是一樣的 —看似立體而面向你的。另一幅作品是為了藝術總監俱樂部所作的是Anna Rees投射出長長的影子。這張海報不是出自於視覺藝術學院。有十位藝術家被邀請參與這個活動，這是其中一件非常有競爭性的事情，我不希望丟臉，所以我很認真的去創作。這構想 - 這是一個非常出色的構想 -讓十張海報散佈於城市的地鐵系統裡，所以每次搭乘地鐵時，就會經過不同的海報，而這些海報對於""藝術是什麼""有不同的詮釋。 但我完全被""藝術是""(art is)困住了我嘗試去決定藝術就是這樣。但我放棄了，我說：""嗯，藝術是什麼都可以(art is whatever)。""當我一說出這句話時，我發現 ""帽子（hat）“這字藏在”什麼都可以（whatever）“ 裡頭。這引導我到一個必然的結論裡。而且再一次，這成為我說教海報的其中之一。我意圖利用文學來解釋這幅海報，以防你不了解這海報到底是什麼意思。 (笑聲) 這裡說，"" 觀眾注意 —我想我運用了一個在現在用到爛的意象，馬格利特(René François Ghislain Magritte)的戴黑帽的男人。來表達一個概念：藝術是神秘、連續和歷史的。我也被說服這是一個電腦主宰的時代，超現實主義已經不算什麼了，變為之前自己的影子了。這句 ""藝術是什麼都可以 (art is whatever)""表達出現今藝術實踐的各種包容性、可能性 -不關乎於你怎麼做，而關於你的概念、想法、見解。 馬格利特的影子落在海報中間的部份有種詩意的感覺，影子把 ”帽子（hat）“ 這字隔離起來，藏在”什麼都可以（whatever）”中。顯示在海報中的帽子暗示藝術或許可以被定義成為東西的本身，他的價值，他的影子，和他的形狀。什麼都可以。 (鼓掌) 好 (鼓掌) 還有一幅我沒有交出去，可我還是很喜歡。我想用相同的詞彙 —在幾年前Bruno Munari創造一個很棒的試驗，一種字的形式 —測試文字被拆解到什麼程度，還可以看得懂。這主意一直存在我腦中。不過之後，我把我去掉的部份放在海報的下方。然而，當然這些剩下的部份，還是很有含意的。而實際上你可以把它讀成 —""藝術是剩下什麼都可以 (Art is whatever remains)。"" 謝謝。 (鼓掌)"
