Talk	en	zh-tw
misha_glenny_investigates_global_crime_networks	These are grim economic times, fellow TEDsters, grim economic times indeed. And so, I would like to cheer you up with one of the great, albeit largely unknown, commercial success stories of the past 20 years. Comparable, in its own very peculiar way, to the achievements of Microsoft or Google. And it's an industry which has bucked the current recession with equanimity. I refer to organized crime. Now organized crime has been around for a very long time, I hear you say, and these would be wise words, indeed. But in the last two decades, it has experienced an unprecedented expansion, now accounting for roughly 15 percent of the world's GDP. I like to call it the Global Shadow Economy, or McMafia, for short. So what triggered this extraordinary growth in cross-border crime? Well, of course, there is globalization, technology, communications, all that stuff, which we'll talk about a little bit later. But first, I would like to take you back to this event: the collapse of communism. All across Eastern Europe, a most momentous episode in our post-war history. Now it's time for full disclosure. This event meant a great deal to me personally. I had started smuggling books across the Iron Curtain to Democratic opposition groups in Eastern Europe, like Solidarity in Poland, when I was in my teens. I then started writing about Eastern Europe, and eventually I became the BBC's chief correspondent for the region, which is what I was doing in 1989. And so when 425 million people finally won the right to choose their own governments, I was ecstatic, but I was also a touch worried about some of the nastier things lurking behind the wall. It wasn't long, for example, before ethnic nationalism reared its bloody head in Yugoslavia. And amongst the chaos, amidst the euphoria, it took me a little while to understand that some of the people who had wielded power before 1989, in Eastern Europe, continued to do so after the revolutions there. Obviously there were characters like this. But there were also some more unexpected people who played a critical role in what was going on in Eastern Europe. Like this character. Remember these guys? They used to win the gold medals in weightlifting and wrestling, every four years in the Olympics, and they were the great celebrities of communism, with a fabulous lifestyle to go with it. They used to get great apartments in the center of town, casual sex on tap, and they could travel to the West very freely, which was a great luxury at the time. It may come as a surprise, but they played a critical role in the emergence of the market economy in Eastern Europe. Or as I like to call them, they are the midwives of capitalism. Here are some of those same weightlifters after their 1989 makeover. Now in Bulgaria — this photograph was taken in Bulgaria — when communism collapsed all over Eastern Europe, it wasn't just communism; it was the state that collapsed as well. That means your police force wasn't working. The court system wasn't functioning properly. So what was a business man in the brave new world of East European capitalism going to do to make sure that his contracts would be honored? Well, he would turn to people who were called, rather prosaically by sociologists, privatized law enforcement agencies. We prefer to know them as the mafia. And in Bulgaria, the mafia was soon joined with 14,000 people who were sacked from their jobs in the security services between 1989 and 1991. Now, when your state is collapsing, your economy is heading south at a rate of knots, the last people you want coming on to the labor market are 14,000 men and women whose chief skills are surveillance, are smuggling, building underground networks and killing people. But that's what happened all over Eastern Europe. Now, when I was working in the 1990s, I spent most of the time covering the appalling conflict in Yugoslavia. And I couldn't help notice that the people who were perpetrating the appalling atrocities, the paramilitary organizations, were actually the same people running the organized criminal syndicates. And I came to think that behind the violence lay a sinister criminal enterprise. And so I resolved to travel around the world examining this global criminal underworld by talking to policemen, by talking to victims, by talking to consumers of illicit goods and services. But above all else, by talking to the gangsters themselves. And the Balkans was a fabulous place to start. Why? Well of course there was the issue of law and order collapsing, but also, as they say in the retail trade, it's location, location, location. And what I noticed at the beginning of my research that the Balkans had turned into a vast transit zone for illicit goods and services coming from all over the world. Heroin, cocaine, women being trafficked into prostitution and precious minerals. And where were they heading? The European Union, which by now was beginning to reap the benefits of globalization, transforming it into the most affluent consumer market in history, eventually comprising some 500 million people. And a significant minority of those 500 million people like to spend some of their leisure time and spare cash sleeping with prostitutes, sticking 50 Euro notes up their nose and employing illegal migrant laborers. Now, organized crime in a globalizing world operates in the same way as any other business. It has zones of production, like Afghanistan and Columbia. It has zones of distribution, like Mexico and the Balkans. And then, of course, it has zones of consumption, like the European Union, Japan and of course, the United States. The zones of production and distribution tend to lie in the developing world, and they are often threatened by appalling violence and bloodshed. Take Mexico, for example. Six thousand people killed there in the last 18 months as a direct consequence of the cocaine trade. But what about the Democratic Republic of Congo? Since 1998, five million people have died there. It's not a conflict you read about much in the newspapers, but it's the biggest conflict on this planet since the Second World War. And why is it? Because mafias from all around the world cooperate with local paramilitaries in order to seize the supplies of the rich mineral resources of the region. In the year 2000, 80 percent of the world's coltan was sourced to the killing fields of the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. Now, coltan you will find in almost every mobile phone, in almost every laptop and games console. The Congolese war lords were selling this stuff to the mafia in exchange for weapons, and the mafia would then sell it on to Western markets. And it is this Western desire to consume that is the primary driver of international organized crime. Now, let me show you some of my friends in action, caught conveniently on film by the Italian police, and smuggling duty-not-paid cigarettes. Now, cigarettes out the factory gate are very cheap. The European Union then imposes the highest taxes on them in the world. So if you can smuggle them into the E.U., there are very handsome profits to be made, and I want to show you this to demonstrate the type of resources available to these groups. This boat is worth one million Euros when it's new. And it's the fastest thing on European waters. From 1994, for seven years, 20 of these boats made the trip across the Adriatic, from Montenegro to Italy, every single night. And as a consequence of this trade, Britain alone lost eight billion dollars in revenue. And instead that money went to underwrite the wars in Yugoslavia and line the pockets of unscrupulous individuals. Now Italian police, when this trade started, had just two boats which could go at the same speed. And this is very important, because the only way you can catch these guys is if they run out of gas. Sometimes the gangsters would bring with them women being trafficked into prostitution, and if the police intervened, they would hurl the women into the sea so that the police had to go and save them from drowning, rather than chasing the bad guys. So I have shown you this to demonstrate how many boats, how many vessels it takes to catch one of these guys. And the answer is six vessels. And remember, 20 of these speed boats were coming across the Adriatic every single night. So what were these guys doing with all the money they were making? Well, this is where we come to globalization, because that was not just the deregulation of global trade. It was the liberalization of international financial markets. And boy, did that make it easy for the money launderers. The last two decades have been the champagne era for dirty lucre. In the 1990s, we saw financial centers around the world competing for their business, and there was simply no effective mechanism to prevent money laundering. And a lot of licit banks were also happy to accept deposits from very dubious sources without questions being asked. But at the heart of this, is the offshore banking network. Now these things are an essential part of the money laundering parade, and if you want to do something about illegal tax evasion and transnational organized crime, money laundering, you have to get rid of them. On a positive note, we at last have someone in the White House who has consistently spoken out against these corrosive entities. And if anyone is concerned about what I believe is the necessity for new legislation, regulation, effective regulation, I say, let's take a look at Bernie Madoff, who is now going to be spending the rest of his life in jail. Bernie Madoff stole 65 billion dollars. That puts him up there on the Olympus of gangsters with the Colombian cartels and the major Russian crime syndicates, but he did this for decades in the very heart of Wall Street, and no regulator picked up on it. So how many other Madoffs are there on Wall Street or in the city of London, fleecing ordinary folk and money laundering? Well I can tell you, it's quite a few of them. Let me go on to the 101 of international organized crime now. And that is narcotics. Our second marijuana farm photograph for the morning. This one, however, is in central British Columbia where I photographed it. It's one of the tens of thousands of mom-and-pop grow-ops in B.C. which ensure that over five percent of the province's GDP is accounted for by this trade. Now, I was taken by inspector Brian Cantera, of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, to a cavernous warehouse east of Vancouver to see some of the goods which are regularly confiscated by the RCMP from the smugglers who are sending it, of course, down south to the United States where there is an insatiable market for B.C. Bud, as it's called, in part because it's marketed as organic, which of course goes down very well in California. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, even by the police's admission, this makes not a dent in the profits, really, of the major exporters. Since the beginning of globalization, the global narcotics market has expanded enormously. There has, however, been no concomitant increase in the resources available to police forces. This, however, may all be about to change, because something very strange is going on. The United Nations recognized earlier this — it was last month actually — that Canada has become a key area of distribution and production of ecstasy and other synthetic drugs. Interestingly, the market share of heroin and cocaine is going down, because the pills are getting ever better at reproducing their highs. Now that is a game changer, because it shifts production away from the developing world and into the Western world. When that happens, it is a trend which is set to overwhelm our policing capacity in the West. The drugs policy which we've had in place for 40 years is long overdue for a very serious rethink, in my opinion. Now, the recession. Well, organized crime has already adapted very well to the recession. Not surprising, the most opportunistic industry in the whole world. And it has no rules to its regulatory system. Except, of course, it has two business risks: arrest by law enforcement, which is, frankly, the least of their worries, and competition from other groups, i.e. a bullet in the back of the head. What they've done is they've shifted their operations. People don't smoke as much dope, or visit prostitutes quite so frequently during a recession. And so instead, they have invaded financial and corporate crime in a big way, but above all, two sectors, and that is counterfeit goods and cybercrime. And it's been terribly successful. I would like to introduce you to Mr. Pringle. Or perhaps I should say, more accurately, Señor Pringle. I was introduced to this bit of kit by a Brazilian cybercriminal. We sat in a car on the Avenue Paulista in São Paulo, together. Hooked it up to my laptop, and within about five minutes he had penetrated the computer security system of a major Brazilian bank. It's really not that difficult. And it's actually much easier because the fascinating thing about cybercrime is that it's not so much the technology. The key to cybercrime is what we call social engineering. Or to use the technical term for it, there's one born every minute. You would not believe how easy it is to persuade people to do things with their computers which are objectively not in their interest. And it was very soon when the cybercriminals learned that the quickest way to do this, of course, the quickest way to a person's wallet is through the promise of sex and love. I expect some of you remember the ILOVEYOU virus, one of the very great worldwide viruses that came. I was very fortunate when the ILOVEYOU virus came out, because the first person I received it from was an ex-girlfriend of mine. Now, she harbored all sorts of sentiments and emotions towards me at the time, but love was not amongst them. (Laughter) And so as soon as I saw this drop into my inbox, I dispatched it hastily to the recycle bin and spared myself a very nasty infection. So, cybercrime, do watch out for it. One thing that we do know that the Internet is doing is the Internet is assisting these guys. These are mosquitos who carry the malarial parasite which infests our blood when the mosy has had a free meal at our expense. Now, Artesunate is a very effective drug at destroying the parasite in the early days of infection. But over the past year or so, researchers in Cambodia have discovered that what's happening is the malarial parasite is developing a resistance. And they fear that the reason why it's developing a resistance is because Cambodians can't afford the drugs on the commercial market, and so they buy it from the Internet. And these pills contain only low doses of the active ingredient. Which is why the parasite is beginning to develop a resistance. The reason I say this is because we have to know that organized crime impacts all sorts of areas of our lives. You don't have to sleep with prostitutes or take drugs in order to have a relationship with organized crime. They affect our bank accounts. They affect our communications, our pension funds. They even affect the food that we eat and our governments. This is no longer an issue of Sicilians from Palermo and New York. There is no romance involved with gangsters in the 21st Century. This is a mighty industry, and it creates instability and violence wherever it goes. It is a major economic force and we need to take it very, very seriously. It's been a privilege talking to you. Thank you very much. (Applause)	現在是嚴峻的經濟時期各位TED的朋友，十分嚴峻的經濟時期所以，我想鼓舞大家一下用一個不為眾人所熟知的成功的商業故事故事發生在20年前與微軟與Google的成就相比它另有一番特殊的成就而且，它正默默地振興當前的經濟危機我指的是「組織犯罪」 組織犯罪已經發生在我們周遭很久了，就像你知道的那樣這麼說真的一點都沒錯不過，過去二十年間它以不可預料的程度擴張著現今佔了將近百分之十五全世界的國民生產毛額我想把它改稱為「全球黑經濟」或簡稱為 McMafia 麥克黑手黨（擬：全球都有的麥當勞） 倒底是什麼引起這個跨國性犯罪組織驚人的成長？當然，要提到全球化、科技進步、通訊發達等種種因素待會，我們再回來談這些首先，我想讓你們回顧這個事件東歐共產主義解體是二次大戰後，整個東歐最重要的事件 現在是時候來好好檢視這件事對我來說非常重要我曾經走私書籍進入鐵幕給東歐的民主反對黨像是波蘭的團結工會當我還是青少年的時候然後我開始以東歐為主題開始寫作最後也順理成章的成為BBC該地區特派員的主管這些是我在1989年的事情所以，當四億兩千五百萬人民終於掙到了選擇自己要的政府的權力我欣喜若狂但又感到擔憂一些更醜陋的事情潛藏在鐵幕後 舉例來說南斯拉夫的民族主義份子在他們血腥上台之前並沒有經歷很長的時間在一團混亂當中瀰漫著一種興奮我花了些時間才了解那些在1989年前的東歐已經掌握特權的人在革命之後持續掌權顯然有些是有頭有臉的人物，像是...不過也有一些我們想不到的人物正影響著當時東歐的改變 像這位先生，大家還記得他嗎？他們曾經贏得舉重的金牌還有角力，每四年一次的奧運在共產國家，他們是社會名流擁有奢華的生活在市中心擁有高檔的公寓酩酒美人可以自由的到西方國家旅行在當時簡直是奢華到了極點這事情也許令人驚訝，他們扮演一個重要的角色市場經濟慢慢浮現在東歐或者換成我自己的說法：他們是資本主義的助產士這是那些舉重選手在1989年的變化之後 現今在保加利亞這些照片是在保加利亞拍的當東歐共產國家一一垮台垮的不只是共產主義政府的機制也垮了意味著你的警察治安沒了法院的系統無法正常運作一個勇敢的生意人面對這新世界在東歐的資本主義市場該做什麼確定自己的合約還是有效？這樣會被人家稱之為毫無創意尤其是在民營化法治單位社會學家眼裏後來我們知道這些人成了黑道在保加利亞黑道人數激增到了一萬四千人之多很多是在法治單位丟了工作的人在1989到1991年間 當你的國家制度瓦解你們的經濟往南邊發展而且打了結你最不該求職的工作就是勞工市場一萬四千名具有主管資格的男女被留置做起走私、建立地下經濟的骨幹而且還涉及謀殺這不只發生在一地，而是全東歐1990年代我的工作花了很多時間揭發南斯拉夫的衝突 我不得不注意那些犯下殘暴犯罪的人們的準軍事機構（軍閥）就是那同一組人也正運作著犯罪組織我思考到這些暴力的背後有著這邪惡的犯罪企業集團因此我開始在世界各地旅行檢視這個世界的地下犯罪跟警察探尋資訊跟受害者交談，跟消費者交談了解非法的物資與勞務除此之外，我還直接跟歹徒對談 巴爾幹半島是最佳的起點為什麼？這裡的法治蕩然無存此外，就像零售業所說的最重要的就是店面、店面、店面一開始我注意的是巴爾幹已經轉型成為一個大型的轉運區非法的貨物與勞務從世界各地而來海洛因、古柯鹼女人被人蛇賣到賣淫集團稀有的貴金屬 那麼他們去了哪裡？現在的目的地是歐盟也開始因為全球化而開始獲利犯罪轉型成為歷史上最具影響力的消費者市場最後組成了一個接近五億人口關鍵的少數這五億人口喜歡渡假、花錢找妓女把五十歐元捲起塞在鼻孔裏（吸毒）雇用非法的勞工 現在組織犯罪已經是個全球化的事件跟大企業經營一般的運作他們有生產的區塊像是阿富汗（海洛因）和哥倫比亞（古柯鹼）有配銷的區塊像是墨西哥和巴爾幹半島當然，也有消費的區塊像是歐盟、日本當然，還有美國生產的區塊和配銷的區塊通常都分佈在開發中國家而且大多受到暴力恐怖的威脅經常發生流血事件 以墨西哥為例過去的十八個月，共有六千人被殺死亡的背後多半跟古柯鹼的買賣有關那我們來看看剛果共和國1998年到現在一共死了五百萬人這樣的衝突事件可能不會出現在你的報紙上不過卻是目前地球上最大的衝突在二次大戰之後為什麼？因為來自世界各地的黑道跟當地的軍閥合作取得貨物的持續供應就是剛果豐富的礦產以當地而言 2000年全世界80％的鈳鉭鐵礦出自這裡也是這場殺戮戰場的原因戰場就在剛果共和國的東部現在鈳鉭鐵礦幾乎可以在任何一支手機上任何一台筆電上還有遊戲機上被看到剛果的軍閥將這金屬賣給黑道來換得武器黑道卻把貴金屬賣給了西方的市場這貴金屬是西方物質慾望消費這就是最原始的驅動力導致國際化的組織犯罪行為 現在，讓大家看一下我的朋友在追緝行動中的畫面義大利警方記錄下的影片走私未稅的香煙香煙出廠的時候是非常便宜的歐盟國家在香煙上打了世界上最昂貴的稅金所以你要是走私香煙進歐盟就會賺取極高的利潤我現在要展示給各位看的走私集團有什麼樣的工具 這艘船的造價是一百萬歐元在歐洲沒有船跑得比他快從1994年算起七年20艘這樣的船通過亞德里亞海每天晚上從蒙特內哥羅共和國到義大利這樣的非法走私交易每年英國損失八十億美金而這些沒有記錄的錢後來卻跑到了南斯拉夫的戰爭去了還有一群無恥的商人口袋裡面 這種交易剛剛開始的時候義大利的警方只有兩艘警艇可以跟他們跑得一樣快這非常重要，因為唯一逮到這些傢伙的方法就是讓他們跑到沒汽油了有時候歹徒還會另外偷運其他物品女人也用這個方式運送賣淫如果發現警方追緝他們就把女人拋入海中警察忙著救人免於溺斃歹徒就趁機逃逸 我給各位看這段影片多少船、多少警艇來追緝一艘歹徒所開的船答案是六艘請各位記住有20艘這樣的快船來回通過亞德里亞海在每一個晚上這些歹徒到底怎麼花他們賺來的這一堆錢？ 這裡就要帶大家進入全球化議題因為這不但將全球國際貿易規範摧毀同時他將全球金融市場自由化了我的天啊！怎麼如此容易對於洗錢的人來說過去的20年簡直就是天堂漂白了髒錢 1990我們看到全世界的金融中心爭奪他們的生意而當時完全沒有任何方法來防治洗錢而且很多合法的銀行也樂於接受存款甚至十分可以的金錢來源根本不問任何問題 這個問題的核心是海外的銀行網路現在這些問題成為國際洗錢的最重要的部份如果要矯正規避合法的稅金國際犯罪組織、洗錢一定要去除這些問題一個正面的消息，我們有一位人士在美國白宮經常的大聲疾呼反對這些腐化的實體 如果有任何人跟我一樣關心這樣的問題最重要的事情是新的立法、法規，有效的法規我們就來看看 Bernie Madoff （柏尼馬多夫）他將要關在監獄裡面一輩子Bernie Madoff 偷走了六百五十億美金這讓他跟那些歹徒可以一起開個「壞人奧林匹克」參加的有哥倫比亞的毒販還有主要的俄國犯罪集團不過，他這樣偷了幾十年就在華爾街的核心沒有任何規範可以將他找出來所以我們猜測，還有多少 Madoff 在華爾街？或者是倫敦欺騙一般百姓洗錢我可以告訴各位，還真的不少 讓我進入到國際組織犯罪的基本常識毒品，這是我們今天早上展示的第二張照片—大麻工廠這一個工廠在英屬哥倫比亞 （加拿大 卑詩省）我拍到這照片這只是上萬個英屬哥倫比亞的家庭種植場之一大概佔了當地5％省的交易類國民生產毛額 Brian Cantera 督察帶著我去他任職於加拿大皇家警騎去這個位於溫哥華的倉庫去看看這些被沒收的貨品加拿大皇家警騎從走私者身上所扣押的物件當然，走私的目標是南方的美國那兒有個永遠無法滿足的市場他們稱之為英屬哥倫比亞的花蕾因為歸類這個市場為 「有機」 的當然這個在加州就賣得特別好(笑聲)(掌聲) 甚至於警方都承認這種地下經濟不過是小咖對於主要的輸出者而言在全球化開始之際全球的毒品市場就急速擴充得非常龐大不過在警方則沒有相對的增加作為對抗犯罪的資源對於警方來說 不過，這一切即將有所改變因為有些非常奇怪的事情正在發生聯合國開始認知其實是上個月發生的事情加拿大已經成為了主要的生產與配銷的地區販售搖頭丸和其他的合成毒品 很有趣的市場的分佈海洛因和古柯鹼比例下降了因為這些和成藥物更能讓吸毒者開心現在遊戲規則改變了因為製造的區塊已經從開發中國家轉移而進入了西方國家當這樣的狀況發生成回趨勢西方國家的警察無法負荷這樣的工作量現有的緝毒警察已經設立近40年已經非常過時了，需要認真的重新規劃這是我個人觀點 現在來談談經濟衰退組織犯罪早就已經適應了適應得非常好說他們是全世界最投機的生意人一點也不意外他們管理這個組織卻沒有規則但是，他們也有兩個經營上的風險被警方逮捕這可能是他們最不擔心的事情遭受到其他集團的競爭像是，腦門後抵著一把槍 一受到威脅他們會馬上轉移生意的運作人們會減少接觸毒品，或找妓女當經濟的衰退時期因此犯罪集團轉而開始入侵金融業而且犯罪組織擴大整體而言有兩個部分一個是仿冒商品網路犯罪而他們獲得巨大成功我現在介紹給各位 Mr. Pringle （品客洋芋片）或者我應該更精確的介紹 Señor Pringle 這是一位巴西的網路犯罪者介紹給我認識的我們一起坐在車子裏，停在 Paulista 街道在聖保羅（巴西）把這個裝置接上我的電腦五分鐘之後，他入侵了電腦的安全系統系統歸屬於巴西某重要銀行真的沒有這麼困難事實上非常容易因為相關的網路犯罪很吸引人而所需要的技術卻很低 網路犯罪最重要的一塊是我們所謂的社群工程這是我們換成技術名詞來說每一分鐘都有新的誕生他簡單到你無法想像要人們去使用他們的電腦多數人都不會感到興趣但是，很快的當網路犯罪者發現最快速的一條通道當然最快速的是直接掏空某人的口袋用虛無的性愛承諾和愛情的盟約 我相信在座應該還有人記得「我愛你」病毒它是全世界最成功的病毒之一當這個病毒出現的時候我很幸運因為我第一次收到的是從我前女友寄來她當時對我有很多的情緒以及感受不過「愛」絕對不在其中(笑聲)當我一發現這封信在我的收件匣所以我馬上就把這封信刪除了讓我省了不少的麻煩 所以大家真的要注意網路犯罪我們知道網際網路對於犯罪者而言是幫助他們的工具好像是蚊子帶著瘧疾的病菌當蚊子享受晚餐的時候感染了我們對我們來說 青蒿素是非常有效的藥物可以在感染的初期殺死寄生蟲但是過去幾年在柬埔寨的研究發現發生了些變化這些寄生蟲產生抗藥性研究人員擔心抗藥性的產生是由於柬埔寨人無法負擔一般市場的藥品所以他們在網路上購買然而這些藥品內含的劑量不足導致事情的發生這些病菌沒被殺死反而產生了抗藥性 我說這件事情的原因因為我們必須知道組織犯罪正影響著我們所有的生活層面你不必去找妓女或吸毒就會跟組織犯罪者發生關係他們影響著我們的銀行存款他們影響著我們的通訊、我們的退休金他們甚至影響著我們吃的食物和我們的政府 這不再是一個犯罪議題從西西里黑手黨到紐約這個犯罪組織一點也沒有浪漫情結在21世紀的今天他們是一個強大的工業他們創造不穩定的局勢和暴力不管去到哪裡都會成為當地主要的經濟力量我們應該要非常、非常的重視這個問題跟各位分享是我的榮幸謝謝大家(掌聲)
