Talk	en	zh-tw
misha_glenny_hire_the_hackers	"Now this is a very un-TED-like thing to do, but let's kick off the afternoon with a message from a mystery sponsor. Anonymous: Dear Fox News, it has come to our unfortunate attention that both the name and nature of Anonymous has been ravaged. We are everyone. We are no one. We are anonymous. We are legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. We are but the base of chaos. Misha Glenny: Anonymous, ladies and gentlemen — a sophisticated group of politically motivated hackers who have emerged in 2011. And they're pretty scary. You never know when they're going to attack next, who or what the consequences will be. But interestingly, they have a sense of humor. These guys hacked into Fox News' Twitter account to announce President Obama's assassination. Now you can imagine the panic that would have generated in the newsroom at Fox. ""What do we do now? Put on a black armband, or crack open the champagne?"" (Laughter) And of course, who could escape the irony of a member of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. being a victim of hacking for a change. (Laughter) (Applause) Sometimes you turn on the news and you say, ""Is there anyone left to hack?"" Sony Playstation Network — done, the government of Turkey — tick, Britain's Serious Organized Crime Agency — a breeze, the CIA — falling off a log. In fact, a friend of mine from the security industry told me the other day that there are two types of companies in the world: those that know they've been hacked, and those that don't. I mean three companies providing cybersecurity services to the FBI have been hacked. Is nothing sacred anymore, for heaven's sake? Anyway, this mysterious group Anonymous — and they would say this themselves — they are providing a service by demonstrating how useless companies are at protecting our data. But there is also a very serious aspect to Anonymous — they are ideologically driven. They claim that they are battling a dastardly conspiracy. They say that governments are trying to take over the Internet and control it, and that they, Anonymous, are the authentic voice of resistance — be it against Middle Eastern dictatorships, against global media corporations, or against intelligence agencies, or whoever it is. And their politics are not entirely unattractive. Okay, they're a little inchoate. There's a strong whiff of half-baked anarchism about them. But one thing is true: we are at the beginning of a mighty struggle for control of the Internet. The Web links everything, and very soon it will mediate most human activity. Because the Internet has fashioned a new and complicated environment for an old-age dilemma that pits the demands of security with the desire for freedom. Now this is a very complicated struggle. And unfortunately, for mortals like you and me, we probably can't understand it very well. Nonetheless, in an unexpected attack of hubris a couple of years ago, I decided I would try and do that. And I sort of get it. These were the various things that I was looking at as I was trying to understand it. But in order to try and explain the whole thing, I would need another 18 minutes or so to do it, so you're just going to have to take it on trust from me on this occasion, and let me assure you that all of these issues are involved in cybersecurity and control of the Internet one way or the other, but in a configuration that even Stephen Hawking would probably have difficulty trying to get his head around. So there you are. And as you see, in the middle, there is our old friend, the hacker. The hacker is absolutely central to many of the political, social and economic issues affecting the Net. And so I thought to myself, ""Well, these are the guys who I want to talk to."" And what do you know, nobody else does talk to the hackers. They're completely anonymous, as it were. So despite the fact that we are beginning to pour billions, hundreds of billions of dollars, into cybersecurity — for the most extraordinary technical solutions — no one wants to talk to these guys, the hackers, who are doing everything. Instead, we prefer these really dazzling technological solutions, which cost a huge amount of money. And so nothing is going into the hackers. Well, I say nothing, but actually there is one teeny weeny little research unit in Turin, Italy called the Hackers Profiling Project. And they are doing some fantastic research into the characteristics, into the abilities and the socialization of hackers. But because they're a U.N. operation, maybe that's why governments and corporations are not that interested in them. Because it's a U.N. operation, of course, it lacks funding. But I think they're doing very important work. Because where we have a surplus of technology in the cybersecurity industry, we have a definite lack of — call me old-fashioned — human intelligence. Now, so far I've mentioned the hackers Anonymous who are a politically motivated hacking group. Of course, the criminal justice system treats them as common old garden criminals. But interestingly, Anonymous does not make use of its hacked information for financial gain. But what about the real cybercriminals? Well real organized crime on the Internet goes back about 10 years when a group of gifted Ukrainian hackers developed a website, which led to the industrialization of cybercrime. Welcome to the now forgotten realm of CarderPlanet. This is how they were advertising themselves a decade ago on the Net. Now CarderPlanet was very interesting. Cybercriminals would go there to buy and sell stolen credit card details, to exchange information about new malware that was out there. And remember, this is a time when we're seeing for the first time so-called off-the-shelf malware. This is ready for use, out-of-the-box stuff, which you can deploy even if you're not a terribly sophisticated hacker. And so CarderPlanet became a sort of supermarket for cybercriminals. And its creators were incredibly smart and entrepreneurial, because they were faced with one enormous challenge as cybercriminals. And that challenge is: How do you do business, how do you trust somebody on the Web who you want to do business with when you know that they're a criminal? (Laughter) It's axiomatic that they're dodgy, and they're going to want to try and rip you off. So the family, as the inner core of CarderPlanet was known, came up with this brilliant idea called the escrow system. They appointed an officer who would mediate between the vendor and the purchaser. The vendor, say, had stolen credit card details; the purchaser wanted to get a hold of them. The purchaser would send the administrative officer some dollars digitally, and the vendor would sell the stolen credit card details. And the officer would then verify if the stolen credit card worked. And if they did, he then passed on the money to the vendor and the stolen credit card details to the purchaser. And it was this which completely revolutionized cybercrime on the Web. And after that, it just went wild. We had a champagne decade for people who we know as Carders. Now I spoke to one of these Carders who we'll call RedBrigade — although that wasn't even his proper nickname — but I promised I wouldn't reveal who he was. And he explained to me how in 2003 and 2004 he would go on sprees in New York, taking out $10,000 from an ATM here, $30,000 from an ATM there, using cloned credit cards. He was making, on average a week, $150,000 — tax free of course. And he said that he had so much money stashed in his upper-East side apartment at one point that he just didn't know what to do with it and actually fell into a depression. But that's a slightly different story, which I won't go into now. Now the interesting thing about RedBrigade is that he wasn't an advanced hacker. He sort of understood the technology, and he realized that security was very important if you were going to be a Carder, but he didn't spend his days and nights bent over a computer, eating pizza, drinking coke and that sort of thing. He was out there on the town having a fab time enjoying the high life. And this is because hackers are only one element in a cybercriminal enterprise. And often they're the most vulnerable element of all. And I want to explain this to you by introducing you to six characters who I met while I was doing this research. Dimitry Golubov, aka SCRIPT — born in Odessa, Ukraine in 1982. Now he developed his social and moral compass on the Black Sea port during the 1990s. This was a sink-or-swim environment where involvement in criminal or corrupt activities was entirely necessary if you wanted to survive. As an accomplished computer user, what Dimitry did was to transfer the gangster capitalism of his hometown onto the Worldwide Web. And he did a great job in it. You have to understand though that from his ninth birthday, the only environment he knew was gangsterism. He knew no other way of making a living and making money. Then we have Renukanth Subramaniam, aka JiLsi — founder of DarkMarket, born in Colombo, Sri Lanka. As an eight year-old, he and his parents fled the Sri Lankan capital because Singhalese mobs were roaming the city, looking for Tamils like Renu to murder. At 11, he was interrogated by the Sri Lankan military, accused of being a terrorist, and his parents sent him on his own to Britain as a refugee seeking political asylum. At 13, with only little English and being bullied at school, he escaped into a world of computers where he showed great technical ability, but he was soon being seduced by people on the Internet. He was convicted of mortgage and credit card fraud, and he will be released from Wormwood Scrubs jail in London in 2012. Matrix001, who was an administrator at DarkMarket. Born in Southern Germany to a stable and well-respected middle class family, his obsession with gaming as a teenager led him to hacking. And he was soon controlling huge servers around the world where he stored his games that he had cracked and pirated. His slide into criminality was incremental. And when he finally woke up to his situation and understood the implications, he was already in too deep. Max Vision, aka ICEMAN — mastermind of CardersMarket. Born in Meridian, Idaho. Max Vision was one of the best penetration testers working out of Santa Clara, California in the late 90s for private companies and voluntarily for the FBI. Now in the late 1990s, he discovered a vulnerability on all U.S. government networks, and he went in and patched it up — because this included nuclear research facilities — sparing the American government a huge security embarrassment. But also, because he was an inveterate hacker, he left a tiny digital wormhole through which he alone could crawl. But this was spotted by an eagle-eye investigator, and he was convicted. At his open prison, he came under the influence of financial fraudsters, and those financial fraudsters persuaded him to work for them on his release. And this man with a planetary-sized brain is now serving a 13-year sentence in California. Adewale Taiwo, aka FreddyBB — master bank account cracker from Abuja in Nigeria. He set up his prosaically entitled newsgroup, bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk before arriving in Britain in 2005 to take a Masters in chemical engineering at Manchester University. He impressed in the private sector, developing chemical applications for the oil industry while simultaneously running a worldwide bank and credit card fraud operation that was worth millions until his arrest in 2008. And then finally, Cagatay Evyapan, aka Cha0 — one of the most remarkable hackers ever, from Ankara in Turkey. He combined the tremendous skills of a geek with the suave social engineering skills of the master criminal. One of the smartest people I've ever met. He also had the most effective virtual private network security arrangement the police have ever encountered amongst global cybercriminals. Now the important thing about all of these people is they share certain characteristics despite the fact that they come from very different environments. They are all people who learned their hacking skills in their early to mid-teens. They are all people who demonstrate advanced ability in maths and the sciences. Remember that, when they developed those hacking skills, their moral compass had not yet developed. And most of them, with the exception of SCRIPT and Cha0, they did not demonstrate any real social skills in the outside world — only on the Web. And the other thing is the high incidence of hackers like these who have characteristics which are consistent with Asperger's syndrome. Now I discussed this with Professor Simon Baron-Cohen who's the professor of developmental psychopathology at Cambridge. And he has done path-breaking work on autism and confirmed, also for the authorities here, that Gary McKinnon — who is wanted by the United States for hacking into the Pentagon — suffers from Asperger's and a secondary condition of depression. And Baron-Cohen explained that certain disabilities can manifest themselves in the hacking and computing world as tremendous skills, and that we should not be throwing in jail people who have such disabilities and skills because they have lost their way socially or been duped. Now I think we're missing a trick here, because I don't think people like Max Vision should be in jail. And let me be blunt about this. In China, in Russia and in loads of other countries that are developing cyber-offensive capabilities, this is exactly what they are doing. They are recruiting hackers both before and after they become involved in criminal and industrial espionage activities — are mobilizing them on behalf of the state. We need to engage and find ways of offering guidance to these young people, because they are a remarkable breed. And if we rely, as we do at the moment, solely on the criminal justice system and the threat of punitive sentences, we will be nurturing a monster we cannot tame. Thank you very much for listening. (Applause) Chris Anderson: So your idea worth spreading is hire hackers. How would someone get over that kind of fear that the hacker they hire might preserve that little teensy wormhole? MG: I think to an extent, you have to understand that it's axiomatic among hackers that they do that. They're just relentless and obsessive about what they do. But all of the people who I've spoken to who have fallen foul of the law, they have all said, ""Please, please give us a chance to work in the legitimate industry. We just never knew how to get there, what we were doing. We want to work with you."" Chris Anderson: Okay, well that makes sense. Thanks a lot Misha. (Applause)"	"這實在很不TED但是讓我們用這個神秘贊助者的簡訊來開始下午的節目。 匿名者：親愛的福斯新聞很不幸地我們注意到了“匿名者”名聲和本體已遭到破壞我們既不存在也無所不在我們是傳奇但也默默無名我們不原諒 我們也不會忘記我們是一切混亂的根源 Misha Glenny：在座的各位，匿名者是一個因政治理念而成立的很複雜的團體于2011年浮現抬面他們很可怕你永遠不知道他們下一個攻擊目標是什麽誰或什麽又會遭殃但是很有趣的是他們很有幽默感他們侵入了福斯新聞的推特帳號借此發表了歐巴馬遇刺的消息你現在可以想像當時在福斯新聞室裏造成的一片驚慌“我們現在該怎麽辦？該帶黑臂帶致哀還是開香檳慶祝？”（笑聲）當然了 誰會放過輪到媒體大亨梅鐸新聞集團旗下的公司被駭這個天大的諷刺呢 （笑聲） （掌聲） 有時你打開新聞你會問“還有沒被駭的嗎？”索尼PS的網路- 被駭土耳其政府網站 - 被駭英國重犯罪局 - 輕而易舉中央情報局 - 輕而易舉事實上一個在資訊安全業界的朋友幾天前告訴我說這世上只有兩種公司已被駭和還沒被駭連三家提供美國中情局網路安全服務的公司都全部被駭過了那還有什麽是無可侵犯的？ 總之，這個叫匿名者的組織他們自己說他們是幫大家驗證這些保護資料的公司是多麽的沒用但這組織背後有更嚴肅的一面他們是有意識形態的他們說他們是在對抗欺善怕惡的陰謀他們說各國政府要試著取下網際網路的控制權而他們，匿名者是與其對抗的正宗力量無論是中東的獨裁政權或是對抗媒體巨人或是對抗情報組織等等之類的他們的政治理論倒也不乏吸引力好吧 他們是有一些不成熟感覺起來像有些類似無政府主義的味道在裏面但是有件事是確定的我們正站在爭奪網際網路控制權的巨大戰爭的起點網路連接一切並且速度很快網路將會居間斡旋人類大部分的活動因爲網路給一存在已久的兩難困境帶來更新更複雜的背景條件這個進退兩難的困境就是我們對安全的需求和同時對自由的渴望 現在這變成了一個很複雜的抗爭很不幸地像你我這樣的凡人我們大概很難去了解然而在幾年前一陣自傲的驅使下我決定要來試著了解這個問題我後來大概也懂了在試著了解這個問題的過程我研究的是這些事但是爲了將整個問題全盤解釋我將會需要再多18分鐘所以今天你只好相信我在這裡所講的我可以跟你保證 所有提到的問題都和網路犯罪和網路安全有相當的關係其範圍之大連史蒂芬霍金教授都恐怕有困難來全盤了解那麽我們就開始吧在這張圖的中間這是我們的老朋友，駭客在網路上的很多問題 舉凡政治社會經濟議題駭客都是問題的中心所以我就想那麽這些就是我想跟他們談談的人大家都知道沒有其他的人跟駭客交談他們完全是無名的 跟過去一樣 所以 雖然我們開始將十億幾千億美元的金額投入到網路安全上使用最先進的科技但是仍然沒有人想跟這些始作俑者跟這些駭客談一談我們寧願將大筆大筆的錢花在眩目的科技上也不花半毛錢在駭客身上嗯 雖然我說沒半毛錢事實上倒還是有一個很小的研究機構在意大利的杜林叫做駭客檔案計劃他們在做一些很棒的研究在研究駭客的特性能力和社會性或許因爲他們是聯合國的機構所以政府和企業對他們都不感興趣也正因爲他們是聯合國的機構也就理所當然地欠缺經費但是我覺得他們的研究是很重要的因爲在網路安全的領域裏我們在科技的發展上有著很多的領先那麽我們一定 -你可以說我是老古板 -在人類智慧的發展上尚有不足 到此我已經提到了匿名者這個有政治訴求的駭客團體當然犯罪司法系統把他們當一般的犯人來看有趣的是匿名者並沒有利用他們駭來的資訊在商業上牟利那麽真正的網路犯罪也是這樣嗎？真正的有組織的網路犯罪起源于10年前由一群烏克蘭的駭客設計了一個網站而繼而導致了網路犯罪的普遍化歡迎來到現已被遺忘的CarderPlanet（卡友星球）這是十年前在網路上他們為自己打廣告的方式卡友星球在當時很有趣網路罪犯會去那個網站買賣偷來的信用卡資料還有在那裏交換有關malware（惡意程式）的資訊我們要記得這是我們第一次看到所謂現成的惡意程式這是馬上可以使用的現成產品即使你不是厲害的駭客你也可以輕易使用這些程式 所以卡友星球變成了網路罪犯的超級市場而網站的設計者是一群很聰明的創業家因爲他們面對的是網路犯罪的一個巨大的挑戰這個挑戰就是你如何在網路上做生意你如何能信賴客戶當你知道你的客戶全部都是罪犯？（笑聲）欺騙對他們來説是正常的他們會想盡辦法來把你騙得精光所以卡友星球的核心成員想出了這麽一個天才的主意叫做抵押系統他們指定一個中介管理者來協調買方和賣方譬如說賣方有一筆偷來的信用卡的資料而買方想來買買方會先用電子錢包送一些美元給這個中介管理者賣方也將信用卡資料賣給這個管理者中介管理者則去確認信用卡資料是不是真的有效如果是真的他就把錢送給賣方並把信用卡資料轉送給買方就這樣徹底地給網路犯罪帶來全面的革新在這以後更是一發不可收拾對卡友星球的成員來説接下來的十年是天天開香檳 現在是我跟一個卡友星球的成員談話我們叫他RedBrigade（紅兵團）這並不是他真正的綽號但是我答應為他保密他跟我解釋了在2003和2004年之間他如何在紐約狂歡從這個提款機提一萬美元再到下個提款機提三萬美元靠的只是一張僞造的信用卡他每個禮拜平均賺15萬美元當然還不用繳稅他還說有一次實在是有太多錢堆在他在上東區的公寓裏他實在不知道該怎麽辦還因此引發了他的憂鬱症這算是題外話我就不詳談這一部分了有趣的是紅兵團並不是高階的駭客技術方面他大概了解他也知道如果想成爲卡友星球的一分子網路安全的技術是很重要的但他並沒有日日夜夜坐在電腦前吃比薩喝可樂和掛網他倒是常跑趴找樂子享受人生 這是因爲駭客只是整個網路犯罪裏面的一環罷了而且通常他們是最脆弱的一環我想藉由介紹以下六個人來跟大家説明這點這六個人是我在做這研究時所認識的Dimitry Golubov 又叫SCRIPT1982年在烏克蘭的奧蒂塞出生在1990年代他在這黑海港都的生活養成了他人生的社會和道德觀那是一個人吃人狗咬狗的社會參與犯罪和貪腐活動是完全必要的那是你生存的必要條件作爲一個嫺熟的電腦使用者Dimitry做的不過是將他家鄉黑道資本主義的那一套搬到網路上他還做得很成功我們必須了解一件事從他九歲生日起他唯一認識的環境就是黑道社會他並不知道其他維生或賺錢的方法 接下來是Renukanth Subramaniam又叫JiLsiDarkMarket（黑暗市場）的創始人在斯里蘭卡的科倫坡出生在他八歲的時候他和他的爸媽逃離了斯里蘭卡的首都因爲斯里蘭卡的黑幫在首都肆虐他們在追殺長得像塔米爾人的Renu11歲的時候，他被斯里蘭卡軍方偵訊被控為恐怖分子他的父母把他一個人送到英國尋求政治庇護13歲的時候他只會說一點英語 在學校又被欺負他躲入了電腦的世界在那兒他展露了他的技巧和能力但很快地他被網路上其他人所誘拐他因貸款和信用詐欺被判刑他要在倫敦的Wormwood Scrubs監獄待到2012年 Matrix001以前是黑暗市場的管理員生於德國南部一個備受尊敬的中產階級家庭在青少年時期沉迷于缐上游戯後來導致他開始當駭客很快地他就控制了世界上很多大型的伺服器這些他破解或駭來的伺服器被他用來儲存他的遊戲軟體他是慢慢地一步一步地踏入犯罪最後當他覺醒明白了他的處境和可能的下場他已經陷入太深 Max Vision 又叫 ICEMAN是卡友市場的靈魂人物在美國愛達荷州的Meridian出生Max Vision是最佳的滲透測試者之一他1990年代末期在加州的聖塔巴巴拉替私人公司工作也志願幫FBI（聯邦調查局）工作在1990年代末期他發現了所有美國政府網路安全上的一個漏洞他把這個漏洞補了起來因爲這也牽連到核能研究單位這替美國政府避免了一次難堪的局面但也因爲他的駭客習性根深蒂固他給補丁留下了一道只有自己才能進入的後門這最後被眼尖的調查員發現了他也被判刑在他的開放監禁期間他認識了其他財務詐欺犯這些人說服了他要他在服刑期滿後為他們工作結果這個十分聰明的人又被判了13年現在在加州服刑 Adewale Taiwo 又叫 FeddyBB銀行賬戶破解專家住在奈及利亞的阿佈賈他成立了這個名字平凡無奇的新聞組bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk在他來到英國之前在2005年他當時要來曼徹斯特大學研讀化學工程的碩士課程他給私人企業留下了深刻的印象藉著他一面為石油業寫程式一面私底下進行全球規模價值數百萬的銀行和信用卡詐欺活動一直到2008年被捕 最後還有一個，Cagatay Evyapan又叫 Cha0是有史以來最傑出的駭客之一他是土耳其安卡拉人他將高超的電腦技術和職業罪犯成熟的社交技巧結合在一起他是我見過最聰明的人之一他同時也擁有在全球的網路犯罪中警察從未見過最有效率的私人虛擬網路 現在重要的是這些駭客雖然來自不同國家不同背景他們卻有一些共同性他們都是在十幾歲的時候學會了駭客的技巧他們也都在數理科上顯示了超人一等的能力我們要知道，在他們發展駭客的技巧時他們的道德感尚未健全除了SCRIPT和Cha0以外以上大部分的人無法顯示有任何在真實世界的社會技巧他們的只活在網路上 另外還有一件事值得一談有很高的比例顯示這樣的駭客表現了亞斯伯格症候群的症狀我曾就此一問題請教過 Simon Baron-Cohen 教授他是劍橋大學心理發展學的教授他在研究自閉症上有突破性的發展Cohen 教授向官方證實了Gary McKinnon他因爲駭入美國國防部的電腦而遭到美國通緝他也患有亞斯伯格症候群還有第二級的憂鬱症根據Baron教授的解釋有一些人格缺陷表現在電腦網路和駭客的世界裏就變成驚人的特殊技巧所以我們不應該將這些人格缺陷和特殊技巧丟入監獄裏因爲他們只是在社會上一時迷失或是被欺騙利用 我想我們忽略了一個重點因爲我認爲Max Vision這些人不應該被關讓我開門見山地說在中國、俄國和許多國家他們都在發展網路攻擊的能力他們正在做的是他們在招募駭客不管在駭客從事犯罪或是工業間諜的之前或之後他們在用政府的名義在動員他們我們必須全力投入並找出方法來引導這些年輕人因爲他們是難得的英才如果我們還像現在一樣只是靠司法犯罪系統和形責罪罰等的威嚇我們最終將培養出我們無法馴服的怪獸 謝謝你們的聆聽 （掌聲） Chris Anderson ：所以你值得傳播的主意是去雇用駭客但是我們該如何消除心中的疑慮恐懼去相信所僱用的駭客不會駭到我們自己的系統呢？ MG：我想 某種程度上你必須了解一旦變成了駭客 他們就會一直駭下去他們對當駭客這件事是充滿執著又不會放棄的但所有跟我談過觸犯法律的人他們都說 “請再給我們一次機會讓我們能再合法地工作我們以前不知道我們在做什麽 或是如何合法地工作我們想跟你工作"" Chris Anderson ：好吧 這麽說也是有道理 謝謝你 米夏 （掌聲）"
