Talk	en	zh-tw
mitchell_joachim_don_t_build_your_home_grow_it	Why grow homes? Because we can. Right now, America is in an unremitting state of trauma. And there's a cause for that, all right. We've got McPeople, McCars, McHouses. As an architect, I have to confront something like this. So what's a technology that will allow us to make ginormous houses? Well, it's been around for 2,500 years. It's called pleaching, or grafting trees together, or grafting inosculate matter into one contiguous, vascular system. And we do something different than what we did in the past; we add kind of a modicum of intelligence to that. We use CNC to make scaffolding to train semi-epithetic matter, plants, into a specific geometry that makes a home that we call a Fab Tree Hab. It fits into the environment. It is the environment. It is the landscape, right? And you can have a hundred million of these homes, and it's great because they suck carbon. They're perfect. You can have 100 million families, or take things out of the suburbs, because these are homes that are a part of the environment. Imagine pre-growing a village — it takes about seven to 10 years — and everything is green. So not only do we do the veggie house, we also do the in-vitro meat habitat, or homes that we're doing research on now in Brooklyn, where, as an architecture office, we're for the first of its kind to put in a molecular cell biology lab and start experimenting with regenerative medicine and tissue engineering and start thinking about what the future would be if architecture and biology became one. So we've been doing this for a couple of years, and that's our lab. And what we do is we grow extracellular matrix from pigs. We use a modified inkjet printer, and we print geometry. We print geometry where we can make industrial design objects like, you know, shoes, leather belts, handbags, etc., where no sentient creature is harmed. It's victimless. It's meat from a test tube. So our theory is that eventually we should be doing this with homes. So here is a typical stud wall, an architectural construction, and this is a section of our proposal for a meat house, where you can see we use fatty cells as insulation, cilia for dealing with wind loads and sphincter muscles for the doors and windows. (Laughter) And we know it's incredibly ugly. It could have been an English Tudor or Spanish Colonial, but we kind of chose this shape. And there it is kind of grown, at least one particular section of it. We had a big show in Prague, and we decided to put it in front of the cathedral so religion can confront the house of meat. That's why we grow homes. Thanks very much. (Applause)	為什麼要栽培生長房子呢？因為我們做得到現在，美國正處在持續不斷的創傷狀態這都是有原因的，好嗎我們現在有漢堡人、漢堡車、漢堡房子這些產物做為一個建築師，我不得不面對這樣的狀況 所以有什麼技術可以讓我們建造這些極為巨大的房子？其實這技術已經存在 2,500年了它叫做編結，或是把樹木嫁接在一起或把接合的物質連接在一起成為一個連續有脈絡的系統而我們現在做的和過去不太一樣我們加了一點點智慧在裡面我們用電腦數值控制(CNC)的方式來製做支架讓那些半成型的材料或植物往一定方向生長形成一個特殊的造型這就造就了我們所稱的「美樹居」它可以融入環境中，它其實就是環境本身它就是造園景觀 你可有成千上億這種住家它很棒，因為它會吸二氧化碳他們就是最完美無缺的你可以有一億個家庭住在這裡，或者因為這些房子是環境中的一部份所以可以把市郊的一些東西移除想像一個預先栽殖的村落 —大概花 7 到 10年的時間 —而且所有的東西都是綠色的 我們不只是做植栽屋我們也做試管肉居所或是像我們現在在布魯克林所研究的房子作為建築師辦公室，這是第一次把分子細胞生物實驗室納入其中並且開始嘗試做再生醫學與組織工程的實驗我們開始思考如果建築與生物學結合為一的未來會是如何 所以我們已經做了好幾年的實驗，這就是我們的實驗室我們做的是提取豬的細胞外間質培養讓他生長我們用一種改良過的噴墨印表機印製各種結構圖形這些結構圖形是可以用來製成工業設計品的像是你們知道的鞋子、皮帶包包等等這些過程中沒有任何有感知的動物受到傷害所以沒有犧牲品，都是從試管裡長出來的肉因此，我們的理論是總有一天我們應該把他用在房子上 這就是一般的立柱牆一個建築結構這是我們所提議的肉質屋的一部分從這裡你可以看到我們用脂肪細胞當絕緣材料用纖毛來應付風載的問題然後用括約肌來當門和窗戶 (笑聲) 我們知道這看起來真的超醜我們可以把他做成英國都鐸時期或是西班牙殖民時代的樣子不過我們就選擇這個樣式這裡可以看到它開始長了，至少有一個特定部分在長 我們在布拉格舉辦了一場盛大的展示會當時我們就決定把它放在主教座堂的前面這樣宗教和肉屋就可以正面對決這就是我們栽培房子的原因，非常感謝各位。 (鼓掌)
