Talk	en	zh-tw
molly_winter_the_taboo_secret_to_healthier_plants_and_people	"Whenever I get to travel for work, I try to find out where my drinking water comes from, and where my poop and pee go. (Laughter) This has earned me the nickname ""The Poo Princess"" in my family, and it's ruined many family vacations, because this is not normal. But thinking about where it all goes is the first step in activating what are actually superpowers in our poop and pee. (Laughter) Yeah. And if we use them well, we can live healthier and more beautifully. Check out this landscape in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Just notice what kinds of words and feelings come to mind. This landscape was watered with treated sewage water. Does that change anything for you? I imagine it might. And that's OK. How we feel about this is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be. And I want to explain how it works, but what words do I use? I mean, I can use profane words like ""shit"" and ""piss,"" and then my grandma won't watch the video. Or I can use childish words like ""poo"" and ""pee."" Eh. Or I can use scientific words like ""excrement"" and ""feces."" Humph. I'll use a mix. (Laughter) It's all I got. (Laughs) So, in this suburb, the poo and the pee and the wash water are going to this treatment plant right in the middle of the community. It looks more like a park than a treatment plant. The poo at the very bottom of all those layers of gravel — not touching anyone — is providing solid food for those marsh plants. And the clean, clear water that comes out the other end is traveling underground to water each person's yard. So even though they're in a desert, they get their own personal oasis. This approach is called Integrated Water Management, or holistic or closed-loop. Whatever you want to call it, it's in conflict with the status quo of how we think about sanitation, which is contain, treat, push it away. But in this approach, we're doing one step better. We're designing for reuse from the very beginning, because everything does get reused, only now we're planning for it. And often, that makes for really beautiful spaces. But the most important thing about this system isn't the technicals of how it works. It's how you feel about it. Do you want this in your yard? Why not? I got really curious about this question. Why don't we see more innovation in sanitation? Why isn't that kind of thing the new normal? And I care so much about this question, that I work for a nonprofit called Recode. We want to accelerate adoption of sustainable building and development practices. We want more innovation. But a lot of times, whole categories of innovation — ones that can help us live more beautifully — turn out to be illegal. Today's regulations and codes were written under the assumption that best practices would remain best practices, with incremental updates forever and ever. But innovation isn't always incremental. It turns out, how we feel about any particular new technique gets into everything we do: how we talk about it, how we encourage people to study, our jokes, our codes ... And it ultimately determines how innovative we can be. So, that's the first reason we don't innovate in sanitation. We're kind of uncomfortable talking about sanitation, that's why I've gotten called ""The Poo Princess"" so much. The second reason is: we think the problem is solved here in the US. But not so. Here in the US we still get sick from drinking shit in our sewage water. Seven million people get sick every year, 900 die annually. And we're not taking a holistic approach to making it better. So we're not solving it. Where I live in Portland, Oregon, I can't take Echo for a swim during the rainy season, because we dump raw sewage sometimes into our river. Our rainwater and our sewage go to the same treatment plant. Too much rain overflows into the river. And Portland is not alone here. Forty percent of municipalities self-report dumping raw or partially treated sewage into our waterways. The other bummer going on here with our status quo is that half of all of your poop and pee is going to fertilize farmland. The other half is being incinerated or land-filled. And that's a bummer to me, because there are amazing nutrients in your daily doody. It is comparable to pig manure; we're omnivores, they're omnivores. Think of your poo and pee as a health smoothie for a tree. (Laughter) The other bummer going on here is that we're quickly moving all the drugs we take into our waterways. The average wastewater treatment plant can remove maybe half of the drugs that come in. The other half goes right out the other side. Consider what a cocktail of pharmaceuticals — hormones, steroids, Vicodin — does to a fish, to a dog, to a child. But this isn't just some problem that we need to contain. If we flip this around, we can create a resource that can solve so many of our other problems. And I want to get you comfortable with this idea, so imagine the things I'm going to show you, these technologies, and this attitude that says, ""We're going to reuse this. Let's design to make it beautiful"" — as advanced potty training. (Laughter) I think you're ready for it. I think we as a culture are ready for advanced potty training. And there are three great reasons to enroll today. Number one: we can fertilize our food. Each one of us is pooping and peeing something that could fertilize half or maybe all of our food, depending on our diet. That dark brown poo in the toilet is dark brown because of what? Dead stuff, bacteria. That's carbon. And carbon, if we're getting that into the soil, is going to bind to the other minerals and nutrients in there. Boom! Healthier food. Voilà! Healthier people. Chemical fertilizers by definition don't have carbon in them. Imagine if we could move our animal manure and our human manure to our soil, we might not need to rely on fossil fuel-based fertilizers, mine minerals from far away. Imagine how much energy we could save. Now, some of us are concerned about industrial pollutants contaminating this reuse cycle. That can be addressed. But we need to separate our discomfort about talking about poo and pee so we can calmly talk about how we want to reuse it and what things we don't want to reuse. And get this: if we change our approach to sanitation, we can start to slow down climate change. Remember that carbon in the poop? If we can get that into our soil bank, it's going to start to absorb carbon dioxide that we put into the air. And that could help slow down global warming. I want to show you some brave souls who've had the courage to embrace this advanced potty training approach. So those folks in New Mexico — why did they do it? 'Cause they're in a desert? 'Cause they save money? Yeah. But more importantly, they felt comfortable seeing what was going down the toilet as a resource. Here's an average house in Portland, Oregon. This house is special because they have a composting toilet turning all their poo and pee, over time, into a soil amendment. Their wash water, their shower water, is going underground to a series of mulch basins, and then watering that orchard downhill. When they went to get this permitted, it wasn't allowed in Oregon. But it was allowed in five other states nearby. That was Recode's — my organization's — first code-change campaign. Here's a great example where the Integrated Water Management approach was the cheapest. This is three high-rise residential buildings in downtown Portland, and they're not flushing to the sewer system. How? Well, their wash water is getting reused to flush toilets, cool mechanical systems, water the landscape. And then once the building has thoroughly used everything — aka, shat in it — it's treated to highest standard right on-site by plants and bacteria, and then infiltrated into the groundwater right below. And all that was cheaper than updating the surrounding sewer infrastructure. So that's the last reason we should get really excited about doing things differently: we can save a lot of money. This was the first permit of its kind in Oregon. Brave and open-minded people sat down and felt comfortable saying, ""Yeah, that shit makes sense."" (Laughter) ""Let's do it."" (Applause) You know? I keep showing examples where everyone's reusing everything on-site. Why? Well, when we look at our aging infrastructure — and it is old — and we look at the cost of updating it, three-quarters of that cost is just the pipes snaking through our city. So as we build anew, as we renovate, it might make more sense to treat and reuse everything on-site. San Francisco realized that it made sense to invest in rebates for every household to reuse their wash water and their rainwater to water the backyard, because the amount of water they would save as a community would be so big. But why were all these projects so innovative? The money piece, yeah. But more importantly, they felt comfortable with this idea of advanced potty training. Imagine if we embraced innovation for sanitation the way we have for, say, solar power. Think about it — solar power used to be uncommon and unaffordable. Now it's more a part of our web of power than ever before. And it's creating resiliency. We now have sources of power like the sun that don't vary with our earthly dramas. What's driving all that innovation? It's us. We're talking about energy. It's cool to talk about energy. Some folks are even talking about the problems with the limited resources where our current energy is coming from. We encourage our best and brightest to work on this issue — better solar panels, better batteries, everything. So let's talk about where our drinking water is coming from, where our poo and pee are actually going. If we can get over this discomfort with this entire topic, we could create something that creates our future goldmine. Every time you flush the toilet, I want you to think, ""Where is my poop and pee going? Will they be gainfully employed?"" (Laughter) ""Or are they going to be wreaking havoc in some waterway?"" If you don't know, find out. And if you don't like the answer, figure out how you can communicate to those who can drive this change that you have advanced potty training, that you are ready for reuse. How all of you feel is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	我每天上班的時候，都試圖找出我們飲用水的來源。還有我們排泄物的去向。 （笑聲） 這讓我贏得了「大便公主」的美名。這種奇怪的行為還讓我們的家庭假期不得安寧。不過想這些問題是發現大小便神力的第一步。 （笑聲） 是啊。如果我們好好利用，就能生活得更健康、更幸福。 看看這個新墨西哥州聖塔菲的景觀吧。看看我們會想到甚麼詞語和感覺。這片地是用改良污水澆灌的。你的感覺有沒有改變？我想會的。那就好。我們對它們的感受，決定了我們處理它們時的創造力。 我想解釋一下這個過程不過我應該用什麼詞呢？我是說，我可以用「屎」、「尿」這樣粗俗的詞，那樣我想我祖母就不會看這支影片了。我們也可以用「便便」、「臭臭」這樣孩子氣的詞。或者像「糞便」、「排泄物」這樣科學的詞，嗯。我就通通用好了。 （笑聲） 反正就這麼多。（笑聲） 在偏遠的地方，大小便和生活用水都會進入就在住宅區中間的污水處理設施。它更像公園而不是處理廠。大便在沉澱層的最下面—單獨一層—為菌類提供充分的養料。淨化了的清水從另外一面流出來，流過地下管道，流進每個人的院子。所以，就算那是在沙漠裡，他們也有自己的綠洲。 這種方法叫作「水資源綜合管理」，或者整體利用，或者循環利用。你想叫什麼都行，但這與我們現在的衛生信條相牴觸，那就是把廢物包起來，淨化，扔得遠遠的。不過用這種辦法，我們做得更好。我們一開始就為循環再利用而設計，因為只要我們做好計劃，所有的東西都能循環。通常，這讓環境更漂亮。不過這個系統最重要的並不是支持它運作的技術。而是你們的感受。你希望在後院有這樣一個裝置嗎？為什麼不？ 我對這個問題很好奇。為什麼我們不能在衛生領域有創新？為什麼我們不能帶著平常心接受這件事？我對這個問題簡直太關心了，以至於成立了一個叫做Recode（重新定義）的NGO我們需要加快永續使用建築及發展的應用。我們需要創新。不過很多時候，所有類型的創新，讓我們過得更好的創新，都是違法的。現在的法規和法律是有前提的，前提是好的做法永遠是好的，之後也只能增加條款，不過創新往往不只是增加。我們對於任何新科技的看法決定了我們的行為：我們如何談論它，我們如何鼓勵人們去學習它，我們的笑話，我們的原則等最終決定了我們的創造力有多強。 這就是我們在衛生領域無法創新的原因。因為我們不願意談論衛生。這就是為什麼別人叫我「大便公主」。第二個理由是我們認為在美國，這個問題已經解決了。但並沒有。在美國，有人仍然因為飲用不乾淨的水而生病，每年有七百萬人罹患各種疾病，900人死亡。如果我們不採取一種整體的態度來改進，我們就解決不了問題。 我還住在俄勒岡州的波特蘭時，下雨的時候，我都不能帶我的狗艾克去游泳，因為我們有的時候就直接把餿水排進河裡。我們的雨水和餿水一起進入淨化工廠。過多的雨水令河水氾濫。而且並不是波特蘭才有這個問題。百分之四十的市民自己承認，有把污水或者部分淨化的污水倒入水路的經歷。 現實還有另一個很可惜的地方，就是一半的大小便會用於農田施肥。另一半會被燒棄或者填埋。我覺得這很可惜，因為排泄物中有極其豐富的養分。它可以與豬糞肥相比；我們是雜食動物，牠們也是雜食動物。想想吧，你的大小便對於樹來說就是一杯健康奶昔。 （笑聲） 另一個我覺得可惜的地方是我們服用的藥物都排進了水道。普通的廢水處理工廠大概可以處理掉排入藥物中的一半。另外一半就這麼從淨化口排出來了。想像一杯藥物雞尾酒—賀爾蒙、類固醇、止痛藥—對一條魚，一隻狗，一個孩子造成的傷害。 不過這並不只是一個我們需要管制的問題。如果我們掉過頭來看我們能創造一種資源，解決我們很多其他的問題。我想讓你習慣這種想法。所以，想像一下我要展示給你們的東西。這些科技和這種態度認為：「我們應該回收利用排泄物，一起設計，讓它們變漂亮。」這會成為高級便壺培訓的主題。 （笑聲） 我認為你已經做好準備。我認為我們作為一種文化已經準備好迎接高級便壺培訓。有三個你應該加入的理由。第一個：我們能肥沃土壤，豐富食物的營養我們每個人的排泄物可以為一半或者全部的食物施肥這取決於我們的飲食。為什麼廁所裡的大便是深棕色的？因為裡面有死去的細菌。這是碳水化合物。如果我們把碳水化合物加入土壤中它會跟其他礦物質和營養物質結合砰！就有了更健康的食物。砰！就有了更健康的人。化學肥料，顧名思義，裡面是沒有碳水化合物的。想像一下，如果我們能把動物和人類排泄物加入土壤中，我們就用不著化石燃料製造的肥料了。也不用從很遠的地方採集礦物質了。我們能節約多少能源啊！ 現在有些人擔心工業污染物會污染這種循環利用過程。這個問題是可以解決的。不過我們需要拋棄談論排泄物的尷尬感，所以我們就能冷靜地談論回收利用，以及我們不打算再利用的東西。而且你要知道：如果我們改變對待衛生的方式，我們就能減緩氣候變化。記得大便裡有碳水化合物嗎？如果我們可以把它加入土壤，它就能吸收我們排出的二氧化碳。然後就能減緩全球暖化。 我要給你們介紹一些勇敢的人，一些有勇氣接受高級便壺訓練的人。這些住在新墨西哥的人，為什麼他們要這麼做？因為他們住在沙漠裡？因為他們能省錢？沒錯。但是更重要的是，他們能夠坦然對待把廁所當成資源的概念。 這是俄勒岡波特蘭的一棟普通房子。這棟房子的特殊之處在於它有一個堆肥式廁所。經過一段時間後，把人的排泄物全部變成土壤肥料。他們洗手、洗澡的水全部會去往地下，流到一系列附有護蓋物的盆地，然後去澆灌山下的蘭花。當他們去為這種設計申請許可時，俄勒岡並沒有通過申請。但是這在附近的另外五個州是可以的。這是我的組織Recode的第一個改變的運動。 關於綜合水源管理系統的節約性，這是一個很好的例子：這是波特蘭城區三座很高的住宅。他們並不把水直接衝進污水系統。那怎麼辦？他們洗手的水會用來沖馬桶，冷卻機械系統，給植物澆水。當這座建築已經充分利用了一切，也就是說，水裡已經有了糞便，它就會按照最高標準，由植物和細菌來淨化。在滲透到下面的地下水裡，這樣比更新周圍的污水設備更便宜。 這是我們為什麼應該為這種改變激動的最後一個理由：我們能省很多錢。這是俄勒岡通過的第一個類似的項目。勇敢、開放的人能坐下來坦然地說：「這樣處理屎尿更有道理。」 （笑聲） 「我們一起這樣做吧。」 （掌聲） 你知道嗎？ 我不停地展示每個人都當場回收利用的例子。為什麼？當我們看到我們老化的設施時，我們就能看看更新它們的費用：四分之三的費用都是用在穿過城市的水管。在我們新建、更新時不如想想這樣就地處理和再利用所有的東西。 舊金山已經意識到了這一點。開始撥款為安裝沖洗用水和雨水回收裝置，並用它們澆灌院子的家庭提供退稅。因為社區共同節約的水量很可觀。不過這些計畫為什麼這麼有創造力？因為錢，是的。但更重要的是他們對待高級便壺的坦然態度。 想像一下，如果我們在衛生領域擁抱創新，就像我們在太陽能領域做的那樣，想想吧，太陽能過去可是不常見也不便宜的，現在它已經更好地與我們的能源網融為一體，而且創造了彈性，我們現在多了太陽這樣一個能量來源。一種並不隨著我們塵世的風雲變化而變化的能量。是什麼在驅動這些創新？是我們。我們談論能源。談論能源是好的。有些人甚至會談論我們現在有限的能量來源的問題。我們鼓勵最厲害、最聰明的人處理這些問題。更好的太陽能版，更好的電池，等等。 所以我們也來談談我們飲用水的來源，以及我們排泄物的去處吧。如果我們能克服對這類話題的不適感，我們未來能造出一座金礦。你每次沖馬桶的時候，我希望你能想想：「我們的大小便去哪裡了？」「它們有人管嗎？」 （笑聲） 「他們會不會污染什麼水道？」 如果你不知道，就去找出答案。如果你對事實不滿意，想想你怎樣能於能解決這些問題的人溝通。告訴他們，你準備好了接受高級便壺培訓，你準備好了再利用。你們的感受，會決定我們的創新能力。 謝謝大家。（掌聲）
