Talk	en	zh-tw
molly_crockett_beware_neuro_bunk	"I'm a neuroscientist, and I study decision-making. I do experiments to test how different chemicals in the brain influence the choices we make. I'm here to tell you the secret to successful decision-making: a cheese sandwich. That's right. According to scientists, a cheese sandwich is the solution to all your tough decisions. How do I know? I'm the scientist who did the study. A few years ago, my colleagues and I were interested in how a brain chemical called serotonin would influence people's decisions in social situations. Specifically, we wanted to know how serotonin would affect the way people react when they're treated unfairly. So we did an experiment. We manipulated people's serotonin levels by giving them this really disgusting-tasting artificial lemon-flavored drink that works by taking away the raw ingredient for serotonin in the brain. This is the amino acid tryptophan. So what we found was, when tryptophan was low, people were more likely to take revenge when they're treated unfairly. That's the study we did, and here are some of the headlines that came out afterwards. (""A cheese sandwich is all you need for strong decision-making"") (""What a friend we have in cheeses"") (""Eating Cheese and Meat May Boost Self-Control"") At this point, you might be wondering, did I miss something? (""Official! Chocolate stops you being grumpy"") Cheese? Chocolate? Where did that come from? And I thought the same thing myself when these came out, because our study had nothing to do with cheese or chocolate. We gave people this horrible-tasting drink that affected their tryptophan levels. But it turns out that tryptophan also happens to be found in cheese and chocolate. And of course when science says cheese and chocolate help you make better decisions, well, that's sure to grab people's attention. So there you have it: the evolution of a headline. When this happened, a part of me thought, well, what's the big deal? So the media oversimplified a few things, but in the end, it's just a news story. And I think a lot of scientists have this attitude. But the problem is that this kind of thing happens all the time, and it affects not just the stories you read in the news but also the products you see on the shelves. When the headlines rolled, what happened was, the marketers came calling. Would I be willing to provide a scientific endorsement of a mood-boosting bottled water? Or would I go on television to demonstrate, in front of a live audience, that comfort foods really do make you feel better? I think these folks meant well, but had I taken them up on their offers, I would have been going beyond the science, and good scientists are careful not to do this. But nevertheless, neuroscience is turning up more and more in marketing. Here's one example: Neuro drinks, a line of products, including Nuero Bliss here, which according to its label helps reduce stress, enhances mood, provides focused concentration, and promotes a positive outlook. I have to say, this sounds awesome. (Laughter) I could totally have used this 10 minutes ago. So when this came up in my local shop, naturally I was curious about some of the research backing these claims. So I went to the company's website looking to find some controlled trials of their products. But I didn't find any. Trial or no trial, these claims are front and center on their label right next to a picture of a brain. And it turns out that pictures of brains have special properties. A couple of researchers asked a few hundred people to read a scientific article. For half the people, the article included a brain image, and for the other half, it was the same article but it didn't have a brain image. At the end — you see where this is going — people were asked whether they agreed with the conclusions of the article. So this is how much people agree with the conclusions with no image. And this is how much they agree with the same article that did include a brain image. So the take-home message here is, do you want to sell it? Put a brain on it. Now let me pause here and take a moment to say that neuroscience has advanced a lot in the last few decades, and we're constantly discovering amazing things about the brain. Like, just a couple of weeks ago, neuroscientists at MIT figured out how to break habits in rats just by controlling neural activity in a specific part of their brain. Really cool stuff. But the promise of neuroscience has led to some really high expectations and some overblown, unproven claims. So what I'm going to do is show you how to spot a couple of classic moves, dead giveaways, really, for what's variously been called neuro-bunk, neuro-bollocks, or, my personal favorite, neuro-flapdoodle. So the first unproven claim is that you can use brain scans to read people's thoughts and emotions. Here's a study published by a team of researchers as an op-ed in The New York Times. The headline? ""You Love Your iPhone. Literally."" It quickly became the most emailed article on the site. So how'd they figure this out? They put 16 people inside a brain scanner and showed them videos of ringing iPhones. The brain scans showed activation in a part of the brain called the insula, a region they say is linked to feelings of love and compassion. So they concluded that because they saw activation in the insula, this meant the subjects loved their iPhones. Now there's just one problem with this line of reasoning, and that's that the insula does a lot. Sure, it is involved in positive emotions like love and compassion, but it's also involved in tons of other processes, like memory, language, attention, even anger, disgust and pain. So based on the same logic, I could equally conclude you hate your iPhone. The point here is, when you see activation in the insula, you can't just pick and choose your favorite explanation from off this list, and it's a really long list. My colleagues Tal Yarkoni and Russ Poldrack have shown that the insula pops up in almost a third of all brain imaging studies that have ever been published. So chances are really, really good that your insula is going off right now, but I won't kid myself to think this means you love me. So speaking of love and the brain, there's a researcher, known to some as Dr. Love, who claims that scientists have found the glue that holds society together, the source of love and prosperity. This time it's not a cheese sandwich. No, it's a hormone called oxytocin. You've probably heard of it. So, Dr. Love bases his argument on studies showing that when you boost people's oxytocin, this increases their trust, empathy and cooperation. So he's calling oxytocin ""the moral molecule."" Now these studies are scientifically valid, and they've been replicated, but they're not the whole story. Other studies have shown that boosting oxytocin increases envy. It increases gloating. Oxytocin can bias people to favor their own group at the expense of other groups. And in some cases, oxytocin can even decrease cooperation. So based on these studies, I could say oxytocin is an immoral molecule, and call myself Dr. Strangelove. (Laughter) So we've seen neuro-flapdoodle all over the headlines. We see it in supermarkets, on book covers. What about the clinic? SPECT imaging is a brain-scanning technology that uses a radioactive tracer to track blood flow in the brain. For the bargain price of a few thousand dollars, there are clinics in the U.S. that will give you one of these SPECT scans and use the image to help diagnose your problems. These scans, the clinics say, can help prevent Alzheimer's disease, solve weight and addiction issues, overcome marital conflicts, and treat, of course, a variety of mental illnesses ranging from depression to anxiety to ADHD. This sounds great. A lot of people agree. Some of these clinics are pulling in tens of millions of dollars a year in business. There's just one problem. The broad consensus in neuroscience is that we can't yet diagnose mental illness from a single brain scan. But these clinics have treated tens of thousands of patients to date, many of them children, and SPECT imaging involves a radioactive injection, so exposing people to radiation, potentially harmful. I am more excited than most people, as a neuroscientist, about the potential for neuroscience to treat mental illness and even maybe to make us better and smarter. And if one day we can say that cheese and chocolate help us make better decisions, count me in. But we're not there yet. We haven't found a ""buy"" button inside the brain, we can't tell whether someone is lying or in love just by looking at their brain scans, and we can't turn sinners into saints with hormones. Maybe someday we will, but until then, we have to be careful that we don't let overblown claims detract resources and attention away from the real science that's playing a much longer game. So here's where you come in. If someone tries to sell you something with a brain on it, don't just take them at their word. Ask the tough questions. Ask to see the evidence. Ask for the part of the story that's not being told. The answers shouldn't be simple, because the brain isn't simple. But that's not stopping us from trying to figure it out anyway. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是個神經科學家，我研究作決定的過程。我做實驗來研究腦部各種化學物質如何影響我們作的決定。 我來這裡就是要告訴你們作決定的祕密武器：起司三明治。沒錯。根據科學家的研究，起司三明治就是作困難決定時的最佳良伴。 我怎麼知道？因為我就是做這個研究的科學家。 幾年前，我和同事們有興趣研究腦內一個叫做血清素的化合物質如何影響人們在社交場合作決定。更精準地說，我們想要知道血清素如何影響人們在被不公平對待時的反應。 所以我們做了一個實驗。我們改變人體內的血清素濃度，這是透過給測試者喝調味過的、非常難喝的檸檬口味飲料這會拿走腦中製造血清素的原料。這原料是叫作色氨酸的氨基酸。我們發現，當色氨酸濃度低的時候，人們比較會在被不公平對待時報仇。人們比較會在被不公平對待時報仇。 這是我們做的研究，而這些是之後出現的一些新聞標題。 （「你只需要一個起司三明治來做決定」） （「起司是個多棒的朋友」） （「吃起司和肉可以增強自我控制力」）到這時候，你可能會想，我錯過什麼了嗎？ （「科學家證實巧克力可以阻止壞脾氣」） 起司？巧克力？這些從哪來的？這些標題出來時我也有同樣的疑問。因為我們的研究與起司和巧克力毫不相干。我們給人們喝那個很噁心的飲料來影響色氨酸濃度。但事實上色氨酸也存在於起司和巧克力當中。當然當科學說起司和巧克力可以幫助你做出更好的決定，嗯，這一定會引起注意。所以就是這樣：標題的演變。 當這樣的事情發生時，我在想，嗯，有什麼大不了的？媒體是過度簡化一些事情，但到最後，它也只是一則新聞。而且我認為很多科學家都是這種態度。但問題是這種事情很常發生，且它影響的不只是你在報紙中讀到的東西，也影響貨架上的商品。當這樣的頭條出現時，發生的事情是行銷人員開始打電話來了。我願不願意為一個改善情緒的飲料提供科學證據呢？或我能不能上電視在直播現場證實滿足食物 (comfort food) 可以讓你感覺更好？我覺他們的出發點是好的，但我如果答應了這些邀約我會超出科學所能解釋的範圍，而好的科學家們會盡量避免這麼做。 但儘管如此，神經科學在行銷中越來越常出現。舉例來說： 神經飲料。這包括這個叫作Nuero Bliss的飲料。根據它上面的說明，可以減少壓力、改善情緒、集中精神、並提升積極態度。我必須說，這聽起來很棒。（笑聲）我 10 分鐘前非常需要這個。所以當這個產品出現在附近的店裡時，我很好奇這是根據於什麼樣的研究。所以我去了公司網站想要找產品的對照試驗。但我什麼都沒有找到。 但不論有沒有實驗依據，這樣的文字是很明顯地寫在標籤上，旁邊還放了張大腦的圖。而且原來這大腦圖是有特別功用的。幾個研究人員請數百人讀一篇科學文章。一半的人的文章有包括大腦圖像，另一半的人讀同一篇文章但沒有大腦圖像。讀完後 — 你們大概知道這是什麼了 —問受測者是否同意文章的結論。這是讀沒有圖像的那組同意文章結論的人數這是讀同一篇文章但有包括大腦圖像的數據。所以結論是，如果你想要把產品賣掉，放張大腦圖。 現在讓我在這裡暫停一下來說神經科學在過去的幾十年內進步了許多，且我們仍然不斷地發現一些與大腦相關的不可思議的東西。像是幾個星期前，麻省理工學院的神經學家發現如何僅由控制大鼠腦內一些特定的神經活動就可以打破大鼠的行為習慣。很酷的東西。但神經科學的進步已經導致一些很高的期望和一些誇大、 未經驗證的論點。 所以我要做的是告訴大家如何認出一些經典的手法、各種不同程度地「神經騙局」、或稱「神經吹牛」、或我最喜歡的稱呼「神經胡說」。 所以第一個未被證實的論點是你可以用大腦掃描來看出人們的想法和情緒。這是一組研究人員發表的研究報告，用來作為紐約時報的專欄報導。標題？「你愛你的 iPhone。真的」。它很快地成為這個網站上最常被轉寄的文章。 他們怎麼知道的呢？他們對16個人進行大腦掃描並讓他們看正在響的 iPhone 影片。腦袋掃描圖顯示腦內一個叫作腦島的區域被激發。他們說這個區域與愛、同情這樣的情緒有關。所以他們的結論是因為他們看到腦島被激發，這就表示受測者愛他們的 iPhone。但在這樣的邏輯下有個問題，就是腦島做很多事情。當然它與愛、同情這類正面的情緒有關，但它也與其他東西有關：像記憶、 語言、 注意力、甚至憤怒、 厭惡和痛感。所以用同樣的邏輯，我同樣可以說你討厭你的 iPhone。重點是，當你看到腦島被激發時，你不能就只是從各種可能性中挑出你喜歡的解釋，這些可能性非常多。我的同事 Tal Yarkoni 和 Russ Poldrack發現腦島在近三分之一已發表的大腦掃描圖中是被激發的。所以極有可能現在你的腦島也在激發態，但我不會騙我自己想這意味著你愛我。 所以說到愛和大腦，有一個研究員，有些人稱他作愛博士。他聲稱科學家們已經發現可以將社會凝聚在一起的力量、愛和繁榮的來源。這次它不是一個乳酪三明治。不，它是一種叫催產素的激素。你們可能聽說過它。愛博士的研究是根據於這樣的研究：當人們的催產素濃度增加時，這會增強他們信任、 同情和合作的能力。所以，他叫催產素「道德分子」。 這些研究在科學上是合理的。實驗是可以被複製的。但這不是故事的全部。其他研究顯示提高催產素濃度也會促使人們忌妒、會幸災樂禍。催產素可以讓人以犧牲其它團體來換取自己團體的利益。在某些情況下，催產素甚至會降低合作能力。所以基於這些研究，我可以說催產素是一個不道德的分子，並稱我自己《奇愛博士》。（笑聲） 我們在新聞標題上常可以看到「神經胡說」。我們在超市、在書封面上也會看到。那診所呢？ SPECT 顯像是一種利用放射性示蹤劑的大腦掃描技術用來測量腦中的血流量。用幾千元這樣很好的價錢，你可以在美國的診所作這樣的 SPECT 掃描，並使用圖像來幫助診斷你的問題。診所說這些掃描可以防止阿茲海默症、解決體重和上癮問題、克服婚姻衝突、還有當然可以治療各種心理疾病從憂鬱症到焦慮到過動症等。這聽起來很棒。很多人也同意。有些這樣的診所一年可以賺數千萬美金。 就只是有個問題。在神經科學中的共識是是我們仍然無法從單一的腦掃描診斷出精神疾病。但這些診所已經治療了數以萬計的患者，其中多數為兒童。但 SPECT 顯像涉及放射性注射，如此暴露於輻射，可能對人體有害。 作為一個神經學家，我比大多數人更相信神經科學在治療精神疾病的潛力，甚至可能使我們更好、 更聰明。如果有一天我們可以說起司和巧克力可以幫我們作更好的決定，算我一個。但是我們還沒走到那裡。我們還沒找到大腦內的「購買」按鈕。我們無法從腦部掃描看出一個人是否在說謊或是正墜入愛河，我們無法利用激素將罪人變成聖人。也許有一天我們做得到，但直到那時，我們必須小心我們不要讓這些誇大的聲稱分散真正科學的資源及心力，這是個很漫長的遊戲。 所以這是你們可以做的：如果有人試圖賣給你印有大腦的產品，不要直接聽信他們的話。問一些棘手的問題、問證據來源、問故事中沒有讓大家知道的部份。答案不應該簡單，因為大腦並不簡單。但這並不會阻止我們試圖瞭解它。 謝謝。（掌聲）
