Talk	en	zh-tw
molly_stevens_a_new_way_to_grow_bone	As humans, it's in our nature to want to improve our health  and minimize our suffering. Whatever life throws at us, whether it's cancer, diabetes, heart disease, or even broken bones, we want to try and get better. Now I'm head of a biomaterials lab, and I'm really fascinated by the way that humans have used materials in really creative ways in the body over time. Take, for example, this beautiful blue nacre shell. This was actually used by the Mayans as an artificial tooth replacement. We're not quite sure why they did it. It's hard. It's durable. But it also had other very nice properties. In fact, when they put it into the jawbone, it could integrate into the jaw, and we know now with very sophisticated imaging technologies that part of that integration comes from the fact that this material is designed in a very specific way, has a beautiful chemistry, has a beautiful architecture. And I think in many ways we can sort of think of the use of the blue nacre shell and the Mayans as the first real application of the bluetooth technology. (Laughter) But if we move on and think throughout history how people have used different  materials in the body, very often it's been physicians that have been quite creative. They've taken things off the shelf. One of my favorite examples is that of Sir Harold Ridley, who was a famous ophthalmologist, or at least became a famous ophthalmologist. And during World War II, what he would see would be pilots coming back from their missions, and he noticed that within their eyes they had shards of small bits of material lodged within the eye, but the very interesting thing about it was that material, actually, wasn't causing any inflammatory response. So he looked into this, and he figured out that actually that material was little shards of plastic that were coming from the canopy of the Spitfires. And this led him to propose that material as a new material for intraocular lenses. It's called PMMA, and it's now used in millions of people every year and helps in preventing cataracts. And that example, I think, is a really nice one, because it helps remind us that in the early days, people often chose materials because they were bioinert. Their very purpose was to  perform a mechanical function. You'd put them in the body and you wouldn't get an adverse response. And what I want to show you is that in regenerative medicine, we've really shifted away from that idea of taking a bioinert material. We're actually actively looking for materials that will be bioactive, that will interact with the body, and that furthermore we can put in the body, they'll have their function, and then they'll dissolve away over time. If we look at this schematic, this is showing you what we think of as the typical tissue-engineering approach. We have cells there, typically from the patient. We can put those onto a material, and we can make that material  very complex if we want to, and we can then grow that up in the lab or we can put it straight back into the patient. And this is an approach that's  used all over the world, including in our lab. But one of the things that's really important when we're thinking about stem cells is that obviously stem cells  can be many different things, and they want to be many different things, and so we want to make sure that the environment we put them into has enough information so that they can become the right sort of specialist tissue. And if we think about the different types of tissues that people are looking at regenerating all over the world, in all the  different labs in the world, there's pretty much every tissue you can think of. And actually, the structure of those tissues is quite different, and it's going to really depend on whether your patient has any underlying disease, other conditions, in terms of how you're going to regenerate your tissue, and you're going to need to think about the materials you're going to use really carefully, their biochemistry, their mechanics, and many other properties as well. Our tissues all have very  different abilities to regenerate, and here we see poor Prometheus, who made a rather tricky career choice and was punished by the Greek gods. He was tied to a rock, and an eagle would come every day to eat his liver. But of course his liver would regenerate every day, and so day after day he was punished for eternity by the gods. And liver will regenerate in this very nice way, but actually if we think of other tissues, like cartilage, for example, even the simplest nick and you're going to find it really difficult to regenerate your cartilage. So it's going to be very different from tissue to tissue. Now, bone is somewhere in between, and this is one of the tissues  that we work on a lot in our lab. And bone is actually quite good at repairing. It has to be. We've probably all had fractures at some point or other. And one of the ways that you can think about repairing your fracture is this procedure here, called  an iliac crest harvest. And what the surgeon might do is take some bone from your iliac crest, which is just here, and then transplant that  somewhere else in the body. And it actually works really well, because it's your own bone, and it's well vascularized, which means it's got a really good blood supply. But the problem is, there's only so much you can take, and also when you do that operation, your patients might actually have significant pain in that defect site even two  years after the operation. So what we were thinking is, there's a tremendous need  for bone repair, of course, but this iliac crest-type approach really has a lot of limitations to it, and could we perhaps recreate the generation of bone within the body on demand and then be able to transplant it without these very, very painful aftereffects that you would have with the iliac crest harvest? And so this is what we did, and the way we did it was by coming back to this typical tissue-engineering approach but actually thinking about it rather differently. And we simplified it a lot, so we got rid of a lot of these steps. We got rid of the need to  harvest cells from the patient, we got rid of the need to put  in really fancy chemistries, and we got rid of the need to culture these scaffolds in the lab. And what we really focused on was our material system and making it quite simple, but because we used it in a really clever way, we were able to generate enormous amounts of bone using this approach. So we were using the body as really the catalyst to help us to make lots of new bone. And it's an approach that we call the in vivo bioreactor, and we were able to make enormous amounts of bone using this approach. And I'll talk you through this. So what we do is, in humans, we all have a layer of stem cells on the outside of our long bones. That layer is called the periosteum. And that layer is actually normally very, very tightly bound to the underlying bone, and it's got stem cells in it. Those stem cells are really important in the embryo when it develops, and they also sort of wake up if you have a fracture to help you with repairing the bone. So we take that periosteum layer and we developed a way to inject underneath it a liquid that then, within 30 seconds, would turn into quite a rigid gel and can actually lift the periosteum away from the bone. So it creates, in essence, an artificial cavity that is right next to both the bone but also this really rich layer of stem cells. And we go in through a pinhole incision so that no other cells from the body can get in, and what happens is that that artificial in vivo bioreactor cavity can then lead to the proliferation of these stem cells, and they can form lots of new tissue, and then over time, you can harvest that tissue and use it elsewhere in the body. This is a histology slide of what we see when we do that, and essentially what we see is very large amounts of bone. So in this picture, you can see the middle of the leg, so the bone marrow, then you can see the original bone, and you can see where that original bone finishes, and just to the left of that is the new bone that's grown within that bioreactor cavity, and you can actually make it even larger. And that demarcation that you can see between the original bone and the new bone acts as a very slight point of weakness, so actually now the surgeon can come along, can harvest away that new bone, and the periosteum can grow back, so you're left with the leg in the same sort of state as if you hadn't operated on it in the first place. So it's very, very low in terms of after-pain compared to an iliac crest harvest. And you can grow different amounts of bone depending on how much gel you put in there, so it really is an on demand sort of procedure. Now, at the time that we did this, this received a lot of attention in the press, because it was a really nice way of generating new bone, and we got many, many contacts from different people that  were interested in using this. And I'm just going to tell you, sometimes those contacts are very strange, slightly unexpected, and the very most interesting, let me put it that way, contact that I had, was actually from a team of American footballers that all wanted to have double-thickness skulls made on their head. And so you do get these kinds of contacts, and of course, being British and also growing up in France, I tend to be very blunt, and so I had to explain to them very nicely that in their particular case, there probably wasn't that much in there to protect in the first place. (Laughter) (Applause) So this was our approach, and it was simple materials, but we thought about it carefully. And actually we know that those cells in the body, in the embryo, as they develop can form a different kind of tissue, cartilage, and so we developed a gel that was slightly different in nature and slightly different chemistry, put it in there, and we were able to get 100 percent cartilage instead. And this approach works really well, I think, for pre-planned procedures, but it's something you do have to pre-plan. So for other kinds of operations, there's definitely a need for other scaffold-based approaches. And when you think about designing those other scaffolds, actually, you need a really multi-disciplinary team. And so our team has chemists, it has cell biologists, surgeons, physicists even, and those people all come together and we think really hard about  designing the materials. But we want to make them have enough information that we can get the cells to do what we want, but not be so complex as to make it difficult to get to clinic. And so one of the things we think about a lot is really trying to understand the structure of the tissues in the body. And so if we think of bone, obviously my own favorite tissue, we zoom in, we can see, even if you don't know anything  about bone structure, it's beautifully organized,  really beautifully organized. We've lots of blood vessels in there. And if we zoom in again, we see that the cells are actually surrounded by a 3D matrix of nano-scale fibers, and they give a lot of information to the cells. And if we zoom in again, actually in the case of bone, the matrix around the cells is beautifully organized at the nano scale, and it's a hybrid material that's part organic, part inorganic. And that's led to a whole field, really, that has looked at developing materials that have this hybrid kind of structure. And so I'm showing here just two examples where we've made some materials that have that sort of structure, and you can really tailor it. You can see here a very squishy one and now a material that's also  this hybrid sort of material but actually has remarkable toughness, and it's no longer brittle. And an inorganic material  would normally be really brittle, and you wouldn't be able to have that sort of strength and toughness in it. One other thing I want to quickly mention is that many of the scaffolds we make  are porous, and they have to be, because you want blood vessels to grow in there. But the pores are actually oftentimes much bigger than the cells, and so even though it's 3D, the cell might see it more  as a slightly curved surface, and that's a little bit unnatural. And so one of the things you can think about doing is actually making scaffolds  with slightly different dimensions that might be able to surround your cells in 3D and give them a little bit more information. And there's a lot of work going  on in both of these areas. Now finally, I just want to talk a little bit about applying this sort of thing to cardiovascular disease, because this is a really big clinical problem. And one of the things that we know is that, unfortunately, if you have a heart attack, then that tissue can start to die, and your outcome may not be very good over time. And it would be really great, actually, if we could stop that dead tissue either from dying or help it to regenerate. And there's lots and lots of stem  cell trials going on worldwide, and they use many different types of cells, but one common theme that seems to be coming out is that actually, very often, those cells will die once you've implanted them. And you can either put them into the heart or into the blood system, but either way, we don't seem to be able to get quite the right number of cells getting to the location we want them to and being able to deliver the sort of beautiful cell regeneration that we would like to have to get good clinical outcomes. And so some of the things that we're thinking of, and many other people in the field are thinking of, are actually developing materials for that. But there's a difference here. We still need chemistry, we still need mechanics, we still need really interesting topography, and we still need really interesting  ways to surround the cells. But now, the cells also would probably quite like a material that's going to be able to be conductive, because the cells themselves will respond very well and will actually conduct signals  between themselves. You can see them now beating synchronously on these materials, and that's a very, very exciting development that's going on. So just to wrap up, I'd like to actually say that being able to work in this sort of field, all of us that work in this field that's not only super-exciting science, but also has the potential to impact on patients, however big or small they are, is really a great privilege. And so for that, I'd like to thank all of you as well. Thank you. (Applause)	身為人，想要增進健康以及減少痛苦是我們的天性。不論我們在生命中得到了什麼，不管是癌症、糖尿病、心臟病，或甚至是骨折，我們都想要試著好起來。我現在是一間生物材料實驗室的主持人，我對於人類自古以來，在體內所使用的材料方面的創意感到相當驚訝。 例如這個珍珠貝漂亮的殼，它曾經被馬雅人用來當做人工的牙齒替代品。我們並不清楚他們為什麼這麼做，它很硬，也很耐用，但是它也有其它很棒的特性。事實上，當它們被放到頜骨裡面，可能會和骨頭合而為一。先進的影像技術顯示，兩者相融的一部分原因來自於這種材料的特殊之處。不論在結構上或是化學上都是如此。我認為在某些程度上，用了藍珍珠貝的馬雅人是藍牙技術的先驅。 （笑聲） 如果我們觀察歷史上人類是如何將不同的材料運用在身體上，就會發現這些傑作常常來自富有創意的醫師。他們時常創新。 我最喜歡的一個例子是關於 Harold Ridley 爵士。他是一位有名的眼科醫師，或至少成為了一位有名的眼科醫師。二次大戰期間，他見到從任務結束后歸來的飛行員。他注意到這些飛行員的眼睛裡卡了碎片，或是其它的小東西。但是有趣的是這些東西並沒有引起任何的發炎反應。因此他仔細的調查了這件事，他發現這些塑膠碎片其實是來自噴火式戰機的座艙蓋。這讓他提出使用這種物質來製作新型人工水晶體。這種物質叫做 PMMA，它現在每年幫助數百萬人免於罹患白內障。 我認為這個例子非常非常棒，因為它提醒了我們，從前的人們總是根據生物惰性來選擇材料，它們的唯一目的就是進行機械的功能；你會把它們放進身體裡，而且不希望身體產生不良反應。我想要展示給你們看的是在再生醫學中，我們並非一如往常地選擇生物惰性材料。事實上我們積極地尋找會和身體產生反應的生物活性材料，而且當我們把它們放到身體裡。它們會執行功能，然後會隨著時間被分解掉， 當我們仔細思考這個概念，這是在告訴你們，我們心目中典型的生物工程技術。我們有些細胞基本上是來自病人，我們能夠把這些細胞放到材料上，如果想要的話，我們也可以把這些材料做得很複雜，然後我們在實驗室裡培養這些細胞，或者直接放回病患體內。這項技術在全世界被使用，包括我們的實驗室。 但是最重要的一件事情是：當我們講到幹細胞時，顯然它們能夠做到很多事，它們也想做很多事，所以要確保我們讓它們生長的環境擁有足夠的訊息。使幹細胞特化成為正確的組織。人們在世界各地的實驗室裡尋找各式各樣擁有再生能力的組織，你所能想的到的各種組織都有，而且事實上這些組織之間有很大的差異，也基於病人是否擁有相關疾病，或是其它的條件來決定。要如何讓組織再生，也要謹慎選擇材料和使用材料；要考慮到這些材料的生化、機械以及其它的特性。 我們所有的組織再生的能力迥異，就像是可憐的普羅米修斯，因為他一個狡猾的生涯決定而被希臘諸神所懲罰。他被綁在一塊石頭上，每天都會有一隻老鷹來啄食他的肝臟。當然他的肝臟每天都會長回來，所以諸神的懲罰日復一日直到永遠。肝臟有很強的再生能力，但是其它的組織就不一樣了，以軟骨來說，即使是一個小缺損也很難長回來。所以組織之間有很大的差異。 好，骨骼介於兩者之間，也是我們實驗室努力研究的對象。其實骨骼也很善於修補。它必須如此。我們可能都曾經經歷過骨折，有一種你可能想像得到的修補骨折的方法，叫做髂嵴修補法。外科醫師會做的是取出髂嵴的部分骨骼，就像這樣，然後移植到身體的其它部位。這真的相當有效，因為它是你自己的骨頭，同時也具有完整的血管系統，也就是說它能得到充足的血液供應。但是問題在於你能取出的骨骼很有限，而且在你進行手術之後兩年內，手術部位可能會讓病人感到相當痛苦。 所以我們在思考的是，當然，骨骼的修復是很重要的，但是這種髂嵴修補法有很多限制，我們能夠想出一種方法讓骨頭在身體裡面再生並且能夠移植它同時避免像是髂嵴修補法產生的劇烈疼痛等後遺症嗎？ 我們做到了，我們用的方法又回到典型的組織工程法我們做到了，我們用的方法又回到典型的組織工程法，但是卻有不同的思路。我們也把它簡化了很多，所以可以省略很多步驟。我們省略了從病人體內取出細胞的步驟，省略了把細胞放進令人眼花繚亂的化學物質也省略了在實驗室裡培養這些組織的架構。我們著重在於簡化材料系統，這樣的巧思，讓我們能夠通過這種方法作出大量的骨骼。我們把身體當做催化劑，幫我們做出很多的新骨骼。我們把這樣的方法叫做體內生物反應器，利用這樣的方法我們能作出大量的骨骼。我現在詳細說明給你們聽。 我們是這樣做的，在人類的長骨外面有一層幹細胞。叫做骨膜。這層細胞通常會非常非常緊密的和下面的骨頭結合，幹細胞就位在其中這些幹細胞對胚胎發育很重要，而它們在你骨折的時候就像被喚醒了一樣幫助你修補骨頭。我們發展出了一種注射法，在鼓膜底下注射一種液體，30 秒之內液體就會硬化成膠狀會把骨膜剝離骨骼實際上，它在骨頭跟帶有很多幹細胞的這層膜之間製造了一個人工腔室，但同時含有豐富的幹細胞。然後我們會從一個針孔般的切口進入，所以身體的其它細胞不會跑進去，這個人工體內生物反應器能夠讓這些幹細胞增殖，然後它們就可以變成很多新組織，一段時間過後你就能收集這些細胞並用在身體的其他部位。 這是我們做這件事當時的組織切片，我們所看到的基本上就是很多的骨骼。在這張圖片裡面，你能看到腿的中段，這是骨髓，然後你可以看到原來的骨頭，原本的骨頭到這裡為止，左邊的是在這個是在生物反應器裡面長出的新骨頭你也可以讓它長得更大在原來的和新的骨頭之間的界線有著非常微小的脆弱點，外科醫師現在就可以過來將新的骨骼取走，然後骨膜會長回去，你的腿在這樣的情況下就像沒做過任何事一樣。所以和髂嵴修補法相比之下，術後幾乎可以說是完全沒有疼痛感。你可以借由調整注射膠的量來製造出不同量的骨頭，所以這個技術確實可以量身訂做。 好，我們做這個計劃時這項技術受到了媒體的大量關注，因為這是製造新骨骼很棒的方法，也有很多人跟我們聯絡，他們對這種方法非常有興趣。我要讓你們知道的是，有時候這些和我們聯絡的人很奇怪，甚至有點出乎意料，我所遇過的最有趣的的聯絡人是美式足球隊員。他們想要有兩倍厚的頭骨。 就是這樣的一些人當然囉，身為一個英國人並且在法國長大，我必須試著很客氣向他們解釋這裡實在是沒有太多東西需要被保護，因為首先沒有足夠的材料去保護他們。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 這就是我們所用的方法，材料非常簡單，但是我們深思熟慮。我們也確實知道這些在身體裡、在胚胎裡的細胞當它們發育之後能變成不同的組織，像是軟骨，因此我們法展出了一種膠，這種膠和自然存在的不太一樣，化學性質也不甚相同，注射進去之後，我們反而會得到百分之百的軟骨。 我認為這項技術對於有事先規劃的療程非常實用，但是你必須要事先規劃好。因此，對於其他手術來說有架構的方法是絕對必須的。當你想要設計其他的架構時，實際上，你需要有一個全方位的團隊。所以我們的團隊有化學家細胞生物學家、外科醫師，甚至是物理學家這些人聚在一起，絞盡腦汁才設計出這些材料。 我們希望讓他們獲得充足的資訊，讓細胞做到我們期望的，但是不能過於複雜而難以應用在臨床上。因此我們想到了要了解人人體內組織的結構，當我們想到骨骼顯然是我最喜歡的組織，放大來看，既使你對它一無所知，也會看到它是有組織的，非常有組織。裡面有非常多的血管，如果再放大來看，會看到細胞是被奈米等級的纖維形成的 3D 結構包圍，這些纖維會提供細胞很多訊息。再放大，在骨頭的例子中包圍細胞的胞外物質，形成了非常有組織的奈米結構，同時也是兼具有機與無機的結構。那是這個領域的根本，也讓我們想到要發展兼具有機與無機的材料。我現在要講的兩個例子是我們所製造出並具有相似結構的材料而且可以客製化。這個材料質地像糊但是與這種材料混合的另一種材料卻具有非同尋常的堅硬度，也不易碎。一般無機材料是易碎的，也無法擁有如此的力量與韌性。 我想快速帶過另外一件事情，很多我們做出的架構是有孔的，它們也必須如此，因為我們希望血管能在其中生長，但是這些孔洞常常比細胞大上許多，所以即使它是 3D 的，在細胞看來也是個曲面，這件事情不太自然。其中一個解決辦法就是，讓架構在度量上有點不同，讓它能夠以 3D 的形式包住細胞然後給它們更多的訊息。在這些領域，許多研究正在進行 最後，我想說說把這些東西在心血管疾病上的應用，因為這些疾病在臨床上相當重要。我們知道的一件事情是，很不幸的如果你有了心肌梗塞，那裡的組織就會開始壞死，長期下來的後果不會太好。如果我們能阻止組織壞死那就太棒了不論是從阻止壞死或是幫助它再生。現在全世界進行著非常多的幹細胞試驗，他們用了很多種不同的細胞，但是有一件事情常常發生，那就是這些細胞在被植入之後就會死亡。你可以把它們放進心臟或是血液系統裡頭，但無論是哪種方法，我們似乎都不能讓細胞到達我們希望它們去的部位，然後進行美妙的細胞再生，得到良好的療效。 因此，我們以及在這個領域的很多人在思考的事情是，發展出能夠做到這些事情的材料。但是不同的是，我們仍然需要化學、力學，需要很有趣的拓樸學，也需要能夠研究這些細胞的有趣方法。目前，這些細胞比較像是能夠傳導的材料，因為這些細胞會對訊號做出很好的回應，並在彼此之間傳遞這些訊號。你可以看到這些細胞在材料上同步跳動，這真的是令人相當興奮的進展。 總而言之，我想說的是能在這個領域工作，對在這個領域的所有人來說，這不只是令人超級興奮的科學，也對病人有潛在影響力，不論這些影響是大是小，都是很好的恩典。在此我也想要感謝你們所有人。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
