Talk	en	zh-tw
monika_bulaj_the_hidden_light_of_afghanistan	My travels to Afghanistan began many, many years ago on the eastern border of my country, my homeland, Poland. I was walking through the forests of my grandmother's tales. A land where every field hides a grave, where millions of people have been deported or killed in the 20th century. Behind the destruction, I found a soul of places. I met humble people. I heard their prayer and ate their bread. Then I have been walking East for 20 years — from Eastern Europe to Central Asia — through the Caucasus Mountains, Middle East, North Africa, Russia. And I ever met more humble people. And I shared their bread and their prayer. This is why I went to Afghanistan. One day, I crossed the bridge over the Oxus River. I was alone on foot. And the Afghan soldier was so surprised to see me that he forgot to stamp my passport. But he gave me a cup of tea. And I understood that his surprise was my protection. So I have been walking and traveling, by horses, by yak, by truck, by hitchhiking, from Iran's border to the bottom, to the edge of the Wakhan Corridor. And in this way I could find noor, the hidden light of Afghanistan. My only weapon was my notebook and my Leica. I heard prayers of the Sufi — humble Muslims, hated by the Taliban. Hidden river, interconnected with the mysticism from Gibraltar to India. The mosque where the respectful foreigner is showered with blessings and with tears, and welcomed as a gift. What do we know about the country and the people that we pretend to protect, about the villages where the only one medicine to kill the pain and to stop the hunger is opium? These are opium-addicted people on the roofs of Kabul 10 years after the beginning of our war. These are the nomad girls who became prostitutes for Afghan businessmen. What do we know about the women 10 years after the war? Clothed in this nylon bag, made in China, with the name of burqa. I saw one day, the largest school in Afghanistan, a girls' school. 13,000 girls studying here in the rooms underground, full of scorpions. And their love [for studying] was so big that I cried. What do we know about the death threats by the Taliban nailed on the doors of the people who dare to send their daughters to school as in Balkh? The region is not secure, but full of the Taliban, and they did it. My aim is to give a voice to the silent people, to show the hidden lights behind the curtain of the great game, the small worlds ignored by the media and the prophets of a global conflict. Thanks. (Applause)	我在阿富汗的旅程始於很多很多年前我的祖國、我的家鄉，波蘭東邊的國界。我走過了在祖母那一輩時充滿著傳說的森林。一片每一塊田野都藏有墓穴的土地，那裡有數以百萬計的人在二十世紀中被屠殺或放逐。 在滅絕的背後，我找到了那些地方的靈魂。我遇上了謙遜的人們。我聆聽他們的禱告也吃他們的麵包。就這樣，我向著東方走了二十年 -從東歐到中亞 -經過高加索山脈、中東、北非、和俄國。我遇到了更多的謙遜的人。我分享了他們的麵包與祈禱。這就是我到阿富汗的原因。 有一天，我走過跨越奧克蘇斯河的橋樑。我單獨一人步行。阿富汗士兵對我的出現感到非常驚訝而忘記了在我的護照上蓋章。但是他給了我一杯茶。然後我瞭解到他的驚訝保護了我。 因此我一直步行和騎馬、乘犛牛、搭卡車、搭便車地旅遊，從伊朗的邊境到瓦罕走廊的底部、邊緣。就這樣我才能找到阿富汗隱藏著的光輝——努爾人。我身上唯一的武器只有我的筆記型電腦與萊卡相機。我聽到了塔利班痛恨的蘇菲派 —謙遜的回教徒 —的祈禱。一條不為人知的長河連接起直布羅陀到印度之間的神秘主義。那座清真寺把受敬重的外國人沐浴在祝福和淚水中，亦如天賜地歡迎他們。 對於我們假意保護的這個國家以及她的人民我們又瞭解多少呢？知否他們村裡唯一用作止痛和賴以糊口的藥物是鴉片?這些是喀布爾屋頂上鴉片成癮的人出現在我們向阿富汗開戰的十年後。這些是變成了阿富汗商人的妓女的遊牧民族小女孩。 戰爭開打十年之後我們對於那些女人瞭解多少？她們穿著中國製造的尼龍袋子所製成的稱為布卡的外袍。有一天我看到，阿富汗規模最大的學校，一所女子學校。一萬三千女生在滿是蠍子的地下室學習知識。她們對於學習熱愛的程度高得讓我熱淚盈眶。 我們對於那些在巴爾赫省膽敢把女兒送去上學因遭塔利班在門上釘上處死威脅的人又瞭解多少？這個地區並不和平，到處都是塔利班，他們作出了如此的惡行。 我的目標是替沉默的人發出心聲向世人展現，在強權爭鬥的遊戲幕後被媒體與全球衝突的預言家所忽略的弱勢國家之中隱藏的光輝。 謝謝! （掌聲）
