Talk	en	zh-tw
monica_byrne_a_sci_fi_vision_of_love_from_a_318_year_old_hologram	"Do I look real to you? Hope so. I have no idea if you're seeing this, but I'm just going to look ahead and trust that you're there. I've drawn a semicircle in the sand in front of me so I don't walk past it and look like I'm floating in midair. Right now I'm standing in the open air, on a beach under a palm tree, in the exact spot where your stage used to be. I have 12 minutes with you. I set a limit. My wife Navid once said that infinite possibility is a creator's worst enemy. For example, this dress: I'd asked her to design something that a priest might have worn in 23rd-century Cairo. But we only had three days to make it, and the only fabric we had was an old duvet cover that another resident left behind. But she did it, and it's perfect. And she looked at it and said, ""Proof of concept — creation needs constraint."" So with these 12 minutes, I'm going to tell you about my greatest discovery. For my whole life, my obsession has been eternal life, as I know it is so many of yours. You may be happy to know that your research will pay off. I am 318 years old. The average human lifespan is now 432 years, and my work has been to extend the human lifespan indefinitely. And I've never questioned that someday, we'll reach a point where we'll be content. But the opposite keeps happening: the longer we live, the longer we want to live, the less we want to die. Who can blame us? The universe is so big. There won't ever not be more to see. Just yesterday, I was reading about how you can take out a boat on Europa and sail from island to island all over the planet, and some of the islands have villages that you can stay and visit and sleep under the shadow of Jupiter. And then there's this other island where there's just one songwriter who sits and plays mandolin for the ocean. And then there are others where there's no one and there never has been, and so you go just for the pleasure of touching your foot to sand that no foot has ever touched before. You could spend 400 years doing just that. Right now the Moon is rising in the Northeast. I can see the cities on it with my naked eye. They're connected like nerve clusters: Mariapolis on the South Pole, and Ramachandran on the Equator. And New Tehran in the Sea of Tranquility. That's where Navid and I met. We were both artists downtown. The day we met, we were passing each other in Azadi Square, and we bumped shoulders. And I turned to apologize and she, without saying hello or introducing herself or anything, said, ""Well, why do you think we didn't just pass through each other?"" And first of all, I thought, ""Who the hell are you?"" But second, the question annoyed me, because the answer is so simple. I said, ""We didn't pass through each other because elementary particles have mass and because the space between elementary particles is filled with the binding energy that also has the properties of mass, and we've known that for 800 years."" She must have been in one of those moods where she likes to mess with strangers. Or maybe she was just flirting with me, because she looked at me and said, ""I thought you'd say that. Think deeper."" And then she took off her belt, this belt that I'm wearing now, and she said, ""Our universe is built so that particles have mass. Without that basic constraint, we'd have just passed right through each other at the speed of light and never even known."" And that's how our romance began. Navid and I never ran out of things to talk about. Never. It was incredible. It was like we were both heroes climbing up into a mountain range together and we kept arriving at new vistas, and these new, perfect constellations of words would come out of us to describe them. And we'd forget them as soon as we made them, and throw them over our shoulder and go on to the next thing, on and up. Or one time, Navid said that our talk was like we were always making bread, and that we were always adding in a little more flour and a little more water, and folding it in and turning it over and never getting around to baking it. If my obsession was eternal life, Navid's obsession was touch. She had a genius for it. All of her work revolved around it. My body was like a canvas for her, and she would draw her fingertip down over my face so slowly that I couldn't feel it moving. And she was obsessed with the exact moment when I would stop being able to tell the difference between her body and mine. Or she would just lie across me and dig her shoulder into mine and say, ""Pilar, why does this feel so good?"" I'd say, ""I don't know!"" And she always had a facetious answer for her facetious question, but the answer I remember today is, ""It feels good because the universe chose its constraints, and we are its art."" It's always funny what you think the future is going to be like versus what it turns out to be. In your time, scientists thought humans could freeze themselves and wake up in the future. And they did — but then they died. In your time, scientists thought humans could replace organs and extend life for hundreds of years. And they did, but eventually, they died anyway. In your time, Earth is the only place people live. In my time, Earth is the place people come to die. So when Navid started to show the signs, our friends assumed I would do what everyone does, which is say goodbye and send her to Earth, so that none of us would have to look at her or be around her or think about her and her ... failure to keep living. More than anything, they didn't want to be around her actual physical body. They kept referring to it as ""declining,"" even though she herself was fascinated by it, the changes it was going through, following the rules of its nature day by day, independent of her will. I did send Navid to Earth. But I came with her. I remember a friend of ours, just before we left, said, ""I just think it's arrogant, like the rules don't apply to you, like you think your love is that special."" But I did. So, even here on Earth, I kept working on how to extend life. It didn't occur to me that there could be any other response. I kept going back to that thing that Navid said to me that day in Azadi Square, that without that basic constraint — a universe that granted mass to matter — we would not exist. That's one rule. Another rule is that all mass is subject to entropy. And there is no way to be in this universe without mass. I know. I tried everything. I tried creating a photon box where the Higgs field was altered. I tried recording all subatomic movements in my body and replaying them on closed loop. Nothing worked. But my final innovation was to create a coil dimension with the boundaries of a body in which time moved infinitely slower, but whose projection would appear to move in normal time. That body would then appear in our universe as a hologram — here but not here. When I realized I'd done it, I ran to her room, so happy to tell her I'd done it, moving through space almost normally to all eyes, even to my own, and went to lie down next to her, and forgot, and fell right through her. I'd found a way to eternal life, at the expense of the one thing Navid loved most, which was to touch and be touched. And she threw me out. I still got to watch, though. Humans live 400 years now, and we still die. And when death comes, the dying still pick at their bedsheets, and their arms break out in blue and violet blooms on the insides, and their breaths get further and further apart, like they're falling asleep. I've always thought that what gives a life meaning is adventure. And death is just a problem we haven't discovered the solution to yet. But maybe a life has meaning only because it ends. Maybe that's the paradox: constraints don't constrain, they allow perfect freedom. (Sighs) There was a thunderstorm here this morning. There is another forecast for tonight, but for now the sky is clear. I can't feel the wind here, but I just asked one of the caretakers who passed by what it felt like, and she said it felt warm, like melted butter. An answer worthy of my wife. I have to find my way back to the flesh. Until then, I take up no space but the space you give me."	我看來還真實嗎？希望是。不知道你是否能看到全部，但我就這樣向前看，當你是在那兒。我在前面的沙上畫了個半圓形來避免我走過界然後看似浮在半空。 現在我正站在露天的海邊，一個松櫚樹下，跟之前的舞台是完全同一個地方。我跟你有十二分鐘。是我設的上限。我老婆「納維德」曾說，「無限可能」是創作家最大的敵人。就拿這衣服作舉例，我請她設計個像二十三世紀開羅牧師會穿的款式。但，只有三天的時間去完成，而當時為一能用的布是個老式的被套，是前屋主留下的。但她做到了，很完美。她滿意的看著說，「概念證明：創作需要規範的。」所以在這十二分鐘裡，我要分享我最重大的發現。 這一生我最大的夢想就是「永生」，我知道這跟大多數人一樣。也許，你會高興知道這探索將會得到結果。我已經 318 歲了。現在人類的平均壽命是 432 歲，我的職業就是無限延長人類的壽命。我也一直相信，有一天我們會覺得滿足認為「這生夠了」。但相反的卻持續發生：我們活的越久，就越想活得更久，越不想死亡。 但誰又能怪我們呢？宇宙是如此之大。有永遠看不完的人事物。就像昨天，我閱讀了關於利用船來航遊歐洲從島嶼到島嶼航遊整個星球，其中有些島嶼還有村落可供你參觀並睡在木星的影子下。還有另一個島嶼那裏只有一個歌曲作家，他就坐那兒為大海演奏曼陀鈴。其它許多島嶼都是「無人島」一直都是，所以去那兒只能享受腳碰觸沙灘的滋味，那個無腳碰觸過的沙。願意的話，你可花四百年在那兒。 現在月亮正從東北方升起。只用肉眼就能看見上面的都市。他們像神经元似的集群著：「瑪麗亞普利斯」在南極，「拉馬錢德蘭」在赤道。還有「新德黑蘭」在寧靜之海 那是我結識「納維德」的地方。當時我倆是市中心的藝術家。相識那天，我倆剛好在「阿扎迪廣場」路過，我倆的肩膀碰了一下，我轉頭要道歉而她，並沒打招呼也沒自我介紹甚麼的，就說，「你覺得我們為何沒直接穿透對方？」當時我第一個念頭是，「你從哪兒冒出來的？」第二，這問題實在很無聊，因為理由太簡單了。我答說，「我們沒穿透對方是因為基本粒子是實質而且基本粒子之間的空間有電子結合能而那能量也是實質，這我們知道八百年了。」她一定是處於那種喜歡捉弄陌生人的心態。又或者她在挑逗我，她看著我說，「就知道你會這麼說。但再想深點兒。」就把她自己的皮帶拿下來，就是我現在帶的這條，然後她說，我們的宇宙建立在基本粒子的質量上。若沒有那基本規範，我們就會在不知覺中以光速穿透對方。」 我們的愛情是如此開始的。「納維德」和我有說不完的話題。從未有過。這很難得。我倆就像勇者一同攀登著山脈並一直抵達新巔峰，這些創新的，完美的星座訴語會不斷從我倆嘴裡冒出。並說後即忘，全拋至腦後，接著換下個話題。「納維德」形容我倆的話題像在做麵包，會間接的添些麵粉和些許水，並循序漸進的揉麵但卻從沒把它給烤了。 我夢想「永生」，而「納維德」則是「觸摸」。她有觸摸的天分。她的工作都環繞著觸覺。我的身體就像她的畫布，她會用指尖畫著我的臉，以及慢的數度令我感覺不到它的移動。另一個讓她著迷的是當我無法辨別我倆軀體的差異。她也喜歡躺我一旁將她肩膀埋我肩下並說，「皮拉爾，這感覺怎麼這麼舒服？」我會答說，「我不知道！」她總有滑稽的答案來答覆自己滑稽的問題，令我映象最深的是，「這美好的感覺來自於宇宙選擇的規範，我們就是那結果。」 好笑的是我們所想像的未來總是與現實有差距。科學家曾以為人類可以冷凍保存然後在未來醒來。是做到了 ... 但後來還是會死。科學家曾以為人類可靠更新器官多活幾百年。是做到了，但最終還是會死。在你的時空，地球是唯一生存之地。在我的時空，地球是等死之地。 所以當「納維德」也出現死的徵兆，朋友們都以為我會如一般人一樣，說「再見」然後送她去地球，如此我們就不用看著她或跟她有所接觸或想著她的一切 ...即將結束的生命。最大的原因，是不想環繞於她的軀體。他們一直稱之為 「衰退」，但她自己卻為這一切充滿了驚奇，對軀體自然的變化，一天天的逐漸衰退，無法自主。我後來還是將「納維德」送到地球。但我跟她一起來了。記得臨走之際一個朋友說，「我認為這是高傲，好像你在規則之外，好像你的愛情最偉大。」但我就是如此。 即使到了地球我繼續研究著延續生命。當時我沒想過能有其它的方式面對。我不停想著「納維德」對我所說的觀點在「阿扎迪廣場」那天，有關，若缺乏基本規範─，就算宇宙授予物體「質量」──，我們也無法存在。那是其一的法則。另一個法則是所有質量都受制於「熱力學」。若缺乏「質量」是無法在這空間存在的。這我懂，我全試過了。我曾做了個光子盒來改變「希格斯」場。我也記錄了我身上所有次原子的運作並以閉路循環方式重現。但全沒用。 我最後一個發明是電波線圈創造的異次元空間令軀殼的時間變得無限緩慢，但其投射的身影會如正常時間運作。以「全息投影」的方式出現。似有非有的存在。當我發現「我做到了」，我立即衝進她房間，興高采烈的想告訴她，我的身影看似一般人移動，但我卻忘了，當我到她身邊躺下，整個人卻直接穿透她軀體。我是找到了「永生」，卻失去了「納維德」最摯愛的，那能觸摸和被觸摸的感覺。就因為這樣，她甩了我。但我還是目睹了一切。 現在人類能活四百年，但最終還是會死。當死亡來臨時，臨死者還是會抓著被單，然後手臂會逐漸泛紫藍色，然後呼吸會越來越薄弱。就像快睡著了。 我一直認為「探索」賦予生命意義。而「死亡」只是個尚未解決的問題。又或許，生命之所以有意義是因為它會結束。也許這是個悖論：「規範」並不是「侷限」，其實自由空間很大。 （嘆氣） 今早，這裡下了雷雨。但今晚不一定，目前天空晴朗。我無法感覺這裡的風，我剛問了路過的護理這氣候如何，她說感覺暖暖的，像融化的奶油。像我老婆會說的一樣。我必須找到回肉體的方法。直到那刻，我不占空間除了你撥放的空間。
