Talk	en	zh-tw
mother_and_daughter_doctor_heroes_hawa_abdi_deqo_mohamed	Hawa Abdi: Many people — 20 years for Somalia — [were] fighting. So there was no job, no food. Children, most of them, became very malnourished, like this. Deqo Mohamed: So as you know, always in a civil war, the ones affected most [are] the women and children. So our patients are women and children. And they are in our backyard. It's our home. We welcome them. That's the camp that we have in now 90,000 people, where 75 percent of them are women and children. Pat Mitchell: And this is your hospital. This is the inside. HA: We are doing C-sections and different operations because people need some help. There is no government to protect them. DM: Every morning we have about 400 patients, maybe more or less. But sometimes we are only five doctors and 16 nurses, and we are physically getting exhausted to see all of them. But we take the severe ones, and we reschedule the other ones the next day. It is very tough. And as you can see, it's the women who are carrying the children; it's the women who come into the hospitals; it's the women [are] building the houses. That's their house. And we have a school. This is our bright — we opened [in the] last two years [an] elementary school where we have 850 children, and the majority are women and girls. (Applause) PM: And the doctors have some very big rules about who can get treated at the clinic. Would you explain the rules for admission? HA: The people who are coming to us, we are welcoming. We are sharing with them whatever we have. But there are only two rules. First rule: there is no clan distinguished and political division in Somali society. [Whomever] makes those things we throw out. The second: no man can beat his wife. If he beat, we will put [him] in jail, and we will call the eldest people. Until they identify this case, we'll never release him. That's our two rules. (Applause) The other thing that I have realized, that the woman is the most strong person all over the world. Because the last 20 years, the Somali woman has stood up. They were the leaders, and we are the leaders of our community and the hope of our future generations. We are not just the helpless and the victims of the civil war. We can reconcile. We can do everything. (Applause) DM: As my mother said, we are the future hope, and the men are only killing in Somalia. So we came up with these two rules. In a camp with 90,000 people, you have to come up with some rules or there is going to be some fights. So there is no clan division, and no man can beat his wife. And we have a little storage room where we converted a jail. So if you beat your wife, you're going to be there. (Applause) So empowering the women and giving the opportunity — we are there for them. They are not alone for this. PM: You're running a medical clinic. It brought much, much needed medical care to people who wouldn't get it. You're also running a civil society. You've created your own rules, in which women and children are getting a different sense of security. Talk to me about your decision, Dr. Abdi, and your decision, Dr. Mohamed, to work together — for you to become a doctor and to work with your mother in these circumstances. HA: My age — because I was born in 1947 — we were having, at that time, government, law and order. But one day, I went to the hospital — my mother was sick — and I saw the hospital, how they [were] treating the doctors, how they [are] committed to help the sick people. I admired them, and I decided to become a doctor. My mother died, unfortunately, when I was 12 years [old]. Then my father allowed me to proceed [with] my hope. My mother died in [a] gynecology complication, so I decided to become a gynecology specialist. That's why I became a doctor. So Dr. Deqo has to explain. DM: For me, my mother was preparing [me] when I was a child to become a doctor, but I really didn't want to. Maybe I should become an historian, or maybe a reporter. I loved it, but it didn't work. When the war broke out — civil war — I saw how my mother was helping and how she really needed the help, and how the care is essential to the woman to be a woman doctor in Somalia and help the women and children. And I thought, maybe I can be a reporter and doctor gynecologist. (Laughter) So I went to Russia, and my mother also, [during the] time of [the] Soviet Union. So some of our character, maybe we will come with a strong Soviet background of training. So that's how I decided [to do] the same. My sister was different. She's here. She's also a doctor. She graduated in Russia also. (Applause) And to go back and to work with our mother is just what we saw in the civil war — when I was 16, and my sister was 11, when the civil war broke out. So it was the need and the people we saw in the early '90s — that's what made us go back and work for them. PM: So what is the biggest challenge working, mother and daughter, in such dangerous and sometimes scary situations? HA: Yes, I was working in a tough situation, very dangerous. And when I saw the people who needed me, I was staying with them to help, because I [could] do something for them. Most people fled abroad. But I remained with those people, and I was trying to do something — [any] little thing I [could] do. I succeeded in my place. Now my place is 90,000 people who are respecting each other, who are not fighting. But we try to stand on our feet, to do something, little things, we can for our people. And I'm thankful for my daughters. When they come to me, they help me to treat the people, to help. They do everything for them. They have done what I desire to do for them. PM: What's the best part of working with your mother, and the most challenging part for you? DM: She's very tough; it's most challenging. She always expects us to do more. And really when you think [you] cannot do it, she will push you, and I can do it. That's the best part. She shows us, trains us how to do and how to be better [people] and how to do long hours in surgery — 300 patients per day, 10, 20 surgeries, and still you have to manage the camp — that's how she trains us. It is not like beautiful offices here, 20 patients, you're tired. You see 300 patients, 20 surgeries and 90,000 people to manage. PM: But you do it for good reasons. (Applause) Wait. Wait. HA: Thank you. DM: Thank you. (Applause) HA: Thank you very much. DM: Thank you very much.	Hawa Abdi: 20年來 — 在索馬里，很多人都一直在打仗。所以在那裡沒有工作、沒有食物。大部分的兒童，就像這樣，變得非常的營養不良。Deqo Mohamed: 如你所知，在內戰中，婦女和兒童總是最受影響的。所以我們的病人都是婦女和兒童。他們就在我們的後院。那是我們的家，我們歡迎他們。這是我們現在擁有的營地，那裡有90,000人，其中75%是婦女和兒童。Pat Mitchell: 這就是你們的醫院。 這是醫院內部。HA: 我們執行剖腹產和其他各種不同的手術，就因為人們需要幫助。那裡沒有政府來保護他們。DM: 每天早上，我們有大約400名病人，也許多一些或少一些。但有時我們只有五名醫師及16名護士，要看完所有的人實在令我們筋疲力盡。但是我們會先看較嚴重的病人，然後重新安排其他病人到第二天看診。這是非常艱難的。正如你所看到，是那些婦女們帶著孩子、是那些婦女們來到醫院，是那些婦女們搭建了那些房子。這是他們的家。此外，我們還有一所學校。 這是我們的光明—我們在過去兩年開設了一所小學我們有850個學生，其中大多是婦女和女童。(掌聲)PM: 醫師們對於哪些人可以接受診療有一些非常嚴格的規則。你能解釋一下診所受理病人的規則嗎?HA: 來到我們這的人，我們都非常歡迎。我們和他們分享我們擁有的一切。但是這裡有兩個規則。第一:在這個索馬里社群中不容許種族歧視和政治分裂。我們會拒收這一類的人。第二:不容許男人打他的妻子。若有人打妻子，我們會送他進監獄，而且我們會告訴我們的長老。直到他們釐清案情，否則我們永遠不會釋放他。這就是我們的兩個規則。(掌聲)我還了解到，女人是這個世界上最強的人。在過去20年來，索馬里的女人都站了起來。她們是領導者，而我們是我們社區的領導者也是我們下一代的希望。我們並非只是那些感到無助的內戰受害者。我們能夠調停戰爭。任何事情我們都可以做的到。(掌聲)DM: 正如我的母親說的，我們是未來的希望，而在索馬里男人只會互相殘殺。因此，我們想出了這兩個規則。在一個有90,000人的營區，你必須要制訂一些規則，不然一定會有一些鬥爭。所以那裡沒有種族的區分、而且沒有人可以打他的妻子。而且我們有一個小儲物室我們把它改造成監獄。所以如果你打你的妻子，你的下場就是到那裡面。(掌聲)因此，賦權婦女，並給予機會 —我們在那裡支持她們； 他們並不是獨自承受這些。PM: 你們開了一間醫療診所。為那些須要幫忙的人帶來很多醫療照護。你們同時也是在營運一個文明社會。你們建立了自己的規則，使婦女和兒童感受到一種不同的安全感。跟我談談你的決定，Abdi醫師，和你的決定，Mohamed醫生，你們一起工作 —使你成為一位醫生並與你的母親在這種情況下工作。HA: 我的年齡 —因為我在1947年出生 —在那個時候，我們有政府、法律和紀律。但是有一天，我去了醫院 —我的母親病了—我在醫院看到醫師是如何診治病人，看到他們如何全心全力的去幫助生病的人。我很敬佩他們，於是我決定要成為一名醫師。不幸的是，當我12歲，我的母親去世了。我父親讓我繼續追尋我的夢想。我母親死於婦科併發症，所以我決定要成為一名婦科專科醫師。這就是我要成為一名醫師的原因。Deqo醫師也要解釋一下。DM: 對我來說，當我還是個孩子時我的母親便打算栽培我成為一位醫師，但我並不是很想這樣。也許我應該成為一位歷史學家，或者是記者。我很喜歡，但是這樣行不通。當內戰爆發之後我看到我的母親是如何幫助他人，看到了她是多麼需要幫助，也看到了她所提供的醫療照護對那些婦女們來說是多麼的重要 —在索馬里做一名女性醫師並幫助婦女和兒童。我想，也許我能同時做一名記者和一名婦科醫師。(笑聲)於此我和母親在蘇聯時期去了俄羅斯。所以我們有一些性格，帶著強烈的蘇聯方式訓練的感覺。這就是為什麼我決定要跟母親做相同的事。我姐姐是不同的。她在這裡。她也是一名醫師。她也是在俄羅斯畢業。(掌聲)回去和我們的母親一起工作正是因為我們在內戰中看到的 —當內戰爆發時，那時我16歲，妹妹11歲。正是在90年代初期我們看到的那些需求、那些需要幫助的人們，使我們決定要回來幫助他們。PM: 當母女一起在這樣危險甚至有時可怕的情況下工作最大挑戰的是什麼?HA: 是的，我在一個艱難的情況下工作，非常的危險。當我看見那些需要我的人，我便留下來幫助他們，因為我可為他們做點事。很多人逃往國外。但我仍然與那些人留在一起，我試圖做一些事情 —一些我可以做到的小事。我在我的職位上獲得了成功。現在在我們的地方有9萬人，大家互相尊敬，沒有打鬥。但是我們盡量靠自己，為大家做一些事，一些我們能做到的小事。我非常感謝我的女兒們。當她們來到我身邊，他們幫我治療那些人，提供幫助。他們竭盡所能。她們完成了我的期望。PM: 與你的母親工作什麼是最好的部分,和最具挑戰性的部分?DM: 她非常嚴格的，這是最大的挑戰。她總是希望我們做的更多。而當你真的覺得做不來的時候，她會督促你，然後我就真的做到了。這是最好的部分。她訓練我們怎麼做事，如何做的更好，如何長時間做手術 —每天300名病人、10到20個手術，然後還要管理營地 —這就是她如何訓練我們的。我們不像在這裡，有漂亮的辦公室，診治20個病人，然後你就累了。我們要看300個病人，做20個手術，還要管理90,000人。PM: 但我們這樣做是很有意義的。(掌聲)等等。HA: 謝謝各位。DM: 謝謝各位。(掌聲)HA: 非常感謝。 (DM: 非常感謝。)hh
