Talk	en	zh-tw
mundano_pimp_my_trash_cart	Our world has many superheroes. But they have the worst of all superpowers: invisibility. For example, the catadores, workers who collect recyclable  materials for a living. Catadores emerged from  social inequality, unemployment, and the abundance of solid waste from the deficiency of the  waste collection system. Catadores provide a heavy,  honest and essential work that benefits the entire population. But they are not acknowledged for it. Here in Brazil, they collect 90 percent of all the waste that's actually recycled. Most of the catadores work independently, picking waste from the streets and  selling to junk yards at very low prices. They may collect over 300 kilos in their bags, shopping carts,  bicycles and carroças. Carroças are carts built from wood or metal and found in several streets in Brazil, much like graffiti and street art. And this is how I first met these  marginalized superheroes. I am a graffiti artist and activist and my art is social, environmental  and political in nature. In 2007, I took my work beyond walls and onto the carroças, as a new urban support for my message. But at this time,  giving voice to the catadores. By adding art and humor to the cause, it became more appealing, which helped call attention  to the catadores and improve their self-esteem. And also, they are famous now  on the streets, on mass media and social. So, the thing is, I plunged into this universe  and have not stopped working since. I have painted over 200  carroças in many cities and have been invited to do exhibitions  and trips worldwide. And then I realized that catadores, in their invisibility, are not exclusive to Brazil. I met them in Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, South Africa, Turkey and even in developed countries such as the United States and Japan. And this was when I realized that I needed to have more people join the cause because it's a big challenge. And then, I created a collaborative  movement called Pimp My Carroça — (Laughter) — which is  a large crowdfunded event. Thank you. (Applause). So Pimp My Carroça is a large  crowdfunded event to help catadores and their carroças. Catadores are assisted by well-being  professionals and healthcare, like physicians, dentists, podiatrists,  hair stylists, massage therapists and much more. But also, they also receive safety shirts, gloves, raincoats and eyeglasses to see in high-definition the city, while their carroças are renovated by our incredible volunteers. And then they receive safety items, too: reflective tapes, horns and mirrors. Then, finally, painted by a street artist and become part of part of this huge,  amazing mobile art exhibition. Pimp My Carroça took to the streets of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Curitiba. But to meet the demand in other cities, including outside of Brazil, we have created Pimpx, which is inspired by TEDx, and it's a simplified, do-it-yourself, crowdfunded edition of Pimp My Carroça. So now everybody can join. In two years, over 170 catadores, 800 volunteers and 200 street artists and more than 1,000 donors have been involved in the  Pimp My Carroça movement, whose actions have even been used in teaching recycling at a local school. So catadores are leaving  invisibility behind and becoming increasingly respected and valued. Because of their pimped carroças, they are able to fight back to prejudice, increase their income and  their interaction with society. So now, I'd like to challenge you  to start looking at and acknowledging the catadores and other  invisible superheroes from your city. Try to see the world as one,  without boundaries or frontiers. Believe it or not, there are over 20 million  catadores worldwide. So next time you see one, recognize them as a vital part of our society. Muito obrigado, thank you. (Applause).	我們的世界有很多的超級英雄。但最糟糕的是他們總是被忽視。比如說，資源回收者，他們以回收可再利用的物品為生。資源回收者從社會不平等、失業和大量的固體廢料中浮現出來，從不完善的垃圾回收系統中浮現出來。垃圾回收者的工作繁重，樸實且重要他們的工作造福人群，卻沒有被認可。在巴西，資源回收者回收了 90﹪ 的可回收物。 大部分的資源回收者獨立工作，從街上收集垃圾後以極低的價格賣給資源回收站。他們可能收集超過 300 公斤的垃圾在他們的袋子裡、購物車、自行車和小車上。小車是木頭和金屬做的手推車在巴西的許多街道上可以看到這種手推車，就像是塗鴉和街頭藝術。這是我第一次見到這些被邊緣化的無名英雄的樣子。 我是一個塗鴉藝術者和活躍份子我作品的性質有關社會，環境和政治。2007 年，我把我的作品從牆上搬到手推車，以此作為支持我所說的話。但是這一次，讓資源回收者表達心聲。讓他們的事業具有藝術性和幽默感，更具吸引力。也幫助了資源回收者得到關注以及增強他們的自尊心。現在，他們在街道上，大眾媒體和社會上都出了名。 所以，重點是，我在接觸這個行業後並沒有停止做這件事。我已經在許多城市為 200 多輛的手推車塗鴉。也受邀到世界各地展覽和旅行。而且我意識到資源回收者，他們被大家所忽略，並不是巴西才有的現象。我在阿根廷、智利、玻利維亞、南非、土耳其都遇到了資源回收者，甚至在已開發國家例如美國和日本。這時，我了解到我需要讓更多人加入我們的行列，因為這是個很大的挑戰。之後，我建立了一個合作性的活動 叫做「幫我的推車拉客」。（笑聲）這是一個群眾募資活動。謝謝。（掌聲）。「幫我的推車拉客」是一個大型的群眾募資活動為了幫助資源回收者和他們的手推車。資源回收者受到職業福利和衛生保健的協助，例如內科醫生、牙醫、足科醫生、美髮師、按摩師還有其他職業的人也來幫忙。同時，他們也收到了安全服、手套、雨衣和眼鏡使他們能夠清楚地看這座城市，當他們的手推車被優秀的志工翻修時。手推車也安裝了安全物品：反光帶、喇叭和鏡子。最後，由街頭藝術家彩繪成為這個巨大且不可思議的移動藝術展的一部分。 「幫我的推車拉客」走入聖保羅，里約熱內盧和庫里提巴的街上。但是為了滿足其他城市的需求，包括巴西以外的地方，我們建立了 「拉客x 」，這是受到 TEDx 所啟發，是一個簡化的，自己動手的，募資的「幫我的推車拉客」版本。所以現在人人都可以參與。 2 年內，超過 170 個資源回收者，800 個志工和 200 個街頭藝術家。還有超過 1000 個贊助者加入「幫我的推車拉客」 活動，這些活動在當地的學校 被用來啟發資源回收意識的教材。 資源回收者不再被忽視逐漸受到尊重和重視。因為他們有具吸引力的手推車，他們有能力反抗偏見，增加他們的收入，還有與社會互動。現在，我要求你們開始認識和重視資源回收者和城市裡被忽略的無名英雄。試著把世界看成一個整體，沒有邊界、沒有界線。信不信由你，世界上有超過兩千萬的資源回收者。所以下次你見到他們時，把他們當作是我們社會中重要的一部分。非常感謝（葡萄牙語），謝謝。（掌聲）。
