Talk	en	zh-tw
murray_gell_mann_on_the_ancestor_of_language	Well, I'm involved in other things, besides physics. In fact, mostly now in other things. One thing is distant relationships among human languages. And the professional, historical linguists in the U.S. and in Western Europe mostly try to stay away from any long-distance relationships, big groupings, groupings that go back a long time, longer than the familiar families. They don't like that. They think it's crank. I don't think it's crank. And there are some brilliant linguists, mostly Russians, who are working on that, at Santa Fe Institute and in Moscow, and I would love to see where that leads. Does it really lead to a single ancestor some 20, 25,000 years ago? And what if we go back beyond that single ancestor, when there was presumably a competition among many languages? How far back does that go? How far back does modern language go? How many tens of thousands of years does it go back? Chris Anderson: Do you have a hunch or a hope for what the answer to that is? Murray Gell-Mann: Well, I would guess that modern language must be older than the cave paintings and cave engravings and cave sculptures and dance steps in the soft clay in the caves in Western Europe, in the Aurignacian Period some 35,000 years ago, or earlier. I can't believe they did all those things and didn't also have a modern language. So, I would guess that the actual origin goes back at least that far and maybe further. But that doesn't mean that all, or many, or most of today's attested languages couldn't descend perhaps from one that's much younger than that, like say 20,000 years, or something of that kind. It's what we call a bottleneck. CA: Well, Philip Anderson may have been right. You may just know more about everything than anyone. So, it's been an honor. Thank you Murray Gell-Mann. (Applause)	唔，除了物理以外我還關心其他事物事實上，現在我一般都專注在其他事物上。 其中一樣是人類語言間的遠親關係專業學者，在美國與西歐的歷史語言學家大多都不想碰這個學科,那些關於任何遠親關係的學科；可以追溯到久遠之前、比目前已知的族系都來得久遠的語言分類可以追溯到久遠之前、比目前已知的族系都來得久遠的語言分類他們不喜歡這樣，覺得那是個怪念頭，但我就不太認同在那些很聰明的語言學家之中，大多是俄羅斯人他們在莫斯科（Moscow）的聖塔菲（Santa Fe）學院研究這個課題我想看看結果會是如何 我們口中的語言真的會被導回兩萬、或兩萬五千年前的同一個始祖嗎？那如果我們再往那個共祖往前推又會怎樣？那時大概會是許多語言之間的競爭吧！那是在多久之前呢？近代的語言可追溯到多久以前？是在幾萬年前？ 克里斯‧安德森：你的直覺能帶給你找出這個問題的答案嗎？ 莫瑞：唔，我猜比起洞穴中的圖畫、銘刻、雕塑或是西歐洞穴中軟泥上的舞步, 那是在歐里納克（譯按：舊石器時代晚期〕時期，約莫三萬五千年前，或甚至更早或是西歐洞穴中軟泥上的舞步, 那是在歐里納克（譯按：舊石器時代晚期〕時期，約莫三萬五千年前，甚至更早近代的語言一定比它們都更為古老我不相信他們會在沒有近代語言之下建立出這一切所以我會猜，真正的起源必定至少有那麼早，甚至是更早 但這並不表示所有、許多、或者大部分在今日通過測試的語言但這並不表示所有、許多、或者大部分在今日通過測試的語言是源於較為初期的語言，像是兩萬年前，或接近那個時期的這是我們所謂的瓶頸。 克里斯：嗯，菲利浦‧安德森可能是對的對於萬物，你比任何人都有更深的認識所以這是我們的榮幸，謝謝您（掌聲）
