Talk	en	zh-tw
mustafa_akyol_faith_versus_tradition_in_islam	"A few weeks ago, I had a chance to go to Saudi Arabia. And the first thing I wanted to do as a Muslim was to go to Mecca and visit the Kaaba, the holiest shrine of Islam. And I did that; I put on my ritualistic dress, I went to the holy mosque, I did my prayers, I observed all the rituals. And meanwhile, besides all the spirituality, there was one mundane detail in the Kaaba that was pretty interesting for me: there was no separation of sexes. In other words, men and women were worshiping all together. They were together while doing tawāf, the circular walk around the Kaaba. They were together while praying. And if you wonder why this is interesting at all, you have to see the rest of Saudi Arabia, because this a country which is strictly divided between the sexes. In other words: as men, you are simply not supposed to be in the same physical space with women. And I noticed this in a very funny way. I left the Kaaba to eat something in downtown Mecca. I headed to the nearest Burger King restaurant. And I went there — I noticed that there was a male section, which is carefully separated from the female section. I had to pay, order and eat in the male section. ""It's funny,"" I said to myself, ""You can mingle with the opposite sex at the holy Kaaba, but not at the Burger King?"" (Laughter) Quite, quite ironic. Ironic, and it's also, I think, quite telling, because the Kaaba and the rituals around it are relics from the earliest phase of Islam, that of prophet Muhammad. And if there was a big emphasis at the time to separate men from women, the rituals around the Kaaba could have been designed accordingly. But apparently, that was not an issue at the time. So the rituals came that way. This is also, I think, confirmed by the fact that the seclusion of women in creating a divided society is something that you also do not find in the Koran — the very core of Islam, the divine core of Islam — that all Muslims, equally myself, believe. And I think it's not an accident that you don't find this idea in the very origin of Islam, because many scholars who study the history of Islamic thought — Muslim scholars or Westerners — think that, actually, the practice of dividing men and women physically came as a later development in Islam, as Muslims adopted some preexisting cultures and traditions of the Middle East. Seclusion of women was actually a Byzantine and Persian practice, and Muslims adopted it and made it a part of their religion. Actually, this is just one example of a much larger phenomenon. What we call today Islamic law, and especially Islamic culture — and there are many Islamic cultures, actually; the one in Saudi Arabia is much different from where I come from in Istanbul or Turkey. But still, if you're going to speak about a Muslim culture, this has a core: the divine message which began the religion. But then many traditions, perceptions, practices were added on top of it. And these were traditions of the Middle East medieval traditions. There are two important messages, or two lessons, to take from that reality. First of all, Muslims — pious, conservative, believing Muslims who want to be loyal to their religion — should not cling onto everything in their culture, thinking that that's divinely mandated. Maybe some things are bad traditions and they need to be changed. On the other hand, the Westerners who look at Islamic culture and see some troubling aspects should not readily conclude that this is what Islam ordains. Maybe it's a Middle Eastern culture that became confused with Islam. There is a practice called female circumcision. It's something terrible, horrible. It is basically an operation to deprive women of sexual pleasure. And Westerners — Europeans or Americans — who didn't know about this before, [saw] this practice within some of the Muslim communities who migrated from North Africa. And they've thought, ""Oh, what a horrible religion that is, which ordains something like that."" But when you look at female circumcision, you see that it has nothing to do with Islam; it's just a North African practice which predates Islam. It was there for thousands of years. And, quite tellingly, some Muslims do practice it — the Muslims in North Africa, not in other places. But also the non-Muslim communities of North Africa — the animists, some Christians and even a Jewish tribe in North Africa — are known to practice female circumcision. So what might look like a problem within Islamic faith might turn out to be a tradition that Muslims have subscribed to. The same thing can be said for honor killings, which is a recurrent theme in the Western media — and which is, of course, a horrible tradition. And we see, truly, in some Muslim communities, that tradition. But in the non-Muslim communities of the Middle East, such as some Christian communities, Eastern communities, you see the same practice. We had a tragic case of an honor killing within Turkey's Armenian community just a few months ago. Now, these are things about general culture, but I'm also very much interested in political culture and whether liberty and democracy is appreciated, or whether there's an authoritarian political culture in which the state is supposed to impose things on the citizens. And it is no secret that many Islamic movements in the Middle East tend to be authoritarian, and some of the so-called ""Islamic regimes,"" such as Saudi Arabia, Iran and the worst case, the Taliban in Afghanistan, they are pretty authoritarian — no doubt about that. For example, in Saudi Arabia, there is a phenomenon called the religious police. And the religious police imposes the supposed Islamic way of life on every citizen, by force — like, women are forced to cover their heads — wear the hijab, the Islamic head cover. Now that is pretty authoritarian, and that's something I'm very much critical of. But when I realized that the non-Muslim, or the non-Islamic-minded actors in the same geography sometimes behaved similarly, I realized that the problem maybe lies in the political culture of the whole region, not just Islam. Let me give you an example: in Turkey, where I come from, which is a very hyper-secular republic, until very recently, we used to have what I call ""secularism police,"" which would guard the universities against veiled students. In other words, they would force students to uncover their heads. And I think forcing people to uncover their head is as tyrannical as forcing them to cover it. It should be the citizen's decision. But when I saw that, I said, ""Maybe the problem is just an authoritarian culture in the region, and some Muslims have been influenced by that. But the secular-minded people can be influenced by that. Maybe it's a problem of the political culture, and we have to think about how to change that political culture."" Now, these are some of the questions I had in mind a few years ago when I sat down to write a book. I said, ""Well, I will do research about how Islam actually came to be what it is today, and what roads were taken and what roads could have been taken."" The name of the book is ""Islam Without Extremes: A Muslim Case for Liberty."" And as the subtitle suggests, I looked at Islamic tradition and the history of Islamic thought from the perspective of individual liberty, and I tried to find what are the strengths with regard to individual liberty. And there are strengths in Islamic tradition. Islam, actually, as a monotheistic religion, which defined man as a responsible agent by itself, created the idea of the individual in the Middle East, and saved it from the communitarianism, the collectivism of the tribe. You can derive many ideas from that. But besides that, I also saw problems within Islamic tradition. But one thing was curious: most of those problems turn out to be problems that emerged later, not from the very divine core of Islam, the Koran, but from, again, traditions and mentalities, or the interpretations of the Koran that Muslims made in the Middle Ages. The Koran, for example, doesn't condone stoning. There is no punishment for apostasy. There is no punishment for personal sins like drinking. These things which make Islamic law, the troubling aspects of Islamic law, were developed into later interpretations of Islam. Which means that Muslims can, today, look at those things and say, ""Well, the core of our religion is here to stay with us. It's our faith, and we will be loyal to it. But we can change how it was interpreted, because it was interpreted according to the time and milieu in the Middle Ages. Now we're living in a different world, with different values and political systems."" That interpretation is quite possible and feasible. Now, if I were the only person thinking that way, we would be in trouble. But that's not the case at all. Actually, from the 19th century on, there's a whole revisionist, reformist — whatever you call it — tradition, a trend in Islamic thinking. These were intellectuals or statesmen of the 19th century, and later, 20th century, which looked at Europe, basically, and saw that Europe has many things to admire, like science and technology. But not just that; also democracy, parliament, the idea of representation, the idea of equal citizenship. These Muslim thinkers, intellectuals and statesmen of the 19th century, looked at Europe, saw these things, and said, ""Why don't we have these things?"" And they looked back at Islamic tradition, and saw that there are problematic aspects, but they're not the core of the religion, so maybe they can be re-understood, and the Koran can be reread in the modern world. That trend is generally called Islamic modernism, and it was advanced by intellectuals and statesmen, not just as an intellectual idea, though, but also as a political program. And that's why, actually, in the 19th century, the Ottoman Empire, which then covered the whole Middle East, made very important reforms — reforms like giving Christians and Jews an equal citizenship status, accepting a constitution, accepting a representative parliament, advancing the idea of freedom of religion. That's why the Ottoman Empire, in its last decades, turned into a proto-democracy, a constitutional monarchy, and freedom was a very important political value at the time. Similarly, in the Arab world, there was what the great Arab historian Albert Hourani defines as the Liberal Age. He has a book, ""Arabic Thought in the Liberal Age,"" and the Liberal Age, he defines as 19th century and early 20th century. Quite notably, this was the dominant trend in the early 20th century among Islamic thinkers and statesmen and theologians. But there is a very curious pattern in the rest of the 20th century, because we see a sharp decline in this Islamic modernist line. And in place of that, what happens is that Islamism grows as an ideology which is authoritarian, which is quite strident, which is quite anti-Western, and which wants to shape society based on a utopian vision. So Islamism is the problematic idea that really created a lot of problems in the 20th-century Islamic world. And even the very extreme forms of Islamism led to terrorism in the name of Islam — which is actually a practice that I think is against Islam, but some, obviously, extremists, did not think that way. But there is a curious question: If Islamic modernism was so popular in the 19th and early 20th centuries, why did Islamism become so popular in the rest of the 20th century? And this is a question, I think, which needs to be discussed carefully. In my book, I went into that question as well. And actually, you don't need to be a rocket scientist to understand that. Just look at the political history of the 20th century, and you see things have changed a lot. The contexts have changed. In the 19th century, when Muslims were looking at Europe as an example, they were independent; they were more self-confident. In the early 20th century, with the fall of the Ottoman Empire, the whole Middle East was colonized. And when you have colonialization, what do you have? You have anti-colonialization. So Europe is not just an example now to emulate; it's an enemy to fight and to resist. So there's a very sharp decline in liberal ideas in the Muslim world, and what you see is more of a defensive, rigid, reactionary strain, which led to Arab socialism, Arab nationalism and ultimately to the Islamist ideology. And when the colonial period ended, what you had in place of that was generally secular dictators, which say they're a country, but did not bring democracy to the country, and established their own dictatorship. And I think the West, at least some powers in the West, particularly the United States, made the mistake of supporting those secular dictators, thinking that they were more helpful for their interests. But the fact that those dictators suppressed democracy in their country and suppressed Islamic groups in their country actually made the Islamists much more strident. So in the 20th century, you had this vicious cycle in the Arab world, where you have a dictatorship suppressing its own people, including the Islamic pious, and they're reacting in reactionary ways. There was one country, though, which was able to escape or stay away from that vicious cycle. And that's the country where I come from, Turkey. Turkey has never been colonized, so it remained as an independent nation after the fall of the Ottoman Empire. That's one thing to remember; it did not share the same anti-colonial hype that you can find in some other countries in the region. Secondly, and most importantly, Turkey became a democracy earlier than any of the countries we are talking about. In 1950, Turkey had the first free and fair elections, which ended the more autocratic secular regime, which was in the beginning of Turkey. And the pious Muslims in Turkey saw that they could change the political system by voting. And they realized that democracy is something compatible with Islam, compatible with their values, and they've been supportive of democracy. That's an experience that not every other Muslim nation in the Middle East had, until very recently. Secondly, in the past two decades, thanks to globalization, thanks to the market economy, thanks to the rise of a middle class, we in Turkey see what I define as a rebirth of Islamic modernism. Now, there's the more urban middle-class pious Muslims who, again, look at their tradition and see that there are some problems in the tradition, and understand that they need to be changed and questioned and reformed. And they look at Europe, and see an example, again, to follow. They see an example, at least, to take some inspiration from. That's why the EU process, Turkey's effort to join the EU, has been supported inside Turkey by the Islamic pious, while some secular nationalists were against it. Well, that process has been a little bit blurred by the fact that not all Europeans are that welcoming, but that's another discussion. But the pro-EU sentiment in Turkey in the past decade has become almost an Islamic cause and supported by the Islamic liberals and the secular liberals as well, of course. And thanks to that, Turkey has been able to reasonably create a success story in which Islam and the most pious understandings of Islam have become part of the democratic game, and even contributes to the democratic and economic advance of the country. And this has been an inspiring example right now for some of the Islamic movements or some of the countries in the Arab world. You must have all seen the Arab Spring, which began in Tunis and in Egypt. Arab masses just revolted against their dictators. They were asking for democracy; they were asking for freedom. And they did not turn out to be the Islamist boogeyman that the dictators were always using to justify their regime. They said, ""We want freedom; we want democracy. We are Muslim believers, but we want to be living as free people in free societies."" Of course, this is a long road. Democracy is not an overnight achievement; it's a process. But this is a promising era in the Muslim world. And I believe that the Islamic modernism which began in the 19th century, but which had a setback in the 20th century because of the political troubles of the Muslim world, is having a rebirth. And I think the takeaway message from that would be that Islam, despite some of the skeptics in the West, has the potential in itself to create its own way to democracy, create its own way to liberalism, create its own way to freedom. They just should be allowed to work for that. Thanks so much. (Applause)"	"幾週前我有幸去了沙烏地阿拉伯一趟作為一個穆斯林，我最想做的事情就是去麥加的天房伊斯蘭最神聖的廟堂我去了天房；我穿上了我朝聖的服裝去了這個神聖的清真寺我禱告並遵循的所有儀式的流程同時我發現在這一切神性之外天房儀式中有一個很不起眼的細節但是我卻覺得非常有趣在天房裡，沒有將男女隔離開來意思就是說，男人女人在同一個空間裡一起做禮拜在行塔瓦夫禮，也就是繞天房角落的黑石時男女也是在一起的男女在一起祈禱 如果你不明白這有什麼有趣的你可以去沙烏地阿拉伯其他的地方看看因為在這個國家裡男女是被嚴格分離開來的也就是說男人無論如何都不應該與女人在同一個空間裡有趣的是我怎樣注意到這點的我離開了天房去麥加市中心找吃的東西我去了距離天房最近的漢堡王在那裡我發現這裡有一個男性用餐區很嚴格地與女性用餐區分割開來我必須在男性用餐區點餐，付賬，用餐“這太有趣了，”我和我自己說“你可以跟異性在神聖的天房一起做事情，卻不能在漢堡王這樣做。 很諷刺不是嗎?我認為這不僅有諷刺意味，還值得我們去深入探討因為天房與其中進行的儀式都是從最早期的伊斯蘭傳統中流傳下來的早至先知穆罕默德的時代如果當時伊斯蘭很重視將男女分割開來天房的宗教儀式也會反映這一點但是，我們很明顯可以看到，當時這並不是一個問題所以儀式是男女一起的我認為這同時也驗證了將女性隔離出去創造一個兩性分隔的社會並不是從古蘭經中來的而古蘭經是伊斯蘭教的核心伊斯蘭最神聖的核心是包括我在內的所有穆斯林的信仰我認為在古蘭經，這個伊斯蘭的源頭中無法找到男女分隔的要求並不令人驚奇因為，據許多學者研究伊斯蘭思想史的穆斯林學者，或者西方學者說事實上，將男女從空間上分隔開來的這個習俗是伊斯蘭較後期發展出來的當穆斯林開始遵循一些中東地區已有的文化跟傳統將女性排除出主流社會事實上是一個拜占庭和波斯的習俗穆斯林後來沿襲了這個習俗並使之成為自己宗教的一部分 事實上，這個例子只說明了整體現象的冰山一角我們目前所理解的伊斯蘭法，特別是伊斯蘭文化——事實上伊斯蘭文化也分很多種沙烏地阿拉伯的文化與我的家鄉伊斯坦堡，或者整個土耳其，是有很大不同的但是如果我們要談穆斯林文化這個文化裡有一個很核心很神聖的訊息開啟了這個宗教的源頭但是之後很多傳統，觀念習俗被加在了這個訊息之上這些就是中世紀中東的一些習俗 知道了這個之後我想引出兩個訊息，或者是兩點我們需要學習的首先，穆斯林——虔誠的，傳統的，忠實於其信仰的穆斯林不應一板一眼的遵循他們文化中的所有習俗認為這些習俗是神的旨意有可能有些是不好的傳統需要被改變的習俗另外，作為西方人當研究伊斯蘭文化並發現一些令人不安的內容的時候不應該馬上就歸納這些文化中的習俗是伊斯蘭原始教旨的一部分很有可能這只是中東文化的一部分與伊斯蘭文化混雜了起來 有一個習俗，叫做女性割禮這是一個很可怕，很恐怖的習俗它是一個手術一個剝奪女性性高潮的手術西方人，不論是歐洲人還是美國人如果不知道這個習俗的由來在一些從北非移民的穆斯林的社群裡發現了這個習俗西方人會想，”天啊，伊斯蘭教太恐怖了，居然教教徒們做這種事情但是如果你再進一步了解女性割禮你就會發現，這個習俗與伊斯蘭毫無關係它只是北非的一個習俗比伊斯蘭更早產生這個習俗已經存在了幾千年了很明顯一些穆斯林確實有這樣的習俗僅在北非，而不是其他地區的穆斯林但是還有其他北非地區的非穆斯林群體萬物有靈論者，甚至一些基督徒甚至還有一個北非地區的猶太部落都有這樣的習俗所以這個貌似是伊斯蘭信仰問題的問題就成了一個穆斯林從別處借來並沿襲的傳統 同樣的道理適用於""名譽殺害""這個問題經常在西方媒體中被提到當然這是一個非常恐怖的傳統並且我們確實在一些穆斯林群體中看到這一傳統但是在一些其他中東地區的非穆斯林群體中比如說基督教群體，東方人（注：非通常意義上的亞洲東方人，而是中東地區的東方人種）群體中你也發現相同的習俗在土耳其的亞美尼亞群體中發生了一個名譽殺害的慘劇就在幾個月前 我上面談到的是普通大眾文化範圍內的事情我同樣對政治文化也很感興趣還有在一個政治文化裡自由與民主是否被珍視以及是否這個政治文化里有獨裁的成分存在也就是說國家想向公民強加一些事實大家都知道中東地區的很多伊斯蘭運動都很傾向於獨裁並且一些所謂的“伊斯蘭政權”比如說沙烏地阿拉伯，伊朗還有最嚴重的阿富汗的塔利班政權毫無疑問都是很獨裁的 比如說，在沙烏地阿拉伯有一種叫做宗教警察的東西宗教警察用暴力確保每個公民都遵循所謂的伊斯蘭的生活方式比如說女性被強制要求戴頭巾那種伊斯蘭式大蓋頭這是很獨裁的並且我對此很持批判態度但是當我意識到這一地區的非穆斯林或者說非伊斯蘭信仰者有時也這麼做(指戴頭巾)我就意識到這個問題可能不僅是伊斯蘭的問題，而是這一地區政治文化的問題我來給你舉個例子：我的家鄉土耳其是一個極度世俗化的共和國直到很不久之前在土耳其存在著一些我稱作世俗警察的人這些人不讓戴頭巾的學生進入校園換句話說，他們強制學生不戴頭巾我認為，強制人們不戴頭巾與強制人們戴頭巾是一樣的暴政行為這應當是每個公民自己的選擇 當我看到這樣的現象的時候，我就說“可能問題只是這一地區的獨裁政治文化，並且一些穆斯林被這樣的文化所影響。”一些很世俗化的人也會被這樣的文化所影響可能這就是一個政治文化的問題我們應該來思考如果改變這種政治文化這些是我幾年前開始寫書的時候想到的一些問題我就想，“讓我來對於伊斯蘭是怎樣發展到今天來做一些研究，經過了怎樣的發展道路本來有可能向哪些方向發展。”我的書的題目是《無極端伊斯蘭：穆斯林的自由研究》書的副標題點出了書的內容我從個人自由的角度研究了伊斯蘭傳統跟伊斯蘭思想史並且我試圖去找個人自由的優越之處 同樣，伊斯蘭傳統也有其優越之處伊斯蘭，作為一個一神論的宗教將人定義成為一個自身責任的個體在中東創造了""個人""這一概念並保護這一概念不受社群主義與部落集體主義的侵蝕你可以從這一概念中衍生出很多內容但是除此之外，我也看到了伊斯蘭傳統中的問題但是有一點很值得我們思考那就是大部分的問題都是伊斯蘭發展後期產生的不是基於伊斯蘭的神聖核心，可蘭經而是，就像我們前面講到的，從一些中東地區中世紀的傳統跟心理現象或者對於可蘭經的解讀而來的比方說，可蘭經並不支持石刑叛教不會受到處罰對於一些個人行為，比如飲酒，也沒有處罰這些在伊斯蘭法中的規定特別是伊斯蘭法中令人不安部分是後來從伊斯蘭的一些後期解讀中發展而來的這就意味著當今的穆斯林可以這樣理解這些伊斯蘭法的要求“嗯，我們宗教的核心與我們同在這是我們的信仰，我們會對我們的信仰忠誠。”但是我們可以改變我們對於宗教的解讀因為現在宗教是基於中世紀的時間與環境背景而解讀的我們現在生活在一個不同的世界裡有不同的價值取向以及政治體系這樣的想法是很有可能並且行得通的。 但是如果只有我一個人這樣想就有麻煩了但是不是這樣的事實上，從19世紀開始已經有了一個修正主義的，改良主義——隨便你怎樣命名——這樣的一個傳統一個伊斯蘭思想界的傾向並且有一些19世紀20世紀的知識分子與政治家他們對於歐洲進行了一些研究發現歐洲有很多值得學習借鑒的東西比如科學技術但是不僅如此，還有民主，議會""代表制度""這一個的想法平等公民權的概念這些生活在19世紀的穆斯林思想家知識分子，以及政治家看到歐洲有這些東西他們就說，“為什麼我們不能有這些東西呢？”他們回頭研究了伊斯蘭傳統他們發現了有問題的方面但是這些方面不是宗教的核心，所以說不定他們可以被重新理解可蘭經可以被重新解讀在一個現代的社會背景下 這個趨向被統稱為伊斯蘭現代主義由知識分子與政治家推動並非一個純粹的知識分子的想法而是一個政治運動這就是為什麼在19世紀覆蓋整個中東地區的鄂圖曼帝國做出了很重要的改革——改革包括給予基督徒與猶太教徒平等的公民身份制定憲法建立代表制度的議會推廣宗教自由的觀點這就是為什麼鄂圖曼帝國在其最後幾十年裡有了早期民主的跡象建立了君主立憲制自由，在當時是一個非常重要的政治概念 同樣的，在阿拉伯世界裡有被偉大的阿拉伯歷史學家阿爾伯特 胡拉尼稱為自由時期的一個階段他寫過一本書，叫做""在自由時代的阿拉伯思想""他定義下的自由時期包括19世紀及20世紀早期很值得注意的是，這是20世紀早期在伊斯蘭思想界，政治界，以及神學界佔有主導地位的一個趨向但是20世紀的後半期有一個非常有趣的現象那就是我們看到一個很顯著的伊斯蘭現代主義發展的下滑取而代之的是另一個趨向，那就是伊斯蘭變成一個集權思想一個弔詭的帶有反西方思想的並且想要改造社會根據烏托邦版的意識形態 所以伊斯蘭主義成為了一個20世紀在伊斯蘭世界帶來很多麻煩的一個思潮以至於最極端的伊斯蘭主義帶來了打著伊斯蘭旗號的恐怖主義在我看來，這是違抗伊斯蘭的但是很明顯，有些極端主義者不會同意我的看法但是這裡我有一個問題既然伊斯蘭現代主義在19世紀與20世紀早期這樣盛行為什麼伊斯蘭主義在其餘的20世紀變得如此風行我認為這個問題需要認真考慮在我的書裡，我也對上述問題進行了思考而且，你不需要才高八斗才能理解這個問題你只需要看看20世紀的政治史就會發現這一時期發生了很多事情時代背景不同了 在19世紀穆斯林把歐洲當作一個樣本穆斯林獨立且有自信在20世紀早期，隨著鄂圖曼帝國的衰落整個中東地區淪為了殖民地有殖民，就會有？反殖民這樣歐洲就不再是一個被模仿的範本而成為了要抗爭的敵人所以穆斯林世界就有了一個顯著的自由主義思想的衰落更多的是一種防禦的激烈的，反抗性的反應帶來了阿拉伯社會主義，阿拉伯國家主義最終帶來了伊斯蘭主義的意識形態當殖民時期結束後取而代之的是世俗的獨裁者他們建立國家卻不給予國家民主而是建立了自己的獨裁政權我認為西方，起碼是西方的某些政權特別是在美國犯了一個錯誤，那就是支持這些世俗的獨裁者因為這些政權覺得支持這些世俗獨裁者有利於其自身利益但是這些獨裁者壓制其國內的民主壓制其國內的伊斯蘭組織這樣的壓制使伊斯蘭主義者更加激烈 所以在20世紀在阿拉伯世界裡就有了這樣的一個惡性循環獨裁者壓制本國人民包括虔誠的伊斯蘭教徒伊斯蘭教徒隨後對於這些壓制做出反抗只有一個國家得以擺脫，或者說遠離這個惡性循環這就是我的家鄉：土耳其土耳其從來沒有被殖民所以土耳其成為了鄂圖曼帝國倒台之後的唯一一個獨立國家這點很重要土耳其沒有與其他中東地區其他國家一樣的反殖民的狂熱第二點也是最重要的一點土耳其走上了民主之路比任何一個中東國家都要早1950年，土耳其舉行了第一次自由公平的選舉結束了世俗化的貴族統治政權開始了土耳其的早期土耳其虔誠的穆斯林看到他們可以用選舉投票的方式來改變政治制度然後他們意識到民主與伊斯蘭是可融合的與他們的價值觀一致土耳其人一直很支持民主這樣的經歷不是每個中東地區的穆斯林國家都有的這樣的情況直到最近才有所改變 第二，在過去的20年裡借助全球化，市場經濟以及中產階級的崛起我們在土耳其看到了我認為是伊斯蘭現代主義的複興在土耳其有更多的城市居住的中產虔誠穆斯林他們重新審視穆斯林傳統看到了傳統中的一些問題他們明白自己需要改變，質疑，改革這些問題他們又研究歐洲他們又一次找到一個可以學習的範本起碼他們找到了一個可以提供靈感的範本來源這就是為什麼有土耳其歐盟化進程土耳其政府要加入歐盟的努力在土耳其國內得到了伊斯蘭虔誠信徒的支持然後很多世俗化的國家反對這一進程當然土耳其加入歐盟這一進程由於某些歐洲國家的反對而變得複雜但這個問題我們今天不討論但是在過去的10年裡，土耳其國內的支持加入歐盟的情緒幾乎成為了一個伊斯蘭運動受到了伊斯蘭自由派的支持當然也有世俗自由派 多虧了這些支持土耳其才能不出人意料地創造這個的成功故事使伊斯蘭和最虔誠的伊斯蘭信仰成為民主的一部分甚至成為了促進國家的民主與經濟發展的動力土耳其現在對於一些伊斯蘭運動還有一些阿拉伯世界的國家是一個鼓舞人心的例子 你們肯定都看到了從突尼斯與埃及興起的阿拉伯之春和阿拉伯的群眾起義反對獨裁者他們要求民主，要求自由並且他們沒有成為獨裁者常常用來嚇唬人民不要追求民主並用來合理化他們的政權他們說：“我們要自由，我們要民主。我們是穆斯林信仰者但我們也希望想自由社會的自由人民一樣生活當然，這是一條很長的道路民主不是一夜之間可以實現的民主需要一個過程但是這是一個穆斯林世界充滿希望的時代 並且我相信，伊斯蘭現代主義源於19世紀由於穆斯林世界的政治動盪在20世紀經歷了一個低谷現在正在復興我認為今天我想要傳達給大家的訊息就是伊斯蘭雖然在西方受到一些質疑還是有潛力來創造自己的民主方式，打通通向自由解放的路他們應該被允許為此奮鬥 非常感謝大家愛 【掌聲】"
