Talk	en	zh-tw
nadia_al_sakkaf_see_yemen_through_my_eyes	"Pat Mitchell: You have brought us images from the Yemen Times. And take us through those, and introduce us to another Yemen. Nadia Al-Sakkaf: Well, I'm glad to be here. And I would like to share with you all some of the pictures that are happening today in Yemen. This picture shows a revolution started by women, and it shows women and men leading a mixed protest. The other picture is the popularity of the real need for change. So many people are there. The intensity of the upspring. This picture shows that the revolution has allowed opportunities for training, for education. These women are learning about first aid and their rights according to the constitution. I love this picture. I just wanted to show that over 60 percent of the Yemeni population are 15 years and below. And they were excluded from decision-making, and now they are in the forefront of the news, raising the flag. English — you will see, this is jeans and tights, and an English expression — the ability to share with the world what is going on in our own country. And expression also, it has brought talents. Yemenis are using cartoons and art, paintings, comics, to tell the world and each other about what's going on. Obviously, there's always the dark side of it. And this is just one of the less-gruesome pictures of the revolution and the cost that we have to pay. The solidarity of millions of Yemenis across the country just demanding the one thing. And finally, lots of people are saying that Yemen's revolution is going to break the country. Is it going to be so many different countries? Is it going to be another Somalia? But we want to tell the world that, no, under the one flag, we'll still remain as Yemeni people. PM: Thank you for those images, Nadia. And they do, in many ways, tell a different story than the story of Yemen, the one that is often in the news. And yet, you yourself defy all those characterizations. So let's talk about the personal story for a moment. Your father is murdered. The Yemen Times already has a strong reputation in Yemen as an independent English language newspaper. How did you then make the decision and assume the responsibilities of running a newspaper, especially in such times of conflict? NA: Well, let me first warn you that I'm not the traditional Yemeni girl. I've guessed you've already noticed this by now. (Laughter) In Yemen, most women are veiled and they are sitting behind doors and not very much part of the public life. But there's so much potential. I wish I could show you my Yemen. I wish you could see Yemen through my eyes. Then you would know that there's so much to it. And I was privileged because I was born into a family, my father would always encourage the boys and the girls. He would say we are equal. And he was such an extraordinary man. And even my mother — I owe it to my family. A story: I studied in India. And in my third year, I started becoming confused because I was Yemeni, but I was also mixing up with a lot of my friends in college. And I went back home and I said, ""Daddy, I don't know who I am. I'm not a Yemeni; I'm not an Indian."" And he said, ""You are the bridge."" And that is something I will keep in my heart forever. So since then I've been the bridge, and a lot of people have walked over me. PM: I don't think so. (Laughter) NA: But it just helps tell that some people are change agents in the society. And when I became editor-in-chief after my brother actually — my father passed away in 1999, and then my brother until 2005 — and everybody was betting that I will not be able to do it. ""What's this young girl coming in and showing off because it's her family business,"" or something. It was very hard at first. I didn't want to clash with people. But with all due respect to all the men, and the older men especially, they did not want me around. It was very hard, you know, to impose my authority. But a woman's got to do what a woman's got to do. (Applause) And in the first year, I had to fire half of the men. (Laughter) (Applause) Brought in more women. Brought in younger men. And we have a more gender-balanced newsroom today. The other thing is that it's about professionalism. It's about proving who you are and what you can do. And I don't know if I'm going to be boasting now, but in 2006 alone, we won three international awards. One of them is the IPI Free Media Pioneer Award. So that was the answer to all the Yemeni people. And I want to score a point here, because my husband is in the room over there. If you could please stand up, [unclear]. He has been very supportive of me. (Applause) PM: And we should point out that he works with you as well at the paper. But in assuming this responsibility and going about it as you have, you have become a bridge between an older and traditional society and the one that you are now creating at the paper. And so along with changing who worked there, you must have come up against another positioning that we always run into, in particular with women, and it has to do with outside image, dress, the veiled woman. So how have you dealt with this on a personal level as well as the women who worked for you? NA: As you know, the image of a lot of Yemeni women is a lot of black and covered, veiled women. And this is true. And a lot of it is because women are not able, are not free, to show their face to their self. It's a lot of traditional imposing coming by authority figures such as the men, the grandparents and so on. And it's economic empowerment and the ability for a woman to say, ""I am as much contributing to this family, or more, than you are."" And the more empowered the women become, the more they are able to remove the veil, for example, or to drive their own car or to have a job or to be able to travel. So the other face of Yemen is actually one that lies behind the veil, and it's economic empowerment mostly that allows the woman to just uncover it. And I have done this throughout my work. I've tried to encourage young girls. We started with, you can take it off in the office. And then after that, you can take it off on assignments. Because I didn't believe a journalist can be a journalist with — how can you talk to people if you have your face covered? — and so on; it's just a movement. And I am a role model in Yemen. A lot of people look up to me. A lot of young girls look up to me. And I need to prove to them that, yes, you can still be married, you can still be a mother, and you can still be respected within the society, but at the same time, that doesn't mean you [should] just be one of the crowd. You can be yourself and have your face. PM: But by putting yourself personally out there — both projecting a different image of Yemeni women, but also what you have made possible for the women who work at the paper — has this put you in personal danger? NA: Well the Yemen Times, across 20 years, has been through so much. We've suffered prosecution; the paper was closed down more than three times. It's an independent newspaper, but tell that to the people in charge. They think that if there's anything against them, then we are being an opposition newspaper. And very, very difficult times. Some of my reporters were arrested. We had some court cases. My father was assassinated. Today, we are in a much better situation. We've created the credibility. And in times of revolution or change like today, it is very important for independent media to have a voice. It's very important for you to go to YemenTimes.com, and it's very important to listen to our voice. And this is probably something I'm going to share with you in Western media probably — and how there's a lot of stereotypes — thinking of Yemen in one single frame: this is what Yemen is all about. And that's not fair. It's not fair for me; it's not fair for my country. A lot of reporters come to Yemen and they want to write a story on Al-Qaeda or terrorism. And I just wanted to share with you: there's one reporter that came. He wanted to do a documentary on what his editors wanted. And he ended up writing about a story that even surprised me — hip hop — that there are young Yemeni men who express themselves through dancing and puchu puchu. (Laughter) That thing. (PM: Rap. Break dancing.) Yeah, break dancing. I'm not so old. I'm just not in touch. (Laughter) (Applause) PM: Yes, you are. Actually, that's a documentary that's available online; the video's online. NA: ShaketheDust.org. PM: ""Shake the Dust."" (NA: ""Shake the Dust."") PM: ShaketheDust.org. And it definitely does give a different image of Yemen. You spoke about the responsibility of the press. And certainly, when we look at the ways in which we have separated ourselves from others and we've created fear and danger, often from lack of knowledge, lack of real understanding, how do you see the way that the Western press in particular is covering this and all other stories out of the region, but in particular, in your country? NA: Well there is a saying that says, ""You fear what you don't know, and you hate what you fear."" So it's about the lack of research, basically. It's almost, ""Do your homework,"" — some involvement. And you cannot do parachute reporting — just jump into a country for two days and think that you've done your homework and a story. So I wish that the world would know my Yemen, my country, my people. I am an example, and there are others like me. We may not be that many, but if we are promoted as a good, positive example, there will be others — men and women — who can eventually bridge the gap — again, coming to the bridge — between Yemen and the world and telling first about recognition and then about communication and compassion. I think Yemen is going to be in a very bad situation in the next two or three years. It's natural. But after the two years, which is a price we are willing to pay, we are going to stand up again on our feet, but in the new Yemen with a younger and more empowered people — democratic. (Applause) PM: Nadia, I think you've just given us a very different view of Yemen. And certainly you yourself and what you do have given us a view of the future that we will embrace and be grateful for. And the very best of luck to you. YemenTimes.com. NA: On Twitter also. PM: So you are plugged in. (Applause)"	"你今天帶來葉門時報中的一些照片藉由報中的照片帶領我們認識不一樣的葉門 我很高興來到這裡我想跟各位分享照片中一些發生在葉門的真實故事這張照片中是一場革命由女人所發起但是在示威遊行的隊伍中有男人也有女人另一張照片裡是渴求改變的一群人你可以看到人真的很多抗爭有多激烈這張照片能看到革命帶給人們受訓的機會以及受教育的機會這群女人正在急救訓練這是憲法所賦予她們的權力 我很喜歡這張照片我想用這張照片說明六成以上的葉門人雖然年齡在十五歲以下不能參予國家政策的決策過程他們卻站在新聞最前線高舉國旗英文標語你們看，這是件牛仔褲和一件緊身衣上面寫了英文標語展現他們有能力向世界訴說我們國內正在發生什麼同時也展現了他們的聰明才智葉門人用卡通,藝術,畫作、漫畫告訴全世界以及彼此葉門的故事 誠然，任何事情都有其黑暗面這算是革命照片中血腥程度較輕的一張照片也是我們所付出的代價眾志成城上百萬來自國內四方的葉門人為革命齊聚一堂最後，很多人在說葉門的革命將會撕裂這個國家葉門會分裂成許多國家嗎?會成為另一個索馬利亞嗎?我們要告訴世界，答案是「不」仰望同一面國旗，我們以後仍然是葉門人 謝謝你帶來的照片，納迪亞這些各式各樣的照片確實呈現了葉門不同的面貌而非那一個我們常在新聞裡看到的葉門說到妳自身就很與眾不同讓我們談一下妳的個人故事妳父親遭人殺害他所創立的葉門時報當時已經在葉門享有盛名作為獨立發行的英文報紙妳當初是如何決定扛起重任經營這一家報社尤其還是在如此動盪的時期？ 我要先說我可不是傳統的葉門女孩這點我想各位早就發現了(笑聲)在葉門，一般女人都戴著面紗隱身在門後對公眾事務參與不多但她們潛力無窮我希望能讓各位瞭解我認識的葉門希望各位透過我的眼看看我眼中的葉門你們就會明白葉門絕對不只如此我很幸運出生在一個特別的家庭我父親總是鼓勵我們兄弟姊妹男女平等他是個了不起的人我母親也是—這一切都歸功於我的家庭我要從故事的開始說起我在印度求學大三時，我開始感到困惑因為我是葉門人卻和印度人一起生活我的一群大學朋友都是印度人於是回到家後我說「爸爸，我不知道我是誰」「我不是葉門人，卻也不是印度人」他說：「你是我們和他們之間的橋梁』這件事我永生難忘從那時起，我把自己當作橋梁許多人從我身上走過 不是這樣吧 但這個說法確實說明有些人正是社會中推動改變的齒輪在我當上主編的時候在我哥過世之後我父親於1999年去世然後我哥於2005年過世期間眾人都打賭我做不到「這女孩要來賣弄什麼?」「就因為那是她家的企業」之類的一開始真的很辛苦我不想與人衝突可是，我必須很恭敬地說尤其是那些男人，特別是年長的男人他們都不想和我工作當時要建立我的權威真的非常難但我一個女人該怎麼做，就要怎麼做 (掌聲) 第一年我革職了一半男性職員(笑聲)(掌聲)吸收更多女職員吸收年輕的男性編輯部現在的男女比例平衡多了我要做的另一件事是建立「專業」就是要證明你是誰、你能做什麼現在聽來可能有點像在吹噓不過光是在2006年我們就贏得了三座國際大獎包括國際新聞協會頒發的自由媒體先鋒獎這個獎正是我們獻給所有葉門人的答案在此我想特別講一件事因為我先生在那邊你可以站起來嗎?他一直很支持我 (掌聲) 我們要指出一點就是你先生也協助你發行報紙就妳所扛下責任這一點以及妳做事的方式妳已成為了一座橋梁連結傳統舊社會以及用報紙所開創出來的新社會你在人事上代舊換新時一定再次進行了人事調動如此免不了碰到問題，特別在女性工作上也要注意外界觀感服裝，女人的面紗等問題妳是如何處理這些問題?妳自己個人又是怎麼做?以及那些為妳工作的女性職員? 如妳所知一般人對葉門女人的印象是穿一身黑遮住全身，臉蓋面紗這是事實多半是因為女人不被允許自由以面示人權威人士對女性加諸許多傳統禮教包括男人和祖父母等改變要靠經濟賦權並給予女人權利說出「我對家庭的貢獻等同，甚至超過你們」女人能擁有的權力越多就越能夠摘去面紗，例如開自己的車，有自己的工作，自己去旅行 因此，葉門的另一面事實上隱身在面紗之後大多得靠經濟賦權才能讓女人拋去面紗我用我的工作做到了這是我一直鼓勵年輕女孩這樣做首先第一步，妳能在辦公室內取下面紗後來，連採訪時也能取下因為我不認為作為記者,記者難道能遮著臉和人講話?就這樣一步一步前進 我就是葉門女人的典範很多人尊敬我很多年輕女孩景仰我我要向她們證明：妳還是能結婚妳還是能成為母親妳也一樣能在社會上受到尊重同時間這不代表妳應該和別人一樣妳可以做你自己，以面示人 妳以自身為例既賦予葉門女人新的面貌同時讓女人在報社工作成為可能這是否曾危害妳的個人安全? 葉門時報過去20年來經歷了大風大浪我們曾遭受控告報社遭關閉超過三次就算我們說我們是獨立報社對掌權的人這樣講他們認為只要對他們不利我們就是反對派的報社那時候真的很難熬我的一些記者被逮捕我們要跑法院我父親被暗殺我們現在好多了我們已經建立了威信每當面臨革命，或是像今天這樣的改變獨立媒體能夠發聲非常重要重要在於各位能上YemenTimes.com的網站重要在於能聽見我們自己的聲音 這些就是我想和你們分享的西方媒體可能會有很多刻板印象用單一想法來看葉門認為葉門就是如此而這不公平對我，對我的國家都不公平很多記者到葉門是來寫蓋達組織和恐怖行動的報導我想和你們分享的是有一個記者來葉門是想要做記錄片報導是他的編輯要他做的他最後寫了一篇連我都驚豔的報導關於嘻哈葉門年輕人表達自己的方式是跳舞和puchu puchu(笑聲)饒舌和地板舞是啊，地板舞我沒那麼老只是不常接觸這些 (笑聲) (掌聲) 是啊其實那支紀錄片網路上看得到，影片被上傳到網路 網址是ShaketheDust.org ""Shake the Dust"" ShaketheDust.org它絕對呈現了葉門的不同風貌你剛談到新聞媒體的責任確實，當我們檢視自身是如何區隔異己我們發現這樣帶來了恐懼也帶來危險這麼做通常是基於無知及缺少真實體會妳怎麼看媒體尤其是西方媒體書寫別國新聞的方式尤其，怎麼寫妳的國家? 俗話說得好「未知帶來恐懼」「恐懼帶來憎恨」基本上他們缺少實地考察幾乎都是「交作業」心態來報導你不能趕著截稿匆匆就筆在一個國家待兩天就覺得作業做完了，報導寫好了因此我希望這個世界能認識我的葉門我的國家和人民我是一個例子，也有別人和我一樣我們或許人還不夠多但如果我們能精進自己成為好的、正向的例子就會有越來越多男男女女最終能消除代溝我再次強調，一旦上了橋就能將葉門和全世界接軌首先彼此認識而後溝通有同理心 我認為葉門接下來處境會非常艱困未來兩三年間都是如此這很自然可是兩年後，只要我們願意付出代價我們就能再一次用自己的雙腳站立在新的葉門我們會有更年輕，更強壯的人民和民主 (掌聲) 納迪亞，我想你剛給了我們一個非常特別的葉門觀點你自己和你做的事確實讓我們看到了未來我們將擁抱那個未來並感激地接受它祝妳好運葉門時報網站:YemenTimes.com 推特上也看得到 妳有跟上流行嘛 (掌聲)"
