Talk	en	zh-tw
nagin_cox_what_time_is_it_on_mars	"So many of you have probably seen the movie ""The Martian."" But for those of you who did not, it's a movie about an astronaut who is stranded on Mars, and his efforts to stay alive until the Earth can send a rescue mission to bring him back to Earth. Gladly, they do re-establish communication with the character, astronaut Watney, at some point so that he's not as alone on Mars until he can be rescued. So while you're watching the movie, or even if you haven't, when you think about Mars, you're probably thinking about how far away it is and how distant. And, what might not have occurred to you is, what are the logistics really like of working on another planet — of living on two planets when there are people on the Earth and there are rovers or people on Mars? So think about when you have friends, families and co-workers in California, on the West Coast or in other parts of the world. When you're trying to communicate with them, one of the things you probably first think about is: wait, what time is it in California? Will I wake them up? Is it OK to call? So even if you're interacting with colleagues who are in Europe, you're immediately thinking about: What does it take to coordinate communication when people are far away? So we don't have people on Mars right now, but we do have rovers. And actually right now, on Curiosity, it is 6:10 in the morning. So, 6:10 in the morning on Mars. We have four rovers on Mars. The United States has put four rovers on Mars since the mid-1990s, and I have been privileged enough to work on three of them. So, I am a spacecraft engineer, a spacecraft operations engineer, at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Los Angeles, California. And these rovers are our robotic emissaries. So, they are our eyes and our ears, and they see the planet for us until we can send people. So we learn how to operate on other planets through these rovers. So before we send people, we send robots. So the reason there's a time difference on Mars right now, from the time that we're at is because the Martian day is longer than the Earth day. Our Earth day is 24 hours, because that's how long it takes the Earth to rotate, how long it takes to go around once. So our day is 24 hours. It takes Mars 24 hours and approximately 40 minutes to rotate once. So that means that the Martian day is 40 minutes longer than the Earth day. So teams of people who are operating the rovers on Mars, like this one, what we are doing is we are living on Earth, but working on Mars. So we have to think as if we are actually on Mars with the rover. Our job, the job of this team, of which I'm a part of, is to send commands to the rover to tell it what to do the next day. To tell it to drive or drill or tell her whatever she's supposed to do. So while she's sleeping — and the rover does sleep at night because she needs to recharge her batteries and she needs to weather the cold Martian night. And so she sleeps. So while she sleeps, we work on her program for the next day. So I work the Martian night shift. (Laughter) So in order to come to work on the Earth at the same time every day on Mars — like, let's say I need to be at work at 5:00 p.m., this team needs to be at work at 5:00 p.m. Mars time every day, then we have to come to work on the Earth 40 minutes later every day, in order to stay in sync with Mars. That's like moving a time zone every day. So one day you come in at 8:00, the next day 40 minutes later at 8:40, the next day 40 minutes later at 9:20, the next day at 10:00. So you keep moving 40 minutes every day, until soon you're coming to work in the middle of the night — the middle of the Earth night. Right? So you can imagine how confusing that is. Hence, the Mars watch. (Laughter) This weights in this watch have been mechanically adjusted so that it runs more slowly. Right? And we didn't start out — I got this watch in 2004 when Spirit and Opportunity, the rovers back then. We didn't start out thinking that we were going to need Mars watches. Right? We thought, OK, we'll just have the time on our computers and on the mission control screens, and that would be enough. Yeah, not so much. Because we weren't just working on Mars time, we were actually living on Mars time. And we got just instantaneously confused about what time it was. So you really needed something on your wrist to tell you: What time is it on the Earth? What time is it on Mars? And it wasn't just the time on Mars that was confusing; we also needed to be able to talk to each other about it. So a ""sol"" is a Martian day — again, 24 hours and 40 minutes. So when we're talking about something that's happening on the Earth, we will say, today. So, for Mars, we say, ""tosol."" (Laughter) Yesterday became ""yestersol"" for Mars. Again, we didn't start out thinking, ""Oh, let's invent a language."" It was just very confusing. I remember somebody walked up to me and said, ""I would like to do this activity on the vehicle tomorrow, on the rover."" And I said, ""Tomorrow, tomorrow, or Mars, tomorrow?"" We started this terminology because we needed a way to talk to each other. (Laughter) Tomorrow became ""nextersol"" or ""solorrow."" Because people have different preferences for the words they use. Some of you might say ""soda"" and some of you might say ""pop."" So we have people who say ""nextersol"" or ""solorrow."" And then something that I noticed after a few years of working on these missions, was that the people who work on the rovers, we say ""tosol."" The people who work on the landed missions that don't rove around, they say ""tosoul."" So I could actually tell what mission you worked on from your Martian accent. (Laughter) So we have the watches and the language, and you're detecting a theme here, right? So that we don't get confused. But even the Earth daylight could confuse us. If you think that right now, you've come to work and it's the middle of the Martian night and there's light streaming in from the windows that's going to be confusing as well. So you can see from this image of the control room that all of the blinds are down. So that there's no light to distract us. The blinds went down all over the building about a week before landing, and they didn't go up until we went off Mars time. So this also works for the house, for at home. I've been on Mars time three times, and my husband is like, OK, we're getting ready for Mars time. And so he'll put foil all over the windows and dark curtains and shades because it also affects your families. And so here I was living in kind of this darkened environment, but so was he. And he'd gotten used to it. But then I would get these plaintive emails from him when he was at work. Should I come home? Are you awake? What time is it on Mars? And I decided, OK, so he needs a Mars watch. (Laughter) But of course, it's 2016, so there's an app for that. (Laughter) So now instead of the watches, we can also use our phones. But the impact on families was just across the board; it wasn't just those of us who were working on the rovers but our families as well. This is David Oh, one of our flight directors, and he's at the beach in Los Angeles with his family at 1:00 in the morning. (Laughter) So because we landed in August and his kids didn't have to go back to school until September, they actually went on to Mars time with him for one month. They got up 40 minutes later every day. And they were on dad's work schedule. So they lived on Mars time for a month and had these great adventures, like going bowling in the middle of the night or going to the beach. And one of the things that we all discovered is you can get anywhere in Los Angeles at 3:00 in the morning when there's no traffic. (Laughter) So we would get off work, and we didn't want to go home and bother our families, and we were hungry, so instead of going locally to eat something, we'd go, ""Wait, there's this great all-night deli in Long Beach, and we can get there in 10 minutes!"" So we would drive down — it was like the 60s, no traffic. We would drive down there, and the restaurant owners would go, ""Who are you people? And why are you at my restaurant at 3:00 in the morning?"" So they came to realize that there were these packs of Martians, roaming the LA freeways, in the middle of the night — in the middle of the Earth night. And we did actually start calling ourselves Martians. So those of us who were on Mars time would refer to ourselves as Martians, and everyone else as Earthlings. (Laughter) And that's because when you're moving a time-zone every day, you start to really feel separated from everyone else. You're literally in your own world. So I have this button on that says, ""I survived Mars time. Sol 0-90."" And there's a picture of it up on the screen. So the reason we got these buttons is because we work on Mars time in order to be as efficient as possible with the rover on Mars, to make the best use of our time. But we don't stay on Mars time for more than three to four months. Eventually, we'll move to a modified Mars time, which is what we're working now. And that's because it's hard on your bodies, it's hard on your families. In fact, there were sleep researchers who actually were studying us because it was so unusual for humans to try to extend their day. And they had about 30 of us that they would do sleep deprivation experiments on. So I would come in and take the test and I fell asleep in each one. And that was because, again, this eventually becomes hard on your body. Even though it was a blast. It was a huge bonding experience with the other members on the team, but it is difficult to sustain. So these rover missions are our first steps out into the solar system. We are learning how to live on more than one planet. We are changing our perspective to become multi-planetary. So the next time you see a Star Wars movie, and there are people going from the Dagobah system to Tatooine, think about what it really means to have people spread out so far. What it means in terms of the distances between them, how they will start to feel separate from each other and just the logistics of the time. We have not sent people to Mars yet, but we hope to. And between companies like SpaceX and NASA and all of the international space agencies of the world, we hope to do that in the next few decades. So soon we will have people on Mars, and we truly will be multi-planetary. And the young boy or the young girl who will be going to Mars could be in this audience or listening today. I have wanted to work at JPL on these missions since I was 14 years old and I am privileged to be a part of it. And this is a remarkable time in the space program, and we are all in this journey together. So the next time you think you don't have enough time in your day, just remember, it's all a matter of your Earthly perspective. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想在座的大部分人可能看過《絕地救援》。但是，沒有看過的，我講一下：這部電影是關於一個太空人，他被困在火星上，然後他想辦法要存活下來，直到地球能發動一個營救任務然後帶他回去。還好他們和太空人瓦特尼重新聯繫上了，這樣太空人在被救出去前就不是孤單一人在火星上了。在你看這部電影的時候，沒看過也沒關係，在你想起火星的時候，你可能在思考火星離這裡有多遠，距離是多少。 還有，你腦海裡可能沒想過的：後勤是什麼樣的？要是你真的在另一個星球上工作，或者居住在兩個星球，一邊是在地球的人，一邊是火星上的小艇或者居民？所以，想像當你嘗試聯繫在加州，在西海岸或者在世界的另一面你的朋友、家人和同事的時候，你所想到的第一點就是等等，在加州是什麼時間？我會吵到他們嗎？我可以給他們打電話嗎？所以，如果你試著聯繫你在歐洲的同事時，你馬上就會想到：當人們這麼遠的時候，彼此間聯繫需要協調什麼？我們現在還沒有人居住在火星，但是我們有探測小艇。現在探測小艇「好奇號」那邊是早上 6 點 10 分，所以在火星是早上 6 點 10 分。我們有四部探測小艇在火星。美國自 1990 年代中期就在火星投放四部探測小艇。我非常很榮幸地參加了三部探測小艇的工作。我是太空船工程師，太空船航務管理工程師，在位於洛杉磯的太空總署噴射推進實驗室工作。這些探測車是我們的機器密使。所以，他們是我們的眼睛和耳朵，他們在我們送人上去之前幫助我們探索這個星球。所以，我們透過這些小艇學習怎麼在另一個星球上管理。在我們送人上去之前，我們先送機器人。火星跟我們有時差的原因，和我們現在的地方有時差，是因為在火星的一天比在地球的一天長。我們在地球一天是 24 小時，因為這是地球自轉的時間，這是轉一圈的時間。所以我們一天是 24 小時。火星自轉一圈需要約24 小時又 40 分鐘。這就說明了火星的一天比地球多了 40 分鐘。所以像這個在管理火星探測小艇的團隊，我們所做的就是雖然我們居住在地球，卻在火星工作。所以我們得像實際在火星上與探測艇一起一樣。這個隊伍的工作，我也是其中之一，是要下指令告訴探測艇我們明天要幹什麼。告訴它要開或鑽取或告訴她任何她應該做的。所以當她在睡覺的時候，這部探測艇的確需要在晚上休息，因為她需要充電，她還需要在冰冷的火星晚上保護自己。所以她需要睡覺。在她睡覺的時候，我們忙著告訴她第二天需要做的事。所以我值火星（錯誤包）夜班。（笑）所以在地球上如果我們要在火星的固定時間上班，舉個例，我需要在下午 5:00 工作，這個團隊需要在火星時間每天下午 5:00 工作，那麼在地球上我們每天都要比前一天晚 40 分鐘來上班，以便與火星保持同步。這就像每天換一個時區一樣。所以一天你 8 點到，第二天晚 40 分鐘，8 點 40 到，第三天晚 40 分鐘，9 點 20，第四天 10 點。你會每天推遲 40 分鐘，很快你就會在凌晨工作，在地球的凌晨。是吧？所以你可以想像這有多麼的複雜。因此，火星手錶。（笑）重量已經過機械調整，使其運行更慢。對？ 我們沒有開始──我在 2004 年拿到這款手錶，當時「精神號」和「機會號」這兩艘小艇開始工作。我們一開始沒有想到我們會需要火星手錶。對？我們只想到我們的電腦上和任務管制螢幕上都有時間，這就夠了。是的，不夠。因為我們不只是在火星時間工作，我們實際上生活在火星時間。我們瞬間就搞不清楚到底是幾點了。所以你真的需要你手腕上的東西告訴你：在地球上是幾點？火星是幾點？而且還不只是火星上的時間令人困惑；我們還需要能夠彼此談論它。所以在火星一個「太陽日」是 24 小時又 40 分鐘。當我們談論在地球上的事情時，我們會說，今日。所以在火星我們說，「今太陽日。」（笑）昨日在火星成為「昨太陽日」。情況再度發生，我們沒有想到「哦，讓我們發明一種語言。」這只是很混亂。我記得有人走過來對我說：「明天我想在車上做這個活動，探測車。」我說：「明天？地球的，還是火星的？」我們開始用這個術語，因為我們需要一種方式來相互交談。（笑）明日成為「翌太陽日」或「明太陽日。」因為人們對他們使用的詞有不同的偏好。有些人可能會說「蘇打水」，有些人可能會說「汽水。」所以我們有人說「翌太陽日」或「明太陽日。」然後，我注意到，做了這些任務幾年後，做探測挺工作的，我們會說「今太陽日。」只做登陸任務、不做探測挺的，他們說「今太陽天。」所以我可以從你的火星用語辨別你的工作任務。（笑）所以我們有手錶和語言，你開始有點感覺了吧？所以我們不會困惑。但即使是地球的日光也可能讓我們迷惑。如果你認為現在，你來上班，但這是火星的深夜，又有窗口流進的光，這也會造成混亂。所以你可以看到控制室的樣子，所有的百葉窗都放下來了。所以沒有光可以分散我們的注意力。著陸前一個星期整個建築物的百葉窗都放下來，沒有拉上去，直到我們開始火星時間。所以這也適用於房子，在家裡。我已經在火星時間三次，我的丈夫就好像，好的，我們準備好過火星時間了。所以他會把窗戶全貼上鋁箔紙，窗簾和遮陽板都放下，因為這也影響你的家人。所以我生活在這種黑暗的環境中，他也是。他已經慢慢習慣了。當我在工作的時候，我會收到他楚楚可憐的電子郵件。我可以回家嗎？妳醒著嗎？現在在火星是幾點？然後我決定了，他需要一個火星手錶。（笑）但是當然，這是 2016 年，所以他們當然有一個應用程式。（笑）現在除了手錶，我們還可以用我們的手機。但對家庭的影響是全面的；不只對我們這些做探測挺工作的人，對我們的家庭也一樣。這是歐大衛，我們的一名飛行指引長，這是他凌晨 1:00 在洛杉磯海灘和他家人的合照。（笑）因為我們在八月份著陸，他的孩子在九月份之前都不用回學校，他們真的和他一起過了一個月的火星時間。他們每天晚起 40 分鐘，他們跟著爸爸的工作日程過日子。所以，他們過了一個月火星時間，這是一次非常棒的歷程。譬如在凌晨打保齡球，或者去海灘一樣。我們都發現到一件事，就是你早上 3:00 可以去洛杉磯任何地方，因為不會塞車！ （笑） 所以我們下班後，我們不想回家或者打擾我們的家人，但是我們很餓，可是我們沒有去附近找東西吃，反而是：「等等，長灘有一家很棒的宵夜店，我們能在 10 分鐘內到那裡！」所以，我們會開車去那裡，就像 60 年代，沒有塞車！我們到了那裡，然後餐廳的主人過來了，「你們這群人是誰？」「為什麼你們凌晨3 點在我的餐廳？」所以他們意識到，有這些火星人，漫遊洛杉磯高速公路，在半夜──在地球的半夜。我們確實開始稱自己是火星人。所以過火星時間的我們會自稱為火星人，其他人則是「地球上的生靈。」 （笑） 這是因為當你每天換一個時區，你開始真正感覺與其他人分開。你真的活在你自己的世界裡。所以我有這個圓別針上面說：「我從火星時間生還，太陽日 0-90。」螢幕上有張相片。我們得到這些別針的原因是因為我們在火星時間工作，為了使火星探測車在火星上盡可能高效，以充分利用我們的時間。但是我們不會過火星時間超過三到四個月。最後，我們會轉到調整過的火星時間，這是我們現在正在研究的東西。這是因為它對你的身體很不好，對你的家人也很難熬。事實上，有睡眠研究人員實際在研究我們，因為人類試圖延長他們的一天是非常難見的。他們約有 30 個人會做睡眠剝奪實驗。所以我會進來參加測試，而且我在每場測試都睡著了。這是因為，再說一次，這最終變得對你的身體很糟。即使它很好玩。這會與團隊中其他成員產生很強的情誼，但是難以維持。所以這些探測任務是我們進入太陽系的第一步。我們正在學習如何在多個星球上生活。我們正在改變我們的觀點，成為多行星。所以下次你看到星際大戰電影，有人從達哥巴系統到塔圖因，想想到目前為止人類向外擴散的真正意義是什麼。他們之間的距離意味著什麼，他們將如何開始感覺彼此分離，甚至只是物流的時間。我們還沒有派人去火星，但我們希望能。在像 SpaceX 這樣的公司和太空總署及世界上所有的國際太空組織中間，我們希望在未來幾十年裡能做到。很快我們就會有人在火星上，我們會是多行星的。今天在這裡看或聽的年輕男孩或年輕女孩都有可能會去火星。我 14 歲時就想在噴射推進實驗室做這些任務，我有幸成為它的一部分。這是太空計劃中一個了不起的時代，我們一起在這個旅程中。所以下次你認為你一天沒有足夠的時間，只要記住，這只是你從地球角度看罷了。謝謝！（掌聲）
