Talk	en	zh-tw
naif_al_mutawa_superheroes_inspired_by_islam	"In October 2010, the Justice League of America will be teaming up with The 99. Icons like Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and their colleagues will be teaming up with icons Jabbar, Noora, Jami and their colleagues. It's a story of intercultural intersections, and what better group to have this conversation than those that grew out of fighting fascism in their respective histories and geographies? As fascism took over Europe in the 1930s, an unlikely reaction came out of North America. As Christian iconography got changed, and swastikas were created out of crucifixes, Batman and Superman were created by Jewish young men in the United States and Canada, also going back to the Bible. Consider this: like the prophets, all the superheroes are missing parents. Superman's parents die on Krypton before the age of one. Bruce Wayne, who becomes Batman, loses his parents at the age of six in Gotham City. Spiderman is raised by his aunt and uncle. And all of them, just like the prophets who get their message from God through Gabriel, get their message from above. Peter Parker is in a library in Manhattan when the spider descends from above and gives him his message through a bite. Bruce Wayne is in his bedroom when a big bat flies over his head, and he sees it as an omen to become Batman. Superman is not only sent to Earth from the heavens, or Krypton, but he's sent in a pod, much like Moses was on the Nile. (Laughter) And you hear the voice of his father, Jor-El, saying to Earth, ""I have sent to you my only son."" (Laughter) (Applause) These are clearly biblical archetypes, and the thinking behind that was to create positive, globally-resonating storylines that could be tied to the same things that other people were pulling mean messages out of because then the person that's using religion for the wrong purpose just becomes a bad man with a bad message. And it's only by linking positive things that the negative can be delinked. This is the kind of thinking that went into creating The 99. The 99 references the 99 attributes of Allah in the Koran, things like generosity and mercy and foresight and wisdom and dozens of others that no two people in the world would disagree about. It doesn't matter what your religion is; even if you're an atheist, you don't raise your kid telling him, you know, ""Make sure you lie three times a day."" Those are basic human values. And so the backstory of The 99 takes place in 1258, which history tells us the Mongols invaded Baghdad and destroyed it. All the books from Bait al-Hikma library, the most famous library in its day, were thrown in the Tigris River, and the Tigris changes color with ink. It's a story passed on generation after generation. I rewrote that story, and in my version, the librarians find out that this is going to happen — and here's a side note: if you want a comic book to do well, make the librarians the hero. It always works well. (Laughter) (Applause) So the librarians find out and they get together a special solution, a chemical solution called King's Water, that when mixed with 99 stones would be able to save all that culture and history in the books. But the Mongols get there first. The books and the solution get thrown in the Tigris River. Some librarians escape, and over the course of days and weeks, they dip the stones into the Tigris and suck up that collective wisdom that we all think is lost to civilization. Those stones have been smuggled as three prayer beads of 33 stones each through Arabia into Andalusia in Spain, where they're safe for 200 years. But in 1492, two important things happen. The first is the fall of Granada, the last Muslim enclave in Europe. The second is Columbus finally gets funded to go to India, but he gets lost. (Laughter) So 33 of the stones are smuggled onto the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria and are spread in the New World. Thirty-three go on the Silk Road to China, South Asia and Southeast Asia. And 33 are spread between Europe, the Middle East and Africa. And now it's 2010, and there are 99 heroes from 99 different countries. Now it's very easy to assume that those books, because they were from a library called Bait al-Hikma, were Muslim books, but that's not the case because the caliph that built that library, his name was al-Ma'mun — he was Harun al-Rashid's son. He had told his advisers, ""Get me all the scholars to translate any book they can get their hands onto into Arabic, and I will pay them its weight in gold."" After a while, his advisers complained. They said, ""Your Highness, the scholars are cheating. They're writing in big handwriting to take more gold."" To which he said, ""Let them be, because what they're giving us is worth a lot more than what we're paying them."" So the idea of an open architecture, an open knowledge, is not new to my neck of the desert. The concept centers on something called the Noor stones. Noor is Arabic for light. So these 99 stones, a few kind of rules in the game: Number one, you don't choose the stone; the stone chooses you. There's a King Arthur element to the storyline, okay. Number two, all of The 99, when they first get their stone, or their power, abuse it; they use it for self-interest. And there's a very strong message in there that when you start abusing your stone, you get taken advantage of by people who will exploit your powers, okay. Number three, the 99 stones all have within them a mechanism that self-updates. Now there are two groups that exist within the Muslim world. Everybody believes the Koran is for all time and all place. Some believe that means that the original interpretation from a couple thousand years ago is what's relevant today. I don't belong there. Then there's a group that believes the Koran is a living, breathing document, and I captured that idea within these stones that self-update. Now the main bad guy, Rughal, does not want these stones to update, so he's trying to get them to stop updating. He can't use the stones, but he can stop them. And by stopping them, he has more of a fascist agenda, where he gets some of The 99 to work for him — they're all wearing cookie-cutter, same color uniforms They're not allowed to individually express who they are and what they are. And he controls them from the top down — whereas when they work for the other side, eventually, when they find out this is the wrong person, they've been manipulated, they actually, each one has a different, colorful kind of dress. And the last point about the 99 Noor stones is this. So The 99 work in teams of three. Why three? A couple of reasons. Number one, we have a thing within Islam that you don't leave a boy and a girl alone together, because the third person is temptation or the devil, right? I think that's there in all cultures, right? But this is not about religion, it's not about proselytizing. There's this very strong social message that needs to get to kind of the deepest crevices of intolerance, and the only way to get there is to kind of play the game. And so this is the way I dealt with it. They work in teams of three: two boys and a girl, two girls and a boy, three boys, three girls, no problem. And the Swiss psychoanalyst, Carl Jung, also spoke about the importance of the number three in all cultures, so I figure I'm covered. Well ... I got accused in a few blogs that I was actually sent by the Pope to preach the Trinity and Catholicism in the Middle East, so you — (Laughter) you believe who you want. I gave you my version of the story. So here's some of the characters that we have. Mujiba, from Malaysia: her main power is she's able to answer any question. She's the Trivial Pursuit queen, if you want, but when she first gets her power, she starts going on game shows and making money. We have Jabbar from Saudi who starts breaking things when he has the power. Now, Mumita was a fun one to name. Mumita is the destroyer. So the 99 attributes of Allah have the yin and the yang; there's the powerful, the hegemonous, the strong, and there's also the kind, the generous. I'm like, are all the girls going to be kind and merciful and the guys all strong? I'm like, you know what, I've met a few girls who were destroyers in my lifetime, so ... (Laughter) We have Jami from Hungary, who first starts making weapons: He's the technology wiz. Musawwira from Ghana, Hadya from Pakistan, Jaleel from Iran who uses fire. And this is one of my favorites, Al-Batina from Yemen. Al-Batina is the hidden. So Al-Batina is hidden, but she's a superhero. I came home to my wife and I said, ""I created a character after you."" My wife is a Saudi from Yemeni roots. And she said, ""Show me."" So I showed this. She said, ""That's not me."" I said, ""Look at the eyes. They're your eyes."" (Laughter) So I promised my investors this would not be another made-in-fifth-world-country production. This was going to be Superman, or it wasn't worth my time or their money. So from day one, the people involved in the project, bottom left is Fabian Nicieza, writer for X-Men and Power Rangers. Next to him is Dan Panosian, one of the character creators for the modern-day X-Men. Top right is Stuart Moore, a writer for Iron Man. Next to him is John McCrea, who was an inker for Spiderman. And we entered Western consciousness with a tagline: ""Next Ramadan, the world will have new heroes,"" back in 2005. Now I went to Dubai, to an Arab Thought Foundation Conference, and I was waiting by the coffee for the right journalist. Didn't have a product, but had energy. And I found somebody from The New York Times, and I cornered him, and I pitched him. And I think I scared him — (Laughter) because he basically promised me — we had no product — but he said, ""We'll give you a paragraph in the arts section if you'll just go away."" (Laughter) So I said, ""Great."" So I called him up a few weeks afterward. I said, ""Hi, Hesa."" And he said, ""Hi."" I said, ""Happy New Year."" He said, ""Thank you. We had a baby."" I said, ""Congratulations."" Like I care, right? ""So when's the article coming out?"" He said, ""Naif, Islam and cartoon? That's not timely. You know, maybe next week, next month, next year, but, you know, it'll come out."" So a few days after that, what happens? What happens is the world erupts in the Danish cartoon controversy. I became timely. (Laughter) So flurry of phone calls and emails from The New York Times. Next thing you knew, there's a full page covering us positively, January 22nd, 2006, which changed our lives forever, because anybody Googling Islam and cartoon or Islam and comic, guess what they got; they got me. And The 99 were like superheroes kind of flying out of what was happening around the world. And that led to all kinds of things, from being in curricula in universities and schools to — one of my favorite pictures I have from South Asia, it was a couple of men with long beards and a lot of girls wearing the hijab — it looked like a school. The good news is they're all holding copies of The 99, smiling, and they found me to sign the picture. The bad news is they were all photocopies, so we didn't make a dime in revenue. (Laughter) We've been able to license The 99 comic books into eight languages so far — Chinese, Indonesian, Hindi, Urdu, Turkish. Opened a theme park through a license in Kuwait a year and a half ago called The 99 Village Theme Park — 300,000 square feet, 20 rides, all with our characters: a couple back-to-school licenses in Spain and Turkey. But the biggest thing we've done to date, which is just amazing, is that we've done a 26-episode animated series, which is done for global audiences: in fact, we're already going to be in the U.S. and Turkey, we know. It's 3D CGI, which is going to be very high-quality, written in Hollywood by the writers behind Ben 10 and Spiderman and Star Wars: Clone Wars. In this clip I'm about to show you, which has never been seen in the public before, there is a struggle. Two of the characters, Jabbar, the one with the muscles, and Noora, the one that can use light, are actually wearing the cookie-cutter fascist gray uniform because they're being manipulated. They don't know, OK, and they're trying to get another member of The 99 to join them. So there's a struggle within the team. So if we can get the lights ... [""The 99""] Jabbar: Dana, I can't see where to grab hold. I need more light. What's happening? Dana: There's too much darkness. Rughal: There must be something we can do. Man: I won't send any more commandos in until I know it's safe. Dr. Razem: It's time to go, Miklos. Miklos: Must download file contents. I can't forget auntie. Jabbar: Dana, I can't do this without you. Dana: But I can't help. Jabbar: You can, even if you don't believe in yourself right now. I believe in you. You are Noora the Light. Dana: No. I don't deserve it. I don't deserve anything. Jabbar: Then what about the rest of us? Don't we deserve to be saved? Don't I? Now, tell me which way to go. Dana: That way. Alarm: Threat imminent. Jabbar: Aaaahhh! Miklos: Stay away from me. Jabbar: We're here to help you. Dr. Razem: Don't listen to them. Dana: Miklos, that man is not your friend. Miklos: No. He gave me access, and you want to reboot the [unclear]. No more [unclear]. [""The 99""] Thank you. (Applause) So ""The 99"" is technology; it's entertainment; it's design. But that's only half the story. As the father of five sons, I worry about who they're going to be using as role models. I worry because all around me, even within my extended family, I see religion being manipulated. As a psychologist, I worry for the world in general, but worry about the perception of how people see themselves in my part of the world. Now, I'm a clinical psychologist. I'm licensed in New York State. I trained at Bellevue Hospital Survivors of Political Torture Program, and I heard one too many stories of people growing up to idolize their leadership, only to end up being tortured by their heroes. And torture's a terrible enough thing as it is, but when it's done by your hero, that just breaks you in so many ways. I left Bellevue, went to business school and started this. Now, one of the things that I refer to when I — about the importance of this message — is that I gave a lecture at the medical school at Kuwait University, where I lecture on the biological basis of behavior, and I gave the students two articles, one from The New York Times and one from New York magazine. And I took away the name of the writer, the name of the [unclear] — everything was gone except the facts. And the first one was about a group called The Party of God, who wanted to ban Valentine's Day. Red was made illegal. Any boys and girls caught flirting would get married off immediately, okay. The second one was about a woman complaining because three minivans with six bearded men pulled up and started interrogating her on the spot for talking to a man who wasn't related to her. And I asked the students in Kuwait where they thought these incidents took place. The first one, they said Saudi Arabia. There was no debate. The second one, they were actually split between Saudi and Afghanistan. What blew their mind was the first one took place in India, it was the party of a Hindu God. The second one took place in upstate New York. It was an Orthodox Jewish community. But what breaks my heart and what's alarming is that in those two interviews, the people around, who were interviewed as well, refer to that behavior as Talibanization. In other words, good Hindus and good Jews don't act this way. This is Islam's influence on Hinduism and Judaism. But what do the students in Kuwait say? They said it's us — and this is dangerous. It's dangerous when a group self-identifies itself as extreme. This is one of my sons, Rayan, who's a Scooby Doo addict. You can tell by the glasses there. He actually called me a meddling kid the other day. (Laughter) But I borrow a lesson that I learned from him. Last summer when we were in our home in New York, he was out in the yard playing in his playhouse. And I was in my office working, and he came in, ""Baba, I want you to come with me. I want my toy."" ""Yes, Rayan, just go away."" He left his Scooby Doo in his house. I said, ""Go away. I'm working. I'm busy."" And what Rayan did then is he sat there, he tapped his foot on the floor, at three and a half, and he looked at me and he said, ""Baba, I want you to come with me to my office in my house. I have work to do."" (Laughter) (Applause) Rayan reframed the situation and brought himself down to my level. (Laughter) And with The 99, that is what we aim to do. You know, I think that there's a big parallel between bending the crucifix out of shape and creating swastikas. And when I see pictures like this, of parents or uncles who think it's cute to have a little child holding a Koran and having a suicide bomber belt around them to protest something, the hope is by linking enough positive things to the Koran, that one day we can move this child from being proud in the way they're proud there, to that. And I think — I think The 99 can and will achieve its mission. As an undergrad at Tufts University, we were giving away free falafel one day and, you know, it was Middle East Day or something. And people came up and picked up the culturally resonant image of the falafel, ate it and, you know, talked and left. And no two people could disagree about what the word free was and what the word falafel was, behind us, ""free falafel."" You know. (Laughter) Or so we thought, until a woman came rushing across the campus and dropped her bag on the floor, pointed up to the sign and said, ""Who's falafel?"" (Laughter) True story. (Laughter) She was actually coming out of an Amnesty International meeting. (Laughter) Just today, D.C. Comics announced the cover of our upcoming crossover. On that cover you see Batman, Superman and a fully-clothed Wonder Woman with our Saudi member of The 99, our Emirati member and our Libyan member. On April 26, 2010, President Barack Obama said that of all the initiatives since his now famous Cairo speech — in which he reached out to the Muslim world — the most innovative was that The 99 reach back out to the Justice League of America. We live in a world in which the most culturally innocuous symbols, like the falafel, can be misunderstood because of baggage, and where religion can be twisted and purposefully made where it's not supposed to be by others. In a world like that, they'll always be a job for Superman and The 99. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"在 2010 年十月，美國正義聯盟將與 ""The 99"" 聯手作戰。美國文化的偶像，像蝙蝠俠、超人、神奇女俠和他們的夥伴，將與伊斯蘭世界的超級英雄，賈巴爾 (Jabbar)、諾拉 (Noora)、加米 (Jami) 以及他們的夥伴（The 99 中的主角群）成為盟友。這部漫畫故事融合不同的文化。而這個團隊將能傳達更積極的訊息，更勝他們在各自的時代和地域中，對抗法西斯主義的情節。1930 年代，法西斯主義席捲歐洲，而北美卻出現意想不到的情況。包括基督教聖像的變革，以十字架為原型創造出的的納粹十字章，與此同時，一群美國和加拿大的年輕猶太人創造出蝙蝠俠和超人，也是受到聖經的啟發。 大家想想：就像聖經中的先知一樣，所有超級英雄們都失去雙親。超人的雙親在氪星死亡，當時他還未滿足歲。Bruce Wayne，也就是蝙蝠俠，他在六歲時，雙親在高譚市同時被刺殺。蜘蛛人是由他的阿姨和叔叔帶大的。他們如同先知一般，從天使加百列接收上帝的指令，英雄的使命從天而降。Peter Parker 是在曼哈頓的圖書館中被一隻從天花板降下的蜘蛛叮咬，而得到他的超能力。Bruce Wayne 是在自己的臥室中發現一隻碩大的蝙蝠飛過他頂上，認定是個徵兆，要他以「蝙蝠俠」的形象行俠仗義。而超人不僅是從天堂，或說氪星降臨地球，他還是被放在太空艙裡，很像被放進紙莎草箱子，擱在尼羅河邊的摩西。（笑聲）你們還能聽到它的父親 Jor-El對地球說「我將我的獨子獻給您了。」 （笑聲） （掌聲） 這些情節很明顯都是源自聖經，背後的構想在於創作出有正義感，令世人為之動容的情節通過故事展現同樣的積極本質而不會讓人戴著有色眼鏡來批評。因為如果有人將宗教用作惡意目的，那麼他就是讓宗教蒙塵的惡人。只有時刻銘記事物的積極一面，才能消除悲觀的印象。正是因應這種想法才創造出 The 99。The 99 來源自真主阿拉的 99 個尊名，代表慷慨、慈悲、遠見及智慧，和一些為世人共同稱道的美德，並不直接牽涉宗教。也就是說，就算你是無神論者，你也不會教孩子每天撒三次謊。那些都是基本的價值觀。 而 The 99 的背景故事發生在 1258 年，蒙古大軍攻陷巴格達並毀城。當時世界最著名的「智慧之家」圖書館，所有的藏書都被扔進底格里斯河，因此河水被墨汁徹底染黑了。這個故事世代流傳。我重新詮釋這個故事。在我改編的版本裡，智慧之家的圖書館員預見即將發生的事件——我順帶一提：如果你想讓一部漫畫書受歡迎，就讓圖書館員成為英雄。絕對不會錯。（笑聲）（掌聲）所以那些圖書館員協力研製出一個特殊的化學配方，喚作「君王之水」，將藥水跟 99 個寶石混合，藥水就能保存書籍中記載的所有文化與歷史。不幸地，蒙古大軍早先一步，將書籍和藥水一起扔進底格里斯河。一些圖書館員逃走了，而在數週的時日內，他們把寶石浸在底格里斯河以吸取我們以為已經流失的智慧財富。 這些寶石被做成三串念珠，每串三十三顆，從阿拉伯偷渡至安達魯西亞，安全保存兩百年。但在 1492 年，兩個重大的歷史事件發生了。首先是格拉那達，歐洲最後一個穆斯林領土淪陷。第二是哥倫布終於得到資助航行印度，但最後去錯了地方。（笑聲）所以其中三十三顆寶石由哥倫布船隊的尼尼亞號、平塔號和聖瑪利亞號傳至新大陸。還有三十三顆通過絲路到中國、南亞及東南亞。最後三十三顆散佈在歐洲、中東及非洲各地。 到了 2010 年，出現九十九位英雄分別來自於九十九個國家。現在我們很容易這樣聯想，那些來自於智慧之家圖書館的書籍，看來就是面向於穆斯林的。其實不然，因為當時修建圖書館的國王，名叫阿爾·馬蒙 —— 他是哈倫·拉希德的兒子，他對幕僚們說：「把學者們都請到我這裡來，讓他們把所有能找到的書都翻譯成阿拉伯語，我會酬予他們與書同重的黃金。」沒多久，他的幕僚們開始抱怨，他們這樣說，「陛下，學者們在作弊。他們故意把字寫大，好換取更多金子。」而他回答說，「隨他們去，因為學者為我們所作的比黃金有價值得多。」這樣開放建築、開放知識的想法，在我的國家裡不是什麼新鮮事了。 故事主題圍繞著被稱作 Noor 的寶石。""Noor"" 是阿拉伯文「光明」之意。這九十九顆寶石本身有一些規則：第一，不是你選擇寶石；是寶石選中你。這是仿效《亞瑟王》的傳說情節。第二，當九十九個英雄最初得到寶石的力量時，不外乎地利用它滿足私心。這傳達一個重要的訊息，一旦你開始誤用寶石，那些想要運用你的力量的人們就會設法操縱你。第三，九十九個寶石都具備自我升級的能力。 當今的穆斯林世界有兩大派別。所有人都相信古蘭經適用於每個時代和地區。部分人認為這意味著經文原始的解釋，從幾千年前時至今日仍然適用。我不這麼認為。另外有些人相信古蘭經是活的、有機的經典。這就是寶石擁有自我更新能力的由來。而故事中主要的反派，盧加爾 (Rughal)，不希望這些寶石升級。所以他嘗試阻止它們自我更新。他不能運用寶石，但可以抑制寶石的力量。通過抑制寶石的力量，他就能大肆進行獨裁行動，他欺騙九十九位英雄中的部分人為他效力。為他效力的人都身著同樣款式，同色的制服。他們不能私下透漏自己的身份。而他親自指揮這些人。然而當他們終於投奔正義方，知道自己曾被操縱並效力於惡徒之後，他們都換成不同顏色、不同外型的服裝。 關於九十九個光明寶石，最後的規則是，九十九個英雄要以三個分為一組行動。為何是三個？原因如下。第一，伊斯蘭教規不允許孤男寡女私下相處。因為誘惑跟魔鬼會從中介入。所有的文化都是這麼說的，對吧？但這與宗教無關，沒有在灌輸教條。這其中蘊含了強烈的社會訊息，我們需要良善對待最深層的偏見。要達到這個目的，就得行動起來。於是，我們就這樣為英雄分組。他們三人一組，可能是兩男一女或兩女一男，也有三個都是男生或都是女生的，都沒有問題。瑞士的精神分析學家，卡爾·容格，也曾主張數字「三」在所有文化的重要性，我想我掌握它了。不過呢......有些人在 blog 上指責我是由天主教皇派來到中東宣傳三位一體跟天主教法的，所以......（笑聲）不論你相信什麼 —— 反正我說了我的故事。 下面介紹故事的幾位主角。穆吉巴 (Mujiba)，來自馬來西亞，她最主要的力量是能解答任何的問題。如果她玩棋盤問答 (Trivial Pursuit) 遊戲，肯定是百勝將軍。而她最初獲得力量的時候，確實是藉此在問答遊戲節目撈一大筆。而這是來自沙烏地阿拉伯的賈巴爾 (Jabbar)，他擁有無堅不催的怪力。然後這是穆密塔 (Mumita)，名字很有趣。穆密塔代表「毀滅」。真主阿拉的九十九個尊名中，包涵陽剛及陰柔的性質。陽剛的性質體現霸氣與堅毅；陰柔的性質體現善良與雅量。我傾向將女生設定得比較善良慈悲，而男生比較陽剛。你知道嗎，以前我認識幾個女孩，她們實在很會折磨人，所以......（笑聲）這位是來自匈牙利的加米 (Jami)，擅長製造武器。他是個「科技巫師」。還有來自迦納的穆薩維拉 (Musawwira)；來自巴基斯坦的哈蒂亞 (Hadya)；來自伊朗，有火燄力量的加里爾 (Jaleel)。然後這是我最愛的一位英雄，來自葉門的艾爾·巴廷娜 (Al-Batina)。這名字源自 Al-Batin，意指隱者。所以巴廷娜總是低調行事，但確實是個超級英雄。我有次回家跟妻子說，「我照著妳的形象創造了一位角色。」我妻子是葉門裔的沙烏地阿拉伯人。她說，「讓我看看。」我就給她看這位角色。她說，「這不像我啊。」我回答，「看那雙眼睛，那是照著妳的眼睛畫的。」 （笑聲） 我向投資人承諾這漫畫絕不是粗製濫造的東西。它會和超人一樣棒，否則就不值得投資我的心力或是他們的錢。這些是從頭開始全程參與製作的工作人員，左下角的是 Fabian Nicieza，《X戰警》和《金剛戰士》的編劇。他旁邊的是 Dan Panosian，現代版X戰警的創作者之一。主要編劇，Stuart Moore，也是《鋼鐵人》的編劇。他旁邊的是 John McCrea，主要為《蜘蛛人》畫漫畫線稿。我們以一條標語來得到西方世界的關注：「下個齋月，新的英雄將橫空出世。」這是在 2005 年的事。 我到杜拜參加阿拉伯思想基金會的會議，當時我邊喝咖啡邊物色合適的記者。手頭上還沒有現成的作品，但有滿腔熱情。然後我相中紐約時報的一位記者。我把他堵到角落裡緊盯著他。他大概被我的舉動嚇到了——（笑聲）因為他這樣答應我——由於成品還沒出來——他就說，「我們會在藝術版上為你寫一段介紹，拜託你快放開我。」（笑聲）所以我說，「成交。」幾週之後我打電話給他。我說，「嗨，Hesa。」而他也答「嗨。」我說「新年快樂。」他回答「謝謝你。我們有個孩子了。」我說，「恭喜你。」裝作我很在意他，沒錯。「所以為我寫的文章會在何時見報？」他說，「Naif，伊斯蘭教的漫畫？這不太合潮流。也許下週、下個月、明年都有可能，但你知道，一定會見報的。」接下來幾天後，你知道發生了什麼事嗎？丹麥報紙的伊斯蘭漫畫醜聞被公諸於世。這下我可走在潮流尖端了。（笑聲）於是紐約時報不停打電話和發郵件給我。接下來，他們用一整版的篇幅為我們作宣傳。2006 年一月 22 日，成為我們一生的轉折點。因為每一個人都在搜尋伊斯蘭的卡通及漫畫，猜猜看他們會搜到什麼？當然都會找到我。 The 99 就和大家熟知的超級英雄一樣，在紛雜的世事中拔刀相助。那天之後發生了很多事情，一些大學和學校把 The 99 列入課程 ——有一張我最喜歡的照片，是在南亞拍的，照片上有一群蓄長鬚的男人和一群戴著面紗的女孩 —— 場景像是個學校。好消息是他們都微笑著高舉 The 99 漫畫，找上我要給他們簽名。壞消息是這些漫畫都是盜版，所以我們一毛都沒賺到。（笑聲）目前我們已經授權 The 99 漫畫書翻譯成八種語言，包括漢語、印尼語、印地語、烏爾都語、土耳其語。一年半之前，我們獲准在科威特創建一個主題公園，名叫「The 99 村主題公園」，佔地三十萬平方公尺，有二十個遊樂設施，裡面包含所有角色。我們在西班牙和土耳其也得到校園授權。 到目前為止我們完成了一件大事，真的很了不起，就是我們推出二十六集的動畫，讓全世界的觀眾觀賞，實際上，我們的動畫即將在美國和土耳其上映。它是 3D 電腦動畫，畫質非常地好，腳本出自好萊塢的編劇團隊，他們的作品有《Ben 10》、《蜘蛛人》、《星際大戰：複製人戰爭》等。等一下要播放的剪輯，之前未公眾播映過，裡面有一段爭執。兩位主角，賈巴爾 (Jabbar)，大力士；以及諾拉 (Noora)，發光的女生，身穿象徵獨裁的統一灰色制服，因為他們被操縱了。他們還被蒙在鼓裡，沒錯。他們想要另一位成員加入他們。所以他們就產生了爭執。如果燈可以先關掉的話...... [""The 99""] 賈巴爾：丹娜 (Dana)，我看不見把手。我需要照明。 怎麼回事？ 丹娜：這裡實在太黑了。 盧加爾：我們要想個辦法。 某人：我不會增派兵力除非我能確保安全。 拉薩姆博士 (Dr. Razem)：該走了，米克羅斯 (Miklos)。 米克羅斯：得先下載好文件。別忘了「伯母」。 賈巴爾：光靠我一個是不行的。 丹娜：但我幫不上忙。 賈巴爾：妳可以的，就算妳現在不太相信自己，但我還是相信妳。妳是諾拉，光明使者。 丹娜：不。我不配。我什麼都不是。 賈巴爾：那我們其他人怎麼辦？難道我們不能得救嗎？不能幫我一下嗎？現在告訴我該往哪裡走。 丹娜：那邊。 警笛：威脅將近。 賈巴爾：啊呀！ 米克羅斯：別過來。 賈巴爾：我來救你的。 拉薩姆博士：別聽他們的話。 丹娜：米克羅斯，這個人是敵人。 米克羅斯：不，他幫助了我。你們想要重啟「核心」。「核心」早就不在這裡了！ [""The 99""] 謝謝。 （掌聲） ""The 99"" 體現科技、娛樂、及精湛的設計。但不只如此。作為五個孩子的父親，我掛心於他們會將什麼樣的人當作偶像。我掛心於此是因為，即使自身是在大家庭裡，我依然會看到宗教被不當運用。作為一個心理學家，我掛念於這個廣大世界，也掛心在身邊的人是如何看待他們自己。我是個臨床心理師，在紐約州獲得執照。我曾在貝爾維尤醫院對政治迫害倖存者進行培訓。我聽到太多關於人們在成長過程中如何崇拜他們的領袖，最終卻被他們心目中的英雄迫害。迫害這回事本來就夠恐怖的，而如果迫害由你崇拜的英雄所為，那會令你更加痛不欲生。我離開貝爾維尤，轉去商學院並開始構思這部漫畫。 我的靈感來源之一是當我 —— 這是最重要的部份 ——我在科威特大學的醫學院做了一次演講我講了關於行為的生理基礎，還給學生們兩篇文章，一篇來自《紐約時報》，一篇則來自《紐約週刊》。我去除作者的名稱，只留下文章陳述。第一篇文章是描述一個叫做 ""The Party of God"" 的組織，他們想要廢除情人節，因為認為紅色是不規矩的。如果發現男女在調情，就要他們立刻結婚。第二篇文章是述說一個婦女的抱怨，六個蓄鬍的男人從三輛小貨車下來，開始當場質問這位婦女為什麼她與一個沒有親緣關係的男人交談。 我讓科威特的學生猜猜這些事件發生的地點。他們說第一個故事發生在沙烏地阿拉伯，沒有人持不同意見。關於第二個故事，有人還是認為這是發生在沙烏地的事，有人認為在阿富汗。出乎他們意料的是，第一個事件發生在印度，那是一個信仰印度某位神祇的組織。第二個事件是發生在紐約上州。那裡有個正教派猶太社區。但令我心痛並擔憂的是在這兩則報導中被採訪的旁觀者都認定這些事件像是塔利班組織的作為。換句話說，善良的印度人和猶太人不會做出這種事。這是伊斯蘭教影響印度教和猶太教才會如此。而科威特的學生是怎麼說的？他說這是我們會做的事。這種想法是危險的。當一群人都自認是極端份子時，是相當危險的。 這是我其中一個兒子 Rayan，他是個《叔比狗》迷。你看他戴的眼鏡就知道了。他有一天還喚我作淘氣小子。（笑聲）但我從他那裡學到一個道理。去年夏天我們在紐約的家裡，他在院子裡的遊戲小屋玩耍。而我在書房裡工作，而他走進書房，「爸爸，你跟我過來一下，我想要我的玩具。」「好，Rayan，你先走。」他將他的叔比狗玩具留在小屋裡。我說，「走開哪。我在工作，我很忙。」結果 Rayhan就坐在那裡，腳使勁蹬著地，連續三個半分鐘，然後他看著我說，「爸爸，跟我過來到我屋裡的書房。我手上也有工作呢。」（笑聲）（掌聲）Rayhan 重新定義局面並將他的立場調到和我平等。 （笑聲） 這就是我們創作 The 99 的目的。我認為將十字架的形狀彎曲及創造出納粹十字章之間是平行的關係。當我看到這些照片，雙親或是叔父認為一個小孩持著古蘭經又綁著幾個自殺炸彈進行示威是很可愛的。而我希望讓人們對於古蘭經有更多積極的認識，如此，有一天我們能將這個孩子的自信來源從這身武裝換成這個造型。而我認為 —— （掌聲）我相信 The 99能夠完成它的使命。 有一天在塔夫斯大學的本科部，我們免費發放炸豆丸子 (falafel)，因為當天是「中東日」或是類似的節日。然後人們走過來，從這些炸豆丸子引發文化形象上的共鳴，品嚐它們，談了些話，就離開了。沒有誰會誤解兩個詞語 ""free""免費以及 ""falafel"" 的意思 —— 「釋放法拉菲爾」，你瞭解的。（笑聲）我們也沒多想，直到一位女士匆匆走過校園然後將手提包往地上一扔，指著我們的牌子說，「誰是法拉菲爾？」（笑聲）這是真實發生的事。（笑聲）她剛好從國際特赦組織的會議出來。 （笑聲） 就在今天，DC 漫畫公佈我們的聯合創作計畫的新封面。在這封面上有蝙蝠俠、超人、穿著得體的神奇女俠，加上 The 99 的英雄，分別來自於沙烏地、阿聯以及利比亞的三位成員。2010 年四月 26 日，美國總統巴拉克·歐巴馬說自他著名的開羅演講之後 ——所採取的穆斯林友好行動中 ——最有創意的就是讓 The 99 和美國正義聯盟攜手合作。我們生活在一個最平凡的文化符號，像炸豆丸子，都會被執念誤解的世界裡，而宗教會被扭曲會被故意曲解而脫離原本的意義。在這樣的世界裡，超人和九十九位英雄將持續履行他們的天職。 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲）"
