Talk	en	zh-tw
nancy_etcoff_on_happiness_and_why_we_want_it	"This is called Hooked on a Feeling: The Pursuit of Happiness and Human Design. I put up a somewhat dour Darwin, but a very happy chimp up there. My first point is that the pursuit of happiness is obligatory. Man wishes to be happy, only wishes to be happy, and cannot wish not to be so. We are wired to pursue happiness, not only to enjoy it, but to want more and more of it. So given that that's true, how good are we at increasing our happiness? Well, we certainly try. If you look on the Amazon site, there are over 2,000 titles with advice on the seven habits, the nine choices, the 10 secrets, the 14,000 thoughts that are supposed to bring happiness. Now another way we try to increase our happiness is we medicate ourselves. And so there's over 120 million prescriptions out there for antidepressants. Prozac was really the first absolute blockbuster drug. It was clean, efficient, there was no high, there was really no danger, it had no street value. In 1995, illegal drugs were a $400 billion business, representing eight percent of world trade, roughly the same as gas and oil. These routes to happiness haven't really increased happiness very much. One problem that's happening now is, although the rates of happiness are about as flat as the surface of the moon, depression and anxiety are rising. Some people say this is because we have better diagnosis, and more people are being found out. It isn't just that. We're seeing it all over the world. In the United States right now there are more suicides than homicides. There is a rash of suicide in China. And the World Health Organization predicts by the year 2020 that depression will be the second largest cause of disability. Now the good news here is that if you take surveys from around the world, we see that about three quarters of people will say they are at least pretty happy. But this does not follow any of the usual trends. For example, these two show great growth in income, absolutely flat happiness curves. My field, the field of psychology, hasn't done a whole lot to help us move forward in understanding human happiness. In part, we have the legacy of Freud, who was a pessimist, who said that pursuit of happiness is a doomed quest, is propelled by infantile aspects of the individual that can never be met in reality. He said, ""One feels inclined to say that the intention that man should be happy is not included in the plan of creation."" So the ultimate goal of psychoanalytic psychotherapy was really what Freud called ordinary misery. (Laughter) And Freud in part reflects the anatomy of the human emotion system — which is that we have both a positive and a negative system, and our negative system is extremely sensitive. So for example, we're born loving the taste of something sweet and reacting aversively to the taste of something bitter. We also find that people are more averse to losing than they are happy to gain. The formula for a happy marriage is five positive remarks, or interactions, for every one negative. And that's how powerful the one negative is. Especially expressions of contempt or disgust, well you really need a lot of positives to upset that. I also put in here the stress response. We're wired for dangers that are immediate, that are physical, that are imminent, and so our body goes into an incredible reaction where endogenous opioids come in. We have a system that is really ancient, and really there for physical danger. And so over time, this becomes a stress response, which has enormous effects on the body. Cortisol floods the brain; it destroys hippocampal cells and memory, and can lead to all kinds of health problems. But unfortunately, we need this system in part. If we were only governed by pleasure we would not survive. We really have two command posts. Emotions are short-lived intense responses to challenge and to opportunity. And each one of them allows us to click into alternate selves that tune in, turn on, drop out thoughts, perceptions, feelings and memories. We tend to think of emotions as just feelings. But in fact, emotions are an all-systems alert that change what we remember, what kind of decisions we make, and how we perceive things. So let me go forward to the new science of happiness. We've come away from the Freudian gloom, and people are now actively studying this. And one of the key points in the science of happiness is that happiness and unhappiness are not endpoints of a single continuum. The Freudian model is really one continuum that, as you get less miserable, you get happier. And that isn't true — when you get less miserable, you get less miserable. And that happiness is a whole other end of the equation. And it's been missing. It's been missing from psychotherapy. So when people's symptoms go away, they tend to recur, because there isn't a sense of the other half — of what pleasure, happiness, compassion, gratitude, what are the positive emotions. And of course we know this intuitively, that happiness is not just the absence of misery. But somehow it was not put forward until very recently, seeing these as two parallel systems. So that the body can both look for opportunity and also protect itself from danger, at the same time. And they're sort of two reciprocal and dynamically interacting systems. People have also wanted to deconstruct. We use this word ""happy,"" and it's this very large umbrella of a term. And then three emotions for which there are no English words: fiero, which is the pride in accomplishment of a challenge; schadenfreude, which is happiness in another's misfortune, a malicious pleasure; and naches, which is a pride and joy in one's children. Absent from this list, and absent from any discussions of happiness, are happiness in another's happiness. We don't seem to have a word for that. We are very sensitive to the negative, but it is in part offset by the fact that we have a positivity. We're also born pleasure-seekers. Babies love the taste of sweet and hate the taste of bitter. They love to touch smooth surfaces rather than rough ones. They like to look at beautiful faces rather than plain faces. They like to listen to consonant melodies instead of dissonant melodies. Babies really are born with a lot of innate pleasures. There was once a statement made by a psychologist that said that 80 percent of the pursuit of happiness is really just about the genes, and it's as difficult to become happier as it is to become taller. That's nonsense. There is a decent contribution to happiness from the genes — about 50 percent — but there is still that 50 percent that is unaccounted for. Let's just go into the brain for a moment, and see where does happiness arise from in evolution. We have basically at least two systems here, and they both are very ancient. One is the reward system, and that's fed by the chemical dopamine. And it starts in the ventral tegmental area. It goes to the nucleus accumbens, all the way up to the prefrontal cortex, orbital frontal cortex, where decisions are made, high level. This was originally seen as a system that was the pleasure system of the brain. In the 1950s, Olds and Milner put electrodes into the brain of a rat. And the rat would just keep pressing that bar thousands and thousands and thousands of times. It wouldn't eat. It wouldn't sleep. It wouldn't have sex. It wouldn't do anything but press this bar. So they assumed this must be, you know, the brain's orgasmatron. It turned out that it wasn't, that it really is a system of motivation, a system of wanting. It gives objects what's called incentive salience. It makes something look so attractive that you just have to go after it. That's something different from the system that is the pleasure system, which simply says, ""I like this."" The pleasure system, as you see, which is the internal opiates, there is a hormone oxytocin, is widely spread throughout the brain. Dopamine system, the wanting system, is much more centralized. The other thing about positive emotions is that they have a universal signal. And we see here the smile. And the universal signal is not just raising the corner of the lips to the zygomatic major. It's also crinkling the outer corner of the eye, the orbicularis oculi. So you see, even 10-month-old babies, when they see their mother, will show this particular kind of smile. Extroverts use it more than introverts. People who are relieved of depression show it more after than before. So if you want to unmask a true look of happiness, you will look for this expression. Our pleasures are really ancient. And we learn, of course, many, many pleasures, but many of them are base. And one of them, of course, is biophilia — that we have a response to the natural world that's very profound. Very interesting studies done on people recovering from surgery, who found that people who faced a brick wall versus people who looked out on trees and nature, the people who looked out on the brick wall were in the hospital longer, needed more medication, and had more medical complications. There is something very restorative about nature, and it's part of how we are tuned. Humans, particularly so, we're very imitative creatures. And we imitate from almost the second we are born. Here is a three-week-old baby. And if you stick your tongue out at this baby, the baby will do the same. We are social beings from the beginning. And even studies of cooperation show that cooperation between individuals lights up reward centers of the brain. One problem that psychology has had is instead of looking at this intersubjectivity — or the importance of the social brain to humans who come into the world helpless and need each other tremendously — is that they focus instead on the self and self-esteem, and not self-other. It's sort of ""me,"" not ""we."" And I think this has been a really tremendous problem that goes against our biology and nature, and hasn't made us any happier at all. Because when you think about it, people are happiest when in flow, when they're absorbed in something out in the world, when they're with other people, when they're active, engaged in sports, focusing on a loved one, learning, having sex, whatever. They're not sitting in front of the mirror trying to figure themselves out, or thinking about themselves. These are not the periods when you feel happiest. The other thing is, that a piece of evidence is, is if you look at computerized text analysis of people who commit suicide, what you find there, and it's quite interesting, is use of the first person singular — ""I,"" ""me,"" ""my,"" not ""we"" and ""us"" — and the letters are less hopeless than they are really alone. And being alone is very unnatural to the human. There is a profound need to belong. But there are ways in which our evolutionary history can really trip us up. Because, for example, the genes don't care whether we're happy, they care that we replicate, that we pass our genes on. So for example we have three systems that underlie reproduction, because it's so important. There's lust, which is just wanting to have sex. And that's really mediated by the sex hormones. Romantic attraction, that gets into the desire system. And that's dopamine-fed. And that's, ""I must have this one person."" There's attachment, which is oxytocin, and the opiates, which says, ""This is a long-term bond."" See the problem is that, as humans, these three can separate. So a person can be in a long term attachment, become romantically infatuated with someone else, and want to have sex with a third person. The other way in which our genes can sometimes lead us astray is in social status. We are very acutely aware of our social status and always seek to further and increase it. Now in the animal world, there is only one way to increase status, and that's dominance. I seize command by physical prowess, and I keep it by beating my chest, and you make submissive gestures. Now, the human has a whole other way to rise to the top, and that is a prestige route, which is freely conferred. Someone has expertise and knowledge, and knows how to do things, and we give that person status. And that's clearly the way for us to create many more niches of status so that people don't have to be lower on the status hierarchy as they are in the animal world. The data isn't terribly supportive of money buying happiness. But it's not irrelevant. So if you look at questions like this, life satisfaction, you see life satisfaction going up with each rung of income. You see mental distress going up with lower income. So clearly there is some effect. But the effect is relatively small. And one of the problems with money is materialism. What happens when people pursue money too avidly, is they forget about the real basic pleasures of life. So we have here, this couple. ""Do you think the less-fortunate are having better sex?"" And then this kid over here is saying, ""Leave me alone with my toys."" So one of the things is that it really takes over. That whole dopamine-wanting system takes over and derails from any of the pleasure system. Maslow had this idea back in the 1950s that as people rise above their biological needs, as the world becomes safer and we don't have to worry about basic needs being met — our biological system, whatever motivates us, is being satisfied — we can rise above them, to think beyond ourselves toward self-actualization or transcendence, and rise above the materialist. So to just quickly conclude with some brief data that suggests this might be so. One is people who underwent what is called a quantum change: they felt their life and their whole values had changed. And sure enough, if you look at the kinds of values that come in, you see wealth, adventure, achievement, pleasure, fun, be respected, before the change, and much more post-materialist values after. Women had a whole different set of value shifts. But very similarly, the only one that survived there was happiness. They went from attractiveness and happiness and wealth and self-control to generosity and forgiveness. I end with a few quotes. ""There is only one question: How to love this world?"" And Rilke, ""If your daily life seems poor, do not blame it; blame yourself. Tell yourself that you are not poet enough to call forth its riches."" ""First, say to yourself what you would be. Then do what you have to do."" Thank you. (Applause)"	這就是所謂的沉溺於一種感覺：追求幸福和人性的設計。我顯示了一個有點倔強的達爾文，但卻顯示一隻非常快樂的黑猩猩。我第一點是，對幸福的追求是必然的。人類望得到快樂，只希望得到快樂，並非此不能想像。我們的天生構造是追求快樂，不僅享受快樂，而且希望有更多快樂。 所以假如這是真的，我們在增加快樂上有多能幹？這個我們當然很努力在嘗試。如果你看一下亞馬遜網站上，有超過 2000本書名有七個習慣，有九個選擇，有十個秘密，一萬四千種想法應該帶來快樂的的提意。現在我們還有另一種方式嘗試增加快樂,就是使用藥物。所以，外面有超過 120萬張處方為抗抑鬱藥。「百憂解」是真正的第一號絕對一鳴驚人的藥物。它乾淨俐落，高效，沒有(物質中毒)興奮的效果，是真的有沒有危險，它沒有黑市價值。在1995年，非法毒品是一個400億美元的企業，佔世界貿易的百分之八，和石油和天然氣大致相同。 這些快樂的路徑卻沒有非常真正增加快樂。現在發生的一個問題是，雖然快樂增加的比率如月球表般平坦，抑鬱和焦慮情緒比率正在上升。有些人說這是因為我們有更好的診斷，所以診斷出越來越多的病例。但不只是這樣。我們看到世界各地也是如此。現在在美國自殺比謀殺更多。在中國有一連串的自殺個案。世界衛生組織預測，到2020年，抑鬱症將成為第二大導致殘疾的原因。 現在這裡的好消息是，在自世界各地的調查中，我們看到約四分之三的人，他們會說他們都至少相當高興。但這跟通常的趨勢並不一樣。例如，這兩個顯示出豐富的收入增長，但絕對平直的快樂曲線。 我職業的領域，心理學的領域，沒有在幫助我們了解人類的快樂上做到很多。一部分因爲，我們有傳統的弗洛伊德，他是一個悲觀主義者，他說追求快樂終將帶來失敗，是由在現實中永遠不能滿足的個人幼稚的性格推動的。他說，「人會傾向於說人類應該是快樂的用意並沒有列入創作物的計劃內。」因此，精神分析的心理治療最終目標其實只是弗洛伊德所謂尋常的痛苦。 (笑聲) 在一方面弗洛伊德是反映人類情感系統的解剖結構 —我們有積極和消極的系統，而我們消極的系統是極為敏感。舉例來說，我們天生愛甜食的味道但對苦澀的味道有十分厭惡的反應。我們還發現人們對損失的失落覺比他們獲得時的高興更強烈。一個幸福美滿的婚姻的計算公式是五個正面的評語或行動，才能抵消掉一個負面的。可想而知這一負是多麼強勁。特別是輕視或厭惡的表達式，你真的需要大量的正面來補救。 我在這裡也顯示到壓力的反應。我們天生對即時的危險，物理的危險，迫在眉睫的危險的有本能反應，所以當內源性類麻醉劑進來時我們的身體便會有到難以置信的反應。我們有一個很古老的系統，一個要應對人身危險的系統。因此，演變到現在，這成為一個對壓力的反應，對身體有巨大的影響。皮質醇注滿大腦，破壞海馬體細胞和記憶，並能導致各種健康問題。 但不幸的是，我們一方面需要這個系統。如果我們只受歡樂事物的管轄，我們將無法生存。我們真的有兩個指揮所。情緒是對應于挑戰和機遇，短暫的激烈反應。而它們每個允許我們點擊代入另外的自我，來調整，打開，放下我們的思想，觀念，感情和記憶。我們傾向於認為情緒只是感情。但事實上，情緒是全系統的警報，它改變我們的記憶，我們作出的決定，以及我們如何意會事物。 那麽接下來讓我介紹新的有關快樂的科學。我們遠離了弗洛伊德的悲觀，現在人們正在積極地研究快樂的科學。而快樂的科學的關鍵點之一是，快樂和不快樂並不是一個單個連續統一體的端點。弗洛伊德的模式實在是一個統一體，就是說, 當你悲傷越少,那麼你便越快樂。而事實並非如此 — 當你的悲傷越少，你只是少悲傷。快樂是整個公式的另一端。然而在心理治療它卻無處可尋。因此，當人們的症狀消失後，往往會再復發，因為沒有觸及另一半的感覺 —愉悅，快樂，同情，感激等等那些積極正面的情緒。當然我們直覺是知道這個的，快樂不只是沒有悲傷。但不知何故直到最近才被提到，指出這兩個為並行的系統。使人可以在尋找機會的情況下，亦在同時從危險中保護本身。它們是兩個對等動態交互的系統。 人們也希望將快樂解構。雖然我們使用「快樂」這個詞，然而這是一個非常大的總稱名詞。有三個情緒在英語裡是沒有對應的字的：fiero，代表達成挑戰的驕傲感;schadenfreude(幸災樂禍)，對別人的不幸感到喜悅，一种惡意的喜悅，和 naches, 為自己孩子感到的驕傲和喜悅。此外，從任何討論快樂中缺席的字彙，還有：為別人的幸福快樂感到喜悅。我們似乎沒有這個詞。我們對負面是非常敏感，但部分因為我們有一個正面因此它被抵銷。 我們也是天生的享樂者。嬰兒喜歡甜味和討厭苦味。相較於粗糙的表面，他們喜歡觸摸光滑的表面。他們喜歡看美麗的面孔，相比於普通的面孔。他們喜歡聽協和的旋律，而不是刺耳的旋律。嬰兒天生就有很多先天的樂趣。曾經有一位心理學家說，對快樂的追求，有80％真的只是基因的緣故，如同希望增高一樣, 要更快樂是很困難的。這是無稽之談。基因對快樂的貢獻—大約50％左右 —但仍然有50％是不清楚的。 讓我們進入大腦一會兒，看看快樂在進化過程中從哪裡出現。我們基本上已經至少有兩個系統，它們都是非常古老的系統。一個是獎勵的系統，它是由化學物質多巴胺饋送。開始在腹側被蓋區。到伏隔核，一路去到前額葉皮層，眶額葉皮質，在那裡決定被作出，高層次的決定。這本來是被視為一個大腦的快感系統。在50年代，奧士和米爾納把電極注入老鼠的大腦中。而之後老鼠會不懈地按那個鍵，一千次又一千次。牠不吃飯。也不睡覺。牠甚至不會有性行為。除了按這個鍵之外牠不會做任何事情。所以他們認為，這一定是大腦的性高潮的誘導器。 但後來發現並不是，這其實是一個激勵機制，一個欲望的系統。它提供的是稱為顯著的激勵。它使東西看起來如此吸引，令你必須去使勁追求。這個系統是不同於快樂的系統，快樂系統只是說，「我喜歡這個。」你可以看到, 快樂系統是體內的麻醉劑，是一種催產素荷爾蒙，廣泛地擴散整個大腦。多巴胺系統，是一個希望系統，它是更集中。 另一件關於正面情緒的事情是，它們有一個普遍的訊號。我們在這裡看到的是微笑。而普遍的訊號不僅僅是大顴肌提高嘴唇角落。它也是使得外眼角起皺，眼輪匝肌。所以你可以看到，甚至10個月大的的嬰兒，當他們看到自己的母親時，將會顯示一類特定的笑容。外向的人會比內向的人更多的使用它。解除抑鬱症的人會比以前更多的使用它。因此，如果你想揭露快樂真正的樣子，你便要搜索這個表達式的樣子。 我們的歡樂是非常古老。當然我們有學習到, 很多很多的樂趣，但其中不少仍是基本的。當然, 其中一種是熱愛生命的天性—我們有一個對自然世界非常深刻的的反應。有一些非常有趣的研究進行在從恢復手術的人上，發現面對著磚牆的人與面對著樹木和自然的人，看著磚牆的人待在醫院更久長時間，需要更多藥物，並且有更多的醫療併發症。大自然是有一些非常恢復性的效果，是我們內在調和的一部分。 人類，特別是這樣，我們是非常有模仿性的動物。我們幾乎從出生的那秒鐘便開始模仿。這是一個三個星期大的嬰兒。如果你對著這個寶寶伸出你的舌頭，寶寶會照樣做。我們從一開始便是社交的人。甚至有有關合作的研究表明，顯示人與人之間的合作會令大腦的獎勵中心亮起來。心理學有一個問題是，不着重注意這個主體間性 —或對人類來到世界的無助和極其需要其人的社會頭腦的重要性—心理學注重的是自我和自尊，而不是自我與他人。近似「我」，而不是「我們」。我覺得這是一個非常巨大的的問題，違背我們的生物性和本質，並且沒有令我們更加快樂。 因為當你想想看，人最快樂是在流動的時候，當他們在吸收世界要給他們的東西，當他們和其他人一起，當他們積極活躍，運動, 集中重點在心愛的人上，學習，做愛，等等。他們不是坐在一面鏡子前試圖斷定自己，或想着自己。這些都不是當你覺得最快樂的時刻。另一件事，一件證據，是如果你看一看自殺者的電腦纂輯分析，你會看到，相當有意思的分析，是他們使用第一人稱呼 —「我」，「自己」，「我的」，不是「我們」和「我們自己」 —和信件比他們真正的孤獨比無望更甚。獨處是有違人類的自然性。我們有是一種深刻的歸屬需要。 但我們的進化史中也有可以真正絆倒我們的元素。因為，例如，基因不關心是否我們很高興，他們關心我們複製，將基因傳宗接代。舉例來說，我們有三個基礎系統複製，因為它是非常重要。有的是慾望，這只是想有性行為。它真的由性激素介導。浪漫的吸引力，那是進入慾望的系統。而這是由多巴胺饋送。就是，「我必須要擁有這一個人。」這是有附件的，催產素，麻醉劑，它說，「這是一個長期關係。」問題是，作為人類，這三個可以單獨隔離。因此，人可以在有一段長期的關係，浪漫地迷戀着別人，並希望與第三者發生性關係。 我們的基因有另一種方法有時會導致我們誤入歧途,那便是社會地位。我們對我們的社會地位有非常敏銳的意識，並且一直想追求進一步增強它。在動物世界裡，只有一個辦法可以提升地位，那便是霸佔。我以體力威武奪取控制，並且以一直拍打我的胸口守着它，而你便會造作姿態服從。人類是有另一整個方式上升到尖端，而且是一種有威望的路線，是自由的賦予。人若有專長和知識，並知道如何從事，我們便給這個人地位。而顯然這為我們創造了許多小單位的地位，使人們不必處於較低等級的地位，像在動物世界的方式。 數據並不十分支持金錢購買到快樂。但它不全是無關重要。因此，如果你像這樣的問題，生活滿意度看，你可以看到每上一個階級的收入，生活滿意度越高。而精神痛苦增長隨着收入降低。因此它顯然是有一定的影響。但影響相對較少。用錢的問題之一，是唯物主義。當人們過於貪婪地追求金錢會發生的事是，是他們會忘了生活的真正基本樂趣。因此，我們這裡有一對夫妻。「你認為較貧苦的人的性愛是不是會更好呢？」這個小孩子在這裡說，「讓我獨自玩我的玩具。」所以其中一件事便是它真的會覆蓋一切。這整個多巴胺的想要系統會覆蓋並令快感系統出軌。 馬斯洛在50年代有這個想法，隨著人們超越他們的生理需求，隨著世界變得更安全，我們不必擔心基本需求的滿足—我們的生物系統，激勵著我們的事物，已經滿意 —我們可以超越它們，想像超越自己，走向實現或超越自我，超越唯物主義。 在這裡我想迅速地作出一些簡短的數據表明這個可能。其一是是人們接受了所謂的量子變化：他們認為他們的生活和整個價值觀已改變。果然，如果你看一下各種定值，你看到的財富，冒險，成就，享樂，樂趣，得到尊重，在更改前，和更後的物質價值觀。女性有一個完全不同的設置值的變化。但非常相似地，只有一個價值觀存活, 便是快樂。她們從吸引力和快樂，財富和自我控制到慷慨和寬恕。 我在這裡以幾個引用句結束。「只有一個問題：如何愛這個世界？」和里爾克說，「如果你的日常生活似乎差，不要怪它，責備自己。告訴自己，你是不似詩人足以能喚起它的財富。」「首先，對自己說：你會是什麼。然後你便必須做什麼。」 謝謝。(掌聲)
