Talk	en	zh-tw
nancy_lublin_the_heartbreaking_text_that_inspired_a_crisis_help_line	"A girl I've never met before changed my life and the life of thousands of other people. I'm the CEO of DoSomething.org. It's one of the largest organizations in the world for young people. In fact it's bigger than the Boy Scouts in the United States. And we're not homophobic. (Laughter) And it's true — the way we communicate with young people is by text, because that's how young people communicate. So we'll run over 200 campaigns this year, things like collecting peanut butter for food pantries, or making Valentine's Day cards for senior citizens who are homebound. And we'll text them. And we'll have a 97 percent open rate. It'll over-index Hispanic and urban. We collected 200,000 jars of peanut butter and over 365,000 Valentine's Day cards. This is big scale. OK — (Applause) But there's one weird side effect. Every time we send out a text message, we get back a few dozen text messages having nothing to do with peanut butter or hunger or senior citizens — but text messages about being bullied, text messages about being addicted to pot. And the worst message we ever got said exactly this: ""He won't stop raping me. It's my dad. He told me not to tell anyone. Are you there?"" We couldn't believe this was happening. We couldn't believe that something so horrific could happen to a human being, and that she would share it with us — something so intimate, so personal. And we realized we had to stop triaging this and we had to build a crisis text line for these people in pain. So we launched Crisis Text Line, very quietly, in Chicago and El Paso — just a few thousand people in each market. And in four months, we were in all 295 area codes in America. Just to put that into perspective, that's zero marketing and faster growth than when Facebook first launched. (Applause) Text is unbelievably private. No one hears you talking. So we spike everyday at lunch time — kids are sitting at the lunch table and you think that she's texting the cute boy across the hall, but she's actually texting us about her bulimia. And we don't get the word ""like"" or ""um"" or hyperventilating or crying. We just get facts. We get things like, ""I want to die. I have a bottle of pills on the desk in front of me."" And so the crisis counselor says, ""How about you put those pills in the drawer while we text?"" And they go back and forth for a while. And the crisis counselor gets the girl to give her her address, because if you're texting a text line, you want help. So she gets the address and the counselor triggers an active rescue while they're texting back and forth. And then it goes quiet — 23 minutes with no response from this girl. And the next message that comes in says — it's the mom — ""I had no idea, and I was in the house, we're in an ambulance on our way to the hospital."" As a mom that one just — The next message comes a month later. ""I just got out of the hospital. I was diagnosed as bipolar, and I think I'm going to be OK."" (Applause) I would love to tell you that that's an unusual exchange, but we're doing on average 2.41 active rescues a day. Thirty percent of our text messages are about suicide and depression — huge. The beautiful thing about Crisis Text Line is that these are strangers counseling other strangers on the most intimate issues, and getting them from hot moments to cold moments. It's exciting, and I will tell you that we have done a total of more than 6.5 million text messages in less than two years. (Applause) But the thing that really gets me hot and sweaty about this, the thing that really gets me psyched is the data: 6.5 million messages — that's the volume, velocity and variety to provide a really juicy corpus. We can do things like predictive work. We can do all kinds of conclusions and learnings from that data set. So we can be better, and the world can be better. So how do we use the data to make us better? Alright, chances are someone here, someone watching this has seen a therapist or a shrink at some point in time in your life — you do not have to raise your hand. (Laughter) How do you know that person's any good? Oh, they have a degree from Harvard on the wall? Are you sure he didn't graduate in the bottom 10 percent? (Laughter) When my husband and I saw a marriage counselor, I thought she was a genius when she said, ""I'll see you guys in two weeks — but I need to see you next week, sir."" (Laughter) We have the data to know what makes a great counselor. We know that if you text the words ""numbs"" and ""sleeve,"" there's a 99 percent match for cutting. We know that if you text in the words ""mg"" and ""rubber band,"" there's a 99 percent match for substance abuse. And we know that if you text in ""sex,"" ""oral"" and ""Mormon,"" you're questioning if you're gay. Now that's interesting information that a counselor could figure out but that algorithm in our hands means that an automatic pop-up says, ""99 percent match for cutting — try asking one of these questions"" to prompt the counselor. Or ""99 percent match for substance abuse, here are three drug clinics near the texter."" It makes us more accurate. On the day that Robin Williams committed suicide, people flooded hotlines all over this country. It was sad to see an icon, a funnyman, commit suicide, and there were three hour wait times on every phone hotline in the country. We had a spike in volume also. The difference was if you text us, ""I want to die,"" or ""I want to kill myself,"" the algorithm reads that, you're code orange, and you become number one in the queue. So we can handle severity, not chronological. (Applause) This data is also making the world better because I'm sitting on the world's first map of real-time crises. Think about it: those 6.5 million messages, auto-tagging through natural language processes, all of these data points — I can tell you that the worst day of the week for eating disorders: Monday. The worst time of day for substance abuse: 5am. And that Montana is a beautiful place to visit but you do not want to live there, because it is the number one state for suicidal ideation. And we've made this data public and free and open. We've pulled all the personally identifiable information. And it's in a place called CrisisTrends.org. Because I want schools to be able to see that Monday is the worst day for eating disorders, so that they can plan meals and guidance counselors to be there on Mondays. And I want families to see that substance abuse questions spike at 5am. I want somebody to take care of those Native American reservations in Montana. (Applause) Data, evidence makes policy, research, journalism, policing, school boards — everything better. I don't think of myself as a mental health activist. I think of myself as a national health activist. I get really excited about this data, I'm a little nerdy. Yeah, that sounded too girly. I'm nerdy. (Laughter) I love data. And the only difference really between me and those people in hoodies down the road with their fat-funded companies, is that I'm not inspired by helping you find Chinese food at 2am in Dallas, or helping you touch your wrist and get a car immediately, or swipe right and get laid. I'm inspired — (Laughter, applause) I want to use tech and data to make the world a better place. I want to use it to help that girl, who texted in about  being raped by her father. Because the truth is we never heard from her again. And I hope that she is somewhere safe and healthy, and I hope that she sees this talk and she knows that her desperation and her courage inspired the creation of Crisis Text Line and inspires me every freaking day. (Applause)"	有一個我從未見過的女孩改變了我和其他數千個人的生活。我是 DoSomething.org 的執行長。這是全球數一數二為增進年輕人福祉而設立的機構。事實上，這個機構甚至比美國童軍組織還要大，而且我們不怕同性戀。 （笑聲） 事實上我們透過發簡訊和青少年交流，因為那是青少年的交流方法。所以我們今年舉辦了超過 200 場的活動，包括替食物發放處收集花生醬，或者為那些閒居在家的老人製作、發送情人節卡片。我們都透過發簡訊告訴他們。並且我們獲得了97%的打開率。這超過了西班牙裔和城市。我們收集了 20 萬罐花生醬，和超過 36.5 萬張情人節賀卡。這規模超大的。 （掌聲） 但是有一個奇怪的副作用。每次我們發出一個簡訊，我們會收到幾十條和花生醬、饑荒或老人沒有關係的簡訊，但是簡訊內容是關於被霸凌、關於沉迷毒品。我們收到最心碎的消息是：「他不停地強奸我。他是我爸爸。他叫我別告訴任何人。你在嗎？」 我們不敢相信這件事的發生。我們不敢相信那麽可怕的事情發生在人類身上，而她把這麼私密的事情分享給我們。接著我們意識到我們必須停止歸類這些事，並且建立一個危機熱線來幫助那些在痛苦中的人。所以我們非常低調地開設了危機簡訊熱線，在芝加哥和艾爾帕索，每一個的市場僅有幾千人。在四個月之後，我們遍布了全美 295 個地區。全面地來看，零行銷且快速成長的速度比臉書首次推出時還要快。 （掌聲） 簡訊是非常私密的，沒人能聽見你說話。所以每天的午餐時間簡訊量最大，當孩子們坐在餐桌邊，你認為她在發簡訊給食堂對面的男孩，但她其實是在發簡訊告訴我們她暴食症的問題。而且我們不會聽到「像」或「額」等口頭禪或者激動、大哭。我們只會收到事實。 我們收到像是「我想死。我前方的桌子上有一瓶藥。」而我們的危機顧問會說：「我們聊天的時候，妳把藥罐放進抽屜怎麽樣？」然後他們交談了一陣子。然後危機顧問讓女孩說出她的地址，因為會發簡訊求救，就表示妳想得到幫助。所以她拿到了地址後，顧問立刻啟動救援行動，同時他們繼續來回發簡訊。然後是一片沈靜 ——23分鐘裡，女孩沒有回覆。接著下一條訊息，來自她母親：「我當時在家，卻什麽也不知道，我們在救護車上，要去醫院。」身為母親，這訊息真是...下一條簡訊是一個月之後。「我剛出醫院。我被診斷出有躁鬱症，但我覺得會好起來的。」 （掌聲） 我很樂意告訴你們這種事情很不常見，但我們平均每天進行2.41次營救。30%的簡訊是關於自殺和憂鬱，這是很高的比例。危機簡訊熱線美麗的地方在於，在最私密的事情上，由陌生人諮詢其他陌生人，而且陪伴他們走出水深火熱的事件。我想告訴各位，很激動的是，我們不到兩年，就處理了 650 萬條簡訊。 （掌聲） 但是讓我最激動的，讓我真的激動的是這些數據：650萬條簡訊能夠集結成龐大、有效率、多元的資料庫。我們可以做類似預測的工作。我們可以得到各種結論並且從資料中學習。以此我們可以變得更好，世界可以更美好。所以我們要怎麽利用數據讓我們做得更好呢？好的，在座某些人，或是正在觀看的人中，很可能曾找過治療師或心理醫師。不用舉手沒關係。 （笑聲） 你怎麽知道那心理醫生好不好？哦，他們的牆上掛有哈佛大學的畢業學位嗎？你確定他不是墊底的 10% 嗎？ （笑聲） 當我和丈夫去找婚姻諮商的時候，我還以為她是天才，因為她說：「你們兩週後再過來，但是先生，你需要下週自己來。」 （笑聲） 我們有數據來知道怎麽成為好的諮商師。我們知道如果你發出「麻木」和「袖子」的字眼，99% 跟用刀自殘有關。我們知道如果你發出「毫克」和「橡皮圈」字眼，99% 跟藥物濫用有關。我們也知道如果你打出「性」、「口」、「摩門教」，你在質疑自己是不是同性戀。這是諮商師能發現的有趣資訊，但是我們手中有了演算法代表會自動跳出提示：「99% 與割傷有關——試著尋問以下問題」來提示顧問。或者「99% 與藥物濫用有關，以下三所藥物診所靠近發消息人。」它讓我們更加精確。 在羅賓·威廉姆斯自殺的那天，全國上下打爆了熱線電話。一個巨星、諧星自殺是件令人傷心的事，國內的每個熱線電話都有三個小時的等待時間。在數量上我們也有了激增。不一樣的是如果你發給我們：「我想死」或「我想自殺」，運算系統讀到時，會標上橙色，然後你就成了隊伍裡的第一個。所以我們注重嚴重程度，不是傳訊息訊進來的時間。 （掌聲） 這個數據也讓世界更美好，因為我在世界即時危機的第一線。想想看：那 650萬條簡訊，透過自然語言處理自動貼標籤，所有的數據點——我可以告訴你一週中飲食最不規律的是週一。一天中藥物濫用最嚴重的時間是早上五點。還有蒙大拿是個很美的旅遊地，但是你不會想住在那，因為那是自殺率最高的州。 我們將這些數據公開、免費和開放。我們已經將所有可識別個人的資訊拉出來，資料就放在 CrisisTends.org 的網站上。因為我想讓學校看到週一是飲食失調最差的一天，所以他們可以安排伙食，並讓諮商師在週一去學校。我還想讓家庭看到早上五點是藥物濫用猛增的時候。我想讓一些人照顧在蒙大拿的美國原住民。 （掌聲） 數據、證據能夠讓政策、研究、新聞、監控、教育委員會等，把一切變得更好。我不認為自己是精神健康的活躍人士。我認為我是國家健康活躍人士。我對這些資訊很激動，我是有點像個書呆子。是的，這聽起來太像個小女孩。我就是書呆子。 （笑聲） 我喜歡數據。然後我和那些在路邊穿著連帽衣，經營賺錢公司的人唯一的差別是，我不會用這項技術幫你在早上兩點的達拉斯找中國菜，或是讓你觸碰手腕就能立刻叫車，或者讓你往右一滑，就可以找人上床。我的動力—— （笑聲，掌聲） 我想用科技和資訊讓世界更加美好。我想用這個技術幫助那個發簡訊說被父親強奸的女孩。因為事實是我們再也沒有她的消息。我希望她不管在哪裡，都很健康安全，我希望她能看見這個演講。並且讓她知道她的絕望和勇氣激發了危機熱線的創立，而且激勵著我該死的每一天。 （掌聲）
