Talk	en	zh-tw
naomi_klein_addicted_to_risk	"I just did something I've never done before. I spent a week at sea on a research vessel. Now I'm not a scientist, but I was accompanying a remarkable scientific team from the University of South Florida who have been tracking the travels of BP's oil in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the boat we were on, by the way. The scientists I was with were not studying the effect of the oil and dispersants on the big stuff — the birds, the turtles, the dolphins, the glamorous stuff. They're looking at the really little stuff that gets eaten by the slightly less little stuff that eventually gets eaten by the big stuff. And what they're finding is that even trace amounts of oil and dispersants can be highly toxic to phytoplankton, which is very bad news, because so much life depends on it. So contrary to what we heard a few months back about how 75 percent of that oil sort of magically disappeared and we didn't have to worry about it, this disaster is still unfolding. It's still working its way up the food chain. Now this shouldn't come as a surprise to us. Rachel Carson — the godmother of modern environmentalism — warned us about this very thing back in 1962. She pointed out that the ""control men"" — as she called them — who carpet-bombed towns and fields with toxic insecticides like DDT, were only trying to kill the little stuff, the insects, not the birds. But they forgot this: the fact that birds dine on grubs, that robins eat lots of worms now saturated with DDT. And so, robin eggs failed to hatch, songbirds died en masse, towns fell silent. Thus the title ""Silent Spring."" I've been trying to pinpoint what keeps drawing me back to the Gulf of Mexico, because I'm Canadian, and I can draw no ancestral ties. And I think what it is is I don't think we have fully come to terms with the meaning of this disaster, with what it meant to witness a hole ripped in our world, with what it meant to watch the contents of the Earth gush forth on live TV, 24 hours a day, for months. After telling ourselves for so long that our tools and technology can control nature, suddenly we were face-to-face with our weakness, with our lack of control, as the oil burst out of every attempt to contain it — ""top hats,"" ""top kills"" and, most memorably, the ""junk shot"" — the bright idea of firing old tires and golf balls down that hole in the world. But even more striking than the ferocious power emanating from that well was the recklessness with which that power was unleashed — the carelessness, the lack of planning that characterized the operation from drilling to clean-up. If there is one thing BP's watery improv act made clear, it is that, as a culture, we have become far too willing to gamble with things that are precious and irreplaceable, and to do so without a back-up plan, without an exit strategy. And BP was hardly our first experience of this in recent years. Our leaders barrel into wars, telling themselves happy stories about cakewalks and welcome parades. Then, it is years of deadly damage control, Frankensteins of sieges and surges and counter-insurgencies, and once again, no exit strategy. Our financial wizards routinely fall victim to similar overconfidence, convincing themselves that the latest bubble is a new kind of market — the kind that never goes down. And when it inevitably does, the best and the brightest reach for the financial equivalent of the junk shot — in this case, throwing massive amounts of much-needed public money down a very different kind of hole. As with BP, the hole does get plugged, at least temporarily, but not before exacting a tremendous price. We have to figure out why we keep letting this happen, because we are in the midst of what may be our highest-stakes gamble of all — deciding what to do, or not to do, about climate change. Now as you know, a great deal of time is spent, in this country and around the world, inside the climate debate, on the question of, ""What if the IPC scientists are all wrong?"" Now a far more relevant question — as MIT physicist Evelyn Fox Keller puts it — is, ""What if those scientists are right?"" Given the stakes, the climate crisis clearly calls for us to act based on the precautionary principle — the theory that holds that when human health and the environment are significantly at risk and when the potential damage is irreversible, we cannot afford to wait for perfect scientific certainty. Better to err on the side of caution. More overt, the burden of proving that a practice is safe should not be placed on the public that would be harmed, but rather on the industry that stands to profit. But climate policy in the wealthy world — to the extent that such a thing exists — is not based on precaution, but rather on cost-benefit analysis — finding the course of action that economists believe will have the least impact on our GDP. So rather than asking, as precaution would demand, what can we do as quickly as possible to avoid potential catastrophe, we ask bizarre questions like this: ""What is the latest possible moment we can wait before we begin seriously lowering emissions? Can we put this off till 2020, 2030, 2050?"" Or we ask, ""How much hotter can we let the planet get and still survive? Can we go with two degrees, three degrees, or — where we're currently going — four degrees Celsius?"" And by the way, the assumption that we can safely control the Earth's awesomely complex climate system as if it had a thermostat, making the planet not too hot, not too cold, but just right — sort of Goldilocks style — this is pure fantasy, and it's not coming from the climate scientists. It's coming from the economists imposing their mechanistic thinking on the science. The fact is that we simply don't know when the warming that we create will be utterly overwhelmed by feedback loops. So once again, why do we take these crazy risks with the precious? A range of explanations may be popping into your mind by now, like ""greed."" This is a popular explanation, and there's lots of truth to it, because taking big risks, as we all know, pays a lot of money. Another explanation that you often hear for recklessness is hubris. And greed and hubris are intimately intertwined when it comes to recklessness. For instance, if you happen to be a 35-year-old banker taking home 100 times more than a brain surgeon, then you need a narrative, you need a story that makes that disparity okay. And you actually don't have a lot of options. You're either an incredibly good scammer, and you're getting away with it — you gamed the system — or you're some kind of boy genius, the likes of which the world has never seen. Now both of these options — the boy genius and the scammer — are going to make you vastly overconfident and therefore more prone to taking even bigger risks in the future. By the way, Tony Hayward, the former CEO of BP, had a plaque on his desk inscribed with this inspirational slogan: ""What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail?"" Now this is actually a popular plaque, and this is a crowd of overachievers, so I'm betting that some of you have this plaque. Don't feel ashamed. Putting fear of failure out of your mind can be a very good thing if you're training for a triathlon or preparing to give a TEDTalk, but personally, I think people with the power to detonate our economy and ravage our ecology would do better having a picture of Icarus hanging from the wall, because — maybe not that one in particular — but I want them thinking about the possibility of failure all of the time. So we have greed, we've got overconfidence/hubris, but since we're here at TEDWomen, let's consider one other factor that could be contributing in some small way to societal recklessness. Now I'm not going to belabor this point, but studies do show that, as investors, women are much less prone to taking reckless risks than men, precisely because, as we've already heard, women tend not to suffer from overconfidence in the same way that men do. So it turns out that being paid less and praised less has its upsides — for society at least. The flipside of this is that constantly being told that you are gifted, chosen and born to rule has distinct societal downsides. And this problem — call it the ""perils of privilege"" — brings us closer, I think, to the root of our collective recklessness. Because none of us — at least in the global North — neither men nor women, are fully exempt from this message. Here's what I'm talking about. Whether we actively believe them or consciously reject them, our culture remains in the grips of certain archetypal stories about our supremacy over others and over nature — the narrative of the newly discovered frontier and the conquering pioneer, the narrative of manifest destiny, the narrative of apocalypse and salvation. And just when you think these stories are fading into history, and that we've gotten over them, they pop up in the strangest places. For instance, I stumbled across this advertisement outside the women's washroom in the Kansas City airport. It's for Motorola's new Rugged cell phone, and yes, it really does say, ""Slap Mother Nature in the face."" And I'm not just showing it to pick on Motorola — that's just a bonus. I'm showing it because — they're not a sponsor, are they? — because, in its own way, this is a crass version of our founding story. We slapped Mother Nature around and won, and we always win, because dominating nature is our destiny. But this is not the only fairytale we tell ourselves about nature. There's another one, equally important, about how that very same Mother Nature is so nurturing and so resilient that we can never make a dent in her abundance. Let's hear from Tony Hayward again. ""The Gulf of Mexico is a very big ocean. The amount of oil and dispersants that we are putting into it is tiny in relation to the total water volume."" In other words, the ocean is big; she can take it. It is this underlying assumption of limitlessness that makes it possible to take the reckless risks that we do. Because this is our real master-narrative: however much we mess up, there will always be more — more water, more land, more untapped resources. A new bubble will replace the old one. A new technology will come along to fix the messes we made with the last one. In a way, that is the story of the settling of the Americas, the supposedly inexhaustible frontier to which Europeans escaped. And it's also the story of modern capitalism, because it was the wealth from this land that gave birth to our economic system, one that cannot survive without perpetual growth and an unending supply of new frontiers. Now the problem is that the story was always a lie. The Earth always did have limits. They were just beyond our sights. And now we are hitting those limits on multiple fronts. I believe that we know this, yet we find ourselves trapped in a kind of narrative loop. Not only do we continue to tell and retell the same tired stories, but we are now doing so with a frenzy and a fury that, frankly, verges on camp. How else to explain the cultural space occupied by Sarah Palin? Now on the one hand, exhorting us to ""drill, baby, drill,"" because God put those resources into the ground in order for us to exploit them, and on the other, glorying in the wilderness of Alaska's untouched beauty on her hit reality TV show. The twin message is as comforting as it is mad. Ignore those creeping fears that we have finally hit the wall. There are still no limits. There will always be another frontier. So stop worrying and keep shopping. Now, would that this were just about Sarah Palin and her reality TV show. In environmental circles, we often hear that, rather than shifting to renewables, we are continuing with business as usual. This assessment, unfortunately, is far too optimistic. The truth is that we have already exhausted so much of the easily accessible fossil fuels that we have already entered a far riskier business era, the era of extreme energy. So that means drilling for oil in the deepest water, including the icy Arctic seas, where a clean-up may simply be impossible. It means large-scale hydraulic fracking for gas and massive strip-mining operations for coal, the likes of which we haven't yet seen. And most controversially, it means the tar sands. I'm always surprised by how little people outside of Canada know about the Alberta Tar Sands, which this year are projected to become the number one source of imported oil to the United States. It's worth taking a moment to understand this practice, because I believe it speaks to recklessness and the path we're on like little else. So this is where the tar sands live, under one of the last magnificent Boreal forests. The oil is not liquid. You can't just drill a hole and pump it out. Tar sand's oil is solid, mixed in with the soil. So to get at it, you first have to get rid of the trees. Then, you rip off the topsoil and get at that oily sand. The process requires a huge amount of water, which is then pumped into massive toxic tailing ponds. That's very bad news for local indigenous people living downstream who are reporting alarmingly high cancer rates. Now looking at these images, it's difficult to grasp the scale of this operation, which can already be seen from space and could grow to an area the size of England. I find it helps actually to look at the dump trucks that move the earth, the largest ever built. That's a person down there by the wheel. My point is that this is not oil drilling. It's not even mining. It is terrestrial skinning. Vast, vivid landscapes are being gutted, left monochromatic gray. Now I should confess that as [far as] I'm concerned this would be an abomination if it emitted not one particle of carbon. But the truth is that, on average, turning that gunk into crude oil produces about three times more greenhouse gas pollution than it does to produce conventional oil in Canada. How else to describe this, but as a form of mass insanity? Just when we know we need to be learning to live on the surface of our planet, off the power of sun, wind and waves, we are frantically digging to get at the dirtiest, highest-emitting stuff imaginable. This is where our story of endless growth has taken us, to this black hole at the center of my country — a place of such planetary pain that, like the BP gusher, one can only stand to look at it for so long. As Jared Diamond and others have shown us, this is how civilizations commit suicide, by slamming their foot on the accelerator at the exact moment when they should be putting on the brakes. The problem is that our master-narrative has an answer for that too. At the very last minute, we are going to get saved just like in every Hollywood movie, just like in the Rapture. But, of course, our secular religion is technology. Now, you may have noticed more and more headlines like these. The idea behind this form of ""geoengineering"" as it's called, is that, as the planet heats up, we may be able to shoot sulfates and aluminum particles into the stratosphere to reflect some of the sun's rays back to space, thereby cooling the planet. The wackiest plan — and I'm not making this up — would put what is essentially a garden hose 18-and-a-half miles high into the sky, suspended by balloons, to spew sulfur dioxide. So, solving the problem of pollution with more pollution. Think of it as the ultimate junk shot. The serious scientists involved in this research all stress that these techniques are entirely untested. They don't know if they'll work, and they have no idea what kind of terrifying side effects they could unleash. Nevertheless, the mere mention of geoengineering is being greeted in some circles, particularly media circles, with a relief tinged with euphoria. An escape hatch has been reached. A new frontier has been found. Most importantly, we don't have to change our lifestyles after all. You see, for some people, their savior is a guy in a flowing robe. For other people, it's a guy with a garden hose. We badly need some new stories. We need stories that have different kinds of heroes willing to take different kinds of risks — risks that confront recklessness head on, that put the precautionary principle into practice, even if that means through direct action — like hundreds of young people willing to get arrested, blocking dirty power plants or fighting mountaintop-removal coal mining. We need stories that replace that linear narrative of endless growth with circular narratives that remind us that what goes around comes around. That this is our only home. There is no escape hatch. Call it karma, call it physics, action and reaction, call it precaution — the principle that reminds us that life is too precious to be risked for any profit. Thank you. (Applause)"	我剛完成一件從未做過的事我乘上一艄調查船，在海上待了一個星期我並非科學家但有一個優秀的科學家團隊與我同行團隊成員來自南弗羅里達大學他們正在追踪BP原油在墨西哥灣的流向這就是我們所乘坐的那艘船與我同行的科學團隊並非研究原油及散油劑對大型生物的影響像是對鳥類、烏龜、海豚、其它美麗生物的影響而是研究原油對微生物的影響較小的生物會吃掉微型生物小型生物最終會被大型生物吃掉他們的研究顯示極微量的原油或散油劑對浮游植物來說都是劇毒這是個很糟的消息因為很多生物都以浮游植物為生所以不同於我們數月前聽到的-也就是75%的原油神奇似的消失了我們用不著再擔心-事實上，災難還在持續擴散災難正沿著食物鏈向上延伸我們不該以此感到訝異瑞秋．卡森現代環保之母很早就警告過我們早在1962年之時卡森指出她稱為環境控制者的人污染了城鎮及田野的各個角落他們噴灑DDT之類的毒性殺蟲劑是為了除掉昆蟲之類的小型生物本非為了除掉鳥類但他們忘了：鳥類以幼蟲為食知更鳥所吃下的蚯蚓體內都累積了大量DDT結果導致知更鳥的蛋無法孵化歌聲悠揚的鳥兒大量死亡城鎮因而變得安靜因此卡森寫書名為《寂靜的春天》我一直試圖解釋是什麼不斷吸引我回到墨西哥灣我是加拿大人祖先並非來自墨西哥灣我想自己不斷回來是因為我認為大家尚未真正理解這場災難的影響親見大地被撕裂究竟代表什麼看見原油從地底衝出在電視上被實況轉播每天24小時數月如此，究竟代表什麼長久以來，我們告訴自己工具及科技可以控制大自然突然之間，我們必須面對自己的軟弱我們束手無策看著原油由地底衝出就算用盡方法也無法阻止油漏-試圖「蓋頂」、「封頂」以及最讓人難忘的，投擲「垃圾彈」—這個天才法子要發射廢棄輪胎及高爾夫球堵住地底的漏洞但比起那股由地底上衝的力量更加駭人的是人們的魯莽、輕率輕率所帶來的是粗心大意、缺乏計劃計劃整個草率進行從鑽油到清理油污都是如此如果我們從 BP缺乏實質的改進計劃學到些什麼那就是，在現今的文化下我們總是肆無忌憚地下注賭的是我們最寶貴的資產無法替代的資產但我們並沒有後備計劃也沒有退出策略此外，BP事件也並非近年來的首見我們的領袖一頭鑽進戰爭卻用美好的故事自我催眠想像著閱兵儀式及迎軍遊行但接下來卻是數年的災害控制無數城鎮被封鎖，各地興起反叛勢力只得再次鎮壓反叛勢力同樣，我們沒有退出的策略而聰明的金融界人士，一再地因過度自信而失腳他們一再說服自己，這次的泡沫代表一種新型市場而這新的市場絕不會垮直到泡沫化真的發生那些最優秀、最聰明的人求助於金融界的「垃圾彈」—意即，要將大眾急需的公款大量投擲到一個很不一樣的漏洞與 BP 一樣，洞是被封住了至少暫時封住了但至此已付出巨額代價我們必須想想清楚為何讓同樣的事一再發生因為現今所處的時期要求我們拿出或許是最高額的賭注：決定要對氣候變遷做什麼，或不做什麼如你所知美國以及世界各國已花了許多時間討論氣候議題也不斷在問，如果政府間氣候變遷小組的科學家都錯了呢？再說一個更為要緊的問題—就是 MIT 物理學家 Evelyn Fox Keller 所問的 —若是氣候變遷科學家都說對了呢？由於影響深遠，針對氣候問題我們必須立即採取行動行動應本於預防為主的原則上預防原則說當人類健康及環境受到極大威脅且潛在的傷害將無法逆轉時我們就不能等待—期待見到科學確據才行動寧可謹慎也不要後悔再來，談到舉證責任一項行動是否安全不該由可能受行動傷害的公眾來證明而應該由可能從中獲利的產業來證明但富裕世界的氣候政策 —如果這政策真的存在的話 —並不是基於預防原則而是基於成本效益分析 —所尋找的行動方案，是經濟學家認為對國家生產總額影響最小的方案因此不像預防原則所問的我們可以儘快採取那些行動以預防可能的災難我們反而問奇怪的問題，像是：現狀最久可以維持到什麼時候然後才需要認真的降低排放量？可以維持到20202030, 2050?或著我們會問：地球溫度還可上升幾度而人類可同時存活？可再加上2度、3度，或是—現在是說—可再上升4度？順便一提我們假設自己可以安全地控制地球絕妙複雜的氣候系統好似地球有個恆溫器可將它調整到不太熱、不太冷剛剛好的溫度、恰好適合居住的溫度這純粹是幻想這種想法並非出自氣候科學家而是來自於經濟學家經濟學家將機械性的思考運用於科學上事實是我們根本不知道我們所造成的暖化何時會因為循環作用使得地球無法負荷所以我再問為何我們拿最寶貴的東西下這場賭注呢？一連串的解釋可能正從你腦海中冒出像是貪婪許多人都如此解釋，而當中也不乏道理因為我們都知道，承擔極大風險會帶來極大的利益大家常為輕率所做的另一個解釋是傲慢貪婪以及傲慢兩者時常如影隨形特別是在談到輕率之時例如，如果你恰巧是一位35歲的銀行家所賺取的收入是腦外科醫師的100倍之多那你就需要使用敘事技巧並需要一個故事讓收入差距合理化而事實上，你沒有太多選擇你要不是技術高超的騙子厲害到可以瞞天過海、掌握全局要不就最好是個天才小子且是全世界都沒見過的那種而這兩種呢—天才或騙子—都會讓你變得過分自信也因此更有可能在未來冒更大的風險順帶一提，BP 的前總裁東尼．海沃德在他桌上有一銘牌上面刻了這段引人發省的標語：「如果你知道自己不會失敗，那你會嘗試做什麼事？」這銘牌倒是挺流行的喜歡的人各個野心勃勃我猜你們當中也有人有這銘牌別感到羞愧將害怕失敗的心情拋諸腦後可以是一件好事像是當你在接受鐵人三項之時或當你在準備 TEDTalk 之時但我個人認為，這些人擁有強大權利可以對經濟及生態造成破壞他們的牆上若有伊卡魯斯的畫像或許會成就更好的事因為—未必一定要掛伊卡魯斯的畫像—但我要他們想想失敗的可能性無論何時都想到那可能性所以我們都同意我們都變得過分自信/傲慢但既然我們來參與 TEDWomen可以一同想想有什麼做法或許可以貢獻一點微小力量來抗衡社會的輕率魯莽接下來這點，我不會說明過多不過據研究顯示，同為投資人女性比起男性較少輕率地冒風險這是因為，就如我們所知的女性不會像男性那樣過度地自我膨脹所以我們發現獲得較少的薪資及讚美其實是有好處的—至少對社會而言是如此反之不斷聽到他人對你說你有天賦，是萬中選一的人才生來就要統御他人這種說法對社會有害且會產生問題—稱其為特權的危害—但我認為，也會讓我們了解眾人行為輕率的根本原因因為我們當中所有人—至少在北半球—不管男女多少都受自我吹捧的言辭影響我所要談的就是這個不管我們是相信自我吹捧的言辭或有意識的拒絕我們的文化依舊相信一些典型的故事當中講述我們如何優秀比他人或大自然還要優秀故事講述一個新天新地由拓荒者所征服這是一個關於天命的故事關於末日與救贖的故事當你以為故事已淡入歷史已被人遺忘時故事又在意想不到的地方跳出例如，我有次看到這則廣告廣告在堪薩斯市機場女性洗手間的外面廣告在主打摩托羅拉Rugged系列新款手機而沒錯，廣告上寫著甩大地之母一巴掌我提出來不是要挑摩托羅拉的錯不過是順帶指出錯誤我提出廣告是因為—他們不是這場演講的贊助商吧？是因為，某方面來說這則廣告是我們故事的簡易版本我們甩了大地之母一巴掌然後贏了我們總是勝利因為征服大自然是我們的命運但關於大自然的神話，我們說的還不僅於此還有另一個，也不可忽視我們說同樣那位大地之母慷慨養育眾生，又能迅速復原我們不可能減損其豐盛富足我們再聽聽BP老闆東尼．海沃德說的話「墨西哥灣的幅員廣闊原油以及我們所注入的散油劑相對整體水量，顯得微不足道」換句話說，海洋很大她承受得住有這種短視近利的假設才會使得我們輕率地去冒風險真正主宰我們的故事，如此敘述：不過我們怎麼亂搞總是有更多資源等著有更多水、更多土地更多為開發的資源新的泡沫會取代舊的新的科技會出現整頓我們使用舊科技所造成的混亂從某方面來說，這故事就是創建美洲大陸的故事美洲應該是不會衰敗的新天地歐洲人因此逃來此地這故事也是現代資本主義的故事因為從大地而出的財富造就了我們的經濟系統此系統若不持續成長若沒有新天地的無限供應便無法存續但問題是這故事從來都是個謊言地球一直以來都有其限制只是我們看不到而已但現在我們已來到臨界點在許多方面皆如此我想大家都明白目前的處境卻發現自己困在某種敘事的輪迴當中我們不僅不停複述同樣的故事我們還狂熱地將其付諸實踐甚至將其誇張化否則我們該怎麼解釋莎拉．裴林佔領文化界的情形一方面，她唆使大家鑽油吧寶貝，鑽！因為上帝將資源藏至地底就是要讓我們去榨取另一方面，在她受歡迎的真人秀上斐林大讚阿拉斯加人跡罕至的野性之美矛盾的訊息既瘋狂又慰撫人心叫我們忽略潛伏的恐懼忘記我們已走到盡頭告訴自己沒有極限永遠有新的天地所以不要擔憂，繼續購物如果這只是莎拉．斐林及她的真人秀就好了在環保的圈子當中多數時候，我們非但沒有永續方案反而持續舊有方法不幸的是，就算如此也過於樂觀事實是我們已經用盡容易取得的石化燃料我們已經開始更危險的交易進入極端能源的時代這表示我們往最深的水域鑽油包括在冰冷的極地海域鑽油要在那裡清理油污，幾乎是不可能的為了天然氣，採用大規模水力破裂法為了煤碳，開始大規模露天開採規模之大，前所未見爭議更多的，是開採焦油砂加拿大之外的人對艾伯塔省的焦油砂，所知甚少我對此感到訝異從焦油砂提煉出的油預計在今年，成為美國進口石油的主要來源我們該花點時間，了解開採過程因為我認為，沒有比過程本身更能看出我們的輕率以及我們所選擇的道路這就是焦油砂的所在地位在世界最後一片美麗的北方森林之下重油並非液態無法透過鑽洞、抽油的方式焦油砂的油是固態的當中混著泥砂要獲得焦油砂首先得砍掉所有的樹接著挖開表土然後才開採油膩的砂石開採過程要用到大量的水之後將水排到大型、有毒的礦渣池對住在當地下游的原住民來說這是件壞事他們得癌的機率十分驚人現在看看這些影像其作業規模超乎想像從外太空都看得到範圍可能達到英國那樣的大小我發現，看那用來搬運砂石的卡車有助於了解其規模這是有史以來最大的卡車輪子下邊是一個人我要說的是這不是在鑽油甚至不是在採礦這是在破壞地表幅員廣闊的地貌被掏空剩下單調的灰色我承認自己很擔心就算這過程不會造成碳排放開採還是會令人厭惡而事實是，平均而言由焦油砂提煉重油在加拿大會比傳統的產油方式排放三倍的溫室氣體該怎麼說呢？只能說是集體瘋狂就在我們剛了解到必須依賴地表資源依賴陽光、風力、潮汐而活時我們卻瘋狂地挖掘，要獲得我們想到最髒、污染度最高的東西這就是無盡的成長所帶我們來到的地方一個位在家鄉中心的黑洞一個行星的傷痛就像BP的漏油讓人不忍卒睹如作家賈德．戴蒙及其他人告訴我們的文明就是如此走向毀滅就在我們該踩剎車之時我們卻在那一刻大力踩下油門問題是我們的故事主線卻也為此行為圓場：我們會在最後一刻被救起就像在所有好萊塢電影裡或像在末日被提升天一樣當然，我們俗世的信仰是科技你可能已經發現有越來越多頭條像這些地球工程這個名稱背後的想法是當地球溫度升高時我們也許能將硫化物及鋁分子注入到平流層可以將部分陽光反射回外太空讓地球降溫最瘋狂的計劃 —而這不是我編的—是將18.5英里長的水管利用氣球支撐伸入高空噴灑二氧化硫製造更多污染，以解決污染問題可以把它視作終極的「垃圾彈」真正參與研究的科學家都強調這項技術未經證實他們不知道是否真正有效他們也不知道會帶出什麼可怕的副作用儘管如此，光是提出地球工程就被一些圈子特別是媒體圈以欣喜之心接受好似找到了逃生出口找到了新天新地更重要的是我們不用改變生活形態你得知道，對某些人來說他們的救主穿著一件袍子對其他人而言，是個拿著水管的傢伙我們亟需新的故事我們需要有不同英雄這些英雄要能承擔不同風險—能夠對付輕率的風險確實採取預防措施就算要採取直接行動，也會去行就像有上百位年輕人被逮捕因為他們圍堵高污染的發電廠或阻止在山頂開採煤礦我們需要新的故事取代無盡成長的線性敘事開始循環的敘事方式提醒我們因果循環不斷這是我們唯一的家沒有逃生出口稱之為因緣也好，物理也好作用力與反作用力，或稱為謹慎預防這些原則提醒我們生命太寶貴不值得為利益去冒風險謝謝（掌聲）
