Talk	en	zh-tw
natalie_jeremijenko_the_art_of_the_eco_mindshift	"I was informed by this kind of unoriginal and trite idea that new technologies were an opportunity for social transformation, which is what drove me then, and still, it's a delusion that drives me now. I wanted to update what I've been doing since then — but it's still the same theme song — and introduce you to my lab and current work, which is the Environmental Health Clinic that I run at NYU. And what it is — it's a twist on health. Because, really, what I'm trying to do now is redefine what counts as health. It's a clinic like a health clinic at any other university, except people come to the clinic with environmental health concerns, and they walk out with prescriptions for things they can do to improve environmental health, as opposed to coming to a clinic with medical concerns and walking out with prescriptions for pharmaceuticals. It's a handy-dandy quote from Hippocrates of the Hippocratic oath that says, ""The greater part of the soul lays outside the body, treatment of the inner requires treatment of the outer."" But that suggests the issue that I'm trying to get at here, that we have an opportunity to redefine what is health. Because this idea that health is internal and atomized and individual and pharmaceutical is largely an error. And I would use this study, a recent study by Philip Landrigan, to motivate a different view of health, where he went to most of the pediatricians in Manhattan and the New York area and logged what they spent their patient hours on. 80 to 90 percent of their time was spent on five things. Number one was asthma, number two was developmental delays, number three was 400-fold increases in rare childhood cancers in the last eight to 10, 15 years. Number four and five were childhood obesity and diabetes-related issues. So all of those — what's common about all of those? The environment is implicated, radically implicated, right. This is not the germs that medicos were trained to deal with; this is a different definition of health, health that has a great advantage because it's external, it's shared, we can do something about it, as opposed to internal, genetically predetermined or individualized. People who come to the clinic are called, not patients, but impatients, because they're too impatient to wait for legislative change to address local and environmental health issues. And I meet them at the University, I also have a few field offices that I set up in various places that provide an immersion in some of the environmental challenges we face. I like this one from the Belgian field office, where we met in a roundabout, precisely because the roundabout iconified the headless social movement that informs much social transformation, as opposed to the top-down control of red light traffic intersections. In this case, of course, the roundabout with that micro-decisions being made in situ by people not being told what to do. But, of course, affords greater throughput, fewer accidents, and an interesting model of social movement. Some of the things that the monitoring protocols have developed: this is the tadpole bureaucrat protocol, or keeping tabs, if you will. What they are is an addition of tadpoles that are named after a local bureaucrat whose decisions affect your water quality. So an impatient concerned for water quality would raise a tadpole bureaucrat in a sample of water in which they're interested. And we give them a couple of things to do that, to help them do companion animal devices while they're blogging and doing their email. This is a tadpole walker to take your tadpole walking in the evening. And the interesting thing that happens — because we're using tadpoles, of course, because they have the most exquisite biosenses that we have, several orders of magnitude more sensitive than some of our senses for sensing, responding in a biologically meaningful way, to that whole class of industrial contaminants we call endocrine disruptors or hormone emulators. But by taking your tadpole out for a walk in the evening — there's a few action shots — your neighbors are likely to say, ""What are you doing?"" And then you have to introduce your tadpole and who it's named after. You have to explain what you're doing and how the developmental events of a tadpole are, of course, very observable and they use the same T3-mediated hormones that we do. And so next time your neighbor sees you they'll say, ""How is that tadpole doing?"" And you can let them social network with your tadpole, because the Environmental Health Clinic has a social networking site for, not only impatients, humans, but non-humans, social networking for humans and non-humans. And of course, these endocrine disruptors are things that are implicated in the breast cancer epidemic, the obesity epidemic, the two and a half year drop in the average age of onset of puberty in young girls and other related things. The culmination of this is if you've successfully raised your tadpole, observing the behavioral and developmental events, you will then go and introduce your tadpole to its namesake and discuss the evidence that you've seen. Another quick protocol — and I'm going to go through these quickly, but just to give you the material sense of what we're doing here — instead of asking you for urine samples, I'll ask you for a mouse sample. Anyone here lucky enough to share, to cohabit with a mouse — a domestic partnership with mice? Very lucky. Mice, of course, are the quintessential model organism. They're even better models of environmental health, because not only the same mammalian biology, but they share your diet, largely. They share your environmental stressors, the asbestos levels and lead levels, whatever you're exposed to. And they're geographically more limited than you are, because we don't know if you've been exposed to persistent organic pollutants in your home, or occupationally or as a child. Mice are a very good representation. So it starts by building a better mousetrap, of course. This is one of them. Coping with environmental stressors is tricky. Is anybody here on antidepressants? (Laughter) There's a lot of people in Manhattan are. And we were testing if the mice would also self-administer SSRIs. So this was Prozac, this was Zoloft, this was a black jellybean and this was muscle relaxant, all of which were the medications that the impatient was taking. So do you think the mice self-administered antidepressants? What's the — (Audience: Sure. Yes.) How did you know that? They did. This was vodka and solution, gin and solution. This guy also liked plain water and the muscle relaxant. Where's our expert? Vodka, gin — (Audience: [unclear]) Yes. Yes. You know your mice well. They did, yes. So they drank as much vodka as they did plain water, which was interesting. Then of course, it goes into the entrapment device. There's an old cellphone in there — a good use for old cellphones — which dials the clinic, we go and pick up the mouse. We take the blood sample and do the blood work and hair work on the mice. And I want to sort of point out the big advantage of framing health in this external way. But we do have a few prescription products through this. It's very different from the medical model. Anything you do to improve your water quality or air quality, or to understand it or to change it, the benefits are enjoyed by anyone you share that water quality or air quality with. And that aggregating effect, that collective action effect, is actually something we can use to our advantage. So I want to show you one prescription product in the clinic called the No Park. This is a prescription to improve water quality. Many impatients are very concerned for water quality and air quality. What we do is we take a fire hydrant, a ""no parking"" space associated with a fire hydrant, and we prescribe the removal of the asphalt to create an engineered micro landscape, to create an infiltration opportunity. Because, many of you will know, that the biggest pollution burden that we have on the New York, New Jersey harbor right now is no longer the point sources, no longer the big polluters, no longer the GEs, but that massive network of roads, [those] impervious surfaces, that collect all that cadmium neurotoxin that comes from your brake liners or the oily hydrocarbon waste in every single storm event and medieval infrastructure washes it straight into the estuary system. That doesn't do a lot of good. These are little opportunities to intercept those pollutants before they enter the harbor, and they're produced by impatients on various city blocks in some very interesting ways. I just want to say it was sort of a rule of thumb though, there's about two or three fire hydrants on every city block. By creating engineered micro landscapes to infiltrate in them, we don't prevent them from being used as emergency vehicle parking spaces, because, of course, a firetruck can come and park there. They flatten a few plants. No big deal, they'll regenerate. But if we did this in every single — every fire hydrant we could redefine the emergency. That 99 percent of the time when a firetruck is not parking there, it's infiltrating pollutants. It's also increasing fixing CO2s, sequestering some of the airborne pollutants. And aggregated, these smaller interceptions could actually infiltrate all the roadborne pollution that now runs into the estuary system, up to a seven inch rain event, up to a hundred-year storm. So these are small actions that can amount to a significant effect to improve local environmental health. This is one of the more ambitious ones. What the climate crisis has revealed to us is a secondary, more insidious and more pervasive crisis, which is the crisis of agency, which is what to do. Somehow buying a local lettuce, changing a light bulb, driving the speed limit, changing your tires regularly, doesn't seem sufficient in the face of climate crisis. And this is an interesting icon that happened — you remember these: fallout shelters. What is the fallout shelter for the climate crisis? This was civic mobilization. Churches, school groups, hospitals, private residents — everyone built one of these in a matter of months. And they still remain as icons of civic response in the face of shared, uncertain, collective threat. Fallout shelter for the climate crisis, I would say, looks something like this, or this, which is an intensive urban agriculture facility that's due to go on my lab building at NYU. What it does is a very simple idea of taking — 80 to 90 percent of the CO2 produced in Manhattan is building related — we take, just like a commercial greenhouse, we take the CO2 from the building — CO2-enriched air — we force it through the urban agriculture facility, and then we resupply oxygen-enriched air. You can't actually build much on a roof, they're not designed for that. So it's on legs, so it focuses all the load on the masonry walls and the columns. It's built as a barn raising, using open source hardware. This is the quarter-scale prototype that was functioning in Spain. This is what it will look like, fingers crossed, NYU willing. And what I want to show you is — actually this is one of the components of it that we've just recently been testing — which is a solar chimney — we have got 17 of them now put around New York at the moment — that passively draws air up. You understand a solar chimney. Hot air rises. You put a bit of black plastic on the side of a building, it'll heat up, and you'll get passive airflow. What we do is actually put a standard HVAC filter on the top of that. That actually removes about 95 percent of the carbon black, that stuff that, with ozone, is responsible for about half of global warming's effects, because it changes, it settles on the snow, it changes the reflectors, it changes the transmission qualities of the atmosphere. Carbon black is that grime that otherwise lodges in your pretty pink lungs, and it's associated with. It's not good stuff, and it's from inefficient combustion, not from combustion itself. When we put it through our solar chimney, we remove actually about 95 percent of that. And then I swap it out with the students and actually re-release that carbon black. And we make pencils the length of which measures the grime that we've pulled out of the air. Here's one of them that we have up now. Here's who put them up and who are avid pencil users. Okay, so I want to show you just two more interfaces, because I think one of our big challenges is re-imagining our relationship to natural systems, not only through this model of twisted personalized health, but through the animals with whom we cohabit. We are not alone; the animals are moving in. In fact, urban migration now describes the movement of animals formerly known as wild into urban centers. You know, coyote in Central Park, a whale in the Gowanus Canal, elk in Westchester County. It's happening all over the Developed World, probably for loss of habitat, but also because our cities are a little bit more livable than they have been. And every green space we create is an invitation for non-humans to cohabit with us. But we've kind of lacked imagination in how we could do that well or interestingly. And I want to show you a few of the technological interfaces that have been developed under the moniker of OOZ — which is zoo backwards and without cages — to try and reform that relationship. This is communication technology for birds. It looks like this. When a bird lands on it, they trigger a sound file. This is actually in the Whitney Museum, where there were six of them, each of which had a different argument on it, different sound file. They said things like this. (Whistling) Recorded Voice: Here's what you need to do. Go down there and buy some of those health food bars, the ones you call bird food, and bring it here and scatter it around. There's a good person. Natalie Jeremijenko: Okay. (Laugher) So there was several of these. The birds were able to jump from one to the other. These are just your average urban pigeon. And an early test which argument elicited cooperative behavior from the people below — about a hundred to one decided that this was the argument that worked best on us. Recorded Voice: Tick, tick, tick. That's the sound of genetic mutations of the avian flu becoming a deadly human flu. Do you know what slows it down? Healthy sub-populations of birds, increasing biodiversity generally. It is in your interests that I'm healthy, happy, well-fed. Hence, you could share some of your nutritional resources instead of monopolizing them. That is, share your lunch. (Laughter) NJ: It worked, and it's true. The final project I'd like to show you is a new interface for fish that has just been launched — it's actually officially launched next week — with a wonderful commission from the Architectural League. You may not have known that you need to communicate with fish, but there is now a device for you to do so. It looks like this: buoys that float on the water, project three foot up, three foot down. When a fish swims underneath, a light goes on. This is what it looks like. So there's another function on here. This top light is — I'm sorry if I'm making you seasick — this top light is actually a water quality display that shifts from red, when the dissolved oxygen is low, to a blue/green, when its dissolved oxygen is high. And then you can also text the fish. So there's business cards down there that'll give you contact details. And they text back. When the buoys get your text, they wink at you twice to say, we've got your message. But perhaps the most popular has been that we've got another array of these boys in the Bronx River, where the first beaver — crazy as he is — to have moved in and built a lodge in New York in 250 years, hangs out. So updates from a beaver. You can subscribe to updates from him. You can talk to him. And what I like to think of is this is an interface that re-scripts how we interact with natural systems, specifically by changing who has information, where they have it, who can make sense of that information, and what you can do about it. In this case, instead of throwing chewing gum, or Doritos or whatever you have in your pocket at the fish — There's a body of water in Iceland that I've been dealing with that's in the middle of the city, and the largest pollution burden on it is not the roadborne pollution, it's actually white bread from people feeding the fish and the birds. Instead of doing that actually, we've developed some fish sticks that you can feed the fish. They're delicious. They're cross-species delicious that is, delicious for humans and non-humans. But they also have a chelating agent in them. They're nutritionally appropriate, not like Doritos. And so every time that desire to interact with the animals, which is at least as ubiquitous as that sign: ""Do not feed the animals."" And there's about three of them on every New York City park. And Yellowstone National Park, there's more ""do not feed the animals"" signs than there are animals you might wish to feed. But in that action, that interaction, by re-scripting that, by changing it into an opportunity to offer food that is nutritionally appropriate, that could augment the nutritional resources that we ourselves have depleted for augmenting the fish population and also adding chelating agent, which, like any chelating agent that we use medicinally, binds to the bioaccumulated heavy metals and PCBs that are in the fish living in this particular habitat and allows them to pass it out as a harmless salt where it's complexed by a reactive, effectively removing it from bioavailability. But I wanted to say that interaction, re-scripting that interaction, into collective action, collective remediative action, very different from the approach that's being used on the other side on the Hudson River, where we're dredging the PCBs — after 30 years of legislative and legal struggle, GE's paying for the dredging of the largest Superfund site in the world — we're dredging it, and it'll probably get shipped off to Pennsylvania or the nearest Third World country, where it will continue to be toxic sludge. Displacement is not the way to deal with environmental issues. And that's typically the paradigm under which we've operated. By actually taking the opportunity that new technologies, new interactive technologies, present to re-script our interactions, to script them, not just as isolated, individuated interactions, but as collective aggregating actions that can amount to something, we can really begin to address some of our important environmental challenges. Thank you. (Applause)"	我被灌輸這種老生常談的想法那就是，新興科技能成為社會變革的新契機這個想法驅使著我直到現在，它依舊是驅使我不斷前進的目標我想向你們報告這段期間有什麼新進展不過依舊是老樣子 —我要向你們介紹我的實驗室，以及正在進行的研究這是我在紐約大學所主持的環境健康門診而它是 — 它是健康概念的扭轉因為，真的，我正在努力嘗試的就是重新定義什麼才是真正的健康這個門診就像是其他大學的健康門診一樣只不過人們來看診時是想解決環境健康的擔憂他們走出診所，拿到的是改善環境健康的處方而非一般生病了去看診然後帶著藥方離開 在「醫師就職宣言」的作者，醫學之父Hippocrates，曾說過一句簡潔有用的話，他說：「靈魂最珍貴的部份，是依附在身體以外的環境，治療身體的內在，須先診治身體外在的環境。」這句話其實暗示了今天我想要討論的主題也就是，我們需要重新定義何謂健康因為相信健康是內裡的微小的、個人的藥物的這樣的想法犯了很嚴重的錯誤我將藉由一項研究，Philip Landrigan最近所做的這項研究來引發一種不同觀點來看待「健康」他拜訪了曼哈頓和紐約的許多小兒科醫生記錄他們遇到的病人類型發現診療的八成到九成時間是在處理下列五項事情第一個是氣喘第二個是發育遲緩第三個是近十年到十五年期間呈400倍成長的罕見兒童癌症第四名和第五名分別是兒童肥胖及糖尿病相關症狀以上所講五點，共通之處是什麼?環境的因素都牽涉其中，息息相關這並不是那些病菌需要我們用藥物治療來對付這已經是不同的健康範疇了這其實有莫大的優勢因為它是外顯的、共通的我們就更能做些什麼而不是當它是內在的、先天的或是個人的毛病 我們不應該把來門診看病的人們稱作patients (病人/有耐心)應該是impatients (不耐煩患者)因為他們都等不及立法上的改變等不及立法開始以外在環境理解健康議題我在大學校園裡和他們碰頭，我在校園中設立了幾個調查所深入調查我們所共同面對的環境問題我很喜歡這個比利時的調查所，這裡有一個圓環型的交通設計圓環交通就像是無人帶頭領導的社會運動這是一種社會轉變不同於被動跟隨紅綠燈指揮的十字路口當然，在這樣的圓環中人們細微的決定都取決於當下即時的臨場反應而不是被號誌指示該怎麼做不過，理所當然地，它能承擔更大的交通運量更少的交通意外同時，這也是個有趣的社運模式。 我們研發出一些自我監測秩序的系統：這是一個「從蝌蚪看政府」的模式或是你也可以稱之為「監督行動」這個做法是，在水中加入蝌蚪並將其以當地的行政機關人員為名這些機關人員的行政決策，就是會影響到你所關心的水質所以當一個「不耐煩患者」對於水質有疑慮時就能養一隻蝌蚪在他們所關心的水源取樣中。我們提供「患者」一些裝置來幫助他們一邊隨身養蝌蚪同時可以一邊更新網誌、收發電子郵件這是「遛蝌蚪」裝置你能在傍晚帶著你的蝌蚪出門散步然後有趣的事情就發生了因為我們是運用蝌蚪，想當然爾因為它們具有遠比我們人類敏銳的生物感知甚至比我們的感官要更敏銳成千上百倍，極具生物學意義地反映出這一整類的工業污染物我們稱之為環境荷爾蒙或是類荷爾蒙。 藉由在傍晚帶著蝌蚪去散步 —這裡有幾張遛蝌蚪行動的照片 —你的鄰居很可能會問：「你在做什麼阿?」你就得介紹你的蝌蚪以及它名稱的由來。你必須解釋你正在做的事情以及蝌蚪發育的情形如何當然，這很容易觀察還有，牠們由甲狀腺素所調控的激素，和我們身上的激素是一樣的當下次你的鄰居遇到你時他們會問：「你的蝌蚪最近如何阿?」你可以讓他們和你的蝌蚪搭起友誼橋樑因為環境健康門診有個建立社會連結的工作站不只是設計給「不耐煩患者」以及其他人類也是設計給人類以外的生物人類與非人類生物之間的社會連結當然，這些環境荷爾蒙涉及到乳癌的發生率、肥胖的發生率、少女青春期開始的平均年紀，比以前少了兩歲半還有其他相關的生理症狀這整個計畫的重頭戲在於，如果你的蝌蚪成功地長大了觀察牠的行為以及發育狀況，你就能帶著你的蝌蚪介紹給蝌蚪命名來源的行政機關人員認識與他們討論你所得到的生物證據 另一個簡便的作法 — 這裡我將簡單地敘述帶過只是讓你們對於我們使用的素材有個粗淺的概念 —我們不再是徵求你們的尿液採樣而是徵求你們的「老鼠」樣本現場有任何人很幸運地與一隻老鼠同居 —就像是把它當作寵物一樣的嗎？你真幸運。老鼠當然是典型的模式生物牠們甚至是更合適的環境健康指標生物不只因為牠們與人類同樣屬於哺乳類而且，牠們吃的食物幾乎就是我們平常所吃的。牠們和我們共有同樣的環境壓力因子包括環境中暴露的石棉濃度和鉛含量而老鼠的活動範圍不像你那麼多變因為我們無法確定你是持續固定地暴露於有機污染物中，在家中還是在職場或只在幼時才有接觸老鼠則極具代表性所以無庸置疑地，我們首先得做一個好一點的捕鼠器這就是其中之一 對付環境壓力因子，其實是很弔詭的現場有人在定時服用抗憂鬱劑嗎?(笑聲)在曼哈頓，許多市民受憂鬱所苦我們在測試老鼠是否也會自己去服用抗憂鬱劑這個是百憂解，這是樂復得這是黑色豆豆糖，還有這是肌肉鬆弛劑這些都是人類這種「不耐煩患者」會服用的藥物所以你認為老鼠會自己去吃抗憂鬱劑嗎?是什麼 — (觀眾：當然會)你怎麼知道的? 牠們的確這麼做了這裡有伏特加水溶液、琴酒水溶液這傢伙也喜歡一般的水和肌肉鬆弛劑我們的老鼠專家在哪?伏特加、琴酒 —(觀眾：[不清楚])對，對! 你真的很懂老鼠牠們就是這麼做牠們喝了等量的伏特加和一般的水這很有意思然後當然，牠走進了捕鼠器裡面有個舊式手機 — 老手機很好用 —手機就撥號給門診，我們就去把老鼠拿起來我們採樣牠的血液分析牠的毛髮和血液樣本 我想要點出，這樣以外在環境理解「健康」有多大的優點我們的確有一些環境療法的應用這和醫藥治療有很不同的邏輯你為了提昇水質或空氣品質所做的任何努力或是有新的認識，還是一點改變每個與你飲用相同水源、呼吸相同空氣的人，都能分享到你的成果如此一來，效應便能集結這些行動匯集而成的效應就是能實質回饋到我們身上我想介紹環境門診的其中一個療法叫作「非請勿停」這是一個提昇水質的療法很多人對於水質和空氣品質都有強烈的疑慮我們的作法是，找一個消防栓它的周圍是禁止民眾停車的我們診斷，應該要移除這個消防栓周邊的柏油路面創造一個小型的景觀設計讓水分有機會自由穿透、滲入地面 因為，你們應該很多人知道我們此時面臨的最大污染威脅無論在紐約還是紐澤西港都不再是以點為污染單位不再是大規模污染者也不是奇異公司而是四通八達的馬路網這些不透水的表層收集了你車子煞車油管洩出的鎘類神經毒或是油膩的烴類廢物每經歷一個小風雨，我們的老建築都會直接把這些污染排放到河口這就不太妙這些消防栓旁的小景觀，就是中途攔截污染物、防止它們流到港灣的小小機會這些景觀是由「不耐煩患者」在不同的都市街區以一些有趣的方式所設立的這可以說是一個經驗法則那就是：城市裡每個街區一定都有二到三個消防栓。水分得以透過這些小景觀滲入地面我們並不打算制止消防車停放在這附近因為，消防車當然可以停在這裡它們輾平了幾株植物，沒關係，它們還會再長回來但是如果我們都這麼設置在每一個 —每一個消防栓的旁邊我們就能重新定義何謂「緊急情況」就是，當百分之九十九的時間消防車沒停在消防栓旁的時候這個空間就是污染過濾站它同時也提升二氧化碳的固定量隔絕部分的空氣污染物而整體來看這些小小的攔截點就能夠過濾所有正不斷流到河口的路面污染最高能承受七英吋高的降雨量，或是百年難遇的大風暴 所以這些就是我們的小運動加起來就能得到可觀的影響力足以提升當地的環境健康品質這是其中一個野心勃勃的計畫氣候災害揭露了一個間接的、更難以捉摸更無孔不入的危機那就是，行政單位的危機那就是，「該怎麼做」購買當地栽植的萵苣、換個省電燈泡不超速駕駛，定期更換輪胎這些作為，當我們面臨氣候變遷的危機時似乎都不夠充分這是一張有趣的圖片，場景是 —你知道的：輻射避難處氣候災害是否也有類似的避難處呢？這是市民動員運動教堂、校園醫院、私人住宅每個人都在幾個月內建了一個避難處這些避難處始終是民眾對於公共的、不確定的、集體的危機威脅所做出的反應 氣候災害的避難處我會覺得，應該長得像這樣，或是這樣就是一個高密度的近郊農業設施這是依據我在紐約大學的研究大樓所設計的它的運作原理其實很簡單它收集 —曼哈頓製造的二氧化碳，其中的八成到九成是建築產生的就像是個有效運作的溫室我們收集建築物產生的二氧化碳 —高含量二氧化碳的空氣 —我們將其注入近郊農業設施然後我們補充氧氣充足的空氣你無法在屋頂上裝設太多這樣的設施，它並不是設計來放屋頂的它被裝設在支柱上所以它將重量都集中在磚石牆和柱子上它是在新屋落成時運用「開放硬體設計」所搭設的這是四分之一比例的原型在西班牙展示運轉這就是它的樣子，老天保佑紐約大學設計的 接下來我要介紹的是 —事實上，它是我們近期在試驗的某一部分設計 —就是太陽能煙囪 —我們在紐約已設置了17座能夠自然地將空氣往上抽你知道的，太陽能煙囪熱空氣上升煙囪的側邊貼上黑色的塑料它會吸熱，空氣就會因此向上流動我們所做的是在煙囪的頂端裝上一個標準的空調過濾器這樣就能濾掉百分之95的碳黑而所謂碳黑，連同臭氧要為地球暖化負一半的責任因為它的變化，它沉降在雪地上改變了雪地的反射率它改變了大氣層的穿透率否則，碳黑粉塵會侵略你原本粉紅色的肺臟以及其他連結呼吸道的部位它不是什麼好東西，它是不完全燃燒的產物而不是一般的燃燒所產生的當我們把這個濾網罩住太陽能煙囪時我們就能過濾掉百分之95的碳黑然後，我跟我的學生們把它取出來重新釋出這些碳黑我們就拿來製作鉛筆，透過做出的鉛筆長度，估計我們從空氣中濾除了多少碳黑粉塵這是其中一個煙囪這是把煙囪裝起來的孩子們，他們同時也是鉛筆愛用者 好，我最後再介紹兩個溝通平台我認為我們所面臨的嚴峻挑戰之一其中之一就是，重新思考人與大自然的關係不只是透過這個「扭轉個人健康」的標誌也要透過與我們共同生活的動物不是只有我們住在這裡，動物們正搬進來事實上，城鄉遷移的數據顯示前一陣子動物的遷徙方向是從鄉村往都市中心移動你知道的，中央公園的郊狼，Gowanus運河的鯨魚威徹斯特郡的麋鹿這些都出現在已開發國度很可能是棲息地流失所導致的不過也同時因為，都市相較於牠們的原棲地更有生存的機會每當我們建造一個綠色空間它就是一個邀請，請其他生物與我們共同生活的機會但我們似乎缺乏想像力不知如何把這個想法做好或是做得有趣我將介紹幾個科技溝通平台這些是在OOZ計畫下發展的 —也就是動物園ZOO反過來寫，而且沒有籠子 —試著重新建立和動物的關係這是可以和鳥類溝通的科技。它就像這樣當一隻鳥停在它上面，會促發一個音效檔這實際上是在惠特尼美術館，那裡共有六座每個都會說不同的話不同的音效檔它們會這麼說： (口哨聲) 裝置聲音：你需要做的是走到裝置下面，買些健康的條狀食物那些你稱之為鳥食的東西帶過來，灑在周圍這樣，你就是個好人。 Natalie Jeremijenko：好的。(笑聲)這裡有幾個這樣的裝置鳥可以從這端跳到那端牠們只是在都市常見的鴿子早先的試驗中最能引發裝置下方人們共鳴的說話內容 —幾乎是100比1的投票認為這些話最能讓人類產生共鳴 裝置聲音：滴、滴、滴這個聲音意味著禽流感變異轉型為致死的人類流感你知道該如何減緩它的速度嗎?健康的小型鳥類聚落一般來說，會增加生物多樣性。讓我過得健康、快樂、衣食無缺是對你自己好。所以，你可以將你的營養來源捐出一部分不要自己壟斷私吞。也就是，分點午餐給我吧 (笑聲) NJ：這真的有效，而且它說的也沒錯。我要介紹的最後一個裝置是個和魚溝通的平台這個裝置才剛啟用 —事實上，它下週才會正式啟用並且與紐約建築協會的團隊有很棒的合作你可能本來並不知道，你需要和魚溝通不過現在，這個裝置就能讓你這麼做它就像是這樣：漂在水面上的浮標上面突出三英尺，下面三英尺當一隻魚游經下方時，燈就會亮這就是它亮起來的樣子它還有另外一個功能浮標頂端的燈是 — 很抱歉讓你們暈船了 —這個頂端的燈，實際上反映了水質狀況當水中含氧量低的時候，它是紅色當水中含氧量高時，它就轉為藍/綠色。你也可以傳訊息給魚那裡有牠們的名片上面有牠們的聯絡方式而且牠們會回覆你當浮標接收到你傳的訊息時，它會閃兩下，表示「我們收到你的訊息了」不過，可能最受歡迎的是布朗士河上的浮標矩陣在那裡，世上第一隻河狸 —牠很瘋狂 —在250年前搬進紐約，築了巢，然候四處閒晃所以，讓河狸告訴你最新狀況吧。你可以訂閱牠的最新消息。你可以和牠對話。 我很喜歡詮釋它為一個溝通平台它重寫了我們和大自然的互動特別是，改變了誰才擁有資訊資訊的位置，誰能詮釋這些資訊以及這些資訊能用來做什麼。這樣一來，我們便不會隨意扔擲口香糖、多力多滋玉米片、或是你口袋裡的任何東西給魚我正在經手冰島的某一塊水域它位在都市的中心在這裡，最大的汙染負擔並非路面汙染而是人們拿來餵魚和餵鳥的白吐司為了避免這樣的情形，我們研發了某種棒狀魚飼料供人們拿來餵魚它很可口對各類生物來說都很可口無論是人類還是非人類生物都適用這種飼料還有螯合劑的成份它們營養均衡不像多力多滋。我們會萌生想和動物互動的念頭而這幾乎和「禁止餵食動物」警示牌的出現頻率一樣屢見不顯每座紐約市的公園，都立起大約三個這樣的警示牌在黃石公園「禁止餵食」警示牌的數量比那些你想餵食的動物還多不過藉由這樣的行動，和大自然的互動藉著重寫「互動」的定義藉著改變，我們便有機會提供營養適當的食物增加原本被我們耗盡的營養來源讓魚群的數量蓬勃成長此外，飼料中螫合劑的添加就相當於螯合劑在藥學上的應用它會和生物體內累積的重金屬和多氯聯苯結合這些毒素存在於特定水域的魚類體內如此一來，螯合物就能讓魚類將毒素轉換為無毒的鹽類它們結合為複合物，降低原本的生物活性有效地從生物鏈中去除 但我想說的是，這樣的互動重新定義這種互動為集體的行動，集體的省思行動這很不同於另一端，哈德遜河汙染事件的處理方式在那裡，我們疏濬了多氯聯苯汙染的淤泥 —在經歷了三十年的立法和司法抗爭後奇異公司終於願意負責疏通的開支這是「環境照顧補償與責任法」所處理的案子中，最大宗的一件 —我們疏通了淤泥，清出來的汙染物很可能會被運到賓州或是距離最近的第三世界國家在當地，它仍然會是一堆有毒的淤泥把汙染從甲地搬到乙地，從來就不該是處理環境議題的做法而這卻是我們一向所做的典型例子 藉由把握機會利用新科技新興的互動科技我們能改寫我們的互動方式去重新定義它們不只是彼此疏離、個別的互動而是集體凝聚的行動這就相當於某種更大的力量我們就真的可以開始處理重大的環境挑戰 謝謝 (掌聲)
