Talk	en	zh-tw
natasha_tsakos_multimedia_theatrical_adventure	"I love theater. I love the idea that you can transform, become somebody else and look at life with a completely new perspective. I love the idea that people will sit in one room for a couple of hours and listen. The idea that in that room at that moment, everyone, regardless of their age, their gender, their race, their color, their religion, comes together. At that moment, we transcend space and time together. Theater awakens our senses and opens the door to our imagination. And our ability to imagine is what makes us explorers. Our ability to imagine makes us inventors and creators and unique. I was commissioned in 2003 to create an original show, and began developing ""Upwake."" ""Upwake"" tells the story of Zero, a modern-day business man, going to work with his life in a suitcase, stuck between dream and reality and not able to decipher the two. I wanted ""Upwake"" to have the same audiovisual qualities as a movie would. And I wanted to let my imagination run wild. So I began drawing the story that was moving in my head. If Antoine de Saint-Exupery, the author of ""The Little Prince,"" were here, he would have drawn three holes inside that box and told you your sheep was inside. Because, if you look closely enough, things will begin to appear. This is not a box; these are the renderings of my imagination from head to paper to screen to life. In ""Upwake"" buildings wear suits, Zero tap dances on a giant keyboard, clones himself with a scanner, tames and whips the computer mice, sails away into dreamscape from a single piece of paper and launches into space. I wanted to create environments that moved and morphed like an illusionist. Go from one world to another in a second. I wanted to have humor, beauty, simplicity and complexity and use metaphors to suggest ideas. At the beginning of the show, for example, Zero deejays dream and reality. Technology is an instrument that allowed me to manifest my visions in high definition, live, on stage. So today, I would like to talk to you about the relationship between theater and technology. Let's start with technology. (Fuse blowing) All right. Let's start with theater. (Laughter) (Buzzing) (Click, click, bang) (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. ""Upwake"" lasts 52 minutes and 54 seconds. I project 3D animation on all the four surfaces of the stage which I interact with. The use of animation and projection was a process of discovery. I didn't use it as a special effect, but as a partner on stage. There are no special effects in ""Upwake,"" no artifice. It's as lavish and intricate as it is simple and minimal. Three hundred and forty-four frames, four and a half years and commissions later, what started as a one person show became a collaborative work of nineteen most talented artists. And here are some excerpts. (Applause) Thank you. So this is, relatively, a new show that we're now beginning to tour. And in Austin, Texas, I was asked to give small demonstrations in schools during the afternoon. When I arrived at one of the schools, I certainly did not expect this: Six hundred kids, packed in a gymnasium, waiting. I was a little nervous performing without animation, costume — really — and make-up. But the teachers came to me afterward and told me they hadn't seen the kids that attentive. And I think the reason why is that I was able to use their language and their reality in order to transport them into another. Something happened along the way. Zero became a person and not just a character in a play. Zero does not speak, is neither man nor woman. Zero is Zero, a little hero of the 21st Century, and Zero can touch so many more people than I possibly could. It's as much about bringing new disciplines inside this box as it is about taking theater out of its box. As a street performer, I have learned that everybody wants to connect. And that usually, if you're a bit extraordinary, if you're not exactly of human appearance, then people will feel inclined to participate and to feel out loud. It's as though you made something resonate within them. It's as though the mystery of the person they're interacting with and connecting allows them to be themselves just a bit more. Because through your mask, they let theirs go. Being human is an art form. I know theater can improve the quality of people's lives, and I know theater can heal. I've worked as a doctor clown in a hospital for two years. I have seen sick kids and sad parents and doctors be lifted and transported in moments of pure joy. I know theater unites us. Zero wants to engage the generation of today and tomorrow, tell various stories through different mediums. Comic books. Quantum physics video games. And Zero wants to go to the moon. In 2007, Zero launched a green campaign, suggesting his friends and fans to turn off their electricity every Sunday from 7:53 to 8:00 p.m. The idea is simple, basic. It's not original, but it's important, and it's important to participate. There is a revolution. It's a human and technological revolution. It's motion and emotion. It's information. It's visual. It's musical. It's sensorial. It's conceptual. It's universal. It's beyond words and numbers. It's happening. The natural progression of science and art finding each other to better touch and define the human experience. There is a revolution in the way that we think, in the way that we share, and the way that we express our stories, our evolution. This is a time of communication, connection and creative collaboration. Charlie Chaplin innovated motion pictures and told stories through music, silence, humor and poetry. He was social, and his character, The Tramp, spoke to millions. He gave entertainment, pleasure and relief to so many human beings when they needed it the most. We are not here to question the possible; we are here to challenge the impossible. In the science of today, we become artists. In the art of today, we become scientists. We design our world. We invent possibilities. We teach, touch and move. It is now that we can use the diversity of our talents to create intelligent, meaningful and extraordinary work. It's now. (Ringing) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我熱愛劇場演出我喜歡那種能變成另外一個人的感覺用全新的角度觀看人生我喜歡大家花幾個小時共處一室 靜心聆聽當時當下每一個人，無論年齡 性別 種族 膚色 和信仰都相聚在一起那一刻 我們一起超越時空劇場藝術喚醒了我們的感官意識 開啟了想像力的大門我們是探險家，因為我們擁有想像力想像力讓人類成為發明家、創造者，也讓我們變得獨一無二2003年我被委託寫一個原創的秀於是我開始創作""Upwake""""Upwake""講的是關於Zero的故事他是一個現代社會的生意人，提著公文包為生活奔走困在夢想和現實當中 無法解開兩者的矛盾我希望“Upwake”能有電影一般的視聽效果而且我希望能盡情發揮想像力於是我開始把腦袋裏的故事描繪出來如果《小王子》的作者聖埃克絮佩里在這裡的話他會在那個盒子裡畫三個洞然後告訴你說你的羊就在裏面因為如果你靠得夠近的話就能看到這並不是一個盒子 這是我的想像從腦中到紙上 再呈現於螢幕上並變得鮮活起來在“Upwake”裏， 樓房穿著套裝 Zero在巨型鍵盤上跳踢踏舞用掃描儀複製自己 馴服和鞭策滑鼠從一張紙滑進幻境而展開空間的旅行我要像魔術師一樣創造出會移動和變化的環境一秒間變換時空我要同時擁有幽默、綺麗、簡潔而豐富的感覺用比喻的手法說出觀點比方說故事的開始，Zero是這樣描述夢想與現實的我的想像通過科技手段得以呈現清晰地 實時的 就在舞臺上所以今天 我想和你們說說舞臺演出和科技的關係我們從科技說起吧保險絲燒掉的聲音好吧 還是從舞臺說起吧笑聲蟲子的聲音射擊聲笑聲掌聲謝謝“Upwake”一共52分鐘54秒舞臺的四周都是投射而成的三維動畫我會跟它們互動使用動畫和影像是一個發現的過程我並沒有把它當成一種特效 而是舞臺夥伴“Upwake”裏面沒有特效也沒有特殊技巧既華麗巧妙又簡約樸素透過三百四十四幀畫面 四年半的時間和之後的委託製作這個因單人秀而起的製作演變成了一個十九位最具才華的藝術家的協力出品請看演出的部份內容掌聲謝謝以上就是 一個相對新穎的即將巡演的秀在德克薩斯州的奧斯汀一個下午 我被邀請到校園裡做小型的演示到了其中一個學校的時候，場景是我始料不及的六百個小朋友擠滿了體育館在等我在沒有動畫，服裝而且沒上妝的環境下演出 我有一點緊張但是 後來老師們告訴我孩子們沒有這麼專心過我想那是因為我是在用他們的語言和從他們的角度把孩子們引領到另外的時空過程中有些事在發生Zero不再僅僅是戲裡的角色 而是一個人Zero不說話 不是男生 也不是女生Zero就是Zero 一個二十一世紀的小英雄Zero比我能打動更多的人這不僅是關於把新的學科引進盒子裏來同樣是把舞臺演出帶到外面去作為一個街頭藝人 我學會了每個人都需要與人聯繫通常 如果你有點與眾不同 或者有那麼一點异於常人的話人們會更樂於參與和盡情感受就像是讓他們找到了共鳴一樣好像這個和他們互動的人物神奇地讓他們更能做自己因為透過你的那副面具 他們卸下了自己的作為人類的存在是一門藝術我知道戲劇表演能提升人的生活品質也能替人療傷我曾經做過兩年的小丑醫生看著生病的小朋友 傷心的家長和醫生他們在純粹的愉悅之中得以忘我而振作我知道這是戲劇表演的力量讓我們團結起來Zero希望當今和未來世代的人們都參與進來用不同的媒介講述別樣的故事漫畫書 量子物理學電玩遊戲Zero還希望去月球2007年 Zero發起了一個綠色行動鼓勵他的朋友和粉絲們每個禮拜天的7:53到8:00把電源關掉這是個簡單和基本的點子 不是原創的但卻是重要的 特別是要身體力行將會有這樣一次革新關於人類和科技的革新它是動感與激情它是資訊它是視覺的 音樂的 和感官的它是概念性的 全人類的 超越語言和數字的它正在發生科學和藝術在自然演進中相互更好地感受和定義人類體驗革新觸及到我們的思維方式分享形式 和講述自我經歷和演進的表述方式這是一個關於溝通 聯繫 和創意合作的時代查理卓別林曾經為電影帶來了變革通過音樂 沉默 幽默和詩歌講述故事他是個樂於交流的人 藉著飾演流浪漢一角和數百萬的觀眾交流為許多人帶去了娛樂滿足和慰藉在最需要的時候我們不是來質疑可能性的 我們要挑戰的是不可能的在科技化的今天 我們成了藝術家在藝術化的今天 我們成了科學家我們設計著世界 創造著可能我們講授、感知、行動現在 我們可以應用各種才藝創造有智慧的 有意義的 和不同凡響的作品鈴聲謝謝掌聲"
