Talk	en	zh-tw
natalie_merchant_sings_old_poems_to_life	"(Music) ♫ My age is three hundred ♫ ♫ and seventy-two ♫ ♫ I think with the deepest regret ♫ ♫ How I used to pick up and voraciously chew ♫ ♫ the dear little boys that I met ♫ ♫ I've eaten them raw in their holiday suits, ♫ ♫ Eaten them curried with rice, ♫ ♫ I've eaten them baked in their jackets and boots, ♫ ♫ And found them exceedingly nice. ♫ ♫ But now that my jaws are too weak for such fare, ♫ ♫ I think it's increasingly rude ♫ ♫ To do such a thing when I'm quite well aware ♫ ♫ Little boys do not like being chewed. ♫ ♫ Little boys do not like being chewed. ♫ (Music) ♫ So now I contentedly live upon eels, ♫ ♫ And try to do nothing amiss ♫ ♫ And pass all the time I can spare from my meals ♫ ♫ In innocent slumber like this, ♫ ♫ Innocent slumber like this. ♫ (Applause) I suppose I owe you an explanation. I've been working on a project for the last six years adapting children's poetry to music. And that's a poem by Charles Edward Carryl, who was a stockbroker in New York City for 45 years, but in the evenings, he wrote nonsense for his children. And this book was one of the most famous books in America for about 35 years. ""The Sleepy Giant,"" which is the song that I just sang, is one of his poems. Now, we're going to do other poems for you, and here's a preview of some of the poets. This is Rachel Field, Robert Graves — a very young Robert Graves — Christina Rossetti. Ghosts, right? Have nothing to say to us, obsolete, gone — not so. What I really enjoyed about this project is reviving these people's words. Taking them off the dead, flat pages. Bringing them to life, bringing them to light. So, what we're going to do next is a poem that was written by Nathalia Crane. Nathalia Crane was a little girl from Brooklyn. When she was 10 years old in 1927, she published her first book of poems called ""The Janitor's Boy."" Here she is. And here's her poem. (Music) ♫ Oh, I'm in love with the janitor's boy, ♫ ♫ And the janitor's boy is in love with me. ♫ ♫ Oh, I'm in love with the janitor's boy, ♫ ♫ And the janitor's boy is in love with me. ♫ ♫ He's going to hunt for a desert isle ♫ ♫ In our geography. ♫ ♫ A desert isle with spicy trees ♫ ♫ Somewhere in Sheepshead Bay; ♫ ♫ A right nice place, just fit for two ♫ ♫ Where we can live always. ♫ ♫ Oh, I'm in love with the janitor's boy, ♫ ♫ And the janitor's boy, ♫ he's busy as can be; ♫ ♫ Down in the cellar he's making a raft ♫ ♫ Out of an old settee. ♫ ♫ He'll carry me off, I know that he will, ♫ ♫ For his hair is exceedingly red; ♫ ♫ And the only thing that occurs to me ♫ ♫ Is to dutifully shiver in bed. ♫ ♫ And on the day that we sail, I will leave a little note ♫ ♫ For my parents I hate to annoy: ♫ ♫ ""I have flown to an island in the bay ♫ ♫ With my janitor's red haired-boy."" ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ I'm going to sail away ♫ ♫ Gone to Sheepshead Bay ♫ ♫ With my janitor's red-haired boy. ♫ ♫ On an old settee ♫ ♫ My red-haired boy and me ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy. ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ ♫ The janitor's red-haired boy ♫ (Applause) The next poem is by E.E. Cummings, ""Maggie and Milly and Molly and May."" (Music) ♫ Maggie and Milly, Molly and May ♫ ♫ They went down to the beach one day to play ♫ ♫ And Maggie discovered a shell that sang ♫ ♫ So sweetly she couldn't remember her troubles ♫ ♫ Maggie and Milly, Molly and May ♫ ♫ Maggie and Milly, Molly and May ♫ ♫ Milly befriended a stranded star ♫ ♫ Whose rays, whose rays ♫ ♫ Five languid fingers were ♫ (Music) ♫ Maggie and Milly, Molly and May ♫ ♫ Maggie and Milly, Molly and May ♫ (Music) ♫ Molly was chased by a horrible thing ♫ ♫ Which raced sideways blowing ♫ ♫ Blowing ♫ ♫ Blowing ♫ ♫ May came home with a smooth, round stone ♫ ♫ Small as a world and as large as alone ♫ (Music) ♫ For whatever we lose like a you or a me ♫ ♫ Always ourselves that we find at the sea ♫ (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) The next poem is ""If No One Ever Marries Me."" It was written by Laurence Alma-Tadema. She was the daughter of a very, very famous Dutch painter who had made his fame in England. He went there after the death of his wife of smallpox and brought his two young children. One was his daughter, Laurence. She wrote this poem when she was 18 years old in 1888, and I look at it as kind of a very sweet feminist manifesto tinged with a little bit of defiance and a little bit of resignation and regret. (Music) ♫ Well, if no one ever marries me ♫ ♫ And I don't see why they should, ♫ ♫ Nurse says I'm not pretty, ♫ ♫ And you know I'm seldom good, seldom good — ♫ ♫ Well, if no one ever marries me ♫ ♫ I shan't mind very much; ♫ ♫ Buy a squirrel in a cage ♫ ♫ And a little rabbit-hutch. ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ I'll have a cottage near a wood ♫ ♫ And a pony all my own ♫ ♫ A little lamb quite clean and tame ♫ ♫ That I can take to town. ♫ ♫ And when I'm really getting old — ♫ ♫ And 28 or nine — ♫ ♫ Buy myself a little orphan girl ♫ ♫ And bring her up as mine. ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ If no one marries me ♫ ♫ Well, if no one marries me ♫ ♫ Marries me ♫ ♫ Well, if no one marries me ♫ ♫ Marries me ♫ ♫ Well, if no one marries me ♫ Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. I became very curious about the poets after spending six years with them, and started to research their lives, and then decided to write a book about it. And the burning question about Alma-Tadema was: Did she marry? And the answer was no, which I found in the London Times archive. She died alone in 1940 in the company of her books and her dear friends. Gerard Manley Hopkins, a saintly man. He became a Jesuit. He converted from his Anglican faith. He was moved to by the Tractarian Movement, the Oxford Movement, otherwise known as — and he became a Jesuit priest. He burned all his poetry at the age of 24 and then did not write another poem for at least seven years because he couldn't rectify the life of a poet with the life of a priest. He died typhoid fever at the age of 44, I believe, 43 or 44. At the time, he was teaching classics at Trinity College in Dublin. A few years before he died, after he had resumed writing poetry, but in secret, he confessed to a friend in a letter that I found when I was doing my research: ""I've written a verse. It is to explain death to a child, and it deserves a piece of plain-song music."" And my blood froze when I read that because I had written the plain-song music 130 years after he'd written the letter. And the poem is called, ""Spring and Fall."" ♫ Margaret, are you grieving ♫ ♫ Over Goldengrove unleaving, by and by? ♫ ♫ Leaves, like the things of man, you ♫ ♫ With your fresh thoughts care for, can you? ♫ ♫ But as the heart grows older ♫ ♫ It will come to such sights much colder ♫ ♫ By and by, nor spare a sigh ♫ ♫ Though worlds of wanwood leafmeal lie; ♫ ♫ And yet you will weep and you'll know why. ♫ ♫ No matter child, the name: ♫ ♫ Sorrow's springs are all the same ♫ ♫ They're all the same. ♫ ♫ Nor mouth had nor no mind expressed ♫ ♫ What heart heard of, ghost had guessed: ♫ ♫ It's the blight man was born for, ♫ ♫ It is Margaret that you mourn for ♫ Thank you so much. (Applause) (Music) I'd like to thank everybody, all the scientists, the philosophers, the architects, the inventors, the biologists, the botanists, the artists ... everyone that blew my mind this week. Thank you. (Applause) ♫ Oh, a li la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la la la la la la ♫ (Applause) ♫ La li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la la la la ♫ ♫ La la la li la la la la la ♫ ♫ You've been so kind and generous ♫ ♫ I don't know how you keep on giving. ♫ ♫ And for your kindness, I'm in debt to you. ♫ ♫ And for your selflessness, my admiration. ♫ ♫ And for everything you've done, you know I'm bound; ♫ ♫ I'm bound to thank for it ♫ ♫ La li la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la li la la la ♫ (Clapping) ♫ La li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la la ♫ ♫ La li la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la li la la ♫ ♫ And you ♫ ♫ Now you've been so kind and ... ♫ Curb the enthusiasm, just a little bit. Just bring it down a little. (Laughter) It's my turn. I still have two minutes. (Laughter) Okay, we're going to start that verse again. ♫ Well, you've been so ... ♫ That's innovative, don't you think? Calming the audience down; I'm supposed to be whipping you into a frenzy, and I, ""That's enough. Sh."" (Laughter) ♫ Now, you've been kind and ... ♫ I'm going to sing this to Bill Gates. (Laughter) I have so much admiration for him. ♫ Now, you've been so kind and generous, ♫ ♫ I don't know how you keep on giving. ♫ ♫ And for your kindness I'm in debt to you. ♫ ♫ And I never could have come this far without you. ♫ ♫ So for everything you've done, you know I'm bound ♫ ♫ I'm bound to thank you for it ♫ (Clapping) ♫ La li la la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la li la li la la la ♫ ♫ La li la la la ♫ ♫ Oh, I want to thank you for so many gifts ♫ ♫ You gave in love with tenderness ♫ ♫ Thank you ♫ ♫ I want to thank you for your generosity ♫ ♫ the love and the honesty that you gave me ♫ ♫ I want to thank you show my gratitude, ♫ My love and my respect for you ♫ ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ You know what? I'll show you how to clap to this song. (Laughter) (Clapping) ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ Thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ It works better, right? ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ ♫ I want to thank you ♫ ♫ Ooh hoo ♫ ♫ Ooh hoo ♫ ♫ Ooh hoo ♫ ♫ Ooh hoo ♫ Let's bring it down. Decrescendo. Gradually, bringing it down, bringing it down. ♫ I want to thank you, thank you ♫ Finger popping, ain't no stopping. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	"(音樂) 我已經 三百七十二歲， 懷著深深的悔恨，我想起我的往事： 我曾經如何揀選 并貪婪的咀嚼 我遇見的那些 可愛小男孩 他們身著節日盛裝 就被我生吞活剝 我吃掉他們 以咖哩料理並配上米飯 我把他們烤熟 連同身上的夾克與皮靴 真真美味，他們的味道 但是現在我的牙口 已然衰老，再不能勝任此事 我認為這樣的事 實在是可恥 因我明明知曉 小男孩兒並不喜歡 被生吞活剝 小男孩兒並不喜歡 被生吞活剝 (音樂) 故而現在我心甘情願以鰻魚為生 也儘量不做錯事 長久以來 我可禁食禁水 就在如這般純淨的沉睡中 就在如這般 純淨的沉睡中 掌聲 我想我應該給你們一個解釋六年以來我一直從事一個計劃就是把兒童詩歌改變成音樂以上的就是一首Charles Edward Carryl的詩歌他本人在紐約從事股票經紀人執業45年在晚上，他為自己的小孩們寫荒誕詩歌這本書在美國暢銷35年一直都很著名我剛才唱的“沉睡的巨人”就是其中一首詩現在我們將要為你們演唱其他的詩歌先介紹一下一些詩人這是Rachel FieldRobert Graves一個非常年輕的Roberet GravesChristina Rossetti沒錯，逝去的靈魂對我們無話可說過時了逝去了但其實並非如此我之所以如此沉迷這個計劃是因為我想讓這些言語復活讓它們離開僵死的書頁讓它們重獲新生讓它們重見光明接下來我們要演繹的就是一首Nathalia Crane的詩歌她是一個來自布魯克林的小女孩1927年，她10歲，她出版了自己的第一部詩集題為“看門人的男孩”這就是她和她的詩歌 (音樂) 噢，我愛上了 看門人的男孩 看門人的男孩 也愛上了我 噢，我愛上了 看門人的男孩 看門人的男孩 也愛上了我 他在我們的地圖上 將要去找尋無人的小島 一個無人的小島 遍地芳樹 就在羊頭灣那兒 一個好地方 剛好適合我們倆 在那兒我們天長地久 噢，我愛上了 看門人的男孩 看門人的男孩 正忙得不亦樂乎 他在地下室裏正做著木筏 用那老舊的長沙發 他會成就我的 我知道他會的 他滿頭紅髮 我唯一 知曉的 便是在床上顫抖，一如他所願 在我們始航的那天 我會給我的父母 留下便條 我已然 與我那看門人的男孩 一齊飛向 一個小島 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 我將要駛向 羊頭灣 與我那看門人的紅髮男孩 我們乘坐那老舊沙發 我與我那看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 看門人的紅髮男孩 (掌聲) 下一首詩歌是E.E.Cummings的“麥琪與米莉與莫麗與玫” (音樂) 麥琪與米莉 莫麗與玫 一天她們 去海灘玩耍 麥琪發現了 會唱歌的貝殼 唱得如此甜蜜 以致她遺忘了自己的煩惱 麥琪與米莉 莫麗與玫 麥琪與米莉 莫麗與玫 米莉與一隻 擱淺的星星成為好友 那星星的 光芒 是五只 懶懶的手指 (音樂) 麥琪與米莉 莫麗與玫 麥琪與米莉 莫麗與玫 (音樂) 莫麗被 可怕的東西追趕 它在她邊上狂飆 狂飆 狂飆 狂飆 玫回到家裡 帶回了圓滾滾、滑溜溜的石頭 就像世界 一般嬌小，一般巨大，一般寂寞 (音樂) 不管我們丟失了什麽 比如丟失的是一個你或一個我 我們總是丟失自己 在大海中 我們都能尋回 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲) 下一首詩歌是“如果沒人娶我”作者是Laurence Alma-Tadema她父親是一個極其著名的荷蘭畫家他在英國成名在他妻子因天花去世后他與兩個女兒搬到英國其中一個就是Laurence寫這首詩歌時，她年方18，時年1888我覺得這就像是一個甜蜜的女性主義宣言混雜著一點點反抗和一點點屈從與遺憾 (音樂) 好吧，如果沒人娶我 其實我也認為他們不該娶我 僕人說我不漂亮 你也知道我一無是處 一無是處 好吧，如果沒人娶我 我不會太過在意 我會買只籠子裡的松鼠 或是小兔 如果沒人娶我 如果沒人娶我 沒人娶我 如果沒人娶我 如果沒人娶我 我會在森林邊有座小屋 有隻小馬 有隻乾淨又溫順的小羊 當我年老 我會帶它們去鎮子里 當我二十八九歲的時候 買一個孤女 視如己出 如果沒人娶我 如果沒人娶我 沒人娶我 沒人娶我 好吧，如果沒人娶我 娶我 好吧，如果沒人娶我 娶我 好吧，如果沒人娶我謝謝 (掌聲) 我對這些詩人非常好奇因為已經花了六年時間與他們相伴於是我開始探究他們的生活最終決定寫一本書而對於Alma-Tadema，我最關心的問題是她是否結婚了？答案是沒有我在倫敦時報的檔案庫找到了這答案她死於1940年終生與書籍和朋友們相伴這些朋友中有Gerard Manley Hopkins一個聖人般的男人他成爲了一個耶穌會會士他原先信奉英國國教，後來改宗他被Tractarian運動所觸動也就是所謂的牛津運動最終成爲了耶穌會會士24歲時他燒掉了自己所有的詩歌在此後的7年裡棄絕詩歌寫作因為他無法接受這個雙重身份：即詩人與牧師他死於傷寒我想是44歲43或是44歲當時他正在都柏林的三一學院教授古典學在他死前幾年他又重新開始詩歌寫作但是私下的寫他在一封給朋友的信中承認的這封信是我做研究時發現的，他寫道:""我寫了一首詩""""是爲了向孩子解釋死亡""""這詩應該是一首聖歌音樂""讀到這些時我一下愣住了因為我已經寫了一首聖歌音樂就在此信後的130年這首時題為“春與秋” 瑪格麗特 你在悲傷嗎 為那片金色的小樹林 久久不願離去 樹葉，就如同 人的其他東西 你那清新的思想為之憂慮 是嗎？ 但是，隨著心靈老去 它會對此情此景 變得冷漠 倏爾 心靈不再為之歎息 雖然蒼白樹木的花粉 會說謊 然而你還是會啜泣 你會明白 無論是小孩，名字 悲傷地春天都毫無差別 他們毫無差別 沒有口 也沒有心智表達過 心靈聽到的 魂靈猜想的 人的最終命運 是枯萎 你為之哀悼的 正是瑪格麗特，你自己 謝謝 (掌聲) (音樂) 我想感謝所有人科學家，哲學家藝術家，發明家生物學家植物學家，藝術家這一周以來在座的每位給我靈感的人謝謝(掌聲) 噢，啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 你們是如此善良 如此慷慨 我不知道你們如何能一如既往的一直給予 爲了你們的善良 我感激你們 爲了你們的無私 我的敬仰 爲了你們做的一切 你們知道 我不得不表達我的感激 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 謝謝 既然你們已經如此善良 控制一下感情，一點點就好安靜一下輪到我了我還有兩分鐘（笑）好的，我們馬上唱響這歌謠 好吧，你們如此 你們不覺得這很創新嗎？讓觀眾冷靜下來我本應該鼓勵你們瘋狂點的 我喜歡這樣，行了，噓~ 現在，你們如此善良 我把這首歌獻給比爾蓋茲我敬仰他 現在，你們如此善良 如此慷慨 我不知道你們如何一如既往一直給予 爲了你們的善良 我感激你們 沒有你們 我不可能遠道而來 所以，爲了你們所做的一切 你知道我不得不 表達的我的感激 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 啦啦啦 我想感激你們 你們善良、溫柔的給予如此多的禮物 謝謝 我想感謝你們 為你們的慷慨 為你們的愛與誠實 我想感謝你們 表達我的感激，我的愛 以及我對你們的崇敬之情 我想感謝你們 謝謝，謝謝 謝謝，謝謝 謝謝，謝謝 我想感謝你們 謝謝，謝謝 猜我告訴你們如何打節拍 我想感謝你們 謝謝，謝謝 謝謝，謝謝 謝謝，謝謝 我想感謝你們 更棒了，對吧 我想感謝你們， 謝謝，謝謝 哦~~~ 哦~~~ 哦哦~~ 哦哦~~ 安靜一些漸弱漸漸地，減弱減弱 我想感謝你們 手指木偶不停地謝謝 (掌聲)"
