Talk	en	zh-tw
natalie_macmaster_and_donnell_leahy_play_the_cape_breton_fiddle	"Natalie MacMaster: I'm going to just quickly start out with a little bit of music here. (Applause) (Music) (Applause) Thank you! (Applause) I took my shoes off to dance, but maybe I'll get at that later. Anyways, I... where to start? Well, I'm really excited to talk a bit about my own upbringing in music and family and all of that, but I'm even more excited for you people to hear about Donnell's amazing family and maybe even a little bit about how we met, and all that sort of thing, but for those of you that may not be familiar with my upbringing, I'm from Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, eastern Canada, which is a very, very musical island, and its origins come from Scotland with the music and all the traditions, the dancing, the language, which unfortunately is dying out in Cape Breton. The traditional language is Gaelic, but a lot of the music came from the Gaelic language, and the dancing and the singing and everything, and my bloodline is Scottish through and through, but my mother and father are two very, very musical people. My mom taught me to dance when I was five, and my dad taught me to play fiddle when I was nine. My uncle is a very well-known Cape Breton fiddler. His name's Buddy MacMaster, and just a wonderful guy, and we have a great tradition at home called square dancing, and we had parties, great parties at our house and the neighbors' houses, and you talk about kitchen cèilidhs. Well, cèilidh first of all is Gaelic for party, but kitchen party in Cape Breton is very common, and basically somebody drops into the house, and no matter what house you go to in Cape Breton, there's a fiddle there, guaranteed, and I'd say, well there's first of all more fiddlers per capita in Cape Breton than anywhere in the world, so ten chances to one, the fellow who walked in the door could play it, so you'd have someone come into the house, you'd invite them to play a tune, and lo and behold a little party would start up and somebody would dance, and somebody would sing, and all that sort of thing, so it was a wonderful, wonderful way to grow up, and that is where my beginnings in music come from: my surroundings, my family, just my bloodline in itself, and, oh, I've done lots of things with my music. I've recorded lots of CDs. I was nominated for a Grammy and I've won some awards and stuff like that, so that's awesome, but the best part was meeting my husband, and I've actually known Donnell for probably 12 years now, and I'm going to get into a little bit of, I guess, how music brought us together, but I'm going to introduce you right now to my new husband as of October 5, Donnell Leahy. (Applause) (Applause) Donnell Leahy: Thank you. I'm kind of new to the TED experience and I'm glad to be here, but I'm just trying to put it all together, trying to figure all you people out, and I've been here for a short while, and I'm starting to understand a little bit better. So I asked Natalie, what do I do? And she said, just talk about yourself. It's kind of boring, but I'll just tell you a little bit about my family. I'm one of 11 brothers and sisters from Lakefield, Ontario, an hour and a half northeast of Toronto, and we grew up on a farm. Mom and Dad raised beef cattle, and I'm the oldest boy. There are four girls a little bit older than me. We grew up without a television. People find that strange, but I think it was a great blessing for us. We had a television for a few years, but of course we wasted so much time and the work wasn't getting done, so out went the television. We grew up playing— Mom's from Cape Breton, coincidentally. Mom and Natalie's mother knew each other. We grew up playing, and used to dance together, right, yeah. (Laughter) We grew up playing a bunch of, we played by ear and I think that's important for us because we were not really exposed to a lot of different styles of music. We learned to play the instruments, but we kind of had to come from within or go from within, because we didn't watch television, we didn't listen to a lot of radio. We went to church and to school sometimes, and farmed and played music, so we were able, I think, at a very critical age to develop our own style, our own self, and my mother plays, my father plays, and the style that came from the Ottawa Valley in Ontario, we call it French-Canadian style but it originated in logging camps. Years ago, hundreds of men would go up for the winter to the camps in Northern Ontario and in Quebec, and they were all different cultures, and the Irish, the French, Scottish, German, they'd all meet, and of course at night, they'd play cards and step dance and play fiddles, and over the course of many years, the Ottawa Valley fiddling kind of evolved and the Ottawa Valley step dancing evolved, so that's, I kind of started out with that style and I quickly started doing my own thing, and then I met Natalie, and I was exposed to the great Cape Breton fiddling. That's how we met. (Laughter) You tell them. (Laughter) NM: You want to or no? (Laughter) Well I guess I have to now. Well, it's just so interesting that Donnell's upbringing was very similar to mine, and I actually saw Donnell play when I was about 12 years old, and he and his family came to Inverness, which is about 45 minutes from where I lived, and I was just blown away, like, it was just amazing, and you'll find out why pretty soon here, but I couldn't believe the fiddling and Mom was there with me, and she was saying — Donnell's mother came up on stage and danced with her children, and Mom was saying, ""That's Julie MacDonnell, I used to dance with her when we were kids. Little did I think our children would be playing instruments, you know, playing music, yeah."" Twelve years, er, 20 years later little did she think her kids would be getting married, but anyway, so, then I got a phone call about, I dunno, seven years later. I was 19, first or second year of college, and it was Donnell, and he said ""Hi, you probably don't know me but my name is Donnell Leahy."" And I said, ""I know you. I have a tape of yours at home."" And he said, ""Well, I'm in Truro,"" which is where I was, and he asked me out for supper. That's it. (Laughter) (Applause) Then — Will I keep going? (Laughs) (Laughter) Then we dated for two years, broke up for 10, got back together and got married. (Laughter) (Applause) DL: So anyway, we're running out of time, so I'll just get to it. I'm going to play a piece of music for you. It's actually a Scottish piece I've chosen. I starts out with a slow air. Airs were played in Europe at burials, as a body was carried out from the wake site to the burial site, the procession was led by a piper or a fiddle player. I'll quickly play a short part of the air, and then I'm going to get into kind of a crazy tune that is very difficult to play when you're not warmed up, so, if I mess it up, pretend you like it anyway. It's called The Banks. (Tuning) (Laughter) (Music) (Applause) NM: Well, we're gonna play one together now. (Applause) We're laughing, like, because our styles are totally different, as you can hear. And so, you know, Donnell and I are actually in the process of writing new pieces of music together that we can play, but we don't have any of those ready. We just started yesterday. (Laughter) So we're gonna play something together anyway. DL: With one minute. NM: With one minute. (Audience reaction) DL: You start. NM: No, you have to start, because you've got to do your thing. (Music) NM: I'm not tuned. Hold on. (Tuning) NM: I feel like I'm in the duck or the bird pose right now. (Laughter) (Music) (Audience claps along) (Applause) Announcer: Great news, they're running late downstairs. We've got another 10 minutes. (Applause) NM: Okay. Sure. All right, okay. Let's get her going. (Applause) (Tuning) DL: What do you want to play? NM: Well, um... (Music) (Laughter) NM: Uh, sure. DL: How fast? NM: Not too fast. (Music) (Audience claps along) (Cheering) (Audience claps along) (Music) (Applause) DL: We're going to play a tune and Natalie's going to accompany me on the piano. The Cape Breton piano playing is just awesome. It's very rhythmic and, you'll see it. My mom plays piano, and she learned to play before they had a piano at home in Cape Breton. Before Mom's family had a piano in Cape Breton, she learned to play the rhythms on a piece of board, and the fiddlers would all congregate to play on the cold winter's evenings and Mom would be banging on this board, so when they bought a piano, they bought it in Toronto and had it taken by train and brought in on a horse, a horse and sleigh to the house. It became the only piano in the region, and Mom said she could basically play as soon as the piano arrived, she could play it because she had learned all these rhythms. Anyway, we found the piano last year and were able to bring it back home. We purchased it. It had gone through, like, five or six families, and it was just a big thing for us, and we found actually an old picture of somebody and their family years ago. Anyway, I'm blabbering on here. NM: No, I want you to tell them about Leahy. DL: What about Leahy? (Laughter) NM: Just tell them what— DL: She wants me to talk about— We have a band named Leahy. There's 11 siblings. We, um— What will I tell them? (Laughter) We opened— NM: No surgeries. DL: No surgeries, oh yeah. We had a great opportunity. We opened for Shania Twain for two years on her international tour. It was a big thing for us, and now all my sisters are off having babies and the boys are all getting married, so we're staying close to home for, I guess, another couple of weeks. What can I say? I don't know what to say, Natalie. We, uh... (Laughter) (Laughter) NM: Is this what marriage is about? (Applause) I like it. (Applause) (Laughter) DL: Oh yeah, okay, in my family we had seven girls, four boys, we had two fiddles and one piano, and of course we were all fighting to play on the instruments, so dad and mom set a rule that you couldn't kick anyone off the instrument. You had to wait until they were finished, so of course, what we would do is we'd get on the piano and you wouldn't even get off to eat, because you wouldn't want to give it up to your brother or sister, and they'd wait and wait and wait, and it'd be midnight and you'd be still sitting there on the piano, but it was their way to get us to practice. Will we play a tune? NM: It worked. DL: It worked. Sorry, I hate to carry on... So this is our last number, and we'll feature Nat on piano. Okay, play in, how about A? (Music) (Applause)"	Natalie MacMaster: 我將直接用一點音樂作為開場。(掌聲) (音樂) (掌聲) 謝謝！(掌聲) 我脫鞋是為了跳舞，或許晚點我就會跳了。好了，該從哪裡開始呢？嗯，我很開心能分享我自己在音樂方面的成長背景，還有我的家庭和相關的事。但讓我更開心的是你們將能聽到有關Donnell驚人的家庭甚至還有可能一些有關我們如何相遇這類的事情。觀眾中有些人可能不清楚我的成長背景。我來自布雷頓角島，位於加拿大東方的新斯科舍省。這是一個十分帶有音樂氣息的島嶼，當地的音樂還有各類傳統，像是舞蹈，語言，都來自蘇格蘭，不幸的是這些在布雷頓角島逐漸消失。傳統的語言是蓋爾語，很多音樂從蓋爾語而來。此外，舞蹈和歌唱，還有所有一切，包括我的血統也是徹底的蘇格蘭人。我媽媽和爸爸是兩位非常愛好音樂的人。 我五歲的時候，我媽媽教我跳舞，九歲時，我爸爸教我拉小提琴。我伯父是知名的布雷頓角島小提琴家，Buddy MacMaster，一個非常好的人，而我們在家鄉有個很棒的傳統就是方塊舞，我們還在我們家或者鄰居家裡舉辦很棒的派對，接著談到廚房派對(cèilidhs)。首先，cèilidhs這個字是蓋爾語的派對，廚房派對在布雷頓角島十分常見，基本上，一個人如果到別人家拜訪，不管你去到哪戶人家，在布雷頓角島，家裡總會有一把小提琴，我保證。而且我敢說，以人數計算，布雷頓角島上擁有比世界上其它任何地方更多的小提琴手。當一個人走進家中，十比一的機率是他會拉小提琴，於是當有人來到你家，你邀請他們彈奏樂曲，看著，一個小派對就此展開，人們會開始跳舞，還有人會唱歌，諸如此類的，這是一個很棒的成長方式，這也是我的音樂起源：我的周遭環境，我的家庭，我本身的血緣。另外，我做了很多音樂的事情。 我錄製了很多CD。我獲得過一次葛萊美獎提名，我贏了一些獎項這類的，這些都很美妙，但最好的部分是遇到我的丈夫，事實上，從我認識Donnell到現在大概有12年了，我想我接著要說些音樂如何撮合我們的事情，但我現在要先介紹我的新丈夫給你們認識，我們10月5日結婚的，Donnell Leahy。(掌聲) (掌聲) Donnel Leahy:謝謝。這是我第一次來到TED講座，很開心能來這裡，我正試著釐清該如何進行，試著了解你們大家，我才到這裡很短的一段時間，而我開始了解的比較多了。我之前問Natalie，上台時該做什麼？她說，就談談你自己吧。 這有點無聊，但我就告訴你們一些有關我家庭的事。我家住在安大略省的雷克湖市，位於多倫多東北方，車程約一個半小時，家中有11個兄弟姊妹，我們從小在農場長大。我父母飼養牛肉牲口，我是最年紀最大的兒子。上面還有四個比我稍微年長一些的姊姊。我們在沒有電視的環境下長大。有人覺得很奇怪，但我想這對我們是種恩賜。幾年前我們有一台電視，但我們浪費太多時間在看電視，工作都沒做好，所以電視就出局了。 從小我們玩些─我媽來自布雷頓角島，巧的是，我媽和Natalie的媽媽以前就認識了。我們從小玩在一起，一起跳舞，是的，(笑聲)我們一起拉小提琴，我們都很隨興演奏，我想這對我們來說很重要，因為當時我們並非真的能接觸到很多不同類型的音樂。 我們學習如何彈奏樂器，但我們必須聆聽或者挖掘內心的聲音，因我們不看電視，我們不聽大量的廣播節目。有時候我們上教堂，或者去上學，我們也從事農作和玩音樂，於是我們能夠在很關鍵性的年紀就開始培養我們的音樂風格，我們的素質，我父母都會拉小提琴，我們的音樂風格起源於安大略省的渥太華山谷，我們稱之法裔加拿大人風格，其根源來自伐木營。很久以前，好幾百位男子在冬天時會登上安大略省北方和魁北克省的山上，參加伐木營。他們來自不同的文化北景，有愛爾蘭人、法國人、蘇格蘭人、德國人，他們聚在一起，而當然，晚上時，他們會玩牌，跳踏步舞和拉小提琴，經過多年的演變，渥太華山谷的小提琴演奏和踏步舞逐漸發展成型，我以這些風格作為起點，接著我很快地開始做我自己的音樂，然後我遇到Natalie，我接觸了很棒的布雷頓角島小提琴演奏。這就是我們如何相遇的。(掌聲)你跟觀眾說吧。(笑聲) 你不說嗎？(笑聲)好吧，還是我來說。有趣的是我們兩個的成長背景十分類似，實際上，大約是我12歲時，我看過Donnell演奏。他和他的家人來到英凡尼斯,距離我住的地方約45分鐘的車程，我對他印象深刻，演奏十分精彩。你在這裡即將親眼見證，他的演奏讓我不敢置信，我媽當時也在現場，她說 ─Donnell的媽媽上了舞台和她的孩子們跳舞，我媽說：「那是Julie MacDonnell，我們小時候會一起跳舞，我沒想到我們的小孩都會演奏樂器，玩音樂。」 她當時也沒想到的是20年後她們的小孩會結婚。於是，七年後，我當時19歲，就讀大一或大二，我接到一通電話，是Donnell打來的，他說：「你好，你可能不知道我是誰，我叫作Donnell Leahy。」我說：「我認識你，我家裡有一卷你的錄影帶。」於是他說：「我現在在特魯羅。」也就是我當時所在的地方，他約我一起吃晚餐。就是這樣。(笑聲)(掌聲)嗯 ─ 我該繼續講嗎？(笑聲)(笑聲)然後我們約會了兩年，分開了十年，之後又復合，然後結婚。(笑聲)(掌聲) 好了，時間要不夠了，我得直接切入重點。我將為你們演奏一首樂曲。這是我選的一首蘇格蘭樂曲，我用詠嘆調(slow air)開頭。在歐洲的葬禮中，當大體從守靈處被抬到埋葬處時，樂手會吹奏詠嘆調，葬禮隊伍由吹笛手或者小提琴手領隊前進。我將很快地演奏一小部份的詠嘆調，然後銜接一種有點瘋狂的曲調，當你熱身不夠的時候，這是非常難演奏的。所以，如果我搞砸了，假裝你喜歡它吧。這首樂曲稱為河岸。 (調音) (笑聲) (音樂) (掌聲) 好了，我們將合奏一首樂曲。(掌聲)我們笑的原因是如同你聽到一般，我們的音樂風格大不同。所以，你們知道，Donnell和我正一起在創作一些我們倆可以一同演奏的樂曲，但我們手邊沒有任何完成的作品。我們昨天才剛開始準備。(笑聲)不論如何，我們現在要一起演奏。 只有一分鐘。 只有一分鐘。 (現場觀眾反應) Donnell：你先開始。Natalie：不，你得先開始。你得先演奏你的部分。 (音樂) 等一下，我還沒調音。 (調音) 我覺得我現在像是在擺鴨子或者小鳥的姿勢。(笑聲) (音樂) (觀眾跟著打拍子) (掌聲) 工作人員：好消息，樓下的節目時間延長，我們還有10分鐘。(掌聲) 好的。沒問題。嗯，好。節目繼續。(掌聲) (調音) 你想演奏什麼曲子？ 嗯... (音樂)(笑聲) 就這個。 要拉多快？ 不要太快。 (音樂) (觀眾跟著打拍子) (歡呼聲) (觀眾跟著打拍子) (音樂) (掌聲) 我們將演奏一首曲子，Natalie要用鋼琴伴奏。布雷頓角島的鋼琴演奏很精彩，很有節奏性，你馬上就能見到。我媽會彈鋼琴，她在布雷頓角島的家裡還沒有鋼琴的時候，就開始學習彈琴。當家裡還沒有鋼琴時，她在一個板子上學習如何彈奏節奏，在寒冬的傍晚，小提琴手會聚集在一起演奏，我媽則會敲打這片板子，於是當他們買了一架鋼琴時，他們在多倫多買這台鋼琴，透過火車運輸再用一批馬送到家裡，實際上是一匹馬和一個雪橇送到家裡來。在當時，這是那區裡面唯一一架鋼琴，我媽說當鋼琴被送來時，基本上她就會彈琴了，因為她早已經學會全部這些節奏了。於是，去年時，我們找到這架鋼琴而且把它帶回家。我們將它買下，它似乎已經流轉過五或六個家庭了，這對我們意義重大。而且我們還真找到一張舊照片，照面裡是多年前的某個人和他的家人們。好了，我在亂扯一通。 你沒有啦，我想要你告訴大家一些有關你們家的事。 什麼關於我們家的事？(笑聲) 就告訴大家有關─ 她要我說些有關─我們家有個樂隊叫做Leahy。團員有11個兄弟姊妹。我們─我該跟大家說什麼？(笑聲)我們替─ 不要講到手術。 不要提手術，好的。我們有過很棒的機會。我們曾擔任Shania Twain兩年的國際巡迴演唱會開場嘉賓。這對我們來說意義重大，現在我的姊妹們都暫時離開去生小孩，兄弟們都在結婚，所以我們目前以家庭為重，我想這情況會持續幾周。我還能說什麼？我不知道該說什麼。我們...(笑聲) (笑聲) 這就是婚姻嗎？(掌聲)我喜歡。(掌聲) (笑聲) 我想到了，我們家有七個女生，四個男生，只有兩把小提琴和一架鋼琴，所以我們都吵著要玩樂器。於是我爸媽訂下規則，不能跟任何人搶樂器。你只能等，等到他們結束，所以，當我們一坐在鋼琴前時，你根本不會起身去吃東西，因為你不想要把機會讓給你兄弟姊妹，所以他們會一直等，等到午夜，你還是會坐在鋼琴前，這是我爸媽訓練我們練習的方法。我們要再演奏什麼嗎？ Natalie：那方法確實有效。Donnell：真的有效。這是我們的最後一首曲目，Natalie將用鋼琴跟我合奏。好了，用A大調嗎？ (音樂) (掌聲)
