Talk	en	zh-tw
nathan_myhrvold_cut_your_food_in_half	"So I'm going to tell you a little bit about reimagining food. I've been interested in food for a long time. I taught myself to cook with a bunch of big books like this. I went to chef school in France. And there is a way the world both envisions food, the way the world writes about food and learns about food. And it's largely what you would find in these books. And it's a wonderful thing. But there's some things that have been going on since this idea of food was established. In the last 20 years, people have realized that science has a tremendous amount to do with food. In fact, understanding why cooking works requires knowing the science of cooking — some of the chemistry, some of the physics and so forth. But that's not in any of those books. There's also a tremendous number of techniques that chefs have developed, some about new aesthetics, new approaches to food. There's a chef in Spain named Ferran Adria. He's developed a very avant-garde cuisine. A guy in England called Heston Blumenthal, he's developed his avant-garde cuisine. None of the techniques that these people have developed over the course of the last 20 years is in any of those books. None of them are taught in cooking schools. In order to learn them, you have to go work in those restaurants. And finally, there's the old way of viewing food is the old way. And so a few years ago — fours years ago, actually — I set out to say, is there a way we can communicate science and technique and wonder? Is there a way we can show people food in a way they have not seen it before? So we tried, and I'll show you what we came up with. This is a picture called a cutaway. This is actually the first picture I took in the book. The idea here is to explain what happens when you steam broccoli. And this magic view allows you to see all of what's happening while the broccoli steams. Then each of the different little pieces around it explain some fact. And the hope was two-fold. One is you can actually explain what happens when you steam broccoli. But the other thing is that maybe we could seduce people into stuff that was a little more technical, maybe a little bit more scientific, maybe a little bit more chef-y than they otherwise would have. Because with that beautiful photo, maybe I can also package this little box here that talks about how steaming and boiling actually take different amounts of time. Steaming ought to be faster. It turns out it isn't because of something called film condensation, and this explains that. Well, that first cutaway picture worked, so we said, ""Okay, let's do some more."" So here's another one. We discovered why woks are the shape they are. This shaped wok doesn't work very well; this caught fire three times. But we had a philosophy, which is it only has to look good for a thousandth of a second. (Laughter) And one of our canning cutaways. Once you start cutting things in half, you kind of get carried away, so you see we cut the jars in half as well as the pan. And each of these text blocks explains a key thing that's going on. In this case, boiling water canning is for canning things that are already pretty acidic. You don't have to heat them up as hot as you would something you do pressure canning because bacterial spores can't grow in the acid. So this is great for pickled vegetables, which is what we're canning here. Here's our hamburger cutaway. One of our philosophies in the book is that no dish is really intrinsically any better than any other dish. So you can lavish all the same care, all the same technique, on a hamburger as you would on some much more fancy dish. And if you do lavish as much technique as possible, and you try to make the highest quality hamburger, it gets to be a little bit involved. The New York Times ran a piece after my book was delayed and it was called ""The Wait for the 30-Hour Hamburger Just Got Longer."" Because our hamburger recipe, our ultimate hamburger recipe, if you make the buns and you marinate the meat and you do all this stuff, it does take about 30 hours. Of course, you're not actually working the whole time. Most of the time is kind of sitting there. The point of this cutaway is to show people a view of hamburgers they haven't seen before and to explain the physics of hamburgers and the chemistry of hamburgers, because, believe it or not, there is something to the physics and chemistry — in particular, those flames underneath the burger. Most of the characteristic char-grilled taste doesn't come from the wood or the charcoal. Buying mesquite charcoal will not actually make that much difference. Mostly it comes from fat pyrolyzing, or burning. So it's the fat that drips down and flares up that causes the characteristic taste. Now you might wonder, how do we make these cutaways? Most people assume we use Photoshop. And the answer is: no, not really; we use a machine shop. And it turns out, the best way to cut things in half is to actually cut them in half. So we have two halves of one of the best kitchens in the world. (Laughter) We cut a $5,000 restaurant oven in half. The manufacturer said, ""What would it take for you to cut one in half?"" I said, ""It would have to show up free."" And so it showed up, we used it a little while, we cut it in half. Now you can also see a little bit how we did some of these shots. We would glue a piece of Pyrex or heat-resistant glass in front. We used a red, very high-temperature silicon to do that. The great thing is, when you cut something in half, you have another half. So you photograph that in exactly the same position, and then you can substitute in — and that part does use Photoshop — just the edges. So it's very much like in a Hollywood movie where a guy flies through the air, supported by wires, and then they take the wires away digitally so you're flying through the air. In most cases, though, there was no glass. Like for the hamburger, we just cut the damn barbecue. And so those coals that kept falling off the edge, we kept having to put them back up. But again, it only has to work for a thousandth of a second. The wok shot caught fire three times. What happens when you have your wok cut in half is the oil goes down into the fire and whoosh! One of our cooks lost his eyebrows that way. But hey, they grow back. In addition to cutaways, we also explain physics. This is Fourier's law of heat conduction. It's a partial differential equation. We have the only cookbook in the world that has partial differential equations in it. But to make them palatable, we cut it out of a steel plate and put it in front of a fire and photographed it like this. We've got lots of little tidbits in the book. Everybody knows that your various appliances have wattage, right? But you probably don't know that much about James Watt. But now you will; we put a biography of James Watt in. It's a little couple paragraphs to explain why we call that unit of heat the watt, and where he got his inspiration. It turned out he was hired by a Scottish distillery to understand why they were burning so damn much peat to distill the whiskey. We also did a lot of calculation. I personally wrote thousands of lines of code to write this cookbook. Here's a calculation that shows how the intensity of a barbecue, or other radiant heat source, goes as you move away from it. So as you move vertically away from this surface, the heat falls off. As you move side to side, it moves off. That horn-shaped region is what we call the sweet spot. That's the place where the heat is even to within 10 percent. So that's the place where you really want to cook. And it's got this funny horn-shaped thing, which as far as I know, again, the first cookbook to ever do this. Now it may also be the last cookbook that ever does it. You know, there's two ways you can make a product. You can do lots of market research and do focus groups and figure out what people really want, or you can just kind of go for it and make the book you want and hope other people like it. Here's a step-by-step that shows grinding hamburger. If you really want great hamburger, it turns out it makes a difference if you align the grain. And it's really simple, as you can see here. As it comes out of the grinder, you just have a little tray, and you just take it off in little passes, build it up, slice it vertically. Here's the final hamburger. This is the 30-hour hamburger. We make every aspect of this burger. The lettuce has got liquid smoke infused into it. We also have things about how to make the bun. There's a mushroom, ketchup — it goes on and on. Now watch closely. This is popcorn. I'll explain it here. The popcorn is illustrating a key thing in physics. Isn't that beautiful? We have a very high-speed camera, which we had lots of fun with on the book. The key physics principle here is when water boils to steam it expands by a factor of 1,600. That's what's happening to the water inside that popcorn. So it's a great illustration of that. Now I'm going to close with a video that is kind of unusual. We have a chapter on gels. And because people watch Mythbusters and CSI, I thought, well, let's put in a recipe for a ballistics gelatin. Well, if you have a high-speed camera, and you have a block of ballistics gelatin lying around, pretty soon somebody does this. (Gasps) Now the amazing thing here is that a ballistics gelatin is supposed to mimic what happens to human flesh when you get shot — that's why you shouldn't get shot. The other amazing thing is, when this ballistics gelatin comes down, it falls back down as a nice block. Anyway, here's the book. Here it is. 2,438 pages. And they're nice big pages too. (Applause) A friend of mine complained that this was too big and too pretty to go in the kitchen, so there's a sixth volume that has washable, waterproof paper. (Applause)"	"我想和各位談談有關食物的新思維我對食物感興趣有很長一段時間了我用了一大批這樣厚的書來自學烹飪我到法國的烹飪學校進修但是世界對於事物的認知對食物的描寫方式以及對於食物的研究方式都有一個既定的概念然後大家這些書上看到的都基本上是這樣的這些都很好但是在這些概念被定義之後有些事情變得不一樣了 過去二十年裡人們意識到科學對食物有著很深的影響實際上要了解烹飪的機理必須要知道烹飪的科學需要化學，物理等等的知識但是這些並沒有出現在任何一本書裡很多大廚研發出了眾多的烹飪技巧包括關於食物的新美學，新的烹調食物的方法有位西班牙的廚師Ferran Adria他研發出了一套非常前衛的佳餚在英國的Heston Blumenthal他也研發出自己的一套前衛美食而這些人在過去二十年來研發的烹飪技術沒有記載在任何一本烹飪相關的書籍裡這些技術也沒有在烹飪學校教授想要學習這些技術，你必須在這些餐廳裡工作還有就是對於食物的傳統概念產生出傳統的烹飪方式 幾年以前—事實上就是四年前—我試問我們是否有一種能將科學、烹飪技術和好奇心三者結合的方法？是否能以一種前所未見的方式讓我們將食物呈現在眾人眼前？而我們嘗試了，待會兒我會展現成果給各位看這張圖片叫做剖面圖這也是我書裡的第一張圖這張圖說明了水蒸花椰菜時的實際情況這神奇的視角讓人能看清楚水蒸花椰菜時的所有情形圖片周圍的文字方塊給予一些解釋 我們希望做到兩點其一是能真的解釋水蒸花椰菜的情況另一點就是說不定我們可以引起人們對於和他們平常的做法比起來更技術化，比較科學，比較專業的烹調的興趣因為利用這美麗的圖片也許我還能利用這裡的文字方塊來描述蒸和煮實際上會用上不同的時間用蒸的應該會快些原來這不是叫做薄膜凝結這可以說明一切 而第一張剖面圖奏效了所以我們決定「好，我們多做一點」這是另一張我們發現為什麼炒菜鍋是這樣的形狀這樣形狀的鍋子不是很好用這鍋子起火了三次不過我們有一個原則就是只要東西能有千分之一秒好看就行了 (笑聲) 我們其中一個罐頭的剖面圖一旦你開始把東西都切成兩半，你就停不下來了所以各位看到我們把酒瓶及鍋子都切成兩半裡面每個文字方塊解釋了每個發生的關鍵事物這裡是煮沸罐裝食品來罐裝已經是醃漬過的事物你就不需要把它完全加熱到像你要製作壓力罐頭那樣高溫因為細菌孢子無法在這樣(酸)的環境中生長所以這種灌裝方式適合醃製的蔬菜我們這裡展示的就是罐裝蔬菜 這是我們的漢堡剖面圖我們在書中提到的一個理念是沒有哪一道菜餚是真的從根本上比其他菜好所以你可以大展身手用相同的方式，相同的技術來製作漢堡如同你烹調出其他豐盛的美饌如果你使用越多的豪華的烹調技術來試圖烹煮出最高級的漢堡這就需要投入更多心思紐約時報在我的書延期時寫了一篇報導標題叫做「費工三十小時的漢堡又得等更久了」因為我們的漢堡配方，我們的終極漢堡配方如果一個人要自己做出麵包和醃漬肉和其他所有的事情這的確需要花上三十個小時當然你並非真的三十個小時都在煮菜大部分的時間都是在等待 這幅剖面圖的重點是要呈現一個前所未見的漢堡樣貌給眾人並解釋有關漢堡的物理資訊和漢堡的化學資訊因為信不信由你，這當中的確有物理和化學的事特別是，烤漢堡肉的火焰大多數的炭烤香味並非來自木材或木炭即便買豆蔻灌木的木炭實際上也不會有太大的差別香味主要是因為脂肪高溫分解或燃燒肉裡的脂肪滴下來經過火烤才造就出如此特殊的風味 各位也許想知道我們是如何製作這些剖面圖的？大部分的人以為我們運用Photoshop編輯影像但答案不是這樣我們使用機器來製作這些影像事實證明，要做出東西變成兩半的樣子的最好的方法就是你真的得把他們都切成兩半所以我們有""一半""世界上最好的廚房之一(笑聲)我們把一個價值五千塊的專業烤箱也切對半製造商問說「你把烤箱切成兩半要做什麼用？」我說「因為要讓拍攝沒有阻礙。」所以就像這樣，我們有使用一會兒我們把東西切一半 各位可以看到我們是如何拍攝這些影像的我們會粘上一塊耐高溫玻璃在前面我們使用了紅色耐高溫的矽膠做到這一點優點是，當你把東西切一半你有另一半的部分然後就能在相同的位置拍攝然後把東西替代進去這部分有使用Photoshop，但只有邊緣的部分這和好萊塢的電影非常相似像人要利用鋼索從空中飛越利用數位編輯把鋼索的部分修飾掉就變成真的從空中飛越 大部分的圖是沒有使用到玻璃的像剛才的漢堡圖，我們就只是把烤爐切半所以木炭就不斷從邊緣的部分掉落我們必須不斷把木炭再放回去不過同樣的，照片只要千分之一秒看起來好看即可炒菜鍋則起火了三次當我們把鐵鍋切半後油不斷流到火裡然後霍地大火起來我們其中一位廚師因此失去他的眉毛但還好，眉毛後來長回來 除了剖面圖外我們也解釋了物理現象這是傅立葉的熱傳導定律這是一個偏微分的方程式我們有了世界上唯一一本刊載偏微分方程式的烹飪書為了符合整體我們像這樣用鋼板剪出形狀放在火焰前面拍攝我們在書裡也寫了很多的小花絮大家都知道各種電器都有瓦數，是吧？但你可能不知道太多關於James Watt的事但你現在會知道；我們把James Watt的生平也放進書裡只是幾段文字敘述解釋為什麼我們把熱的單位叫做瓦特還有他是從何處得到靈感原來他受僱於蘇格蘭的酒廠明白他們為什麼燃燒如此多的泥炭來提煉的威士忌 我們也做了很多的計算我自己為了這烹飪書寫了上千行代碼這裡有一個計算式顯示了燒烤強度或其他輻射熱源依照不同距離列出數據所以當表面垂直移開熱能就會減低當您移動一邊到另一邊，就離開熱源這喇叭形區域就是我們所說的熱點這地方的熱能變化能保持在10％以內這地方是你真的想用來做飯的而且它有這個有趣的喇叭狀的東西這據我所知也是首次有烹飪書紀錄這件事也可能是最後一次有烹飪書這麼做各位知道，有兩種方式可以做出產品可以做大量的市場調查鎖定關鍵族群了解大眾真正要的或者就是直接去做做一本你想要的書，然後盼望別人也喜歡這本書 這裡有詳細的步驟說明如何磨碎漢堡肉如果你真想要做出一個美味的漢堡只要把絞肉做的平整就能有所改變如同各位所見，這相當簡單絞肉從磨碎機出來，你只需要一個小托盤然後慢慢的拿出來就好接著疊起來，垂直地切片最後的漢堡成品在此這是費時三十小時的漢堡我們製作出漢堡所需要的每一種材料生菜也用煙熏調味料熏過了我們也有做漢堡麵包所需的材料有蘑菇，番茄醬 —還有很多別的 現在仔細看，這是爆米花，我待會兒會解釋爆米花在物理學上可以說明很關鍵的事這漂亮吧我們用高速攝影拍攝這也讓我們從這本書上獲得許多樂趣這裡的關鍵的物理原則是當水變成蒸氣會膨脹1,600倍所以玉米粒裡頭水分是這麼變化的這是一幅很精彩的插圖 最後我要用一段特別的影片做結尾我們的書裡有一個篇章在談凝膠因為大家會看流言終結者和CSI犯罪現場的節目於是，我們也把這放進食譜裡這是彈道明膠如果你有高速攝影機然後又有一塊彈道明膠很快就有人拿來實驗了(喘氣)驚人的事發生了彈道明膠能模擬出人體肌肉受到槍擊的模樣 — 這是為何我們不能受到槍擊更驚人的是，當這塊彈道明膠落下時還是完好如初像磚塊一樣 總之，書在這裡就在這兒有2,438頁裡面有精美的大圖片(掌聲)我的一位朋友和我抱怨這書太大本也太漂亮不適合拿進廚房所以這一套共有六冊還是用可清洗的防水紙印製的 (掌聲)"
