Talk	en	zh-tw
navi_radjou_creative_problem_solving_in_the_face_of_extreme_limits	"When you grow up in a developing country like India, as I did, you instantly learn to get more value from limited resources and find creative ways to reuse what you already have. Take Mansukh Prajapati, a potter in India. He has created a fridge made entirely of clay that consumes no electricity. He can keep fruits and vegetables fresh for many days. That's a cool invention, literally. In Africa, if you run out of your cell phone battery, don't panic. You will find some resourceful entrepreneurs who can recharge your  cell phone using bicycles. And since we are in South America, let's go to Lima in Peru, a region with high humidity that receives only one inch of rainfall each year. An engineering college in Lima designed a giant advertising billboard that absorbs air humidity and converts it into purified water, generating over 90 liters of water every day. The Peruvians are amazing. They can literally create water out of thin air. For the past seven years, I have met and studied hundreds of entrepreneurs in India, China, Africa and South America, and they keep amazing me. Many of them did not go to school. They don't invent stuff in big R&D labs. The street is the lab. Why do they do that? Because they don't have the kind of basic resources we take for granted, like capital and energy, and basic services like healthcare and education are also scarce in those regions. When external resources are scarce, you have to go within yourself to tap the most abundant resource, human ingenuity, and use that ingenuity to find clever ways to solve problems with limited resources. In India, we call it Jugaad. Jugaad is a Hindi word that means an improvised fix, a clever solution born in adversity. Jugaad solutions are not sophisticated or perfect, but they create more value at lower cost. For me, the entrepreneurs who will create Jugaad solutions are like alchemists. They can magically transform adversity into opportunity, and turn something of less value into something of high value. In other words, they mastered the art of doing more with less, which is the essence of frugal innovation. Frugal innovation is the ability  to create more economic and social value using fewer resources. Frugal innovation is not about making do; it's about making things better. Now I want to show you how, across emerging markets, entrepreneurs and companies are adopting  frugal innovation on a larger scale to cost-effectively deliver healthcare and energy to billions of people who may have little income but very high aspirations. Let's first go to China, where the country's largest I.T. service provider, Neusoft, has developed a telemedicine solution to help doctors in cities remotely treat old and poor patients in Chinese villages. This solution is based on simple-to-use medical devices that less qualified health workers like nurses can use in rural clinics. China desperately needs these frugal medical solutions because by 2050 it will be home to over half a billion senior citizens. Now let's go to Kenya, a country where half the population uses M-Pesa, a mobile payment solution. This is a great solution for the African continent because 80 percent of Africans don't have a bank account, but what is exciting is that M-Pesa is now becoming the source of other disruptive business models in sectors like energy. Take M-KOPA, the home solar solution that comes literally in a box that has a solar rooftop panel, three LED lights, a solar radio, and a cell phone charger. The whole kit, though, costs 200 dollars, which is too expensive for most Kenyans, and this is where mobile telephony can make the solution more affordable. Today, you can buy this kit by making an initial deposit of just 35 dollars, and then pay off the rest by making a daily micro-payment of 45 cents using your mobile phone. Once you've made 365 micro-payments, the system is unlocked, and you own the product and you start  receiving clean, free electricity. This is an amazing solution for Kenya, where 70 percent of people live off the grid. This shows that with frugal innovation what matters is that you take what is most abundant, mobile connectivity, to deal with what is scarce, which is energy. With frugal innovation, the global South is actually catching up and in some cases  even leap-frogging the North. Instead of building expensive hospitals, China is using telemedicine to cost-effectively treat millions of patients, and Africa, instead of building banks and electricity grids, is going straight to mobile payments and distributed clean energy. Frugal innovation is diametrically opposed to the way we innovate in the North. I live in Silicon Valley, where we keep chasing the next big technology thing. Think of the iPhone 5, 6, then 7, 8. Companies in the West spend billions of dollars investing in R&D, and use tons of natural resources to create ever more complex products, to differentiate their brands from competition, and they charge customers more money for new features. So the conventional business model  in the West is more for more. But sadly, this more for more model is running out of gas, for three reasons: First, a big portion of customers in the West because of the diminishing purchasing power, can no longer afford these expensive products. Second, we are running out of natural water and oil. In California, where I live, water scarcity is becoming a big problem. And third, most importantly, because of the growing income disparity between the rich  and the middle class in the West, there is a big disconnect between existing products and services and basic needs of customers. Do you know that today, there are over 70 million Americans today who are underbanked, because existing banking services are not designed to address their basic needs. The prolonged economic crisis in the West is making people think that they are about to lose the high standard of living and face deprivation. I believe that the only way we can sustain growth and prosperity in the West is if we learn to do more with less. The good news is, that's starting to happen. Several Western companies are now adopting frugal innovation to create affordable products for Western consumers. Let me give you two examples. When I first saw this building, I told myself it's some kind of postmodern house. Actually, it's a small manufacturing plant set up by Grameen Danone, a joint venture between  Grameen Bank of Muhammad Yunus and the food multinational Danone to make high-quality yogurt in Bangladesh. This factory is 10 percent the size of existing Danone factories and cost much less to build. I guess you can call it a low-fat factory. Now this factory, unlike Western factories that are highly automated, relies a lot on manual processes in order  to generate jobs for local communities. Danone was so inspired by this model that combines economic efficiency and social sustainability, they are planning to roll it out in other parts of the world as well. Now, when you see this example, you might be thinking, ""Well, frugal innovation is low tech."" Actually, no. Frugal innovation is also about making high tech more affordable and more accessible to more people. Let me give you an example. In China, the R&D engineers of Siemens Healthcare have designed a C.T. scanner that is easy enough to be used by less qualified health workers, like nurses and technicians. This device can scan more patients on a daily basis, and yet consumes less energy, which is great for hospitals, but it's also great for patients because it reduces the cost of treatment by 30 percent and radiation dosage by up to 60 percent. This solution was initially designed for the Chinese market, but now it's selling like hotcakes in the U.S. and Europe, where hospitals are pressured to deliver quality care at lower cost. But the frugal innovation revolution in the West is actually led by creative entrepreneurs who are coming up with amazing solutions to address basic needs in the U.S. and Europe. Let me quickly give you three examples of startups that personally inspire me. The first one happens to be launched by my neighbor in Silicon Valley. It's called gThrive. They make these wireless sensors designed like plastic rulers that farmers can stick in different parts of the field and start collecting detailed information like soil conditions. This dynamic data allows farmers to optimize use of water energy while improving quality of the products and the yields, which is a great solution for California, which faces major water shortage. It pays for itself within one year. Second example is Be-Bound, also in Silicon Valley, that enables you to connect to the Internet even in no-bandwidth areas where there's no wi-fi or 3G or 4G. How do they do that? They simply use SMS, a basic technology, but that happens to be the most reliable and most widely available around the world. Three billion people today with  cell phones can't access the Internet. This solution can connect them to the Internet in a frugal way. And in France, there is a startup calle Compte Nickel, which is revolutionizing the banking sector. It allows thousands of people to walk into a Mom and Pop store and in just five minutes activate the service that gives them two products: an international bank account number and an international debit card. They charge a flat annual  maintenance fee of just 20 Euros. That means you can do all banking transactions — send and receive money, pay with your debit card — all with no additional charge. This is what I call low-cost banking without the bank. Amazingly, 75 percent of the customers using this service are the middle-class French who can't afford high banking fees. Now, I talked about frugal innovation, initially pioneered in the South, now being adopted in the North. Ultimately, we would like to see developed countries and developing countries come together and co-create frugal solutions that benefit the entire humanity. The exciting news is that's starting to happen. Let's go to Nairobi to find that out. Nairobi has horrendous traffic jams. When I first saw them, I thought, ""Holy cow."" Literally, because you have to dodge cows as well when you drive in Nairobi. To ease the situation, the engineers at the IBM lab in Kenya are piloting a solution called Megaffic, which initially was designed by the Japanese engineers. Unlike in the West, Megaffic doesn't rely on roadside sensors, which are very expensive to install in Nairobi. Instead they process images, traffic data, collected from a small number of low-resolution webcams in Nairobi streets, and then they use analytic software to predict congestion points, and they can SMS drivers alternate routes to take. Granted, Megaffic is not as sexy as self-driving cars, but it promises to take Nairobi drivers from point A to point B at least 20 percent faster. And earlier this year, UCLA Health launched its Global Lab for Innovation, which seeks to identify frugal healthcare  solutions anywhere in the world that will be at least 20 percent cheaper than existing solutions in the U.S. and yet more effective. It also tries to bring together innovators from North and South to cocreate affordable healthcare solutions for all of humanity. I gave tons of examples of frugal innovators from around the world, but the question is, how do you go about adopting frugal innovation? Well, I gleaned out three principles from frugal innovators around the world that I want to share with you that you can apply in your own organization to do more with less. The first principle is: Keep it simple. Don't create solutions to impress customers. Make them easy enough to use and widely accessible, like the C.T. scanner we saw in China. Second principle:  Do not reinvent the wheel. Try to leverage existing resources and assets that are widely available, like using mobile telephony to offer clean energy or Mom and Pop stores to offer banking services. Third principle is: Think and act horizontally. Companies tend to scale up vertically by centralizing operations in big factories and warehouses, but if you want to be agile and deal with immense customer diversity, you need to scale out horizontally using a distributed supply chain with smaller manufacturing and distribution units, like Grameen Bank has shown. The South pioneered frugal innovation out of sheer necessity. The North is now learning to do more and better with less as it faces resource constraints. As an Indian-born French national who lives in the United States, my hope is that we transcend this artificial North-South divide so that we can harness the collective ingenuity of innovators from around the world to cocreate frugal solutions that will improve the quality of life of everyone in the world, while preserving our precious planet. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	要是你跟我一樣在發展中國家長大，譬如印度，很快你就學會從有限資源中獲取更多價值，學會發掘新意，重複利用已有資源。曼蘇克•帕佳帕提是一位印度陶匠。他發明了一種冰箱，僅用粘土製成，無需使用電力。新鮮蔬果可以儲存許多天。這可是酷斃了的發明。要是你身處非洲，手機沒電，不用驚慌。你會碰見一些法寶多多的企業家。他們可以用單車來幫你的手機充電。既然我們現在身處南美，我們就看看秘魯的首都利馬。該地區濕度高，但每年降雨量只有一英寸（約25.4毫米）。利馬一所工學院設計了一座大型露天廣告牌，能夠吸收濕氣中的水分，轉化成純淨水。每天可以生產超過 90 公升水。秘魯人很厲害。他們可以「無中生有」，從空氣中變出水。 過去七年裡，我遇見過、研究過數以百計的企業家，遍布印度、中國、非洲、南美洲，他們讓我驚嘆不已。他們當中許多都沒上過學校。他們的發明不是在大型研發中心裡誕生的。大街大巷，就是他們的實驗室。為什麼他們要這樣？因為我們理所當然擁有的基本資源，他們沒有。譬如資本、能源，還有醫療保險和教育之類的基本資源，在那些地區少之又少。既然外在的資源遙不可及，你就必須靠自己，利用最豐富的資源——人類智慧，去尋找聰明的辦法，運用有限資源去解決問題。 在印度，我們稱之為「組加」（Jugaad）「組加」在印度語中意為在毫無準備的情況下解決問題，在逆境中應運而生的智慧方案。組加方案不複雜、也不是完美無缺，但是可以用更低的成本，創造更多的價值。在我看來，創造組加方案的企業家就像煉金術師一樣神奇。他們可以將逆境神奇地轉化為機遇，將原來低價值的事物變成高價值。他們以更少價值創造更多價值，「組加」游刃有餘，這就是節儉發明的精髓。 節儉發明，指能夠用更少的資源創造更經濟優惠的社會價值。節儉發明的目的，不是湊合著使用資源，而是讓世界變得更美好。現在我想向各位展示，在新興市場上，企業家和公司是如何大量使用節儉發明向數以十億計的低收入高志向人群提供高性價比的醫療保險和能量。 我們首先看看中國。中國最大的資訊科技服務供應商東軟集團研發了一套遠程醫療方案幫助城市中的醫生遠程治療山村裡年老貧窮的病人。這套方案主要使用容易操作的醫療設備，農村診所的護士等普通醫療人員也能使用。中國亟需這樣的節儉醫療方案，因為到了 2050 年，老年人口會達過五億。 現在我們來看看肯亞，該國一半人都在用一種叫 M-Pesa 的手機付款方式。在非洲大陸，這是相當了不起，因為 80% 的非洲人都沒有銀行帳戶，令人振奮的是，目前在能源等領域中M-Pesa 已成為其他顛覆性經營模式的資源。舉例來說，M-KOPA 是一盒太陽能家庭設備，其中包括太陽能面板、三盞 LED 燈、太陽能接收器、手機充電器。整套設備大約是 200 美元，對於肯亞大眾來說太貴了。而手機卻可以讓大家都買得起這套設備。今天，只要首付 35 美金，就可以購買這套設備，剩下的可以通過手機，每天分期支付 45 美分。第 365 次付款完成之後，系統就會解鎖，你就擁有這個產品，開始享受免費的環保電能。在肯亞，這套方案相當出眾，因為 70% 的人日常生活在沒有電能的條件下。這也證明了，憑藉節儉發明，你可以利用最豐富的資源，譬如手機網路，去解決短缺問題，譬如能源。 憑藉節儉發明，南部地區在真正地接近、甚至超越北部地區的發展。在中國，遠程醫療取代了昂價的醫院工程，為數以百萬計的病人提供符合成本效益的治療，在非洲，不是去建新的銀行和電網，而是直接用手機支付和分散式的乾淨能源。 節儉發明，與我們北部地區的發明方式截然不同。我住在矽谷，那裡的人一直追求了不起的新技術。想想 iPhone 5、6、7、8。西方企業投資數以十億計美元在研發上，利用數以噸計的自然資源來創造更加複雜的產品，就是為了讓自己的品牌在競爭中突圍而出，然後借著這些新功能向顧客收取更多費用。因此，西方傳統商業模式是以更多價值換取更多價值。但不幸的是這種模式要走到盡頭了。原因有三：第一，西方的大量顧客由於消費力日漸減弱不再買得起這些高價產品。第二，自然水資源和石油資源在不斷耗盡。我居住在加州，那裡的水資源缺乏問題越來越嚴重。第三，也是最重要的，西方富人和中產階級之間的收入差距越來越大，已有的產品服務與顧客的基本需要越來越不相關。在座是否知道，目前有逾七千萬美國人沒有得到足夠的金融服務，因為已有的銀行服務不是為了滿足他們的基本需求而設計的。 西方的經濟危機揮之不去，讓大眾以為他們就要失去高生活標準，即將面臨貧困問題。我認為，西方持續發展和繁榮的唯一出路是我們要學會用更少價值創造更多價值。 好消息是，這已經開始發生。數家西方企業正在通過節儉發明，為西方消費者創造經濟實惠的產品。我為大家舉兩個例子。 首次看到這座建築，我以為這是一座後現代房子。但實際上這是丹璐·格萊珉設計的一座小型生產房，是穆罕默德·尤努斯的格萊珉銀行以及丹璐跨國食品公司的合資企業，目的是在孟加拉製作高質優格。該廠房只有丹璐其他廠房的十分之一大，工程花費小。我想大家可以稱之為「低脂」廠房。西方廠房高度自動化，但目前該廠房為了給當地社區帶來就業，主要依賴手工製作。丹璐對這種模式相當有信心，因為該模式結合經濟效益和社會永續性發展，於是計劃在世界其他地方建立該模式。 現在大家看著這個例子，可能在想：「噢，節儉發明就是技術含量低。」實際不是這樣。節儉發明同時也是將高科技帶給更多人、變得更經濟實惠、更大眾化。我為大家舉一個例子。 在中國，西門子醫療保健公司的研發工程師設計了一款容易操作的電腦斷層掃描儀，就連護士、技師等普通資格醫療人員也可以使用。這部設備每天可以掃描更多病人，並且消耗更少能源，對於醫院來說是福音，對於病人來說也是福音，因為治療費用可以降低 30%，輻射劑量可以降低最多 60%。該方案最初是為中國市場而設計的，但目前在美國和歐洲也在熱賣，因為當地的醫院亟需以更低成本提供高質服務。 但是在西方，節儉發明革命實際上是由創意企業家引導的，他們不斷構思出突破方案，來滿足美國和歐洲地區的基本需求。我為大家快速講述三個極其啟發我的創業例子。第一個碰巧是我在矽谷的鄰居推出的，名為「農生」(gThrive)。他們製造這些無線感應器，設計像膠尺，實際上是給農民扎在農地各處用來收集各種訊息，譬如土壤環境。這些動態數據能讓農民優化使用水能源，又可以提高產品和農田的質量，對於嚴重缺水的加州來說，是相當了不起的發明。該發明在一年內就回本。 第二個例子是「必寳」(Be-Bound)，也出自矽谷。該發明可讓你在沒有寬頻、無線網路、3G、4G 的地方，都可以連接到網路。他們怎樣做到？他們使用的不過是簡訊，技術雖簡單，但確實在全球最可靠、最普遍。今天有三十億手機用戶無法使用網路。該方案可以讓他們省錢地連上網。 在法國，有家新興企業叫「剛立閣」(Compte Nickel)在不斷改革銀行金融機構。大眾可以隨意走進小商店，五分鐘內就可以啟用兩種產品服務：國際銀行帳戶號碼和國際銀行扣帳卡。他們僅收取 20 歐元年費。也就是說，你可以進行所有銀行交易，轉款、收錢、扣帳卡付款等等，統統都無需額外的手續費。這就是我所稱的無銀行的低成本銀行服務。讓我們吃驚的是，使用該服務的 75% 顧客是法國中產階級人士，給不起昂貴銀行費用。 關於節儉發明的例子，我已經講了很多，最初是在南部地區開拓，現正為北方地區採納。最終，我們希望看見發達國家和發展中國家齊手合作，共同創造節儉方案，讓全人類受益。令人振奮的是，這已開始發生了。我們去看看肯亞的首都奈洛比。 奈洛比的交通堵塞相當惡劣。我第一次看見的時候就想：「塞得可夠牛的。」沒錯，因為在奈洛比開車你得避著牛群。為了改善狀況，肯亞 IBM 實驗室的工程師正在試用一套名為「馬架飛」(Megaffic) 的方案。該方案最初由日本工程師設計。與西方不同的是，馬架飛不依賴路側感應器，因為在奈洛比太貴了。他們從奈洛比街道的幾個低解析度攝影機收集並處理影像和交通數據，然後使用分析軟體，預測交通高峰期，之後可以簡訊通知司機其他可選擇路段。當然，馬架飛不像自動駕駛汽車那樣炫酷，但是可以保證讓奈洛比的司機用快 20% 的速度，從甲地去到乙地。今年初，加州大學洛杉磯分校的醫療中心設立了全球發明實驗室，立向尋找世界各地的節儉醫療方案，比美國目前的方案節省至少 20%但卻更有效的方案。同時也嘗試將南北部地區的發明家聚在一起，聯手為全人類發明經濟大眾的醫療方案。 世界各地的節儉發明例子，我已經給了很多，但問題是，大家要怎樣利用節儉發明？我從各地的節儉發明家上收集了三個要點，想在這裡跟大家分享，讓大家知道可以在自己的組織中用少量價值創造更多價值。 第一要點：一切從簡。不要為了向客戶炫耀才創造方案。方案需要簡單明了，容易操作，經濟大眾，譬如中國的電腦斷層掃描儀。 第二要點：切勿重複發明資源。嘗試利用廣泛易得的已有資源，譬如說用手機來提供乾淨能源，在小商店內提供銀行服務。 第三點：橫向思考和行動。企業傾向於垂直發展，將程序集中在大型廠房和倉庫內，但如果想要靈活處理顧客龐大而多樣的需求，就需要橫向發展，使用分散的供應鏈，建立更小的生產和分配單位，格萊珉銀行就是一個例子。 出於自身的需要，南部地區開拓了節儉發明。目前北部地區在面對資源短缺限制時，也在學習用更少資源做更多更有效的事情。身為出生於印度的法國人，居住在美國，我希望我們能超越這道所謂的南北部地區分界線，可以掌握世界各地發明家的集體智慧共同創造節儉方案，改善全人類的生活質量，保護我們寶貴的星球。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
