Talk	en	zh-tw
negin_farsad_a_highly_scientific_taxonomy_of_haters	"I'm an Iranian-American Muslim female, like all of you. And I'm also a social justice comedian, something that I insist is an actual job. To explain what that is, let me tell you how I got here. I've performed all over the country. And let me tell you, America is majestic, right? It's got breathtaking nature, waffle houses and diabetes as far as the eye can see. It is really something. Now, the American population can be broken up into three main categories: there's mostly wonderful people, haters and Florida. (Laughter) Besides Florida, the most troubling category here are the Haters. They are a minority, but they overcompensate by being extra loud. They have the Napoleon complex of demographics, and yes, some of the men do wear heels. As a social justice comedian, it's my goal to convert these haters, because they hate a lot of things, which leads to negative outcomes, like racism, violence and Ted Nugent. This is not an exhaustive list; I'm probably missing 3-7 items. But the point is, we have to reckon with the haters. But there's variance within this group and it's not efficient to go after all of them, right? So what I've done is created a highly scientific Taxonomy of Haters. I basically took all of the haters, I put them in a petri dish, like a scientist, and this is what I found. (Laughter) First off, we have the trolls. These are your garden-variety digital haters. They're the people who quit their jobs so they can post on YouTube videos all day long. There's also the drive-by haters. Now, these people will be at a stoplight, they'll wait for the light to turn green and when it does, they yell, ""Go back to your own country!"" Now back in the day, they would've actually gotten out of their cars and hated you to your face. But they just don't make them like they used to — which is another sign of the decline in America. (Laughter) The next category is the mission-oriented-bigot- whose-group-affiliation- gives-them-cover-for-hating hater. These guys like to hate via a seemingly nice organization, like a church or a nonprofit, and they oftentimes like to speak in an old-timey voice. But the group I'm most interested in is the swing hater. The swing hater is sister to the swing voter — they just can't decide! They're like ideological sluts who move from hating to not hating. And they do it because they don't have enough information. This is the group I like to target with social justice comedy. Why comedy? Because on a scale of comedy to brochure, the average American prefers comedy, as you can see from this graph. (Laughter) Comedy is very popular. And by the way, this is a mathematically accurate graph, generated from fake numbers. (Laughter) Now, the question is: Why does social justice comedy work? Because, first off, it makes you laugh. And when you're laughing, you enter into a state of openness. And in that moment of openness, a good social justice comedian can stick in a whole bunch of information, and if they're really skilled, a rectal exam. (Laughter) Here are some ground rules for social justice comedy: first off, it's not partisan. This isn't political comedy, this is about justice, and no one is against justice. Two, it's inviting and warm, it makes you feel like you're sitting inside of a burrito. Three, it's funny but sneaky, like you could be hearing an interesting treatise on income inequality, that's encased in a really sophisticated poop joke. (Laughter) Here's how I see social justice comedy working. A few years ago, I rounded up a bunch of Muslim-American comedians — in a non-violent way — (Laughter) And we went around the country to places like Alabama, Arizona, Tennessee, Georgia — places where they love the Muzzies — and we did stand-up shows. We called the tour ""The Muslims Are Coming!"" (Laughter) We turned this into a movie, and then after the movie came out, a known hate group spent 300,000 dollars on an anti-Muslim poster campaign with the MTA — that's the New York City subway system. Now, the posters were truly offensive, not to mentioned poorly designed — I mean, if you're going to be bigoted, you might as well use a better font. (Laughter) But we decided, why not launch our own poster campaign that says nice things about Muslims, while promoting the movie. So myself and fellow comedian Dean Obeidallah decided to launch the fighting-bigotry- with-delightful-posters campaign. We raised the money, worked with the MTA for over 5 months, got the posters approved, and two days after they were supposed to go up, the MTA decided to ban the posters, citing political content. Let's take a look at a couple of those posters. Here's one. Facts about Muslims: Muslims invented the concept of a hospital. OK. Fact: Grown-up Muslims can do more push-ups than baby Muslims. (Laughter) Fact: Muslims invented Justin Timberlake. (Laughter) Let's take a look at another one. The ugly truth about Muslims: they have great frittata recipes. Now clearly, frittatas are considered political by the MTA. Either that, or the mere mention of Muslims in a positive light was considered political — but it isn't. It's about justice. So we decided to change our fighting-bigortry- with-delightful-posters campaign and turn it into the fighting-bigotry- with-a-delightful-lawsuit campaign. (Laughter) So basically, what I'm saying is a couple of dirt-bag comedians took on a major New York City agency and the comedians won. (Applause and cheers) Thank you. Victory was a very weird feeling. I was like, ""Is this what blonde girls feel like all the time? 'Cause this is amazing!"" (Laughter) Here's another example. I'm asked everywhere I go: ""Why don't Muslims denounce terrorism?"" We do. But OK, I'll take the bait. So I decided to launch thedailydenouncer.com. It's a website that denounces terrorism every day of the week, while taking the weekends off. Let's take a look at an example. They generally appear as single-panel cartoons, ""I denounce terrorism! I also denounce people who never fill the paper tray!"" The point of the website is that it denounces terrorism while recognizing that it's ridiculous that we have to constantly denounce terrorism. But if bigotry isn't your thing, social justice comedy is useful for all sorts of issues. For example, myself and fellow comedian Lee Camp went to the Cayman Islands to investigate offshore banking. Now, the United States loses something like 300 billion dollars a year in these offshore tax havens. Not to brag, but at the end of every month, I have something like 5-15 dollars in disposable income. So we walked into these banks in the Cayman Islands and asked if we could open up a bank account with eight dollars and 27 cents. (Laughter) The bank managers would indulge us for 30-45 seconds before calling security. Security would come out, brandish their weapons, and then we would squeal with fear and run away, because — and this is the last rule of social justice comedy — sometimes it makes you want to take a dump in your pants. Most of my work is meant to be fun. It's meant to generate a connection and laughter. But yes, sometimes I get run off the grounds by security. Sometimes I get mean tweets and hate mail. Sometimes I get voice mails saying that if I continue telling my jokes, they'll kill me and they'll kill my family. And those death threats are definitely not funny. But despite the occasional danger, I still think that social justice comedy is one of our best weapons. I mean, we've tried a lot of approaches to social justice, like war and competitive ice dancing. But still, a lot of things are still kind of awful. So I think it's time we try and tell a really good poop joke. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一位美籍伊朗裔的穆斯林女士跟各位一樣同時我也是一位社會正義的喜劇演員這也是我一直一來堅持的工作 為了解釋這是一個甚麼樣的工作讓我先跟各位說明我如何辦到的我全國到處表演我跟你講美國是宏偉的對吧？美國有美到不行的自然景色有鬆餅店還有四處都看的到糖尿病這是真的 美國的人口大致可以分為三種類型大部的人都很善良憎恨者還有佛羅里達 （笑聲） 除了佛羅里達 這裡最麻煩的人就是那些憎恨者他們是少數族群但他們的行為有時有點驕枉過正他們有拿破崙矮子情節的自卑傾向而且沒錯他們有些男人甚至還穿高跟鞋 身為一位社會正義喜劇演員我的目標就是要改變這些憎恨者因為他們痛恨很多事常常導致負面的結果像是種族歧視暴力行為還有 TED Nugent（搖滾歌手）我沒有全部列出來大概少了 3~7 樣 但重點是我們必須要對付這些憎恨者但這個群體的人有很多種類型要全面的跟蹤他們不是很有效率 對吧？所以我就自創一種高效率的科學分類方法基本上我已經把他們就跟科學家一樣放到培養皿上研究過了以下是我的發現 （笑聲） 首先我們有酸民這些人就是很普通的網路酸民他們有些人沒有工作所以他們可以整天在家裡上傳影片到 Youtube 上還有一種叫做＂開車幹譙者＂這些人會在等紅綠燈的時候出現他們會等到快要綠燈的時候搖下窗戶大吼＂滾回你的國家！＂在過去他們會下車直接面對面幹譙你但他們已經沒有往日雄風了這也是美國衰弱的另一種現象 （笑聲） 下一種類任務導向偏執狂團隊感情可以掩飾他們的贈恨的贈恨者這些人會假裝自己像是教會或非營利組織一類的人而且常常用一種很老派的方式在說話 但我最感興趣的就是＂搖擺不定的憎恨者＂他們就像中間選民一直無法做出決定他們像是意識形態的蕩婦一下恨 一下不恨他們會這樣做的原因是因為他們的資訊不足這一群人就是我們用社會正義喜劇調侃的對象為什麼是喜劇因為在一份喜劇宣傳手冊的調查當中一般美國人比較喜歡看喜劇各位可以從上面的圖表看到 （笑聲） 喜劇是很受歡迎的呢順便一提這是一張相當精準的數學統計圖表只是數字是瞎掰的 （笑聲） 問題是為什麼社會正義喜劇有效？因為首先它會讓你笑當你在笑的時候你會進入一種率真的狀態在那一刻一個好的社會正義喜劇演員就會倒一大堆資訊給你如果他們夠搞笑會讓你笑到漏屎 （笑聲） 社會正義喜劇有幾項基本原則首先你不可以有政治色彩這不是政治的喜劇 這是有關於正義的因為沒有人會反對正義第二 它引人注目而且溫馨它會讓你感覺坐在墨西哥捲餅裡面第三 它好笑但你要花點頭腦想一下像是你聽到一篇有關於收入不公平的有趣論文隱含在一個相當複雜的冷笑話裡 （笑聲） 我是這麼看待社會正義喜劇是如何運作起來的幾年前我找了一群美籍穆斯林喜劇演員用非暴力的方式啦 （笑聲） 然後我們到全國各地像是阿拉巴馬、亞利桑那、田納西、喬治亞這幾個愛死了穆斯林人的地方做脫口秀我們稱這戲為＂穆斯林來了！＂ （笑聲） 我們把它拍成電影在電影拍好後一個知名的酸民團體花了30萬美金在紐約地下鐵路系統禮做了一個反穆斯林的海報宣傳活動那些海報真的很討厭更別提它的爛設計我的意思是如果你要變成偏執狂你應該也要用好看一點的字形啊 （笑聲） 但我們決定我們何不也來辦個我們的海報宣傳活動來講一些穆斯林的優良事蹟順便推廣電影所以我跟我的喜劇夥伴 汀．歐比達拉決定要辦一場反偏執狂的開心海報宣傳活動我們籌到了錢跟大都會運輸署交涉了五個月運輸署同意海報的內容了兩天後在海報差不多要張貼的時候運輸署突然決定禁止那些海報因為他們認為有政治色彩 我們來看一下這幾張海報這是第一張穆斯林的真相一穆斯林創造了醫院的概念好的真相二 長大後的穆斯林做的伏地挺身會比穆斯林寶寶還要多 （笑聲） 真相三 穆斯林創造了賈斯汀．提姆布萊克 （笑聲） 我們再看另外一個穆斯林醜陋的事實他們有好吃的菜肉餡煎蛋餅食譜 很明顯地大都會運輸署認為餡餅有政治色彩或者不然就是一提到穆斯林的正面形象就是與政治色彩有關但並沒有這與正義有關所以我們決定把我們原本的宣傳活動變成反偏執狂的開心法律訴訟活動 （笑聲） 所以基本上可以這麼說就是兩個撿破爛的喜劇演員槓上紐約市政府喜劇演員贏了 （掌聲加歡呼） 謝謝！勝利真的是一種很奇怪的感覺我在想這是不是就是金髮女郎常有的飄飄然感覺啊？因為真的太神奇了 （笑聲） 這裡還有另一個例子我到哪都會被問到＂為什麼穆斯林不公開指責恐怖攻擊？＂我們有 但我確實被問到了所以我決定要發佈這個網站“thedailydenouncer.com”這是一個每個工作日都會公開譴責恐怖攻擊的網站除了公共假日以外我們來看個例子他們通常都會以單格漫畫來呈現＂我公開譴責恐怖攻擊 我也要公開譴責那些從來不放紙在紙匣的人！＂網站的重點就是公開譴責恐怖攻擊的同時也調侃一下我們必須不斷地一直公開譴責恐怖攻擊這件事有多荒謬 但如果偏執狂不是你的菜社會正義喜劇在很多事情上也很有貢獻舉例我跟我的喜劇夥伴李坎普潛入到開曼群島調查海外銀行美國現在每年差不多在這些海外的逃稅天堂損失將近3000億的稅收不是我在吹牛我每個月底都有額外 5~15 元的可支配收入所以我們走進開曼群島的這些銀行裡面然後問他們我們可不可以用8美元27分開個銀行戶頭 （笑聲） 銀行經理在叫保全趕我們走之前會先被我們玩弄 30~45 秒之後保全會過來揮舞著他們的武器然後我們就帶著恐懼並尖叫著跑走了因為這是社會正義喜劇的最後一條規則有時它會讓你笑到抓狂 我大部的工作本來就是在搞笑就是把笑聲傳遞給觀眾但的確有時候會玩太過火也會有安全問題有時候我會收到惡意的推文和憤恨的郵件有時候還會收到電話留言說如果我繼續講我的笑話他們會把我殺了還有殺了我的家人這些恐嚇信真的一點也不好笑 但除了這些偶發的事情我仍然認為社會正義喜劇是我們其中一個最好的武器我的意思是我們嘗試了很多方式要達到社會正義像是發動戰爭或是冰上芭雷比賽但很多事仍然很很糟糕所以我認為是時候我們要嘗試講真正好笑的冷笑話了！謝謝（掌聲）
