Talk	en	zh-tw
neil_harbisson_i_listen_to_color	"Well, I was born with a rare visual condition called achromatopsia, which is total color blindness, so I've never seen color, and I don't know what color looks like, because I come from a grayscale world. To me, the sky is always gray, flowers are always gray, and television is still in black and white. But, since the age of 21, instead of seeing color, I can hear color. In 2003, I started a project with computer scientist Adam Montandon, and the result, with further collaborations with Peter Kese from Slovenia and Matias Lizana from Barcelona, is this electronic eye. It's a color sensor that detects the color frequency in front of me — (Frequency sounds) — and sends this frequency to a chip installed at the back of my head, and I hear the color in front of me through the bone, through bone conduction. (Frequency sounds) So, for example, if I have, like — This is the sound of purple. (Frequency sounds) For example, this is the sound of grass. (Frequency sounds) This is red, like TED. (Frequency sounds) This is the sound of a dirty sock. (Laughter) Which is like yellow, this one. So I've been hearing color all the time for eight years, since 2004, so I find it completely normal now to hear color all the time. At the start, though, I had to memorize the names you give for each color, so I had to memorize the notes, but after some time, all this information became a perception. I didn't have to think about the notes. And after some time, this perception became a feeling. I started to have favorite colors, and I started to dream in colors. So, when I started to dream in color is when I felt that the software and my brain had united, because in my dreams, it was my brain creating electronic sounds. It wasn't the software, so that's when I started to feel like a cyborg. It's when I started to feel that the cybernetic device was no longer a device. It had become a part of my body, an extension of my senses, and after some time, it even became a part of my official image. This is my passport from 2004. You're not allowed to appear on U.K. passports with electronic equipment, but I insisted to the passport office that what they were seeing was actually a new part of my body, an extension of my brain, and they finally accepted me to appear with the passport photo. So, life has changed dramatically since I hear color, because color is almost everywhere, so the biggest change for example is going to an art gallery, I can listen to a Picasso, for example. So it's like I'm going to a concert hall, because I can listen to the paintings. And supermarkets, I find this is very shocking, it's very, very attractive to walk along a supermarket. It's like going to a nightclub. It's full of different melodies. (Laughter) Yeah. Especially the aisle with cleaning products. It's just fabulous. (Laughter) Also, the way I dress has changed. Before, I used to dress in a way that it looked good. Now I dress in a way that it sounds good. (Laughter) (Applause) So today I'm dressed in C major, so it's quite a happy chord. (Laughter) If I had to go to a funeral, though, I would dress in B minor, which would be turquoise, purple and orange. (Laughter) Also, food, the way I look at food has changed, because now I can display the food on a plate, so I can eat my favorite song. (Laughter) So depending on how I display it, I can hear and I can compose music with food. So imagine a restaurant where we can have, like, Lady Gaga salads as starters. (Laughter) I mean, this would get teenagers to eat their vegetables, probably. And also, some Rachmaninov piano concertos as main dishes, and some Bjork or Madonna desserts, that would be a very exciting restaurant where you can actually eat songs. Also, the way I perceive beauty has changed, because when I look at someone, I hear their face, so someone might look very beautiful but sound terrible. (Laughter) And it might happen the opposite, the other way around. So I really enjoy creating, like, sound portraits of people. Instead of drawing someone's face, like drawing the shape, I point at them with the eye and I write down the different notes I hear, and then I create sound portraits. Here's some faces. (Musical chords) Yeah, Nicole Kidman sounds good. (Laughter) Some people, I would never relate, but they sound similar. Prince Charles has some similarities with Nicole Kidman. They have similar sound of eyes. So you relate people that you wouldn't relate, and you can actually also create concerts by looking at the audience faces. So I connect the eye, and then I play the audience's faces. The good thing about this is, if the concert doesn't sound good, it's their fault. It's not my fault, because — (Laughter) And so another thing that happens is that I started having this secondary effect that normal sounds started to become color. I heard a telephone tone, and it felt green because it sounded just like the color green. The BBC beeps, they sound turquoise, and listening to Mozart became a yellow experience, so I started to paint music and paint people's voices, because people's voices have frequencies that I relate to color. And here's some music translated into color. For example, Mozart, ""Queen of the Night,"" looks like this. (Music) Very yellow and very colorful, because there's many different frequencies. (Music) And this is a completely different song. (Music) It's Justin Bieber's ""Baby."" (Laughter) (Music) It is very pink and very yellow. So, also voices, I can transform speeches into color, for example, these are two very well-known speeches. One of them is Martin Luther King's ""I Have A Dream,"" and the other one is Hitler. And I like to exhibit these paintings in the exhibition halls without labels, and then I ask people, ""Which one do you prefer?"" And most people change their preference when I tell them that the one on the left is Hitler and the one on the right is Martin Luther King. So I got to a point when I was able to perceive 360 colors, just like human vision. I was able to differentiate all the degrees of the color wheel. But then, I just thought that this human vision wasn't good enough. There's many, many more colors around us that we cannot perceive, but that electronic eyes can perceive. So I decided to continue extending my color senses, and I added infrared and I added ultraviolet to the color-to-sound scale, so now I can hear colors that the human eye cannot perceive. For example, perceiving infrared is good because you can actually detect if there's movement detectors in a room. I can hear if someone points at me with a remote control. And the good thing about perceiving ultraviolet is that you can hear if it's a good day or a bad day to sunbathe, because ultraviolet is a dangerous color, a color that can actually kill us, so I think we should all have this wish to perceive things that we cannot perceive. That's why, two years ago, I created the Cyborg Foundation, which is a foundation that tries to help people become a cyborg, tries to encourage people to extend their senses by using technology as part of the body. We should all think that knowledge comes from our senses, so if we extend our senses, we will consequently extend our knowledge. I think life will be much more exciting when we stop creating applications for mobile phones and we start creating applications for our own body. I think this will be a big, big change that we will see during this century. So I do encourage you all to think about which senses you'd like to extend. I would encourage you to become a cyborg. You won't be alone. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause)"	我出生就帶了一種罕見的視覺障礙就是“全色盲”我從未見過顏色我不知道顏色看起來是什麼樣子因為我眼見的世界都是灰色對我來說，天空總是灰色的鮮花總是灰色的電視還停留在黑白時期 不過，從21歲開始雖還是無法看到顏色，我卻能聽到顏色我從2003年開始了一個專案與電腦科學家Adam Montandon合作也因此更進一步與斯洛維尼亞的Peter Kese以及巴賽隆納的Matias Lizana合作完成了這個電子眼這是一個色彩感應器探測我面前的顏色頻率（頻率音）然後將這個頻率傳送到頭後方安裝的晶片裡然後通過骨傳導聽見這個色彩的頻率（頻率音）比如說，這個是紫色的聲音（頻率音）再比如，這是草的聲音（頻率音）這是紅色，像TED一樣（頻率音）這是髒襪子的聲音（笑聲）這個就像是黃色 我在過去8年時間裡不斷地聽見色彩從2004年到現在，所以我已非常習慣無時無刻聽見各種色彩一開始，我必須去記住各種顏色的名稱記住各種音高但一段時間之後，所有這些資訊變成了一種感知我不必刻意去想這是什麼音高又過了一段時間，這種感知變成了一種感覺我有了自己最喜歡的顏色我開始做有顏色的夢 當我開始做有顏色的夢我感覺軟體和大腦已然合而為一因為在夢裡電子音是由大腦，而不是軟體發出的那時我覺得自己是個半機械人我開始覺得神經機械裝置並不僅僅是一個裝置它已經成為我身體的一部分感官的延伸不久後，它甚至成為我正式形象的一部分 這是我2004年以後的護照英國護照上不允許出現電子設備但我堅持跟官員說他們看到的是我身體的一個新的部分我大腦的延伸他們最終接受我用這種護照照片 我的人生從能聽見色彩的那一刻發生了劇變色彩無處不在最大的改變發生在去美術館，聆聽畢卡索就像是去音樂廳我可以聽到那些畫超市更是驚人逛超市變成一項超級吸引人的事就像去夜店一樣各種旋律無所不包（笑聲）沒錯特別是清潔用品區太讚了（笑聲） 我的穿衣方式也發生了改變從前，我穿好看的現在，我穿好聽的（笑聲） （鼓掌） 今天我穿的是C大調是十分快樂的和弦（笑聲）但如果我要去參加葬禮我就會穿上b小調也就是藍綠色、紫色和橘色（笑聲） 我看待食物的方式也發生了改變因為現在我餐盤上擺放的食物可以讓我吃我最喜歡的歌曲（笑聲）根據我擺放的方式能夠聽見食物，用食物來作曲想像一下這樣一個餐館前菜是Lady Gaga沙拉也許這能讓青少年乖乖吃蔬菜還有，主菜是拉赫曼尼諾夫鋼琴協奏曲甜點是碧玉或者瑪丹娜這餐聽一定很棒你能真的吃得到歌曲 我看待美的方式也發生了改變因為我看某人的時候，我聽到對方臉的聲音所以一些人也許看起來很美但聽起來很糟（笑聲）另一些人也許恰好相反我很享受的一件事就是做出人們的聲音肖像我不去畫人臉的形狀而是用電子眼指向他們然後寫下聽到的音符，從而做出聲音肖像這是某些知名的臉的聲音 （和弦） 對啊，妮可基嫚很好聽（笑聲） 有些人看起來完全不像，但聽上去很相似比如查爾斯王子和妮可基嫚就很像他們眼睛的頻率音很像 於是你會把本無關聯的人聯繫起來你也能開場音樂會全憑看看觀眾的臉我連上電子眼，然後播放觀眾臉的音樂這樣做的好處是如果音樂會很難聽，那全是觀眾的錯與我無關，因為...（笑聲） 我身上發生的另一個改變是電子眼產生的副作用平常的聲音開始有了色彩我聽到電話鈴聲，它是綠色的因為和綠色的頻率音聽起來一模一樣BBC嗶嗶聲是藍綠色的莫札特的音樂是黃色的 我畫出音樂，畫出人的嗓音因為人的嗓音也有不同頻率就像色彩有不同頻率 這些是音樂轉化成色彩比如說，莫札特魔笛的“夜之皇后”，看起來是這樣（音樂）鮮豔的黃色、十分多彩因為有不同的頻率（音樂）這是完全不同的一首歌（音樂）小賈斯汀”Baby”（笑聲）（音樂）非常的粉紅和黃色 對於嗓音，我能把演講轉化成色彩這是兩個十分著名的演講一個是馬丁‧路德‧金恩的“我有個夢”另一個是希特勒的演說我喜歡在陳列廳裡展示這兩幅畫不放標籤然後我會問人們“你喜歡哪一個？”大多數人會改變主意一旦我告訴他們左邊的是希特勒右邊的才是馬丁‧路德‧金恩 現在我已經能夠辨認360種顏色就像人類視覺我可以辨認出色相環上任何角度的顏色但我又想人類視覺還不夠好有很多顏色我們是無法看到的但這個電子眼可以感應到於是我決定繼續擴展我的色彩感覺我把紅外線和紫外線加入到這個色彩／聲音譜就能聽見那些人眼所無法看到的顏色 感知到紅外線的好處是你能知道房間裡有沒有運動探測儀器如果有人用遙控器指著我，我能聽見感知紫外線的好處是你可以用聽的來判斷今天是否適合日光浴因為紫外線是一種危險的顏色它能致人死亡我認為我們都該希望感知到無法感知的事物 因此，兩年前我發起了半機械人基金會基金會幫助人們變成半機械人鼓勵人們拓展他們的感官讓科技變成身體的一部分 知識來源於感知如果我們能擴展感知我們就能擴展我們的知識我認為生活會變得更刺激有趣當我們停止開發手機應用程式而開始開發人體應用程式我認為這在本世紀將會看到這巨大的改變 我鼓勵你們都去想一想自己想要擴展那個感官我鼓勵你們成為半機械人你不會是孤單的。謝謝。(鼓掌) （鼓掌）
