Talk	en	zh-tw
neil_pasricha_the_3_a_s_of_awesome	"So the Awesome story: It begins about 40 years ago, when my mom and my dad came to Canada. My mom left Nairobi, Kenya. My dad left a small village outside of Amritsar, India. And they got here in the late 1960s. They settled in a shady suburb about an hour east of Toronto, and they settled into a new life. They saw their first dentist, they ate their first hamburger, and they had their first kids. My sister and I grew up here, and we had quiet, happy childhoods. We had close family, good friends, a quiet street. We grew up taking for granted a lot of the things that my parents couldn't take for granted when they grew up — things like power always on in our houses, things like schools across the street and hospitals down the road and popsicles in the backyard. We grew up, and we grew older. I went to high school. I graduated. I moved out of the house, I got a job, I found a girl, I settled down — and I realize it sounds like a bad sitcom or a Cat Stevens' song — (Laughter) but life was pretty good. Life was pretty good. 2006 was a great year. Under clear blue skies in July in the wine region of Ontario, I got married, surrounded by 150 family and friends. 2007 was a great year. I graduated from school, and I went on a road trip with two of my closest friends. Here's a picture of me and my friend, Chris, on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. We actually saw seals out of our car window, and we pulled over to take a quick picture of them and then blocked them with our giant heads. (Laughter) So you can't actually see them, but it was breathtaking, believe me. (Laughter) 2008 and 2009 were a little tougher. I know that they were tougher for a lot of people, not just me. First of all, the news was so heavy. It's still heavy now, and it was heavy before that, but when you flipped open a newspaper, when you turned on the TV, it was about ice caps melting, wars going on around the world, earthquakes, hurricanes and an economy that was wobbling on the brink of collapse, and then eventually did collapse, and so many of us losing our homes, or our jobs, or our retirements, or our livelihoods. 2008, 2009 were heavy years for me for another reason, too. I was going through a lot of personal problems at the time. My marriage wasn't going well, and we just were growing further and further apart. One day my wife came home from work and summoned the courage, through a lot of tears, to have a very honest conversation. And she said, ""I don't love you anymore,"" and it was one of the most painful things I'd ever heard and certainly the most heartbreaking thing I'd ever heard, until only a month later, when I heard something even more heartbreaking. My friend Chris, who I just showed you a picture of, had been battling mental illness for some time. And for those of you whose lives have been touched by mental illness, you know how challenging it can be. I spoke to him on the phone at 10:30 p.m. on a Sunday night. We talked about the TV show we watched that evening. And Monday morning, I found out that he disappeared. Very sadly, he took his own life. And it was a really heavy time. And as these dark clouds were circling me, and I was finding it really, really difficult to think of anything good, I said to myself that I really needed a way to focus on the positive somehow. So I came home from work one night, and I logged onto the computer, and I started up a tiny website called 1000awesomethings.com. I was trying to remind myself of the simple, universal, little pleasures that we all love, but we just don't talk about enough — things like waiters and waitresses who bring you free refills without asking, being the first table to get called up to the dinner buffet at a wedding, wearing warm underwear from just out of the dryer, or when cashiers open up a new check-out lane at the grocery store and you get to be first in line — even if you were last at the other line, swoop right in there. (Laughter) And slowly over time, I started putting myself in a better mood. I mean, 50,000 blogs are started a day, and so my blog was just one of those 50,000. And nobody read it except for my mom. Although I should say that my traffic did skyrocket and go up by 100 percent when she forwarded it to my dad. (Laughter) And then I got excited when it started getting tens of hits, and then I started getting excited when it started getting dozens and then hundreds and then thousands and then millions. It started getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And then I got a phone call, and the voice at the other end of the line said, ""You've just won the Best Blog In the World award."" I was like, that sounds totally fake. (Laughter) (Applause) Which African country do you want me to wire all my money to? (Laughter) But it turns out, I jumped on a plane, and I ended up walking a red carpet between Sarah Silverman and Jimmy Fallon and Martha Stewart. And I went onstage to accept a Webby award for Best Blog. And the surprise and just the amazement of that was only overshadowed by my return to Toronto, when, in my inbox, 10 literary agents were waiting for me to talk about putting this into a book. Flash-forward to the next year and ""The Book of Awesome"" has now been number one on the bestseller list for 20 straight weeks. (Applause) But look, I said I wanted to do three things with you today. I said I wanted to tell you the Awesome story, I wanted to share with you the three As of Awesome, and I wanted to leave you with a closing thought. So let's talk about those three As. Over the last few years, I haven't had that much time to really think. But lately I have had the opportunity to take a step back and ask myself: ""What is it over the last few years that helped me grow my website, but also grow myself?"" And I've summarized those things, for me personally, as three As. They are Attitude, Awareness and Authenticity. I'd love to just talk about each one briefly. So Attitude: Look, we're all going to get lumps, and we're all going to get bumps. None of us can predict the future, but we do know one thing about it and that's that it ain't gonna go according to plan. We will all have high highs and big days and proud moments of smiles on graduation stages, father-daughter dances at weddings and healthy babies screeching in the delivery room, but between those high highs, we may also have some lumps and some bumps too. It's sad, and it's not pleasant to talk about, but your husband might leave you, your girlfriend could cheat, your headaches might be more serious than you thought, or your dog could get hit by a car on the street. It's not a happy thought, but your kids could get mixed up in gangs or bad scenes. Your mom could get cancer, your dad could get mean. And there are times in life when you will be tossed in the well, too, with twists in your stomach and with holes in your heart, and when that bad news washes over you, and when that pain sponges and soaks in, I just really hope you feel like you've always got two choices. One, you can swirl and twirl and gloom and doom forever, or two, you can grieve and then face the future with newly sober eyes. Having a great attitude is about choosing option number two, and choosing, no matter how difficult it is, no matter what pain hits you, choosing to move forward and move on and take baby steps into the future. The second ""A"" is Awareness. I love hanging out with three year-olds. I love the way that they see the world, because they're seeing the world for the first time. I love the way that they can stare at a bug crossing the sidewalk. I love the way that they'll stare slack-jawed at their first baseball game with wide eyes and a mitt on their hand, soaking in the crack of the bat and the crunch of the peanuts and the smell of the hotdogs. I love the way that they'll spend hours picking dandelions in the backyard and putting them into a nice centerpiece for Thanksgiving dinner. I love the way that they see the world, because they're seeing the world for the first time. Having a sense of awareness is just about embracing your inner three year-old. Because you all used to be three years old. That three-year-old boy is still part of you. That three-year-old girl is still part of you. They're in there. And being aware is just about remembering that you saw everything you've seen for the first time once, too. So there was a time when it was your first time ever hitting a string of green lights on the way home from work. There was the first time you walked by the open door of a bakery and smelt the bakery air, or the first time you pulled a 20-dollar bill out of your old jacket pocket and said, ""Found money."" The last ""A"" is Authenticity. And for this one, I want to tell you a quick story. Let's go all the way back to 1932 when, on a peanut farm in Georgia, a little baby boy named Roosevelt Grier was born. Roosevelt Grier, or Rosey Grier, as people used to call him, grew up and grew into a 300-pound, six-foot-five linebacker in the NFL. He's number 76 in the picture. Here he is pictured with the ""fearsome foursome."" These were four guys on the L.A. Rams in the 1960s you did not want to go up against. They were tough football players doing what they love, which was crushing skulls and separating shoulders on the football field. But Rosey Grier also had another passion. In his deeply authentic self, he also loved needlepoint. (Laughter) He loved knitting. He said that it calmed him down, it relaxed him, it took away his fear of flying and helped him meet chicks. That's what he said. I mean, he loved it so much that, after he retired from the NFL, he started joining clubs. And he even put out a book called ""Rosey Grier's Needlepoint for Men."" (Laughter) (Applause) It's a great cover. If you notice, he's actually needlepointing his own face. (Laughter) And so what I love about this story is that Rosey Grier is just such an authentic person, and that's what authenticity is all about. It's just about being you and being cool with that. And I think when you're authentic, you end up following your heart, and you put yourself in places and situations and in conversations that you love and that you enjoy. You meet people that you like talking to. You go places you've dreamt about. And you end you end up following your heart and feeling very fulfilled. So those are the three A's. For the closing thought, I want to take you all the way back to my parents coming to Canada. I don't know what it would feel like coming to a new country when you're in your mid-20s. I don't know, because I never did it, but I would imagine that it would take a great attitude. I would imagine that you'd have to be pretty aware of your surroundings and appreciating the small wonders that you're starting to see in your new world. And I think you'd have to be really authentic, you'd have to be really true to yourself in order to get through what you're being exposed to. I'd like to pause my TEDTalk for about 10 seconds right now, because you don't get many opportunities in life to do something like this, and my parents are sitting in the front row. So I wanted to ask them to, if they don't mind, stand up. And I just wanted to say thank you to you guys. (Applause) When I was growing up, my dad used to love telling the story of his first day in Canada. And it's a great story, because what happened was he got off the plane at the Toronto airport, and he was welcomed by a non-profit group, which I'm sure someone in this room runs. (Laughter) And this non-profit group had a big welcoming lunch for all the new immigrants to Canada. And my dad says he got off the plane and he went to this lunch and there was this huge spread. There was bread, there was those little, mini dill pickles, there was olives, those little white onions. There was rolled up turkey cold cuts, rolled up ham cold cuts, rolled up roast beef cold cuts and little cubes of cheese. There was tuna salad sandwiches and egg salad sandwiches and salmon salad sandwiches. There was lasagna, there was casseroles, there was brownies, there was butter tarts, and there was pies, lots and lots of pies. And when my dad tells the story, he says, ""The craziest thing was, I'd never seen any of that before, except bread. (Laughter) I didn't know what was meat, what was vegetarian. I was eating olives with pie. (Laughter) I just couldn't believe how many things you can get here."" (Laughter) When I was five years old, my dad used to take me grocery shopping, and he would stare in wonder at the little stickers that are on the fruits and vegetables. He would say, ""Look, can you believe they have a mango here from Mexico? They've got an apple here from South Africa. Can you believe they've got a date from Morocco?"" He's like, ""Do you know where Morocco even is?"" And I'd say, ""I'm five. I don't even know where I am. Is this A&P?"" And he'd say, ""I don't know where Morocco is either, but let's find out."" And so we'd buy the date, and we'd go home. And we'd actually take an atlas off the shelf, and we'd flip through until we found this mysterious country. And when we did, my dad would say, ""Can you believe someone climbed a tree over there, picked this thing off it, put it in a truck, drove it all the way to the docks and then sailed it all the way across the Atlantic Ocean and then put it in another truck and drove that all the way to a tiny grocery store just outside our house, so they could sell it to us for 25 cents?"" And I'd say, ""I don't believe that."" And he's like, ""I don't believe it either. Things are amazing. There's just so many things to be happy about."" When I stop to think about it, he's absolutely right. There are so many things to be happy about. We are the only species on the only life-giving rock in the entire universe that we've ever seen, capable of experiencing so many of these things. I mean, we're the only ones with architecture and agriculture. We're the only ones with jewelry and democracy. We've got airplanes, highway lanes, interior design and horoscope signs. We've got fashion magazines, house party scenes. You can watch a horror movie with monsters. You can go to a concert and hear guitars jamming. We've got books, buffets and radio waves, wedding brides and rollercoaster rides. You can sleep in clean sheets. You can go to the movies and get good seats. You can smell bakery air, walk around with rain hair, pop bubble wrap or take an illegal nap. We've got all that, but we've only got 100 years to enjoy it. And that's the sad part. The cashiers at your grocery store, the foreman at your plant, the guy tailgating you home on the highway, the telemarketer calling you during dinner, every teacher you've ever had, everyone that's ever woken up beside you, every politician in every country, every actor in every movie, every single person in your family, everyone you love, everyone in this room and you will be dead in a hundred years. Life is so great that we only get such a short time to experience and enjoy all those tiny little moments that make it so sweet. And that moment is right now, and those moments are counting down, and those moments are always, always, always fleeting. You will never be as young as you are right now. And that's why I believe that if you live your life with a great attitude, choosing to move forward and move on whenever life deals you a blow, living with a sense of awareness of the world around you, embracing your inner three year-old and seeing the tiny joys that make life so sweet and being authentic to yourself, being you and being cool with that, letting your heart lead you and putting yourself in experiences that satisfy you, then I think you'll live a life that is rich and is satisfying, and I think you'll live a life that is truly awesome. Thank you."	這是個美好的故事：故事開始於四十年前，我的父母來到加拿大。我母親離開了肯亞奈洛比，我父親離開了印度 Amritsar 城外的一個小村莊。他們在1960年代來到這裡。他們在多倫多以東不遠的一個僻靜郊區住了下來，他們展開了新生活。他們第一次看牙醫，第一次吃到漢堡，第一次有了自己的兒女。我和我妹妹在這裡長大，我們的童年恬靜、美滿。我們的家庭融洽，有許多好友，街區很安靜。在我們成長的過程中忽略了許多我們父母年輕時無法忽視的事情－比如，我們家的電從來沒斷過，學校就在街對面，街道的一端就是醫院，在家後院就能買到冰棒。我們慢慢長大，我上了高中，畢了業，離開了家，找到一份工作，遇見一個女孩，成家立業－我形容的好像是一部拙劣的肥皂劇或 Cat Stevens 的歌。 （笑聲） 但生活依然美滿。非常美滿。2006年是個非比尋常的一年。在安大略葡萄酒產區的晴空之下，我結婚了，150多位親友到場慶賀。2007年也不平凡。我從大學畢業了，我和兩位最親密的朋友結伴旅行。這是我和朋友 Chris，我們站在太平洋海岸邊上。我們透過車窗見到海豹，於是停下車和牠們合影，結果，我們的大頭卻把牠們擋住了。（笑聲）所以你們看不到牠們，那真是令人屏息的一刻真的啦 （笑聲） 2008、2009 年，生活開始感到不適切了。我知道，並不是只有我的生活不如意，有些人的境遇更糟。首先，新聞報導讓人憂心忡忡。現在的情況也是如此，每當你翻開報紙，打開電視，你會看到冰冠正在消融、全球戰事不斷、地震、颶風、某國的經濟正處於崩潰邊緣，後來就真的垮了，許多人失去房子，丟掉了工作，無法安然退休，失去生計2008、2009年我過得不順利還有另一個原因，當時，我遇到不少個人問題。我的婚姻出現了危機，我和妻子越來越疏遠。一天，我妻子下班回家，她鼓起勇氣，淚流滿面，和我展開誠實的對話她說：「我已經不愛你了。」那是我經歷過的最痛苦的事，也是我所聽到過最讓人心碎的話。之後，僅僅過了一個月，我又得到另一個更讓我痛心的消息， 我的好友 Chris，就是剛才照片上的那位，他患了精神疾病，苦苦掙扎了一段時間。在場如果有人曾經患過精神方面的疾病，你就能體會其中的痛苦。我在星期天晚上十點半跟他講過電話，聊了一下那天晚上看的電視節目，就在第二天早上，我發現他失蹤了。很不幸地，他結束自己的生命。那段時間非常難熬。 我頭頂黑雲密佈，我就算使勁全力也無以振作。我告訴自己，我真的需要讓自己把注意力轉移到積極面上。於是，有一天晚上，我下班回到家，打開電腦，我成立了一個小網站 —-1000awesomethings.com (1000 件超棒玩意)。我想提醒自己，生活中有許多人人都愛的，簡單而隨處可見的小快樂，我們只是很少談起這些快樂－譬如，那些主動為你免費續杯的餐館服務員，在一個婚禮上，你坐的那一桌可以首先去選餐，穿上剛從烘乾機裡拿出來仍然熱乎乎的內衣，或在超市，正巧碰上收銀員多開了條新的結帳通道，你現在排第一了—本來你排在最後一個，現在立刻衝過去。 （笑聲） 於是，慢慢地，我的心情開始好轉。你看，每天新增的部落格有五萬個。我的部落格就是這五萬中的一個。除了我母親，沒人讀它。當然，我媽把部落格網址轉發給我爸以後我的流量翻了一倍。（笑聲）當流量到了幾十次，我開始感到開心了。當流量超過了五十次又到了幾百次，接著到幾千次，一直到了幾百萬次。數字一直持續成長。最後，我接到一通電話，電話那頭的聲音告訴我：「您剛剛獲得了全球最佳部落格大獎。」我當時覺得這聽起來實在太假了。（笑聲）（掌聲）你想要我把所有存款轉到哪個非洲國家的帳戶啊?（笑聲）然而，我卻跳上飛機，走上紅地毯，在 Sarah Silverman、Jimmy Fallon、和 Martha Stewart 站在一起，我走上頒獎台，接受了威比獎(Webby Awards)的最佳部落格獎項。那份驚喜那種喜悅直到我回到多倫多查看郵件時才有所收斂，十位文稿代理商發了 email 給我，等著跟我討論把部落格文章整理成書的事情。一轉眼到了下一年，《絕妙之書》至今已連續二十週登上最暢銷書了。 （掌聲） 但是，今天我想告訴大家三件事。我想給你們講個絕妙的故事，和你們分享三個A開頭的快樂秘訣，然後給大家來個總結。先來談談這三個 A 吧。過去的幾年裡，我沒花太多時間確實地去思考。而最近，我有機會坐下來問我自己：在過去幾年裡究竟是什麼幫助我的網站成長，並讓自己更成熟?我總結了其中的原因，對我個人而言，那就是這三個A。它們是態度 (attitude)、知覺 (awareness)、和本真 (authenticity)。我想簡短逐一介紹一下。 態度 (attitude)：我們每個人總有不順遂的時候，也都跌倒過，沒有人能預測未來，但是有一件事是肯定的，那就是「天有不測風雲」。我們都快樂過、得意過、驕傲過、在畢業典禮上燦然一笑，在婚禮一刻父女共舞，健康的嬰孩在產房裡大聲啼哭，然而，在這些快樂的時刻之間，難免穿插著一些令人不快的插曲。這些事情令人悲傷，令人不願啟齒，但，你的丈夫可能會離你而去，你的女友可能會背叛你，你的頭痛可能比你想像的還嚴重，你的狗可能在大街上會被車撞死。這些想法很掃興，你的孩子可能會混黑道，或者做壞事。你的母親可能會罹患癌症，你的父親可能很暴力；在你的生活中總有那麼幾次，你會覺得自己陷入絕境，萬念俱灰，心如刀割當遭遇噩耗時，那痛苦蔓延全身，我真心希望你能意識到你有兩種選擇：一是，你可以自暴自棄自怨自艾，永遠消沉下去，或者第二，你可以傷心，然後重新振作，面向未來。保持正確的態度就要選擇第二項，不管這個選擇多麼困難，不管你心裡承受多少痛苦，你都要選擇向前看，繼續生活，一小步一小步地向未來前進。 第二個 A 是知覺 (awareness)。我喜歡和三歲的孩子玩。我很欣賞他們眼中的世界，在他們眼中的是一片嶄新的世界。我喜歡他們看著一隻小蟲爬上人行道時專注的表情。喜歡他們第一次看棒球比賽時如癡如醉盯著球場的神態，眼睛睜得大大的，手上還帶著個棒球手套，在棒球的擊打聲，花生的嘎嘎作響，以及在熱狗的香味中自得其樂。我喜歡看他們在後院裡摘蒲公英，一採就是幾個小時，然後把蒲公英做成感恩節晚餐桌上的中心裝飾。我欣賞他們眼中的世界，因為在他們眼裡，世界是全新的。擁有一種知覺意識，就是擁抱內心中三歲的你。因為你們都曾經是三歲的孩子，那個三歲的小男孩仍然是你的一部份那個三歲的小女孩仍然是妳的一部份他們在這裡。去感知就是去記住你眼中的世界也曾是嶄新的。你也曾經第一次下班後，走運碰到一路綠燈。你也曾經第一次經過敞開門的麵包店，聞到四散撲鼻的香味，你也曾經從就外套口袋裡掏出一張20元紙幣，說：「有錢啦。」 最後一個 A 是本真。對於本真，我有一個小故事要和大家說故事要追溯到1932年，在喬治亞州的一片花生田上，一個名叫 Roosevelt Grier 的男孩出生了。Roosevelt Grier，人們叫他 Rosey Grier，長大後成為了高 196 公分、重 136 公斤的美式足球聯盟中後衛。這張照片上的76號就是他。他們四人就是著名的「戰慄四猛將」。他們在1960年代效力於洛杉磯公羊隊，這支球隊令人聞風喪膽。這些彪悍的球員熱衷於在球場上衝撞對手的腦袋，讓對手肩膀脫臼。然而這樣的 Rosey Grier卻有著另一個嗜好。在他的內心深處，他熱愛刺繡。熱愛針織。他說這能讓他冷靜、放鬆，讓他忘記坐飛機時的恐懼，還能幫他泡妞。這可是他說的。他太喜歡刺繡了，從聯盟退休以後，他開始參加針織俱樂部。他還出了一本書，書名叫作《 Rosey Grier 男式刺繡》（笑聲）（掌聲）封面非常棒。仔細看你會發現，他繡的是自己的臉。 （笑聲） 我很喜歡這個故事是因為 Rosey Grier是個敢於流露真性情的人。這就是本真的意義所在。心安理得地做最真實的自己。我想，當你真實地做自己，你就會順著自己的心意，不論做什麼場合，與誰對話你都會享受其中滋味。你會遇見跟自己合得來的人。你會去到自己做夢都想去的地方。你順著自己的心意，最後感覺非常滿足。這就是三個 A。 最後的總結，我想帶你們回顧我父母來到加拿大的那段時光。我不知道那是種什麼樣的感覺，25、26歲的光景，初來乍到一個陌生的國度。我不知道，因為我從未經歷過。但我能想像，那肯定要求你有個很好的生活態度。我可以想像，在這個嶄新的世界裡，你必須感知周圍的事物，欣賞那些給你驚喜的新鮮事物。我想你必須展現自己的本我，做真實的自己，才能應對新的生活。 我想把我的演講暫停 10 秒鐘，因為人一輩子沒幾次這樣的機會了，我的父母就坐在第一排。如果他們不介意，我想請他們起立。我想謝謝你們。 （掌聲） 我小時候，我父親很喜歡跟我說他第一天來到加拿大的故事。這個故事很有意思，因為他剛從多倫多機場下了飛機，迎接他的是一個非營利性組織，我敢肯定在座位的某位就是這個組織的領導人。（笑聲）這個組織為所有加拿大新移民備了歡迎午餐會。我父親說，他下了飛機，參加了這個午餐會，那裡長長的餐桌上擺滿了美食。有麵包，切碎的醬黃瓜，橄欖，白洋蔥，冷切火雞肉卷，冷切火腿卷，冷切牛肉卷，乳酪塊，鮪魚沙拉三明治，雞蛋沙拉三明治，鮭魚沙拉三明治，肉醬千層麵，砂鍋什錦，布朗尼蛋糕，奶油蛋撻，還有很多餡餅，各種口味都有。我父親講起這個故事的時候，他總說：「最有意思的是，那些食物我從來沒有見過，除了麵包。」（笑聲）「我不知道什麼是肉，什麼是素食主義者；我就著橄欖吃餡餅。」（笑聲）「我真不敢相信在這裡你能得到這麼多東西。」 （笑） 我五歲的時候，我父親帶我去超市。他會驚奇地盯著各種水果和蔬菜的標籤。他會說：「看，你相信嗎，這個芒果是墨西哥來的。這個蘋果是從南非來的。你相信嗎，他們居然還有摩洛哥來的椰棗!」他會問：「你知道摩洛哥在哪裡嗎?」我會說：「我才五歲，我連我現在在哪兒都不知道。這裡是 A&P 市場嗎?」他會說：「我也不知道摩洛哥在哪裡，我們回去查查。」於是，我們買下了椰棗，回到家裡。我們打開書架上的地圖冊，翻遍正本書也要把這個神秘的國度找到。我們找到了，我父親會說：「你相信嗎，某個人在這裡爬上一棵樹，摘下這個棗子，把它放到卡車上，一直送到碼頭，把它裝上船，接著它橫跨了大西洋，被裝到另一輛卡車上，人們把車一直開到我們家附近的小超市裡。最後他們以25美分的價錢出售這個棗子。」我會說：「我不信。」他會說：「我也不相信。生活真是太奇妙了，充滿了令人驚喜的事情。」 我回過頭想想，父親是對的；生活中充滿了令人驚喜的事。我們所知的全宇宙唯一一個擁有生命的大石頭上，我們是唯一有能力體驗這些事情的物種。只有我們人類，擁有建築和農業，財富和民主，飛機和高速公路，室內設計和占星術，時尚雜誌和狂歡會。你可以和怪獸一起看恐怖電影。你可以去聽演唱會，聽吉他即興。我們還有書本，自助餐，廣播，新娘，還有過山車。你可以睡在乾淨的床單上，可以去看電影並找到好位置，可以聞到烤麵包的香味，可以冒雨散步，吹泡泡糖，或者偷偷睡個午覺。 我們都可以做到，但是，我們只有一百年的時間去享受生活。這挺令人傷感的。超市裡的收銀員，工廠的領班，你回家時，高速公路上一直跟在你車後的人，晚飯時給你打電話的推銷員，教過你的每一位老師，在你枕邊醒來的每一個人，每個國家的每一位政治家，每部電影裡的每一位演員，你家裡的每一個成員，你所愛的每一個人，在做的每一個人，包括你自己，都會在百年以後離開人世。生命之所以偉大，是因為我們僅有如此短暫的時間去體會那些細小而又奇妙無比的時刻。那絕妙的瞬間就是現在，那些時刻正在溜走，它們一直、一直、一直在飛逝。 你永遠不會比現在的自己更年輕。因此，我相信，如果你擁有良好的生活態度，無論生活如何打擊你你都能抬起頭繼續前行，感知你周遭的世界，接納內心中三歲的自己意識到讓生活美好的那些小小的快樂，做真實的自己，心安理得地做自己，順從自己的心意，讓自己置身於讓你快樂的事物中，最後，你的生活會變得充實而美滿，你的生活才會真正變得絕妙精彩。 謝謝。
