Talk	en	zh-tw
neil_burgess_how_your_brain_tells_you_where_you_are	"When we park in a big parking lot, how do we remember where we parked our car? Here's the problem facing Homer. And we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain. So we'll start with the hippocampus, shown in yellow, which is the organ of memory. If you have damage there, like in Alzheimer's, you can't remember things including where you parked your car. It's named after Latin for ""seahorse,"" which it resembles. And like the rest of the brain, it's made of neurons. So the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it. And the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other. The hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells, which are very densely interconnected. And scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food. So we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here. And when it fires a little spike of electricity, there's going to be a red dot and a click. So what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment. And it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike. So we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location. And if we record from lots of different neurons, we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment, like in this square box shown here. So together they form a map for the rest of the brain, telling the brain continually, ""Where am I now within my environment?"" Place cells are also being recorded in humans. So epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring. And some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town. And place cells in their hippocampi would fire, become active, start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town. So how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment? Well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important. So the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in. And when you expand the box, the firing location expands. The one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south. And if you put another wall inside the box, then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box. So this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you — extended buildings and so on — is particularly important for the hippocampus. And indeed, on the inputs to the hippocampus, cells are found which project into the hippocampus, which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around. So the cell on the left, you can see, it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east, whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table, which the animals are running around. And the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south, whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart. So that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around. We can also test where we think objects are, like this goal flag, in simple environments — or indeed, where your car would be. So we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember. And then, if we put them back in the environment, generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was. But on some trials, we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell. In that case, we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment. And what you see, for example, if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment, and then if you ask people where it was, but you've made the environment bigger, where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out. It's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location, and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern. That guides you back to the location that you want to remember. But we also know where we are through movement. So if we take some outbound path — perhaps we park and we wander off — we know because our own movements, which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back. And place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell. Now grid cells are found, again, on the inputs to the hippocampus, and they're a bit like place cells. But now as the rat explores around, each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid. And if you record from several grid cells — shown here in different colors — each one has a grid-like firing pattern across the environment, and each cell's grid-like firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells. So the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one. So together, it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment — a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map, but using triangles. And as it moves around, the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is, so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment. Do people have grid cells? Well because all of the grid-like firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry, the same orientations of grid, shown in orange here, it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between. So we can put people in an MRI scanner and have them do a little video game like the one I showed you and look for this signal. And indeed, you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex, which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats. So back to Homer. He's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked. And that would be represented by the firing of boundary-detecting cells. He's also remembering the path he took out of the car park, which would be represented in the firing of grid cells. Now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire. And he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car. And that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there. Maybe it's been towed. But he knows where it was, so he knows to go and get it. So beyond spatial memory, if we look for this grid-like firing pattern throughout the whole brain, we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks, like remembering the last time you went to a wedding, for example. So it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene, at least, of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them. So if this was happening, your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint. And grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space. Another kind of cell, head direction cells, which I didn't mention yet, they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing. They could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery, so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding, for example. So this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"當我們把車停在一個很大的停車場，我們怎麼記住我們停的位置?辛普森遇到了一個麻煩讓我們試著去了解他的大腦到底發生了甚麼事情 我們先從他的頭腦內黃色標記的部分也就是記憶的源頭：海馬體如果你腦內的這部分受到損傷，好比阿茲海默症你會記不住事情，包括說你把車子停哪這個部位是以拉丁文""海馬""所命名的因為它的形狀和海馬相似就如同腦內其他部位一樣，它是由神經元所構成的 所以在人腦內有大約好幾百億的神經元神經元會利用脈衝或者是電突波發送刺激藉由神經元間的連結互相傳遞訊息海馬體是由兩片細胞彼此非常緊密的連結組成近期科學家開始了解我們對於空間的記憶是怎們運作的藉由記錄老鼠在一個空間中探索尋找食物時的每一個獨立的神經訊號 讓我們來想像我們記錄一個獨立的神經元在這隻老鼠的海馬體裡面當他發送出一個電的突波時就會有一個紅點來記錄所以我們可以發現這個神經元知道這隻老鼠在這環境中的某一個特定的地方然後它會藉由電的突波來傳遞訊號給大腦並且得知神經元的傳送速率是動物在空間的一個位置函數如果我們紀錄很多不同的神經我們可以發現到當動物移動到另外不同位置會有不同的神經發射出訊號像是圖中是這個方形的空間所以由所有神經發射出的訊號可以讓大腦繪出一張地圖持續不斷地告訴大腦""我現在在這個空間中的哪裡?"" 同樣的人類的大腦此""位置細胞""也有相同的運作方式因此癲癇患者有時候需要藉由控制儀器施予腦部一些電的刺激有些病患會玩一個電腦遊戲讓他們在一個小鎮裡面開車閒晃當他們經過一個特殊的地點時海馬體裡的""位置細胞""就會被活化並且發射出訊號開始傳送脈衝電訊號 所底到底一個位置細胞怎麼讓人或老鼠知道自己在環境的某一個位置?圖中這兩個細胞告訴我們一個極重要的資訊也就是環境的邊界上方那張圖顯示一個神經當老鼠在兩面牆之間時會發出訊號當盒子的空間擴大的時候，神經被激發的位置也會隨之擴大下面那張圖顯示一神經當南方靠近一面牆的時候會被激發如果你在盒子中間放置另一道牆那細胞在這兩個地方都會被激活當動物隨意在箱子裡頭探索不管在哪裡只要南方有一面牆，細胞都會被激發所以可以偵測出在你周遭環境的邊界障礙還有一些建築物等等的資訊對於海馬體是極為重要的如同實驗證實，當這些外界的訊號刺激海馬體後海馬體有些細胞會根據周遭環境，不管是邊界或是端點並在特定的方向與距離而有所反應老鼠就是一個實際實驗的例子當它四處遊蕩 你可以發現在左方的細胞當老鼠碰到東邊的障礙物的時候這個細胞就會被激發不管是方形的或是圓形的空間當動物在桌子上遊盪當碰到桌緣的時候腦部細胞的活動也大致相同看到這裡右方的細胞當碰到南方邊界或是邊緣的時候會被激發不僅如此，細胞也能判斷兩張桌子中間的縫隙因此我們可以推斷位置細胞可以決定動物所在的方位 同樣地藉由位置細胞我們可以判斷出物體的方位像是一個簡單的環境 - 一個目標旗桿也可能是你車子的位置於是我們可以也讓人去探索一個空間讓他們去記下一些特定的位置之後，我們再把它放到一個相同的環境一般來說他們可以輕易的知道先前目標旗桿或是車子擺放的位置但是在另外一些試驗當中當我們開始改變外在環境的形狀或大小如同先前我們對位置細胞所做的實驗 我們可以發現他們認為旗幟位置的改變會隨著環境的改變而有所對應從下面這個例子我們可以看到旗子在方形空間中那個交叉註記的點在環境變大之前先讓受試者記錄下那個位置變大後再問一次受試者問他們認知中旗幟的位置結果我們可以發現他們認知中的位置會同於位置細胞被激發的地方並往空間擴大的方向作延展就像是你可以藉由位置細胞記錄下被激發的位置你才可以記住旗幟的所在位置讓你之後藉由四處走走找到符合先前位置細胞被激發的區域也就是比對先前位置細胞激發的模式進而找到目標物的位置藉由這個模式可以讓你找到你先前記憶的位置 除此之外我們也可以知道我們移動期間的位置也許我們可能停了車子之後四處閒晃走了一個不同的路徑原因在於我們會一步步的去記憶所在位置並綜合起來讓我們可以粗略地知道回去的方向位置細胞裡面也會類似去接受並記錄每一個位置並綜合起來這種類型的細胞叫做「網格細胞」 此細胞也是在腦內海馬裡裡面找到它有點類似位置細胞當老鼠四處移動的時候每個網格細胞會激發並記錄一連串的不同方向的位置並在一個整個空間當中呈現出令人驚訝的一個三角形網格如果你紀錄數組網格細胞並以不同的顏色標記你會發現在空間中被激發的模式就像是一格一格的網格每一個細胞的網格激發模式會和與相鄰的網格做些微的位移像是圖中紅色的會在這個網格被激發綠色的在這個，藍色的在另外一個 綜合起來，老鼠就可以藉由這些細胞被激發的位置建構出一個虛擬空間的網路這個運作方式就像是地圖上網格，也就是經度和緯度只是在這裡網格細胞是用三角形的網格當老鼠四處移動的時候它腦內的電訊號會由這個細胞傳遞到下一個細胞使老鼠得以追蹤自己的所在地因此老鼠才可以藉由自己的移動知道自己在空間中的位置 所以到底人類腦內有沒有類似的網格細胞呢?先從網格細胞激發網格的對稱性說起他們有著相同的對稱軸橘色標出的部分，也就是網格也有固定的方向性意思是說整個網格的運作會根據位置在三個軸六個方向之間的移動而有所改變要釐清這個問題，我們可以試著讓受試者在一個核磁共振的儀器內玩一個我們先前提過的一個虛擬遊戲同時我們去尋找並記錄網格訊號結果如我們預測，在人腦內類似於老鼠網格細胞所在一個叫做「內鼻皮質層」的地方 讓我們再一次回到辛普森的故事它可能藉由記憶他車子的位置和方向並記錄與邊界或者是建築物的相對位置來找到他停車的地方這個過程可以視為邊界偵測細胞的展現同時藉由網格細胞激發模式的記憶知道他要怎麼走出這座停車場兩種不同類型的細胞綜合起來可以使位置細胞被激發讓他可以藉由移動找到他當初車子停放的位置也就找到目前位置與記憶中車子停放的地方，位置細胞的激發模式去做比對所相雷同的模式藉此方法可以導引辛普森到他停車的位置和任何的視覺提示沒有太大的關係一種狀況是儘管車子被拖吊讓車子不在目標位置上但他可以確定車子曾經在那個地方，並知道要到那個地方去取他的車 更深入地去探究空間記憶如果我們觀察整個腦內的網格狀激發模式我們可以發現腦內一些相關的位置會隨時都處在被活化的狀態當我們在記憶像是你上次參加婚禮的地方的一些特徵記憶工作時神經運作機制會扮演很重要的角色例如周遭所呈現的環境或是呈現一些視覺上的影像好讓我們能夠輕易地去重溫發生在我們生命中的景事物 如果這些研究進一步被證實你的記憶其實是從緊密互相連結的位置細胞作相互的活化激發然後重新活化邊界細胞以產在你眼睛所及的整個空間架構所來而後網格細胞可以藉由紀錄空間去移動這個視野另外一種我還沒提過的細胞頭向細胞(Head Direction cells)他們就像是指南針一樣可以根據面向不同的方向而有不同的激發模式藉由你視覺上的景象可以自由地定義你的方向舉例來說，你可以想像當你在這場婚禮的時後發生了什麼事 綜觀以上介紹都是認知神經科學中嶄新的一個領域我們漸漸地開始了解整個神經認知的過程像是你怎麼去記憶，怎麼去想像，甚至是怎麼去思考都是藉由數十億個獨立神經元所構成的腦相互的運作 感謝聆聽 (掌聲)"
