Talk	en	zh-tw
neri_oxman_design_at_the_intersection_of_technology_and_biology	"Two twin domes, two radically opposed design cultures. One is made of thousands of steel parts, the other of a single silk thread. One is synthetic, the other organic. One is imposed on the environment, the other creates it. One is designed for nature, the other is designed by her. Michelangelo said that when he looked at raw marble, he saw a figure struggling to be free. The chisel was Michelangelo's only tool. But living things are not chiseled. They grow. And in our smallest units of life, our cells, we carry all the information that's required for every other cell to function and to replicate. Tools also have consequences. At least since the Industrial Revolution, the world of design has been dominated by the rigors of manufacturing and mass production. Assembly lines have dictated a world made of parts, framing the imagination of designers and architects who have been trained to think about their objects as assemblies of discrete parts with distinct functions. But you don't find homogenous material assemblies in nature. Take human skin, for example. Our facial skins are thin with large pores. Our back skins are thicker, with small pores. One acts mainly as filter, the other mainly as barrier, and yet it's the same skin: no parts, no assemblies. It's a system that gradually varies its functionality by varying elasticity. So here this is a split screen to represent my split world view, the split personality of every designer and architect operating today between the chisel and the gene, between machine and organism, between assembly and growth, between Henry Ford and Charles Darwin. These two worldviews, my left brain and right brain, analysis and synthesis, will play out on the two screens behind me. My work, at its simplest level, is about uniting these two worldviews, moving away from assembly and closer into growth. You're probably asking yourselves: Why now? Why was this not possible 10 or even five years ago? We live in a very special time in history, a rare time, a time when the confluence of four fields is giving designers access to tools we've never had access to before. These fields are computational design, allowing us to design complex forms with simple code; additive manufacturing, letting us produce parts by adding material rather than carving it out; materials engineering, which lets us design the behavior of materials in high resolution; and synthetic biology, enabling us to design new biological functionality by editing DNA. And at the intersection of these four fields, my team and I create. Please meet the minds and hands of my students. We design objects and products and structures and tools across scales, from the large-scale, like this robotic arm with an 80-foot diameter reach with a vehicular base that will one day soon print entire buildings, to nanoscale graphics made entirely of genetically engineered microorganisms that glow in the dark. Here we've reimagined the mashrabiya, an archetype of ancient Arabic architecture, and created a screen where every aperture is uniquely sized to shape the form of light and heat moving through it. In our next project, we explore the possibility of creating a cape and skirt — this was for a Paris fashion show with Iris van Herpen — like a second skin that are made of a single part, stiff at the contours, flexible around the waist. Together with my long-term 3D printing collaborator Stratasys, we 3D-printed this cape and skirt with no seams between the cells, and I'll show more objects like it. This helmet combines stiff and soft materials in 20-micron resolution. This is the resolution of a human hair. It's also the resolution of a CT scanner. That designers have access to such high-resolution analytic and synthetic tools, enables to design products that fit not only the shape of our bodies, but also the physiological makeup of our tissues. Next, we designed an acoustic chair, a chair that would be at once structural, comfortable and would also absorb sound. Professor Carter, my collaborator, and I turned to nature for inspiration, and by designing this irregular surface pattern, it becomes sound-absorbent. We printed its surface out of 44 different properties, varying in rigidity, opacity and color, corresponding to pressure points on the human body. Its surface, as in nature, varies its functionality not by adding another material or another assembly, but by continuously and delicately varying material property. But is nature ideal? Are there no parts in nature? I wasn't raised in a religious Jewish home, but when I was young, my grandmother used to tell me stories from the Hebrew Bible, and one of them stuck with me and came to define much of what I care about. As she recounts: ""On the third day of Creation, God commands the Earth to grow a fruit-bearing fruit tree."" For this first fruit tree, there was to be no differentiation between trunk, branches, leaves and fruit. The whole tree was a fruit. Instead, the land grew trees that have bark and stems and flowers. The land created a world made of parts. I often ask myself, ""What would design be like if objects were made of a single part? Would we return to a better state of creation?"" So we looked for that biblical material, that fruit-bearing fruit tree kind of material, and we found it. The second-most abundant biopolymer on the planet is called chitin, and some 100 million tons of it are produced every year by organisms such as shrimps, crabs, scorpions and butterflies. We thought if we could tune its properties, we could generate structures that are multifunctional out of a single part. So that's what we did. We called Legal Seafood — (Laughter) we ordered a bunch of shrimp shells, we grinded them and we produced chitosan paste. By varying chemical concentrations, we were able to achieve a wide array of properties — from dark, stiff and opaque, to light, soft and transparent. In order to print the structures in large scale, we built a robotically controlled extrusion system with multiple nozzles. The robot would vary material properties on the fly and create these 12-foot-long structures made of a single material, 100 percent recyclable. When the parts are ready, they're left to dry and find a form naturally upon contact with air. So why are we still designing with plastics? The air bubbles that were a byproduct of the printing process were used to contain photosynthetic microorganisms that first appeared on our planet 3.5 billion year ago, as we learned yesterday. Together with our collaborators at Harvard and MIT, we embedded bacteria that were genetically engineered to rapidly capture carbon from the atmosphere and convert it into sugar. For the first time, we were able to generate structures that would seamlessly transition from beam to mesh, and if scaled even larger, to windows. A fruit-bearing fruit tree. Working with an ancient material, one of the first lifeforms on the planet, plenty of water and a little bit of synthetic biology, we were able to transform a structure made of shrimp shells into an architecture that behaves like a tree. And here's the best part: for objects designed to biodegrade, put them in the sea, and they will nourish marine life; place them in soil, and they will help grow a tree. The setting for our next exploration using the same design principles was the solar system. We looked for the possibility of creating life-sustaining clothing for interplanetary voyages. To do that, we needed to contain bacteria and be able to control their flow. So like the periodic table, we came up with our own table of the elements: new lifeforms that were computationally grown, additively manufactured and biologically augmented. I like to think of synthetic biology as liquid alchemy, only instead of transmuting precious metals, you're synthesizing new biological functionality inside very small channels. It's called microfluidics. We 3D-printed our own channels in order to control the flow of these liquid bacterial cultures. In our first piece of clothing, we combined two microorganisms. The first is cyanobacteria. It lives in our oceans and in freshwater ponds. And the second, E. coli, the bacterium that inhabits the human gut. One converts light into sugar, the other consumes that sugar and produces biofuels useful for the built environment. Now, these two microorganisms never interact in nature. In fact, they never met each other. They've been here, engineered for the first time, to have a relationship inside a piece of clothing. Think of it as evolution not by natural selection, but evolution by design. In order to contain these relationships, we've created a single channel that resembles the digestive tract, that will help flow these bacteria and alter their function along the way. We then started growing these channels on the human body, varying material properties according to the desired functionality. Where we wanted more photosynthesis, we would design more transparent channels. This wearable digestive system, when it's stretched end to end, spans 60 meters. This is half the length of a football field, and 10 times as long as our small intestines. And here it is for the first time unveiled at TED — our first photosynthetic wearable, liquid channels glowing with life inside a wearable clothing. (Applause) Thank you. Mary Shelley said, ""We are unfashioned creatures, but only half made up."" What if design could provide that other half? What if we could create structures that would augment living matter? What if we could create personal microbiomes that would scan our skins, repair damaged tissue and sustain our bodies? Think of this as a form of edited biology. This entire collection, Wanderers, that was named after planets, was not to me really about fashion per se, but it provided an opportunity to speculate about the future of our race on our planet and beyond, to combine scientific insight with lots of mystery and to move away from the age of the machine to a new age of symbiosis between our bodies, the microorganisms that we inhabit, our products and even our buildings. I call this material ecology. To do this, we always need to return back to nature. By now, you know that a 3D printer prints material in layers. You also know that nature doesn't. It grows. It adds with sophistication. This silkworm cocoon, for example, creates a highly sophisticated architecture, a home inside which to metamorphisize. No additive manufacturing today gets even close to this level of sophistication. It does so by combining not two materials, but two proteins in different concentrations. One acts as the structure, the other is the glue, or the matrix, holding those fibers together. And this happens across scales. The silkworm first attaches itself to the environment — it creates a tensile structure — and it then starts spinning a compressive cocoon. Tension and compression, the two forces of life, manifested in a single material. In order to better understand how this complex process works, we glued a tiny earth magnet to the head of a silkworm, to the spinneret. We placed it inside a box with magnetic sensors, and that allowed us to create this 3-dimensional point cloud and visualize the complex architecture of the silkworm cocoon. However, when we placed the silkworm on a flat patch, not inside a box, we realized it would spin a flat cocoon and it would still healthily metamorphisize. So we started designing different environments, different scaffolds, and we discovered that the shape, the composition, the structure of the cocoon, was directly informed by the environment. Silkworms are often boiled to death inside their cocoons, their silk unraveled and used in the textile industry. We realized that designing these templates allowed us to give shape to raw silk without boiling a single cocoon. (Applause) They would healthily metamorphisize, and we would be able to create these things. So we scaled this process up to architectural scale. We had a robot spin the template out of silk, and we placed it on our site. We knew silkworms migrated toward darker and colder areas, so we used a sun path diagram to reveal the distribution of light and heat on our structure. We then created holes, or apertures, that would lock in the rays of light and heat, distributing those silkworms on the structure. We were ready to receive the caterpillars. We ordered 6,500 silkworms from an online silk farm. And after four weeks of feeding, they were ready to spin with us. We placed them carefully at the bottom rim of the scaffold, and as they spin they pupate, they mate, they lay eggs, and life begins all over again — just like us but much, much shorter. Bucky Fuller said that tension is the great integrity, and he was right. As they spin biological silk over robotically spun silk, they give this entire pavilion its integrity. And over two to three weeks, 6,500 silkworms spin 6,500 kilometers. In a curious symmetry, this is also the length of the Silk Road. The moths, after they hatch, produce 1.5 million eggs. This could be used for 250 additional pavilions for the future. So here they are, the two worldviews. One spins silk out of a robotic arm, the other fills in the gaps. If the final frontier of design is to breathe life into the products and the buildings around us, to form a two-material ecology, then designers must unite these two worldviews. Which brings us back, of course, to the beginning. Here's to a new age of design, a new age of creation, that takes us from a nature-inspired design to a design-inspired nature, and that demands of us for the first time that we mother nature. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)"	兩個宛如雙胞胎的圓頂建築，兩個有著極度對比的設計文化。其中一個由成千上萬個鋼鐵元件組成，另一個則由單一絲線構成。一個是合成的，一個則是有機的。一個被強行融入環境裡，另一個則創造環境。一個是被大自然創造出來的，另一個則設計了大自然本身。 米開朗基羅曾說，當他看著原始石材，他看到了一個想要掙脫束縛的體態。鑿子是米開朗基羅唯一的工具。但活的東西不是被鑿出來的。他們是長出來的。在我們生命裡最小的元件，我們的細胞乘載了所有讓其他細胞得以運作和複製的必要資訊。 工具也造成了一些影響。至少從工業革命後，設計的世界就受到製造和大量生產的嚴格限制所支配。裝配線帶來一個用零件組成的世界，限制了設計師和建築師的想像，他們被訓練要把他們的物件想成功能不同的各種零件的組合。 但你在自然界中找不到任何同性質材料是組裝而成的。以人類的皮膚為例。我們的臉部肌膚較薄、孔洞較大，背部肌膚則較厚、孔洞較小。一個主要功用是過濾，另一個主要功用是屏障。但兩者是同一塊皮膚：沒有零件、沒有組裝。它是一個藉由逐漸改變伸縮性來改變功能的系統。這裡有兩個分離的螢幕，代表我兩個分離的世界觀、以及今天每個設計師和建築師進行工作時兩個分離的人格特質：鑿子對比於基因、機器對比於有機體、組裝對比於生長、亨利·福特對比於查理斯·達爾文。這兩種世界觀、我的左腦和右腦、分析和合成，會逐漸在我背後的兩個螢幕上展開。我的工作，用最簡單的說法，就是結合這兩種世界觀，逐漸離開組裝這端，並逐漸靠近生長這端。 各位可能會問自己：為什麼是現在?為什麼10年前、甚至5年前都還沒辦法?我們活在歷史上一個非常特別的時刻，非常罕見的時刻，在這個時刻裡，四個領域的匯合造就了設計師得以取得過去無法取得的工具。這些領域包含運算設計，讓我們能用簡單的程式碼設計複雜的形狀；3D列印(疊層製造)，讓我們可以用疊加而非削去材料的方式製作東西；材料工程，讓我們可以非常精細地設計材料的行為；以及合成生物學，讓我們可以透過改變DNA來設計新的生物功能。而這四個領域的交鋒處，就是我和團隊進行創作的地方。請各位見見這些匠心和巧手，他們是我的學生。 我們設計各種規模的物件、產品、結構和工具，從大規模的，例如這個臂展可達80呎的機械手臂，裝載在車輛上，可以在一天之內列印出整棟建築，到奈米級、完全由基因工程製造出的微生物所構成的圖形，用以在黑暗中發光。這裡我們賦予馬許拉比亞(mashrabiya)新的意象，根據這種古老的阿拉伯典型建築風格，我們創造了一扇每個窗格都有特定大小、讓穿越的光和熱有獨特形狀的屏風。 在下一個專案，我們試著創造斗篷和裙子 —為了讓Iris van Herpen在巴黎時裝秀展出 —它像是一體成形的第二層皮膚，外表堅硬、腰部柔軟可曲折。我們和3D列印的長期合作夥伴Stratasys公司一起，印出這件完全沒有縫線的斗篷和裙子，此外還有很多類似的物件。這頂安全帽結合了軟硬不同的材質，精細度高達20微米，等同人類毛髮的精細度，也等同斷層掃描的精細度。現在的設計師擁有如此高精細度的解析和合成工具，讓他們得以設計出不僅符合我們身體形狀、還能符合我們組織的生理構造的產品。接著，我們設計了一張有聽覺的椅子，會及時地改變結構、坐起來舒適，同時還會吸收聲音。我和合作夥伴卡特教授向自然界尋求靈感，設計出這種不規則的表層紋路，讓它可以吸收聲音。我們用44種不同材質印出這個表層，包含不同的硬度、透明度和顏色，分別對應人類身體不同位置的壓力分佈。這個表層，正如自然界的特性，不是靠組裝不同材料來達到不同功能，而是靠材質不間斷而細緻的漸變。 但大自然是理想的嗎?自然界中沒有任何零件組成的東西?我不是在一個虔誠的猶太家庭中長大，但當我還小時，我祖母曾跟過我說過幾個《希伯來聖經》裡的故事，其中有個故事讓我無法忘懷，深深影響我關心的事物。如她所述：「創造天地的第三天，上帝命令地球長出結實纍纍的的水果樹。」在這第一棵水果樹上，並沒有樹幹、樹枝、葉子和水果的區別。整棵樹就是個水果。但大地長出的樹上卻有樹皮、根莖和花朵。大地創造出由不同零件組成的世界。我經常問自己：「如果每個物件都只有單一零件，設計會變怎樣?我們是否會回到創造天地時更好的狀態?」 所以我們開始尋找那種聖經裡的材料，那種類似於結實累累的水果樹的材料，而我們也找到了。全世界第二大量的生物聚合物，叫做蟹殼質。每年約有1億噸的蟹殼質，從蝦子、螃蟹、蠍子和蝴蝶等生物身上產生。我們認為，如果能針對其特性稍加調整，就能利用它形成一種結構，擁有多功能卻只有單一元件。這是我們的成果。我們打給「合法海鮮」(Legal Seafood，一間連鎖餐廳店名) (笑聲) 我們訂了一批蝦殼，把它們磨碎，做成甲殼素糊。透過改變化學成分的濃度，我們已經可以做出多種不同的物質特性—從深色、堅硬、不透明，到淺色、柔軟、透明。為了用大比例尺列印出這些結構，我們建造了一個多噴嘴的自動控制擠出系統。機器手臂可以在運作中改變材料特性，製造出這些12呎長的結構，全由單一材料構成，而且100%可回收。這些元件完成後，放著讓它風乾，接觸空氣時它會自然成形。如此我們何必再用塑膠進行設計呢?裡面的氣泡是列印過程中產生的副作用，我們用以容納可行光合作用的微生物，正如我們昨天學到的，它們約於35億年前首次出現在地球上。我們和哈佛及麻省理工學院的合作夥伴一起將基因改良過的細菌嵌入其中，用以快速從大氣中吸取炭含量並將其轉換為醣類。有史以來第一次，我們能夠製造出一種可以讓梁柱和網格無接縫地相連的結構，而如果再放大，甚至可以再和窗戶結合。整棵都是水果的水果樹。利用這種古老的材料 —地球上最早出現的幾種生命型態之一，加入許多水分、用一些合成生物技術，我們能夠將蝦殼做出的結構，轉變為像樹木般運作的建築。最棒的部分是：像這樣可以自動分解的物件，把它們放進海裡，可以滋養海洋生物；放進土壤裡，就可以幫助樹木生長。 下一個我們打算用同樣設計原則進行探索的是太陽系的設置。我們嘗試創造為星際旅行創造的維持生命的服飾。為了達成這個目標，我們必須裝入細菌，還要能夠控制他們的流動。所以像元素週期表一樣，我們想出了自己的元素表：運算增長的新生命型態，3D列印的新生命型態，和生物增強的新生命型態。我喜歡把合成生物技術想成液體的煉金術，只是它不是在煉化貴重的金屬，而是在非常小的管道裡合成新的生物機能。稱為微流體(microfluidics).為了控制這些液體培養菌的流量，我們3D列印出自己的管道。在我們的第一件服飾中，我們結合了兩種微生物。第一種是藍菌門(cyanobacteria)，生長在海洋和淡水的池塘裡。第二種是大腸桿菌，一種住在人體內臟中的細菌。它們一個負責將光線轉化為醣類，另一個則消耗這些醣類，用以製造在我們建造的環境裡需要的生物燃料。然而，這兩種微生物在自然界中並沒有互動。事實上，它們根本不會相遇。在這裡，它們是第一次被改良，在一件服飾裡和彼此產生關聯。請把這件事情想像成進化，而非物競天擇，只是它是透過設計來進化。為了讓這些關聯得以存在，我們創造了一種類似消化道的管道，讓這些細菌可以流動，並沿路改變他們的功能。然後我們開始讓這些管道在人體上增長，並根據想要的功能變化材料特性。在需要更多光合作用的地方，我們就設計更透明的管道。如果我們把這個穿戴式的消化系統從頭到尾拉直，可以展開60公尺，相當於半個足球場的長度，也是我們小腸的10倍長度。在這個TED大會上我們首次展示—我們的第一件，由有生命、會成長的液體管道構成，可行光合作用的服飾。 (掌聲) 謝謝各位。 作家瑪莉·雪萊曾說：「我們是未成形的物種，只被完成一半」如果設計能提供另外一半，一切會變怎樣呢?如果我們能創造出可以增強有機體的結構呢?如果我們能創造出一種人體微生物群(microbiomes)，可以掃描我們的皮膚、修復受到傷害的組織、讓身體可以持續運作呢?把這些想成生物編修的一種型態。這整套稱為「漫遊者」、分別由各星球名稱命名的系列服飾，對我而言，重點並不是時尚本身，而是提供我們一個機會，思索我們的星球上的各個種族的未來，以及更遙遠地，結合科學充滿神秘的發現，讓我們遠離機器製造的時代，來到一個我們的身體可以和身邊的微生物、各種產品、甚至建築物共生的時代。我稱之為材料生態系統。 要達成這個目標，我們永遠需要回歸自然。現在，你知道3D列印是用層疊的方式印出材料。你也知道，自然界並非如此。自然生物成長，用非常複雜的方式。例如這個蠶繭，它形成一個高度複雜的建築物，一個可以在裡面羽化成蛾的家。當今沒有任何3D列印技術可以做到接近這樣的複雜度。它不是靠兩種材料的結合，而是兩種不同濃度的蛋白質。其中一種做為基本架構，另一種則當成膠、或是線路網，將這些纖維夾在一起。它的規模可大可小。蠶會先將自己依附於環境中 —製造一個高張力的結構 —接著開始吐絲，製造一個抗壓的繭。張力和壓力，生命中的兩種力量，透過單一材料充分展現。 為了更加瞭解這個複雜的過程如何進行，我們黏了一塊小小的磁鐵在蠶的頭上，吐絲器的位置。我們將它放在一個裝有磁鐵感應器的盒子裡，讓我們可以建立這個3D點群模型，把蠶繭的複雜結構視覺化。然而，當我們將蠶放在平面的墊片上，而非盒子裡時，我們發現它會吐出一個平面的繭，而且還是可以健康地進行羽化。所以我們開始設計不同的環境、不同的支架，我們發現繭的形狀、成分和架構，是直接受到環境影響的。 蠶通常在繭裡被煮沸至死，他們的絲線被拆開並用至紡織產業。我們發現設計這些模板可以讓我們塑造蠶絲原料的形狀，不用煮沸任何一個蠶繭。 (掌聲) 它們還是可以健康地羽化成蛾，而我們則可以創造出這些東西。 我們將這個流程的規模放大到建築物的大小。我們用一台機器自動吐出蠶絲做成的模板，並將它放在我們的工作場地。我們知道蠶會移動到比較陰暗寒冷的區域，所以我們用陽光路徑圖顯示我們這個結構中的光線和熱能分佈狀況。然後我們製造一些孔洞、或者光圈，鎖定光和熱的射線，決定蠶在這個結構中的分佈狀況。 然後，我們準備好迎接這些蟲了。我們從線上蠶絲公司訂了6,500隻蠶。經過四週的餵養，它們已經準備好為我們吐絲了。我們將它們小心地放置在支架底部的圓環上，它們在上面吐絲、蛹化、交配、下蛋，然後生命重新開始 —就跟我們一樣，只是週期縮短很多。 巴奇·富勒曾說，張力具有十足的完整性。他是對的。當它們在將天然蠶絲吐在機器吐出的蠶絲上時，它們讓這整個圓頂完整無缺。在兩到三週後，6,500隻蠶吐出了6,500公里的蠶絲。這也相當於絲路的長度，形成一個奇妙的對稱。在他們孵化的幾個月後，總共生出1,500萬個卵，可以再造出250個相同的圓頂建築。 所以就在這裡，兩個世界觀。一個從機器手臂中吐出蠶絲，另一個填滿其中的縫隙。 如果設計最後的邊界是讓生命流入我們周遭的產品和建築物裡，形成一個兩種材料的生態，那設計師就必須將這兩種世界觀結合。這也讓我們回到，當然，一切的起點。這是設計的新紀元，也是造物的新紀元，將我們從啟發於大自然的設計，帶到由設計喚醒的大自然。而這將是首次需要我們孕育整個大自然。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲) 非常感謝各位。謝謝。 (掌聲)
