Talk	en	zh-tw
ngozi_okonjo_iweala_on_aid_versus_trade	"It's very, very difficult to speak at the end of a conference like this, because everyone has spoken. Everything has been said. So I thought that what may be useful is to remind us of some of the things that have gone on here, and then maybe offer some ideas which we can take away, and take forward and work on. That's what I'd like to try and do. We came here saying we want to talk about ""Africa: the Next Chapter."" But we are talking about ""Africa: the Next Chapter"" because we are looking at the old and the present chapter — that we're looking at, and saying it's not such a good thing. The picture I showed you before, and this picture, of drought, death and disease is what we usually see. What we want to look at is ""Africa: the Next Chapter,"" and that's this: a healthy, smiling, beautiful African. And I think it's worth remembering what we've heard through the conference right from the first day, where I heard that all the important statistics have been given — about where we are now, about how the continent is doing much better. And the importance of that is that we have a platform to build on. So I'm not going to spend too much time — just to show you, refresh your memories that we are here for ""Africa: the Next Chapter"" because for the first time there really is a platform to build on. We really do have it going right that the continent is growing at rates that people had thought would not happen. After decades of 2 percent, we are now at 5 percent, and it's going to — projected — 6 and 7 percent even. And inflation has come down. External debt — something that I can tell you a long story about because I personally worked on one of the biggest debts on the continent — has come down dramatically. You know, as you can see, from almost 50 billion down to about 12 or 13 billion. Now this is a huge achievement. You know, we've built up reserves. Why is that important? It's because it shows off our economies, shows off our currencies and gives a platform on which people can plan and build, including businesses. We've also seen some evidence that all this is making a difference because private investment flows have increased. I want to remind you again — I know you saw these statistics before — from almost 6 billion we are now at about 18 billion. In 2005, remittances — I just took one country, Nigeria skyrocketing — skyrocketing is too dramatic, but increasing dramatically. And in many other countries this is happening. Why is this important? Because it shows confidence. People are now confident to bring — if your people in the diaspora bring their money back, it shows other people that, look, there is emerging confidence in your country. And instead of an outflow, you are now getting a net inflow. Now, why is all this important, to have to go really fast? It's important that we build this platform, that we have the president, Kikwete, and others of our leaders who are saying, ""Look, we must do something different."" Because we are confronted with a challenge. 62 percent of our population is below the age of 24. What does this mean? This means that we have to focus on how our youth are going to be engaged in productive endeavor in their lives. You have to focus on how to create jobs, make sure they don't fall into disease, and that they get an education. But most of all that they are productively engaged in life, and that they are creating the kind of productive environment in our countries that will make things happen. And to support this, I just recently — one of the things I've done since leaving government is to start an opinion research organization in Nigeria. Most of our countries don't even have any opinion research. People don't have voice. There is no way you can know what people want. One of the things we asked them recently was what's their top issue. Like in every other country where this has been done, jobs is the top issue. I want to leave this up here and come back to it. But before I get to this slide, I just wanted to run you through this. And to say that for me, the next stage of building this platform that now enables us to move forward — and we mustn't make light of it. It was only 5, 6, 7 years ago we couldn't even talk about the next chapter, because we were in the old chapter. We were going nowhere. The economies were not growing. We were having negative per capita growth. The microeconomic framework and foundation for moving forward was not even there. So let's not forget that it's taken a lot to build this, including all those things that we tried to do in Nigeria that Dele referred to. Creating our own program to solve problems, like fighting corruption, building institutions, stabilizing the micro economy. So now we have this platform we can build on. And it brings us to the debate that has been going on here: aid versus private sector, aid versus trade, etc. And someone stood up to say that one of the frustrating things is that it's been a simplistic debate. And that's not what the debate should be about. That's engaging in the wrong debate. The issue here is how do we get a partnership that involves government donors, the private sector and ordinary African people taking charge of their own lives? How do we combine all this? To move our continent forward, to do the things that need doing that I talked about — getting young people employed. Getting the creative juices flowing on this continent, much of what you have seen here. So I'm afraid we've been engaging a little bit in the wrong debate. We need to bring it back to say, what is the combination of all these factors that is going to yield what we want? (Applause) And I want to tell you something. For me, the issue about aid — I don't think that Africans need to now go all the way over to the other side and feel bad about aid. Africa has been giving the other countries aid. Mo Ibrahim said at a debate we were at that he dreams one day when Africa will be giving aid. And I said, ""Mo, you're right. We have — no, but we've already been doing it! The U.K. and the U.S. could not have been built today without Africa's aid."" (Applause) It is all the resources that were taken from Africa, including human, that built these countries today! So when they try to give back, we shouldn't be on the defensive. The issue is not that. The issue is how are we using what has been given back. How are we using it? Is it being directed effectively? I want to tell you a little story. Why I don't mind if we get aid, but we use it well. From 1967 to '70, Nigeria fought a war — the Nigeria-Biafra war. And in the middle of that war, I was 14 years old. We spent much of our time with my mother cooking. For the army — my father joined the army as a brigadier — the Biafran army. We were on the Biafran side. And we were down to eating one meal a day, running from place to place, but wherever we could help we did. At a certain point in time, in 1969, things were really bad. We were down to almost nothing in terms of a meal a day. People, children were dying of kwashiorkor. I'm sure some of you who are not so young will remember those pictures. Well, I was in the middle of it. In the midst of all this, my mother fell ill with a stomach ailment for two or three days. We thought she was going to die. My father was not there. He was in the army. So I was the oldest person in the house. My sister fell very ill with malaria. She was three years old and I was 15. And she had such a high fever. We tried everything. It didn't look like it was going to work. Until we heard that 10 kilometers away there was a doctor, who was looking at people and giving them meds. Now I put my sister on my back — burning — and I walked 10 kilometers with her strapped on my back. It was really hot. I was very hungry. I was scared because I knew her life depended on my getting to this woman. We heard there was a woman doctor who was treating people. I walked 10 kilometers, putting one foot in front of the other. I got there and I saw huge crowds. Almost a thousand people were there, trying to break down the door. She was doing this in a church. How was I going to get in? I had to crawl in between the legs of these people with my sister strapped on my back, find a way to a window. And while they were trying to break down the door, I climbed in through the window, and jumped in. This woman told me it was in the nick of time. By the time we jumped into that hall, she was barely moving. She gave a shot of her chloroquine — what I learned was the chloroquine then — gave her some — it must have been a re-hydration — and some other therapies, and put us in a corner. In about two to three hours, she started to move. And then they toweled her down because she started sweating, which was a good sign. And then my sister woke up. And about five or six hours later, she said we could go home. I strapped her on my back. I walked the 10 kilometers back and it was the shortest walk I ever had. I was so happy — (Applause) — that my sister was alive! Today she's 41 years old, a mother of three, and she's a physician saving other lives. Why am I telling that? I'm telling you that because — when it is you or your person involved — you don't care where — whether it's aid. You don't care what it is! (Applause) You just want the person to be alive! And now let me become less sentimental, and say that saving lives — which some of the aid we get does on this continent — when you save the life of anyone, a farmer, a teacher, a mother, they are contributing productively into the economy. And as an economist, we can also look at that side of the story. These are people who are productive agents in the economy. So if we save people from HIV/AIDS, if we save them from malaria, it means they can form the base of production for our economy. And by the same token — as someone said yesterday — if we don't and they die, their children will become a burden on the economy. So even from an economic standpoint, if we leave the social and the humanitarian, we need to save lives now. So that's one of the reasons, from a personal experience, that I say let's channel these resources we get into something productive. However, I will also tell you that I'm one of those who doesn't believe that this is the sole answer. That's why I said the debate has to get more sophisticated. You know, we have to use it well. What has happened in Europe? Do you all know that Spain — part of the EU — got 10 billion dollars in aid from the rest of the EU? Resources that were transferred to them — and were the Spanish ashamed of this? No! The EU transferred 10 billion. Where did they use it? Have you been to southern Spain lately? There are roads everywhere. Infrastructure everywhere. It is on the back of this that the whole of southern Spain has developed into a services economy. Did you know that Ireland got 3 billion dollars in aid? Ireland is one of the fastest-growing economies in the European Union today. For which many people, even from other parts of the world, are going there to find jobs. What did they do with the 3 billion dollars in aid? They used it to build an information superhighway, gain infrastructure that enables them to participate in the information technology revolution, and to create jobs in their economy. They didn't say, ""No, you know, we're not going to take this."" Today, the European Union is busy transferring aid. My frustration is if they can build infrastructure in Spain — which is roads, highways, other things that they can build — I say then, why do they refuse to use the same aid to build the same infrastructure in our countries? (Applause) When we ask them and tell them what we need, one of my worries today is that we have many foundations now. Now we talk about the World Bank, IMF, and accountability, all that and the EU. We also have private citizens now who have a lot of money — some of them in this audience, with private foundations. And one day, these foundations have so much money, they will overtake the official aid that is being given. But I fear — and I'm very grateful to all of them for what they are trying to do on the continent — but I'm also worried. I wake up with a gnawing in my belly because I see a new set of aid entrepreneurs on the continent. And they're also going from country to country, and many times trying to find what to do. But I'm not really sure that their assistance is also being channeled in the right way. And many of them are not really familiar with the continent. They are just discovering. And many times I don't see Africans working with them. They are just going alone! (Applause) And many times I get the impression that they are not really even interested in hearing from Africans who might know. They want to visit us, see what's happening on the ground and make a decision. And now I'm maybe being harsh. But I worry because this money is so important. Now, who are they accountable to? Are we on their boards when they make decisions about where to channel money? Are we there? Will we make the same mistake that we made before? Have our presidents and our leaders — everyone is talking about — have they ever called these people together and said, ""Look, your foundation and your foundation — you have so much money, we are grateful. Let's sit down and really tell you where the money should be channeled and where this aid should go."" Have we done that? The answer is no. And each one is making their own individual effort. And then 10 years from now, billions will again have gone into Africa, and we would still have the same problems. This is what gives us the hopeless image. Our inability to take charge and say to all these people bringing their money, ""Sit down."" And we don't do it because there are so many of us. We don't coordinate. We've not called the Bill Gates, and the Soros, and everybody else who is helping and say, ""Sit down. Let's have a conference with you. As a continent, here are our priorities. Here is where we want you to channel this money."" Each one should not be an entrepreneur going out and finding what is best. We're not trying to stop them at all! But to help them help us better. And what is disappointing me is that we are not doing this. Ten years from now we will have the same story, and we will be repeating the same things. So our problem right now is, how can we leverage all this good will that is coming towards our way? How can we get government to combine properly with these private foundations, with the international organizations, and with our private sector. I firmly believe in that private sector thing too. But it cannot do it alone. So there might be a few ideas we could think of that could work. They said this is about proliferating and sharing ideas. So why don't we think of using some of this aid? Well, why don't we first say to those helping us out, ""Don't be shy about infrastructure. That health that you're working on cannot be sustainable without infrastructure. That education will work better if we've got electricity and railroads, and so on. That agriculture will work better if there are railroads to get the goods to market. Don't be shy of it. Invest some of your resources in that, too."" And then we can see that this is one combination of private, international, multilateral money, private sector and the African that we can put together as a partnership, so that aid can be a facilitator. That is all aid can be. Aid cannot solve our problems, I'm firmly convinced about that. But it can be catalytic. And if we fail to use it as catalytic, we would have failed. One of the reasons why China is a bit popular with Africans now — one of the reasons is not only just that, you know, these people are stupid and China is coming to take resources. It's because there's a little more leverage in terms of the Chinese. If you tell them, ""We need a road here,"" they will help you build it. They don't shy away from infrastructure. In fact, the Chinese minister of finance said to me, when I asked him what are we doing wrong in Nigeria. He said, ""There are two things you need only. Infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure and discipline. You are undisciplined."" (Applause) And I repeat it for the continent. It's the same. We need infrastructure, infrastructure and discipline. So we can make a catalytic to help us provide some of that. Now I realize — I'm not saying — health and education — no, you can also provide that as well. But I'm saying it's not either or. Let's see how aid can be a facilitator in partnership. One idea. Second thing, for the private sector, people are afraid to take risks on the continent. Why can't some of this aid be used as a kind of guarantee mechanisms, to enable people to take risk? (Applause) And finally, because they are both standing at my — I'm out of time. Am I out of time? OK, so let me not forget my punchline. One of the things I want everybody to collaborate on is to support women, to create jobs. (Applause) A lot has been said here about women, I don't need to repeat it. But there are people — women — creating jobs. And we know, studies have shown that when you put resources in the hand of the woman — in fact, there's an econometric study, the World Bank Review, done in 2000, showing that transfers into the hands of women result in healthier children, more for the household, more for the economy and all that. So I'm saying that one of the takeaways from here — I'm not saying the men are not important — obviously, if you leave the husbands out, what will they do? They'll come back home and get disgruntled, and it will result in difficulties we don't want. We don't want men beating their wives because they don't have a job, and so on. But at the margin, we also — I want to push this, because the reason is the men automatically — they get — not automatically, but they tend to get more support. But I want you to realize that resources in the hands of African women is a powerful tool. There are people creating jobs. Beatrice Gakuba has created 200 jobs from her flower business in Rwanda. We have Ibukun Awosika in Nigeria, with the chair company. She wants to expand. She needs another 20 million. She will create another 100, 200 more jobs. So take away from here is how are you going to put together the resources to put money in the hands of women in the middle who are ready — business people who want to expand and create more jobs. And lastly, what are you going to do to be part of this partnership of aid, government, private sector and the African as an individual? Thank you. (Applause)"	要在這樣一場會議的最後，總結這幾天的討論，實在太難太難。因為大家都已暢所欲言，討論了所有的問題。所以我覺得回顧一下這幾天的討論，也許再說說我的想法，讓你們能夠帶著這些想法離開，繼續前進，實現它們，這應該對大家會有所幫助。這也是我在這裡想要做的。我們來參加這個會議，雖說想談的是“非洲：未來的篇章”，其實我們想要談“非洲：未來的篇章”是因為我們實際上審視的是非洲過去和現在的篇章，我們對它們並不滿意。我之前給你們看過的照片，還有現在這張關於乾旱，死亡和疾病的照片，這是我們常常看到的。我們想要看到的，是“非洲：未來的篇章”，也就是這個：一個健康、歡笑、美麗的非洲人。我也認為我們應該記住從會議第一天起不斷被提及的那些重要的數據，它們顯示着我們已經取得的進展，告訴我們整個非洲的情況有了巨大的改善。其重要意義就在於我們因而有了一個平台供我們添磚加瓦。 所以我不會花太多時間——只是再提醒你們一遍：我們今天齊聚一堂，探討“非洲：未來的篇章”，是因為我們第一次有了一個真正的平台作為基礎。我們現在的方向是正確的：非洲的發展速度是人們之前所不敢想象的。增長速率從幾十年來的2%增長到現在的5%；並且預計甚至將達到6%或7%。而且通貨膨脹也在下降。外債——關於外債，我有許多可說的，因為我自己就曾致力於解決非洲最大的外債之一——而非洲的外債已經顯著下降了。可以看到，從約——從約500億下降到了現在的120，130億。接下來這個成就也不容小覷。 正如你們所知，我們已經積累了一定的外匯儲備。其重要之處在於，它是我們經濟和貨幣的指標，也為我們提供了一個平台，以供下一步的計劃和建設，包括商業發展。我們也看到了一些跡象，表明這一切都為非洲帶來了新的變化，因為湧入的個人投資也增加了。我想再次提醒你們——雖然我知道你們已經看過這些數據了——個人投資從約60億上升到了現在的180億。2005年，僅尼日利亞一國的外來匯款就一飛沖天——“一飛沖天”可能太誇張了，但大幅上漲是肯定的。在許多其他國家，相同的情況正在發生。其重要意義就在於它體現了人們對非洲的信心。人們現在有信心回來投資——如果流散各地的人們願意將他們的資金帶回家鄉投資，這顯示，人們開始對自己的國家更有信心了。現在的情況已經從資金外流轉向淨流入。 這一切的迅猛發展，重要性就在於我們已經建立起了一個平台，我們的總統基奎特以及其它領導人都已經下定決心要做出改變。這是因為我們現在正面臨著一個挑戰：24歲以下的人口占了總人口的62%。這意味著什麼？這意味著我們的工作重點應該是讓我們的青年能夠從事有產出回報的工作。我們應該致力於創造就業機會，保證他們的健康和教育。但最重要的是，我們要保證他們的生活是有回報的，讓他們感到他們正在建設一個多產的國家，他們的努力都能得到回報。為了這個目標，我自從退出政壇後最近做的一件事就是在尼日利亞建立一個民意調查機構。非洲大多數國家甚至根本不存在任何民意調查。我們聽不到人民的聲音，根本無從知道人民想要什麼。 最近我們調查的事項之一就是他們面臨的首要問題。就像在所有進行過該項調查的國家一樣，就業是人們的首要問題。過一會我還會回過頭來細說這個問題。但在我講解這張幻燈片之前，我想對你們說，我個人認為，為了能繼續進步，這個平台建設的下一步我們不能忽視。僅僅在5，6或是7年前，我們根本談不上非洲未來的篇章，因為我們當時還困在過去的篇章中，沒有一個明確的方向。當時的經濟停滯不前，人均呈現負增長。我們缺乏足以支撐我們前進的微觀經濟框架和基礎。所以不要忘記，我們今天的成就來之不易，這其中包括Dele之前提到的我們在尼日利亞所做的一切：我們創建了自己的項目來解決問題，比如打擊腐敗，建設各個機構，穩定微觀經濟等等。 從而奠定了我們今天繼續進步的基礎。這也使我們開始了這場辯論：援助還是私有經濟，援助還是貿易，等等。有人提出，這場辯論最令人煩惱之處就在它過於簡化了。我們的辯論不應該是關於這些問題的，這場辯論已經步入歧途。真正的問題是，我們應該如何建立起一個夥伴關係，將政府援助，私營機構，以及獨立自主的非洲人民聯繫在一起？我們應如何將它們整合在一起？這樣才能讓非洲繼續發展，讓我們做好應做的工作，就像我說過的，保證年輕人的就業，為非洲注入有創造力的新鮮血液，這其中的許多我們在這裡已經看到了。所以我不得不說，這場辯論的確有些步入歧途了。我們必須回過頭來想想，應該如何將這些因素聯繫在一起，才能得到我們想要的結果？（掌聲） 我今天想要告訴你們的是，我個人對於援助的看法。我不認為非洲人現在需要走向另外一個極端，為接受援助感到慚愧。非洲一直以來都在為其他國家提供援助。Mo Ibrahim在一場辯論中說，他的夢想是有一天非洲能夠為他國提供援助。我對他說，“Mo，你是對的，但事實上我們一直都在提供援助！沒有非洲的援助，英美兩國絕不可能發展到今天。” （掌聲） 這些國家是靠著非洲的資源，包括人力資源，才能發展至今！所以他們試著回報我們的時候，我們沒有必要抵觸。是否接受援助不是問題所在。我們需要考慮的應該是如何使用援助資源——他們還給我們的資源。我們應該如何利用援助？我們是否有效地使用了援助？讓我用一個小故事，來說明為什麼我並不反對接受援助，關鍵是我們應該善用援助。1967到1970年代時，尼日利亞經歷了一場戰爭——尼日利亞內戰。當時我14歲。大多數時候，我們和母親一起為部隊做飯——我父親是比亞夫拉部隊的一名陸軍準將。我們是支持比亞夫拉的。那時生活非常艱辛，每天只能吃一頓飯，而且顛沛流離。但是每到一處，我們都盡我們所能做出一點貢獻。後來，1969年情勢急轉直下，我們每天僅有的一頓飯都吃不上什麼東西。大人，小孩接連死於惡性營養不良。我相信在座年紀較大的觀眾中肯定有人記得當時的景況。我親身經歷了這一切。 當時我母親由於胃病倒下了，病情持續了兩三天，我們覺得她快不行了。我父親也不在家裡，在部隊裡。所以我成了家裡最長的人。我妹妹染上了瘧疾，當時她只有3歲，而我是15歲。我妹妹高燒不退，不管我們嘗試了什麼方法，看來都沒有用。後來我們聽說10公里以外有一位醫生，可以看病開藥。我馬上就背起周身滾燙的妹妹，將她綁在我的背上，走10公里去找醫生。當時天氣非常熱，我餓得不行。而且我非常害怕，因為我妹妹能不能救活全靠我能不能找到這位女醫生。因為我們聽說有位女醫生能看病救人。我一步一步地，走了10公里遠。當我到那兒的時候，看到的是一片擁擠的人群。大概有1000人吧，都在試著闖進門去。那個醫生在一個教堂裡看病。我怎麼才能進去呢？ 我只能背上綁著妹妹，從人們的腿間爬過去。終於我爬到了一扇窗前。當人們都試著闖進門去的時候，我爬進那扇窗戶，跳了進去。那個醫生告訴我要是再來遲一點兒，我妹妹就沒救了。我跳進教堂的時候，她已經幾乎不能動了。她給我妹妹打了一針氯奎——當時我所知道是氯奎——還開了一些——我想是體液補充劑——還有其他一些治療藥物，將我們安置在了角落裡。兩三個小時以後，她開始能動彈了。之後，他們為她擦身，因為她開始出汗了，這說明她開始好轉了。再後來我妹妹醒來了。5，6個小時之後，她說我們能回家了。我將妹妹綁在背上，走了10公里路回家，那是我人生中最短的一段路。我太高興了（掌聲）——因為我妹妹還活著！現在，她41歲了，是三個孩子的母親，還是救死扶傷的醫生。 我為什麼要告訴你們這個故事？那是因為：如果換作是你自己——或者你最親的人——你就不會在乎援助來自哪裡，或是什麼你根本不會在乎！（掌聲）你只希望這個人能活下去！現在我要讓自己冷靜下來，告訴你們：拯救生命正是我們得到的援助在非洲作出的貢獻之一——當你拯救了一個人的生命，無論他是農民，老師還是一位母親，他都為經濟產出做出了積極的貢獻。作為一個經濟學家，我們還可以從這個角度來看這件事。我們救助的人都是非洲經濟體中的生產個體。所以如果我們能將人們從艾滋病，或是瘧疾當中拯救出來，這意味著他們都能成為我們經濟生產的基石。同樣的——就想昨天某位發言者說的——如果我們不能拯救他們，任由他們死去，他們的孩子將成為經濟的負擔。因此，即便從經濟的角度出發，不去考慮社會和人道的因素，我們也需要從現在開始拯救生命。從我個人的經歷出發，這也是我認為我們應該將我們得到的資源轉化為生產力的原因之一。然而，我還要說，我和有些人一樣都認為這並不是唯一的答案。這也是為什麼這場辯論應該更加複雜。我們應該善用這些援助。 讓我們來看看歐洲的例子：你們知道嗎？西班牙——歐盟的一員——得到了其他成員國捐助的100億元？他們得到的資源——西班牙人為此而感到恥辱嗎？不！歐盟為西班牙注入了100億。他們將這100億用在那裡了呢？你們有人最近去過西班牙南部嗎？那裡到處都是路。到處都是基礎設施。正是在這個基礎之上，整個西班牙南部已經建設成了一個服務型經濟。你們知道愛爾蘭得到了30億元的援助嗎？愛爾蘭現在是歐盟中增長最快的經濟體之一。因此許多人，甚至是來自世界其他地方的人們都湧入愛爾蘭尋找工作機會。他們是如何使用這30億援助資金的呢？他們利用援助建立了信息超級高速公路；建立起了所需的基礎設施，讓他們能夠——能夠參與到信息技術革命當中；也為他們的經濟體創造了就業機會。他們沒有說，不，我們不接受援助。現在的歐盟正忙著調動援助。我的煩腦就在於：如果他們能在西班牙建立基礎設施——公路、高速公路和其它他們能建的東西——那麼為什麼非洲拒絕使用同樣的援助來為我們國家建設同樣的基礎設施呢？（掌聲） 我們什麼時候才能主動告訴他們我們需要什麼呢？我現在的一個擔憂就是我們有太多基金會了。現在我們談的是世界銀行，國際貨幣基金組織，承諾的兌現，等等。還有歐盟。我們還有一些公民個人擁有大筆資產。你們當中的有些個人就有私人基金。總有一天，這些基金會掌握的大筆資金將會超過現在我們得到的官方援助。但我擔心——雖然我對於他們想在非洲做的事心懷感激——但我也很擔心，以至於起床時腹痛難忍。因為我看到有一群新的援助企業家來到非洲，他們同時也多次奔走各國，希望能找到援助方向。但是我卻不能肯定他們的援助是否被引導到了正確的方向。他們當中的許多人並不真正了解非洲，他們只是在試圖發現。我也發現他們往往沒有同非洲人合作，他們只是獨自行動！（掌聲） 而且，他們往往讓我感到他們並不真正想要聆聽非洲人所知所想。他們只想造訪非洲，看看非洲的現況，然後就做出決定。我現在可能有些過於尖銳，但是正因為他們的資金如此重要，我才這麼擔憂。他們對誰負責？他們做出投資方向的決定時，我們是他們的董事成員嗎？我們在場嗎？我們會重蹈昔日覆轍嗎？我們的總統和領導——所有人都關注討論他們——他們有沒有召集這些企業家，對他們說，“對於你們的基金會，你們大筆的資金，我們心懷感激。讓我們坐下來，讓我告訴你們這筆錢究竟應該怎麼用。”我們有這麼做嗎？答案是否定的。每個人都只是各自努力，而10年之後，仍然會有數十億的資金流入非洲，我們仍然會面對同樣的問題。 這讓我們感到絕望。我們沒有能力掌握主導權，沒有能力對提供援助的人說：“讓我們坐下來。”我們沒有這麼做，因為我們有太多人了，無法協同合作。我們沒能對比爾蓋茨和索羅斯，還有其他所有幫助我們的人說：“讓我們坐下來，一起開會探討。作為一個大洲，我們有這些首要事項，而這些是我們希望你們投資的方面。”我們不應該讓每個人作為獨立的企業家，在非洲尋找最好的投資方向。這樣做根本不是要阻止他們！根本不是！而是要幫他們更好地幫助我們。但我們並沒有這麼做，這讓我很失望。10年後我們的情況不會改變，我們會重複現在所做的事。所以，我們現在的問題就在於，如何好好協調所有善意的援助，使其為我們所用？如何讓政府與私人基金會，國際組織，還有私營機構合理協作？ 我也堅定地相信私營機構能為我們帶來幫助。但是他們自己是辦不到的。我們可以想出可行的辦法。他們說這場辯論是關於傳播和分享想法的。那麼我們為什麼不想想如何使用部分援助呢？我們為什麼不首先對幫助我們的人說：不要吝於投資基礎建設！你們現在致力建設的醫療健康如果沒有基礎建設是不可能長久的。如果我們有電力和鐵路等等，我們的教育也能更上一層樓。如果我們有鐵路能運送產品到市場上，我們的農業也能進步。所以不要吝於投資基礎建設。將你們的部分資源也投入基礎建設吧。這就是私人、國際、多邊資金、私營機構和非洲人協調整合，建立夥伴關係的例子。使得援助真正能夠推動進步。這正是援助全部的意義所在。援助無法解決我們的問題，這一點我堅信不疑。但是它能成為催化劑。如果我們不能將援助轉化為進步的催化劑，我們就會失敗。 現在中國比起非洲更吸引援助的原因之一並不是因為這些人都是傻子任由中國拿走資源；而是因為中國人比我們更能引導。如果你對他們說：“我們在這裡需要一條公路。”他們就會幫助你建造公路。不要吝於基礎建設。事實上，我問過中國財政部長，我們在尼日利亞的工作哪裡出了問題。他告訴我，我們只需要兩樣東西：“基礎建設，基礎建設，基礎建設——以及規劃。你們現在毫無規劃。” （掌聲）為了非洲，我把他的話轉述給你們。道理是一樣的——我們需要基礎建設，基礎建設和調控原則。我們可以用催化劑幫助我們做一些建設。現在我意識到——我並不是說——醫療和教育——你們也可以提供這兩方面的援助。但是我要說，這並不是非此即彼的選擇。我們應該看到，合作能夠將援助轉化為推動力。這是一個想法。我想說的第二件事是關於私營機構。人們在非洲不敢冒險。為什麼我們不能將援助的一部分化為保障機制，讓人們能夠試著冒險？ （掌聲） 最後，因為他們都站在——我沒有更多時間講下去了。時間到了對嗎？那麼好，讓我畫完最後的點睛之筆。我希望所有人都合作努力的方向之一就是幫助婦女，創造就業機會。（掌聲）在這場辯論中人們已經反复討論過婦女問題了，我無需重申。但是有一些人——一些婦女——正在創造就業機會。研究顯示我們如果把資源交給婦女經營，事實上有這麼一項計量經濟學的研究——是《世界銀行經濟評論》2000年所做的——研究顯示若是將資源交給婦女經營，我們的兒童會更健康，家庭和經濟等等都會進步更大。所以我想我們能從這場辯論中帶走的啟發之一——我不是說男人就不重要，顯然的，如果你完全不考慮丈夫們，他們會怎麼做？他們只能回家，心存不滿，引發我們所不想看到的問題。我們不想看到男人因為失業而虐待妻子等等。 但是至少，我們也——我想要強調的是——因為男人自動——不是自動，但是男人往往能得到更多幫助。但是我希望你們能意識到，將資源交給非洲婦女將大有助益。有一些婦女正在創造就業機會——Beatrice Gakuba在盧旺達的鮮花生意創造了200個就業機會。Ibukun Awosika在尼日利亞的家具——椅子公司正在籌備擴大。她需要的2000萬投資，能夠再創造100，200個就業崗位。所以我們從這場辯論中要帶走的理念，就是要整合我們得到的資源，交給有能力的婦女：能夠擴展自己企業，創造更多職位的婦女。最後，我們要問問自己作為一個個人，如何參與到援助、政府、私營機構和非洲人的合作當中？謝謝。（掌聲）
