Talk	en	zh-tw
ngozi_okonjo_iweala_on_doing_business_in_africa	"Thank you very much, Chris. Everybody who came up here said they were scared. I don't know if I'm scared, but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this. And I don't have any smart technology for you to look at. There are no slides, so you'll just have to be content with me. (Laughter) What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different Africa. Already this morning there were some allusions to the Africa that you hear about all the time: the Africa of HIV/AIDS, the Africa of malaria, the Africa of poverty, the Africa of conflict, and the Africa of disasters. While it is true that those things are going on, there's an Africa that you don't hear about very much. And sometimes I'm puzzled, and I ask myself why. This is the Africa that is changing, that Chris alluded to. This is the Africa of opportunity. This is the Africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destinies. And this is the Africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this. That's what I want to talk about today. And I want to start by telling you a story about that change in Africa. On 15th of September 2005, Mr. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, a governor of one of the oil-rich states of Nigeria, was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police on a visit to London. He was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollars that went into some dormant accounts that belonged to him and his family. This arrest occurred because there was cooperation between the London Metropolitan Police and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of Nigeria — led by one of our most able and courageous people: Mr. Nuhu Ribadu. Alamieyeseigha was arraigned in London. Due to some slip-ups, he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from London back to Nigeria where, according to our constitution, those in office as governors, president — as in many countries — have immunity and cannot be prosecuted. But what happened: people were so outraged by this behavior that it was possible for his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office. Today, Alams — as we call him for short — is in jail. This is a story about the fact that people in Africa are no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders. This is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good, and not taken out to places where they'll benefit just a few of the elite. And therefore, when you hear about the corrupt Africa — corruption all the time — I want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries, and that some successes are emerging. Does it mean the problem is over? The answer is no. There's still a long way to go, but that there's a will there. And that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight. So when you hear about corruption, don't just feel that nothing is being done about this — that you can't operate in any African country because of the overwhelming corruption. That is not the case. There's a will to fight, and in many countries, that fight is ongoing and is being won. In others, like mine, where there has been a long history of dictatorship in Nigeria, the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go. But the truth of the matter is that this is going on. The results are showing: independent monitoring by the World Bank and other organizations show that in many instances the trend is downwards in terms of corruption, and governance is improving. A study by the Economic Commission for Africa showed a clear trend upwards in governance in 28 African countries. And let me say just one more thing before I leave this area of governance. That is that people talk about corruption, corruption. All the time when they talk about it you immediately think about Africa. That's the image: African countries. But let me say this: if Alams was able to export eight million dollars into an account in London — if the other people who had taken money, estimated at 20 to 40 billion now of developing countries' monies sitting abroad in the developed countries — if they're able to do this, what is that? Is that not corruption? In this country, if you receive stolen goods, are you not prosecuted? So when we talk about this kind of corruption, let us also think about what is happening on the other side of the globe — where the money's going and what can be done to stop it. I'm working on an initiative now, along with the World Bank, on asset recovery, trying to do what we can to get the monies that have been taken abroad — developing countries' moneys — to get that sent back. Because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back, it may be far more for some of these countries than all the aid that is being put together. (Applause) The second thing I want to talk about is the will for reform. Africans, after — they're tired, we're tired of being the subject of everybody's charity and care. We are grateful, but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform. And what is happening in many African countries now is a realization that no one can do it but us. We have to do it. We can invite partners who can support us, but we have to start. We have to reform our economies, change our leadership, become more democratic, be more open to change and to information. And this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent, Nigeria. In fact, if you're not in Nigeria, you're not in Africa. I want to tell you that. (Laughter) One in four sub-Saharan Africans is Nigerian, and it has 140 million dynamic people — chaotic people — but very interesting people. You'll never be bored. (Laughter) What we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves. And with the support of a leader who was willing, at the time, to do the reforms, we put forward a comprehensive reform program, which we developed ourselves. Not the International Monetary Fund. Not the World Bank, where I worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president. No one can do it for you. You have to do it for yourself. We put together a program that would, one: get the state out of businesses it had nothing — it had no business being in. The state should not be in the business of producing goods and services because it's inefficient and incompetent. So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises. (Applause) We — as a result, we decided to liberalize many of our markets. Can you believe that prior to this reform — which started at the end of 2003, when I left Washington to go and take up the post of Finance Minister — we had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop 4,500 landlines in its entire 30-year history? (Laughter) Having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury. You couldn't get it. You had to bribe. You had to do everything to get your phone. When President Obasanjo supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector, we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million GSM lines, and counting. Nigeria's telecoms market is the second-fastest growing in the world, after China. We are getting investments of about a billion dollars a year in telecoms. And nobody knows, except a few smart people. (Laughter) The smartest one, first to come in, was the MTN company of South Africa. And in the three years that I was Finance Minister, they made an average of 360 million dollars profit per year. 360 million in a market — in a country that is a poor country, with an average per capita income just under 500 dollars per capita. So the market is there. When they kept this under wraps, but soon others got to know. Nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies, and three or four others have come in. But there's a huge market out there, and people don't know about it, or they don't want to know. So privatization is one of the things we've done. The other thing we've also done is to manage our finances better. Because nobody's going to help you and support you if you're not managing your own finances well. And Nigeria, with the oil sector, had the reputation of being corrupt and not managing its own public finances well. So what did we try to do? We introduced a fiscal rule that de-linked our budget from the oil price. Before we used to just budget on whatever oil we bring in, because oil is the biggest, most revenue-earning sector in the economy: 70 percent of our revenues come from oil. We de-linked that, and once we did it, we began to budget at a price slightly lower than the oil price and save whatever was above that price. We didn't know we could pull it off; it was very controversial. But what it immediately did was that the volatility that had been present in terms of our economic development — where, even if oil prices were high, we would grow very fast. When they crashed, we crashed. And we could hardly even pay anything, any salaries, in the economy. That smoothened out. We were able to save, just before I left, 27 billion dollars. Whereas — and this went to our reserves — when I arrived in 2003, we had seven billion dollars in reserves. By the time I left, we had gone up to almost 30 billion dollars. And as we speak now, we have about 40 billion dollars in reserves due to proper management of our finances. And that shores up our economy, makes it stable. Our exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the time is now fairly stable and being managed so that business people have a predictability of prices in the economy. We brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent. And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now. So all the changes and reforms we were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy. And what is more important, because we want to get away from oil and diversify — and there are so many opportunities in this one big country, as in many countries in Africa — what was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector alone, but from non-oil. Agriculture grew at better than eight percent. As telecoms sector grew, housing and construction, and I could go on and on. And this is to illustrate to you that once you get the macro-economy straightened out, the opportunities in various other sectors are enormous. We have opportunities in agriculture, like I said. We have opportunities in solid minerals. We have a lot of minerals that no one has even invested in or explored. And we realized that without the proper legislation to make that possible, that wouldn't happen. So we've now got a mining code that is comparable with some of the best in the world. We have opportunities in housing and real estate. There was nothing in a country of 140 million people — no shopping malls as you know them here. This was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people. And now, we have a situation in which the businesses in this mall are doing four times the turnover that they had projected. So, huge things in construction, real estate, mortgage markets. Financial services: we had 89 banks. Too many not doing their real business. We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital — share capital. And it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars. The banks — these banks are now consolidated, and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside. Barclays Bank of the U.K. is bringing in 500 million. Standard Chartered has brought in 140 million. And I can go on. Dollars, on and on, into the system. We are doing the same with the insurance sector. So in financial services, a great deal of opportunity. In tourism, in many African countries, a great opportunity. And that's what many people know East Africa for: the wildlife, the elephants, and so on. But managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important. So what am I trying to say? I'm trying to tell you that there's a new wave on the continent. A new wave of openness and democratization in which, since 2000, more than two-thirds of African countries have had multi-party democratic elections. Not all of them have been perfect, or will be, but the trend is very clear. I'm trying to tell you that since the past three years, the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum. This is better than the performance of many OECD countries. So it's clear that things are changing. Conflicts are down on the continent; from about 12 conflicts a decade ago, we are down to three or four conflicts — one of the most terrible, of course, of which is Darfur. And, you know, you have the neighborhood effect where if something is going on in one part of the continent, it looks like the entire continent is affected. But you should know that this continent is not — is a continent of many countries, not one country. And if we are down to three or four conflicts, it means that there are plenty of opportunities to invest in stable, growing, exciting economies where there's plenty of opportunity. And I want to just make one point about this investment. The best way to help Africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet. And the best way to do that is by helping create jobs. There's no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in that and saving children's lives. That's not what I'm saying. That is fine. But imagine the impact on a family: if the parents can be employed and make sure that their children go to school, that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves. If we can invest in places where you yourselves make money whilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet, isn't that a wonderful opportunity? Isn't that the way to go? And I want to say that some of the best people to invest in on the continent are the women. (Applause) I have a CD here. I'm sorry that I didn't say anything on time. Otherwise, I would have liked you to have seen this. It says, ""Africa: Open for Business."" And this is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year. Understand that the woman who made it is going to be in Tanzania, where they're having the session in June. But it shows you Africans, and particularly African women, who against all odds have developed businesses, some of them world-class. One of the women in this video, Adenike Ogunlesi, making children's clothes — which she started as a hobby and grew into a business. Mixing African materials, such as we have, with materials from elsewhere. So, she'll make a little pair of dungarees with corduroys, with African material mixed in. Very creative designs, has reached a stage where she even had an order from Wal-Mart. (Laughter) For 10,000 pieces. So that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing. And the women are diligent. They are focused; they work hard. I could go on giving examples: Beatrice Gakuba of Rwanda, who opened up a flower business and is now exporting to the Dutch auction in Amsterdam each morning and is employing 200 other women and men to work with her. However, many of these are starved for capital to expand, because nobody believes outside of our countries that we can do what is necessary. Nobody thinks in terms of a market. Nobody thinks there's opportunity. But I'm standing here saying that those who miss the boat now, will miss it forever. So if you want to be in Africa, think about investing. Think about the Beatrices, think about the Adenikes of this world, who are doing incredible things, that are bringing them into the global economy, whilst at the same time making sure that their fellow men and women are employed, and that the children in those households get educated because their parents are earning adequate income. So I invite you to explore the opportunities. When you go to Tanzania, listen carefully, because I'm sure you will hear of the various openings that there will be for you to get involved in something that will do good for the continent, for the people and for yourselves. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"非常感謝克里斯. 每個上來這個講臺的人都說他們很緊張, 我不確定自己會不會緊張但這是我第一次對這麼特別的觀眾群演講我的演講不使用任何新穎的科技工具也沒有投影片, 所以你們只能聽我說(笑聲) 我今天主要想和大家分享幾則案例並談談不同於你們印象中的非洲提到非洲, 人們往往聯想到HIV 與愛滋病的非洲,瘧疾的非洲, 貧窮的非洲, 衝突不斷的非洲還有充滿災難的非洲 沒錯, 這些都是事實但這些並不是非洲的全貌有時候我覺得疑惑, 思考為什麼會如此因為這樣的非洲正在改變, 如同克里斯所說非洲充滿機會非洲的人們想靠自己的力量改變自己的未來和命運為達成目標, 非洲的人們尋求合作這就是我今天的主題 我想以一則案例做開頭這個案例標誌著非洲的轉變2005 年 9 月 15 日, 奈及利亞前州長Diepreye Alamieyeseigha 在倫敦遭倫敦大都會警察局逮捕他涉嫌盜用 800 萬美元透過秘密帳戶洗錢將贓款匯進自己和家人的戶頭本次案件為倫敦大都會警察局與奈及利亞經濟金融犯罪委員會聯手合作由能幹又勇敢的努胡‧瑞巴杜領軍成功在倫敦將 Diepreye Alamieyeseigha逮捕歸案Alamieyeseigha 原本想扮女裝從倫敦逃回奈及利亞, 但沒有成功和許多國家一樣, 我們的憲法規定政府官員及總統享有刑事豁免權然而, 奈及利亞國民對 Alamieyeseigha 的行為感到非常氣憤州立法院因而得以直接將其彈劾 現在, Alam 正在坐牢. 我們都簡稱他Alam這個例子顯示, 非洲人民不願再忍受領袖的貪腐這個例子也顯示, 人們希望資源都能妥善運用, 以人民福祉為出發點而不是只讓少數菁英階級受惠因此, 當你們聽聞在非洲層出不窮的貪腐案例有一點必須明瞭, 非洲某些國家的政府和人民都努力想改善這樣的情況而且也有些成功的例子 不過, 這樣就代表問題結束了嗎? 其實沒有我們還有很長的一段路要走, 我們有願景這些成功都為我們的奮鬥寫下新的記錄下次, 當你聽到貪腐請不要認為我們無動於衷請不要認為情況過於嚴重,你們幫不上忙, 因為事實並非如此我們願意為此努力. 在許多國家, 人們起來反抗而且打了一場漂亮的仗, 在某些國家,例如我的國家奈及利亞, 因為長久以來的獨裁專政要成功非常不容易 但我們仍舊沒有放棄也有一些成果例如, 世界銀行與其他組織成立獨立監督委員會在他們的監督之下,政府持續進步非洲經濟委員會的一項研究指出有 28 個非洲國家政府正邁向清廉 在我們進入下個主題之前容我補充一點貪腐是當前重要的議題人們不斷討論貪腐一提到貪腐, 大家就想到非洲那是多數人的印象, 將貪腐與非洲國家連結但是, 如果 Alams 有辦法將 800 萬美元匯到倫敦,如果有人有辦法從發展中國家流出200 億到 400 億至已開發國家如果他們做得到這點那是怎麼回事? 難道已開發國家沒有貪腐嗎?在你的國家, 如果你收到贓物, 你會不會被起訴呢?因此, 當我們談到貪腐, 同時也要思考地球上其他地方發生的事錢為什麼會流向外國? 我們該怎麼阻止這些行動?我現在和世界銀行共同執行一項新方案盡我們最大的努力追回原有的資產將流向國外的錢,屬於開發中國家的錢討回來如果我們拿得回 200 億對某些國家來說,這樣的金額遠比他們所獲得的援助總額來得多(掌聲) 接下來我想談談改革的意願非洲長期以來都是慈善與關懷的主角但他們覺得累了, 我們覺得累了我們十分感謝, 但我們知道,若有心改革, 我們的命運掌握在自己手裡很多非洲國家終於明白, 沒有人可以代替我們,我們要靠自己的力量起而行動我們可以邀集支持者參與, 但我們自己要先動起來我們的經濟要改變, 領導階級要改變,我們要變得更民主, 樂於改變與接收新資訊 這正是我們現在在奈及利亞作的事奈及利亞是非洲大陸的大國之一事實上, 我要很認真地告訴你們,如果沒到過奈及利亞, 就等於沒到過非洲(笑聲)奈及利亞是南撒哈拉非洲四國之一擁有 1 億 4000 萬人口, 人民組成非常複雜,但我們的人民都十分有趣, 你永遠不會感到無聊(笑聲) 我們現在做的就是自我管理並改革我們的領導人支持改革, 也願意改革我們自行設計並提出一個全盤改革計畫這個改革計畫不同於國際貨幣基金,不同於我待了二十一年, 擔任常務副行長的世界銀行沒有人可以幫我們, 我們要自力自強 這個計畫的目標在於讓國家開始進行真正的商業活動國家不應該從事生產貨物或服務等商業行為不僅沒有效率, 也不合適我們決定將多數國營企業民營化(掌聲)因此, 我們決定開放多數市場這個改革從 2003 年年底開始,在那之前, 我剛從華盛頓返國擔任財政部長你們相信嗎? 我們的電信公司在 30 年裡竟然只牽了 4500 條電話線?(笑聲) 在我的國家, 擁有一台電話是非常奢侈的事一般人沒辦法擁有, 必須靠賄賂為了擁有電話, 什麼都得做總統奧巴山約支持我們的方案同意開放電信業民營我們從只有 4500 條電話線進步到有 3200 萬 GSM 線奈及利亞的電信市場成長率居全球第二僅次於中國. 每年約有 10 億元資金投注在電信業除了少數幾個聰明人以外, 沒有人知道(笑聲) 最早加入的聰明人是南非的 MTN 集團在我擔任財政部長的三年間他們每年的平均獲利為 3 億 6000 萬美元在一個國民平均所得低於 500 美元的貧窮國家,擁有 3億 6000 萬美元的市場,由此可見非洲的潛力MTN 集團沒有公開這個訊息, 但不久大家都知道了奈及利亞人民開始籌組公司,建立無線網路電信系統之後陸續有三, 四家公司加入但市場還未完全飽和世人對此一無所知, 或者說他們毫無興趣民營化是我們目前已經上路的政策 另一項政策是讓我們的財政制度更健全若我們自己不做,沒有人可以幫我們完成奈及利亞的石油業很發達, 然而其貪腐也是出了名, 政府欠缺良好的財政管理我們怎麼改變這樣的狀況呢? 我們引進財政法規讓財政預算與石油價格脫勾以往, 我們以石油帶來的產值衡量預算因為石油是我們最大宗, 收益最佳的產業我們國家 70% 的收入都來自石油我們讓預算與石油收入脫勾, 在那之後,我們訂定的預算較石油收入來得少一些因此可省下一筆錢我們不知道是否能成功, 這項政策備受爭議但可以確定的是, 我們的經費波動逐漸減緩以往, 奈及利亞的經濟發展極度仰賴石油石油價格上升時, 經濟成長快速石油價格下跌, 我們的經濟也跟著衰退我們甚至無法支付任何費用, 也無法發給薪水新政策解決了這樣的窘境. 我們能夠節流在我卸任之前, 共省下 270 億, 這些錢存在國庫我於 2003 年就任前, 國庫只有 70 億在我卸任前, 我們共省下約 300 億美元現在, 財政管理制度得到改善,國庫約有 400 億經費這些錢支撐著我們的經濟, 使其得以穩定發展 我們的外匯率向來起伏不定但現在已趨穩定, 也在掌控之中方便商業人士做預測與評估我們讓通貨膨脹從 28% 降至 11%原本我們的國內生產毛額較十年前上升約 2.3%現在已達到 6.5%我們所做的轉變與改革已可在經濟活動看到成果 更重要的是, 因為我們想擺脫對石油的依賴擴大經濟活動範圍.如同許多非洲國家一樣, 奈及利亞有很多機會值得注意的是, 我們的成長並不是單靠石油而是石油以外的其他產業我們的農業成長超過 8%電信業, 住宅業與建築業皆有所成長這類例子不勝枚舉. 我舉這些例子是為了證明只要總體經濟環境穩固其他部門將擁有廣大的發展機會 如同我先前提到的, 我們的農業前景看好我們有豐富的固體礦物還有很多礦物尚未開發, 此外我們也明白,若沒有合宜的立法, 就不可能發展礦業所以我們訂定了採礦法規這項法規與世界上其他礦業法規一樣完備我們的住宅與房地產業前景看好我的國家有 1 億 4000 萬人,然而卻沒有大家所熟知的購物中心這對於某些人來說是投資的機會他們正摩拳擦掌, 準備一展鴻圖現在, 進駐購物中心的企業總營業額是他們預期中的四倍 現在, 房地產, 抵押市場等都活絡起來,我們的財政服務如下:我們原有 89 間銀行, 但大多不是辦理銀行業務我們將其整併為 25 間要求他們增加資本, 也就是股本股本由原本的 2500 萬增加為 1 億 5000 萬美元這些銀行經過整合後,體系漸漸穩固, 吸引更多外資英國的巴克萊銀行投入 5 億元,渣打銀行投入 1 億 4000 萬元我還可以舉出很多例子, 資金就這樣一波波湧入 保險業也是一樣因此在金融服務方面, 我們有很多機會對很多非洲國家來說, 旅遊業也是個前景在望的產業如同世人所熟知, 很多東非國家致力於發展旅遊業他們有野生動物, 大象等不過, 最重要的還是選擇有利旅遊業發展的管理方式 為什麼我會這樣說呢? 我想告訴大家在非洲大陸的一個新興風潮從 2000 年開始, 超過三分之二的非洲國家走向開放與民主舉行多黨民主選舉雖然目前並不完善, 也可能無法達到完善,但這股風潮不會停滯過去三年來,非洲大陸的年均增長率從2.5% 進步到 5%遠比許多 OECD 成員國來得高很明顯地, 非洲的局勢正在改變 非洲大陸的衝突減少了十年前, 約有十二起衝突現在已減為三至四起零星衝突其中最嚴重的, 無非就是蘇丹的達佛地區此外還有鄰近效應,當非洲的某一區起了衝突整個大陸都會受到影響不過我們必須瞭解非洲並非只有一個國家, 而是有許多國家組成如果我們將衝突縮減至只剩三, 四起就表示有機會可以創造穩定, 不斷成長, 激勵人心的經濟我們有充足的機會談到投資, 我只提一點 要幫助非洲, 當前最好的辦法就是幫助我們用自己的力量站起來從何幫起? 請協助我們創造工作機會我所指的並不是挹注金錢對抗瘧疾並不是挽救孩童的生命. 這些都很好, 但不是我的重點請想像一下, 如果一個家庭的父母親都有工作他們的孩子可以上學他們有能力去看病, 買藥, 那不是很好嗎?如果我們可以資助某些地區幫助人們找到工作, 讓他們能自力更生,而投資人又可以賺錢, 那不是很好的機會嗎? 我們還在等什麼呢?我必須告訴大家,目前大力資助非洲大陸的人, 以女性居多(掌聲) 我這裡有一片光碟. 很抱歉, 我們可能沒有時間播放我原本想讓大家看光碟名稱是: ""非洲: 商業新據點""內容是一部影片,這部影片曾獲得年度最佳紀錄片獎,製做這部影片的女性在六月將會到坦尚尼亞, 在那裡展開新的拍攝工作這部影片呈現了非洲人, 尤其是非洲女性如何克服一切困難發展商業, 其中包括國際貿易 影片中一位女性叫 Adenike Ogunlesi,她是童裝製造商,原本只是將縫製童裝當作嗜好, 後來自行創業融合非洲當地的素材與其他地方的素材例如, 將燈心絨褲子改造為工作褲加入非洲的素材. 她的設計非常有創意生意十分成功, 甚至連美國的 Wal-Mart 公司都向她訂貨(笑聲)訂了 10000 件這個例子顯示我們的人民是有能力辦得到的 非洲的婦女非常勤奮, 她們專心致志, 她們認真工作我還可以舉出其他例子:盧安達的 Beatrice Gakuba 從事花業,每天早上, 她的花都會送至荷蘭阿姆斯特丹拍賣除此之外, 她的公司還僱用了 200 位女性與男性然而, 許多公司面臨資本不足的困境因為非洲以外的其他國家不相信我們辦得到. 沒有人認為非洲有市場沒有人認為非洲有機會但我現在站在這裡, 我要告訴大家, 沒有抓緊機會的人,將永久失去機會 所以如果你們想幫助非洲, 可以考慮投資想想 Beatrice 的例子, 想想 Adenikes 的例子她們都在為全球經濟帶來不可思議的力量同時也讓她們的同胞獲得工作機會這些家庭的孩子因而得以接受教育因為他們的父母有足夠的經濟來源 所以, 我想邀請大家一起探索更多機會當你到坦尚尼亞, 請注意,我確信你一定會發現那裡充滿許多機會若你參與其中, 不僅可為你自己帶來助益,非洲人民與整個非洲大陸也可因而受惠 謝謝大家(掌聲)"
