Talk	en	zh-tw
nicholas_negroponte_on_one_laptop_per_child_two_years_on	"Most people don't know that when I went to high school in this country — I applied for university at a time when I was convinced I was going to be an artist and be a sculptor. And I came from a very privileged background. I was very lucky. My family was wealthy, and my father believed in one thing, and that was to give us all as much education as we wanted. And I announced I wanted to be a sculptor in Paris. And he was a clever man. He sort of said, ""Well, that's OK, but you've done very well in your math SATs."" In fact, I'd got an 800. And he thought I did very well — and I did, too — in the arts: this was my passion. And he said ""If you go to MIT,"" to which I had been given early admission, ""I will pay for every year you're at MIT, in graduate or undergraduate — as much as you want — I will pay for an equal number of years for you to live in Paris."" And I thought that was the best deal in town, so I accepted it immediately. And I decided that if I was good in art, and I was good in mathematics, I'd study architecture, which was the blending of the two. I went and told my headmaster that, at prep school. And I said to him what I was doing, that I was going to go study architecture because it was art and mathematics put together. He said to me something that just went completely over my head. He said, ""You know, I like grey suits, and I like pin-striped suits, but I don't like grey pin-striped suits."" And I thought, ""What a turkey this guy is,"" and I went off to MIT. I studied architecture, then did a second degree in architecture, and then actually quickly realized that it wasn't architecture. That really, the mixing of art and science was computers, and that that really was the place to bring both, and enjoyed a career doing that. And probably, if I were to fill out Jim Citrin's scale, I'd put 100 percent on the side of the equation where you spend time making it possible for others to be creative. And after doing this for a long time, and the Media Lab passing the baton on, I thought, ""Well, maybe it's time for me to do a project. Something that would be important, but also something that would take advantage of all of these privileges that one had."" And in the case of the Media Lab, knowing a lot of people, knowing people who were either executives or wealthy, and also not having, in my own case, a career to worry about anymore. My career, I mean, I'd done my career. Didn't have to worry about earning money. Didn't have to worry about what people thought about me. And I said, ""Boy, let's really do something that takes advantage of all these features,"" and thought that if we could address education, by leveraging the children, and bringing to the world the access of the computers, that that was really the thing we should do. Never shown this picture before, and probably going to be sued for it. It's taken at three o'clock in the morning, without the permission of the company. It's about two weeks old. There they are, folks. (Applause) If you look at the picture, you'll see they're stacked up. Those are conveyor belts that go around. This is one of the conveyor belts with the thing going by, but then you'll see the ones up above. What happens is, they burn into flash memory the software, and then test them for a few hours. But you've got to have the thing moving on the assembly line, because it's constant. So they go around in this loop, which is why you see them up there. So this was great for us because it was a real turning point. But it goes back. This picture was taken in 1982, just before the IBM PC was even announced. Seymour Papert and I were bringing computers to schools and developing nations at a time when it was way ahead of itself. But one thing we learned was that these kids can absolutely jump into it just the same way as our kids do here. And when people tell me, ""Who's going to teach the teachers to teach the kids?"" I say to myself, ""What planet do you come from?"" Okay, there's not a person in this room — I don't care how techie you are — there's not a person in this room that doesn't give their laptop or cell phone to a kid to help them debug it. OK? We all need help, even those of us who are very seasoned. This picture of Seymour — 25 years ago. Seymour made a very simple observation in 1968, and then basically presented it in 1970 — April 11 to be precise — called ""Teaching Children Thinking."" What he observed was that kids who write computer programs understand things differently, and when they debug the programs, they come the closest to learning about learning. That was very important, and in some sense, we've lost that. Kids don't program enough and boy, if there's anything I hope this brings back, it's programming to kids. It's really important. Using applications is OK, but programming is absolutely fundamental. This is being launched with three languages in it: Squeak, Logo, and a third, that I've never even seen before. The point being, this is going to be very, very intensive on the programming side. This photograph is very important because it's much later. This is in the early 2000s. My son, Dimitri — who's here, many of you know Dimitri — went to Cambodia, set up this school that we had built, just as the school connected it to the Internet. And these kids had their laptops. But it was really what spirited this, plus the influence of Joe and others. We started One Laptop per Child. This is the same village in Cambodia, just a couple of months ago. These kids are real pros. There were just 7,000 machines out there being tested by kids. Being a nonprofit is absolutely fundamental. Everybody advised me not to be a nonprofit, but they were all wrong. And the reason being a nonprofit is important is actually twofold. There are many reasons, but the two that merit the little bit of time is: one, the clarity of purpose is there. The moral purpose is clear. I can see any head of state, any executive I want, at any time, because I'm not selling laptops. OK? I have no shareholders. Whether we sell, it doesn't make any difference whatsoever. The clarity of purpose is absolutely critical. And the second is very counterintuitive — you can get the best people in the world. If you look at our professional services, including search firms, including communications, including legal services, including banking, they're all pro bono. And it's not to save money. We've got money in the bank. It's because you get the best people. You get the people who are doing it because they believe in the mission, and they're the best people. We couldn't afford to hire a CFO. We put out a job description for a CFO at zero salary, and we had a queue of people. It allows you to team up with people. The U.N.'s not going to be our partner if we're profit making. So announcing this with Kofi Annan was very important, and the U.N. allowed us to basically reach all the countries. And this was the machine we were showing before I met Yves Behar. And while this machine in some sense is silly, in retrospect, it actually served a very important purpose. That pencil-yellow crank was remembered by everybody. Everybody remembered the pencil-yellow crank. It's different. It was getting its power in a different way. It's kind of childlike. Even though this wasn't the direction we went because the crank — it really is stupid to have it on board, by the way. In spite of what some people in the press don't get it, didn't understand it, we didn't take it off because we didn't want to do — having it on the laptop itself is really not what you want. You want a separate thing, like the AC adaptor. I didn't bring one with me, but they really work much better off-board. And then, I could tell you lots about the laptop, but I decided on just four things. Just keep in mind — because there are other people, including Bill Gates, who said, ""Gee, you've got a real computer."" That computer is unlike anything you've had, and does things — there are four of them — that you don't come close to. And it's very important to be low power, and I hope that's picked up more by the industry. That the reason that you want to be below two watts is that's roughly what you can generate with your upper body. Dual-mode display — that sunlight display's fantastic. We were using it at lunch today in the sunlight, and the more sunlight the better. And that was really critical. The mesh network, it'll become commonplace. And of course, ""rugged"" goes without saying. And the reason I think design matters isn't because I wanted to go to art school. And by the way, when I graduated from MIT, I thought the worst and silliest thing to do would be to go to Paris for six years. (Laughter) So, I didn't do that. But design matters for a number of reasons. The most important being that it is the best way to make an inexpensive product. Most people make inexpensive products by taking cheap design, cheap labor, cheap components, and making a cheap laptop. And, in English, the word ""cheap"" has a double meaning, which is really appropriate, because it's cheap, in the pejorative sense, as well as inexpensive. But if you take a different approach, and you think of very large-scale integration, very advanced materials, very advanced manufacturing — so you're pouring chemicals in one end, iPods are spewing out the other — and really cool design, that's what we wanted to do. And I can race through these and save a lot of time because Yves and I obviously didn't compare notes. These are his slides, and so I don't have to talk about them. But it was really, to us, very important as a strategy. It wasn't just to kind of make it cute, because somebody — you know, good design is very important. Yves showed one of the power-generating devices. The mesh network, the reason I — and I won't go into it in great detail — but when we deliver laptops to kids in the remotest and poorest parts of the world, they're connected. There's not just laptops. And so, we have to drop in satellite dishes. We put in generators. It's a lot of stuff that goes behind these. These can talk to each other. If you're in a desert, they can talk to each other about two kilometers apart. If you're in the jungle, it's about 500 meters. So if a kid bicycles home, or walks a few miles, they're going to be off the grid, so to speak. They're not going to be near another laptop, so you have to nail these onto a tree, and sort of, get it. You don't call Verizon or Sprint. You build your own network. And that's very important, the user interface. We are launching with 18 keyboards. English is by far the minority. Latin is relatively rare, too. You just look at some of the languages. I'm willing to suspect some of you hadn't even heard of them before. Is there anybody in the room, one person, unless you work with OLPC, is there anybody in the room that can tell me what language the keyboard is that's on the screen? There's only one hand — so you get it. Yes, you're right. He's right. It's Amharic, it's Ethiopian. In Ethiopia, there's never been a keyboard. There is no keyboard standard because there's no market. And this is the big difference. Again, when you're a nonprofit, you look at children as a mission, not as a market. So we went to Ethiopia, and we helped them make a keyboard. And this will become the standard Ethiopian keyboard. So what I want to end with is sort of what we're doing to roll it out. And we changed strategy completely. I decided at the beginning — it was a pretty good thing to decide in the beginning, it's not what we're doing now — is to go to six countries. Big countries, one of them is not so big, but it's rich. Here's the six. We went to the six, and in each case the head of state said he would do it, he'd do a million. In the case of Gaddafi, he'd do 1.2 million, and that they would launch it. We thought, this is exactly the right strategy, get it out, and then the little countries could sort of piggyback on these big countries. And so I went to each of those countries at least six times, met with the head of state probably two or three times. In each case, got the ministers, went through a lot of the stuff. This was a period in my life where I was traveling 330 days per year. Not something you'd envy or want to do. In the case of Libya, it was a lot of fun meeting Gaddafi in his tent. The camel smells were unbelievable. And it was 45 degrees C. I mean, this was not what you'd call a cool experience. And former countries — I say former, because none of them really came through this summer — there was a big difference between getting a head of state to have a photo opportunity, make a press release. So we went to smaller ones. Uruguay, bless their hearts. Small country, not so rich. President said he'd do it, and guess what? He did do it. The tender had nothing in it that related to us, nothing specific about sunlight-readable, mesh-network, low-power, but just a vanilla laptop proposal. And guess what? We won it hands down. When it was announced that they were going to do every child in Uruguay, the first 100,000, boom, went to OLPC. The next day — the next day, not even 24 hours had passed — in Peru, the president of Peru said, ""We'll do 250."" And boom, a little domino effect. The president of Rwanda stepped in and said he would do it. The president of Ethiopia said he would do it. And boom, boom, boom. The president of Mongolia. And so what happens is, these things start to happen with these countries — still not enough. Add up all those countries, it didn't quite get to thing, so we said, ""Let's start a program in the United States."" So, end of August, early September, we decide to do this. We announced it near the middle, end — just when the Clinton Initiative was taking place. We thought that was a good time to announce it. Launched it on the 12 of November. We said it would be just for a short period until the 26. We've extended it until the 31. And the ""Give One, Get One"" program is really important because it got a lot of people absolutely interested. The first day it was just wild. And then we said, ""Well, let's get people to give many. Not just one, and get one, but maybe give 100, give 1,000."" And that's where you come in. And that's where I think it's very important. I don't want you all to go out and buy 400 dollars worth of laptops. Okay? Do it, but that's not going to help. Okay? If everybody in this room goes out tonight and orders one of these things for 400 dollars, whatever it is, 300 people in the room doing it — yeah, great. I want you do something else. And it's not to go out and buy 100 or 1,000, though, I invite you to do that, and 10,000 would be even better. Tell people about it! It's got to become viral, OK? Use your mailing lists. People in this room have extraordinary mailing lists. Get your friends to give one, get one. And if each one of you sends it to 300 or 400 people, that would be fantastic. I won't dwell on the pricing at all. Just to say that when you do the ""Give One, Get One,"" a lot of press is a bit about, ""They didn't make it, it's 188 dollars, it's not 100."" It will be 100 in two years. It will go below 100. We've pledged not to add features, but to bring that price down. But it was the countries that wanted it to go up, and we let them push it up for all sorts of reasons. So what you can do — I've just said it. Don't just give one, get one. I just want to end with one last one. This one is not even 24-hours old, or maybe it's 24-hours. The first kids got their laptops. They got them by ship, and I'm talking now about 7,000, 8,000 at a time went out this week. They went to Uruguay, Peru, Mexico. And it's been slow coming, and we're only making about 5,000 a week, but we hope, we hope, sometime in next year, maybe by the middle of the year, to hit a million a month. Now put that number, and a million isn't so much. It's not a big number. We're selling a billion cell phones worldwide this year. But a million a month in laptop-land is a big number. And the world production today, everybody combined, making laptops, is five million a month. So I'm standing here telling you that sometime next year, we're going to make 20 percent of the world production. And if we do that, there are going to be a lot of lucky kids out there. And we hope if you have EG two years from now, or whenever you have it again, I won't have bad breath, and I will be invited back, and will have, hopefully by then, maybe 100 million out there to children. Thank you. (Applause)"	國內多數人並不知道何時我上高中當我申請大學時，那時我深信我將來要成為一名藝術家和雕塑家。而我非常幸運，誕生於一個還不錯的家庭，我的家境富裕，而我父親深信一件事情，就是他要儘可能供我們讀書，當我宣布我想去巴黎做雕刻家時，我父親他是個聰明人，他是這樣說的「好，那OK，但是你知道你的數學SAT考試考地非常好。」事實上，我考了800分，所以他認為我考得非常好，事實上我在藝術表現上也很棒，這是我的熱切盼望。而我父親他說，「如果你去念MIT麻省理工」，這所學校已經給我提前錄取，「我將會供你每年在MIT的花費，」「不管你是研究生或者大學生時，要多少都可以，」「我將會供你同樣的金額，比照你住在巴黎的水準。」而我想那是我在國內能夠得到最好的待遇，所以我馬上就接受。而我想，如果我的數學跟藝術都擅長的話，我應該來學習建築，因為這個學科跨了兩個領域， 我這樣告訴我的導師，我告訴他，我要做甚麼，就是我要去攻讀建築，因為它將藝術與數學放在一塊。他對我說了些事情剛好超過我的理解範圍，他說，「你知道，我喜歡灰色西裝，我也喜歡細條紋西裝，但是我不喜歡灰色細條紋西裝。」那時我想，「這傢伙真是難搞，像火雞一樣」，之後我就去了MIT。我讀了建築，然後念到二年級。然後很快地，我發現到我的興趣不是建築，事實上，將藝術與科學結合在一起的是電腦。而那的確是融合兩者之處，我也樂在其中。 然後，也許，我將會去完成Jim Citrin的進位法我將會百分百投入方程式的撰寫。在那，你花時間讓它成真，也讓其他人更富有創意，在做這個事這麼久之後，也有了媒體實驗室，我想，「好吧，也許該是我要來做點事情的時候了。有些事情可能是重要的，但也有些事情一方面需要利用到這些特殊資源。」而在媒體實驗室，認識一些人，認識的人非富即貴，不管是高階經理人或富豪商賈，就我的個案來說，我不用再去擔心我的工作，工作，我的意思是，我已經做好我的工作，我不用去擔心要賺錢，我不用去煩惱人們怎麼看待我。我說，「男孩們，讓我們真的來做些事情，好好利用這些優勢吧。」我想，我們可以透過這些小孩的力量來解決教育的問題，為全世界帶來接觸電腦的機會那就是我們應該要做的事情之前從來沒秀過這張照片，也能會為了它被告，這張照片是在凌晨三點拍攝，並且沒有取得該公司同意，這是約兩個星期前，大家看，它們就在那兒。 鼓掌 從這張照片你可以看到，它們已經裝箱堆疊好。環繞的是輸送帶。這是其中一個輸送帶，上面正輸送著東西，然後你將會在上面看到它們，現在他們正在燒錄快閃記憶體軟體然後測試幾個小時但是沒多久必須移到組裝線上，因為是一貫作業，所以他們會經由這個循環作業，這就是為甚麼你會看到他們在那兒，所以這對我們來說實在太棒了，因為它實在是一個轉捩點。這張照片是在1982年拍攝，那時IBM PC才剛剛發表，Seymour Papert和我帶著電腦到學校，這也是這些發展中國家超越他們自己的一次記錄但是有一件事，就是這些小孩馬上玩起這些電腦，就像我們這裡的孩子所做的一樣。 而當人們問我，誰要來教導這些要教育小朋友的老師們呢？我問我自己，「你是從哪個星球來的呢？」好吧，在座的每一個人，我不在乎你們是多麼有技術能力，所有人都會樂意給小孩一個電腦或手機去幫助他們解決問題，對吧？我們都需要幫助，即便我們都很厲害。這是Seymour的照片，25年有了，Seymour做了一個非常簡單的觀察1968年，然後在1970年發表，精確日期在4月11日，題目叫做「教導孩子們思考」。他所觀察到寫電腦程式的小孩理解事情的方式不同，當他們在程式中抓錯時，他們潛移默化地學習，那非常重要，但是在某方面我們已經失去那種能力，小孩子其實並沒有常寫程式，男孩子也是，如果有任何事情我希望可以這個可以帶回的，我希望它是為小孩子而設計的。 這實在非常重要，使用應用程式是OK的，但是撰寫程式語言是基礎的我們以三種語言同步推出，Squeak語言，Logo語言，第三種，我從來沒有見過這樣作法，重點是，這對程式端的要求將會非常緊要這張照片非常重要，因為這張比起前面那張又更晚近，這在2000年稍早，我的兒子Dimitri你們當中很多認識Dimitri，他跑去柬埔寨，設立這所學校。那時，這所學校才剛剛連上網際網路，而這些小孩擁有了他們自己的筆記型電腦，加上Joe跟其他人的影響，我們開始One Laptop Per Child計畫，這些是柬埔寨相同的村莊，剛剛幾個月前這些小孩真的非常棒。那而現在有七千台機器。是由小孩測試。所以作為一個非營利機構是絕對基本的。 每個人建議我不要做非營利機構，但是他們都錯了，作為非營利組織，是重要，理由有雙重，有很多理由，但時間有限，要感謝的有兩點一，有明確的目標，道德目標是非常清楚的。我可以見到任何國家的領袖，任何我想見到的高階經理人，在任何時間，因為我不是在賣筆記型電腦，對吧？我沒有股東。毫無疑問，我們是不是在賣電腦都不會有甚麼影響，明確的目標是絕對重要的。其次，非常直覺的。你可以得到全世界最好的人才來幫你。如果你來看我的專業服務，包括搜尋，包括媒體公關服務，包括法律服務，包括金融，他們都是為慈善機構和窮人提供免費專業服務。做這些不是為了錢。我們的確賺到了，那是因為你找到最棒的人，你得到這些人，是因為他們相信這個使命，而他們是最佳人選。 我們請不起財務長，我們刊登了一個無薪金的CFO工作簡介，而我們有了一個團隊的成員。這項計畫可以讓你們自成團隊。聯合國也不會成為我們的夥伴，如果我們要賺錢的話。所以與安南理事長一起宣布是非常重要的，而聯合國也讓我們基本上接觸到所有的國家。而這個是我們展示的機器在我遇到Yves Behar之前所展示的而當這個機器在某種感覺上是愚笨的回顧來看，它事實上有一個相當重要的用途那個黃色的搖桿被每個人記住每個人記住這個黃色搖桿，它是與眾不同的它透過與眾不同的方式，取得它的影響力。這是小孩子喜歡的種類。儘管這不是我們設計搖桿的初衷，因為這個搖桿順帶一提，把它裝在主機板上，實在非常愚笨儘管某些媒體上的朋友不知道，不瞭解，我們沒有因此就拿掉它，因為我們不想這麼作，把它裝在筆記型電腦上，真的不是你所想像的你希望那是單獨分開的東西，就像電源供應器，我現在沒帶過來，但是他們真得是不錯然而我可能跟你說太多筆記型電腦了，不過我還是要跟你說四點 只是要記住，因為還有其他人，包括比爾蓋茲，他們說，「哇，你拿到一個真的電腦耶。」這個電腦不像任何你曾經擁有過的東西，並且以你沒見過的方式工作其中有四點首先，做到省電非常重要而我也希望這個做法更被業界採用這就是為什麼你會想做到低於兩瓦特的原因那大概是你可以利用你的身體的方法雙模顯示—-讓顯示器顯得非常奇妙今天午餐時，我們在日光下使用這個產品，陽光愈足愈好。而那其實很關鍵。Mesh網絡，它將變得普遍。當然，不用說我認為設計重要，並不是因為我想過去念藝術學校。 順帶一提，當我從MIT畢業，我想最糟跟最笨的事情，大概就是我真的跑去巴黎六年。所以我沒有去巴黎。但是設計很重要，有很多理由，最重要的是，它是做出最不昂貴產品的最好方法。多數人做得出低價產品，因為他們採取廉價的設計廉價勞工、便宜的元件，所以做出一個低價電腦但是在英文當中，cheap有雙重涵義，其他一個是適當的價格因為它是便宜的，有貶抑的意思，同時也是廉價的但是如果你採用不同的方式，而你從宏觀面來整合思考非常先進的材料、非常先進的製造所以你從一方注入化學材料，另一方做出iPod實在是非常酷的設計，那也是我們想做的事 而我能夠來做這些，並且可以省下很多時間，因為Yves和我顯然沒有對照過彼此的筆記這些是他的簡報檔，所以我不準備來說這些東西但是它對我們來說，真的是一個重要的發展策略它並不只是做一個可愛的作品，因為有些人你知道，好的設計是非常重要的Yves秀出一個電力供應裝置Mesh網絡，我將不會詳述這一點但是當我們將電腦交到世上最遙遠與最貧窮的小孩手上他們與世界取得聯繫，擁有的將不只是那台電腦，所以我們必須裝進衛星小碟子，我們放入發電裝置在這之後還有很多東西，它們之間可以彼此對話如果你在沙漠中，它們可以彼此對話，約距離兩公哩，如果你在叢林中，那個距離將會是五百米。所以如果小孩騎腳踏車回家，或者走路回家，他們將會離線，所以說來它們將不是靠近另一台電腦，所以你必須要將這些綁上樹，某些像是這類的作法。 你沒辦法打電話給電信公司，你必須建立起你自己的網路而使用者介面將非常重要我們推出18個鍵盤，英文現在還是少數拉丁文則又更罕見。你只是看到一些語言。我想你們之中甚至很少聽過那些語言在這個房間中的任一人，只要有一個人，除非你是跟OLPC一起做事在座的有沒有人可以告訴我這是甚麼語言螢幕上的是鍵盤嗎？這還只是其中一面而已是，你對了，他也對了，這是衣索匹亞官方語言Amharic語言。這是衣索匹亞語。在衣索匹亞，從來沒有過鍵盤。這裡沒有鍵盤標準，因為沒有市場存在。這是最大的不同。 我要重申的是，當你是非營利，你看待小孩如同你的使命，不是一個市場。所以當我們來到衣索匹亞，我們協助他們製作出一個鍵盤，而這將成為衣索匹亞標準鍵盤。所以我想做的是，最終我們能夠做到的某種程度我們完全地改變策略，我在一開始決定在一開始就想清楚要怎麼作是非常棒的事情但是跟我們現在作的不同—-我們要去六個國家大國，它們之中可能不是這麼大，但是富有這裡這六個國家，我們也去了這六個國家然後每個個案中，每個國家的領袖都說要做，一作都要一百萬台。利比亞的格達費，他要120萬台，然後他們要推出這個產品。我們想，這正是正確的策略，所以我們就做了。然後一些比較小的國家可以負擔一些數量。 所以我每一個國家都去拜訪至少六次，拜訪每個國家的領袖兩到三次，在每一個個案中，見到行政團隊，說明很多相關事項。這是我的人生中，每年330天都在飛機上、旅途中。這並不是你會羨慕或者想要做的事情。舉利比亞的例子來說，在帳篷拜會格達費實在非常有趣。駱駝聞起來非常難以置信。然後是45度的高溫，真的，這不是你所謂的很酷的經歷。之前提到的國家 —我之前說的，因為他們沒能在這個夏天做到。跟國家元首有機會拍照和做個新聞發佈有很大分別，所以我們來到比較小的國家，烏拉圭，上帝保佑他們。小國，並不富有。總統說他想做，猜猜看？他真的做到了。帳篷內的東西沒有一樣跟我們有關，沒有太陽能、Mesh網絡、省電，但僅有一個香草顏色筆記本電腦的提案。然而猜猜看怎樣？我們贏得該項標案。當這項消息宣布時，他們正在烏拉圭作同樣的事情。第一批10萬台，讓每個小朋友都有一台電腦。隔天，就在隔天，甚至還不到24小時，在祕魯秘魯總統說，我們將作到250萬台。然後一下子，轟地一聲，像是骨牌效應， 盧安達總統接著也說，他也要參加。衣索匹亞的總統說，他也要參與。所以，一下子，群起響應，蒙古總統也出現了。所以，接下來發生的事，相關的這些工作開始在這些國家展開，但是仍然還不夠，加上所有這些國家，並沒有準備好要做這些事情，所以我們說，『讓我們在美國開始一個計畫。』大約在八月底、九月初，我們決定行動。我們在年中接近年底的時候宣布，剛剛好是柯林頓基金會剛剛成立的時候，我們認為那是一個宣布的好時機。我們在11月12日推出產品，我們說，到11月26日為止，這是一個短期計畫。後來我們把它延續到31日。而這個買二捐一的活動，是非常重要的，因為顯然有很多人感興趣。 活動開始第一天就像是一陣旋風，然後我們說，好吧，讓人們可以給予更多台電腦，而不只是買二捐一而已。也許是給予一百台，也許是給予一千台。那就是你們來到這裡。這就是我覺得非常重要的地方。我不想你們去買一台400美元的筆電，好吧？去做吧，但是這樣不會有任何幫助的，對吧？如果在座的每個人，今晚出去以後，訂購了這些電腦，400塊錢，無論如何，在座的300個人如此，是，那就非常棒。我希望你們做一些別的事情。然而並不是叫你們出去買一百台或一千台。雖然我歡迎你們這樣做的話，一萬台的話將會更棒。 我希望你們去告訴人們這件事情，大家就都會知道，對吧？善用你的通訊錄吧。在這裡的人們擁有非凡的朋友名單。邀請你們的朋友參加買二捐一的活動。如果你們之中的每個人都將訊息散發給三到四百人，那就太棒了。我將不會花太多篇幅在價錢上。只是想說，當你們買二捐一時，很多媒體報導說：『他們沒做到，那是188美元，不是100美元。』兩年內將會到100美元，也將會低於100美元。我們宣布過不會增加功能，但是讓價格下降。但是那是國家們想讓價格往上走。我們讓他們可以有各種理由這樣做。但是你可以做的是我說過，不要只是買二捐一 我最後想說的是，這個發生了還沒有24小時，或者剛剛發生了24小時。第一批小孩透過船運，拿到他們的筆記本電腦。我現在要說的是，這個禮拜一次要交出7千台、8千台。它們將會運到烏拉圭、秘魯、墨西哥。不過交貨的速度有些緩和下來，我們將會一周作出5千台。但是我們衷心希望，在明年的某個階段，也許是年中，會一個月達到一百萬台，提到這個數字一百萬台其實不多，甚至也不是甚麼大的數字。我們今年全球賣出十億台手機。但是一個月一百萬台筆電是一個大的數目。今天全世界的製造量，綜合每個公司的生產量，一個月是五百萬台。所以我站在這裡告訴你們，明年的某個階段，我們的出貨量將是全世界筆電產量的20%。如果我們做到了，就會有很多幸運的小孩。我們希望如果你們從現在起兩年後舉行EG會議的話，或者不管你們甚麼再舉辦。我也不會讓人厭煩的話，也許我將會被邀請回來此地。希望那時，已經造福了一億個小朋友。謝謝大家 （掌聲）
