Talk	en	zh-tw
nicholas_christakis_the_hidden_influence_of_social_networks	"For me, this story begins about 15 years ago, when I was a hospice doctor at the University of Chicago. And I was taking care of people who were dying and their families in the South Side of Chicago. And I was observing what happened to people and their families over the course of their terminal illness. And in my lab, I was studying the widower effect, which is a very old idea in the social sciences, going back 150 years, known as ""dying of a broken heart."" So, when I die, my wife's risk of death can double, for instance, in the first year. And I had gone to take care of one particular patient, a woman who was dying of dementia. And in this case, unlike this couple, she was being cared for by her daughter. And the daughter was exhausted from caring for her mother. And the daughter's husband, he also was sick from his wife's exhaustion. And I was driving home one day, and I get a phone call from the husband's friend, calling me because he was depressed about what was happening to his friend. So here I get this call from this random guy that's having an experience that's being influenced by people at some social distance. And so I suddenly realized two very simple things: First, the widowhood effect was not restricted to husbands and wives. And second, it was not restricted to pairs of people. And I started to see the world in a whole new way, like pairs of people connected to each other. And then I realized that these individuals would be connected into foursomes with other pairs of people nearby. And then, in fact, these people were embedded in other sorts of relationships: marriage and spousal and friendship and other sorts of ties. And that, in fact, these connections were vast and that we were all embedded in this broad set of connections with each other. So I started to see the world in a completely new way and I became obsessed with this. I became obsessed with how it might be that we're embedded in these social networks, and how they affect our lives. So, social networks are these intricate things of beauty, and they're so elaborate and so complex and so ubiquitous, in fact, that one has to ask what purpose they serve. Why are we embedded in social networks? I mean, how do they form? How do they operate? And how do they effect us? So my first topic with respect to this, was not death, but obesity. It had become trendy to speak about the ""obesity epidemic."" And, along with my collaborator, James Fowler, we began to wonder whether obesity really was epidemic and could it spread from person to person like the four people I discussed earlier. So this is a slide of some of our initial results. It's 2,200 people in the year 2000. Every dot is a person. We make the dot size proportional to people's body size; so bigger dots are bigger people. In addition, if your body size, if your BMI, your body mass index, is above 30 — if you're clinically obese — we also colored the dots yellow. So, if you look at this image, right away you might be able to see that there are clusters of obese and non-obese people in the image. But the visual complexity is still very high. It's not obvious exactly what's going on. In addition, some questions are immediately raised: How much clustering is there? Is there more clustering than would be due to chance alone? How big are the clusters? How far do they reach? And, most importantly, what causes the clusters? So we did some mathematics to study the size of these clusters. This here shows, on the Y-axis, the increase in the probability that a person is obese given that a social contact of theirs is obese and, on the X-axis, the degrees of separation between the two people. On the far left, you see the purple line. It says that, if your friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 45 percent higher. And the next bar over, the [red] line, says if your friend's friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 25 percent higher. And then the next line over says if your friend's friend's friend, someone you probably don't even know, is obese, your risk of obesity is 10 percent higher. And it's only when you get to your friend's friend's friend's friends that there's no longer a relationship between that person's body size and your own body size. Well, what might be causing this clustering? There are at least three possibilities: One possibility is that, as I gain weight, it causes you to gain weight. A kind of induction, a kind of spread from person to person. Another possibility, very obvious, is homophily, or, birds of a feather flock together; here, I form my tie to you because you and I share a similar body size. And the last possibility is what is known as confounding, because it confounds our ability to figure out what's going on. And here, the idea is not that my weight gain is causing your weight gain, nor that I preferentially form a tie with you because you and I share the same body size, but rather that we share a common exposure to something, like a health club that makes us both lose weight at the same time. When we studied these data, we found evidence for all of these things, including for induction. And we found that if your friend becomes obese, it increases your risk of obesity by about 57 percent in the same given time period. There can be many mechanisms for this effect: One possibility is that your friends say to you something like — you know, they adopt a behavior that spreads to you — like, they say, ""Let's go have muffins and beer,"" which is a terrible combination. (Laughter) But you adopt that combination, and then you start gaining weight like them. Another more subtle possibility is that they start gaining weight, and it changes your ideas of what an acceptable body size is. Here, what's spreading from person to person is not a behavior, but rather a norm: An idea is spreading. Now, headline writers had a field day with our studies. I think the headline in The New York Times was, ""Are you packing it on? Blame your fat friends."" (Laughter) What was interesting to us is that the European headline writers had a different take: They said, ""Are your friends gaining weight? Perhaps you are to blame."" (Laughter) And we thought this was a very interesting comment on America, and a kind of self-serving, ""not my responsibility"" kind of phenomenon. Now, I want to be very clear: We do not think our work should or could justify prejudice against people of one or another body size at all. Our next questions was: Could we actually visualize this spread? Was weight gain in one person actually spreading to weight gain in another person? And this was complicated because we needed to take into account the fact that the network structure, the architecture of the ties, was changing across time. In addition, because obesity is not a unicentric epidemic, there's not a Patient Zero of the obesity epidemic — if we find that guy, there was a spread of obesity out from him — it's a multicentric epidemic. Lots of people are doing things at the same time. And I'm about to show you a 30 second video animation that took me and James five years of our lives to do. So, again, every dot is a person. Every tie between them is a relationship. We're going to put this into motion now, taking daily cuts through the network for about 30 years. The dot sizes are going to grow, you're going to see a sea of yellow take over. You're going to see people be born and die — dots will appear and disappear — ties will form and break, marriages and divorces, friendings and defriendings. A lot of complexity, a lot is happening just in this 30-year period that includes the obesity epidemic. And, by the end, you're going to see clusters of obese and non-obese individuals within the network. Now, when looked at this, it changed the way I see things, because this thing, this network that's changing across time, it has a memory, it moves, things flow within it, it has a kind of consistency — people can die, but it doesn't die; it still persists — and it has a kind of resilience that allows it to persist across time. And so, I came to see these kinds of social networks as living things, as living things that we could put under a kind of microscope to study and analyze and understand. And we used a variety of techniques to do this. And we started exploring all kinds of other phenomena. We looked at smoking and drinking behavior, and voting behavior, and divorce — which can spread — and altruism. And, eventually, we became interested in emotions. Now, when we have emotions, we show them. Why do we show our emotions? I mean, there would be an advantage to experiencing our emotions inside, you know, anger or happiness. But we don't just experience them, we show them. And not only do we show them, but others can read them. And, not only can they read them, but they copy them. There's emotional contagion that takes place in human populations. And so this function of emotions suggests that, in addition to any other purpose they serve, they're a kind of primitive form of communication. And that, in fact, if we really want to understand human emotions, we need to think about them in this way. Now, we're accustomed to thinking about emotions in this way, in simple, sort of, brief periods of time. So, for example, I was giving this talk recently in New York City, and I said, ""You know when you're on the subway and the other person across the subway car smiles at you, and you just instinctively smile back?"" And they looked at me and said, ""We don't do that in New York City."" (Laughter) And I said, ""Everywhere else in the world, that's normal human behavior."" And so there's a very instinctive way in which we briefly transmit emotions to each other. And, in fact, emotional contagion can be broader still. Like we could have punctuated expressions of anger, as in riots. The question that we wanted to ask was: Could emotion spread, in a more sustained way than riots, across time and involve large numbers of people, not just this pair of individuals smiling at each other in the subway car? Maybe there's a kind of below the surface, quiet riot that animates us all the time. Maybe there are emotional stampedes that ripple through social networks. Maybe, in fact, emotions have a collective existence, not just an individual existence. And this is one of the first images we made to study this phenomenon. Again, a social network, but now we color the people yellow if they're happy and blue if they're sad and green in between. And if you look at this image, you can right away see clusters of happy and unhappy people, again, spreading to three degrees of separation. And you might form the intuition that the unhappy people occupy a different structural location within the network. There's a middle and an edge to this network, and the unhappy people seem to be located at the edges. So to invoke another metaphor, if you imagine social networks as a kind of vast fabric of humanity — I'm connected to you and you to her, on out endlessly into the distance — this fabric is actually like an old-fashioned American quilt, and it has patches on it: happy and unhappy patches. And whether you become happy or not depends in part on whether you occupy a happy patch. (Laughter) So, this work with emotions, which are so fundamental, then got us to thinking about: Maybe the fundamental causes of human social networks are somehow encoded in our genes. Because human social networks, whenever they are mapped, always kind of look like this: the picture of the network. But they never look like this. Why do they not look like this? Why don't we form human social networks that look like a regular lattice? Well, the striking patterns of human social networks, their ubiquity and their apparent purpose beg questions about whether we evolved to have human social networks in the first place, and whether we evolved to form networks with a particular structure. And notice first of all — so, to understand this, though, we need to dissect network structure a little bit first — and notice that every person in this network has exactly the same structural location as every other person. But that's not the case with real networks. So, for example, here is a real network of college students at an elite northeastern university. And now I'm highlighting a few dots. If you look here at the dots, compare node B in the upper left to node D in the far right; B has four friends coming out from him and D has six friends coming out from him. And so, those two individuals have different numbers of friends. That's very obvious, we all know that. But certain other aspects of social network structure are not so obvious. Compare node B in the upper left to node A in the lower left. Now, those people both have four friends, but A's friends all know each other, and B's friends do not. So the friend of a friend of A's is, back again, a friend of A's, whereas the friend of a friend of B's is not a friend of B's, but is farther away in the network. This is known as transitivity in networks. And, finally, compare nodes C and D: C and D both have six friends. If you talk to them, and you said, ""What is your social life like?"" they would say, ""I've got six friends. That's my social experience."" But now we, with a bird's eye view looking at this network, can see that they occupy very different social worlds. And I can cultivate that intuition in you by just asking you: Who would you rather be if a deadly germ was spreading through the network? Would you rather be C or D? You'd rather be D, on the edge of the network. And now who would you rather be if a juicy piece of gossip — not about you — was spreading through the network? (Laughter) Now, you would rather be C. So different structural locations have different implications for your life. And, in fact, when we did some experiments looking at this, what we found is that 46 percent of the variation in how many friends you have is explained by your genes. And this is not surprising. We know that some people are born shy and some are born gregarious. That's obvious. But we also found some non-obvious things. For instance, 47 percent in the variation in whether your friends know each other is attributable to your genes. Whether your friends know each other has not just to do with their genes, but with yours. And we think the reason for this is that some people like to introduce their friends to each other — you know who you are — and others of you keep them apart and don't introduce your friends to each other. And so some people knit together the networks around them, creating a kind of dense web of ties in which they're comfortably embedded. And finally, we even found that 30 percent of the variation in whether or not people are in the middle or on the edge of the network can also be attributed to their genes. So whether you find yourself in the middle or on the edge is also partially heritable. Now, what is the point of this? How does this help us understand? How does this help us figure out some of the problems that are affecting us these days? Well, the argument I'd like to make is that networks have value. They are a kind of social capital. New properties emerge because of our embeddedness in social networks, and these properties inhere in the structure of the networks, not just in the individuals within them. So think about these two common objects. They're both made of carbon, and yet one of them has carbon atoms in it that are arranged in one particular way — on the left — and you get graphite, which is soft and dark. But if you take the same carbon atoms and interconnect them a different way, you get diamond, which is clear and hard. And those properties of softness and hardness and darkness and clearness do not reside in the carbon atoms; they reside in the interconnections between the carbon atoms, or at least arise because of the interconnections between the carbon atoms. So, similarly, the pattern of connections among people confers upon the groups of people different properties. It is the ties between people that makes the whole greater than the sum of its parts. And so it is not just what's happening to these people — whether they're losing weight or gaining weight, or becoming rich or becoming poor, or becoming happy or not becoming happy — that affects us; it's also the actual architecture of the ties around us. Our experience of the world depends on the actual structure of the networks in which we're residing and on all the kinds of things that ripple and flow through the network. Now, the reason, I think, that this is the case is that human beings assemble themselves and form a kind of superorganism. Now, a superorganism is a collection of individuals which show or evince behaviors or phenomena that are not reducible to the study of individuals and that must be understood by reference to, and by studying, the collective. Like, for example, a hive of bees that's finding a new nesting site, or a flock of birds that's evading a predator, or a flock of birds that's able to pool its wisdom and navigate and find a tiny speck of an island in the middle of the Pacific, or a pack of wolves that's able to bring down larger prey. Superorganisms have properties that cannot be understood just by studying the individuals. I think understanding social networks and how they form and operate can help us understand not just health and emotions but all kinds of other phenomena — like crime, and warfare, and economic phenomena like bank runs and market crashes and the adoption of innovation and the spread of product adoption. Now, look at this. I think we form social networks because the benefits of a connected life outweigh the costs. If I was always violent towards you or gave you misinformation or made you sad or infected you with deadly germs, you would cut the ties to me, and the network would disintegrate. So the spread of good and valuable things is required to sustain and nourish social networks. Similarly, social networks are required for the spread of good and valuable things, like love and kindness and happiness and altruism and ideas. I think, in fact, that if we realized how valuable social networks are, we'd spend a lot more time nourishing them and sustaining them, because I think social networks are fundamentally related to goodness. And what I think the world needs now is more connections. Thank you. (Applause)"	大約15年前我在芝加哥大學擔任安寧病房醫生我負責照顧那些瀕臨死亡的人，與他們的家人就在芝加哥南端我觀察這些疾病末期的人，與他們家人，疾病帶給他們的影響我在實驗室研究守寡效應這個想法不新穎150年前就有了就是大家所知的「心碎而死」就是，我死了，我妻子的死亡率在第一年會增加一倍。當時我照顧一個失智症的婦人不像其他病人她是由她女兒負責照顧。為照顧母親，她女兒已心力憔悴而她女婿也因為妻子的憔悴而生病了。我有天開車回家接到一通女婿的朋友打來的電話他說，因為他朋友（女婿）生病他也心情低落。這通陌生人的電話讓我有了這個體驗原來人與人的影響不止於親近的人。 我因此意識到兩件很簡單的事情第一，守寡效應並不侷限於夫妻第二，並不侷限於兩個人而已我開始以全新的視角來看這世界人們一對對連結著然後又有其他個體與鄰近的這對連結，變成兩對然後這些人又被其他關係包圍著婚姻、夫妻、友情等等連結事實上，這些連結很廣我們每個人之間都是被這許多的連結連起來的。我開始用全新的角度看這世界並為此著迷我著迷於圍繞著每個人的人際網路與它的影響。人際關係是種美麗亦複雜的東西它既精密、複雜卻又普及，事實上，我們會問，它的功能是什麼？我們為什麼會處於人際網路中？它們如何形成？怎麼運作？是怎麼影響我們的？ 我的第一個要探討的主題，不是關於死亡，而是肥胖突然間，大家都討論著「肥胖流行症」我和James Fowler合作共同研究為什麼肥胖會流行還有它的傳染是否像我剛所提的那四個人那樣這是我們最初的結果2000年研究的2200人每個點是一個人，我們依據體型來做點的大小大點點的人體型較大還有，體型、BMI值超過30以上的在醫學上被診斷為肥胖的我們標為黃點各位可以看到這張圖肥胖的人聚成一團不胖的人聚成一團不過視覺上看起來還是很複雜真正的情況看得不明顯。另一個馬上想到的問題是圖中有多少聚集？聚集的產生是否不單因為巧合？這些聚集有多大？各自距離有多遠？最重要的還有形成聚集原因是什麼？ 所以我們將這些聚集的大小數據化可以看到，縱軸是一個人因為週遭朋友而變胖的可能性橫軸是兩個人之間，分離的程度最左邊，紫色長條顯示如果你的朋友都過胖你過胖的機率比別人高45%旁邊的紅色長條代表如果你朋友的朋友都過胖你過胖的機率比平均高出25%下一個長條表示如果你朋友的朋友的朋友－即使你都不認識－過胖你過胖的機率比平均高出10%只有到了你朋友的朋友的朋友的朋友幾乎沒有關係可言你們的體型才不會互相影響。 那形成這種聚集的原因是什麼？至少三種可能第一，當我體重增加你體重也增加這是誘導性，在人與人之間的傳染第二，很明顯的，同質性也就是「物以類聚，人以群分」我和你的聯繫是因為我們體型相同最後一個可能性是混雜法我們搞不清楚狀況是什麼意思是，你體重增加的原因不是因為我體重增加也不是我選擇與你有關聯而是因為我們有一樣的體型所以我們會去類似的地方例如健身房等等我們一起瘦身的地方 我們研究這些數據，發現以下一些證據包含誘導性我們發現，如果你的朋友變胖同一時期裡，你變胖的機會立刻增加57%造成這種效果有很多機制一種情況是，你朋友的行為傳染給你他們可能會對你說：「我們吃馬芬鬆糕配啤酒吧」這搭配好糟糕但你習慣這樣吃以後你就會開始和他們一樣變胖另一種可能是他們開始增胖，你開始改變了對於正常體型的看法這種人與人傳染情況不是行為改變，而是標準改變。有越來越多人接受這種想法。 有些記者將我們的研究寫成報導我想紐約時報的頭條是：「變胖了嗎？」「怪你朋友吧！」我們覺得有趣的是，歐洲的記者寫了不同的頭條：「你朋友變胖了嗎？是你害的！」(笑聲)我們覺得很有趣，這反應出美國人那種有點自私、「不干我的事」的態度 到此，我要澄清，我們並不認為這研究能被拿來當作身材歧視的正當理由我們下一個問題是：這種擴散要如何視覺化？一個人變胖是否會連帶影響另一個人的體重？這很複雜因為我們要考慮到網路的結構、連結的構造方式，是隨時在改變的還有，肥胖症不是種只有單一中心的流行病沒有肥胖流行病的「零號病人」－疾病的原始帶原者是不存在的它是有許多中心的很多人同時做著相同的事我給大家看個30秒動畫我和James花五年研究出來的每個點都是一個人每條線表示他們的關連我們現在放給大家看一睹30年的人際網路變化 點的大小開始變化會看到越來越多黃點也可以看到人們的出生、死亡點的消失與形成連結的形成與斷裂，結婚與離婚友情的產生與破裂非常複雜，這30年時間發生了許多事情包括肥胖的流行最後，你可以看到肥胖、不肥胖的個體在這網路裡看著這張圖改變了我看事情的角度因為這個網路隨時間變換的網路它是有記憶的、會移動的裏面也有很多流動它擁有著一種持續性人會死亡，但它不會永久存在它有種恢復力能隨時間存在著 我將這些人際網路視為活的東西是我們可以放到顯微鏡下觀察、研究、並加以了解的東西我們用了很多方式研究並開始探索其他現象我們觀察吸菸、酗酒的人、有投票習慣的人、離婚的人－這也會傳染還有無私。最後，我們對情緒感興趣人的情緒一來馬上展現出來為什麼展現情緒？我是說，如果能把生氣、開心等情緒放在心裡應該是種優點吧我們不只有情緒，我們會展現出來我們不只會展現出來，其他人還解讀的出來他們不只解讀的出來，還會複製那情緒這就是人類社會的情緒傳染這些情緒的功能還顯示他們有其他用途他們是一種最基本的溝通方式如果我們真想了解人類的情緒我們就需要將之視為如此 我們短時間內，已經習慣將情緒視為溝通方式舉個例子，我最近在紐約也做了演講我說：「你搭地鐵時，」「坐你對面的人」「對你微笑」「你會直覺的也對他微笑。」觀眾看著我，說：「在紐約沒人這樣做。」我說：「紐約除外，世界其他地方」「這是正常現象。」這是種直覺性的動作簡單的將情緒傳給他人事實上，這種情緒傳染是可以很廣的就像暴動中，展現憤怒情緒的間接表達我們想問的問題是：情緒傳染是否不止在地鐵中相互微笑的兩人而已是否可以有更多人甚至是更永續、跨時間的方式？或許有那種表面下的暴動永久地控制我們。也許人際網路中也有情緒潰散的情形又或許，情緒有種聚集存在而非只是個體存在。 這是我們為這個研究所做的圖同樣的，一個人際網路黃點是快樂的人藍點是傷心的，綠點是其他這張圖可以明顯看出快樂、不快樂的人聚集有三種程度的分散馬上看的出來不快樂的人聚集在網路裡的不同地點網路有中間及邊緣而不快樂的人似乎都聚在邊緣用東西來比喻的話可以將人際網路想成是一塊人性的布料我與你連結、你與她連結，無限的距離這塊布料就有點像老舊的美製棉被上面有補丁，開心的、傷心的補丁而你快樂與否取決於你是否在快樂補丁上 (笑聲) 所以，我們對情緒的研究是非常基本的後來我們想，也許影響人際關係的根本原因也許和基因有關因為人際關係，不論如何塑造都是長這樣這是人際網路圖但從來不會像這樣為什麼不像這樣？為什麼我們的人際網路不像這樣的點陣圖？人際網路的獨特圖形這種普遍性，和明顯的目的引出了一個問題：我們是否天生就有這種人際網路，或者我們網路獨特樣貌的形成是後天進化的？ 要解答這問題我們需要解剖這網路注意這網路的每個人與其他人同處相同的地點但真正的網路並非如此這裡是一間東北方頂尖大學的學生人際關係圖我標出幾個明顯的點看看這些點比較左上的節點B與最右邊的節點DB有四個朋友而D有六個朋友這兩個人有不同數量的朋友很明顯啊，不用解釋但其他方面這種人際結構就沒那麼明顯了 比較節點B與左下的節點A這些人各有四個朋友但A的朋友互相認識而B的朋友則不是所以A的朋友的朋友也是A的朋友然而，B的朋友的朋友，不是B的朋友而是在網路的更遠端這是網路的傳遞性最後，比較節點C、節點D兩者都有六個朋友，如果你問：「你的社交生活如何？」他們會答：「我有六個朋友，」「這是我的交友經驗」現在我們鳥瞰這張圖可以發現他們的社交圈是完全不同的現在用直覺回答這問題：如果有種致命病毒正在這網路傳播你要選節點C還是D？你會選D，在人際網路邊緣現在，如果是聊八卦講別人的八卦，不是你的這種情況你選哪個？你會選C吧 所以不同的結構點對於人生有不同的含意事實上，我們為此做了些實驗朋友數量多寡的差異有46%都是可以用基因來解釋這並不新奇，我們都知道，有些人天生害羞有些人天生合群，這是顯而易見的但我們也發現了些不那麼明顯的東西例如，你的朋友們是否互相認識其中47%的差異是和你的基因有關。你的朋友是否互相認識是與你的基因有關，而不是他們的。我們認為，這原因在於有些人喜歡把自己的朋友介紹給彼此而其他人喜歡把朋友們分開，不介紹給彼此所以有些人將他們的人際網路編織在一起形成了緊密的網路並舒服的身處其中最後，我們還發現不論你是處在網路中心或邊緣，30%的差異也是和基因有關所以不管你是在中心還是邊緣有一部分是遺傳的 所以，這表示什麼？它如何讓我們了解這世界？它如何幫助我們了解我們現在所面臨的問題？我的論點是，這些人際網路充滿價值就如一種社會資產新特性的出現是因為包圍我們的人際網路以及形成網路結構所固有的這些特性不單只是其中的個體而已看看這兩個常見的東西都用碳做的但其中一個是碳原子以獨特的方式組合而成就是左邊的石墨，柔軟漆黑一樣的碳原子以不同的方式組合就變成鑽石，透徹堅硬而這些柔軟、堅硬、漆黑、透徹的屬性並不是碳原子造成的而是碳原子間的組合方式或者說，至少是因為碳原子間的組合方式造成的同樣的，人與人之間的關聯也賜與各組群不同的屬性正是這種連結讓整體變的比個體還好很多。所以，不只是這些人所經歷的事－像減肥、增肥，變有錢或變窮、變得快樂、不快樂－在影響著我們同時影響我們的還有我們的連結架構。 我們在世上的經歷取決於我們所處網路的實際連結架構以及在網路中，各種事情所激盪的漣漪我想，這是因為人類形成群落組合成一種「超級個體」超級個體是每個獨立個體的集合表現出的行為或現象無法藉由研究個體而得知。而需要了解、研究整個群體例如，一窩蜜蜂正在找新的巢穴地點還有一群躲避掠食者、或是利用群體智慧尋找太平洋裡的一座小島的鳥兒或是一群合作攻擊獵物的狼。超級個體的屬性無法藉由研究單一個體來了解我認為，了解人際關係了解它的形成與運作可以幫助我們了解健康和情感甚至其他現象－例如犯罪、福利、或是經濟現象，例如銀行擠兌、市場崩盤、對於創新的適應、產品適應的傳播等。 看這結果我想，我們彼此建立關係是因為這種連結的生活利大於弊如果我總是對你暴力相向或給你錯誤資訊或讓你難過、傳染致命病毒給你你就會和我斷交這關係就會因此瓦解美好事物的傳播需要永續、良好的人際關係相同的，人際關係也需要美好事物的傳播像是愛與善良、快樂與無私、新點子我認為，如果我們可以意識到人際關係的價值我們就會花更多時間來培養、維持因為我認為人際關係在本質上是與善良相連的我想現在世界所需的是更多連結 謝謝 (掌聲)
