Talk	en	zh-tw
nick_veasey_exposing_the_invisible_1	So, 120 years ago, Dr. Röntgen X-rayed his wife's hand. Quite why he had to pin her fingers to the floor with her brooch, I'm not sure. It seems a bit extreme to me. That image was the start of the X-ray technology. And I'm still fundamentally using the same principles today. I'm interpreting it in a more contemporary manner. The first shot I ever did was of a soda can, which was to promote a brand that we all know, so I'm not going to do them any favors by showing you it. But the second shot I did was my shoes I was wearing on the day. And I do really like this shot, because it shows all the detritus that's sort of embedded in the sole of the sneakers. It was just one of those pot-luck things where you get it right first time. Moving on to something a bit larger, this is an X-ray of a bus. And the bus is full of people. It's actually the same person. It's just one skeleton. And back in the '60s, they used to teach student radiographers to take X-rays, thankfully not on you and I, but on dead people. So, I've still got access to one of these dead people called Frieda; she's falling apart, I'm afraid, because she's very old and fragile. But everyone on that bus is Frieda. And the bus is taken with a cargo-scanning X-ray, which is the sort of machine you have on borders, which checks for contraband and drugs and bombs and things. Fairly obvious what that is. So, using large-scale objects does sort of create drama because you just don't see X-rays of big things that often. Technology is moving ahead, and these large cargo scanner X-rays that work with the digital system are getting better and better and better. Again though, to make it come alive you need, somehow, to add the human element. And I think the reason this image works, again, is because Frieda is driving the bulldozer. (Laughter) Quite a difficult brief, make a pair of men's pants look beautiful. But I think the process, in itself, shows how exquisite they are. Fashion — now, I'm sort of anti-fashion because I don't show the surface, I show what's within. So, the fashionistas don't really like me because it doesn't matter if Kate Moss is wearing it or if I'm wearing it, it looks the same. (Laughter) We all look the same inside, believe me. The creases in the material and the sort of nuances. And I show things for really what they are, what they're made of. I peel back the layers and expose it. And if it's well made I show it, if it's badly made I show it. And I'm sure Ross can associate that with design. The design comes from within. It's not just Topshop, I get some strange looks when I go out getting my props. Here I was fumbling around in the ladies' underwear department of a department store, almost got escorted from the premises. I live opposite a farm. And this was the runt of the litter, a piglet that died. And what's really interesting is, if you look at the legs, you'll notice that the bones haven't fused. And should that pig have grown, unfortunately it was dead, it would have certainly been dead after I X-rayed it, with the amount of radiation I used anyway. (Laughter) But once the bones had fused together it would have been healthy. So, that's an empty parka jacket. But I quite love the way it's posed. Nature is my greatest inspiration. And to carry on with a theme that we've already touched with is how nature is related to architecture. If you look at the roof of the Eden Project, or the British library, it's all this honeycomb structure. And I'm sure those architects are inspired, as I am, by what surrounds us, by nature. This, in fact, is a Victoria water lily leaf that floats on the top of a pond. An amaryllis flower looking really three-dimensional. Seaweed, ebbing in the tide. Now, how do I do this, and where do I do this, and all of that sort of thing. This is my new, purpose-built, X-ray shed. And the door to my X-ray room is made of lead and steel. It weighs 1,250 kilograms and the only exercise I get is opening and closing it. (Laughter) The walls are 700 millimeters thick of solid dense concrete. So, I'm using quite a lot of radiation. A lot more than you'd get in a hospital or a vet's. And there I am. This is a quite high-powered X-ray machine. What's interesting really about X-ray really is, if you think about it, is that that technology is used for looking for cancer or looking for drugs, or looking for contraband or whatever. And I use that sort of technology to create things that are quite beautiful. So, still working with film, I'm afraid. Technology in X-ray where it's life-size processed, apart from these large cargo-scanning machines, hasn't moved on enough for the quality of the image and the resolution to be good enough for what I want to do with it, which is show my pictures big. So, I have to use a 1980s drum scanner, which was designed in the days when everyone shot photographs on film. They scan each individual X-ray. And this shows how I do my process of same-size X-rays. So, this is, again, my daughter's dress. Still has the tag in it from me buying it, so I can take it back to the shop if she didn't like it. But there are four X-ray plates. You can see them overlapping. So, when you move forward from something fairly small, a dress which is this size, onto something like that which is done in exactly the same process, you can see that that is a lot of work. In fact, that is three months solid X-raying. There is over 500 separate components. Boeing sent me a 747 in containers. And I sent them back an X-ray. (Laughter) I kid you not. Okay, so Frieda is my dead skeleton. This, unfortunately, is basically two pictures. One on the extreme right is a photograph of an American footballer. The one on the left is an x-ray. But this time I had to use a real body. Because I needed all the skin tissue to make it look real, to make it look like it was a real athlete. So, here I had to use a recently deceased body. And getting a hold of that was extremely difficult and laborious. But people do donate their bodies to art and science. And when they do, I'm in the queue. So, I like to use them. (Laughter) The coloring, so coloring adds another level to the X-rays. It makes it more organic, more natural. It's whatever takes my fancy, really. It's not accurately colored to how it is in real life. That flower doesn't come in bright orange, I don't think. But I just like it in bright orange. And also with something technical, like these are DJ decks, it sort of adds another level. It makes a two dimensional image look more three dimensional. The most difficult things to X-ray, the most technically challenging things to X-ray are the lightest things, the most delicate things. To get the detail in a feather, believe me, if there is anyone out here who knows anything about X-rays, that's quite a challenge. I'm now going to show you a short film, I'll step to the side. Video: (Music) The thing in there is very dangerous. If you touch that, you could possibly die through radiation poisoning. In my career I've had two exposures to radiation, which is two too many, because it stays with you for life. It's cumulative. (Music) It has human connotations. The fact that it's a child's toy that we all recognize, but also it looks like it's a robot, and it comes from a sci-fi genus. It's a surprise that it has humanity, but also man-made, future, alien associations. And it's just a bit spooky. (Music) The bus was done with a cargo-scanning X-ray machine, which is used on the borders between countries, looking for contraband and illegal immigrants. The lorry goes in front of it. And it takes slices of X-rays through the lorry. And that's how this was done. It's actually slice, slice. It's a bit like a CT scanner in a hospital. Slices. And then if you look carefully, there is all little things. He's got headphones on, reading the newspaper, got a hat on, glasses, got a bag. So, these little details help to make it work, make it real. (Music) The problem with using living people is that to take an X-ray, if I X-ray you, you get exposed to radiation. So, to avoid that — I have to avoid it somehow — is I use dead people. Now, that's a variety of things, from recently deceased bodies, to a skeleton that was used by student radiographers to train in taking X-rays of the human body, at different densities. (Music) I have very high-tech equipment of gloves, scissors and a bucket. (Music) I will show how the capillary action works, how it feeds, I'll be able to get all the cells inside that stem. Because it transfers food from its roots to its leaves. Look at this monster. (Music) It's so basic. It just grows wild. That's what I really like about it, the fact that I haven't got to go and buy it, and it hasn't been genetically modified at all. It's just happening. And the X-ray shows how beautiful nature can be. Not that that is particularly beautiful when you look at it with the human eye, the way the leaves form. They're curling back on each other. So the X-ray will show the overlaps in these little corners. The thicker the object, the more radiation it needs, and the more time it needs. The lighter the object, the less radiation. Sometimes you keep the time up, because the time gives you detail. The longer the exposure goes on for, the more detail you get. (Music) If you look at this, just the tube, it is quite bright. But I could get a bit darker in the tube, but everything else would suffer. So, these leaves at the edge would start to disappear. What I like is how hard the edges are, how sharp. Yeah, I'm quite pleased with it. (Music) I travel beyond the surface and show something for what it's worth, for what it's really made of, how it really works. But also I find that I've got the benefit of taking away all the surface, which is things that people are used to seeing. And that's the sort of thing I've been doing. I've got the opportunity now to show you what I'm going to be doing in the future. This is a commercial application of my most recent work. And what's good about this, I think, is that it's like a moment in time, like you've turned around, you've got X-ray vision and you've taken a picture with the X-ray camera. Unfortunately I haven't got X-ray vision. I do dream in X-ray. I see my projects in my sleep. And I know what they're going to look like in X-ray and I'm not far off. So, what am I doing in the future? Well, this year is the 50th anniversary of Issigonis's Mini, which is one of my favorite cars. So, I've taken it apart, component by component, months and months and months of work. And with this image, I'm going to be displaying it in the Victoria and Albert Museum as a light box, which is actually attached to the car. So, I've got to saw the car in half, down the middle, not an easy task, in itself. And then, so you can get in the driver's side, sit down, and up against you is a wall. And if you get out and walk around to the other side of the car, you see a life-sized light box of the car showing you how it works. And I'm going to take that idea and apply it to other sort of iconic things from my life. Like, my first computer was a big movement in my life. And I had a Mac Classic. And it's a little box. And I think that would look quite neat as an X-ray. I'm also looking to take my work from the two-dimensional form to a more three-dimensional form. And this is quite a good way of doing it. I'm also working now with X-ray video. So, if you can imagine, some of these flowers, and they're actually moving and growing and you can film that in X-ray, should be quite stunning. But that's it. I'm done. Thank you very much. (Applause)	在120年前倫琴醫生給他妻子的手拍攝了X光照片。只是，為什麼他要用胸針把他妻子的手指釘在地上對此我很不解。這對我來說有點不可思議。但這張照片確實是X射線技術的開端。並且我基本上依然在使用與當年相同的原理。但是我用的是一種比較現代的表達方式。 我拍攝的第一張照片是一個汽水罐，用來為大家都熟悉的一個牌子做廣告，所以我不打算給你們展示那張照片，免得為他們做廣告。我拍攝的第二張照片是我曾穿過的一雙鞋子。我非常喜歡這張照片，因為從照片上能看到所有嵌在鞋底上的碎石。這只是那些有意思的事情之一，你才剛剛開始瞭解到。 讓我們繼續來看看大一些的東西，這是一張公交汽車的X光照片。這輛車上載滿了人。實際上他們都是同一個人，都是一具骨架。讓我們把目光倒回上世紀60年代人們以前培訓X光照相師拍攝X光照片，但幸好不是給我們拍，而是拍攝死人。現在，我們仍然能夠拍攝到當年的那些死人之一她的名字叫Frieda。我擔心她一直在腐化，因為她已經非常老了，而且還很脆弱。但那輛公車上的每個人都是Frieda這張公車的照片是由X光貨物掃描器器拍攝的，就是我們在邊境關口看到的那種機器，用來檢查走私品，毒品和爆炸物之類的東西。 很明顯能看出來這是什麼。拍攝大尺度的物體確實是相當有戲劇性的因為你很少見到大型物體的X光照片。科技在不斷進步這些大的X光貨物掃描器器以及其中的數位系統正在變得越來越好。然而，要把它變得更真實些你需要加入一些人的因素。我認為這張圖片成功的原因在於Frieda在駕駛這台推土機。（笑聲） 這是個相當困難的事，讓一條男士褲子看起來漂亮。但我認為這個過程本身就體現了它有多麼精細。時尚，我現在是個反時尚者，因為我不展現事物的表面，而是事物的內部。所以，時尚人士一定不喜歡我因為不論是Kate Moss或是我穿著時裝，看起來都是一樣的。（笑聲）我們的內部看起來都是一樣的，相信我。面料上的褶皺和這些細微之處。而我展示食物最真實的一面，他們是由什麼構成的。我透視它并如實的展現出來。 我能肯定Ross將會把它同設計聯繫起來。但設計源自事物的內在。而不是表面的樣子。在我尋找我的拍攝道具時，我得到一些奇怪的圖像。這個是我在百貨商店的女士內衣部搜尋時找到的幾乎要被商家趕出來。我住在一家農場的對面，這就是那家農場的牲口，一隻死掉的小豬。真正有趣的是，當你看著它的腿時，你會發現那些骨頭都沒有癒合。這只小豬還沒有生長成熟，不幸的是它死了，並且在我用X射線照射他之後應該肯定它已經死了，介於我所用的輻射劑量。(笑聲)但是一旦那些骨頭癒合之後它應該能夠很健康的。 那麼，現在這就是一件皮夾克。但是我很喜歡它的這個造型。自然是我最大的靈感。下面繼續我們已經接觸到的一個話題那就是自然如何與建築相聯繫。如果你看到“伊甸園計畫”（一個人造的大型溫室），或者不列顛圖書館的屋頂，你會發現他們都是蜂巢結構的。我敢肯定，這些建築師的靈感，同我的一樣，都來自我們的周圍，來自大自然。事實上，這是一片維多利亞睡蓮的葉子漂浮在池塘上的。喇叭花看上去很有立體感。退潮時的海藻。現在我要向大家展示我如何拍攝這些，我在哪拍攝這些，以及之類的問題。 這是我新建的X射線專用攝影棚。這是通往X射線室的門用鉛和鋼材做成。它有1250公斤重，我唯一的鍛煉就是打開和關上這個門。（笑聲）牆壁都是用700毫米厚的高密度混凝土製成的。我使用很大的輻射量。比醫院或者獸醫那所用的量都要大。我就在那。這是一台相當高功率的X射線儀器。關於X射線真正有趣的事情是，是，如果你考慮到的話，是這項技術是用來檢查癌症和搜查毒品的，或者是走私物品之類的東西。而我用這種技術製造美麗的畫面。 我恐怕還要是用膠片。X射線技術在實物大小的處理中，撇開那些大型的掃描機器不談，在圖像品質上並沒有很大的改進解析度足夠我進行這些展示把我的圖片放大展示出來。我是用過一個20世紀80年代的鼓形掃描器，它被設計出來的時候，人們都還在用膠片拍照。它掃描單獨的X射線照片。這個展示了我如何處理小尺寸的X光照片。這又是我女兒的裙子。還帶著我買它時候的標籤，如果她不喜歡我還能到商店退貨。這裏有4個X光底盤。你能看到他們重疊在一起。 如果你的注意力從那些相當小尺寸的東西，比如一條這樣大小的裙子，轉移到這樣的物體上，它們照片處理的過程完全是一樣的，你可以看到這需要很大的工作量。事實上，這是三個月固定X光掃描的成果。這由500個單獨的部分組成。波音公司給我送來一架747飛機放在機庫裏。而我還給他們的是一張X光照片。（笑聲）我可沒跟你們開玩笑。 好的，Frieda 是一具死去的骷髏。這個，不幸的，本質上是兩張圖片。在最右邊的時一張美式足球運動員的照片。最左邊的是一張X光照片。不過這次我用的是一個真實的身體。因為我需要所有的皮膚組織，讓它看起來是真的，看起來是一個真的運動員。於是，這次我用了一具最近死亡的屍體。然而把他們固定住相當困難和麻煩。但是人們願意捐獻他們的遺體給藝術和科學事業。他們一旦捐贈，我就排隊領取。說實話，我很願意是用他們。笑聲 下面談談顏色，著色給X光照片則更加了難度。它會讓照片更加生動，更自然。這真的很需要想像力。這並不是真實世界裏的顏色。這朵花並不是亮橘黃色的。但是我比較喜歡它是亮橘黃色的樣子。同樣，一些具有技術性的東西，比如這架DJ台，這增加了新的維度。這讓二維的圖片看起來更加立體。 對於X光照片來說最難的事情，最具有技術性挑戰的事情是那些最輕的物體，最脆弱的物體。為了得到羽毛當中的細節圖像，相信我，如果這裏有人懂得X光技術，是相當大的挑戰。我將向你們展示一段影片，我會站到一邊。 錄影：（音樂）那裏的東西非常危險。如果你接觸了他們，你很可能會死於輻射中毒。在我的職業生涯中，我有兩次暴露在輻射之下，兩次已經很多了，因為輻射會一生留在你的體內。它是會累積的。 （音樂）它挺有人情味的。事實上這是一個小孩的玩具，我們都能認出來，但是看上去也像一個機器人，這來自一種科幻小說。令人驚訝的是它擁有人性，但同時也是人造的，未來的，與外星人相聯繫的。看上去有點詭異。 （音樂）這張公車的照片是由大型X光掃描器完成的，用在邊境線上檢查走私和非法移民。卡車從前面進入，然後進行切面的X光照片貫穿整車。這就是如何完成的，事實上就是切面拍照。這有點像醫院的CT掃描器。切片。如果你仔細觀察，這裏還有些細微的事情。他帶著耳機，讀著報紙，帶著帽子，眼睛，和一個包。這些細節讓照片看起來更真實。 （音樂）如果使用活人，那麻煩的是照射X光，如果我用X光照射你，你將暴露在輻射中。所以，為了避免這樣的事，我必須採取一點措施，那便是用死人。現在，這涵蓋了很多種類，從最近剛剛死去的屍體，到那些給學生的骨架用來訓練他們拍攝人體X光照片，對於不同的密度。 （音樂）我有一些非常高科技的裝備，手套，剪刀和一個桶子。 （音樂）我將展示一些微小的作用原理，它是怎樣獲得營養的，我將能得到這條莖裏面的所有細胞。因為它將養料從根傳送到葉。看看這個怪物。 （音樂）它是如此的原始，它只在野外生長。這就是我最喜歡它的地方，事實上我不用去把它買來，它沒有被作任何修飾。它就這麼發生了。X射線照片展現了大自然有多美。不是那個，它有很獨特的美當你用肉眼看它，樹葉生長的方式。它們相互卷在一起。X射線將展示在這些小角落的重疊。物體越厚，所需要的輻射就越多，也需要更多時間。物體越薄，需要的輻射也就越少。有時你需要掌握時間，因為時間能給你很多細節。曝光時間越長你得到的細節就越多。 （音樂）如果你看這裏，這枝幹，它非常明亮。如果把枝幹弄得深色一點，其他的部分就麻煩了。於是，這些在邊緣的葉子就開始消失了。我喜歡的是邊緣有多明顯，有多銳利。是的，我很喜歡它。 （音樂）我在表面之下探尋並展示那些有價值的東西，它是如何構成的，如何運作的。同時我也發現拋開表面，我能得到很多，那些人們經常見到的。 這就是我一直在做的。現在我得到一個機會向你展示我將來會做的事情。這是我最近作品中的一個商業廣告。它好的地方是，我認為，它像某一時刻，像你四處轉轉，你有了X射線視野你用X射線相機拍了一張照片。不幸的是，我沒有X射線視野。我做過X射線的夢，在睡夢中我看到我的項目。我知道它們用X射線看起來是什麼樣子，而且我就在不遠處。 那麼，在將來我要幹什麼？今年是第50周年紀念對於Issigoni的mini車，我最愛的汽車之一。於是我將它分解了，一個一個的零件，一個月又一個月的工作。這些圖片，我將展出在Victoria and Albert博物館中的就像你一個燈箱，事實上是附在汽車上的。我從中間將車劈成兩半，這本身不是一個容易的工作。然後你可以進入駕駛室那一邊，然後坐下，對著你的是一堵牆。如果你出來，走到車的另外一邊，你看到一個實物大小汽車形狀的燈箱 我將採取這個創意把它應用到生活中的其他象徵性的事物。比如，我的第一台電腦是我生活中的一個大行動。我有一台Mac Classic，它是一个小盒子。我認為在X光下它看上去很漂亮。我也在探索把我的作品從二維拓展到三維。這是個相當好的方法。我現在也在製作X射線錄影。如果你能想像，這些花，他們事實在移動和生長你能用X射線拍攝下這些，那將非常棒。好的，就是這些。非常感謝各位。（掌聲）
