Talk	en	zh-tw
nina_tandon_caring_for_cells	"Good morning everybody. I work with really amazing, little, itty-bitty creatures called cells. And let me tell you what it's like to grow these cells in the lab. I work in a lab where we take cells out of their native environment. We plate them into dishes that we sometimes call petri dishes. And we feed them — sterilely of course — with what we call cell culture media — which is like their food — and we grow them in incubators. Why do I do this? We observe the cells in a plate, and they're just on the surface. But what we're really trying to do in my lab is to engineer tissues out of them. What does that even mean? Well it means growing an actual heart, let's say, or grow a piece of bone that can be put into the body. Not only that, but they can also be used for disease models. And for this purpose, traditional cell culture techniques just really aren't enough. The cells are kind of homesick; the dish doesn't feel like their home. And so we need to do better at copying their natural environment to get them to thrive. We call this the biomimetic paradigm — copying nature in the lab. Let's take the example of the heart, the topic of a lot of my research. What makes the heart unique? Well, the heart beats, rhythmically, tirelessly, faithfully. We copy this in the lab by outfitting cell culture systems with electrodes. These electrodes act like mini pacemakers to get the cells to contract in the lab. What else do we know about the heart? Well, heart cells are pretty greedy. Nature feeds the heart cells in your body with a very, very dense blood supply. In the lab, we micro-pattern channels in the biomaterials on which we grow the cells, and this allows us to flow the cell culture media, the cells' food, through the scaffolds where we're growing the cells — a lot like what you might expect from a capillary bed in the heart. So this brings me to lesson number one: life can do a lot with very little. Let's take the example of electrical stimulation. Let's see how powerful just one of these essentials can be. On the left, we see a tiny piece of beating heart tissue that I engineered from rat cells in the lab. It's about the size of a mini marshmallow. And after one week, it's beating. You can see it in the upper left-hand corner. But don't worry if you can't see it so well. It's amazing that these cells beat at all. But what's really amazing is that the cells, when we electrically stimulate them, like with a pacemaker, that they beat so much more. But that brings me to lesson number two: cells do all the work. In a sense, tissue engineers have a bit of an identity crisis here, because structural engineers build bridges and big things, computer engineers, computers, but what we are doing is actually building enabling technologies for the cells themselves. What does this mean for us? Let's do something really simple. Let's remind ourselves that cells are not an abstract concept. Let's remember that our cells sustain our lives in a very real way. ""We are what we eat,"" could easily be described as, ""We are what our cells eat."" And in the case of the flora in our gut, these cells may not even be human. But it's also worth noting that cells also mediate our experience of life. Behind every sound, sight, touch, taste and smell is a corresponding set of cells that receive this information and interpret it for us. It begs the question: shall we expand our sense of environmental stewardship to include the ecosystem of our own bodies? I invite you to talk about this with me further, and in the meantime, I wish you luck. May none of your non-cancer cells become endangered species. Thank you. (Applause)"	早安各位 我的工作是關於非常驚人的微小生物，它們叫做細胞讓我告訴你們如何在實驗室裡培養這些細胞在實驗室中，我們將細胞從它們的原生環境取出我們將它們放置到碟子中有時我們稱這些碟子為培養皿我們當然是用無菌的方式餵食這些細胞用的是稱為細胞培養基的東西，這就如同它們的食物然後我們在培養機中培養它們 為什麼我要這麼做?我們觀察培養皿中的細胞它們都分佈在培養基的表面但我們在實驗室裡想做的是利用它們做出組織而這到底是什麼意思呢?意思是培養一顆真的心臟又例如培養一塊骨頭能放到身體裡面的骨頭不但如此，它們也能用於疾病模型但如果要這麼做，傳統的細胞培養技術就略顯不足了這些細胞有點適應不良培養皿一點都不像它們生長的地方因此我們需要在複製它們的自然環境方面加強才能使它們成長茁壯我們稱這個技術為「仿生式樣」也就是在實驗室中複製自然環境 我們拿心臟來當例子好了這是我研究很多的主題心臟獨特之處在那裡?心臟會跳動很規律、很不倦地、忠誠地跳動我們在實驗室裡複製心跳方法是在細胞培養系統加入電極這些電極功能就像迷你心律調整器能夠讓細胞在實驗室裡收縮此外，我們對心臟還知道些什麼?心臟細胞是非常耗能的大自然必須用很充沛的血液量來維持體內的心臟細胞的運作在實驗室裡，我們用生物材料製作微小的管道然後我們在那上面培養細胞這樣我們才能將細胞培養基，也就是細胞的食物注入我們培養細胞的支架很像我們印象中的心臟微血管床 這樣我們就可以開始進入主題了:生命即使在匱乏的環境中也能成就非凡我們用電刺激來舉個例子好了我們來看看這個要素本身的功能有多強大在左邊，我們可以看見一小塊在跳動的心臟組織這是我在實驗室中從老鼠細胞做出來的它跟迷你棉花糖一樣大一個禮拜後，它開始跳動了你可以在左上角的圖中看到如果你看不清楚也不用擔心(因為跳動非常細微)這些細胞光是會跳動就很令人驚奇了但是真正令人驚訝的是當我們用電刺激這些細胞時就像用一個心律調整器一樣這些細胞跳得更有生命力了 再來我要講第二課了:所有的工作交給細胞就好了就某方面來說，組織工程師有一點身份認同的危機因為結構工程師建造橋樑及巨大的物體電腦工程師當然就是電腦了但我們所從事的工作其實是建造一個科技來啟動細胞本身這對我們來說代表著什麼呢?我們來做一件簡單的事我們來提醒自己細胞並不是一個抽象的概念我們要記得，細胞維持著我們的生命用的是非常真實的方式「我們吃什麼就像什麼」可以簡單得說成「細胞吃什麼，我們就像什麼」例如我們腸道內的菌群這些細胞甚至不是人體的還值得注意的是細胞還調節著我們對人生的體驗在聽覺、視覺、觸覺、味覺、嗅覺的背後各有一組對應的細胞來接受訊息並為我們詮釋而這也把我們帶到了這個問題:我們是否該擴展對環境管理的概念並納入我們自身的生態環境呢? 我歡迎你們和我更進一步的探討這個話題而在那之前，我要祝大家好運希望大家的非癌細胞都不會成為瀕臨絕種的生物 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
