Talk	en	zh-tw
nizar_ibrahim_how_we_unearthed_the_spinosaurus	"These dragons from deep time are incredible creatures. They're bizzarre, they're beautiful, and there's very little we know about them. These thoughts were going through my head when I looked at the pages of my first dinosaur book. I was about five years old at the time, and I decided there and then that I would become a paleontologist. Paleontology allowed me  to combine my love for animals with my desire to travel to  far-flung corners of the world. And now, a few years later, I've led several expeditions to the ultimate far-flung corner  on this planet, the Sahara. I've worked in the Sahara because I've been on a quest to uncover new remains of a bizarre, giant predatory dinosaur called Spinosaurus. A few bones of this animal have been found in the deserts of Egypt and were described about 100 years ago by a German paleontologist. Unfortunately, all his Spinosaurus bones were destroyed in World War II. So all we're left with are just a few drawings and notes. From these drawings, we know that this creature, which lived  about 100 million years ago, was very big, it had tall spines on its back, forming a magnificent sail, and it had long, slender jaws,  a bit like a crocodile, with conical teeth, that may have been used  to catch slippery prey, like fish. But that was pretty much  all we knew about this animal for the next 100 years. My fieldwork took me to the border region between Morocco and Algeria, a place called the Kem Kem. It's a difficult place to work in. You have to deal with sandstorms and snakes and scorpions, and it's very difficult to find good fossils there. But our hard work paid off. We discovered many incredible specimens. There's the largest dinosaur bone that had ever been found in this part of the Sahara. We found remains of giant predatory dinosaurs, medium-sized predatory dinosaurs, and seven or eight different kinds of crocodile-like hunters. These fossils were deposited in a river system. The river system was also home  to a giant, car-sized coelacanth, a monster sawfish, and the skies over the river system were filled with pterosaurs, flying reptiles. It was a pretty dangerous place, not the kind of place where you'd want to travel to if you had a time machine. So we're finding all these  incredible fossils of animals that lived alongside Spinosaurus, but Spinosaurus itself proved to be very elusive. We were just finding bits and pieces and I was hoping that we'd find a partial skeleton at some point. Finally, very recently, we were able to track down a dig site where a local fossil hunter found several bones of Spinosaurus. We returned to the site, we collected more bones. And so after 100 years we finally had another partial skeleton of this bizarre creature. And we were able to reconstruct it. We now know that  Spinosaurus had a head a little bit like a crocodile, very different from other  predatory dinosaurs, very different from the T. rex. But the really interesting information came from the rest of the skeleton. We had long spines, the spines forming the big sail. We had leg bones, we had skull bones, we had paddle-shaped feet, wide feet — again, very unusual, no other dinosaur has feet like this — and we think they may have been used to walk on soft sediment, or maybe for paddling in the water. We also looked at the fine microstructure of the bone, the inside structure of Spinosaurus bones, and it turns out that they're very dense and compact. Again, this is something we see in animals that spend a lot of time in the water, it's useful for buoyancy  control in the water. We C.T.-scanned all of our bones and built a digital Spinosaurus skeleton. And when we looked  at the digital skeleton, we realized that yes, this was a dinosaur unlike any other. It's bigger than a T. rex, and yes, the head has ""fish-eating"" written all over it, but really the entire skeleton has ""water-loving"" written all over it — dense bone, paddle-like feet, and the hind limbs are reduced in size, and again, this is something we see in animals that spend a substantial amount  of time in the water. So, as we fleshed out our Spinosaurus — I'm looking at muscle attachments and wrapping our dinosaur in skin — we realize that we're dealing with a river monster, a predatory dinosaur, bigger than T. rex, the ruler of this ancient river of giants, feeding on the many aquatic animals I showed you earlier on. So that's really what makes this an incredible discovery. It's a dinosaur like no other. And some people told me, ""Wow, this is a once-in-a-lifetime discovery. There are not many things left to discover in the world."" Well, I think nothing could be  further from the truth. I think the Sahara's  still full of treasures, and when people tell me there are no places left to explore, I like to quote a famous dinosaur hunter, Roy Chapman Andrews, and he said, ""Always, there has been an adventure just around the corner — and the world is still full of corners."" That was true many decades ago when Roy Chapman Andrews wrote these lines. And it is still true today. Thank you. (Applause)"	這些來自遠古時代的恐龍真是不可思議的生物，牠們樣貌奇異，卻又美麗，而我們對牠們知之甚少。當我翻開人生中第一本與恐龍有關的書籍時，這些想法早在我腦海中不斷盤旋，儘管那時我才五歲，而當時我已決定了未來要成為一名古生物學者，因為古生物學者能將熱愛動物與周遊列國的願望結合。幾年後，現在我已經帶領過數次考察工作，曾到過地球上最遙遠的角落—撒哈拉大沙漠，到撒哈拉的原因是我要尋找一種奇特而巨大的遠古恐龍的遺骸，名叫棘龍。一名德國古生物學家曾於約一百年前在埃及沙漠中發現牠的骨骼。不幸的是，這些棘龍骨骸在第二次世界大戰中被毀壞，現在只保留著一些繪畫和筆記。從這些圖畫中，我們發現這個活在一億年前的生物體型十分巨大，背上有著明顯的長刺，形成一個帆狀物，牠的頜骨又細又長，有點像鱷魚，牙齒呈圓錐狀，可能是用於捕獵表面光滑的獵物，例如魚類。但是我們對棘龍的認識在後來的一百年幾乎毫無進展。我們曾前往摩洛哥和阿爾及利亞的邊界附近，一個名為卡瑪卡瑪的地方進行實地考察，那裡的工作環境十分惡劣，你需要應付沙塵暴、蛇及蝎子，也很困難地才找到保存完善的化石。但是我們所做的努力並沒有白費，我們發現許多非常棒的標本，包括在撒哈拉沙漠中從未發現過 體積如此龐大的恐龍骨骸化石，我們發現了體型龐大的掠奪性恐龍、中型的掠奪性恐龍、以及七或八種類似鱷魚的獵手。這些化石沉積在某一河流系統中，而且它還是一種有如汽車般大的巨型鋸瑤、像怪獸的腔棘魚的棲息地。這片河流系統的上空還佈滿翼龍，一種懂飛行的爬行動物，真是一塊極危險的區域，如果你有時光機，也不會想去遊覽一番。我們找到所有這些與棘龍共同生存過的動物的化石，但棘龍本身蹤跡卻難以尋找，我們只找到一些化石碎片，我期待著有一天終能找到一副局部的骨骼。直到最近，我們終於追尋到一個挖掘場，一位當地的化石獵人在那裡發現了幾塊棘龍的骨骸化石，我們再度造訪那發掘地時，也收集到更多的骨骸化石，一百多年後，我們終於發現另一塊屬於此奇異生物的局部骨骸。我們隨後對骨骸進行修復，我們現在知道棘龍的頭部有點像鱷魚，有異於其他食肉恐龍，也有異於雷克斯霸王龍。然而真正令人感興趣的是骨架的其餘部分。牠們背脊上的長刺形成一個巨大帆狀物，我們發現腿骨和頭蓋骨，還有寬大的槳狀腳掌，同樣的，這腳掌是極不尋常的，從未在其他恐龍身上發現過，我們認為這有助於在鬆軟的沉澱物上行走，或者在水中划動。我們還研究了骨骼的顯微組織，即是棘龍骨頭的內部結構，研究發現其骨骼的密度很高且十分緊實，這個特徵對長時間居住在水中的生物來說很常見，以便更好地控制水中浮力。我們用電腦斷層掃描檢測所有骨骸，並建立一副棘龍的數位化骨架，當我們觀察這副數位化骨架時，我們發現這真是一種與眾不同的恐龍，牠比雷克斯霸王龍巨型，而且頭部顯示牠是一種喜好捕魚的恐龍，整副骨架也證明牠是種親水動物—緊實的骨質、漿狀的腳掌、後肢的尺寸減小，這些確實是常常生活於水中的動物所具有的特徵。因此，當我們還原棘龍的形態時—我觀察到牠的肌腱附著點以及還原其皮膚時—我們認為正在研究著一隻河中巨獸，一隻掠奪性恐龍，比雷克斯霸王龍還巨型，古代河流的統治者，牠們進食早前在此介紹過的各樣水中動物。這真是一項驚人的發現，因為這隻恐龍跟其他的不同，有些人對我說：「嘩，這真是一輩子只有一次的發現，世上還未被發現的事情已經不多了。」嗯，我認為事實並非如此，我認為撒哈拉大沙漠仍隱藏著很多寶藏，當其他人告訴我，這世上已再沒有地方可被探索時，我會引用羅伊·查普曼·安德魯斯，一位著名的恐龍探索家的名言，他說：「每個轉角處都會遇上奇遇，而世上轉角處仍無處不在。」數十年前，羅伊·查普曼·安德魯斯寫下這句說話時，這是事實，到了今天，也依舊如此。謝謝大家(鼓掌)
