Talk	en	zh-tw
noah_wilson_rich_every_city_needs_healthy_honey_bees	"This man is wearing what we call a bee beard. (Laughter) A beard full of bees. Now, this is what many of you might picture when you think about honeybees, maybe insects, or maybe anything that has more legs than two. And let me start by telling you, I gotcha. I understand that. But, there are many things to know, and I want you to open your minds here, keep them open, and change your perspective about honeybees. Notice that this man is not getting stung. He probably has a queen bee tied to his chin, and the other bees are attracted to it. So this really demonstrates our relationship with honeybees, and that goes deep back for thousands of years. We're very co-evolved, because we depend on bees for pollination and, even more recently, as an economic commodity. Many of you may have heard that honeybees are disappearing, not just dying, but they're gone. We don't even find dead bodies. This is called colony collapse disorder, and it's bizarre. Researchers around the globe still do not know what's causing it, but what we do know is that, with the declining numbers of bees, the costs of over 130 fruit and vegetable crops that we rely on for food is going up in price. So honeybees are important for their role in the economy as well as in agriculture. Here you can see some pictures of what are called green roofs, or urban agriculture. We're familiar with the image on the left that shows a local neighborhood garden in the South End. That's where I call home. I have a beehive in the backyard. And perhaps a green roof in the future, when we're further utilizing urban areas, where there are stacks of garden spaces. Check out this image above the orange line in Boston. Try to spot the beehive. It's there. It's on the rooftop, right on the corner there, and it's been there for a couple of years now. The way that urban beekeeping currently operates is that the beehives are quite hidden, and it's not because they need to be. It's just because people are uncomfortable with the idea, and that's why I want you today to try to think about this, think about the benefits of bees in cities and why they really are a terrific thing. Let me give you a brief rundown on how pollination works. So we know flowers, we know fruits and vegetables, even some alfalfa in hay that the livestock for the meats that we eat, rely on pollinators, but you've got male and female parts to a plant here, and basically pollinators are attracted to plants for their nectar, and in the process, a bee will visit some flowers and pick up some pollen, or that male kind of sperm counterpart, along the way, and then travel to different flowers, and eventually an apple, in this case, will be produced. You can see the orientation. The stem is down. The blossom end has fallen off by the time we eat it, but that's a basic overview of how pollination works. And let's think about urban living, not today, and not in the past, but what about in a hundred years? What's it gonna look like? We have huge grand challenges these days of habitat loss. We have more and more people, billions of people, in 100 years, God knows how many people, and how little space there will be to fit all of them, so we need to change the way that we see cities, and looking at this picture on the left of New York City today, you can see how gray and brown it is. We have tar paper on the rooftops that bounces heat back into the atmosphere, contributing to global climate change, no doubt. What about in 100 years, if we have green rooftops everywhere, and gardening, and we create our own crops right in the cities? We save on the costs of transportation, we save on a healthier diet, and we also educate and create new jobs locally. We need bees for the future of our cities and urban living. Here's some data that we collected through our company with Best Bees, where we deliver, install and manage honeybee hives for anybody who wants them, in the city, in the countryside, and we introduce honeybees, and the idea of beekeeping in your own backyard or rooftop or fire escape, for even that matter, and seeing how simple it is and how possible it is. There's a counterintuitive trend that we noticed in these numbers. So let's look at the first metric here, overwintering survival. Now this has been a huge problem for many years, basically since the late 1980s, when the varroa mite came and brought many different viruses, bacteria and fungal diseases with it. Overwintering success is hard, and that's when most of the colonies are lost, and we found that in the cities, bees are surviving better than they are in the country. A bit counterintuitive, right? We think, oh, bees, countryside, agriculture, but that's not what the bees are showing. The bees like it in the city. (Laughter) Furthermore, they also produce more honey. The urban honey is delicious. The bees in Boston on the rooftop of the Seaport Hotel, where we have hundreds of thousands of bees flying overheard right now that I'm sure none of you noticed when we walked by, are going to all of the local community gardens and making delicious, healthy honey that just tastes like the flowers in our city. So the yield for urban hives, in terms of honey production, is higher as well as the overwintering survival, compared to rural areas. Again, a bit counterintuitive. And looking back historically at the timeline of honeybee health, we can go back to the year 950 and see that there was also a great mortality of bees in Ireland. So the problems of bees today isn't necessarily something new. It has been happening since over a thousand years ago, but what we don't really notice are these problems in cities. So one thing I want to encourage you to think about is the idea of what an urban island is. You think in the city maybe the temperature's warmer. Why are bees doing better in the city? This is a big question now to help us understand why they should be in the city. Perhaps there's more pollen in the city. With the trains coming in to urban hubs, they can carry pollen with them, very light pollen, and it's just a big supermarket in the city. A lot of linden trees live along the railroad tracks. Perhaps there are fewer pesticides in the cities than there are in [rural] areas. Perhaps there are other things that we're just not thinking about yet, but that's one idea to think about, urban islands. And colony collapse disorder is not the only thing affecting honeybees. Honeybees are dying, and it's a huge, huge grand challenge of our time. What you can see up here is a map of the world, and we're tracking the spread of this varroa mite. Now, the varroa mite is what changed the game in beekeeping, and you can see, at the top right, the years are changing, we're coming up to modern times, and you can see the spread of the varroa mite from the early 1900s through now. It's 1968, and we're pretty much covering Asia. 1971, we saw it spread to Europe and South America, and then, when we get to the 1980s, and specifically to 1987, the varroa mite finally came to North America and to the United States, and that is when the game changed for honeybees in the United States. Many of us will remember our childhood growing up, maybe you got stung by a bee, you saw bees on flowers. Think of the kids today. Their childhood's a bit different. They don't experience this. The bees just aren't around anymore. So we need bees and they're disappearing and it's a big problem. What can we do here? So, what I do is honeybee research. I got my Ph.D. studying honeybee health. I started in 2005 studying honeybees. In 2006, honeybees started disappearing, so suddenly, like, this little nerd kid going to school working with bugs — (Laughter) — became very relevant in the world. And it worked out that way. So my research focuses on ways to make bees healthier. I don't research what's killing the bees, per se. I'm not one of the many researchers around the world who's looking at the effects of pesticides or diseases or habitat loss and poor nutrition on bees. We're looking at ways to make bees healthier through vaccines, through yogurt, like probiotics, and other types of therapies in ways that can be fed orally to bees, and this process is so easy, even a 7-year-old can do it. You just mix up some pollen, sugar and water, and whatever active ingredient you want to put in, and you just give it right to the bees. No chemicals involved, just immune boosters. Humans think about our own health in a prospective way. We exercise, we eat healthy, we take vitamins. Why don't we think about honeybees in that same type of way? Bring them to areas where they're thriving and try to make them healthier before they get sick. I spent many years in grad school trying to poke bees and do vaccines with needles. (Laughter) Like, years, years at the bench, ""Oh my gosh, it's 3 a.m. and I'm still pricking bees."" (Laughter) And then one day I said, ""Why don't we just do an oral vaccine?"" It's like, ""Ugh,"" so that's what we do. (Laughter) I'd love to share with you some images of urban beehives, because they can be anything. I mean, really open your mind with this. You can paint a hive to match your home. You can hide a hive inside your home. These are three hives on the rooftop of the Fairmont Copley Plaza Hotel, and they're beautiful here. I mean, we matched the new color of the inside of their rooms to do some type of a stained wood with blue for their sheets, and these bees are terrific, and they also will use herbs that are growing in the garden. That's what the chefs go to to use for their cooking, and the honey — they do live events — they'll use that honey at their bars. Honey is a great nutritional substitute for regular sugar because there are different types of sugars in there. We also have a classroom hives project, where — this is a nonprofit venture — we're spreading the word around the world for how honeybee hives can be taken into the classroom or into the museum setting, behind glass, and used as an educational tool. This hive that you see here has been in Fenway High School for many years now. The bees fly right into the outfield of Fenway Park. Nobody notices it. If you're not a flower, these bees do not care about you. (Laughter) They don't. They don't. They'll say, ""S'cuse me, flying around."" (Laughter) Some other images here in telling a part of the story that really made urban beekeeping terrific is in New York City, beekeeping was illegal until 2010. That's a big problem, because what's going to pollinate all of the gardens and the produce locally? Hands? I mean, locally in Boston, there is a terrific company called Green City Growers, and they are going and pollinating their squash crops by hand with Q-Tips, and if they miss that three day window, there's no fruit. Their clients aren't happy, and people go hungry. So this is important. We have also some images of honey from Brooklyn. Now, this was a mystery in the New York Times where the honey was very red, and the New York State forensics department came in and they actually did some science to match the red dye with that found in a maraschino cherry factory down the street. (Laughter) So you can tailor your honey to taste however you want by planting bee-friendly flowers. Paris has been a terrific model for urban beekeeping. They've had hives on the rooftop of their opera house for many years now, and that's what really got people started, thinking, ""Wow, we can do this, and we should do this."" Also in London, and in Europe across the board, they're very advanced in their use of green rooftops and integrating beehives, and I'll show you an ending note here. I would like to encourage you to open your mind. What can you do to save the bees or to help them or to think of sustainable cities in the future? Well, really, just change your perspective. Try to understand that bees are very important. A bee isn't going to sting you if you see it. The bee dies. Honeybees die when they sting, so they don't want to do it either. (Laughter) It's nothing to panic about. They're all over the city. You could even get your own hive if you want. There are great resources available, and there are even companies that will help get you set up and mentor you and it's important for our educational system in the world for students to learn about agriculture worldwide such as this little girl, who, again, is not even getting stung. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們叫這個人的造型為「蜂鬍子」(笑聲)我們叫這個人的造型為「蜂鬍子」(笑聲)一把滿是蜜蜂的鬍子 這個景象，可能是在座各位想到蜜蜂、甚至昆蟲，腦中所浮現的畫面，或是想到任何多於兩隻腳的生物。讓我在這開頭就跟你說，我能夠了解。我知道你們的不適。然而，世界有待了解的事物太多，我希望你們在這裡能保持開放的心態，增廣視野，並改變你對蜜蜂的看法。 請注意到這個人並沒有被蜜蜂螫傷。他大概有隻蜂后黏在他的下巴上，而其他的蜜蜂就被吸引過來。這真正描寫我們與蜜蜂的密切關係，一個發展了上千年的互動。我們與蜜蜂共同演化，因為我們靠蜜蜂替作物授粉，尤其是在近代，它已是個經濟商品。 你們大概有聽說蜜蜂正在離奇消失，它們不只是死亡，而是完全不見蹤影。我們連屍體都找不到。這現象被稱為「蜂群崩壞症候群」非常古怪，世界各處的研究者仍然不知道造成崩壞的原因。但是我們確實知道，蜜蜂數目削減會造成我們所依賴的130多種蔬菜水果成本及售價提升。 所以蜜蜂不只是在於農業，更於經濟方面扮演重要的角色。這是一些我們稱為「綠屋頂」，也就是都市農耕，的照片。相信我們都對左邊那張圖很熟悉。那是這附近 South End 的社區花園。我家就在這裡，我後院有一個蜂箱。有可能未來還可以加上綠屋頂，以更加利用都市地區，向上發展花園空間。 看看這個波士頓橘線上面照的相片。找找看蜂箱在哪裡。它真的在照片中。它在屋頂上，在角落那裡，那個蜂箱已經安置了好幾年了。目前都市養蜂的經營方式就是把蜂箱藏起來。而這並不是因為它需要被隱藏，而是大多數民眾對於都市養蜂的概念仍不大習慣。這也是為什麼我希望你們今天仔細想想，思考蜜蜂在城市裡所帶來的好處，並了解這是一個多麼令人興奮的概念。 讓我簡短說明蜜蜂傳粉的過程。我們都知道花朵、蔬菜水果甚至牲畜仰賴的苜蓿，都需要昆蟲授粉。這裡有一朵花的雌性和雄性構造傳粉昆蟲被植物的花蜜吸引，並於停留在花朵上的同時，帶走一些花粉粒，也就是類似花的精子，並將之帶到其他的花朵上。最後結成果實，像這個蘋果。注意到方向。它是向下連到枝條的。等到我們吃它的時候，花瓣都已掉落。這大概就是傳粉的步驟。 讓我們現在思考都市生活的情景，不只今天，而更不是從前，想想一百年過後，會是什麼樣子?未來會有何樣貌?我們面臨巨大挑戰像是棲地損失。地球人口越來越多，幾十億人，一百年後，天知道會有多少人，而容納人類的空間越來越小。所以我們必須改變詮釋都市的觀點。看看左邊這張紐約的照片，都是一片灰色和褐色。我們在屋頂上鋪蓋柏油紙，它將熱能反射回到大氣，並加速全球暖化。但是一百年後，我們如果可以建築綠屋頂在都市種植花園和農作物我們就能減少運輸花費、擁有健康飲食、並教育大眾及在當地創造就業機會。我們的未來都市需要蜜蜂 這是我的公司所蒐集到的一些數據我們的公司Best Bees幫忙任何想要養蜂的人運送、安裝、並管理蜂巢。我們推廣養蜂的理念，無論是在都市或鄉村屋頂上或是你家的後院甚至於逃生梯間都可以這其實是很簡單並容易做到的事 在這些數據中，我們發現了一個違背常理的趨勢讓我們先看看第一個數字過冬的存活率這是養蜂人多年以來面臨的困擾1980年代末期，蜜蜂蟹蟎入侵並隨之攜帶許多不同的細菌、病毒以及真菌傳染疾病。成功的度過冬天很困難大多數的蜂群都是這時候流失但是我們發現，在都市的蜂群要比在鄉下的蜂群更成功的活過冬天聽起來有點違背常理，對吧?我們通常的聯想是:蜜蜂、鄉村、農業但是蜜蜂告訴我們的並不是如此這些蜜蜂喜歡在城市裡(笑聲) 不只如此，他們在都市裡還能釀造更多蜂蜜在城市裡釀的蜂蜜好吃極了在波士頓Seaport Hotel屋頂上的蜂群牠們現在正成千上萬於我們頭頂飛過你們走過一定都沒有發現牠們造訪所有當地的社區菜園並釀造美味健康的蜂蜜嘗起來就像我們城市中的花朵一樣。所以我們看到，都市蜂群生產的蜂蜜量以及過冬的存活率都較郊區的蜂群高。真的不太合常理 如果我們追溯歷史紀錄的蜂群健康狀況我們可以發現遠在西元950年於愛爾蘭的蜂群死亡率也是非常高的。所以現今養蜂人所面臨的問題並不是什麼新問題是一千年前就發生過的事但有趣的是這問題並不發生於都市地區 所以，我想要鼓勵你們想想""都市島嶼""這個概念有可能是因為都市地區溫度比較高為什麼蜜蜂在城市中存活率較高?這是幫助我們了解為什麼該讓蜜蜂進入城市的最重要的問題有可能城市裡有較多的花粉許許多多進入市中心的火車有可能攜帶許多重量很輕的花粉使市中心成為一個花粉超市許多椴樹沿著火車鐵軌生長城市中也許較郊區少噴灑農藥城市中也許較郊區少噴灑農藥也許真正原因是我們所從未想過的因子但無論如何，都市島嶼是個值得思考的概念 再者，蜂群崩壞症候群病不是唯一影響蜜蜂的東西蜜蜂正在消失當中而這是我們這個世紀所面臨的極大考驗這是我們追蹤歷年蜜蜂蟹蟎分布的地圖這是我們追蹤歷年蜜蜂蟹蟎分布的地圖 你可以看見，蜜蜂蟹蟎的來臨完全改變了蜂群現況在右上角的數字顯示年代慢慢移動，進入到現代你可以清楚看見蜜蜂蟹蟎從1900年代至今的入侵速度到了1968年，亞洲已被完全覆蓋到了1971，牠傳到歐洲和南美洲然後，再到1980年代準確來說是1987，蜜蜂蟹蟎終於抵達北美洲和美國而也就是那時美國蜜蜂的狀態徹底改變 各位應該都記得小時候，有可能你曾不小心被蜜蜂叮了，或是看過蜜蜂採蜜想想現在的孩子，他們的童年不太一樣他們沒有經歷過這些因為他們周圍已經沒有蜜蜂了我們需要蜜蜂，但牠們一直消失，而這是個大問題 我們能夠做些什麼?我本身是研究蜜蜂的我的博士論文研究的是蜂群的健康我從2005年開始研究蜜蜂蜜蜂於2006年開始消失忽然間，我這個純粹想上學玩蟲的書呆子(笑聲)忽然間，我這個純粹想上學玩蟲的書呆子(笑聲)變成在進行世紀迫切需要的研究。真的湊巧就這樣發生了 我的研究重心在於如何使蜂群更健康我本身並不研究是什麼因素讓蜜蜂死亡我不是世界上眾多研究疾病和殺蟲劑，或是棲地流失和營養匱乏對蜜蜂的影響的研究者之一我們尋找使蜂群更健康的方法利用疫苗，益生菌，像是優格還有其他能夠經由蜜蜂食入的治療方法這些方法執行起來簡單到七歲小孩都能完成你只需要混合花粉、糖、和水以及你所需要的任何活性成分然後就直接給蜜蜂，不需要化學藥劑只需要增強免疫力的食品 我們人類通常積極預防病管理自己的健康我們會運動、吃健康的食物、服用維他命那我們為什麼不以同樣的觀點來看待蜜蜂呢?將牠們帶到能夠充分發展的地方並且在牠們生病之前增強牠們的健康狀態 我研究所時花了很多時間想要替蜜蜂打疫苗用針打(笑聲) 我花了好幾年窩在實驗室 ""喔天哪，已經半夜三點了我竟然還在用針戳蜜蜂"" (笑聲)然後有一天我想說 ""我們為何不發展口服疫苗?""真的是有夠 ""啊"" 所以，這就是現在我們所做的 (笑聲) 讓我和你們分享一些都市蜂箱的照片因為它們能夠是任何東西我是說，真的敞開心胸想想你可以把蜂箱漆成和你家相配的顏色你可以在家裡面藏一個蜂箱這些蜂箱在Fairmont Copley Plaza 飯店的屋頂這些蜂箱在 Fairmont Copley Plaza 飯店的屋頂它們美極了。我們還特別配合他們房間內的木頭顏色還有他們床單的藍色而這些蜜蜂棒極了，牠們會利用在花園裡種植的香草那裡的廚師用香草做菜而生產出的蜂蜜— 旅館會現場表演取蜜—會拿去吧台調酒用蜂蜜是砂糖的絕佳替代品因為裡面含有各式不同的糖。 我們同時有一個教室蜂箱計畫這是一個非營利計畫我們正在全世界推廣如何把蜜蜂帶入教室或是博物館，在玻璃後面來作為教育工具 這個蜂巢已經在Fenway High School許多年了這個蜂巢已經在Fenway High School許多年了蜜蜂可以直接飛出到Fenway Park棒球場的外野沒人注意到。如果你不是花，蜜蜂才不管你呢 (笑聲)牠們真的不會。牠們會說""借過，我要飛過去"" (笑聲)這些其它的圖片闡述的故事可讓我們真正體會都市養蜂的好處一直到2010年，在紐約市養蜂是違法的這是個大問題，因為當地的花朵和蔬果無法授粉要用什麼傳粉?難道用手嗎?我是說真的，在波士頓，就有個很棒的公司叫作Green City Growers，而他們到處靠人力用棉花棒替他們的瓜類作物手工傳粉如果他們錯過那三天的授粉期，就無法收成而他們的客戶就不滿意，人們吃不到東西所以這是很重要的問題 這裡還有一些從布魯克林產的蜂蜜這曾是在紐約時報風雲一陣子的謎題因為那蜂蜜是個出人意料的鮮紅色結果紐約州司法實驗室派人調查然後還真的調查出原來那顏色與同一條街上的紅櫻桃加工廠所用的染劑一模一樣 (笑聲)所以你可以種各種不同適合蜂蜜的植物來創造出你理想的蜂蜜風味 巴黎是都市養蜂的典範他們的歌劇院樓頂上的蜂箱已經運作多年了，這讓許多人意識到""哇，我們真的做得到，而且這是我們應該做的""而且在倫敦，以及其他歐洲城市非常廣泛使用綠屋頂並融合養蜂所以讓我在這裡做個小結論 我想鼓勵你們敞開心胸想想你能夠做什麼來拯救並幫助蜜蜂或想想如何創造永續經營的城市?說真的，你只要轉換你的心態了解蜜蜂其實是非常重要的當你看見蜜蜂牠並不會螫你其實，蜜蜂螫你牠會死所以牠們也不願意啊 (笑聲)沒有什麼值得驚慌的，牠們已散布城市各處你想要的話，你也能擁有一個蜂巢有許多很棒的資源來幫助你甚至還有專業公司幫你起步並提供教學服務對教育而言，蜜蜂也十分重要牠們幫助全世界的學生學習農業知識就像是這位小女孩，看，她根本沒被螫到謝謝 (掌聲)"
