Talk	en	zh-tw
noy_thrupkaew_human_trafficking_is_all_around_you_this_is_how_it_works	"About 10 years ago, I went through a little bit of a hard time. So I decided to go see a therapist. I had been seeing her for a few months, when she looked at me one day and said, ""Who actually raised you until you were three?"" Seemed like a weird question. I said, ""My parents."" And she said, ""I don't think that's actually the case; because if it were, we'd be dealing with things that are far more complicated than just this."" It sounded like the setup to a joke, but I knew she was serious. Because when I first started seeing her, I was trying to be the funniest person in the room. And I would try and crack these jokes, but she caught on to me really quickly, and whenever I tried to make a joke, she would look at me and say, ""That is actually really sad."" (Laughter) It's terrible. So I knew I had to be serious, and I asked my parents who had actually raised me until I was three? And to my surprise, they said my primary caregiver had been a distant relative of the family. I had called her my auntie. I remember my auntie so clearly, it felt like she had been part of my life when I was much older. I remember the thick, straight hair, and how it would come around me like a curtain when she bent to pick me up; her soft, southern Thai accent; the way I would cling to her, even if she just wanted to go to the bathroom or get something to eat. I loved her, but [with] the ferocity that a child has sometimes before she understands that love also requires letting go. But my clearest and sharpest memory of my auntie, is also one of my first memories of life at all. I remember her being beaten and slapped by another member of my family. I remember screaming hysterically and wanting it to stop, as I did every single time it happened, for things as minor as wanting to go out with her friends, or being a little late. I became so hysterical over her treatment, that eventually, she was just beaten behind closed doors. Things got so bad for her that eventually she ran away. As an adult, I learned later that she had been just 19 when she was brought over from Thailand to the States to care for me, on a tourist visa. She wound up working in Illinois for a time, before eventually returning to Thailand, which is where I ran into her again, at a political rally in Bangkok. I clung to her again, as I had when I was a child, and I let go, and then I promised that I would call. I never did, though. Because I was afraid if I said everything that she meant to me — that I owed perhaps the best parts of who I became to her care, and that the words ""I'm sorry"" were like a thimble to bail out all the guilt and shame and rage I felt over everything she had endured to care for me for as long as she had — I thought if I said those words to her, I would never stop crying again. Because she had saved me. And I had not saved her. I'm a journalist, and I've been writing and researching human trafficking for the past eight years or so, and even so, I never put together this personal story with my professional life until pretty recently. I think this profound disconnect actually symbolizes most of our understanding about human trafficking. Because human trafficking is far more prevalent, complex and close to home than most of us realize. I spent time in jails and brothels, interviewed hundreds of survivors and law enforcement, NGO workers. And when I think about what we've done about human trafficking, I am hugely disappointed. Partly because we don't even talk about the problem right at all. When I say ""human trafficking,"" most of you probably don't think about someone like my auntie. You probably think about a young girl or woman, who's been brutally forced into prostitution by a violent pimp. That is real suffering, and that is a real story. That story makes me angry for far more than just the reality of that situation, though. As a journalist, I really care about how we relate to each other through language, and the way we tell that story, with all the gory, violent detail, the salacious aspects — I call that ""look at her scars"" journalism. We use that story to convince ourselves that human trafficking is a bad man doing a bad thing to an innocent girl. That story lets us off the hook. It takes away all the societal context that we might be indicted for, for the structural inequality, or the poverty, or the barriers to migration. We let ourselves think that human trafficking is only about forced prostitution, when in reality, human trafficking is embedded in our everyday lives. Let me show you what I mean. Forced prostitution accounts for 22 percent of human trafficking. Ten percent is in state- imposed forced labor. but a whopping 68 percent is for the purpose of creating the goods and delivering the services that most of us rely on every day, in sectors like agricultural work, domestic work and construction. That is food and care and shelter. And somehow, these most essential workers are also among the world's most underpaid and exploited today. Human trafficking is the use of force, fraud or coercion to compel another person's labor. And it's found in cotton fields, and coltan mines, and even car washes in Norway and England. It's found in U.S. military bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. It's found in Thailand's fishing industry. That country has become the largest exporter of shrimp in the world. But what are the circumstances behind all that cheap and plentiful shrimp? Thai military were caught selling Burmese and Cambodian migrants onto fishing boats. Those fishing boats were taken out, the men put to work, and they were thrown overboard if they made the mistake of falling sick, or trying to resist their treatment. Those fish were then used to feed shrimp, The shrimp were then sold to four major global retailers: Costco, Tesco, Walmart and Carrefour. Human trafficking is found on a smaller scale than just that, and in places you would never even imagine. Traffickers have forced young people to drive ice cream trucks, or to sing in touring boys' choirs. Trafficking has even been found in a hair braiding salon in New Jersey. The scheme in that case was incredible. The traffickers found young families who were from Ghana and Togo, and they told these families that ""your daughters are going to get a fine education in the United States."" They then located winners of the green card lottery, and they told them, ""We'll help you out. We'll get you a plane ticket. We'll pay your fees. All you have to do is take this young girl with you, say that she's your sister or your spouse. Once everyone arrived in New Jersey, the young girls were taken away, and put to work for 14-hour days, seven days a week, for five years. They made their traffickers nearly four million dollars. This is a huge problem. So what have we done about it? We've mostly turned to the criminal justice system. But keep in mind, most victims of human trafficking are poor and marginalized. They're migrants, people of color. Sometimes they're in the sex trade. And for populations like these, the criminal justice system is too often part of the problem, rather than the solution. In study after study, in countries ranging from Bangladesh to the United States, between 20 and 60 percent of the people in the sex trade who were surveyed said that they had been raped or assaulted by the police in the past year alone. People in prostitution, including people who have been trafficked into it, regularly receive multiple convictions for prostitution. Having that criminal record makes it so much more difficult to leave poverty, leave abuse, or leave prostitution, if that person so desires. Workers outside of the sex sector — if they try and resist their treatment, they risk deportation. In case after case I've studied, employers have no problem calling on law enforcement to try and threaten or deport their striking trafficked workers. If those workers run away, they risk becoming part of the great mass of undocumented workers who are also subject to the whims of law enforcement if they're caught. Law enforcement is supposed to identify victims and prosecute traffickers. But out of an estimated 21 million victims of human trafficking in the world, they have helped and identified fewer than 50,000 people. That's like comparing the population of the world to the population of Los Angeles, proportionally speaking. As for convictions, out of an estimated 5,700 convictions in 2013, fewer than 500 were for labor trafficking. Keep in mind that labor trafficking accounts for 68 percent of all trafficking, but fewer than 10 percent of the convictions. I've heard one expert say that trafficking happens where need meets greed. I'd like to add one more element to that. Trafficking happens in sectors where workers are excluded from protections, and denied the right to organize. Trafficking doesn't happen in a vacuum. It happens in systematically degraded work environments. You might be thinking, oh, she's talking about failed states, or war-torn states, or — I'm actually talking about the United States. Let me tell you what that looks like. I spent many months researching a trafficking case called Global Horizons, involving hundreds of Thai farm workers. They were sent all over the States, to work in Hawaii pineapple plantations, and Washington apple orchards, and anywhere the work was needed. They were promised three years of solid agricultural work. So they made a calculated risk. They sold their land, they sold their wives' jewelry, to make thousands in recruitment fees for this company, Global Horizons. But once they were brought over, their passports were confiscated. Some of the men were beaten and held at gunpoint. They worked so hard they fainted in the fields. This case hit me so hard. After I came back home, I was wandering through the grocery store, and I froze in the produce department. I was remembering the over-the-top meals the Global Horizons survivors would make for me every time I showed up to interview them. They finished one meal with this plate of perfect, long-stemmed strawberries, and as they handed them to me, they said, ""Aren't these the kind of strawberries you eat with somebody special in the States? And don't they taste so much better when you know the people whose hands picked them for you?"" As I stood in that grocery store weeks later, I realized I had no idea of who to thank for this plenty, and no idea of how they were being treated. So, like the journalist I am, I started digging into the agricultural sector. And I found there are too many fields, and too few labor inspectors. I found multiple layers of plausible deniability between grower and distributor and processor, and God knows who else. The Global Horizons survivors had been brought to the States on a temporary guest worker program. That guest worker program ties a person's legal status to his or her employer, and denies that worker the right to organize. Mind you, none of what I am describing about this agricultural sector or the guest worker program is actually human trafficking. It is merely what we find legally tolerable. And I would argue this is fertile ground for exploitation. And all of this had been hidden to me, before I had tried to understand it. I wasn't the only person grappling with these issues. Pierre Omidyar, founder of eBay, is one of the biggest anti-trafficking philanthropists in the world. And even he wound up accidentally investing nearly 10 million dollars in the pineapple plantation cited as having the worst working conditions in that Global Horizons case. When he found out, he and his wife were shocked and horrified, and they wound up writing an op-ed for a newspaper, saying that it was up to all of us to learn everything we can about the labor and supply chains of the products that we support. I totally agree. What would happen if each one of us decided that we are no longer going to support companies if they don't eliminate exploitation from their labor and supply chains? If we demanded laws calling for the same? If all the CEOs out there decided that they were going to go through their businesses and say, ""no more""? If we ended recruitment fees for migrant workers? If we decided that guest workers should have the right to organize without fear of retaliation? These would be decisions heard around the world. This isn't a matter of buying a fair-trade peach and calling it a day, buying a guilt-free zone with your money. That's not how it works. This is the decision to change a system that is broken, and that we have unwittingly but willingly allowed ourselves to profit from and benefit from for too long. We often dwell on human trafficking survivors' victimization. But that is not my experience of them. Over all the years that I've been talking to them, they have taught me that we are more than our worst days. Each one of us is more than what we have lived through. Especially trafficking survivors. These people were the most resourceful and resilient and responsible in their communities. They were the people that you would take a gamble on. You'd say, I'm gong to sell my rings, because I have the chance to send you off to a better future. They were the emissaries of hope. These survivors don't need saving. They need solidarity, because they're behind some of the most exciting social justice movements out there today. The nannies and housekeepers who marched with their families and their employers' families — their activism got us an international treaty on domestic workers' rights. The Nepali women who were trafficked into the sex trade — they came together, and they decided that they were going to make the world's first anti-trafficking organization actually headed and run by trafficking survivors themselves. These Indian shipyard workers were trafficked to do post-Hurricane Katrina reconstruction. They were threatened with deportation, but they broke out of their work compound and they marched from New Orleans to Washington, D.C., to protest labor exploitation. They cofounded an organization called the National Guest Worker Alliance, and through this organization, they have wound up helping other workers bring to light exploitation and abuses in supply chains in Walmart and Hershey's factories. And although the Department of Justice declined to take their case, a team of civil rights lawyers won the first of a dozen civil suits this February, and got their clients 14 million dollars. These survivors are fighting for people they don't even know yet, other workers, and for the possibility of a just world for all of us. This is our chance to do the same. This is our chance to make the decision that tells us who we are, as a people and as a society; that our prosperity is no longer prosperity, as long as it is pinned to other people's pain; that our lives are inextricably woven together; and that we have the power to make a different choice. I was so reluctant to share my story of my auntie with you. Before I started this TED process and climbed up on this stage, I had told literally a handful of people about it, because, like many a journalist, I am far more interested in learning about your stories than sharing much, if anything, about my own. I also haven't done my journalistic due diligence on this. I haven't issued my mountains of document requests, and interviewed everyone and their mother, and I haven't found my auntie yet. I don't know her story of what happened, and of her life now. The story as I've told it to you is messy and unfinished. But I think it mirrors the messy and unfinished situation we're all in, when it comes to human trafficking. We are all implicated in this problem. But that means we are all also part of its solution. Figuring out how to build a more just world is our work to do, and our story to tell. So let us tell it the way we should have done, from the very beginning. Let us tell this story together. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	大約十年前，我經歷了一段艱難的時期。所以我決定去看心理醫生。我持續去看了幾個月，有一天她看著我說：「到底是誰把你扶養到三歲的？」這問題好怪。我說：「我的父母。」她說：「我不認為那是真的；因為如果是真的，那我們面對的問題將會更複雜。」 這聽起來像是設計好的笑話，但我知道她是認真的。因為從我一開始看這位心理醫生，我就試著要成為房間裡最幽默的人。我會試著說些笑話，但她馬上知道我要說什麼，每當我試著要開玩笑，她就會看著我然後說：「真的很可悲。」（笑聲）真的很慘。 我知道我要嚴肅起來，於是我問了我的父母到底是誰把我扶養到三歲？出乎我的意料之外，他們說主要照顧我的人，是我家族裡的一個遠親。我叫她阿姨。 我記得非常清楚，當我年紀大一些，感覺她是我生命的一部份。我記得她那濃密的直髮，當她彎腰抱我時那頭髮就像窗簾布一樣包圍我；記著她那柔軟的南方泰國口音；我喜歡黏著她，甚至她只是要去廁所，或是拿點東西吃。我愛她，但殘忍的是有時一個小孩不了解愛也是需要放手。 她在我腦海中留下最清晰的回憶，也同時是我人生中最初的回憶之一。我記得她被我家族裡的另一個成員打，我歇斯底里地尖叫，想要讓暴力停止，當她被打，我都這樣做，被打的原因是她想和朋友出去玩，或是稍微遲到之類的小事。看到她被虐待我會表現得很激動，後來，她在我看不到的地方被打。 情況越來越糟，最後她逃離這個家。成年後我才知道她十九歲時，被人從泰國帶到美國來當我的保母，以旅遊簽證居住在美國。她在伊利諾州工作一段時間後，又回到泰國，在曼谷的一個政治性的遊行中，我再次遇見她。就像小時候那樣，我緊緊地抱住她，放手後，承諾我會與她保持連繫。但我沒有如此做。因為我怕如果我說她對我而言意義重大，我人生中最美好的部分是我受到她的照顧，我只能以一句「對不起」來表達我感受到的罪惡、羞愧和憤怒，她為了照顧我而忍受的一切，我想如果我對她說出這些話，我又會哭不停。因為她救了我。可是我沒有救她。 我是記者，我撰寫、研究人口販賣大約有八年了，儘管如此，我之前從沒把這起個人的故事與工作湊在一起。這種全然的分割實際上是象徵著我們大多數人對人口販賣的理解。因為人口販賣比我們想像的還要普遍、複雜且近在身邊。 我採訪過監獄和妓院，數百名倖存者、執法人員和非政府組織人員。當我理解到我們為解決人口販賣所做的一切時，我感到極度的失望。部分是因為我們沒有正確地討論這個問題。當我說「人口販賣」，大部分的人不會想到我阿姨這樣的人。你或許會想到年輕女孩或女人，被老鴇殘忍地逼迫賣淫。這的確是個苦難，也是一個真實的故事。一個讓我憤怒的故事不只因為它是真實的情況。 身為記者，我很在意我們之間是如何使用語言溝通，我們說的故事充滿血腥、暴力細節，與猥褻有關的——我稱它為「看她的傷疤」新聞。我們利用這個故事來說服我們自己販賣人口是壞人對無辜的女子做壞事。這個故事讓我們有台階下。它抺去所有可能被控訴的社會背景，如結構性的不平等、貧窮、或是遷徙的限制。我們自己認為人口販賣只是被迫賣淫，但事實是，人口販賣潛藏在我們的日常生活中。 讓我來解釋給你們聽。被迫賣淫佔人口販賣的百分之二十二。百分之十為強制勞動。但高達百分之六十八是從事生產產品以及從事我們日常不可或缺的服務業，像是農事，家事服務以及建造的工作。就是食品、照護和庇護的工作。但，這些最不可或缺的工作者是當今世界上酬勞最低、被剝削的一群。人口販賣是使用暴力、欺騙和強迫的手段來強迫他人勞動。可在棉花田或鈳鉭鐵礦場看到，甚至出現在挪威和英國的洗車場。在伊拉克和阿富汗的美國軍營裡。 在泰國的捕魚業。泰國是世界上蝦子最大的出口國。但便宜又大量蝦子的背後有著什麼情況？泰國軍隊被發現販賣緬甸和柬埔寨籍的外勞上漁船捕魚。漁船出海捕魚，他們在船上工作，他們會被丟下船如果他們犯錯、生病或反抗。捕到的魚用來餵蝦子，然後把蝦子賣給四個主要零售商：好市多、特易購、沃爾瑪和家樂福。 人口販賣也發現在小規模的地方，你永遠也想不到地方。人口販強迫年輕人開冰淇淋車，或是在男子巡迴演唱團裡唱歌。販賣行為也被發現在紐澤西的髮廊。 販賣的詭計令人不可思議。人口販子找到迦納和多哥的年輕家庭，告訴他們：「你們的女兒會在美國接受良好的教育。」然後找到那些中了美國綠卡樂透者，告訴他們：「我們會幫助你。我們會付機票錢。付所有的費用。只要你帶著這個年輕女孩，說她是你妹妹或是你老婆。」當所有人到達紐澤西，年輕女孩就會被帶走，被逼每天工作 14 個小時，每週七天，連續工作五年。人口販因此獲利近四百萬美金。 這是個大問題。我們為此做了什麼？我們大都求助刑事司法系統。但請記得，大部分人口販賣的受害者是貧窮和被邊緣化的人。他們是外籍勞工，有色人種。有些從事賣淫。面對這些人，刑事司法系統經常是問題的一部分，而不是解決問題的方法。在一次又一次的研究中，從孟加拉到美國，經調查有 20-60% 的性交易者說他們在過去的一年被警察強姦。賣淫的人，包括人口販賣受害者，時常因賣淫而被多次定罪。有這些犯罪記錄使得他們想要擺脫貧窮、虐待或賣淫，也是非常困難。色情以外的工作者，如果他們抗拒，他們有可能會被驅逐出境。在我研究的案件中，僱主會叫警察以威脅或驅逐出境這些罷工的非法交易工作者。如果這些工作人員逃跑的話，大部分的人冒著危險變成沒有合法身份的工作者，如果他們被抓他們會被警察凌辱。 執法人員應該找出受害者和起訴人口販子。但全世界大約有 2100 萬人口販賣的受害者，受過協助和確認的人數低於 5 萬人。這好比全世界的人口之於洛杉磯的人口，以上是依比率來作說明。至於定罪，2013 年約有 5700 人被判有罪，但因販賣勞工而判刑的不到 500 人。請記得販賣勞工佔人口販賣的 68%，被定罪的卻少於 10% 。 我聽一位專家說人口販賣發生在需求加上貪婪。我要再加入一個個人見解，人口販賣發生在勞工沒有受到保護的地方，他們被剝奪組成工會的權利。人口販賣並非與世隔絕。它發生在被系統化剝削的工作環境。你或許在想，她說的是失敗國家，或是受戰爭蹂躪的國家，或——其實我說的就是美國。讓我來告訴各位真相。 我花了好幾個月的時間研究人口販賣「全球地平線」的案子，包括數百名泰國農人。他們被分配到全美各地，在夏威夷鳳梨田裡工作，在華盛頓蘋果園，及其他需要勞工的地方。他們被承諾做三年的農事工作。他們算了一下風險。賣掉他們的土地、老婆的珠寶，被「全球地平線」這公司收了數千美元的招聘費。他們一旦被帶到美國，他們的護照被沒收。有人被打，受槍口威脅。他們過勞而昏倒在田裡。這案子令我很心痛。 回到家後，我在雜貨店裡閒逛，佇足在農產區。我記得我每次採訪他們時，這些從苦難中逃生的人都會為我準備美味食物。飯後提供一盤很棒的長莖草莓，在遞給我的同時，他們說：「在美國，這種草莓不就是你和重要的人一起吃的那種？當你認識親手摘下給你吃的人，它的味道是不是更好？」 幾週後，我站在雜貨店內我不知道要感謝誰提供這豐富的食物，不知道他們是如何被對待。我是記者，我開始深入研究農務工作。我發現田地很多，但勞動調查人員卻很少。我發現各層級互相推委責任，從種植、批發到加工程序，只有上帝知道還有誰參與其中。逃離「全球地平線」的人最初被帶到美國，是以臨時工的身份進入美國。臨時工的法律身份與他們的僱主綁在一起，同時也拒絕臨時工人組成工會的權利。請注意，我所說的農務工作或外籍勞工其實就是人口販賣。這走在法律邊緣。這可說是剝削的溫床。我一直被矇在鼓裡，直到我試著去了解這件事。 我不是唯一想解決這問題的人。eBay 的創辦人皮耶‧歐米迪亞，是有名的反販賣人口的慈善家之一。他也在不知情狀態下，投資將近一千萬美元在「全球地平線」中被舉證為工作環境最差的鳳梨園。當他發現後，他和他的老婆震驚了，他們給報社寫一篇專欄，說我們應盡所能去了解，視為自己的責任，了解我們所支持的產品其生產勞工和供應鏈。我非常認同。 情況會是如何，如果每個人都決定不再支持那些公司，如果他們不杜絕勞力和供應鏈剝削？如果我們要求法律也這麼做呢？如果企業的執行長決定在他們的企業將不再剝削勞工？如果不再收取外籍勞工的招聘費？如果我們決定外籍工人有權組成工會無需擔心報復的問題？所有人要下決心執行。這不是買公平交易的產品就可解決的，用錢來免除自己的罪惡感。這不是解決事情的方法。而是要決定去改變一個壞掉的系統，我們不知原委，但欣然樂意接受我們長期從中獲取及享受的利益。 我們時常專注在逃離人口販賣者的傷痛上。但這不是我所得到的經驗。在我和他們接觸的那幾年，他們讓我瞭解我們最壞的情況不能代表一切。我們每個人的痛苦經歷也不能代表一切。特別是逃離人口販賣的人。他們在社會中是經驗最豐富、有活力、負責任的人。他們是一群值得你去冒險的人。你會說，我要去賣戒指，因為我有機會去為他們創造更好的未來。他們是希望的使者。 他們不需要被拯救。這些倖存者需要的是團結，因為他們支持當今最令人振奮的社會正義運動。褓母、管家和他的家人以及僱主家人一起參與遊行——他們的行動為我們爭取到家事服務工作者權利的國際條約。被迫非法性交易的尼泊爾婦女，她們團結在一起，做出決定，她們將成立世界上第一個反販賣組織，由一群逃離非法交易者的人所成立。印度碼頭工人被販賣到美國為卡翠娜颱風災做重建工作。他們受驅逐出境威脅，因而爆發遊行，他們從新奧爾良遊行到華盛頓特區，為了抗議勞工剝削。他們成立「全國外籍工人聯盟」，透過這個組織，他們很樂意幫助其他工人揭發沃爾瑪和好時工廠其供應鏈的剝削及虐待行為。雖然司法單位拒絶接受他們的案子，一個民權律師團隊打贏了第一場民事訴訟，於今年二月，為他們的客戶贏得一千四百萬美金。 這些逃離苦難的人甚至在為其他人、為其他工人努力，為創造一個我們都可能享受的公義世界努力。這是我們做這事的機會。這是我們做決定的機會，告訴自己我是誰，身為人類及社會的一分子；我們的繁榮稱不上繁榮，如果這繁榮是建立別人的痛苦上；我們的生活緊密地連接在一起；我們有權力做不一樣的選擇。 我實在不太願意分享我阿姨的故事。在站上 TED 演議台之前，我只告訴少數幾個人，因為，如其他眾多記者，我比較喜歡聽別人的故事甚於分享自己的故事，如果我的故事有什麼可說的。我尚未克盡記者職責。我尚未發出堆積如山的申請文件，還沒採訪他們及其母親，也還沒找到我的阿姨。我不知道她到底怎麼了，現在又過得如何。我向各位講的這個故事雜亂不全。但我想這故事反映出我們都身處在這雜亂不全的狀況中，談到人口販賣，我們都和這個問題有關連。也表示我們都可以為這件事盡一份心力。找出如何建立一個更公平的世界是我們的工作，也是我們的故事。讓我們以我們該做的方式講故事，從頭開始講起。讓我們一起講這個故事。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
