Talk	en	zh-tw
ole_scheeren_why_great_architecture_should_tell_a_story	"For much of the past century, architecture was under the spell of a famous doctrine. ""Form follows function"" had become modernity's ambitious manifesto and detrimental straitjacket, as it liberated architecture from the decorative, but condemned it to utilitarian rigor and restrained purpose. Of course, architecture is about function, but I want to remember a rewriting of this phrase by Bernard Tschumi, and I want to propose a completely different quality. If form follows fiction, we could think of architecture and buildings as a space of stories — stories of the people that live there, of the people that work in these buildings. And we could start to imagine the experiences our buildings create. In this sense, I'm interested in fiction not as the implausible but as the real, as the reality of what architecture means for the people that live in it and with it. Our buildings are prototypes, ideas for how the space of living or how the space of working could be different, and what a space of culture or a space of media could look like today. Our buildings are real; they're being built. They're an explicit engagement in physical reality and conceptual possibility. I think of our architecture as organizational structures. At their core is indeed structural thinking, like a system: How can we arrange things in both a functional and experiential way? How can we create structures that generate a series of relationships and narratives? And how can fictive stories of the inhabitants and users of our buildings script the architecture, while the architecture scripts those stories at the same time? And here comes the second term into play, what I call ""narrative hybrids"" — structures of multiple simultaneous stories that unfold throughout the buildings we create. So we could think of architecture as complex systems of relationships, both in a programmatic and functional way and in an experiential and emotive or social way. This is the headquarters for China's national broadcaster, which I designed together with Rem Koolhaas at OMA. When I first arrived in Beijing in 2002, the city planners showed us this image: a forest of several hundred skyscrapers to emerge in the central business district, except at that time, only a handful of them existed. So we had to design in a context that we knew almost nothing about, except one thing: it would all be about verticality. Of course, the skyscraper is vertical — it's a profoundly hierarchical structure, the top always the best, the bottom the worst, and the taller you are, the better, so it seems. And we wanted to ask ourselves, could a building be about a completely different quality? Could it undo this hierarchy, and could it be about a system that is more about collaboration, rather than isolation? So we took this needle and bent it back into itself, into a loop of interconnected activities. Our idea was to bring all aspects of television-making into one single structure: news, program production, broadcasting, research and training, administration — all into a circuit of interconnected activities where people would meet in a process of exchange and collaboration. I still very much like this image. It reminds one of biology classes, if you remember the human body with all its organs and circulatory systems, like at school. And suddenly you think of architecture no longer as built substance, but as an organism, as a life form. And as you start to dissect this organism, you can identify a series of primary technical clusters — program production, broadcasting center and news. Those are tightly intertwined with social clusters: meeting rooms, canteens, chat areas — informal spaces for people to meet and exchange. So the organizational structure of this building was a hybrid between the technical and the social, the human and the performative. And of course, we used the loop of the building as a circulatory system, to thread everything together and to allow both visitors and staff to experience all these different functions in a great unity. With 473,000 square meters, it is one of the largest buildings ever built in the world. It has a population of over 10,000 people, and of course, this is a scale that exceeds the comprehension of many things and the scale of typical architecture. So we stopped work for a while and sat down and cut 10,000 little sticks and glued them onto a model, just simply to confront ourselves with what that quantity actually meant. But of course, it's not a number, it is the people, it is a community that inhabits the building, and in order to both comprehend this, but also script this architecture, we identified five characters, hypothetical characters, and we followed them throughout their day in a life in this building, thought of where they would meet, what they would experience. So it was a way to script and design the building, but of course, also to communicate its experiences. This was part of an exhibition with the Museum of Modern Art in both New York and Beijing. This is the main broadcast control room, a technical installation so large, it can broadcast over 200 channels simultaneously. And this is how the building stands in Beijing today. Its first broadcast live was the London Olympics 2012, after it had been completed from the outside for the Beijing Olympics. And you can see at the very tip of this 75-meter cantilever, those three little circles. And they're indeed part of a public loop that goes through the building. They're a piece of glass that you can stand on and watch the city pass by below you in slow motion. The building has become part of everyday life in Beijing. It is there. It has also become a very popular backdrop for wedding photography. (Laughter) But its most important moment is maybe sill this one. ""That's Beijing"" is similar to ""Time Out,"" a magazine that broadcasts what is happening in town during the week, and suddenly you see the building portrayed no longer as physical matter, but actually as an urban actor, as part of a series of personas that define the life of the city. So architecture suddenly assumes the quality of a player, of something that writes stories and performs stories. And I think that could be one of its primary meanings that we believe in. But of course, there's another story to this building. It is the story of the people that made it — 400 engineers and architects that I was guiding over almost a decade of collaborative work that we spent together in scripting this building, in imagining its reality and ultimately getting it built in China. This is a residential development in Singapore, large scale. If we look at Singapore like most of Asia and more and more of the world, of course, it is dominated by the tower, a typology that indeed creates more isolation than connectedness, and I wanted to ask, how could we think about living, not only in terms of the privacy and individuality of ourselves and our apartment, but in an idea of a collective? How could we think about creating a communal environment in which sharing things was as great as having your own? The typical answer to the question — we had to design 1,040 apartments — would have looked like this: 24-story height limit given by the planning authorities, 12 towers with nothing but residual in between — a very tight system that, although the tower isolates you, it doesn't even give you privacy, because you're so close to the next one, that it is very questionable what the qualities of this would be. So I proposed to topple the towers, throw the vertical into the horizontal and stack them up, and what looks a bit random from the side, if you look from the viewpoint of the helicopter, you can see its organizational structure is actually a hexagonal grid, in which these horizontal building blocks are stacked up to create huge outdoor courtyards — central spaces for the community, programmed with a variety of amenities and functions. And you see that these courtyards are not hermetically sealed spaces. They're open, permeable; they're interconnected. We called the project ""The Interlace,"" thinking that we interlace and interconnect the human beings and the spaces alike. And the detailed quality of everything we designed was about animating the space and giving the space to the inhabitants. And, in fact, it was a system where we would layer primarily communal spaces, stacked to more and more individual and private spaces. So we would open up a spectrum between the collective and the individual. A little piece of math: if we count all the green that we left on the ground, minus the footprint of the buildings, and we would add back the green of all the terraces, we have 112 percent green space, so more nature than not having built a building. And of course this little piece of math shows you that we are multiplying the space available to those who live there. This is, in fact, the 13th floor of one of these terraces. So you see new datum planes, new grounds planes for social activity. We paid a lot of attention to sustainability. In the tropics, the sun is the most important thing to pay attention to, and, in fact, it is seeking protection from the sun. We first proved that all apartments would have sufficient daylight through the year. We then went on to optimize the glazing of the facades to minimize the energy consumption of the building. But most importantly, we could prove that through the geometry of the building design, the building itself would provide sufficient shading to the courtyards so that those would be usable throughout the entire year. We further placed water bodies along the prevailing wind corridors, so that evaporative cooling would create microclimates that, again, would enhance the quality of those spaces available for the inhabitants. And it was the idea of creating this variety of choices, of freedom to think where you would want to be, where you would want to escape, maybe, within the own complexity of the complex in which you live. But coming from Asia to Europe: a building for a German media company based in Berlin, transitioning from the traditional print media to the digital media. And its CEO asked a few very pertinent questions: Why would anyone today still want to go to the office, because you can actually work anywhere? And how could a digital identity of a company be embodied in a building? We created not only an object, but at the center of this object we created a giant space, and this space was about the experience of a collective, the experience of collaboration and of togetherness. Communication, interaction as the center of a space that in itself would float, like what we call the collaborative cloud, in the middle of the building, surrounded by an envelope of standard modular offices. So with only a few steps from your quiet work desk, you could participate in the giant collective experience of the central space. Finally, we come to London, a project commissioned by the London Legacy Development Corporation of the Mayor of London. We were asked to undertake a study and investigate the potential of a site out in Stratford in the Olympic Park. In the 19th century, Prince Albert had created Albertopolis. And Boris Johnson thought of creating Olympicopolis. The idea was to bring together some of Britain's greatest institutions, some international ones, and to create a new system of synergies. Prince Albert, as yet, created Albertopolis in the 19th century, thought of showcasing all achievements of mankind, bringing arts and science closer together. And he built Exhibition Road, a linear sequence of those institutions. But of course, today's society has moved on from there. We no longer live in a world in which everything is as clearly delineated or separated from each other. We live in a world in which boundaries start to blur between the different domains, and in which collaboration and interaction becomes far more important than keeping separations. So we wanted to think of a giant culture machine, a building that would orchestrate and animate the various domains, but allow them to interact and collaborate. At the base of it is a very simple module, a ring module. It can function as a double-loaded corridor, has daylight, has ventilation. It can be glazed over and turned into a giant exhibitional performance space. These modules were stacked together with the idea that almost any function could, over time, occupy any of these modules. So institutions could shrink or contract, as, of course, the future of culture is, in a way, the most uncertain of all. This is how the building sits, adjacent to the Aquatics Centre, opposite the Olympic Stadium. And you can see how its cantilevering volumes project out and engage the public space and how its courtyards animate the public inside. The idea was to create a complex system in which institutional entities could maintain their own identity, in which they would not be subsumed in a singular volume. Here's a scale comparison to the Centre Pompidou in Paris. It both shows the enormous scale and potential of the project, but also the difference: here, it is a multiplicity of a heterogeneous structure, in which different entities can interact without losing their own identity. And it was this thought: to create an organizational structure that would allow for multiple narratives to be scripted — for those in the educational parts that create and think culture; for those that present the visual arts, the dance; and for the public to be admitted into all of this with a series of possible trajectories, to script their own reading of these narratives and their own experience. And I want to end on a project that is very small, in a way, very different: a floating cinema in the ocean of Thailand. Friends of mine had founded a film festival, and I thought, if we think of the stories and narratives of movies, we should also think of the narratives of the people that watch them. So I designed a small modular floating platform, based on the techniques of local fishermen, how they built their lobster and fish farms. We collaborated with the local community and built, out of recycled materials of their own, this fantastical floating platform that gently moved in the ocean as we watched films from the British film archive, [1903] ""Alice in Wonderland,"" for example. The most primordial experiences of the audience merged with the stories of the movies. So I believe that architecture exceeds the domain of physical matter, of the built environment, but is really about how we want to live our lives, how we script our own stories and those of others. Thank you. (Applause)"	"過去好幾個世紀，建築物在一條著名的理論魔咒之下，「型隨機能」這個理論曾經一度成為當代的偉大宣言及有害的的緊箍咒，因為這句話雖讓建築物擺脫了裝飾的束縛，但也同時宣判建築物走向功利嚴謹且倍受約束的終點。當然，建築物與機能有關，但我想向Bernard Tschumi對這句話的重新改寫致意，並同時提出一個我個人完全不同的見解。如果「型隨小說」，我們可以這樣想，建築設計與建築物是一個空間的故事，有關居住在那裡的人的故事，有關在裡面工作的人的故事，我們可以開始想像我們的建築物創造出來的經歷。 在這樣的概念下，我對小說感興趣的原因，不是因為它的虛幻，而是它的真實。像是，建物風格對那些生活在裡面的居民有甚麼意義的那樣的真實。我們的建築物一開始是一些雛形、想法，它讓我們了解生活或工作空間可以有甚麼不同，以及文化與媒體空間現今可以如何展現。我們的建築物是真實的；它們會被建造出來，建築物是一種實體物質與想法概念兩者之間明確的合約產物。我認為我們的建築物是一種組織結構，它們的核心，的確是一種結構思想，像是一個系統:我們要如何把事情安排的具有機能性與經驗性 ?我們要如何創造出可以引發一系列關係與故事腳本的結構 ?而我們在建築物裡面的居民及使用者的虛幻故事要如何在描繪建築物的同時也能讓建築物描繪出這些故事 ? 而這當中就會產生出第二個詞彙，我稱之為「故事的混合體」 —多種不同故事的結構完全展現了我們要創造出的建築物。所以我們可以想像建築物是個關係複雜的系統，一種結合可程序化、機能性、經驗性、情緒性或社交性的複雜系統。 這是中國國家廣播公司的總部，這建物是我和Rem Koolhaas在大都會建築事務所共同設計，2002年，當我第一次抵達北京時，城市規劃員向我們展示了這張圖 :除了當時少數的幾棟大樓，雨林般的上百棟高樓大廈，將會蓋在市中心的商務區。所以我們必須在一個除了垂直概念以外其他都沒有的設計概念底下做設計。 當然，高樓大廈是垂直的—它是個死板板的層次結構，頂部總是最好的，底部總是最差的，所以似乎是，你蓋的越高越好。我們質問我們自己，我們的建築物可不可以有一個完全不同的概念?它可不可以擺脫層次結構體系，它可不可以是一種合作而不是隔離的系統 ?所以我們把這個針轉了個彎回到本身，行成一種可以互相聯絡活動的環狀物。我們的想法是，把電視製作的所有概念融合到單一結構裡面：新聞、節目製作、廣播、研究、訓練、管理—全部融合到可互相聯繫活動的這個環形裡面，一個人們在這裡見面互相交流合作的地方。 我仍然很喜歡這張圖，如果你還記得人體構造的話，有自己的器官及循環系統，它像是一堂學校的生物課。突然間，你會覺得建築物不再只是建築材料而像是一種有機體、生命體。而當你開始剖析這個有機體，你會辨識出一系列的主要技術群—節目製作、廣播中心、新聞。他們與一些社交設施緊緊地纏繞在一起 :會議室，餐廳，交談區—人們碰面交流的非正式場合。所以，這個建物的組織結構是一種混合體，介於技術與社交及人類與表演之間。當然，我們是使用類似循環系統的環形建物來串聯每樣東西，使訪客與員工都能在這個偉大的聯合體裡面，體驗不同的機能。 擁有473,000平方公尺的建築面積，使它成為全世界最大的建築物之一，裡面有10,000人口，當然，這樣的規模超出了我們對傳統建築物的理解範圍。所以，我們停工了一陣子，然後坐下來，剪出10,000張小貼紙，然後把它們粘在一個模型上，只是單純地想挑戰我們自己，對數量本身真正的含意。 當然，這與數字無關，而是人，生活在這一棟大樓裡面的人，為了同時理解並為這個建築物寫腳本，我們創造出五種假想的角色，然後追蹤他們在這棟大樓一整天的生活狀況，他們會在哪碰面、他們的體驗如何等。所以，這是一種描繪與設計建築物的方法，但當然，也是一種體會它的方式。這是紐約及北京部分現代美術館的收藏品。 這是廣播主控室，技術性安裝層面的要求相當大，它可同時播放200個頻道，這是它當今矗立在北京的狀況，它的第一次現場直播是2012年的倫敦奧林匹克運動會，在這之前，它已經從外部完成北京奧林匹克的轉播。你可以在最頂端的75米懸臂處看風景，這三個小圓圈，它們就是貫穿整棟大樓的開放空間環型設計。你可以站在玻璃上面俯瞰你腳下整個城市的慢動作。 這棟建築物已經是北京生活的的一部分，它就在那。它也變成了北京一個相當受歡迎的婚紗攝影背景。 ( 笑聲 ) 但最重要的時刻也許是這個，這本《城市漫步》週刊很像倫敦的《Time Out》週刊，這本雜誌描述了當週該城市發生了哪些事情，突然間你會發現，這棟大樓不再僅是一棟大樓而已，同時扮演了城市一員的角色，它像是在北京生活的一系列人物中的其中一員。所以，建築設計突然間像是呈現了一位參與者的內涵品質，它像是在寫故事、呈現故事。而我認為這可以成為我們相信的事物當中的其中一個重要意義， 當然，這棟大樓還有另外一個故事，就是建造它的人的故事—400個合作幾乎超過10年我所帶領的工程人員與建築師，我們花時間一起蓋這棟大樓，從想像它的真實性，到最終，在中國把它建造完成。 這是一個在新加坡的大型住宅開發案，如果我們看一下新加坡、亞洲，全世界的其他國家，當然，他們都是以高樓大廈為主，這種類型的大樓確實製造了更多的疏離感而非親近感，而我想質疑，我們對住家的想法到底是甚麼 ?不是只有我們自己的私密性、個性、我們的公寓大廈而已，而是集體的共同意識吧 ?我們要想想如何創造一個社區交流的環境，一個可以讓你樂於分享的環境 ? 典型的答案是—我們必須設計1,040間公寓—外型會像這樣子 :根據政府法規，會有24層的樓高限制，12棟大樓，只剩下一點點開放空間，其它甚麼都沒有—相當擁擠嚴密的系統，雖然大樓隔離了你，但這根本不能給你隱私，因為你離隔壁鄰居相當近，所以很容易被質疑，蓋好這樣的數量之後會有甚麼後果。 所以，我提議推掉高塔，把垂直設計改成水平設計，並把它們堆疊起來，從側面看，它有點不規則排列，如果你從直升機往下看，你可以看到，它的組織架構實際上是個水平建物堆疊起來的網狀六邊形，這是為了創造出幾個大型戶外庭院—這些中央空間為社區規劃了多種設施與功能。你可以看到這些庭院空間並非是封閉不透氣的空間，它們是開放的、通透的、互相連結的，我們稱呼這個項目是"" 交錯 "" ( 社區名稱: 翠城新景 )像是我們人類與空間彼此的交錯連結一樣。我們設計的每樣細節，都與「把空間賦予生命並還給社區居民」有關。事實上，這個系統可以在我們佈局主要的公共空間時，讓它層層堆疊出越來越多的個人與私密空間。所以，我們展開一種介於總體與個人之間的設計概念， 一個小小的數學算式 :如果我們把所有在地面上的綠色植物面積，扣除掉建物投影面積，然後加上所有有綠色植物的陽台面積，我們會得出一個112%的綠覆率，比不蓋大樓還要有更多的自然空間。當然，這個小小的數學算式有向你說明了我們把有人住的空間也算進去。事實上，這是第13樓的其中一個陽台，所以你會看到提供給社交活動的新基準平面、新地平面 我們在「可持續發展」上投入很多心力，在熱帶地區，太陽是最必須留意的重要事項，事實上，它們要找的是遮蔽處。我們首先確認所有的公寓大樓整年都會有足夠的日照時間。然後我們進行外牆玻璃優化，來減少建築物的能量消耗。但最重要的是，我們確認我們可以透過地形設計來達成這個目的。建物本身提供了足夠的遮蔽給中庭花園，因此這些遮蔽是一整年都可以使用的。我們更進一步地沿著主風廊，設置了水體槽，讓它蒸發冷卻後形成一個微型氣候，進而有效地改善居民居住的空間品質。這個想法創造了多樣性的選擇、一種你想去哪就去哪、想躲哪就躲哪的自由，在一個多樣性的生活地方產生個人的生活多樣性。 從亞洲來到歐洲 :一棟座落在德國柏林的媒體公司，正從傳統印刷媒體轉型到數位媒體，而公司的執行長問了一個很中肯的問題 :為什麼現今每個人仍希望到辦公室上班，即使他們可以在任何地方辦公 ?一個公司的數位辨識形象要如何在建築物上體現出來 ?我們創作的不只是一個物體，我們還在物體的中心創造了一個大空間，一個有關於共同合作、一起團結奮鬥的空間。溝通、互動是空間的核心思想，它會自己浮上來，像是我們所說的"" 合作雲 ""，它就在建物中間，被一個標準模組的辦公室所圍繞包裹著。從你的辦公桌，只要走幾步，你就可以參與核心空間裡的龐大共同體驗。 最後，我們來到倫敦，一個倫敦市長的傳承開發公司的項目任務。我們被要求要負責研究、調查奧林匹克公園基地的開發潛力。在19世紀，Albert王子當時建立了Albert城。而Boris Johnson想建立奧林匹克城。 想法是把一些英國最偉大的機構、一些國際機構擺在一起，來創造出一個新的協同效益系統。當時Albert王子在19世紀建立的Albert城，是想用來展示人類的所有成就，讓藝術和科學緊密地結合在一起。而且他還打造了會展路，這區有一系列這樣的機構， 當然，現今社會已經比當時進步許多，我們不再是活在一種每樣東西都被界定分開很清楚的世界。我們活在一種不同領域之間開始模糊的世界，一個彼此合作互動遠比保持疏離還要重要的世界。所以我們想建立一個大型的文化機器，一個會協調並賦予不同領域生命的建築物，但同時也可以讓它們彼此互動與合作。而它的基礎是個非常簡單的模組，一個環形模組。它有雙走道、日照、通風佳的功能它可以被透視，也可以變成一個大型展覽表演空間。這些模組被堆疊起來，隨著時間流逝，任何機能彼此都可能會佔用到其他機能上，所以機構可能縮小或濃縮，因為，文化的未來，在某種程度上，是最無法預測的。這棟建築將坐落在鄰近的水上運動中心旁，正對奧林匹克運動場，你可以看到它的懸臂式空間如何伸出並融入開放空間，和它的中庭如何在公共空間裡賦予生命， 當時的想法是創造一個多樣性複雜的系統，讓裡面的機構實體可以維持它們本身的辨識性，使它們不會被歸類為單一個體空間，這個它是與法國巴黎龐畢藝術中心的比例對照圖，兩者都顯示出其項目的龐大規模與潛力，但也有不一樣的地方 :這裡，它是一個多重異質建物，裡面不同的機構彼此間可以互動，而不失它們的辨識度。想法是這樣的 :創造一個組織結構可以讓不同的故事可以被描述出來—包含文創教育部分 ;視覺藝術、舞蹈、讓大眾可以獲准進入這個一系列可能的軌跡動向，來闡述他們個人對這些故事敘述的理解與經歷。 我想用一個很小的項目來做結束，在某種程度上，相當不同 :一個在泰國的海上漂浮電影院。我的其中一個朋友已經投資一部片子，而我當時在想，如果，我們來思考電影的故事及腳本我們也需要思考觀看這部電影的觀眾的腳本，所以，我設計了一個小型的飄浮平台模組，主要技術來自當地漁民的龍蝦田及魚田的技術，我們與當地社團合作、建造全部是他們的回收材料，這個令人驚豔的漂浮平台，慢慢地移往海裡，例如，當我們觀看來自英國電影資料館1904年的「愛麗絲夢遊仙境」時，觀眾最原始的經歷會與電影的故事情節相結合。 所以我相信，建築設計不僅超越了實體物質、建築環境的範籌，且真的與我們想如何生活、如何闡述我們的故事及其他人的故事息息相關。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）"
