Talk	en	zh-tw
oliver_sacks_what_hallucination_reveals_about_our_minds	"We see with the eyes, but we see with the brain as well. And seeing with the brain is often called imagination. And we are familiar with the landscapes of our own imagination, our inscapes.  We've lived with them all our lives. But there are also hallucinations as well, and hallucinations  are completely different. They don't seem to be of our creation. They don't seem to be under our control. They seem to come from the outside, and to mimic perception. So I am going to be talking about hallucinations, and a particular sort of visual hallucination which I see among my patients. A few months ago, I got a phone call from a nursing home where I work. They told me that one of their residents, an old lady in her 90s, was seeing things, and they wondered if she'd gone bonkers or, because she was an old lady, whether she'd had a stroke, or whether she had Alzheimer's. And so they asked me if I would come and see Rosalie, the old lady. I went in to see her. It was evident straight away that she was perfectly sane and lucid and  of good intelligence, but she'd been very startled and very bewildered, because she'd been seeing things. And she told me — the nurses hadn't mentioned this — that she was blind, that she had been completely blind from macular degeneration for five years. But now, for the last few days, she'd been seeing things. So I said, ""What sort of things?"" And she said, ""People in Eastern dress, in drapes, walking up and down stairs. A man who turns towards me and smiles. But he has huge teeth on one side of his mouth. Animals too. I see a white building. It's snowing, a soft snow. I see this horse with a harness, dragging the snow away. Then, one night, the scene changes. I see cats and dogs walking towards me. They come to a certain point and then stop. Then it changes again. I see a lot of children. They are walking up and down stairs. They wear bright colors, rose and blue, like Eastern dress."" Sometimes, she said, before the people come on, she may hallucinate pink and blue squares on the floor, which seem to go up to the ceiling. I said, ""Is this like a dream?"" And she said, ""No, it's not like a dream. It's like a movie."" She said, ""It's got color. It's got motion. But it's completely silent, like a silent movie."" And she said that it's a rather boring movie. She said, ""All these people with Eastern dress, walking up and down, very repetitive, very limited."" (Laughter) And she has a sense of humor. She knew it was a hallucination. But she was frightened. She'd lived 95 years and she'd never had a hallucination before. She said that the hallucinations were unrelated to anything she was thinking or feeling or doing, that they seemed to come on by themselves, or disappear. She had no control over them. She said she didn't recognize any of the people or places in the hallucinations. And none of the people or the animals, well, they all seemed oblivious of her. And she didn't know what was going on. She wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind. Well, I examined her carefully. She was a bright old lady, perfectly sane. She had no medical problems. She wasn't on any medications which could produce hallucinations. But she was blind. And I then said to her, ""I think I know what you have."" I said, ""There is a special form of visual hallucination which may go with deteriorating vision or blindness. This was originally described,"" I said, ""right back in the 18th century, by a man called Charles Bonnet. And you have Charles Bonnet syndrome. There is nothing wrong with your brain. There is nothing wrong with your mind. You have Charles Bonnet syndrome."" And she was very relieved at this, that there was nothing seriously the matter, and also rather curious. She said, ""Who is this Charles Bonnet?"" She said, ""Did he have them himself?"" And she said, ""Tell all the nurses that I have Charles Bonnet syndrome."" (Laughter) ""I'm not crazy. I'm not demented. I have Charles Bonnet syndrome."" Well, so I did tell the nurses. Now this, for me, is a common situation. I work in old-age homes, largely. I see a lot of elderly people who are hearing impaired or visually impaired. About 10 percent of the hearing impaired people get musical hallucinations. And about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations. You don't have to be completely blind, only sufficiently impaired. Now with the original description in the 18th century, Charles Bonnet did not have them. His grandfather had these hallucinations. His grandfather was a magistrate, an elderly man. He'd had cataract surgery. His vision was pretty poor. And in 1759, he described to his grandson various things he was seeing. The first thing he said was he saw a handkerchief in midair. It was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles. And he knew it was a hallucination. You don't have handkerchiefs in midair. And then he saw a big wheel in midair. But sometimes he wasn't sure whether he was hallucinating or not, because the hallucinations would fit in the context of the visions. So on one occasion, when his granddaughters were visiting them, he said, ""And who are these handsome young men with you?"" And they said, ""Alas, Grandpapa, there are no handsome young men."" And then the handsome young men disappeared. It's typical of these hallucinations that they may come in a flash and disappear in a flash. They don't usually fade in and out. They are rather sudden, and they change suddenly. Charles Lullin, the grandfather, saw hundreds of different figures, different landscapes of all sorts. On one occasion, he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe, and realized it was himself. That was the only figure he recognized. On one occasion when he was walking in the streets of Paris, he saw — this was real — a scaffolding. But when he got back home, he saw a miniature of the scaffolding six inches high, on his study table. This repetition of perception is sometimes called palinopsia. With him and with Rosalie, what seems to be going on — and Rosalie said, ""What's going on?"" — and I said that as you lose vision, as the visual parts of the brain are no longer getting any input, they become hyperactive and excitable, and they start to fire spontaneously. And you start to see things. The things you see can be very complicated indeed. With another patient of mine, who, also had some vision, the vision she had could be disturbing. On one occasion, she said she saw a man in a striped shirt in a restaurant. And he turned around. And then he divided into six figures in striped shirts, who started walking towards her. And then the six figures came together again, like a concertina. Once, when she was driving, or rather, her husband was driving, the road divided into four and she felt herself going simultaneously up four roads. She had very mobile hallucinations as well. A lot of them had to do with a car. Sometimes she would see a teenage boy sitting on the hood of the car. He was very tenacious and he moved rather gracefully when the car turned. And then when they came to a stop, the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff, 100 foot in the air, and then disappear. Another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination. This was a woman who didn't have trouble with her eyes, but the visual parts of her brain, a little tumor in the occipital cortex. And, above all, she would see cartoons. These cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field, like a screen. And especially she saw cartoons of Kermit the Frog. (Laughter) Now, I don't watch Sesame Street, but she made a point of saying, ""Why Kermit?"" she said, ""Kermit the Frog means nothing to me. You know, I was wondering about Freudian determinants. Why Kermit? Kermit the Frog means nothing to me."" She didn't mind the cartoons too much. But what did disturb her was she got very persistent images or hallucinations of faces and as with Rosalie, the faces were often deformed, with very large teeth or very large eyes. And these frightened her. Well, what is going on with these people? As a physician, I have to try and define what's going on, and to reassure people, especially to reassure them that they're not going insane. Something like 10 percent, as I said, of visually impaired people get these. But no more than one percent of the people acknowledge them, because they are afraid they will be seen as insane or something. And if they do mention them to their own doctors they may be misdiagnosed. In particular, the notion is that if you see things or hear things, you're going mad, but the psychotic hallucinations  are quite different. Psychotic hallucinations, whether they are visual or vocal, they address you. They accuse you. They seduce you. They humiliate you. They jeer at you. You interact with them. There is none of this quality of being addressed with these Charles Bonnet hallucinations. There is a film. You're seeing a film which has nothing to do with you, or that's how people think about it. There is also a rare thing called temporal lobe epilepsy, and sometimes, if one has this, one may feel oneself transported back to a time and place in the past. You're at a particular road junction. You smell chestnuts roasting. You hear the traffic. All the senses are involved. And you're waiting for your girl. And it's that Tuesday evening back in 1982. And the temporal lobe hallucinations are all-sense hallucinations, full of feeling, full of familiarity, located in space and time, coherent, dramatic. The Charles Bonnet ones are quite different. So in the Charles Bonnet hallucinations, you have all sorts of levels, from the geometrical hallucinations — the pink and blue squares the woman had — up to quite elaborate hallucinations with figures and especially faces. Faces, and sometimes deformed faces, are the single commonest thing in these hallucinations. And one of the second commonest is cartoons. So, what is going on? Fascinatingly, in the last few years, it's been possible to do functional brain imagery, to do fMRI on people as they are hallucinating. And in fact, to find that different parts of the visual brain are activated as they are hallucinating. When people have these simple geometrical hallucinations, the primary visual cortex is activated. This is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns. You don't form images with your primary visual cortex. When images are formed, a higher part of the visual cortex is involved in the temporal lobe. And in particular, one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus. And it's known that if people have damage in the fusiform gyrus, they maybe lose the ability to recognize faces. But if there is an abnormal activity in the fusiform gyrus, they may hallucinate faces, and this is exactly what you find in some of these people. There is an area in the anterior part of this gyrus where teeth and eyes are represented, and that part of the gyrus is activated when people get the deformed hallucinations. There is another part of the brain which is especially activated when one sees cartoons. It's activated when one recognizes cartoons, when one draws cartoons, and when one hallucinates them. It's very interesting that that should be specific. There are other parts of the brain which are specifically involved with the recognition and hallucination of buildings and landscapes. Around 1970, it was found that there were not only parts of the brain, but particular cells. ""Face cells"" were discovered around 1970. And now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells, which can be very, very specific. So you may not only have ""car"" cells, you may have ""Aston Martin"" cells. (Laughter) I saw an Aston Martin this morning. I had to bring it in. And now it's in there somewhere. (Laughter) Now, at this level, in what's called the inferotemporal cortex, there are only visual images, or figments or fragments. It's only at higher levels that the other senses join in and there are connections with memory and emotion. And in the Charles Bonnet syndrome, you don't go to those higher levels. You're in these levels of inferior visual cortex where you have thousands and tens of thousands and millions of images, or figments, or fragmentary figments, all neurally encoded in particular cells or small clusters of cells. Normally these are all part of the integrated stream of perception, or imagination, and one is not conscious of them. It is only if one is visually impaired or blind that the process is interrupted. And instead of getting normal perception, you're getting an anarchic, convulsive stimulation, or release, of all of these visual cells in the inferotemporal cortex. So, suddenly you see a face. Suddenly you see a car. Suddenly this, and suddenly that. The mind does its best to organize and to give some sort of coherence to this, but not terribly successfully. When these were first described, it was thought that they could be interpreted like dreams. But in fact people say, ""I don't recognize the people. I can't form any associations."" ""Kermit means nothing to me."" You don't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams. Well, I've more or less said what I wanted. I think I just want to recapitulate and say this is common. Think of the number of blind people. There must be hundreds of thousands of blind people who have these hallucinations, but are too scared to mention them. So this sort of thing needs to be brought into notice, for patients, for doctors, for the public. Finally, I think they are infinitely interesting and valuable, for giving one some insight as to how the brain works. Charles Bonnet said, 250 years ago — he wondered how, thinking these hallucinations, how, as he put it, the theater of the mind could be generated by the machinery of the brain. Now, 250 years later, I think we're beginning to glimpse how this is done. Thanks very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: That was superb. Thank you so much. You speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients. Have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about? Oliver Sacks: I was afraid you'd ask that. (Laughter) Well, yeah, a lot of them. And actually I'm a little visually impaired myself. I'm blind in one eye, and not terribly good in the other. And I see the geometrical hallucinations. But they stop there. CA: And they don't disturb you? Because you understand what's doing it, it doesn't make you worried? OS: Well they don't disturb me any more than my tinnitus, which I ignore. They occasionally interest me, and I have many pictures of them in my notebooks. I've gone and had an fMRI myself, to see how my visual cortex is taking over. And when I see all these hexagons and complex things, which I also have, in visual migraine, I wonder whether everyone sees things like this, and whether things like cave art or ornamental art may have been derived from them a bit. CA: That was an utterly, utterly fascinating talk. Thank you so much for sharing. OS: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們用眼睛看東西，但也用腦看東西。用腦看就是所謂的想像。我們很熟悉自己的想像世界是什麼樣貌。那是我們的本質，一輩子跟著我們。但此外還有一種東西是幻覺。幻覺就截然不同了。幻覺不像是我們創造出來的，似乎不受我們控制，好像是從外面來的，然後偽裝成知覺。 我今天要講的就是幻覺。而且是我在病患身上看到的一種特殊的視覺幻覺。幾個月前，我接到一通電話。是我服務的安養院打來的。他們說院裡有一位90幾歲的老太太出現了幻視。他們不知道她是瘋了呢？還是說，因為她是老太太，也許她中風了，或者得了阿茲海默氏症。 所以他們問我能不能來看一下羅莎莉，也就是這位老太太。我去探視她，馬上就看得出來她的心智很正常，神智清楚，也很聰明。但是她很驚慌、很困惑，因為她出現了幻視。她跟我說，這一點護士沒提到，她是盲人。她因為黃斑病變，已經完全失明5年了。可是，這幾天卻開始看到東西。 我就說：「什麼樣的東西？」她說：穿東方服飾、穿袍子的人走樓梯上上下下。一個男的轉身對我微笑，但他臉上有一邊的牙齒非常巨大。也會看到動物。我看到一棟白色建築。下著一點雪。我看到一匹上了馬鞍的馬，把雪拖走。後來有天晚上，場景變了。我看到很多貓跟狗走向我，走到一個地方就停住，然後場景又變了。我看到很多小孩，上上下下地走樓梯。他們穿著鮮豔的玫瑰色跟藍色，像是東方服飾。 她說，有時候在這些人物出現之前，她會出現幻視，看到地板上有粉紅色跟藍色方塊，一路連到天花板上。我說，這像是做夢嗎？她說，不像做夢，像電影。有顏色，有動作，但是完全沒有聲音，像是默劇。她說，而且是挺無聊的電影。一堆穿著東方服飾的人走上走下，一直重複，沒什麼變化。（笑聲） 她很幽默，她知道那是幻視，但是她很害怕。她活到95歲了，以前從沒出現過幻覺。她說這些幻覺跟她的思考感覺或動作完全不相關。幻視好像憑空出現，或憑空消失，她沒辦法控制。幻視中出現的人或地點她都不認得。而這些人或動物，似乎也都無視於她的存在。她不知道這是怎麼一回事，不知道自己是發瘋了，還是神智不清了。 我仔細地幫她檢查。她是一位聰明的老太太。心智完全正常，沒有什麼病症，沒有服用可能導致幻覺的藥物。但是她失明了。於是我就跟她說：「我想我知道你得了什麼病。」我說，這是一種特殊的幻視，常伴隨視力惡化或失明出現。這種症狀最早的紀錄，是在18世紀，由一位查爾士•邦奈特最先發現的。你有邦奈特症候群，你的大腦沒問題，心智沒問題，你得的是邦奈特症候群。 她聽了就放心了，還好不是什麼嚴重的病。同時她也很好奇。她說：「查爾士•邦奈特是誰？」他自己有這個症狀群嗎？然後她說，去跟所有的護士說，我有邦奈特症候群。（笑聲）我沒發瘋，不是精神失常，我有邦奈特症候群。我也的確跟所有的護士說了。 這對我來說是常見的情況。我主要在老人院服務，我有很多老人病患他們聽力或視力受損。聽力受損的人當中約有10%出現音樂的幻聽。視力受損的人當中約有10%出現幻視。不一定要全盲，視力受損到一定程度就有可能。 說到18世紀對這症候群的描述，查爾士•邦奈特本人沒有這個症候群，是他的外祖父有。他的外祖父是一位地方官員，年紀很大了。他動過白內障手術，視力非常差。1759年，他把他所看到的幻視描述給外孫聽。 首先他說他看到一條手帕浮在半空中。一條藍色的大手帕，上面有四個橘色圓圈。他知道那是幻視，手帕不會浮在半空中。然後他看到一個大輪子浮在半空中。但有時他不太確定到底是不是幻覺，因為幻覺會符合他的視覺情境。有一次，外孫女來看他，他說，跟妳一起來的這些英俊小夥子是誰呀？家人說，外公，沒有什麼英俊小夥子呀。然後英俊小夥子就消失了。這類幻視的一個特色是會憑空出現，憑空消失。通常不是淡入淡出，而是很突然的，而且會一下子改變。 查爾士•盧蘭，這位外祖父看到幾百個不同的人物，各式各樣的景色。有一次他看到一個男的穿著浴袍抽煙斗，結果發現那是他自己。那是他唯一認得的人物。有一次他走在巴黎街頭，他看到真的鷹架，但回到家以後，他看到鷹架的縮小版，6吋高的鷹架出現在他書桌上。這種重複出現的知覺，有時候叫做視覺重複。 他跟羅莎莉經驗到的...羅莎莉也問，這是怎麼回事？我說，當視覺惡化，腦中負責視覺的部分再也收不到刺激，就變得特別活躍，特別容易被激發，開始自發性的活躍起來，幻視就出現了。幻視的內容可能非常複雜。 我有另一位病患，她還保有一些視力。她看到的東西就有點恐怖。有一次她說她看到餐廳裡有一個穿著條紋襯衫的男子，男子轉過身來，分裂成六個穿著條紋襯衫的人，開始朝她走來。然後六個人物又合併成一個，像六角手風琴摺起來一樣。有一次她開車，應該說，是她先生在開車，道路分裂成四條，她覺得自己同時走在四條路上。 她的幻視也有很動作鮮明的，很多都跟汽車有關。有時候她會看到一個青少年坐在汽車引擎蓋上，車子轉彎，他很頑強地坐在那兒，動作卻很優雅。當車子停下來時，男孩會突然直線向上衝，離地100呎，然後消失。 我還有一位病患，她有另一種幻視。這位女士不是眼睛有問題，而是大腦處理視覺的部份，枕葉皮質長了一個小腫瘤。她最常出現的幻視是卡通。這些卡通是透明的，像一層螢幕一樣，遮蓋半個視野。特別的是她會看到科米蛙的卡通。（笑聲）我不看芝麻街的。但她特別提出來說：「為什麼是科米蛙？它對我來說沒有任何意義。」我本來在猜想佛洛依德決定因素。為什麼是科米蛙？科米蛙對我來說沒有任何意義。 這些卡通她是不太介意，讓她很不安的是臉的幻視不斷出現。跟羅莎莉一樣，這些臉經常是扭曲的，牙齒很大，或是眼睛很大，這讓她很害怕。這些人究竟是怎麼了呢？身為醫生，我必須試著解釋，並且讓病患放心。特別是要讓他們放心，他們並不是發瘋了。 我剛剛說，約有10%視覺受損的人會出現這些幻視，但只有不到1%的人會說出來。因為他們擔心被認為是瘋子之類的。就算他們跟醫生說，也有可能被誤診。 一般的看法是，如果你有幻視或幻聽，你就是發瘋了。然而，精神病患的幻覺是很不一樣的。精神疾病產生的幻覺，不管是幻視或幻聽，會跟你對話，指責你，誘惑你，羞辱你，嘲笑你，你跟幻覺有互動。但邦奈特症候群的幻視沒有這種互動的特性。是電影，你在看一場跟你不相關的電影，這是病患的感覺。 有一種罕見的症狀叫顳葉癲癇。有時候，顳葉癲癇的患者可能會覺得自己回到過去，特定的時間地點。你人在一個特定的路口，聞到烤栗子的香味，聽到車聲，所有的感官刺激都有，你在等你的女朋友。時間回到1982年那個星期二晚上。顳葉癲癇的幻覺是多感官幻覺，充滿感受，充滿熟悉感，發生在特定的時間地點，情節一致而戲劇化。邦奈特症候群的幻覺很不一樣。 邦奈特症候群的幻覺有各種不同的層次。從幾何圖形的幻覺，老太太看到的粉紅色和藍色方塊，到很繁複的幻覺，像是人物，特別是臉孔。臉孔，有時候是扭曲的臉孔，是這類幻覺中最常見的。第二常見的是卡通。 究竟是怎麼回事呢？有趣的是，過去幾年我們開始可以做功能性大腦造影，在人出現幻覺時做 fMRI（功能性磁振造影）。實際上也發現當人出現幻視時大腦處理視覺的不同部位活躍起來。如果是簡單的幾何幻視，主要視覺皮質會活動，這是大腦負責感受邊界、圖案的部位。主要視覺皮質無法形成影像， 要形成影像，要牽涉到位於顳葉，更高等的視覺皮質。特別是顳葉有一個區域叫做梭狀回 (fusiform gyrus)。我們已經知道，梭狀回如果受損，人就可能無法辨識臉孔。但是如果梭狀回活動異常，就可能出現臉孔的幻視。這也正是我們在這些人身上看到的。梭狀回前端有一個區域負責處理牙齒和眼睛。當患者出現變形臉孔的幻視，梭狀回的這個部分是活躍的。 大腦還有另一個部分，在看到卡通時會活躍起來。當我們辨識卡通，畫卡通，出現卡通幻視時，這部份會活躍起來。很有趣地腦中竟然有這樣專門的部位。大腦還有其他部位經過特化，處理建築物、景色的辨識及幻覺。 1970年左右，研究人員發現大腦不只有特化的部位，還有特化的細胞。「臉部細胞」是在1970年左右發現的。現在我們知道有上百種不同的細胞，負責非常特定的功能。可能不只有「汽車」細胞，可能還有「奧斯頓馬汀車」細胞。（笑聲）我今天早上看到一台奧斯頓馬汀車，非提一下不可。現在那在我腦子裡了。（笑聲） 在這個層級，在顳下皮質的地方只有視覺影像，或者說片段。要到更高的層級，才有其他感官融入進來，跟記憶、情緒連結起來。邦奈特症候群則不會牽涉到較高層級，是在顳下視覺皮質的層級。這裡有成千上萬，甚至好幾百萬的影像，或者說片段的虛構影像，以神經編碼的方式儲存在特定的細胞或細胞群中。 正常情況下，這會跟知覺、想像整合在一起，我們不會意識到這些影像。只有當我們視力受損，或失明時，這個程序才被打斷。出現的就不是正常的感知，而是下顳葉的這些視覺細胞雜亂無章、痙攣似的被刺激、釋放。所以你突然看到一張臉，突然看到一台車。一下子這個，一下子那個。大腦會盡可能地組織，讓它有一點連貫性，但也不是太成功。 這種症狀當初被發現時，心理學家以為這些影像可以當做夢一樣來解析。但實際上患者會說：「我不認得這些人，想不出什麼關連。」「科米蛙對我來說沒有任何意義」把這些幻視當成夢來處理是沒有用的。 好，我想說的差不多說完了。我只想再次說明，邦奈特症候群是常見的。想想看世界上有多少盲人，當中一定有幾十萬盲人有這些幻視，但是因為害怕，所以不敢說出來。所以這樣的事情必須要讓大家了解，要讓病患、醫師、大眾知道。最後，我認為這類幻視非常有意思，也很有價值，能讓我們一窺大腦的運作。 250年前，查爾士說，關於這些幻視，照他的說法是，在心靈的舞台上，不知道大腦的機器是如何創造出這些幻視的。現在，250年之後，我想我們開始慢慢看到背後的機制。謝謝大家。 （掌聲） 真是太棒了，非常感謝。您的演講充滿了洞見，以及對病人的同理心。您書中所寫的症候群，您本人有任何經驗嗎？ 我就擔心你問這個。（笑聲）有的，很多。其實我自己的視力也有點受損，一隻眼睛失明，另一隻也好不到哪兒去。我會看到幾何圖形的幻視。但僅此而已。 幻視不會讓你煩惱嗎？因為你知道是怎麼回事，所以不會擔心嗎？ 幻視讓我煩惱的程度不會超過耳鳴，耳鳴我是不管的。有時候幻視會引起我的興趣，我的筆記本裡有很多幻視的影像。我自己也做過 fMRI,看到我的視覺皮質如何主導。還有當我在偏頭痛時看到六邊形跟複雜的圖形，我會想是不是人人都會看到這種東西，還有洞穴藝術、裝飾藝術是不是跟這有一點關係。 真是非常引人入勝的演講。非常謝謝您的分享。 謝謝，謝謝。（掌聲）
