Talk	en	zh-tw
olivier_scalabre_the_next_manufacturing_revolution_is_here	Guys, we have an issue. (Laughter) Growth is fading away, and it's a big deal. Our global economy stops growing. And it's not new. Growth has actually declined for the last 50 years. If we continue like this, we need to learn how to live in a world with no growth in the next decade. This is scary because when the economy doesn't grow, our children don't get better lives. What's even scarier is that when the pie does not grow, each of us get a smaller piece. We're then ready to fight for a bigger one. This creates tensions and serious conflicts. Growth matters a lot. If we look at the history of growth, times of big growth have always been fueled by big manufacturing revolutions. It happened three times, every 50-60 years. The steam engine in the middle of the 19th century, the mass-production model in the beginning of the 20th century — thanks, Mr. Ford. And the first automation wave in the 1970s. Why did these manufacturing revolutions create huge growth in our economies? Because they have injected huge productivity improvement. It's rather simple: in order to grow, you need to be producing more, putting more into our economy. This means either more labor or more capital or more productivity. Each time, productivity has been the growth lever. I'm here today to tell you that we are on the verge of another huge change, and that this change, surprisingly enough, is going to come from manufacturing, again. It will get us out of our growth slump and it will change radically the way globalization has been shaped over the last decade. I'm here to tell you about the amazing fourth manufacturing revolution that is currently underway. It's not as if we've done nothing with manufacturing since the last revolution. Actually, we've made some pretty lame attempts to try to revitalize it. But none of them have been the big overhaul we really need to get us growing again. For example, we've tried to relocate our factories offshore in order to reduce cost and take advantage of cheap labor. Not only did this not inspire productivity, but it only saved money for a short period of time, because cheap labor didn't stay cheap for long. Then, we've tried to make our factories larger and we specialized them by product. The idea was that we can make a lot of one product and stockpile it to be sold with demand. This did help productivity for a while. But it introduced a lot of rigidities in our supply chain. Let's take fashion retail. Traditional clothing companies have built offshore, global, rigid supply chains. When fast-fashion competitors like Zara started replenishing their stocks faster from two collections a year to one collection a month, none of them have been able to keep up with the pace. Most of them are in great difficulties today. Yet, with all of their shortcomings, those are the factories we know today. When you open the doors, they look the same as they did 50 years ago. We've just changed the location, the size, the way they operate. Can you name anything else that looks the same as it did 50 years ago? It's crazy. We've made all the tweaks to the model that we could, and now we hit its limits. After all of our attempts to fix the manufacturing model failed, we thought growth could come from elsewhere. We turned to the tech sector — there's been quite a lot of innovations there. Just to name one: the Internet. We hoped it could produce growth. And indeed, it changed our lives. It made big waves in the media, the service, the entertainment spaces. But it hasn't done much for productivity. Actually, what's surprising is that productivity is on the decline despite all of those innovation efforts. Imagine that — sitting at work, scrolling through Facebook, watching videos on YouTube has made us less productive. Weird. (Laughter) This is why we are not growing. We failed at reinventing the manufacturing space, and large technological innovations have played away from it. But what if we could combine those forces? What if the existing manufacturing and large technological innovation came together to create the next big manufacturing reinvention. Bingo! This is the fourth manufacturing revolution, and it's happening right now. Major technologies are entering the manufacturing space, big time. They will boost industrial productivity by more than a third. This is massive, and it will do a lot in creating growth. Let me tell you about some of them. Have you already met advanced manufacturing robots? They are the size of humans, they actually collaborate with them, and they can be programmed in order to perform complex, non-repetitive tasks. Today in our factories, only 8 percent of the tasks are automated. The less complex, the more repetitive ones. It will be 25 percent in 10 years. It means that by 2025, advanced robots will complement workers to be, together, 20 percent more productive, to manufacture 20 percent more outputs, to achieve 20 percent additional growth. This isn't some fancy, futuristic idea. These robots are working for us right now. Last year in the US, they helped Amazon prepare and ship all the products required for Cyber Monday, the annual peak of online retail. Last year in the US, it was the biggest online shopping day of the year and of history. Consumers spent 3 billion dollars on electronics that day. That's real economic growth. Then there's additive manufacturing, 3D printing. 3D printing has already improved plastic manufacturing and it's now making its way through metal. Those are not small industries. Plastic and metals represent 25 percent of global manufacturing production. Let's take a real example. In the aerospace industry, fuel nozzles are some of the most complex parts to manufacture, for one reason: they are made up of 20 different parts that need to be separately produced and then painstakingly assembled. Aerospace companies are now using 3D printing, which allows them to turn those 20 different parts into just one. The results? 40 percent more productivity, 40 percent more output produced, 40 percent more growth for this specific industry. But actually, the most exciting part of this new manufacturing revolution goes much beyond productivity. It's about producing better, smarter products. It's about scale customization. Imagine a world where you can buy the exact products you want with the functionalities you need, with the design you want, with the same cost and lead time as a product that's been mass produced, like your car, or your clothes or your cell phone. The new manufacturing revolution makes it possible. Advanced robots can be programmed in order to perform any product configuration without any setup time or ramp up. 3D printers instantaneously produce any customized design. We are now able to produce a batch of one product, your product, at the same cost and lead time as a batch of many. Those are only a few examples of the manufacturing revolution at play. Not only will manufacturing become more productive, it will also become more flexible, and those were exactly the elements of growth that we are missing. But actually, there are even some bigger implications for all of us when manufacturing will find its way back into the limelight. It will create a huge macroeconomic shift. First, our factories will be relocated into our home markets. In the world of scale customization, consumer proximity is the new norm. Then, our factories will be smaller, agile. Scale does not matter anymore, flexibility does. They will be operating on a multi-product, made-to-order basis. The change will be drastic. Globalization will enter a new era. The East-to-West trade flows will be replaced by regional trade flows. East for East, West for West. When you think about that, the old model was pretty much insane. Piling up stocks, making products travel the whole world before they reach their end consumers. The new model, producing just next to the consumer market, will be much cleaner, much better for our environment. In mature economies, manufacturing will be back home, creating more employment, more productivity and more growth. Good news, isn't it? But here's the thing with growth — it does not come automatically. Mature economies will have to seize it. We'll have to massively re-train our workforce. In most countries, like in my country, France, we've told our children that manufacturing had no future. That it was something happening far away. We need to reverse that and teach manufacturing again at university. Only the countries that will boldly transform will be able to seize this growth. It's also a chance for developing economies. Of course China and other emerging economies won't be the factory of the world anymore. Actually, it was not a sustainable model in the long term, as those countries are becoming richer. Last year, it was already as expensive to produce in Brazil as to produce in France. By 2018, manufacturing costs in China will be on par with the US. The new manufacturing revolution will accelerate the transition of those emerging economies towards a model driven by domestic consumption. And this is good, because this is where growth will be created. In the next five years, the next billion consumers in China will inject more growth in our economies than the top five European markets together. This fourth manufacturing revolution is a chance for all of us. If we play it right, we'll see sustainable growth in all of our economies. This means more wealth distributed to all of us and a better future for our children. Thank you. (Applause)	我們現在有一個問題。 （笑聲） 增長正在放緩，這將是一個巨大的問題。全球經濟已經停止增長。這不是什麼新消息。經濟增長其實在過去的五十年裡就已經開始放緩。如果我們繼續這樣下去，我們需要來學習如何在數十年的經濟停滯中生活。這很恐怖，因為當經濟停滯增長時，我們的孩子們就沒法有更好的生活。更恐怖的是，當餡餅停止增長時每個人可以得到的餡餅也會減少。屆時，我們就會有爭端。這將會造成嚴重的分歧以及緊張的局勢。經濟增長意義重大。 如果我們回顧以前的增長，那些大型的增長總是以大型的工業革命為動力推動的。它發生過三次，每次間隔五到六十年。十九世紀中的蒸汽機，二十世紀初的量產化，感謝福特先生的貢獻。另外還有1970年代的自動化進程。 為什麼這些生產業的革命製造了巨大的經濟增長？因為它們令我們的經濟増加了巨大的生產力。簡單說就是，要使經濟增長，就要製造更多，投入更多東西進入我們的經濟。這意味著更多工人，更多資本，或者更多生產力。每一次，生產力都是經濟的推動者。 今天，我要在這裡向你們講述我們現在站在下一個巨大變革的邊緣這個變革，將再一次從工業生產發起。這將扭轉我們經濟的放緩這次劇變會從根本上改變我們已有的全球化經過過去十年現在我要講述目前正在發生的第四次工業革命 這並不意味著自上次工業革命以來我們的工業毫無技術增長事實上 我們做了幾次嘗試企圖重振工業但成效甚微不足以讓經濟復甦。比方說 ，我們曾試圖將工廠遷至海外利用當地廉價勞動力從而降低成本但這卻沒有提高勞動力，反而只在短期內節省了成本因為廉價勞動力不會永遠廉價。此後，我們還企圖擴大產業鏈對每種產品進行專門化生產這個想法基於我們可以只做一種產品囤積起來以滿足需求。 這個做法確實在一段時間內提高了產能但它讓我們的生產方式非常死板。以服飾時尚零售業為例，傳統的服裝企業在海外設立全球化工廠 生產鏈不易變通。當像Zara等快時尚品牌為加快存貨周轉率從一年兩個時裝系列 提高到一個月一次。傳統的服裝企業都跟不上其節奏致使它們中的絶大多數如今都陷入危機 但是儘管有這些缺點這些企業都依然很有名。當你去看這些品牌與其工廠時你會發現它們和50年前一模一樣，僅僅變換了工廠的位置，大小和運作方式你們還能列舉出其它和50年前一樣不變的例子嗎？這很瘋狂。我們已盡我們所能對其模式進行調整目前已經達到了極限， 在對修補工業生產模式做出的努力都失敗後，我們猜測經濟增長或許來自其他地方我們轉向研究科技行業那裡有大量的創新比如，互聯網我們希望網絡能夠帶來增長事實上 它改變了我們的生活它對傳媒業，服務業和娛樂產業都帶來了巨大影響但是它並未對生產力本身帶來多大改變實際上，令人驚異的是生產力卻一直在下降儘管有這麼多的努力去創新。想像一下，上班時候看看臉書在YouTube上看看視頻，這些都令生產力下降奇怪吧？ （笑聲） 這就是為什麼經濟未能增長我們未能重新定義工業領域與此同時大型技術創新卻與之相背但如果我們把這些力量結合起來，會發生什麼？將當下的工業與大型技術創新結合起來會不會引發下一次大型工業革命？ 就是這樣！這就是第四次工業革命它正在發生重大技術革新正在進入工業領域這是劃時代！它將會使生產力提高超過三分之一這個增長相當大，並且它將引發經濟的增長。舉幾個例子， 不知在座各位知不知道高級工業機器人？它們和人類大小相仿可以和人合作可以通過設定好的程序來執行複雜的，非重複性的任務現在，在我們的工廠裡只有百分之八的任務是自動化的並且是那些不是很複雜，且重複性很強的任務在未來十年內這一數字會增長百分之二十五。這意味著到2025年機器人將與工人互補生產效率將提升20%從而生產力也提升20%經濟増長提高20% 這並不是假想。這些機器人現在就在為我們工作。去年，美國亞馬遜用機器人來發貨。以應對賽博週一線上零售消費高峰。那是去年在美國有史以來最大的線上購物日。消費者那天在網絡上共支出30億美元那是實實在在的經濟增長 此外，還有工業的3D打印技術3D打印已經改善了塑料行業目前它正向鋼鐵行業進發。塑料和鋼鐵都不是小型行業。它們占全球工業生產的25%。 讓我們看一個航天領域的真實例子。燃油噴嘴是最難生產的附件之一。因為，它由20種不同部件組成並且它們需要獨立生產組裝時也很複雜費時航空公司現在採用3D打印技術這類技術可以讓它們從需要生產20種不同部件變為只生產一種。結果呢？生產力提高了百分之四十出產量提高了百分之四十經濟增長加快了百分之四十僅僅是因為該工業內的一點改變 但事實上，這次新工業革命最激動人心的地方遠不止生產效率的提高還有生產質量更優，更為精細的產品還有批量定製想像一下 你可以買到符合你所有需求的產品。它有著你所需的功能有你想要的設計但卻和大規模生產出的產品在價位與訂貨交付時間上相差無幾你可以買到你所定製的車，衣服，甚至是手機這次新工業革命讓這一切變得可能 我們可以通過對高級機器人編程去完成任何產品配置並無安裝時間、緩衝3D打印機可以即刻生產任何定做的設計品現今 我們可以以大批手生產所需的成本及訂貨交付時間來生產一個僅屬於你的產品。這些僅僅是當下工業革命的幾個例子 不僅生產率更高同時製造業還變得更具彈性。而這些恰恰是我們缺少的增長要素但實際上，傳統製造業重回聚光燈下對我們所有人而言還有更深層次的意義它會帶來大型的宏觀經濟轉變。 首先，我們的工廠將會遷入社區在大規模訂製的情況下小微客戶將會變成新的模手式 第二，我們的工廠會變得更小、更靈活批量化不再重要，彈性將取而代之工廠將會基於多產品及訂製的基礎上生產這將是個劇變。 全球化將進入一個新紀元由東至西的貿易流動，將會被本土地區化的貿易往來取締。東部供給東部 西部供給西部再迴首看看過去的生產模式就會發現它有些瘋狂囤積存貨 在產品達到客戶手上之前讓它們經歷一次世界旅行。這種在客戶市場附近生產銷售的新生產模式，將會更為清潔 對環境影響更小在成熟經濟裡 製造業將回歸家庭。這將創造就業提高生產率，推動經濟發展。好消息 不是嗎？ 但問題在於，經濟發展並不是自然而然就有了的。成熟經濟體需要抓住經濟發展機遇。我們必須對勞動力進行大規模的再培訓。在絶大多數國家比如我的國家 法國我們這樣告訴孩子們，製造業是沒有前途的。並且很早以前就是這樣了，我們必須改變這一觀念。在大學裡重新教授製造業課程，只有完成大膽創新的國家，才能夠抓住這次經濟發展機會。 同時，這對發展中國家而言也是一個機遇。中國和其他發展中國家，不再會是世界工廠。實際上，隨著這些國家變得更為富有，這從長期來看也不是一個可持續發展模式。去年，巴西的生產成本已經與法國持平。到2018年，中國的生產成本也將追上美國。 第四次工業革命將會推動發展中國家，向內生消費導向的經濟體轉變。這是個好消息，因為這將是未來經濟增長的起點。未來五年中國的十億人消費力市場將會與歐洲五大市場加起來為我們的經濟發展注入更多動力。 對我們所有人而言，第四次工業革命都是一次機遇。如果我們正確運用它，我們將會為我們的經濟帶來持續發展。這意味著分給我們所有人的財富會增加我們的孩子也將擁有一個更好的未來。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
