Talk	en	zh-tw
ory_okolloh_on_becoming_an_activist	"So what's image got do with it? And I must say, I think Emeka is trying to send a lot of subliminal messages, because I'm going to keep harping on some of the issues that have come up. But I'm going to try and do something different, and try and just close the loop with some of my personal stories, and try and put a face to a lot of the issues that we've been talking about. So, Africa is a complex continent full of contradictions, as you can see. We're not the only ones. (Laughter) (Applause) And you know, it's amazing. I mean, we need a whole conference just devoted to telling the good stories about the continent. Just think about that, you know? And this is typically what we've been talking about, the role that the media plays in focusing just on the negative stuff. Now, why is that a problem? A typical disaster story: disease, corruption, poverty. And some of you might be standing here thinking, saying, ""OK, you know, Ory, you're Harvard-educated, and all you privileged people come here, saying, 'Forget the poor people. Let's focus on business and the markets, and whatever.' "" And they're all, ""There's the 80 percent of Africans who really need help."" And I want to tell you that this is my story, OK? And it's the story of many of the Africans who are here. We start with poverty. I didn't grow up in the slums or anything that dire, but I know what it is to grow up without having money, or being able to support family. Euvin was talking about bellwether signs. The bellwether for whether our family was broke or not was breakfast. You know, when things were good, we had eggs and sausages. When things were bad, we had porridge. And like many African families, my parents could never save because they supported siblings, cousins, you know, their parents, and things were always dicey. Now, when I was born, they realized they had a pretty smart kid, and they didn't want me to go to the neighborhood school, which was free. And they adopted a very interesting approach to education, which was they were going to take me to a school that they can barely afford. So they took me to a private, Catholic, elementary school, which set the foundation for what ended up being my career. And what happened was, because they could afford it sometimes, sometimes not, I got kicked out pretty much every term. You know, someone would come in with a list of the people who haven't paid school fees, and when they started getting pretty strict, you had to leave, until your school fees could be paid. And I remember thinking, I mean, why don't these guys just take me to a cheap school? Because you know, as a kid you're embarrassed and you're sensitive, and everyone knows you guys don't have money. But they kept at it, and I now understand why they did what they did. They talk about corruption. In Kenya, we have an entrance exam to go into high school. And there's national schools, which are like the best schools, and provincial schools. My dream school at that time was Kenya High School, a national school. I missed the cutoff by one point. And I was so disappointed, and I was like, ""Oh my God, you know, what am I going to do?"" And my father said, ""OK, listen. Let's go and try and talk to the headmistress. You know, it's just one point. I mean, maybe she'll let you in if that slot's still there."" So we went to the school, and because we were nobodies, and because we didn't have privilege, and because my father didn't have the right last name, he was treated like dirt. And I sat and listened to the headmistress talk to him, saying, you know, who do you think you are? And, you know, you must be joking if you think you can get a slot. And I had gone to school with other girls, who were kids of politicians, and who had done much, much worse than I did, and they had slots there. And there's nothing worse than seeing your parent being humiliated in front of you, you know? And we left, and I swore to myself, and I was like, ""I'm never, ever going to have to beg for anything in my life."" They called me two weeks later, they're like, oh, yeah, you can come now. And I told them to stuff it. (Laughter) (Applause) Final story, and I sort of have to speak quickly. Disease. My father, who I've been talking about, died of AIDS in 1999. He never told anyone that he had AIDS, his fear of the stigma was so strong. And I'm pretty much the one who figured it out, because I was a nerd. And I was in the States at the time, and they called me. He was very sick, the first time he got sick. And he had Cryptococcal meningitis. And so I went on to Google, Cryptococcal meningitis, you know. Because of doctor-patient privilege, they couldn't really tell us what was going on. But they were like, you know, this is a long-term thing. And when I went online and looked at the infectious — read about the disease, I pretty much realized what was going on. The first time he got sick, he recovered. But what happened was that he had to be on medication that, at that time — Diflucan, which in the States is used for yeast infections — cost 30 dollars a pill. He had to be on that pill for the rest of his life. You know, so money ran out. He got sick again. And up until that time, he had a friend who used to travel to India, and he used to import, bring him, could get him a generic version of it. And that kept him going. But the money ran out. He got sick again. He got sick on a Friday. At that time, there was only one bank that had ATMs in Kenya, and we could not get cash. The family couldn't get cash for him to start the treatment until Monday. The hospital put him on a water drip for three days. And finally, we figured, well, OK, we'd better just try and take him to a public hospital. At least he'll get treated while we try to figure out the money situation. And he died when the ambulance was coming to the hospital to take him. And, you know, now, imagine if — and I could go on and on — imagine if this is all you know about me. How would you look at me? With pity, you know. Sadness. And this is how you look at Africa. This is the damage it causes. You don't see the other side of me. You don't see the blogger, you don't see the Harvard-educated lawyer, the vibrant person, you know? And I just wanted to personalize that. Because we talk about it in big terms, and you wonder, you know, so what? But it's damaging. And I'm not unique, right? Imagine if all you knew about William was the fact that he grew up in a poor village. And you didn't know about the windmill, you know? And I was just moved. I was actually crying during his presentation. He was like, I try and I make. I was like Nike should hire him, you know, ""Just do it!"" (Laughter) And this is, again, the point I'm trying to make. When you focus just on the disasters — (Laughter) (Applause) — we're ignoring the potential. So, what is to be done? First of all, Africans, we need to get better at telling our stories. We heard about that yesterday. We had some of them this morning. And this is an example, you know, blogging is one way of doing that. Afrigator is an aggregator of African blogs that was developed in South Africa. So we need to start getting better. If no one else will tell our stories, let's do it. And going back to the point I was trying to make, this is the Swahili Wikipedia. Swahili is spoken by about 50 million people in East Africa. It only has five contributors. Four of them are white males — non-native speakers. The other person is — Ndesanjo, if you're here, stand up — is a Tanzanian, [the] first Swahili blogger. He's the only African who's contributing to this. People, please. We can't whine and complain the West is doing this. What are we doing? Where are the rest of the Swahili speakers? Why are we not generating our own content? You know, it's not enough to complain. We need to act. Reuters now integrates African blogs into their coverage of Africa. So, that's a start, and we've heard of all their other initiatives. The cheetah generation. The aid approach, you know, is flawed. And after all the hoopla of Live 8, we're still not anywhere in the picture. No, you're not. (Laughter) But the point I'm trying to make, though, is that it's not enough for us to criticize. And for those of you in the diaspora who are struggling with where should I be, should I move back, should I stay? You know, just jump. The continent needs you. And I can't emphasize that enough, you know. I walked away from a job with one of the top firms in D.C., Covington and Burling, six figures. With two paychecks, or three paychecks, I could solve a lot of my family's problems. But I walked away from that, because my passion was here, and because I wanted to do things that were fulfilling. And because I'm needed here, you know? I probably can win a prize for the most ways to use a Harvard Law School degree because of all the things I'm doing. One is because I'm pretty aggressive, and I try and find, you know, opportunities. But there is such a need, you know? I'm a corporate lawyer most of the time for an organization called Enablis that supports entrepreneurs in South Africa. We're now moving into East Africa. And we give them business development services, as well as financing loan and equity. I've also set up a project in Kenya, and what we do is we track the performance of Kenyan MPs. My partner, M, who's a tech guru, hacked WordPress. It costs us, like, 20 dollars a month just for hosting. Everything else on there is a labor of love. We've manually entered all the data there. And you can get profiles of each MP, questions they've asked in parliament. We have a comment function, where people can ask their MPs questions. There are some MPs who participate, and come back and ask. And basically, we started this because we were tired of complaining about our politicians. You know, I believe that accountability stems from demand. You're not just going to be accountable out of the goodness of your heart. And we as Africans need to start challenging our leaders. What are they doing? You know, they're not going to change just out of nowhere. So we need new policies, we need — where's that coming from, you know? Another thing is that these leaders are a reflection of our society. We talk about African governments like they've been dropped from Mars, you know? They come from us. And what is it about our society that is generating leaders that we don't like? And how can we change that? So Mzalendo was one small way we thought we could start inspiring people to start holding their leaders accountable. Where do we go from here? I believe in the power of ideas. I believe in the power of sharing knowledge. And I'd ask all of you, when you leave here, please just share, and keep the ideas that you've gotten out of here going, because it can make a difference. The other thing I want to urge you to do is take an interest in the individual. I've had lots of conversations about things I think need to be happening in Africa. People are like, ""OK, if you don't do aid, I'm a bleeding heart liberal, what can I do?"" And when I talk about my ideas, they're like, ""BBut it's not scalable, you know. Give me something I can do with Paypal."" It's not that easy, you know? And sometimes just taking an interest in the individual, in the fellows you've met, and the businesspeople you've met, it can make a huge difference, especially in Africa, because usually the individual in Africa carries a lot of people behind them. Practically. I mean, when I was a first-year student in law school, my mom's business had collapsed, so I was supporting her. My sister was struggling to get through undergrad. I was helping her pay her tuition. My cousin ran out of school fees, and she's really smart. I was paying her school fees. A cousin of mine died of AIDS, left an orphan, so we said, well, what are we going to do with her? You know, she's now my baby sister. And because of the opportunities that were afforded to me, I am able to lift all those people. So, don't underestimate that. An example. This man changed my life. He's a professor. He's now at Vanderbilt. He's an undergrad professor, Mitchell Seligson. And because of him, I got into Harvard Law School, because he took an interest. I was taking a class of his, and he was just like, this is an overeager student, which we don't normally get in the United States, because everyone else is cynical and jaded. He called me to his office and said, ""What do you want to do when you grow up?"" I said, ""I want to be a lawyer."" And he was like, ""Why? You know, we don't need another lawyer in the United States."" And he tried to talk me out of it, but it was like, ""OK, I know nothing about applying to law school, I'm poli-sci Ph.D. But, you know, let's figure out what I need you to do, what I need to do to help you out."" It was like, ""Where do you want to go?"" And to me at that time university — I was at University of Pitts for undergrad, and that was like heaven, OK, because compared to what could have been in Kenya. So I'm like, ""Yeah, I'm just applying to Pitt for law school."" He was like, ""Why? You know, you're smart, you have all these things going for you."" And I'm like, ""Because I'm here and it's cheap, and you know, I kind of like Pittsburgh."" Like, that's the dumbest reason I've ever heard for applying to law school. And, you know, so he took me under his wing, and he encouraged me. And he said, ""Look, you can get into Harvard, you're that good, OK? And if they don't admit you, they're the ones who are messed up."" And he built me up, you know? And this is just an illustration. You can meet other individuals here. We just need a push. That's all I needed was a push to go to the next level. Basically, I want to end with my vision for Africa, you know? A gentleman spoke yesterday about the indignity of us having to leave the continent so that we can fulfill our potential. You know, my vision is that my daughter, and any other African child being born today, can be whoever they want to be here, without having to leave. And they can have the possibility of transcending the circumstances under which they were born. That's one thing you Americans take for granted, you know? That you can grow up, you know, not so good circumstances, and you can move. Just because you are born in rural Arkansas, whatever, that doesn't define who you are. For most Africans today, where you live, or where you were born, and the circumstances under which you were born, determine the rest of your life. I would like to see that change, and the change starts with us. And as Africans, we need to take responsibility for our continent. Thank you. (Applause)"	影像的意義在哪？我必須說我覺得Emeka試圖傳遞許多潛意識的訊息因為我會反覆的探討這些已經被討論過的議題但我會用另一種不同的方法嘗試試著結合一些我個人的故事讓你們更能夠清楚的看到這些我們正在討論的議題嗯，非洲是一個充滿矛盾複雜的大陸正如你所知的當然不只有我們是這樣 (笑聲) (鼓掌) 你知道嗎？很讓人驚訝我是說，我們這整場都會談論關於這塊大陸美好的故事思考一下，嗯？這就是我們一直在說的媒體扮演的角色總是聚焦在負面的事物上為何現在這成了個問題一個典型災難的故事疾病、貪汙、貧窮或許在場的有些人會這樣想OK, 你知道嗎？Ory，你是哈佛畢業的你們這些特權份子站在這裡說著忘記窮人吧讓我們聚焦在商業行為、行銷或其他的事情上但是全部或80%的非洲人民真的需要幫助 但我想告訴你，我的故事這也是許多在場非洲人民的故事從貧窮開始吧我並非從貧民窟長大但我知道生活困苦是怎麼一回事或是你還得負擔家計Euvin曾談論過前兆一個家庭有沒有破產看他們的早餐就知道了日子好過時，我們會有雞蛋跟香腸但是當日子困苦時，我們只能靠麥片粥過活許多非洲家庭我父母從來沒辦法存錢因為他們得養親人，表哥表弟，當然還有他們的父母而且經常面臨困境當我出生時，他們了解他們擁有一個漂亮聰明的小孩他們不想要讓我在附近上學即使是免費的 所以他們採用了一個非常有趣的方法來教育我，就是他們把我送到我去他們幾乎負擔不起的學校那是一間私立、天主教的小學此也讓我的職業生涯奠定基礎然而實際發生的是因為有時他們繳的起學費，有時候繳不起我幾乎每學年都被勒令退學嗯，有人拿著一張列表走進來上面寫著哪些人沒有繳學費他們非常嚴格的執行除非你已經繳了學費否則你必須離開學校然而我記得我當時在想，我指為什麼不把我送到便宜一點的學校就好因為你知道的，你是一個小孩你會尷尬而且你很敏感，每個人都知道你沒有錢但是我父母還是持續這件事但我現在理解為何他們要這樣做 他們談論貪汙腐敗在肯亞，我們有高中入學考試在那裡，國立學校看似是最好的學校或者省立學校我那時候夢想中的學校是肯亞高中一間國立學校就當時來講，我差點被退學。但我也很失望，覺得我的天啊，我接下來要怎麼辦然後我父親說，好，聽著讓我們跟校長談談看你知道的，這只是一個原因，我指或許他會讓你繼續，如果還在機會還在所以我們去了學校但因為我們只是無名小卒，也非特權人士我父親也非名門之後所以他遭遇到很無禮的對待我坐下來聽著校長這樣跟他說嗯，你以為你是誰阿？你對你剛提出的不會是認真的吧你想要一個機會我必須去一個全是政治人物小孩的學校而他們大部分都沒有我來的優秀但他們卻可以在這裡沒有什麼比親眼看見你的父母當著你的面被羞辱更糟了當我們離開的時候，我對自己發誓我這輩子絕對不要讓自己為了任何事卑躬屈膝兩週後他們打電話給我，他們表現出嗯，是的，你現在可以過來了。然後我跟他們說，去你的。 (笑聲)(掌聲) 最後一個故事，我得講快點了。疾病我父親，那位我一直在討論的人，在1999年因為感染愛滋死了他從沒跟別人說他感染愛滋他對這個恥辱的懼怕是如此強烈我大概是唯一知道這件事的人，因為我是個書呆子那個時候我還在美國他們告訴我，他病的很嚴重，第一次他生病是因為罹患隱球菌腦膜炎所以我去搜尋有關隱球菌腦膜炎的資訊因為有醫病關係的權力消長他們不能夠告訴我們真正發生了什麼事但他們表現出，嗯，這是需要長期治療的當我上網然後閱讀有關這個疾病的資訊我大概也知道是怎麼一回事 第一次他得病，然後痊癒了但實際上，他必須要接受醫療照護當時，泰復肯(治療腦膜炎用藥)，在美國是用來治療黴菌感染的，一顆藥要價30美元他此生都必須要仰賴這種藥物你知道的，這所費不非然後他又再度得病一直到那時，他有個朋友曾到印度旅遊然後他會帶回一些無廠家商標的的藥物給我父親這讓我父親得以存活但錢還是會花完所以他又再度生病，他在週五得病那時，在肯亞只有一間銀行有自動提款機我們無法提領現金，家人無法取得現金好讓他得以接受治療，一直到星期一醫院只是幫他吊了三天的點滴最後我們明白了，嗯我們得帶他去公立醫院在那裡他至少可以得到治療當我們試圖解決財務上的困境救護車來正趕來送他前往醫院時他過世了 嗯。想像一下如果...，我可以繼續說下去想像一下如果這就是你所認識的我你會怎麼看我帶著憐憫，或許還有哀傷這就是大家怎麼看非洲的這就是它造成的傷痕你不會看到我的另一面你不會知道我是一個部落客也不會知道我是哈佛畢業的律師一個有力量的人，明白嗎？我只想要把此個人化因為我們談論的是一個廣泛巨大的詞然後你想著，嗯，那又怎樣但它正在崩壞我並不是唯一的，是不是？想像一下如果你所知道的威廉是住在一個貧窮的村落而你對那個磨坊一無所知，明白嗎？然後我剛剛才受到感動 —我正因為他的演講而哭泣他就像，我嘗試的並且我所做的我希望Nike雇用他，你知道的，『去做吧！』 (笑聲) 這就是我想重申的論點當你只專注在災難時(笑聲)(鼓掌)我們忽視了潛在的可能所以要怎麼做首先非洲人民們，我們必須要更精於訴說我們的故事昨天我們聽到的今天早晨我們保留一部分就好你知道寫部落格是一個方法Afrigator是一個非洲的部落格平台它是在南非被開發的所以我們必須要開始變好如果沒有人要說我們的故事，讓我們來說回到我剛剛想說的這是斯瓦希里語(非洲最多人說的語言)的維基百科斯瓦希里語在東非大約50萬人使用但卻只有五個貢獻撰寫者其中四個人是男性白人，完全沒有人有母語背景第五個人是Ndesanjo, 如果你在場請起立 —他是坦桑尼亞人，第一個斯瓦希里語的部落客他是唯一非洲藉的的貢獻撰寫者 人們阿，拜託！我們不能夠再哭泣抱怨西方國家已經在進行了而我們在做什麼呢？斯瓦希里語的發言者都跑到哪裡去了？為什麼我們不能說說我們自己的故事呢？你知道，光抱怨是沒有用的，我們必須要做些什麼路透社現在正在集結非洲的部落格成為他們非洲的訊息來源所以這是個開始我們也聽聞了他們其它開創的舉動獵豹世代(指非洲的未來一代)這個資助行為，是有缺失的在Live 8(貧窮運動)的喧鬧之後在這塊版圖上依然不見我們蹤影是的，沒有你。 (笑聲) 但我想說的是光只有評論是不夠的在遷徙流散中的你們掙扎著何去何從該般回去嗎或者繼續停留嗯，行動就對了這塊大陸需要你我得過分強調，你知道的我從華盛頓特區最頂尖的事務所辭職了卡溫頓和布林，六位數兩份或三份薪水我可以解決家裡的問題但我離開那裏，因為我知道我志向於此因為我想做一些事情是有意義的因為這裡需要我，了解嗎在很多方面或許我可能會獲獎因為我有哈佛法學院的學位因為所有我做的這些事 其一是我非常的積極我極力尋找機會但這裡有這樣的一個需要，了解嗎？我平常是一個企業律師在一個叫做Enablis的機構那裡資助從南非來的企業家我們現在往東非移動我們提供商業發展的服務和財務貸款與投資入股我也在肯亞設置了一個計畫我們所做的是追蹤肯亞國會議員(MP)的表現我有個科技技術一流的夥伴，駭進了WordPress(部落格平台)主機費用一個月大概20美元其他的都是發自於內心喜愛而自願做的我們自己取得了所有的資料你可以得到每個國會議員(MP)的檔案他們在國會中問的問題我們有個評論功能在那裡人們可以詢問議員問題有些議員有參與並且回來與發問 基本上我們開始做這些，是因為我們厭倦了對於政客的抱怨嗯，我相信當責是需要被要求的你並不只是對你的良心負責就好而我們身為非洲人民需要開始質詢我們的在上位者他們在做什麼了解嗎？他們並沒有要改變一點都沒有所以我們需要新政策，我們需要這是從哪裡來的，了解嗎？其二是，這些在上位者是我們社會的一個倒影我們談論非洲政府時就像他們被扔到火星一樣，了解嗎？他們也是我們自身是我們社會的樣貌產生我們不喜愛的領袖我們要怎樣改變這個呢Mzalendo(監督肯亞議員網站)是我們可以起步的一條小逕讓人民開始監督在上位者的論述我們可以往哪呢？我相信信念的力量我相信知識共享的力量 我想請求你們，當你離開這裡的時候，請與他人分享並且記住你在這裡所產生的想法因為它是可以有所不同的另外我想要你做的另一件事是對他人付出關懷我已經談論過許多需要在非洲被實踐的想法人們傾向於— 好，如果你不幫忙我是一個心軟的民主主義者，我可以做什麼？當我談論我的想法時，他們總是，但這是不能被比較的，了解嗎？給我一些用Paypal就可以做的這不容易，你知道嗎？有時只對個人付出關心對你所遇見的人付出關懷，或者你認識的商人這可以大有不同的，尤其是在非洲因為在非洲的個人背後都有更大的一群人實際上，我指，當我在法學院的第一年我母親的生意倒閉了，所以我必須要扶養她我妹妹掙扎完成大學學位我幫忙她負擔學費我堂妹付不出學費，但她很聰明我幫她負擔她的學費 我的一位表兄死於愛滋，有個遺孤所以我們討論，她要何去何從嗯，她現在變成了我親愛的小妹因為這些在我面前眾多的機會我才能夠照顧起這些人所以不要輕忽這些另外一個例子，一個改變我生命的男人他是一個教授，現在在范德比特大學他是一個本科教授，Mitchell Seligson因為他我才能夠進哈佛因為他付出關心我當時修他的課，而他就像，這是一個過於有野心的學生這種人在美國並不常見因為大家都是自私自立並且精疲力盡他把我叫進他的辦公室並且說你長大後想做什麼我說，我想成為一名律師然後他疑惑著，為什麼？在美國我們不需要再多一名律師他試圖要告訴我這點但就像，好，我一點都不知道要怎麼樣才能進法學院我是一個國際關係的博士但是，讓我們想想你需要做什麼我需要做些什麼才能幫助你 這就像，你想要做些什麼？對我而言那時是上大學我那時候準備要到匹茲堡大學就讀而這就像天堂，嗯，因為可能跟在肯亞發生的事情做了比較所以我就，嗯，我剛申請了匹茲堡大學的法學院他就一臉疑惑，為什麼？你知道嗎？你很聰明妳具備所有條件阿然後我就嗯，因為我在這裡，而且它很便宜嗯，我也有點喜歡匹茲堡喜歡！這真是我聽過要申請進法學院最愚蠢的理由了嗯，所以他把我納入他的羽翼下，鼓勵我然後他說，妳看，妳可以進哈佛的妳是這麼棒，好嗎？如果他們不認同妳，他們才是搞砸的那方他幫助我成長許多，這只是其中一個例子 你也可以在這裡遇到其他人我們只需要被推一把我所需要的只是把我往前推一步基本上我想要以我對非洲的想像作結一位紳士昨天談論關於我們必須要離開非洲這塊大陸的恥辱因此我們可以滿足我們的潛能嗯，我的想像是我女兒或者是非洲的孩童在非洲都能夠做他們想做的而不用遠離家門而他們也擁有超越他們所在環境的可能這是你們美國人視為理所當然的，嗯你成長的環境，並非如此完善你可以遠離只是因為你生在阿肯色州的農村或其他地方這並不會界定你是誰但對大多數的非洲人而言，你住哪裡或者你於哪裡出生或者你在哪個環境下出生則會決定了你的下半生我想要見證這些改變而改變從我們開始身為一個非洲人民，我們必須對這塊土地負起責任謝謝 (鼓掌)
