Talk	en	zh-tw
pamelia_kurstin_plays_the_theremin	"(Music) (Applause) Thank you. Ooh, I'm like, ""Phew, phew, calm down. Get back into my body now."" (Laughter) Usually when I play out, the first thing that happens is people scream out, ""What's she doing?!"" I'll play at these rock shows, be on stage standing completely still, and they're like, ""What's she doing?! What's she doing?!"" And then I'll kind of be like — (Vvvwow!) — and then they're like, ""Whoa!"" (Laughter) I'm sure you're trying to figure out, ""Well, how does this thing work?"" Well, what I'm doing is controlling the pitch with my left hand. See, the closer I get to this antenna, the higher the note gets — (Portamento) — and you can get it really low. And with this hand I'm controlling the volume, so the further away my right hand gets, the louder it gets. (Tones) So basically, with both of your hands you're controlling pitch and volume and kind of trying to create the illusion that you're doing separate notes, when really it's continuously going ... (Flourish ... Beep) (Laughter) Sometimes I startle myself: I'll forget that I have it on, and I'll lean over to pick up something, and then it goes like — (Blip) — ""Oh!"" And it's like a funny sound effect that follows you around if you don't turn the thing off. (Laughter) Maybe we'll go into the next tune, because I totally lost where this is going. We're going to do a song by David Mash called ""Listen: the Words Are Gone,"" and maybe I'll have words come back into me afterwards if I can relax. (Music) (Applause) So, I'm trying to think of some of the questions that are commonly asked; there are so many. And ... Well, I guess I could tell you a little of the history of the theremin. It was invented around the 1920s, and the inventor, Léon Theremin — he also was a musician besides an inventor — he came up with the idea for making the theremin, I think, when he was working on some shortwave radios. And there'd be that sound in the signal — it's like (Screeching) — and he thought, ""Oh, what if I could control that sound and turn it into an instrument, because there are pitches in it."" And so somehow through developing that, he eventually came to make the theremin the way it is now. And a lot of times, even kids nowadays, they'll make reference to a theremin by going, ""Whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo,"" because in the '50s it was used in the sci-fi horror movies, that sound that's like ... (Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo) (Laughter) It's kind of a funny, goofy sound to do. And sometimes if I have too much coffee, then my vibrato gets out of hand. You're really sensitive to your body and its functions when you're behind this thing. You have to stay so still if you want to have the most control. It reminds me of the balancing act earlier on — what Michael was doing — because you're fighting so hard to keep the balance with what you're playing with and stay in tune, and at the same time you don't want to focus so much on being in tune all the time; you want to be feeling the music. And then also, you're trying to stay very, very, very still because little movements with other parts of your body will affect the pitch, or sometimes if you're holding a low note — (Tone rising out of key) — and breathing will make it ... (Laughter) If I pass out on the next song ... (Laughter) I think of it almost like like a yoga instrument because it makes you so aware of every little crazy thing your body is doing, or just aware of what you don't want it to be doing while you're playing; you don't want to have any sudden movements. And if I go to a club and play a gig, people are like, ""Here, have some drinks on us!"" And it's like, ""Well, I'm about to go on soon; I don't want to be like — (Teetering tones) — you know?"" It really does reflect the mood that you're in also, if you're ... it's similar to being a vocalist, except instead of it coming out of your throat, you're controlling it just in the air and you don't really have a point of reference; you're always relying on your ears and adjusting constantly. You just have to always adjust to what's happening and realize you'll have bummer notes come here and there and listen to it, adjust it, and just move on, or else you'll get too tied up and go crazy. Like me. I think we will play another tune now. I'm going to do ""Lush Life."" It's one of my favorite tunes to play. (Music) (Applause)"	(音樂演奏中)♫♫ (觀眾掌聲) 冷靜。回過神來。 通常我演奏結束時，第一件發生的事情是人們會喊說：她在做什麼?你知道的，我在那些搖滾節目的舞台上，站著一動也不動，(就像你們看到的一樣，)在演奏。就像(模仿：她在做什麼?她在做什麼?)這樣子。然後我就會做出像這樣(聲音 )的動作，接著觀眾就「什麼！」(笑聲四起) 我確定你們試著搞清楚這東西怎麼操作呢?嗯 我所做的就是 喔!用左手來控制音調你看! 我越靠近這個天線，音調就越高(滑音)你也可以彈很低的音我藉由右手來控制音量我右手離的越遠，聲音就越大聲。(音調)♪♪基本上，使用兩隻手你就在控制音高跟音量。 有一點試著讓人錯以為你在逐個地彈音符但事實上，是連續的音(音樂.....嗶)(笑聲) 有時，會被自己嚇到：因為忘了機器是開著的。我會傾身過去拿東西。琴就響了，喔!!嚇一跳!!就像有個奇怪的聲音一直跟著你如果你不把琴關掉的話(笑聲) 我可能要開始演奏下一首因為我完全忘詞了接下來的曲子是David Mash的「聽，無言」或許演奏完我就想起要說什麼了 (音樂) (掌聲) 我試著思考一些常被問到的問題實在是太多了我想我可以告訴你們一點「特雷門」的歷史它在1920年代被Léon Theremin 發明他除了是個發明家也是個音樂家他想出了製作theremin的主意當他操作短波收音機時，然後有著像訊號般的聲音——就像(聲音模仿)他就想，或許我可以控制這聲音然後它就轉變成樂器，因為它含有不同的音高然而，經由研發他終於製作出像現在的特雷門 現今很多時候，甚至連小孩他們會以嗚～嗚～嗚～的聲音引涉特雷門因在50年代，這聲音被用在科幻恐怖電影裡：那聲音就像...(嗚嗚嗚)(笑聲)這是他們做出的滑稽的聲音 有時候我喝太多咖啡手無法控制顫音你會對自身及其運作變的敏感尤其在操作這台機器時如果你想控制的好，你必須站的非常穩這讓我想到稍早Michael在做的平衡動作因為你很努力的保持平衡並同時要彈奏和保持音調你不想要一直在注意音調的控制你想要感受音樂 但你也要試著保持靜止不動因為身體其他部位的小小的動作可能會影響音調，或如果你在談低音時加上呼吸，聲音就(變調了) (笑聲) 如果我彈奏下一首時昏倒....(笑聲) 我想一定程度上，這像一種瑜珈樂器，因為它讓你注意到自己身體的任何動靜或試著不讓身體做出動作當你在彈奏時：突然地移動如果我去酒吧演奏，人們會：「來!我們請你喝點酒」喔 我馬上就要接著演奏了我不想要像這樣(搖晃不定的音調) 它也會反映出你的心情你知道就像一個歌手，除了聲音不是從你的喉嚨出來而是你在空中控制的且你沒有任何參考點你必須完全仰賴聽覺，不斷地作調整你總是需要調整正在發生的事情然後恍然大悟，有外來的聲音從四處傳來聽並調整它，然後繼續演奏要不然你會很累，然後發瘋。就像我ㄧ樣 我想我現在要在彈奏另外一首我要彈的是「茂盛的生命」。是我最喜歡彈奏的一首 (音樂)♫♫ (掌聲)
