Talk	en	zh-tw
pankaj_ghemawat_actually_the_world_isn_t_flat	"I'm here to talk to you about how globalized we are, how globalized we aren't, and why it's important to actually be accurate in making those kinds of assessments. And the leading point of view on this, whether measured by number of books sold, mentions in media, or surveys that I've run with groups ranging from my students to delegates to the World Trade Organization, is this view that national borders really don't matter very much anymore, cross-border integration is close to complete, and we live in one world. And what's interesting about this view is, again, it's a view that's held by pro-globalizers like Tom Friedman, from whose book this quote is obviously excerpted, but it's also held by anti-globalizers, who see this giant globalization tsunami that's about to wreck all our lives if it hasn't already done so. The other thing I would add is that this is not a new view. I'm a little bit of an amateur historian, so I've spent some time going back, trying to see the first mention of this kind of thing. And the best, earliest quote that I could find was one from David Livingstone, writing in the 1850s about how the railroad, the steam ship, and the telegraph were integrating East Africa perfectly with the rest of the world. Now clearly, David Livingstone was a little bit ahead of his time, but it does seem useful to ask ourselves, ""Just how global are we?"" before we think about where we go from here. So the best way I've found of trying to get people to take seriously the idea that the world may not be flat, may not even be close to flat, is with some data. So one of the things I've been doing over the last few years is really compiling data on things that could either happen within national borders or across national borders, and I've looked at the cross-border component as a percentage of the total. I'm not going to present all the data that I have here today, but let me just give you a few data points. I'm going to talk a little bit about one kind of information flow, one kind of flow of people, one kind of flow of capital, and, of course, trade in products and services. So let's start off with plain old telephone service. Of all the voice-calling minutes in the world last year, what percentage do you think were accounted for by cross-border phone calls? Pick a percentage in your own mind. The answer turns out to be two percent. If you include Internet telephony, you might be able to push this number up to six or seven percent, but it's nowhere near what people tend to estimate. Or let's turn to people moving across borders. One particular thing we might look at, in terms of long-term flows of people, is what percentage of the world's population is accounted for by first-generation immigrants? Again, please pick a percentage. Turns out to be a little bit higher. It's actually about three percent. Or think of investment. Take all the real investment that went on in the world in 2010. What percentage of that was accounted for by foreign direct investment? Not quite ten percent. And then finally, the one statistic that I suspect many of the people in this room have seen: the export-to-GDP ratio. If you look at the official statistics, they typically indicate a little bit above 30 percent. However, there's a big problem with the official statistics, in that if, for instance, a Japanese component supplier ships something to China to be put into an iPod, and then the iPod gets shipped to the U.S., that component ends up getting counted multiple times. So nobody knows how bad this bias with the official statistics actually is, so I thought I would ask the person who's spearheading the effort to generate data on this, Pascal Lamy, the Director of the World Trade Organization, what his best guess would be of exports as a percentage of GDP, without the double- and triple-counting, and it's actually probably a bit under 20 percent, rather than the 30 percent-plus numbers that we're talking about. So it's very clear that if you look at these numbers or all the other numbers that I talk about in my book, ""World 3.0,"" that we're very, very far from the no-border effect benchmark, which would imply internationalization levels of the order of 85, 90, 95 percent. So clearly, apocalyptically-minded authors have overstated the case. But it's not just the apocalyptics, as I think of them, who are prone to this kind of overstatement. I've also spent some time surveying audiences in different parts of the world on what they actually guess these numbers to be. Let me share with you the results of a survey that Harvard Business Review was kind enough to run of its readership as to what people's guesses along these dimensions actually were. So a couple of observations stand out for me from this slide. First of all, there is a suggestion of some error. Okay. (Laughter) Second, these are pretty large errors. For four quantities whose average value is less than 10 percent, you have people guessing three, four times that level. Even though I'm an economist, I find that a pretty large error. And third, this is not just confined to the readers of the Harvard Business Review. I've run several dozen such surveys in different parts of the world, and in all cases except one, where a group actually underestimated the trade-to-GDP ratio, people have this tendency towards overestimation, and so I thought it important to give a name to this, and that's what I refer to as globaloney, the difference between the dark blue bars and the light gray bars. Especially because, I suspect, some of you may still be a little bit skeptical of the claims, I think it's important to just spend a little bit of time thinking about why we might be prone to globaloney. A couple of different reasons come to mind. First of all, there's a real dearth of data in the debate. Let me give you an example. When I first published some of these data a few years ago in a magazine called Foreign Policy, one of the people who wrote in, not entirely in agreement, was Tom Friedman. And since my article was titled ""Why the World Isn't Flat,"" that wasn't too surprising. (Laughter) What was very surprising to me was Tom's critique, which was, ""Ghemawat's data are narrow."" And this caused me to scratch my head, because as I went back through his several-hundred-page book, I couldn't find a single figure, chart, table, reference or footnote. So my point is, I haven't presented a lot of data here to convince you that I'm right, but I would urge you to go away and look for your own data to try and actually assess whether some of these hand-me-down insights that we've been bombarded with actually are correct. So dearth of data in the debate is one reason. A second reason has to do with peer pressure. I remember, I decided to write my ""Why the World Isn't Flat"" article, because I was being interviewed on TV in Mumbai, and the interviewer's first question to me was, ""Professor Ghemawat, why do you still believe that the world is round?"" And I started laughing, because I hadn't come across that formulation before. (Laughter) And as I was laughing, I was thinking, I really need a more coherent response, especially on national TV. I'd better write something about this. (Laughter) But what I can't quite capture for you was the pity and disbelief with which the interviewer asked her question. The perspective was, here is this poor professor. He's clearly been in a cave for the last 20,000 years. He really has no idea as to what's actually going on in the world. So try this out with your friends and acquaintances, if you like. You'll find that it's very cool to talk about the world being one, etc. If you raise questions about that formulation, you really are considered a bit of an antique. And then the final reason, which I mention, especially to a TED audience, with some trepidation, has to do with what I call ""techno-trances."" If you listen to techno music for long periods of time, it does things to your brainwave activity. (Laughter) Something similar seems to happen with exaggerated conceptions of how technology is going to overpower in the very immediate run all cultural barriers, all political barriers, all geographic barriers, because at this point I know you aren't allowed to ask me questions, but when I get to this point in my lecture with my students, hands go up, and people ask me, ""Yeah, but what about Facebook?"" And I got this question often enough that I thought I'd better do some research on Facebook. Because, in some sense, it's the ideal kind of technology to think about. Theoretically, it makes it as easy to form friendships halfway around the world as opposed to right next door. What percentage of people's friends on Facebook are actually located in countries other than where people we're analyzing are based? The answer is probably somewhere between 10 to 15 percent. Non-negligible, so we don't live in an entirely local or national world, but very, very far from the 95 percent level that you would expect, and the reason's very simple. We don't, or I hope we don't, form friendships at random on Facebook. The technology is overlaid on a pre-existing matrix of relationships that we have, and those relationships are what the technology doesn't quite displace. Those relationships are why we get far fewer than 95 percent of our friends being located in countries other than where we are. So does all this matter? Or is globaloney just a harmless way of getting people to pay more attention to globalization-related issues? I want to suggest that actually, globaloney can be very harmful to your health. First of all, recognizing that the glass is only 10 to 20 percent full is critical to seeing that there might be potential for additional gains from additional integration, whereas if we thought we were already there, there would be no particular point to pushing harder. It's a little bit like, we wouldn't be having a conference on radical openness if we already thought we were totally open to all the kinds of influences that are being talked about at this conference. So being accurate about how limited globalization levels are is critical to even being able to notice that there might be room for something more, something that would contribute further to global welfare. Which brings me to my second point. Avoiding overstatement is also very helpful because it reduces and in some cases even reverses some of the fears that people have about globalization. So I actually spend most of my ""World 3.0"" book working through a litany of market failures and fears that people have that they worry globalization is going to exacerbate. I'm obviously not going to be able to do that for you today, so let me just present to you two headlines as an illustration of what I have in mind. Think of France and the current debate about immigration. When you ask people in France what percentage of the French population is immigrants, the answer is about 24 percent. That's their guess. Maybe realizing that the number is just eight percent might help cool some of the superheated rhetoric that we see around the immigration issue. Or to take an even more striking example, when the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations did a survey of Americans, asking them to guess what percentage of the federal budget went to foreign aid, the guess was 30 percent, which is slightly in excess of the actual level — (""actually about ... 1%"") (Laughter) — of U.S. governmental commitments to federal aid. The reassuring thing about this particular survey was, when it was pointed out to people how far their estimates were from the actual data, some of them — not all of them — seemed to become more willing to consider increases in foreign aid. So foreign aid is actually a great way of sort of wrapping up here, because if you think about it, what I've been talking about today is this notion — very uncontroversial amongst economists — that most things are very home-biased. ""Foreign aid is the most aid to poor people,"" is about the most home-biased thing you can find. If you look at the OECD countries and how much they spend per domestic poor person, and compare it with how much they spend per poor person in poor countries, the ratio — Branko Milanovic at the World Bank did the calculations — turns out to be about 30,000 to one. Now of course, some of us, if we truly are cosmopolitan, would like to see that ratio being brought down to one-is-to-one. I'd like to make the suggestion that we don't need to aim for that to make substantial progress from where we are. If we simply brought that ratio down to 15,000 to one, we would be meeting those aid targets that were agreed at the Rio Summit 20 years ago that the summit that ended last week made no further progress on. So in summary, while radical openness is great, given how closed we are, even incremental openness could make things dramatically better. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	我要談的是：我們有多麼全球化，或我們根本就不是，釐清我們到底是哪一種是很重要的。現今對全球化最主要的看法，不管是從相關書籍銷售數量，或是媒體持續的話題，或者是我自己參與的團隊，從我的學生到國際貿易組織的代表，都認為國與國的分界都不再那麼重要了跨國間邊界協調整合也差不多完成了，我們是個國際村了。然而有趣的是，這樣的觀點是由那些支持全球化的人提出的，像湯瑪斯•佛里曼，從他的書中就有這樣的引述。但同時反全球化的人也支持這樣的觀點，他們認為這巨大的全球化海嘯快要擊垮我們的生活了，如果我們還沒被擊垮的話！ 另外我想說的是這並不是最近才有的看法。我不算是個歷史學家，所以我花了一些時間回到過去，想要知道最早是誰首先提出類似的理論。我找到最早的引述是由大衛 • 李文史東提出的。1850年代時他寫道，鐵路、蒸汽船還有電報如何使得西非能夠順暢的和世界其他的地方互動。現在看來顯然大衛∙李文史東有點超越他自己的時代。那麼在我們思考未來的方向前，先問一下我們有多麼全球化，應該是有幫助的。 所以我認為使人們相信世界不是平的，或者連平緩都談不上最好的方法是看一些數據資料。在過去幾年我一直在做一件事就是：彙整收集各種發生在本國內或跨國間的數據資料。我看的是跨國的要素，在總體裡占了多少百分比。今天我不會呈現全部的資料，一些主要的數據重點。我會談到一些流動變化，包含資訊，人群 和 資金。當然還有包含產品貿易和服務業。 讓我們先從簡單的通話服務開始，我想問大家根據我們計算你認為去年國際電話的秒數占所有通話秒數中多少百分比？在心中選個數字吧！結果答案是百分之二。如果再加上網路電話，可能會增加至百分之七。這跟人們可能的預測結果有很大的差距。 讓我們接下來看跨國的人群移動，我們特別要觀察的是長期性的人口移動，在全球所有人口中，第一代移民占了多少百分比呢？再選個數字吧！結果比那高一點實際上是大約百分之三 接下來是投資，在2010年所有全球實際的投資裡，直接由國外投資的到底占了多少白分比呢？還不到百分之十。 最後有一項統計，我想在座的人應該都看過，就是出口占國內生產毛額的比例，如果你看的是官方統計，通常都是百分之三十多一點。然而官方的統計有個大問題，假如日本的零件供應商，出口 iPod 零件到中國組裝，然後 iPod 才出貨至美國，結果這零件被重複計算了。所以沒人知道官方的統計偏差有多嚴重。所以我想應該詢問一下在這方面有研究的人，來進行這方面的分析，他是帕斯可∙拉米，是世界貿易組織的總幹事。他試著猜測，沒有重複多次計算的話，出口占國民生產毛額的比例大概是低於百分之二十，而不是我們剛說到的三十多。 所以如果你看這些數據，或是我的書《世界 3.0》所提到的所有數據資料，就會瞭解到其實我們距離無國界的基準還很遠呢！因為國際化標準應該是達到85, 90或是95的百分比。所以那些像先知一般的作者們其實都言過其實了。但我想不只他們認同這種看法我也花了一些時間，請住在不同的區域人們，猜猜這些數字應該是多少。現在讓我來談談調查的結果，哈佛商業評論很熱心的透過雜誌讀者來針對這些方面來做預測。 這張幻燈片中呈現幾個看法可以證明我的論點。首先，這裡有些偏差。好！再來，這也錯得離譜了。剛剛那四個平均值不到百分之十的數據，大眾的預測結果竟然高至三、四倍之多。儘管我是個經濟學家，我覺得這是個很大的誤差。第三，這並不是只有哈佛商業評論讀者這麼認為。我也在世界其他的地方進行好幾次這樣的調查，在所有的調查裡，只有貿易對國民生產比例這項被低估。所以針對大眾這種高估的傾向，我覺得應該要有個名稱，就是我認為的全球化鬼扯論，指的就是藍色區塊和灰色區塊的中間的落差。 我覺得你們有些人可能仍然有點懷疑這個說法。所以，我認為我們還是要花一些時間想想為什麼我們有這種全球化的傾向呢？我想到幾個原因。最主要的是在這議題上資料嚴重不足。我舉個例子。幾年前，當我第一次在《外交政策》這本雜誌，公布其中一些數據。其中一個讀者來信是湯瑪斯•佛里曼，他顯然不是很同意我的論點。因為我的標題是“世界不是平的”，所以我一點也不訝異。讓我訝異的是他的批評，他說：「格曼沃特的資料範圍太小了。」這實在讓我想不通，因為當我回頭去看他那本好幾百頁的書，我找不到任何數據圖表，或者是參考資料或註解。所以我要說的是，現在我沒有運用一大堆的數據來說服你我是對的，但我鼓勵你們可以去找找你們自己的數據，然後試著評估看看是否這些我們一直被灌輸的看法真的是對的。所以資料缺乏是個原因。 另一個原因是來自同行的壓力。我記得為什麼我決定要寫“為什麼世界不是平的”這篇文章，那是我被邀請上孟買接受訪問，主持人第一個問題就問我：「格曼沃特教授，為什麼你仍然相信世界是圓的？」我開始笑了起來，因為我跟本沒想過那種說法。在我笑的同時，我也想到這是全國轉播的節目，我應該要有比較適切的回應，所以我想我應該針對這個寫一些東西。我很難跟你們說明，那真是令人我覺得可悲，而且難以置信主持人竟會問這種問題。這好像是說，這個可憐的教授，他顯然是活在兩萬年前的山頂洞人。他顯然不了解，現在這個世界到底發生了什麼？所以你可以試試看問問你的朋友，或是你認識的人，你會發現談談世界一家的議題，其實滿酷的。如果你質疑那種想法，你可能會被當成是一個老古董。 最後一個原因，我是帶著戒慎恐懼的心情，特別要跟TED的觀眾說明，那就是我所謂的電音傳腦，就如你聽太久的電子音樂，會影響你的腦部運作一樣。相同的效果也會產生在這時候，當我們持續誇大科技將會短時間內打破所有的文化隔閡，政治藩籬，和所有地理上的障礙。我知道現在你們不宜發問，但每當我談到這個，我的學生們就會舉手問我 ：「那臉書代表什麼呢？」我常被問到這樣的問題，所以我想我應該來研究一下臉書，因為就某種程度上，它被看成是理想的科技型態。理論上來說，臉書使得跨越半個地球交朋友，就如跟隔壁鄰居交惡一樣容易。大眾的臉書朋友到底占有多少比例是跟我們的調查對象不同國家呢？答案大概是介於百分之十至十五之間。這很明顯的，我們不只與同國家的人交流但距離你所期待百分之九十五，還有一大段距離。理由很簡單，因為我們不會，至少我希望我們不會，在臉書隨便就亂交朋友。科技是基於我們早就形成的人際關係，而這些關係並不是科技可以代替的。就是因為這些既有的人際關係，我們才沒有高達百分之九十五的朋友都來自異國。 所以這些都有關係嗎？或者全球化鬼扯論只是一個無害的方式讓大家多注意全球相關議題呢？我想要說的是，全球化鬼扯論是對你健康有傷害的，首先，如果玻璃杯只有百分之十到二十滿而已，那麼就一定還可以額外再增加其他東西。如果我們認為我們已經達到了，那就不可能再更進一步了。就像如果我們真的認為我們已經很開放了我們不會有任何會議，來談論積極開放的話題，所以正確的看待全球化有限的程度是很重要的，因為那表示還有更多需要做的事情，比如，如何對全球福址有進一步的作為。 這就牽連到我第二個要點，避免過度高估是有好處的，因為可以減少或者是導正有些人對全球化的恐懼。所以我在我的書《世界3.0》裡，特別提到很多市場失敗的例子，還有人們害怕全球化將會使之更加惡化。很顯然的今天我沒辦法跟你多討論這點，所以讓我用兩個標題，來表示我的論點。想想法國和目前大家對移民話題的討論，當你問法國人，移民占有法國人口中幾個百分比？答案是大概二十四個百分比。那是他們猜的。也許當我們知道只有八個百分比時，也許可以冷卻一下一些過於情緒化的移民爭論。講一個更令人訝異的例子，芝加哥外交委員會做了一項調查，請美國人猜猜聯邦的預算裡占有多少比例是用在國外援助上，猜測的結果是30 %這個結果稍微超出 (事實上是大約1%)美國政府對各聯邦的援助預算。這個特別調查可以確保，當人們了解到實際的狀況，遠不及我們所猜測的。也許會有一些人，不是全部，願意多增加對國外援助。 國際援助事實上很適合用來做為今天的結論。如果你回想一下，今天我一直在談的，這個經濟學家都同意的概念：許多事情都是存在著本土偏重。「國外援助是窮人最大的幫助」就是你能想到最具偏見的事情。觀察一下那些經濟合作組織的國家，他們平均花了多少錢在一個本地的窮人上，和花在一個窮困國家裡的窮人的金額比較看看。世界銀行的柏克･米蘭維克算出來的結果-大約是30000比1。如果我們有些人認為我們真的是四海一家了，就會希望看到那個比例會降到1:1。我的建議是，我們不需要真的去追求達到那個目標。假如我們只要可以把比例降到15000:1，我們就會達成那些早在20年前，里約高峰會時所同意的目標，但上週才結束的高峰會顯示未更進一步的發展。 總而言之，在我們目前開放的程度來說，繼續積極開放是好的，甚至持續的開放才能使這一切有更顯著的改變。謝謝大家！（掌聲）
