Talk	en	zh-tw
paola_antonelli_treats_design_as_art	"Those of us who believe in heaven have some sort of idea of what heaven would be. And in my idea, heaven is satisfied curiosity. I think of heaven as a really comfortable cloud where I can just lie down with my belly down, like I was watching TV when I was a child, and my elbows up. And I can basically look everywhere I want, see every movie I've always wanted to see. And in the same kind of trance that you can feel sometimes in the subway in New York when you're reading, there's something really soothing and easy. Well, the funny thing is that I already have that kind of life, in a way, because I discovered ... it took me a while to understand it, but when I discovered around 24 years of age that I was much more comfortable with objects than with people, I finally decided to really embrace this passion. And I basically live my life in sort of a trance, and I look around and everything I see is just the beginning of a long story. Just to give you an example: this is the exhibition, Humble Masterpieces, as it was at MoMA in 2004. We were in Queens, we were building the big, big, big, big building in Midtown, so we were in the small, small, small boondocks. That was one of the funnest moments of my career. But it's not only that. The typeface — the typeface is Helvetica; it's its 50th anniversary this year. And so I start thinking — Max Miedinger and all those Swiss designers together, trying to outdo Akzidenz-Grotesk, and come up with a new sans-serif typeface — and the movie starts playing in my head already. And of course, you can imagine, with Humble Masterpieces it was the same thing multiplied by a hundred. And I do hope, by the way, that the real goal of the exhibition is going to have the same effect on you. The exhibition was meant to be a way to have children think of doing ... you know when they do homeworks at home? Instead of having a tray with two peas, I was hoping that they would go into the kitchen cabinet or the mother's handbag and do their museum-quality design collection on a tray. So, everybody's always suggesting new humble masterpieces, and at MoMA we put out some books just for people to suggest their own humble masterpieces. And when you do that, usually you get 80 percent porn and 20 percent real suggestions, and instead it was all — almost — all good suggestions. And a lot of nationalism came in. For instance, I didn't know that the Spaniards invented the mop, but they were very proud so every Spaniard said ""la frego."" And Italians did the pizza. And I wanted to show you, also, the suggestions from Kentucky are pretty good — they had moonshine, laundry detergents and liquid nails. And I keep it going, and I just got, (Laughter) also, this suggestion from Milan: it's our traffic divider, which we call ""panettone,"" and it's painted; it's these beautiful concrete things that you use around Milan to define all the lanes of traffic. So, think of your own, send them on if you want to — they're always welcome. But an exhibition like that made me understand even more what I've been thinking of for 13 years ever since I got to MoMA. I'm Italian. In Italy, design is normal. Different parts of the world have a knack for different things. I was just recently in Argentina and in Uruguay, and the default way of building homes in the country is a beautiful modernism that you don't see elsewhere, but the contemporary art was terrible. In Italy, in Milan especially, contemporary art really doesn't have that much of a place. But design — oh, my God. What you find at the store at the corner, without going to any kind of fancy store, is the kind of refined design that makes everybody think that we are all so sophisticated. It's just what you find at the store. And New York has another kind of knack for contemporary art. I'm always amazed — three-year-olds know who Richard Serra is and take you to the galleries. But design, for some reason, is still misunderstood for decoration. It's really interesting: what many people think when I say the word ""design"" is they think of this kind of overdesigned — in this case, it's overdesigned on purpose, but — decoration, interior decoration. They think of somebody choosing fabrics. Design can be that, of course, but it can also be this. It can be a school of design in Jerusalem that tries to find a better way to design gas masks for people, because, as you know, Israel deploys one gas mask per person including babies. So, what these designers do is they find a way to lower the neckline, so that instead of being completely strangled, a teenager can also sip a Coke. They tried to make a toddler's gas mask in such a way that the toddler can be held by the parent because proximity of the body is so important. And then they make a little tent for the baby. However cruel, however ruthless you can think this is it's a great design, and it is miles away from the fancy furniture, but still, it's part of my same field of passion. What I've been doing at MoMA since the beginning is to try to harness the power of MoMA because it's great to work there. You really have power in that people usually tend to know about your exhibition or see the exhibitions, and that is power because in a design museum I wouldn't have as many visitors. I'm very well aware that 80 percent of my public is there to see Picasso and Matisse, and then they stumble upon my show and I keep them there. But what I've been trying to do is something that the curators at MoMA in my department have been doing ever since the museum was founded in 1929, which is to try and see what's going on in the world and try to use that authority in order to make things better. There have been many episodes, and actually Eames Demetrius may be here in the audience, but in two instances, his great-grandfather, grandfather — I'm always a little perplexed about the relation, exactly — Charles Eames the first time and then Charles and Ray Eames the second time were involved in two competitions: one in 1940, it was about organic furniture, and the second one in 1948 was low-cost furniture for the GIs coming back from the war that then sparked a whole line of furniture. And then there was good design for very low price. There were a lot of programs in architecture and design that were about pointing people in the direction of a better design for a better life. So, I started out in '95 with this exhibition that was called Mutant Materials in Contemporary Design. It was about a new phase, in my opinion, in the world of design in that materials could be customized by the designers themselves. And that put me in touch with such diverse design examples as the aerogels from the Lawrence Livermore Lab in California; at that time, they were beginning to be brought into the civilian market. And at the same time, the gorgeous work of Takeshi Ishiguro, who did these beautiful salt-and-pepper containers that are made of rice dough. So you see, the range is really quite diverse. And then, for instance, this other exhibition that was entitled Workspheres in 2001, where I asked different designers to come up with ideas for the new type of work styles that were happening in the world at that time. And you see IDEO there. It was beautiful — it was called Personal Skies. The idea was that if you had a cubicle, you could project a sky on top of your head and have your own ""Cielo in Una Stanza"" — a sky in a room — it's a very famous Italian song. And other examples: this was Marti Guixe about working on the go, and Hella Jongerius, my favorite, about how to work at home. And this lets me introduce a very important idea about design: designers are the biggest synthesizers in the world. What they do best is make a synthesis of human needs, current conditions in economy, in materials, in sustainability issues, and then what they do at the end — if they are good — is much more than the sum of its parts. Hella Jongerius is a person that is able to make a synthesis that is really quite amazing and also quite hilarious. The idea behind her work was that at that time, everybody was saying you have to really divide your life. Instead, she said, ""No, no. Work and leisure can be together."" Yeah, that's particularly gorgeous — it's the TV dinner of 2001. There have been many other exhibitions in the meantime, but I don't want to focus on my shows. I would like, instead, to talk about how great some designers are. I've always had a hard time with the word ""maverick."" I came to the United States 13 years ago, and to this day I have to ask, ""What does that mean?"" So, this morning I went to see on the dictionary and it said that there was this gentleman that was not branding its cattle. Therefore, he was not following everybody's lead, and therefore, he was a maverick. So, designers do need to be mavericks, because the best way to design a successful object — and also an object that we were missing before — is to pretend that either it never existed or that people will be able to have a new behavior with it. So, Safe is the last exhibition that I did at MoMA and it ended at the beginning of last year. It was about design that deals with safety and deals with protection. It's a long story because it started before 2001 and it was called Emergency. And then when 9/11 happened, I had a shock and I canceled the exhibition until, slowly but surely, it came back — as a half-full glass instead of half-empty — and it was about protection and safety. But it ranged from such items as a complete de-mining equipment to these kind of water-sterilizing straws, so it was really wide-ranging. It also had ... you know, Cameron and I worked a little bit together, and some of the entries that you see in his website were actually in the exhibition. But what is interesting is that we don't need to talk about design and art anymore; design uses whatever tools it has at its disposal in order to make a point. It's a sense of economy and a sense, also, of humor. This is a beautiful project by Ralph Borland, who's South African. It's a suit for civil disobedience. The idea is that when you have a riot or a protest and the police comes towards you, you're wearing this thing — it's like a big heart and it has a loudspeaker over your heart so your heartbeat is amplified — and the police is reminded; it's like having a flower in front of the rifle. And also, you can imagine, a whole group of people with the same suit will have this mounting collective heartbeat that will be scary to the police. So, designers sometimes don't do things that are immediately functional, but they're functional to our understanding of issues. Tony Dunne and Fiona Raby did this series of objects that are about our anguish and our paranoia, like this hideaway furniture that's made in the same wood as your floor so it disappears completely and you can hide away; or even better, the huggable atomic mushroom, which got me an article on the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists of the United States — I don't think it ever happened before at MoMA; or this Faraday Chair that is supposed to protect you from radiations. But the interesting thing in the exhibition is the discovery that the ultimate shelter is your sense of self, and there are quite a few designers that are working on this particular topic. This is Cindy van den Bremen, who is a Dutch designer that's done this series of Capsters. They are athletic gear for Muslim women that enable them to ski, play tennis, do whatever they want to do without having to uncap themselves. And sometimes by doing this kind of research, you encounter such beautiful ideas of design. Twan Verdonck is really young, I think he's 27, and working together with some psychologist he did a series of toys that are for sensorial stimulation for children that have psychological impairments. They're quite beautiful. They range from this fluffy toy that is about hugging you — because autistic children like to be hugged tight, so it has a spring inside — all the way to this doll with a mirror so the child can see him or herself in the mirror and regain a sense of self. Design really looks upon the whole world and it considers the world in all of its different ranges. I was recently at a conference on luxury organized by the Herald Tribune in Istanbul. And it was really interesting because I was the last speaker and before me there were people that were really talking about luxury, and I didn't want to be a party pooper but at the same time I felt that I had to kind of bring back the discourse to reality. And the truth is that there are very different kinds of luxury, and there's luxury that is relative for people that don't have that much. I want to make this point by showing you two examples of design coming from a sense of economy — very, very clear limits. This is Cuba, and this is the recycling of a squeaky toy as a bicycle bell, and this is a raincoat that is made out of rice sacks. So they're quite beautiful, but they're beautiful because they're so smart and economical. And here is the work of two brothers from Sao Paulo, Fernando and Humberto Campana, who got inspired by the poverty and smartness that they saw around them to do pieces of furniture that now are selling for an enormous amount of money. But that's because of the kind of strangeness of the market itself. So really, design takes everything into account, and the interesting thing is that as the technology advances, as we become more and more wireless and impalpable, designers, instead, want us to be hands-on. Sometimes hammer-on. This is a whole series of furniture that wants to engage you physically. Even this chair that you have to open up and then sit on so that it takes your imprint, all the way to this beautiful series of objects that are considered design by Ana Mir in Barcelona. From this kind of bijou made with human hair to these chocolate nipples to these intra-toe candies that your lover is supposed to suck from your toes. (Laughter) It's quite beautiful because somehow, this is a gorgeous moment for design. Many years ago I heard a mathematician from Vienna, whose name was Marchetti, explain how the innovation in the military industry — therefore, secret innovation — and the innovation in the civilian society are two sinusoids that are kind of opposed. And that makes sense. In moments of war there's great technological innovation, and in the world you have to do without — well, during the Second World War, you had to do without steel, you had to do without aluminum. And then as peace comes, all of these technologies get all of a sudden available for the civilian market. Many of you might know that the Potato Chip Chair by Charles and Ray Eames comes exactly from that kind of instance: fiberglass was available for civilian use all of a sudden. I think that this is a strange moment. The rhythm of the sinusoids has changed tremendously, just like the rhythm of our life in the past 25 years, so I'm not sure anymore what the wavelength is. But it surely is a very important moment for design, because not only is the technology proceeding, not only is computing technology making open-source possible also in the world of design, but also the idea of sustainability — which is not only sustainability from the viewpoint of CO2 emissions and footprint, but also sustainability of human interrelationships — is very much part of the work of so many designers. And that's why designers, more and more, are working on behaviors rather than on objects. Especially the good ones, not all of them. I wanted to show you, for instance, the work of Mathieu Lehanneur, which is quite fantastic. He's another young designer from France who's working — and at this point he's working, also, with pharmaceutical companies — on new ways to engage patients, especially children, in taking their medicines with constancy and with certainty. For instance, this is a beautiful container for asthma medicine that kind of inflates itself when it's time for you to take the medicine, so the child has to go — pffff! — to release and relieve the container itself. And this other medicine is something that you can draw on your skin, so intradermal delivery enables you to joyfully be involved in this particular kind of delivery. Similarly, there's the work of people like Marti Guixe that tries to involve you in a way that is really about making everything pass through your mouth so that you learn from your mistakes or from your taste, orally. The next show that I'm going to work on — and I've been bugging a lot of you about this here — is about the relationship between design and science. I'm trying to find not the metaphors, but, rather, the points in common — the common gripes, the common issues, the common preoccupations — and I think that it will enable us to go a little further in this idea of design as an instruction, as a direction rather than a prescription of form. And I am hoping that many of you will respond to this. I've sent an email already to quite a few of you. But design and science and the possibility of visualizing different scales, and therefore, really work at the scale of the very small to make it very big and very meaningful. Thank you. (Applause)"	"凡是有信仰的人，都會有對於天堂模樣的猜想。在我看來，天堂就是好奇心得到滿足。我把天堂想像成一朵非常舒適的雲朵，我可以躺在上面 —— 腹部朝下，就像我小時候看電視的姿勢，手肘還要撐著頭。我可以欣賞任何我想看的地方，看每一部我喜歡的電影。有時你也會有如此出神的感覺 ——在紐約的地鐵上閱讀的時候，你會感覺到怡人且輕鬆的氣氛。 有趣的是，從某種程度上看，我已經擁有了這種「天堂般的生活」。因為我發現 ——當然我花了一段時間釐清這點，當我在24歲的時候，我發現自己和藝術品在一起比跟人在一起感覺更好，而後我決定要充分發揮這種熱情。所以我基本上生活在一種陶醉的狀態中。而當我環顧四周時，我看到的一切都僅是一段悠久故事的開端。 舉個例子：2004 年，MoMA 舉行了名為「日常設計經典」的展覽。當時我們在皇后區，我們在市中心建一幢很大很大的建築，所以我們在一個很小很小的偏僻角落。那是我的事業中饒富生趣的時刻。 不只是這樣，還有字體 —— Helvetica 字體。今年是 Helvetica 字體誕生的50週年。因此我開始想：Max Miedinger，以及其他所有的瑞士設計師，試圖超越 Akzidenz Grotesk，設計出一種嶄新的無襯線字體。電影的情節已經開始在我腦中播放了。當然，你可以想像「日常設計經典」是被複製上百次的相同東西。而同時我確實希望，這個展覽的真正目的會給予你們相同的影響。 展覽旨在成為一種讓孩子們思考所做的事情的方式 ——我們希望他們在家裡做作業的時候，不要拿著課本背誦，我希望他們能夠走進廚房看看櫥櫃，或者他們母親的手提包，來做博物館級的設計收藏。 因此每個人都一直在提議設置新的「日常設計經典」。在 MoMA 我們放了些書在那，僅僅是為了讓人們就他們眼中的「日常設計經典」給出建議。通常實行的時候，收到的有80%是色情廣告，只有20%是真正的建議。不過，幾乎所有的建議都是好的建議。 而民族情感也開始盛行起來。比如說，我之前並不知道是西班牙人發明了拖把，但是他們為此非常自豪。因此每個西班牙人說 ""la frego""。而義大利人對披薩也是同感。但我想給你們看的是，來自肯塔基非常好的建議：他們有私釀酒，洗衣精，以及免釘膠。 然後繼續，我剛剛得到了 ——（大笑）這個來自米蘭的提議：這是我們的交通分隔物，我們叫做 panettone，是有上漆的。你知道，這些漂亮的混凝土做的東西在米蘭是用來區分交通線路的。因此想像自己國家的東西吧，可以的話，讓我們知道那些東西 — 我們永遠歡迎。 但是這樣的一個展覽讓我學到的比我進入MoMA工作後，思考的13年裡還要更多。我是義大利人。在義大利，設計俯拾即是。要知道，不同的地方的人對事物的喜好差異甚大。不久之前，我在阿根廷和烏拉圭，在這些國家，建造房屋的普遍方式有著漂亮的現代感，在別處可是找不到的，但兩個國家的現代藝術發展其實很糟糕。 在義大利，特別是在米蘭，現代藝術其實並不普遍。但是設計呢 —— 老天！不用去高級商場，你在隨處一個商店的角落發現的，是精緻的設計，會讓每個人都以為我們的設計是如此時髦。這還僅僅是你在商店之中發現的東西。 而紐約對現代藝術有著另一種偏好。我對此一向非常吃驚：三歲的孩子知道 Richard Serra 是誰，還會帶你去看藝術展覽。但是設計，處於某種原因，仍被大眾誤解為裝飾性質。這一點確實很有趣。當我提到「設計」這個詞的時候，很多人覺得意味著一種過度設計 — 在此例中，確實是刻意的設計 —但是裝飾方面，室內裝飾，他們會認為是某個人在挑選建築材料。 當然，你可以那樣子去理解設計。但也可能是別的，可能是在耶路撒冷的一個設計學校找出更好的方法來為人們設計防毒面具。因為如你們所知道的，以色列給每個人配置了防毒面具，連嬰兒也不例外。因此，這些設計師所做的就是找到一個方法降低領口，如此，使用者就不會被勒的喘不過氣來，甚至青少年可以帶著面具吸可樂。 當地人這樣設計嬰兒的防毒面具是基於嬰兒可以被其父母保護著 —— 因為身體的親近是如此重要 ——然後他們能為孩子做個小帳篷。不管你們覺得這有多麼的粗淺與簡陋，這確實是一個非常好的設計。雖然和設計奢華家具相距甚遠，但仍然是我的熱情所在。 我從始至今在 MoMA 做的是試著運用 MoMA 的能力。因為在那裡工作實在很棒 —— 真的有種神奇魔力，能讓人們得知你的展覽或是來觀看。而這種能力，因為是在一個設計博物館，不太可能有很多遊客來。我非常清楚八成的觀光客都是去看畢卡索和馬蒂斯。要是他們剛好來到我們的展區，我就設法讓他們駐足觀賞。 但我嘗試在做的，也是在我的部門中的 MoMA 策展人自博物館於 1929 年建立以來，一直在做的事。也就是嘗試並發現當今世間發生的事，並且利用設計的力量使事物更加美好。有很多例子 ——實際上 Eames Demetrius 可能正好就坐在觀眾席。但是從他的曾祖父，還有祖父的例子來看，我總是不擅長釐清這種關係。但是，Charles Eames 第一次，接著 Charles 和 Ray Eames 第二次，都參加了二個比賽。一個是在 1940 年，這是關於有機家具的比賽。而第二個在 1948 年，是為從戰場歸來的美國士兵們設計低成本的家具，這也激起了整個家具產業的火熱。那個時候就有非常低價的優良設計。在建築學和設計學上出現很多項目，讓大眾導向「設計讓生活更美好」的思維。 所以呢，我從 1995 年就開始辦這個展覽，叫做「創新材料與當代設計」。我認為在設計界，這是一個新的階段材料可以讓設計師們運用自如。而這也讓我接觸到了多樣的設計案例，比如加州 Lawrence Livermore 實驗室的氣凝膠。那時，這些產品才開始被推廣進入市場。同時，石黒猛有個很棒的作品，他用米團製成這些漂亮的鹽罐和胡椒罐。所以，你們看，這些設計涵蓋的範圍相當廣闊。 再說明 2001 年的另一個展覽，標題名為「工作環境」。在那我請形形色色的設計師們腦力激盪，思考方向是當時世界上新穎的工作風格。你們現在看到的是由 IDEO 所設計，很漂亮，名喚「個人天空」。它的構思在假設你有個小臥室，你可以放一片天空在你頭頂上，就有了自己的 ""Cielo in Una Stanza"" — 房裡的藍天。是首非常著名的義大利歌曲。 還有更多範例。Marti Guixe 關注的是在行動工作。Hella Jongerus，我最喜歡的設計師，關注的是如何在家工作。而這不禁讓我想要介紹一個非常重要的設計理念。設計家是世界上最主要的「統合者」。他們最出色之處就是結合人類需求、以及在經濟、材料、可持續性議題等現況。而他們最終的成品，如果做得好，將遠優於僅有一部分的集合。 而 Hella Jongerius 能將統合這回事做得很令人驚豔，更饒富生趣。她工作的理念是 ——當每個人都主張「劃清工作與休閒的界線」的時候，她卻主張「不不，工作和休閒可以共存的。」真的，這棒透了，就如同 2001 年的流行的電視餐。 雖然還有很多其他的展覽，但我不想完全只關注我的展示。我想談一些偉大的設計師們。我一直都對獨行俠 (maverick) 一詞頗為不解，你知道，13 年前我到美國，直到今天，我還在問，這是甚麼意思呢？所以今天早上，我翻開字典，上面講到有個名叫Maverick的牧場主人沒在自己的牲口烙印，因此可以說他没有跟隨他人的主流。因此，他就是個「獨行俠」。所以你們瞭解，設計師們的確需要特立獨行，因為設計一件成功的物品以及我們曾想望過的物品時最佳方式就是當它從未存在，或者相信人們使用新物品之後會有新的行為。 「安全」是我在 MoMA 最近完成的展覽。它在去年初結束，這一展覽是處理安全以及保護的設計。說來話長，因為它在 2001 年前就開展了，當時叫做「救難」。而當時正好發生 911 事件，我大吃一驚，隨後便撤了展。直到我們按部就班地重新開展，就像從「半空的杯子」變成「半滿的杯子」 一般，我們將主題調整成「保護與安全」。 展覽的範圍從一套完整的除雷設備到水質淨化消毒管道。領域非常廣泛。還有我和 Cameron 的小小合作。他網站上的一些東西也在這展覽中出現了。有趣的是，我們並不需要再刻意地討論設計和藝術了。設計使用它所能用到的一切工具來說明一個觀點。這是一種經濟啓示，也是一種幽默感的體現。 這是來自南非的 Ralph Borland 的一件非常漂亮的設計。一個為非暴力反對運動設計的外套。設計的理念是當你在參加抗議遊行時，警察靠近你了，而你正穿著這件外套。外套的外型就像一顆大心臟，而它在你心臟的位置有一個擴音器，這樣你的心跳聲就被放大了。而警察也會發覺這點 ——就像一朵鮮花在來福槍口前一樣。而且，你可以想像，當一群人同時穿著這種外套，集體的心跳聲會嚇到警察。 設計家們有時並不製作一些有即刻功能性的事物，但是卻能幫助我們理解事物。Tony Dunne 與 Fiona Raby，設計了一系列可以反映我們的痛苦與妄想情緒的物品。像這種可以隱藏的家具，以和地板相同的木材製作，所以它看起來是完全隱形，你也可以把它藏起来。還有更棒的，可以拿來抱的蘑菇雲。這個發現也讓我有幸在美國《原子科學家公報》上發表文章。我不認為有任何在 MoMA 之前的先例。而這把法拉第座椅可以保護你避免輻射的侵害。 但是展覽中有趣的事是發現終極的遮蔽物就是你的自我意識。然後已經有一些設計家開始在這個特殊的領域上作業。來自荷蘭的設計家 Cindy van der Bremen，設計了一系列的運動服裝。能讓穆斯林婦女滑雪、打網球做他們想做的運動，而不用擔心暴露自己。 有的時候，做這種研究讓你有機會發現極好的設計理念。Twan Verdonck 非常年輕，我想他現年是 27 歲。通過與心理學家合作，他做了一系列的玩具，可以讓有精神缺陷的孩子起到感官刺激的作用。這些玩具真的棒極了。這個毛絨玩具就好像要抱著你一樣，因為自閉症的孩童喜歡被緊緊擁抱，所以它四處都裝有彈簧還有鏡子，這樣孩子就能透過鏡子看到自己，而重新獲得歸屬感。 設計其實是看待整個世界的一種模式。並從不同的領域角度思考。前不久，我在伊斯坦堡參加《國際先驅論壇報》舉辦的，關於奢華品的會議這很有意思，因為我是最後一個講者，而在我之前，確實大家都在談論奢侈品。我並不想成為一個在聚會上掃興的人，可是同時我又覺得我必須將話題拉回至現實。 事實是奢侈其實有很多種，對於沒有太多奢侈品的人們來說，奢侈是相對的。為了說明這一點，我會舉兩個例子，靈感都來自於經濟學，界限非常清楚。這個是在古巴，這是一個可循環的吱吱叫的自行車鈴玩具。而這個呢，是用裝稻米的粗布袋製成的雨衣。它們都很美觀，但是美觀源於靈活且經濟的設計。 現在看到的是來自聖保羅的兩兄弟Fernando 和 Humberto Campana 的作品。他們受到其身邊的貧窮景象和生活智慧的啟發，製作了一件件家具，現在賣出了一大筆錢。而這也正是市場本身的驚奇之處。 說真的，設計包羅萬象。有趣的是，隨著技術的進步，當我們的模式變得越加無線和虛擬的時候，設計師們卻希望我們能親手實際做些事。有時候，還會要你善用工具。你看，這一套家具需要你動手才能用。即使是這把椅子，你也需要親手張開好坐在上面，這樣它就留下了你的烙印。這一系列漂亮的物品都是巴塞隆納的 Ana Mir 設計的。作品從人的毛髮製成的耳環，到巧克力乳頭，甚至是趾間糖果，能引誘你的情人去舔你的腳趾。（大笑） 這些設計都非常美，這都是設計的燦爛時刻。很多年前，我聽說了一位維也納一個名叫 Marchetti 的數學家，他解釋在軍事生產部門的創新是秘密的創新。而這一創新和常民社會的創新就像兩條相反的正弦曲線。這是有道理的，在戰時，技術創新層出不窮。但是在物資匱乏的社會裡，比如在二戰時期，你得面對鋼鐵匱乏或是鋁礦匱乏的情況。而當和平時代開始，所有的這些技術突然之間都可以被民間市場所利用了。在場很多人大概都聽過馬鈴薯片座椅，由 Charles 和 Ray Eames 設計的，這是其中一個例子。玻璃纖維也突然能在民間廣泛使用。 我想這是一個奇怪的時刻。正弦曲線的週期性發生了巨大的變化，就如同我們的生活節奏在過去 25 年的巨變一般。因此我不再確信波長有多長。但這實在是設計領域一個非常重要的時刻。不僅是科技發展，像電腦技術使「開源」在設計界中成為可能，更包含永續發展的理念 ——不僅是從碳足跡的觀點出發的永續性，還有人類相互關係的永續性。這已成為現在很多設計師工作的一部分。這也是為何設計師們越來越關注由設計引致的行為改變，而非單純看物品本身。特別是優秀的設計師，雖然不是個個都如此。 我想讓你們看看 Mathieu Lehanneur 的作品，它非常奇特。他是另一位來自法國的年輕設計師，他現在和製藥公司合作，設計新的方法讓病人們，特別是兒童，能持續並定時服藥。 舉例來說吧，這是一個裝哮喘藥的漂亮瓶子，到該服藥的時候，它就會自動地膨脹開來。這樣孩子就會去打開藥瓶，同時讓它消氣。而另外這種藥，可以讓你在皮膚上塗鴉。透過皮膚接觸的服用方式會讓你愉悅地投入到這種特別的服藥過程中。相似地，例如 Marti Guixe，有很多設計品試圖讓你參與其中，方法就是讓所有的東西都要透過你的口腔。因此你可以通過口服嘗到犯錯的滋味。 我要做的下一個展覽主題，我剛剛一直提到的是設計和科學間的關係。我試圖尋找的並非象徵，而是共同點：共同的抱怨、共同的問題、共同的關注。而我認為這一點能讓我們在設計理念上走得更長遠，讓設計成為一種啟發，一種方向，而非制式指令。 同時我也希望你們都能發表回應。我已經向你們其中一些人發了信。我們可以形象不同的層面以展現「設計與科學」的魅力。因此，這需要從小事開始，才能做出偉大且有意義的事情。謝謝！"
