Talk	en	zh-tw
parag_khanna_how_megacities_are_changing_the_map_of_the_world	"I want you to reimagine how life is organized on earth. Think of the planet like a human body that we inhabit. The skeleton is the transportation system of roads and railways, bridges and tunnels, air and seaports that enable our mobility across the continents. The vascular system that powers the body are the oil and gas pipelines and electricity grids. that distribute energy. And the nervous system of communications is the Internet cables, satellites, cellular networks and data centers that allow us to share information. This ever-expanding infrastructural matrix already consists of 64 million kilometers of roads, four million kilometers of railways, two million kilometers of pipelines and one million kilometers of Internet cables. What about international borders? We have less than 500,000 kilometers of borders. Let's build a better map of the world. And we can start by overcoming some ancient mythology. There's a saying with which all students of history are familiar: ""Geography is destiny."" Sounds so grave, doesn't it? It's such a fatalistic adage. It tells us that landlocked countries are condemned to be poor, that small countries cannot escape their larger neighbors, that vast distances are insurmountable. But every journey I take around the world, I see an even greater force sweeping the planet: connectivity. The global connectivity revolution, in all of its forms — transportation, energy and communications — has enabled such a quantum leap in the mobility of people, of goods, of resources, of knowledge, such that we can no longer even think of geography as distinct from it. In fact, I view the two forces as fusing together into what I call ""connectography."" Connectography represents a quantum leap in the mobility of people, resources and ideas, but it is an evolution, an evolution of the world from political geography, which is how we legally divide the world, to functional geography, which is how we actually use the world, from nations and borders, to infrastructure and supply chains. Our global system is evolving from the vertically integrated empires of the 19th century, through the horizontally interdependent nations of the 20th century, into a global network civilization in the 21st century. Connectivity, not sovereignty, has become the organizing principle of the human species. (Applause) We are becoming this global network civilization because we are literally building it. All of the world's defense budgets and military spending taken together total just under two trillion dollars per year. Meanwhile, our global infrastructure spending is projected to rise to nine trillion dollars per year within the coming decade. And, well, it should. We have been living off an infrastructure stock meant for a world population of three billion, as our population has crossed seven billion to eight billion and eventually nine billion and more. As a rule of thumb, we should spend about one trillion dollars on the basic infrastructure needs of every billion people in the world. Not surprisingly, Asia is in the lead. In 2015, China announced the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which together with a network of other organizations aims to construct a network of iron and silk roads, stretching from Shanghai to Lisbon. And as all of this topographical engineering unfolds, we will likely spend more on infrastructure in the next 40 years, we will build more infrastructure in the next 40 years, than we have in the past 4,000 years. Now let's stop and think about it for a minute. Spending so much more on building the foundations of global society rather than on the tools to destroy it can have profound consequences. Connectivity is how we optimize the distribution of people and resources around the world. It is how mankind comes to be more than just the sum of its parts. I believe that is what is happening. Connectivity has a twin megatrend in the 21st century: planetary urbanization. Cities are the infrastructures that most define us. By 2030, more than two thirds of the world's population will live in cities. And these are not mere little dots on the map, but they are vast archipelagos stretching hundreds of kilometers. Here we are in Vancouver, at the head of the Cascadia Corridor that stretches south across the US border to Seattle. The technology powerhouse of Silicon Valley begins north of San Francisco down to San Jose and across the bay to Oakland. The sprawl of Los Angeles now passes San Diego across the Mexican border to Tijuana. San Diego and Tijuana now share an airport terminal where you can exit into either country. Eventually, a high-speed rail network may connect the entire Pacific spine. America's northeastern megalopolis begins in Boston through New York and Philadelphia to Washington. It contains more than 50 million people and also has plans for a high-speed rail network. But Asia is where we really see the megacities coming together. This continuous strip of light from Tokyo through Nagoya to Osaka contains more than 80 million people and most of Japan's economy. It is the world's largest megacity. For now. But in China, megacity clusters are coming together with populations reaching 100 million people. The Bohai Rim around Beijing, The Yangtze River Delta around Shanghai and the Pearl River Delta, stretching from Hong Kong north to Guangzhou. And in the middle, the Chongqing-Chengdu megacity cluster, whose geographic footprint is almost the same size as the country of Austria. And any number of these megacity clusters has a GDP approaching two trillion dollars — that's almost the same as all of India today. So imagine if our global diplomatic institutions, such as the G20, were to base their membership on economic size rather than national representation. Some Chinese megacities may be in and have a seat at the table, while entire countries, like Argentina or Indonesia would be out. Moving to India, whose population will soon exceed that of China, it too has a number of megacity clusters, such as the Delhi Capital Region and Mumbai. In the Middle East, Greater Tehran is absorbing one third of Iran's population. Most of Egypt's 80 million people live in the corridor between Cairo and Alexandria. And in the gulf, a necklace of city-states is forming, from Bahrain and Qatar, through the United Arab Emirates to Muscat in Oman. And then there's Lagos, Africa's largest city and Nigeria's commercial hub. It has plans for a rail network that will make it the anchor of a vast Atlantic coastal corridor, stretching across Benin, Togo and Ghana, to Abidjan, the capital of the Ivory Coast. But these countries are suburbs of Lagos. In a megacity world, countries can be suburbs of cities. By 2030, we will have as many as 50 such megacity clusters in the world. So which map tells you more? Our traditional map of 200 discrete nations that hang on most of our walls, or this map of the 50 megacity clusters? And yet, even this is incomplete because you cannot understand any individual megacity without understanding its connections to the others. People move to cities to be connected, and connectivity is why these cities thrive. Any number of them, such as Sao Paulo or Istanbul or Moscow, has a GDP approaching or exceeding one third of one half of their entire national GDP. But equally importantly, you cannot calculate any of their individual value without understanding the role of the flows of people, of finance, of technology that enable them to thrive. Take the Gauteng province of South Africa, which contains Johannesburg and the capital Pretoria. It too represents just over a third of South Africa's GDP. But equally importantly, it is home to the offices of almost every single multinational corporation that invests directly into South Africa and indeed, into the entire African continent. Cities want to be part of global value chains. They want to be part of this global division of labor. That is how cities think. I've never met a mayor who said to me, ""I want my city to be cut off."" They know that their cities belong as much to the global network civilization as to their home countries. Now, for many people, urbanization causes great dismay. They think cities are wrecking the planet. But right now, there are more than 200 intercity learning networks thriving. That is as many as the number of intergovernmental organizations that we have. And all of these intercity networks are devoted to one purpose, mankind's number one priority in the 21st century: sustainable urbanization. Is it working? Let's take climate change. We know that summit after summit in New York and Paris is not going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But what we can see is that transferring technology and knowledge and policies between cities is how we've actually begun to reduce the carbon intensity of our economies. Cities are learning from each other. How to install zero-emissions buildings, how to deploy electric car-sharing systems. In major Chinese cities, they're imposing quotas on the number of cars on the streets. In many Western cities, young people don't even want to drive anymore. Cities have been part of the problem, now they are part of the solution. Inequality is the other great challenge to achieving sustainable urbanization. When I travel through megacities from end to end — it takes hours and days — I experience the tragedy of extreme disparity within the same geography. And yet, our global stock of financial assets has never been larger, approaching 300 trillion dollars. That's almost four times the actual GDP of the world. We have taken on such enormous debts since the financial crisis, but have we invested them in inclusive growth? No, not yet. Only when we build sufficient, affordable public housing, when we invest in robust transportation networks to allow people to connect to each other both physically and digitally, that's when our divided cities and societies will come to feel whole again. (Applause) And that is why infrastructure has just been included in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, because it enables all the others. Our political and economic leaders are learning that connectivity is not charity, it's opportunity. And that's why our financial community needs to understand that connectivity is the most important asset class of the 21st century. Now, cities can make the world more sustainable, they can make the world more equitable, I also believe that connectivity between cities can make the world more peaceful. If we look at regions of the world with dense relations across borders, we see more trade, more investment and more stability. We all know the story of Europe after World War II, where industrial integration kicked off a process that gave rise to today's peaceful European Union. And you can see that Russia, by the way, is the least connected of major powers in the international system. And that goes a long way towards explaining the tensions today. Countries that have less stake in the system also have less to lose in disturbing it. In North America, the lines that matter most on the map are not the US-Canada border or the US-Mexico border, but the dense network of roads and railways and pipelines and electricity grids and even water canals that are forming an integrated North American union. North America does not need more walls, it needs more connections. (Applause) But the real promise of connectivity is in the postcolonial world. All of those regions where borders have historically been the most arbitrary and where generations of leaders have had hostile relations with each other. But now a new group of leaders has come into power and is burying the hatchet. Let's take Southeast Asia, where high-speed rail networks are planned to connect Bangkok to Singapore and trade corridors from Vietnam to Myanmar. Now this region of 600 million people coordinates its agricultural resources and its industrial output. It is evolving into what I call a Pax Asiana, a peace among Southeast Asian nations. A similar phenomenon is underway in East Africa, where a half dozen countries are investing in railways and multimodal corridors so that landlocked countries can get their goods to market. Now these countries coordinate their utilities and their investment policies. They, too, are evolving into a Pax Africana. One region we know could especially use this kind of thinking is the Middle East. As Arab states tragically collapse, what is left behind but the ancient cities, such as Cairo, Beirut and Baghdad? In fact, the nearly 400 million people of the Arab world are almost entirely urbanized. As societies, as cities, they are either water rich or water poor, energy rich or energy poor. And the only way to correct these mismatches is not through more wars and more borders, but through more connectivity of pipelines and water canals. Sadly, this is not yet the map of the Middle East. But it should be, a connected Pax Arabia, internally integrated and productively connected to its neighbors: Europe, Asia and Africa. Now, it may not seem like connectivity is what we want right now towards the world's most turbulent region. But we know from history that more connectivity is the only way to bring about stability in the long run. Because we know that in region after region, connectivity is the new reality. Cities and countries are learning to aggregate into more peaceful and prosperous wholes. But the real test is going to be Asia. Can connectivity overcome the patterns of rivalry among the great powers of the Far East? After all, this is where World War III is supposed to break out. Since the end of the Cold War, a quarter century ago, at least six major wars have been predicted for this region. But none have broken out. Take China and Taiwan. In the 1990s, this was everyone's leading World War III scenario. But since that time, the trade and investment volumes across the straits have become so intense that last November, leaders from both sides held a historic summit to discuss eventual peaceful reunification. And even the election of a nationalist party in Taiwan that's pro-independence earlier this year does not undermine this fundamental dynamic. China and Japan have an even longer history of rivalry and have been deploying their air forces and navies to show their strength in island disputes. But in recent years, Japan has been making its largest foreign investments in China. Japanese cars are selling in record numbers there. And guess where the largest number of foreigners residing in Japan today comes from? You guessed it: China. China and India have fought a major war and have three outstanding border disputes, but today India is the second largest shareholder in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. They're building a trade corridor stretching from Northeast India through Myanmar and Bangladesh to Southern China. Their trade volume has grown from 20 billion dollars a decade ago to 80 billion dollars today. Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan have fought three wars and continue to dispute Kashmir, but they're also negotiating a most-favored-nation trade agreement and want to complete a pipeline stretching from Iran through Pakistan to India. And let's talk about Iran. Wasn't it just two years ago that war with Iran seemed inevitable? Then why is every single major power rushing to do business there today? Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot guarantee that World War III will not break out. But we can definitely see why it hasn't happened yet. Even though Asia is home to the world's fastest growing militaries, these same countries are also investing billions of dollars in each other's infrastructure and supply chains. They are more interested in each other's functional geography than in their political geography. And that is why their leaders think twice, step back from the brink, and decide to focus on economic ties over territorial tensions. So often it seems like the world is falling apart, but building more connectivity is how we put Humpty Dumpty back together again, much better than before. And by wrapping the world in such seamless physical and digital connectivity, we evolve towards a world in which people can rise above their geographic constraints. We are the cells and vessels pulsing through these global connectivity networks. Everyday, hundreds of millions of people go online and work with people they've never met. More than one billion people cross borders every year, and that's expected to rise to three billion in the coming decade. We don't just build connectivity, we embody it. We are the global network civilization, and this is our map. A map of the world in which geography is no longer destiny. Instead, the future has a new and more hopeful motto: connectivity is destiny. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我要各位重新想像一下，地球上的生活是如何被組織起來的。想像一下我們居住的地球像是一個人類的身體。身體的骨架是運輸系統有道路和鐵路、橋樑、隧道、機場、海港讓我們可以在世界各國旅行。石油天然氣的管線像是我們的心血管系統，驅動著我們的身體，而電力網路可以運送能量。負責溝通的神經系統有網路纜線、衛星、行動網路、以及資料中心可以讓我們分享資訊。 這個一直不斷擴張的基礎建設矩陣，已經建造了6400萬公里的道路、400萬公里的鐵路、200萬公里的管道線路以及100萬公里的網路纜線。那國與國的國界線呢？我們至少有50萬公里的國界線。 讓我們來建立一個更好的世界地圖。我們可以從打破一些古老的錯誤觀念開始。歷史系的學生對這句話都很孰悉：＂地緣性決定了命運＂。聽起來很嚴肅莊重，對吧？多麼宿命的一句格言。它告訴我們，內陸國家就是注定貧窮，小國與鄰近大國之間遙遠的距離是無法逾越的。但在我世界各地的旅程當中，我看到了一個更大的趨勢正在席捲全球：連結。 全球連結的革命，大致上有這些—運輸、能源、通訊—這些連結使得流動性人口、貨物、資源、知識，有了跳躍性的增長，我們再也不會認為地緣性是造就彼此落差的原因。事實上，我看見這兩股力量正在融合成一個字：我稱它為""連結地緣性""現象。 連結地緣性現象，象徵了流動性人口、資源、想法的大躍進，但它也是一種演化現象，一種世界從法定國界的「政治地緣性」演化到「地理機能性」的過程。「地理機能性」實際上談的就是我們如何使用這個世界，一種從國家與國界的關係演化到基礎設施與供應鏈關係的過程。 我們的全球系統正在演化，從19世紀的垂直整合帝國時代，演化到20世紀的水平相互依存的國家時代，進入到21世紀的全球網路文明時代。連結性無關國家主權，它已經變成我們人類相互連結的組織大綱。 （掌聲） 我們正在進入一種全球網路文明的世代，因為這完全是由大家一起建立的。全球的軍事預算加總起來，每年都不到兩兆美金。同時間，全球的基礎設施費用未來的10年，預計每年將達到9兆美金。沒錯，本就該如此。我們過去全球有30億人口仰賴這些基礎建設生活現在已經跨越70億邁向80億人口的大關，而最終會超過90億人口。整體而言，全球平均每10億人口，就會有一兆美金的基礎建設開銷。 想當然爾，亞洲就是領頭羊。2015年，中國宣布成立亞洲基礎建設投資銀行，（簡稱：亞投行）成立宗旨是，連結其它國家一起建立起一帶一路的互聯經濟網。一路從上海延伸到里斯本（葡萄牙首都） 而因為這些重大地質工程的發展，我們接下來的40年將會增加很多開銷，接下來40年基礎建設的總開銷將會超過我們過去四千年來的總開銷。 現在，讓我們停下腳步想一想。花這麼多錢在建築這些全球社會的基礎工程上，比起建造出破壞地球的武器肯定有更深遠的影響。連結性就是一門我們要如何完善地分配全球人力與資源的學問。它是一門如何讓大家團結起來不要各自分散資源的學問。我相信，這就是現在正在發生的事情。 連結性在21世紀有股大趨勢：全球性的都市化。都市的基礎設施定義了我們。到2030年前，全球超過三分之二的人口會居住在城市裡。這些人口居住的地方並不是圖上的小光點，而是延綿好幾百公里的大型島狀光點。 這裡是我們現在的所在地溫哥華，從卡斯卡迪亞走廊的頂端跨過美國邊境，向南延申到西雅圖。科技重鎮矽谷從舊金山北部延伸到聖荷西，橫跨一個海灣來到奧克蘭。洛杉磯城市的延伸帶經過聖地亞哥跨過莫斯哥邊境來到蒂華納。聖地亞哥和蒂華納現在共用一個機場航站，讓你可以進出兩邊的國家。最後，高速鐵路網可能會連結整個東太平洋。美國東北部的超大型都會區，從波士頓開始經過紐約和費城來到華盛頓。這裡面住了5000萬人口，目前也有一個高速鐵路計畫。 但亞洲讓我們真正目睹了大型都會區的百花齊放。這條連續的光點從東京開始經過名古屋到大阪，裡面超過8000萬的人口，扛起了日本的主要經濟。它目前是全世界最大的大型城市。 在中國，人口到達一億的超大型都會區也很多，北京周邊的環渤海都會區，上海周邊的長江三角洲都會區，與珠江三角洲周邊的都會區，從香港往北延伸到廣州的都會區。在中間，還有重慶 、 成都特大城市都會區，它們的地形面積幾乎與奧地利這個國家差不多。 而這些大型都會區，每一區都將近有二兆美金的GDP—幾乎與今日的印度相當。所以，想像一下，如果我們的全球外交機構，像是G20高峰會，是用經濟規模而不是用國家代表來做為入會資格的話。有一些中國的大型城市，有許都會有一席之地，而像阿根廷和印尼這樣的國家就沒有位子了。 我們來談談印度，它的人口即將超越中國，它也有一些超大型都會區，像是首都德里都會區和孟買。在中東，大德黑蘭都會區容納了三分之一伊朗的人口。埃及的8000萬人口大部分都住在開羅和亞歷山大之間的走廊。而海灣、項鍊型的衛星城市也正在成型，像是巴林和卡達，通過阿拉伯聯合大公國到阿曼的馬斯卡特的都會區。 然後還有拉各斯都會區，在非洲最大的城市和奈及利亞的商業中心，有一個鐵路網的規劃，它在大西洋沿岸走廊扮演了重要的角色，鐵路橫跨了貝寧、多哥和加納拉伸，到阿比讓，象牙海岸的首都。 但是，這些國家都是拉各斯的城郊。在大型城市的世界裡，國家會變成這些城市的城郊。到2030年前，全球將會有50個像這樣的超大型都會區。所以，哪一種地圖給你的資訊比較多？是掛在我們自家牆上傳統的200個獨立國家的地圖，還是這一張有50個超大型都會區的地圖？ 當然，即使這樣仍不夠完整，因為，如果你沒有了解它們彼此的連結性關係，你也不會了解各別的大型城市。人們搬到城市裡被連結起來，而連結性造就了這些城市的繁榮。其中任何一個城市，如聖保羅或伊斯坦布爾或莫斯科，它們的GDP都已經高達或超過整個國家GDP的1/3到50%。 但同樣重要的是，如果你不了解它們的人流、金流、科技這些使它們繁榮的原因，你也無法計算它們的個別價值。以南非的豪登省為例，它包含了約翰尼斯堡與首都比勒陀利亞。它的GDP表現也超過1/3的南非總體GDP。但同樣重要的是，它出名的特色還有就是幾乎每一個跨國企業都有在南非做直接投資。當然，也包含投資整個非洲大陸。 每個城市都想成為全球價值鏈的一份子。它們都想成為「全球分工」的一份子。這是每個城市都在想的事。我從未遇過一個市長跟我說，「我想讓我的城市被排除掉」。他們知道，他們的城市也是全球網路文明的一部分，就如同它們是自己國家的一部分一樣。 現今，有很多人對都市化的現象很灰心。他們認為這些城市正在破壞地球。但如今，已經有超過200個網際城市了解到互聯可以帶來繁榮。這個數字與我們的政府組織一樣多。所有的這些網際城市的互動都致力於一個目標，人類21世紀的首重之重：永續的城市發展。 有成效了嗎？我們看一下氣候變化。我們知道，紐約與巴黎一次又一次的氣候大會也無法降低溫室效應氣體的排放。但我們可以看到，城市間的運輸科技與知識還有政策，已經讓我們開始了解如何降低對碳排放的濃度。 城市間彼此學習。如何設計零排放的建築，如何配置電動車共乘系統。在中國的主要城市中，他們已經開始限制路上汽車的配額。在很多西方的城市，年輕人甚至已經不想開車了。城市曾經是問題製造者，現在它們是提供解決方法的一份子。 要達成永續城市發展，不平等也是要面對的挑戰之一。當我在這些大型都會區旅行時—花了幾個小時或幾天—我體驗到同一地區也有極不公平的事。即使我們全球股市的資產已經高達將近300兆美金。這大約是全球GDP的四倍。 我們從金融海嘯後也創造了龐大的債務，但我們對他們已有相對等的投資嗎？不，還沒有。只有當我們蓋好夠多、夠便宜的大眾住宅，投資大量的運輸網路讓人們可以進行實體與數位上的溝通連結，到那時候，所有的城市與社會，才會感受到彼此的溫暖。 （掌聲） 這也是為什麼基礎設施的發展會成為聯合國永續發展的目標之一，因為這讓所有人都受益。我們的政治和財經領導人已經瞭解到，連結性並不是做慈善，它是機會。這也是為什麼我們的財政界需要了解連結是21世紀最重要的學習課程。 現在，城市可以讓世界更具有永續發展性，它們讓世界更公平，我也相信城市間的連結可以讓世界更和平。如果我們專注世界各區跨國間緊密關係的發展，我們會看到更多的貿易、更多的投資與更多的穩定性。我們都知道第二次世界大戰之後，歐洲工業蓬勃發展的故事，帶來了歐盟今日和平的發展。還有，你可以看到俄羅斯，是最後一個與國際系統接軌的重要強國。要解釋今日全球的緊張局勢會花很多的時間。在系統中的國家，彼此的憎恨已經逐漸減少，在北美，地圖上最重要的一條線，不是美國與加拿大的國界或美國與墨西哥的國界，而是集結在北美聯盟之間綿密的公路、鐵路、油管網路以及電網路甚至是水渠道。北美不需要更多的圍牆，我們需要更多的連結。 （掌聲） 但真正對連結性發展最有潛力的地方是在後殖民世界的國家。這些區域的國家，他們的國界變化無常，世世代代的領導人，彼此之間的仇恨都相當深。但現在新一代的統治者已經開始放下仇恨彼此合作。 我們拿東南亞為例，從曼谷到新加坡的高速鐵路網以及越南到緬甸的貿易走廊。這個區域的六億人口，齊心協調彼此的農業資源及彼此的產業輸出。它正進化到一種我稱之為「亞洲和平共榮」的現象，一個在東南亞國家之間的和平現象。 在東非，相同的情況也正在發生，將近有半打的國家，正在投資鐵路與多功能經濟走廊讓內陸國家也可以將他們的產品推到市場上。這些國家彼此協調他們的設施及投資政策。他們也進化到一種「非洲式的和平共榮現象」。 我們認識的一個區域特別可以運用這種想法，就是中東區域。當阿拉伯國家慘遭瓦解後，除了古老的城市，還留下了甚麼？像是開羅、貝魯特和巴格達？事實上在阿拉伯國度，有將近四億人口都已經都市化了。社會、城市之間，不是水源豐富就是缺水，不是能源豐富就是缺少能源。而唯一可以導正這些分配不當的方法，並不是透過更多的戰爭和領土的侵略，而是透過對油管與水道的連結性。可悲的是，這目前還不是中東的地圖。但，它必須是，一個「阿拉伯國度的和平共榮現象」，透過內部整合與產品連結與他們的鄰居：歐洲、亞洲、非洲產生連結。 現在，對世界上最動盪的地區而言，目前的連結性看起來並不是我們所期待的樣子，但我們從歷史上學到，更多的連結才是追求長期穩定的唯一方法。因為我們知道，頻繁的戰爭如夢幻泡影，連結性才是新的實境。城市與國家正在學習匯集更多的和平與繁榮。 但真正的考驗是在亞洲。連結性是否可以克服長久以來在遠東區域強大勢力之間的競爭模式呢?並竟，這區是第三次世界大戰最有可能爆發的地方。自從25年前，冷戰結束後，這一個區域，至少有6個主要的戰事曾經被預測會爆發出來。但沒有一個爆發。 拿中國和台灣為例。在1990年代，這裡是每個人預測第三次世界大戰的開幕式。但從那之後，兩岸之間的貿易與投資往來相當密切，這讓去年11月，雙邊的領導，舉辦了一次歷史性的會面，討論最終和平統一的議題。即使今年稍早，台灣的國民黨因為選舉而有支持獨立的傾向，但這並不會破壞和平統一的基本路線。 即使中國與日本對立的歷史更長，甚至在島的爭議上，展現彼此的國防實力。但近幾年，日本已經在中國做了最大的投資。日本的汽車銷售甚至在中國創下紀錄。猜猜看現在住在日本的外國人，最多的是來自哪一個國家？你猜對了：中國。 中國與印度也有戰爭，有三個顯著的國界爭議，但今日，印度是亞投行的第二大股東。他們建立了一條貿易走廊，從印度的東北方經過緬甸和孟加拉一路延伸到中國的南邊。他們的貿易金額從10幾年前的200億美金增長到今日的800億美金。 擁有核武的印度和巴基斯坦已經打了三場戰爭，雙方對喀什米爾領土的爭議從不間斷，但他們也協調出了一種雙贏的貿易協議，雙方想要完成一條管線，從伊朗經過巴基斯坦到印度。 讓我們談談伊朗。兩年前伊朗的戰爭不是不可避免的嗎？那麼，為什麼今日，每一個強權國家都要跑到那邊做生意？ 各位先生女士，我不敢保證第三次世界大戰不會爆發。但我們絕對可以了解為什還沒發生。即使大家都知道，亞洲是全世界國防經費增長最快的區域但這些國家彼此也投入好幾十億美金在彼此的基礎建設及供應鏈上。他們對彼此的「地理位置功能」比「政治地理版圖」更感興趣。這也是為什麼他們的領導人要退一步仔細思考，並決定把重心擺在經濟發展而非緊張的領土關係上。 雖然看起來世界好像正在分崩離析，但也建立了很多連結性，讓大家比以前更知道要如何重修舊好搞經濟。而藉由網路力量，我們把世界連結在一起，這讓我們進化到一種突破地理限制的數位世界。我們就像細胞和血管，熱血沸騰地通過這些全球的連結網路。 每天，有好幾億人在網路上，與他們從未謀面的人一起工作。每年有超過10億人次在世界各地旅行工作，在未來的10年，這個數字即將突破30億。 我們不只是建立了連結性，我們更把它體現出來。我們都是全球網路文明的一員，而這就是我們的地圖。世界地圖不再由地緣性決定命運。而是一個更有希望的未來新口號：連結才是我們的命運。謝謝各位。（掌聲）"
