Talk	en	zh-tw
pardis_sabeti_how_we_ll_fight_the_next_deadly_virus	"You may never have heard of Kenema, Sierra Leone or Arua, Nigeria. But I know them as two of the most extraordinary places on earth. In hospitals there, there's a community of nurses, physicians and scientists that have been quietly battling one of the deadliest threats to humanity for years: Lassa virus. Lassa virus is a lot like Ebola. It can cause a severe fever and can often be fatal. But these individuals, they risk their lives every day to protect the individuals in their communities, and by doing so, protect us all. But one of the most extraordinary things I learned about them on one of my first visits out there many years ago was that they start each morning — these challenging, extraordinary days on the front lines — by singing. They gather together, and they show their joy. They show their spirit. And over the years, from year after year as I've visited them and they've visited me, I get to gather with them and I sing and we write and we love it, because it reminds us that we're not just there to pursue science together; we're bonded through a shared humanity. And that of course, as you can imagine, becomes extremely important, even essential, as things begin to change. And that changed a great deal in March of 2014, when the Ebola outbreak was declared in Guinea. This is the first outbreak in West Africa, near the border of Sierra Leone and Liberia. And it was frightening, frightening for us all. We had actually suspected for some time that Lassa and Ebola were more widespread than thought, and we thought it could one day come to Kenema. And so members of my team immediately went out and joined Dr. Humarr Khan and his team there, and we set up diagnostics to be able to have sensitive molecular tests to pick up Ebola if it came across the border and into Sierra Leone. We'd already set up this kind of capacity for Lassa virus, we knew how to do it, the team is outstanding. We just had to give them the tools and place to survey for Ebola. And unfortunately, that day came. On May 23, 2014, a woman checked into the maternity ward at the hospital, and the team ran those important molecular tests and they identified the first confirmed case of Ebola in Sierra Leone. This was an exceptional work that was done. They were able to diagnose the case immediately, to safely treat the patient and to begin to do contact tracing to follow what was going on. It could've stopped something. But by the time that day came, the outbreak had already been breeding for months. With hundreds of cases, it had already eclipsed all previous outbreaks. And it came into Sierra Leone not as that singular case, but as a tidal wave. We had to work with the international community, with the Ministry of Health, with Kenema, to begin to deal with the cases, as the next week brought 31, then 92, then 147 cases — all coming to Kenema, one of the only places in Sierra Leone that could deal with this. And we worked around the clock trying to do everything we could, trying to help the individuals, trying to get attention, but we also did one other simple thing. From that specimen that we take from a patient's blood to detect Ebola, we can discard it, obviously. The other thing we can do is, actually, put in a chemical and deactivate it, so just place it into a box and ship it across the ocean, and that's what we did. We sent it to Boston, where my team works. And we also worked around the clock doing shift work, day after day, and we quickly generated 99 genomes of the Ebola virus. This is the blueprint — the genome of a virus is the blueprint. We all have one. It says everything that makes up us, and it tells us so much information. The results of this kind of work are simple and they're powerful. We could actually take these 99 different viruses, look at them and compare them, and we could see, actually, compared to three genomes that had been previously published from Guinea, we could show that the outbreak emerged in Guinea months before, once into the human population, and from there had been transmitting from human to human. Now, that's incredibly important when you're trying to figure out how to intervene, but the important thing is contact tracing. We also could see that as the virus was moving between humans, it was mutating. And each of those mutations are so important, because the diagnostics, the vaccines, the therapies that we're using, are all based on that genome sequence, fundamentally — that's what drives it. And so global health experts would need to respond, would have to develop, to recalibrate everything that they were doing. But the way that science works, the position I was in at that point is, I had the data, and I could have worked in a silo for many, many months, analyzed the data carefully, slowly, submitted the paper for publication, gone through a few back-and-forths, and then finally when the paper came out, might release that data. That's the way the status quo works. Well, that was not going to work at this point, right? We had friends on the front lines and to us it was just obvious that what we needed is help, lots of help. So the first thing we did is, as soon as the sequences came off the machines, we published it to the web. We just released it to the whole world and said, ""Help us."" And help came. Before we knew it, we were being contacted from people all over, surprised to see the data out there and released. Some of the greatest viral trackers in the world were suddenly part of our community. We were working together in this virtual way, sharing, regular calls, communications, trying to follow the virus minute by minute, to see ways that we could stop it. And there are so many ways that we can form communities like that. Everybody, particularly when the outbreak started to expand globally, was reaching out to learn, to participate, to engage. Everybody wants to play a part. The amount of human capacity out there is just amazing, and the Internet connects us all. And could you imagine that instead of being frightened of each other, that we all just said, ""Let's do this. Let's work together, and let's make this happen."" But the problem is that the data that all of us are using, Googling on the web, is just too limited to do what we need to do. And so many opportunities get missed when that happens. So in the early part of the epidemic from Kenema, we'd had 106 clinical records from patients, and we once again made that publicly available to the world. And in our own lab, we could show that you could take those 106 records, we could train computers to predict the prognosis for Ebola patients to near 100 percent accuracy. And we made an app that could release that, to make that available to health-care workers in the field. But 106 is just not enough to make it powerful, to validate it. So we were waiting for more data to release that. and the data has still not come. We are still waiting, tweaking away, in silos rather than working together. And this just — we can't accept that. Right? You, all of you, cannot accept that. It's our lives on the line. And in fact, actually, many lives were lost, many health-care workers, including beloved colleagues of mine, five colleagues: Mbalu Fonnie, Alex Moigboi, Dr. Humarr Khan, Alice Kovoma and Mohamed Fullah. These are just five of many health-care workers at Kenema and beyond that died while the world waited and while we all worked, quietly and separately. See, Ebola, like all threats to humanity, it's fueled by mistrust and distraction and division. When we build barriers amongst ourselves and we fight amongst ourselves, the virus thrives. But unlike all threats to humanity, Ebola is one where we're actually all the same. We're all in this fight together. Ebola on one person's doorstep could soon be on ours. And so in this place with the same vulnerabilities, the same strengths, the same fears, the same hopes, I hope that we work together with joy. A graduate student of mine was reading a book about Sierra Leone, and she discovered that the word ""Kenema,"" the hospital that we work at and the city where we work in Sierra Leone, is named after the Mende word for ""clear like a river, translucent and open to the public gaze."" That was really profound for us, because without knowing it, we'd always felt that in order to honor the individuals in Kenema where we worked, we had to work openly, we had to share and we had to work together. And we have to do that. We all have to demand that of ourselves and others — to be open to each other when an outbreak happens, to fight in this fight together. Because this is not the first outbreak of Ebola, it will not be the last, and there are many other microbes out there that are lying in wait, like Lassa virus and others. And the next time this happens, it could happen in a city of millions, it could start there. It could be something that's transmitted through the air. It could even be disseminated intentionally. And I know that that is frightening, I understand that, but I know also, and this experience shows us, that we have the technology and we have the capacity to win this thing, to win this and have the upper hand over viruses. But we can only do it if we do it together and we do it with joy. So for Dr. Khan and for all of those who sacrificed their lives on the front lines in this fight with us always, let us be in this fight with them always. And let us not let the world be defined by the destruction wrought by one virus, but illuminated by billions of hearts and minds working in unity. Thank you. (Applause)"	你可能沒聽過位於獅子山共和國的凱內馬或是奈及利亞的阿魯阿。但我知道它們是地球上兩個最奇特的地方。 那裡的醫院，有一個護士、醫生、科學家組成的社群，他們正安靜地對抗一個危害人類多年致命威脅：拉薩病毒。拉薩病毒與伊波拉病毒非常像。它會引發嚴重的感冒，而且常常會致命。但這些人，他們每天冒著生命危險來保護他們社群裡的個體，也因為如此，保護了我們全部人。 但，我從他們身上學到最棒的一件事就是— 好幾年前，在我第一次拜訪的時候發現，在前線這充滿挑戰的特殊日子裡，他們的每個早晨是這樣開始的—唱歌。他們聚集並展現他們的愉悅。他們展現他們的活力。過了幾年，年復一年，我們互相拜訪，我與他們聚會，一同歌唱一起寫歌、我們超愛這樣做，因為這樣可以提醒我們，我們不是只有在那裡一起追求科學而已；我們藉由共同的天性而緊緊地聯繫在一起。 當然，你可以想像，這變得很重要，甚至是必要的，因為事情開始有了變化。而變化真的很大， 2014 年的 3 月，當伊波拉病毒在幾內亞被宣布爆發時。這是西非的第一次爆發，位置接近獅子山共和國和利比里亞的邊界。而這非常可怕，我們都嚇壞了，實際上，我們已經懷疑了很久，拉薩病毒與伊波拉病毒的散佈情況比想像中的還要來的嚴重。我們在想，有一天它會來到凱內馬。 我團隊裡的一些成員立刻出發加入Humarr Khan博士在那邊的團隊，我們建立起能進行高敏分子測試的診斷機制，來收集跨過邊界進入到獅子山共和國的伊波拉病毒。我們之前已經為拉薩病毒建立過類似的診斷設施。我們知道如何做，團隊非常的傑出。我們只要給他們工具和場所，他們就可以進行伊波拉病毒的調查。 但不幸的是，那天真的到來了。2014 年 5 月 23 日，一名婦女住進醫院的產房，我們的團隊進行了一些重要的分子檢測測試，然後確診了第一起獅子山共和國的伊波拉病毒病例。這件事已經完成的非常好了，他們可以立刻確診病例，來安全地治療病患，然後開始追蹤接觸者並觀測後續發展。這本可以阻止一些事情。但那一天來之前，病毒已經爆發並擴散繁殖了好幾個月。這幾百個案例，遠遠超過了以往所有爆發它並不是以單一個案來侵入獅子山共和國，而是席捲而來。 我們必須跟國際組織合作、跟衛生局、跟凱內馬合作來開始解決這些問題，一個星期後，在凱內馬出現了31個、接著是92個、147個病例，出現在這個獅子山共和國內唯一能處理這種病的地方。 我們日以繼夜地工作，嘗試盡我們所能得做每件事情、嘗試幫助每個人、嘗試引起注意、但我們也做了另一件簡單的事。從一個患者的血液拿出伊波拉病毒樣本開始，你知道，顯然地，我們可以不管這件事的。但實際上，我們可以做的另一件事就是加入化學藥劑並讓它失去活性，我們把它放進盒子，跨海運送出去，而這就是我們做的。我們把它送到波士頓，我團隊工作的地方。我們也是日以繼夜、換班、不斷的工作，我們很快地做出 99 個伊波拉病毒的基因組。這是藍圖—病毒的基因組。我們都有一個基因藍圖。它展示了我們所有的組成成分，也告訴了我們很多資訊。 這類工作的成果相當簡單且它們很有用處，我們實際上可以拿這 99 個不同的病毒，檢視它們並比對它們，而我們可以看到，實際上，比對出來的 3 種基因組之前已經在幾內亞被公布過了，我們可以證明，爆發是在幾內亞好幾個月前發生的，一旦入侵人類，病毒就開始人傳人了。現在，這真的相當重要，當你嘗試要找出如何阻止的方法，最重要的就是接觸感染的追蹤。我們也可以看到，當病毒在人類之間移動時，它會突變。而每個突變都相當重要，因為我們使用的診斷、疫苗、治療方法所有基礎都是建立在這些基因組序列上的，基本上—就是這些在驅動整件事情的。所以全球的醫療保健專家必須得回應和繼續開發以此重新調整他們著手的所有工作。 但以科學工作的方法而言，我當時的處境是這樣：因為我有數據，所以我本可以實驗倉裡工作好幾個月，仔細地、慢慢地分析資料，透過來回的文件往返，然後發表文章，而最後當報告出來，也許要公開那些資料。這就是現狀工作的方法。 但，在這個關鍵時刻，如果那樣做根本行不通，對吧？我們前線有朋友，對我們而言，很明顯的，我們需要的就是幫助，很多的幫助，所以，我們做的第一件事就是，盡可能地趕快把序列從機器裡跑完，然後把它公布到網站上，我們只是把它公布到全世界，並到訴大家「幫助我們」然後，幫助來了， 在我們知道這件事以前，我們已經聯繫來自各地的人們，他們很驚訝看到資料就在那裏被公布出來。一些世界上最偉大的病毒追蹤專家，突然間變成我們社群的一部分。我們用這種虛擬的方式一起工作、分享、定時回報、溝通、分分秒秒跟蹤著病毒，看看有甚麼方法可以阻止它。 我們有很多可以建立類似這種社群的方式。特別是當爆發開始擴散到全球時，每個人都想伸出援手學習、參與、加入。每個人都想扮演一個角色。人類的能力綜合，加起來相當驚人，網路連結了我們。你可以想像，我們不在彼此傳播恐懼，而是一起說，「讓我們做這件事，讓我們一起工作、讓這件事成真」 但問題是，我們大家都在使用那些google上搜尋來的資料，對我們的工作實在太具有局限性了，所以當機會來臨時我們會錯過很多，因此，在凱內馬疫情的初期，我們有 106 位病人的臨床紀錄，然後我們再次地向世界公布，在我們自己的實驗室，我們可以讓你可以拿走這 106 個紀錄，我們可以訓練電腦，去預判病人的伊波拉病毒，準確率接近 100%。我們做了一個app程式來發放這些資料，供出外勤的醫療人員使用。 但 106 個樣本還是不夠多也不夠強來發揮效果所以，我們還要等更多的資料來公布它，但，資料仍然還沒來。我們仍在實驗倉裡等待、苦惱，而不是一起工作。要是這樣—我們根本無法接受，對吧？你們全部都無法接受。我們的生命，箭在弦上。而事實上，已有很多生命離開、很多醫療照顧者、包括我最愛的五個同事：Mbalu Fonnie, Alex Moigboi,Humarr Khan博士、Alice Kovoma及Mohamed Fullah.這些僅是在凱內馬多位在幕後默默奉獻的其中五位醫療照顧者，當全世界在等待、當我們全部在工作時，他們已安靜地離我們而去。 你看！伊波拉病毒就像全體人類的威脅，它是由不信任、分心、分裂所組成在我們彼此阻隔並相互鬥爭時，病毒就從中茂盛了起來。但不像人類的其他威脅，實際上，面對伊波拉病毒的威脅時，我們都是一樣的。我們全部都在這一場戰役裡面。伊波拉在某人家的門口，很快的，就會來到我們家。所以在這個地方，我們都一樣脆弱，一樣的抵抗力、一樣的恐懼、一樣的希望，我希望我們可以一起開心工作。 我的一位研究生，當時在讀一本有關於獅子山共和國的書，她發現，我們在獅子山共和國工作的醫院所坐落的城市「凱內馬」，是以曼德語中的「清澈如溪，公開透明給大眾檢視」而命名的。這對我們影響相當深刻，因為認識到這一點，我們才會覺得為了尊重凱內馬的人民，所以我們必須公開、分享、共同工作。而我們必須這麼做。我們每個人都必須專心一致—彼此公開，當下次病毒爆發時，我們一起並肩作戰，因為這不是伊波拉病毒的第一次爆發，它也不會是最後一次，還有很多的細菌潛伏著，像是拉薩病毒等。當下次再次發生時，它可能會在一個百萬人的城市開始爆發。它可能會是透過空氣傳染的某種東西。它甚至有可能全球性地散播。我知道這很恐怖，我懂這個，但我也知道，這個經驗告訴我們，我們擁有科技，我們也有能力能贏得這場勝利，戰勝並克服病毒。但我們要實現勝利，只能通過一起努力並開心地做。 為了Khan博士、為了那些在前線犧牲掉生命永遠與我們同在的那些人，讓我們經常伴隨他們一起奮戰。讓我們不要讓這個世界，被一個病毒的毀滅所定義，而是被數十億個團結在一起的心靈所照耀。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
