Talk	en	zh-tw
patricia_medici_the_coolest_animal_you_know_nothing_about_and_how_we_can_save_it	This is one of the most amazing animals on the face of the Earth. This is a tapir. Now this, this is a baby tapir, the cutest animal offspring in the animal kingdom. (Laughter) By far. There is no competition here. I have dedicated the past 20 years of my life to the research and conservation of tapirs in Brazil, and it has been absolutely amazing. But at the moment, I've been thinking really, really hard about the impact of my work. I've been questioning myself about the real contributions I have made for the conservation of these animals I love so much. Am I being effective in safeguarding their survival? Am I doing enough? I guess the big question here is, am I studying tapirs and contributing to their conservation, or am I just documenting their extinction? The world is facing so many different conservation crises. We all know that. It's all over the news every day. Tropical forests and other ecosystems are being destroyed, climate change, so many species on the brink of extinction: tigers, lions, elephants, rhinos, tapirs. This is the lowland tapir, the tapir species I work with, the largest terrestrial mammal of South America. They're massive. They're powerful. Adults can weigh up to 300 kilos. That's half the size of a horse. They're gorgeous. Tapirs are mostly found in tropical forests such as the Amazon, and they absolutely need large patches of habitat in order to find all the resources they need to reproduce and survive. But their habitat is being destroyed, and they have been hunted out of several parts of their geographic distribution. And you see, this is very, very unfortunate because tapirs are extremely important for the habitats where they are found. They're herbivores. Fifty percent of their diet consists of fruit, and when they eat the fruit, they swallow the seeds, which they disperse throughout the habitat through their feces. They play this major role in shaping and maintaining the structure and diversity of the forest, and for that reason, tapirs are known as gardeners of the forest. Isn't that amazing? If you think about it, the extinction of tapirs would seriously affect biodiversity as a whole. I started my tapir work in 1996, still very young, fresh out of college, and it was a pioneer research and conservation program. At that point, we had nearly zero information about tapirs, mostly because they're so difficult to study. They're nocturnal, solitary, very elusive animals, and we got started getting very basic data about these animals. But what is it that a conservationist does? Well, first, we need data. We need field research. We need those long-term datasets to support conservation action, and I told you tapirs are very hard to study, so we have to rely on indirect methods to study them. We have to capture and anesthetize them so that we can install GPS collars around their necks and follow their movements, which is a technique used by many other conservationists around the world. And then we can gather information about how they use space, how they move through the landscape, what are their priority habitats, and so much more. Next, we must disseminate what we learn. We have to educate people about tapirs and how important these animals are. And it's amazing how many people around the world do not know what a tapir is. In fact, many people think this is a tapir. Let me tell you, this is not a tapir. (Laughter) This is a giant anteater. Tapirs do not eat ants. Never. Ever. And then next we have to provide training, capacity building. It is our responsibility to prepare the conservationists of the future. We are losing several conservation battles, and we need more people doing what we do, and they need the skills, and they need the passion to do that. Ultimately, we conservationists, we must be able to apply our data, to apply our accumulated knowledge to support actual conservation action. Our first tapir program took place in the Atlantic Forest in the eastern part of Brazil, one of the most threatened biomes in the world. The destruction of the Atlantic Forest began in the early 1500s, when the Portuguese first arrived in Brazil, beginning European colonization in the eastern part of South America. This forest was almost completely cleared for timber, agriculture, cattle ranching and the construction of cities, and today only seven percent of the Atlantic forest is still left standing. And tapirs are found in very, very small, isolated, disconnected populations. In the Atlantic Forest, we found out that tapirs move through open areas of pastureland and agriculture going from one patch of forest to patch of forest. So our main approach in this region was to use our tapir data to identify the potential places for the establishment of wildlife corridors in between those patches of forest, reconnecting the habitat so that tapirs and many other animals could cross the landscape safely. After 12 years in the Atlantic Forest, in 2008, we expanded our tapir conservation efforts to the Pantanal in the western part of Brazil near the border with Bolivia and Paraguay. This is the largest continuous freshwater floodplain in the world, an incredible place and one of the most important strongholds for lowland tapirs in South America. And working in the Pantanal has been extremely refreshing because we found large, healthy tapir populations in the area, and we have been able to study tapirs in the most natural conditions we'll ever find, very much free of threats. In the Pantanal, besides the GPS collars, we are using another technique: camera traps. This camera is equipped with a movement sensor and it photographs animals when they walk in front of it. So thanks to these amazing devices, we have been able to gather precious information about tapir reproduction and social organization which are very important pieces of the puzzle when you're trying to develop those conservation strategies. And right now, 2015, we are expanding our work once again to the Brazilian Cerrado, the open grasslands and shrub forests in the central part of Brazil. Today this region is the very epicenter of economic development in my country, where natural habitat and wildlife populations are rapidly being eradicated by several different threats, including once again cattle ranching, large sugarcane and soybean plantations, poaching, roadkill, just to name a few. And somehow, tapirs are still there, which gives me a lot of hope. But I have to say that starting this new program in the Cerrado was a bit of a slap in the face. When you drive around and you find dead tapirs along the highways and signs of tapirs wandering around in the middle of sugarcane plantations where they shouldn't be, and you talk to kids and they tell you that they know how tapir meat tastes because their families poach and eat them, it really breaks your heart. The situation in the Cerrado made me realize — it gave me the sense of urgency. I am swimming against the tide. It made me realize that despite two decades of hard work trying to save these animals, we still have so much work to do if we are to prevent them from disappearing. We have to find ways to solve all these problems. We really do, and you know what? We really came to a point in the conservation world where we have to think out of the box. We'll have to be a lot more creative than we are right now. And I told you, roadkill is a big problem for tapirs in the Cerrado, so we just came up with the idea of putting reflective stickers on the GPS collars we put on the tapirs. These are the same stickers used on big trucks to avoid collision. Tapirs cross the highways after dark, so the stickers will hopefully help drivers see this shining thing crossing the highway, and maybe they will slow down a little bit. For now, this is just a crazy idea. We don't know. We'll see if it will reduce the amount of tapir roadkill. But the point is, maybe this is the kind of stuff that needs to be done. And although I'm struggling with all these questions in my mind right now, I have a pact with tapirs. I know in my heart that tapir conservation is my cause. This is my passion. I am not alone. I have this huge network of supporters behind me, and there is no way I'm ever going to stop. I will continue doing this, most probably for the rest of my life. And I'll keep doing this for Patrícia, my namesake, one of the first tapirs we captured and monitored in the Atlantic Forest many, many years ago; for Rita and her baby Vincent in the Pantanal. And I'll keep doing this for Ted, a baby tapir we captured in December last year also in the Pantanal. And I will keep doing this for the hundreds of tapirs that I've had the pleasure to meet over the years and the many others I know I will encounter in the future. These animals deserve to be cared for. They need me. They need us. And you know? We human beings deserve to live in a world where we can get out there and see and benefit from not only tapirs but all the other beautiful species, now and in the future. Thank you so much. (Applause)	這是地球表面上最奇妙的動物之一。這是隻貘。這個，是隻貘寶寶。是動物界裡最可愛的動物後代。 （笑聲） 目前競爭還沒開始 我將人生過去的二十年獻給巴西貘的保育與研究這一直以來都令人感到非常驚奇但現在，我很努力思考我的工作所帶來的影響我一直在問我自己，我對這些我這麼熱愛的動物的保育的真正貢獻我是否在保護牠們的生存上有效果我是否做得夠多？我想，這裡最大的問題是我是否真的在研究貘跟為牠們的存續做付出或者我只是在記錄牠們的滅種 這個世界正在面對各式各樣的保育危機我們都知道，新聞每天都看得到熱帶雨林跟其他生態環境正在被破壞氣候變化，這麼多的物種正在滅種的邊緣老虎、獅子、大象、犀牛、貘 這是隻低地貘，跟我一起工作的貘種類是南美最大的陸生哺乳類動物牠們很大，很強大成年的貘可以有三百公斤重那是馬大小的一半牠們很可愛 貘大多數在亞馬遜的熱帶雨林中可以被找到牠們需要很大片的棲息地才可以找到所有牠們需要繁衍跟生存的資源但牠們的棲息地正被破壞著而牠們已經被獵趕出許多牠們分布的地理區域 你看，這真的是非常、非常的不幸因為牠們屬於的棲息地對牠們來說來說是相當重要的牠們是草食動物水果占牠們飲食的百分之五十而當牠們吃水果時，牠們會吞下種子，牠們透過排泄物在牠們的棲息地散播這些種子牠們在形塑和保持雨林的結構和多樣化中扮演主要的角色正因為如此，貘亦被視為是雨林的園丁這可不很驚人嗎？如果你想想貘的絕跡真的會嚴重的影響整個生物多樣性 我在1996年開始從事關於貘的工作，我當時非常的年輕，才剛從大學畢業當時這是一項前端的研究和保育計畫當時，我們幾乎沒有關於貘的任何相關資訊大多因為牠們非常難被研究牠們是夜行、非群居且不易被找到的動物，接著我們開始得到關於這些動物非常基本的數據 但是，保育專家做的事是什麼？嗯，首先，我們需要數據我們需要田野調查。我們需要這些長期的資料集來支持保育行動而我跟你們說過了，貘非常難被研究所以我們需要藉由間接方法來研究牠們我們必須捕捉，麻醉牠們所以我們在牠們的脖子裝上了GPS頸鍊來追蹤牠們的行蹤這是世界上的保育人士都常使用的一個技術接著我們蒐集關於牠們如何使用空間的資訊牠們怎麼在地景上移動牠們的首要棲息地是什麼還有更多更多 接著，我們必須散播我們所知道的我們必須讓大眾了解貘了解牠們是多麽重要的動物而這真的很奇妙，這世上有這麼多的人並不知道貘是什麼事實上，許多人認為這是隻貘讓我告訴你們，這不是隻貘 （笑聲） 這是隻巨大的食蟻獸貘並不吃螞蟻。從未，永遠不會。 再來，我們需要提供訓練，能力養成。儲備未來的保育人士是我們的責任。我們在許多保育戰役上正在敗退而我們需要更多的人做我們在做的事情而且如果他們需要技能，如果他們有做這件事情的熱誠最終，我們保育人士我們必須可以應用我們的數據應用我們累積的知識來支持真正的保育行動我們的第一個貘計劃從大西洋雨林開始在巴西東部世上最受威脅的生物群落大西洋雨林的破壞始於十六世紀早期當葡萄牙人首先抵達巴西開始歐洲在南美東部的殖民這雨林在當時幾乎被全面清除為了木材、農業、牧牛與建造城市而今日，只剩下百分之七的大西洋雨林存在著所有的貘都是在非常、非常小的，孤立失聯的族群被找到在大西洋雨林，我們發現貘穿越牧農場的開放區域從雨林的一片到雨林的另一片所以我們在這一區主要的處理方式是使用我們的貘數據來找出潛在的地方來建造野生生物廊道在不同的雨林區域之間重新連結棲息地好讓貘以及許多其他的動物可以安全的穿越地景 十二年之後的大西洋雨林在二零零八年，我們擴大了貘的保育心血到了潘塔納爾濕地在巴西的西部靠近與玻利維亞跟巴拉圭的邊界這是世上最大連續的淡水沖積平原令人不可置信的地方且是南美中低地貘的最重要堡壘之一在潘塔納爾的工作是非常振奮人心的經驗因為我們在那區域找到大又健康的貘族群而我們又可以在我們所可能找到的，最自然的條件下研究貘幾乎沒有威脅 在潘塔納爾，除了GPS頸鏈外，我們還用其他方法紅外相機這相機裝有動作感測器當動物在相機前移動時照下牠們多虧了這些神奇的設備我們才得以捕捉這些珍貴的資訊關於貘繁衍以及社會組織這些是開發這些保育策略不可或缺的重要一環 當今二零一五年，我們正再次擴展我們的行動到了巴西的喜拉多巴西中部的開放草原與矮灌木叢林今日，這區域是我國家經濟發展非常重要的中心也是自然棲地與野生族群正在被各種不同威脅快速鏟滅包含，又一次，牧牛大片甘蔗與大豆的種植偷獵、交通事故，這還只是一部分不知怎麼的，那裡仍有貘這給我很大的希望但我還是得說，在喜拉多開始這項計畫有點是在臉上打巴掌當你開車逛逛而你在公路上找到死掉的貘還有貘在甘蔗田中遊蕩的跡象牠們不該在那的當你跟小孩說，他們跟你說他們知道貘吃起來怎樣因為他們的家人偷獵並吃掉牠們這真的傷透了你的心 在喜拉多的情境使我有了危機意識我正在逆流而游讓我意識到儘管這二十年來的辛苦工作試圖拯救這些動物，我們還是有許多的工作要做如果我們要避免牠們消逝我們必須找到解決這些問題的方法我們已經在做了，但你知道嗎？我們真的來到保育領域中一個我們必須跳脫框架思考的地步我們將必需比我們現在更創新讓我告訴你，路殺是對喜拉多的貘來說很大的一個問題所以我們有了在貘的GPS頸鍊上放置反射貼紙的想法這些跟大卡車上的貼紙是一樣的來避免相撞貘在黑暗中穿越公路所以希望這些貼紙可以幫司機們看清這個閃亮的東西正在穿越公路而他們可以放慢速度些此時此刻，這只是個瘋狂的點子我們不知道。但我們會看這是否可以減少貘的路殺但重點是，也許這正是需要被實行的事 而儘管我仍然對這些問題仍有掙扎現在在我心裡我跟貘有項協議我知道我的心就是貘的保育是我的目標這是我的熱情我並不是一個人我有這麼龐大的支持網路在我身後我絕不可能停止可能我接下來的人生我都會繼續做著我們一直做這個，為了派翠西亞，以我為名的我們多年前在大西洋雨林抓到並監控的首要幾隻貘之一為了在潘塔納爾的Rita，和她的小寶寶Vincent，而我會為了Ted，一隻我們去年十二月時抓到的貘寶寶也是在潘塔納爾 我會一直做下去為了上百隻過去幾年我有榮幸認識的貘還有許多其他我知道我在將來會遇見的這些動物應被關照牠們需要我，需要我們。你知道嗎？我們人類應住在一個我們可以出去就看到，受惠於牠們牠們不是只有貘而是所有其他美麗的物種的世界現在以及未來 非常謝謝你們 （鼓掌）
