Talk	en	zh-tw
patricia_burchat_leads_a_search_for_dark_energy	As a particle physicist, I study the elementary particles and how they interact on the most fundamental level. For most of my research career, I've been using accelerators, such as the electron accelerator at Stanford University, just up the road, to study things on the smallest scale. But more recently, I've been turning my attention to the universe on the largest scale. Because, as I'll explain to you, the questions on the smallest and the largest scale are actually very connected. So I'm going to tell you about our twenty-first-century view of the universe, what it's made of and what the big questions in the physical sciences are — at least some of the big questions. So, recently, we have realized that the ordinary matter in the universe — and by ordinary matter, I mean you, me, the planets, the stars, the galaxies — the ordinary matter makes up only a few percent of the content of the universe. Almost a quarter, or approximately a quarter of the matter in the universe, is stuff that's invisible. By invisible, I mean it doesn't absorb in the electromagnetic spectrum. It doesn't emit in the electromagnetic spectrum. It doesn't reflect. It doesn't interact with the electromagnetic spectrum, which is what we use to detect things. It doesn't interact at all. So how do we know it's there? We know it's there by its gravitational effects. In fact, this dark matter dominates the gravitational effects in the universe on a large scale, and I'll be telling you about the evidence for that. What about the rest of the pie? The rest of the pie is a very mysterious substance called dark energy. More about that later, OK. So for now, let's turn to the evidence for dark matter. In these galaxies, especially in a spiral galaxy like this, most of the mass of the stars is concentrated in the middle of the galaxy. This huge mass of all these stars keeps stars in circular orbits in the galaxy. So we have these stars going around in circles like this. As you can imagine, even if you know physics, this should be intuitive, OK — that stars that are closer to the mass in the middle will be rotating at a higher speed than those that are further out here, OK. So what you would expect is that if you measured the orbital speed of the stars, that they should be slower on the edges than on the inside. In other words, if we measured speed as a function of distance — this is the only time I'm going to show a graph, OK — we would expect that it goes down as the distance increases from the center of the galaxy. When those measurements are made, instead what we find is that the speed is basically constant, as a function of distance. If it's constant, that means that the stars out here are feeling the gravitational effects of matter that we do not see. In fact, this galaxy and every other galaxy appears to be embedded in a cloud of this invisible dark matter. And this cloud of matter is much more spherical than the galaxy themselves, and it extends over a much wider range than the galaxy. So we see the galaxy and fixate on that, but it's actually a cloud of dark matter that's dominating the structure and the dynamics of this galaxy. Galaxies themselves are not strewn randomly in space; they tend to cluster. And this is an example of a very, actually, famous cluster, the Coma cluster. And there are thousands of galaxies in this cluster. They're the white, fuzzy, elliptical things here. So these galaxy clusters — we take a snapshot now, we take a snapshot in a decade, it'll look identical. But these galaxies are actually moving at extremely high speeds. They're moving around in this gravitational potential well of this cluster, OK. So all of these galaxies are moving. We can measure the speeds of these galaxies, their orbital velocities, and figure out how much mass is in this cluster. And again, what we find is that there is much more mass there than can be accounted for by the galaxies that we see. Or if we look in other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, we see that there's a lot of gas in this cluster, as well. But that cannot account for the mass either. In fact, there appears to be about ten times as much mass here in the form of this invisible or dark matter as there is in the ordinary matter, OK. It would be nice if we could see this dark matter a little bit more directly. I'm just putting this big, blue blob on there, OK, to try to remind you that it's there. Can we see it more visually? Yes, we can. And so let me lead you through how we can do this. So here's an observer: it could be an eye; it could be a telescope. And suppose there's a galaxy out here in the universe. How do we see that galaxy? A ray of light leaves the galaxy and travels through the universe for perhaps billions of years before it enters the telescope or your eye. Now, how do we deduce where the galaxy is? Well, we deduce it by the direction that the ray is traveling as it enters our eye, right? We say, the ray of light came this way; the galaxy must be there, OK. Now, suppose I put in the middle a cluster of galaxies — and don't forget the dark matter, OK. Now, if we consider a different ray of light, one going off like this, we now need to take into account what Einstein predicted when he developed general relativity. And that was that the gravitational field, due to mass, will deflect not only the trajectory of particles, but will deflect light itself. So this light ray will not continue in a straight line, but would rather bend and could end up going into our eye. Where will this observer see the galaxy? You can respond. Up, right? We extrapolate backwards and say the galaxy is up here. Is there any other ray of light that could make into the observer's eye from that galaxy? Yes, great. I see people going down like this. So a ray of light could go down, be bent up into the observer's eye, and the observer sees a ray of light here. Now, take into account the fact that we live in a three-dimensional universe, OK, a three-dimensional space. Are there any other rays of light that could make it into the eye? Yes! The rays would lie on a — I'd like to see — yeah, on a cone. So there's a whole ray of light — rays of light on a cone — that will all be bent by that cluster and make it into the observer's eye. If there is a cone of light coming into my eye, what do I see? A circle, a ring. It's called an Einstein ring. Einstein predicted that, OK. Now, it will only be a perfect ring if the source, the deflector and the eyeball, in this case, are all in a perfectly straight line. If they're slightly skewed, we'll see a different image. Now, you can do an experiment tonight over the reception, OK, to figure out what that image will look like. Because it turns out that there is a kind of lens that we can devise, that has the right shape to produce this kind of effect. We call this gravitational lensing. And so, this is your instrument, OK. (Laughter). But ignore the top part. It's the base that I want you to concentrate, OK. So, actually, at home, whenever we break a wineglass, I save the bottom, take it over to the machine shop. We shave it off, and I have a little gravitational lens, OK. So it's got the right shape to produce the lensing. And so the next thing you need to do in your experiment is grab a napkin. I grabbed a piece of graph paper — I'm a physicist. (Laughter) So, a napkin. Draw a little model galaxy in the middle. And now put the lens over the galaxy, and what you'll find is that you'll see a ring, an Einstein ring. Now, move the base off to the side, and the ring will split up into arcs, OK. And you can put it on top of any image. On the graph paper, you can see how all the lines on the graph paper have been distorted. And again, this is a kind of an accurate model of what happens with the gravitational lensing. OK, so the question is: do we see this in the sky? Do we see arcs in the sky when we look at, say, a cluster of galaxies? And the answer is yes. And so, here's an image from the Hubble Space Telescope. Many of the images you are seeing are earlier from the Hubble Space Telescope. Well, first of all, for the golden shape galaxies — those are the galaxies in the cluster. They're the ones that are embedded in that sea of dark matter that are causing the bending of the light to cause these optical illusions, or mirages, practically, of the background galaxies. So the streaks that you see, all these streaks, are actually distorted images of galaxies that are much further away. So what we can do, then, is based on how much distortion we see in those images, we can calculate how much mass there must be in this cluster. And it's an enormous amount of mass. And also, you can tell by eye, by looking at this, that these arcs are not centered on individual galaxies. They are centered on some more spread out structure, and that is the dark matter in which the cluster is embedded, OK. So this is the closest you can get to kind of seeing at least the effects of the dark matter with your naked eye. OK, so, a quick review then, to see that you're following. So the evidence that we have that a quarter of the universe is dark matter — this gravitationally attracting stuff — is that galaxies, the speed with which stars orbiting galaxies is much too large; it must be embedded in dark matter. The speed with which galaxies within clusters are orbiting is much too large; it must be embedded in dark matter. And we see these gravitational lensing effects, these distortions that say that, again, clusters are embedded in dark matter. OK. So now, let's turn to dark energy. So to understand the evidence for dark energy, we need to discuss something that Stephen Hawking referred to in the previous session. And that is the fact that space itself is expanding. So if we imagine a section of our infinite universe — and so I've put down four spiral galaxies, OK — and imagine that you put down a set of tape measures, so every line on here corresponds to a tape measure, horizontal or vertical, for measuring where things are. If you could do this, what you would find that with each passing day, each passing year, each passing billions of years, OK, the distance between galaxies is getting greater. And it's not because galaxies are moving away from each other through space. They're not necessarily moving through space. They're moving away from each other because space itself is getting bigger, OK. That's what the expansion of the universe or space means. So they're moving further apart. Now, what Stephen Hawking mentioned, as well, is that after the Big Bang, space expanded at a very rapid rate. But because gravitationally attracting matter is embedded in this space, it tends to slow down the expansion of the space, OK. So the expansion slows down with time. So, in the last century, OK, people debated about whether this expansion of space would continue forever; whether it would slow down, you know, will be slowing down, but continue forever; slow down and stop, asymptotically stop; or slow down, stop, and then reverse, so it starts to contract again. So a little over a decade ago, two groups of physicists and astronomers set out to measure the rate at which the expansion of space was slowing down, OK. By how much less is it expanding today, compared to, say, a couple of billion years ago? The startling answer to this question, OK, from these experiments, was that space is expanding at a faster rate today than it was a few billion years ago, OK. So the expansion of space is actually speeding up. This was a completely surprising result. There is no persuasive theoretical argument for why this should happen, OK. No one was predicting ahead of time this is what's going to be found. It was the opposite of what was expected. So we need something to be able to explain that. Now it turns out, in the mathematics, you can put it in as a term that's an energy, but it's a completely different type of energy from anything we've ever seen before. We call it dark energy, and it has this effect of causing space to expand. But we don't have a good motivation for putting it in there at this point, OK. So it's really unexplained as to why we need to put it in. Now, so at this point, then, what I want to really emphasize to you, is that, first of all, dark matter and dark energy are completely different things, OK. There are really two mysteries out there as to what makes up most of the universe, and they have very different effects. Dark matter, because it gravitationally attracts, it tends to encourage the growth of structure, OK. So clusters of galaxies will tend to form, because of all this gravitational attraction. Dark energy, on the other hand, is putting more and more space between the galaxies, makes it, the gravitational attraction between them decrease, and so it impedes the growth of structure. So by looking at things like clusters of galaxies, and how they — their number density, how many there are as a function of time — we can learn about how dark matter and dark energy compete against each other in structure forming. In terms of dark matter, I said that we don't have any, you know, really persuasive argument for dark energy. Do we have anything for dark matter? And the answer is yes. We have well-motivated candidates for the dark matter. Now, what do I mean by well motivated? I mean that we have mathematically consistent theories that were actually introduced to explain a completely different phenomenon, OK, things that I haven't even talked about, that each predict the existence of a very weakly interacting, new particle. So, this is exactly what you want in physics: where a prediction comes out of a mathematically consistent theory that was actually developed for something else. But we don't know if either of those are actually the dark matter candidate, OK. One or both, who knows? Or it could be something completely different. Now, we look for these dark matter particles because, after all, they are here in the room, OK, and they didn't come in the door. They just pass through anything. They can come through the building, through the Earth — they're so non-interacting. So one way to look for them is to build detectors that are extremely sensitive to a dark matter particle coming through and bumping it. So a crystal that will ring if that happens. So one of my colleagues up the road and his collaborators have built such a detector. And they've put it deep down in an iron mine in Minnesota, OK, deep under the ground, and in fact, in the last couple of days announced the most sensitive results so far. They haven't seen anything, OK, but it puts limits on what the mass and the interaction strength of these dark matter particles are. There's going to be a satellite telescope launched later this year and it will look towards the middle of the galaxy, to see if we can see dark matter particles annihilating and producing gamma rays that could be detected with this. The Large Hadron Collider, a particle physics accelerator, that we'll be turning on later this year. It is possible that dark matter particles might be produced at the Large Hadron Collider. Now, because they are so non-interactive, they will actually escape the detector, so their signature will be missing energy, OK. Now, unfortunately, there is a lot of new physics whose signature could be missing energy, so it will be hard to tell the difference. And finally, for future endeavors, there are telescopes being designed specifically to address the questions of dark matter and dark energy — ground-based telescopes, and there are three space-based telescopes that are in competition right now to be launched to investigate dark matter and dark energy. So in terms of the big questions: what is dark matter? What is dark energy? The big questions facing physics. And I'm sure you have lots of questions, which I very much look forward to addressing over the next 72 hours, while I'm here. Thank you. (Applause)	身為粒子物理學家的我,研究最基本的粒子我研究,粒子和粒子之間,如何在最基礎層次上交互作用多數研究生涯中,我一向都在使用加速器就像離此不遠的史丹福大學,也有一台一樣的,那種電子加速器。粒子物理學家,向來是從最細微,最小尺度來研究物質但是最近，我的注意力轉向了宇宙間最大尺度的物質。那是什麼?稍後我將立刻向各位解釋-但是,我為什麼轉移注意力呢？因為,最小和最大尺度兩者間,其實有微妙的高度關聯所以,我即將要談,21世紀對宇宙的最新看法宇宙的構成成分是什麼，目前物理學最熱門的議題為何?即便不能完整含括全部最重要議題,至少也含有其中好幾個。 最近，我們意識到宇宙中的普通物質我說的「普通」物質,也就是你,我自己行星，恆星，銀河系這些都是算為普通物質,且只不過佔宇宙的幾個百分比而已近乎四分之一，或者大約四分之一宇宙中的物質,全是些看不見的東西所謂不可見，我指的是它不吸收電磁波在電磁波頻譜中,它既不放射,也不反射。它和電磁波譜,沒有互動可言而電磁波,正是我們平常用來檢測物質的方法當它根本對電磁波不作反應,你如何知道它存在呢？透過重力效應,是可以知道的。事實上,在宇宙中,大尺度物質的重力效應,全是由「暗物質」在操縱相關證據,稍後我會再和各位分享 現在先講,這大餅圖中,還有一大塊無名,那是什麼？剩下的一大塊,是一種稱為「暗能量」,極神秘物質細節,稍後再說現在，我們來談談「暗物質存在」的證據在這些星系中，尤其是在一個像這樣的螺旋星系中大部分恆星的「質量」(mass)都集中在星系的中央附近這是很巨大的質量。也因為它,恆星在星系中,沿著圓形軌道在運動所以我們看到這些恒星沿圓圈這樣運動不難想像-這和懂不懂物理沒差別-直覺上就應該知道比較靠近星系質量中央的恆星,繞行運轉時,速度較高和外圈的恆星相比,同意嗎 如果你測量這些恒星運動的軌道速度應該是邊緣的會比裏面的慢換句話說，如果我們以速度作為距離的函數這篇短講不會有很多圖表,這是唯一一張我們認為,速度會隨它和星系中央的距離增加而減慢當我們實際進行測量的時候出乎意料，我們卻發現這些速度都是幾乎不變動的「恆量」當你以距離為函數若它為恆量時,這意味著,這些恆星正感受得到,一些我們看不見的物質所產生的重力效應這個星系以及其他每一個星系似乎都是內嵌在這樣一個不可見的暗物質雲層中而這片物質雲,比星系本身,更加的接近於球形而且這片物質雲的範圍,比星系本身更廣得多所以,當我們看見的是星系,注視著的,是星系,但實際上那背後有一團暗物質雲主導著這星系的結構和運動 這些星系,在太空中,並非任意的散佈它們有成群聚合的傾向舉一個例,非常有名的后髮座（Coma）星系團這個星系團中有數以千計的星系這些白色的，模糊的，橢圓的東西就是星系這些星系團-我們幫它拍一張照片十年後再拍一張,它還是一點都不會改變但是,星系團,其實是在極高速的運動狀態中它們其實是在這個星系團的一個「重力勢阱」中運動著所以,所有這些星系都在運動我們可以藉由測量這些運動，它們的軌道速率計算得出星系團中有多少「質量」 再一次，我們發現實際上那裏的質量要比按照「看得見的」星系,計算得出的結果還多當我們看其他部分的電磁波譜也看得到星系團裏有很多氣體但那些氣體並不能解釋這些質量的存在事實上，這裏多出來的質量大約有10倍是以暗物質型態,存在著暗物質是普通物質的10倍。我想,如果大家都能更直接地看到暗物質,豈不更妙所以,我在這裏放一個大藍色泡泡提醒你們:「暗物質就在那兒!」但,是否可以在視覺上「看」見它呢？可以。 現在我帶大家實際瞭解,怎樣看見暗物質：這裏是一個觀察者無論是一隻眼睛；或者也可以是一個望遠鏡假設在宇宙中有一個星系我們怎樣看得到那個星系的呢？一束光從那星系離開、穿過宇宙經過了也許幾十億年然後進入望遠鏡,或映入你的眼簾中現在,你如何猜測星系的位置在哪裡？嗯,我們按光線來的方向,去猜,它的位置當光線抵達我們的眼睛時,我們就是這樣猜的例如，這束光這樣出來我猜星系一定在那。現在,假設我在螢幕中央放一個星系團—別忘了,連暗物質也在那兒現在，如果我們考慮,另外一束這樣走的光線我們現在需要考慮當愛因斯坦他發展出廣義相對論時,曾經預言過的也就是,由於有「質量」的關係而發生的「重力場」不僅會使粒子的運動軌跡偏轉而且也會使光本身偏轉 所以這束光不會沿直線行進而是，會彎曲，並最終仍抵達、進入我們的眼睛這個觀察者,會看到的星系,是在哪裡呢？你們會回答。上面。對嗎？我們向後倒推，然後斷定星系在這裏這裏還有其他,也從這個星系而來,並且也進入觀察者眼睛的光線嗎？是的,非常好。我看到你們有人比向下的手勢。一束光,它也可以往下走,然後彎曲並進入觀察者的眼睛,這觀察著便會在這裏,看到一束光。 現在,考慮到,我們生活在一個有三度空間的宇宙中太空是三度空間的那麼,還有其他光線,可以進入我們的眼睛嗎？是的，光線可以排列呈現-按你們比出來的手勢-它是個,圓錐形所以,許多束光,匯聚成一個圓錐形意思是,這些光都經過了星系團的彎曲然後進入觀察者的眼睛裡因為有呈圓錐形的光,這樣進入我的眼睛,所以,我會看到什麼？一個圓圈,或環形。這被稱為「愛因斯坦環」—因為愛因斯坦首先預測到這個現象當然,弧形原本應該是相當完美的弧,前提是,如果光源,偏導體和眼球正好全都在一條筆直的線上如果它們被略微偏轉，我們將會看到一個不同的圖像 你們今晚就可以在接待櫃檯,做一個試驗你就看到這個圖像會是什麼樣子因為我們可以設計一種透鏡它的形狀,很合適用來產生這種現象我們稱它為重力透鏡所以,這就是你們的儀器（笑聲）但是請忽略上半部只看它底座的部分就好了所以,我家無論誰打破一隻高腳酒杯我都把底部留著用,先拿到玻璃店去把頭切掉,然後重力透鏡就出現了,妙吧它的形狀很合適產生透鏡效果這個實驗的下一步驟就是找一張餐巾紙-本人是物理學者,所以我會拿一張有學問一點的方格紙.(笑聲)ok,拿一張餐巾紙。在正中央畫一個小小的星系模型。然後把透鏡挪到星系正上方然後你將看到一個,愛因斯坦環把杯底透鏡往旁邊挪一點環會分裂成好幾個弧把它移到任何圖像上都可以在方格紙上你可以看到方格的線條產生怎樣的扭曲所以，你可以說,這是一種非常精確的模型用來解釋「重力透鏡」產生的現象為何 下一個問題：在天空中,我們看的到這現象嗎?當我們觀察一個星系團的時候,看的到弧形嗎?答案是:可以。這是來自哈柏望遠鏡的圖像。現在看到的許多圖像來自稍早的哈柏望遠鏡拍攝所得首先,先說這些金色的星系它們是星系團中的星系也被內嵌在一團暗物質中那團暗物質,就是使光發生彎曲的物質就是它們,引起了我們對「後景星系」的視錯覺,或者說,幻影你所看到的這些條紋,所有這些條紋其實都是來自更遠處的星系,扭曲的圖像 我們能做的,就是根據所見的這些圖像扭曲程度的大小,計算出在這團星系中可能有多少的「質量」這個質量的總量是非常龐大的你也可以藉由觀察它（圖像）而得知一個現象這些弧線的中心並不是些單一的星系這些弧線的中心,是一些更廣,更大的結構那個結構,就是暗物質星系團,是被嵌入在暗物質中的這是最接近於看到以肉眼看得到的暗物質效果 非常快的回顧一下剛才所說的，希望你們都還跟的上。我們有證據顯示證明宇宙有1/4是,暗物質這是些,受重力作用,被吸引住的東西這些恆星,圍繞星系運動的速率太大必須被嵌在暗物質中是星系在星系團中,運動速度太大以至於星系也必須,被嵌在暗物質裡從我們所看到的這些重力透鏡的效應,這些扭曲我們說,這證明,星系團是嵌在,暗物質中 好。現在我們轉向「暗能量」所以為了瞭解暗能量的證據，我們需要討論一些史蒂芬霍金在上一段節目中談到的那個現象,也就是宇宙正在擴張的事實。所以如果我們想像無限宇宙中一小部分，我放4個漩渦星系，假設你放一支卷尺也就是,這裏的每一條線都對應一個卷尺水平或垂直,好測量東西的位置。這樣一來，你將發現時間每過去一天，或一年，或經過的是幾十億年星系間的距離正在變得更大。然而這並不是因為星系正在彼此因移動而在空間中,漸行漸遠以空間來講,它們不一定是「在動」。有此漸行漸遠的現象,是因空間本身正在擴張。這是宇宙或者空間擴張的意思。它們相隔越來越遠。 正如史蒂芬霍金也提到的，在大爆炸之後，宇宙空間以非常快的速率擴張。但是因為重力而發出吸引效應的物質嵌在這個空間中,而它是傾向於減慢空間擴張速率的。所以擴張的速率就隨著時間經過,而減慢。上個世紀，大家都在辯論著宇宙擴張，是否會永遠持續下去或者是否會減慢逐漸減速,但永遠持續的擴張或者漸漸減速,趨近於停止還是減速,停止,然後開始反轉,再次從收縮開始另一個循環這辯論持續了近十多年,兩組物理學家和天文學家開始著手測量 宇宙擴張正在減速的速率是多少這是藉由比較它今天和幾十億年前相比,減少了多少擴張。 根據實驗結果，答案是令人吃驚的，宇宙今天正在以更快的速率擴張，這是和幾十億年前相比所以,事實上,宇宙空間的擴張正在加速。這是令人非常驚訝的結果。沒有令人信服的理論依據能解釋這種情形的發生原因。先前，從來都沒有人預言過會有這樣的發現。它和預期的是完全相反的。所以我們需要某些東西可以解釋這現象。現在我們的發現是,在數學中，你可以把「能量」這個名詞放在這個解釋裡。但它是一種和我們所見過的任何一種能量，都完全不同的能量我們叫它暗能量，而且,它具有使宇宙發生「擴張」效果的影響力只是,在動機的部份目前我們還缺乏一個比較好的說明。這動機要從何解釋起,有點難。 現在,我想強調的是首先,暗物質和暗能量是完全不同的東西。談到宇宙的組合成分,這兩樣東西恰似兩大謎題它們的影響,也是天差地別暗物質,因為它的重力發生引力,它傾向於促成固定結構的形成。所以星系傾向於集結構成星系團，原因是重力帶來的吸引作用。另一方面，暗能量，卻在星系之間產生越來越多的空間。它會使星系之間的重力吸引作用-漸漸減小,因此暗能量也就阻礙了結構的成形。藉由觀察星系團，它們數量上的密度如何以時間為函數，它們的數量是多少我們可以比較瞭解暗物質、暗能量彼此如何在結構的形成上互相競爭。 先前我說過,我們沒有任何真正有說服力的論述能解釋暗能量。我們有解釋暗物質的證據嗎？是的，我們有。好幾種學說論述都有相當有力的假設動機。所謂“相當有力”指的是什麼？我的意思是說我們有數學上前後一致性的理論可以導入導出並解釋一種很不一樣的現象一些我還沒有討論到的現象，它們預言到弱作用力的新粒子。 這才是你在物理中所想要的：從數學上合理一致的理論建立起來的某個假設經過實際發展後變成可以解釋其他事物的一個假設。但我們無從得知兩者是否都是可用來解釋暗物質的最佳答案二者之一為是,或,以上皆是?以上皆非?沒人說的準雖然說我們是在尋找這些暗物質粒子不過,說到底,其實它們根本就在這裏,就在這個房間裏，它們也沒從門口進來因為,暗物質粒子是能穿透一切的。它們穿得過建築,穿得過地球;它們非常懶得打交道 所以要找到它們的一種方式,是建造探測器一台對暗物質粒子穿過,會極度敏感的探測器,甚至還會碰撞暗物質粒子。是一種在發生暗物質粒子穿越時,會振動的水晶。我的一個同事和他的合作者已經建造了這樣一個探測器。他們把探測器放在明尼蘇達州某處很深的地底鐵礦坑中，非常深的地底。前幾天他們剛公佈過目前最敏銳的結果,顯示：他們還沒看到任何東西，但他們為暗物質的質以及相互作用強度作出了參考限制質。現在已發射衛星望遠鏡將會探訪星系中心，看看我們是否可以觀測到暗物質粒子湮滅能製造出它偵測的到的伽瑪射線大型強子碰撞器 - 一個粒子物理加速器，於2008年年底啟用或許,這台機器能製造出暗物質粒子。 因為暗物質粒子是如此不活潑，他們其實會逃離探測器，留下來的證據是些消失的能量。不幸的是，很多新的物理學也一直不停的製造出「丟失的能量」所以，兩者之間，很難辨別最後,放眼未來,我們正努力設計新的望遠鏡專門研究暗物質和暗能量：有一些是地面的望遠鏡。而現在又有3架漫遊太空中的太空望遠鏡它們彼此熱烈競爭都以研究暗物質和暗能量主要目標。所以，回答這些大問題：什麼是暗物質？什麼是暗能量?是物理學的大哉問我想你們一定有很多問題。我期待著在接下來的72小時當中和你們面對面的討論。謝謝。（掌聲）
