Talk	en	zh-tw
patrick_chappatte_the_power_of_cartoons	"So yeah, I'm a newspaper cartoonist — political cartoonist. I don't know if you've heard about it — newspapers? It's a sort of paper-based reader. (Laughter) It's lighter than an iPad, it's a bit cheaper. You know what they say? They say the print media is dying — who says that? Well, the media. But this is no news, right? You've read about it already. (Laughter) Ladies and gentlemen, the world has gotten smaller. I know it's a cliche, but look, look how small, how tiny it has gotten. And you know the reason why, of course. This is because of technology — yeah. (Laughter) Any computer designers in the room? Yeah well, you guys are making my life miserable because track pads used to be round, a nice round shape. That makes a good cartoon. But what are you going to do with a flat track pad, those square things? There's nothing I can do as a cartoonist. Well, I know the world is flat now. That's true. And the Internet has reached every corner of the world, the poorest, the remotest places. Every village in Africa now has a cyber cafe. (Laughter) Don't go asking for a Frappuccino there. So we are bridging the digital divide. The Third World is connected, we are connected. And what happens next? Well, you've got mail. Yeah. Well, the Internet has empowered us. It has empowered you, it has empowered me and it has empowered some other guys as well. (Laughter) You know, these last two cartoons — I did them live during a conference in Hanoi. And they were not used to that in communist 2.0 Vietnam. (Laughter) So I was cartooning live on a wide screen — it was quite a sensation — and then this guy came to me. He was taking pictures of me and of my sketches, and I thought, ""This is great, a Vietnamese fan."" And as he came the second day, I thought, ""Wow, that's really a cartoon lover."" And on the third day, I finally understood, the guy was actually on duty. So by now, there must be a hundred pictures of me smiling with my sketches in the files of the Vietnamese police. (Laughter) No, but it's true: the Internet has changed the world. It has rocked the music industry; it has changed the way we consume music. For those of you old enough to remember, we used to have to go to the store to steal it. (Laughter) And it has changed the way your future employer will look at your application. So be careful with that Facebook account — your momma told you, be careful. And technology has set us free — this is free WiFi. But yeah, it has liberated us from the office desk. This is your life, enjoy it. (Laughter) In short, technology, the internet, they have changed our lifestyle. Tech guru, like this man — that a German magazine called the philosopher of the 21st century — they are shaping the way we do things. They are shaping the way we consume. They are shaping our very desires. (Laughter) (Applause) You will not like it. And technology has even changed our relationship to God. (Laughter) Now I shouldn't get into this. Religion and political cartoons, as you may have heard, make a difficult couple, ever since that day of 2005, when a bunch of cartoonists in Denmark drew cartoons that had repercussions all over the world — demonstrations, fatwa, they provoked violence. People died in the violence. This was so sickening; people died because of cartoons. I mean — I had the feeling at the time that cartoons had been used by both sides, actually. They were used first by a Danish newspaper, which wanted to make a point on Islam. A Danish cartoonist told me he was one of the 24 who received the assignment to draw the prophet — 12 of them refused. Did you know that? He told me, ""Nobody has to tell me what I should draw. This is not how it works."" And then, of course, they were used by extremists and politicians on the other side. They wanted to stir up controversy. You know the story. We know that cartoons can be used as weapons. History tells us, they've been used by the Nazis to attack the Jews. And here we are now. In the United Nations, half of the world is pushing to penalize the offense to religion — they call it the defamation of religion — while the other half of the world is fighting back in defense of freedom of speech. So the clash of civilizations is here, and cartoons are at the middle of it? This got me thinking. Now you see me thinking at my kitchen table, and since you're in my kitchen, please meet my wife. (Laughter) In 2006, a few months after, I went Ivory Coast — Western Africa. Now, talk of a divided place — the country was cut in two. You had a rebellion in the North, the government in the South — the capital, Abidjan — and in the middle, the French army. This looks like a giant hamburger. You don't want to be the ham in the middle. I was there to report on that story in cartoons. I've been doing this for the last 15 years; it's my side job, if you want. So you see the style is different. This is more serious than maybe editorial cartooning. I went to places like Gaza during the war in 2009. So this is really journalism in cartoons. You'll hear more and more about it. This is the future of journalism, I think. And of course, I went to see the rebels in the north. Those were poor guys fighting for their rights. There was an ethnic side to this conflict as very often in Africa. And I went to see the Dozo. The Dozo, they are the traditional hunters of West Africa. People fear them — they help the rebellion a lot. They are believed to have magical powers. They can disappear and escape bullets. I went to see a Dozo chief; he told me about his magical powers. He said, ""I can chop your head off right away and bring you back to life."" I said, ""Well, maybe we don't have time for this right now."" (Laughter) ""Another time."" So back in Abidjan, I was given a chance to lead a workshop with local cartoonists there and I thought, yes, in a context like this, cartoons can really be used as weapons against the other side. I mean, the press in Ivory Coast was bitterly divided — it was compared to the media in Rwanda before the genocide — so imagine. And what can a cartoonist do? Sometimes editors would tell their cartoonists to draw what they wanted to see, and the guy has to feed his family, right? So the idea was pretty simple. We brought together cartoonists from all sides in Ivory Coast. We took them away from their newspaper for three days. And I asked them to do a project together, tackle the issues affecting their country in cartoons, yes, in cartoons. Show the positive power of cartoons. It's a great tool of communication for bad or for good. And cartoons can cross boundaries, as you have seen. And humor is a good way, I think, to address serious issues. And I'm very proud of what they did. I mean, they didn't agree with each other — that was not the point. And I didn't ask them to do nice cartoons. The first day, they were even shouting at each other. But they came up with a book, looking back at 13 years of political crisis in Ivory Coast. So the idea was there. And I've been doing projects like this, in 2009 in Lebanon, this year in Kenya, back in January. In Lebanon, it was not a book. The idea was to have — the same principal, a divided country — take cartoonists from all sides and let them do something together. So in Lebanon, we enrolled the newspaper editors, and we got them to publish eight cartoonists from all sides all together on the same page, addressing the issue affecting Lebanon, like religion in politics and everyday life. And it worked. For three days, almost all the newspapers of Beirut published all those cartoonists together — anti-government, pro-government, Christian, Muslim, of course, English-speaking, well, you name it. So this was a great project. And then in Kenya, what we did was addressing the issue of ethnicity, which is a poison in a lot of places in Africa. And we did video clips — you can see them if you go to YouTube/Kenyatoons. So, preaching for freedom of speech is easy here, but as you have seen in contexts of repression or division, again, what can a cartoonist do? He has to keep his job. Well I believe that in any context anywhere, he always has the choice at least not to do a cartoon that will feed hatred. And that's the message I try to convey to them. I think we all always have the choice in the end not to do the bad thing. But we need to support these [unclear], critical and responsible voices in Africa, in Lebanon, in your local newspaper, in the Apple store. Today, tech companies are the world's largest editors. They decide what is too offensive or too provocative for you to see. So really, it's not about the freedom of cartoonists; it's about your freedoms. And for dictators all over the world, the good news is when cartoonists, journalists and activists shut up. Thank you. (Applause)"	"所以,是的,我是個漫畫家—畫報紙上政治諷刺漫畫的漫畫家不知道各位知不知道報紙這東西他是種印在紙上的讀物(笑)他比iPad要來的輕也比較便宜你知道嗎,現在很多人在說說印刷業正在凋零但是是誰這麼說的?是媒體自己不過,這已經不是新聞了,對吧?大家都已經讀過了 [印刷業正在凋零/這我昨天就在網路上讀過了](笑) 各位先生女士們這個世界變得越來越小我知道這很老掉牙,但你們看,看,那麼小它變的多微小而你也知道為什麼它會變成這樣,當然,是因為科技(笑)這裡有哪位是做電腦設計師的嗎?恩,好吧,你們害我好難工作,因為觸控板以前都是圓的,方便的圓形,很適合用來當漫畫題材.可是現在 你要我怎麼用平平的觸控板搞笑?用那些方方的東西?以我一個漫畫家而言這完全不能拿來用好啦,我知道現在世界是平的這是真的而網路也已經遍及全世界各個角落甚至觸及最窮困最偏遠的地方隨便一個非洲村落現在都有網路咖啡店[網路咖啡廳/不供應咖啡](笑)可別去那裏點星冰樂所以,我們正在彌補數位差距第三世界連上了網路我們也連上網路那麼接下來會發生什麼事呢?於是,你收到新郵件[第三世界現在也上線囉!/郵件:我好餓!]是的網路賦予我們力量他給了你力量,給了我力量,也給了其他的某些人力量 (笑) 你知道,剛才這兩幅漫畫,是我在河內的漫畫大會上現場畫的而在那個還在用共產黨政府2.0的越南,他們不太習慣畫這種諷刺漫畫(笑)我做畫的實況當時被放送到大螢幕上,得到了不少好評那之後有一個人跑來找我他幫我和我的畫拍照我以為""太好了,我有了一個越南畫迷""他第二天也有來,我想""哇,他真是一個熱情的漫畫迷""直到第三天,我才發現這傢伙其實是在執行任務所以現在,他大概有上百張我跟我的畫微笑的照片儲存在越南警方的檔案庫裡 (笑) 不,但這是真的:網路改變了世界網路也動搖了整個音樂產業它改變了我們消費音樂的方式我們之中一些年紀比較大的人會記得,我們以前會需要去店舖裡才能夠,偷音樂[網路改變了音樂/以前都必須去唱片行才偷的了](笑)網路也改變了未來你的雇主們審查你的就業申請的方式所以請小心你那個臉書帳戶你媽媽告訴過你,小心哪科技也讓我們自由這是免費無線網路的標誌不過,真的,它將我們從辦公桌前解放這是你的生活好好的享受它吧(笑)簡而言之,科技,網路它們改變了我們的生活習慣科技大師,像是這位—這個被德國雜誌封為二十一世紀的哲學家的人—他們塑造了我們辦事的方式[蘋果電腦創辦人: 史提夫·賈伯斯]他們塑造了我們的消費模式和我們的慾望[這會幫助你簡化許多以前根本就不用做的工作](笑)(鼓掌)你不會喜歡的科技甚至也改變了我們與神之間的關係 [神父大人,我犯了罪.../(google中)恩我知道](笑) 噢我不該討論這個的宗教跟政治諷刺漫畫,就如同你們可能聽說過的,他們一直是對冤家自從2005年的某一天開始,當一群丹麥漫畫家畫了一些在全世界造成激烈反應的漫畫示威遊行,伊斯蘭教令裁決他們引起暴力,許多人們便死於這些暴力這真是令人惶恐難受人竟然因漫畫而死我的意思是—我那個時候就覺得其實,漫畫都被雙方利用過它們被用在丹麥報紙上指責伊斯蘭教有個漫畫家告訴我他是那24個接到報社要求畫伊斯蘭先知的漫畫家的其中一位但其中12位都拒絕了.這你知道嗎?他說""沒有人可以命令我該畫什麼,漫畫不是這樣畫的""當然,漫畫也被另一方的激進分子和政治家使用過他們想要掀起一番爭議故事大家都知道不用我贅述漫畫可以被用作為武器歷史告訴我們,漫畫就曾是納粹用來攻擊猶太人的武器而現在,在聯合國半數的國家都在推動對侮辱宗教的處罰—他們稱此為反對宗教詆毀案—與此同時另一半的世界正在為了保護言論自由而反擊於是我們有了文明衝突而在這戰火正中央的竟然是漫畫?這逼得我思考我思考著坐在我家廚房餐桌前既然你已經進了我家廚房,那也見見我太太吧 [我在尋找我人生的意義/你要不要google看看](笑) 2006年,幾個月之後,我去到西非的—象牙海岸這是個面臨分裂的國家,一個國家切成兩半反抗軍位於北部,政府位於南方—首都,阿比讓—在中間的則是法國軍隊這看起來像個巨型漢堡你不會想當那夾在中央的火腿肉的我到那裏是為了報導一則故事透過漫畫我做這個工作已經十五年了可以說,這是我的兼職我用的畫風也和平常不太一樣畫的比報紙社上的論漫畫來的嚴肅些我也去過像是加薩走廊當時正值2009年戰爭時期所以這其實是用漫畫在報導新聞以後這會變得很常見我覺得這是新聞未來的走向 當然我也去採訪了象牙海岸北部的反抗軍這群貧困的人為了自身的權利戰鬥著這場衝突跟很多其他非洲的衝突一樣和族裔之間的問題有關我去見了Dozo人Dozo人是西非的傳統獵人大家都怕他們他們經常幫助反抗軍並且被視為擁有魔力可以隨意消失,也能躲避子彈我去和一位Dozo領袖會面他和我介紹他的魔力他說""我現在可以馬上砍掉你的頭隨後讓你復活""我說""好吧,可是我想現在我們應該沒空做這個""(笑)""下次吧"" 回到阿比讓,我得到了一個在工作坊指導當地漫畫家的機會我想,是的在這樣的大環境之下,漫畫極有可能成為對付另一方的武器我的意思是,象牙海岸的媒體分裂成敵對的兩邊有人將他們兩邊的關係和大屠殺之前的盧安達媒體相提並論就請各位想像一下那麼在這種情況下漫畫家能怎麼辦?有時候編輯會命令漫畫家照著編輯的想法畫漫畫但漫畫家也不會反抗,畢竟他必須養家餬口我的想法很簡單我們將所有站在各種立場的象牙海岸漫畫家聚集起來帶他們離開報社影響三天請他們一起完成一份作業用漫畫解決他們的國家正在面臨的種種問題是的,用漫畫展現漫畫的正向力量漫畫是個很好的溝通工具不論用於傳達的訊息是好是壞漫畫有跨越藩籬力量我們都見識過我認為幽默也是個面對嚴肅問題之時很好的態度我為這些漫畫家最後的成果感到驕傲他們並沒有同意互相的論點—那不是意義所在我也沒有請他們畫故作融洽的漫畫第一天的時候他們甚至大吵了一架但最終他們完成了一本書回顧這過去十三年來象牙海岸所經歷過的政治危機 所以這個想法便誕生了我一直在做像這樣的工作2009年在黎巴嫩今年的一月份,則是在肯亞在黎巴嫩,最後的成果不是本書我們的理念是讓—一樣的原理, 一個分裂的國家—聚集起所有不同立場的漫畫家讓他們一起做些什麼在黎巴嫩我們招收報紙編輯們讓他們幫忙出版八位來自不同政治立場漫畫家的漫畫印在同一個報紙版面上探討影響黎巴嫩的時事例如政治裡的宗教和人民的日常生活它成功了三天以來,幾乎所有貝魯特的報紙都一起印了那些漫畫—反政府的,支持政府的,基督教的,當然也有伊斯蘭教的,英文報紙,只要你說得出來的報紙,通通都有這是個很傑出的企劃之後在肯亞,我們做的則是審視族群問題這個問題侵害非洲很多地方猶如毒藥一般我們做了一些短片如果你想觀賞它們的話,請上YouTube/ Kenya Tunes. 所以,雖然為言論自由發聲在這裡是件簡單的事情可是,就像你看到的在充滿壓迫或是歧見的地方我們要再次問到, 漫畫家能做什麼?他必須保全他的工作我相信在任何的環境任何的地方他至少隨時都可以選擇不去畫一篇會餵養憎恨的漫畫這就是我想要向他們傳達的理念我相信我們最終都有這一個選項不去做壞事可是我們也需要支持這些[不清晰],關鍵性的負責任的聲音不論是在非洲,在黎巴嫩在地區性的報紙上,還是在蘋果電腦的商店裡今天,科技公司是世界上最有影響力的編輯他們決定了什麼太有具攻擊性什麼又是太過煽動,不適合你看所以,我的演講其實不是在談漫畫家的自由而是關於你的自由畢竟對全世界的獨裁者來說最好的消息就是當漫畫家記者和社會運動家閉嘴都的時候了 謝謝大家 (鼓掌)"
