Talk	en	zh-tw
patricia_ryan_ideas_in_all_languages_not_just_english	"I know what you're thinking. You think I've lost my way, and somebody's going to come on the stage in a minute and guide me gently back to my seat. (Applause) I get that all the time in Dubai. ""Here on holiday are you, dear?"" (Laughter) ""Come to visit the children? How long are you staying?"" Well actually, I hope for a while longer yet. I have been living and teaching in the Gulf for over 30 years. (Applause) And in that time, I have seen a lot of changes. Now that statistic is quite shocking. And I want to talk to you today about language loss and the globalization of English. I want to tell you about my friend who was teaching English to adults in Abu Dhabi. And one fine day, she decided to take them into the garden to teach them some nature vocabulary. But it was she who ended up learning all the Arabic words for the local plants, as well as their uses — medicinal uses, cosmetics, cooking, herbal. How did those students get all that knowledge? Of course, from their grandparents and even their great-grandparents. It's not necessary to tell you how important it is to be able to communicate across generations. But sadly, today, languages are dying at an unprecedented rate. A language dies every 14 days. Now, at the same time, English is the undisputed global language. Could there be a connection? Well I don't know. But I do know that I've seen a lot of changes. When I first came out to the Gulf, I came to Kuwait in the days when it was still a hardship post. Actually, not that long ago. That is a little bit too early. But nevertheless, I was recruited by the British Council, along with about 25 other teachers. And we were the first non-Muslims to teach in the state schools there in Kuwait. We were brought to teach English because the government wanted to modernize the country and to empower the citizens through education. And of course, the U.K. benefited from some of that lovely oil wealth. Okay. Now this is the major change that I've seen — how teaching English has morphed from being a mutually beneficial practice to becoming a massive international business that it is today. No longer just a foreign language on the school curriculum, and no longer the sole domain of mother England, it has become a bandwagon for every English-speaking nation on earth. And why not? After all, the best education — according to the latest World University Rankings — is to be found in the universities of the U.K. and the U.S. So everybody wants to have an English education, naturally. But if you're not a native speaker, you have to pass a test. Now can it be right to reject a student on linguistic ability alone? Perhaps you have a computer scientist who's a genius. Would he need the same language as a lawyer, for example? Well, I don't think so. We English teachers reject them all the time. We put a stop sign, and we stop them in their tracks. They can't pursue their dream any longer, 'til they get English. Now let me put it this way: if I met a monolingual Dutch speaker who had the cure for cancer, would I stop him from entering my British University? I don't think so. But indeed, that is exactly what we do. We English teachers are the gatekeepers. And you have to satisfy us first that your English is good enough. Now it can be dangerous to give too much power to a narrow segment of society. Maybe the barrier would be too universal. Okay. ""But,"" I hear you say, ""what about the research? It's all in English."" So the books are in English, the journals are done in English, but that is a self-fulfilling prophecy. It feeds the English requirement. And so it goes on. I ask you, what happened to translation? If you think about the Islamic Golden Age, there was lots of translation then. They translated from Latin and Greek into Arabic, into Persian, and then it was translated on into the Germanic languages of Europe and the Romance languages. And so light shone upon the Dark Ages of Europe. Now don't get me wrong; I am not against teaching English, all you English teachers out there. I love it that we have a global language. We need one today more than ever. But I am against using it as a barrier. Do we really want to end up with 600 languages and the main one being English, or Chinese? We need more than that. Where do we draw the line? This system equates intelligence with a knowledge of English, which is quite arbitrary. (Applause) And I want to remind you that the giants upon whose shoulders today's intelligentsia stand did not have to have English, they didn't have to pass an English test. Case in point, Einstein. He, by the way, was considered remedial at school because he was, in fact, dyslexic. But fortunately for the world, he did not have to pass an English test. Because they didn't start until 1964 with TOEFL, the American test of English. Now it's exploded. There are lots and lots of tests of English. And millions and millions of students take these tests every year. Now you might think, you and me, ""Those fees aren't bad, they're okay,"" but they are prohibitive to so many millions of poor people. So immediately, we're rejecting them. (Applause) It brings to mind a headline I saw recently: ""Education: The Great Divide."" Now I get it, I understand why people would want to focus on English. They want to give their children the best chance in life. And to do that, they need a Western education. Because, of course, the best jobs go to people out of the Western Universities, that I put on earlier. It's a circular thing. Okay. Let me tell you a story about two scientists, two English scientists. They were doing an experiment to do with genetics and the forelimbs and the hind limbs of animals. But they couldn't get the results they wanted. They really didn't know what to do, until along came a German scientist who realized that they were using two words for forelimb and hind limb, whereas genetics does not differentiate and neither does German. So bingo, problem solved. If you can't think a thought, you are stuck. But if another language can think that thought, then, by cooperating, we can achieve and learn so much more. My daughter came to England from Kuwait. She had studied science and mathematics in Arabic. It's an Arabic-medium school. She had to translate it into English at her grammar school. And she was the best in the class at those subjects. Which tells us that when students come to us from abroad, we may not be giving them enough credit for what they know, and they know it in their own language. When a language dies, we don't know what we lose with that language. This is — I don't know if you saw it on CNN recently — they gave the Heroes Award to a young Kenyan shepherd boy who couldn't study at night in his village, like all the village children, because the kerosene lamp, it had smoke and it damaged his eyes. And anyway, there was never enough kerosene, because what does a dollar a day buy for you? So he invented a cost-free solar lamp. And now the children in his village get the same grades at school as the children who have electricity at home. (Applause) When he received his award, he said these lovely words: ""The children can lead Africa from what it is today, a dark continent, to a light continent."" A simple idea, but it could have such far-reaching consequences. People who have no light, whether it's physical or metaphorical, cannot pass our exams, and we can never know what they know. Let us not keep them and ourselves in the dark. Let us celebrate diversity. Mind your language. Use it to spread great ideas. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我知道你們在想什麼你們覺得我迷路了馬上就會有人走上台溫和地把我帶回我的座位上(掌聲)我在杜拜總會遇上這種事“來這裡度假的嗎，親愛的？”(笑聲)“來探望孩子的嗎？這次要待多久呢？"" 恩，事實上，我希望能再待久一點我在波斯灣這邊生活和教書已經超過30年了(掌聲)這段時間裡，我看到了很多變化現在這份數據是挺嚇人的而我今天要和你們說的是有關語言的消失和英語的全球化我想和你們談談我的朋友她在阿布達比教成人英語在一個晴朗的日子裡她決定帶她的學生到花園去教他們一些大自然的詞彙但最後卻變成是她在學習所有當地植物在阿拉伯語中是怎麼說的還有這些植物是如何被使用作為藥材，化妝品烹飪，香草這些學生是怎麼得到這些知識的呢？當然是從他們的祖父母甚至曾祖父母那裡得來的不需要我來告訴你們能夠跨世代溝通是多麼重要 但遺憾的是，今天很多語言正在以前所未有的速度消失每14天就有一種語言消失而在此同時英語卻無庸置疑地成為全球性的語言這其中有關聯嗎？我不知道但我知道的是我見證過許多改變當我初次來到波灣，我是去科威特當時教英文仍然是個困難的工作其實，沒有那麼久啦這有點太久以前了總之我被英國文化協會聘用連同其他25位老師我們是第一批非穆斯林的老師在科威特的國立學校任教我們被派到那裡教英語是因為當地政府希望國家可以現代化並透過教育提升公民的水準當然，英國也能得到些好處產油國可是很有錢的 言歸正傳我見過最大的改變, 就是英語教學的蛻變如何從一個互惠互利的方式變成今天這種大規模的國際事業英語不再是學校課程裡的外語學科也不再只是英國的專利英語(教學)已經成為所有英語系國家追逐的潮流何樂而不為呢？畢竟，最好的教育來自於最好的大學而根據最新的世界大學排名那些名列前茅的都是英國和美國的大學所以自然每個人都想接受英語教育但如果你不是以英文為母語你就要通過考試 但僅憑語言能力就拒絕學生這樣對嗎？譬如如果你碰到一位電腦科學家他是位天才他會需要有和律師一樣的語言能力嗎？我不這麼認為但身為英語老師的我們卻總是拒絕他們我們處處設限將學生擋在路上使他們無法再追求自己的夢想直到他們通過考試現在容我換一個方式說如果我遇到了一位只會說荷蘭話的人而這個人能治愈癌症我會阻止他進入我的英國大學嗎？我想不會但事實上，我們的確在做這種事我們這些英語老師就是把關的你必須先讓我們滿意使我們認定你的英文夠好但這可能是危險的把太多的權力交由這麼小的一群人把持也許會令這種障礙太過普及 好""但是""，我聽到你們問""那研究呢?""""他們都用英文""書用英文寫期刊也都是用英文但這只是一種理所當然的現象有英語要求自然就有英語供給然後就這麼循環下去我倒想問問大家，為什麼不用翻譯呢？如果你們想想伊斯蘭的黃金時代當時翻譯盛行他們把拉丁文和希臘文翻譯成阿拉伯文或波斯文然後再由拉伯文或波斯文翻譯為歐洲的日耳曼語言以及羅曼語言於是文明照亮了歐洲的黑暗時代但不要誤會我的意思我不是反對英語教學或是在座所有的英語老師我很高興我們有一個全球性的語言這在今日尤為重要但我反對用英語設立障礙難道我們真希望世界上只剩下600種語言其中又以英文或中文為主流？我們需要的不只如此。那麼我們該如何拿捏呢？這個體制把智能和英語能力畫上等號這是相當武斷的 (掌聲) 我想要提醒你們扶持當代知識分子的這些""巨人肩膀""不必非得具有英文能力他們不需要通過英語考試愛因斯坦就是典型的例子順便說一下，他在學校還曾被認為需要補救教學因為他其實有閱讀障礙但對整個世界來說, 很幸運的當時他不需要通過英語考試因為他們直到1964年才開始使用托福(一種美式英語測驗)現在英語測驗太氾濫了有太多太多的英語測驗以及成千上萬的學生每年都在參加這些考試現在你會認為，你和我都這麼想這些費用不貴，價錢滿合理的但是對數百萬的窮人來說這些費用高不可攀所以當下我們又拒絕了他們 (掌聲) 這使我想起最近看到的一個新聞標題：“教育：大鴻溝”現在我懂了我了解為什麼大家都重視英語因為他們希望給孩子最好的人生機會為了達成這目的，他們需要西方教育畢竟，不可否認，最好的工作都留給那些西方大學畢業出來的人就像我之前說的這是一種循環 好我跟你們說一個關於兩位科學家的故事有兩位英國科學家在做一項實驗是關於遺傳學的以及動物的前、後肢但他們無法得到他們想要的結果他們真的不知道該怎麼辦直到來了一位德國的科學家他發現在英文裡前肢和後肢是不同的二個字但在遺傳學上沒有區別在德語也是同一個字所以，賓果！問題解決了如果你不能想到一個念頭你會卡在那裏但如果另一個語言能想到那念頭然後，透過合作我們可以達成目的，也學到更多 我的女兒從科威特來到英格蘭她在阿拉伯的學校學習科學和數學那是所阿拉伯中學在學校裡，她得把這些知識翻譯成英文而她在班上卻是在這些學科上拿到最好的成績這告訴我們當外籍學生來找我們我們可能無法針對他們所知道的給予讚賞因為那是來自於他們母語的知識當一個語言消失我們不知道還有什麼也一併失去了 這是 —我不知道各位有沒有看最近的CNN—他們頒了一座英雄獎給一位年輕的肯亞牧童在他住的村莊裡，他和村裡其他的孩童一樣無法在夜晚讀書因為煤油燈產生的煙霧會弄傷他的眼睛再說，他也沒有足夠的煤油畢竟每天只有一塊美金的收入，你還能買什麼？所以他發明了不需成本的太陽能燈現在他們村子裡的孩子們大家的成績都和那些家裡有電的孩子相同(掌聲)當他拿到他的獎時他說了下面這段可愛的話：""這些孩子可以帶領非洲這塊黑暗大陸迎向光明""一個簡單的想法卻能有這樣深遠的影響 沒有“光”的人無論具體來說，還是抽象來說都無法通過我們的測驗我們也無法了解他們擁有的知識別讓他們和我們自己都身處在黑暗裡讓我們一同為多元性歡呼持守你的語言用它來宣揚偉大的想法 (掌聲) 非常謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
