Talk	en	zh-tw
pattie_maes_demos_the_sixth_sense	"I've been intrigued by this question of whether we could evolve or develop a sixth sense — a sense that would give us seamless access and easy access to meta-information or information that may exist somewhere that may be relevant to help us make the right decision about whatever it is that we're coming across. And some of you may argue, ""Well, don't today's cell phones do that already?"" But I would say no. When you meet someone here at TED — and this is the top networking place, of course, of the year — you don't shake somebody's hand and then say, ""Can you hold on for a moment while I take out my phone and Google you?"" Or when you go to the supermarket and you're standing there in that huge aisle of different types of toilet papers, you don't take out your cell phone, and open a browser, and go to a website to try to decide which of these different toilet papers is the most ecologically responsible purchase to make. So we don't really have easy access to all this relevant information that can just help us make optimal decisions about what to do next and what actions to take. And so my research group at the Media Lab has been developing a series of inventions to give us access to this information in a sort of easy way, without requiring that the user changes any of their behavior. And I'm here to unveil our latest effort, and most successful effort so far, which is still very much a work in process. I'm actually wearing the device right now and we've sort of cobbled it together with components that are off the shelf — and that, by the way, only cost 350 dollars at this point in time. I'm wearing a camera, just a simple web cam, a portable, battery-powered projection system with a little mirror. These components communicate to my cell phone in my pocket which acts as the communication and computation device. And in the video here we see my student Pranav Mistry, who's really the genius who's been implementing and designing this whole system. And we see how this system lets him walk up to any surface and start using his hands to interact with the information that is projected in front of him. The system tracks the four significant fingers. In this case, he's wearing simple marker caps that you may recognize. But if you want a more stylish version, you could also paint your nails in different colors. And the camera basically tracks these four fingers and recognizes any gestures that he's making so he can just go to, for example, a map of Long Beach, zoom in and out, etc. The system also recognizes iconic gestures such as the ""take a picture"" gesture, and then takes a picture of whatever is in front of you. And when he then walks back to the Media Lab, he can just go up to any wall and project all the pictures that he's taken, sort through them and organize them, and re-size them, etc., again using all natural gestures. So, some of you most likely were here two years ago and saw the demo by Jeff Han, or some of you may think, ""Well, doesn't this look like the Microsoft Surface Table?"" And yes, you also interact using natural gestures, both hands, etc. But the difference here is that you can use any surface, you can walk up to any surface, including your hand, if nothing else is available, and interact with this projected data. The device is completely portable, and can be — (Applause) (Applause ends) So, one important difference is that it's totally mobile. Another even more important difference is that in mass production, this would not cost more tomorrow than today's cell phones and would actually not sort of be a bigger packaging — could look a lot more stylish than this version that I'm wearing around my neck. But other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as Tom Cruise in ""Minority Report,"" the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixth-sense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you. So we see Pranav here going into the supermarket and he's shopping for some paper towels. And, as he picks up a product, the system can recognize the product that he's picking up, using either image recognition or marker technology, and give him the green light or an orange light. He can ask for additional information. So this particular choice here is a particularly good choice, given his personal criteria. Some of you may want the toilet paper with the most bleach in it rather than the most ecologically responsible choice. (Laughter) If he picks up a book in the bookstore, he can get an Amazon rating — it gets projected right on the cover of the book. This is Juan's book, our previous speaker, which gets a great rating, by the way, at Amazon. And so, Pranav turns the page of the book and can then see additional information about the book — reader comments, maybe sort of information by his favorite critic, etc. If he turns to a particular page, he finds an annotation by maybe an expert or a friend of ours that gives him a little bit of additional information about whatever is on that particular page. Reading the newspaper — it never has to be outdated. (Laughter) You can get video annotations of the events that you're reading about. You can get the latest sports scores, etc. This is a more controversial one. (Laughter) As you interact with someone at TED, maybe you can see a word cloud of the tags, the words that are associated with that person in their blog and personal web pages. In this case, the student is interested in cameras, etc. On your way to the airport, if you pick up your boarding pass, it can tell you that your flight is delayed, that the gate has changed, etc. And, if you need to know what the current time is, it's as simple as drawing a watch — (Laughter) (Applause) on your arm. So that's where we're at so far in developing this sixth sense that would give us seamless access to all this relevant information about the things that we may come across. My student Pranav, who's really, like I said, the genius behind this. (Applause and cheering) (Applause ends) He does deserve a lot of applause, because I don't think he's slept much in the last three months, actually. And his girlfriend is probably not very happy about him either. But it's not perfect yet, it's very much a work in progress. And who knows, maybe in another 10 years we'll be here with the ultimate sixth sense brain implant. Thank you. (Applause)"	我一直對這個問題很有興趣就是我們能不能夠演變出或發展出第六感。一種能夠讓我們直接且便捷地取得詮釋資訊或現存資料能夠幫助我們於當下遇到的問題做出正確的決定。有些人可能會認為現今的手機不就已經做到這點嗎？但我覺得並非如此。當你在ＴＥＤ與別人會面時─毫無疑問的，這是每年最佳的社交場所─難道你會與別人握手然後說，“你能等一下嗎我要用手機連上Google查詢你?”或是當你到超級市場站在那個龐大的貨架前面對著各種不同種類的衛生紙，你不會拿出手機，打開瀏覽器，連上一個網站然後試著決定各種不同的衛生紙中哪個購買選擇是最環保的？ 事實上我們無法迅速取得所有相關的資訊，來幫助我們做出最適當的決定下一步要做什麼，作出什麼行動。所以呢，我在媒體實驗室的研究小組正在研發一系列的產品讓我們能取得這些資訊利用較簡便的方式，並且不需要使用者改變他的行為。我要在這裡展示我們最新努力的成果，而目前為止最成功的樣品，雖然仍在不斷改進中其實我身上正戴著它我們利用市面上常見的零件將它組合完成─而且，順道一提，這裝置現在的成本只有350美元。 我佩戴著一個簡單的網路攝影機，和隨身攜帶，使用電池電力並配合鏡子的投影系統。這些裝置連結上我口袋裡的手機負責執行通訊以及運算功能。在影片裡我們看到我的學生，帕納‧密絲利他是設計並完成這個系統背後的天才。我們看的到這個系統讓他走到任何平面前使用他的手和投影在面前的資訊進行互動。這個系統能追蹤這四隻主要的手指。現在，你可能發現他手指上套著一般的奇異筆蓋。但如果你想要比較時髦的版本你也可以把指甲塗上不同顏色。 攝影機基本上能追蹤這四隻手指並且辨識出他的任何手勢舉例而言，他能直接開啟一個長堤的地圖，放大與縮小等等。這個系統還能辨識出具象徵性的手勢例如這個拍照的動作，它會直接拍下你面前的事物。當他走回媒體實驗室後，他可以走到任何一面牆前將他拍下的照片投影出來，瀏覽它們並且分類管理，放大縮小等等，同樣是使用完全自然的手勢。兩年前你們有些人可能也坐在這裡看過了傑夫‧韓所做的示範或許有些人會覺得，“這不是很像微軟的平面電腦嗎？”是的，也是以自然的手勢互動，運用雙手等等。但它的不同點在於它可以使用在任何平面上，你可以走到任何平面前，沒有適合的話自己的手掌也行再與這些投影出來的資料進行互動這裝置是可以隨身攜帶的，也可以是...(掌聲) 所以最重要的不同之處是它完全是流動的。另一項更重要的不同點是量產後它的成本不會超過現今的手機且組裝完成後體積也不會很大─看起來會比我脖子上掛的版本還要時髦的多。除了能讓你們實現跟湯姆‧克魯斯在“關鍵報告”中一樣酷的夢想，真正讓我們對於這個裝置感到非常興奮的是它可以達到第六感的功能能夠給你有關於你面前事物的資訊。所以我們看到帕納進入超級市場準備購買一些衛生紙。當他拿起一樣產品，系統可以辨識出他手上的產品利用影像辨識或是標記技術，亮起綠燈或是橘燈。他能詢問更進一步的資料。所以目前這個選擇在他自己的標準下，是個很好的選擇有些人可能想買加入最多漂白劑的衛生紙而不是最環保的選擇。 (笑聲) 如果他在書店裡拿起一本書，他能取得亞馬遜書局的評分。它會直接投影在書的封面上。這是朱恩的書，我們的上一位演講者，順道一提，這書在亞馬遜書局獲得很好的評分。另外，當帕納翻閱這本書時還能看到更多關於這本書的資訊─讀者評論，他最喜歡的書評給的評語等等。如果他翻到特定的一頁他能找到我們專業朋友寫的註解並給予他和那一頁內容相關的更多資訊。閱讀報紙時─它永遠不會是過期的。 (笑聲) 你可以看到與正在閱讀事件相關的影片註解你也能看到最新的體育比賽分數等等。這是一個較有爭議性的情況。 (笑聲) 當你在TED與別人互動時，你或許會看到一團團的標籤與那個人相關的字來自他們的部落格或個人網頁。在這個例子，這位學生對相機有興趣等等。在你前往機場的路上，如果你拿起你的登機證，它可以告訴你飛機誤點了，或是登機門已更改等等。而且如果你需要知道現在的時間答案就是在你的手臂上─(笑聲)(掌聲)。 所以我們差不多就是進展到這裡研發這個第六感能夠直接給予我們關於週遭事物的重要資訊。這是我的學生帕納，像我說的，他是這些背後的天才。 (掌聲) 他確實應該得到這麼多掌聲因為我知道他這三個月來其實沒有睡多少。他的女朋友大概也蠻生氣他的。但是它現在並非完美，還需要不斷地改進誰知道呢，或許十年過後我們會帶著植入腦內的終極第六感來這裡。謝謝。 (掌聲)
