Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_bennett_finds_design_in_the_details	"Hello. Actually, that's ""hello"" in Bauer Bodoni for the typographically hysterical amongst us. One of the threads that seems to have come through loud and clear in the last couple of days is this need to reconcile what the Big wants — the ""Big"" being the organization, the system, the country — and what the ""Small"" wants — the individual, the person. And how do you bring those two things together? Charlie Ledbetter, yesterday, I thought, talked very articulately about this need to bring consumers, to bring people into the process of creating things. And that's what I want to talk about today. So, bringing together the Small to help facilitate and create the Big, I think, is something that we believe in — something I believe in, and something that we kind of bring to life through what we do at Ideo. I call this first chapter — for the Brits in the room — the ""Blinding Glimpse of the Bleeding Obvious."" Often, the good ideas are so staring-at-you-right-in-the-face that you kind of miss them. And I think, a lot of times, what we do is just, sort of, hold the mirror up to our clients, and sort of go, ""Duh! You know, look what's really going on."" And rather than talk about it in the theory, I think I'm just going to show you an example. We were asked by a large healthcare system in Minnesota to describe to them what their patient experience was. And I think they were expecting — they'd worked with lots of consultants before — I think they were expecting some kind of hideous org chart with thousands of bubbles and systemic this, that and the other, and all kinds of mappy stuff. Or even worse, some kind of ghastly death-by-Powerpoint thing with WowCharts and all kinds of, you know, God knows, whatever. The first thing we actually shared with them was this. I'll play this until your eyeballs completely dissolve. This is 59 seconds into the film. This is a minute 59. 3:19. I think something happens. I think a head may appear in a second. 5:10. 5:58. 6:20. We showed them the whole cut, and they were all completely, what is this? And the point is when you lie in a hospital bed all day, all you do is look at the roof, and it's a really shitty experience. And just putting yourself in the position of the patient — this is Christian, who works with us at Ideo. He just lay in the hospital bed, and, kind of, stared at the polystyrene ceiling tiles for a really long time. That's what it's like to be a patient in the hospital. And they were sort, you know, blinding glimpse of bleeding obvious. Oh, my goodness. So, looking at the situation from the point of view of the person out — as opposed to the traditional position of the organization in — was, for these guys, quite a revelation. And so, that was a really catalytic thing for them. So they snapped into action. They said, OK, it's not about systemic change. It's not about huge, ridiculous things that we need to do. It's about tiny things that can make a huge amount of difference. So we started with them prototyping some really little things that we could do to have a huge amount of impact. The first thing we did was we took a little bicycle mirror and we Band-Aided it here, onto a gurney, a hospital trolley, so that when you were wheeled around by a nurse or by a doctor, you could actually have a conversation with them. You could, kind of, see them in your rear-view mirror, so it created a tiny human interaction. Very small example of something that they could do. Interestingly, the nurses themselves, sort of, snapped into action — said, OK, we embrace this. What can we do? The first thing they do is they decorated the ceiling. Which I thought was really — I showed this to my mother recently. I think my mother now thinks that I'm some sort of interior decorator. It's what I do for a living, sort of Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen. Not particularly the world's best design solution for those of us who are real, sort of, hard-core designers, but nonetheless, a fabulous empathic solution for people. Things that they started doing themselves — like changing the floor going into the patient's room so that it signified, ""This is my room. This is my personal space"" — was a really interesting sort of design solution to the problem. So you went from public space to private space. And another idea, again, that came from one of the nurses — which I love — was they took traditional, sort of, corporate white boards, then they put them on one wall of the patient's room, and they put this sticker there. So that what you could actually do was go into the room and write messages to the person who was sick in that room, which was lovely. So, tiny, tiny, tiny solutions that made a huge amount of impact. I thought that was a really, really nice example. So this is not particularly a new idea, kind of, seeing opportunities in things that are around you and snapping and turning them into a solution. It's a history of invention based around this. I'm going to read this because I want to get these names right. Joan Ganz Cooney saw her daughter — came down on a Saturday morning, saw her daughter watching the test card, waiting for programs to come on one morning and from that came Sesame Street. Malcolm McLean was moving from one country to another and was wondering why it took these guys so long to get the boxes onto the ship. And he invented the shipping container. George de Mestral — this is not bugs all over a Birkenstock — was walking his dog in a field and got covered in burrs, sort of little prickly things, and from that came Velcro. And finally, for the Brits, Percy Shaw — this is a big British invention — saw the cat's eyes at the side of the road, when he was driving home one night and from that came the Catseye. So there's a whole series of just using your eyes, seeing things for the first time, seeing things afresh and using them as an opportunity to create new possibilities. Second one, without sounding overly Zen, and this is a quote from the Buddha: ""Finding yourself in the margins, looking to the edges of things, is often a really interesting place to start."" Blinkered vision tends to produce, I think, blinkered solutions. So, looking wide, using your peripheral vision, is a really interesting place to look for opportunity. Again, another medical example here. We were asked by a device producer — we did the Palm Pilot and the Treo. We did a lot of sexy tech at Ideo — they'd seen this and they wanted a sexy piece of technology for medical diagnostics. This was a device that a nurse uses when they're doing a spinal procedure in hospital. They'll ask the nurses to input data. And they had this vision of the nurse, kind of, clicking away on this aluminum device and it all being incredibly, sort of, gadget-lustish. When we actually went and watched this procedure taking place — and I'll explain this in a second — it became very obvious that there was a human dimension to this that they really weren't recognizing. When you're having a four-inch needle inserted into your spine — which was the procedure that this device's data was about; it was for pain management — you're shit scared; you're freaking out. And so the first thing that pretty much every nurse did, was hold the patient's hand to comfort them. Human gesture — which made the fabulous two-handed data input completely impossible. So, the thing that we designed, much less sexy but much more human and practical, was this. So, it's not a Palm Pilot by any stretch of the imagination, but it has a thumb-scroll so you can do everything with one hand. So, again, going back to this — the idea that a tiny human gesture dictated the design of this product. And I think that's really, really important. So, again, this idea of workarounds. We use this phrase ""workarounds"" a lot, sort of, looking around us. I was actually looking around the TED and just watching all of these kind of things happen while I've been here. This idea of the way that people cobble together solutions in our life — and the things we kind of do in our environment that are somewhat subconscious but have huge potential — is something that we look at a lot. We wrote a book recently, I think you might have received it, called ""Thoughtless Acts?"" It's been all about these kind of thoughtless things that people do, which have huge intention and huge opportunity. Why do we all follow the line in the street? This is a picture in a Japanese subway. People consciously follow things even though, why, we don't know. Why do we line up the square milk carton with the square fence? Because we kind of have to — we're just compelled to. We don't know why, but we do. Why do we wrap the teabag string around the cup handle? Again, we're sort of using the world around us to create our own design solutions. And we're always saying to our clients: ""You should look at this stuff. This stuff is really important. This stuff is really vital."" This is people designing their own experiences. You can draw from this. We sort of assume that because there's a pole in the street, that it's okay to use it, so we park our shopping cart there. It's there for our use, on some level. So, again, we sort of co-opt our environment to do all these different things. We co-opt other experiences — we take one item and transfer it to another. And this is my favorite one. My mother used to say to me, ""Just because your sister jumps in the lake doesn't mean you have to."" But, of course, we all do. We all follow each other every day. So somebody assumes that because somebody else has done something, that's permission for them to do the same thing. And there's almost this sort of semaphore around us all the time. I mean, shopping bag equals ""parking meter out of order."" And we all, kind of, know how to read these signals now. We all talk to one another in this highly visual way without realizing what we're doing. Third section is this idea of not knowing, of consciously putting yourself backwards. I talk about unthinking situations all the time. Sort of having beginner's mind, scraping your mind clean and looking at things afresh. A friend of mine was a designer at IKEA, and he was asked by his boss to help design a storage system for children. This is the Billy bookcase — it's IKEA's biggest selling product. Hammer it together. Hammer it together with a shoe, if you're me, because they're impossible to assemble. But big selling bookcase. How do we replicate this for children? The reality is when you actually watch children, children don't think about things like storage in linear terms. Children assume permission in a very different way. Children live on things. They live under things. They live around things, and so their spatial awareness relationship, and their thinking around storage is totally different. So the first thing you have to do — this is Graham, the designer — is, sort of, put yourself in their shoes. And so, here he is sitting under the table. So, what came out of this? This is the storage system that he designed. So what is this? I hear you all ask. No, I don't. (Laughter) It's this, and I think this is a particularly lovely solution. So, you know, it's a totally different way of looking at the situation. It's a completely empathic solution — apart from the fact that teddy's probably not loving it. (Laughter) But a really nice way of re-framing the ordinary, and I think that's one of the things. And putting yourself in the position of the person, and I think that's one of the threads that I've heard again from this conference is how do we put ourselves in other peoples' shoes and really feel what they feel? And then use that information to fuel solutions? And I think that's what this is very much about. Last section: green armband. We've all got them. It's about this really. I mean, it's about picking battles big enough to matter but small enough to win. Again, that's one of the themes that I think has come through loud and clear in this conference is: Where do we start? How do we start? What do we do to start? So, again, we were asked to design a water pump for a company called ApproTEC, in Kenya. They're now called KickStart. And, again, as designers, we wanted to make this thing incredibly beautiful and spend a lot of time thinking of the form. And that was completely irrelevant. When you put yourself in the position of these people, things like the fact that this has to be able to fold up and fit on a bicycle, become much more relevant than the form of it. The way it's produced, it has to be produced with indigenous manufacturing methods and indigenous materials. So it had to be looked at completely from the point of view of the user. We had to completely transfer ourselves over to their world. So what seems like a very clunky product is, in fact, incredibly useful. It's powered a bit like a Stairmaster — you pump up and down on it. Children can use it. Adults can use it. Everybody uses it. It's turning these guys — again, one of the themes — it's turning them into entrepreneurs. These guys are using this very successfully. And for us, it's been great because it's won loads of design awards. So we actually managed to reconcile the needs of the design company, the needs of the individuals in the company, to feel good about a product we were actually designing, and the needs of the individuals we were designing it for. There it is, pumping water from 30 feet. So as a final gesture we handed out these bracelets to all of you this morning. We've made a donation on everybody's behalf here to kick start, no pun intended, their next project. Because, again, I think, sort of, putting our money where our mouth is, here. We feel that this is an important gesture. So we've handed out bracelets. Small is the new big. I hope you'll all wear them. So that's it. Thank you. (Applause)"	"哈囉。這 ""Hello"" 是 Bauer Bodoni 字體這裡有人對字體設計有興趣。近日來呈現出一項清楚明白的訊息，就是：如何調和｢大的｣想要的 －｢大的｣是指組織、系統、國家 －和｢小的｣想要的 － 個人、自己。及如何把這兩件事結合一起？Charlie Ledbetter 昨天說得很清楚有需要把消費者、大眾帶進創造事物的過程。這也是今天我要談的。因此，一起帶｢小｣以促成及創造｢大｣，我認為，是我們的信念 － 我的信念，也是我們經由 Ideo 的工作所要達成的。 我為英國聽眾把第一章叫做 －明顯流血卻視而不見往往好的構想近在眼前，你卻錯失了它。我認為，我們常常只是拿鏡子對著客戶，說：｢嗯！你看是怎麼回事。｣而不是和他談事理，我來讓你看個例子。有個在明尼蘇達的大型醫療機構找我們，要我們告訴它：他們病患的體驗是什麼。我猜，他們預期的是 －他們曾和多家設計公司合作過 －他們預期的是一些討厭的組織圖表成千的泡圈及系統的這個、那個、等等，及各種的圖示化資料。甚至是某種嚇人的 Powerpoint 幻燈片包含 WowChart 等各種鬼東西。 我們提報的第一件事是這樣的。我要播放它直到你眼珠子跳出來。這是影片的第 59 秒。這是 1 分 59 秒。3 分 19 秒。事情要發生了。很快可能會有頭出現。5 分 10 秒。5 分 58 秒。6 分 20 秒。我們播整個帶子給他們看。他們全都問：這是什麼？問題是，當你在醫院裡臥床一整天，你能看的只是天花板，這真是惱人的經驗。只要把你自己當成病人， 這是 Christian，我們的 Ideo 同事。他躺在病床上，就這樣瞪著聚苯乙烯天花板很長一段時間。醫院病人可能就是這樣。而他們卻有若視而不見。天哪。看看這個情況從當事人的角度看 －而不是由組織的傳統角度看 －這對他們有很大的啟發。對他們有催化作用。因此，他們採取了行動。他們說：好，不是關於系統的改變。要做的不是巨大、荒謬的事。是能造成巨大不同的細小的事 因此，我們開始為他們設計些細小的事。做了能帶來巨大的衝擊的事。首先，我們帶來一個腳踏車後照鏡。將它綁在醫院推床上，因此當你由護士或醫師推著走時，你實際上可以和他們說話。你可以在後照鏡中看見他們，而創造一個小型的人際互動。這是他們能做的小例子。有趣的事，護士們都採取了行動 －說：好，我們喜歡它。我們該怎麼做？首先，他們裝飾了天花板。這我認為很 － 最近我把它秀給我媽看。我媽現在以為我是室內設計師。是我謀生的職業，就像 Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen雖不是世界上最好的設計解答，對正牌設計師而言。但卻是對人們有神效的強力解答。他們開始自己做的事有 －如：改變病房內的地板它意味著：「這是我房間。我的個人空間，」－是個對問題很有趣的解答。 因而你從公共空間走入私人空間。另一個構想也來自護士 － 我很喜歡它 －他們把傳統的公司用白板，掛在病房牆上，貼上使用說明。因此你能實際進到房間留言給房裡的病人，真是貼心。因此，小小的解答達到了巨大的衝擊。我認為那真真正正是個好例子。 所以這不是特別的新想法，只是有如在你四周找機會抓住它，並為它找到解答。這就是基於這個原理的發明史。我想唸一下，因為我要把名字唸對。Joan Ganz Cooney 看到她女兒 － 某個星期六早上，看到她女兒在看考試卡，一邊在等著節目開始因而創造了芝麻街節目。Malcolm McLean 從一國到另一國不解何以要那麼久才能把箱子搬上船。因而發明了船運貨櫃George de Mestral － 這不是蟲爬在勃肯鞋上 －在原野蹓狗而沾滿了毛刺，有細刺的東西，因而發明了魔鬼沾 最後，英國人 Percy Shaw － 偉大的英國發明 －當他晚上開車回家，看到路邊的貓眼睛，而發明了貓眼反光器。因此，有一大系列，只要用你的眼睛，以新鮮眼光看事情以此為機會來創造新的可能。其次，不必講得太玄，這是佛陀的話：｢處在邊緣，觀看事物周邊，往往是有趣的起點。｣遮罩的視線將產生遮罩的解答。因此，看廣、使用周邊視覺，是找機會的有趣地方。 再一次，另一個醫療例子。有個設備商找我們 －我們設計了 Palm Pilot 和 Treo。在 Ideo 我們設計很多性感科技品 －他們看了，也想要把性感科技用在醫療診斷。這是護士用的設備用在醫院的脊椎程序上。他們要護士輸入資料。他們期待看到護士不停按著這個鋁殼設備充滿令人難以置信的，科技玩意感。當我們真正去看程序的進行 －我等下再做說明 －很明顯，它有個人性面他們沒有注意到。當有根四吋的針刺進你的脊柱 －設備的資料就是用在這個程序 －那是用作疼痛管理。 你會怕得要死 － 你會恍惚不定。因此幾乎每個護士都會握著病人的手安撫他。這個人道示意 －使兩手操作的資料輸入變成完全不可能。 因此，我們設計的東西則沒有那麼性感但更人性及實用，就是這個。所以，它都不是 Palm Pilot，任你如何想像。但它有個姆指輪，你能單手操作。再回到主題 － 微小的人道示意的觀念取決了這個產品的設計。我認為那是非常、非常重要的。因此再一次，這個邊做邊看的想法。我們很常用「邊做邊看」，四處看看。我實際上是裡裡外外看 TED我來到這裡，看到所有這類事情在發生。人們在生活中組合解答 －就是，我們在環境中做的事無意識地做卻有巨大潛能 －這就是我們看上的觀念。 最近我們寫了一本書，也許你有收到，叫做｢無意識行為。｣是關於人們無意識下做的事，有著巨大的意向和機會。我們為何跟著街上的線走？這是在日本的地鐵站。人們特意跟著做，即使不知為何要這樣。為何我們把方形奶盒對正方形欄杆？因為我們好像要 － 不得不如此。我們不知為何，就是做。為何我們繞茶包線在杯柄？再度，我們只是應用周遭世界來創造自己的設計解答。我們總是告訴客戶：｢你要注意這些東西。它很重要。它很有活力。｣這是人們設計自己的體驗。你們可以從這裡學到。我們假設：因為街上有柱子，可以用，所以停靠購物車在那裡。它在那裡，供我們使用。 再度，我們援用環境來做這些不同的事。我們援用其他經驗 －取一項轉用到另一項。這是我的最愛。我媽曾告訴我，｢因為你姐姐跳進湖裡，不代表你也要跳。｣但我們都做了。我們都每天彼此跟從。因此有人假設因為有人做了某事，即表示他們也可做相同的事。這種信號似乎隨時到處都有。就是：塑膠袋 = ｢停車錶壞了。｣現在我們都會讀這類信號了。我們都以這種高度的視覺方式告知彼此而不自覺做了什麼。第三部分是｢不知｣的觀念，是特意把自己推回去。我一直在談｢不思｣的情況回到初次的心態，把心思刮淨以新鮮感看事物。 我有個朋友是 IKEA 的設計師，老闆請他幫忙設計兒童用貯藏家具。這是比利書櫃 － IKEA 最暢銷的產品。自己組合。用鞋子敲打組合，如果你是我，因為很難組合。但卻很暢銷。如何為兒童複製一個？真相是，當你實際去看兒童，兒童不是直線式地考慮收藏。兒童以很不同的方式看可能性。他們跳上物品。他們爬到物品下。他們環繞物品，因此他們的空間關係，及他們對收藏的想法完全不同因此，首先你要 － 這是 Graham 設計師 －就像，進入他們的立場。因此他就坐在桌下。結果如何呢？這是他設計的貯藏家具。這是什麼？我聽到大家問。不，我沒有。 (笑聲) 就是這個，這是極為有趣的解答。因此，是以完全不同的方式去看事情。是個非常有同理心的解答 －例外的是，泰迪熊也許並不喜歡。 (笑聲) 卻是個另眼看平常事物的好方法，我認為是重要事項之一。把自己置入當事人的立場，是我再次聽到的一項訊息從這個會議，是如何把自己置入他人立場，去感覺他的感覺？接著用那個資訊來產生解答？我想，很大程度就是關於這個。最後一部分：綠色手環。我們都有，就是關於這個。是關於往大處著眼但從小處著手。這也是主題之一我認為，這個會議明明白白傳達的是：從何處開始？如何開始？一開始要做什麼？我們被請求設計抽水幫浦為肯亞一家叫 ApproTEC 的公司設計。他們現在叫做 KickStart。 身為設計師，我們要把它設計得特別美觀花了許多時間考慮造形。而那完全無關緊要。當你置入當地人的立場時，有些事情，像它要可折合、要能裝在腳踏車上等，變成比造形更為有關。它的生產方式，要用當地的製造方法生產以當地的材料。因此，要完全由使用者的角度來看它。我們要完全把自己轉化到他們的世界。因此，這個看起來粗笨的產品，事實上卻大為有用。它的操作就像爬樓梯機 － 踏上踏下操作它。兒童能用它。大人能用它。大家都用它。它轉變這些傢伙 － 另一個主題 －把他們轉變為企業家。 他們非常成功地利用它。而對我們，也很棒因為它贏了無數的設計獎。所以我們成功調合了設計公司的需求，公司中個人的需求，對實際設計的產品感到滿意，及我們為他設計的個人的需求。看它，抽取 30 呎外的水。今天早上，我們送給各位這些手環以表示最後的心意。我們以各位的名義捐贈給KickStart 公司的下一個專案。因為這象徵著：花錢在我們賴以維生的事項上。我們覺得這是一項很重要的示意。因此我們送出手環。｢小｣是為了新的｢大｣。希望你們都戴它。就這樣。謝謝。 (掌聲)"
