Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_gilding_the_earth_is_full	"Let me begin with four words that will provide the context for this week, four words that will come to define this century. Here they are: The Earth is full. It's full of us, it's full of our stuff, full of our waste, full of our demands. Yes, we are a brilliant and creative species, but we've created a little too much stuff — so much that our economy is now bigger than its host, our planet. This is not a philosophical statement, this is just science based in physics, chemistry and biology. There are many science-based analyses of this, but they all draw the same conclusion — that we're living beyond our means. The eminent scientists of the Global Footprint Network, for example, calculate that we need about 1.5 Earths to sustain this economy. In other words, to keep operating at our current level, we need 50 percent more Earth than we've got. In financial terms, this would be like always spending 50 percent more than you earn, going further into debt every year. But of course, you can't borrow natural resources, so we're burning through our capital, or stealing from the future. So when I say full, I mean really full — well past any margin for error, well past any dispute about methodology. What this means is our economy is unsustainable. I'm not saying it's not nice or pleasant or that it's bad for polar bears or forests, though it certainly is. What I'm saying is our approach is simply unsustainable. In other words, thanks to those pesky laws of physics, when things aren't sustainable, they stop. But that's not possible, you might think. We can't stop economic growth. Because that's what will stop: economic growth. It will stop because of the end of trade resources. It will stop because of the growing demand of us on all the resources, all the capacity, all the systems of the Earth, which is now having economic damage. When we think about economic growth stopping, we go, ""That's not possible,"" because economic growth is so essential to our society that is is rarely questioned. Although growth has certainly delivered many benefits, it is an idea so essential that we tend not to understand the possibility of it not being around. Even though it has delivered many benefits, it is based on a crazy idea — the crazy idea being that we can have infinite growth on a finite planet. And I'm here to tell you the emperor has no clothes. That the crazy idea is just that, it is crazy, and with the Earth full, it's game over. Come on, you're thinking. That's not possible. Technology is amazing. People are innovative. There are so many ways we can improve the way we do things. We can surely sort this out. That's all true. Well, it's mostly true. We are certainly amazing, and we regularly solve complex problems with amazing creativity. So if our problem was to get the human economy down from 150 percent to 100 percent of the Earth's capacity, we could do that. The problem is we're just warming up this growth engine. We plan to take this highly-stressed economy and make it twice as big and then make it four times as big — not in some distant future, but in less than 40 years, in the life time of most of you. China plans to be there in just 20 years. The only problem with this plan is that it's not possible. In response, some people argue, but we need growth, we need it to solve poverty. We need it to develop technology. We need it to keep social stability. I find this argument fascinating, as though we can kind of bend the rules of physics to suit our needs. It's like the Earth doesn't care what we need. Mother nature doesn't negotiate; she just sets rules and describes consequences. And these are not esoteric limits. This is about food and water, soil and climate, the basic practical and economic foundations of our lives. So the idea that we can smoothly transition to a highly-efficient, solar-powered, knowledge-based economy transformed by science and technology so that nine billion people can live in 2050 a life of abundance and digital downloads is a delusion. It's not that it's not possible to feed, clothe and house us all and have us live decent lives. It certainly is. But the idea that we can gently grow there with a few minor hiccups is just wrong, and it's dangerously wrong, because it means we're not getting ready for what's really going to happen. See what happens when you operate a system past its limits and then keep on going at an ever-accelerating rate is that the system stops working and breaks down. And that's what will happen to us. Many of you will be thinking, but surely we can still stop this. If it's that bad, we'll react. Let's just think through that idea. Now we've had 50 years of warnings. We've had science proving the urgency of change. We've had economic analysis pointing out that, not only can we afford it, it's cheaper to act early. And yet, the reality is we've done pretty much nothing to change course. We're not even slowing down. Last year on climate, for example, we had the highest global emissions ever. The story on food, on water, on soil, on climate is all much the same. I actually don't say this in despair. I've done my grieving about the loss. I accept where we are. It is sad, but it is what it is. But it is also time that we ended our denial and recognized that we're not acting, we're not close to acting and we're not going to act until this crisis hits the economy. And that's why the end of growth is the central issue and the event that we need to get ready for. So when does this transition begin? When does this breakdown begin? In my view, it is well underway. I know most people don't see it that way. We tend to look at the world, not as the integrated system that it is, but as a series of individual issues. We see the Occupy protests, we see spiraling debt crises, we see growing inequality, we see money's influence on politics, we see resource constraint, food and oil prices. But we see, mistakenly, each of these issues as individual problems to be solved. In fact, it's the system in the painful process of breaking down — our system, of debt-fueled economic growth, of ineffective democracy, of overloading planet Earth, is eating itself alive. I could give you countless studies and evidence to prove this, but I won't because, if you want to see it, that evidence is all around you. I want to talk to you about fear. I want to do so because, in my view, the most important issue we face is how we respond to this question. The crisis is now inevitable. This issue is, how will we react? Of course, we can't know what will happen. The future is inherently uncertain. But let's just think through what the science is telling us is likely to happen. Imagine our economy when the carbon bubble bursts, when the financial markets recognize that, to have any hope of preventing the climate spiraling out of control, the oil and coal industries are finished. Imagine China, India and Pakistan going to war as climate impacts generate conflict over food and water. Imagine the Middle East without oil income, but with collapsing governments. Imagine our highly-tuned, just-in-time food industry and our highly-stressed agricultural system failing and supermarket shelves emptying. Imagine 30 percent unemployment in America as the global economy is gripped by fear and uncertainty. Now imagine what that means for you, your family, your friends, your personal financial security. Imagine what it means for your personal security as a heavily armed civilian population gets angrier and angrier about why this was allowed to happen. Imagine what you'll tell your children when they ask you, ""So, in 2012, Mom and Dad, what was it like when you'd had the hottest decade on record for the third decade in a row, when every scientific body in the world was saying you've got a major problem, when the oceans were acidifying, when oil and food prices were spiking, when they were rioting in the streets of London and occupying Wall Street? When the system was so clearly breaking down, Mom and Dad, what did you do, what were you thinking?"" So how do you feel when the lights go out on the global economy in your mind, when your assumptions about the future fade away and something very different emerges? Just take a moment and take a breath and think, what do you feel at this point? Perhaps denial. Perhaps anger. Maybe fear. Of course, we can't know what's going to happen and we have to live with uncertainty. But when we think about the kind of possibilities I paint, we should feel a bit of fear. We are in danger, all of us, and we've evolved to respond to danger with fear to motivate a powerful response, to help us bravely face a threat. But this time it's not a tiger at the cave mouth. You can't see the danger at your door. But if you look, you can see it at the door of your civilization. That's why we need to feel our response now while the lights are still on, because if we wait until the crisis takes hold, we may panic and hide. If we feel it now and think it through, we will realize we have nothing to fear but fear itself. Yes, things will get ugly, and it will happen soon — certainly in our lifetime — but we are more than capable of getting through everything that's coming. You see, those people that have faith that humans can solve any problem, that technology is limitless, that markets can be a force for good, are in fact right. The only thing they're missing is that it takes a good crisis to get us going. When we feel fear and we fear loss we are capable of quite extraordinary things. Think about war. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, it just took four days for the government to ban the production of civilian cars and to redirect the auto industry, and from there to rationing of food and energy. Think about how a company responds to a bankruptcy threat and how a change that seemed impossible just gets done. Think about how an individual responds to a diagnosis of a life-threatening illness and how lifestyle changes that previously were just too difficult suddenly become relatively easy. We are smart, in fact, we really are quite amazing, but we do love a good crisis. And the good news, this one's a monster. (Laughter) Sure, if we get it wrong, we could face the end of this civilization, but if we get it right, it could be the beginning of civilization instead. And how cool would it be to tell your grandchildren that you were part of that? There's certainly no technical or economic barrier in the way. Scientists like James Hansen tell us we may need to eliminate net CO2 emissions from the economy in just a few decades. I wanted to know what that would take, so I worked with professor Jorgen Randers from Norway to find the answer. We developed a plan called ""The One Degree War Plan"" — so named because of the level of mobilization and focus required. To my surprise, eliminating net CO2 emissions from the economy in just 20 years is actually pretty easy and pretty cheap, not very cheap, but certainly less than the cost of a collapsing civilization. We didn't calculate that precisely, but we understand that's very expensive. You can read the details, but in summary, we can transform our economy. We can do it with proven technology. We can do it at an affordable cost. We can do it with existing political structures. The only thing we need to change is how we think and how we feel. And this is where you come in. When we think about the future I paint, of course we should feel a bit of fear. But fear can be paralyzing or motivating. We need to accept the fear and then we need to act. We need to act like the future depends on it. We need to act like we only have one planet. We can do this. I know the free market fundamentalists will tell you that more growth, more stuff and nine billion people going shopping is the best we can do. They're wrong. We can be more, we can be much more. We have achieved remarkable things since working out how to grow food some 10,000 years ago. We've built a powerful foundation of science, knowledge and technology — more than enough to build a society where nine billion people can lead decent, meaningful and satisfying lives. The Earth can support that if we choose the right path. We can choose this moment of crisis to ask and answer the big questions of society's evolution — like, what do we want to be when we grow up, when we move past this bumbling adolescence where we think there are no limits and suffer delusions of immortality? Well it's time to grow up, to be wiser, to be calmer, to be more considered. Like generations before us, we'll be growing up in war — not a war between civilizations, but a war for civilization, for the extraordinary opportunity to build a society which is stronger and happier and plans on staying around into middle age. We can choose life over fear. We can do what we need to do, but it will take every entrepreneur, every artist, every scientist, every communicator, every mother, every father, every child, every one of us. This could be our finest hour. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想用四個字作為本週演說的開場白這四個字可以為這個世紀下定義這四個字就是：地球滿了地球住滿人類、堆滿我們的東西堆滿垃圾、充斥著需求沒錯，我們是聰明且有創造力的物種不過我們創造的東西有點太多多到我們的經濟體已經超過地球所能負荷的程度 這不是哲學的說法這是基於物理學化學以及生物學的科學這方面的科學分析很多不過結論都一致：我們過著入不敷出的生活以Global Footprint Network的頂尖科學家為例他們計算出我們需要1.5顆地球才能支撐這樣的經濟體換句話說為了保持目前運作的程度我們需要額外的半顆地球才夠用經濟學的說法就是你所花的錢比賺的錢多百分之50每年逐漸累積負債當然，自然資源沒辦法用借的所以我們正在啃蝕老本或者說偷取未來的資源 所以當我說地球滿了，我的意思是真的滿了滿到容不下任何錯誤滿到無法用方法論來解釋這表示我們的經濟體已經支撐不下去了我並不是說這樣子對北極熊或者對森林不好雖然目前是這樣子我的意思是我們的做法根本不是永續經營之道也就是說，因為有這些囉嗦的物理定律當物體無法持續運作時就會停下來可是各位也許會認為不可能我們無法停止經濟成長因為停下來的會是：經濟成長當貿易資源枯竭就會停止因為我們對地球的資源、產能以及整個系統的需求日益增加最終將會停止目前已經對經濟造成損害了 當我們思考經濟成長停止時我們總覺得：「不可能的」因為經濟成長對我們的社會非常重要這個部分很少人質疑過雖然經濟成長帶來很多好處但因為經濟成長至關重要所以我們根本不想知道經濟成長停止的可能性雖然經濟成長帶來了很多好處但卻是基於一種瘋狂的想法：這種想法就是在有限的星球上我們可以擁有無限的經濟成長我現在站出來向各位說明真相這瘋狂的想法簡直是簡直太瘋狂了當地球塞滿時，大家都玩完了 各位會想根本不可能科技很神奇，人類善於創造有很多的方法可以改善當前我們做事的方法我們可以解決這些問題真的就是這樣呃，大部分都是這樣我們當然很厲害我們運用神奇的創造力總能解決複雜的問題假如我們的問題是縮限我們的經濟體，從地球負荷上限的150%降到100%我們可以做到的問題是我們才剛發動經濟成長的引擎我們打算把這高壓的經濟體擴展到兩倍大然後再變成四倍大我說的不是遙遠的未來而是40年內要完成在座大部分人的有生之年內中國計畫用20年來完成這個計畫的唯一問題並不是做不到 有些人對此提出主張我們需要經濟成長以解決貧困、研發科技、維持社會安定我發現這樣的論點太過美好好像我們可以根據我們的需求改變物理原則好像地球根本不在乎我們的需求大自然不會討價還價大自然只立定原則和敘述結果我說的不是深奧難懂的限制而是食物、水、土地和氣候這些關係到我們生活的實際經濟基礎 假如我們認為我們能夠平順地進入到一個高效能，以太陽能和知識為基礎的經濟體，以科學和科技帶動改變，好讓2050年居住在地球上的90億人口過著富足和數位化的生活根本是癡人說夢話我們並不是沒辦法吃飽、穿暖、住好並且過著不錯的生活我們可以的只是想要用些許的代價轉變到那樣子根本是不可能的而且是錯得離譜因為這表示我們還沒準備好面對未來會發生的事 當你操作一部機器已超過運轉上限時如果持續加速讓機器繼續運轉最後整部機器就會停擺和故障這就是我們未來會遇到的事各位或許會開始思考當然我們可以停止這一切如果後果真的這麼嚴重，我們會採取行動的我們仔細想想現在我們有50年的預警期有科學證明改革的迫切性有經濟分析指出假如及早因應，不只來得及而且代價會比較小然而，實際情況是所們對改革的實際作為很少我們根本沒有慢下來以去年的氣候為例全球的碳排放量創新高食物、飲水、土地、氣候方面的問題仍舊一樣 我這樣說並不是感到絕望我為此感到哀悼我接受當前的處境實在讓人難過不過目前的處境的確如此不過現在也是坦誠面對的時刻並且承認我們根本沒有採取行動也不打算有所動作直到危機重創經濟才願意行動這就是為什麼經濟成長停止是最重要的議題也是我們必須準備面臨的事件 那麼，轉變什麼時候開始？什麼時候開始崩盤？在我看來，正在進行中我知道多數人不這麼認為我們總習慣把這世界的各種問題分開各別看待而不是以相互作用的系統看待我們目睹占領抗議我們看到日益惡化的債務危機我們看到貧富差距擴大我們看到金錢左右政策我們看到資源限制，食物和油價問題我們也錯把每個議題當作個別的問題去解決事實上，整個系統正在痛苦中日漸崩解我們的系統，這個由債務堆起的經濟成長、無能的民主、過度負載的地球正在自我吞噬 有非常多的研究和證據可以證明這點我可以拿給各位看不過我不會拿給各位看，如果想看的話周遭到處都有證據我想跟各位談談恐懼之所以想談是因為在我看來我們面臨的最重要議題是如何應對這個問題危機已經無法避免這個議題就是，我們要如何應對？當然，我們無法預知未來的事未來總是不確定的 不過我們可以好好的思考科學透露給我們未來可能發生的事想像當承碳泡沫化的時候，當經濟市場發現為了保有一絲希望或者防止氣候繼續惡化石油和煤炭工業都玩完了的時候我們的經濟會變成什麼情況？想像中國、印度和巴基斯坦因為氣候衝擊造成爭奪食物和水源進而引發戰爭想像中東國家失去原油收入但卻存在著敗壞的政府想像高度控制、即時供應的食品產業還有高度密集的農業崩解以及超市空蕩蕩的貨架想像當全球經濟因為恐懼和不確定感陷入緊張造成美國30%的失業率 想像這對你、你的家人、你的朋友還有你的經濟安全會有什麼影響想像當自我武裝的市民質疑為什麼會發生這些事情而變得怒火越來越大的時候會對你的人身安全造成什麼影響想像當你的孩子問：「爸爸媽媽，在2012年的時候，當你們在炎熱的三十年遇上史最熱的十年那是什麼樣的感覺，當全世界的科學機構都說問題很嚴重的時候，當海洋酸化時，當油價和食物價格飆升的時候，當倫敦街頭發生暴動、群眾占領華爾街時，當整個系統很明顯的在崩解時，你們那時候在幹嘛、在想什麼？」這時各位要怎麼跟孩子講？ 當全球經濟榮景不再時，當你對未來不再企盼時，而且奇怪的事情發生了，各位心裡會是什麼感受？花一點點時間想一下，深呼吸一下，在這時候各位有何感受？也許不願承認也許感到生氣或許覺得恐懼當然，我們無法預知將來會發生什麼事而且要在不確定感中過生活不過當我們想一想剛剛我敘述的各種可能性時我們應當多少感到恐懼 我們正身處危險之中我們歷經演化，面對危險時會感到恐懼以刺激自己作出更大的回應幫助我們勇敢的面對威脅不過這次不像老虎來到居住洞穴的洞口這次在門口看不到危險不過只要仔細看就可以在文明的大道上看見危險這就是為什麼要趁著還有一絲希望時，去感受內心的回應因為如果等到危機擴大時我們可能會很痛苦，想要躲起來如果我們現在就去感受並加以思考就會發現除了恐懼本身以外沒有什麼事情值得感到恐懼沒錯，情況會變得很糟，而且很快就會發生鐵定在有生之年內不過我們一定有能力渡過未來即將發生的事 我們看到有些人對人類解決問題的能力很有信心，認為科技有無限的可能，認為市場可以成為正向的力量他們的想法都沒錯只是他們忽略了一件事我們要在大難臨頭的時候才會這樣做當我們感到恐懼，害怕失敗時我們有能力創造非凡的事蹟就拿戰爭來說從珍珠港事變後，才四天的時間政府就下令禁止生產民用車並改變汽車工業的導向以及實施食物和能源配給想想一家公司會如何應對破產的危機以及如何完成看似不可能的改革想想一個人會如何應對危及生命的疾病並且改變生活模式過去覺得很難改變突然變得很簡單 我們很聰明，真的，我們很厲害不過我們喜歡大型的危機好消息是，這次的危機像怪獸一樣大（笑聲）當然，如果我們搞砸了可能會面臨文明的終結不過如果我們弄對了這可能會是文明的開始如果告訴你們的兒孫說當時你也是其中的一份子不知道會有多酷啊 過程中必然沒有科技或經濟上的障礙像James Hansen這樣的科學家就告訴我們我們必須在幾十年內降低二氧化碳的淨排放量我想知道究竟要付出多少代價所以我和挪威的Jorgen Randers教授合作一起尋找答案我們籌措一項名為「1度的戰爭計畫」，之所以這樣命名是因為動員幅度和聚焦範圍廣大讓我意外的是，花20年減少整個經濟體的CO2淨排放量其實很簡單又不貴雖不便宜但一定比文明崩毀的代價還小我們沒有精確的計算不過我們知道很貴各位可以看細目不過總歸來說，我們可以改變我們的經濟體我們用現有的科技就可以做到用現有的資金就可以完成用當前的政治結構就可以達成唯一要改變的是我們的想法和感受這就是大家步入的世界 一想到未來我就覺得心痛當然多少要覺得有點恐懼不過恐懼可以讓人癱軟，也可以讓人振作我們必須接受恐懼，然後採取行動我們要付諸行動因為未來的命運決定在此我們要採取行動，因為地球只有一個我們可以做到的我知道信奉自由市場的人會跟你說越多的經濟成長，越多的貨物， 好讓90億的人口消費才是最好的辦法他們錯了我們可以更好可以變得非常好打從一萬年前人類開始耕作已來我們已經實現了不凡的成就我們建立了科學、知識以及科技的強健基礎足以讓我們建立一個地球村讓90億的人口過著小康、有意義，而且又滿足的生活假如我們走對方向地球可以負荷得起的 我們可以趁這次的危機提問並回答人類社群發展的重要問題，像是，當我們走過了起伏不定的青春期，那時認為沒有不可能實現的事情，也深痛的體認到世上沒有長生不老，長大後我們想要成為什麼樣的人？該是長大的時候了要學聰明點，要冷靜點要能深思熟慮就像幾個世代以前我們從戰爭中學習成長這裡不是指不同文明間的戰爭而是捍衛文明的戰爭為了能夠把握時機創造更強大、更和樂的社會，並讓文明延續直到中世紀的一場生存奮戰 我們可以選擇生存，而非恐懼我們可以完成該做的事不過需要每位企業家，每位藝術家，每位科學家，每位傳播者每位母親，每位父親，每個孩子，所有人的努力這會是最璀璨的時刻 謝謝 （鼓掌）
