Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_root_wolpe_it_s_time_to_question_bio_engineering	"Today I want to talk about design, but not design as we usually think about it. I want to talk about what is happening now in our scientific, biotechnological culture, where, for really the first time in history, we have the power to design bodies, to design animal bodies, to design human bodies. In the history of our planet, there have been three great waves of evolution. The first wave of evolution is what we think of as Darwinian evolution. So, as you all know, species lived in particular ecological niches and particular environments, and the pressures of those environments selected which changes, through random mutation in species, were going to be preserved. Then human beings stepped out of the Darwinian flow of evolutionary history and created the second great wave of evolution, which was we changed the environment in which we evolved. We altered our ecological niche by creating civilization. And that has been the second great — couple 100,000 years, 150,000 years — flow of our evolution. By changing our environment, we put new pressures on our bodies to evolve. Whether it was through settling down in agricultural communities, all the way through modern medicine, we have changed our own evolution. Now we're entering a third great wave of evolutionary history, which has been called many things: ""intentional evolution,"" ""evolution by design"" — very different than intelligent design — whereby we are actually now intentionally designing and altering the physiological forms that inhabit our planet. So I want to take you through a kind of whirlwind tour of that and then at the end talk a little bit about what some of the implications are for us and for our species, as well as our cultures, because of this change. Now we actually have been doing it for a long time. We started selectively breeding animals many, many thousands of years ago. And if you think of dogs for example, dogs are now intentionally-designed creatures. There isn't a dog on this earth that's a natural creature. Dogs are the result of selectively breeding traits that we like. But we had to do it the hard way in the old days by choosing offspring that looked a particular way and then breeding them. We don't have to do it that way anymore. This is a beefalo. A beefalo is a buffalo-cattle hybrid. And they are now making them, and someday, perhaps pretty soon, you will have beefalo patties in your local supermarket. This is a geep, a goat-sheep hybrid. The scientists that made this cute little creature ended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards. I think they said it tasted like chicken. This is a cama. A cama is a camel-llama hybrid, created to try to get the hardiness of a camel with some of the personality traits of a llama. And they are now using these in certain cultures. Then there's the liger. This is the largest cat in the world — the lion-tiger hybrid. It's bigger than a tiger. And in the case of the liger, there actually have been one or two that have been seen in the wild. But these were created by scientists using both selective breeding and genetic technology. And then finally, everybody's favorite, the zorse. None of this is Photoshopped. These are real creatures. And so one of the things we've been doing is using genetic enhancement, or genetic manipulation, of normal selective breeding pushed a little bit through genetics. And if that were all this was about, then it would be an interesting thing. But something much, much more powerful is happening now. These are normal mammalian cells genetically engineered with a bioluminescent gene taken out of deep-sea jellyfish. We all know that some deep-sea creatures glow. Well, they've now taken that gene, that bioluminescent gene, and put it into mammal cells. These are normal cells. And what you see here is these cells glowing in the dark under certain wavelengths of light. Once they could do that with cells, they could do it with organisms. So they did it with mouse pups, kittens. And by the way, the reason the kittens here are orange and these are green is because that's a bioluminescent gene from coral, while this is from jellyfish. They did it with pigs. They did it with puppies. And, in fact, they did it with monkeys. And if you can do it with monkeys — though the great leap in trying to genetically manipulate is actually between monkeys and apes — if they can do it in monkeys, they can probably figure out how to do it in apes, which means they can do it in human beings. In other words, it is theoretically possible that before too long we will be biotechnologically capable of creating human beings that glow in the dark. Be easier to find us at night. And in fact, right now in many states, you can go out and you can buy bioluminescent pets. These are zebra fish. They're normally black and silver. These are zebra fish that have been genetically engineered to be yellow, green, red, and they are actually available now in certain states. Other states have banned them. Nobody knows what to do with these kinds of creatures. There is no area of the government — not the EPA or the FDA — that controls genetically-engineered pets. And so some states have decided to allow them, some states have decided to ban them. Some of you may have read about the FDA's consideration right now of genetically-engineered salmon. The salmon on top is a genetically engineered Chinook salmon, using a gene from these salmon and from one other fish that we eat, to make it grow much faster using a lot less feed. And right now the FDA is trying to make a final decision on whether, pretty soon, you could be eating this fish — it'll be sold in the stores. And before you get too worried about it, here in the United States, the majority of food you buy in the supermarket already has genetically-modified components to it. So even as we worry about it, we have allowed it to go on in this country — much different in Europe — without any regulation, and even without any identification on the package. These are all the first cloned animals of their type. So in the lower right here, you have Dolly, the first cloned sheep — now happily stuffed in a museum in Edinburgh; Ralph the rat, the first cloned rat; CC the cat, for cloned cat; Snuppy, the first cloned dog — Snuppy for Seoul National University puppy — created in South Korea by the very same man that some of you may remember had to end up resigning in disgrace because he claimed he had cloned a human embryo, which he had not. He actually was the first person to clone a dog, which is a very difficult thing to do, because dog genomes are very plastic. This is Prometea, the first cloned horse. It's a Haflinger horse cloned in Italy, a real ""gold ring"" of cloning, because there are many horses that win important races who are geldings. In other words, the equipment to put them out to stud has been removed. But if you can clone that horse, you can have both the advantage of having a gelding run in the race and his identical genetic duplicate can then be put out to stud. These were the first cloned calves, the first cloned grey wolves, and then, finally, the first cloned piglets: Alexis, Chista, Carrel, Janie and Dotcom. (Laughter) In addition, we've started to use cloning technology to try to save endangered species. This is the use of animals now to create drugs and other things in their bodies that we want to create. So with antithrombin in that goat — that goat has been genetically modified so that the molecules of its milk actually include the molecule of antithrombin that GTC Genetics wants to create. And then in addition, transgenic pigs, knockout pigs, from the National Institute of Animal Science in South Korea, are pigs that they are going to use, in fact, to try to create all kinds of drugs and other industrial types of chemicals that they want the blood and the milk of these animals to produce for them, instead of producing them in an industrial way. These are two creatures that were created in order to save endangered species. The guar is an endangered Southeast Asian ungulate. A somatic cell, a body cell, was taken from its body, gestated in the ovum of a cow, and then that cow gave birth to a guar. Same thing happened with the mouflon, where it's an endangered species of sheep. It was gestated in a regular sheep body, which actually raises an interesting biological problem. We have two kinds of DNA in our bodies. We have our nucleic DNA that everybody thinks of as our DNA, but we also have DNA in our mitochondria, which are the energy packets of the cell. That DNA is passed down through our mothers. So really, what you end up having here is not a guar and not a mouflon, but a guar with cow mitochondria, and therefore cow mitochondrial DNA, and a mouflon with another species of sheep's mitochondrial DNA. These are really hybrids, not pure animals. And it raises the question of how we're going to define animal species in the age of biotechnology — a question that we're not really sure yet how to solve. This lovely creature is an Asian cockroach. And what they've done here is they've put electrodes in its ganglia and its brain and then a transmitter on top, and it's on a big computer tracking ball. And now, using a joystick, they can send this creature around the lab and control whether it goes left or right, forwards or backwards. They've created a kind of insect bot, or bugbot. It gets worse than that — or perhaps better than that. This actually is one of DARPA's very important — DARPA is the Defense Research Agency — one of their projects. These goliath beetles are wired in their wings. They have a computer chip strapped to their backs, and they can fly these creatures around the lab. They can make them go left, right. They can make them take off. They can't actually make them land. They put them about one inch above the ground, and then they shut everything off and they go pfft. But it's the closest they can get to a landing. And in fact, this technology has gotten so developed that this creature — this is a moth — this is the moth in its pupa stage, and that's when they put the wires in and they put in the computer technology, so that when the moth actually emerges as a moth, it is already prewired. The wires are already in its body, and they can just hook it up to their technology, and now they've got these bugbots that they can send out for surveillance. They can put little cameras on them and perhaps someday deliver other kinds of ordinance to warzones. It's not just insects. This is the ratbot, or the robo-rat by Sanjiv Talwar at SUNY Downstate. Again, it's got technology — it's got electrodes going into its left and right hemispheres; it's got a camera on top of its head. The scientists can make this creature go left, right. They have it running through mazes, controlling where it's going. They've now created an organic robot. The graduate students in Sanjiv Talwar's lab said, ""Is this ethical? We've taken away the autonomy of this animal."" I'll get back to that in a minute. There's also been work done with monkeys. This is Miguel Nicolelis of Duke. He took owl monkeys, wired them up so that a computer watched their brains while they moved, especially looking at the movement of their right arm. The computer learned what the monkey brain did to move its arm in various ways. They then hooked it up to a prosthetic arm, which you see here in the picture, put the arm in another room. Pretty soon, the computer learned, by reading the monkey's brainwaves, to make that arm in the other room do whatever the monkey's arm did. Then he put a video monitor in the monkey's cage that showed the monkey this prosthetic arm, and the monkey got fascinated. The monkey recognized that whatever she did with her arm, this prosthetic arm would do. And eventually she was moving it and moving it, and eventually stopped moving her right arm and, staring at the screen, could move the prosthetic arm in the other room only with her brainwaves — which means that monkey became the first primate in the history of the world to have three independent functional arms. And it's not just technology that we're putting into animals. This is Thomas DeMarse at the University of Florida. He took 20,000 and then 60,000 disaggregated rat neurons — so these are just individual neurons from rats — put them on a chip. They self-aggregated into a network, became an integrated chip. And he used that as the IT piece of a mechanism which ran a flight simulator. So now we have organic computer chips made out of living, self-aggregating neurons. Finally, Mussa-Ivaldi of Northwestern took a completely intact, independent lamprey eel brain. This is a brain from a lamprey eel. It is living — fully-intact brain in a nutrient medium with these electrodes going off to the sides, attached photosensitive sensors to the brain, put it into a cart — here's the cart, the brain is sitting there in the middle — and using this brain as the sole processor for this cart, when you turn on a light and shine it at the cart, the cart moves toward the light; when you turn it off, it moves away. It's photophilic. So now we have a complete living lamprey eel brain. Is it thinking lamprey eel thoughts, sitting there in its nutrient medium? I don't know, but in fact it is a fully living brain that we have managed to keep alive to do our bidding. So, we are now at the stage where we are creating creatures for our own purposes. This is a mouse created by Charles Vacanti of the University of Massachusetts. He altered this mouse so that it was genetically engineered to have skin that was less immunoreactive to human skin, put a polymer scaffolding of an ear under it and created an ear that could then be taken off the mouse and transplanted onto a human being. Genetic engineering coupled with polymer physiotechnology coupled with xenotransplantation. This is where we are in this process. Finally, not that long ago, Craig Venter created the first artificial cell, where he took a cell, took a DNA synthesizer, which is a machine, created an artificial genome, put it in a different cell — the genome was not of the cell he put it in — and that cell then reproduced as the other cell. In other words, that was the first creature in the history of the world that had a computer as its parent — it did not have an organic parent. And so, asks The Economist: ""The first artificial organism and its consequences."" So you may have thought that the creation of life was going to happen in something that looked like that. (Laughter) But in fact, that's not what Frankenstein's lab looks like. This is what Frankenstein's lab looks like. This is a DNA synthesizer, and here at the bottom are just bottles of A, T, C and G — the four chemicals that make up our DNA chain. And so, we need to ask ourselves some questions. For the first time in the history of this planet, we are able to directly design organisms. We can manipulate the plasmas of life with unprecedented power, and it confers on us a responsibility. Is everything okay? Is it okay to manipulate and create whatever creatures we want? Do we have free reign to design animals? Do we get to go someday to Pets 'R' Us and say, ""Look, I want a dog. I'd like it to have the head of a Dachshund, the body of a retriever, maybe some pink fur, and let's make it glow in the dark""? Does industry get to create creatures who, in their milk, in their blood, and in their saliva and other bodily fluids, create the drugs and industrial molecules we want and then warehouse them as organic manufacturing machines? Do we get to create organic robots, where we remove the autonomy from these animals and turn them just into our playthings? And then the final step of this, once we perfect these technologies in animals and we start using them in human beings, what are the ethical guidelines that we will use then? It's already happening. It's not science fiction. We are not only already using these things in animals, some of them we're already beginning to use on our own bodies. We are now taking control of our own evolution. We are directly designing the future of the species of this planet. It confers upon us an enormous responsibility that is not just the responsibility of the scientists and the ethicists who are thinking about it and writing about it now. It is the responsibility of everybody because it will determine what kind of planet and what kind of bodies we will have in the future. Thanks. (Applause)"	"今天我想談談設計，但不是我們通常以為的設計。我想談談現在我們的科學,生物技術文化領域上所發展的事件在這些領域裡，第一次在歷史上，我們有能力能設計身體，設計動物身體，設計人的身體。在這個星球的歷史上，出現了三波大進化潮流。 第一波的進化是所謂的達爾文的進化論。嗯,就如大家知道的，物種生活在特定生態裡特殊環境下還有在環境所造成壓力下,透過隨機突變，有些突變就被選擇保留。然後,人類走出達爾文的進化論歷史的潮流,並且創造了第二次大潮流的演變，也就是我們改變了我們進化所處的環境。通過創建文明,我們改變了我們的生態立場.那就是第二次大進化-大約二十萬年前,十五萬年前 -大量的進化演進.由於改變我們的環境，也為我們的身體創造了新的壓力去演化來適應新環境。無論是從建立農業社區一路到日新月異的現代醫學，我們改變了我們自己的進化。現在我們正邁向第三個歷史大進化中，這次的進化有很多別號：處心積慮的進化，設計過的演變-非常不同於聰明設計-即現在我們實際上是對於居住在我們的星球的生物故意設計和改變他們生理的形式。 我想給你們一個旋風式的震撼簡介,讓你們能在我演講結束時將有些概念:透過這次進化將對我們,我們的物種，以及我們的文化產生的影響.實際上我們已經做了很長的時間了.幾千年前我們就開始選擇性地繁殖動物拿狗來說,狗就是現在有意設計下的生物。這個世界沒有一隻狗是自然產生的物種.狗是通過我們留下喜歡的基因下選擇性育種的結果.但是，在以前,保留某些特定的品種然後繁殖它們，這可不是容易的事。現在,我們不必再這樣做了. 這是一隻 beefalo。beefalo是水牛，黃牛的混合體。現在科學家正在生產beefalo，有一天，也許不用多久，你就會在本地超市可以買到beefalo肉餅.這是一隻 geep，山羊，綿羊混合體.做出這個可愛小動物的科學家們之後殺了它且吃了它.我記得他們說吃起來味道像雞肉.這是隻cama,是駱駝，美洲駝雜交體.為了獲得具有駱駝的堅韌與一些美洲駝的特質被創造出來的生物.某些地區的農民已經開始飼養cama.然後還有獅虎,這是世界上最大的貓科動物-獅子，老虎的混合體體形比老虎還大.就獅虎這產物而言,在野外早已經出現過一個或兩個案例但以上提到的是指科學家使用選擇育種和基因技術這兩種來創造新生物最後這張，大家最喜愛的zorse。沒有任何一張照片是和合成的，全是真的我們只做一件事就是促進增強某基因或遺傳操縱在正常選育過程中對基因做一些手腳如果只是這樣,那應該是一件有趣的事情可是，現在隨之發生的事是非常具影響力的 這些是正常哺乳動物的細胞利用基因工程從深海水母取出來的一發光基因結合我們都知道，一些深海生物會發光所以科學家採取它們的發光基因並把它放入哺乳動物細胞內這些都是正常的細胞然而在這裡你可看到這些細胞在黑暗中在某些波長的光下發光一旦他們可使細胞發光，他們就使生物體發光因此,他們就用在小老鼠小貓身上小貓在這裡是橙色，而那些是綠色的原因是因為橙色發光基因是從珊瑚而來而另一個是從水母而來的科學家也把這技術用於豬身上也用於小狗身上而且其實他們還用在猴子身上如果他們能用在猴子—雖然基因操縱從猴子到人猿之間實際上是很大的挑戰—如果他們能改變猴子的基因那麼很有可能會發現去應用在到人猿身上的方法這意味著也可以應用到人類身上換句話說，理論上在不久的將來我們有能力用生物科技工程來該造人類使人類在黑暗中可以發光在黑暗處更容易找到我們 而事實上，目前在許多州，你可以去寵物店買發光寵物這是斑馬魚，他們通常是黑色和白銀色這是經過基因工程改造的斑馬魚變成黃色、綠色、紅色這在某些州現在可被任意買賣但在某些州是被禁止販賣的沒有人知道應該如何處置這些生物在政府內，不管是環保署（EPA）或食品藥物管理署（FDA）沒有任何部門去監督控制這些被基因工程改造的寵物因此有些州決定允許販賣有些州不容許 你們有些人可能已經知道了FDA現在考慮通過基因工程鮭魚的上市在上面的鮭魚是一種經過基因工程的Chinook鮭魚，是利用鮭魚的基因，和另外一個我們吃的魚的基因結合，使用更少飼料而能成長更快目前，FDA正在作最後決定短時間内你就能知道,這種魚能不能在普通商店中賣你是否能吃到這種魚在你太擔心此事之前，事實上在美國，大多數在超市販賣的食品已是經過基因改造過因此即使我們擔心我們已經允許這些產品在這裡販賣即使沒有任何監管也不需在包裝上標示，而這跟歐洲是不同的 這些都是第一隻複製(cloned)的各種動物。在右下角朵麗，第一隻複製羊現在幸福地成為標本被存放在愛丁堡的一間博物館内拉爾夫，第一隻複製老鼠CC，第一隻複製貓史努比，第一隻複製狗第一隻複製狗是漢城國立大學由南韓造假醜聞同一人所創造的他最後身敗名裂而辭職因為他聲稱他已經複製出人類胚胎但是他並未成功他實際上是第一個複製狗的人複製狗是一個非常困難的事情因為狗的基因組很不穩定這是Prometea，第一匹複製馬這是被意大利複製出的Haflinger馬基因複製的真正好處因為有許多贏得重要比賽的馬匹都是閹馬換句話說，它們生產下一代的器官已經被移除但如果能複製馬就可以同時擁有兩個好處：一隻閹馬在賽馬和一匹擁有相同遺傳基因的馬來繁殖後代這些都是第一批複製小牛第一隻複製的灰狼然後，最後，第一批複製小豬：Alexis，Chista，Carrel，Janie和 Dotcom （眾笑） 此外，我們開始使用複製技術來試圖挽救瀕臨絕種物種這些動物是現在被使用來製造藥品或在他們的身體中創造我們想要的其他的東西這山羊產生抗凝血酶這山羊已被基因改造所以它產生的奶包含了抗凝血酶的分子這是遺傳基因工程想要創造的然後還有基因轉殖豬，無排斥基因豬(為器官移植用)是由南韓國立動物研究所產生事實上，他們努力創造從豬身上能產生他們所要的各種藥物和其他類型的工業化學品希望在豬的血液裏和豬奶中能產生這些藥品來取代工業生產的方式 這兩個生物是爲了拯救瀕危臨絕跡物種而被創造出來的這是印度野牛(gaur)是東南亞瀕危臨絕跡的有蹄動物只要一個體細胞(somatic cell)從水牛的身體中取出孕育在一頭其他牛的卵子中然後，那牛就可生下一頭印度水牛同樣的事情發生在歐洲磐羊（mouflon）身上，它是瀕危臨絕跡的一種羊。這是利用普通綿羊體內孕育的實際上，由於這樣複製引起一個有趣的生物學困擾我們有兩副不同DNA基因在體內一副是我們所認為的我們自己的核酸DNA.但在我們的線粒體中有另一副 DNA線粒體是我們身體細胞中產生能量的地方.這副在線粒體中的DNA是由我們的母親傳下來的所以，真的，最終我們有的這動物不是印度水牛,也不是一 隻歐洲磐羊而是一隻有牛的線粒體的印度水牛也同時擁有牛線粒體DNA還有一隻同時擁有綿羊的線粒體DNA的歐洲磐羊這些都是混種，都不是純種的動物由此引出的問題是我們如何在生物技術時代去定義動物物種-這是一個我們目前還不知道如何解決的問題 這個可愛的生物是亞洲蟑螂把電極植入它們的神經節和大腦中然後在其頭上安置發射機發射信號給電腦之後只要使用操縱桿他們可以發送命令給蟑螂在實驗室中命令蟑螂去向左或向右向前或向後移動他們已經創建了一種昆蟲機器人或飛蟲機器人更糟的是，或者說更好的是這實際上是一項 DARPA的DARP就是國防研究機構的一個重要的研究項目這些巨人甲蟲翅膀中埋有電線而一個電腦晶片綁在其背上科學家可以控制這些動物圍繞實驗室飛他們可以讓他們飛左、飛右、起飛但卻無法命令它們著地科學家把它們放在距地面一英寸的地方然後關閉所有的控制信號，甲蟲就摔掉到地上.在著地上這是他們唯一可以作到的 而事實上，這一技術已經被發展得非常卓越這生物-這是一隻飛蛾這是在其蛾蛹的階段科學家在這時候把天線放入蛾蛹體內再放入電腦技術所以，當蛾脫蛹後這隻蛾已經預接天線天線已經在它身體內他們只要聯接上電腦就可以有這些飛蟲機器人出發去監視環境他們可以在蟲體上放小型相機也許有一天這些蟲還可以傳送其他的武器去戰區 不是只有昆蟲而已這是老鼠機器人，或者機器人老鼠由美國紐約州SUNY Downstate醫學中心的Sanjiv Talwar所創造真的,這背後是有科技的把電極埋進入老鼠的左、右腦半球內再把一個攝影鏡頭安置在老鼠的頭頂科學家就可以左右這個生物向任何方向前進帶領老鼠走出迷宮，讓老鼠按照指示移動科學家現在已經創建了一個活體的機器人一些在Sanjiv Talwar實驗室的研究生問道“我們奪走了這生物的的獨立自主權，這樣是否合乎道德？""我稍候一會兒就會再回到這問題上 在猴子身上也有完成了不少研究這是杜克大學的 Miguel Nicolelis他在貓頭鷹猴的腦內埋設天線當猴子移動時,可利用電腦去觀看他們的大腦的情況特別是觀察猴子右臂的動作電腦記錄了猴子移動手臂時大腦裏的變化然後他們幫電腦接上了義肢像這張的照片那樣把手臂放在另一個房間很快的，通過閱讀猴子的腦電波，電腦學會操縱在另一個房間的義肢同時做猴子移動手臂一模一樣的動作然後Miguel Nicolelis猴子的籠子中放了錄影監測熒幕使猴子能看到假肢的活動猴子變得很興奮著迷猴子很快發現當牠移動手臂時義肢會同時做同樣的動作一次又再一次地轉動手臂然後最終停止移動右胳膊目不轉睛盯著屏幕看只用腦波就可以支配假肢的活動這意味著那隻猴子在世界歷史上是第一隻有三支獨立功能手臂的靈長類動物 被應用到動物身上的不是只有這樣的科技這是佛羅里達大學的Thomas DeMarse他取20,000 然後60,000個獨立分離的老鼠神經元—這些都只是單一個老鼠神經元-把它們放在一個晶片上他們自我聚合成一個網絡成為一個集成整體晶片然後他用這個晶片當成一個飛行模擬器內運行機制的IT板現在我們擁有由自我活存聚集神經元所製成的""器質性電腦晶片""(有生命的晶片)最後，西北大學的Mussa-Ivaldi完成了完整的、獨立的鰻魚的大腦這是一個從鰻魚取出的大腦它是活的完整無缺的鰻魚腦存活在一種營養培養基中電極線從培養基四周伸出連接光源敏感傳接器到鰻魚大腦然後將鰻魚腦放在一個有輪的小車上像這樣子的車，而鰻魚大腦放在中間鰻魚大腦是車中唯一的處理器(控制器)當你打開燈車會移向光源當你把它燈關掉，小車會自己移走小車有趨光性所以，現在我們有一個完整活著的鰻魚大腦是否小車正在執行存在培養基中的鰻魚大腦的想法呢?我不知道但毫無疑問這是個我們成功地保持其完全存活能完成我們的命令的大腦 所以，在我們現在的階段我們創建的生物是為我們自己的目的這隻老鼠是麻省州立大學Charles Vacanti 所製造的他改變了這鼠的DNA由於基因工程所以移植這老鼠的皮膚比較不會引起排斥把聚合物耳朵支架放置在老鼠皮下然後製造一個耳朵後可以被取下來移植到人體上基因工程加上聚合物生物工程学再加上異種生物(此處是老鼠)器官移植這整個過程就是這樣 最後，就是不久前，Craig Venter創造了第一個人工細胞他用了一個細胞一台機器（DNA合成器）創造了一組人造的基因組把基因組放在一個不同細胞內這基因組並不是細胞原有的基因組然後這細胞生長分裂成長成不同種細胞換言之這種細胞是世界生物史上第一個電腦製造的生物電腦是它們的母親該細胞的母親並不是一個確實的生物體因此,經濟學家雜誌對此問道:""這種人造生物體及其造成的後果"" 所以，你可能會想創造生命看起來就像這樣子(圖片:科學怪人的實驗室裡的樣子)（眾笑）但事實上，並不是像照片中科學怪人的實驗室裡的樣子這才是真正科學怪人實驗室裡的樣子(圖片)這是一個DNA合成器，圖片下方的瓶瓶罐罐是A，T，C和G -四種化學品用來創造我們的DNA鏈 因此，我們需要反問自己一些問題第一次在這個星球的歷史中，我們可以直接參與設計生物體我們擁有前所未有的能力去操縱生命但如果我們被賦予這樣的責任每件事都可以去做嗎？是不是可以任意去操縱和製造出任何我們想要的生物嗎？我們是否有自由支配設計動物的權力？是否有一天我們可以去“寵物反斗城”說：“聽好，我要一隻狗要有一個臘腸犬的頭部獵犬的身體也許放一些粉紅色的皮毛上去讓這狗在黑暗中能發光。""是不是可以大量生產用那些基因工程動物在它們的乳汁中、血液中、唾液和其體液中製造藥物和工商業分子來滿足我們的希望並大量製造用它們來成為有機(活生生)生產機器呢?難道我們可以去創造有機(動物)機器人,褫奪了這些動物的獨立自主權，而把牠們轉變成我們的玩具？ 然後最後的一步是，一旦我們有完善技術用在動物身上我們會開始使用這些技術在人類身上那麼我們將界定什麼樣的道德準則呢？這已經是正在發生的事情，不是科幻小說我們不僅已經使用這些技術在動物身上，一些技術我們已經開始使用在我們自己的身體上了 我們現在正在控制我們自己的進化我們直接參與設計未來在的這個星球的物種這賦予我們每個人一個巨大的責任而不是僅僅是現在正在思考這問題科學家或正在寫書昭告世人的倫理學家的責任這是每個人的責任，因為這將決定未來是什麼樣的星球什麼樣的生物能存活在未來 謝謝 （鼓掌）"
