Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_zak_trust_morality_and_oxytocin	"Is there anything unique about human beings? There is. We're the only creatures with fully developed moral sentiments. We're obsessed with morality as social creatures. We need to know why people are doing what they're doing. And I personally am obsessed with morality. It was all due to this woman, Sister Mary Marastela, also known as my mom. As an altar boy, I breathed in a lot of incense, and I learned to say phrases in Latin, but I also had time to think about whether my mother's top-down morality applied to everybody. I saw that people who were religious and non-religious were equally obsessed with morality. I thought, maybe there's some earthly basis for moral decisions. But I wanted to go further than to say our brains make us moral. I want to know if there's a chemistry of morality. I want to know if there was a moral molecule. After 10 years of experiments, I found it. Would you like to see it? I brought some with me. This little syringe contains the moral molecule. (Laughter) It's called oxytocin. So oxytocin is a simple and ancient molecule found only in mammals. In rodents, it was known to make mothers care for their offspring, and in some creatures, allowed for toleration of burrowmates. But in humans, it was only known to facilitate birth and breastfeeding in women, and is released by both sexes during sex. So I had this idea that oxytocin might be the moral molecule. I did what most of us do — I tried it on some colleagues. One of them told me, ""Paul, that is the world's stupidist idea. It is,"" he said, ""only a female molecule. It can't be that important."" But I countered, ""Well men's brains make this too. There must be a reason why."" But he was right, it was a stupid idea. But it was testably stupid. In other words, I thought I could design an experiment to see if oxytocin made people moral. Turns out it wasn't so easy. First of all, oxytocin is a shy molecule. Baseline levels are near zero, without some stimulus to cause its release. And when it's produced, it has a three-minute half-life, and degrades rapidly at room temperature. So this experiment would have to cause a surge of oxytocin, have to grab it fast and keep it cold. I think I can do that. Now luckily, oxytocin is produced both in the brain and in the blood, so I could do this experiment without learning neurosurgery. Then I had to measure morality. So taking on Morality with a capital M is a huge project. So I started smaller. I studied one single virtue: trustworthiness. Why? I had shown in the early 2000s that countries with a higher proportion of trustworthy people are more prosperous. So in these countries, more economic transactions occur and more wealth is created, alleviating poverty. So poor countries are by and large low trust countries. So if I understood the chemistry of trustworthiness, I might help alleviate poverty. But I'm also a skeptic. I don't want to just ask people, ""Are you trustworthy?"" So instead I use the Jerry Maguire approach to research. If you're so virtuous, show me the money. So what we do in my lab is we tempt people with virtue and vice by using money. Let me show you how we do that. So we recruit some people for an experiment. They all get $10 if they agree to show up. We give them lots of instruction, and we never ever deceive them. Then we match them in pairs by computer. And in that pair, one person gets a message saying, ""Do you want to give up some of your $10 you earned for being here and ship it to someone else in the lab?"" The trick is you can't see them, you can't talk to them. You only do it one time. Now whatever you give up gets tripled in the other person's account. You're going to make them a lot wealthier. And they get a message by computer saying person one sent you this amount of money. Do you want to keep it all, or do you want to send some amount back? So think about this experiment for minute. You're going to sit on these hard chairs for an hour and a half. Some mad scientist is going to jab your arm with a needle and take four tubes of blood. And now you want me to give up this money and ship it to a stranger? So this was the birth of vampire economics. Make a decision and give me some blood. So in fact, experimental economists had run this test around the world, and for much higher stakes, and the consensus view was that the measure from the first person to the second was a measure of trust, and the transfer from the second person back to the first measured trustworthiness. But in fact, economists were flummoxed on why the second person would ever return any money. They assumed money is good, why not keep it all? That's not what we found. We found 90 percent of the first decision-makers sent money, and of those who received money, 95 percent returned some of it. But why? Well by measuring oxytocin we found that the more money the second person received, the more their brain produced oxytocin, and the more oxytocin on board, the more money they returned. So we have a biology of trustworthiness. But wait. What's wrong with this experiment? Two things. One is that nothing in the body happens in isolation. So we measured nine other molecules that interact with oxytocin, but they didn't have any effect. But the second is that I still only had this indirect relationship between oxytocin and trustworthiness. I didn't know for sure oxytocin caused trustworthiness. So to make the experiment, I knew I'd have to go into the brain and manipulate oxytocin directly. I used everything short of a drill to get oxytocin into my own brain. And I found I could do it with a nasal inhaler. So along with colleagues in Zurich, we put 200 men on oxytocin or placebo, had that same trust test with money, and we found that those on oxytocin not only showed more trust, we can more than double the number of people who sent all their money to a stranger — all without altering mood or cognition. So oxytocin is the trust molecule, but is it the moral molecule? Using the oxytocin inhaler, we ran more studies. We showed that oxytocin infusion increases generosity in unilateral monetary transfers by 80 percent. We showed it increases donations to charity by 50 percent. We've also investigated non-pharmacologic ways to raise oxytocin. These include massage, dancing and praying. Yes, my mom was happy about that last one. And whenever we raise oxytocin, people willingly open up their wallets and share money with strangers. But why do they do this? What does it feel like when your brain is flooded with oxytocin? To investigate this question, we ran an experiment where we had people watch a video of a father and his four year-old son, and his son has terminal brain cancer. After they watched the video, we had them rate their feelings and took blood before and after to measure oxytocin. The change in oxytocin predicted their feelings of empathy. So it's empathy that makes us connect to other people. It's empathy that makes us help other people. It's empathy that makes us moral. Now this idea is not new. A then unknown philosopher named Adam Smith wrote a book in 1759 called ""The Theory of Moral Sentiments."" In this book, Smith argued that we are moral creatures, not because of a top-down reason, but for a bottom-up reason. He said we're social creatures, so we share the emotions of others. So if I do something that hurts you, I feel that pain. So I tend to avoid that. If I do something that makes you happy, I get to share your joy. So I tend to do those things. Now this is the same Adam Smith who, 17 years later, would write a little book called ""The Wealth of Nations"" — the founding document of economics. But he was, in fact, a moral philosopher, and he was right on why we're moral. I just found the molecule behind it. But knowing that molecule is valuable, because it tells us how to turn up this behavior and what turns it off. In particular, it tells us why we see immorality. So to investigate immorality, let me bring you back now to 1980. I'm working at a gas station on the outskirts of Santa Barbara, California. You sit in a gas station all day, you see lots of morality and immorality, let me tell you. So one Sunday afternoon, a man walks into my cashier's booth with this beautiful jewelry box. Opens it up and there's a pearl necklace inside. And he said, ""Hey, I was in the men's room. I just found this. What do you think we should do with it?"" ""I don't know, put it in the lost and found."" ""Well this is very valuable. We have to find the owner for this."" I said, ""Yea."" So we're trying to decide what to do with this, and the phone rings. And a man says very excitedly, ""I was in your gas station a while ago, and I bought this jewelry for my wife, and I can't find it."" I said, ""Pearl necklace?"" ""Yeah."" ""Hey, a guy just found it."" ""Oh, you're saving my life. Here's my phone number. Tell that guy to wait half an hour. I'll be there and I'll give him a $200 reward."" Great, so I tell the guy, ""Look, relax. Get yourself a fat reward. Life's good."" He said, ""I can't do it. I have this job interview in Galena in 15 minutes, and I need this job, I've got to go."" Again he asked me, ""What do you think we should do?"" I'm in high school. I have no idea. So I said, ""I'll hold it for you."" He said, ""You know, you've been so nice, let's split the reward."" I'll give you the jewelry, you give me a hundred dollars, and when the guy comes ... "" You see it. I was conned. So this is a classic con called the pigeon drop, and I was the pigeon. So the way many cons work is not that the conman gets the victim to trust him, it's that he shows he trusts the victim. Now we know what happens. The victim's brain releases oxytocin, and you're opening up your wallet or purse, giving away the money. So who are these people who manipulate our oxytocin systems? We found, testing thousands of individuals, that five percent of the population don't release oxytocin on stimulus. So if you trust them, their brains don't release oxytocin. If there's money on the table, they keep it all. So there's a technical word for these people in my lab. We call them bastards. (Laughter) These are not people you want to have a beer with. They have many of the attributes of psychopaths. Now there are other ways the system can be inhibited. One is through improper nurturing. So we've studied sexually abused women, and about half those don't release oxytocin on stimulus. You need enough nurturing for this system to develop properly. Also, high stress inhibits oxytocin. So we all know this, when we're really stressed out, we're not acting our best. There's another way oxytocin is inhibited, which is interesting — through the action of testosterone. So we, in experiments, have administered testosterone to men. And instead of sharing money, they become selfish. But interestingly, high testosterone males are also more likely to use their own money to punish others for being selfish. (Laughter) Now think about this. It means, within our own biology, we have the yin and yang of morality. We have oxytocin that connects us to others, makes us feel what they feel. And we have testosterone. And men have 10 times the testosterone as women, so men do this more than women — we have testosterone that makes us want to punish people who behave immorally. We don't need God or government telling us what to do. It's all inside of us. So you may be wondering: these are beautiful laboratory experiments, do they really apply to real life? Yeah, I've been worrying about that too. So I've gone out of the lab to see if this really holds in our daily lives. So last summer, I attended a wedding in Southern England. 200 people in this beautiful Victorian mansion. I didn't know a single person. And I drove up in my rented Vauxhall. And I took out a centrifuge and dry ice and needles and tubes. And I took blood from the bride and the groom and the wedding party and the family and the friends before and immediately after the vows. (Laughter) And guess what? Weddings cause a release of oxytocin, but they do so in a very particular way. Who is the center of the wedding solar system? The bride. She had the biggest increase in oxytocin. Who loves the wedding almost as much as the bride? Her mother, that's right. Her mother was number two. Then the groom's father, then the groom, then the family, then the friends — arrayed around the bride like planets around the Sun. So I think it tells us that we've designed this ritual to connect us to this new couple, connect us emotionally. Why? Because we need them to be successful at reproducing to perpetuate the species. I also worried that my trust experiments with small amounts of money didn't really capture how often we actually trust our lives to strangers. So even though I have a fear of heights, I recently strapped myself to another human being and stepped out of an airplane at 12,000 ft. I took my blood before and after, and I had a huge spike of oxytocin. And there are so many ways we can connect to people. For example, through social media. Many people are Tweeting right now. So we investigated the role of social media and found the using social media produced a solid double-digit increase in oxytocin. So I ran this experiment recently for the Korean Broadcasting System. And they had the reporters and their producers participate. And one of these guys, he must have been 22, he had 150 percent spike in oxytocin. I mean, astounding; no one has this. So he was using social media in private. When I wrote my report to the Koreans, I said, ""Look, I don't know what this guy was doing,"" but my guess was interacting with his mother or his girlfriend. They checked. He was interacting on his girlfriend's Facebook page. There you go. That's connection. So there's tons of ways that we can connect to other people, and it seems to be universal. Two weeks ago, I just got back from Papua New Guinea where I went up to the highlands — very isolated tribes of subsistence farmers living as they have lived for millenia. There are 800 different languages in the highlands. These are the most primitive people in the world. And they indeed also release oxytocin. So oxytocin connects us to other people. Oxytocin makes us feel what other people feel. And it's so easy to cause people's brains to release oxytocin. I know how to do it, and my favorite way to do it is, in fact, the easiest. Let me show it to you. Come here. Give me a hug. (Laughter) There you go. (Applause) So my penchant for hugging other people has earned me the nickname Dr. Love. I'm happy to share a little more love in the world, it's great, but here's your prescription from Dr. Love: eight hugs a day. We have found that people who release more oxytocin are happier. And they're happier because they have better relationships of all types. Dr. Love says eight hugs a day. Eight hugs a day — you'll be happier and the world will be a better place. Of course, if you don't like to touch people, I can always shove this up your nose. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	人類有何獨特之處呢？有的人類是唯一完整地發展出道德感的動物作為社會動物，我們熱衷於道德我們要求知道人的行為所為為何我自己也熱衷於道德那是由於這位女士的緣故這位是瑪莉馬拉斯特拉修女也叫做我媽當輔祭童時，我常聞焚香味也學會了說一點拉丁語詞但我還是有時間思考我母親的由上而下的道德是否適用於每一個人我看到有宗教和無宗教信仰的人都同樣熱衷於道德我想也許在道德的決定背後有一些世俗的基礎但是我想更深入研究不想只說道德來自我們的大腦我想明白道德是否有化學的基礎我想知道有否道德的分子存在 經過十年的實驗我找到了那個分子了要看看道德分子嗎？我帶來了一些這個小針筒裡頭裝的是道德分子(笑聲)它叫做催產素催產素是一種既簡單又古老的分子哺乳類動物身上才找得到它在嚙齒目動物身上它會讓母獸照顧後代它也會讓某些動物能容忍別的動物同居一穴但在人類身上，我們只知道它會為女人催生、催乳做愛時兩性都會釋放出催產素 因此我想到催產素可能就是道德分子像多數人一樣－我問了一些同事的意見其中一位告訴我「保羅，這是世界上最蠢的想法。」他說：「這不過是女性分子而已不可能那麼重要。」但是我回答：「男人的腦袋裡也製造這東西其中肯定有道理的。」不過他倒說對了，確實是個蠢想法但這是個可以測試的蠢想法換言之，我認為可以設計一個實驗來看看催產素是否會讓人有道德 結果發現並沒有那麼容易首先，催產素是一種害羞的分子最通常的情況是零水平沒有受到刺激催產素不會釋放的產生後的半衰期只有三分鐘而且在室溫下會很快衰變因此做實驗要能引發大量催產素而且必須趕快攫取冷藏起來我想我有辦法做到很幸運地，催產素産生了在腦袋裡、在血液裡都有因此我不用學習神經科手術就能做實驗然後我必須測量道德 從大處著想來研究道德是一項大計劃所以我從小處著手我只單單研究一項美德：那就是值得信賴度爲什麽？我在21世紀初指出在一個國家中若有較多人值得信賴這個國家就會比較繁榮那樣的國家裡會發生較多的經濟交易因此會産生較多的財富因而改善貧窮的問題貧窮國家大體上是信賴感低落的國家那麼如果我瞭解值得信賴度的化學原理我就有可能幫助改善貧窮 不過我也有懷疑我不想只問「你值不值得信賴」？因此我改採用傑利馬蓋爾的方式進行研究如果你那麼具有美德就讓我看到錢於是我們在實驗室裡做的是用錢來測試人的美德和惡德我來解釋這是怎麽做的我們招募了一些人來做這個實驗如果同意來參加，就能得到$10我們給那些人許多指示，並沒有欺騙他們然後我們用電腦給他們配對那一對之中有一人收到信息說「你肯從到這兒來所賺到的$10裡拿出一些送給實驗室裡的某個人嗎？」妙的是，你看不見別人你也不能和別人談話你只做這麽一次好啦，不管你給出多少另外那個人的帳戶就淨得三倍你會讓別人變得非常富有而他們會收到電腦的信息說第一號人士給你這些錢你想全部留著呢還是要送一些回去？ 那麼請想一下這個實驗你坐在硬板椅上一個半鐘頭有個瘋狂的科學家用針紮你手臂，抽出四管血液而你現在要我把這個錢送給一個陌生人？這就是吸血鬼經濟的由來你做個決定，再給我一點血 其實全世界到處都有實驗經濟學家進行這種實驗而且賭注比這還高出許多所得到的共同看法是第一個人給予第二個人的是對信賴的測量而第二個人傳回給第一個人的是可測量到的值得信賴度但經濟學家感到困惑的其實是爲什麽第二個人會還錢他們假設錢是個好東西爲什麽不全部留下來？ 但那不是我們發現的事實我們發現首先做決定送錢出去的人有90%而那些收到錢的人當中有95%還了一點錢回去爲什麽會這樣？我們測量了催產素發現第二個人收到越多錢腦袋裡就産生越多催產素腦袋裡有越多的催產素他們還回去的錢就越多我們這下就找到了值得信賴度的生態 不過慢著，這實驗有什麽不對勁呢？有兩個不對勁第一個是：體內所發生的不會是獨立的事件因此我們也測量與催產素互動的其他九種分子但是他們並沒有什麽作用第二個是：關於催產素和值得信賴度之間的關係我還是只有這麽個間接證據我當時還不能確定明白催產素真的會導致值得信賴度因此，要做好這個實驗我知道我得進入腦袋裡並直接操弄催產素除了鑽子之外，我什麽都用了以便把催產素弄到自己的腦袋裡結果我發現我可以辦到用一支鼻吸入器就行了於是我和蘇黎世的同事們利用催產素或安慰劑對200人用錢進行同樣的那個試驗結果發現吸入催產素的人不僅表現更多的信賴我們甚至辦到讓會把錢送給陌生人的人數增加到一倍以上他們的心情和認知狀態都沒有什麽改變 那麼催產素果真是信賴的分子但它會不會就是道德分子呢？利用催產素吸入器我們進行了更多的研究我們證實了注射催產素會讓人更慷慨大方在單向的送錢行爲上有80%的人如此我們證實了催産素會讓慈善捐款增加50%我們也探討了如何能不用藥來增加催產素這些方式包括按摩跳舞和禱告是的，我媽對最後這一項感到高興只要我們增加催產素人們就會樂於打開他們的錢包拿錢來分享給陌生人 但是他們爲什麽會這樣做？當你的腦袋裡充滿了催產素你會有怎樣的感受？爲了探討這個問題，我們做了一個試驗我們讓一些人看影片片中有一個父親和他四歲的兒子他的兒子腦癌末期看過影片後，請他們爲自己的感受打分數事前事後都測量他們體內的催產素催產素的含量預測了他們的同理心那麼正是同理心讓我們和別人産生聯繫正是同理心讓我們會幫助別人正是同理心使我們有了道德 這個想法並不新奇有一位大家知道的哲學家叫亞當史密斯在1759年寫了一本書書名「道德感的理論」在這本書裡，史密斯論證說人之爲道德動物並非由上而下的推理結果而是由下而上的推理結果他說人是社會動物因此我們分享別人的情感因此我若傷害你，我會感受到那個痛苦因此我傾向於避免傷害你我若讓你愉快，我便能分享你的喜悅因此我傾向於讓你愉快正是這位亞當史密斯在17年後寫出一本叫「國富論」的小冊子－這本書是經濟學的基礎文獻但他其實是道德哲學家，他對人之所以有道德的看法確實正確我才剛剛找到使人有道德的分子但是知道了這個分子很有價值因爲它告訴我們如何提高道德也告訴我們窒息道德的是什麽它尤其告訴我們爲什麽我們會看到不道德 因此爲了探討不道德讓我帶領各位回到1980年那時我在一個加油站工作在加利佛尼亞州的聖塔巴巴拉整天坐在加油站裡各位，保證看到許多道德和不道德有一天下午，有個人走進我的出納室帶著漂亮的首飾盒打開來看是珍珠項鏈在裡頭他說：「我在洗手間裡發現這個東西，你看我們該怎麽處理？」「我不知道，交給失物招領處吧。」「這東西可是非常有價值的我們得找到失主。」我說：「是呀。」 我們試著決定怎麽處理這時電話響了有個男人激動地說「不久前我在你們的加油站我買了首飾給太太，現在找不到了。」我說：「珍珠項鏈？」「是的。」「嘿，剛剛有人找到它了。」「哦，你救了我的命，我的電話是...告訴那個人等我半個鐘頭我會過來，會給他$200賞金。」好極了，我告訴那個人：「放心啦真不錯，你有大賞金可以拿了。」他說：「那可不成15分鐘內我得在加林納面試我需要這個工作，我得走了。」他又問：「你想我們該怎麽辦？」當時我還是高中生，不曉得該怎麽辦我就說：「我幫你把錢收下來。」他說：「你人真好，我和你分賞金好了我給你首飾，你給我一百元那個人來的時候...」 各位都曉得，我受騙了這個典型的騙局叫做「放鴿子」我就是那只鴿子瞧，騙局能得逞並非騙子讓受騙者信賴他而是他表現出信賴受騙者我們現在曉得是怎回事了受騙者腦袋裡釋放出催產素於是你打開錢包把錢送出去了 操弄我們的催産素系統的是些什麽人？經過測驗過幾千個人之後我們發現有5%的人面對刺激不會釋放出催產素因此你若信賴他們，他們的腦袋裡不會釋放出催產素要是桌子上有錢，他們會全部拿去我的實驗室裡給這種人一個技術名詞我們管這種人叫「狗娘養的」(笑聲)你不會想跟這種人喝杯小酒這種人具有許多精神變態者的特質 還有其他方式壓制催産素系統其中之一是營養不當我們也研究了受性虐待的女人其中約有一半面對刺激不會釋放出催產素催産素系統要發展適當必須有足夠的營養此外，高度的精神壓力也會壓制催產素大家都知道，精神壓力真很大時我們的行爲表現不會良好 還有另一個方式壓制催產素，很有趣－受制於睾丸素我們在實驗裡對男人施用了睾丸素這下他們不僅不分錢反而變得自私了不過有趣的是睾丸素量大的男人也比較傾向于用自己的錢來懲罰別人的自私表現(笑聲)想想看，那是說，在我們自己身體的生態系統裡，道德是陰陽並蓄的我們有催產素聯繫著我們和別人讓我們感受到他們的感受我們也有睾丸素男人的睾丸素十倍于女人的因此男人比女人還常做出這種事－我們的睾丸素使得我們想要懲罰行爲表現不道德的人我們不需要上帝或政府告訴我們怎麽辦我們的身體裡什麽都有了 你也許會納悶：這些都是漂亮的實驗室解說適用于真實的人生嗎？沒錯，我原來也一直擔心這個因此我走出實驗室看看這是否確立於我們每日的生活中去年夏天我在南英格蘭參加了一個婚禮200人齊聚在一棟維多利亞式的大宅邸我一個人也不認識我開著一輛佛賀前去拿出一具離心機和乾冰還有針頭和試管從新郎和新娘，從參加婚禮的人以及新人的親友身上採血分別在新人說出誓言前後 (笑聲) 猜猜看結果如何婚禮會導致催產素釋放不過婚禮導致的催產素釋放很特別誰是婚禮太陽系的中心點？當然是新娘新娘釋放的催產素最多誰幾乎和新娘一樣喜愛婚禮？她的母親，沒猜錯她的母親是第二名然後是新郎的父親，再來是新郎然後是家人，然後是朋友們－排列在新娘的四周像是環繞著太陽的行星所以我認爲我們設計了這個儀式，爲的是要將我們與一對新人聯繫在一起在情緒上將我們聯繫起來爲什麽？因爲我們需要他們成功地繁衍好延續這個物種 我也擔心我用一點小錢做的信賴實驗並沒有真確捕捉到我們其實常常把生命信託給陌生人的事實比方說我雖然有懼高的恐懼不久前我把自己和另一個人綁在一起從3658公尺的高度踏出空中事前事後我都采了血我的催產素著實激烈遽增還有許多方式我們可以與別人聯繫在一起例如透過社群媒體很多人現在正在推特大推特推所以我們也探討了社群媒體的角色結果發現使用社群媒體實實在在産生了兩位數的催產素增長 我最近爲韓國廣播公司做了這麽一個實驗他們的記者和節目製作人都參與了其中有個男生應該有22歲吧他的催產素遽增150%我是說，令人驚奇；沒有人這樣他私下使用社群媒體當我寫報告給韓國人時我說：「我不知這男生當時在做什麽不過我猜他當時正在跟他母親或女友互動他們查了一下他當時正在他女友的臉書頁上進行互動這就對了，這就是人與人的聯繫我們有幾大卡車的方式與別人聯繫而且似乎是放諸而四海皆準 兩個星期前我剛從巴布亞新幾內亞回到家我在那裡爬上高地－非常孤單獨存的農人部落幾千年來就是這麽過活的高地上有800種不同的語言這些人是全世界最原始的民族他們確實也會釋放出催產素 因此催產素聯繫著我們與別人催產素使我們感受到別人的感受而要導致別人的腦袋裡釋放出催產素又是那麼容易我知道怎麽辦到我最喜歡的方式，其實也是最簡單的方式我來示範一下請過來，給我抱抱(笑聲)這就對了 (掌聲) 我愛擁抱別人的癖好讓我得到了一個綽號叫做愛情醫師我很高興能在世界上分享多一點愛情很棒的不過現在愛情醫師給你們一個處方：每天要擁抱八次我們發現釋放越多催產素的人越是快樂生活而他們快活的原因是因爲他們有各種較好的人際關係愛情醫師說，每天要擁抱八次每天擁抱八次，你會更快活世界會變得更美好當然，你若不喜歡碰觸別人，我還有這可以推進你的鼻子裡 (笑聲) 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
