Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_nicklen_tales_of_ice_bound_wonderlands	"My journey to become a polar specialist, photographing, specializing in the polar regions, began when I was four years old, when my family moved from southern Canada to Northern Baffin Island, up by Greenland. There we lived with the Inuit in the tiny Inuit community of 200 Inuit people, where [we] were one of three non-Inuit families. And in this community, we didn't have a television; we didn't have computers, obviously, radio. We didn't even have a telephone. All of my time was spent outside with the Inuit, playing. The snow and the ice were my sandbox, and the Inuit were my teachers. And that's where I became truly obsessed with this polar realm. And I knew someday that I was going to do something that had to do with trying to share news about it and protect it. I'd like to share with you, for just two minutes only, some images, a cross-section of my work, to the beautiful music by Brandi Carlile, ""Have You Ever."" I don't know why National Geographic has done this, they've never done this before, but they're allowing me to show you a few images from a coverage that I've just completed that is not published yet. National Geographic doesn't do this, so I'm very excited to be able to share this with you. And what these images are — you'll see them at the start of the slide show — there's only about four images — but it's of a little bear that lives in the Great Bear Rainforest. It's pure white, but it's not a polar bear. It's a spirit bear, or a Kermode bear. There are only 200 of these bears left. They're more rare than the panda bear. I sat there on the river for two months without seeing one. I thought, my career's over. I proposed this stupid story to National Geographic. What in the heck was I thinking? So I had two months to sit there and figure out different ways of what I was going to do in my next life, after I was a photographer, because they were going to fire me. Because National Geographic is a magazine; they remind us all the time: they publish pictures, not excuses. (Laughter) And after two months of sitting there — one day, thinking that it was all over, this incredible big white male came down, right beside me, three feet away from me, and he went down and grabbed a fish and went off in the forest and ate it. And then I spent the entire day living my childhood dream of walking around with this bear through the forest. He went through this old-growth forest and sat up beside this 400-year-old culturally modified tree and went to sleep. And I actually got to sleep within three feet of him, just in the forest, and photograph him. So I'm very excited to be able to show you those images and a cross-section of my work that I've done on the polar regions. Please enjoy. (Music) Brandi Carlile: ♫ Have you ever wandered lonely through the woods? ♫ ♫ And everything there feels just as it should ♫ ♫ You're part of the life there ♫ ♫ You're part of something good ♫ ♫ If you've ever wandered lonely through the woods ♫ ♫ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♫ ♫ If you've ever wandered lonely through the woods ♫ ♫ Have you ever stared into a starry sky? ♫ ♫ Lying on your back, you're asking why ♫ ♫ What's the purpose? ♫ ♫ I wonder, who am I? ♫ ♫ If you've ever stared into a starry sky ♫ ♫ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♫ ♫ Aah, ah, aah ♫ ♫ Ah, oh, oh, ah, ah, oh, oh ♫ ♫ Have you ever stared into a starry sky? ♫ ♫ Have you ever been out walking in the snow? ♫ ♫ Tried to get back where you were before ♫ ♫ You always end up ♫ ♫ Not knowing where to go ♫ ♫ If you've ever been out walking in the snow ♫ ♫ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♫ ♫ Aah, ah, aah, ah, aah ♫ ♫ Ah, ah, oh, ah, ah, oh, ah ♫ ♫ Oh, ah, ah, ah ♫ ♫ Ah, ah, oh, ah, ah, oh, oh ♫ ♫ If you'd ever been out walking you would know ♫ (Applause) Paul Nicklen: Thank you very much. The show's not over. My clock is ticking. OK, let's stop. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. We're inundated with news all the time that the sea ice is disappearing and it's at its lowest level. And in fact, scientists were originally saying sea ice is going to disappear in the next hundred years, then they said 50 years. Now they're saying the sea ice in the Arctic, the summertime extent is going to be gone in the next four to 10 years. And what does that mean? After a while of reading this in the news, it just becomes news. You glaze over with it. And what I'm trying to do with my work is put faces to this. And I want people to understand and get the concept that, if we lose ice, we stand to lose an entire ecosystem. Projections are that we could lose polar bears, they could become extinct in the next 50 to 100 years. And there's no better, sexier, more beautiful, charismatic megafauna species for me to hang my campaign on. Polar bears are amazing hunters. This was a bear I sat with for a while on the shores. There was no ice around. But this glacier caved into the water and a seal got on it. And this bear swam out to that seal — 800 lb. bearded seal — grabbed it, swam back and ate it. And he was so full, he was so happy and so fat eating this seal, that, as I approached him — about 20 feet away — to get this picture, his only defense was to keep eating more seal. And as he ate, he was so full — he probably had about 200 lbs of meat in his belly — and as he ate inside one side of his mouth, he was regurgitating out the other side of his mouth. So as long as these bears have any bit of ice they will survive, but it's the ice that's disappearing. We're finding more and more dead bears in the Arctic. When I worked on polar bears as a biologist 20 years ago, we never found dead bears. And in the last four or five years, we're finding dead bears popping up all over the place. We're seeing them in the Beaufort Sea, floating in the open ocean where the ice has melted out. I found a couple in Norway last year. We're seeing them on the ice. These bears are already showing signs of the stress of disappearing ice. Here's a mother and her two year-old cub were traveling on a ship a hundred miles offshore in the middle of nowhere, and they're riding on this big piece of glacier ice, which is great for them; they're safe at this point. They're not going to die of hypothermia. They're going to get to land. But unfortunately, 95 percent of the glaciers in the Arctic are also receding right now to the point that the ice is ending up on land and not injecting any ice back into the ecosystem. These ringed seals, these are the ""fatsicles"" of the Arctic. These little, fat dumplings, 150-pound bundles of blubber are the mainstay of the polar bear. And they're not like the harbor seals that you have here. These ringed seals also live out their entire life cycle associated and connected to sea ice. They give birth inside the ice, and they feed on the Arctic cod that live under the ice. And here's a picture of sick ice. This is a piece of multi-year ice that's 12 years old. And what scientists didn't predict is that, as this ice melts, these big pockets of black water are forming and they're grabbing the sun's energy and accelerating the melting process. And here we are diving in the Beaufort Sea. The visibility's 600 ft.; we're on our safety lines; the ice is moving all over the place. I wish I could spend half an hour telling you about how we almost died on this dive. But what's important in this picture is that you have a piece of multi-year ice, that big chunk of ice up in the corner. In that one single piece of ice, you have 300 species of microorganisms. And in the spring, when the sun returns to the ice, it forms the phytoplankton, grows under that ice, and then you get bigger sheets of seaweed, and then you get the zooplankton feeding on all that life. So really what the ice does is it acts like a garden. It acts like the soil in a garden. It's an inverted garden. Losing that ice is like losing the soil in a garden. Here's me in my office. I hope you appreciate yours. This is after an hour under the ice. I can't feel my lips; my face is frozen; I can't feel my hands; I can't feel my feet. And I've come up, and all I wanted to do was get out of the water. After an hour in these conditions, it's so extreme that, when I go down, almost every dive I vomit into my regulator because my body can't deal with the stress of the cold on my head. And so I'm just so happy that the dive is over. I get to hand my camera to my assistant, and I'm looking up at him, and I'm going, ""Woo. Woo. Woo."" Which means, ""Take my camera."" And he thinks I'm saying, ""Take my picture."" So we had this little communication breakdown. (Laughter) But it's worth it. I'm going to show you pictures of beluga whales, bowhead whales, and narwhals, and polar bears, and leopard seals today, but this picture right here means more to me than any other I've ever made. I dropped down in this ice hole, just through that hole that you just saw, and I looked up under the underside of the ice, and I was dizzy; I thought I had vertigo. I got very nervous — no rope, no safety line, the whole world is moving around me — and I thought, ""I'm in trouble."" But what happened is that the entire underside was full of these billions of amphipods and copepods moving around and feeding on the underside of the ice, giving birth and living out their entire life cycle. This is the foundation of the whole food chain in the Arctic, right here. And when you have low  productivity in this, in ice, the productivity in copepods go down. This is a bowhead whale. Supposedly, science is stating that it could be the oldest living animal on earth right now. This very whale right here could be over 250 years old. This whale could have been born around the start of the Industrial Revolution. It could have survived 150 years of whaling. And now its biggest threat is the disappearance of ice in the North because of the lives that we're leading in the South. Narwhals, these majestic narwhals with their eight-foot long ivory tusks, don't have to be here; they could be out on the open water. But they're forcing themselves to come up in these tiny little ice holes where they can breathe, catch a breath, because right under that ice are all the swarms of cod. And the cod are there because they are feeding on all the copepods and amphipods. Alright, my favorite part. When I'm on my deathbed, I'm going to remember one story more than any other. Even though that spirit bear moment was powerful, I don't think I'll ever have another experience like I did with these leopard seals. Leopard seals, since the time of Shackleton, have had a bad reputation. They've got that wryly smile on their mouth. They've got those black sinister eyes and those spots on their body. They look positively prehistoric and a bit scary. And tragically in [2003], a scientist was taken down and drowned, and she was being consumed by a leopard seal. And people were like, ""We knew they were vicious. We knew they were."" And so people love to form their opinions. And that's when I got a story idea: I want to go to Antarctica, get in the water with as many leopard seals as I possibly can and give them a fair shake — find out if they really are these vicious animals, or if they're misunderstood. So this is that story. Oh, and they also happen to eat Happy Feet. (Laughter) As a species, as humans, we like to say penguins are really cute, therefore, leopard seals eat them, so leopard seals are ugly and bad. It doesn't work that way. The penguin doesn't know it's cute, and the leopard seal doesn't know it's kind of big and monstrous. This is just the food chain unfolding. They're also big. They're not these little harbor seals. They are 12 ft. long, a thousand pounds. And they're also curiously aggressive. You get 12 tourists packed into a Zodiac, floating in these icy waters, and a leopard seal comes up and bites the pontoon. The boat starts to sink, they race back to the ship and get to go home and tell the stories of how they got attacked. All the leopard seal was doing — it's just biting a balloon. It just sees this big balloon in the ocean — it doesn't have hands — it's going to take a little bite, the boat pops, and off they go. (Laughter) So after five days of crossing the Drake Passage — isn't that beautiful — after five days of crossing the Drake Passage, we have finally arrived at Antarctica. I'm with my Swedish assistant and guide. His name is Goran Ehlme from Sweden — Goran. And he has a lot of experience with leopard seals. I have never seen one. So we come around the cove in our little Zodiac boat, and there's this monstrous leopard seal. And even in his voice, he goes, ""That's a bloody big seal, ya."" (Laughter) And this seal is taking this penguin by the head, and it's flipping it back and forth. And what it's trying to do is turn that penguin inside-out, so it can eat the meat off the bones, and then it goes off and gets another one. And so this leopard seal grabbed another penguin, came under the boat, the Zodiac, starting hitting the hull of the boat. And we're trying to not fall in the water. And we sit down, and that's when Goran said to me, ""This is a good seal, ya. It's time for you to get in the water."" (Laughter) And I looked at Goran, and I said to him, ""Forget that."" But I think I probably used a different word starting with the letter ""F."" But he was right. He scolded me out, and said, ""This is why we're here. And you purposed this stupid story to National Geographic. And now you've got to deliver. And you can't publish excuses."" So I had such dry mouth — probably not as bad as now — but I had such, such dry mouth. And my legs were just trembling. I couldn't feel my legs. I put my flippers on. I could barely part my lips. I put my snorkel in my mouth, and I rolled over the side of the Zodiac into the water. And this was the first thing she did. She came racing up to me, engulfed my whole camera — and her teeth are up here and down here — but Goran, before I had gotten in the water, had given me amazing advice. He said, ""If you get scared, you close your eyes, ya, and she'll go away."" (Laughter) So that's all I had to work with at that point. But I just started to shoot these pictures. So she did this threat display for a few minutes, and then the most amazing thing happened — she totally relaxed. She went off, she got a penguin. She stopped about 10 feet away from me, and she sat there with this penguin, the penguin's flapping, and she let's it go. The penguin swims toward me, takes off. She grabs another one. She does this over and over. And it dawned on me that she's trying to feed me a penguin. Why else would she release these penguins at me? And after she did this four or five times, she swam by me with this dejected look on her face. You don't want to be too anthropomorphic, but I swear that she looked at me like, ""This useless predator's going to starve in my ocean."" (Laughter) So realizing I couldn't catch swimming penguins, she'd get these other penguins and bring them slowly towards me, bobbing like this, and she'd let them go. This didn't work. I was laughing so hard and so emotional that my mask was flooding, because I was crying underwater, just because it was so amazing. And so that didn't work. So then she'd get another penguin and try this ballet-like sexy display sliding down this iceberg like this. (Laughter) And she would sort of bring them over to me and offer it to me. This went on for four days. This just didn't happen a couple of times. And then so she realized I couldn't catch live ones, so she brought me dead penguins. (Laughter) Now I've got four or five penguins floating around my head, and I'm just sitting there shooting away. And she would often stop and have this dejected look on her face like, ""Are you for real?"" Because she can't believe I can't eat this penguin. Because in her world, you're either breeding or you're eating — and I'm not breeding, so ... (Laughter) And then that wasn't enough; she started to flip penguins onto my head. She was trying to force-feed me. She's pushing me around. She's trying to force-feed my camera, which is every photographer's dream. And she would get frustrated; she'd blow bubbles in my face. She would, I think, let me know that I was going to starve. But yet she didn't stop. She would not stop trying to feed me penguins. And on the last day with this female where I thought I had pushed her too far, I got nervous because she came up to me, she rolled over on her back, and she did this deep, guttural jackhammer sound, this gok-gok-gok-gok. And I thought, she's about to bite. She's about to let me know she's too frustrated with me. What had happened was another seal had snuck in behind me, and she did that to threat display. She chased that big seal away, went and got its penguin and brought it to me. (Laughter) That wasn't the only seal I got in the water with. I got in the water with 30 other leopard seals, and I never once had a scary encounter. They are the most remarkable animals I've ever worked with, and the same with polar bears. And just like the polar bears, these animals depend on an icy environment. I get emotional. Sorry. It's a story that lives deep in my heart, and I'm proud to share this with you. And I'm so passionate about it. Anybody want to come with me to Antarctica or the Arctic, I'll take you; let's go. We've got to get the story out now. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thanks very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我成為極地專家專門在極地區域攝影的經歷是從我四歲時開始那時我家從加拿大南部搬到北部的巴芬島，毗鄰格陵蘭島在那兒我們與因紐特人住在一起在僅有200人的小小因紐特人社區中有三戶非因紐特家庭，我們是其中之一在這個社區裡，我們沒有電視沒有電腦，當然也沒有無線電甚至電話也沒有我所有的時間都花在戶外和因紐特人一起玩耍冰雪是我的沙坑因紐特人是我的老師在那裡，我真正地迷上了這個極地王國我知道，有一天我會做一些事情去分享關於這塊土地的新鮮事以及保護它。 我想花大概兩分鐘的時間透過一些圖片，讓各位來瞭解我的工作伴著Brandi Carlile優美的音樂《Have You Ever》我不知道國家地理頻道為何這麼做，他們從未這麼做過他們允許我向你們展示我剛剛完成但尚未發表的新聞報導裡的照片國家地理頻道通常不會這樣做我很高興，能與你們分享這些照片 那麼這是些什麼樣的照片呢？你會在幻燈片開頭看到它們，大約只有四張照片拍的是住在大熊雨林的一隻小熊牠的毛色雖然純白，但牠不是北極熊牠是白靈熊或克莫德熊現在這種熊只剩下約200隻比貓熊還稀有 我在河面上待了兩個月沒有看見一隻我以為，我的職業生涯完了我向《National Geographic》雜誌提議這個愚蠢的故事我到底在想什麽啊？於是我有兩個月的時間坐在那兒弄清楚我接下來的日子該做點什麽別的事情因為我是一名攝影師，因為他們將要解雇我因為《National Geographic》是一本雜誌，他們始終提醒我們他們刊登照片，而非藉口 （笑） 在那兒坐了兩個月之後有一天，我想著這一切都完了這隻不可思議的大白公熊下來了在我右側，三英尺遠的地方牠下到水裡，抓起一條魚，回到森林裡把魚吃了於是我花了一整天過我童年時夢想的生活我跟著這隻熊穿過森林牠穿過這片老熟林然後坐在這棵有400年歷史的文化改造樹邊睡著了我真的在離牠三英尺的地方睡著了就在森林裡，拍攝牠 所以我很高興能向你們展示這些照片以及我在極地所做的工作希望你們喜歡 （音樂） Brandi Carlile: ♫你是否曾獨自遊蕩在森林裡？♫♫一切都是本來的摸樣♫♫你是其中的一份子♫♫你是美好事物的一部份♫如果你曾獨自遊蕩在森林♫♫喔~♫♫如果你曾獨自遊蕩在森林裡♫♫你是否曾仰望星空？♫♫仰臥在地，你有許多疑問♫♫生命的目的是什麽？♫♫我想知道，我是誰？♫♫如果你曾仰望星空♫♫喔~♫♫啊~♫♫啊~喔~♫♫你是否曾仰望星空？♫♫你是否曾在雪地漫步？♫♫嘗試回到你的故鄉♫♫你總是不知道♫♫該去何處♫♫如果你曾在雪地漫步♫♫喔~♫♫啊~♫♫啊~喔~♫♫喔~啊~♫♫啊~喔~♫♫如果你曾外出漫步，你會明了♫ （鼓掌） Paul Nicklen:非常感謝，演講還沒結束我的時間不多。好，咱們停一下。謝謝，我很感激。 我們總是被這樣的新聞淹沒海洋冰層正在消失已經降到最低水平了事實上，科學家們起初是說海洋冰層將在未來的一百年消失，接著他們說50年現在他們說北極的海洋冰層夏季區域的冰層將在未來四到十年內消失這是什麽意思呢？在讀了一陣子相關新聞後，這些也僅僅只是新聞而已你變得對這樣的消息習以為常我正試著透過自己的工作讓人們瞭解這一點我希望人們能夠理解並得到一個概念如果我們失去海洋冰層我們肯定會失去整個生態系統預估我們可能會失去北極熊，在未來的50到100年牠們會絕種 再也沒有更好、更讓人動心更美又魅力十足的巨型物種讓我可以繼續探索北極熊是神奇的獵人這隻熊和我一起在海邊坐了一會兒周圍沒有冰但有一塊冰川陷在水中，上面有隻海豹，這隻熊游向那隻海豹－－800磅重的鬍鬚海豹－－牠抓住海豹，游回來把海豹吃了牠那麼滿足，那麼開心，大口地吃著海豹當我接近牠－－約20英尺遠－－拍照時牠唯一的防衛就是繼續吃海豹牠吃的時候那麼滿足－－牠的胃裡大概有200磅肉了－－牠用嘴的一邊吃的同時用另一邊反芻 這些熊只需要少量的冰層就能存活但冰層正在消失我們在北極發現越來越多的死熊20年前我作為生物學家研究北極熊時我們從未發現死熊最近四五年我們發現所有地方都有死熊出現我們在波弗特海看到牠們浮在冰塊融化殆盡的海面上去年我在挪威發現一對熊夫妻，他們死在冰上這些死熊已經讓我們感到冰層消失的壓力 這是一隻母熊和她兩歲大的幼熊正在一塊離岸一百哩的浮冰上走動牠們在這一大塊浮冰上這對牠們來說太好了，待在那兒很安全牠們不會因為體溫低而死去牠們會往陸地移動不幸的是，北極有95％的冰川正在消失融化接近陸地的冰層也幾乎要消失也沒有任何冰重新回到生態系統中 這些環斑海豹，他們是北極的“蛋捲冰淇淋”。這些又小又胖的水餃有150磅的鯨脂是北極熊的主要食物他們不像這裡的麻斑海豹這些環斑海豹的整個生命週期都跟海洋冰層息息相關他們在冰裡出生以生活在冰下的北極鱈魚為食這是一張冰的照片這是一塊12年的多年冰科學家們沒有預料到，當冰塊融化時同時也形成了大量污水汙水會吸收太陽能然後加速冰層融化 這裡我們潛入波弗特海能見度為600英尺；我們在安全繩索上冰塊在我們周圍移動我希望可以花一個半小時來告訴你我們是如何差點死於潛水的但這張照片的重點是一塊多年冰上面角落裡那一大塊冰在這樣一塊的冰裡包含300種微生物春天時，當太陽照耀冰塊時浮游植物聚集在此，在冰塊底部生長會長成一大片海草然後你會看到一個以這片海草為生的動物樂園那麼冰層實際上就像一座花園像是花園裡的土壤，這是一座倒立的花園失去冰，就像失去了花園裡的土壤 這是我在我的辦公室希望你們珍惜自己的辦公室這是在冰下待了一個小時之後我的嘴唇失去知覺，臉都凍僵了我的手和腳也沒有感覺我已經上來了，我只想離開冰冷的水這種狀況持續一小時後我已經凍僵，在水下幾乎每次潛水，我都會把調節器吐出來因為我的身體無法承受頭部冰冷的壓力所以我好高興潛水終於結束了我把照相機遞給助理我抬頭看著他，我說：「呼，呼，呼。」意思是，「拿著照相機。」他以為我在說：「給我照張相。」於是我們有了這個小小的溝通障礙（笑）但這一切很值得 我會給你們看白鯨，北極露脊鯨獨角鯨、北極熊和豹斑海豹但這些照片對我的意義比對其他看過照片的人更大我跳進冰窟隆，就是剛才你們看到的那個洞我仰視冰層的底部我暈眩了，以為自己出現幻覺我非常緊張－－沒有粗繩，沒有安全繩索整個世界在我周圍移動－－我想：「有麻煩了。」但是整個水下充滿了成千上萬端足目動物和橈足類四處游動，在冰層底部覓食繁殖，經歷他們整個的生命週期北極圈完整的食物鏈的基礎，就在這兒當冰層的生命力減弱時橈足類動物的生命力也在減弱 這是北極露脊鯨按照推測，科學研究說明牠是地球上迄今為止最長壽的動物這隻貨真價實的鯨已經超過250歲了牠大概出生在工業革命初期牠自150年以來的捕鯨活動中幸存下來現在牠最大的威脅就是北部冰層的消失原因是我們在南方所造就的生活方式 獨角鯨，這些雄偉的獨角鯨牠們有八英尺長的乳白色獠牙，牠們不一定要待在這兒牠們可以去開闊的海域但是牠們強迫自己待在這些小小的冰窟隆裡只有在這兒它們才能呼吸，喘口氣因為冰下有成群的鱈魚鱈魚在冰下因為這裡有橈足類和端足目動物可以覓食 好，我最喜歡部分來了當我臨終時，有一個故事我會記的特別清楚儘管遭遇白靈熊的那一刻讓我印象深刻但我不會再有另一次和這些豹斑海豹這樣互動的經驗了豹斑海豹，自沙克爾頓那時起，就有不好的名聲牠們嘴上帶著扭曲的微笑牠們有黑色兇狠的眼睛和身體上的斑點牠們看上去顯然是史前動物，還有點嚇人在悲慘的2004年一位科學家被海豹拉進水裡淹死一隻豹斑海豹正在吃她人們會說：「我們就知道牠們很兇狠，牠們就是這樣的。」所以人們很喜歡建構自己的觀點那是我產生這個故事靈感的時候：我要去南極洲盡可能地和很多的豹斑海豹一起待在水中跟牠們平和的握個手－－弄清楚牠們到底是兇狠的動物，還是被誤解了這就是那個故事喔，她們有時也會吃《快樂腳》（電影《快樂腳》中的企鵝） （笑） 作為人類這種物種，我們喜歡說企鵝真的很可愛豹斑海豹吃了牠們，所以豹斑海豹很醜惡事情不是這樣的當時企鵝不知道牠自己很可愛豹斑海豹也不知道牠自己是種大怪物這只是食物鏈的一部分牠們也很大不像這些小小的斑海豹牠們有12英尺長，一千磅牠們也愛好奇地進攻有一群遊客在充氣船上他們正乘小船漂在這些冰冷的水上一隻豹斑海豹游上來咬了船小船開始下沉，他們趕緊回到大船上回到家，講述他們如何被豹斑海豹攻擊的故事豹斑海豹所做的－－只是咬了一只氣球牠只是在海面上看到一只大氣球－－牠沒有手－－牠會咬一小口，船破了，牠們就跑了 （笑） 在五天橫越德雷克海峽之後－－這不是很美嗎？五天橫越德雷克海峽後，我們終於到達南極洲。我和我的瑞典助理兼嚮導在一塊兒他叫Goran Ehlme，來自瑞典－－Goran。他有很多和豹斑海豹相處的經驗，我以前從沒見過這樣的人我們乘坐小充氣船來到小灣這隻巨大的豹斑海豹在那兒他的聲音甚至在說：「好一隻血腥的大海豹，耶。」（笑）這隻海豹抓住企鵝的頭，正在把牠來回地拽。牠正在試著把企鵝從裡到外翻個面這樣牠就可以吃到了去骨頭的肉然後牠走開去抓另一隻 於是牠抓到一隻企鵝來到船底下，我們的充氣船開始撞擊船身我們盡可能避免掉進水裡我們坐下來，這時Goran對我說「這是一隻好海豹耶該是你下水的時候了。」（笑）我看著Goran，對他說，「想都別想。」我想我或許用了另一個F開頭的詞。但他是對的。他斥責我說：「這就是我們來這兒的目的。你跟國家地理頻道提議這個故事，現在你得拿出故事來，而不是藉口。」 我有過這樣的咋舌－－也許不像現在那麼嚴重－－但我實在無言以對我的腿開始發抖，我已經對自己的腿沒感覺了我穿上蛙鞋，我的腳趾幾乎不能分開我把呼吸器放到嘴裡我翻過充氣船進到水裡她做的第一件事就是，游向我，吞了整個照相機－－她的牙齒夾住照相機－－但是Goran，在我下水之前，給了我絕妙的建議他說：「如果你害怕，就閉上眼睛，她會走開的。」 （笑） 所以那是我在當時唯一要做的事情但我開始拍這些照片她做這種威脅動作幾分鐘後最神奇的事情發生了－－她完全放鬆了她離開，抓住一隻企鵝她停在大概10英尺遠她和企鵝一塊待在那兒，企鵝在抖動，她放牠走了那隻企鵝遊向我，逃走了她又抓了一隻，接著又抓了好幾次我逐漸明白原來她想餵我吃企鵝不然她為什麼每次都放這些企鵝給我呢？在她抓了四五次之後她遊過我身邊，臉上帶著沮喪的表情你並不想這麼擬人化，但我發誓她看著我像在說：「這個沒用的食肉動物要在我的海洋餓死了。」 （笑） 意識到我無法抓住會游動的企鵝她抓了另外別的企鵝，慢慢地把牠們帶到我這兒像這樣扭動身體，之後放了他們這也不管用我笑得很開心很激動我的面具充滿了水，因為我在水下哭了因為這一切太神奇了然後，她那樣做也不管用於是她抓了另一隻企鵝，嘗試用像芭蕾一樣的性感動作像這樣滑下冰山她想把牠們帶過來給我這樣持續了四天只有兩三個時候不是這樣然後她意識到我無法抓住活的企鵝於是她把死的企鵝拿來給我（笑）現在我的頭邊漂浮著四五隻企鵝我就只是待在那兒不停拍照她經常會停下來，臉上掛著沮喪的表情像是說：「你不是來真的吧？」因為她不相信我不會吃企鵝在她的世界里，你不在繁殖就在吃食－－我沒在繁殖 （笑） 這還沒完，她開始扔企鵝到我頭上她試著強行餵我，她在周圍推我想要強行餵我的照相機這是每個攝影師的夢想她有點受挫了，開始往我臉上吹泡泡她可能是想告訴我這樣會餓死的但她仍然沒有停止繼續嘗試餵我吃企鵝 在和這位女性在一塊兒的最後一天我想我把她推得太遠了我開始緊張，因為她游向我她把背部翻過來她發出像電鑽的的喉音，像「叩叩叩叩」我以為她要咬我了或者她想讓我知道她對我太失望了其實，是另一隻豹斑海豹溜到我後面她那麼做是表示威脅她把大海豹趕走了，又抓了企鵝帶來給我。 （笑） 這不是我在水裡遇到的唯一一隻海豹我和另外30隻豹斑海豹一同在水中從沒有過驚險的遭遇他們是我合作過的動物中最令人印象深刻的北極熊也一樣和北極熊一樣這些動物依賴有冰的環境我有點激動，抱歉 這是一個深入我心的故事我很自豪能分享給你們我對這件事充滿了熱情任何人如果想和我一塊兒去南極或北極，我會帶你一塊走我們已經把這個故事說完了，非常感謝各位 （鼓掌） 謝謝。 （鼓掌） 謝謝。 （鼓掌） 謝謝，非常謝謝 （鼓掌） 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
