Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_tudor_jones_ii_why_we_need_to_rethink_capitalism	"This is a story about capitalism. It's a system I love because of the successes and opportunities it's afforded me and millions of others. I started in my 20s trading commodities, cotton in particular, in the pits, and if there was ever a free market free-for-all, this was it, where men wearing ties  but acting like gladiators fought literally  and physically for a profit. Fortunately, I was good enough that by the time I was 30, I was able to move into the upstairs  world of money management, where I spent the next three decades as a global macro trader. And over that time, I've seen a lot of crazy things in the markets, and I've traded a lot of crazy manias. And unfortunately, I'm sad to report that right now  we might be in the grips of one of the most disastrous, certainly of my career, and one consistent takeaway is manias never end well. Now, over the past 50 years, we as a society have come to view our companies and corporations in a very narrow, almost monomaniacal fashion with regard to how we value them, and we have put so much emphasis on profits, on short-term quarterly earnings and share prices, at the exclusion of all else. It's like we've ripped the humanity out of our companies. Now, we don't do that — conveniently reduce something to a set of numbers that you can play with like Lego toys — we don't do that in our individual life. We don't treat somebody or value them based on their monthly income  or their credit score, but we have this double standard when it comes to the way that we value our businesses, and you know what? It's threatening the very underpinnings of our society. And here's how you'll see. This chart is corporate profit margins going back 40 years as a percentage of revenues, and you can see that we're at a 40-year high of 12.5 percent. Now, hooray if you're a shareholder, but if you're the other side of that, and you're the average American worker, then you can see it's not such a good thing. [""U.S. Share of Income Going to Labor vs. CEO-to-Worker Compensation Ratio""] Now, higher profit margins do not increase societal wealth. What they actually do is they exacerbate income inequality, and that's not a good thing. But intuitively, that makes sense, right? Because if the top 10 percent of American families own 90 percent of the stocks, as they take a greater share of corporate profits, then there's less wealth left for the rest of society. Again, income inequality is not a good thing. This next chart, made by The Equality Trust, shows 21 countries from Austria to Japan to New Zealand. On the horizontal axis is income inequality. The further to the right you go, the greater the income inequality. On the vertical axis are nine social and health metrics. The more you go up that, the worse the problems are, and those metrics include life expectancy, teenage pregnancy, literacy, social mobility, just to name a few. Now, those of you in the audience who are Americans may wonder, well, where does the United States rank? Where does it lie on that chart? And guess what? We're literally off the chart. Yes, that's us, with the greatest income inequality and the greatest social problems, according to those metrics. Now, here's a macro forecast that's easy to make, and that's, that gap between the wealthiest and the poorest, it will get closed. History always does it. It typically happens in one of three ways: either through revolution, higher taxes, or wars. None of those are on my bucket list. (Laughter) Now, there's another way to do it, and that's by increasing justness in corporate behavior, but the way that we're operating right now, that would require a tremendous change in behavior, and like an addict trying to kick a habit, the first step is to acknowledge that you have a problem. And let me just say, this profits mania that we're on is so deeply entrenched that we don't even realize how we're harming society. Here's a small but startling example of exactly how we're doing that: this chart shows corporate giving as a percentage of profits,  not revenues, over the last 30 years. Juxtapose that to the earlier chart of corporate profit margins, and I ask you, does that feel right? In all fairness, when I started writing this, I thought, ""Oh wow, what does my company, what does Tudor do?"" And I realized we give one percent of corporate profits to charity every year. And I'm supposed to be a philanthropist. When I realized that, I literally wanted to throw up. But the point is, this mania is so deeply entrenched that well-intentioned people like myself don't even realize that we're part of it. Now, we're not going to change corporate behavior by simply increasing corporate philanthropy or charitable contributions. And oh, by the way, we've since quadrupled that, but — (Applause) — Please. But we can do it by driving more just behavior. And one way to do it is actually trusting the system that got us here in the first place, and that's the free market system. About a year ago, some friends of mine and I started a not-for-profit called Just Capital. Its mission is very simple: to help companies and corporations learn how to operate in a more just fashion by using the public's input to define exactly what the criteria are for just corporate behavior. Now, right now, there's no widely accepted standard that a company or corporation can follow, and that's where Just Capital comes in, because beginning this year and every year we'll be conducting a nationwide survey of a representative sample of 20,000 Americans to find out exactly what they think are the criteria for justness in corporate behavior. Now, this is a model that's going to start in the United States but can be expanded anywhere around the globe, and maybe we'll find out that the most important thing for the public is that we create living wage jobs, or make healthy products, or help, not harm, the environment. At Just Capital, we don't know, and it's not for us to decide. We're but messengers, but we have 100 percent confidence  and faith in the American public to get it right. So we'll release the findings this September for the first time, and then next year, we'll poll again, and we'll take the additive step this time of ranking the 1,000 largest U.S. companies from number one to number 1,000 and everything in between. We're calling it the Just Index, and remember, we're an independent not-for-profit with no bias, and we will be giving the American public a voice. And maybe over time, we'll find out that as people come to know which companies are the most just, human and economic resources will be driven towards them, and they'll become the most prosperous and help our country be the most prosperous. Now, capitalism has been responsible for every major innovation that's made this world a more inspiring and wonderful place to live in. Capitalism has to be based on justice. It has to be, and now more than ever, with economic divisions growing wider every day. It's estimated that 47 percent of American workers can be displaced in the next 20 years. I'm not against progress. I want the driverless car and the jet pack just like everyone else. But I'm pleading for recognition that with increased wealth and profits has to come greater corporate social responsibility. ""If justice is removed,"" said Adam Smith, the father of capitalism, ""the great, the immense fabric of human society must in a moment crumble into atoms."" Now, when I was young, and there was a problem, my mama used to always sigh and shake her head and say, ""Have mercy, have mercy."" Now's not the time for us, for the rest of us to show them mercy. The time is now for us to show them fairness, and we can do that, you and I, by starting where we work, in the businesses that we operate in. And when we put justness on par with profits, we'll get the most wonderful thing in all the world. We'll take back our humanity. Thank you. (Applause)"	這是關於資本主義的過往，那是我鍾愛的制度，因為它帶給我和成千上萬人成功與機運。 我從二十出頭開始在交易廳內做商品人工喊價交易，特別是棉花。如果真的有對任何人都不設限的自由市場，就是這個了。那個地方男人都打著領帶，但是舉止就像古羅馬的競技者一般，確確實實為了利潤而戰。 很幸運地等我到了三十歲，績效好到足以進入更高階的資金管理領域，我又花了接下來的三十年當全球宏觀交易員，在那期間我見識過許多市場上的瘋狂事情，也交易過許多瘋狂的熱潮商品。很不幸的，我很遺憾的說我們現在可能深陷於很糟糕的困境，在我的職涯裡的確如此，一個始終不變的重點就是熱潮從來不會有好下場。 在過去五十年裡，我們這個社會已經變成用非常狹隘、幾乎是一頭熱的方式來檢視我們的公司和企業，尤其在於我們如何價量時。而且我們太注重於利潤、短期季盈餘和股價，把其他一切排除在外了，好像我們已經把人性從公司身上拔除掉了；我們不會——輕易地把某些東西縮減成你可以像堆樂高一樣玩弄的數字，我們不會在各自的生命裡這樣做！我們不會依據月所得或是信用分數來對待人或是價量他們，但是每當我們價量企業時我們會有這個雙重標準，你知道嗎？這正在危害我們社會的根基呀！這裡你將會看到是如何危害， 這張圖表是過去四十年公司的淨利率對上收入的百分點，你可以看到我們現在就在 40 年的高點—12.5 ％。今天如果你是股東就棒透了，不過如果你不是股東，而且是普通的美國職員，這會兒你就可以看出那不是一件如此美好的事情了；［美國實際工資佔產出的比重—執行長與員工薪酬比］ 如今更高的淨利率並沒有增加社會的財富，它們實際上加劇了所得不平均，而那不是一件好事。不過直覺上很有道理對吧，因為假使財富最高的 10% 美國家庭握有 90% 的股票，當他們拿走公司利潤的極大部分時，就只剩下較少的財富留給社會上的其他人， 再說一次，所得不平均不是件好事，接下來這張圖表是由「權益信託」所製作的，顯現了包括澳洲、日本、紐西蘭在內的 21 個國家；水平軸是所得不均，越往右邊去收入不均越嚴重；在垂直軸是九種社會和健康問題的度量指標，你越往上走問題就越惡劣，這些度量指標隨便拿幾個來講，包括了平均壽命、未成年懷孕、識字率、社會流動。現在在座是美國人的你也許在猜美國排在哪裡呢？它座落在這張圖表的哪個地方呢?你猜怎麼著，我們完全跑出這張圖表外面，沒錯！那就是我們，根據這些度量指標來說，有著最嚴重的所得不均和社會問題！ 現在這裡有個宏觀預測，那很容易做出來，就是最富有和最貧窮者之間的落差將會拉近，歷史經常做到，通常是用三種方式之一出現：透過革命、苛稅、或是戰爭，它們沒有任何一個是在我的遺願清單上頭啦！（笑聲） 現在有另一個方法能做到，那就是在企業行為中增加公義性！但是我們現在運作的方式，需要在企業行為上做出非常巨大的轉變，就像是個入癮者力圖改掉習慣，第一步就是清楚知道你有了問題。就讓我這麼說吧，我們正經歷的利潤熱潮是如此根深蒂固，我們甚至不曉得我們如何傷害這個社會。我們到底是如何造成傷害，這裡有個不大但是驚人的例子：這張圖表顯示了過去三十年企業捐款佔利潤的百分比，不是收益的百分比喔，把它與早先的企業淨利率的圖表擺在一塊兒，我要問你，這是對的嗎？ 持平來講，當我開始寫這些東西的時候，我在想「哇！我的公司「都德期貨基金」做了什麼呢？我發現了我們每年給慈善機構1% 的公司利潤，而我應該是個慈善家呢！」在我知道後我真的很想吐。但是這股熱潮是如此根深蒂固，立意良善者—好比我，甚至不知道我們也身在其中， 現在我們不打算僅是透過增加慈善金或是慈善捐款來改變企業行為，喔！順帶一提我們從那之後已經增加了四倍的捐款，不過—（掌聲）—請容我說完！不過我們可以透過推動更多公義的作為來改變它。做到這件事的一個方法是信任這個原先造成我們變成如此的體制，那就是自由市場體制。大約在一年前我的一些朋友和我成立了非營利的「公義資本」，它的任務非常簡單—幫助公司和企業習得以更公義的方式營運，透過使用大眾投入的意見來明確界定何為公義企業行為的準則；現在並沒有被廣泛認可的準則讓公司或企業遵從，那就是「公義資本」的切入點，因為從今年開始，每一年我們將會進行全國調查，以兩萬名美國人為代表樣本，來找出他們認為的公義和企業行為標準到底是什麼，這是一個範例，從美國開始，但是可以擴展到全球的任何地方，也許我們將會發現對公眾來說最重要的東西，是創造能餬口的工作、或是製造更健康的產品、或是救助而非破壞環境。在「公義資本」我們並不清楚而且這不是我們來決定的，我們不過是使者罷了，但是我們對美國大眾能把它變成對的有著百分百的信心，所以今年九月我們將會發表第一次的結果，然後明年我們將會再次做民調，而且這次我們將會進一步為美國一千大公司做排名，從第一名到第一千名全都排出來。我們將會稱之為「公義指標」，而且請記住我們是獨立的、非營利的、沒有偏頗的，而且我們將會收到美國公眾的意見，也許長此以往我們將會發現一旦公眾知道了那間公司最公義，人力和經濟資源就會流向它們，它們將會變成最成功的公司，以及幫助我們的國家成為最興盛的國家。 資本主義一直以來擔負了每一個重大的創新，使世界變成更啟發人和完善的居住地，資本主義得要基於公義，一定得要，尤其是經濟分歧越來越大，這比以往更為需要。據估計 47 ％ 的美國職工在未來二十年內可以被取代掉！我不是反對進步，我跟大家一樣想要自動駕駛汽車和個人的飛行裝備，但是我正在求取認可，隨著增加的財富和獲利，企業必須帶來更大的社會責任， 「國富論」的作者亞當．史密斯曾說過：「當公義被排除了，人類社會龐大、優質的構造肯定一瞬間就分崩離析了」 當我小時候家裡發生困難時，我媽媽總是習慣嘆口氣、搖著頭說：「主啊！求祢憐憫，主啊！」現在不是我們對其他人展現憐憫的時刻，現在是我們展現給他們公平的時刻，我們可以做到的，你和我從工作中、從經營的生意中開始，當我們把公義和利益擺放在相同的位置，我們將會得到世界上最美妙的事物，我們會找回人性。 謝謝你們！ （掌聲）
