Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_stamets_on_6_ways_mushrooms_can_save_the_world	"I love a challenge, and saving the Earth is probably a good one. We all know the Earth is in trouble. We have now entered in the 6X, the sixth major extinction on this planet. I often wondered, if there was a United Organization of Organisms — otherwise known as ""Uh-Oh"" — (Laughter) — and every organism had a right to vote, would we be voted on the planet, or off the planet? I think that vote is occurring right now. I want to present to you a suite of six mycological solutions, using fungi, and these solutions are based on mycelium. The mycelium infuses all landscapes, it holds soils together, it's extremely tenacious. This holds up to 30,000 times its mass. They're the grand molecular disassemblers of nature — the soil magicians. They generate the humus soils across the landmasses of Earth. We have now discovered that there is a multi-directional transfer of nutrients between plants, mitigated by the mcyelium — so the mycelium is the mother that is giving nutrients from alder and birch trees to hemlocks, cedars and Douglas firs. Dusty and I, we like to say, on Sunday, this is where we go to church. I'm in love with the old-growth forest, and I'm a patriotic American because we have those. Most of you are familiar with Portobello mushrooms. And frankly, I face a big obstacle. When I mention mushrooms to somebody, they immediately think Portobellos or magic mushrooms, their eyes glaze over, and they think I'm a little crazy. So, I hope to pierce that prejudice forever with this group. We call it mycophobia, the irrational fear of the unknown, when it comes to fungi. Mushrooms are very fast in their growth. Day 21, day 23, day 25. Mushrooms produce strong antibiotics. In fact, we're more closely related to fungi than we are to any other kingdom. A group of 20 eukaryotic microbiologists published a paper two years ago erecting opisthokonta — a super-kingdom that joins animalia and fungi together. We share in common the same pathogens. Fungi don't like to rot from bacteria, and so our best antibiotics come from fungi. But here is a mushroom that's past its prime. After they sporulate, they do rot. But I propose to you that the sequence of microbes that occur on rotting mushrooms are essential for the health of the forest. They give rise to the trees, they create the debris fields that feed the mycelium. And so we see a mushroom here sporulating. And the spores are germinating, and the mycelium forms and goes underground. In a single cubic inch of soil, there can be more than eight miles of these cells. My foot is covering approximately 300 miles of mycelium. This is photomicrographs from Nick Read and Patrick Hickey. And notice that as the mycelium grows, it conquers territory and then it begins the net. I've been a scanning electron microscopist for many years, I have thousands of electron micrographs, and when I'm staring at the mycelium, I realize that they are microfiltration membranes. We exhale carbon dioxide, so does mycelium. It inhales oxygen, just like we do. But these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs. And I present to you a concept that these are extended neurological membranes. And in these cavities, these micro-cavities form, and as they fuse soils, they absorb water. These are little wells. And inside these wells, then microbial communities begin to form. And so the spongy soil not only resists erosion, but sets up a microbial universe that gives rise to a plurality of other organisms. I first proposed, in the early 1990s, that mycelium is Earth's natural Internet. When you look at the mycelium, they're highly branched. And if there's one branch that is broken, then very quickly, because of the nodes of crossing — Internet engineers maybe call them hot points — there are alternative pathways for channeling nutrients and information. The mycelium is sentient. It knows that you are there. When you walk across landscapes, it leaps up in the aftermath of your footsteps trying to grab debris. So, I believe the invention of the computer Internet is an inevitable consequence of a previously proven, biologically successful model. The Earth invented the computer Internet for its own benefit, and we now, being the top organism on this planet, are trying to allocate resources in order to protect the biosphere. Going way out, dark matter conforms to the same mycelial archetype. I believe matter begets life; life becomes single cells; single cells become strings; strings become chains; chains network. And this is the paradigm that we see throughout the universe. Most of you may not know that fungi were the first organisms to come to land. They came to land 1.3 billion years ago, and plants followed several hundred million years later. How is that possible? It's possible because the mycelium produces oxalic acids, and many other acids and enzymes, pockmarking rock and grabbing calcium and other minerals and forming calcium oxalates. Makes the rocks crumble, and the first step in the generation of soil. Oxalic acid is two carbon dioxide molecules joined together. So, fungi and mycelium sequester carbon dioxide in the form of calcium oxalates. And all sorts of other oxalates are also sequestering carbon dioxide through the minerals that are being formed and taken out of the rock matrix. This was first discovered in 1859. This is a photograph by Franz Hueber. This photograph's taken 1950s in Saudi Arabia. 420 million years ago, this organism existed. It was called Prototaxites. Prototaxites, laying down, was about three feet tall. The tallest plants on Earth at that time were less than two feet. Dr. Boyce, at the University of Chicago, published an article in the Journal of Geology this past year determining that Prototaxites was a giant fungus, a giant mushroom. Across the landscapes of Earth were dotted these giant mushrooms. All across most land masses. And these existed for tens of millions of years. Now, we've had several extinction events, and as we march forward — 65 million years ago — most of you know about it — we had an asteroid impact. The Earth was struck by an asteroid, a huge amount of debris was jettisoned into the atmosphere. Sunlight was cut off, and fungi inherited the Earth. Those organisms that paired with fungi were rewarded, because fungi do not need light. More recently, at Einstein University, they just determined that fungi use radiation as a source of energy, much like plants use light. So, the prospect of fungi existing on other planets elsewhere, I think, is a forgone conclusion, at least in my own mind. The largest organism in the world is in Eastern Oregon. I couldn't miss it. It was 2,200 acres in size: 2,200 acres in size, 2,000 years old. The largest organism on the planet is a mycelial mat, one cell wall thick. How is it that this organism can be so large, and yet be one cell wall thick, whereas we have five or six skin layers that protect us? The mycelium, in the right conditions, produces a mushroom — it bursts through with such ferocity that it can break asphalt. We were involved with several experiments. I'm going to show you six, if I can, solutions for helping to save the world. Battelle Laboratories and I joined up in Bellingham, Washington. There were four piles saturated with diesel and other petroleum waste: one was a control pile; one pile was treated with enzymes; one pile was treated with bacteria; and our pile we inoculated with mushroom mycelium. The mycelium absorbs the oil. The mycelium is producing enzymes — peroxidases — that break carbon-hydrogen bonds. These are the same bonds that hold hydrocarbons together. So, the mycelium becomes saturated with the oil, and then, when we returned six weeks later, all the tarps were removed, all the other piles were dead, dark and stinky. We came back to our pile, it was covered with hundreds of pounds of oyster mushrooms, and the color changed to a light form. The enzymes remanufactured the hydrocarbons into carbohydrates — fungal sugars. Some of these mushrooms are very happy mushrooms. They're very large. They're showing how much nutrition that they could've obtained. But something else happened, which was an epiphany in my life. They sporulated, the spores attract insects, the insects laid eggs, eggs became larvae. Birds then came, bringing in seeds, and our pile became an oasis of life. Whereas the other three piles were dead, dark and stinky, and the PAH's — the aromatic hydrocarbons — went from 10,000 parts per million to less than 200 in eight weeks. The last image we don't have. The entire pile was a green berm of life. These are gateway species, vanguard species that open the door for other biological communities. So I invented burlap sacks, bunker spawn — and putting the mycelium — using storm blown debris, you can take these burlap sacks and put them downstream from a farm that's producing E. coli, or other wastes, or a factory with chemical toxins, and it leads to habitat restoration. So, we set up a site in Mason County, Washington, and we've seen a dramatic decrease in the amount of coliforms. And I'll show you a graph here. This is a logarithmic scale, 10 to the eighth power. There's more than a 100 million colonies per gram, and 10 to the third power is around 1,000. In 48 hours to 72 hours, these three mushroom species reduced the amount of coliform bacteria 10,000 times. Think of the implications. This is a space-conservative method that uses storm debris — and we can guarantee that we will have storms every year. So, this one mushroom, in particular, has drawn our interest over time. This is my wife Dusty, with a mushroom called Fomitopsis officinalis — Agarikon. It's a mushroom exclusive to the old-growth forest that Dioscorides first described in 65 A.D. as a treatment against consumption. This mushroom grows in Washington State, Oregon, northern California, British Columbia, now thought to be extinct in Europe. May not seem that large — let's get closer. This is extremely rare fungus. Our team — and we have a team of experts that go out — we went out 20 times in the old-growth forest last year. We found one sample to be able to get into culture. Preserving the genome of these fungi in the old-growth forest I think is absolutely critical for human health. I've been involved with the U.S. Defense Department BioShield program. We submitted over 300 samples of mushrooms that were boiled in hot water, and mycelium harvesting these extracellular metabolites. And a few years ago, we received these results. We have three different strains of Agarikon mushrooms that were highly active against poxviruses. Dr. Earl Kern, who's a smallpox expert of the U.S. Defense Department, states that any compounds that have a selectivity index of two or more are active. 10 or greater are considered to be very active. Our mushroom strains were in the highly active range. There's a vetted press release that you can read — it's vetted by DOD — if you Google ""Stamets"" and ""smallpox."" Or you can go to NPR.org and listen to a live interview. So, encouraged by this, naturally we went to flu viruses. And so, for the first time, I am showing this. We have three different strains of Agarikon mushrooms highly active against flu viruses. Here's the selectivity index numbers — against pox, you saw 10s and 20s — now against flu viruses, compared to the ribavirin controls, we have an extraordinarily high activity. And we're using a natural extract within the same dosage window as a pure pharmaceutical. We tried it against flu A viruses — H1N1, H3N2 — as well as flu B viruses. So then we tried a blend, and in a blend combination we tried it against H5N1, and we got greater than 1,000 selectivity index. (Applause) I then think that we can make the argument that we should save the old-growth forest as a matter of national defense. (Applause) I became interested in entomopathogenic fungi — fungi that kill insects. Our house was being destroyed by carpenter ants. So, I went to the EPA homepage, and they were recommending studies with metarhizium species of a group of fungi that kill carpenter ants, as well as termites. I did something that nobody else had done. I actually chased the mycelium, when it stopped producing spores. These are spores — this is in their spores. I was able to morph the culture into a non-sporulating form. And so the industry has spent over 100 million dollars specifically on bait stations to prevent termites from eating your house. But the insects aren't stupid, and they would avoid the spores when they came close, and so I morphed the cultures into a non-sporulating form. And I got my daughter's Barbie doll dish, I put it right where a bunch of carpenter ants were making debris fields, every day, in my house, and the ants were attracted to the mycelium, because there's no spores. They gave it to the queen. One week later, I had no sawdust piles whatsoever. And then — a delicate dance between dinner and death — the mycelium is consumed by the ants, they become mummified, and, boing, a mushroom pops out of their head. (Laughter) Now after sporulation, the spores repel. So, the house is no longer suitable for invasion. So, you have a near-permanent solution for reinvasion of termites. And so my house came down, I received my first patent against carpenter ants, termites and fire ants. Then we tried extracts, and lo and behold, we can steer insects to different directions. This has huge implications. I then received my second patent — and this is a big one. It's been called an Alexander Graham Bell patent. It covers over 200,000 species. This is the most disruptive technology — I've been told by executives of the pesticide industry — that they have ever witnessed. This could totally revamp the pesticide industries throughout the world. You could fly 100 Ph.D. students under the umbrella of this concept, because my supposition is that entomopathogenic fungi, prior to sporulation, attract the very insects that are otherwise repelled by those spores. And so I came up with a Life Box, because I needed a delivery system. The Life Box — you're gonna be getting a DVD of the TED conference — you add soil, you add water, you have mycorrhizal and endophytic fungi as well as spores, like of the Agarikon mushroom. The seeds then are mothered by this mycelium. And then you put tree seeds in here, and then you end up growing — potentially — an old-growth forest from a cardboard box. I want to reinvent the delivery system, and the use of cardboard around the world, so they become ecological footprints. If there's a YouTube-like site that you could put up, you could make it interactive, zip code specific — where people could join together, and through satellite imaging systems, through Virtual Earth or Google Earth, you could confirm carbon credits are being sequestered by the trees that are coming through Life Boxes. You could take a cardboard box delivering shoes, you could add water — I developed this for the refugee community — corns, beans and squash and onions. I took several containers — my wife said, if I could do this, anybody could — and I ended up growing a seed garden. Then you harvest the seeds — and thank you, Eric Rasmussen, for your help on this — and then you're harvesting the seed garden. Then you can harvest the kernels, and then you just need a few kernels. I add mycelium to it, and then I inoculate the corncobs. Now, three corncobs, no other grain — lots of mushrooms begin to form. Too many withdrawals from the carbon bank, and so this population will be shut down. But watch what happens here. The mushrooms then are harvested, but very importantly, the mycelium has converted the cellulose into fungal sugars. And so I thought, how could we address the energy crisis in this country? And we came up with Econol. Generating ethanol from cellulose using mycelium as an intermediary — and you gain all the benefits that I've described to you already. But to go from cellulose to ethanol is ecologically unintelligent, and I think that we need to be econologically intelligent about the generation of fuels. So, we build the carbon banks on the planet, renew the soils. These are a species that we need to join with. I think engaging mycelium can help save the world. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我喜歡挑戰，而拯救地球或許是個不錯的挑戰。我們都知道地球面臨危機。我們已進入這星球上第六次大規模的物種滅絕。我經常在想如果有一個聯合物種組織，別名為「啊哦－」（笑聲）－並且每個物種都有權利投票，我們會被票選逐出地球還是保留下來？我想這個票選正在進行。 我想告訴大家一系列六種真菌法。這些方法以菌絲為基礎，提供利用真菌的方式。菌絲體存在於任何地形種。它異常堅韌，能夠牢固土壤。可以固定超過自身三萬倍重量的土壤。它們是大自然中的巨型分子分解機—土壤魔術師。它們生產腐質，覆蓋地球表面。我們目前發現植物間養分可透過菌絲體多方向傳遞。菌絲體就好像是不斷提供赤楊、白樺樹、鐵杉、檜木、黃杉養份的母親。 妲斯蔕和我喜歡說這是我們星期天上教堂的地方。我愛這古老的叢林，而且因為我們有這些叢林，我是愛國的美國人。你們大多知道蘑菇。坦白說，我常面臨一個問題，就是當我向人們提起菇類，他們立即想到的是蘑菇或是迷幻蘑菇。他們對我翻白眼，認為我瘋了。所以我希望在座的人永遠不要有這樣的偏見。我們稱之為菇類恐懼症：當談到菌類時產生的非理性恐懼。 菇類生長的速度是非常快的。第21天、第23天、第25天。菇類會生產非常強的抗生素。實際上，與其他生物王國相比我們與真菌類更接近些。大約20位真核微生物學家在兩年前發表了一篇論文建立「後鞭毛生物」—一個聯繫起動物與真菌的超大族群。我們有共同的病原體。真菌不喜歡被細菌侵蝕，所以我們最有效的抗生素來自真菌。但這是個過了黃金時期的菇。他們形成孢子後會死亡。但我要提出，菇類死亡後，接下來在菇上生存的微生物對健康和叢林有絕對的重要性。它們使樹木成長，它們創造餵養菌絲體的腐質。 我們看這裡一株菇正在形成孢子。孢子正在發芽，然後菌絲體就形成並且深入地下。在一立方英吋的土壤中，可能含有超過8英里長的細胞。我的腳掌現在正踩著大約300英里的菌絲體。 這是一張尼克瑞得和帕特里克希基所拍攝的顯微照片。注意當菌絲成長時，它擴張領地並建立網路。我用掃描式電子顯微鏡很多年了，我有數千張的電子顯微照片。當我注視着菌絲體的圖像時，我意識到它們是微孔過濾薄膜。我們呼出二氧化碳，菌絲體也是。它們也像我們一樣吸入氧氣。但這些是外置的胃和肺。我想帶給大家的一個概念是他們還是神經薄膜。在這些洞中，更微小的洞會形成。當他們深入土壤，他們會吸收水分。他們就想小井一般。在這些小井中，菌絲族群開始形成。所以海綿般的土壤不只防止腐化，也建立一個可以讓許多其他生物生長的菌絲世界。 我最早在90年代提出，菌絲體是地球的天然互聯網。仔細觀察菌絲體你會發現他們有非常多的分支。如果有一個分支損壞了，很快地，因為這些節點互相交叉—網絡工程師可能稱之為連線熱點—提供其它可以連通養分輸送以及信息傳遞的通路。菌絲體是有感知的。它可以感受到你的存在。當你在路地上行走，它緊跟著你的腳步躍上來抓取土塵。所以我相信電腦網路的發明是由於生物已創造出非常成功的系統後不可避免的成果。地球為了自己的益處而創造了它的網路，現在我們作為這星球上位於頂端的生物，正嘗試著分配資源來保護生態圈。 擴大範圍來看，暗物質也與菌絲體的形態類似。我相信生命由物質產生，生命從單個細胞開始，單細胞串接起來形成鏈接，繼而形成網絡。我們觀察宇宙也發現相同的模式。 在座的大多數人可能不一定知道真菌是第一種登上陸地的生物。他們在13億年前來到陸地上，植物在好幾百萬年以後才開始在陸地上生長。這怎麼可能呢？因為菌絲體製造草酸和其他酸性物質和酶。使他們能夠侵蝕石塊並獲取鈣質和其他礦物來形成草酸鈣。不斷將岩石分解稱小的細屑，這就是產生土壤的第一步。草酸是由兩個二氧化碳分子結合起來。所以真菌和菌絲體以碳酸鈣的形式保存二氧化碳。其他類型的草酸也都是石塊中二氧化碳和其他礦物質的保存。 這個現象是在1859年首次發現的。這是一張弗郎茲休伯在1950年代於沙特阿拉伯所拍攝的照片。420萬年前，這種生物就存在了。它叫做原杉藻屬。原杉藻屬全長約有一米。當時地球上最高的植物不超過0.6米。芝加哥大學的伯易斯博士去年在Journal of Geology（地質學期刊）上發表了一篇文章確認原杉藻屬是一種巨大的真菌，一個巨大的蘑菇。這些巨型蘑菇曾遍佈地球表面，存在於幾乎所有地面，且存在了千萬年之久。 現在我們正經歷一些物種滅絕的情況 。你們大多知道六千五百萬年前，地球上曾經有過一次隕石撞擊。隕石擊中地球，大量的塵埃被拋到了大氣圈中，陽光被阻斷了，真菌延續了地球上的生命。那些依賴真菌的生物得到了好處，因為真菌不需要光。最近在愛因斯坦大學，學者們確認真菌會使用輻射作為能源，就好像植物利用陽光一樣。所以關於真菌生存在其他行星上的可能性，我覺得早有一個已知的結論，至少我是這麼認為的。 世界上最大的生物在於俄勒岡州的東部。我不可能沒發現它，因為它有2200英畝大。2200英畝那麼大，2000多年的歲月。地球上最大的生物是一張菌絲體「地毯」，一個細胞壁的厚度。這個生物怎麼可能會這麼大卻只有一個細胞壁厚？而我們卻有厚五、六層的細胞保護着我們。菌絲體在合適的條件下會產生蘑菇，且以能夠穿破柏油路的力量生長出來。我們之前參與一些實驗，如果時間夠，我要給你們看六個可以幫助拯救世界的方法。我在華盛頓的柏林翰和巴特爾實驗室合作。在那有四堆柴油和石油廢料：一堆是對照組、一堆是加了催化酶的、一堆加了細菌、一堆加了蘑菇菌絲。菌絲體吸收了石油。菌絲體會產生催化酶—能破壞碳氫鍵的過氧化酶。這些鍵與碳水化合物的鍵結相同。所以菌絲體被浸在石油中。我們在六周後回來，移除油布後，發現其它堆都腐爛、發黑、發臭。只有這堆被幾百磅蚝蘑覆蓋且顏色變淺。催化酶將碳氫鏈重組轉變成真菌可用的糖分。 有些蘑菇長得很好，長的非常大。他們表現出可以獲得多少養分。但另外一件事也發生了，一件讓我頓悟的事。他們產生孢子，孢子吸引昆蟲，昆蟲產下卵，卵成為幼蟲。這樣就吸引了鳥兒前來，也帶來了種子，這讓我們廢物堆成為了一塊生命綠洲。但其他堆則是又黑又臭的死物質，且他們的PAH（具有香味的碳氫化合物）含量在八個禮拜中從百萬分之一萬減少到小於兩百。最後我們沒有圖像的是整堆成為一個生命綠地。這些是向其他生物族群打開生命大門的物種。 所以我發明了一種粗麻袋，利用基地復活的概念使用風沙將菌絲置入。你可以把這些麻袋放到一個製造大腸桿菌或者其他廢料的農場的下游，或是製造化學毒物的工廠下游，讓它幫助棲息地再生。我們在華盛頓的曼森郡設立起一個站點，並觀察到那裡的大腸菌在數量上出現了驚人的下降。我給你們看一張圖表。這是一個指數規模，是10的8次方。大約每一克裡面就有一億個菌落。十的三次方是一千。48到72小時後，這三種蘑菇大約減少了一萬倍的大腸菌。想像一下這代表著什麼。這是一種非常節省空間的風沙方法，而且我們很確定每年都會有風砂。 所以這一種蘑菇在這段時間中特別吸引我們的注意力。這是我的妻子妲斯蒂和一種稱為擬層孔菌屬芦荀蘑菇。戴奧斯克敵斯（希臘生物學家）在西元前65年發現這種只有在年老叢林中生長的蘑菇用來治療肺癆病。這種蘑菇生長在華盛頓、奧瑞岡、北卡羅來納州，不列顛哥倫比亞省。在歐洲被認為已經絕種了。這樣看可能不是很大，讓我們靠近一點。這是一種非常稀少的真菌。我們的團隊－我們有一個由專家組成的隊伍—我們去年去了二十次古老叢林。找到了一個可以栽培的樣本。 我認為保存這些古老叢林裡的真菌的基因組對人類健康是至關重要的。我參與美國國防部的生物護罩計畫。我們送出三百個經過沸水煮泡的蘑菇樣本，和收成胞外代謝物的菌絲體。幾年前我們收到了結果。我們有三株擬層孔菌屬菇類可以有效對抗水痘病毒。伊爾科恩博士是一名美國國防部門天花病毒方面的專家。他說任何擁有兩種或者更多的選擇性指數的化合物稱為「有效」。而擁有十種或更多的則稱為「非常有效」。我們的蘑菇品種是屬於「非常有效」。有一本經過國防部門審查的出版物你們可以看看。如果你用Google搜索「Stamets」和「天花」，或者到NPR.org網站上聽取現場的訪問。 我們受到這樣的結果鼓舞，很自然的轉而研究流感病毒。這是第一次我展示這個。我們有三株對流感病毒有高度抗性的擬層孔菌屬菇。這是它的選擇性指數：對抗水痘，你看到十幾和二十幾；對抗病毒，與三唑核苷控制組比較，我們得到了異常高的活性。而且我們使用自然的提取方法得到和製藥廠相當的劑量。我們利用它來對抗A型流感病毒－H1N1、H3N2—和B型流感病毒。然後再嘗試混合它們。在其中一個混合法中我們試了H5N1，我們得到大約1000的選擇性指數。（掌聲）所以我認為我們可以主張為了國防我們應該拯救年老叢林。（掌聲） 我對昆蟲病原真菌也就是會殺死昆蟲的真菌產生了興趣。我們的房屋被木螞蟻損壞。所以我到EPA的網頁上看，發現他們推薦研究可以殺死木螞蟻及白蟻的綠僵菌。我做了一件別人沒有做過的事情。我用不再產生孢子的菌絲體。這些是孢子，這是在孢囊內。我將菌絲培養成不會產生孢子的形態。這個行業已經花了超過一億元研究設計圈套讓白蟻不會侵蝕房子。但這些昆蟲並不笨，他們接近時會躲過孢子。所以我培養不會形成孢子的形態。我拿了我女兒的芭比娃娃盤子，把盤子放在屋子裡木螞蟻每天製造木屑的地方。因為沒有孢子，木螞蟻會被真菌絲吸引並交給蟻后。一個禮拜後，屋中就沒有木屑堆了。 然後，這是個晚餐和死亡的舞曲，螞蟻吃下菌絲，他們被木乃伊化、播種、然後蘑菇從他們頭上長出來。（笑聲）孢子化後，孢子被釋出。這樣房屋就再也不能被入侵了。所以就得到了一個幾乎是一勞永逸的對付白蟻的方案。我的房子拆了，但我獲得我的第一個對抗木螞蟻、白蟻和火蟻的專利。然後我們試了萃取物，且看，我們可以控制昆蟲轉往不同的方向。這有很大的用處。我得到第二個專利，而且這個專利很重要。他被叫做亞力山大葛蘭母貝爾專利。他包括了二十萬物種。殺蟲劑界的代表們曾跟我說這是他們見過最具破壞性的科技。這可以改寫整個殺蟲劑工業。利用這個概念，你可以幫助一百個博士生，因為我認為噬蟲菌類在他們孢子化之前，恰好可以吸引那些被他們孢子驅走的昆蟲。 所以我發明了一個生命盒因為我需要一個遞送的方法。這個生命盒—你們會拿到TED座談會的DVD—你們加入土壤和水，你會得到類似擬層孔菌蘑菇的共生菌根和共生真菌和孢子。菌絲體會提供種子養分。然後你將大樹種子放在這裡，就會像是從紙盒當中種植古老叢林一般。 我想要重新設計這個傳遞系統和紙盒在世界上的運用，讓這些成為生態足跡。如果你可以建立一個像是YouTube的網站，你可以讓它成為互動的、有郵遞區號的，讓人們可以加入。透過衛星影像系統，用Virtual Earth或是Google Earth，你可以確認這些生命盒重出來的樹真的有保存碳的作用 你可以用裝鞋子的紙盒，你可以加入水分—我為難民們建造這個—玉米、豆子、黃瓜和洋蔥。我拿了一些盒子。我太太說如果我做的到，任何人都做的到。然後我打造了一座花園。然後你們收成種子，謝謝Eric Rasmussen幫忙，然後你們建造花園。然後你們可以收割玉米，且你們只需要一些些米粒，我來加入菌絲體，將之接芽至玉米穗軸上。現在，三枝玉米穗軸，沒有其他穀物，很多蘑菇在上片形成。從碳存量中拿出太多，所以整個結構會毀壞。但看這裡發生什麼事。這些蘑菇接著可以收成。但重要的是，菌絲體已將纖維素轉換成真菌糖。所以我想，我們要怎麼樣面對這國家的能量危機？我們發明了Econol。 利用菌絲體來將纖維素轉換成酒精，然後你還可以得到我剛剛說得所有好處。但單是從纖維素到酒精在生態上是不大聰明的，我想在製造燃料上我們需要更聰明。所以我們增加地球上的可用碳、重新生成土壤，這些則是我們需要使用到的物種。我認為利用菌絲體可以幫忙拯救世界。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
