Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_maccready_on_nature_vs_humans	"You hear that this is the era of environment — or biology, or information technology ... Well, it's the era of a lot of different things that we're in right now. But one thing for sure: it's the era of change. There's more change going on than ever has occurred in the history of human life on earth. And you all sort of know it, but it's hard to get it so that you really understand it. And I've tried to put together something that's a good start for this. I've tried to show in this — though the color doesn't come out — that what I'm concerned with is the little 50-year time bubble that you are in. You tend to be interested in a generation past, a generation future — your parents, your kids, things you can change over the next few decades — and this 50-year time bubble you kind of move along in. And in that 50 years, if you look at the population curve, you find the population of humans on the earth more than doubles and we're up three-and-a-half times since I was born. When you have a new baby, by the time that kid gets out of high school more people will be added than existed on earth when I was born. This is unprecedented, and it's big. Where it goes in the future is questioned. So that's the human part. Now, the human part related to animals: look at the left side of that. What I call the human portion — humans and their livestock and pets — versus the natural portion — all the other wild animals and just — these are vertebrates and all the birds, etc., in the land and air, not in the water. How does it balance? Certainly, 10,000 years ago, the civilization's beginning, the human portion was less than one tenth of one percent. Let's look at it now. You follow this curve and you see the whiter spot in the middle — that's your 50-year time bubble. Humans, livestock and pets are now 97 percent of that integrated total mass on earth and all wild nature is three percent. We have won. The next generation doesn't even have to worry about this game — it is over. And the biggest problem came in the last 25 years: it went from 25 percent up to that 97 percent. And this really is a sobering picture upon realizing that we, humans, are in charge of life on earth; we're like the capricious Gods of old Greek myths, kind of playing with life — and not a great deal of wisdom injected into it. Now, the third curve is information technology. This is Moore's Law plotted here, which relates to density of information, but it has been pretty good for showing a lot of other things about information technology — computers, their use, Internet, etc. And what's important is it just goes straight up through the top of the curve, and has no real limits to it. Now try and contrast these. This is the size of the earth going through that same — (Laughter) — frame. And to make it really clear, I've put all four on one graph. There's no need to see the little detailed words on it. That first one is humans-versus-nature; we've won, there's no more gain. Human population. And so if you're looking for growth industries to get into, that's not a good one — protecting natural creatures. Human population is going up; it's going to continue for quite a while. Good business in obstetricians, morticians, and farming, housing, etc. — they all deal with human bodies, which require being fed, transported, housed and so on. And the information technology, which connects to our brains, has no limit — now, that is a wonderful field to be in. You're looking for growth opportunity? It's just going up through the roof. And then, the size of the Earth. Somehow making these all compatible with the Earth looks like a pretty bad industry to be involved with. So, that's the stage out of all this. I find, for reasons I don't understand, I really do have a goal. And the goal is that the world be desirable and sustainable when my kids reach my age — and I think that's — in other words, the next generation. I think that's a goal that we probably all share. I think it's a hopeless goal. Technologically, it's achievable; economically, it's achievable; politically, it means sort of the habits, institutions of people — it's impossible. The institutions of the past with all their inertia are just irrelevant for the future, except they're there and we have to deal with them. I spend about 15 percent of my time trying to save the world, the other 85 percent, the usual — and whatever else we devote ourselves to. And in that 15 percent, the main focus is on human mind, thinking skills, somehow trying to unleash kids from the straightjacket of school, which is putting information and dogma into them, get them so they really think, ask tough questions, argue about serious subjects, don't believe everything that's in the book, think broadly or creative. They can be. Our school systems are very flawed and do not reward you for the things that are important in life or for the survival of civilization; they reward you for a lot of learning and sopping up stuff. We can't go into that today because there isn't time — it's a broad subject. One thing for sure, in the future there is an essential feature — necessary, but not sufficient — which is doing more with less. We've got to be doing things with more efficiency using less energy, less material. Your great-great grandparents got by on muscle power, and yet we all think there's this huge power that's essential for our lifestyle. And with all the wonderful technology we have we can do things that are much more efficient: conserve, recycle, etc. Let me just rush very quickly through things that we've done. Human-powered airplane — Gossamer Condor sort of started me in this direction in 1976 and 77, winning the Kremer prize in aviation history, followed by the Albatross. And we began making various odd planes and creatures. Here's a giant flying replica of a pterosaur that has no tail. Trying to have it fly straight is like trying to shoot an arrow with the feathered end forward. It was a tough job, and boy it made me have a lot of respect for nature. This was the full size of the original creature. We did things on land, in the air, on water — vehicles of all different kinds, usually with some electronics or electric power systems in them. I find they're all the same, whether its land, air or water. I'll be focusing on the air here. This is a solar-powered airplane — 165 miles carrying a person from France to England as a symbol that solar power is going to be an important part of our future. Then we did the solar car for General Motors — the Sunracer — that won the race in Australia. We got a lot of people thinking about electric cars, what you could do with them. A few years later, when we suggested to GM that now is the time and we could do a thing called the Impact, they sponsored it, and here's the Impact that we developed with them on their programs. This is the demonstrator. And they put huge effort into turning it into a commercial product. With that preamble, let's show the first two-minute videotape, which shows a little airplane for surveillance and moving to a giant airplane. Narrator: A tiny airplane, the AV Pointer serves for surveillance — in effect, a pair of roving eyeglasses. A cutting-edge example of where miniaturization can lead if the operator is remote from the vehicle. It is convenient to carry, assemble and launch by hand. Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed. It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator. With onboard GPS, it can navigate autonomously, and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage. The modern sailplane is superbly efficient. Some can glide as flat as 60 feet forward for every foot of descent. They are powered only by the energy they can extract from the atmosphere — an atmosphere nature stirs up by solar energy. Humans and soaring birds have found nature to be generous in providing replenishable energy. Sailplanes have flown over 1,000 miles, and the altitude record is over 50,000 feet. (Music) The Solar Challenger was made to serve as a symbol that photovoltaic cells can produce real power and will be part of the world's energy future. In 1981, it flew 163 miles from Paris to England, solely on the power of sunbeams, and established a basis for the Pathfinder. (Music) The message from all these vehicles is that ideas and technology can be harnessed to produce remarkable gains in doing more with less — gains that can help us attain a desirable balance between technology and nature. The stakes are high as we speed toward a challenging future. Buckminster Fuller said it clearly: ""there are no passengers on spaceship Earth, only crew. We, the crew, can and must do more with less — much less."" Paul MacCready: If we could have the second video, the one-minute, put in as quickly as you can, which — this will show the Pathfinder airplane in some flights this past year in Hawaii, and will show a sequence of some of the beauty behind it after it had just flown to 71,530 feet — higher than any propeller airplane has ever flown. It's amazing: just on the puny power of the sun — by having a super lightweight plane, you're able to get it up there. It's part of a long-term program NASA sponsored. And we worked very closely with the whole thing being a team effort, and with wonderful results like that flight. And we're working on a bigger plane — 220-foot span — and an intermediate-size, one with a regenerative fuel cell that can store excess energy during the day, feed it back at night, and stay up 65,000 feet for months at a time. (Music) Ray Morgan's voice will come in here. There he's the project manager. Anything they do is certainly a team effort. He ran this program. Here's ... some things he showed as a celebration at the very end. Ray Morgan: We'd just ended a seven-month deployment of Hawaii. For those who live on the mainland, it was tough being away from home. The friendly support, the quiet confidence, congenial hospitality shown by our Hawaiian and military hosts — (Music) this is starting — made the experience enjoyable and unforgettable. PM: We have real-time IR scans going out through the Internet while the plane is flying. And it's exploring without polluting the stratosphere. That's its goal: the stratosphere, the blanket that really controls the radiation of the earth and permits life on earth to be the success that it is — probing that is very important. And also we consider it as a sort of poor man's stationary satellite, because it can stay right overhead for months at a time, 2,000 times closer than the real GFC synchronous satellite. We couldn't bring one here to fly it and show you. But now let's look at the other end. In the video you saw that nine-pound or eight-pound Pointer airplane surveillance drone that Keenan has developed and just done a remarkable job. Where some have servos that have gotten down to, oh, 18 or 25 grams, his weigh one-third of a gram. And what he's going to bring out here is a surveillance drone that weighs about 2 ounces — that includes the video camera, the batteries that run it, the telemetry, the receiver and so on. And we'll fly it, we hope, with the same success that we had last night when we did the practice. So Matt Keenan, just any time you're — all right — ready to let her go. But first, we're going to make sure that it's appearing on the screen, so you see what it sees. You can imagine yourself being a mouse or fly inside of it, looking out of its camera. Matt Keenan: It's switched on. PM: But now we're trying to get the video. There we go. MK: Can you bring up the house lights? PM: Yeah, the house lights and we'll see you all better and be able to fly the plane better. MK: All right, we'll try to do a few laps around and bring it back in. Here we go. (Applause) PM: The video worked right for the first few and I don't know why it — there it goes. Oh, that was only a minute, but I think you'd be safe to have that near the end of the flight, perhaps. We get to do the classic. All right. If this hits you, it will not hurt you. (Laughter) OK. (Applause) Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause) But now, as they say in infomercials, we have something much better for you, which we're working on: planes that are only six inches — 15 centimeters — in size. And Matt's plane was on the cover of Popular Science last month, showing what this can lead to. And in a while, something this size will have GPS and a video camera in it. We've had one of these fly nine miles through the air at 35 miles an hour with just a little battery in it. But there's a lot of technology going. There are just milestones along the way of some remarkable things. This one doesn't have the video in it, but you get a little feel from what it can do. OK, here we go. (Laughter) MK: Sorry. OK. (Applause) PM: If you can pass it down when you're done. Yeah, I think — I lost a little orientation; I looked up into this light. It hit the building. And the building was poorly placed, actually. (Laughter) But you're beginning to see what can be done. We're working on projects now — even wing-flapping things the size of hawk moths — DARPA contracts, working with Caltech, UCLA. Where all this leads, I don't know. Is it practical? I don't know. But like any basic research, when you're really forced to do things that are way beyond existing technology, you can get there with micro-technology, nanotechnology. You can do amazing things when you realize what nature has been doing all along. As you get to these small scales, you realize we have a lot to learn from nature — not with 747s — but when you get down to the nature's realm, nature has 200 million years of experience. It never makes a mistake. Because if you make a mistake, you don't leave any progeny. We should have nothing but success stories from nature, for you or for birds, and we're learning a lot from its fascinating subjects. In concluding, I want to get back to the big picture and I have just two final slides to try and put it in perspective. The first I'll just read. At last, I put in three sentences and had it say what I wanted. Over billions of years on a unique sphere, chance has painted a thin covering of life — complex, improbable, wonderful and fragile. Suddenly, we humans — a recently arrived species, no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature — have grown in population, technology and intelligence to a position of terrible power. We now wield the paintbrush. And that's serious: we're not very bright. We're short on wisdom; we're high on technology. Where's it going to lead? Well, inspired by the sentences, I decided to wield the paintbrush. Every 25 years I do a picture. Here's the one — tries to show that the world isn't getting any bigger. Sort of a timeline, very non-linear scale, nature rates and trilobites and dinosaurs, and eventually we saw some humans with caves ... Birds were flying overhead, after pterosaurs. And then we get to the civilization above the little TV set with a gun on it. Then traffic jams, and power systems, and some dots for digital. Where it's going to lead — I have no idea. And so I just put robotic and natural cockroaches out there, but you can fill in whatever you want. This is not a forecast. This is a warning, and we have to think seriously about it. And that time when this is happening is not 100 years or 500 years. Things are going on this decade, next decade; it's a very short time that we have to decide what we are going to do. And if we can get some agreement on where we want the world to be — desirable, sustainable when your kids reach your age — I think we actually can reach it. Now, I said this was a warning, not a forecast. That was before — I painted this before we started in on making robotic versions of hawk moths and cockroaches, and now I'm beginning to wonder seriously — was this more of a forecast than I wanted? I personally think the surviving intelligent life form on earth is not going to be carbon-based; it's going to be silicon-based. And so where it all goes, I don't know. The one final bit of sparkle we'll put in at the very end here is an utterly impractical flight vehicle, which is a little ornithopter wing-flapping device that — rubber-band powered — that we'll show you. MK: 32 gram. Sorry, one gram. PM: Last night we gave it a few too many turns and it tried to bash the roof out also. It's about a gram. The tube there's hollow, about paper-thin. And if this lands on you, I assure you it will not hurt you. But if you reach out to grab it or hold it, you will destroy it. So, be gentle, just act like a wooden Indian or something. And when it comes down — and we'll see how it goes. We consider this to be sort of the spirit of TED. (Applause) And you wonder, is it practical? And it turns out if I had not been — (Laughter) (Applause) Unfortunately, we have some light bulb changes. We can probably get it down, but it's possible it's gone up to a greater destiny up there — (Laughter) — than it ever had. And I wanted to make — (Applause) just — (Applause) But I want to make just two points. One is, you think it's frivolous; there's nothing to it. And yet if I had not been making ornithopters like that, a little bit cruder, in 1939 — a long, long time ago — there wouldn't have been a Gossamer Condor, there wouldn't have been an Albatross, a Solar Challenger, there wouldn't be an Impact car, there wouldn't be a mandate on zero-emission vehicles in California. A lot of these things — or similar — would have happened some time, probably a decade later. I didn't realize at the time I was doing inquiry-based, hands-on things with teams, like they're trying to get in education systems. So I think that, as a symbol, it's important. And I believe that also is important. You can think of it as a sort of a symbol for learning and TED that somehow gets you thinking of technology and nature, and puts it all together in things that are — that make this conference, I think, more important than any that's taken place in this country in this decade. Thank you. (Applause)"	"現在是環境，或生物，或信息技術的時代當然，現在也是很多其他東西的時代但是有一點是肯定的現在是一個正在發生改變的時代目前發生的變化是人類歷史上前所未有的儘管我們知道變化存在，但是卻很難完全掌握它們以至於我們難於理解這些變化我稍微分析了一下這個問題我試過用這個圖演示，但是效果並不明顯我很關心後邊這段50年的虛線，它和大家息息相關人們關心一代人的過去一代人的未來，你的父母，你的孩子，以及未來幾十年你能改變的實。而你則沿著這代表50年的虛線前進。在未來50年，從人口曲線上來看，和現在相比地球上的人口會翻倍，而那時的人口和我出生的時候相比是三倍還要多。如果你有個孩子到孩子上完高中的时候新增人口比我出生时的 已存人口还要多这是史无前例的 也是无比巨大的改变人口的未来有很大的挑战。 下面是人类和动物的关系。请看左边我所謂的人類部份 就是 人類和人所畜養的牲畜和寵物相對應的是自然部份 即 其他所有的野生動物這些是脊椎動物和所有的鳥類 等等在陸地上在空中 但是沒有水中的。 人類和自然是怎麼平衡的呢在一萬年前，人類文明才剛剛開始的時候人類部份不到千分之一。我們現在來看一下請看這條曲線，中間有一個比較白的點這就是未來50年的虛線。人類，牲畜和寵物目前是地球上集合質量的百分之九十七所有的野生自然部份只佔百分之三。人類壓倒性的勝利了。我們的下一代不需要擔心人類和自然的競爭了。它已經結束了。但是最近25年有最大的問題人類的比例從25％直接躍升到97％這很明確的揭示出 人類已經開始掌控地球上的生命我們就像希臘神話中變幻莫測的古神我們在玩弄操縱著生命並沒有運用智慧來控制生命 下面是第三條曲線，關於信息技術發展的曲線圖上畫出了關於信息密度的摩爾定律但同時這張圖也很好的體現了許多其他關於信息技術的內容其中包括電腦的使用，互聯網等等。最總要的是，這張圖看起來就是一直向上，從圖上垂直的延伸出去了完全沒有一個真正的極限。但是我們對比一下這是地球的尺寸。地球的尺寸可是一直沒變。（水平的）（笑聲）為了更好說明這個問題，我把四張圖放到一起我們不用看圖上具體的小字第一張是人類和自然的對比毫無疑問，我們贏了。 接著是人口圖如果考慮進工業增長的話就不太妙了，要保護野生的生物啊。人口還在增長。它將在很長一段時間保持增長產科醫生，喪葬業者，農業，建築業的生意都會很紅火這些行業都是和人身體有關的：人的飲食，人的交通，居住等等。 而信息技術是和我們頭腦聯繫在一起的，它沒有極限。如果你想找一個發展的機會的，這可是個極好的領域！這個領域的未來直上雲霄。然而地球的尺寸 在某種程度上限制了所有這些這些發展一牽扯進地球好像就有問題了 所以這就是目前的狀況我發現了很多我不了解的原因，我有個目標當我的孩子和我一個年齡的時候，我希望這個世界變得理想且可持續。也就是說，為了下一代我想這是所有人共同的目標但我覺得希望渺茫。技術上是可實現的經濟上是可實現的，但政治上由於人的慣性和習慣，是不可能實現的。過去的慣例都帶著慣性這些慣例和未來不相干，但我們還要解決掉它們。我用了15％的時間去保護這個世界，85％的時間作平常的事在15％的時間，我主要研究人思維的技能嘗試將孩子從學校的束縛中釋放出來學校用信息和教條束縛孩子我想讓孩子會思考，問問題，討論嚴肅的問題，不要盡信書視野寬廣而有創造性。這是可以實現的。我們的教育系統有很大問題。它不鼓勵那些對人生，或者文明發展有價值的東西。它鼓勵學生學東西，死記知識由於時間關係我今天就不說這個話題了這牽涉很多。但有一點是肯定的，未來，有一個基本特徵。必要但不充分。即 用更少的東西完成更多的事。 我們必須有更高的效率，用更少的能源，材料。你的祖爺爺靠肌肉的力量生活而我們認為我們的生活也是有一種力量支持的在美妙科技的支持下我們可以更有效率的生活：生態保護，循環利用等等 讓我快速談談我們已經取得的成就人力飛機－“遊絲禿鷲”在1976 1977年啓發了我在飛行史上，它贏得了Ｋremer奖後來還有一個“信天翁"". 接著我們開始製造各種奇怪的飛機和仿生飛行器這是一個摹仿 大型無尾儀隴的作品它像一隻箭一樣直線飛尾翼還有羽毛。這很難造在過程中，我對自然產生了很多敬畏它和原本生物的尺寸一樣我們造了陸地，空中，水上的各種交通工具。通常帶有電子設備或者電氣系統的。我發現都差不多。不管事陸地 空中還是水上的。我著重講飛行器。這是一架太陽能驅動的飛機它載著一個人飛了165英里 從法國飛到英國作為一個太陽能的象徵。太陽能未來會很重要我們為通用汽車GM做了太陽能車在澳大利亞贏得了太陽能車的比賽我們很多人在想電動車能做甚麼。幾年前，我們告訴通用汽車GM公司現在是時候了，我們可以造一個叫“影響力”的車它們贊助了，這就是我們和他們一起開發的 車。這是一個概念車。他們投入了很多去把它變成一個商業產品 開場白結束，讓我們看一段兩分鐘的視頻展示了一架小監察幾怎麼變成一架巨型飛機的。（旁白）：小飛機，AV指針是起監察作用的是一幅粗紗鏡片。一個極端的例子展示如果操作員在遠處，先導作用的效果它容易帶著，組裝手動發射。電池供能，很安靜，不容易被發現接受高分辨率圖像並發送回操作員帶有機載GPS，它可以自動導航很耐用，可以自主降落並沒有損傷。現代滑翔機超級高效每降低一英尺可以向前平飛60英尺它們僅僅靠來自大氣的能量。大氣被太陽能激起而產生的動能（風和各種空氣亂流）自然很慷慨的給與人和鳥類可再生的能源。滑翔機最多飛過1000英里，高度紀錄超過50000英尺音樂“太陽挑戰者”飛機體現出光伏電池（太陽照射，產生電流）可以產生真的力量將成為世界能源未來的一部分1981年 它飛了163英里從巴黎到英國直利用太陽光束的能量並為“探路者”飛機打下基礎音樂這些作品告訴我們 想法和技術可以被用來產生顯著的收益 用更少做更多。這些收益幫助我們維持一個理想的技術與科技的平衡。 我們高速發展有著很大的風險Buckminister Fuller說得很清楚： 在地球這架宇宙艦上沒有旅客，只有船員。我們就是船員，我們可以，必需用很少很少做很多的事 我們很快的放一下第二個視頻一分鐘的視頻，展示探路者 飛機去年在夏威夷的幾個飛行還有在它飛到71530英尺後所留下的一系列美妙事情。它的飛行高度比任何螺旋槳飛機都高這很奇妙，僅僅靠微薄的太陽能這家超級輕的飛機就能飛那麼高它是一個NASA（美國宇航局）長期資助的項目我們緊密的協作產生了這此美妙的飛行我們正在造更大的飛機 220英尺翼展以及一個中尺寸的飛機 帶有重複充電燃料電池。它可以白天充電，晚上放電繼續使用並一次保持65000英尺的高度一個月之久音樂Ray Morgan會出現他是項目經理。所有這一切都是團隊協作的結果。他負責這個項目這是他在項目結束 慶祝時候說得：我們剛剛結束在夏威夷一個月的部署對於那些生活在大陸的人，遠離家鄉很難熬夏威夷人和軍隊所展現的友好幫助，無聲的信任和適宜的款待音樂這開始了－使得這個經歷有樂趣且難忘在飛機飛的時候 我們進行了通過互聯網傳送的實時的紅外線掃描。它探測的時候，不會污染平流層。這是它的目的。平流層像一個毯子，保護地球免於輻射使得生命在地球上得以繁衍探測平流層很重要。我們還把它當作一種廉價的靜態衛星因為它可以靜止在一個地方數月之久比真正的同步軌道衛星，離地球近2000倍我們不能把它帶到著 飛給你看 但是來看另一方面。 好。 我給你看－在那個視頻里 你看到了8，9磅重的Keenan開發的無人偵察機他幹得漂亮。有些飛機的輔助系統下降到18或者25克他的僅僅重三分之一克。他要帶過來一個僅重2盎斯的偵察機其中包括了攝像頭，電池遙測器，接收機等等。 我們還會飛一下我們希望能和昨天晚上我們試飛的時候一樣成功好，Matt Keenan, 等你準備好－好的準備起飛。首先，我們要確保它的影響能出現在屏幕上，你們能看到飛機看到的東西你可以把自己想像成老鼠，在裡邊飛從攝像頭看出去開關打開了我們要弄好視頻。 好的。能開一下燈嗎？好 燈打開了 我們能看得更清楚然後飛的更好一點好，我們飛幾圈就收起來開始！掌聲視頻開始還挺好，我不知道為甚麼－好了！喔，只飛一分鐘，但我認為等降落的時候你們是安全的，或許吧。。我們得來經典得好的！如果撞到你，你不會受傷笑聲好掌聲十分感謝，謝謝。掌聲 現在，如介紹里說得我們有更好的東西要展示，我們現在正研究的只有6英吋－15厘米的飛機Matt的飛機上週是大眾科學的封面展現了它的未來。很快，這個尺寸的飛機就能有GPS和攝像頭了。我們曾經用這樣的飛機飛了9英里，時速35英里每小時用一塊小電池現在有各種技術這只是通往偉大成就路上的小里程碑這架飛機沒有攝像頭但你應該能知道它是做甚麼的好了，起飛！（笑聲）抱歉。。好的（掌聲）你看完可以傳給別人看。恩，我覺得我剛才迷失方向了，我一直看光來著，但它撞到房子了。房子位置不佳（笑聲）大家現在可以看出來它能幹甚麼了我們目前研究很多，包括拍打翅膀的東西蛾子大小的，DARPA合同的，和加州理工以及UCLA合作的項目 它們的方向是甚麼？我不知道。實用嗎？我還不知道。和基礎研究一樣，被迫做一些超越現有科技的事情你能通過微技術，Nano技術實現。只要明白自然所作的，你就能完成一些奇妙的事。尺寸上的縮小，我們有很多要從自然學習－不是說747s－但當你到達自然的領域自然有超過2億年的經驗它不犯錯。因為你犯錯不會留下後裔。但自然沒有失敗只有成功，對於人類或者鳥類我們正在學習自然從各種吸引人的領域 總結一下，我想宏觀的看問題我有最後兩個幻燈片要展示 並說明一下第一個我就念了。最後，我把我要說的寫成三個句子幾十億年來，在這個獨一無二的星球，巧合畫出了了無數生命的圖畫：複雜，意想不到，美好且脆弱。突然，我們人類，一個最近產生的種族不再滿足於自然的現狀和平衡人口，科技和智慧急遽增長擁有了巨大可怖的力量。我們揮舞著畫筆這很眼中。我們不聰明。我們缺乏智慧我們科技很強。現在將怎麼發展？ 受到這段話的啓發，我決定揮舞畫筆每25年我畫一張圖。 這有一個說明地球不再變大一種時間線，非常不線形的刻度，自然比率。三葉蟲，恐龍，最後我們看到一些人類居住在山洞中的人。翼龍滅絕後，鳥類在飛接著，我們進入了文明時代。電視機上有把槍交通堵塞，電力系統點代表數碼。它在向哪裡去？我不知道所以我畫上了機器的和自然的蟑螂不過你業可以畫任何你想的。這不是預測這是一個警示。我們需要認真想想這不會發生在100或者500年後是這10年或者下個十年的事情我們有很短的時間決定向甚麼方向發展如果我們能達成一致我們嚮往在孩子長大時，有一個可持續，理想的世界我認為我們能做到。我說這是個警示不是一個預測。因為之前我畫的時候，我們還沒開始造機器鷹嘴和機器蟑螂。現在我想這是個預測而不是我想要得未來？我認為持續的智能生命不是碳基生命而是硅基生命所以到底怎麼樣，我也不知道 最後一個靈感小火花是一個非常不實際的飛行器一個小的拍打翅膀的裝置是橡皮筋供能的。我展示一下32克。錯了，是1克夠了。昨晚轉太多圈了然後它試圖衝出房頂。這1克左右管子是中空的，和紙一樣厚如果在你身上降落，我保證不會傷害你如果你去抓它，你會毀了它所以，溫柔點。降落時候，我們會看到效果我把它當成一種TED的精神（掌聲）你覺得，實用嗎？原來我沒有－（笑聲）（掌聲）看來我們得換燈泡了我們應該能把它弄下來但可能它在上面是更好的命運吧（笑聲）－它所能有的命運。然後我想－(掌聲)－就－（掌聲） 我想再說兩點。一，你覺得它無足輕重這東西沒有甚麼意義。但是如果我沒做那樣的撲翼飛機稍微再簡陋一些，在1939年，很久以前就不會有“遊絲禿鷲”也不會有“信天翁”，不會有“太陽挑戰者”也不會有“影響力”汽車，在加州也不會有汽車零排放規定很多東西，類似的，會在某些時候發生。可能十年之後。當我和團隊在做調查實踐的時候並沒有意識到就像探索改進教育系統一樣所以我想，作為一個標緻是重要的我也相信這本身也是重要的。你可以把它看成是TED的一種標誌和 [不清楚]它讓人思考科技和自然把它融為一體並創造出這次會議。我想，這才是這十年 這個國家最重要的事情。谢谢觀賞。"
