Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_kemp_robertson_bitcoin_sweat_tide_meet_the_future_of_branded_currency	"So if I was to ask you what the connection between a bottle of Tide detergent and sweat was, you'd probably think that's the easiest question that you're going to be asked in Edinburgh all week. But if I was to say that they're both examples of alternative or new forms of currency in a hyperconnected, data-driven global economy, you'd probably think I was a little bit bonkers. But trust me, I work in advertising. (Laughter) And I am going to tell you the answer, but obviously after this short break. So a more challenging question is one that I was asked, actually, by one of our writers a couple of weeks ago, and I didn't know the answer: What's the world's best performing currency? It's actually Bitcoin. Now, for those of you who may not be familiar, Bitcoin is a crypto-currency, a virtual currency, synthetic currency. It was founded in 2008 by this anonymous programmer using a pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. No one knows who or what he is. He's almost like the Banksy of the Internet. And I'm probably not going to do it proper service here, but my interpretation of how it works is that Bitcoins are released through this process of mining. So there's a network of computers that are challenged to solve a very complex mathematical problem and the person that manages to solve it first gets the Bitcoins. And the Bitcoins are released, they're put into a public ledger called the Blockchain, and then they float, so they become a currency, and completely decentralized, that's the sort of scary thing about this, which is why it's so popular. So it's not run by the authorities or the state. It's actually managed by the network. And the reason that it's proved very successful is it's private, it's anonymous, it's fast, and it's cheap. And you do get to the point where there's some wild fluctuations with Bitcoin. So in one level it went from something like 13 dollars to 266, literally in the space of four months, and then crashed and lost half of its value in six hours. And it's currently around that kind of 110 dollar mark in value. But what it does show is that it's sort of gaining ground, it's gaining respectability. You get services, like Reddit and Wordpress are actually accepting Bitcoin as a payment currency now. And that's showing you that people are actually placing trust in technology, and it's started to trump and disrupt and interrogate traditional institutions and how we think about currencies and money. And that's not surprising, if you think about the basket case that is the E.U. I think there was a Gallup survey out recently that said something like, in America, trust in banks is at an all-time low, it's something like 21 percent. And you can see here some photographs from London where Barclays sponsored the city bike scheme, and some activists have done some nice piece of guerrilla marketing here and doctored the slogans. ""Sub-prime pedaling."" ""Barclays takes you for a ride."" These are the more polite ones I could share with you today. But you get the gist, so people have really started to sort of lose faith in institutions. There's a P.R. company called Edelman, they do this very interesting survey every year precisely around trust and what people are thinking. And this is a global survey, so these numbers are global. And what's interesting is that you can see that hierarchy is having a bit of a wobble, and it's all about heterarchical now, so people trust people like themselves more than they trust corporations and governments. And if you look at these figures for the more developed markets like U.K., Germany, and so on, they're actually much lower. And I find that sort of scary. People are actually trusting businesspeople more than they're trusting governments and leaders. So what's starting to happen, if you think about money, if you sort of boil money down to an essence, it is literally just an expression of value, an agreed value. So what's happening now, in the digital age, is that we can quantify value in lots of different ways and do it more easily, and sometimes the way that we quantify those values, it makes it much easier to create new forms and valid forms of currency. In that context, you can see that networks like Bitcoin suddenly start to make a bit more sense. So if you think we're starting to question and disrupt and interrogate what money means, what our relationship with it is, what defines money, then the ultimate extension of that is, is there a reason for the government to be in charge of money anymore? So obviously I'm looking at this through a marketing prism, so from a brand perspective, brands literally stand or fall on their reputations. And if you think about it, reputation has now become a currency. You know, reputations are built on trust, consistency, transparency. So if you've actually decided that you trust a brand, you want a relationship, you want to engage with the brand, you're already kind of participating in lots of new forms of currency. So you think about loyalty. Loyalty essentially is a micro-economy. You think about rewards schemes, air miles. The Economist said a few years ago that there are actually more unredeemed air miles in the world than there are dollar bills in circulation. You know, when you are standing in line in Starbucks, 30 percent of transactions in Starbucks on any one day are actually being made with Starbucks Star points. So that's a sort of Starbucks currency staying within its ecosystem. And what I find interesting is that Amazon has recently launched Amazon coins. So admittedly it's a currency at the moment that's purely for the Kindle. So you can buy apps and make purchases within those apps, but you think about Amazon, you look at the trust barometer that I showed you where people are starting to trust businesses, especially businesses that they believe in and trust more than governments. So suddenly, you start thinking, well Amazon potentially could push this. It could become a natural extension, that as well as buying stuff — take it out of the Kindle — you could buy books, music, real-life products, appliances and goods and so on. And suddenly you're getting Amazon, as a brand, is going head to head with the Federal Reserve in terms of how you want to spend your money, what money is, what constitutes money. And I'll get you back to Tide, the detergent now, as I promised. This is a fantastic article I came across in New York Magazine, where it was saying that drug users across America are actually purchasing drugs with bottles of Tide detergent. So they're going into convenience stores, stealing Tide, and a $20 bottle of Tide is equal to 10 dollars of crack cocaine or weed. And what they're saying, so some criminologists have looked at this and they're saying, well, okay, Tide as a product sells at a premium. It's 50 percent above the category average. It's infused with a very complex cocktail of chemicals, so it smells very luxurious and very distinctive, and, being a Procter and Gamble brand, it's been supported by a lot of mass media advertising. So what they're saying is that drug users are consumers too, so they have this in their neural pathways. When they spot Tide, there's a shortcut. They say, that is trust. I trust that. That's quality. So it becomes this unit of currency, which the New York Magazine described as a very oddly loyal crime wave, brand-loyal crime wave, and criminals are actually calling Tide ""liquid gold."" Now, what I thought was funny was the reaction from the P&G spokesperson. They said, obviously tried to dissociate themselves from drugs, but said, ""It reminds me of one thing and that's the value of the brand has stayed consistent."" (Laughter) Which backs up my point and shows he didn't even break a sweat when he said that. So that brings me back to the connection with sweat. In Mexico, Nike has run a campaign recently called, literally, Bid Your Sweat. So you think about, these Nike shoes have got sensors in them, or you're using a Nike FuelBand that basically tracks your movement, your energy, your calorie consumption. And what's happening here, this is where you've actually elected to join that Nike community. You've bought into it. They're not advertising loud messages at you, and that's where advertising has started to shift now is into things like services, tools and applications. So Nike is literally acting as a well-being partner, a health and fitness partner and service provider. So what happens with this is they're saying, ""Right, you have a data dashboard. We know how far you've run, how far you've moved, what your calorie intake, all that sort of stuff. What you can do is, the more you run, the more points you get, and we have an auction where you can buy Nike stuff but only by proving that you've actually used the product to do stuff."" And you can't come into this. This is purely for the community that are sweating using Nike products. You can't buy stuff with pesos. This is literally a closed environment, a closed auction space. In Africa, you know, airtime has become literally a currency in its own right. People are used to, because mobile is king, they're very, very used to transferring money, making payments via mobile. And one of my favorite examples from a brand perspective going on is Vodafone, where, in Egypt, lots of people make purchases in markets and very small independent stores. Loose change, small change is a real problem, and what tends to happen is you buy a bunch of stuff, you're due, say, 10 cents, 20 cents in change. The shopkeepers tend to give you things like an onion or an aspirin, or a piece of gum, because they don't have small change. So when Vodafone came in and saw this problem, this consumer pain point, they created some small change which they call Fakka, which literally sits and is given by the shopkeepers to people, and it's credit that goes straight onto their mobile phone. So this currency becomes credit, which again, is really, really interesting. And we did a survey that backs up the fact that, you know, 45 percent of people in this very crucial demographic in the U.S. were saying that they're comfortable using an independent or branded currency. So that's getting really interesting here, a really interesting dynamic going on. And you think, corporations should start taking their assets and thinking of them in a different way and trading them. And you think, is it much of a leap? It seems farfetched, but when you think about it, in America in 1860, there were 1,600 corporations issuing banknotes. There were 8,000 kinds of notes in America. And the only thing that stopped that, the government controlled four percent of the supply, and the only thing that stopped it was the Civil War breaking out, and the government suddenly wanted to take control of the money. So government, money, war, nothing changes there, then. So what I'm going to ask is, basically, is history repeating itself? Is technology making paper money feel outmoded? Are we decoupling money from the government? You know, you think about, brands are starting to fill the gaps. Corporations are filling gaps that governments can't afford to fill. So I think, you know, will we be standing on stage buying a coffee — organic, fair trade coffee — next year using TED florins or TED shillings? Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	若果我問你們一瓶汰漬洗衣精和汗水之間有什麼的聯繫你也許會認為這是本週愛丁堡大會上最簡單的一條問題但是如果我說，它們是這個高度連接、數據驅動的全球經濟中的貨幣替代品或新型貨幣例子也許你會認為我瘋了但相信我，我從事廣告行業的 （笑聲） 我將告訴你們答案但顯然要再過一會 有一個更為棘手問題是幾週前，我們的一個廣告撰稿人問我我當時並不知道答案他問世界上哪種貨幣的表現最好？其实就是比特幣 (Bitcoin)也許你們當中有些人不熟悉它比特幣是一種加密的、虛擬的、人工合成的貨幣它誕生於 2008 年，由一位匿名程式員假名為中本聰所創造的沒人知道他是誰他像網際網路界的班克斯 (Banksy)也許我還不能解釋清楚但我的理解是比特幣是通過一種挖礦程序而發行的有那麼的一組電腦網絡要解決一個非常複雜的數學問題而第一位解答了問題的人就拿到比特幣當比特幣發行後就被放到名叫「區塊鏈」分類帳然後價格會波動，他們就成為了一種貨幣它是完全分散管理的，這是爲什麽比特幣非常可怕，卻也如此受歡迎的原因沒有國家機構或中央銀行管理它它其實是由網路進行管理它之所以會如此成功就是因為它是私有、匿名、交易快速並且價格便宜 當然有時候比特幣也會大幅波動又一次它在四個月內兌美元由 1 比特幣兌 13 美元升至 266 美元然後六小時內又跌去一半現今比特幣兌美元的價格徘徊在 110 美元附近但比特幣確實開始盛行逐漸獲得市場地位某些服務商如 Reddit 和 Wordpress 部落格現已接受比特幣作為支付貨幣了這表明了大眾實際上開始信賴科技而比特幣則開始對抗、擾亂和詰問傳統機構以及我們對貨幣和金錢的看法 這並不令人意外只要想想歐盟那個爛攤子蓋洛普 (Gallup) 最近做了一項調查顯示美國人對銀行的信任程度史無前例得低只有 21% 的大眾信任銀行再看看這些來自倫敦的照片這是柏克萊贊助的公共自行車計劃一些激進分子更改了活動標語這是很棒的游擊式營銷「次級 (Sub-prime) 腳踏」「巴克萊載你一程」今天拿來跟你們分享的算是較為客氣的了但其意思已夠清楚了大眾對金融機構已失去信心有一間名為愛德曼 (Edelman) 的公關公司每年都會圍繞信任和大眾的想法做一個很有趣的調查這是一項全球的調查，所以資料也反映著全球的情況而有趣的是你可以看到統治集團的地位開始變得不穩定問題都集中在統治集團上也就是大眾更相信和他們一樣的個體而不信任企業和政府如果你看看發達國家的數字如英國、德國等大眾的信任度就更低了我認為這是個可怕的現象大眾更相信商人而非政府和社會領袖如果你思考一下，貨幣將要如何變化如果你要追究貨幣的本質它其實就是一種價值的表現在現今的電子數位時代我們可以用不同方式去量化價值而且更為簡便有時候我們量化價值所使用的方式使得創造出一種新型的、強大的貨幣形式更為便捷這樣看來，你就會突然明白比特幣存在的合理性了 如果你認為我們開始質疑擾亂、詰問貨幣的意義以及它與我們的關係、金錢的定義是什麼那最終延伸出來的問題就是政府是否還有理由負責管理貨幣？ 顯然我是用市場營銷的視角看這問題從品牌角度看品牌的成敗直接取決於它的聲譽如果你想一想，現在聲譽也變成了一種貨幣你知道，聲譽是基於信任一致性，透明度如果你決定去信任某一品牌就會想要與其建立長久關係那麼你其實已經使用了很多貨幣的新形式了 比如說忠誠忠誠事實上就是一種微觀經濟比如獎勵方案、里程兌換等幾年前《經濟學人》曾報導事實上全世界沒有兌換的里程數比市面流通的美鈔還要多當你在星巴克排隊時在任何一天星巴克有三成交易是通過隨行卡進行的那就是星巴克的循環系統裡自帶的一種貨幣形式有趣的是我注意到亞馬遜最近推出亞馬遜幣無可否認這是一種只用於 Kindle 的貨幣你可以用它購買應用程式或在應用程式中購買其他東西但是你想一想亞馬遜這例子看看我向你們展示的信任氣壓計大眾開始信任企業特別是那些企業他們認為較政府更為可信突然間你會意識到亞馬遜其實可以推廣這種貨幣它可以是一種自然的延伸或者用它來買東西不再限於在 Kindle 上使用，你可以購買書本、音樂、現實生活中的產品、電器、百貨等突然間亞馬遜作為一個品牌將和美國聯儲局正面交鋒關於你想怎樣花錢什麼是貨幣、貨幣的組成等 現在讓我們回到汰漬洗衣精的問題正如我之前承諾的我在《紐約雜誌》上讀到一篇很棒的文章文章指出全美各地的吸毒者在用汰漬洗衣精的瓶子去購買毒品他們走到便利店偷取汰漬洗衣精一瓶二十美元的汰漬洗衣精等同 10 美元的可卡因或大麻背後的原因，一些犯罪學家研究后得出的結論是汰漬洗衣精售價很高比其他同類產品平均貴五成它的化學成分非常複雜味道十分高檔而且與眾不同作為寶僑 (P&G) 的品牌它的大眾傳媒廣告曝光率非常高意思是說吸毒的人也是消費者他們腦子里也有這種意識他們把汰漬看做指一條捷徑他們說這就是信任，我相信它，這是品質保證所以它成為了一種貨幣單位《紐約雜誌》稱之為一種古怪的忠誠犯罪潮，品牌忠誠度的犯罪潮事實上犯罪分子稱汰漬為「液體黃金」 而我認為寶僑發言人對此作出的回應很有趣寶僑顯然要和毒品撇清關係但表示 ：「這提醒我一樣事情就是汰漬的品牌價值很一致（笑聲）這證明了我的觀點，也看得出發言人說話時毫無擔憂 這把我帶回到和汗水的聯繫耐吉 (Nike) 最近在墨西哥進行了一個宣傳活動名為「用你的汗水出價」你試想一想有些耐吉鞋裡裝有感應器或者你戴了耐吉的運動腕帶它就能檢測你的移動你的能量和卡路里的消耗實際上你被帶入了耐吉的社區你加入了他們他們沒有向你大肆宣傳而現在廣告也開始轉移到如服務、工具、應用程式上面所以耐吉扮演的角色是一名伙伴一個健康、健身夥伴、服務提供者這個活動是這樣的，他們會說「好，你有一塊數據面板，我們知道你跑了多遠你吸取了多少卡路里等各種信息你跑的越多，點數就越多然後我們安排一埸拍賣會你就可以去購買耐吉產品了但要證明你確實使用了耐吉的產品。」你不能報名參加這活動這只限於耐吉社區的成員，他們使用耐吉產品這是拿錢買不到的這是一個真正的封閉環境，封閉的拍賣場所 在非洲，廣告時間已變成了一種貨幣因為流動手機是王者那裡的人已習慣於通過手機進行轉賬或支付有一個我很喜歡的品牌例子來自沃達豐，在埃及，大眾在市場或小商店購物時找零錢是件很麻煩的事所以一般情況下如你買下一堆東西算下來有10美分20美分的零錢店主就給你一個洋蔥一片阿司匹林或口香糖因為他們沒有零錢沃達豐發現了這問題這種消費者的痛處於是沃達豐發明了名為 Fakka 的零錢店主可以把它用作零錢支付給顧客Fakka 金額可以充值到手機裡所以這零錢再次變成了帳面餘額這是非常有趣的例子 我們曾做過的一項調查顯示在美國最重要的年齡階層裡約 45% 的大眾表示願意使用某種獨立或品牌貨幣所以事情變的真的有趣有一種很有趣的趨勢你會認為企業應把貨幣視為資產，從另一角度看待它們，進行交易你會想這是不是想得太遠了？這好像遙不可及，但是你要知道美國在 1860 年時約有 1600 家企業發行紙幣全美共有 8000 種紙幣流通然而一件事就停止了這局面就是政府控制了 4% 的貨幣供應而制止這種局面的原因是因為爆發了內戰政府突然要控制貨幣的流通政府、貨幣、戰爭，這些元素從沒有改變 所以我想提出的問題是歷史是否在重演？高科技會否讓紙貨幣過時？我們是否讓貨幣和政府脫離？請你們細想一下，品牌正在填補空隙企業正在填補那些政府填補不了的空隙，明年今日，我想我們也許站在臺上使用 TED 弗羅林或 TED 先令購買一杯有機公平貿易咖啡？ 謝謝大家 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲)
