Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_maccready_flies_on_solar_wings	"I am known best for human-powered flight, but that was just one thing that got me going in the sort of things that I'm working in now. As a youngster, I was very interested in model airplanes, ornithopters, autogyros, helicopters, gliders, power planes, indoor models, outdoor models, everything, which I just thought was a lot of fun, and wondered why most other people didn't share my same enthusiasm with them. And then, navy pilot training, and, after college, I got into sailplane flying, power plane flying, and considered the sailplanes as a sort of hobby and fun, but got tangled up with some great professor types, who convinced me and everybody else in the field that this was a good way to get into really deep science. While this was all going on, I was in the field of weather modification, although getting a Ph.D. in aeronautics. The weather modification subject was getting started, and as a graduate student, I could go around to the various talks that were being given, on a hitchhiker ride to the East Coast, and so on. And everybody would talk to me, but all the professionals in the field hated each other, and they wouldn't communicate. And as a result, I got the absolutely unique background in that field, and started a company, which did more research in weather modification than anybody, and there are a lot of things that I just can't go into. But then, 1971 started AeroVironment, with no employees — then one or two, three, and sort of fumbled along on trying to get interesting projects. We had AirDynamisis, who, like I, did not want to work for aerospace companies on some big, many year project, and so we did our small projects, and the company slowly grew. The thing that is exciting was, in 1976, I suddenly got interested in the human-powered airplane because I'd made a made a loan to a friend of 100,000 dollars, or I guaranteed the money at the bank. He needed them — he needed the money for starting a company. The company did not succeed, and he couldn't pay the money back, and I was the guarantor of the note. So, I had a $100,000 debt, and I noticed that the Kramer prize for human-powered flight, which had then been around for — (Laughter) — 17 years at the time, was 50,000 pounds, which, at the exchange rate, was just about 100,000 dollars. So suddenly, I was interested in human-powered flight — (Laughter) — and did not — the way I approached it, first, thinking about ways to make the planes, was just like they'd been doing in England, and not succeeding, and I gave it up. I figured, nah, there isn't any simple, easy way. But then, got off on a vacation trip, and was studying bird flight, just for the fun of it, and you can watch a bird soaring around in circles, and measure the time, and estimate the bank angle, and immediately, figure out its speed, and the turning radius, and so on, which I could do in the car, as we're driving along on a vacation trip — (Laughter) — with my three sons, young sons, helping me, but ridiculing the whole thing very much. But that began thinking about how birds went around, and then how airplanes would, how hang gliders would fly, and then other planes, and the idea of the Gossamer-Condor-type airplane quickly emerged, was so logical, one should have thought of it in the first place, but one didn't. And it was just, keep the weight down — 70 pounds was all it weighed — but let the size swell up, like a hang glider, but three times the span, three times the cord. You're down to a third of the speed, a third of the power, and a good bicyclist can put out that power, and that worked, and we won the prize a year later. We didn't — a lot of flying, a lot of experiments, a lot of things that didn't work, and ones that did work, and the plane kept getting a little better, a little better. Got a good pilot, Brian Allen, to operate it, and finally, succeeded. But unfortunately, about 65,000 dollars was spent on the project. (Laughter) And there was only about 30 to help retire the debt. But fortunately, Henry Kramer, who put up the prize for — that was a one-mile flight — put up a new prize for flying the English Channel, 21 miles. And he thought it would take another 18 years for somebody to win that. We realized that if you just cleaned up our Gossamer Condor a little bit, the power to fly would be decreased a little bit, and if you decrease the power required a little, the pilot can fly a much longer period of time. And Brian Allen was able, in a miraculous flight, to get the Gossamer Albatross across the English Channel, and we won the 100,000-pound, 200,000-dollar prize for that. And when all expenses were paid, the debt was handled, and everything was fine. It turned out that giving the planes to the museum was worth much more than the debt, so for five years, six years, I only had to pay one third income tax. So, there were good economic reasons for the project, but — (Laughter) — that's not, well, the project was done entirely for economic reasons, and we have not been involved in any human-powered flight since then — (Laughter) — because the prizes are all over. (Laughter) But that sure started me thinking about various things, and immediately, we began making a solar-powered plane because we felt solar power was going to be so important for the country and the world, we didn't want the small funding in the government to be decreased, which is what the government was trying to do with it. And we thought a solar-powered plane wouldn't really make sense, but you could do it and it would get a lot of publicity for solar power and maybe help that field. And that project continued, did succeed, and we then got into other projects in aviation and mechanical things and ground devices. But while this was going on, in 1982, I got a prize from the Lindbergh Foundation — their annual prize — and I had to prepare a paper on it, which collected all my varied thoughts and varied interests over the years. This was the one chance that I had to focus on what I, really, was after, and what was important. And to my surprise, I realized the importance of environmental issues, which Charles Lindbergh devoted the last third of his life to, and preparing that paper did me a lot of good. I thought back about if I was a space traveler, and came and visited Earth every 5,000 years. And for a few thousand visits, I would see the same thing every time, the little differences in the Earth. But this last time, just coming round, right now, suddenly, there'd be huge changes in the environment, in the concentration of people, and it was just unbelievable, the amount of — all the change in it. I wanted to — well, one of the biggest changes is, 200 years ago, we began using coal from underground, which has a lot of pollution, and 100 years ago, began getting gasoline from underground, with a lot of pollution. And gasoline consumption, or production, will reach its limit in about ten years, and then go down, and we wonder what's going to happen with transportation. I wanted to show the slide — this slide, I think, is the most important one any of you will see, ever, because — (Laughter) (Applause) — it shows nature versus humans, and goes from 1850 to 2050. And so, the year 2000, you see there. And this is the weight of all air and land vertebrates. Humans and muskrats and giraffes and birds and so on, are — the red line goes up. That's the humans and livestock and pets portion. The green line goes down. That's the wild nature portion. Humans, livestock and pets are, now, 98 percent of the total world's mass of vertebrates on land and air. And you don't know what the future will hold, but it's not going to get a lower percentage. Ten thousand years ago, the humans and livestock and pets were not even one tenth of one percent and wouldn't even have been visible on such a curve. Now they are 98 percent, and it, I think, shows human domination of the Earth. I give a talk to some remarkable high school students each summer, and ask them, after they've asked me questions, and I give them a talk and so on. Then I ask them questions. What's the population of the Earth? What's the population of the Earth going to be when you're the age of your parents? Which I'd never, really — they had never, really, thought about but, now, they think about it. And then, what population of the Earth would be an equilibrium that could continue on, and be for 2050, 2100, 2150? And they form little groups, all fighting with each other, and when I leave, two hours later, most of them are saying about 2 billion people, and they don't have any clue about how to get down to 2 billion, nor do I, but I think they're right and this is a serious problem. Rachel Carson was thinking of these, and came out with ""Silent Spring,"" way back. ""Solar Manifesto"" by Hermann Scheer, in Germany, claims all energy on Earth can be derived, for every country, from solar energy and water, and so on. You don't need to dig down for these chemicals, and we can do things much more efficiently. Let's have the next slide. So this just summarizes it. ""Over billions of years, on a unique sphere, chance has painted a thin covering of life — complex and probable, wonderful and fragile. Suddenly, we humans, a recently arrived species, no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature, have grown in population, technology and intelligence to a position of terrible power. We, now, wield the paintbrush."" We're in charge. It's frightening. And I do a painting every 20 or 25 years. This is the last one. (Laughter) And [it] shows the Earth in a time flag: on the right, in trilobites and dinosaurs and so on; and over the triangle, we now get to civilization and TV and traffic jams and so on. I have no idea of what comes next, so I just used robotic and natural cockroaches as the future, as a little warning. And two weeks after this drawing was done, we actually had our first project contract, at AeroVironment, on robotic cockroaches, which was very frightening to me. (Laughter) (Paper rustling) Well, that'll be all the slides. As time went on, we stopped our environmental programs. We focused more on the really serious energy problems of the future, and we produced products for the company. And we developed the impact car that General Motors made, the EV1, out of — and got the Air Resources Board to have the regulations that stimulated the electric cars, but they've since come apart. And we've done a lot of things, small drone airplanes and so on. I have a Helios. We have the first video. (Video) Narrator: With a wingspan of 247 feet, this makes her larger than a Boeing 747. (Music) Her designers' attention to detail and her construction gives Helios' structure the flexibility and strength to deal with the turbulence encountered in the atmosphere. This enables her to easily ride through the air currents as if she's sliding along on the ocean waves. Paul MacCready: The wings could touch together on top and not break. We think. (Laughter) Narrator: And Helios now begins the process of turning her back to the sun, to maximize the power from her solar array. (Music) As the sky gets darker, and the outside air temperatures drop below minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit, the most environmentally hostile segment of Helios's journey has gone by without notice, except for being recorded by specially designed data acquisition systems and their associated sensors. Approaching a peak radar altitude of 96,863 feet, at 4:12 p.m., Helios is standing on top of 98 percent of the Earth's atmosphere. This is more than 10,000 feet higher than the previous world's altitude record held by the SR-71 Blackbird. (Applause) PM: That plane has many purposes, but it's aimed for communications, and it can fly so slowly that it'll just stay up at 65,000 feet. Eventually, it will be able to have to stay up day, night, day, night, for six months at a time, acting like the synchronous satellite, but only ten miles above the Earth. Let's have the next video. This shows the other end of the spectrum. (Video) Narrator: A tiny airplane, the AV Pointer serves for surveillance. In effect a pair of roving eyeglasses, a cutting-edge example of where miniaturization can lead if the operator is remote from the vehicle. It is convenient to carry, assemble, and launch by hand. Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed. It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator. With on-board GPS, it can navigate autonomously, and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage. PM: Okay, and let's have the next. (Applause) That plane is widely used by the military, now, in all their operations. Let's have the next video. (Video) (Music) Alan Alda: He's got it, he's got it, he's got it on his head. (Music) We're going to end our visit with Paul MacCready's flying circus by meeting his son, Tyler, who, with his two brothers, helped build the Gossamer Condor, 25 years ago. Tyler MacCready: You can chase it, like this, for hours. AA: When they got bored with their father's project, they invented an extraordinary little plane of their own. TM: And I can control it by putting the lift on one side of the wing, or on the other. AA: They called it their Walkalong Glider. (Music) I've never seen anything like that. How old were you when you invented that? TM: Oh, 10, 11. (AA: Oh my God.) TM: 12, something like that. (AA: That's amazing.) PM: And Tyler's here to show you the Walkalong. (Applause) TM: All right. You all got a couple of these in your gift bags, and one of the first things, the production version seemed to dive a little bit, and so I would just suggest you bend the wing tips up a little bit before you try flying it. I'll give you a demonstration of how it works. The idea is that it soars on the lift over your body, like a seagull soaring on a cliff. As the wind comes up, it has to go over the cliff, so as you walk through the air, it goes around your body, some has to go over you. And so you just keep the glider positioned in that up current. The launch is the difficult part: you've got to hold it high up, over your head, and you start walking forward, and just let go of it, and you can control it like that. (Laughter) And then also, like it said in the video, you can turn it left or right just by putting the lift under one wing or another. So I can do it — oops, that was going to be a right turn. (Laughter) Okay, this one will be a left turn. Here, but — (Applause) — anyway. (Applause) And that's it, so you can just control it, wherever you want, and it's just hours of fun. And these are no longer in production, so you have real collector's items. (Laughter) And this, we just wanted to show you — if we can get the video running on this, yeah — just an example of a little video surveillance. (Laughter) This was flying around in the party last night, and — (Laughter) — you can see how it just can fly around, and you can spy on anybody you want. (Laughter) And that's it. I was going to bring an airplane, but I was worried about hitting people in here, so I thought this would be a little bit more gentle. And that's it, yeah, just a few inventions. (Applause) All right."	大部分的人因為人力飛機而認識我，但那只是讓我進行現在這工作的起因而已。小時候，我很喜歡飛機模型，撲翼飛機、旋翼機、直昇機、滑翔機、螺旋槳飛機，室內的模型、室外的模型 — 包含這一切，對我來說真的很好玩，但疑惑著為什麼大部分其他人不喜歡和我一起玩這些。之後接受海軍的飛機駕駛訓練，在大學畢業後，我開始駕駛滑翔機和螺旋槳飛機，滑翔機對我來說只是一種嗜好和娛樂，但是我遇到了一些很棒的教授們，他們說服我和其他在這領域的人們，關於滑翔機是用來深入了解科學理論的好方法。 與此同時，我正在學習改變天氣的領域，雖然後來在航空學取得博士學位。起初是學習改變天氣這個題目，當我還是碩士生的時候，我藉由搭便車的方式，在東岸到處去聽演講，藉此和很多人聊天，但是這個領域的每個專家都彼此討厭著對方，他們是互不交流的。結果呢，我在這個領域變成獨創一格的背景，接著成立了一家公司，對於改變天氣的研究，做得比任何人都還要多，但是有許多方面的東西我無法深入去了解。但之後在1971年成立了AeroVironment這家公司, 從沒有員工開始 —之後變為一個、兩個、三個，算是在摸索前進，試著找到有趣的案子。我們有一些空氣動力學家，他們和我一樣，不喜歡在飛機製造公司裡工作進行那種歷時許多年的大案子，所以我們只做自己的小案子，於是公司緩慢成長。 在 1976 年時，出現了一件令人興奮的事情，我突然對人力飛機感到興趣，因為我貸款10萬美金來借給一個朋友，或該說我在銀行幫他當保人。他需要一筆錢來成立一家公司。那家公司並不賺錢，結果他還不出錢，因為我是保證人，所以我背負了10萬美金的債務，我注意到 Kramer 的人力飛機比賽獎金，那在當時已經持續進行了 17 年，那筆獎金有 5 萬英鎊，換算起來，大概差不多就是 10 萬美金。 於是，我突然被人力飛機給吸引了。(笑聲)然而並不如我一開始接觸時所想，我以為跟製造飛機一樣，就像他們在英國做的一樣，結果沒有成功，我放棄了，我發現這並沒有簡單的捷徑，接著跑去度個假，順便學習鳥怎麼飛，這純粹只是好玩，你看著一隻鳥在天空盤旋飛行，然後量時間，估算轉彎的角度，就立刻可以算出飛行速度，以及迴轉半徑等等，這是我度假時，在路上開車時所做的事。(笑聲)還有我三個年輕兒子們協助我做這些事，但他們也覺得這件事挺搞笑的。 但因此開始思考鳥類如何飛行，以及飛機 — 懸式滑翔機如何飛行的，以及其他的飛機怎麼飛，於是，戈薩默‧康德爾號的概念很快出現了，相當合乎邏輯，早該想到才對，不過之前沒想到，另外必須要將重量壓低。它的重量是70磅，不過尺寸要放大一點，像是懸式滑翔翼，長度寬約三倍，繩索用量也多三倍，速度大概會下降到1/3，動力也下降到1/3，於是一個好的單車手就可以提供足夠的能量，結果成功了，一年之後我們贏得了那筆獎金。 我們進行了很多次的飛行實驗，失敗了很多次，其中一次成功了，於是那一台飛機被改良得越來越好。然後找了一個好駕駛，Brian Allen，來操縱它，最後終於成功了，但是很不幸地，大概有6萬5千美元花在這個計畫上。 (笑聲) 大概只有3萬美元用來償還債務。不過幸好，Henry Kramer，這位舉辦一英哩飛行比賽的人，他又舉辦了另一個比賽，是要飛越英吉利海峽，大約21英哩，他認為18年之後才會有人贏得獎金。我們知道，如果把戈薩默‧康德爾號重量壓低一點，飛行需要的動力就會下降一點，如果能把動力需求下降一點，駕駛就可以讓它飛行更久一點的時間。於是 Brian Allen成功地進行了一項驚人的飛行，將戈薩默‧康德爾號飛越了英吉利海峽，於是我們贏得了10萬英鎊，約20萬美金的獎金，然後扣除花費之後，債務問題就被解決了，一切都很順利。之後我們將這架飛機捐給博物館，這比用來償還債務有價值多了，之後5～6年之間，我只需要支付三分之一的所得稅。所以這個計畫有個相當好的經濟利益，不過 —(笑聲) 這並不是 — 嗯，這個計畫原本只是為了經濟因素才進行的，在這之後，我們不再進行任何關於人力飛機的飛行。(笑聲)因為沒有任何獎金了，(笑聲)不過這確實讓我開始思考一些事情，於是，我們開始製造太陽能飛機，因為我們覺得太陽能對於我國以及全世界將會變得很重要，我們不希望政府提供的那筆小額資金減少，政府一直想減少資助金額，我們不認為太陽能飛機會真的有用，但是可以試試看，因為太陽能會替我們打知名度，而且說不定對這個領域有所貢獻。於是這個計畫持續進行，也成功了，之後我們進行了其它像是飛機製造，結構問題以及地面儀器的一些計畫。 但在這些進行的同時，我在 1982 年獲得了Lindbergh基金會的獎 —他們的年度獎項 —我必須準備一篇論文來發表，當我整理我的一些想法，以及這幾年來感興趣的題目。這是一個機會，讓我專注於我真正應該要追尋的，這很重要。令我驚訝的是，我發覺環境問題的重要性，這是 Charles Lindbergh 投入最後 1/3 人生進行的事，所以對我而言，準備這篇論文是件好事。我想著，如果我是一個星際旅者，每隔 5 千年會來參訪地球一次，在幾千次的參訪中，我每次看見的都一樣，地球幾乎沒什麼改變。 但是最近這一次，來到地球時，就是現在，突然環境有了很大的變化，因為人類數量遽增，這很不可思議，這個數量 — 這麼大的變化。我希望 — 嗯，其中最大的變化是，在 2 百年之前，我們開始使用地底下的煤礦，那會帶來大量的污染，在 1 百年前，開始使用地底下的汽油，也帶來大量污染，接著汽油或相關產品的耗用量 —也將在十年內接近極限，然後被用光，我們將不知道交通會變成什麼樣。 我想展示一張投影片 —這張投影片，我想，是你曾看過最重要的一張，因為(笑聲)(掌聲)這顯示從 1850 到 2050 年間，自然和人類的關係，然後，2000 年的時候，看看那邊，這是空中和地上脊椎動物的重量。人類、麝鼠、長頸鹿和鳥類等等都是。這個向上的紅線，是人類、家畜和寵物的部分。這個向下的綠線，是野生自然的部分。人類、家畜和寵物的重量，現在，佔了地上和空中所有脊椎動物 98% 的比例。然而你不知道未來會持續多久，但這比例不會往下降。在 1 萬年前，人類、家畜和寵物們甚至佔不到千分之1，在這個曲線上根本看不見，現在已經達到 98%了，我想這表示人類主宰了地球。 我每年都會對一些卓越的高中生進行演講，當他們問完問題之後，我會問他們問題，之後我再進行演講。於是，我問了他們這些問題，地球上的人口有多少？當你為人父母時，地球上的人口會變成多少？這是我不曾認真 — 他們不曾認真思考的問題。不過現在，他們正在想。接著，地球的人口到何時會到達平衡點？然後一直持續到2050、2100或2150年？接著他們組成小組，互相進行辯論，兩個小時後，我要離開時，大部分的人說，大約會有 20 億的人口，他們不知道該如何讓人口少於 20 億，我也不知道，不過我想他們是對的，這是很嚴重的問題。 Rachel Carson 曾經想過這些事情，於是有了沈寂的春天(Silent Spring)這本書的出現。德國也有 Hermann Scheer 所寫的太陽的宣言(Solar Manifesto)這本書，宣稱地球上所有國家所需的能源都可以從太陽能或水力等發電方式來提供，你不需要再去挖掘這些化學物質(石油、燃煤)，我們可以做一些更有效率的事情。接著看下一張投影片。這張是總結，「經歷了數十億年，在這個獨特的星球上，偶然間畫上了淡淡的生命色彩，各種複雜的、可能的、奇妙的和精細的生命。 突然之間，我們人類，最近才出現的物種，不再隸屬於被自然間原生物種所抑制或制衡的物種，開始在人口、技術與智慧上發展，到達具有可怕力量的地位。現在我們正掌握著那把畫筆。」我們是主宰者。這是很可怕的事情。我每隔 20 或 25 年會畫一次畫。這是最後一次了，(笑聲)這是地球，在右邊用三葉蟲、恐龍以及其他生物作為一種時間的標示，而在這三角形之上，我們有著現代文明，以及電視，還有塞車之類的東西。我不知道在這之後會有什麼出現，所以我用機械蟑螂和自然的蟑螂代表未來，用來當作一種警訊，在畫完這張圖兩週後，我們公司 AeroVironment 確實收到了我們第一個案子的合約書，製作機械蟑螂，這倒是嚇了我一跳。 (笑聲)(紙張摩擦聲) 好了，這是所有的投影片了，我們 —隨著時間經過，我們停止了我們環保的計畫，我們更加針對關於未來真正嚴重的能源問題，我們開始替這家公司製造一些產品，我們開發出撞擊測試車，這讓通用汽車製造出 EV1 —並且讓空氣資源局制訂出規範，這刺激了電動車的發展，不過這些測試車後來都被拆掉了，之後我們作了許多測試，例如小型無人飛機之類的。我做了一架太陽神號 — 我們來看今天的第一段影片 — 解說員：它的翅膀長達247英尺，這比波音747還要更長。 (音樂聲) 它的細部與架構設計，讓它擁有足夠的彈性與韌性去面對大氣層中的亂流。這讓它在海洋上空飛行時可以輕易乘著氣流滑行。 Paul Macready：那對翅膀即使在上方接觸都不會斷，我們覺得啦。 (笑聲) 解說員：太陽神號現在正在將它的背部轉向太陽，讓太陽能板能夠產生最大的能量。 (音樂聲)當夜晚來臨時，氣溫下降至華氏零下100度，太陽神號的旅程並不會因為環境改變有任何影響，只有特殊設計的資料紀錄系統與輔助感應器所記錄的資料會改變。抵達海拔96863英尺高度，在下午4:12，太陽神號正站在大氣層上緣98%的高度位置。這已經比之前SR-71黑鳥所創下的世界紀錄還要高出10000英尺高。 (掌聲) PM：這架飛機有許多的功用，不過它主要用於通訊，它可以保持在65000英尺高空慢慢飛行，它可以連續六個月不分晝夜的飛行，就像是一個同步衛星一樣，只是高度只在地表10英哩處。接著看下一段影片，這是另一類飛機。 解說員：一架小型飛機，AV Pointer，正在進行監視任務，事實上，是用那一對巡迴的眼鏡，讓操作員在車輛上遙控時，能夠用這小東西去看見前線的狀況。攜帶方便，容易組裝，手動升空。因為用電池動力，所以很安靜，不容易被發現。它可以傳回高解析度的影像照片給操作員。只要加裝GPS，它就可以自動巡航，它的結構強韌，即使掉落也不會損壞。 PM：好了，我們看看下一段 — (掌聲) 這架飛機現在很廣泛的被陸軍用於任務之中。我們接著看下一段影片。 (音樂聲) Alan Alda：他辦到了，他辦到了，他讓它保持在頭上。 (音樂聲) 最後 Paul MacCready 的兒子 Tyler，他在25年前曾經和兩個兄弟協助製造戈薩默‧康德爾號，他的飛行表演將作為今晚的總結。 Tyler Macready：你可以追著它跑幾個小時，像這樣。 AA：當他們對老爸的案子厭倦時，他們靠自己發明了一架特別的飛機。 TM：我可以藉由對某一邊或另一邊的翅膀施以上升氣流，來控制它。 AA：他們稱這個叫陪你散步的滑翔機。 (音樂聲) 我從來都沒看過任何類似的東西。你幾歲時發明這個的？ TM：喔，10、11 — ( AA：我的天啊。) TM：12歲左右吧。( AA：真是不可思議。) PM：今天 Tyler 來到現場為大家示範它的玩法。 (掌聲) TM：好的。你們的贈品袋裡應該都有一架這個，首先呢 —量產的版本這邊有點朝下，所以我建議大家在試飛之前先把翅膀兩端往上折一點點。我示範一下要怎麼玩，它的原理是靠你身體旁邊的上升氣流來飛行，就像海鷗在懸崖邊飛行一樣。當風靠近懸崖時，它會往上吹，所以當你走路時，空氣會在你身旁流過，有些會從你上方流過。所以你只是要讓滑翔機的位置保持在這些向上的氣流中。起飛是比較困難的部分，你要把它放在高過頭頂的位置，然後你開始往前走，放開手，接著你就可以這樣控制它。 (笑聲) 另外，像影片中所說，你可以讓它左轉或右轉，只要在一邊或另一邊翅膀下面稍微提高一點，所以我可以這樣 — 唉啊，我本來要右轉的。 (笑聲) 好，接下來是左轉。像這樣，不過 ...(掌聲)無論如何 —(掌聲)就這樣，你可以隨心所欲去控制它，可以玩上幾個小時，另外這些已經停止量產了，所以你們拿到的是珍藏版。 (笑聲) 還有，我們想讓大家看看這個 —如果上面裝一台攝影機的話，只是一個示範影片 — 一個小型攝影監視器。 (笑聲) 這東西昨晚在舞會上飛來飛去 —(笑聲)如你所見它可以到處飛，你可以偷看任何人。 (笑聲) 就是這樣。我本來打算帶一台飛機來，不過我擔心會撞到人，所以我想這個可能會比較安全一點。就是這樣，嗯，一些新發明。(掌聲)謝謝。
