Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_knoepfler_the_ethical_dilemma_of_designer_babies	"So what if I could make for you a designer baby? What if you as a parent-to-be and I as a scientist decided to go down that road together? What if we didn't? What if we thought, ""That's a bad idea,"" but many of our family, friends and coworkers did make that decision? Let's fast-forward just 15 years from now. Let's pretend it's the year 2030, and you're a parent. You have your daughter, Marianne, next to you, and in 2030, she is what we call a natural because she has no genetic modifications. And because you and your partner consciously made that decision, many in your social circle, they kind of look down on you. They think you're, like, a Luddite or a technophobe. Marianne's best friend Jenna, who lives right next door, is a very different story. She was born a genetically modified designer baby with numerous upgrades. Yeah. Upgrades. And these enhancements were introduced using a new genetic modification technology that goes by the funny name CRISPR, you know, like something's crisp, this is CRISPR. The scientist that Jenna's parents hired to do this for several million dollars introduced CRISPR into a whole panel of human embryos. And then they used genetic testing, and they predicted that that little tiny embryo, Jenna's embryo, would be the best of the bunch. And now, Jenna is an actual, real person. She's sitting on the carpet in your living room playing with your daughter Marianne. And your families have known each other for years now, and it's become very clear to you that Jenna is extraordinary. She's incredibly intelligent. If you're honest with yourself, she's smarter than you, and she's five years old. She's beautiful, tall, athletic, and the list goes on and on. And in fact, there's a whole new generation of these GM kids like Jenna. And so far it looks like they're healthier than their parents' generation, than your generation. And they have lower health care costs. They're immune to a host of health conditions, including HIV/AIDS and genetic diseases. It all sounds so great, but you can't help but have this sort of unsettling feeling, a gut feeling, that there's something just not quite right about Jenna, and you've had the same feeling about other GM kids that you've met. You were also reading in the newspaper earlier this week that a study of these children who were born as designer babies indicates they may have some issues, like increased aggressiveness and narcissism. But more immediately on your mind is some news that you just got from Jenna's family. She's so smart, she's now going to be going to a special school, a different school than your daughter Marianne, and this is kind of throwing your family into a disarray. Marianne's been crying, and last night when you took her to bed to kiss her goodnight, she said, ""Daddy, will Jenna even be my friend anymore?"" So now, as I've been telling you this imagined 2030 story, I have a feeling that I may have put some of you into this sci-fi frame of reference. Right? You think you're reading a sci-fi book. Or maybe, like, in Halloween mode of thinking. But this is really a possible reality for us, just 15 years from now. I'm a stem cell and genetics researcher and I can see this new CRISPR technology and its potential impact. And we may find ourselves in that reality, and a lot will depend on what we decide to do today. And if you're still kind of thinking in sci-fi mode, consider that the world of science had a huge shock earlier this year, and the public largely doesn't even know about it. Researchers in China just a few months ago reported the creation of genetically modified human embryos. This was the first time in history. And they did it using this new CRISPR technology. It didn't work perfectly, but I still think they sort of cracked the door ajar on a Pandora's box here. And I think some people are going to run with this technology and try to make designer babies. Now, before I go on, some of you may hold up your hands and say, ""Stop, Paul, wait a minute. Wouldn't that be illegal? You can't just go off and create a designer baby."" And in fact, to some extent, you're right. In some countries, you couldn't do that. But in many other countries, including my country, the US, there's actually no law on this, so in theory, you could do it. And there was another development this year that resonates in this area, and that happened not so far from here over in the UK. And the UK traditionally has been the strictest country when it comes to human genetic modification. It was illegal there, but just a few months ago, they carved out an exception to that rule. They passed a new law allowing the creation of genetically modified humans with the noble goal of trying to prevent a rare kind of genetic disease. But still I think in combination these events are pushing us further towards an acceptance of human genetic modification. So I've been talking about this CRISPR technology. What actually is CRISPR? So if you think about the GMOs that we're all more familiar with, like GMO tomatoes and wheat and things like that, this technology is similar to the technologies that were used to make those, but it's dramatically better, cheaper and faster. So what is it? It's actually like a genetic Swiss army knife. We can pretend this is a Swiss army knife with different tools in it, and one of the tools is kind of like a magnifying glass or a GPS for our DNA, so it can home in on a certain spot. And the next tool is like scissors that can cut the DNA right in that spot. And finally we have a pen where we can literally rewrite the genetic code in that location. It's really that simple. And this technology, which came on the scene just three years ago, has taken science by storm. It's evolving so fast, and it's so freaking exciting to scientists, and I admit I'm fascinated by it and we use it in my own lab, that I think someone is going to go that extra step and continue the GM human embryo work and maybe make designer babies. This is so ubiquitous now. It just came on the scene three years ago. Thousands of labs literally have this in hand today, and they're doing important research. Most of them are not interested in designer babies. They're studying human disease and other important elements of science. So there's a lot of good research going on with CRISPR. And the fact that we can now do genetic modifications that used to take years and cost millions of dollars in a few weeks for a couple thousand bucks, to me as a scientist that's fantastic, but again, at the same time, it opens the door to people going too far. And I think for some people the focus is not going to be so much on science. That's not what's going to be driving them. It's going to be ideology or the chase for a profit. And they're going to go for designer babies. So why should we be concerned about this? We know from Darwin, if we go back two centuries, that evolution and genetics profoundly have impacted humanity, who we are today. And some think there's like a social Darwinism at work in our world, and maybe even a eugenics as well. Imagine those trends, those forces, with a booster rocket of this CRISPR technology that is so powerful and so ubiquitous. And in fact, we can just go back one century to the last century to see the power that eugenics can have. So my father, Peter Knoepfler, was actually born right here in Vienna. He was Viennese, and he was born here in 1929. And when my grandparents had little baby Peter, the world was very different. Right? It was a different Vienna. The United States was different. The world was different. There was a eugenics rising, and my grandparents realized, pretty quickly I think, that they were on the wrong side of the eugenics equation. And so despite this being their home and their whole extended family's home, and this area being their family's home for generations, they decided because of eugenics that they had to leave. And they survived, but they were heartbroken, and I'm not sure my dad ever really got over leaving Vienna. He left when he was just eight years old in 1938. So today, I see a new eugenics kind of bubbling to the surface. It's supposed to be a kinder, gentler, positive eugenics, different than all that past stuff. But I think even though it's focused on trying to improve people, it could have negative consequences, and it really worries me that some of the top proponents of this new eugenics, they think CRISPR is the ticket to make it happen. So I have to admit, you know, eugenics, we talk about making better people. It's a tough question. What is better when we're talking about a human being? But I admit I think maybe a lot of us could agree that human beings, maybe we could use a little betterment. Look at our politicians here, you know, back in the US — God forbid we go there right now. Maybe even if we just look in the mirror, there might be ways we think we could be better. I might wish, honestly, that I had more hair here, instead of baldness. Some people might wish they were taller, have a different weight, a different face. If we could do those things, we could make those things happen, or we could make them happen in our children, it would be very seductive. And yet coming with it would be these risks. I talked about eugenics, but there would be risks to individuals as well. So if we forget about enhancing people and we just try to make them healthier using genetic modification, this technology is so new and so powerful, that by accident we could make them sicker. That easily could happen. And there's another risk, and that is that all of the legitimate, important genetic modification research going on just in the lab — again, no interest in designer babies — a few people going the designer baby route, things go badly, that entire field could be damaged. I also think it's not that unlikely that governments might start taking an interest in genetic modification. So for example our imagined GM Jenna child who is healthier, if there's a generation that looks like they have lower health care costs, it's possible that governments may start trying to compel their citizens to go the GM route. Look at China's one-child policy. It's thought that that prevented the birth of 400 million human beings. So it's not beyond the realm of possible that genetic modification could be something that governments push. And if designer babies become popular, in our digital age — viral videos, social media — what if designer babies are thought to be fashionable, and they kind of become the new glitterati, the new Kardashians or something? (Laughter) You know, are those trends that we really could control? I'm not convinced that we could. So again, today it's Halloween and when we talk about genetic modification, there's one Halloween-associated character that is talked about or invoked more than anything else, and that is Frankenstein. Mostly that's been Frankenfoods and all this other stuff. But if we think about this now and we think about it in the human context on a day like Halloween, if parents can in essence costume their children genetically, are we going to be talking about a Frankenstein 2.0 kind of situation? I don't think so. I don't think it's going to get to that extreme. But when we are going about hacking the human code, I think all bets are off in terms of what might come of that. There would still be dangers. And we can look in the past to other elements of transformative science and see how they can basically go out of control and permeate society. So I'll just give you one example, and that is in vitro fertilization. Almost exactly 40 years ago, test tube baby number one Louise Brown was born, and that's a great thing, and I think since then five million IVF babies have been born, bringing immeasurable happiness. A lot of parents now can love those kids. But if you think about it, in four decades, five million babies being born from a new technology is pretty remarkable, and the same kind of thing could happen with human genetic modification and designer babies. So depending on the decisions we make in the next few months, the next year or so, if designer baby number one is born, within a few decades, there could well be millions of genetically modified humans. And there's a difference there too, because if we, you in the audience, or I, if we decide to have a designer baby, then their children will also be genetically modified, and so on, because it's heritable. So that's a big difference. So with all of this in mind, what should we do? There's actually going to be a meeting a month from tomorrow in Washington, D.C. by the US National Academy of Sciences to tackle that exact question. What is the right path forward with human genetic modification? I believe at this time we need a moratorium. We have to ban this. We should not allow creating genetically modified people, because it's just too dangerous and too unpredictable. But there's a lot of people — (Applause) Thanks. (Applause) And let me say, just as a scientist, it's a little bit scary for me to say that in public, because science generally doesn't like self-regulation and things like that. So I think we need to put a hold on this, but there are many people who not only disagree with me, they feel the exact opposite. They're like, step on the gas, full speed ahead, let's make designer babies. And so in the meeting in December and other meetings that are likely to follow in the next few months, it's very possible there may be no moratorium. And I think part of the problem that we have is that all of this trend, this revolution in genetic modification applying to humans, the public hasn't known about it. Nobody has been saying, look, this is a big deal, this is a revolution, and this could affect you in very personal ways. And so part of my goal is actually to change that and to educate and engage with the public and get you guys talking about this. And so I hope at these meetings that there will be a role for the public to bring their voice to bear as well. So if we kind of circle back now to 2030 again, that imagined story, and depending on the decisions we make, again, today — literally we don't have a lot of time — in the next few months, the next year or so, because this technology is spreading like wildfire. Let's pretend we're back in that reality. We're at a park, and our kid is swinging on the swing. Is that kid a regular old kid, or did we decide to have a designer baby? And let's say we went the sort of traditional route, and there's our kid swinging on the swing, and frankly, they're kind of a mess. Their hair is all over the place like mine. They have a stuffy nose. They're not the best student in the world. They're adorable, you love them, but there on the swing next to them, their best friend is a GM kid, and the two of them are kind of swinging like this, and you can't help but compare them, right? And the GM kid is swinging higher, they look better, they're a better student, they don't have that stuffy nose you need to wipe. How is that going to make you feel and what decision might you make next time? Thank you. (Applause)"	如果我可以幫你做出一個訂製嬰兒，那會發生甚麼事？要是身為父母的你，與身為科學家的我決定一起合作完成呢？ 要是我們沒這樣做呢？如果我們認為「訂製寶寶不對」，但我們的家人、朋友、同仁很多人卻做了那個決定，那又會如何呢？ 讓我們快進到 15 年之後，假設現在是 2030 年，你已經為人父母，坐在你旁邊的是你女兒，瑪麗安，2030年，我們稱她為自然人因為她沒有被基因改造過，而因為你和你的另一半所做的決定，使你在很多社交場合中，讓人有點瞧不起你。他們認為你是個反對新科技或排斥科技產品的人。 你女兒最好的朋友珍娜，就住在你家隔壁，完全是另一回事。她是一個基因改造寶寶，而且升級了很多功能。是的，升級。而這些改造，是經由一種全新的基因改造技術所完成，它有一個好笑的名稱，叫做「CRISPR」，有點像脆薯的感覺，這是 CRISPR 。珍娜父母親聘請科學家來做這件事情需要花他們數百萬美元，因為他們要在一整盤的胚胎上使用 CRISPR 技術，且之後還要進行基因檢測，並確定篩選出來的小胚胎，珍娜的胚胎，會是當中最棒的一個。現在，珍娜長大了，她坐在你家客廳的地毯上，跟你女兒瑪麗安一起玩。你們雙方家庭認識好幾年了，你們都很清楚，珍娜相當優秀。她聰明絕頂。如果你夠自覺的話，她的確比你聰明，而且她才五歲。她長得很漂亮、身材高挑，又有運動細胞，還有一大堆說不完的優點。實際上，到時候整個世代會像珍娜一樣，都是基改小孩。到時候，他們看起來似乎比他們父母那個世代的人更健康，比你這個世代的人更健康。而且他們的醫療照顧成本也比較低，他們在健康條件方面，對疾病是免疫的，包括愛滋病及其它基因上的疾病。 聽起來相當完美，但你難免會有一種不安的感覺。一種覺得珍娜好像不太對勁的直覺，而且你對其他你遇到的基改小孩都有同樣的感受。那個禮拜稍早，你讀到了一篇新聞，一篇有關於基因改造小孩的研究，研究指出他們可能有一些狀況了，像是越來越好鬥、自戀。但你腦袋立刻想到的是...你從珍娜家人那邊聽到的事情。珍娜很聰明，她準備上特殊學校，不同於你女兒的學校，這件事讓你的家人陷入一場混亂。瑪麗安一直哭，昨晚妳跟女兒在床上道晚安時，她問你：「爸爸，珍娜不會再跟我做朋友了嗎？」 雖然，我現在說的是2030年想像出來的場景，我在想，各位是不是覺得我所說的像是一種科幻情節，對吧？一種好像在讀科幻小說一樣的感覺。或者，像是萬聖節前夕的場景。但從現在起15年內，以上是真的有可能發生的。 我是一位幹細胞基因研究人員，我已經可以看到 CRISPR 這項新技術它潛在的引響力。而我們人類也許可以在那個實境當中找到自己，而這取決於我們今天所做的決定。如果你還在想，這有點科幻，思考一下今年稍早科學界發生的重大事件，大部分的人都不知道這件事，幾個月前，中國的研究人員，發表了他們已經創造出人類基改胚胎。這是史上第一次。他們就是運用 CRISPR 這項技術。雖然做得不怎麼完美，但我在想，他們已經掀開了潘朵拉盒的秘密了。我認為已經有人要用這項技術嘗試做出訂製嬰兒。 在我繼續說明之前，你們有些人可能會想舉手說，「停，保羅，等一下...這不是不合法的嗎？你不能不管法律，執意要做這件事吧？」沒錯，在某種程度上，你是對的。有些國家，你確實不能做。但有很多國家，包括我的國家，美國，實際上根本都還沒有相關的法律規範，所以理論上，你可以做。今年，在這個領域有另外一個重要的事件發生，這件事就發生在離這兒不遠的英國。英國傳統上是個非常嚴謹的國家，一旦涉及到有關人類的基改問題，在英國，是不合法的，但就在幾個月前，他們在這條規則上增訂了一條豁免條款。他們通過了一條新的法律，有條件允許製造基改人類，只要你有預防類似罕見基因疾病這樣的崇高目的。但我依然認為，這些綜合事件，目的都是要強迫我們接受人類的基因改造。 我一直在談 CRISPR 技術。那 CRISPR 到底是甚麼？如果你想像一下我們都孰悉的基改生物，像是基改的番茄、小麥，等等類似的東西，這項技術的原理就跟我們製造基改食物的技術類似，但它表現得更好，更便宜、更快速。 那它的原理是甚麼？它有點像是瑞士基因軍用刀。我們假裝它就是瑞士軍用刀，裡面有各種不同的工具，其中一個工具像是放大鏡，或是說我們 DNA 的導航器，它可以導引到某個特定的 DNA 位置片段。下一個工具像是一把剪刀，它可以準確地把該位置的DNA 片段剪下來。最後，我們會有一隻筆，我們完全可以在截斷點處重新編寫基因碼。真的就這麼簡單。 這項科技，才剛誕生三年，但已經造成科學界的轟動。它演化地相當快，科學家們都相當興奮，我承認我對這項技術也很著迷，我們也會在自己的實驗室裡使用它，所以我認為已經有人要跨出下一步了，並開始進行人類胚胎的基因改造工程了，且很有可能會製造出訂製嬰兒。類似的現象到處都是，而這只不過才三年的時間，已經有好幾千個實驗室掌握了這項技術，他們已經開始進行重要的研究。他們大部分的人對訂製嬰兒並不感到興趣。他們研究人類的疾病，以及其它重要的科學議題。所以，已經有很多、很棒的有關 CRISPR 技術方面的應用。實際上，我們現在已經可以把過去要花好幾年、好幾百萬的基改工程，減少到只要花幾個禮拜、幾千美金就能辦到，對我這樣的科學家而言，這真的太神奇了，但，與此同時，這項技術也會讓人走火入魔。我認為有些人，並不會把焦點放在科學研究上，那些不是驅動他們的原因。驅使他們的會是意識形態或者想賺大錢。他們只對訂製嬰兒感興趣。 那麼，我們為什麼要在意這件事情？回到兩個世紀前，從達爾文年代開始，我們就知道演化及基因學深深地引響著人類，並造就出我們現在的世界。有些人認為，我們的世界似乎是由社會達爾文主義運作，甚至也許有優生學主義在影響著這個世界。想像一下這些趨勢、這股勢力加上了 CRISPR 這個無所不在、強大的技術會變成怎樣。實際上，我們只要回到上個世紀，就能看到優生學帶來了甚麼影響。 我的父親，彼得納佛勒，就出生在維也納。他是維也納人，1929年在這出生的。當我的爺爺有了我爸爸小彼得，世界又變了樣了，對吧？維也納變不一樣了。美國也變不一樣了。世界變不一樣了。當時優生學正在興起，我想我爺爺應該很快就明白，在優生學方面，他們選錯邊站了。所以除了他們的家人，還有整個親戚家族，都被優生學主義影響了好幾世代，因為優生學，他們必須選擇離開家鄉。他們存活下來了，但他們心也碎了，我不確定我爸是不是真的想離開維也納。1938年，他當時才 8 歲。 今日，我看到一個新的優生學正浮出檯面。它必須是個仁慈、溫和正面的優生學，一個不同於以往的優生學。但我認為即使我們把重點擺在改進人類，很可能也會造成負面的結果，我真的很擔心，有一些支持新優生學主義的頂尖人士認為，CRISPR 技術就是他們訂製嬰兒的入門票。 所以，我必須承認，各位知道，我們談的優生學只是要讓人變好。這是個很難回答的問題，一提到人類，哪些才是對人類比較好的？我承認，我們大部分的人應該都會同意我們可以做一些小改善。看一下我們的政治人物，這邊的、美國的——上帝目前禁止我們這樣做。或許如果我們面對著鏡子裡的自己，我們都會希望有可以讓自己更好看一點的方法。我可能會希望，老實說，我會希望這邊頭髮多點，不要禿頭。有些人會希望可以再高一些，有個適當的體重、不同的臉蛋。如果我們要做這些事，我們就一定能辦到，或者讓我們的孩子擁有這些優點，這樣真的會很吸引人。但這也伴隨了風險。我談論的優生學，對個人而言可能也會造成風險。先不談改進人類的議題，就只是嘗試著用基因改造來讓人類更健康這件事，這項技術這麼的新、這麼的強而有力，一旦發生意外，我們可能會更容易生病。這是很有可能會發生的。還有另外一個風險，就是所有合法、重要的基改研究只能在實驗室進行——我再強調一次，他們對訂製嬰兒沒興趣——少數人鑽進訂製嬰兒這條路，只會讓事情變糟，整個產業可能會被摧毀掉。 我也認為政府不太可能不對基因改造有興趣。比如，我們想像的基改小孩珍娜，她是比較健康的，如果可以降低一個世代的醫療照顧成本，那政府很有可能會強制他們的市民走向基改這條路。看一下中國的一胎政策。他們限制了將近四億人口的出生。所以極有可能基改工程是由政府來推動的。一旦訂製嬰兒變成流行的代名詞，在我們這個數位年代——病毒式影片，社群媒體——要是訂製嬰兒被認為是跟得上流行的腳步，一旦他們變成了新世代的社會名流，下一個卡戴珊之類的 （笑聲） 這樣的趨勢我們真能掌控嗎？我不覺得我們有辦法掌控。 我再說一遍，這件事現在看起來像萬聖節前夕，而當我們在談論基因改造時，還有一個萬聖節前夕相關的字眼，而且常常被人提到的，就是「自掘墳墓」。像是基因改造食品這樣被很多人懷疑的東西等等，但如果我們現在好好思考，想像人類有這麼一天，比如像是聖誕夜前夕的情節，如果父母已經可以訂製他們的基改小孩，我們現在談論的會不會就是人類「自掘墳墓2.0版本」的情節？我想應該不至於會走到那樣極端的地步。但一旦我們準備開始竄改人類的基因編碼，進了賭場，就一番兩瞪眼了。還是很危險的。我們可以回顧一下歷史，仔細觀察科技變革所帶來的影響，並看看它們是如何失去控制並瀰漫到整個社會的。 我就給各位舉個例子，人工授精。大約在 40 年前，史上第一個試管嬰兒路易斯布朗誕生了，這是一件很偉大的事，我在想在那之後，大約有500萬個試管嬰兒誕生，帶來了無限的幸福，讓很多雙親都可以享天倫之樂。但如果你仔細想想，才40年的時間，新科技就為我們帶來了 500 萬個寶寶，真的很了不起，同樣的狀況也有可能在基改人類與訂製嬰兒上發生。接下來幾個月或幾年的變化，都取決於我們今日所做的決定，如果第一個訂製嬰兒出生，只要幾十年的時間，可能就有上百萬的基改人類誕生。但這有點差別，因為如果我們、台下的你或者是我...如果我們都決定要訂製嬰兒，他們的後代也會被基因改造，一代接一代...因為它會一直遺傳下去，這就大不同了。 所以仔細想想，我們該怎麼做？實際上，從明天開始，下一個月在華盛頓哥倫比亞特區有一場會議，這場會議是由美國國家科學院舉辦，會議主旨就是要解決這些問題。人類的基因改造之路應該怎麼走才是正確的？我相信在這個節骨眼，我們需要再緩一緩。我們必須先禁止會議的進行。我們不應該允許基改人類的誕生，因為太危險、太無法預測了。但，有很多人—— （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲） 說真的，身為一位科學家，我實在有點害怕在大眾面前講出這件事，因為科學的發展普遍都不會自我設限或自我規範之類的。所以，我認為基改人類這件事，我們還要再等等，但很多人並不同意我的觀點，他們完全是相反的。他們像是，馬力全開，全力衝刺，讓我們開始製造訂製嬰兒吧！所以，12 月的會議，以及接下來幾個月類似的會議，很有可能我們再也沒有機會可以延緩了。我認為這個問題的部分原因是這樣的趨勢，在人體上做基因改造的變革，社會大眾根本都不知道有這些事，沒有人站出來說，等等，這是很重大的決定，重大的變革，而這會造成每個人不同程度的影響。所以我其中的目標是希望可以改變這件事，並教育大眾、呼籲大眾邀請所有人一起來討論這件事。所以，我希望在這些會議中，能有大眾參與的空間，讓大眾的聲音也能被聽見。 讓我們回到 2030 年的故事場景，由於我們所做的決定，我再說一遍，今日——基本上我們時間不多了——無論接下來幾個月、幾年...因為這項科技已經像野火般地蔓延開來了。讓我們假裝回到了那個真實的場景，我們在公園裡，我們的孩子正在盪鞦韆。我們的小孩會是正常的小孩？或者，我們決定要一個訂製的小孩呢？又或者，我們選擇了傳統的道路，我們的孩子一樣在盪鞦韆，坦白說，他們很會把自己弄髒，他們的頭髮跟我一樣多，鼻子還留著鼻涕。他們不是世上最好的學生。但他們很可愛，你很愛他們，但隔壁鞦韆上的孩子，他們最好的朋友是一位基改過的孩子，兩個都在盪鞦韆，你會忍不住比較，對吧？基改的小朋友盪得比較高，他們長得比我孩子好看，功課又比他好，你不用擦鼻涕，因為他們不會流鼻涕。你當下會有怎樣的感受？如果再一次，你會做出甚麼樣的決定？ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
