Talk	en	zh-tw
paula_scher_gets_serious	"My work is play. And I play when I design. I even looked it up in the dictionary, to make sure that I actually do that, and the definition of play, number one, was engaging in a childlike activity or endeavor, and number two was gambling. And I realize I do both when I'm designing. I'm both a kid and I'm gambling all the time. And I think that if you're not, there's probably something inherently wrong with the structure or the situation you're in, if you're a designer. But the serious part is what threw me, and I couldn't quite get a handle on it until I remembered an essay. And it's an essay I read 30 years ago. It was written by Russell Baker, who used to write an ""Observer"" column in the New York Times. He's a wonderful humorist. And I'm going to read you this essay, or an excerpt from it because it really hit home for me. Here is a letter of friendly advice. Be serious, it says. What it means, of course, is, be solemn. Being solemn is easy. Being serious is hard. Children almost always begin by being serious, which is what makes them so entertaining when compared with adults as a class. Adults, on the whole, are solemn. In politics, the rare candidate who is serious, like Adlai Stevenson, is easily overwhelmed by one who is solemn, like Eisenhower. That's because it is hard for most people to recognize seriousness, which is rare, but more comfortable to endorse solemnity, which is commonplace. Jogging, which is commonplace, and widely accepted as good for you, is solemn. Poker is serious. Washington, D.C. is solemn. New York is serious. Going to educational conferences to tell you anything about the future is solemn. Taking a long walk by yourself, during which you devise a foolproof scheme for robbing Tiffany's, is serious. (Laughter) Now, when I apply Russell Baker's definition of solemnity or seriousness to design, it doesn't necessarily make any particular point about quality. Solemn design is often important and very effective design. Solemn design is also socially correct, and is accepted by appropriate audiences. It's what right-thinking designers and all the clients are striving for. Serious design, serious play, is something else. For one thing, it often happens spontaneously, intuitively, accidentally or incidentally. It can be achieved out of innocence, or arrogance, or out of selfishness, sometimes out of carelessness. But mostly, it's achieved through all those kind of crazy parts of human behavior that don't really make any sense. Serious design is imperfect. It's filled with the kind of craft laws that come from something being the first of its kind. Serious design is also — often — quite unsuccessful from the solemn point of view. That's because the art of serious play is about invention, change, rebellion — not perfection. Perfection happens during solemn play. Now, I always saw design careers like surreal staircases. If you look at the staircase, you'll see that in your 20s the risers are very high and the steps are very short, and you make huge discoveries. You sort of leap up very quickly in your youth. That's because you don't know anything and you have a lot to learn, and so that anything you do is a learning experience and you're just jumping right up there. As you get older, the risers get shallower and the steps get wider, and you start moving along at a slower pace because you're making fewer discoveries. And as you get older and more decrepit, you sort of inch along on this sort of depressing, long staircase, leading you into oblivion. (Laughter) I find it's actually getting really hard to be serious. I'm hired to be solemn, but I find more and more that I'm solemn when I don't have to be. And in my 35 years of working experience, I think I was really serious four times. And I'm going to show them to you now, because they came out of very specific conditions. It's great to be a kid. Now, when I was in my early 20s, I worked in the record business, designing record covers for CBS Records, and I had no idea what a great job I had. I thought everybody had a job like that. And what — the way I looked at design and the way I looked at the world was, what was going on around me and the things that came at the time I walked into design were the enemy. I really, really, really hated the typeface Helvetica. I thought the typeface Helvetica was the cleanest, most boring, most fascistic, really repressive typeface, and I hated everything that was designed in Helvetica. And when I was in my college days, this was the sort of design that was fashionable and popular. This is actually quite a lovely book jacket by Rudy de Harak, but I just hated it, because it was designed with Helvetica, and I made parodies about it. I just thought it was, you know, completely boring. (Laughter) So — so, my goal in life was to do stuff that wasn't made out of Helvetica. And to do stuff that wasn't made out of Helvetica was actually kind of hard because you had to find it. And there weren't a lot of books about the history of design in the early 70s. There weren't — there wasn't a plethora of design publishing. You actually had to go to antique stores. You had to go to Europe. You had to go places and find the stuff. And what I responded to was, you know, Art Nouveau, or deco, or Victorian typography, or things that were just completely not Helvetica. And I taught myself design this way, and this was sort of my early years, and I used these things in really goofy ways on record covers and in my design. I wasn't educated. I just sort of put these things together. I mixed up Victorian designs with pop, and I mixed up Art Nouveau with something else. And I made these very lush, very elaborate record covers, not because I was being a post-modernist or a historicist — because I didn't know what those things were. I just hated Helvetica. (Laughter) And that kind of passion drove me into very serious play, a kind of play I could never do now because I'm too well-educated. And there's something wonderful about that form of youth, where you can let yourself grow and play, and be really a brat, and then accomplish things. By the end of the '70s, actually, the stuff became known. I mean, these covers appeared all over the world, and they started winning awards, and people knew them. And I was suddenly a post-modernist, and I began a career as — in my own business. And first I was praised for it, then criticized for it, but the fact of the matter was, I had become solemn. I didn't do what I think was a piece of serious work again for about 14 years. I spent most of the '80s being quite solemn, turning out these sorts of designs that I was expected to do because that's who I was, and I was living in this cycle of going from serious to solemn to hackneyed to dead, and getting rediscovered all over again. So, here was the second condition for which I think I accomplished some serious play. There's a Paul Newman movie that I love called ""The Verdict."" I don't know how many of you have seen it, but it's a beaut. And in the movie, he plays a down-and-out lawyer who's become an ambulance chaser. And he's taken on — he's given, actually — a malpractice suit to handle that's sort of an easy deal, and in the midst of trying to connect the deal, he starts to empathize and identify with his client, and he regains his morality and purpose, and he goes on to win the case. And in the depth of despair, in the midst of the movie, when it looks like he can't pull this thing off, and he needs this case, he needs to win this case so badly. There's a shot of Paul Newman alone, in his office, saying, ""This is the case. There are no other cases. This is the case. There are no other cases."" And in that moment of desire and focus, he can win. And that is a wonderful position to be in to create some serious play. And I had that moment in 1994 when I met a theater director named George Wolfe, who was going to have me design an identity for the New York Shakespeare Festival, then known, and then became the Public Theater. And I began getting immersed in this project in a way I never was before. This is what theater advertising looked like at that time. This is what was in the newspapers and in the New York Times. So, this is sort of a comment on the time. And the Public Theater actually had much better advertising than this. They had no logo and no identity, but they had these very iconic posters painted by Paul Davis. And George Wolf had taken over from another director and he wanted to change the theater, and he wanted to make it urban and loud and a place that was inclusive. So, drawing on my love of typography, I immersed myself into this project. And what was different about it was the totality of it, was that I really became the voice, the visual voice, of a place in a way I had never done before, where every aspect — the smallest ad, the ticket, whatever it was — was designed by me. There was no format. There was no in-house department that these things were pushed to. I literally for three years made everything — every scrap of paper, everything online, that this theater did. And it was the only job, even though I was doing other jobs. I lived and breathed it in a way I haven't with a client since. It enabled me to really express myself and grow. And I think that you know when you're going to be given this position, and it's rare, but when you get it and you have this opportunity, it's the moment of serious play. I did these things, and I still do them. I still work for the Public Theater. I'm on their board, and I still am involved with it. The high point of the Public Theater, I think, was in 1996, two years after I designed it, which was the ""Bring in 'da Noise, Bring in 'da Funk"" campaign that was all over New York. But something happened to it, and what happened to it was, it became very popular. And that is a kiss of death for something serious because it makes it solemn. And what happened was that New York City, to a degree, ate my identity because people began to copy it. Here's an ad in the New York Times somebody did for a play called ""Mind Games."" Then ""Chicago"" came out, used similar graphics, and the Public Theater's identity was just totally eaten and taken away, which meant I had to change it. So, I changed it so that every season was different, and I continued to do these posters, but they never had the seriousness of the first identity because they were too individual, and they didn't have that heft of everything being the same thing. Now — and I think since the Public Theater, I must have done more than a dozen cultural identities for major institutions, and I don't think I ever — I ever grasped that seriousness again — I do them for very big, important institutions in New York City. The institutions are solemn, and so is the design. They're better crafted than the Public Theater was, and they spend more money on them, but I think that that moment comes and goes. The best way to accomplish serious design — which I think we all have the opportunity to do — is to be totally and completely unqualified for the job. That doesn't happen very often, but it happened to me in the year 2000, when for some reason or another, a whole pile of different architects started to ask me to design the insides of theaters with them, where I would take environmental graphics and work them into buildings. I'd never done this kind of work before. I didn't know how to read an architectural plan, I didn't know what they were talking about, and I really couldn't handle the fact that a job — a single job — could go on for four years because I was used to immediacy in graphic design, and that kind of attention to detail was really bad for somebody like me, with ADD. So, it was a rough — it was a rough go, but I fell in love with this process of actually integrating graphics into architecture because I didn't know what I was doing. I said, ""Why can't the signage be on the floor?"" New Yorkers look at their feet. And then I found that actors and actresses actually take their cues from the floor, so it turned out that these sorts of sign systems began to make sense. They integrated with the building in really peculiar ways. They ran around corners, they went up sides of buildings, and they melded into the architecture. This is Symphony Space on 90th Street and Broadway, and the type is interwoven into the stainless steel and backlit with fiber optics. And the architect, Jim Polshek, essentially gave me a canvas to play typography out on. And it was serious play. This is the children's museum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, made out of completely inexpensive materials. Extruded typography that's backlit with neon. Things I never did before, built before. I just thought they'd be kind of fun to do. Donors' walls made out of Lucite. And then, inexpensive signage. (Laughter) I think my favorite of these was this little job in Newark, New Jersey. It's a performing arts school. This is the building that — they had no money, and they had to recast it, and they said, if we give you 100,000 dollars, what can you do with it? And I did a little Photoshop job on it, and I said, Well, I think we can paint it. And we did. And it was play. And there's the building. Everything was painted — typography over the whole damn thing, including the air conditioning ducts. I hired guys who paint flats fixed on the sides of garages to do the painting on the building, and they loved it. They got into it — they took the job incredibly seriously. They used to climb up on the building and call me and tell me that they had to correct my typography — that my spacing was wrong, and they moved it, and they did wonderful things with it. They were pretty serious, too. It was quite wonderful. By the time I did Bloomberg's headquarters my work had begun to become accepted. People wanted it in big, expensive places. And that began to make it solemn. Bloomberg was all about numbers, and we did big numbers through the space and the numbers were projected on a spectacular LED that my partner, Lisa Strausfeld, programmed. But it became the end of the seriousness of the play, and it started to, once again, become solemn. This is a current project in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where I got to be goofy. I was invited to design a logo for this neighborhood, called the North Side, and I thought it was silly for a neighborhood to have a logo. I think that's rather creepy, actually. Why would a neighborhood have a logo? A neighborhood has a thing — it's got a landmark, it's got a place, it's got a restaurant. It doesn't have a logo. I mean, what would that be? So I had to actually give a presentation to a city council and neighborhood constituents, and I went to Pittsburgh and I said, ""You know, really what you have here are all these underpasses that separate the neighborhood from the center of town. Why don't you celebrate them, and make the underpasses landmarks?"" So I began doing this crazy presentation of these installations — potential installations — on these underpass bridges, and stood up in front of the city council — and was a little bit scared, I have to admit. But I was so utterly unqualified for this project, and so utterly ridiculous, and ignored the brief so desperately that I think they just embraced it with wholeheartedness, just completely because it was so goofy to begin with. And this is the bridge they're actually painting up and preparing as we speak. It will change every six months, and it will become an art installation in the North Side of Pittsburgh, and it will probably become a landmark in the area. John Hockenberry told you a bit about my travail with Citibank, that is now a 10-year relationship, and I still work with them. And I actually am amused by them and like them, and think that as a very, very, very, very, very big corporation they actually keep their graphics very nice. I drew the logo for Citibank on a napkin in the first meeting. That was the play part of the job. And then I spent a year going to long, tedious, boring meetings, trying to sell this logo through to a huge corporation to the point of tears. I thought I was going to go crazy at the end of this year. We made idiotic presentations showing how the Citi logo made sense, and how it was really derived from an umbrella, and we made animations of these things, and we came back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. And it was worth it, because they bought this thing, and it played out on such a grand scale, and it's so internationally recognizable, but for me it was actually a very, very depressing year. As a matter of fact, they actually never bought onto the logo until Fallon put it on its very good ""Live Richly"" campaign, and then everybody accepted it all over the world. So during this time I needed some kind of counterbalance for this crazy, crazy existence of going to these long, idiotic meetings. And I was up in my country house, and for some reason, I began painting these very big, very involved, laborious, complicated maps of the entire world, and listing every place on the planet, and putting them in, and misspelling them, and putting things in the wrong spot, and completely controlling the information, and going totally and completely nuts with it. They would take me about six months initially, but then I started getting faster at it. Here's the United States. Every single city of the United States is on here. And it hung for about eight months at the Cooper-Hewitt, and people walked up to it, and they would point to a part of the map and they'd say, ""Oh, I've been here."" And, of course, they couldn't have been because it's in the wrong spot. (Laughter) But what I liked about it was, I was controlling my own idiotic information, and I was creating my own palette of information, and I was totally and completely at play. One of my favorites was this painting I did of Florida after the 2000 election that has the election results rolling around in the water. I keep that for evidence. (Laughter) Somebody was up at my house and saw the paintings and recommended them to a gallery, and I had a first show about two-and-a-half years ago, and I showed these paintings that I'm showing you now. And then a funny thing happened — they sold. And they sold quickly, and became rather popular. We started making prints from them. This is Manhattan, one from the series. This is a print from the United States which we did in red, white and blue. We began doing these big silkscreen prints, and they started selling, too. So, the gallery wanted me to have another show in two years, which meant that I really had to paint these paintings much faster than I had ever done them. And I — they started to become more political, and I picked areas that sort of were in the news or that I had some feeling about, and I began doing these things. And then this funny thing happened. I found that I was no longer at play. I was actually in this solemn landscape of fulfilling an expectation for a show, which is not where I started with these things. So, while they became successful, I know how to make them, so I'm not a neophyte, and they're no longer serious — they have become solemn. And that's a terrifying factor — when you start something and it turns that way — because it means that all that's left for you is to go back and to find out what the next thing is that you can push, that you can invent, that you can be ignorant about, that you can be arrogant about, that you can fail with, and that you can be a fool with. Because in the end, that's how you grow, and that's all that matters. So, I'm plugging along here — (Laughter) and I'm just going to have to blow up the staircase. Thank you very much."	"我的工作是發揮我發揮在設計上我甚至去查了字典以確信我確實這麼做關於""Play""的定義第一、如同孩童般地積極投入活動或是努力去達成第二、必須具有冒險精神我認為我兩者兼具當我在設計的時候我像是一個孩子也像是一個賭徒而且我認為如果你不是這樣那一定是有不對的地方或與你的處境不相符如果你是一位設計師然而，""認真""困擾著我而我卻不太能完全掌控直到我想起了一篇短文一篇我在30年前讀過的文章作者是Russell Baker他曾經在紐約時報撰寫過""觀察者""專欄他是個相當棒的幽默作家。我將要向大家朗讀這篇文章或者說是一篇節選因為它真的令我深有感觸這是一封很友好的勸告信 嚴肅起來,信裡寫道當然,這意味著要開始鄭重其事鄭重其事很簡單認真卻不是件容易的事小孩通常幾乎都是由認真開始認真使他們顯得有趣當他們與成年人比較時整體而言，成年人是鄭重其事的在政治上,認真的參選人很罕見像Adlai Stevenson會很輕易的被鄭重其事的候選人擊敗,就像Eisenhower.這是因為對於大多數人而言了解稀少的認真是件困難的事但對於鄭重其事早已司空見慣慢跑，很常見對身體好這點廣泛被接受，這是鄭重的而撲克牌是認真的華盛頓特區是鄭重的紐約是認真的在學術研討會上告訴你任何東西任何關於未來的，是鄭重其事的當你獨自一人走一段長路的同時策劃一個笨拙的搶劫Tiffany's的計畫這是認真的 (笑聲) 現在，我將Russell的定義運用在設計上鄭重或是認真地設計品質則不再具任何特殊含意鄭重的設計通常重要且實用也通常被社會大眾認可被適當的觀眾接受這是所謂觀念正確的設計者和顧客所努力追求的認真的設計和發揮卻是另一回事一方面，認真的設計通常發生的自然地、主觀地、偶然地、或是附帶地就發生了這可能透過無辜、傲慢、自私，或是有時的粗心大意達成但大部分的情況，他是透過各種的人類瘋狂的行為那些沒甚麼意義的行為,來實現的 認真的設計是不完美的它充滿著那種原始的工藝法則從鄭重的角度來看，認真的設計通常也不會太成功這是因為認真發揮的藝術是創造、改變、反抗，而不是完美完美是在鄭重其事的設計才會發生的。現在，我將設計生涯視為超現實的樓梯如果你看著這個樓梯，你會看到在你二十多歲時，整個階梯是很高的而每一步卻是很短的因此你能有重大的發現你在年輕的時候迅速地飛躍那是因為你甚麼都不知道，而且你有很多要學所以你做的任何事，都是個學習的經驗這是你飛躍的過程隨著年紀增長，階梯隨著縮短而每一步隨著變寬同時你開始放慢腳步因為你能獲得的發現越來越少隨著你年紀越來越大、越來越衰老你舉步維艱地走在這個令人沮喪的長階上最終會帶領你走向死亡 （笑聲） 我發現變得認真的確相當艱難我的老闆要求我要鄭重，但我卻發現越來越多時候我不需要鄭重，但我卻依然鄭重在我三十五年的工作經驗中，我曾有四次相當地認真現在我將要把它們展示給你們因為他們發生在相當特殊的條件下當個小孩真好在我二十歲出頭的時候，我在一間唱片公司工作，為CBS唱片的專輯設計封面當時我並不知道我擁有的是這麼棒的工作我以為每個人的工作都像我的一樣而且...我看待設計和看待世界的方式就是，我周遭正在發生的事和我走進辦公室所遇到的各種事都是我的敵人我真的、真的、非常討厭無襯線字體我認為無襯線字體是最枯燥、最無聊、最法西斯、非常獨裁的一種字體我討厭所有無襯線字體的設計當我還在大學階段的時候，這正是一種既時尚又流行的一種設計這是一個Rudi de Harra設計的很可愛的書皮但我就是討厭它，因為它用了無襯線字體然後我為此做了諷刺性的模仿我就只是覺得它，你知道的，非常地枯燥 (笑聲) 因此，我人生的目標就是不用無襯線字體做設計而不用無襯線字體做設計的確不容易因為你很難找到不是無襯線字體的設計而且在七零年代初期，並沒有很多關於設計史的書也沒有過多的設計出版你必須要去骨董店、去歐洲你必須要到好多地方去找而我的應對是新藝術派、Deco、或是維多利亞式印刷術、或者，就是那些完全不用無襯線字體的設計我教我自己用這樣的方式設計這就是我初期的設計我運用這些東西以一些拙劣的方式在我設計的專輯封面上我並沒有學過這樣我只是把這些東西拼湊在一起我將維多利亞式的設計混合進流行元素同時也把新藝術派風格加入一些其它的元素我把這些專輯封面弄得相當華麗非常精巧這並不是因為我是後現代主義者或是歷史批判主義者我根本不瞭解那些東西倒底是些什麼我就只是討厭無襯線字體設計 (笑聲) 而且這種激情促使我非常認真地去發揮一種我從來沒去嘗試過的發揮因為我受過非常良好的教育那種年輕生命裡存在著一些很有意思的東西在這種青春鼓舞下你可以讓你自己成長並且發揮像一個頑童般,然後設計出與眾不同的東西事實上，直到70年代末我這些作品才嶄露頭角我的意思是,那些封面開始風靡全球並且陸續贏得獎項我的作品變得廣為人知我也突然變成一個後現代主義者那時，我開創了自己的事業起初，我因此受到讚賞,後來又因此飽受批評但關鍵在於，我變得鄭重了大約有14年的時間，我並沒有照我所想的認真的設計應當的去做80年代大部份時間，我相當鄭重設計出這樣的設計就像我所期望的那樣因為那就是我我活在從認真到鄭重的循環裡直到腐敗、直到死亡，然後再重新開始 好，接下來是第二種情況此時我認為完成了一些很認真的發揮這是一部我鍾愛的保羅紐曼的電影片名叫做""大審判""我不知道在場你們多少人看過這部片，但這部片相當棒在這部電影裡,保羅紐曼飾演一個落魄的律師一個專攬車禍官司的律師他承擔...事實上，他被指派了一件不法行為的訴訟案件是件還算容易的一次案子在嘗試聯繫的過程中他和客戶開始重視與確認他重拾他的道德和目標繼而贏得了此次訴訟在絕望的深淵裡,在電影中，當他看起來不能夠放下這件事,他需要這場官司,他極度需要贏得這場官司這是保羅紐曼一個人單獨的鏡頭,在他的辦公室，他說，""就是這個案件了, 沒有其他的案件了.這就是了, 沒有其他的了.""在那個時刻充滿了渴望及專注他能贏.那是個絕妙的角色身在其中並認真的發揮在1994年，我曾有過那樣的時刻當時我遇到一位劇場導演名叫喬治沃爾夫他打算讓我設計紐約莎士比亞節的象徵畫,後來,成為公共劇場的象徵畫.我開始沉浸在這個案子裡我從來沒有這樣過 這就是那時候劇場廣告的樣子當時刊登在各大報及紐約時報上這算是當時的評論事實上，公共劇場有比這更好的廣告公共劇場沒有標誌、沒有象徵畫但是他們有這些很具象徵性的海報作者是Paul Davis喬治沃爾夫從另一位導演手中接手劇院他想要改變劇院他想要讓劇院更城市化、更喧鬧讓劇院更加包羅萬象所以，運用我對印刷排版的熱愛我自我陶醉在這個案子裡它不同的地方就是它的藝術總體性我真正代表一份聲音，可以看見的聲音這是我從未嘗試過的方法無論在各個方面最小型的廣告、門票，不論是甚麼都是由我設計的沒有制式化的格式沒有來自部門內部的壓力我花了整整三年來完成所有東西每張簡報、網站上的一切、以及劇場上的一切。這就是我唯一的工作即便我在做其他的事情我處在一個與客戶從未有過的關係中它使我真正地表達自我，並成長我認為大家知道你將要被授予這個職位它很稀有，但當你得到它，你就有了這個機會這就是認真地發揮的時刻 我做過這些事，現在仍然在做我仍然為公共劇場工作我是董事成員，並且我積極參與其中。我認為公共劇場的高峰是在1996年在我完成設計後的兩年就是在""Bring in 'da Noise, Bring in 'da Funk"" (踢踏舞音樂劇)的活動期間這活動當時風靡了紐約然而，某件事情發生了它非常受歡迎這使認真的事物接近幻滅因為這使它變得鄭重當時的情況是紐約市，在某種程度上吞噬了我的代表作因為民眾開始複製、抄襲它這是一則紐約時報上的廣告有人寫了一齣劇叫""思想遊戲""接著出現了""芝加哥""，用了更多的圖形公共劇場的象徵就這樣完全的被吞噬、侵蝕這代表著我必須要改變它所以我使它每一季都有所不同我持續設計這些海報但是，它們始終缺乏設計第一次象徵時的認真因為它們太過個體化，而且沒有讓所有東西相同化的能力現在,我想由於公共劇場我也已經從事十幾個重要文化機構的形象標示我想我再沒有那次的認真發揮我為紐約市非常大型、重要的機構做設計 這些機構是鄭重的設計也是如此的它們雕琢的比公共劇場好它們為此花了更多的金錢但我認為時光來來去去完成認真的設計最好的方法是我認為我們都有這樣的機會就是使自己完完全全的不符合這項工作這不常發生但在2000年發生在我身上基於某些緣故整個的設計師團隊開始要求我一起設計劇院的內部我設計環境圖並將融入建築之中我從來沒有做過這樣的工作我不知道要怎麼看建築計畫我不知道他們在討論什麼我真的不能接受這個事實這個工作要花上四年的時間因為我習慣了圖像設計的快速而且必須非常注意細節對於我這種有注意缺陷障礙的人非常不合適 這個過程很艱辛但是我愛上了這個過程實際將圖像結合到建築上的過程因為我不知道我當時在做什麼我問""為什麼不能把招牌放在地上?""紐約客看看他們的腳然後我發現演員們實際上從地面尋找線索，所以結果讓這些訊號系統開始變得更有意義它們透過特別的方式將建築整合起來它們在角落它們再建築物的四周它們和建築物融合在一起這就是第九街和百老匯上的交響空間字體是編織成不鏽鋼和背光光纖交織在一起建築師， Jim Polshek基本上給我一塊油畫布做活版印刷這是個嚴肅的工作這是在賓州匹斯堡的兒童博物館那都是由不貴的材料建造成的突出的字體有著霓虹背光我從來沒有做過、建造過的東西我只是覺得做起來會很有趣贊助者的牆是用璐彩製成然後，便宜的標誌 (笑聲) 在其中我覺得最喜愛的是在新紐澤西渥克的一個小工程那是個表演藝術學校一棟建築 ── 他們沒有很多錢他們必須改造它，而他們說如果我們給你十萬元，你會怎麼改造它？於是我用photoshop設計了一下，我說嗯，我想我們可以重新粉刷它於是我們做了，也成功了。還有一棟建築。所有東西都被粉刷用活版印刷粉刷整個建築包括空調管路我僱用刷公寓的人來整理側邊的車庫替整個建築刷上了顏色，他們也喜愛這個工作他們全心投入進去 ── 他們認真地對待這份工作他們曾爬到這個建築上，然後打給我告訴我說他們必須修正我的活版印刷─因為我的排版間隙是錯的，他們必須移動它而他們做得很好。他們也非常的認真 非常的令人驚嘆 當我接受彭博社總部的案子時我的工作開始被接受人們希望它在大且昂貴的地方那開始使它變的莊重彭博社全部都關於數字而我們將數字貫穿於空間這些數字被投射在壯觀的LED版上我的夥伴 Lisa Strausfeld 撰寫程式的但這卻結束了認真的發揮部份然後開始了又一次的變的莊重這是目前的計畫在 賓州匹茲堡也是我變的愚蠢的地方我被邀請去設計一個標誌一個叫做北邊的鄰近地區而我覺得一個鄰近地區有標誌很愚蠢我覺得這非常令人毛骨悚然 事實上 為什麼一個鄰近地區要有標誌?鄰近地區有樣東西—地標有餐廳 沒有標誌 我的意思是 標誌能是什麼 因此我必須給市政府還有市民代表以及鄰近機構作個演講而我去了匹茲堡且說你知道，你在這裡所擁有的都是地下道這些地下道將社區從市中心分開為什麼你們不表彰它們 且將這些地下道設地標呢?因此我開始了這瘋狂的演說關於這些裝置可能的裝置在這些地下橋樑而當我站在市民代表前面我有點害怕我必須要承認我非常不適任這項計畫這也非常的可笑被忽略了簡介我認為他們全心全意擁抱接受這些完全是因為看似非常愚蠢的開始且這是實際被漆上的橋樑也正在進行中每六個月將會改變一次，且會變成一件藝術裝置在匹茲堡的北邊而也非常有可能成為那地區的一個地標 John Hockenberry告訴你們一些關於我去花旗銀行的經歷至今已經有十年的工作關係了，而我依然和他們一起工作實際上我被他們逗的很開心也非常喜歡他們而想想那是間非常 非常 非常 非常 非常大的公司他們的確將他們的圖片保存的非常好我畫了花旗銀行的標誌在第一次開會的餐巾紙上那是工作的一部分然而我花了一年的時間參加長期的、乏味的無趣的會議嘗試將這個標誌賣給一間大公司賣我的設計我以為一年的折騰就快讓我發瘋了我們做了個愚蠢的簡報呈現花旗銀行的標誌是如何的有意義他是如何確切的從一把傘演變出來的我們也做了動畫我們不斷的反反覆覆 反反覆覆 反反覆覆這一切都很值得 因為他們買下了這商標且發揮了非常重要的功用這非常國際化且具辨認性但是實際上對我而言是個非常令人沮喪的一年事實上 他們從未買過商標直到Fallon 直接用了它在很棒的“富有地生活”推案然後全世界的每個人都接受 因此在這段期間我需要一種平衡為這瘋狂，瘋狂的事實參加這些冗長愚蠢的會議而我在我鄉下的家醒來基於某些原因 我開始繪製這些非常龐大 非常混亂吃力 複雜的世界地圖且列出這星球上的每一個地方然後將他們畫進去再拼錯地名然後將他們放進錯誤的地方完全的控制資訊我完完全全的為此著迷這花了我起碼六個月的時間但我開始越畫越快這裡是美國每一個美國的城市在這兒它在庫珀-休伊特展覽了大約八個月人們前來看它他們指出地圖上的一部分然後他們說：噢 我曾到過這裡當然他們不可能到過那，因為那裡是個錯誤的位置(笑聲)但我喜歡的是我控制了我自己的愚蠢訊息我創造了我自己的訊息調色盤我是完完全全的在發揮其中我最愛的是這幅我在2000年選舉後畫的佛羅里達在水中游盪的是競選結果我將它作為證據 (笑聲) 有些人來到我家看那些畫然後向畫廊推薦這些畫因此我有了第一次的展出大約兩年半前 我展覽了這些畫就是我現在展示給你看的這些而最有趣的事情發生了 他們被賣掉了他們非常熱賣且變的相當受歡迎我們開始行銷這些畫這是曼哈頓 其中一個系列這是個美國的印刷, 有紅白藍三色我們開始用大型網版印刷成版畫而它們也開始被銷售因此 兩年後畫廊希望我有另外一場展出這意思是要我必須畫這些畫用比以往更快速的速度來完成 而我將這些畫變的越來越政治化 我選擇的地域有來自於新聞的或者我對那些地方有些感覺我開始做這些事情 然後有趣的事情發生了我發現我好久沒有玩了我事實上在這莊嚴的環境中充滿了期待為了這展覽和原本一開始的我不一樣因此當他們變得成功我知道要如何去製造他們因此我不是新手而他們也不再認真他們變成了莊嚴這是一個可怕的因素當你開始做某件事而卻事與願違那是因為你所要做的是回過頭然後找出你能夠努力的下一件事情或者你可以創造, 或者你可以忽略的或者你可以自大的或者你可能失敗的或者可能讓你看起來很愚蠢的因為在最後，這才是你的成長那才最重要的 所以我在此獨自投入(笑聲)而且我馬上要去炸掉樓梯間謝謝大家"
