Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_fankhauser_meet_rezero_the_dancing_ballbot	Let me introduce to you Rezero. This little fellow was developed by a group of 10 undergraduate students at the Autonomous Systems Laboratory at ETH-Zurich. Our robot belongs to a family of robots called Ballbots. Instead of wheels, a Ballbot is balancing and moving on one single ball. The main characteristics of such a system is that there's one sole contact point to the ground. This means that the robot is inherently unstable. It's like when I am trying to stand on one foot. You might ask yourself, what's the usefulness of a robot that's unstable? Now we'll explain that in a second. Let me first explain how Rezero actually keeps his balance. Rezero keeps his balance by constantly measuring his pitch angle with a sensor. He then counteracts and avoids toppling over by turning the motors appropriately. This happens 160 times per second, and if anything fails in this process, Rezero would immediately fall to the ground. Now to move and to balance, Rezero needs to turn the ball. The ball is driven by three special wheels that allow Rezero to move into any direction and also move around his own axis at the same time. Due to his instability, Rezero is always in motion. Now here's the trick. It's indeed exactly this instability that allows a robot to move very [dynamically]. Let's play a little. You may have wondered what happens if I give the robot a little push. In this mode, he's trying to maintain his position. For the next demo, I'd like you to introduce to my colleagues Michael, on the computer, and Thomas who's helping me onstage. In the next mode, Rezero is passive, and we can move him around. With almost no force I can control his position and his velocity. I can also make him spin. In the next mode, we can get Rezero to follow a person. He's now keeping a constant distance to Thomas. This works with a laser sensor that's mounted on top of Rezero. With the same method, we can also get him to circle a person. We call this the orbiting mode. All right, thank you, Thomas. (Applause) Now, what's the use of this technology? For now, it's an experiment, but let me show you some possible future applications. Rezero could be used in exhibitions or parks. With a screen it could inform people or show them around in a fun and entertaining way. In a hospital, this device could be used to carry around medical equipment. Due to the Ballbot system, it has a very small footprint and it's also easy to move around. And of course, who wouldn't like to take a ride on one of these. And these are more practical applications. But there's also a certain beauty within this technology. (Music) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you.	容我為各位介紹 Rezero。這個小傢伙是由蘇黎世聯邦理工學院自治系統實驗室裡的十名大學生所發明出來的。 我們的機器人屬於機器人家族中所謂的以球代步機器人。以球代步機器人是用一顆球來取代輪子做為平衡和移動的工具。這種系統的主要特徵是機器人和地面之間僅有一個接觸點。這意味著機器人本身是處於不穩定狀態的。就好比我試著想金雞獨立一樣。 各位可能會問，連站都站不穩的機器人能有什麼用呢？接下來我們立刻會向各位說明。首先，讓我先向各位解釋Rezero 究竟是如何維持他自身的平衡。Rezero 是利用一個感測器不斷測量傾斜角度以保持自身平衡的。接著他再藉著運轉適當地運轉馬達來抵消傾斜的角度以避免傾倒。這個運作過程每秒鐘內執行達 160 次之多，而假設在運作過程中出了任何差錯的話，Rezero 就會立刻翻倒在地上。 為了移動和平衡，Rezero 需要轉動這顆球。這顆球是由三個特別的輪子做為驅動，使 Rerezo 得以朝任何方向行進並同時進行自轉。由於天生的不穩定性，使得 Rezero 永遠必須處於運動狀態。最妙的是，正是基於這種不穩定性才使機器人得以如此 “充滿活力“ 的運作。我們來試試看。各位可能會好奇假設我輕輕推一下這個機器人的話，會發生什麼事呢？在這個模式中，他會試著去回到他原來的位置。 為了進行下一個示範，我要向各位介紹我的同事麥可，他會幫忙操作電腦，而湯馬斯則會在講台上幫我。在下一個模式中，Rezero 是處於被動狀態，我們可以輕易的移動他。我幾乎不需要花任何力氣就能操控他的位置和行進速率。我也可以讓他旋轉。在下個模式中，則可以讓 Rezero 跟著一個人移動。現在他保持著一定的距離跟隨著湯馬斯。這個動作是藉由安裝在Rezero 頭頂的感測器來進行的。利用同樣的方法，我們也可以讓他繞著某個人轉。我們把這稱為軌道運行模式。好了，謝謝你，湯馬斯。（掌聲） 好了，這種科技到底有什麼用途呢？目前，這還在實驗階段，但請容我為各位介紹幾個未來可能的應用範圍。Rezero 可以用於展場或公園。他可以裝上螢幕供人們查詢資訊，或做為新奇有趣的導覽員之用。在醫院裡，這種裝置可以用來運送醫療儀器。由於球體代步機器人的系統他軌跡很小而且易於移動。而當然，誰不想騎著他到處轉轉呢？這些是屬於比較實用的範例。不過就這項科技本身而言也同時也有著純粹的美感。 （音樂） （掌聲） 謝謝各位。 （掌聲） 謝謝。
