Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_haas_haiti_s_disaster_of_engineering	"I learned about the Haiti earthquake by Skype. My wife sent me a message, ""Whoa, earthquake,"" and then disappeared for 25 minutes. It was 25 minutes of absolute terror that thousands of people across the U.S. felt. I was afraid of a tsunami; what I didn't realize was there was a greater terror in Haiti, and that was building collapse. We've all seen the photos of the collapsed buildings in Haiti. These are shots my wife took a couple days after the quake, while I was making my way through the D.R. into the country. This is the national palace — the equivalent of the White House. This is the largest supermarket in the Caribbean at peak shopping time. This is a nurses' college — there are 300 nurses studying. The general hospital right next door emerged largely unscathed. This is the Ministry of Economics and Finance. We have all heard about the tremendous human loss in the earthquake in Haiti, but we haven't heard enough about why all those lives were lost. We haven't heard about why the buildings failed. After all, it was the buildings, not the earthquake, that killed 220,000 people, that injured 330,000, that displaced 1.3 million people, that cut off food and water and supplies for an entire nation. This is the largest metropolitan-area disaster in decades, and it was not a natural disaster — it was a disaster of engineering. AIDG has worked in Haiti since 2007, providing engineering and business support to small businesses. And after the quake, we started bringing in earthquake engineers to figure out why the buildings collapsed, to examine what was safe and what wasn't. Working with MINUSTAH, which is the U.N. mission in Haiti, with the Ministry of Public Works, with different NGOs, we inspected over 1,500 buildings. We inspected schools and private residencies. We inspected medical centers and food warehouses. We inspected government buildings. This is the Ministry of Justice. Behind that door is the National Judicial Archives. The fellow in the door, Andre Filitrault — who's the director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Earthquake Engineering Research at the University of Buffalo — was examining it to see if it was safe to recover the archives. Andre told me, after seeing these buildings fail again and again in the same way, that there is no new research here. There is nothing here that we don't know. The failure points were the same: walls and slabs not tied properly into columns — that's a roof slab hanging off the building — cantilevered structures, or structures that were asymmetric, that shook violently and came down, poor building materials, not enough concrete, not enough compression in the blocks, rebar that was smooth, rebar that was exposed to the weather and had rusted away. Now there's a solution to all these problems. And we know how to build properly. The proof of this came in Chile, almost a month later, when 8.8 magnitude earthquake hit Chile. That is 500 times the power of the 7.0 that hit Port-au-Prince — 500 times the power, yet only under a thousand casualties. Adjusted for population density, that is less than one percent of the impact of the Haitian quake. What was the difference between Chile and Haiti? Seismic standards and confined masonry, where the building acts as a whole — walls and columns and roofs and slabs tied together to support each other — instead of breaking off into separate members and failing. If you look at this building in Chile, it's ripped in half, but it's not a pile of rubble. Chileans have been building with confined masonry for decades. Right now, AIDG is working with KPFF Consulting Engineers, Architecture for Humanity, to bring more confined masonry training into Haiti. This is Xantus Daniel; he's a mason, just a general construction worker, not a foreman, who took one of our trainings. On his last job he was working with his boss, and they started pouring the columns wrong. He took his boss aside, and he showed him the materials on confined masonry. He showed him, ""You know, we don't have to do this wrong. It won't cost us any more to do it the right way."" And they redid that building. They tied the rebar right, they poured the columns right, and that building will be safe. And every building that they build going forward will be safe. To make sure these buildings are safe, it's not going to take policy — it's going to take reaching out to the masons on the ground and helping them learn the proper techniques. Now there are many groups doing this. And the fellow in the vest there, Craig Toten, he has pushed forward to get documentation out to all the groups that are doing this. Through Haiti Rewired, through Build Change, Architecture for Humanity, AIDG, there is the possibility to reach out to 30,000 — 40,000 masons across the country and create a movement of proper building. If you reach out to the people on the ground in this collaborative way it's extremely affordable. For the billions spent on reconstruction, you can train masons for dollars on every house that they end up building over their lifetime. Ultimately, there are two ways that you can rebuild Haiti; the way at the top is the way that Haiti's been building for decades. The way at the top is a poorly constructed building that will fail. The way at the bottom is a confined masonry building, where the walls are tied together, the building is symmetric, and it will stand up to an earthquake. For all the disaster, there is an opportunity here to build better houses for the next generation, so that when the next earthquake hits, it is a disaster — but not a tragedy. (Applause)"	我是從Skype上得知海地大地震我妻子傳了訊息給我：「哎呀，地震。」然後消失了25分鐘這是極為恐怖的25分鐘在美國成千上萬個人有這種感覺我很擔心會有海嘯但當時我沒有意識到在海地所感受到的恐懼是更強烈的那就是建築物倒塌了我們都看過海地倒塌的建築物照片這些是我妻子在地震之後幾天拍的那時我正在穿越邊界進入該國的路上這是皇宮相當於白宮的地位這是加勒比最大的超市是在購物的尖峰時間這是一所護士學校裡面有300個護士正在學習隔壁的綜合醫院大部份都還完好這是財政部 我們都聽說了在這場海地的地震中喪生的人數之多但是我們對於這些人為什麼會喪生的原因卻聽說的不夠多我們沒有聽說過為何建築物會倒塌追根究底，是建築物而非地震帶走了二十二萬條人命傷害了三十三萬個人讓一千三百萬人流離失所並且切斷整個國家的食物、水源和物資的來源這是幾十年來發生在都會區域最大的災難而這並不是天災這是工程疏失造成的災難 「適當基礎建設發展組織（AIDG）」從2007年開始在海地工作提供工程和商業協助給小型企業地震之後我們開始引進地震工程師來探究為何建築物會倒塌還有來檢查看看哪些建築物是安全的而哪些不安全聯合國在海地的任務是和聯合國海地穩定特派組織（MINUSTAH）合作在工務部及其他非政府組織的合作之下我們檢查了超過1500棟建築我們檢查了學校和民宅我們檢查了醫療中心和糧倉我們檢查了政府大樓 這是法務部在門後面是國家司法檔案庫那個在門裡的人Andre Filitrault是巴佛羅大學跨學科地震工程研究中心的主任他為了修復檔案庫正在檢查門是否安全Andre告訴我在看見那些建築一次又一次崩塌後並沒有出現任何新的研究根本沒有什麼是我們不知道的失敗點都一樣：牆和天花板沒有好好的固定在柱子上那是一片懸在建築物上的屋頂懸壁構造或者不對稱的構造歷經劇烈的晃動之後倒塌糟糕的建築材料、水泥不足、磚塊砌得不夠密、光滑的鋼筋、暴露在外鏽蝕的鋼筋 所有這些問題都有個解決辦法我們知道如何把房子蓋好智利就是一個證明約莫一個月之後智利發生規模8.8的地震那是規模7.0的500倍強是發生在王子港的地震的500倍但是只有不到一千的人員傷亡以人口密度來看，其影響程度小於海地大地震百分之一智利和海地的差別何在？建築物的抗震標準和「加強磚造」其作用是一體的牆、柱子、屋頂和瓦片結合在一起來彼此支撐不會分崩離析而倒塌來看看智利的建築它從中間裂開了但是它不是一堆斷垣殘壁智利人幾十年來都在建築上運用加強磚造技術 現在，「基礎建設發展組織」正與「KPFF工程顧問公司」以及「人性建築組織」合作來引進更多關於加強磚造技術的訓練到海地這位是Xantus Daniel他是個泥水匠只是個普通的建築工人，不是工頭他接受了我們的一項訓練在他上一份工作，他和他的老闆一起做事他們使用錯的方式灌漿他把老闆帶到一邊並給他看加強磚造的材料他說：「我們不需要做錯的事，用正確的方式，成本也不會比較高。」後來他們就重蓋了那棟房子他們用對的方法綁鋼筋他們用對的方式灌漿因此那棟房子便會是安全的而往後他們所造的每棟建築物都將會是安全的 為了確保這些建築物的安全需要的不是政策而是要對在工地工作的泥水匠伸出援手並幫助他們學習較好的技術現在有很多組織都在做這件事那個穿背心的傢伙他叫Craig Toten他更進一步的把文件傳送給所有從事這工作的組織藉由海地發送電報及藉由「建造變革組織（Build Change）」、「人性建築組織」、「適當基礎建設發展組織」而有了能接觸到全國三、四萬泥水匠的機會並且推動使用正確建造方式的運動如果用合作的方式和那些工人接觸是完完全全負擔得起的花費在重建的數億元經費可以用來訓練泥水匠來讓每一塊錢都投注到他們一生所要建造的每一棟房子上 最後，有兩個方法可以重建海地上面那個方法就是海地數十年來所用的建造方式上面那個方法是用糟糕方式建造的將會倒塌的建築下面那個方法牆都被緊緊結合在一起建築物是對稱的並且能夠抵擋地震對於所有的災難現在有一個機會可以建造更好的房子給下一個世代如此，則當下一次地震發生的時候雖會是一場災難但不會是悲劇 （鼓掌）
