Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_reinhart_on_bread	"This is a wheat bread, a whole wheat bread, and it's made with a new technique that I've been playing around with, and developing and writing about which, for lack of a better name, we call the epoxy method. And I call it an epoxy method because — it's not very appetizing. I understand that — but — but if you think about epoxy, what's epoxy? It's two resins that are, sort of, in and of themselves — neither of which can make glue, but when you put the two together, something happens. A bond takes place, and you get this very strong, powerful adhesive. Well, in this technique, what I've tried to do is kind of gather all of the knowledge that the bread-baking world, the artisan bread-baking community, has been trying to accumulate over the last 20 years or so — since we've been engaged in a bread renaissance in America — and put it together to come up with a method that would help to take whole-grain breads. And let's face it, everyone's trying to move towards whole grains. We finally, after 40 years of knowing that wholegrain was a healthier option, we're finally getting to the point where we actually are tipping over and attempting to actually eat them. (Laughter) The challenge, though, for a wholegrain baker is, you know, how do you make it taste good? Because whole grain — it's easy with white flour to make a good-tasting bread. White flour is sweet. It's mainly starch, and starch, when you break it down — what is starch? It's — thank you — sugar, yes. So a baker, and a good baker, knows how to pull or draw forth the inherent sugar trapped in the starch. With whole grain bread, you have other obstacles. You've got bran, which is probably the healthiest part of the bread for us, or the fiber for us because it is just loaded with fiber, for the bran is fiber. It's got germ. Those are the good things, but those aren't the tastiest parts of the wheat. So whole grain breads historically have had sort of this onus of being health food breads, and people don't like to eat, quote, health food. They like to eat healthy and healthily, but when we think of something as a health food, we think of it as something we eat out of obligation, not out of passion and love for the flavor. And ultimately, the challenge of the baker, the challenge of every culinary student, of every chef, is to deliver flavor. Flavor is king. Flavor rules. I call it the flavor rule. Flavor rules. And — and you can get somebody to eat something that's good for them once, but they won't eat it again if they don't like it, right? So, this is the challenge for this bread. We're going to try this at lunch, and I'll explain a bit more about it, but it's made not only with two types of pre-doughs — this attempt, again, at bringing out flavor is to make a piece of dough the day before that is not leavened. It's just dough that is wet. It's hydrated dough we call ""the soaker"" — that helps to start enzyme activity. And enzymes are the secret, kind of, ingredient in dough that brings out flavor. It starts to release the sugars trapped in the starch. That's what enzymes are doing. And so, if we can release some of those, they become accessible to us in our palate. They become accessible to the yeast as food. They become accessible to the oven for caramelization to give us a beautiful crust. The other pre-dough that we make is fermented — our pre-ferment. And it's made — it can be a sourdough starter, or what we call a ""biga"" or any other kind of pre-fermented dough with a little yeast in it, and that starts to develop flavor also. And on day two, we put those two pieces together. That's the epoxy. And we're hoping that, sort of, the enzyme piece of dough becomes the fuel pack for the leavened piece of dough, and when we put them together and add the final ingredients, we can create a bread that does evoke the full potential of flavor trapped in the grain. That's the challenge. Okay, so, now, what we — in the journey of wheat, let's go back and look at these 12 stages. I'm going to go through them very quickly and then revisit them. Okay, we're going to start with the first stage. And this is what every student has to begin with. Everyone who works in the culinary world knows that the first stage of cooking is ""mise en place,"" which is just a French way of saying, ""get organized."" Everything in its place. First stage. So in baking we call it scaling — weighing out the ingredients. Stage two is mixing. We take the ingredients and we mix them. We have to develop the gluten. There's no gluten in flour. There's only the potential for gluten. Here's another kind of prefiguring of epoxy because we've got glutenin and gliadin, neither of which are strong enough to make a good bread. But when they get hydrated and they bond to each other, they create a stronger molecule, a stronger protein we call gluten. And so we, in the mixing process, have to develop the gluten, we have to activate the leaven or the yeast, and we have to essentially distribute all the ingredients evenly. Then we get into fermentation, the third stage, which is really where the flavor develops. The yeast comes alive and starts eating the sugars, creating carbon dioxide and alcohol — essentially it's burping and sweating, which is what bread is. It's yeast burps and sweat. And somehow, this is transformed — the yeast burps and sweats are later transformed — and this is really getting to the heart of what makes bread so special is that it is a transformational food, and we're going to explore that in a minute. But then, quickly through the next few stages. We, after it's fermented and it's developed, started to develop flavor and character, we divide it into smaller units. And then we take those units and we shape them. We give them a little pre-shape, usually a round or a little torpedo shape, sometimes. That's called ""rounding."" And there's a short rest period. It can be for a few seconds. It can be for 20 or 30 minutes. We call that resting or benching. Then we go into final shaping, ""panning"" — which means putting the shaped loaf on a pan. This takes a second, but it's a distinctive stage. It can be in a basket. It can be in a loaf pan, but we pan it. And then, stage nine. The fermentation which started at stage three is continuing through all these other stages. Again, developing more flavor. The final fermentation takes place in stage nine. We call it ""proofing."" Proofing means to prove that the dough is alive. And at stage nine we get the dough to the final shape, and it goes into the oven — stage 10. Three transformations take place in the oven. The sugars in the dough caramelize in the crust. They give us that beautiful brown crust. Only the crust can caramelize. It's the only place that gets hot enough. Inside, the proteins — this gluten — coagulates. When it gets to about 160 degrees, the proteins all line up  and they create structure, the gluten structure — what ultimately we will call the crumb of the bread. And the starches, when they reach about 180 degrees, gelatinize. And gelatinization is yet another oven transformation. Coagulation, caramelization and gelatinization — when the starch is thick and they absorb all the moisture that's around them, they — they kind of swell, and then they burst. And they burst, and they spill their guts into the bread. So basically now we're eating yeast sweats — sweat, burps and starch guts. Again, transformed in stage 10 in the oven because what went into the oven as dough comes out in stage 11 as bread. And stage 11, we call it cooling — because we never really eat the bread right away. There's a little carry-over baking. The proteins have to set up, strengthen and firm up. And then we have stage 12, which the textbooks call ""packaging,"" but my students call ""eating."" And so, we're going to be on our own journey today from wheat to eat, and in a few minutes we will try this, and see if we have succeeded in fulfilling this baker's mission of pulling out flavor. But I want to go back now and revisit these steps, and talk about it from the standpoint of transformation, because I really believe that all things can be understood — and this is not my own idea. This goes back to the Scholastics and to the Ancients — that all things can be understood on four levels: the literal, the metaphoric or poetic level, the political or ethical level. And ultimately, the mystical or sometimes called the ""anagogical"" level. It's hard to get to those levels unless you go through the literal. In fact, Dante says you can't understand the three deeper levels unless you first understand the literal level, so that's why we're talking literally about bread. But let's kind of look at these stages again from the standpoint of connections to possibly a deeper level — all in my quest for answering the question, ""What is it about bread that's so special?"" And fulfilling this mission of evoking the full potential of flavor. Because what happens is, bread begins as wheat or any other grain. But what's wheat? Wheat is a grass that grows in the field. And, like all grasses, at a certain point it puts out seeds. And we harvest those seeds, and those are the wheat kernels. Now, in order to harvest it — I mean, what's harvesting? It's just a euphemism for killing, right? I mean, that's what's harvest — we say we harvest the pig, you know? Yes, we slaughter, you know. Yes, that's life. We harvest the wheat, and in harvesting it, we kill it. Now, wheat is alive, and as we harvest it, it gives up its seeds. Now, at least with seeds we have the potential for future life. We can plant those in the ground. And we save some of those for the next generation. But most of those seeds get crushed and turned into flour. And at that point, the wheat has suffered the ultimate indignity. It's not only been killed, but it's been denied any potential for creating future life. So we turn it into flour. So as I said, I think bread is a transformational food. The first transformation — and, by the way, the definition of transformation for me is a radical change from one thing into something else. O.K.? Radical, not subtle. Not like hot water made cold, or cold water turned hot, but water boiled off and becoming steam. That's a transformation, two different things. Well, in this case, the first transformation is alive to dead. I'd call that radical. So, we've got now this flour. And what do we do? We add some water. In stage one, we weigh it. In stage two, we add water and salt to it, mix it together, and we create something that we call ""clay."" It's like clay. And we infuse that clay with an ingredient that we call ""leaven."" In this case, it's yeast, but yeast is leaven. What does leaven mean? Leaven comes from the root word that means enliven — to vivify, to bring to life. By the way, what's the Hebrew word for clay? Adam. You see, the baker, in this moment, has become, in a sense, sort of, the God of his dough, you know, and his dough, well, while it's not an intelligent life form, is now alive. And we know it's alive because in stage three, it grows. Growth is the proof of life. And while it's growing, all these literal transformations are taking place. Enzymes are breaking forth sugars. Yeast is eating sugar and turning it into carbon dioxide and alcohol. Bacteria is in there, eating the same sugars, turning them into acids. In other words, personality and character's being developed in this dough under the watchful gaze of the baker. And the baker's choices all along the way determine the outcome of the product. A subtle change in temperature — a subtle change in time — it's all about a balancing act between time, temperature and ingredients. That's the art of baking. So all these things are determined by the baker, and the bread goes through some stages, and characters develop. And then we divide it, and this one big piece of dough is divided into smaller units, and each of those units are given shape by the baker. And as they're shaped, they're raised again, all along proving that they're alive, and developing character. And at stage 10, we take it to the oven. It's still dough. Nobody eats bread dough — a few people do, I think, but not too many. I've met some dough eaters, but — it's not the staff of life, right? Bread is the staff of life. But dough is what we're working with, and we take that dough to the oven, and it goes into the oven. As soon as the interior temperature of that dough crosses the threshold of 140 degrees, it passes what we call the ""thermal death point."" Students love that TDP. They think it's the name of a video game. But it's the thermal death point — all life ceases there. The yeast, whose mission it has been up till now to raise the dough, to enliven it, to vivify it, in order to complete its mission, which is also to turn this dough into bread, has to give up its life. So you see the symbolism at work? It's starting to come forth a little bit, you know. It's starting to make sense to me — what goes in is dough, what comes out is bread — or it goes in alive, comes out dead. Third transformation. First transformation, alive to dead. Second transformation, dead brought back to life. Third transformation, alive to dead — but dough to bread. Or another analogy would be, a caterpillar has been turned into a butterfly. And it's what comes out of the oven that is what we call the staff of life. This is the product that everyone in the world eats, that is so difficult to give up. It's so deeply embedded in our psyches that bread is used as a symbol for life. It's used as a symbol for transformation. And so, as we get to stage 12 and we partake of that, again completing the life cycle, you know, we have a chance to essentially ingest that — it nurtures us, and we continue to carry on and have opportunities to ponder things like this. So this is what I've learned from bread. This is what bread has taught me in my journey. And what we're going to attempt to do with this bread here, again, is to use, in addition to everything we talked about, this bread we're going to call ""spent grain bread"" because, as you know, bread-making is very similar to beer-making. Beer is basically liquid bread, or bread is solid beer. And — (Laughter) they — they're invented around the same time. I think beer came first. And the Egyptian who was tending the beer fell asleep in the hot, Egyptian sun, and it turned into bread. But we've got this bread, and what I did here is to try to, again, evoke even more flavor from this grain, was we've added into it the spent grain from beer-making. And if you make this bread, you can use any kind of spent grain from any type of beer. I like dark spent grain. Today we're using a light spent grain that's actually from, like, some kind of a lager of some sort — a light lager or an ale — that is wheat and barley that's been toasted. In other words, the beer-maker knows also how to evoke flavor from the grains by using sprouting and malting and roasting. We're going to take some of that, and put it into the bread. So now we not only have a high-fiber bread, but now fiber on top of fiber. And so this is, again, hopefully not only a healthy bread, but a bread that you will enjoy. So, if I, kind of, break this bread, maybe we can share this now a little bit here. We'll start a little piece here, and I'm going to take a little piece here — I think I'd better taste it myself before you have it at lunch. I'll leave you with what I call the baker's blessing. May your crust be crisp, and your bread always rise. Thank you."	"這是一個麵包，全麥麵包是由一個我嘗試了一段時間的全新技術所製成的我研發和撰寫這個技術，但還沒幫它取個好一點的名字就先叫它”環氧合成樹脂烘培法“我知道它聽起來不是很可口我之所以稱它為”環氧合成樹脂烘培法“ —是因為如果你想想，什麼是環氧合成樹脂？就是兩種樹脂兩種都無法拿來單獨製成膠水但如果把它們混在一起它就會發生作用，產生黏性然後形成一種非常強力的黏著劑過去的20年左右，我嘗試著將烘培麵包的知識、與整個烘培業、和這個技術結合在一起。我們都致力於美國麵包的復興也想齊心協力研發出一種能做出美味五榖麵包的方法但誰不是朝這方向邁進呢？四十年前，我們已經知道五榖麵包是個較健康的選擇現在，終於做到更大的突破人們開始試著真的吃它了！ （笑聲） 但對五榖麵包烘培師父真正的挑戰是要如何將它做得好吃？用白麵粉很容易就能做出好吃的麵包，因為白麵粉是甜的它的主要成份是澱粉，而澱粉分解後會是什麼？是...謝謝！沒錯，就是糖所以，一個厲害的烘培師就懂得要怎麼引出澱粉裡含有的糖但做五榖麵包，你會遇到別的困難五榖面包含有麥麩，這大概是麵包裡最健康的部份了因為它含有大量的纖維麥麩富含纖維還有胚芽，也是個好東西但卻不是小麥裡最好吃的部份所以，歷來，五榖麵包背負著""健康食品""的重擔人們不喜歡吃所謂的""健康食品""雖然大家喜歡吃得健康但當我們提到""健康食品""的時候都會想到一些不情願吃的東西不是因為自己愛那個口味而吃它 所以，對烘培師、讀餐飲的學生、以及廚師而言，最終極的挑戰，就是傳達食物的美味美味是至尊，美味決定一切。我稱它為“美味法則”，美味決定一切。因此 —你可以讓人們嘗試對他們有益的食物，但他們如果不喜歡的話，就不會再試下一次，對吧？這也是製作這個麵包的挑戰待會兒午餐時間我們可以試吃看看我先說多一點關於它的故事它不是只用兩種生麵團做成的我們是要試著把味道帶出來，秘訣是在將麵團加入酵母的前一天就先做好一個麵團這個麵團是濕潤的這含有水份的的麵團，我們叫它”酒鬼“它對發酵過程有幫助而酵素就像是引出麵團香味的秘密武器酵素的功用就是將澱粉裡的糖釋放出來所以，如果能釋放其中一部分我們的味覺神經就會偵查到它酵母也會開始作用麵包也才能在烤箱裡產生焦糖化的過程讓外皮香脆 另一個麵團是已經先發酵過的，也就是老麵可以把它當成發酵麵團的觸媒，也稱它做 ”biga（意式酵頭）“或是使用任何其他含有酵母、先經過發酵的麵團它會把麵包的香味帶出來第二天，我們把兩團麵混合在一起，這就是”環氧合成樹脂烘培法“然後，我們期待加入酵素的麵團能夠成為酵母麵團的能量來源然後，將它們混合後，我們再加入最後的幾項材料我們就可以做出一個能激發出五榖中所有香味的麵包了這可真是個挑戰啊。好，現在，在這個小麥之旅中，我們來回顧一下這12道程序 我會先很快的帶過，之後再回顧一次從第一個步驟開始這也是所有的學生最先必須學習的每個烹飪界裡的人都一定知道第一步驟就是 ""mise en place""（法文）也就是“井井有條”每樣東西都各就各位。第一步。而烘培裡，我們就要做秤重的工作：量材料的重量第二步驟是混合，把材料混合在一起我們得做出麵筋但麵粉裡並沒有麵筋這個成分所以在這兒，又有另一種類似環氧合成樹脂的做法因為我們有 小麥蛋白 和 麥醇溶蛋白兩種都沒辦法單獨製做出好麵包但當遇到水份時，它們會結合在一起形成一個更有力的蛋白質分子，我們稱之為 麵筋所以在混合的程序中我們要做出麵筋也要讓酵素、酵母產生作用也要把材料按準確的比例加入 然後進入第三階段－－發酵也是香味真正發展的過程酵母開始活了過來，然後開始吃掉糖類產生二氧化碳和酒精基本上，也就是酵母正在打嗝、流汗而麵包就是酵母打的嗝、流的汗但基於某種原因酵母的嗝和汗會被轉化這過程也漸漸地讓麵包形成一個轉化食品也正是麵包之所以特別的原因我們等一下就會談到這部份但接下來，很快的進入下幾個階段在經過發酵、成長、香味也引出來後我們把它分切成小塊然後把這些小麵團稍微整型通常是做成圓形，有時也會做成魚雷的形狀這步驟我們稱為""揉圓"" 然後是一小段休息時間，這可能需要幾秒鐘，但也可能要2、30分鐘，我們稱這過程為""醒麵""接下來就是最後的塑型然後是""入模""，也就是把塑型後的麵團放上烤盤過程只要幾秒鐘，但是個非常特別的步驟可以放到籃子裡、吐司模，但我們選擇烤盤接著，第九步驟第三步驟的發酵在整段過程中一直持續進行讓麵包產出更濃郁的香味而最後的發酵就是在這第九階段也就是""二次發酵""二次發酵是為了證明這麵團是活的在這階段，我們也整理一下麵團形狀然後放入烤箱－－這是第十個步驟烤箱理會有三個轉化過程發生麵團裡的糖把表皮焦化帶來漂亮的金黃色外皮只有表皮會被焦化，因為只有它會遇到夠高的溫度麵團內部，蛋白質、麵筋，凝結在一起當到達160度左右時蛋白質開始排列一個整齊結構就是麵筋結構也就是最後會看到的麵包屑然後當澱粉在達到180度時它會呈現膠狀 這膠化的過程就是另一個在烤箱裡發生的轉化過程凝結化、焦糖化、膠狀化當澱粉變得濃稠，且吸取了所有週邊的水份後它就膨脹起來，直到脹破為止澱粉脹破時，把它的內臟都炸到麵包裡了所以基本上，我們是在吃酵母流的汗、打的嗝、和澱粉的內臟重複一次，第十階段是在烤箱裡的轉化過程因為進烤箱時是個麵團出烤箱時就變成麵包了，也就是第十一步驟第十一階段，我們稱之為""冷卻""我們從不吃剛出爐的麵包因為有些部分還在運作蛋白質還需要建構、強化接著，才是第十二步驟，也就是教科書裡說的""包裝""但我的學生稱之為""開動""！於是今天的小麥之旅就從""小麥""到了""進食""再一會兒我們就可以來試試這個看看我們是否有成功地達成烘培師的任務，把麵包香味引出來 但我想先回顧一下幾個步驟然後以轉化過程為起點、談一下那些步驟因為我深深相信每件事都可以被理解而且這不是我自己的想法，而是學者、先人的智慧－－每件事都可被理解為四種層面：字面意義層面、隱喻或詩意的層面、政治或道德層面、以及最深層的神祕層面，也稱作類比層面除非你了解字面意義，否則很難深入到其他層面事實上，但丁說過：除非你先理解了字義的層面否則無法了解較深的這三層意義這也是為什麼我們現在要聊麵包的字面意義我們再從這些相關的要素、儘可能到更深層地再看一次這幾個步驟努力尋找出這問題的答案：""麵包到底有什麼特別？""進而達成引出麵包裡所有潛在美味的任務 因為事情是這樣的麵包源於小麥或其他穀類但什麼是小麥？小麥是種長在田裡的草然後就像其他所有草一樣，長到某個程度時，它會散播種籽然後我們收割那些籽，也就是麥子仁然後，為了要收割－－什麼是收割？就是婉轉的說出""殺了它""嘛，對吧？那就是收割的意義嘛 — 我們會說""收割豬隻""嗎？其實我們屠宰呀～而那是對動物我們這麼說我們收割小麥說收割，其實就是殺了它們現在，小麥是有生命的我們收割它，它奉獻出它的籽至少，有種籽的話，就有機會培育新生命我們可以把它種在土裡然後也留一些到下一輪再栽種但多數的籽會被碾磨成為麵粉在這一刻，小麥的尊嚴遭受到最嚴重的踐踏不只被殺死而是它培育新生命的可能性都完全抹殺變成了麵粉 就如我說，我認為麵包是轉化食物順帶一提，對我而言第一道轉化的定義是一個物質徹底地轉變成另一個東西可以嗎? 是徹底的，不是微微的而已不是像熱水變成冷水或冷水變熱而是水滾了之後、昇華成水蒸氣是這樣的轉化喔，兩者是不一樣的所以，這樣的情況下，第一道轉化是從生到死我會說這很徹底現在有了麵粉然後呢？我們加點水進去在第一階段，我們秤秤它第二階段，加點水和鹽，然後將它們混合然後就形成了我們說的”粘土“它很像粘土接著我們在粘土裡加入一種叫做酵素的原料在這是用酵母，酵母是種酵素。什麼是酵素？酵素（leaven）這個字是從enliven的字根來的意思是：使之活躍、有生氣對了，粘土的希伯來文怎麼說？－－亞當（adam）你看，這好像說明了烘培師傅就如同是麵團的造物主，而麵團這個不具特別智慧的生物體現在被賦予了生命之所以知道它是有生命的，是因為在第三階段時它會發酵脹大，而這就是生命的證明 當它在膨脹的過程中轉化的過程就產生了酵素開始分解糖類酵母開始啃食糖然後轉化成二氧化碳和酒精細菌也在裡面吃著那些糖然後轉化成酸類換句話說，在烘培師的細心觀測下這麵團的內在和特性都被提昇了而烘培師在烘培過程中的所有選擇都決定著成品的結果無論是些許地改變溫度、或是稍微地調整時間 —烘培就是在時間、溫度、材料之間取得平衡點這就是烘培的藝術這些要素是靠烘培師來決定而麵包則是通過了幾階段的考驗、內在有了提昇接著，我們將它切成較小塊的麵團然後再由烘培師幫這些小麵團塑造形狀被塑完形後，它們會再膨脹一次這些都證明了它們是有生命的而且內在也是在改變的 第十階段，將它們送進烤箱它們還是麵團而已。沒有人真的生吃麵團，很少數的人會啦，但不是太多我有碰過幾個愛吃生麵團的人 —不過生麵團不能當主食，對吧？但麵包就是主食啦生麵團是還需要被我們加工的然後送往烤箱接著進入烤箱。當烤箱內的溫度高於140度的時候就超過了我們所謂的”致死溫度“學生們很愛這個名稱，因為聽起來很像電玩遊戲但達到這個致死溫度的時候，所有的生物都停止活動酵母的任務要到麵團發酵膨脹後，才算完成它得讓麵團活躍、有生氣才算達成任務也就是要讓麵團變成麵包它就必須犧牲自己的性命你看得出來這些象徵意義嗎？接下來會再明顯一些越來越有道理－－送進烤箱的是麵團而出來的是麵包或者說：活著進去死著出來這是第三階段的轉化。第一個轉化是由活到死第二個轉化是死而復生第三個轉化是又再由活到死 —但從麵團變成了麵包 或是可以比喻成毛毛蟲變成了蝴蝶也就是從烤箱出來被我們稱為主食的東西這就是完成品這個是全世界的人都在吃、非常難戒掉的東西人們多麼地根深蒂固的認為麵包就是生活的象徵也是轉化的象徵於是，到了第十二步驟，我們參與了這過程再次完成一個生命的循環當我們有機會真的吞下麵包時它供給我們養分，然後我們有機會繼續思索像這類的事情這就我從麵包上學到的麵包讓我受惠良多接下來，關於這個麵包除了我們剛提過的之外我們想要再試著做的是把它的名字叫做”榖粕麵包“因為，我們知道，做麵包跟做啤酒差不多啤酒基本上就是液態的麵包麵包就是固態的啤酒而且...（笑聲）它們是在差不多時期被發明的。我想是先有啤酒但一個負責照料啤酒的埃及工人睡著了結果啤酒在炙熱的埃及陽光加溫下，做成了麵包 而對於這個麵包我所做的是試著從榖類裡引出更多的香味像是加入製做啤酒後留下的穀粕任何種類的啤酒的榖粕都可以拿來做這個麵包我偏好黑啤酒的榖粕，而今天用的是淡啤酒的榖渣可以用拉格啤酒或是麥酒（艾爾酒），就是用烤過的大麥和小麥來製作的換句話說，啤酒製造商都知道要用發芽、製成麥芽和烘培的技術來把穀類裡的香味引出來我們就要把這技術放到麵包的烘培裡所以，我們現在有的不僅是高纖麵包而是比高纖還要高纖也希望這不僅是一個健康的麵包也是一個讓你吃到意猶未盡的麵包我把它撥開大家分著嚐嚐看一人一小塊我自己也來一點我想在你們吃之前，我最好自己先試試在離開前，我送給大家 “烘培師的祝福” －－祝你的麵包皮香香脆脆願你的麵包永遠發酵膨脹謝謝各位"
