Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_molyneux_demos_milo_the_virtual_boy	"When I saw a piece of technology called Kinect — it was called Natal — I was inspired, and I thought for a moment, maybe it's possible to address that one problem of storytelling, to create a character which seemed alive, which noticed me, that could look me in the eyes and feel real, and sculpt a story about our relationship. And so a year ago, I showed this off at a computer show called E3. And this was a piece of technology with someone called Claire interacting with this boy. And there was a huge row online about, ""Hey, this can't be real."" And so I waited till now to have an actual demo of the real tech. Now, this tech incorporates three big elements. The first is a Kinect camera, which will be out in November, some incredible AI that was hidden in the dusty vaults, collecting dust in Microsoft, plus our quite crude attempts at AI at a company called Lionhead, mixing all those things together just to get to this one simple idea: to create a real, living being in a computer. Now, I'll be honest with you and say that most of it is just a trick, but it's a trick that actually works. So why don't we go over and have a look at the demo now. This is Dimitri. Dimitri, just waggle your arm around. Now, you notice he's sitting. There are no controllers, no keyboards, or mice, or joysticks, or joypads. He is just going to use his hand, his body and his voice, just like humans interact with their hands, body and voice. So let's move forward. You're going to meet Milo for the first time. We had to give him a problem because when we first created Milo, we realized that he came across as a little bit of a brat, to be honest with you. He was quite a know-it-all, and he wanted to kind of make you laugh. So the problem we introduced to him was this: he's just moved house. He's moved from London to New England, over in America. His parents are too busy to listen to his problems, and that's when he starts almost conjuring you up. So here he is walking through the grass. And you're able to interact with his world. The cool thing is, what we're doing is we're changing the mind of Milo constantly. That means no two people's Milos can be the same. You're actually sculpting a human being here. So, he's discovering the garden. You're helping him discover the garden by just pointing out these snails. Very simple at the start. By the way, if you are a boy, it's snails; if you're a girl, it's butterflies because what we found was that girls hate snails. (Laughter) So remember, this is the first time you've met him, and we really want to draw you in and make you more curious. His face, by the way, is fully AI-driven. We have complete control over his blush responses, the diameter of his nostrils to denote stress. We actually do something called body matching. If you're leaning forward, he will try and slightly change the neuro-linguistic nature of his face, because we went out with this strong idea: how can we make you believe that something's real? Now we've used the hand. The other thing to use is your body. Why not just, instead of pushing left and right with a mouse or with a joypad, why not use your body just to lean on the chair — again, relaxed? You can lean back, but the camera will change its perspective depending on which way you're looking. So Dimitri's now going to use — he's used his hand; he's used his body. He's now going to use the other thing which is essential, and that's his voice. Now, the thing about voice is, our experience with voice recognition is pretty awful, isn't it? It never works. You order an airline ticket; you end up in Timbuktu. So we've tackled that problem, and we've come up with a solution, which we'll see in a second. Milo: I could just squish it. Peter Molyneux: What are you going to do, Dimitri? Female Voice: Squashing a snail may not seem important, but remember, even this choice will affect how Milo develops. Do you want Milo to squash it? When you see the microphone, say ... (PM: Squash.) ... yes to decide. Dimitri: Go on, Milo. Squash it. PM: No. That's the wrong thing to do. Now look at his response. He said, ""Go on, Milo. Squash it."" What we're using there is, we're using something, a piece of technology called Tellme. It's a company that Microsoft acquired some years ago. We've got a database of words which we recognize. We pick those words out. We also reference that with the tonation database that we build up of Dimitri's voice, or the user's voice. Now we need to have a bit more engagement, and again, what we can do is we can look at the body. And we'll do that in a second. Milo: I wonder how deep it is. Deep. PM: Okay. So what we're going to do now is teach Milo to skim stones. We're actually teaching him. It's very, very interesting that men, more than women, tend to be more competitive here. They're fine with teaching Milo for the first few throws, but then they want to beat Milo, where women, they're more nurturing about this. Okay, this is skimming stones. How do you skim stones? You stand up, and you skim the stone. It's that simple. Just recognizing your body, recognizing the body's motions, the tech, understanding that you've gone from sitting down to standing up. Again, all of this is done in the way us humans do things, and that's crucially important if we want Milo to appear real. Female Voice: See if you can inspire him to do any better. Try hitting the boat. Milo: Ahhh. So close. PM: That's Dimitri at his most competitive. Now beaten an 11-year-old child. Well done. Milo: Okay. PM: So, Milo's being called back in by his parents, giving us time to be alone and to help him out. Basically — the bit that we missed at the start — his parents had asked him to clean up his room. And we're going to help him with this now. But this is going to be an introduction, and this is all about the deep psychology that we're trying to use. We're trying to introduce you to what I believe is the most wonderful part, you being able to talk in your natural voice to Milo. Now, to do that, we needed a set up, like a magician's trick. And what we did was, we needed to give Milo this big problem. So as Dimitri starts tidying up, you can overhear a conversation that Milo's having with his parents. Milo's Mom: Oh, you've got gravy all over the floor. (Milo: I didn't mean to!) Milo's Mom: That carpet is brand new. PM: So he's just spilled a plate of sausages on the floor, on the brand-new carpet. We've all done it as parents; we've all done it as children. Now's a chance for Dimitri to kind of reassure and calm Milo down. It's all been too much for him. He's just moved house. He's got no friends. Now is the time when we open that portal and allow you to talk to Milo. Female Voice: Why don't you try saying something encouraging to cheer Milo up. Dimitri: Come on, Milo. You know what parents are like. They're always getting stressed. Milo: What do they want to come here for anyway? We don't know anyone. Dimitri: Well, you've got a new school to go to. You're going to meet loads of cool, new friends. Milo: I just really miss my old house, that's all. Dimitri: Well, this is a pretty awesome house, Milo. You've got a cool garden to play in and a pond. Milo: It was good skimming stones. This looks nice. You cleaned up my room. Thanks. PM: So after three-quarters of an hour, he recognizes you. And I promise you, if you're sitting in front of this screen, that is a truly wonderful moment. And we're ready now to tell a story about his childhood and his life, and it goes on, and he has, you know, many adventures. Some of those adventures are a little bit dark or on the darker side. Some of those adventures are wonderfully encouraging — he's got to go to school. The cool thing is that we're doing as well: as you interact with him, you're able to put things into his world; he recognizes objects. His mind is based in a cloud. That means Milo's mind, as millions of people use it, will get smarter and cleverer. He'll recognize more objects and thus understand more words. But for me, this is a wonderful opportunity where technology, at last, can be connected with, where I am no longer restrained by the finger I hold in my hand — as far as a computer game's concerned — or by the blandness of not being noticed if you're watching a film or a book. And I love those revolutions, and I love the future that Milo brings. Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	當我注意到有一項叫做 Kinect 的新科技時，那時它還叫做 Natal，我突然有一個想法，我認真地想了一下，或許我們可以利用這個科技來說故事，創造一個主角，一個活生生的人物，他可以看得到我，可以看向我內心深處，感覺到所有真實的一切，並且和我們建立情感。所以在一年前，我在 E3 這個電腦展上，展示了這項科技，那時我們是讓Claire 小姐與影片中的男孩互動。這在網路上引起熱烈討論，大家都說：「嘿，這不是真的吧？」所以我等到現在，才為大家現場展示這項嶄新科技。 這項科技結合了三大要素，第一項是Kinect的攝影機，這個攝影機將在十一月上市；還有就是驚人的 AI 人工智慧，隱藏在保險箱裡，幫微軟看好錢財；最後再加上我們新開發的 AI 人工智慧，由 Lionhead 協助開發。把這三大要素結合起來，完成了我最初的想法：創造一個真實的電腦人物出來。我要誠實地告訴你們，大部分的科技不過是些小把戲罷了，但這些小把戲卻能派上用場。 我們現在就來看看實際的操作展示吧...這位是狄米崔，狄米崔，試著搖晃你的手。各位注意，他現在是坐著的，手上沒有拿任何遙控器，沒有鍵盤，沒有滑鼠，也沒有搖桿這類的東西，他只要用自己的雙手、自己的身體和聲音，就像一般人類的互動一樣，只用手、身體和聲音。 讓我們接下去看看，你將第一次見到米羅。我們得為他設計一個難題，因為在我們初次創造米羅時，老實說，他看起來是有點頑皮，以為自己什麼都知道，他也會逗別人發笑。我們為他設定的難題是：他剛搬新家。他剛從倫敦搬到美國的新英格蘭，他的父母都太忙，而忽略了他的問題，那就是故事的背景，魔法要開始了。他現在走在住家的草皮上，你可以和他互動。最酷的是，我們所做的一切，將持續影響及改變米羅的想法，也就是說，每一個人的米羅個性都不一樣，你在雕塑另一個人的個性。他在看花園裡有什麼好玩的，你也可以幫他找找看，幫他指出哪裡有蝸牛，一開始就是這麼簡單。順道提一下，如果你是男孩，就幫忙找蝸牛，如果是女孩，就幫忙找蝴蝶，因為我們發現女孩子不喜歡蝸牛。 (笑聲) 請記住，這是你們第一次見面，我們希望能抓住你的注意力，並引發你的好奇心。另外，他的表情是完全由AI人工智慧所控制，我們可以控制他臉紅的反應，也可以控制他鼻孔的大小來表現他所承受的壓力。我們還運用一種叫做動作比對的技術，當你往前傾的時時候，他會稍微改變他臉上的細微表情，因為我們一直有一種想法：要怎麼做才能讓你們相信米羅是真的人？現在我們只用手來控制而已，我們還可以運用自己的身體。除了可以用滑鼠或搖桿來控制左右方向之外，為什麼不直接運用自己的身體呢？還比較輕鬆不是嗎？你向後靠，攝影機就會改變視野，讓你看到從你的角度可以看到的東西。 狄米崔現在是用他的手和他的身體來控制，他還可以用另一項他本身具備的工具來控制，也就是他的聲音。關於聲音，我們對人聲辨識系統的印象一向不好，對吧？好像從來都不成功，你想要訂個機票，結果卻飛到非洲的提布圖去了。現在我們已經克服這個問題了，等一下就會看到我們的成果。 米羅：我可以踩扁它。 彼得：你想怎麼做？狄米崔？ 女性聲音：踩扁蝸牛不是什麼了不起的大事，但請記住，即使是這麼小的決定，也會影響米羅日後的發展。你希望米羅踩扁蝸牛嗎？當你看到麥克風時，說出...(彼得：踩扁它)..你的決定。 狄米崔：去吧，米羅，踩扁它。 彼得：不對，這樣做不對，看看他的表情。狄米崔說：「去吧，米羅，踩扁它。」我們所使用的是一種新科技，叫做 Tellme，那是微軟在幾年前購併的一家公司，我們把所能辨認的字彙放進資料庫裡，把那些字挑出來，然後再參考我們為狄米崔或其他用戶的聲音所建立的音調資料庫。現在我們要多一點互動了。同樣的，我們可以運用我們的身體進行互動，等一下就會看到。 米羅：這個池塘有多深啊？很深。 彼得：好，我們現在要做的是教米羅怎麼打水漂兒，我們要真的教他打。有趣的是，男人比女人在這方面，表現得更有企圖心，他們一開始會教米羅打幾次水漂兒，但後來就會想要打敗米羅，但是女性就不同了，他們會教導的角度來做這件事。好，這是打水漂兒的遊戲，你要怎麼打水漂兒？你要先站起來，然後把石頭丟出去，就這麼簡單。這項技術會先熟悉你的身體，瞭解你所做的動作，它現在知道你已經從坐姿改變成站姿了。同樣的，我們只要做出我們平常所做的動作就可以了，這樣的設計很重要，因為我們希望米羅像真人一樣。 女性聲音：看看你是否能讓米羅打得更好，試試看能不能打到那艘船。 米羅：啊...很接近了。 彼得：狄米崔現在表現出他強烈的企圖心了，他打敗了一個十一歲的孩子，幹得好。 米羅：好。 彼得：現在米羅被他的父母叫回家，我們有一點自己的時間，我們可以幫他一點忙。其實，在這個故事的一開始，米羅的爸媽曾經要他整理他自己的房間，所以我們現在來幫他這個忙吧。幫他整理房間可以讓米羅認識你，我們希望引用一些深層心理學的技巧，我們現在就要讓你們看看我們覺得最棒的地方：你可以用自己的聲音和米羅說話。在這之前，我們要先準備一下，就像魔術表演一樣，我們要做的是，丟給米羅一個問題。 當狄米崔在幫忙收拾的時候，你會聽到背後米羅在和他的父母交談。 米羅媽媽：噢，你把肉湯弄得到處都是了！(米羅：我又不是故意的！) 米羅媽媽：地毯是新的耶... 彼得：米羅剛才把一盤肉湯灑到地上了，還灑在全新的地毯上。身為父母的我們會有這種反應，但其實我們小時候也會犯錯。現在，狄米崔要趁機安撫一下米羅，因為米羅最近的壓力真的很大，他才剛到新家，又沒有什麼朋友，所以在我們打開房門之後，你可以和米羅說說話。 女性聲音：要不要說些鼓勵的話，來安慰米羅呢？ 狄米崔：算了吧，米羅，爸媽都是這樣的，他們很容易就會發脾氣的。 米羅：他們幹嘛要搬來這裡？我們又不認識什麼人。 狄米崔：嗯，你可以去新的學校啊，你會認識一堆很酷的新朋友哦！米羅：我就是很想念舊家嘛！ 狄米崔：嗯，這個房子也很棒啊，米羅，有一座大花園，還有一個池塘。 米羅：打水漂兒是很好玩啦...我的房間變整齊了！你幫我整理了房間啊...謝謝！ 彼得：大約在45分鐘之後，他就能認得你了，而且我告訴你，如果你坐在螢幕前面，你將會體會到很棒的事情。我們現在已經準備好要把他的童年和他的一生都告訴你，而且還會持續下去，他會有很多冒險的旅程，有些冒險是去做壞事，有些則是能鼓動人心，像是他會去學校上學這件事。 最酷的是，我們也會參與其中，當你和他互動的時候，你可以把東西放進他的世界，而他會認得這些東西，他的心智仍像一張純潔的白紙，只要愈多人使用這個軟體，米羅就會變得更聰明，他會認得更多東西，也會學會更多字彙。 但對我來說，這是一個絕佳的機會，讓我們終於可以把科技和人類連結在一起了，我們不必再被自己的手指限制住了，因為這是目前的電玩的限制；我們也不會再有看電影或閱讀所缺乏的雙向交流。我喜歡這種改變，我喜歡有米羅的未來。 真心謝謝各位！ (掌聲)
