Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_diamandis_on_stephen_hawking_in_zero_g	"Those of you who know me know how passionate I am about opening the space frontier. So when I had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity, it was incredible. And I want to tell you that story. I first met him through the Archon X PRIZE for Genomics. It's a competition we're holding, the second X PRIZE, for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days. We have something called the Genome 100 — 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that. Craig Venter chairs that event. And I met Professor Hawking, and he said his dream was to travel into space. And I said, ""I can't take you there, but I can take you into weightlessness into zero-g. And he said, on the spot, ""Absolutely, yes."" Well, the only way to experience zero-g on Earth is actually with parabolic flight, weightless flight. You take an airplane, you fly over the top, you're weightless for 25 seconds. Come back down, you weigh twice as much. You do it again and again. You can get eight, 10 minutes of weightlessness — how NASA's trained their astronauts for so long. We set out to do this. It took us 11 years to become operational. And we announced that we were going to fly Stephen Hawking. We had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say, you're crazy, don't do that, you're going kill the guy. (Laughter) And he wanted to go. We worked hard to get all the permissions. And six months later, we sat down at Kennedy Space Center. We had a press conference, we announced our intent to do one zero-g parabola, give him 25 seconds of zero-g. And if it went really well, we might do three parabolas. Well, we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this. And what he said, for me, was very moving. He said, ""Life on Earth is at an ever-increasing risk of being wiped out by disaster ... I think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space. I therefore want to encourage public interest in space."" We took him out to the Kennedy Space Center, up inside the NASA vehicle, into the back of the zero-g airplane. We had about 20 people who made donations — we raised $150,000 in donations for children's charities — who flew with us. A few TEDsters here. We set up a whole ER. We had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane. We were monitoring his PO2 of his blood, his heart rate, his blood pressure. We had everything all set in case of an emergency; God knows, you don't want to hurt this world-renowned expert. We took off from the shuttle landing facility, where the shuttle takes off and lands. And my partner Byron Lichtenberg and I carefully suspended him into zero-g. Once he was there, [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like. And after that first parabola, you know, the doc said everything is great. He was smiling, and we said go. So we did a second parabola. (Laughter) (Applause) And a third. (Applause) We actually floated an apple in homage to Sir Isaac Newton because Professor Hawking holds the same chair at Cambridge that Isaac Newton did. And we did a fourth, and a fifth and a sixth. (Laughter) And a seventh and an eighth. And this man does not look like a 65-year-old wheelchair-bound man. (Laughter) He was so happy. We are living on a precious jewel, and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet. Please join us in this epic adventure. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	認識我的人都會知道，我對於開創太空新領域有多麼熱衷。所以當我有機會給這位世界重力專家無重力的經驗時，那真是不可置信的。因此我想跟大家說說這個故事。我第一次遇見他是在基因學 Archon X PRIZE 的場合上。這是我們所舉辦的競賽，第二個 X PRIZE，將頒發給第一個能於十天內完成 100 個人類基因組定序的團隊。我們有個稱為「基因體一百」的團體，那是我們將會用來定序的 100 位個別人士。Craig Venter 是這個團體的主席。 在那裡我遇到了霍金教授，他說他的夢想是上太空旅行。我跟他說，我不能帶你上去，但是我能帶你去 ZERO G（零引力），體驗無重力。然後他隨即說，當然好！在地球上能體驗無重力的唯一方法事實上是經由拋物線飛行，或稱無重力飛行。藉由一架飛機，你飛過頂點，然後你有 25 秒的無重力，回到下面的時候，你會承受兩倍重力。如此一直反覆循環。你總共可以累積約八到十分鐘的無重力經驗 —這也是一直以來 NASA 訓練他們太空人的方法。我們以此為目標。花了我們總共 11 年才能夠正式營運。並且我們宣佈將要搭載史蒂芬•霍金。但是政府部門跟飛機操作員皆說，你瘋了，不要這樣做，你們會殺了那傢伙。 （笑聲） 但是他希望能成行。我們非常辛勤的取得所有文件許可。六個月後，我們在甘迺迪太空中心坐下。我們招開了記者會，我們宣稱我們試圖做一個無重力拋物線飛行 —給他 25 秒的無重力。然後如果一切非常順利，我們也許會做到三個拋物線。我們問他，為什麼他會想要嘗試這個。他的答案，對我來說，非常感人。他說：「地球上的生物面臨著不斷增加的危機可能會被災難所消滅…我認為如果人類不上太空的話將會沒有未來。因此我希望激勵大眾對於太空的興趣。」我們帶他離開甘迺迪太空中心，進入 NASA 的車子裡，回到 ZERO-G 飛機的後方。 還有約 20 個捐款者 —總共捐募了 15 萬美元作為兒童慈善事業之用 —他們跟著我們一起飛。一些 TEDsters 也在這裡。我們於機艙內設置了整間急診室。四位急診醫師與兩位護士與我們一同飛行我們同時監測他血液的PO2（含氧分壓）值、心律以及血壓。我們做好了萬一意外發生時的萬全準備 —天曉得你絕對不希望傷到這位舉世聞名的專家。我們從太空梭降落場起飛，通常那裡是太空梭起降的地方。 我的夥伴 — Byron Lichtenberg — 跟我小心的扶著他進入無重力。一旦他適應了，我們就放開他讓他體驗無重力的真正感覺。經過第一個拋物線飛行後，你知道，醫生說一切良好，而且他在笑，所以我們繼續。我們做了第二個拋物線飛行。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 第三個。 （掌聲） 這次我們讓一顆漂浮著的蘋果一同入鏡以表彰艾薩克•牛頓爵士因為霍金教授在劍橋大學擔任與牛頓相同的職位。然後我們又做了第四、五和第六次。 （笑聲） 還有第七次和第八次。這個人一點也不像一個必須坐輪椅的 65 歲老人。 （笑聲） 他非常高興。我們住在一顆珍貴的寶石上頭，然而我們可望在有生之年離開這顆星球。請與我們一同參加這偉大的冒險之旅。非常謝謝你們。 （掌聲）
