Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_tyack_the_intriguing_sound_of_marine_mammals	"Thank you so much. I'm going to try to take you on a journey of the underwater acoustic world of whales and dolphins. Since we are such a visual species, it's hard for us to really understand this, so I'll use a mixture of figures and sounds and hope this can communicate it. But let's also think, as a visual species, what it's like when we go snorkeling or diving and try to look underwater. We really can't see very far. Our vision, which works so well in air, all of a sudden is very restricted and claustrophobic. And what marine mammals have evolved over the last tens of millions of years is ways to depend on sound to both explore their world and also to stay in touch with one another. Dolphins and toothed whales use echolocation. They can produce loud clicks and listen for echoes from the sea floor in order to orient. They can listen for echoes from prey in order to decide where food is and to decide which one they want to eat. All marine mammals use sound for communication to stay in touch. So the large baleen whales will produce long, beautiful songs, which are used in reproductive advertisement for male and females, both to find one another and to select a mate. And mother and young and closely bonded animals use calls to stay in touch with one another, so sound is really critical for their lives. The first thing that got me interested in the sounds of these underwater animals, whose world was so foreign to me, was evidence from captive dolphins that captive dolphins could imitate human sounds. And I mentioned I'll use some visual representations of sounds. Here's the first example. This is a plot of frequency against time — sort of like musical notation, where the higher notes are up higher and the lower notes are lower, and time goes this way. This is a picture of a trainer's whistle, a whistle a trainer will blow to tell a dolphin it's done the right thing and can come get a fish. It sounds sort of like ""tweeeeeet."" Like that. This is a calf in captivity making an imitation of that trainer's whistle. If you hummed this tune to your dog or cat and it hummed it back to you, you ought to be pretty surprised. Very few nonhuman mammals can imitate sounds. It's really important for our music and our language. So it's a puzzle: The few other mammal groups that do this, why do they do it? A lot of my career has been devoted to trying to understand how these animals use their learning, use the ability to change what you say based on what you hear in their own communication systems. So let's start with calls of a nonhuman primate. Many mammals have to produce contact calls when, say, a mother and calf are apart. This is an example of a call produced by squirrel monkeys when they're isolated from another one. And you can see, there's not much variability in these calls. By contrast, the signature whistle which dolphins use to stay in touch, each individual here has a radically different call. They can use this ability to learn calls in order to develop more complicated and more distinctive calls to identify individuals. How about the setting in which animals need to use this call? Well let's look at mothers and calves. In normal life for mother and calf dolphin, they'll often drift apart or swim apart if Mom is chasing a fish, and when they separate they have to get back together again. What this figure shows is the percentage of the separations in which dolphins whistle, against the maximum distance. So when dolphins are separating by less than 20 meters, less than half the time they need to use whistles. Most of the time they can just find each other just by swimming around. But all of the time when they separate by more than 100 meters, they need to use these individually distinctive whistles to come back together again. Most of these distinctive signature whistles are quite stereotyped and stable through the life of a dolphin. But there are some exceptions. When a male dolphin leaves Mom, it will often join up with another male and form an alliance, which may last for decades. As these two animals form a social bond, their distinctive whistles actually converge and become very similar. This plot shows two members of a pair. As you can see at the top here, they share an up-sweep, like ""woop, woop, woop."" They both have that kind of up-sweep. Whereas these members of a pair go ""wo-ot, wo-ot, wo-ot."" And what's happened is they've used this learning process to develop a new sign that identifies this new social group. It's a very interesting way that they can form a new identifier for the new social group that they've had. Let's now take a step back and see what this message can tell us about protecting dolphins from human disturbance. Anybody looking at this picture will know this dolphin is surrounded, and clearly his behavior is being disrupted. This is a bad situation. But it turns out that when just a single boat is approaching a group of dolphins at a couple hundred meters away, the dolphins will start whistling, they'll change what they're doing, they'll have a more cohesive group, wait for the boat to go by, and then they'll get back to normal business. Well, in a place like Sarasota, Florida, the average interval between times that a boat is passing within a hundred meters of a dolphin group is six minutes. So even in the situation that doesn't look as bad as this, it's still affecting the amount of time these animals have to do their normal work. And if we look at a very pristine environment like western Australia, Lars Bider has done work comparing dolphin behavior and distribution before there were dolphin-watching boats. When there was one boat, not much of an impact. And two boats: When the second boat was added, what happened was that some of the dolphins left the area completely. Of the ones that stayed, their reproductive rate declined. So it could have a negative impact on the whole population. When we think of marine-protected areas for animals like dolphins, this means that we have to be quite conscious about activities that we thought were benign. We may need to regulate the intensity of recreational boating and actual whale watching in order to prevent these kinds of problems. I'd also like to point out that sound doesn't obey boundaries. So you can draw a line to try to protect an area, but chemical pollution and noise pollution will continue to move through the area. And I'd like to switch now from this local, familiar, coastal environment to a much broader world of the baleen whales and the open ocean. This is a kind of map we've all been looking at. The world is mostly blue. But I'd also like to point out that the oceans are much more connected than we think. Notice how few barriers there are to movement across all of the oceans compared to land. To me, the most mind-bending example of the interconnectedness of the ocean comes from an acoustic experiment where oceanographers took a ship to the southern Indian Ocean, deployed an underwater loudspeaker and played back a sound. That same sound traveled to the west, and could be heard in Bermuda, and traveled to the east, and could be heard in Monterey — the same sound. So we live in a world of satellite communication, are used to global communication, but it's still amazing to me. The ocean has properties that allow low-frequency sound to basically move globally. The acoustic transit time for each of these paths is about three hours. It's nearly halfway around the globe. In the early '70s, Roger Payne and an ocean acoustician published a theoretical paper pointing out that it was possible that sound could transmit over these large areas, but very few biologists believed it. It actually turns out, though, even though we've only known of long-range propagation for a few decades, the whales clearly have evolved, over tens of millions of years, a way to exploit this amazing property of the ocean. So blue whales and fin whales produce very low-frequency sounds that can travel over very long ranges. The top plot here shows a complicated series of calls that are repeated by males. They form songs, and they appear to play a role in reproduction, sort of like that of song birds. Down below here, we see calls made by both males and females that also carry over very long ranges. The biologists continued to be skeptical of the long-range communication issue well past the '70s, until the end of the Cold War. What happened was, during the Cold War, the U.S. Navy had a system that was secret at the time, that they used to track Russian submarines. It had deep underwater microphones, or hydrophones, cabled to shore, all wired back to a central place that could listen to sounds over the whole North Atlantic. And after the Berlin Wall fell, the Navy made these systems available to whale bio-acousticians to see what they could hear. This is a plot from Christopher Clark who tracked one individual blue whale as it passed by Bermuda, went down to the latitude of Miami and came back again. It was tracked for 43 days, swimming 1,700 kilometers, or more than 1,000 miles. This shows us both that the calls are detectable over hundreds of miles and that whales routinely swim hundreds of miles. They're ocean-based and scale animals who are communicating over much longer ranges than we had anticipated. Unlike fins and blues, which disperse into the temperate and tropical oceans, the humpbacked whales congregate in local traditional breeding grounds, so they can make a sound that's a little higher in frequency, broader-band and more complicated. So you're listening to the complicated song produced by humpbacks here. Humpbacks, when they develop the ability to sing this song, they're listening to other whales and modifying what they sing based on what they're hearing, just like song birds or the dolphin whistles I described. This means that humpback song is a form of animal culture, just like music for humans would be. I think one of the most interesting examples of this comes from Australia. Biologists on the east coast of Australia were recording the songs of humpbacks in that area. And this orange line here marks the typical songs of east coast humpbacks. In '95 they all sang the normal song. But in '96 they heard a few weird songs, and it turned out that these strange songs were typical of west coast whales. The west coast calls became more and more popular, until by 1998, none of the whales sang the east coast song; it was completely gone. They just sang the cool new west coast song. It's as if some new hit style had completely wiped out the old-fashioned style before, and with no golden oldies stations. Nobody sang the old ones. I'd like to briefly just show what the ocean does to these calls. Now you are listening to a recording made by Chris Clark, 0.2 miles away from a humpback. You can hear the full frequency range. It's quite loud. You sound very nearby. The next recording you're going to hear was made of the same humpback song 50 miles away. That's shown down here. You only hear the low frequencies. You hear the reverberation as the sound travels over long-range in the ocean and is not quite as loud. Now after I play back these humpback calls, I'll play blue whale calls, but they have to be sped up because they're so low in frequency that you wouldn't be able to hear it otherwise. Here's a blue whale call at 50 miles, which was distant for the humpback. It's loud, clear — you can hear it very clearly. Here's the same call recorded from a hydrophone 500 miles away. There's a lot of noise, which is mostly other whales. But you can still hear that faint call. Let's now switch and think about a potential for human impacts. The most dominant sound that humans put into the ocean comes from shipping. This is the sound of a ship, and I'm having to talk a little louder to talk over it. Imagine that whale listening from 500 miles. There's a potential problem that maybe this kind of shipping noise would prevent whales from being able to hear each other. Now this is something that's been known for quite a while. This is a figure from a textbook on underwater sound. And on the y-axis is the loudness of average ambient noise in the deep ocean by frequency. In the low frequencies, this line indicates sound that comes from seismic activity of the earth. Up high, these variable lines indicate increasing noise in this frequency range from higher wind and wave. But right in the middle here where there's a sweet spot, the noise is dominated by human ships. Now think about it. This is an amazing thing: That in this frequency range where whales communicate, the main source globally, on our planet, for the noise comes from human ships, thousands of human ships, distant, far away, just all aggregating. The next slide will show what the impact this may have on the range at which whales can communicate. So here we have the loudness of a call at the whale. And as we get farther away, the sound gets fainter and fainter. Now in the pre-industrial ocean, as we were mentioning, this whale call could be easily detected. It's louder than noise at a range of a thousand kilometers. Let's now take that additional increase in noise that we saw comes from shipping. All of a sudden, the effective range of communication goes from a thousand kilometers to 10 kilometers. Now if this signal is used for males and females to find each other for mating and they're dispersed, imagine the impact this could have on the recovery of endangered populations. Whales also have contact calls like I described for the dolphins. I'll play the sound of a contact call used by right whales to stay in touch. And this is the kind of call that is used by, say, right whale mothers and calves as they separate to come back again. Now imagine — let's put the ship noise in the picture. What's a mother to do if the ship comes by and her calf isn't there? I'll describe a couple strategies. One strategy is if your call's down here, and the noise is in this band, you could shift the frequency of your call out of the noise band and communicate better. Susan Parks of Penn State has actually studied this. She's looked in the Atlantic. Here's data from the South Atlantic. Here's a typical South Atlantic contact call from the '70s. Look what happened by 2000 to the average call. Same thing in the North Atlantic, in the '50s versus 2000. Over the last 50 years, as we've put more noise into the oceans, these whales have had to shift. It's as if the whole population had to shift from being basses to singing as a tenor. It's an amazing shift, induced by humans over this large scale, in both time and space. And we now know that whales can compensate for noise by calling louder, like I did when that ship was playing, by waiting for silence and by shifting their call out of the noise band. Now there's probably costs to calling louder or shifting the frequency away from where you want to be, and there's probably lost opportunities. If we also have to wait for silence, they may miss a critical opportunity to communicate. So we have to be very concerned about when the noise in habitats degrades the habitat enough that the animals either have to pay too much to be able to communicate, or are not able to perform critical functions. It's a really important problem. And I'm happy to say that there are several very promising developments in this area, looking at the impact of shipping on whales. In terms of the shipping noise, the International Maritime Organization of the United Nations has formed a group whose job is to establish guidelines for quieting ships, to tell the industry how you could quiet ships. And they've already found that by being more intelligent about better propeller design, you can reduce that noise by 90 percent. If you actually insulate and isolate the machinery of the ship from the hull, you can reduce that noise by 99 percent. So at this point, it's primarily an issue of cost and standards. If this group can establish standards, and if the shipbuilding industry adopts them for building new ships, we can now see a gradual decline in this potential problem. But there's also another problem from ships that I'm illustrating here, and that's the problem of collision. This is a whale that just squeaked by a rapidly moving container ship and avoided collision. But collision is a serious problem. Endangered whales are killed every year by ship collision, and it's very important to try to reduce this. I'll discuss two very promising approaches. The first case comes from the Bay of Fundy. These black lines mark shipping lanes in and out of the Bay of Fundy. The colorized area shows the risk of collision for endangered right whales because of the ships moving in this lane. It turns out that this lane here goes right through a major feeding area of right whales in the summer time, and it makes an area of a significant risk of collision. Well, biologists who couldn't take no for an answer went to the International Maritime Organization and petitioned them to say, ""Can't you move that lane? Those are just lines on the ground. Can't you move them over to a place where there's less of a risk?"" And the International Maritime Organization responded very strongly, ""These are the new lanes."" The shipping lanes have been moved. And as you can see, the risk of collision is much lower. So it's very promising, actually. We can be very creative about thinking of different ways to reduce these risks. Another action which was just taken independently by a shipping company itself was initiated because of concerns the shipping company had about greenhouse gas emissions with global warming. The Maersk Line looked at their competition and saw that everybody who is in shipping thinks time is money. They rush as fast as they can to get to their port. But then they often wait there. What Maersk did is they worked ways to slow down. They could slow down by about 50 percent. This reduced their fuel consumption by about 30 percent, which saved them money, and at the same time, it had a significant benefit for whales. It you slow down, you reduce the amount of noise you make and you reduce the risk of collision. So to conclude, I'd just like to point out, you know, the whales live in an amazing acoustic environment. They've evolved over tens of millions of years to take advantage of this. And we need to be very attentive and vigilant to thinking about where things that we do may unintentionally prevent them from being able to achieve their important activities. At the same time, we need to be really creative in thinking of solutions to be able to help reduce these problems. I hope these examples have shown some of the different directions we can take in addition to protected areas to be able to keep the ocean safe for whales to be able to continue to communicate. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	非常感謝。我要帶大家進入一段鯨魚和海豚的水下聲音世界由於我們多依賴視覺，所以，要真正理解這些有點難度因此我會結合圖表與聲音 來說明希望這樣能把我想要表達的傳達給大家但讓我們也思考一下，作為擁有視覺的物種，當我們浮潛或潛水時，看看水下的世界時，它是什麼樣的？其實我們看不了多遠在地表上我們的視覺良好但突然間 我們會在水下受到嚴重的限制與幽閉而海洋哺乳動物經過了近數千萬年來的進化後，牠們依賴聲音探索周圍的世界並與其他同類保持聯繫 海豚和齒鯨使用回聲定位牠們能產生響亮的喀喇聲並傾聽海底反射的回聲來定位牠們能通過獵物所反射的回聲來確定牠們的食物在哪里，並決定要吃什麽所有海洋哺乳動物用聲音來保持相互聯繫於是大型鬚鯨能發出悠長美麗的歌聲，這種歌聲被雌鯨和雄鯨用於尋求伴侶，幫助牠們找到同類，並且選擇配偶呼叫的聲音也被用於母子之間的聯繫，或者在聯繫緊密的動物之間保持聯繫因此，聲音在牠們的生活中是非常重要的 第一個引起我對這些海底動物的聲音興趣的是，這對我來說是個陌生的世界從捕獲的海豚中 所發現的證據表示：牠們能模仿人類的聲音我說我會使用一些聲音的視覺化圖像這是第一個例子這是幅頻率對時間的圖表—有點像音符，高處的標記表示頻率較高，低處的標記表示頻率較低，時間朝這個方向流逝這張圖表示教練的哨聲，這哨聲是教練用來告訴海豚做對了 就能得到一條魚。它聽起來有點像 “tweeeeeet”。有點像這樣。這是一隻人工飼養的小海豚模仿的教練的哨聲現在如果你對這你的貓貓或狗狗哼這個曲子，而牠也對著你哼這曲子，你應該會大吃一驚。很少有除人類之外的哺乳動物能模仿聲音這種能力對我們學習音樂和語言十分重要。 因此這讓人迷惑：少有其他哺乳動物能做到這點，為什麼牠們能做到這點？我職業生涯中花了很多時間試圖弄明白這些哺乳動物如何運用牠們的學習能力運用此一能力：基於所聽到的改變所說的。這些都在牠們自己的溝通系統中那麼讓我們從非人靈長類的叫聲開始許多哺乳動物會發出呼喚聲比如說，當母親和幼兒分開時這是一個例子：這是松鼠猴與其他同類分開時所發出的叫聲。如你們所見，在這些叫聲中沒有多少變化相對地，海豚用於保持聯繫的哨聲，每一隻海豚都有完全不同的聲調牠們用這種能力來學習叫聲，以便能發展出更複雜、更獨特的聲納來辨別不同的個體 在怎樣的環境下 動物必須使用這種叫聲？好，讓我們看看母親和幼海豚在海豚媽媽和海豚幼兒平常的生活中，如果海豚媽媽去抓魚，牠們經常因為漂移或是游泳而分開當牠們分開時必須重新聚在一起這張圖顯示，牠們分開時海豚發出哨聲的百分比，與此相對的是最遠距離因此，當海豚分隔少於 20 公尺時，低於半數的情況下，牠們需要用到哨聲大多數時間，牠們四處遊動就能找到對方然而一旦牠們分開超過100公尺，牠們就需要使用這些各自獨特的哨聲再次聚在一塊。多數這類帶有獨特個別特徵的哨聲在海豚的一生中都是定型的、而且非常穩定但也有些例外 當雄海豚離開海豚媽媽時，牠通常會聯合另一隻雄海豚形成一個聯盟，這一聯盟可能會持續幾十年之久由於這兩隻動物形成了一條社會紐帶，牠們獨特的哨聲實際上會進行融合變得非常相似這張圖顯示了組合中的兩個成員，正如你們於頂部所看到的，牠們有著同樣的上升調，像“woop，woop，woop“牠們都有這樣的上升調然而，另一對成員擁有的上升調是”wo-ot, wo-ot, wo-ot“這是由於：牠們運用此一學習過程發展出識別新社會群體的新信號這是非常有趣的方式，牠們可以為新的社會群體形塑一個新的識別標誌 現在讓我們退後一步看看這訊息能告訴我們些什麼關於保護海豚遠離人類干擾的資訊任何看到這張圖片的人都知道這隻海豚被包圍了，顯然牠的行為被打亂了。這是個糟糕的情況。但事實表明，當僅有一艘船在數百公尺外靠近一群海豚時，這些海豚會開始發出哨聲，牠們會放棄正在做的事，聚集成更大的群體，等待這艘船駛過，然後回復正常嗯，在一個佛羅里達州 Sarasota 的地方，一艘船在百公尺之內駛過一群海豚的 平均間隔時間是六分鐘因此，即使在看起來不像這麼糟糕的情形下，在多數時刻，仍然會對這些動物的正常生活造成影響 讓我們看看像澳洲西部這樣一個非常原始的環境，Lars Bider 曾經比較了賞海豚的遊船產生之前和之後，當地海豚的行為與分佈當只有一艘船時，對牠們的影響不大兩艘船時，當第二艘船駛來時，有些海豚完全離開了這一區域留下的那些海豚的繁殖率下降了因此，這可能對整個群體數量產生負面影響當我們考慮動物比如海豚建立海洋保護區時，這意味著我們也要非常慎重地考慮那些我們認為無礙的活動我們也許需要控制遊船的密度，甚至賞鯨船的密度，以防類似問題的發生同樣，我想指出那些沒有辦法設置防線的因素：聲音你可以畫一條線，試圖保護一個區域，但是化學污染和噪音污染將不斷進入這一區域。 現在，我想從這種地方性的、為人熟知的沿海環境轉換至鬚鯨的更廣闊的大海我們經常看到這類地圖世界大部分是藍色的但我還想指出的是，海洋之間的聯繫地比我們所想像的更加緊密。請注意，相較於陸地而言，對海洋間的運動的阻礙非常的少。對我來說，最令人驚訝的海洋間的相互聯繫的例子來自一個海洋學家所做的聲音實驗，實驗中，海洋學家行駛至南印度洋，放置一個水下揚聲器並不斷播放一個聲音。同一段聲音向西能傳播至百慕達群島，向東能傳播至蒙特雷（Monterey）—同一段聲音。 雖然我們生活在一個衛星通信的世界裏，早已習慣了全球間的溝通，但我仍然感到驚訝海洋擁有了，基本上能讓低頻聲音傳遍全球的特性。聲音通過這些途徑中的每一條進行傳播所需的時間大約是三小時。這幾乎穿越了半個地球。在70年代早期，一名海洋聲學家，Roger Payne曾發表過一篇學術論文，論文中指出聲音能夠在大範圍內傳播，但少有生物學家相信這點。 事實上，雖然我們近幾十年來才對這種遠距離傳播有所瞭解，而鯨魚顯然在數千萬年之前就已經進行了進化，進化出一種方法來運用海洋的這種驚奇特性，藍鯨和長鬚鯨產生一種頻率非常低的聲音，這種聲音能傳播很長的距離，上面這幅圖顯示雄鯨所重複的一系列複雜的叫聲。這些叫聲形成歌聲，並且似乎能在繁殖中發揮作用，有點類似鳥類的啼聲。下面這幅圖，我們看到 無論是雄性還是雌性發出的叫聲都能傳播很遠的距離。 生物學家在70年代持續地懷疑遠距離溝通的問題，直到冷戰結束為止。冷戰期間，美國海軍開發出一套在當時處於保密的系統，這套系統能夠探測俄國潛艇，它有一個深水麥克風，或者說，一個水下測音器，水下測音器用纜線連接至海岸，所有纜線連接至一個中心，在那兒能監聽所有穿過整個北大西洋的聲音。在柏林牆倒塌之後，海軍允許鯨生物聲學家使用這些系統看看他·們能聽到些什麼。 這幅圖來自Christopher Clark，他在一條藍鯨經過百慕達時，跟蹤牠，牠游至邁阿密同一緯度時，開始往回游，牠被跟蹤了43天，游了1700公里，或者說超過1000英里。這告訴我們，這些叫聲能在數百英里外被探測出來，這些鯨魚經常遊出數百英里遠。牠們是海洋大型動物，能夠以遠遠超出人們預期的距離進行溝通。 牠們與分佈在溫帶和熱帶的鬚鯨和藍鯨不同，座頭鯨聚集於傳統繁殖地，因此牠們能發出頻率更高的聲音，音域更寬且更複雜。你們現在聽到的是座頭鯨發出的複雜歌聲。當座頭鯨發展出這樣的歌聲能力時，牠們就能聽到來自其他鯨魚的聲音了，並且基於牠們所聽到的來改變音調，就像鳥的啼聲或我描述的海豚哨聲。這表示了座頭鯨的歌聲是動物文化的一種形式，就像音樂對於人類一般。 我認為，關於這些最有趣的例子來自澳洲。生物學家在澳洲東海岸錄下了那一區域的座頭鯨的歌聲，這條橘色的線顯示了東海岸座頭鯨的典型歌聲。在1995年，牠們都唱出正常的歌聲。但在1996年，生物學家聽到了少數奇怪的歌聲。後來發現這些奇怪的歌聲是典型的西海岸鯨的歌聲。西海岸的叫聲變得越來越常見，直到1998年，再也沒有鯨魚發出東海岸的歌聲，它完全消失了，牠們都在唱著新的西海岸的酷歌。這仿佛是一種新的風格完全取代了之前舊的時尚風格，而且沒有金曲再現這一檔事，沒人想唱老歌了。 我想簡要的展示一下海洋中的這些叫聲，現在大家聽到的是由 Chris Clark在距離座頭鯨0.2英里遠處所錄製的聲音。你們能聽到整個音頻範圍內的聲音，非常響亮，聽起來就像在附近；下一段大家將聽到的錄音是由同一頭座頭鯨在50英里外發出的。下面顯示的這個，只能聽到低頻的聲音，能聽到聲音在海洋中長距離傳播產生的回聲它聽起來並不響亮，在我播放了這些座頭鯨的叫聲後，我要播放一些藍鯨的叫聲，但我不得不加快這些聲音，因為它們的頻率太低了，否則大家就聽不到它們了，這是50英里外一頭藍鯨的叫聲，比那頭座頭鯨更遠，它清晰、響亮——你能非常清楚的聽到它，這是由水下測音器在500英里外錄製的同一叫聲。因為有許多其他鯨魚，聽起來有許多噪音，但你仍能聽到這微弱的叫聲。 現在讓我們切換思路，考慮一下潛在的人類影響。多數人類在海洋中產生的聲音來自船隻，這是一艘船的聲音，為了蓋過它我不得不更大聲的說話。想像一下鯨在500英里遠處傾聽。可能由這類船隻造成的這一潛在問題 將會阻止鯨魚聽到彼此。這已經是個長久以來的問題了， 這是一張來自課本的關於水下聲音的圖：Y軸代表深海中以頻率表示的環境噪音的平均音量；在低頻時，這條線表明來自地球地震活動的聲音。上面這些線表明在這一頻率範圍內由風浪所增加的噪音；但在正中間有一個平衡點，噪音主要來自人類的船隻。現在考慮一點，這是個奇妙的事情。就在鯨魚用來交流的這個頻率範圍內，在我們的星球上，全球主要的噪音來自人類的船隻，數以千計遠處的人類船隻產生的噪音全都彙集在一起。 下一張幻燈片顯示了這些噪音對鯨魚用於溝通的頻率範圍的可能影響。這是鯨的聲量，當我們離更遠時聲音越來越微弱。在工業化前的海洋中，正如我們所提到的，鯨魚的叫聲很容易被監聽到。在一千公里範圍內叫聲比噪音還要大；現在，考慮到來自船隻不斷增加的噪音，溝通的有效距離突然從一千公里降至十公里了，如果這些信號是用於雌性和雄性為了交配而相互尋找的話，牠們被分隔開了，想像一下這可能對瀕危族群的復育上所造成的影響。 我們也有我所描述過的海豚用於相互聯繫的叫聲我要播放一段露脊鯨用來保持聯繫的叫聲，這是當露脊鯨母鯨與幼兒分離後，當牠們想再次重聚時相互呼喚的叫聲。現在，想像一下，如果在其中加入船隻的噪音，如果船隻從旁經過，而牠的孩子並不在身旁，母鯨應該做什麼的？我將描述幾種對策， 一個對策是，如果你的叫聲在下面這個位置，而噪音在這個波段內，你可以改變叫聲的頻率，擺脫噪音的波段，以進行更好的溝通。賓州州立大學的 Susan Parks 做了相關研究。她把注意力集中在大西洋，這兒是來自南大西洋的資料，這是自70年以來典型的南大西洋聯繫叫聲，看看到2000年時，平均叫聲發生了什麼變化。在北大西洋中，相較於50年代至2000年的資料，也發生了同樣的變化，在過去50年中，隨著我們帶入海洋的噪音越來越多，這些鯨魚不得不改變。這就好像，整個族群不得不從彈奏貝司變成像男高音那樣唱歌。這是個令人驚訝的、由人類導致的變化，這一變化無論在時間還是空間上都有很大的跨度。 現在我們知道，鯨魚能夠彌補噪音的影響，通過發出更大的叫聲，如我剛才在播放船隻的聲音時所做的，通過等待寂靜的到來，和通過改變牠們的叫聲來擺脫噪音干擾，對於發出更大的叫聲或者是改變原有叫聲的頻率可能需要付出些代價，牠們可能會錯失良機，如果不得不等待寂靜一刻的到來，牠們也許會錯過交流的重要機會。因此我們要非常關注，當棲息地裡頭的噪音對棲息地的分隔足以讓動物不得不付出更多心力才能溝通、或牠們無法進行某些關鍵功能時，這是個非常重要的問題。 我可以很高興的說，在這一領域中具有極為前瞻的進展，看看船隻對鯨的影響。就船隻噪音而言，聯合國國際海事組織（IMP）成立了一個團體這個團體要建立船隻靜音指南，藉此告訴工業界如何讓船隻靜音。並且他們已經發現，通過更智慧的、更好的螺旋槳設計就能減少百分之九十的噪音。如果確實地把船殼和船隻的機械裝置隔離、分割開來，你就能夠減少百分之九十九的噪音。因此，就這一點來說，這主要是成本與標準的問題，如果這一組織能建立標準，並且造船業採用這些標準來建造船隻，我們現在就能看到此一潛在問題的逐步下降； 但船隻還會造成另一個問題，看看這幅圖，碰撞的問題。這隻鯨魚剛好勉強躲過了一艘快速通過的貨櫃船，避開了碰撞，然而，碰撞是個嚴重的問題，每年都有瀕危的鯨由於船隻的碰撞而死亡。嘗試減少這種情況發生是非常重要的，我會討論一下兩個非常有效的方法：第一個方法來自芬迪灣（Bay of Fundy），這些黑線標明了船隻進出芬迪灣的航線；彩色的區域表示船隻在這航道上航行所產生的與瀕危露脊鯨發生碰撞的風險。原來的這條航線正好穿過夏天露脊鯨的一個主要繁殖區域，這使得此區存在極大的碰撞風險。而從來不說不的生物學家們，這回一起來到了國際海事組織他們請願道：「你們能移動那條航線嗎？這只是些地表上的線條而已，可否能把它們移到其他風險更小的地方去？」國際海事組織的反應非常迅疾，「這些是新航線。」航線已經移動過了，如你所見，碰撞的風險小了很多。 因此，實際上，這一方法非常有希望。我們能以創意的方式思考減少這些風險的不同方式；另一個方法已經由一家船運公司獨自落實了，啟動這一方法 涉及了船運公司造成全球暖化的溫室氣體的排放：快桅航運公司（The Maersk Line）審視了他們的競爭者，看到船運業中所有人都認為：時間就是金錢他們盡其可能的快速到達港口，但是卻常常在港口等著。快桅航運公司所做的是：放慢速度他們會把速度降低一半，這降低了百分之三十的燃油消耗，節省了費用，同時，這對鯨魚也有很大的好處。如果放慢速度，會減少噪音產生，並降低發生碰撞的風險。 因此，總結一下，我想指出，你知道，鯨魚生活在令人驚異的聲納環境中，牠們進化了數千萬餘年來利用環境我們要非常小心謹慎的考慮我們所做的事可能無意中對牠們的重要活動造成阻礙，同時，我們需要真正的創新思考，關於減少這些問題的創新思考，我希望這些例子展示了除了設立保護區之外，還有一些不同的方向。透過這些辦法，維護一個讓鯨魚能繼續溝通的安全海洋。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
