Talk	en	zh-tw
pete_alcorn_s_vision_of_a_better_world	I used to be a Malthusian. This was my mental model of the world: exploding population, small planet; it's going to lead to ugly things. But I'm moving past Malthus, because I think that we just might be about 150 years from a kind of new enlightenment. Here's why. This is the U.N.'s population data, you may have seen, for the world. And the world's population expected to top out at something hopefully a bit less than 10 billion, late this century. And after that, most likely it's going to begin to decline. So what then? Most of the economic models are built around scarcity and growth. So a lot of economists look at declining population and expect to see stagnation, maybe depression. But a declining population is going to have at least two very beneficial economic effects. One: fewer people on a fixed amount of land make investing in property a bad bet. In the cities, a lot of the cost of property is actually wrapped up in its speculative value. Take away land speculation, price of land drops. And that begins to lift a heavy burden off the world's poor. Number two: a declining population means scarce labor. Scarce labor drives wages. As wages increase that also lifts the burden on the poor and the working class. Now I'm not talking about a radical drop in population like we saw in the Black Death. But look what happened in Europe after the plague: rising wages, land reform, technological innovation, birth of the middle class; and after that, forward-looking social movements like the Renaissance, and later the Enlightenment. Most of our cultural heritage has tended to look backward, romanticizing the past. All of the Western religions begin with the notion of Eden, and descend through a kind of profligate present to a very ugly future. So human history is viewed as sort of this downhill slide from the good old days. But I think we're in for another change, about two generations after the top of that curve, once the effects of a declining population start to settle in. At that point, we'll start romanticizing the future again, instead of the nasty, brutish past. So why does this matter? Why talk about social-economic movements that may be more than a century away? Because transitions are dangerous times. When land owners start to lose money, and labor demands more pay, there are some powerful interests that are going to fear for the future. Fear for the future leads to some rash decisions. If we have a positive view about the future then we may be able to accelerate through that turn, instead of careening off a cliff. If we can make it through the next 150 years, I think that your great great grandchildren will forget all about Malthus. And instead, they'll be planning for the future and starting to build the 22nd Century Enlightenment. Thank you. (Applause)	我曾經是一個馬爾薩斯主義者從前，我心目中的世界是這樣的人口爆炸，地球狹小將迎向一個醜陋的未來但現在我已經把馬爾薩斯主義拋在腦後了因為我覺得再過150年將會有一個新的啟蒙運動 讓我來告訴你原因你可能看過這個聯合國發佈的世界人口數據據估計，全球人口可能在本世紀末達到最高峰逼近100億大關過了這個高峰後，人口數將開始下滑那會怎樣呢？大部分經濟模式都是建立在「缺乏」和「成長」這兩個概念之上所以大部分經濟學家都將人口下滑這個現象視為經濟不景氣或衰退的先兆但人口下滑將會為我們的經濟帶來至少兩個正面影響 第一，人口減少，但土地面積仍是固定不變房地產將會成為一項不當的投資在都市裡，大部分房地產的價錢其實全都是投機的行情當土地的投機買賣減少土地的價錢就會下跌對於貧窮的人來說這將大大減輕了他們肩上的重擔 第二，人口下滑意味著勞動人口跟著減少勞動力不足將帶動工資上漲隨著工資上漲窮人和勞動階層的負擔也會減輕我所講的不是像黑死病造成的那種人口急劇的銳減不過看看黑死病那場瘟疫後歐洲所發生的一切工資上升土地改革科技革新中產階層誕生隨之而來的，是高瞻遠矚的社會運動如文藝復興和後來的啟蒙運動 我們大部分的文化遺產都會回顧過往將過去抹上浪漫的色彩所有西方宗教都始於伊甸園這個概念歷經今天這個放蕩的世界然後朝向一個極醜惡的未來而沈淪所以我們認為人類歷史是一種走下坡的發展從過往美好的日子中開始墮落 但我認為另一個轉變即將到來當人口曲線到達頂峰，經過兩個世代之後一但人口下滑帶來的連串效應開始穩定下來時屆時，我們會開始憧憬美好的未來而不會與那醜惡的過去糾纏 那麼，這又有什麼關係呢？為什麼要討論那或許一個世紀之後才會發生的社會經濟運動呢？這是因為過渡期往往是最危險的時刻當地主開始面臨虧損勞工要求提高工資時會引起強而有力的利益團體恐懼擔憂他們的未來這種對未來的恐懼擔憂會令人作出不理性的決定如果我們對未來抱著一個正面的態度我們或許能加速衝過那個轉捩點而不是墮入萬丈深淵 如果我們能安然的渡過接下來的150年我相信你們的曾曾子孫會忘了馬爾薩斯其且他們會開始計劃末來並展開二十二世紀的啟蒙運動謝謝各位。(掌聲)
