Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_van_manen_how_can_formula_1_racing_help_babies	Motor racing is a funny old business. We make a new car every year, and then we spend the rest of the season trying to understand what it is we've built to make it better, to make it faster. And then the next year, we start again. Now, the car you see in front of you is quite complicated. The chassis is made up of about 11,000 components, the engine another 6,000, the electronics about eight and a half thousand. So there's about 25,000 things there that can go wrong. So motor racing is very much about attention to detail. The other thing about Formula 1 in particular is we're always changing the car. We're always trying to make it faster. So every two weeks, we will be making about 5,000 new components to fit to the car. Five to 10 percent of the race car will be different every two weeks of the year. So how do we do that? Well, we start our life with the racing car. We have a lot of sensors on the car to measure things. On the race car in front of you here there are about 120 sensors when it goes into a race. It's measuring all sorts of things around the car. That data is logged. We're logging about 500 different parameters within the data systems, about 13,000 health parameters and events to say when things are not working the way they should do, and we're sending that data back to the garage using telemetry at a rate of two to four megabits per second. So during a two-hour race, each car will be sending 750 million numbers. That's twice as many numbers as words that each of us speaks in a lifetime. It's a huge amount of data. But it's not enough just to have data and measure it. You need to be able to do something with it. So we've spent a lot of time and effort in turning the data into stories to be able to tell, what's the state of the engine, how are the tires degrading, what's the situation with fuel consumption? So all of this is taking data and turning it into knowledge that we can act upon. Okay, so let's have a look at a little bit of data. Let's pick a bit of data from another three-month-old patient. This is a child, and what you're seeing here is real data, and on the far right-hand side, where everything starts getting a little bit catastrophic, that is the patient going into cardiac arrest. It was deemed to be an unpredictable event. This was a heart attack that no one could see coming. But when we look at the information there, we can see that things are starting to become a little fuzzy about five minutes or so before the cardiac arrest. We can see small changes in things like the heart rate moving. These were all undetected by normal thresholds which would be applied to data. So the question is, why couldn't we see it? Was this a predictable event? Can we look more at the patterns in the data to be able to do things better? So this is a child, about the same age as the racing car on stage, three months old. It's a patient with a heart problem. Now, when you look at some of the data on the screen above, things like heart rate, pulse, oxygen, respiration rates, they're all unusual for a normal child, but they're quite normal for the child there, and so one of the challenges you have in health care is, how can I look at the patient in front of me, have something which is specific for her, and be able to detect when things start to change, when things start to deteriorate? Because like a racing car, any patient, when things start to go bad, you have a short time to make a difference. So what we did is we took a data system which we run every two weeks of the year in Formula 1 and we installed it on the hospital computers at Birmingham Children's Hospital. We streamed data from the bedside instruments in their pediatric intensive care so that we could both look at the data in real time and, more importantly, to store the data so that we could start to learn from it. And then, we applied an application on top which would allow us to tease out the patterns in the data in real time so we could see what was happening, so we could determine when things started to change. Now, in motor racing, we're all a little bit ambitious, audacious, a little bit arrogant sometimes, so we decided we would also look at the children as they were being transported to intensive care. Why should we wait until they arrived in the hospital before we started to look? And so we installed a real-time link between the ambulance and the hospital, just using normal 3G telephony to send that data so that the ambulance became an extra bed in intensive care. And then we started looking at the data. So the wiggly lines at the top, all the colors, this is the normal sort of data you would see on a monitor — heart rate, pulse, oxygen within the blood, and respiration. The lines on the bottom, the blue and the red, these are the interesting ones. The red line is showing an automated version of the early warning score that Birmingham Children's Hospital were already running. They'd been running that since 2008, and already have stopped cardiac arrests and distress within the hospital. The blue line is an indication of when patterns start to change, and immediately, before we even started putting in clinical interpretation, we can see that the data is speaking to us. It's telling us that something is going wrong. The plot with the red and the green blobs, this is plotting different components of the data against each other. The green is us learning what is normal for that child. We call it the cloud of normality. And when things start to change, when conditions start to deteriorate, we move into the red line. There's no rocket science here. It is displaying data that exists already in a different way, to amplify it, to provide cues to the doctors, to the nurses, so they can see what's happening. In the same way that a good racing driver relies on cues to decide when to apply the brakes, when to turn into a corner, we need to help our physicians and our nurses to see when things are starting to go wrong. So we have a very ambitious program. We think that the race is on to do something differently. We are thinking big. It's the right thing to do. We have an approach which, if it's successful, there's no reason why it should stay within a hospital. It can go beyond the walls. With wireless connectivity these days, there is no reason why patients, doctors and nurses always have to be in the same place at the same time. And meanwhile, we'll take our little three-month-old baby, keep taking it to the track, keeping it safe, and making it faster and better. Thank you very much. (Applause)	賽車是個有趣的老行業每年我們都會造一部新車而當季的其他時間就用來了解我們達成了那些然後想辦法突破、讓車子能跑得更快下一年，重新開始 大家眼前的這部車結構相當複雜車子底盤大約由一萬一千組零件所構成引擎則使用了六千組零件電子設備將近八千五百組零件所以總共約有兩萬五千組零件可能出錯因此賽車是非常重視細節的 尤其是一級方程式賽車我們不斷地改車總想盡辦法讓它能跑得更快所以每兩週，我們就會製造大約五千組新零件來組裝該年度會有 5% 到 10% 的賽車每兩週就會改頭換面一次 我們是如何辦到的呢？嗯，我們的生活是從賽車開始的我們在車子裡安裝了許多感應器來監測車況你們眼前的這部賽車比賽時裝了約一百廿個感應器來測量整部車的車況資料會被記錄下來，我們在資料系統裡記錄了大約五百種不同的參數大約一萬三千個健康參數和事件車子出狀況時，這些紀錄能派上用場我們利用遙測技術以每秒 2-4 兆位元的速率將資料傳回修車廠所以一場兩小時的比賽中每部車會傳送出七億五千萬個數字這是我們每個人一輩子說話用字的兩倍之多這是很龐大的資料 但是光有資料或能測量資料是不夠的還必須要懂得如何運用這些資料所以我們花了很多時間和精力把數據轉換成故事可以解讀引擎的狀況如何、輪胎的耗損情形、車子油耗又是如何？所以這些就是紀錄資料並將其轉換為我們能採取行動的知識 好，讓我們來看看一點點資料這些資料取自於一個三個月大的病童他是個小孩子，大家現在看到的是真實數據在最右手邊可以看到情況開始變的有點糟糕這病患的心搏漸漸停止這是出乎預料的事情沒人料想到會心臟病發但是當我們檢查這些資訊時我們可以發現，大約在心搏停止前五分鐘數據開始變得有點模糊不清我們可以看到如心搏速率等有些微的變化這些原本能應用在數據資料上的都沒有被正常閾值偵測到所以問題在於為什麼我們看不到？這是可以預測的事嗎？我們能不能從資料的模式中看出端倪並採取更好的行動呢？ 這個小孩年紀跟台上這輛賽車相仿都是三個月大這是一名心臟疾病患者現在你看看螢幕上方的資料心跳速率、脈搏、含氧量、呼吸速率都不是一個正常小朋友該有的數據但是對這個小朋友卻相當正常因此在醫療照護上所面臨的挑戰之一是如何判斷眼前的病人有她專屬的資料模式並在情況改變、病情開始惡化時有所察覺？因為跟賽車的道理一樣，任何患者遇到緊急狀況時，我們只有極短的時間扭轉命運 所以我們使用一個在一級方程式賽車年度裡每兩週執行一次的資料系統並將其安裝於伯明罕兒童醫院的電腦裡我們從小兒科加護病房內的床邊儀器得到數據如此一來我們可以即時掌握資料而且更重要的是，能夠儲存資料讓我們能開始從資料中學習然後，我們運用一個可以即時讓我們整理出資料模式的應用程式我們就能看到發生了什麼事我們就能判斷什麼時候開始有狀況 之於賽車，我們都有點企圖心、有點大膽、有時也有點自負所以我們決定當那些小朋友被送往加護病房的途中也要能觀察到他們的資料為什麼我們要等到他們抵達醫院才開始呢？因此我們在救護車及醫院之間安裝了一個即時連結機制只需使用一般 3G 通訊傳送資料這樣一來，救護車就等同於加護病房裡的床位了 然後我們開始看那些數據上面那些波浪狀的線，所有顏色都是我們在監測器上會看到的正常數據資料心跳速率、脈搏、血中的含氧量及呼吸速率底部的藍線和紅線滿有趣的紅線代表自動感應的預警分數這些資料是伯明罕兒童醫院已經跑過的數據他們從 2008 年就開始跑這些數據而且已經成功阻止了院內心搏停止和心臟窘迫的案例而藍線呢是資料模式開始產生變化的指標立即地，甚至在我們開始臨床解讀這些數據之前數據已經在對我們說話告訴我們情況不妙 這張有紅點與綠點的圖表標示出相互對立資料的不同成分標示出相互對立資料的不同成分綠色是我們所知那位病童的正常情況資料我們稱之為常態雲圖當情況開始轉變、病情開始惡化時我們會移到紅線上這完全不涉及艱深的學問只是以不同的方式呈現既有的資料詳述它、提供醫生護士更多線索他們就能了解正在發生什麼事同樣地，一位優秀的賽車手也仰賴線索來決定他何時該煞車、何時該轉彎我們須要幫助我們的醫生和護士讓他們在情況不妙時能夠察覺 所以我們有一個野心勃勃的計畫我們認為賽車該採取不同的行動了我們目標很高，這是對的事情我們有這個方法，而且如果它成功了我們就沒理由只在醫院裡運用它這方法能走出醫院之牆現在到處都有無線連結沒有理由病人、醫生和護士為何總是必須同時在同一個地方為何總是必須同時在同一個地方此刻，我們會讓這個三個月大的寶寶安安全全地待在軌道上跑得更快更好 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
