Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_gabriel_fights_injustice_with_video	"I love trees, and I'm very lucky, because we live near a wonderful arboretum, and Sundays, usually, I'd go there with my wife and now, with my four-year-old, and we'd climb in the trees, we'd play hide and seek. The second school I was at had big trees too, had a fantastic tulip tree, I think it was the biggest in the country, and it also had a lot of wonderful bushes and vegetation around it, around the playing fields. One day I was grabbed by some of my classmates, and taken in the bushes — I was stripped; I was attacked; I was abused; and this came out of the blue. Now, the reason I say that, because, afterwards, I was thinking — well, I went back into the school — I felt dirty; I felt betrayed; I felt ashamed, but mainly — mainly, I felt powerless. And 30 years later I was sitting in an airplane, next to a lady called Veronica, who came from Chile, and we were on a human rights tour, and she was starting to tell me what it was like to be tortured, and, from my very privileged position, this was the only reference point that I had. And it was an amazing learning experience because, for me, human rights have been something in which I had, you know, a part-time interest, but, mainly, it was something that happened to other people over there. But I got a phone call from Bono in 1985 and, as you know, he's a great singer, but he's a magnificent hustler, and — (Laughter) — a very hard guy to say no to, and he was saying, you know, just after I'd done the Biko song, we're going to do a tour for Amnesty, you have to be on it, and really that was the first time that I'd been out and started meeting people who'd watched their family being shot in front of them, who'd had a partner thrown out of an airplane into an ocean, and suddenly this world of human rights arrived in my world, and I couldn't really walk away in quite the same way as before. So I got involved with this tour, which was for Amnesty, and then in '88 I took over Bono's job trying to learn how to hustle. I didn't do it as well, but we managed to get Youssou N'Dour, Sting, Tracy Chapman, and Bruce Springsteen to go 'round the world for Amnesty, and it was an amazing experience. And, once again, I got an extraordinary education, and it was the first time, really, that I'd met a lot of these people in the different countries, and these human rights stories became very physical, and, again, I couldn't really walk away quite so comfortably. But the thing that really amazed me, that I had no idea, was that you could suffer in this way and then have your whole experience, your story, denied, buried and forgotten. And it seemed that whenever there was a camera around, or a video or film camera, it was a great deal harder to do — for those in power to bury the story. And Reebok set up a foundation after these Human Rights Now tours and there was a decision then — well, we made a proposal, for a couple of years, about trying to set up a division that was going to give cameras to human rights activists. It didn't really get anywhere, and then the Rodney King incident happened, and people thought, OK, if you have a camera in the right place at the right time, or, perhaps, the wrong time, depending who you are, then you can actually start doing something, and campaigning, and being heard, and telling people about what's going on. So, WITNESS was started in '92 and it's since given cameras out in over 60 countries. And we campaign with activist groups and help them tell their story and, in fact, I will show you in a moment one of the most recent campaigns, and I'm afraid it's a story from Uganda, and, although we had a wonderful story from Uganda yesterday, this one isn't quite so good. In the north of Uganda, there are something like 1.5 million internally displaced people, people who are not refugees in another country, but because of the civil war, which has been going on for about 20 years, they have nowhere to live. And 20,000 kids have been taken away to become child soldiers, and the International Criminal Court is going after five of the leaders of the — now, what's it called? I forget the name of the of the army — it's Lord's Resistance Army, I believe — but the government, also, doesn't have a clean sheet, so if we could run the first video. (Music) Woman: Life in the camp is never simple. Even today life is difficult. We stay because of the fear that what pushed us into the camp ... still exists back home. Text: ""Between Two Fires: Torture and Displacement in Northern Uganda"" Man: When we were at home, it was Kony's [rebel] soldiers disturbing us. At first, we were safe in the camp. But later the government soldiers began mistreating us a lot. (Chanting) Jennifer: A soldier walked onto the road, asking where we'd been. Evelyn and I hid behind my mother. Evelyn: He ordered us to sit down, so we sat down. The other soldier also came. Jennifer: The man came and started undressing me. The other one carried Evelyn aside. The one who was defiling me then left me and went to rape Evelyn. And the one who was raping Evelyn came and defiled me also. Man: The soldiers with clubs this long beat us to get a confession. They kept telling us, ""Tell the truth!"" as they beat us. Woman: They insisted that I was lying. At that moment, they fired and shot off my fingers. I fell. They ran to join the others ... leaving me for dead. (Music) Text: Uganda ratified the Convention Against Torture in 1986. Torture is defined as any act by which severe pain of suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted by a person acting in an official capacity to obtain information or a confession, to punish, coerce or intimidate. Peter Gabriel: So torture is not something that always happens on other soil. In my country, it was — we had been looking at pictures of British soldiers beating up young Iraqis; we've got Abu Ghraib; we've got Guantanamo Bay. I had a driver on my way to Newark Airport, and he told me a story that, in the middle of the night, 4 a.m., he'd been taken out of his home in Queens — taken to a place in the Midwest, that he was interrogated and tortured and returned to the street four weeks later, because he had the same — he was Middle Eastern, and he had the same name as one of the 9/11 pilots, and that may or may not be true — I didn't think he was a liar, though. And, I think, if we look around the world, as well as the polar ice caps melting, human rights, which have been fought for, for many hundreds of years in some cases, are, also, eroding very fast, and that is something that we need to take a look at and, maybe, start campaigning for. I mean, here, too, one of our partners was at Van Jones and the Books Not Bars project — they have managed, with their footage in California to change the youth correction systems employed, and it's much — much — I think, more humane methods are being looked at, how you should lock up young kids, and that's questionable to start off. And as the story of Mr. Morales, just down the road, excuse me, Mr. Gabriel, would you mind if we delayed your execution a little bit? No, not at all, no problem, take your time. But this, surely, whoever that man is, whatever he's done, this is cruel and unusual punishment. Anyway, WITNESS has been trying to arm the brave people who often put their lives at risk around the world, with cameras, and I'd like to show you just a little more of that. Thank you. (Thunder) Text: You can say a story is fabricated. (Music) Text: You can say a jury is corrupt. You can say a person is lying. You can say you don't trust newspapers. But you can't say what you just saw never happened. Help WITNESS give cameras to the world. Shoot a video; expose injustice; reveal the truth; show us what's wrong with the world; and maybe we can help make it right. WITNESS. All the video you have just seen was recorded by human rights groups working with WITNESS. (Applause) PG: WITNESS was born of technological innovation — in a sense the small, portable, DV cam was really what allowed it to come into being. And we've also been trying to get computers out to the world, so that groups can communicate much more effectively, campaign much more effectively, but now we have the wonderful possibility, which is given to us from the mobile phone with the camera in it, because that is cheap; it's ubiquitous; and it's moving fast all around the world — and it's very exciting for us. And so, the dream is that we could have a world in which anyone who has anything bad happen to them of this sort has a chance of getting their story uploaded, being seen, being watched, that they really know that they can be heard, that there would be a giant website, maybe, a little like Google Earth, and you could fly over and find out the realities of what's going, for the world's inhabitants. In a way what this technology is allowing is, really, that a lot of the problems of the world can have a human face, that we can actually see who's dying of AIDS or who's being beaten up, for the first time, and we can hear their stories in a way that the blogger culture — if we can move that into these sort of fields, I think we can really transform the world in all sorts of ways. There could be a new movement growing up, rising from the ground, reaching for the light, and growing strong, just like a tree. Thank you."	我喜歡樹，而我很幸運，因為我們住在一個很棒的植物園附近，通常在星期天的時候，我會和我太太到那裡走走，現在則是和我四歲的小孩去那裡，我們會爬上樹梢，或是在樹林裡玩躲迷藏。我讀的第二所學校也有很雄偉的樹，有一株很美的鵝掌楸，我想大概是全國最大的吧...還有很棒的灌木叢和一些花草樹木，就在遊戲區附近。 有一天，我被幾個同學捉住，他們把我帶進灌木叢裡，扒掉我的衣服打我，我被毒打一頓，後來還造成了憂鬱症。我現在說出來的原因是，我認為，經過了這些事—嗯，後來我回到學校，我覺得自己很骯髒、被人背叛了，我也覺得很羞恥，但是主要還是無力感。三十年之後，我在搭乘一架飛機的時候，隔壁坐了一位來自智利的女士，她叫做薇若妮卡，我們一同參與某個人權團體行程，她告訴我被人虐待的感覺是什麼，而我剛好有那個獨特的經驗，於是我便和她分享我那唯一的經驗。那真是一次很棒的學習經驗，因為對我來說，人權只不過是我個人休閒時的興趣，但是對其他人來說，卻是真實的發生在自己身上的事。 我在1985年時接到波諾(Bono)的電話，大家都知道他是很棒的歌手，但我覺得他嘴上功夫也很好— (笑聲) 你很難拒絕這個人，他總有他的說法。就在我完成Biko(南非人權運動者)的紀念專輯後，他們正要為國際特赦組織進行巡迴演出，他說：你真的得加入我們。那是我第一次站出來認識這麼多朋友，他們有的人親眼看到自己的親人被槍殺，有的親人被人從飛機上丟下大海，突然之間，我的世界裡多了人權議題，我再也無法像以前那樣不聞不問了。 所以我就加入了那次巡迴演出，那是為國際特赦組織所做的演出，然後在1988年，我接替波諾的工作開始騙人，我做得沒有那麼好，但我設法讓尤蘇．安多爾、史汀、崔西．查普曼和布魯斯．史普林斯汀一起加入這場巡演，那真是一個很棒的經驗。而且，我從中學到了很特別的東西，那是我第一次認識這麼多來自不同國家的人，他們的人權故事是那麼具體，我一樣沒辦法假裝不聞不問。 但真正令我驚訝而我也搞不懂的是，人們在受到這麼具大的創傷後，加害者竟會全盤否認那些經歷、那些故事，只為掩蓋和遺忘這些罪行。但只要那附近有照相機、錄影機或攝影機，當權者要掩蓋他們的罪行就沒有那麼容易了。銳跑(Reebok)公司在我們的人權巡演之後，設立了一個基金會，他們決定要—嗯，我們在幾年前提出了一個建議，我們希望在基金會裡設立一個部門，由這個部門發放攝影機給人權運動領袖。這個建議在當時並沒有被採納，然而，在1992年洛杉磯暴動發生後，人們開始思考，若我們能在對的時間、對的地點放上一台攝影機，或許就算是在錯誤的時間，要看你是什麼人，你或許就能發揮某些作用，發起某項運動，為自己發聲，告訴世人發生了什麼事。 證人計畫在1992年開始運作，發放攝影機到超過60個國家，我們和其他團體一起發起運動，幫助他們訴說他們的故事，等一下我會告訴你們，最近的一個運動，那是在烏干達發生的故事，雖然我們昨天有聽到關於烏干達美好的故事，但這一個不是美好的故事。在烏干達北部，大約有一百五十萬流離失所的烏干達人民，他們不是來自其他國家的難民，而是長達20年來烏干達內戰的難民，他們沒有地方去。有二萬個孩童被徵召成為兒童兵，國際刑事法庭目前在追捕五個軍事領導人，他們叫什麼名字呢？我忘了軍隊的名稱，大概是叫做聖主反抗軍吧...但是烏干達政府也好不到哪裡去，讓我們先來看第一支影片。 (音樂)女性：生活在難民營裡不容易，即使到今天也是一樣，我們擔心迫使我們逃到難民營的恐怖事件，到今天還在家鄉持續上演。文字：「進退二難：受虐，或逃到烏干達北部」男性：我們在家鄉的時候，科尼的反叛軍一直在騷擾我們，一開始來到難民營時還滿安全的，但之後，政府軍就開始虐待我們。 (軍歌聲)珍妮佛：一個軍人走在路上，問我們從哪裡來，艾佛琳和我躲在媽媽後面。艾佛琳：他命令我們坐下，所以我們就坐下來，又來了另一個軍人。珍妮佛：那個人過來把我的衣服脫掉，另一個就把艾佛琳帶走，猥褺我的那個人後來跑去強暴艾佛琳，之前強暴艾佛琳的人則又跑來猥褺我。♫男性：拿著長長棍子的軍人毒打我們，要我們招認，他們一邊毒打我們，一邊說：「快招認！」女性：他們一直認為我在說謊，所以就開槍射斷了我的手指，我倒了下來，他們跑回原隊伍，就讓我在那裡等死。 (音樂)文字：烏干達在1986年通過了反虐待公約。凡憑藉公權力，意圖獲取資訊、逼供、處罰、脅迫或恫嚇，而刻意將巨大的痛楚施加於另一人的身體或心理，都被定義為虐待。 不是只有別的國家才會有虐待的事情發生，在我們國家，就有英國軍人毒打年輕伊拉克人的照片曝光，還有阿布格來布監獄和關達那摩監獄(均有虐囚案)，載我到紐渥克機場的司機，他告訴我，某天半夜四點鐘，他被人從皇后區的家中帶走，帶到（美國）中西部，在那裡被人毒打和審問，四個星期之後才被放走，只因為他是中東人，而他的名字，他的名字剛好和911事件中的飛機駕駛同名。這件事或許是真的，也有可能是假的，但我認為他沒有說謊。 我想，在我們觀看這個世界的同時，北極冰山正在溶化，而我們奮鬥了幾個世紀的人權，也正快速地被侵蝕，或許，人權是值得我們觀注的議題，我們或許也該為人權做些事了。就在這裡，我們有一位夥伴，參加了范瓊斯所發起的「要教育，不要監獄」活動，他們希望能在加州用影片來改變目前的青少年行為矯正體系，他們在找的是更有人性的作法，而不只是把青少年關在監獄，那絕對是個不好的開始。就像道德先生這個故事所講的，「抱歉，凱柏爾先生，你介意我們將你的死刑延後一點嗎？」「不會，沒問題，就慢慢來吧。」但不管那個人是誰、做了什麼，那都是殘忍且特殊的處罰。 證人計畫要做的是去武裝那些勇敢的人，他們冒著生命危險，帶著攝影機到世界各地，讓我們再看一段影片，謝謝。 (雷聲) (音樂)文字：你可以說陪審團貪污，你也可以指控某人說謊，你也可以說你不相信報紙，但你不能說你所看到的事情從未發生過。協助證人計畫，將攝影機散佈到全世界，拍下一段影片，揭發不公不義的事，告訴我們真相，讓我們知道世界上發生了什麼事，或許，我們就能導正這些事。「證人計畫」你所看到的影片是由和證人計畫一同合作的人權團體所拍攝。 (掌聲) 證人計畫是科技創新的結晶，這麼小的一台可攜式數位攝影機，就可以讓證人計畫發揮作用。我們也希望把電腦散佈到全世界，這樣各個團體就可以更有效的溝通，也可以更有效率地發起運動。現在，我們有更好的選擇，就是附有攝影機功能的手機，因為手機很便宜，也很普及，可以讓資訊快速地在世界上流通，所以我們很期待。 我們的願望是，希望每當有人發生上述不幸的事時，可以把他們的故事上傳上來，讓大家知道，讓大家看到，他們知道他們的聲音會被聽見，所以那將是一個很大的網站，有點像是Google Earth，你可以點進網站看看世界上的其他居民發生了什麼事。科技能幫助我們的是，讓世界上的問題以人性的角度呈現出來，我們就能看到有誰死於愛滋病，有誰被人毒打一頓。這是我們第一次可以透過部落格看到別人的故事，所以我們若能將這個工具運用到人權領域，我相信我們就能以某種方式改變這個世界。未來會有一股新的運動萌芽，冒出地面，追尋陽光，成長茁壯，就像大樹一樣。謝謝各位。
