Talk	en	zh-tw
philippa_neave_the_unexpected_challenges_of_a_country_s_first_election	"The great philosopher Aristotle said if something doesn't exist, there's no word for it, and if there's no word for something, that something doesn't exist. So when we talk about elections, we in established democracies, we know what we're talking about. We've got the words. We have the vocabulary. We know what a polling station is. We know what a ballot paper is. But what about countries where democracy doesn't exist, countries where there are no words to describe the concepts that underpin a democratic society? I work in the field of electoral assistance, so that's to say we assist emerging democracies to organize what is often their first elections. When people ask me what I do, quite often I get this answer. ""Oh, so you're one of these people who goes around the world imposing Western democracy on countries that can't handle it."" Well, the United Nations does not impose anything on anybody. It really doesn't, and also, what we do is firmly anchored in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 21, that says that everybody should have the right to choose who governs them. So that's the basis of the work. I specialize in public outreach. What does that mean? Another jargon. It actually means designing information campaigns so that candidates and voters who have never had the opportunity to participate or to vote understand where, when, how to register; where, when, how to vote; why, why it is important to take part. So I'll probably devise a specific campaign to reach out to women to make sure that they can take part, that they can be part of the process. Young people as well. All sorts of people. Handicapped people. We try to reach everybody. And it's not always easy, because very often in this work, I've noticed now over the years that I've been doing it that words are lacking, and so what do you do? Afghanistan. It's a country with high levels of illiteracy, and the thing about that was, it was in 2005, and we organized two elections on the same day. The reason was because the logistics are so incredibly difficult, it seemed to be more efficient to do that. It was, but on the other hand, explaining two elections instead of one was even more complicated. So we used a lot of images, and when it came to the actual ballot, we had problems, because so many people wanted to take part, we had 300 candidates for 52 seats in the Wolesi Jirga, which is the parliamentary elections. And for the Provincial Council, we had even more candidates. We had 330 for 54 seats. So talking about ballot design, this is what the ballot looked like. It's the size of a newspaper. This was the Wolesi Jirga ballot — (Laughter) Yeah, and — this was the Provincial Council ballot. Even more. So you see, we did use a lot of symbols and things like that. And we had other problems in Southern Sudan. Southern Sudan was a very different story. We had so many people who had never, of course, voted, but we had extremely, extremely high levels of illiteracy, very, very poor infrastructure. For example — I mean, it's a country the size of Texas, more or less. We had seven kilometers of paved roads, seven kilometers in the whole country, and that includes the tarmac where we landed the planes in Juba Airport. So transporting electoral materials, etc., is exceedingly difficult. People had no idea about what a box looked like. It was very complicated, so using verbal communication was obviously the way to go, but there were 132 languages. So that was extremely challenging. Then I arrived in Tunisia in 2011. It was the Arab Spring. A huge amount of hope was generated by that enormous movement that was going on in the region. There was Libya, there was Egypt, there was Yemen. It was an enormous, enormous historical moment. And I was sitting with the election commission, and we were talking about various aspects of the election, and I was hearing them using words that I hadn't actually heard before, and I'd worked with Iraqis, I'd worked with Jordanians, Egyptians, and suddenly they were using these words, and I just thought, ""This is strange."" And what really gave rise to it was this word ""observer."" We were discussing election observers, and the election commissioner was talking about ""mulahiz"" in Arabic. This means ""to notice"" in a passive sort of sense, as in, ""I noticed he was wearing a light blue shirt."" Did I go and check whether the shirt was light blue or not? That is the role of an election observer. It's very active, it's governed by all kinds of treaties, and it has got that control function in it. And then I got wind of the fact that in Egypt, they were using this term ""mutabi’,"" which means ""to follow."" So we were now having followers of an election. So that's not quite right either, because there is a term that's already accepted and in use, which was the word ""muraqib"" which means ""a controller."" It's got that notion of control. So I thought, three words for one concept. This is not good. And with our colleagues, we thought perhaps it's our role to actually help make sure that the words are understood and actually create a work of reference that could be used across the Arab region. And that's what we did. So together with these colleagues, we launched the ""Arabic Lexicon of Electoral Terminology,"" and we worked in eight different countries. It meant actually defining 481 terms which formed the basis of everything you need to know if you're going to organize a democratic election. And we defined these terms, and we worked with the Arab colleagues and came to an agreement about what would be the appropriate word to use in Arabic. Because the Arabic language is very rich, and that's part of the problem. But there are 22 countries that speak Arabic, and they use modern standard Arabic, which is the Arabic that is used across the whole region in newspapers and broadcasts, but of course, then from one country to the next in day to day language and use it varies — dialect, colloquialisms, etc. So that was another added layer of complication. So in one sense you had the problem that language wasn't fully ripe, if you like, neologisms were coming up, new expressions. And so we defined all these terms, and then we had eight correspondents in the region. We submitted the draft to them, they responded back to us. ""Yes, we understand the definition. We agree with it, but this is what we say in our country."" Because we were not going to harmonize or force harmonization. We were trying to facilitate understanding among people. So in yellow, you see the different expressions in use in the various countries. So this, I'm happy to say, it took three years to produce this because we also finalized the draft and took it actually into the field, sat with the election commissions in all these different countries, debated and defined and refined the draft, and finally published it in November 2014 in Cairo. And it's gone a long way. We published 10,000 copies. To date, there's about 3,000 downloads off the internet in PDF form. I heard just recently from a colleague that they've taken it up in Somalia. They're going to produce a version of this in Somalia, because there's nothing in Somalia at all. So that's very good to know. And this newly formed Arab Organization for Electoral Management Bodies, which is trying to professionalize how elections are run in the region, they're using it as well. And the Arab League have now built up a pan-Arab observation unit, and they're using it. So that's all really good. However, this work of reference is quite high-pitched. It's complex, and a lot of the terms are quite technical, so the average person probably doesn't need to know at least a third of it. But the people of the Middle East have been deprived of any form of what we know as civic education. It's part of our curriculum at school. It doesn't really exist in that part of the world, and I feel it's really the right of everybody to know how these things work. And it's a good thing to think about producing a work of reference for the average person, and bearing in mind that now we have a basis to work with, but also we have technology, so we can reach out using telephone apps, video, animation. There's all sorts of tools that can be used now to communicate these ideas to people for the first time in their own language. We hear a lot of misery about the Middle East. We hear the chaos of war. We hear terrorism. We hear about sectarianism and all this horrible negative news that comes to us all the time. What we're not hearing is what are the people, the everyday people, thinking? What are they aspiring to? Let's give them the means, let's give them the words. The silent majority is silent because they don't have the words. The silent majority needs to know. It is time to provide people with the knowledge tools that they can inform themselves with. The silent majority does not need to be silent. Let's help them have a voice. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	偉大的哲人亞里士多德說過：如果一件事物不存在，它就沒有名字。如果一件事物沒有名字，它就不存在。所以當我們談論選舉的時候，我們的國家採用了民主制，所以知道民主是什麼。我們有相關的單字、相關的詞彙。我們知道什麼是投票站。我們知道什麼是選票。但在那些非民主國家，不存在可以形容「民主社會」這個概念的詞語時，該怎麼辦呢？ 我從事選舉援助工作，也就是說，我們幫助新興的民主國家組織選舉，通常是第一次選舉。當人們問起我的工作時，我通常會得到這個回答，「喔！你就是那些到世界各地，到不能承受民主的國家，去強行實施西方民主制的人。」呃……聯合國不強迫任何人做任何事，真的不。而且，我們所做的是篤守 1948《世界人權宣言》的第二十一條：人人有選擇代表參與治理本國的權利。這是我們工作的基石。 我從事公眾推廣顧問。這是什麼意思呢？聽起來又是個術語。這其實是設計圖像去表達複雜信息。這使從來沒有機會參與或投票的候選人和選民，明白在何時何地註冊，如何註冊；瞭解在何時何地投票，如何投票；知道參與選舉是多麼的重要。我可能會設計針對女性的活動，保證女性可以參與其中，參與整個過程。還有年輕人、各種人、行動不便的人，我們嘗試去幫助每一個人。但這並非一帆風順的，因為常常在過程中， 在我這麼多年的工作經驗裡，會出現詞彙不足的問題，我們應該怎麼做？這是阿富汗， 這個國家文盲程度很高。在 2005 年的時候，我們一天組織了兩次選舉，因為物流條件太差了，所以一天辦兩場會更有效率。的確是比較高效。但是在另一方面，解釋兩場選舉比解釋一場難多了。所以我們用了很多圖像。當投票時，我們遇到問題，因為太多人想參加了。在阿富汗人民院，有 300 個候選人爭奪 52 個議員席位。而省議會選舉有更多候選人：330 個候選人爭奪 54 個席位。所以談到選票的設計，選票看起來是這樣的。和報紙一樣大。這個就是阿富汗人民院的選票。（笑聲）對，還有這個是省議會選票，不只一頁。所以你看，我們的確使用了很多符號之類的東西。我們在南蘇丹又遇到了另外的問題。 南蘇丹的情況完全不同。南蘇丹有很多人從來沒有投票過，而且他們的文盲程度非常、非常高，有著很差、很差的基礎設施。例如，這個國家和德州差不多大。可是只鋪了七公里的道路，整個國家只有七公里，這包括我們降落在首都朱巴時的機場跑道。所以運輸選舉材料之類的，變得極度困難。人們完全不知道投票亭長什麼樣。真的太複雜了，所以我們當然選擇了用口頭方式去溝通，但是他們有 132 種語言，所以具有極大的挑戰性。之後，我在 2011 年去了突尼西亞。 當時是阿拉伯的春天。一場盛大的民主運動，給人們帶來了巨大的希望。在利比亞、埃及、葉門。那是值得紀念的歷史時刻。我那時和選舉委員會坐在一起，我們在談選舉的不同方面。我聽到他們用一些我從未聽過的詞彙。我曾與伊拉克人、約旦人、埃及人一起工作，然後突然間他們就開始使用這些詞彙。我就想：“這真是奇怪”。但他們真正想表達的是「觀察員」。我們正在討論選舉的觀察員。選舉委員們用阿拉伯語討論著「mulahiz」。它的意思接近被動語氣的「注意」。例如：「我注意到他穿著一件淡藍色的襯衫。」我是不是該檢查他的襯衫真的是淡藍色的？這就是選舉觀察員的角色。這角色非常活躍，它被各種條約所支配，本身也擁有控制能力。然後我又聽到埃及的用法，他們用「mutabi」這個詞，意思是「跟進」。所以我們現在又有了選舉的跟進員。但這也不太對，因為我們已經有使用中、且為人接受的詞，那就是「muraqib」，意思是「監控員」。類似控制的概念。所以我就想，三個單詞，一個概念，這可不太好。和同事討論後，我們認為我們的角色或許是幫助他們確切地理解這些單詞，並建立一份參考資料，用於阿拉伯語地區。所以我們就這麼做了。 我和這些同事發起了「阿拉伯語選舉標準術語」項目，並在八個不同的國家使用。實際上，我們定義了 481 個詞語，如果你想辦場民主選舉，所有基本知識都囊括其中。我們定義了這些詞彙，也和阿拉伯同事一起工作，進而達成了適用於阿拉伯世界的詞彙共識。阿拉伯語的詞彙很豐富，但那正是問題所在。因為有 22 個國家使用阿拉伯語。雖然他們使用的都是標準現代阿拉伯語，就是在整個中東地區通用的阿拉伯語，也用在報紙和廣播中。但當然，隨著國家間的日常用語有所改變，阿拉伯語就開始分化了——方言、俗語等等。這構成了另一道障礙。在這個情況下有個問題：語言尚未完全成熟；新詞彙和表達方式卻蜂擁而來，所以我們定義了這些詞彙， 我們在這些地區有八位通訊作者。我們把詞彙表的草稿交給他們，他們就回覆我們：「是的，我們明白這些定義。我們贊同這個說法，但這是我們國家的說法。」因為我們不打算去協調也不準備強制協調，我們就只能嘗試去促進人與人之間的相互理解，所以在黃色的部分，你們能看見，不同國家的使用者所使用的各種表達方式。因此，我很高興告訴各位，我們花了三年時間 寫出最終的草稿，放到現實情境中，與各國的選舉委員會坐在一起，爭論、定義、且精鍊這些草稿，最後在 2014 年 11 月於開羅出版。這是漫長的旅程。我們出版了一萬份列印本。時至今日，PDF 的下載量約有三千次。我最近剛從一個同事那邊聽說，他們要把這份文件帶到索馬利亞，他們將製作索馬利亞的版本。因為目前索馬利亞什麼都沒有。這聽起來不錯吧。有個新成立的「阿拉伯選舉管理組織」，希望讓阿拉伯世界所舉辦的選舉更為專業，他們已開始使用這份文件。阿拉伯聯盟現在也建立了「泛阿拉伯觀察中心」，他們也在使用這份文件。這聽起來都很棒。然而，這個框架比較陽春白雪。 它很複雜，其中有很多專業詞彙。對一般人來說，有大概三分之一的詞彙都不用認識。但是在中東地區的人們，他們被剝奪了我們所理解的文明教育。那些是我們學校課程中的一部分，但在那個世界是不存在的。而我認為每個人都有權利知道選舉是如何運作的。製作一份參考文件，讓普通人理解，是很棒的一件事。雖然我們已經有了這樣一份基礎文件，但別忘了，我們還有科技，我們可以使用手機軟體、視頻、動畫，接觸到更多的人。我們現在有各式各樣的工具去把這些觀點用人們自己的語言第一次傳遞給他們。我們聽說了中東地區人們很多的痛苦。 我們聽說了戰亂，聽說了恐怖主義，聽說了宗教分裂和各種可怕的負面消息。我們經常接收這種消息。我們不知道當地人、普通人是怎麼想的，他們嚮往什麼呢？讓我們給予他們方法吧，給予他們這些詞彙。沈默的大眾之所以沈默，是因為他們缺少詞彙。沈默的大眾有知的權利。現在是給人們知識工具的時候，這樣他們就能積極參與。沈默的大眾不必再保持沈默。 讓我們幫助他們發聲。非常感謝。 （鼓掌）譯者：Kiki Ruan校對：Chester Cheng
