Talk	en	zh-tw
phil_borges_on_endangered_cultures	"A fact came out of MIT, couple of years ago. Ken Hale, who's a linguist, said that of the 6,000 languages spoken on Earth right now, 3,000 aren't spoken by the children. So that in one generation, we're going to halve our cultural diversity. He went on to say that every two weeks, an elder goes to the grave carrying the last spoken word of that culture. So an entire philosophy, a body of knowledge about the natural world that had been empirically gleaned over centuries, goes away. And this happens every two weeks. So for the last 20 years, since my dental experience, I have been traveling the world and coming back with stories about some of these people. What I'd like to do right now is share some of those stories with you. This is Tamdin. She is a 69-year-old nun. She was thrown in prison in Tibet for two years for putting up a little tiny placard protesting the occupation of her country. And when I met her, she had just taken a walk over the Himalayas from Lhasa, the capital of Tibet, into Nepal, across to India — 30 days — to meet her leader, the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama lives in Dharamsala, India. So I took this picture three days after she arrived, and she had this beat-up pair of tennis shoes on, with her toes sticking out. And she crossed in March, and there's a lot of snow at 18,500 feet in March. This is Paldin. Paldin is a 62-year-old monk. And he spent 33 years in prison. His whole monastery was thrown into prison at the time of the uprising, when the Dalai Lama had to leave Tibet. And he was beaten, starved, tortured — lost all his teeth while in prison. And when I met him, he was a kind gentle old man. And it really impressed me — I met him two weeks after he got out of prison — that he went through that experience, and ended up with the demeanor that he had. So I was in Dharamsala meeting these people, and I'd spent about five weeks there, and I was hearing these similar stories of these refugees that had poured out of Tibet into Dharamsala. And it just so happened, on the fifth week, there was a public teaching by the Dalai Lama. And I was watching this crowd of monks and nuns, many of which I had just interviewed, and heard their stories, and I watched their faces, and they gave us a little FM radio, and we could listen to the translation of his teachings. And what he said was: treat your enemies as if they were precious jewels, because it's your enemies that build your tolerance and patience on the road to your enlightenment. That hit me so hard, telling these people that had been through this experience. So, two months later, I went into Tibet, and I started interviewing the people there, taking my photographs. That's what I do. I interview and do portraits. And this is a little girl. I took her portrait up on top of the Jokhang Temple. And I'd snuck in — because it's totally illegal to have a picture of the Dalai Lama in Tibet — it's the quickest way you can get arrested. So I snuck in a bunch of little wallet-sized pictures of the Dalai Lama, and I would hand them out. And when I gave them to the people, they'd either hold them to their heart, or they'd hold them up to their head and just stay there. And this is — well, at the time — I did this 10 years ago — that was 36 years after the Dalai Lama had left. So I was going in, interviewing these people and doing their portraits. This is Jigme and her sister, Sonam. And they live up on the Chang Tang, the Tibetan Plateau, way in the western part of the country. This is at 17,000 feet. And they had just come down from the high pastures, at 18,000 feet. Same thing: gave her a picture, she held it up to her forehead. And I usually hand out Polaroids when I do these, because I'm setting up lights, and checking my lights, and when I showed her her Polaroid, she screamed and ran into her tent. This is Tenzin Gyatso; he was found to be the Buddha of Compassion at the age of two, out in a peasant's house, way out in the middle of nowhere. At the age of four, he was installed as the 14th Dalai Lama. As a teenager, he faced the invasion of his country, and had to deal with it — he was the leader of the country. Eight years later, when they discovered there was a plot to kill him, they dressed him up like a beggar and snuck him out of the country on horseback, and took the same trip that Tamdin did. And he's never been back to his country since. And if you think about this man, 46 years later, still sticking to this non-violent response to a severe political and human rights issue. And the young people, young Tibetans, are starting to say, listen, this doesn't work. You know, violence as a political tool is all the rage right now. And he still is holding this line. So this is our icon to non-violence in our world — one of our living icons. This is another leader of his people. This is Moi. This is in the Ecuadorian Amazon. And Moi is 35 years old. And this area of the Ecuadorian Amazon — oil was discovered in 1972. And in this period of time — since that time — as much oil, or twice as much oil as was spilled in the Exxon Valdez accident, was spilled in this little area of the Amazon, and the tribes in this area have constantly had to move. And Moi belongs to the Huaorani tribe, and they're known as very fierce, they're known as ""auca."" And they've managed to keep out the seismologists and the oil workers with spears and blowguns. And we spent — I was with a team — two weeks with these guys out in the jungle watching them hunt. This was on a monkey hunt, hunting with curare-tipped darts. And the knowledge that these people have about the natural environment is incredible. They could hear things, smell things, see things I couldn't see. And I couldn't even see the monkeys that they were getting with these darts. This is Yadira, and Yadira is five years old. She's in a tribe that's neighboring the Huaorani. And her tribe has had to move three times in the last 10 years because of the oil spills. And we never hear about that. And the latest infraction against these people is, as part of Plan Colombia, we're spraying Paraquat or Round Up, whatever it is — we're defoliating thousands of acres of the Ecuadorian Amazon in our war on drugs. And these people are the people who take the brunt of it. This is Mengatoue. He's the shaman of the Huaorani, and he said to us, you know, I'm an older man now; I'm getting tired, you know; I'm tired of spearing these oil workers. I wish they would just go away. And I was — I usually travel alone when I do my work, but I did this — I hosted a program for Discovery, and when I went down with the team, I was quite concerned about going in with a whole bunch of people, especially into the Huaorani, deep into the Huaorani tribe. And as it turned out, these guys really taught me a thing or two about blending in with the locals. (Laughter) One of the things I did just before 9/11 — August of 2001 — I took my son, Dax, who was 16 at the time, and I took him to Pakistan. Because at first I wanted — you know, I've taken him on a couple of trips, but I wanted him to see people that live on a dollar a day or less. I wanted him to get an experience in the Islamic world and I also wanted him to — I was going there to work with a group, do a story on a group called the Kalash, that are a group of animists, 3,000 animists, that live — very small area — surrounded by Islam — there's 3,000 of these Kalash left; they're incredible people. So it was a great experience for him. He stayed up all night with them, drumming and dancing. And he brought a soccer ball, and we had soccer every night in this little village. And then we went up and met their shaman. By the way, Mengatoue was the shaman of his tribe as well. And this is John Doolikahn, who's the shaman of the Kalash. And he's up in the mountains, right on the border with Afghanistan. In fact, on that other side is the area, Tora Bora, the area where Osama bin Laden's supposed to be. This is the tribal area. And we watched and stayed with John Doolikahn. And the shaman — I did a whole series on shamanism, which is an interesting phenomenon. But around the world, they go into trance in different ways, and in Pakistan, the way they do it is they burn juniper leaves and they sacrifice an animal, pour the blood of the animal on the leaves and then inhale the smoke. And they're all praying to the mountain gods as they go into trance. You know, getting kids used to different realities, I think, is so important. What Dan Dennett said the other day — having a curriculum where they study different religions, just to make a mental flexibility, give them a mental flexibility in different belief systems — I think this is so necessary in our world today as you see these clash of beliefs taking place. And all the security issues they cause us. So, one thing we did five years ago: we started a program that links kids in indigenous communities with kids in the United States. So we first hooked up a spot in the Navajo Nation with a classroom in Seattle. We now have 15 sites. We have one in Kathmandu, Nepal; Dharamsala, India; Takaungu, Kenya — Takaungu is one-third Christian, one-third Muslim and one-third animist, the community is — Ollantaytambo, Peru, and Arctic Village, Alaska. This is Daniel; he's one of our students in Arctic Village, Alaska. He lives in this log cabin — no running water, no heat other than — no windows and high-speed Internet connection. And this is — I see this rolling out all over — this is our site in Ollantaytambo, Peru, four years ago, where they first saw their first computers; now they have computers in their classrooms. And the way we've done this — we teach digital storytelling to these kids. And we have them tell stories about issues in their community in their community that they care about. And this is in Peru, where the kids told the story about a river that they cleaned up. And the way we do it is, we do it in workshops, and we bring people who want to learn digital workflow and storytelling, and have them work with the kids. And just this last year we've taken a group of teenagers in, and this has worked the best. So our dream is to bring teenagers together, so they'll have a community service experience as well as a cross-cultural experience, as they teach kids in these areas and help them build their communication infrastructure. This is teaching Photoshop in the Tibetan children's village in Dharamsala. We have the website, where the kids all get their homepage. This is all their movies. We've got about 60 movies that these kids have made, and they're quite incredible. The one I want to show you — after we get them to make the movies, we have a night where we show the movies to the community. And this is in Takaungu — we've got a generator and a digital projector, and we're projecting it up against a barn, and showing one of the movies that they made. And if you get a chance, you can go to our website, and you'll see the incredible work these kids do. The other thing: I wanted to give indigenous people a voice. That was one of the big motivating factors. But the other motivating factor is the insular nature of our country. National Geographic just did a Roper Study of 18 to 26 year olds in our country and in nine other industrialized countries. It was a two million dollar study. United States came in second to last in geographic knowledge. 70 percent of the kids couldn't find Afghanistan or Iraq on a map; 60 percent couldn't find India; 30 percent couldn't find the Pacific Ocean. And this is a study that was just done a couple of years ago. So what I'd like to show you now, in the couple of minutes I have left, is a film that a student made in Guatemala. We just had a workshop in Guatemala. A week before we got to the workshop, a massive landslide, caused by Hurricane Stan, last October, came in and buried 600 people alive in their village. And this kid lived in the village — he wasn't there at the time — and this is the little movie he put together about that. And he hadn't seen a computer before we did this movie. We taught him Photoshop and — yeah, we can play it. This is an old Mayan funeral chant that he got from his grandfather. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	幾年前麻省理工學院的學者，有了一個新的發現。語言學家肯 海爾，（Ken Hale)發現目前有6000種語言存在於世，但是其中的3000種語言沒有小孩子們使用。這就是說，當這老一輩人去世之後，世界上文化的多元性將會減半。他還告訴我們每兩週就有一種代表某文化的語言隨著一個老人的去世而消亡。這樣，一個哲學思考體系，一個經過若干世紀積累下來的關於自然世界的知識系統，隨著語言的死去而消失。這樣的情況以平均每兩週一次的頻率發生着。 二十年前，當我還是牙醫的時候，我就開始遊歷世界，並帶回關於世界各地居民的各種故事。現在，我想與你們分享一些我經歷的故事。這是塔木丁(Tamdin)。她是一個六十九歲的尼姑。她在一個西藏的監獄裡被關押了兩年，入獄原因是她舉起了一個很小的標牌抗議別國入侵她的國家。我剛見到她的時候，她剛剛徒步翻越了喜馬拉雅山，從西藏的首都拉薩徒步穿越，經過尼泊爾，來到印度。她走了三十天，為了見到她的領袖，達賴喇嘛。達賴喇嘛居住在印度達蘭薩拉。這些照片就是在她抵達達蘭薩拉三天后拍攝的，她當時穿著一雙破爛不堪的網球鞋腳趾還露在了外面。她是在三月徒步穿越喜馬拉雅山的，要知道，在三月，18500英尺海拔的高原地區還是被大雪覆蓋著的。 這是帕丁(Paldin)。帕丁是一個62歲的和尚。他曾經入獄33年。當達賴喇嘛被迫離開西藏的時候，他，不，他所在僧院的所有人，都在反抗的時候被抓進了監獄。並且，在監獄裡，他被毆打，受餓，折磨；他的牙在入獄期間掉光了。我見到他的時候，他是一個善良和藹的老人。更令我驚訝的是，我見到他的時候他剛出獄兩週———很難想像他竟然在有了那樣在監獄裡的經歷後，還能夠保持這樣的心態和處世態度。 就這樣，我在達蘭薩拉會見這些人，在那裡待了大約五週的時間，在這五周里我聽到了這些類似的關於難民從西藏湧入達蘭薩拉的故事。碰巧在我在那裡第五週的時候，達賴喇嘛舉辦了一次公開的宣講。這樣達賴喇嘛……我看著這些和尚和尼姑們，很多我採訪過的人都在其中，所以我知道他們的故事，注視著他們的臉，舉辦方給了我們一些小收音機以便我們可以聽到達賴喇嘛宣講的同步翻譯。達賴喇嘛說對待你的敵人，要像對待珍貴的珍寶一樣，因為這些敵人的存在我們才能夠學會並提高我們的忍耐力和耐心。為你通向徹悟而鋪路。最使我震驚的是，我無法在這些人身上看到過去痛苦經歷的痕跡。 兩個月之後，我去了西藏，開始採訪當地居民，並進行攝影。我在那裡就做這些。我採訪人們，並記錄下他們的肖像。嗯。這是一個小女孩，我在大昭寺頂上為她拍了這張照片。而且我還偷偷的帶了一些達賴喇嘛的照片因為攜帶達賴喇嘛的照片在西藏是違法行為，幾乎是導致一個人被逮捕的最快的原因。就這樣我偷偷的把一些錢包尺寸的小型達賴喇嘛肖像帶入西藏，散發給人們。當我給人們這些肖像的時候，他們或是把肖像貼近胸膛，或是舉起肖像貼近他們的額頭，並保持這個姿勢。這是——當時這是——這是十年前的事情了——達賴喇嘛離開西藏三十六年之後。 就這樣，我在西藏採訪居民，給他們拍肖像。這是吉格米(Jigme)和她的小妹，索南(Sonam)。她們住在羌塘，西藏高原的最西部。當地的海拔是17000英尺。當時她們是剛剛從更高的草原上下來，那里海拔是18000英尺。我同樣給了她一個達賴喇嘛的肖像，她舉到她的額頭。這些情況下我一般會給他們拍立得快照，因為我需要時間來架好攝影的燈光，並檢查燈光，當我給了她一個快照後，她尖叫着跑回了她的帳篷。 這是丹增嘉措，他在兩歲的時候被發現是憐憫佛從一個窮苦農民的家裡在一個人跡罕至的地方。四歲的時候，他成為了十四世達拉喇嘛。在他的少年時期，他面臨了自己的國家被入侵，並且他的應對這種局勢——因為他是國家的領袖。八年之後，當人們發現有一個暗殺達賴喇嘛的行動在醞釀中的時候，達賴喇嘛打扮成一個乞丐偷偷騎馬逃出了西藏，沿著塔木丁走的那條路。現在他住在——然後他再也沒有回到自己的國家。如果你想想，這個人，46年之後，還是遵循著非暴力的原則來應對一個嚴峻的政治和人權問題。年輕人們年輕的西藏人，現在開始說，你看，非暴力解決不了問題。那個，暴，暴力，作為一個政治工具，是現在這些憤怒的年輕人要的。然而，達賴喇嘛還是遵循著自己的準則。這才是我們的偶像我們這個世界上非暴力的標杆一個活生生的值得崇拜的人。 這是另一個地區居民的領袖。他的名字叫莫伊(Moi)。這是厄瓜多爾的亞馬遜地區。莫伊今年35歲。嗯，在這個地區人們在1972年發現了石油。在這一時期——自從那個時候——等量與埃克森瓦爾達斯(Exxon Valdez)漏油事件中洩漏的石油，甚至是兩倍的石油，洩漏在這個狹小的亞馬遜地區，為此這一地區的部落必須不斷的遷徙。莫伊是胡阿拉尼(Huaorani)部落的，胡阿拉尼部落人以勇武好鬥出名，被稱作“auca”。他們成功的擋住了地震學家和石油 —— 石油工人 進入該地區僅僅是利用長矛和吹箭筒。我在那裡——我們在那裡——我當時是在一個團隊裡——待了兩週，觀察胡阿拉尼人在叢林中打獵。在一次捕獵猴子的行動中，他們用抹了毒藥的飛鏢來捕獵猴子。這些人對於自然環境的了解是驚人的。他能能夠聽到、聞到、看到我無法捕捉到的事情。我連猴子也看不到，而他們卻能用飛鏢抓住這些猴子。 這是雅迪拉(Yadira),雅迪拉現在五歲。她屬於一個，一個胡阿拉尼部落的鄰居部落。她的部落在過去的10年中被迫因為石油洩漏而搬遷了三次。我們對此卻一無所知。而最近傷害這些部落居民的違法事件是哥倫比亞計劃的一部分，我們傾灑大量的除草劑來除去上千傾的厄瓜多爾亞馬遜地區的草地作為我們向毒品宣戰的一部分。這些人是直接受害人。 這是蒙嘎圖(Mengatoue)他是胡阿拉尼部落的薩滿並且他 ——他只是告訴我們，你知道嗎，我現在老了，我累了，你知道嗎，我厭倦了天天用長矛趕走這些石油工人，我希望他們趕緊離開。我就——我通常是一個人旅行當我工作時，但是我做了這個——我為《探索頻道》主持了一個節目，我跟隨這個團隊去了那裡。我對於跟着一群人工作有一些擔心，特別是去胡阿拉尼地區深入胡阿拉尼部落。結果這些人卻教給我了一些融入當地居民的方法。（笑聲） 我，就在9/11事件之前，做了一件事。2001年8月——我帶著我的兒子，達克斯（Dax)，當時他16歲，去了巴基斯坦。我本來的用意是——就是，我曾帶著他旅行過幾次，但是這次我想讓他看一看人們是怎麼用一天一美元或更少生活的。我希望他親身體驗伊斯蘭世界我還想讓他——我當時是跟一個團隊一起工作做一個關於一個叫做卡拉什（Kalash）的群體的故事這是一群泛神論者，大約3000人生活在一個很小的地區這個地區被伊斯蘭世界包圍。那裡一共剩下3000個卡拉什人，他們是不可思議的一群人。這對他是一個很好的經歷。他跟他們呆在一起一宿沒睡，打鼓和跳舞。他還帶了一個足球，我們每天晚上都會在小村莊里玩足球。 我們去見了他們的薩滿。順便說一下，蒙噶圖也是他們部落的薩滿。這是約翰 杜麗勘(John Doolikahn)，卡拉什人的薩滿。他生活在山里，在阿富汗邊境，事實上山的另一邊就是托拉 博拉 （Tora Bora）地區，這個地區就是奧薩馬 本 拉登的藏身之處。是一個部落聚居的地區。我們觀察約翰並跟約翰一起生活。這個薩滿——我曾經做過一系列關於薩滿教的作品——是一個有趣的現象。但是在世界各地，薩滿們有不同的進入神遊狀態的方式，在巴基斯坦，他們通過焚燒杜松葉子來進入那個狀態並且他們會把一個動物獻祭。把動物的血灑在葉子上然後吸入焚燒的煙。他們會向山神禱告，同時進入神遊狀態。 這是——你知道，讓孩子們習慣於不同的現實我認為這非常重要。就像丹 但奈特(Dan Dennett) 說過的應該為孩子們開設一個課程，讓他們可以學習不同宗教來得到一種思考上的靈活性——給他們這種思考上的靈活性來理解不同的信仰系統。我認為在當今世界中，這點非常重要因為我們都看到了不同信仰帶來的衝突持續發生着。還有這些衝突帶來的安全問題。所以五年前，我們做了這麼一件事：我們建立了一個項目來聯繫原生態群落中的孩子與美國的孩子。我們最先聯繫起來的是 ——一個納瓦霍（Navajo）的點與一個西雅圖的教室。我們現在有15個點了。我們還有一個點在尼泊爾，加德滿都；印度，達蘭薩拉；肯尼亞，塔昆古——塔昆古這個社區有三份之一的居民是基督徒，三分之一是穆斯林，還有三分之一的是泛神論者——這是秘魯的奧萊泰坦博(Ollantaytambo)，和阿拉斯加的北極村。 這是丹尼爾（Daniel），他是我們阿拉斯加北極村的一個學生。他生活在這個木屋裡沒有自來水，沒有熱源，除了沒有窗戶和沒有高速互聯網之外。而這是—— 這是——我不止一次的看到這種情況這是我們在秘魯奧萊泰坦博，四年前這些孩子第一次看到電腦，現在他們的教室都已經配有電腦。我們採取的方法是——我們教會這些孩子們數字化故事傳播的技術。然後我們讓他們在他們關心的群體裡講述他們群落的故事。這是在講述秘魯的故事，由孩子們講述關於一條他們清理乾淨的河流的故事。我們的工作方式是，我們透過工作坊，把希望學習數字工作流程和故事講述技術的人帶進工作室，然後讓讓這些人與孩子們一起工作。去年我們帶進來了一組青少年來與這些孩子一起工作，這種方式取得了最好的結果。所以我們的理想情況是把青少年帶到一起，以便他們有一種社區服務的體驗以及一種多元跨文化的體驗，同時教孩子們上述領域的技術並且幫助他們建設交流的基礎設施。 這是把Photoshop教給在達蘭薩拉村落的西藏兒童。我們還有自己的網站，孩子們都有自己的網頁。這是他們的短片作品。我們現在有大約60個影片全部由這些孩子製作，並且這些影片都很了不起。我下來將要給你展示的——在我們讓他們製作了這些影片之後，我們找出一個晚上在這些群落裡放映這些影片。這是在塔昆古——我們找到一個發電機還有一個數字投影儀，我們用一個穀倉當作銀幕，來放映其中的一個影片。如果有機會你可以去我們的網站，你可以看到這些孩子們了不起的作品。 這些孩子是我們的—— 另一個事是：我希望給原生居民們他們自己的話語權。這是我做這些事的一個很重要的出發點。另一個出發點是我們國家越來越封閉的狀態。國家地理剛剛做了一個調查調查對像是18至26歲的人口在我國（美國）以及其他九個工業化國家。這個調查耗資200萬美元。美國人在地理知識上排名倒數第二。70%的孩子不能在地圖上找到阿富汗或伊拉克，60%的孩子找不到印度，30%找不到太平洋。這是一個很新的研究就發生在最近幾年。 現在我想向你展示的是，在我剩下的這幾分鐘時間裡，一個危地馬拉的學生製作的影片。我們在危地馬拉設了一個工作室。在我們到達工作室的一周前，在十月份，一個由颶風斯坦帶來的大型泥石流，襲擊了這個村莊，並埋了600個生活在這個村莊里的人。這個孩子就生活在這個村莊裡——但是他當時不在村里——這是他製作的一個小影片，關於這個災難。他在這之前從來沒有見過電腦我們做成了這個影片。我們教會他使用Photoshop，並且——可以，我們可以播放這個影片。 這是一個他從他祖父那裡學來的一個古老的瑪雅葬禮吟唱。 非常感謝！（掌聲）
