Talk	en	zh-tw
phil_hansen_embrace_the_shake	"So, when I was in art school, I developed a shake in my hand, and this was the straightest line I could draw. Now in hindsight, it was actually good for some things, like mixing a can of paint or shaking a Polaroid, but at the time this was really doomsday. This was the destruction of my dream of becoming an artist. The shake developed out of, really, a single-minded pursuit of pointillism, just years of making tiny, tiny dots. And eventually these dots went from being perfectly round to looking more like tadpoles, because of the shake. So to compensate, I'd hold the pen tighter, and this progressively made the shake worse, so I'd hold the pen tighter still. And this became a vicious cycle that ended up causing so much pain and joint issues, I had trouble holding anything. And after spending all my life wanting to do art, I left art school, and then I left art completely. But after a few years, I just couldn't stay away from art, and I decided to go to a neurologist about the shake and discovered I had permanent nerve damage. And he actually took one look at my squiggly line, and said, ""Well, why don't you just embrace the shake?"" So I did. I went home, I grabbed a pencil, and I just started letting my hand shake and shake. I was making all these scribble pictures. And even though it wasn't the kind of art that I was ultimately passionate about, it felt great. And more importantly, once I embraced the shake, I realized I could still make art. I just had to find a different approach to making the art that I wanted. Now, I still enjoyed the fragmentation of pointillism, seeing these little tiny dots come together to make this unified whole. So I began experimenting with other ways to fragment images where the shake wouldn't affect the work, like dipping my feet in paint and walking on a canvas, or, in a 3D structure consisting of two-by-fours, creating a 2D image by burning it with a blowtorch. I discovered that, if I worked on a larger scale and with bigger materials, my hand really wouldn't hurt, and after having gone from a single approach to art, I ended up having an approach to creativity that completely changed my artistic horizons. This was the first time I'd encountered this idea that embracing a limitation could actually drive creativity. At the time, I was finishing up school, and I was so excited to get a real job and finally afford new art supplies. I had this horrible little set of tools, and I felt like I could do so much more with the supplies I thought an artist was supposed to have. I actually didn't even have a regular pair of scissors. I was using these metal shears until I stole a pair from the office that I worked at. So I got out of school, I got a job, I got a paycheck, I got myself to the art store, and I just went nuts buying supplies. And then when I got home, I sat down and I set myself to task to really try to create something just completely outside of the box. But I sat there for hours, and nothing came to mind. The same thing the next day, and then the next, quickly slipping into a creative slump. And I was in a dark place for a long time, unable to create. And it didn't make any sense, because I was finally able to support my art, and yet I was creatively blank. But as I searched around in the darkness, I realized I was actually paralyzed by all of the choices that I never had before. And it was then that I thought back to my jittery hands. Embrace the shake. And I realized, if I ever wanted my creativity back, I had to quit trying so hard to think outside of the box and get back into it. I wondered, could you become more creative, then, by looking for limitations? What if I could only create with a dollar's worth of supplies? At this point, I was spending a lot of my evenings in — well, I guess I still spend a lot of my evenings in Starbucks — but I know you can ask for an extra cup if you want one, so I decided to ask for 50. Surprisingly, they just handed them right over, and then with some pencils I already had, I made this project for only 80 cents. It really became a moment of clarification for me that we need to first be limited in order to become limitless. I took this approach of thinking inside the box to my canvas, and wondered what if, instead of painting on a canvas, I could only paint on my chest? So I painted 30 images, one layer at a time, one on top of another, with each picture representing an influence in my life. Or what if, instead of painting with a brush, I could only paint with karate chops? (Laughter) So I'd dip my hands in paint, and I just attacked the canvas, and I actually hit so hard that I bruised a joint in my pinkie and it was stuck straight for a couple of weeks. (Laughter) (Applause) Or, what if instead of relying on myself, I had to rely on other people to create the content for the art? So for six days, I lived in front of a webcam. I slept on the floor and I ate takeout, and I asked people to call me and share a story with me about a life-changing moment. Their stories became the art as I wrote them onto the revolving canvas. (Applause) Or what if instead of making art to display, I had to destroy it? This seemed like the ultimate limitation, being an artist without art. This destruction idea turned into a yearlong project that I called Goodbye Art, where each and every piece of art had to be destroyed after its creation. In the beginning of Goodbye Art, I focused on forced destruction, like this image of Jimi Hendrix, made with over 7,000 matches. (Laughter) Then I opened it up to creating art that was destroyed naturally. I looked for temporary materials, like spitting out food — (Laughter) — sidewalk chalk and even frozen wine. The last iteration of destruction was to try to produce something that didn't actually exist in the first place. So I organized candles on a table, I lit them, and then blew them out, then repeated this process over and over with the same set of candles, then assembled the videos into the larger image. So the end image was never visible as a physical whole. It was destroyed before it ever existed. In the course of this Goodbye Art series, I created 23 different pieces with nothing left to physically display. What I thought would be the ultimate limitation actually turned out to be the ultimate liberation, as each time I created, the destruction brought me back to a neutral place where I felt refreshed and ready to start the next project. It did not happen overnight. There were times when my projects failed to get off the ground, or, even worse, after spending tons of time on them the end image was kind of embarrassing. But having committed to the process, I continued on, and something really surprising came out of this. As I destroyed each project, I was learning to let go, let go of outcomes, let go of failures, and let go of imperfections. And in return, I found a process of creating art that's perpetual and unencumbered by results. I found myself in a state of constant creation, thinking only of what's next and coming up with more ideas than ever. When I think back to my three years away from art, away from my dream, just going through the motions, instead of trying to find a different way to continue that dream, I just quit, I gave up. And what if I didn't embrace the shake? Because embracing the shake for me wasn't just about art and having art skills. It turned out to be about life, and having life skills. Because ultimately, most of what we do takes place here, inside the box, with limited resources. Learning to be creative within the confines of our limitations is the best hope we have to transform ourselves and, collectively, transform our world. Looking at limitations as a source of creativity changed the course of my life. Now, when I run into a barrier or I find myself creatively stumped, I sometimes still struggle, but I continue to show up for the process and try to remind myself of the possibilities, like using hundreds of real, live worms to make an image, using a pushpin to tattoo a banana, or painting a picture with hamburger grease. (Laughter) One of my most recent endeavors is to try to translate the habits of creativity that I've learned into something others can replicate. Limitations may be the most unlikely of places to harness creativity, but perhaps one of the best ways to get ourselves out of ruts, rethink categories and challenge accepted norms. And instead of telling each other to seize the day, maybe we can remind ourselves every day to seize the limitation. Thank you. (Applause)"	我讀藝術系時手開始會顫抖這是我當時能畫出來最直的線現在想想，有些事其實我還頗在行譬如說：搖勻顏料罐或是甩動拍立得相片但那段時間真像世界末日我想成為藝術家的夢想就此幻滅 這個顫抖的症狀其實來自於我全心投入點畫的結果經年累月描繪小小的點最後因為顫抖的關係這些小圓點變成蝌蚪狀因此我得用力握筆這讓顫抖的症狀更嚴重所以我握得更緊最後變成惡性循環不但非常疼痛，也造成關節的問題我很難握好任何物體我想把畢生精力都花在藝術上後來卻離開了藝術學院也完全遠離了藝術 幾年後，我覺得還是離不開藝術我決定去找神經科醫生診治我顫抖的症狀卻發現我的神經已永久受損醫生看了看我畫的彎彎曲曲的線條說：「何不乾脆和顫抖做朋友？」 我照著做了。回到家，我拿起筆就開始放手讓它抖啊抖我創作出這些塗鴉雖然它並不是我理想中藝術的模樣，但我覺得棒極了更重要的是，一旦我接受了顫抖這個事實我發現我還是可以創造藝術只是要找出另一種呈現的方式來做出我想要的藝術 如今我仍然喜歡點畫中的這種破碎感看著許多小點點集合成一個完整的作品所以我開始實驗運用不同的方法來支解圖像這些方式不會因我的顫抖而影響到作品例如用腳去沾顏料然後在畫布上行走或用 2 乘 4 英吋標準木條建構 3D用噴槍燒出 2D 的圖像我發現只要我運用大件物料從事大型創作我的手抖就不會造成太大的問題我從單一方式的藝術創作後來竟找到創造力的方法讓我的創作視野完全改變這是我首次有了這個觀念─擁抱極限，可能激發出創造力 那時我即將畢業我很開心可以找到工作還買得起新的美術材料我有一套陽春到不行的小工具組我自認為只要擁有藝術家的工具就會產出更多的創作我其實連普通的剪刀都沒有我一直在用剪電線的剪刀後來才偷了辦公室的剪刀 就這樣，我離開學校找到工作，拿到薪水我到美術用品店瘋狂的採購回到家後，我坐下開始努力要創作點什麼要完全跳脫出框架的作品我坐了好幾個小時卻一點想法都沒有隔天一樣，再隔天還是一樣我掉落創作的深淵我就一直處在黑暗之中，無法創作這講不通啊，我總算可以從事我熱愛的藝術創作，可是卻撞牆了 但是當我在黑暗中摸索我了解到，原來我是被過多選擇給麻痺了這些自己以前從不曾擁有的選擇因此我又想起我不停顫抖的雙手跟顫抖做朋友我了解到，如果我想找回創作力我就不要一直想跳出框架而是要回到框框中 然後我又想著，難道說找出侷限就能比較有創造力嗎？如果我只能用一塊錢的素材來創作呢？那時我花了很多個晚…嗯，我想我現在還是花了很多個晚上在星巴克在那裡可以多要一個杯子所以我決定要 50 個杯子不敢置信，他們真的就拿給我然後我用我原本就有的鉛筆花了 8 毛錢完成了這個作品那一刻我才明白我們得身處於限制中才能體現何謂無限 於是我把這樣的想法—在侷限中創作帶到我的畫布上我想像如果我不能在畫布上作畫而只能在自己胸前作畫呢？然後我畫了 30 張圖，一次畫一層一層一層疊上每一幅圖都代表著我人生中重大的影響又或者，我不能用筆刷作畫而只能用空手道的手刀去劈呢？(觀眾笑)所以我就將手沾上顏料然後攻擊我的畫布結果我打得太用力把我的小指關節打到瘀青有好幾個禮拜我的小指都只能僵直著… (觀眾大笑鼓掌) 又假如，我的創作不能自己來只能依賴他人來完成主體內容呢？所以接下來六天我在網路攝影機前過日子睡在地板上、叫外賣我請別人打電話給我，跟我分享他人生中重要的轉捩點他們的故事變成了藝術品我把這些動人故事寫在一張旋轉畫布上 (觀眾鼓掌)再假設，如果我的創作不是用來觀賞而是必須要毀掉的呢？這很像一種終極的限制吧作一個沒有藝術作品的藝術家這個具毀滅性的概念成了長達將近一年的專案我稱之為「不見藝術」每件作品一問世，隨即要被銷毀一開始我將焦點擺在強制性毀滅像這幅吉米罕醉克斯(Jimi Hendrix)的圖像是用七千多支火柴棒做成的(觀眾笑)後來我用自然銷毀的方式進行創作找尋暫時性的材料例如：啐吐食物(觀眾笑)人行道粉筆畫甚至於冷凍酒 最後一輪的毀滅是製作從一開始就不存在的東西我在桌上排了一些蠟燭把它們點燃，然後吹滅一次又一次，利用同樣的這些蠟燭重覆一樣的過程再將拍攝的影片組成一幅大的圖像所以，最終的圖像從未完整存在而是在完成前就被毀了 這一系列的「不見藝術」我總共創作了 23 件不同的作品沒有留下任何實體物品我原本以為的終極限制最後竟成了終極解放每一次的創造後這些毀滅都把我歸零我覺得很清新，並且準備好再出發這不是一夕可造成的有好幾次我的專案作品一開始就失敗了還有更糟的，在費了許多功夫後成果卻難以見人但因已投入過程，我還是繼續進行 最後竟得到了意想不到的成果當我毀掉了每一件作品我學會了放下放下結果，放下失敗放下不完美得到的回報，是找到一種創造過程不會間斷、也不因結果而束縛自己我發覺自己一直不停的創造不斷想著下一步還可以做什麼想法源源不絕而來 當我想起離開藝術創作的那三年遠離我的夢想，就只是隨波逐流當時我沒有嘗試找出不同方法來繼續這個夢想我喊停，放棄了如果我沒有去和顫抖做朋友呢？因為接受手抖這件事對我而言不只是藝術或是創作技巧上的問題而是關於人生，是生活的技能因為最終我們所做的事都是發生在這個框框裡面在有限的資源下學習在自己的受限範圍中創新是改變自我的最佳方式然後大家可以一起，改變這個世界 把限制當作創造力來源的想法轉換了我的人生道路所以當我遇上了阻礙或者發現自己的創造力遇到瓶頸我還是會有掙扎的時刻但過程中我依然不會缺席嘗試提醒自己，還有其他可能性例如：使用上百條活生生的蟲來展現一張圖像用圖釘幫香蕉紋身或用漢堡的油脂來作畫 (觀眾笑) 最近我在努力的一件事是將我學到的創造力這個習慣轉化成可以讓人複製的技巧 「侷限」或許是這世上最不可能駕馭創造力的方式但或許這卻是能跳脫自我泥淖最好的方法之一重新規劃，並挑戰既有的世俗標準除了告訴彼此要活在當下或許我們每一天還要提醒自己要精彩的活在侷限之中 謝謝各位 (觀眾掌聲)
