Talk	en	zh-tw
philip_zimbardo_prescribes_a_healthy_take_on_time	"I want to share with you some ideas about the secret power of time, in a very short time. Video: All right, start the clock please. 30 seconds studio. Keep it quiet please. Settle down. It's about time. End sequence. Take one. 15 seconds studio. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two ... Philip Zimbardo: Let's tune into the conversation of the principals in Adam's temptation. ""Come on Adam, don't be so wishy-washy. Take a bite."" ""I did."" ""One bite, Adam. Don't abandon Eve."" ""I don't know, guys. I don't want to get in trouble."" ""Okay. One bite. What the hell?"" (Laughter) Life is temptation. It's all about yielding, resisting, yes, no, now, later, impulsive, reflective, present focus and future focus. Promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment. Of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage — thank you George Bush — the majority, 60 percent, yielded to sexual temptations within one year. And most of them did so without using birth control. So much for promises. Now lets tempt four-year-olds, giving them a treat. They can have one marshmallow now. But if they wait until the experimenter comes back, they can have two. Of course it pays, if you like marshmallows, to wait. What happens is two-thirds of the kids give in to temptation. They cannot wait. The others, of course, wait. They resist the temptation. They delay the now for later. Walter Mischel, my colleague at Stanford, went back 14 years later, to try to discover what was different about those kids. There were enormous differences between kids who resisted and kids who yielded, in many ways. The kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the SAT. That's enormous. That's like a whole set of different IQ points. They didn't get in as much trouble. They were better students. They were self-confident and determined. And the key for me today, the key for you, is, they were future-focused rather than present-focused. So what is time perspective? That's what I'm going to talk about today. Time perspective is the study of how individuals, all of us, divide the flow of your human experience into time zones or time categories. And you do it automatically and non-consciously. They vary between cultures, between nations, between individuals, between social classes, between education levels. And the problem is that they can become biased, because you learn to over-use some of them and under-use the others. What determines any decision you make? You make a decision on which you're going to base an action. For some people it's only about what is in the immediate situation, what other people are doing and what you're feeling. And those people, when they make their decisions in that format — we're going to call them ""present-oriented,"" because their focus is what is now. For others, the present is irrelevant. It's always about ""What is this situation like that I've experienced in the past?"" So that their decisions are based on past memories. And we're going to call those people ""past-oriented,"" because they focus on what was. For others it's not the past, it's not the present, it's only about the future. Their focus is always about anticipated consequences. Cost-benefit analysis. We're going to call them ""future-oriented."" Their focus is on what will be. So, time paradox, I want to argue, the paradox of time perspective, is something that influences every decision you make, you're totally unaware of. Namely, the extent to which you have one of these biased time perspectives. Well there is actually six of them. There are two ways to be present-oriented. There is two ways to be past-oriented, two ways to be future. You can focus on past-positive, or past-negative. You can be present-hedonistic, namely you focus on the joys of life, or present-fatalist — it doesn't matter, your life is controlled. You can be future-oriented, setting goals. Or you can be transcendental future: namely, life begins after death. Developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidly depending on the demands of the situation, that's what you've got to learn to do. So, very quickly, what is the optimal time profile? High on past-positive. Moderately high on future. And moderate on present-hedonism. And always low on past-negative and present-fatalism. So the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past — past-positive gives you roots. You connect your family, identity and your self. What you get from the future is wings to soar to new destinations, new challenges. What you get from the present hedonism is the energy, the energy to explore yourself, places, people, sensuality. Any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives. What do futures sacrifice for success? They sacrifice family time. They sacrifice friend time. They sacrifice fun time. They sacrifice personal indulgence. They sacrifice hobbies. And they sacrifice sleep. So it affects their health. And they live for work, achievement and control. I'm sure that resonates with some of the TEDsters. (Laughter) And it resonated for me. I grew up as a poor kid in the South Bronx ghetto, a Sicilian family — everyone lived in the past and present. I'm here as a future-oriented person who went over the top, who did all these sacrifices because teachers intervened, and made me future oriented. Told me don't eat that marshmallow, because if you wait you're going to get two of them, until I learned to balance out. I've added present-hedonism, I've added a focus on the past-positive, so, at 76 years old, I am more energetic than ever, more productive, and I'm happier than I have ever been. I just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems: changing the drop-out rates of school kids, combating addictions, enhancing teen health, curing vets' PTSD with time metaphors — getting miracle cures — promoting sustainability and conservation, reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50-percent drop out rate, altering appeals to suicidal terrorists, and modifying family conflicts as time-zone clashes. So I want to end by saying: many of life's puzzles can be solved by understanding your time perspective and that of others. And the idea is so simple, so obvious, but I think the consequences are really profound. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	"我想和大家分享關於時光魅力的秘密,而我只有很短的時間. 視頻:準備好了,開始計時,三十秒倒計時.保持安靜.一切就緒.時間快到了.到了.再來一次.15秒到計時.10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2...... 菲利浦津巴多:現來看看這段對話是""亞當的誘惑"".嘿,亞當,別磨蹭了. 咬一口吧.我可是咬過了.就一口,亞當.不要忘了伊娃喔.不行呀,夥計們.我可不愿惹麻煩.好吧,就一口.有什麼了不起呀!(笑聲) 生活中到處是誘惑.屈服,抵抗,是, 否,現在,以後,衝動,沉穩,關注現在和展望未來.迅間的激情會打敗道德觀念. 那些曾宣誓要在婚前確保貞操的少女這一點要感謝小布施-大多數,約有60%,會在一年內違背自己的諾言.而他們中的大多數都沒有採取防範措施.多美好的承諾啊. 現在來試試四歲的小孩,給他們吃得好了.他們現在有一顆棉花糖.但是如果他們願意等到試驗員回來再吃的話,他們會有兩顆.當然是要付出代價,你想要棉花糖的話,就得等.結果是2/3的孩子經不住誘惑.他們不能等.而另一些孩子,卻等到了.等的孩子抵住了誘惑.明白付出是為了得到. 沃爾特.米舍爾,我斯丹福大學的同事,在十四年後對這些孩子的不同進行追蹤調查.這差別可大了. 經得住抵抗的孩子與妥協的孩子在很多方面都不同.經受住誘惑的孩子SAT的成績平均要高出250分.這太可觀了. 差不多是一整套不同水平的智商測試.這些學生不會去惹麻煩.他們都是好學生.他們自信,堅強. 而對我的啟發也是對你們大家的啟發是他們能夠將＂現實＂轉化為 ""未來"". 因此，如何看待時間呢？這就是我今天要講的話題.看待時間是研究個體，我們大家,將所有的人生經歷劃分為不同的時間區域或時間類別.並且是在自動和無意識下做得.劃分方式的不同會從文化，國家，個人，社會階層，教育水平等來決定.但問題是不同因素會產生偏見.因為你在某方面會使用過頭,而另方面卻沒有充分利用. 是什麼促使你做決定呢?一旦做出決定,就要行動了.某些人,只看到當時的情景,別人現在做的事,和自己現在的感受.這些人做決定時,會按那樣的模式—我們稱這些人為""現實主義"".因為他們關注的是現在. 對另一些人,現在並不重要.重要的是 ""我在過去是否有過類似的經歷?""因此他們的決定會依據過去的經驗.我們稱這些人為 ""懷舊主義"". 因為他們關注的是過去. 而對另一部分人,過去和現在都不重要.重要的是將來.他們專注於所期待的結果.彷彿如成本效益分析.我們稱他們為 ""理想主義"". 他們關注的是未來. 因此,時間悖論,這裡我要討論的是時間觀念上的悖論是否會影響你做出的每一個決定,而你渾然不知.那麼你其實已附有這樣的一個帶有偏見的時間悖論了.實際上,時間悖論有六種解釋. 其中兩個屬於""現實主義"".兩個屬於 ""懷舊主義"", 兩個屬於 ""理想主義"".你可以是""正面懷舊"" 或 ""負面懷舊"".也可以是""享受主義者"".專注於享受生活,或自甘墮落成""宿命論者"".這並不重要.重要的是你要有所掌控.你可以是""理想主義"",從而設定目標.也可以是""先知覺者"".宣揚生命起始于安息之後.從發展思維的靈活性到透視時光的易變性要根據局勢的變化這便是你要學的內容. 好了,咱們快速總結一下,什麼是理想的時光概念呢?高度　＂正面懷舊＂，適度　＂理想主義＂節制　＂及時行樂"".永遠放低　＂負面懷舊＂及　＂宿命論＂所以最佳時光透視是由過去開始的－過去積極的一面會給你動力。將你與家人，地位和身份聯繫在一起.而將來卻是一付翅膀助你飛向新的方向，迎接新的挑戰.當然你也會從現實享樂主義獲得能量，讓你開拓自己.尋找合適的地點和人，及時行樂. 任何過度的時光審視就會負面大於正面.成功要付出多少呢？要犧牲家庭時間;犧牲朋友聚會;犧牲快樂時光;犧牲個人嗜好;犧牲業餘愛好;犧牲睡眠.從而也會影響身體健康.這些人生活中只有工作,成功,和控制慾.相信一些TED的工作人員會有所共鳴吧.(笑聲) 我也有所共鳴.我是一個窮小子,出生于南布朗克斯平民窟,西西里島的家庭.那裏的人只知道過去和現在.而我卻是一個朝前看的人我之所以能成功,能在必要時做出犧牲皆拜賜于我的老師們,是他們使我成為一個有理想的人.是他們告訴我不要吃那顆棉花糖,因為只要等就可吃到兩顆了,我就是這樣一路走來,學會了如何取捨的.現在的我學會了""享樂主義"",也會 ""正面壞舊"".因此,我現在76嵗了,卻比從前更有精力,更有動力.比從前更有樂趣. 我只想說該原理已用在解決世界很多問題上了,例如降低輟學率,打擊毒品,增強青少年健康,用時間隱喻法治療戰後老兵的心理障礙-創造醫學奇蹟-促進可持續性發展和保護,減少身體康復費用,此項目有高達50%的退出率,改變自殺式恐怖份子的念頭,修正家庭關係,就如修正時間區域衝突般. 好了,我要結束演講了,生活中許多解決不開的難題都會迎刃而解但必須理解自身和其他人的時間觀念.道理如此簡單,且顯而易見,可結果卻又那麼深遠.謝謝大家.(掌聲)"
