Talk	en	zh-tw
philip_howard	"I've always been interested in the relationship of formal structures and human behavior. If you build a wide road out to the outskirts of town, people will move there. Well, law is also a powerful driver of human behavior. And what I'd like to discuss today is the need to overhaul and simplify the law to release the energy and passion of Americans, so that we can begin to address the challenges of our society. You might have noticed that law has grown progressively denser in your lives over the last decade or two. If you run a business, it's hard to do much of anything without calling your general counsel. Indeed, there is this phenomenon now where the general counsels are becoming the CEOs. It's a little bit like the Invasion Of The Body Snatchers. You need a lawyer to run the company, because there's so much law. But it's not just business that's affected by this, it's actually pressed down into the daily activities of ordinary people. A couple of years ago I was hiking near Cody, Wyoming. It was in a grizzly bear preserve, although no one told me that before we went. And our guide was a local science teacher. She was wholly unconcerned about the bears, but she was terrified of lawyers. The stories started pouring out. She'd just been involved in an episode where a parent had threatened to sue the school because she lowered the grade of the student by 10 percent when he turned the paper in late. The principal didn't want to stand up to the parent because he didn't want to get dragged into some legal proceedings. So, she had to go to meeting after meeting, same arguments made over and over again. After 30 days of sleepless nights, she finally capitulated and raised the grade. She said, ""Life's too short, I just can't keep going with this."" About the same time, she was going to take two students to a leadership conference in Laramie, which is a couple of hours away, and she was going to drive them in her car, but the school said, ""No, you can't drive them in the car for liability reasons. You have to go in a school bus."" So, they provided a bus that held 60 people and drove the three of them back and forth several hours to Laramie. Her husband is also a science teacher, and he takes his biology class on a hike in the nearby national park. But he was told he couldn't go on the hike this year because one of the students in the class was disabled, so the other 25 students didn't get to go on the hike either. At the end of this day I could have filled a book just with stories about law from this one teacher. Now, we've been taught to believe that law is the foundation of freedom. But somehow or another, in the last couple of decades, the land of the free has become a legal minefield. It's really changed our lives in ways that are sort of imperceptible; and yet, when you pull back, you see it all the time. It's changed the way we talk. I was talking to a pediatrician friend in North Carolina. He said, ""Well you know, I don't deal with patients the same way anymore. You wouldn't want to say something off-the-cuff that might be used against you."" This is a doctor, whose life is caring for people. My own law firm has a list of questions that I'm not allowed to ask when interviewing candidates, such as the sinister question, bulging with hidden motives and innuendo, ""Where are you from?"" (Laughter) Now for 20 years, tort reformers have been sounding the alarm that lawsuits are out of control. And we read every once in while about these crazy lawsuits, like the guy in the District of Columbia who sued his dry cleaners for 54 million dollars because they lost his pair of pants. The case went on for two years; I think he's still appealing the case. But the reality is, these crazy cases are relatively rare. They don't usually win. And the total of direct tort cost in this country is about two percent, which is twice as much as in other countries but, as taxes go, hardly crippling. But the direct costs are really only the tip of the iceberg. What's happened here, again, almost without our knowing, is our culture has changed. People no longer feel free to act on their best judgment. So, what do we do about it? We certainly don't want to give up the rights, when people do something wrong, to seek redress in the courts. We need regulation to make sure people don't pollute and such. We lack even a vocabulary to deal with this problem, and that's because we have the wrong frame of reference. We've been trained to think that the way to look at every dispute, every issue, is a matter of kind of individual rights. And so we peer through a legal microscope, and look at everything. Is it possible that there are extenuating circumstances that explain why Johnny turned his paper in late in Cody, Wyoming? Is it possible that the doctor might have done something differently when the sick person gets sicker? And of course the hindsight bias is perfect. There's always a different scenario that you can sketch out where it's possible that something could have been done differently. And yet, we've been trained to squint into this legal microscope, hoping that we can judge any dispute against the standard of a perfect society, where everyone will agree what's fair, and where accidents will be extinct, risk will be no more. Of course, this is Utopia; it's a formula for paralysis, not freedom. It's not the basis of the rule of law, it's not the basis of a free society. So, now I have the first of four propositions I'm going to leave with you about how you simplify the law: You've got to judge law mainly by its effect on the broader society, not individual disputes. Absolutely vital. So, let's pull back from the anecdotes for a second and look at our society from high above. Is it working? What does the macro-data show us? Well, the healthcare system has been transformed: a culture pervaded with defensiveness, universal distrust of the system of justice, universal practice of defensive medicine. It's very hard to measure because there are mixed motives. Doctors can make more on ordering tests sometimes, and also they no longer even know what's right or wrong. But reliable estimates range between 60 billion and 200 billion dollars per year. That's enough to provide care to all the people in America who don't have it. The trial lawyers say, ""Well, this legal fear makes doctors practice better medicine."" Well that's been studied too, by the Institute of Medicine and others. Turns out that's not the case. The fear has chilled professional interaction so thousands of tragic errors occur because doctors are afraid to speak up: ""Are you sure that's the right dosage?"" Because they're not sure, and they don't want to take legal responsibility. Let's go to schools. As we saw with the teacher in Cody, Wyoming, she seems to be affected by the law. Well it turns out the schools are literally drowning in law. You could have a separate section of a law library around each of the following legal concepts: due process, special education, no child left behind, zero tolerance, work rules ... it goes on. We did a study of all the rules that affect one school in New York. The Board of Ed. had no idea. Tens of thousands of discreet rules, 60 steps to suspend a student from school: It's a formula for paralysis. What's the effect of that? One is a decline in order. Again, studies have shown it's directly attributable to the rise of due process. Public agenda did a survey for us a couple of years ago where they found that 43 percent of the high school teachers in America say that they spend at least half of their time maintaining order in the classroom. That means those students are getting half the learning they're supposed to, because if one child is disrupting the class no one can learn. And what happens when the teacher tries to assert order? They're threatened with a legal claim. We also surveyed that. Seventy-eight percent of the middle and high school teachers in America have been threatened by their students with violating their rights, with lawsuits by their students. They are threatening, their students. It's not that they usually sue, it's not that they would win, but it's an indication of the corrosion of authority. And how has this system of law worked for government? It doesn't seem to be working very well does it? Neither in Sacramento nor in Washington. The other day at the State of the Union speech, President Obama said, and I think we could all agree with this goal, ""From the first railroads to the interstate highway system, our nation has always been the first to compete. There is no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains."" Well, actually there is a reason: Environmental review has evolved into a process of no pebble left unturned for any major project taking the better part of a decade, then followed by years of litigation by anybody who doesn't like the project. Then, just staying above the Earth for one more second, people are acting like idiots, (Laughter) all across the country. (Applause) Idiots. A couple of years ago, Broward County, Florida, banned running at recess. (Laughter) That means all the boys are going to be ADD. I mean it's just absolutely a formula for failure. My favorite, though, are all the warning labels. ""Caution: Contents are hot,"" on billions of coffee cups. Archeologists will dig us up in a thousand years and they won't know about defensive medicine and stuff, but they'll see all these labels, ""Contents are extremely hot."" They'll think it was some kind of aphrodisiac. That's the only explanation. Because why would you have to tell people that something was actually hot? My favorite warning was one on a five-inch fishing lure. I grew up in the South and whiled away the summers fishing. Five-inch fishing lure, it's a big fishing lure, with a three pronged hook in the back, and outside it said, ""Harmful if swallowed."" (Laughter) So, none of these people are doing what they think is right. And why not? They don't trust the law. Why don't they trust the law? Because it gives us the worst of both worlds: It's random — anybody can sue for almost anything and take it to a jury, not even an effort at consistency — and it's also too detailed. In the areas that are regulated, there are so many rules no human could possibly know it. Well how do you fix it? We could spend 10,000 lifetimes trying to prune this legal jungle. But the challenge here is not one of just amending the law, because the hurdle for success is trust. People — for law to be the platform for freedom, people have to trust it. So, that's my second proposition: Trust is an essential condition to a free society. Life is complicated enough without legal fear. But law is different than other kinds of uncertainties, because it carries with it the power of state. And so the state can come in. It actually changes the way people think. It's like having a little lawyer on your shoulders all day long, whispering in your ear, ""Could that go wrong? Might that go wrong?"" It drives people from the smart part of the brain — that dark, deep well of the subconscious, where instincts and experience, and all the other factors of creativity and good judgment are — it drives us to the thin veneer of conscious logic. Pretty soon the doctor's saying, ""Well, I doubt if that headache could be a tumor, but who would protect me if it were? So maybe I'll just order the MRI."" Then you've wasted 200 billion dollars in unnecessary tests. If you make people self-conscious about their judgments, studies show you will make them make worse judgments. If you tell the pianist to think about how she's hitting the notes when she's playing the piece, she can't play the piece. Self-consciousness is the enemy of accomplishment. Edison stated it best. He said, ""Hell, we ain't got no rules around here, we're trying to accomplish something."" (Laughter) So, how do you restore trust? Tweaking the law's clearly not good enough, and tort reform, which is a great idea, lowers your cost if you're a businessperson, but it's like a Band-Aid on this gaping wound of distrust. States with extensive tort reform still suffer all these pathologies. So, what's needed is not just to limit claims, but actually create a dry ground of freedom. It turns out that freedom actually has a formal structure. And it is this: Law sets boundaries, and on one side of those boundaries are all the things you can't do or must do — you can't steal, you've got to pay your taxes — but those same boundaries are supposed to define and protect a dry ground of freedom. Isaiah Berlin put it this way: ""Law sets frontiers, not artificially drawn, within which men shall be inviolable."" We've forgotten that second part. Those dikes have burst. People wade through law all day long. So, what's needed now is to rebuild these boundaries. And it's especially important to rebuild them for lawsuits. Because what people can sue for establishes the boundaries for everybody else's freedom. If someone brings a lawsuit over, ""A kid fell off the seesaw,"" it doesn't matter what happens in the lawsuit, all the seesaws will disappear. Because no one will want to take the risk of a lawsuit. And that's what's happened. There are no seesaws, jungle gyms, merry-go-rounds, climbing ropes, nothing that would interest a kid over the age of four, because there's no risk associated with it. So, how do we rebuild it? Life is too complex for... (Applause) Life is too complex for a software program. All these choices involve value judgments and social norms, not objective facts. And so here is the fourth proposition. This is what we have, the philosophy we have to change to. And there are two essential elements of it: We have to simplify the law. We have to migrate from all this complexity towards general principles and goals. The constitution is only 16 pages long. Worked pretty well for 200 years. Law has to be simple enough so that people can internalize it in their daily choices. If they can't internalize it, they won't trust it. And how do you make it simple? Because life is complex, and here is the hardest and biggest change: We have to restore the authority to judges and officials to interpret and apply the law. (Applause) We have to rehumanize the law. To make law simple so that you feel free, the people in charge have to be free to use their judgment to interpret and apply the law in accord with reasonable social norms. As you're going down, and walking down the sidewalk during the day, you have to think that if there is a dispute, there's somebody in society who sees it as their job to affirmatively protect you if you're acting reasonably. That person doesn't exist today. This is the hardest hurdle. It's actually not very hard. Ninety-eight percent of cases, this is a piece of cake. Maybe you've got a claim in small claims court for your lost pair of pants for $100, but not in a court of general jurisdiction for millions of dollars. Case dismissed without prejudice or refiling in small claims court. Takes five minutes. That's it, it's not that hard. But it's a hard hurdle because we got into this legal quicksand because we woke up in the 1960s to all these really bad values: racism, gender discrimination, pollution — they were bad values. And we wanted to create a legal system where no one could have bad values anymore. The problem is, we created a system where we eliminated the right to have good values. It doesn't mean that people in authority can do whatever they want. They're still bounded by legal goals and principles: The teacher is accountable to the principal, the judge is accountable to an appellate court, the president is accountable to voters. But the accountability's up the line judging the decision against the effect on everybody, not just on the disgruntled person. You can't run a society by the lowest common denominator. (Applause) So, what's needed is a basic shift in philosophy. We can pull the plug on a lot of this stuff if we shift our philosophy. We've been taught that authority is the enemy of freedom. It's not true. Authority, in fact, is essential to freedom. Law is a human institution; responsibility is a human institution. If teachers don't have authority to run the classroom, to maintain order, everybody's learning suffers. If the judge doesn't have the authority to toss out unreasonable claims, then all of us go through the day looking over our shoulders. If the environmental agency can't decide that the power lines are good for the environment, then there's no way to bring the power from the wind farms to the city. A free society requires red lights and green lights, otherwise it soon descends into gridlock. That's what's happened to America. Look around. What the world needs now is to restore the authority to make common choices. It's the only way to get our freedom back, and it's the only way to release the energy and passion needed so that we can meet the challenges of our time. Thank you. (Applause)"	我一直很感興趣關於正式架構和人的行為之間的關係如果您蓋一條寬廣的大路通往城市的郊區人就會搬到那裡去法律也是一個強大的驅動力在人類行為上我今天想討論的是關於修改和簡化法律來釋放美國人的能量和熱情讓我們能夠開始解決這個社會的挑戰 您可能已經注意到法律的密度在過去的二十年中在您的生活中逐漸增加如果您有自己的生意 你很難做任何的事情而不用打電話給你的法律總顧問事實上，現在有一種現象就是法律總顧問正在成為執行長這有點像身體綁架者的入侵（譯按 The invasion of the Bodysnatchers 中文片名【天外魔花】講的是類似豆莢的外星人企圖利用細胞附身人類以征服地球的故事）你需要一個律師來經營公司因為有這麼多的法律但不只是商業活動被這件事影響它真實的被壓進了普通民眾的日常活動 數年前，我在科迪 懷俄明州附近爬山這是在灰熊保留區附近雖然沒有人在出發前告訴我我們的嚮導是一個那裡的科學教師她對有熊出沒的事完全不在意但她卻很害怕律師故事開始被傾訴她剛剛才發生了一件事一位家長威脅要起訴學校因為她扣了學生百分之十的成績因為學生遲交作業校長不想面對家長因為他不想被捲入法律的訴訟於是，她不得不去一次又一次的會議一遍又一遍的說著同樣的論據經過30天的不眠之夜，她終於投降並提高了成績她說 人生太短，我不能在這件事上繼續下去 大約在同時，她要帶兩個學生參加一個領導力會議在拉勒米 大約數小時的路程她本來要自己開車載他們但學校說 不 你不能自己開車載他們因責任歸屬上的問題你必須坐校車去所以學校提供可以坐60人的巴士來接送他們三個人來往僅數小時車程的拉勒米 他的先生也是一位科學教師他會帶他生物課的學生去爬山在附近的國家公園但今年他被告知他不能去因為其中一位學生身障所以其他25位學生也不能去爬山在結束後我幾乎可以寫滿一本書只用和法律有關的故事只從這一位教師身上 我們被教導要相信法律是自由的基礎但不知如何在過去幾十年間自由的國度卻成為法律的地雷區它真的改變了我們的生活以有點不易察覺並逐漸的方式不過，當你拉遠一點，卻常常可以看到它改變了我們講話的方式我之前跟一位小兒科醫生朋友說話在北卡羅萊納州，他說“嗯，你知道我不再用同樣的方式處理病人了你不會想說些隨性即興的話這些話可能會被用來對付你這是一個醫生，他的生活是要照顧別人我自己的律師事務所有一整列的問題是我不能問的當我面談應試者的時候例如有一個邪惡的問題充滿了被隱藏的動機和影射“你是哪裡人？”（眾笑） 這20年來，侵權改革者已拉響警報官司失控的警報我們偶爾會讀到這些瘋狂的訴訟，像是有一個傢伙在哥倫比亞特區誰起訴他的乾洗店 求償5400萬美元因為乾洗店搞丟了他一條褲子案件已歷時兩年 我想他應該還在上訴中 但現實情況是 這些瘋狂的案件相對上較少 他們通常也不會贏。而侵權行為的直接總成本在這個國家約佔百分之二這是其他國家的兩倍但是就稅收上看 幾乎不至跛足但是 直接成本實際上只是冰山的一角 這裡所再一次發生幾乎在我們不知道的情況下我們的文化改變了人們不再感到可以自由的以自己的最佳判斷採取行動所以，對於此點我們該做怎麼呢？我們當然不希望放棄權利當人們做錯事到法院尋求糾正的權利我們需要規則來確保人不污染等我們甚至缺乏詞彙來處理這一個問題那是因為我們有錯誤的參照架構 我們一直在被訓練看待每一個糾紛每一個問題，是一個關於個人的權利的事所以我們透過法律的顯微鏡來看一切是否可能有情有可原的狀況解釋為何約翰遲交他的作業 在科迪，懷俄明州？是否可能醫生可能會做一些不同的事 當病人病得更嚴重時當然，後見之明的偏見是完美的總是會有不同的場景可以被描繪出來在之中有可能事情可以用不同的方法被處理 然而，我們一直在訓練瞇著眼睛從這個法律顯微鏡看進去希望我們能夠對任何爭端做出判斷以一個完美社會的標準這個標準中每個人都會同意什麼是公平的意外將會滅絕風險將不復存在這當然是烏托邦這個公式會導致癱瘓，不是自由這不是法治的基礎它不是一個自由社會的基礎所以，現在我有四個主張中的第一項我要留給各位的是關於你要如何簡化法律在判斷法律上 你必須主要以其對廣泛社會的影響而不是個人的糾紛絕對的重要 讓我們從小故事退後一下從高處來看看我們的社會他是否正常的運作著呢？宏觀數據告訴我們什麼？醫療系統被改造了一個瀰漫著防禦的文化對司法制度的普遍不信任普遍的實踐著防禦性的醫療這是很難被衡量的因為有混合的動機醫生有時可以做更多的測試來賺更多也甚至不再知道什麼是對什麼是錯但據可靠估計每年提高 600 億至 2000 億美元那足以提供照護給所有的美國人這是我們沒有的 審判律師說，“這種對法律的恐懼能使醫生更好的行醫這也被研究過，由醫學研究所等證明並非如此這種恐懼已經冰凍了專業的互動造成成千上萬的悲劇性錯誤因為醫生不敢出聲說：“你確定這是正確的劑量嗎？”因為他們不確定也不想承擔法律責任 讓我們看看學校正如我們所看到在懷俄明州的老師她似乎受到法律的影響事實證明學校是真的已被法律淹沒你可以在法律圖書館裡各別分出一個單獨的部門關於以下每一個法律概念正當程序，特殊教育，沒有任何一個孩子落後零容忍，工作規則它可以一直繼續下去。我們做了研究關於所有會影響一所學校的規定在紐約地區。教育董事會完全不了解成千上萬的謹慎的規則讓學生休學的60個步驟這是一個導致癱瘓的公式會有什麼影響呢？其中一個是秩序的下降 同樣，研究顯示它會直接導致正式程序的增加數年前公共議程為我們做了調查他們發現在美國百分之四十三的高中教師說他們至少花一半的時間在課堂上維持秩序這意味著這些學生只得到一半他們應有的學習因為如果一個孩子干擾課堂沒有人能學習當老師試圖維護秩序又會如何呢？他們受到法律要求的威脅我們還調查到 百分之七十八的美國初高中教師曾被學生威脅以侵犯權利的訴訟他們威脅到他們的學生。這並不是說他們通常真的會起訴這並不是說他們會贏 但它是權力被腐蝕的表徵 這樣的法律制度在政府是否可行呢？它似乎沒有運作的太良好，不是嗎？無論在山克拉門都還是在華盛頓日前在國情咨文演講中奧巴馬總統說我想我們都同意這樣的目標從第一條鐵路 到州際高速公路系統我國一直都是第一個進入競爭的沒理由歐洲或中國該有最快的列車嗯，其實是有一個原因環境審查已經發展成為一種過程一種翻遍所有卵石（千方百計的意思，在此有暗喻破壞環境或過於細緻的隱喻）10年來比較好的時日中任何的重大計畫都接著多年的爭訟由任何不喜歡這個計畫的人提出 然後，讓我們繼續留在地球上空停留一下人們表現的像白痴一樣（眾笑）全國各地（掌聲）像白痴一樣 幾年前佛羅里達州的布勞沃德縣禁止了於下課時間跑步（眾笑）這意味著所有的男孩都會得注意力缺失症我的意思是，這絕對是會失敗的公式 不過我最喜歡的，是所有的警告標籤注意，內容物是熱的在數十億杯咖啡上考古學家將在千年後把我們挖掘出來他們不會知道防禦性的醫療體系這些東西但他們將看到這些標籤，內容物非常熱他們會認為這是一些種春藥這是唯一的解釋。因為為什麼你需要告訴人們熱的東西是熱的？（Hot 同時有很辣，很性感的意思）我最喜歡的警告標示是一個長 5英寸（12.7cm）的魚餌我在南部長大且用釣魚消磨夏季五英寸的魚餌，這是一個很大的魚餌有三個分岔鉤在後面包裝寫著：“吞嚥有害”（眾笑） 因此，這些人沒有一個在做他們認為是正確的為什麼不呢？他們不相信法律。他們為什麼不相信法律？因為它給我們在兩個世界裡最壞的是隨機的。任何人都可以起訴幾乎任何東西並帶到陪審團前。甚至沒有在一致性上努力而且過於詳細在已被規範的領域，有這麼多的規則沒有人類有可能都知道那麼該如何解決？我們可以活一萬次若是要嘗試修剪這個法律的叢林。但這裡的挑戰不是一個僅僅修改法律的挑戰因為成功的障礙是信任 人民，對於法律是自由的平台人們必須信任它所以，這是我的第二個主張信任對一個自由的社會而言是一個必要的條件生活沒有對法律的恐懼就夠複雜了但是法律不同於其他類型的不確定性因為它帶著國家的力量因此，國家可以進來它實在的改變了人們的思考方式像有一個小律師坐在你的肩膀上整天在你的耳邊耳語“可能會出錯嗎？那會搞砸嗎？它驅使人們離開大腦聰明的那部份那個潛意識的黑暗深井本能和經驗所在的地方以及所有其他創意的元素還有良好判斷力所在之處它迫使我們去到單薄又呆板有意識的邏輯。 很快，醫生說：“好吧，我懷疑這個頭痛可能是因為一個腫瘤，但如果是的話誰會保護我所以也許我該做個磁共振檢查。就這樣，你浪費了 2 兆美元在不必要的檢查上如果你讓人對自己的判斷有自我意識，研究顯示你會使他們做出更壞的判斷如果你叫鋼琴家在演奏時思考如何敲打琴鍵她就無法演奏該作品自我意識是成就的敵人愛迪生說的好。他說：“該死，在這裡我們才沒有任何規則咧我們是真的試著要完成一些事眾笑 那麼，你該如何恢復信任呢？調整法律顯然是不夠的和對侵權的改革，是一個好主意可以降低您的成本，如果你是一個商人但它就像把一個小繃帶貼在這個不信任的巨大傷口上有廣泛性侵權改革的國家仍然遭受這種種的病症因此，需要的不只是對要求限制而是為自由創造一個實底原來自由實際上是有一個正式的結構的它是這樣的：法律設定界限而在這些界限的一邊上是所有的事你不能做或必須做的事你不能竊取。你要付稅但是這同一些界限也應該界定並保護給自由的實底 以賽亞伯林這樣說，“法律規定邊界，不是人為劃定的在其中人應 inviable。”我們已經忘記了這個第二部分這些堤防破裂了。人們整天艱難地在法律裡前進那麼，現在需要的是重建這些界限尤其要在訴訟案件上將他們重建因為人們所可以控告的將會設立起所有其它人自由的界限如果有人帶來了一個訴訟案，一個孩子從蹺蹺板掉下來不論在訴訟中發生什麼事情所有的蹺蹺板都將消失因為沒有人願意承擔被告的風險而這正是發生的事情。沒有蹺蹺板，叢林健身房，旋轉木馬，登山繩，沒有能讓超過四歲的孩子感興趣的因為沒有風險（沒有冒險就不會好玩） 那麼，我們該如何重建呢？生活太複雜了...（鼓掌）生活對軟體程式來說太複雜了所有這些選擇涉及價值判斷和社會規範，而不是客觀事實因此，這裡是第四個主張這是我們必須朝向它改變的哲學，有兩個必須的要素我們必須簡化法律我們必須從所有這些複雜性遷移至一般性的原則和目標憲法只有16頁200年來都相當好用 法律必須簡單到足以使人們能夠將它內化到他們每一天的選擇中如果他們不能它內化 他們就不會相信它。該如何將其簡化呢？因為生活是複雜的這裡將是最困難也最大的改變我們必須恢復權柄給法官和官員來解釋和使用法律（鼓掌）我們必須使法律重新人性化使法律簡單，所以讓你感到自由負責的人必須可以自由地使用他們的判斷來解釋和應用法律以符合合理的社會規範的方式當你走出來 在白天走在人行道上你要能知道 如果發生糾紛在社會中有人認為他們的工作就是要肯定的保護你如果你的行為是合理的該人士目前並不存在 這是最困難的障礙這其實並不難 百分之九十八的情況下這是輕而易舉的也許你在小額錢債法庭有一個索賠因為你失去一條 100 美元的褲子而不是在有普遍管轄權的法院索賠數百萬美元案例可以無偏見的撤銷或重新提交小額錢債法庭需要5分鐘 就這樣這並不難 但是 這是一個困難的障礙 因為我們進入了這個法律的流沙因為我們在 60年代 被喚醒被所有這些非常糟糕的價值觀 種族主義性別歧視 污染 喚醒他們是壞的價值觀。我們想建立一個法律制度是沒有人能再有壞的價值的制度問題是，我們創造了一個制度消除我們可以擁有好價值觀的權利這並不意味著有權柄的人們可以為所欲為他們仍然受到法律目標和原則的限制老師要對校長負責法官要向上訴法院負責總統要向選民交代只是問責制把標準線昇華到以對每個人的影響來為決定做判斷而不只是不滿的人您不能以最低的共同標準來管理社會（鼓掌） 所以，需要的是一種哲學上的基本轉變我們可以停止做許多的事，如果我們改變我們的理念我們的教導權柄是自由的敵人這不是真的。權柄 其實對自由來說是必需的法律是由人組成的機構責任是由人組成的機構如果教師沒有權柄管理教室維持秩序 那每個人的學習都會受到影響如果法官沒有權柄丟掉不合理的要求我們一整天都得步步為營如果環保機構不能決定這條電纜對環境是良好的那麼就沒有辦法把電力從風場帶到城市一個自由的社會需要紅燈和綠燈否則很快陷入僵局這就是在美國所發生的 看看你的四周 那麼，世界現在需要的是恢復能做出一般性公眾共同選擇的權柄這是唯一能恢復我們自由的方法它是唯一的途徑 要來釋放能量和熱情讓我們能夠滿足我們這個時代的挑戰 謝謝您（鼓掌）
