Talk	en	zh-tw
philippe_petit_the_journey_across_the_high_wire	"This sound, this smell, this sight all remind me of the campfires of my childhood, when anyone could become a storyteller in front of the dancing flames. There was this wondrous ending when people and fire fell asleep almost in unison. It was dreaming time. Now my story has a lot to do with dreaming, although I'm known to make my dreams come true. Last year, I created a one-man show. For an hour and a half I shared with the audience a lifetime of creativity, how I pursue perfection, how I cheat the impossible. And then TED challenged me: ""Philippe, can you shrink this lifetime to 18 minutes?"" (Laughter) Eighteen minutes, clearly impossible. But here I am. One solution was to rehearse a machine gun delivery in which every syllable, every second will have its importance and hope to God the audience will be able to follow me. No, no, no. No, the best way for me to start is to pay my respects to the gods of creativity. So please join me for a minute of silence. Okay, I cheated, it was a mere 20 seconds. But hey, we're on TED time. When I was six years old, I fell in love with magic. For Christmas I got a magic box and a very old book on card manipulation. Somehow I was more interested in pure manipulation than in all the silly little tricks in the box. So I looked in the book for the most difficult move, and it was this. Now I'm not supposed to share that with you, but I have to show you the card is hidden in the back of the hand. Now that manipulation was broken down into seven moves described over seven pages. One, two, three, four, five, six and seven. And let me show you something else. The cards were bigger than my hands. Two months later, six years old, I'm able to do one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. And I go to see a famous magician and proudly ask him, ""Well what do you think?"" Six years old. The magician looked at me and said, ""This is a disaster. You cannot do that in two seconds and have a minuscule part of the card showing. For the move to be professional, it has to be less than one second and it has to be perfect."" Two years later, one — zoop. And I'm not cheating. It's in the back. It's perfect. Passion is the motto of all my actions. As I'm studying magic, juggling is mentioned repeatedly as a great way to acquire dexterity and coordination. Now I had long admired how fast and fluidly jugglers make objects fly. So that's it. I'm 14; I'm becoming a juggler. I befriend a young juggler in a juggling troupe, and he agrees to sell me three clubs. But in America you have to explain. What are clubs? Nothing to do with golf. They are those beautiful oblong objects, but quite difficult to make. They have to be precisely lathed. Oh, when I was buying the clubs, somehow the young juggler was hiding from the others. Well I didn't think much of it at the time. Anyway, here I was progressing with my new clubs. But I could not understand. I was pretty fast, but I was not fluid at all. The clubs were escaping me at each throw. And I was trying constantly to bring them back to me. Until one day I practiced in front of Francis Brunn, the world's greatest juggler. And he was frowning. And he finally asked, ""Can I see those?"" So I proudly showed him my clubs. He said, ""Philippe, you have been had. These are rejects. They are completely out of alignment. They are impossible to juggle."" Tenacity is how I kept at it against all odds. So I went to the circus to see more magicians, more jugglers, and I saw — oh no, no, no, I didn't see. It was more interesting; I heard. I heard about those amazing men and women who walk on thin air — the high-wire walkers. Now I have been playing with ropes and climbing all my childhood, so that's it. I'm 16; I'm becoming a wire walker. I found two trees — but not any kind of trees, trees with character — and then a very long rope. And I put the rope around and around and around and around and around till I had no more rope. Now I have all of those ropes parallel like this. I get a pair of pliers and some coat hangers, and I gather them together in some kind of ropey path. So I just created the widest tightrope in the world. What did I need? I needed the widest shoes in the world. So I found some enormous, ridiculous, giant ski boots and then wobbly, wobbly I get on the ropes. Well within a few days I'm able to do one crossing. So I cut one rope off. And the next day one rope off. And a few days later, I was practicing on a single tightrope. Now you can imagine at that time I had to switch the ridiculous boots for some slippers. So that is how — in case there are people here in the audience who would like to try — this is how not to learn wire walking. (Laughter) Intuition is a tool essential in my life. In the meantime, I am being thrown out of five different schools because instead of listening to the teachers, I am my own teacher, progressing in my new art and becoming a street juggler. On the high wire, within months, I'm able to master all the tricks they do in the circus, except I am not satisfied. I was starting to invent my own moves and bring them to perfection. But nobody wanted to hire me. So I started putting a wire up in secret and performing without permission. Notre Dame, the Sydney Harbor Bridge, the World Trade Center. And I developed a certitude, a faith that convinced me that I will get safely to the other side. If not, I will never do that first step. Well nonetheless, on the top of the World Trade Center my first step was terrifying. All of a sudden the density of the air is no longer the same. Manhattan no longer spreads its infinity. The murmur of the city dissolves into a squall whose chilling power I no longer feel. I lift the balancing pole. I approach the edge. I step over the beam. I put my left foot on the cable, the weight of my body raised on my right leg anchored to the flank of the building. Shall I ever so slightly shift my weight to the left? My right leg will be unburdened, my right foot will freely meet the wire. On one side, a mass of a mountain, a life I know. On the other, the universe of the clouds, so full of unknown we think it's empty. At my feet, the path to the north tower — 60 yards of wire rope. It's a straight line, which sags, which sways, which vibrates, which rolls on itself, which is ice, which is three tons tight, ready to explode, ready to swallow me. An inner howl assails me, the wild longing to flee. But it is too late. The wire is ready. Decisively my other foot sets itself onto the cable. Faith is what replaces doubt in my dictionary. So after the walk people ask me, ""How can you top that?"" Well I didn't have that problem. I was not interested in collecting the gigantic, in breaking records. In fact, I put my World Trade Center crossing at the same artistic level as some of my smaller walks — or some completely different type of performance. Let's see, such as my street juggling, for example. So each time I draw my circle of chalk on the pavement and enter as the improvising comic silent character I created 45 years ago, I am as happy as when I am in the clouds. But this here, this is not the street. So I cannot street juggle here, you understand. So you don't want me to street juggle here, right? You know that, right? You don't want me to juggle, right? (Applause) (Music) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Each time I street juggle I use improvisation. Now improvisation is empowering because it welcomes the unknown. And since what's impossible is always unknown, it allows me to believe I can cheat the impossible. Now I have done the impossible not once, but many times. So what should I share? Oh, I know. Israel. Some years ago I was invited to open the Israel Festival by a high-wire walk. And I chose to put my wire between the Arab quarters and the Jewish quarter of Jerusalem over the Ben Hinnom Valley. And I thought it would be incredible if in the middle of the wire I stopped and, like a magician, I produce a dove and send her in the sky as a living symbol of peace. Well now I must say, it was a little bit hard to find a dove in Israel, but I got one. And in my hotel room, each time I practiced making it appear and throwing her in the air, she would graze the wall and end up on the bed. So I said, now it's okay. The room is too small. I mean, a bird needs space to fly. It will go perfectly on the day of the walk. Now comes the day of the walk. Eighty thousand people spread over the entire valley. The mayor of Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek, comes to wish me the best. But he seemed nervous. There was tension in my wire, but I also could feel tension on the ground. Because all those people were made up of people who, for the most part, considered each other enemies. So I start the walk. Everything is fine. I stop in the middle. I make the dove appear. People applaud in delight. And then in the most magnificent gesture, I send the bird of peace into the azure. But the bird, instead of flying away, goes flop, flop, flop and lands on my head. (Laughter) And people scream. So I grab the dove, and for the second time I send her in the air. But the dove, who obviously didn't go to flying school, goes flop, flop, flop and ends up at the end of my balancing pole. (Laughter) You laugh, you laugh. But hey. I sit down immediately. It's a reflex of wire walkers. Now in the meantime, the audience, they go crazy. They must think this guy with this dove, he must have spent years working with him. What a genius, what a professional. (Laughter) So I take a bow. I salute with my hand. And at the end I bang my hand against the pole to dislodge the bird. Now the dove, who, now you know, obviously cannot fly, does for the third time a little flop, flop, flop and ends up on the wire behind me. And the entire valley goes crazy. Now but hold on, I'm not finished. So now I'm like 50 yards from my arrival and I'm exhausted, so my steps are slow. And something happened. Somebody somewhere, a group of people, starts clapping in rhythm with my steps. And within seconds the entire valley is applauding in unison with each of my steps. But not an applause of delight like before, an applause encouragement. For a moment, the entire crowd had forgotten their differences. They had become one, pushing me to triumph. I want you just for a second to experience this amazing human symphony. So let's say I am here and the chair is my arrival. So I walk, you clap, everybody in unison. (Clapping) (Applause) So after the walk, Teddy and I become friends. And he tells me, he has on his desk a picture of me in the middle of the wire with a dove on my head. He didn't know the true story. And whenever he's daunted by an impossible situation to solve in this hard-to-manage city, instead of giving up, he looks at the picture and he says, ""If Philippe can do that, I can do this,"" and he goes back to work. Inspiration. By inspiring ourselves we inspire others. I will never forget this music, and I hope now neither will you. Please take this music with you home, and start gluing feathers to your arms and take off and fly, and look at the world from a different perspective. And when you see mountains, remember mountains can be moved. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	這聲音這氣味這景象都讓我回想起童年時分的篝火任何人都能在跳躍的火焰前成為講故事的人結尾更是神奇人們和火焰一起和諧地入睡這是夢的時刻 我的故事多數是關於夢的雖然我靠實現夢想成名去年，我創造了一場個人秀在一個半小時的時間裡與觀眾分享我創造性的一生如何追逐完美，如何欺騙不可能 TED對我提出挑戰：“菲力浦，可以把這一生濃縮成18分鐘嗎？”(笑聲)18分鐘——明顯不可能但我還是來了一個方法是說得像機關槍一樣快每個母音每秒鐘都有它的意義然後向上帝祈禱觀眾能跟上我的速度#￥&*@%……不，不，不不，於我最好的開場方式是像創造力的神明致敬請跟我一起默默享受接下來的一分鐘 好吧，我耍賴了，這只有20秒不過我們是在TED次元嘛 我六歲時愛上了魔術我拿到的聖誕禮物是一本魔術書一本非常古老的介紹紙牌魔術的書我對純粹玩牌技巧的興趣遠遠超過黑箱子裡的花哨戲法我在書裡找到了其中最難的一項技法像這樣 我不該把這秘訣告訴你們不過你們看，紙牌被藏在手的背面這個技法(在書中)被分解為七個步驟用七頁篇幅詳細描述一、二、三、四、五、六、七．我還要告訴你們一點紙牌比我的手大 兩個月後，才六歲我就能做完一、二、三、四、五、六、七於是我去見一位有名的魔術師驕傲地問他：“你覺得怎樣？”才六歲啊魔術師看著我說：“一場災難你不能花上兩秒鐘(才完成動作)還有牌角露出來了這個動作的專業標準是用時不到一秒鐘必須完美。”兩年後，數到一我可沒耍花招。牌在背面，非常完美 熱情是我所有作為的座右銘在學習魔術的過程中拋接戲法被反復提及極適合訓練靈活性和協調性我一直很羡慕拋接雜耍演員的快速和流暢讓物品飛起來就它了！我十四歲。我要成為一個拋接雜耍演員 我認識一個拋接雜耍劇團的年輕演員他同意賣給我三根拋接棒在美國你需要解釋一下什麼是拋接棒跟高爾夫可沒關係是美麗的橢圓形物體很難製作必須準確地分佈重量我買它們的時候那個年輕雜耍演員故意躲著別人我當時不以為意 不管怎樣，我用那套新拋接棒開始練習但弄不明白我能做得很快，但無法變得流暢棒子隨著每次拋出不斷脫出我的掌控我不得不一直把它們找回來直到有一天我在Francis Brunn面前演練世界上最棒的拋接雜耍者他皺起眉頭最後他問：“可以給我看看嗎？”我驕傲地亮給他看我的棒子他說：“菲力浦，你被騙了。這些是次品，重心完全歪了用它們可玩不轉拋接戲法。”韌性是我克服困難堅持下來的法寶 我參加了馬戲團，去看更多的魔術師，更多的拋接雜耍者我看到——哦不，不是看到比看到更有趣：是聽說我聽說了那些神奇的演員在空中漫步高空走索者我整個童年階段都在玩繩子和攀爬就它了！我十六歲。我要成為走鋼索者。 我找到兩棵樹不是普通的樹而是兩棵很有個性的樹一根很長的繩子將繩子繞一圈又一圈一圈又一圈，直到繞完為止。有了這樣一段段平行的繩子我又用兩隻老虎鉗和一些衣架把繩子集中在一起成為一條繩子軌道這樣我做出了世界上最寬的鋼索我還需要什麼？我需要世界上最寬的鞋子我找到一雙大到離譜、十分搞笑的滑雪靴蹣跚著，我走上了繩索 幾天後我就能走上一回了於是我剪斷一根繩子第二天再剪斷一根又過了幾天，我就只剩下一根繩索了可想而知當時我就能把搞笑的滑雪靴換成輕便的舞鞋這就是——以防在場觀眾有人想要嘗試這就是學習走鋼索最不可取的方法 (笑聲) 直覺，是我人生中最本質的手段那段時間，我先後被五所不同的學校開除因為我從不聽從老師我以自己為師，鑽研我的新藝術成為一個街頭雜耍藝人 在高空鋼索上，不過幾個月我就精通了馬戲團演員的所有絕技但我並不滿足。 我開始發明自己的新動作，並練習到盡善盡美沒有人願意雇用我於是我開始偷偷地假設鋼索，在未經許可的場所演出巴黎聖母院悉尼海港大橋世貿中心我開始形成一種信念說服我定能安全抵達對面否則，我絕不會邁出第一步 儘管如此在世貿中心的屋頂上我的第一步極為駭人忽然間空氣密度變了曼哈頓不再顯得廣闊無邊都市的細語化作嚎叫我不再感到那股冰冷的力量我舉起平衡杆，走向大樓邊緣我跨過桁梁左腳踏上鋼索我的重心從右腳上移動到大樓的側邊我要不要繼續把體重移到左腳上我的右腿可以放輕鬆我的右腳就能自由地踏上鋼索一邊是崇山，是我熟知的生活另一邊是雲海充滿未知，以至我們以為虛空我腳下是延伸到北塔的路——60碼長的鋼索那是一條直線，下垂著搖擺著，顫動著自身扭轉那是冰那是三噸重的緊繃，隨時可能爆發隨時可能將我吞噬體內有一個聲音吼叫著攻擊著我無法抑制地渴望逃離然而太遲了鋼索嚴陣以待我決然地邁出另一隻腳 信念，取代了猶豫在我的詞典裡 完成這次演出後人們問我，“你怎麼超越你自己？”這於我不是問題我對收集壯舉或打破記錄都沒有興趣事實上，我把世貿中心的那次演出與其他小型的演出放在同一個藝術水準上有些甚至是完全不同形式的演出比如說，相似於我的街頭雜耍 每一次當我在人行道上用粉筆畫出一個大圓圈然後像即興默劇演員那樣進入圓圈的範圍這是我45年前想出的噱頭這與在雲端上同樣高興 但是此時此地並不是街頭請理解我不能做街頭雜耍你們都不希望我做街頭雜耍，對不對？你們懂的，對不對？你們不會讓我雜耍的，對不對？ (鼓掌聲) (音樂) (鼓掌聲) 謝謝。謝謝 每一次我做街頭雜耍都運用到即興即興的力量在於它歡迎未知因為不可能總是未知的它讓我相信我可以去欺騙不可能 至今我完成不可能的任務已不止一次而是許多次我揀哪次來說？哦對了，是以色列那次。 幾年前我被邀請做以色列節的開場演出是一次高空走索表演我選擇架設鋼索的地方在耶路撒冷阿拉伯區和猶太區之間在欣嫩子谷上方我設計了一個驚人的場面在鋼索中間我停下來，像魔術師那樣變出一隻鴿子，將它送上天空象徵和平 現在我要說在以色列找只鴿子真不容易，不過我找到了每次我練習變出鴿子扔向半空它都會擦上牆，最後掉在床上我覺得無所謂。房間太小了嘛我的意思是，鳥需要空間去飛我的意思是，鳥需要空間去飛正式演出那天絕對沒有問題 到了正式演出那天整個山谷裡聚集了8萬民眾當時的耶路撒冷市長泰迪•科勒克走過來祝我好運但他看上去很緊張我的鋼索緊緊抻著地面上也彌漫著緊張的氣氛因為在場的群眾一直以來都當對方是敵人 我開始走了，一切順利我停在中間我變出了鴿子人們驚喜地鼓掌我以極佳的姿勢將這只和平之鳥送上蔚藍的天空但這只鳥並沒有飛走而是撲騰撲騰地落到了我的頭上(笑聲)有人尖叫起來我抓起這只鴿子試圖第二次將它送上天空這只笨鳥顯然沒有上過飛行學校又撲騰撲騰地，結果停在了平衡杆的一端！ (笑聲) 真好笑，真好笑——嘿！我立馬坐下。這是走索者的反射動作就在這時，觀眾沸騰了他們可能認為這傢夥也許已跟這只鴿子合作多年多天才！多專業！ (笑聲) 我彎腰鞠躬，伸手行禮之後在杆子上狠狠地來了一掌趕走鴿子那只鴿子，你們現在都知道了它明顯不會飛撲騰了第三回最後落在我身後的鋼索上整個山谷都沸騰了 等等，我還沒走完我離終點還有50碼我現出疲態，步履緩慢這時發生了一件事不知從哪裡，有人，是一群人開始和著我的步伐拍手片刻之後整個山谷整齊地按著我的步子鼓掌這回並不是像先前那樣是由於驚喜而是充滿鼓勵在那一刻，整個人群忘記了他們的分歧他們齊心協力，助我成功 我希望你們也能短暫地體會一下這神奇的人體交響打比方說我在這裡，椅子就是我的終點我來走，你們鼓掌，大家拍整齊 (拍手聲) (鼓掌聲) 這次表演後，泰迪和我成為朋友他告訴我他在辦公桌上放了一張我的照片拍的是我在鋼索中間，頭上頂了只鴿子他還不知道真實情況每當他快被無法解決的困境嚇退在這個棘手的城市不是放棄，而是看著我的照片，對他自己說“如果菲力浦能做到，我也能做到。”然後回頭去工作 靈感通過激發自己我們能啟迪他人我永遠無法忘記這音樂我希望你們也不會忘記請把這音樂帶回家開始在自己的手臂黏上羽毛起飛、翱翔從另一個視角觀察這個世界當你遇見高山記住：山可移。 (鼓掌聲) 謝謝。謝謝。謝謝各位 (鼓掌聲)
