Talk	en	zh-tw
pistol	"I've been playing TED for nearly a decade, and I've very rarely played any new songs of my own. And that was largely because there weren't any. (Laughter) So I've been busy with a couple of projects, and one of them was this: The Nutmeg. A 1930s ship's lifeboat, which I've been restoring in the garden of my beach house in England. And, so now, when the polar ice caps melt, my recording studio will rise up like an ark, and I'll float off into the drowned world like a character from a J.G. Ballard novel. During the day, the Nutmeg collects energy from solar panels on the roof of the wheelhouse, and from a 450 watt turbine up the mast. So that when it gets dark, I've got plenty of power. And I can light up the Nutmeg like a beacon. And so I go in there until the early hours of the morning, and I work on new songs. I'd like to play to you guys, if you're willing to be the first audience to hear it. (Applause) It's about Billie Holiday. And it appears that, some night in 1947 she left her physical space and was missing all night, until she reappeared in the morning. But I know where she was. She was with me on my lifeboat. And she was hot. (Music) ♫ Billie crept softly ♫ ♫ into my waking arms ♫ ♫ warm like a sip of sour mash ♫ ♫ Strange fruit for ♫ ♫ a sweet hunk of trash ♫ ♫ Panic at the stage door ♫ ♫ of Carnegie Hall ♫ ♫ ""Famous Jazz Singer Gone AWOL"" ♫ ♫ Must have left the building ♫ ♫ body and soul ♫ ♫ On a creaky ♫ ♫ piano stool tonight ♫ ♫ as the moon is my ♫ ♫ only witness ♫ ♫ She was breathing ♫ ♫ in my ear ♫ ♫ ""This time it's love"" ♫ ♫ But love is a loaded pistol ♫ ♫ By daybreak she's gone ♫ ♫ Over the frozen river, home ♫ ♫ Me and Johnny Walker ♫ ♫ See in the new age ♫ ♫ alone ♫ ♫ Stay with me ♫ ♫ again tonight ♫ ♫ Billie, time, ♫ ♫ time is a wily trickster ♫ ♫ Still an echo ♫ ♫ in my heart says, ♫ ♫ ""This time it's love"" ♫ (Applause)"	我為TED表演快十年了，但最近比較少演出我自己創作的新曲子。主要還是因為最近沒什麼新的作品。 （笑聲） 我呢，最近在忙著進行一些計畫，其中一個計畫，叫肉豆蔻號（Nutmeg），這是一艘1930年代的救生船，放在我英國海邊小屋的花園裏，我正著手整修。現在呢，假如極地冰帽融化了，我的錄音工作室就會浮起來，像諾亞方舟一樣，而我就在被水淹沒的世界上載浮載沉，像巴拉德（J. G. Ballard）小説中的角色一樣。白天的時候，肉豆蔻號會收集能源，她的舵手室上方有太陽能面板，桅杆上也有450瓦的風電渦輪。所以，天黑的時候，我會有充足的能源。我可以讓肉豆蔻號如火炬般發出光亮。然後我會待在肉豆蔻號裏，直到凌晨時分。我就在裏頭作我的音樂。我想獻給各位，如果你們願意當我的第一號聽眾。 （掌聲） 這首曲子是關於比莉‧哈樂代。據說，在1947年的某個夜晚，她從這世上，消失了一整晚，直到隔天早上才又出現。不過我知道她在哪兒。她和我在一起，在我的船上，而且，她熱情如火。 （音樂） 比莉輕輕地進入 我清醒的懷中 溫熱如啜飲酸醪酒漿 奇妙的果實滋味（Strange Fruit為哈樂代演唱的名曲） 甜膩的無用之物 在卡內基演奏廳上台前 張惶失措 爵士名伶臨陣脫逃 非離開這裏不可 我的人和我的心 今晚 在這搖搖欲墜的鋼琴椅上 只有月亮 為我見證 她的氣息 在我耳邊 這，是愛情 但愛情像上了膛的手槍 破曉前她已離去 穿過冰封的河流，她回家了 只剩我和Johnny Walker(酒名) 在新世紀裏的 孤獨身影 留下來陪我 今晚，再一次 比莉， 時間愛作弄人 但我心中 仍然有聲音回盪，說 這，就是愛情 （掌聲）
