Talk	en	zh-tw
pope_francis_why_the_only_future_worth_building_includes_everyone	"[His Holiness Pope Francis Filmed in Vatican City First shown at TED2017] Good evening – or, good morning, I am not sure what time it is there. Regardless of the hour, I am thrilled to be participating in your conference. I very much like its title – ""The Future You"" – because, while looking at tomorrow, it invites us to open a dialogue today, to look at the future through a ""you."" ""The Future You:"" the future is made of yous, it is made of encounters, because life flows through our relations with others. Quite a few years of life have strengthened my conviction that each and everyone's existence is deeply tied to that of others: life is not time merely passing by, life is about interactions. As I meet, or lend an ear to those who are sick, to the migrants who face terrible hardships in search of a brighter future, to prison inmates who carry a hell of pain inside their hearts, and to those, many of them young, who cannot find a job, I often find myself wondering: ""Why them and not me?"" I, myself, was born in a family of migrants; my father, my grandparents, like many other Italians, left for Argentina and met the fate of those who are left with nothing. I could have very well ended up among today's ""discarded"" people. And that's why I always ask myself, deep in my heart: ""Why them and not me?"" First and foremost, I would love it if this meeting could help to remind us that we all need each other, none of us is an island, an autonomous and independent ""I,"" separated from the other, and we can only build the future by standing together, including everyone. We don’t think about it often, but everything is connected, and we need to restore our connections to a healthy state. Even the harsh judgment I hold in my heart against my brother or my sister, the open wound that was never cured, the offense that was never forgiven, the rancor that is only going to hurt me, are all instances of a fight that I carry within me, a flare deep in my heart that needs to be extinguished before it goes up in flames, leaving only ashes behind. Many of us, nowadays, seem to believe that a happy future is something impossible to achieve. While such concerns must be taken very seriously, they are not invincible. They can be overcome when we don't lock our door to the outside world. Happiness can only be discovered as a gift of harmony between the whole and each single component. Even science – and you know it better than I do – points to an understanding of reality as a place where every element connects and interacts with everything else. And this brings me to my second message. How wonderful would it be if the growth of scientific and technological innovation would come along with more equality and social inclusion. How wonderful would it be, while we discover faraway planets, to rediscover the needs of the brothers and sisters orbiting around us. How wonderful would it be if solidarity, this beautiful and, at times, inconvenient word, were not simply reduced to social work, and became, instead, the default attitude in political, economic and scientific choices, as well as in the relationships among individuals, peoples and countries. Only by educating people to a true solidarity will we be able to overcome the ""culture of waste,"" which doesn't concern only food and goods but, first and foremost, the people who are cast aside by our techno-economic systems which, without even realizing it, are now putting products at their core, instead of people. Solidarity is a term that many wish to erase from the dictionary. Solidarity, however, is not an automatic mechanism. It cannot be programmed or controlled. It is a free response born from the heart of each and everyone. Yes, a free response! When one realizes that life, even in the middle of so many contradictions, is a gift, that love is the source and the meaning of life, how can they withhold their urge to do good to another fellow being? In order to do good, we need memory, we need courage and we need creativity. And I know that TED gathers many creative minds. Yes, love does require a creative, concrete and ingenious attitude. Good intentions and conventional formulas, so often used to appease our conscience, are not enough. Let us help each other, all together, to remember that the other is not a statistic or a number. The other has a face. The ""you"" is always a real presence, a person to take care of. There is a parable Jesus told to help us understand the difference between those who'd rather not be bothered and those who take care of the other. I am sure you have heard it before. It is the Parable of the Good Samaritan. When Jesus was asked: ""Who is my neighbor?"" - namely, ""Who should I take care of?"" - he told this story, the story of a man who had been assaulted, robbed, beaten and abandoned along a dirt road. Upon seeing him, a priest and a Levite, two very influential people of the time, walked past him without stopping to help. After a while, a Samaritan, a very much despised ethnicity at the time, walked by. Seeing the injured man lying on the ground, he did not ignore him as if he weren't even there. Instead, he felt compassion for this man, which compelled him to act in a very concrete manner. He poured oil and wine on the wounds of the helpless man, brought him to a hostel and paid out of his pocket for him to be assisted. The story of the Good Samaritan is the story of today’s humanity. People's paths are riddled with suffering, as everything is centered around money, and things, instead of people. And often there is this habit, by people who call themselves ""respectable,"" of not taking care of the others, thus leaving behind thousands of human beings, or entire populations, on the side of the road. Fortunately, there are also those who are creating a new world by taking care of the other, even out of their own pockets. Mother Teresa actually said: ""One cannot love, unless it is at their own expense."" We have so much to do, and we must do it together. But how can we do that with all the evil we breathe every day? Thank God, no system can nullify our desire to open up to the good, to compassion and to our capacity to react against evil, all of which stem from deep within our hearts. Now you might tell me, ""Sure, these are beautiful words, but I am not the Good Samaritan, nor Mother Teresa of Calcutta."" On the contrary: we are precious, each and every one of us. Each and every one of us is irreplaceable in the eyes of God. Through the darkness of today's conflicts, each and every one of us can become a bright candle, a reminder that light will overcome darkness, and never the other way around. To Christians, the future does have a name, and its name is Hope. Feeling hopeful does not mean to be optimistically naïve and ignore the tragedy humanity is facing. Hope is the virtue of a heart that doesn't lock itself into darkness, that doesn't dwell on the past, does not simply get by in the present, but is able to see a tomorrow. Hope is the door that opens onto the future. Hope is a humble, hidden seed of life that, with time, will develop into a large tree. It is like some invisible yeast that allows the whole dough to grow, that brings flavor to all aspects of life. And it can do so much, because a tiny flicker of light that feeds on hope is enough to shatter the shield of darkness. A single individual is enough for hope to exist, and that individual can be you. And then there will be another ""you,"" and another ""you,"" and it turns into an ""us."" And so, does hope begin when we have an ""us?"" No. Hope began with one ""you."" When there is an ""us,"" there begins a revolution. The third message I would like to share today is, indeed, about revolution: the revolution of tenderness. And what is tenderness? It is the love that comes close and becomes real. It is a movement that starts from our heart and reaches the eyes, the ears and the hands. Tenderness means to use our eyes to see the other, our ears to hear the other, to listen to the children, the poor, those who are afraid of the future. To listen also to the silent cry of our common home, of our sick and polluted earth. Tenderness means to use our hands and our heart to comfort the other, to take care of those in need. Tenderness is the language of the young children, of those who need the other. A child’s love for mom and dad grows through their touch, their gaze, their voice, their tenderness. I like when I hear parents talk to their babies, adapting to the little child, sharing the same level of communication. This is tenderness: being on the same level as the other. God himself descended into Jesus to be on our level. This is the same path the Good Samaritan took. This is the path that Jesus himself took. He lowered himself, he lived his entire human existence practicing the real, concrete language of love. Yes, tenderness is the path of choice for the strongest, most courageous men and women. Tenderness is not weakness; it is fortitude. It is the path of solidarity, the path of humility. Please, allow me to say it loud and clear: the more powerful you are, the more your actions will have an impact on people, the more responsible you are to act humbly. If you don’t, your power will ruin you, and you will ruin the other. There is a saying in Argentina: ""Power is like drinking gin on an empty stomach."" You feel dizzy, you get drunk, you lose your balance, and you will end up hurting yourself and those around you, if you don’t connect your power with humility and tenderness. Through humility and concrete love, on the other hand, power – the highest, the strongest one – becomes a service, a force for good. The future of humankind isn't exclusively in the hands of politicians, of great leaders, of big companies. Yes, they do hold an enormous responsibility. But the future is, most of all, in the hands of those people who recognize the other as a ""you"" and themselves as part of an ""us."" We all need each other. And so, please, think of me as well with tenderness, so that I can fulfill the task I have been given for the good of the other, of each and every one, of all of you, of all of us. Thank you."	[教皇方濟各於梵蒂岡拍攝][TED2017首次播放] 晚安，或者說早安，我不確定那裡現在幾點。不管幾點，我都很高興能夠參與你們的會議。我很喜歡這次的主題 「未來的你」，因為在展望未來同時，我們今天就得展開對話，透過「你」看向未來。「未來的你」：未來都是無數個「你」組成，由彼此邂逅組成，因為人生就在我們與他人的互動中流逝。我活了這麼多年，越來越相信每一個人的存在都與其他人息息相關：生命不僅是流逝而過的時間，生命充滿了互動的過程。 當我們相遇，或是傾聽生病的人、面對重重困難，想找尋光明未來的移民、心裡背負深刻痛苦的犯人、還有許多找不到工作的人，其中很多都是年輕人，這時候我經常想：「為什麼是他們，而不是我？」我自己也是出身於移民家庭；我的父親、我的祖父母跟許多義大利人一樣飄洋過海去到阿根廷跟其他一無所有的人面臨相同的命運。我很可能就變成今天其中一個被「遺棄」的人。這就是為什麼我總是捫心自問：「為什麼是他們，而不是我？」 首先，我非常希望這場會議能夠提醒我們，為什麼我們都需要彼此。沒有人是座孤島，沒有人是個與他人分割，獨立存在的個體，唯有每個人攜手，才能共同建立未來。我們不常想到每件事都是緊密相關的，我們必須將彼此的連結回歸到健康的狀態。就算是我心裡對兄弟姊妹有嚴厲的評判，也都會創下無法癒合的傷口，不可原諒的冒犯，造成最終會傷害到我的憎恨，這些都是我背負的掙扎，是我心底需要被熄滅的火焰，才不會成為熊熊大火，最終只剩下灰燼。 今日，有許多人似乎認為快樂的未來遙不可及。我們需要正視他們的那種擔心，但這並非無法克服。只要我們不將外面的世界深鎖於外，就可以解決。快樂只能在整體與每一個體間的平衡找到。你們比我更懂科學這門學問，就連科學都指向一種理解，亦即：現實是每一個元素與萬物連結與互動的地方。 這帶我來到第二個訊息。你們想想看，要是科學與技術創新的成長能夠帶來更多平等與社會包涵會有多好。要是我們發掘遠方星球的同時，能夠重新發掘我們周圍兄弟姊妹的需求，該有多好。要是「團結一致」，這個美麗卻時而造成不變的詞彙，不單單侷限在社會工作，而是能成為政治、經濟和科學選擇的預設態度，以及個體間、人民與國家間的關係，會有多好。唯有教育人們什麼是真正的團結一致，我們才能克服「浪費的文化」，這不只是食物與物質的浪費，更重要的是，那些被我們技術經濟體系棄之一旁的人，在我們沒有意識到的時候，這個體系現在把物品當成核心，而非人。 很多人希望「團結」這個詞能夠從字典裡消失。不過團結並非自動的機制。團結是不能用程式撰寫或控制出來的。這是個出自每一個人內心的自由回應。對，自由回應！當一個人意識到即使面臨諸多衝突，生命依然是份禮物。愛是生命的來源與意義，那他們又怎麼能控制其他人助人的衝動呢？ 要做好事，我們需要回憶、勇氣，還需要創意。我知道 TED 集結了許多充滿創意的人。對，愛的確需要創意、具體，和巧妙的態度。良好意圖與普遍做法，經常被用來撫慰我們的良心，但這還不夠。讓我們互助，大家一起，要記住，「他人」並不只是個數據或數字。他人也是有頭有臉的。「你」一直都是個真實的存在，是個需要幫忙的人。 耶穌說過一個預言，能幫助我們了解彼此的差異，也就是那些對別人視若無睹的人以及願意助人的人之間的差別。我相信你們都有聽過「好撒馬利亞人」的寓言故事。當耶穌問：「我的鄰居是誰？」他其實是問：「我能夠幫助誰？」故事是這樣的，有個男子被攻擊、搶劫、毆打而且被丟在骯髒的路旁。當時極富權威的一名祭司和一個利未人看到他，卻視若無睹，一點也沒有要幫忙。一會兒之後，一位當時被人看不起的撒馬利亞人經過。看到路邊有個受傷的人，他並沒有假裝沒看到他，反而對這個人心生同情，驅使他做出實際行動。他用油和葡萄酒替那個無助男子處理傷口，帶他到旅館，並自掏腰包幫助他。 好撒馬利亞人的故事正是今日人性的故事。人類的道路上充滿痛苦，因為今日的一切都以金錢和物質為中心，而非以人為本。而且也常看到有些自稱為「值得尊敬的人」卻不出手幫助別人，因此把成千上萬的人，甚至整個族群，棄之路邊。幸運的是，世界上有些願意自掏腰包、樂於助人的人正在創造新世界。德蕾莎修女說過：「唯有自願犧牲奉獻，才能真正去愛人。」 我們還有很多事要做，我們必須攜手一起做。但每天身邊有這麼多邪惡的事，我們要怎麼樣才能辦到？感謝上帝，世界上沒有哪個系統，可以消滅我們向善的渴望，無法消滅我們的同情心，以及想對抗邪惡的能力，這些特質都源自我們內心深處。你可能會問我：「是啊，這些話說來好聽，但我才不是好撒馬利亞人，也不是加爾各答的德蕾莎修女。」不，正好相反：我們每一個人都很珍貴。每一個人在上帝眼中，都無可取代。面對今日衝突的黑暗，我們每個人都能成為明亮的燭光，提醒眾人：光明能夠戰勝黑暗，黑暗永遠無法消滅光明。 對基督徒來說，未來的確有個名字，就叫做「希望」。心存希望並不代表樂觀天真，並忽視人類正面臨的悲劇。希望是人心中的美德，希望並不會將自己關在黑暗中，不會停留在過去，不會虛度今日，而是要能夠展望未來。希望是通往未來的門。希望是生命謙卑、隱蔽的種子，隨著時間，就能長成一棵大樹。希望看起來就像隱形的酵母，能夠讓麵團發酵，並替人生的各方各面帶來美好滋味。希望能達成很多，因為只要希望的一小點火花，就足以將黑暗之盾燃之殆盡。每一個體都足以讓希望恆存，而那一個個體可以是你。接著就會有另一個「你」，再另一個「你」，然後就會變成一個「我們」。所以，希望是從「我們」開始的嗎？不是。希望從一個「你」開始。等到有一個「我們」，那一場革命就能夠開始。 我今天想分享的第三個訊息，的確就是跟革命有關：溫柔的革命。為什麼是溫柔？溫柔是一種緊密、真實的愛。溫柔從我們內心開始，延伸到雙眼、雙耳與雙手。溫柔代表要用雙眼正視別人，用雙耳傾聽，傾聽孩子、窮人，那些害怕未來的人的心聲。傾聽我們共同的家，我們生病、受污染的地球發出的無聲哭泣。溫柔代表要運用我們的雙手和內心，去安慰他人，去幫助需要的人。 溫柔是小孩子的語言，是需要彼此的人的語言。小孩對父母的愛，透過碰觸、眼神、聲音和溫柔的態度茁壯。我每次聽到父母親跟寶寶講話，用小孩子懂的語言與他們做同等程度的溝通。那就是溫柔：跟其他人平等而立。上帝曾派耶穌來，就是為了要跟人類有同一立足點。這跟好撒馬利亞人所選的道路一樣。這也是耶穌自己選的道路。他屈尊，他將自己在人世的時間，用來實踐真實、具體的愛的語言。 對，唯有最強壯、最有勇氣的男女才會選擇溫柔這條路。溫柔並不是弱點，而是堅毅。溫柔是團結一致的道路，是人類前進的道路。請容我大聲、清楚地呼籲：你越有權力，你的行為就能對他人產生更大的影響，你就越有謙虛行事的責任。要是你不這麼做，那你的權力會毀掉你，你也會毀掉別人。在阿根廷，有一句話是這麼說的：「權力就像空腹喝琴酒。」你會頭暈、喝醉、失去平衡，最後會傷害自己以及身邊的人，除非你可以謙虛、溫柔地運用你的權力。相反地，透過謙卑和堅實的愛，最高、最強的權力，也能成為良善、助人的力量。 人類的未來並非只掌握在政治人物、領袖、大公司的手中。沒錯，他們的確握有很大的責任。但最重要的是，未來掌握在一群人手裡。這群人能夠意識到他人是個有面容的「你」，能夠意識到自己是「我們」的一部分。我們需要彼此。所以也請把我看成一個溫柔的人，這樣我就能完成神賦予我的任務，為了他人，為了你們每一個人，為了我們每一個人。謝謝。
