Talk	en	zh-tw
pranav_mistry_the_thrilling_potential_of_sixthsense_technology	"We grew up interacting with the physical objects around us. There are an enormous number of them that we use every day. Unlike most of our computing devices, these objects are much more fun to use. When you talk about objects, one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing, and that is gestures: how we manipulate these objects, how we use these objects in everyday life. We use gestures not only to interact with these objects, but we also use them to interact with each other. A gesture of ""Namaste!"", maybe, to respect someone, or maybe, in India I don't need to teach a kid that this means ""four runs"" in cricket. It comes as a part of our everyday learning. So, I am very interested, from the beginning, how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures, and how we use these objects, can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world. Rather than using a keyboard and mouse, why can I not use my computer in the same way that I interact in the physical world? So, I started this exploration around eight years back, and it literally started with a mouse on my desk. Rather than using it for my computer, I actually opened it. Most of you might be aware that, in those days, the mouse used to come with a ball inside, and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving, and, accordingly, where the mouse is moving. So, I was interested in these two rollers, and I actually wanted more, so I borrowed another mouse from a friend — never returned to him — and I now had four rollers. Interestingly, what I did with these rollers is, basically, I took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line. It had some strings and pulleys and some springs. What I got is basically a gesture-interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars. So, here, whatever movement I do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that I made, around eight years back, in 2000. Because I was interested in integrating these two worlds, I thought of sticky notes. I thought, ""Why can I not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world?"" A message written on a sticky note to my mom, on paper, can come to an SMS, or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar — a to-do list that automatically syncs with you. But you can also search in the digital world, or maybe you can write a query, saying, ""What is Dr. Smith's address?"" and this small system actually prints it out — so it actually acts like a paper input-output system, just made out of paper. In another exploration, I thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions. So, I implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions, but they can actually draw, so that it's more intuitive to use that way. Then I thought, ""Why not make a Google Map, but in the physical world?"" Rather than typing a keyword to find something, I put my objects on top of it. If I put a boarding pass, it will show me where the flight gate is. A coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee, or where you can trash the cup. So, these were some of the earlier explorations I did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly. Among all these experiments, there was one thing in common: I was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world. I was taking some part of the objects, or any of the intuitiveness of real life, and bringing them to the digital world, because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive. But then I realized that we humans are not actually interested in computing. What we are interested in is information. We want to know about things. We want to know about dynamic things going around. So I thought, around last year — in the beginning of the last year — I started thinking, ""Why can I not take this approach in the reverse way?"" Maybe, ""How about I take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information?"" Because pixels are actually, right now, confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets. Why can I not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects, everyday life so that I don't need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels? So, in order to realize this dream, I actually thought of putting a big-size projector on my head. I think that's why this is called a head-mounted projector, isn't it? I took it very literally, and took my bike helmet, put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely. So now, what I can do — I can augment the world around me with this digital information. But later, I realized that I actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels, also. So I put a small camera over there that acts as a digital eye. Later, we moved to a much better, consumer-oriented pendant version of that, that many of you now know as the SixthSense device. But the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go. You can start using any surface, any wall around you, as an interface. The camera is actually tracking all your gestures. Whatever you're doing with your hands, it's understanding that gesture. And, actually, if you see, there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it. You can start painting on any wall. You stop by a wall, and start painting on that wall. But we are not only tracking one finger, here. We are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands, so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present. The camera is actually doing — just, getting all the images — is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside. So, technically, it's a little bit complex, but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use, in some sense. But I'm more excited that you can actually take it outside. Rather than getting your camera out of your pocket, you can just do the gesture of taking a photo, and it takes a photo for you. (Applause) Thank you. And later I can find a wall, anywhere, and start browsing those photos or maybe, ""OK, I want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend."" So, we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world. And, of course, if you don't have any surface, you can start using your palm for simple operations. Here, I'm dialing a phone number just using my hand. The camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements, but, interestingly, is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand. For example, in this case, the book cover is matched with so many thousands, or maybe millions of books online, and checking out which book it is. Once it has that information, it finds out more reviews about that, or maybe New York Times has a sound overview on that, so you can actually hear, on a physical book, a review as sound. (Video) Famous talk at Harvard University — This was Obama's visit last week to MIT. (Video) And particularly I want to thank two outstanding MIT — Pranav Mistry: So, I was seeing the live [video] of his talk, outside, on just a newspaper. Your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated. You have to check your computer in order to do that, right? (Applause) When I'm going back, I can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed, because at that particular time, I'm not feeling like opening my iPhone, and checking out a particular icon. And I think this technology will not only change the way — (Laughter) Yes. It will change the way we interact with people, also, not only the physical world. The fun part is, I'm going to the Boston metro, and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground, right? (Laughter) And I think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life. But many of you argue, actually, that all of our work is not only about physical objects. We actually do lots of accounting and paper editing and all those kinds of things; what about that? And many of you are excited about the next-generation tablet computers to come out in the market. So, rather than waiting for that, I actually made my own, just using a piece of paper. So, what I did here is remove the camera — All the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera. I removed the microphone from that, and then just pinched that — like I just made a clip out of the microphone — and clipped that to a piece of paper, any paper that you found around. So now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly I'm touching the paper. But the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving. You can of course watch movies. (Video) Good afternoon. My name is Russell, and I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54."" PM: And you can of course play games. (Car engine) Here, the camera is actually understanding how you're holding the paper and playing a car-racing game. (Applause) Many of you already must have thought, OK, you can browse. Yeah. Of course you can browse to any websites or you can do all sorts of computing on a piece of paper wherever you need it. So, more interestingly, I'm interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way. When I come back to my desk, I can just pinch that information back to my desktop so I can use my full-size computer. (Applause) And why only computers? We can just play with papers. Paper world is interesting to play with. Here, I'm taking a part of a document, and putting over here a second part from a second place, and I'm actually modifying the information that I have over there. Yeah. And I say, ""OK, this looks nice, let me print it out, that thing."" So I now have a print-out of that thing. So the workflow is more intuitive, the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back, rather than now switching between these two worlds. So, as a last thought, I think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide, the gap between these two worlds, but will also help us, in some way, to stay human, to be more connected to our physical world. And it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines. That's all. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: So, Pranav, first of all, you're a genius. This is incredible, really. What are you doing with this? Is there a company being planned? Or is this research forever, or what? Pranav Mistry: So, there are lots of companies, sponsor companies of Media Lab interested in taking this ahead in one or another way. Companies like mobile-phone operators want to take this in a different way than the NGOs in India, thinking, ""Why can we only have 'Sixth Sense'? We should have a 'Fifth Sense' for missing-sense people who cannot speak. This technology can be used for them to speak out in a different way maybe a speaker system."" CA: What are your own plans? Are you staying at MIT, or are you going to do something with this? PM: I'm trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own SixthSense device, because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own. We will provide all the open source software for them, maybe starting next month. CA: Open source? Wow. (Applause) CA: Are you going to come back to India with some of this, at some point? PM: Yeah. Yes, yes, of course. CA: What are your plans? MIT? India? How are you going to split your time going forward? PM: There is a lot of energy here. Lots of learning. All of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in India. And now, if you see, it's more about the cost-effectiveness: this system costs you $300 compared to the $20,000 surface tables, or anything like that. Or maybe even the $2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $5,000? I showed that, at a conference, to President Abdul Kalam, at that time, and then he said, ""OK, we should use this in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre for some use of that."" So I'm excited about how I can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment. (Applause) CA: Based on the people we've seen at TED, I would say you're truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now. It's an honor to have you at TED. Thank you so much. That's fantastic. (Applause)"	"我們生長在和周圍物體互動的環境裡有很多很多物品，是我們每天都要用到的和大部分電腦軟體相比，這些實體有趣多了。當我們提到物品,會立即出現和這東西有關的另一件事 —姿勢:也就是：我們怎麼使用這些物品,我們在每日生活中如何使用這些物品我們不只運用不同姿勢來使用物體也用來和別人溝通。合十的姿勢，可能是表示尊敬某人或者是 —在印度，不必教，小孩都知道這是 —板球的""4""的意思這是我們的生活常識 所以，我一開始，就很有興趣想了解， —我們對於日常用品和姿勢的認知,以及，如何把這些物品運用在我們和數位世界的溝通上為什麼沒有鍵盤和滑鼠,我就沒辦法使用電腦?為什麼和電腦溝通，不能和實體世界溝通一樣? 我的探索從八年前開始從我桌上的滑鼠開始我不是在電腦螢幕上使用它而是拆開它，你們都知道，在那個年代，滑鼠裡面有個球，還有兩個滾輪，所以，當滑鼠移動時，滾輪會告訴電腦，球滾動的方向。我對滾輪有興趣，但還需要多幾個，所以就跟朋友借他的滑鼠一直沒還他 —這樣就有了四個滾輪。我怎麼用這些滾輪呢—基本上，我把它們從滑鼠裡拿出來放在一條線上有線、滑帶和彈簧我做出了一個偵測姿勢的介面裝置。像個動作偵測裝置，成本只要兩塊美元。所以，現在，不論我在實體世界做什麼，在數位的世界裡就會反映出來只要用這個我8年前做的小東西就可以,那是2000年。 我對於整合實體和數位世界有興趣,我想到便利貼。我想, ""何不把實體便利貼的介面，和數位便利貼整合在一起?""在便利貼上寫給我媽媽的留言紙條可以用簡訊傳遞。或是寫在紙上的會議通知自動和我的數位行事曆同步 —待辦事項會自動在電腦上同步。但你也同時可以在數位環境裡搜尋,或者是,你可以寫下問題, 如,""史教授的地址?""然後這個小系統就把地址列印出來 —這就像是個紙做的輸出入系統,用紙就可以做到. 另一項探索是,我想到用一枝可以畫3D效果的筆所以就設計出這支筆幫助設計師和建築師不只以三度空間思考,也可以畫3D圖形這樣用起來就更直覺多了。 我又想, ""何不做一個實體世界的Google地圖?""不必輸入關鍵字來找東西,而是放這個東西在地圖上。如果我把登機證放在地圖上,它會顯示登機口的位置放咖啡杯，它會顯示咖啡廳的位置,或垃圾筒的位置. 這些是早期我做的實驗，我的目的是緊密銜接這兩個世界.在這些實驗之中,有一個共通點:我都會把實體的東西帶進數位環境裡.我把物品,或生活中，直覺式的東西,帶進數位世界裡,目的是讓電腦介面更人性化 但是後來我了解到人們對電腦沒有興趣人們有興趣的是資訊。我們想知道更多事情.我們想知道周圍的各種動態 所以，大約在去年，去年年初的時候—我開始想, ""我何不顛倒我的研究方向呢?""或許, ""把數位世界的數位資訊，描畫在實體世界裡??""因為這些影像，都被包在這些方方的裝置裡然後放進口袋裡.我何不把這個形體打破把資訊放進日常生活中?這樣我也不必學新的、和這些象素溝通的語言? 為了實現這個夢想,我真的想過把一個投影機放在我的頭上這就是所謂「投(頭)影機」的意思，對吧?!我照著字面意思做了我把自行車的頭盔割掉一點,讓投影機可以放得進去.這樣，我可以 —在真實世界中用數位訊息環繞我 但是,後來我想到 我也要和這些電腦像素溝通.所以我加了一個小攝影機,當作數位眼睛.之後, 我們進一步,做成—使用者導向的頸掛式,就是很多人知道的「第六感計算裝置」. 這技術最有趣的地方是你可以把數位世界帶著走到任何地方都可以.你可以用任何表面或牆壁，當成介面.這錄影機隨時都在偵測你的動作.不論雙手在做什麼,它都知道.還有，你看那些色筆那是我們早期用的.可以在任何牆壁上畫畫.可以停在牆壁前面，開始在牆上作畫.而且我們不只偵測一根手指.我們讓你可以用兩隻手全部,所以可以用兩隻手去放大縮小—地圖，用捏的.錄影機 —收集所有影像 —執行動作辨識和顏色辨識有很多小程式在裡面跑技術上有點複雜,但是讓人可以用的很自然 我更興奮的是，可以帶到戶外去用不必掏出口袋裡的照相機,只要一個照相的姿勢它就替你照相了. (掌聲) 謝謝. 拍完之後，我隨便找一面牆,就開始瀏覽這些照片或, ""我想修改一下這些照片然後用電子郵件寄給朋友.""我們面對的世代是 —與實體世界融合在一起的運算如果你沒有平面可用，手掌也可以處理簡單的功能.我在這裡只用我的手，撥電話號碼.攝影機不只了解你手部的動作,而且,它還知道在你手裡拿著的是什麼東西. 我們現在正在做的是 —舉個例, 在這裡,這本書的封面正在和線上的數以百萬計的書封面比對,找尋這是哪一本書.一旦找到資料,它會找到書評,或者，可能紐約時報有個有聲的簡介,你就可以, 在實體書上，聽到有聲的書評.(""哈佛大學的著名演講 ..."") 這是歐巴瑪總統上週來MIT的演講.(""... 我特別要感謝2位MIT ..."")我從報紙上,看到他演講的實況錄影.你的報紙會給你看動態天氣報導不必去更新資料 – 這原本，要上電腦才找得到, 是嗎? (掌聲) 我回印度時, 我只要拿出我的登機證就可以知道我的班機延誤多久,因為在這種時候,我不想打開iPhone,點選某個功能圖案.我相信這個技術不只改變—是的. (笑聲)也會改變我們和別人的交流不只在實體世界裡.好玩的是，我在波士頓的捷運上玩踢毽子遊戲在地上玩, 不錯吧?(笑聲)我相信，當這種技術和實體生活混在一起時想像力是唯一能限制—我們的東西。 但很多人會說—我的工作和實體物品沒什麼關係.我們做的大多是會計、編輯這類的事對於這些,你怎麼處理?很多人很期待新一代的平板電腦上市與其等待,我乾脆自己做一個﹐只用了一張紙我把錄影機上的—所有網路度影機上都有個麥克風 .我把麥克風拿下來夾在—就像是做了個夾式麥克風 —夾在紙上, 隨便的一張紙.每當我碰到紙的時候，這在紙上接觸的聲音就會通知電腦.錄影機還在追蹤我的手指的移動 你當然也可以看電影(""午安，我叫羅素 ..."")(""... 我是第54團的荒野探險者."") 也可以玩遊戲.(汽車引擎聲)攝影機知道你拿紙的方向就可以玩賽車遊戲(掌聲) 很多人早又想到了，可以瀏覽對，當然可以瀏覽任何網站甚至在紙上做各種運算在任何你需要的地方更有趣的是我想把這個功能變得更強大一點當我回到桌上，我可以捏住那個資訊，—然後放到我的電腦螢幕上這樣我就可以用我的桌上電腦 (掌聲) 為什麼要電腦? 用紙也很好玩.紙的世界很好玩.我把文章的一部分放在這裡, 當成第二部份 —然後調整—這裡的資訊.好，然後我說, ""OK, 這樣很好,我要列印出來.""就有了一份列印文件, 這樣 —工作流程比我們以前用的方式更人性了像20年前的工作方式，而不是像現在，要在兩個世界裡切換 最後，我相信把資訊和所有物件整合，不僅可以消滅數位落差、把兩個世界間的鴻溝填滿,還可以幫助我們,保有人性,讓我們和實體世界更連結.最終會幫助我們，不要變成—坐在機器前面的另一部機器。 就這樣. 謝謝. (掌聲) 謝謝. (掌聲) Chris nderson: 嗯﹐Pranav,首先，你是個天才.這真的太棒了,真的你預備怎麼做? 你想開個公司嗎﹖還是一直繼續研究下去?還是有其他的打算? Pr n v Mistry: 很多公司 —就是 Medi L b的贊助者 —有興趣以其他方法繼續研究像行動通訊公司和印度非營利機構的應用方法便不同這些機構想 ""為什麼只有'第六感'?我們應該為殘障人士，設置第五感如，啞巴.這種技術可以讓他們用另一種方式「說」出來配個喇叭就可以."" C : 你自己的打算呢? 要留在MIT嗎還是你也要參與這些計畫? PM: 我正試著讓這技術更廣泛的被人們使用讓大家都能開發自己的""第六感""裝置因為硬體其實不難製造自己做也不難我們會提供開放式程式碼軟體給大家可能下個月就可以 C :開放程式碼﹖哇 (掌聲) C : 你會回到印度做這些計畫嗎? PM: 是，是，當然. C : 你的計畫呢? MIT?印度? 未來怎樣分配你的時間? PM: 這裡有很大的能量. 很多東西可以學你剛剛看到的，都是我在印度學的.往成本效益方面去考量:這個系統只要300美元和2萬美元的桌面電腦相比或甚至2塊美元的滑鼠當年可能要價 5,000 美元?不久前，我把這東西展示給印度總統看他說: ""我們應該在原子研究所裡用這個技術做些研究.""我很期待可以把這些技術帶給普羅大眾而不是把這些技術留在實驗室裡 (掌聲) C : 我們在 TED,遇過的人之中我可以說你是少數2-3個世界上頂尖的發明家之一TED很榮幸邀你來演講.非常感謝.真是太棒了. (掌聲)"
