Talk	en	zh-tw
prosanta_chakrabarty_clues_to_prehistoric_times_found_in_blind_cavefish	"Ichthyology, the study of fishes. It looks like a big, boring word, but it's actually quite exciting, because ichthyology is the only ""ology"" with ""YOLO"" in it. (Laughter) Now, to the cool kids in the audience, you already know, YOLO stands for ""you only live once,"" and because I only have one life, I'm going to spend it doing what I always dreamt of doing: seeing the hidden wonders of the world and discovering new species. And that's what I get to do. Now, in recent years, I really focused on caves for finding new species. And it turns out, there's lots of new cavefish species out there. You just have to know where to look, and to maybe be a little thin. (Laughter) Now, cavefishes can tell me a lot about biology and geology. They can tell me how the landmasses around them have changed and moved by being stuck in these little holes, and they can tell me about the evolution of sight, by being blind. Now, fish have eyes that are essentially the same as ours. All vertebrates do, and each time a fish species starts to adapt to this dark, cold, cave environment, over many, many generations, they lose their eyes and their eyesight until the end up like an eyeless cavefish like this one here. Now, each cavefish species has evolved in a slightly different way, and each one has a unique geological and biological story to tell us, and that's why it's so exciting when we find a new species. So this is a new species we described, from southern Indiana. We named it Amblyopsis hoosieri, the Hoosier cavefish. (Laughter) Its closest relatives are cavefishes in Kentucky, in the Mammoth Cave system. And they start to diverge when the Ohio River split them a few million years ago. And in that time they developed these subtle differences in the genetic architecture behind their blindness. There's this gene called rhodopsin that's super-critical for sight. We have it, and these species have it too, except one species has lost all function in that gene, and the other one maintains it. So this sets up this beautiful natural experiment where we can look at the genes behind our vision, and at the very roots of how we can see. But the genes in these cavefishes can also tell us about deep geological time, maybe no more so than in this species here. This is a new species we described from Madagascar that we named Typhleotris mararybe. That means ""big sickness"" in Malagasy, for how sick we got trying to collect this species. Now, believe it or not, swimming around sinkholes full of dead things and cave full of bat poop isn't the smartest thing you could be doing with your life, but YOLO. (Laughter) Now, I love this species despite the fact that it tried to kill us, and that's because this species in Madagascar, its closest relatives are 6,000 kilometers away, cavefishes in Australia. Now, there's no way a three-inch-long freshwater cavefish can swim across the Indian Ocean, so what we found when we compared the DNA of these species is that they've been separated for more than 100 million years, or about the time that the southern continents were last together. So in fact, these species didn't move at all. It's the continents that moved them. And so they give us, through their DNA, this precise model and measure of how to date and time these ancient geological events. Now, this species here is so new I'm not even allowed to tell you its name yet, but I can tell you it's a new species from Mexico, and it's probably already extinct. It's probably extinct because the only known cave system it's from was destroyed when a dam was built nearby. Unfortunately for cavefishes, their groundwater habitat is also our main source of drinking water. Now, we actually don't know this species' closest relative, yet. It doesn't appear to be anything else in Mexico, so maybe it's something in Cuba, or Florida, or India. But whatever it is, it might tell us something new about the geology of the Caribbean, or the biology of how to better diagnose certain types of blindness. But I hope we discover this species before it goes extinct too. And I'm going to spend my one life as an ichthyologist trying to discover and save these humble little blind cavefishes that can tell us so much about the geology of the planet and the biology of how we see. Thank you. (Applause)"	"魚類學，是一門研究魚類的學科。聽起來或許很籠統和無聊，但是其實還滿有趣的，因為魚類學這個單字，是所有學科中唯一包含 ""YOLO"" 的。（譯註：美國俚語） （笑聲） 台下走在潮流尖端的聽眾，你們一定知道 ""YOLO"" 指的是「你只能活一次。」正因如此，我決定去追求我的夢想，探索未知世界的奧妙，發現新物種。那是我要做的。 這幾年來我致力於尋找洞穴中的新物種。結果發現，在洞穴中的確有大量的新魚種。但是你得知道要去哪裡找，而且你可能得瘦一點。 （笑聲） 洞穴魚其實可以告訴我們許多生物學與地質學的故事。透過牠們居住的小洞穴，我們可以研究大陸板塊的改變及漂移；透過牠們的盲眼，讓我們了解到視覺的演化過程。 魚和我們一樣都有眼睛，所有脊椎動物都有。當魚類為求生存，而去適應黑暗、冰冷的洞穴環境，在經過世代的演化後，牠們逐漸失去眼睛和視力，最後，就像這條無眼的洞穴魚一樣。每種洞穴魚的演化方式都不太一樣，而且每種都在訴說著其獨特的生物、地質學故事。這就是為什麼每當發現新的魚種，都很振奮人心。 這隻就是我們說的新魚種，在印地安那州南部發現。我們命名為 ""Amblyopsis hoosieri"" 印地安那盲鱂。（笑聲） （譯註：印地安那州人俗稱 hoosier） 牠的近親為肯塔基洞穴魚，生活在猛獁洞穴系統內。幾百萬年前，因俄亥俄河而被分開的牠們，開始演化分歧。那段期間，牠們的遺傳結構產生細微差異的演化，造成其失明的原因也各異。有一種稱為視紫質的基因，對於視覺超級重要。我們都有這個，這兩個物種也有，其中一個物種已經失去了該基因的所有功能，而另一物種還保有它。此種自然界的美妙實驗，使我們可以觀察到視覺背後的基因奧秘，及了解到視覺感知的根本原理。 但是，這些洞穴魚的基因，也提供了深邃地質年代的線索，大概沒有比這種物種更多了。這個新物種來自馬達加斯加，我們將其命名為 ""Typhleotris mararybe""，馬拉加西語的意思就是「大病」，因為我們試圖採集該物種時，都生了大病。信不信由你，在滿布腐屍物的汙水坑和充滿著蝙蝠大便的洞穴內游泳，實在不是一件明智之舉，但是，你只能活一次啊！ （笑聲） 儘管這種魚差點害死我們，我還是很愛牠。因為這種生活在馬達加斯加的魚，最近的近親是遠在六千公里外的澳洲的洞穴魚。一條三英吋長的淡水洞穴魚，是不可能游泳橫越印度洋的。所以我們在比較兩者的 DNA 後發現，牠們已經分開超過一億年，或者說是自南大陸板塊漂移分裂後至今的時間。其實這兩種物種根本沒有搬家。是南大陸板塊移動了牠們。牠們的 DNA 給了我們精確的模式及方法，為古代的地質事件定年、定時。 這個物種非常新，我目前還不能公開牠的名字，但是我可以告訴大家，這是墨西哥新種，而且可能已經絕種了。可能絕種，是因為我們唯一知道可以發現牠的洞穴系統，已經被附近的水壩工程摧毀了。很不幸，對洞穴魚而言，牠們的地下水棲息地，也是我們主要的飲用水源。 我們其實還不知道這個物種最近的近親。墨西哥找不到任何相像的，所以很可能在古巴、佛羅里達或印度。但不管是什麼，牠都可能告訴我們加勒比海地質的新發現，或幫助我們能更正確地診斷出生物失明的原因。但是，我也希望能在這物種滅絕前找到牠。 身為魚類學者，我要窮盡一生的努力，來發現及拯救這些不起眼的盲眼小洞穴魚，因為牠們能告訴我們非常多地球的地質知識，及眼睛、視覺如何演化的生物學。 謝謝。（掌聲）"
