Talk	en	zh-tw
publisher_felix_dennis_odes_to_vice_and_consequences	"""The Better Man."" I was the better at getting and keeping. You were the better at spend and spend; I was the better at grubbing and heaping, But who was the better man in the end? Yes, who was the better man, my friend? You were the better with lords and ladies, I was the better at pillaging Troy; You were the better at kissing the babies, I was the better at search and destroy. But who was the better man, old boy? Who was the better man? I was the better at improvisation, You were the better at spinning the plates; I was the better at procrastination, You were the better at quiet debate. But who was the better man, old mate? Who was the better man? You were the better at rolling a reefer, I was the better at coke and rum; Remember that night on the beach in Ibiza? The Maori twins with the tattooed bum? But who was the better man, old chum? Who was the better man? Now we come down to it, relatives grieving. Out in the hall with their crocodile tears; Now that you're out of it, now that you're leaving, Now that they've sealed your arse and your ears, What I've been meaning to tell you for years, And years, and years, and years, old friend ... Is that you were the better man, in the end; You were the better man, My friend. (Applause) I wrote this next poem for my mother. Every one of us had a mother, only one — probably the most important person in your life, if you're lucky enough to know them. My mother was certainly the most important in mine. Let me try and describe her to you. She's 86 years old. She's frail. White, platinum hair. Why do they do that? Why do old ladies go to those hair shops, and make those helmets? (Laughter) Bright as a button. All the ducks in a row. Looks like a much prettier version of Margaret Thatcher, (Laughter) but without any of the soft bits in Margaret's character. (Laughter) I wrote this poem for her. These are not my beliefs. But my mother has lived by this creed all her life. ""Never Go Back."" Never go back. Never go back. Never return to the haunts of your youth. Keep to the track, to the beaten track; Memory holds all you need of the truth. Never look back. Never look back. Never succumb to the gorgon's stare. Keep to the track, to the beaten track; No-one is waiting and nothing is there. Never go back. Never go back. Never surrender the future you earned. Keep to the track, to the beaten track; Never return to the bridges you've burned. Never look back. Never look back. Never retreat to the 'glorious past.' Keep to the track, to the beaten track; Treat every day of your life as your last. Never go back. Never go back. Never acknowledge the ghost on the stair. Keep to the track, to the beaten track; No-one is waiting and nothing is there. (Applause) Now ladies and gentlemen, I'm up on me hobbyhorse. If every commercially minded cosmetic surgeon were tied end to end along a railroad track, that would be me, stoking the train without a qualm in the world. Ladies, don't do it. Don't do it. You think we want you to do it, but we don't want you to do it. Stop it. Tell them to go to hell. You bodies are wonderful as they are. Just leave them alone. ""To a Beautiful Lady of a Certain Age."" Lady lady, do not weep. What is gone is gone. Now sleep. Turn your pillow. Dry your tears. Count thy sheep and not thy years. Nothing good can come of this. Time rules all, my dearest. 'Tis but folly to be waging war On one who never lost before. Lady, this is all in vain. Youth can never come again; We have drunk the summer wine. None can make a stitch in time. Nip and tuck till crack of doom. What is foretold in the womb May not be foresworn with gold. Nor may time be bought or sold. Dearest, do I love thee less? Do I shrink from thy caress? Think you I could cease to care? Never was there one so fair! Lady lady, do not weep — What is gone is gone. Now sleep. Lean against me, calm your fears, Count thy blessings, not thy years. (Applause) America, ladies and gentlemen, has done more for me financially than Britain ever has, or ever could have done. I was born in Britain, as you have probably guessed. Even when on its worst behavior, I find myself automatically defending the USA from the sneers of green-eyed Europhiles playing their Greek card to Roman trumps. America is an empire. I hope you know that now. All empires, by definition, are bumbling, shambolic, bullying, bureaucratic affairs, as certain of the rightness of their cause in infancy, as they are corrupted by power in their dotage. I am no historian, ladies and gentlemen. But it seems to be that the USA's sins, compared to those of many previous empires, are of a more moderate, if more pervasive, kind. Let me put this bluntly. If Americans are so fat, stupid and ignorant, my dear friends from Birmingham, how come they rule the world? ""Hail to the Gods of America."" Hail to the Gods of America! Hail to the gods of the dream. Invictus E Pluribus Unum. But which of them reigns supreme? Which is America's Jupiter? The Brahmins of Capital Hill? A sorcerer's profit on Wall Street? They eye of a dollar bill? Or is it celebrity status? The worship of those we hate. Or the cult of living forever, If only we'd watch our weight. What of the titans of media? Or Hollywood's siren call? What of the temples of justice, Whose servants enslave us all? What of the Brand and the Label? What of the upstart Sport? And what of the Constitution, That bully of last resort? Hail to the God of America, Whose power the masses extol — Convenience rules America; Convenience owns our soul. Aye, that it does. (Applause) And if you would like to know why I am not a father — I, who by a miracle have 22 godchildren — the answer is in this poem, which upsets me every time I read it. ""Love Came to Visit Me."" Love came to visit me, shy as a fawn. But finding me busy, she fled, with the dawn. At 20 the torch of resentment was lit. My rage at injustice waxed hot as the pits. The flux of its lava cleared all in its path. Comrades and enemies fled from its wrath. Yet lovers grew wary, once novelty waned To lie with a bloody man, his terror unfeigned. At 30 my powers seemed mighty to me. The fruits of my rivals, I shook from the tree. By guile and by bluster, by night and by day, I battered and scattered the fools from my way. And women grew willing to sham and to bluff. Their trinkets and baubles cost little enough. From 40 to 50, grown easy and sly, I wined them and dined them, like pigs in a sty. We feasted and reveled and rutted in muck, Forgetting our peril, forgetting to duck, Forgetting times arrows are sharper than knives. Grown sick to our stomachs, and sick of our lives. Love came to visit me, shy as a fawn. But finding me busy, she fled with the dawn. (Applause) Um, there are — I've got far too much money and I have far too much fun in my businesses. So poetry came as a complete shock to me, ladies and gentlemen. A complete shock. I was a little ill. Okay, I was ill. Okay, I had a life-threatening illness, you know. I was in a clinic. I wasn't allowed to make telephone calls. I wasn't allowed to see any of my — you know, whatever. So, in the end I begged a pack of Post-it notes off a nurse. And from another nurse, I begged a pencil, pen. And I didn't know what else to do. So I started to write poetry. That was in October of 2000. I'm not an evil man. But sometimes I try to put myself in an evil man's position. I'm not a glorious and fantastic-looking woman, who men fall down, you know, when she walks in a room. But sometimes I try to put myself in that position. (Laughter) Not with much success. But it's interesting to me. I love to write historical verse. I love to think what they thought, what it was like. Because although many of the speakers and many of the people who are in the audience, although you guys can not only go to the moon, you know, you're going to totally transform everything. Cloning will transform everything. Voice navigation will transform everything. I don't know. You can do anything you want. All you guys are so clever, and women, you can do it all! But human nature doesn't change, mate. My friends, human nature is exactly the same as it was when my ancestor — probably it was my ancestor — got his hands around the neck of the last Neanderthal, and battered the bastard to death. You think we didn't do that? Oh, we did. We killed every single one of them. Inch by inch we killed them. We hunted them down wherever they were. Rivals for meat. Rivals for berries. We're still doing it, with all of the genius assembled in this room. Our natures haven't changed a single iota. And they never will. Even when we've got off this little planet, and have put some of our eggs in some other baskets. And I am as bad as you. I spent eight years running one of the most successful publishing businesses in the world. And at seven o'clock every night, I took me some more girls, already corrupted. I never did anything to anyone that wasn't. And I took crack cocaine, every single night for seven years. It was like Dante's ""Inferno."" It was unbelievable. One of the offshoots of crack cocaine is that you keep an erection for about four hours. And you stay up for 12. It was absolutely unbelievable. Twenty-two godchildren I've got. What do I say to them? I only stopped because I thought if I got caught, what would happen to my mother. If you're a woman, remember that. The love of your son can utterly transform anything he does. ""Our Lady in White."" Pale she was, listless; And soft to the touch. A generous mistress Whom many loved much. Shoulder to shoulder, Night after night, We hoarded and sold her — Our Lady in White. We breathed but to savor her crystal caress. We craved but to favor the hem of her dress. We dabbled and babbled, Denying our thirsts. But always we scrabbled to lie with her first. Absent, we missed her, grew haggard and limp. Toyed with her sister, or threatened her pimp. Came word out of Babel, the lady returns! And there on the table we took her, in turns. Sensing the power that tyranny craves, There in that hour, she made us her slaves. Many there were, to covet her kiss. My shame as a spur, I fled the abyss. But only just. (Applause)"	更好的人 我更善於獲得 你跟善於花費 我跟善於積累 但是最後誰是更好的人 是啊 誰是跟好的人呢 我的友人 你更善於與權貴一道 我則更善於掠奪 你更善於嘩眾取寵 我更善於尋覓毀壞 但是誰又是更好的人呢 老夥計 誰是更好的人呢 我善於即興表演 你更善於轉輪遊戲 我善於拖沓 你更善於安靜的辯論 但是誰又是更好的人 老夥計 誰是更好的人 你善於收衣服 我更善於煙酒 還記得那晚伊比沙海灘 有纹身的流浪者和毛利兄弟 但是誰又是更好的人 老夥計 誰是更好的人 我們現在來到這裡 親友在外面哭泣 在大廳里與他們虛偽的眼淚 現在你離開了他們 離他們而去了 現在他們封上你的腚封上你的眼 我這沒多年來一直想告訴你 多年來 多年來 多年來 我的老夥計啊 那就是到最後 你才是更好的人 你是的 是更好的人 老夥計 （掌聲） 我的下一首詩是為我母親寫的每個人都有母親也只有一個也許是你一生最重要的人假如你有幸認識她們我媽媽應該是我人生最重要的人我來試著向你們描述一下她她已經86歲 蒼老把頭髮但是爲什麽老婦人回去那些理髮店去做些頭盔回來爲什麽他們做這種事（笑聲）亮麗 整齊比Margaret Thatcher的還要好看些（笑聲）但是沒有margaret個性中溫柔的一面（笑聲）我為她寫了一首詩 這不是我的想法但是這是我媽媽一輩子的信條 從不回頭 從不回頭 絕不回頭 絕不回到兒時的住所 繼續前進 在已有的道路上前進 記憶滿足了你對真相的需求 從不回頭 絕不回頭 絕不向美杜莎的視線屈服 繼續前進 在已有的道路上前進 沒有人在等著 也沒有東西在那 從不回頭 絕不回頭 絕不交出爭取來的未來 繼續前進 在已有的道路上 絕不回到自己收掉的橋 從不回頭 絕不回頭 絕不懷念耀眼的過去 繼續前進 在已有的道路上 每一天都是你的最後一天 從不回頭 絕不回頭 絕不承認那在樓梯上的鬼 繼續前進 在已有的道路上 沒有人等你 也沒有東西在那 （掌聲） 女士們 先生們 到了我的回合了假如每個有頭腦的整形師都在鐵軌上綁起來我將世上唯一毫不猶豫給火車加速撞向他們的人女士們 別整容別整你認為我們想讓你整 但是我們沒有停下來讓那些東西都機櫃去你的身體原本就是最好的讓它們怎樣就怎樣 寫個 在特定年齡的美麗女士 女士女士 不要哭 過去的就過去 安心睡 枕頭反面 擦乾眼淚 數羊而不是你的年歲 這樣是沒有好事的 親愛的 時間統治的一切 與一個絕不會輸的人 開戰是愚蠢的 女士 一切都是浮雲 年輕是不會再臨的 我們喝了夏天的酒 沒人能封上時間 與它戰鬥到死 在生命開始已經寫好的 是不會在黃金之下改變的 時間也不是可以買或賣的 親愛的 我愛你們少了？ 我會從你的愛撫中逃走嗎？ 你認為我不再愛你了嗎 沒有什麽事實工作的 女士 女士 別空了 過去的就過去 安心睡吧 靠著我 平靜你心中的不安 數著祝福 而非年歲 （掌聲） 先生們 女士們 美國為我在經濟方面的貢獻比英國做的要多得多我生在英國 就像你們猜的那樣就算他的行為有多過分我發現我會不自盡的為美國辯解對著那些不斷叫囂希臘羅馬的歐洲熱愛者的譏笑美國是一個帝國我希望你們現在知道了所有帝國都被定義為 自大欺壓官僚之列他們的起步有著一定的正確性然後就在權利中腐爛我不是歷史學家 女士們先生們但是假如把美國的罪孽與那些之前的帝國相比他的將會看起來是更道德的他的罪也是更廣泛的我明確指出假如美國人都是肥大愚蠢無知我親愛的伯明翰的朋友們他們又是怎麼統治世界的咧 赞颂美国 歡迎美國 讚頌美國夢 不屈不饒的合眾國 但是他們誰掌管這最高的權利 誰是美國的朱庇特 國會山的總統 華爾街的巫師 眼中有著鈔票 上層名人 我們討厭對他們的崇拜 或是對永生的崇拜 就如我們看看自己是什麽 什麽是傳媒的巨頭 什麽事好萊塢的汽笛聲 什麽是正義的神廟 誰的奴隸奴役了我們 什麼樣的品牌 什麼樣的上流社會運動 什麽的憲法 欺負人的最後手段 歡迎美國 他的力量萬人稱讚 無憂統治著美國 無憂佔據著我們的靈魂 額 就這些 （掌聲） 假如你想知道爲什麽我不是一個父親但是我去奇跡般的有22個義子答案就在這首詩中每次對它的時候我都很無奈 愛情來光顧我 愛來光顧我像幼鹿一樣膽怯 但是卻看到我忙碌她便與黎明一同離去 在20歲仇恨別點燃了 我對不公的怒火像地窖一樣炙熱 怒火的岩漿道路摧毀 同志和敵人都從他的怒火下逃離 同時愛也變得小心了 不願與 這血腥的男人一起他的恐怖是真的 在30時 我的力量無比強大 敵人的成果 我可以把它要下樹 用奸計 用狂風整日整夜 我把愚昧從我的路上趕走 而且女人變得虛假奉承 她們要的小東西花不了多少錢 從40到50 我變小了 我像豬一樣喝著酒吃著飯 在糞便中享樂狂歡發情 忘卻我們的危險 忘記去躲避 忘記時間的箭矢比刀更鋒利 變得對我們的胃袋噁心對我們的生活噁心 愛來光顧我像幼鹿般靦腆 但是看到我很忙她與黎明一同逝去 （掌聲） 這裡我想說我至今從我的工作中得到了許多的錢和快樂先生們女士們 詩歌對我是很大的震驚完全的震驚 我那時得了點小病好吧 我病了好吧 其實是很嚴重的病我當時在醫院里 我是不讓用電話的我也是不讓被探望的（注：講者沒有子女） 你們懂得我就從護士那要了便籤又從另一位那要了一支筆我不知道幹些什麽 然後我開始了寫詩那時 2000年的十月份 我不是一個惡人但是時常我會把自己放在一個惡人的角度我不是一位婀娜多姿的女性那種一走入 所有的男人都為她拜倒但是時常我也會把自己置身於他們的角度（笑）儘管不大成功就是但是很有趣的一點 我很愛寫歷史時我熱誠於想他們所想 因為儘管很多講師和很多的聽總你們能上到月球你們也可以完全改變這一切像克隆 語音導航我不知道 你們是可做任何你們想的你們都很聰明 你們也可以做到 但是 人們的天性沒有變 夥計們朋友們 人的天性還是如以前一樣當我的祖先也許是我的把他的手放在了最後穴居人的脖子上把這怪胎猛抽致死你認為我們沒有做是吧哦 我們可做了我們把他們殺的一個不剩一點點的我們把他們殺死我們圍獵他們當他們成為食物的競爭者我們現在也還在那樣做在這房間裡的精英你們也一樣我們一點沒有變我們也不會變就算是我們能離開了這個星球我們把自己的雞蛋放在別人的籃子里 我還是同你們一樣壞我花了8年時間經營了在全世界都很成功的發行所每天晚上七點我與那些已墮落的女孩一起我從沒有對她們任何人做什麽事我吸食強效可卡因這七年的每個晚上都像但丁地獄般那這的是不可思議只血藥一針那玩意就那讓你振奮整整四個小時每天熬到12點這完全是不能相信的我有22個名義上的子女我會對他們說什麼我停下來了因為我想到我被抓了我媽媽會怎麼樣假如你是一位女性 記住你對你兒子的愛可以轉變他做的任何事 那一襲白衣 她蒼白無神 柔軟 大度的女主人誰都喜愛她 一夜夜的 我們霸佔她出賣她 那一襲白衣女子 我們歎息但是仍享受她的愛撫 我們渴望她卻只在她群i下面拜倒 我們叨叨絮絮不承認我們的飢渴 但是我們總是努力躺倒她的身邊 不在了 我們想要她變得頹圮 玩弄她的姐妹或威脅她們的老闆 淫欲的塔中傳來她回來的消息 在桌上 我們輪奸了她 感受渴望的力量 在那個時刻她把我們變成了她的奴隸 每個人要她的吻 我的羞恥像馬刺讓我從這深淵中逃脫 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
