Talk	en	zh-tw
quyen_nguyen_color_coded_surgery	"I want to talk to you about one of the biggest myths in medicine, and that is the idea that all we need are more medical breakthroughs and then all of our problems will be solved. Our society loves to romanticize the idea of the single, solo inventor who, working late in the lab one night, makes an earthshaking discovery, and voila, overnight everything's changed. That's a very appealing picture, however, it's just not true. In fact, medicine today is a team sport. And in many ways, it always has been. I'd like to share with you a story about how I've experienced this very dramatically in my own work. I'm a surgeon, and we surgeons have always had this special relationship with light. When I make an incision inside a patient's body, it's dark. We need to shine light to see what we're doing. And this is why, traditionally, surgeries have always started so early in the morning — to take advantage of daylight hours. And if you look at historical pictures of the early operating rooms, they have been on top of buildings. For example, this is the oldest operating room in the Western world, in London, where the operating room is actually on top of a church with a skylight coming in. And then this is a picture of one of the most famous hospitals in America. This is Mass General in Boston. And do you know where the operating room is? Here it is on the top of the building with plenty of windows to let light in. So nowadays in the operating room, we no longer need to use sunlight. And because we no longer need to use sunlight, we have very specialized lights that are made for the operating room. We have an opportunity to bring in other kinds of lights — lights that can allow us to see what we currently don't see. And this is what I think is the magic of fluorescence. So let me back up a little bit. When we are in medical school, we learn our anatomy from illustrations such as this where everything's color-coded. Nerves are yellow, arteries are red, veins are blue. That's so easy anybody could become a surgeon, right? However, when we have a real patient on the table, this is the same neck dissection — not so easy to tell the difference between different structures. We heard over the last couple days what an urgent problem cancer still is in our society, what a pressing need it is for us to not have one person die every minute. Well if cancer can be caught early, enough such that someone can have their cancer taken out, excised with surgery, I don't care if it has this gene or that gene, or if it has this protein or that protein, it's in the jar. It's done, it's out, you're cured of cancer. This is how we excise cancers. We do our best, based upon our training and the way the cancer looks and the way it feels and its relationship to other structures and all of our experience, we say, you know what, the cancer's gone. We've made a good job. We've taken it out. That's what the surgeon is saying in the operating room when the patient's on the table. But then we actually don't know that it's all out. We actually have to take samples from the surgical bed, what's left behind in the patient, and then send those bits to the pathology lab. In the meanwhile, the patient's on the operating room table. The nurses, anesthesiologist, the surgeon, all the assistants are waiting around. And we wait. The pathologist takes that sample, freezes it, cuts it, looks in the microscope one by one and then calls back into the room. And that may be 20 minutes later per piece. So if you've sent three specimens, it's an hour later. And very often they say, ""You know what, points A and B are okay, but point C, you still have some residual cancer there. Please go cut that piece out."" So we go back and we do that again, and again. And this whole process: ""Okay you're done. We think the entire tumor is out."" But very often several days later, the patient's gone home, we get a phone call: ""I'm sorry, once we looked at the final pathology, once we looked at the final specimen, we actually found that there's a couple other spots where the margins are positive. There's still cancer in your patient."" So now you're faced with telling your patient, first of all, that they may need another surgery, or that they need additional therapy such as radiation or chemotherapy. So wouldn't it be better if we could really tell, if the surgeon could really tell, whether or not there's still cancer on the surgical field? I mean, in many ways, the way that we're doing it, we're still operating in the dark. So in 2004, during my surgical residency, I had the great fortune to meet Dr. Roger Tsien, who went on to win the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 2008. Roger and his team were working on a way to detect cancer, and they had a very clever molecule that they had come up with. The molecule they had developed had three parts. The main part of it is the blue part, polycation, and it's basically very sticky to every tissue in your body. So imagine that you make a solution full of this sticky material and inject it into the veins of someone who has cancer, everything's going to get lit up. Nothing will be specific. There's no specificity there. So they added two additional components. The first one is a polyanionic segment, which basically acts as a non-stick backing like the back of a sticker. So when those two are together, the molecule is neutral and nothing gets stuck down. And the two pieces are then linked by something that can only be cut if you have the right molecular scissors — for example, the kind of protease enzymes that tumors make. So here in this situation, if you make a solution full of this three-part molecule along with the dye, which is shown in green, and you inject it into the vein of someone who has cancer, normal tissue can't cut it. The molecule passes through and gets excreted. However, in the presence of the tumor, now there are molecular scissors that can break this molecule apart right there at the cleavable site. And now, boom, the tumor labels itself and it gets fluorescent. So here's an example of a nerve that has tumor surrounding it. Can you tell where the tumor is? I couldn't when I was working on this. But here it is. It's fluorescent. Now it's green. See, so every single one in the audience now can tell where the cancer is. We can tell in the operating room, in the field, at a molecular level, where is the cancer and what the surgeon needs to do and how much more work they need to do to cut that out. And the cool thing about fluorescence is that it's not only bright, it actually can shine through tissue. The light that the fluorescence emits can go through tissue. So even if the tumor is not right on the surface, you'll still be able to see it. In this movie, you can see that the tumor is green. There's actually normal muscle on top of it. See that? And I'm peeling that muscle away. But even before I peel that muscle away, you saw that there was a tumor underneath. So that's the beauty of having a tumor that's labeled with fluorescent molecules. That you can, not only see the margins right there on a molecular level, but you can see it even if it's not right on the top — even if it's beyond your field of view. And this works for metastatic lymph nodes also. Sentinel lymph node dissection has really changed the way that we manage breast cancer, melanoma. Women used to get really debilitating surgeries to excise all of the axillary lymph nodes. But when sentinel lymph node came into our treatment protocol, the surgeon basically looks for the single node that is the first draining lymph node of the cancer. And then if that node has cancer, the woman would go on to get the axillary lymph node dissection. So what that means is if the lymph node did not have cancer, the woman would be saved from having unnecessary surgery. But sentinel lymph node, the way that we do it today, is kind of like having a road map just to know where to go. So if you're driving on the freeway and you want to know where's the next gas station, you have a map to tell you that that gas station is down the road. It doesn't tell you whether or not the gas station has gas. You have to cut it out, bring it back home, cut it up, look inside and say, ""Oh yes, it does have gas."" So that takes more time. Patients are still on the operating room table. Anesthesiologists, surgeons are waiting around. That takes time. So with our technology, we can tell right away. You see a lot of little, roundish bumps there. Some of these are swollen lymph nodes that look a little larger than others. Who amongst us hasn't had swollen lymph nodes with a cold? That doesn't mean that there's cancer inside. Well with our technology, the surgeon is able to tell immediately which nodes have cancer. I won't go into this very much, but our technology, besides being able to tag tumor and metastatic lymph nodes with fluorescence, we can also use the same smart three-part molecule to tag gadolinium onto the system so you can do this noninvasively. The patient has cancer, you want to know if the lymph nodes have cancer even before you go in. Well you can see this on an MRI. So in surgery, it's important to know what to cut out. But equally important is to preserve things that are important for function. So it's very important to avoid inadvertent injury. And what I'm talking about are nerves. Nerves, if they are injured, can cause paralysis, can cause pain. In the setting of prostate cancer, up to 60 percent of men after prostate cancer surgery may have urinary incontinence and erectile disfunction. That's a lot of people to have a lot of problems — and this is even in so-called nerve-sparing surgery, which means that the surgeon is aware of the problem, and they are trying to avoid the nerves. But you know what, these little nerves are so small, in the context of prostate cancer, that they are actually never seen. They are traced just by their known anatomical path along vasculature. And they're known because somebody has decided to study them, which means that we're still learning about where they are. Crazy to think that we're having surgery, we're trying to excise cancer, we don't know where the cancer is. We're trying to preserve nerves; we can't see where they are. So I said, wouldn't it be great if we could find a way to see nerves with fluorescence? And at first this didn't get a lot of support. People said, ""We've been doing it this way for all these years. What's the problem? We haven't had that many complications."" But I went ahead anyway. And Roger helped me. And he brought his whole team with him. So there's that teamwork thing again. And we eventually discovered molecules that were specifically labeling nerves. And when we made a solution of this, tagged with the fluorescence and injected in the body of a mouse, their nerves literally glowed. You can see where they are. Here you're looking at a sciatic nerve of a mouse, and you can see that that big, fat portion you can see very easily. But in fact, at the tip of that where I'm dissecting now, there's actually very fine arborizations that can't really be seen. You see what looks like little Medusa heads coming out. We have been able to see nerves for facial expression, for facial movement, for breathing — every single nerve — nerves for urinary function around the prostate. We've been able to see every single nerve. When we put these two probes together ... So here's a tumor. Do you guys know where the margins of this tumor is? Now you do. What about the nerve that's going into this tumor? That white portion there is easy to see. But what about the part that goes into the tumor? Do you know where it's going? Now you do. Basically, we've come up with a way to stain tissue and color-code the surgical field. This was a bit of a breakthrough. I think that it'll change the way that we do surgery. We published our results in the proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences and in Nature Biotechnology. We received commentary in Discover magazine, in The Economist. And we showed it to a lot of my surgical colleagues. They said, ""Wow! I have patients who would benefit from this. I think that this will result in my surgeries with a better outcome and fewer complications."" What needs to happen now is further development of our technology along with development of the instrumentation that allows us to see this sort of fluorescence in the operating room. The eventual goal is that we'll get this into patients. However, we've discovered that there's actually no straightforward mechanism to develop a molecule for one-time use. Understandably, the majority of the medical industry is focused on multiple-use drugs, such as long-term daily medications. We are focused on making this technology better. We're focused on adding drugs, adding growth factors, killing nerves that are causing problems and not the surrounding tissue. We know that this can be done and we're committed to doing it. I'd like to leave you with this final thought. Successful innovation is not a single breakthrough. It is not a sprint. It is not an event for the solo runner. Successful innovation is a team sport, it's a relay race. It requires one team for the breakthrough and another team to get the breakthrough accepted and adopted. And this takes the long-term steady courage of the day-in day-out struggle to educate, to persuade and to win acceptance. And that is the light that I want to shine on health and medicine today. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我想跟各位談談醫學界最大的迷思之一這個迷思就是只要我們在醫學界有更多的突破一切問題就能迎刃而解世人喜歡把這種事想得浪漫某位發明家隻身奮鬥某晚在實驗室工作到很晚有了驚為天人的發現突然，一夕之間全都變得不一樣了這樣的畫面非常吸引人然而，實情並非如此實際上，現今的醫學是種團隊運動很多方面來說一直都是如此我想和大家分享一則故事這故事是我在工作上親身經歷的戲劇化改變 我是名外科醫生身為外科醫生我們和光線有種奇妙的關係當我動刀切入病患的身體時，裡頭是暗的我們要打光才能知道我們正在進行什麼動作這就是為什麼傳統上手術都在一大早的時候進行以便利用白天的光線假如你看看歷史照片早期的手術室都位在建築物的頂樓例如：這張是西方世界最早的手術室位在倫敦這間手術室位在教堂的頂樓上頭有日光照進來再來這張照片是美國最有名的醫院之一這是波士頓的麻省總醫院你知道手術室在哪嗎？在這裡醫院的頂樓上面開了很多窗戶引進光線 現今的手術室不再需要利用陽光因為我們不需要利用陽光我們有特製的燈光專為手術室打造的燈我們有機會引進其他種類的光線這種光線可以讓我們看見目前我們看不到的地方這種光線就是神奇的螢光 我先把話題拉回以前當我們在醫學院的時候我們透過插圖學習解剖學，就像這張各部位都用色彩區分神經是黃的，動脈是紅的靜脈是藍的很簡單，每個人都可以當外科醫生，對吧？然而，當我們在看手術台上的實體病人時這是相同的頸部解剖面不太易區分不同組織的差異過去幾天我們聽說癌症至今仍是我們所面臨的迫切問題我們有急迫的需求不希望隨時會有人因為癌症而死假如能夠早期發現癌症在最初時就透過手術把腫瘤移除我不管是有這個基因或那個基因或者有這種蛋白質或那種蛋白質反正都丟到罐子了手術完成，切除了，癌症治好了 這是我們移除腫瘤手術的照片我們盡最大能力，依據過去的訓練還有腫瘤的樣貌和感覺以及腫瘤與其他組織的關聯，還有過去的經驗我們說，你知道嗎，腫瘤清除了很好，我們把腫瘤移除了外科醫生在手術室都會這樣說當患者還在手術台上時可是我們其實不確定腫瘤是否都移除了我們必須從腫瘤床採取樣本以了解患者體內是否殘存腫瘤然後把樣本送到病理實驗室這時，患者仍然躺在手術台上護士、麻醉師、外科醫生所有的助理都在等候我們就這樣等著病理師把樣本拿去冷凍、切開，一片片放在顯微鏡下觀察然後回覆手術室每件樣本大概要花20分鐘所以假如你送三件樣本要等上一小時通常他們會說「你知道嗎，A點和B點都沒問題，但是C點仍然殘留些許的腫瘤，請把殘留的腫瘤切除。」所以我們就回去一次又一次再做手術 這就是整個過程「好了，完成了，我們認為腫瘤已經切除了。」但通常幾天以後病患回家了我們接到電話說：「抱歉，我們看了最後的病理報告我們看了最後的樣本我們發現有些其他的點邊緣呈現陽性反應患者的體內仍有腫瘤。」所以首先要面對的是告訴患者可能要再進行一次手術或者額外的治療像是放射線治療或化療如果我們能夠知道如果可以在手術時就知道腫瘤是否仍然存在這樣是不是更好？我的意思是，現階段我們進行手術時很多時候等於在黑暗中動刀 2004年，當我在住院醫師期間我很榮幸遇見 Roger Chen 醫師後來他在2008年時獲得諾貝爾化學獎Roger和他的團隊當時正在研究偵測腫瘤的方法他們後來研發出一種非常神奇的分子他們研發出的分子由三個部分構成第一部分是藍色的聚陽離子這東西很容易附著在身體組織上 想像一下你製做了一種溶液裡頭都是這種高依附性物質然後注射到癌症患者的靜脈接著全身各部位開始發亮沒有什麼地方不會發亮看不出任何不同的地方所以他們添加了兩種成分第一種是聚陰離子具有反依附作用就像貼紙下面那張不黏的底紙當這兩種物質結合在一起時，分子變成中性不會附著在組織上當這兩種物質結合在一起時必須使用特定的分子剪刀才能將兩者分開像是腫瘤產生的蛋白酵素在這種溶液裡假如溶液裡含有這三種成分同時含有綠色染劑把這溶液注射到癌症患者的靜脈裡正常組織無法切斷分子鍵溶液的分子流經組織，然後代謝掉然而，當有腫瘤的時後裡面就有分子剪刀可以把分子分開從可以切開的地方切斷接著，蹦腫瘤發亮了並且發出螢光 這邊以神經為例神經的周遭有腫瘤你看得出來腫瘤在哪嗎？我在那時候根本看不出來不過現在有了，螢光的地方就是了看起來是綠色的在座的每位聽眾都看得出來腫瘤在哪我們在手術室能夠以分子般的細微程度判斷腫瘤位置知道哪邊需要進行手術以及需要做到什麼程度才能將腫瘤切除螢光最炫的地方在於螢光不只會發亮還能穿透組織發亮螢光所發出光線能夠穿透組織就算腫瘤不在組織的表面一樣可以看得到 這段影片可以看見腫瘤呈現綠色正常肌肉組織在上面，看到沒？我把肌肉剝開不過就算還沒把肌肉剝開仍然看得到底下有腫瘤散發出螢光的腫瘤看起來就是這麼漂亮你不只能夠以分子般細微的尺度看出腫瘤的範圍即使腫瘤的位置不在最上層一樣看得見即使有東西阻隔同樣看得到這項技術也可用在轉移性淋巴結 前哨性淋巴腺摘除術改變了我們治療乳癌、黑色素瘤的方式過去女性為了徹底切除腋下淋巴結必須接受非常折人的手術不過按照我們治療前哨性淋巴結的方法外科醫生會先尋找最早形成腫瘤的淋巴結假如這個淋巴結帶有腫瘤該名女性病患必須接受腋下淋巴結切除術也就是說假如這個淋巴結沒有腫瘤患者就不必接受不必要的手術 現今我們執行的前哨性淋巴腺摘除術有點像拿著地圖才知道要往哪邊走就像你在高速公路上開車想要知道下個加油站在哪地圖上顯示往前走就到了地圖上不會告訴你加油站有沒有油你得把油箱帶回家打開來看然後才知道：「真的耶，裡面有油。」所以這樣太費時了患者仍然躺在手術台麻醉師、外科醫生在一旁等候要等上一會的時間 有了這項技術，我們馬上就可以知道結果這裡有一些小小的、圓圓的腫塊其中有些是腫大的淋巴結看起來比其他的要大在座的各位有誰感冒時不會造成淋巴結腫大？腫大的淋巴結未必代表裡面有腫瘤運用我們的技術外科醫生可以馬上知道哪個淋巴結有腫瘤細節部分不再多講不過這項技術除了可以用螢光標記轉移性淋巴結外我們也可以用相同的三合一分子在系統裡標記出釓如此可以用非入侵方式達到目的患者患有癌症我們想在手術前知道他的淋巴結是否有腫瘤可以用核磁共振影像得知 在手術時了解切除掉的是什麼東西很重要不過同樣重要的是把具有重要功能的組織保留下來所以避免疏忽造成傷害很重要我這裡所說的是神經假如神經受損可能會造成癱瘓造成疼痛以前列腺癌來說有60%的患者在前列腺癌手術後會出現尿失禁以及勃起障礙很多的問題發生在很多人的身上即使是在所謂的神經保護手術也一樣也就是說外科醫生知道這個問題並且想辦法避開神經 不過各位知道嗎，和前列腺癌相比神經非常的纖細醫生根本看不見只能透過已知的解剖路徑沿著血管尋找因為有人對此研究，我們才得以知道也就是說我們仍在研究神經的位置在哪很難想像如果我們要動手術切除腫瘤但卻不知道腫瘤在哪想要保留神經，但卻看不見在哪 所以我說，如果可以找到方法看見發出螢光的神經那不是很好嗎？起先這項研究沒有受到什麼支持大家都說：「這些年來我們都這樣開刀，有什麼問題嗎？我們很少遇到併發症。」不過我執意進行Roger 協助我而且他帶著他的團隊所以這又是團隊研究最後我們發現可以標記神經的分子當我們做好溶液用螢光作為標記把溶液注入老鼠體內神經真的發亮了各位可以看見神經在哪 現在看到的是老鼠的坐骨神經各位可以很容易的看見大大、肥肥的部分實際上，在我正在解剖的位置上分佈著細微的神經分支肉眼看不見看起來就像小小的梅杜莎蛇頭伸出來我們可以看見控制表情、顏面動作和呼吸的神經每一條都看得見前列腺周圍泌尿功能的神經我們可以看見每條神經當我們把這兩根探針放一起看到腫瘤了各位知道腫瘤的範圍有多大嗎？這麼大那麼腫瘤裡的神經又在哪呢？白色的部分很容易看見但是穿進腫瘤的神經在哪呢？各位知道神經分布在哪嗎？這樣子 基本上，我們已經找到把組織染色的方法並且在特定區域用顏色作標記這是一項突破我想這會改變目前執行手術的方式我們把結果發布於美國國家科學院院刊以及自然生物科技期刊上發現雜誌和經濟學人雜誌對我們的研究作了評論我們把成果拿給很多外科醫生同事看他們都說：「哇！我的病人可以因此受惠我想這可以為我未來執行的手術帶來較好的成效並且減少併發症 現在要做的是進一步研究這項技術同時研發相關的醫療儀器好讓我們可以在手術室看見螢光最終的目標是把這項技術用在病患身上然而，我們發現現在沒有直接可用的裝置可以製作供單次使用的分子我們可以了解，大部分的醫療產業把主力集中在多用途的藥物例如長效性的日服藥物我們把焦點放在改進技術添加藥物添加生長因子殺除有問題的神經而且不傷害周圍的組織我們知道這是可行的，所以我們堅決研究 我想把我的感想跟大家分享成功的創新並不是單一的突破不像百米衝刺不是單一跑者的比賽成功的創新是團隊運動，是接力賽跑需要某個團隊先行突破另一個團隊把這項突破拿來應用這需要長久堅忍不拔的勇氣日復一日的奮鬥去教育、說服其他人以獲得接受這就是我在健康和醫療所點亮的一盞燈 謝謝各位 （鼓掌）
