Talk	en	zh-tw
r_a_mashelkar_breakthrough_designs_for_ultra_low_cost_products	"The big residual is always value for money. All the time we are trying to get value for money. What we don't look for is value for many, while we are generating value for money. Do we care about those four billion people whose income levels are less than two dollars a day, the so-called bottom of the pyramid? What are the challenges in getting value for money as well as value for many? We have described here in terms of the performance and the price. If you have money, of course, you can get the value. You can get a Mercedes for a very high price, very high performance. But if you don't have money, what happens? Well, you are to ride a bicycle, carrying your own weight and also some other weight, so that you can earn the bread for the day. Well, poor do not remain poor; they become lower-middle-class. And if they do so, then, of course, the conditions improve, and they start riding on scooters. But the challenge is, again, they don't get much value, because they can't afford anything more than the scooter. The issue is, at that price, can you give them some extra value? A super value, in terms of their ability to ride in a car, to get that dignity, to get that safety, looks practically impossible, isn't it. Now, this is something that we see on Indian streets all the time. But many people see the same thing and think things differently, and one of them is here, Ratan Tata. The great thing about our leaders is that, should they not only have passion in their belly, which practically all of them have, they're also very innovative. An innovator is one who does not know it cannot be done. They believe that things can be done. But great leaders like Ratan have compassion. And what you said, Lakshmi, is absolutely true: it's not just Ratan Tata, it's the house of Tatas over time. Let me confirm what she said. Yes, I went barefoot until I was 12. I struggled to [unclear] day was a huge issue. And when I finished my SSC, the eleventh standard, I stood eleventh among 125,000 students. But I was about to leave the school, because my poor mother couldn't afford schooling. And it was [unclear] Tata Trust, which gave me six rupees per month, almost a dollar per month for six years. That's how I'm standing before you. So that is the House of Tata. (Applause) Innovation, compassion and passion. They combine all that. And it was that compassion which bothered them, because when he saw — in fact, he told me about eight or nine years ago how he was driving his own car — he drives his own car by the way — and he saw in the rain, a family like the one that I showed to you getting drenched with an infant. And then he said, ""Well, I must give them a car that they can afford, one lakh car, $2,000 car."" Of course, as soon as you say something like this people say it is impossible, and that's what was said by Suzuki. He said, oh, probably he is going to build a three-wheeler with stepney. And you can see the cartoon here. Well they didn't build that. They built a proper car. Nano. And mind you, I'm six feet half an inch, Ratan is taller than me, and we have ample space in the front and ample space in the back in this particular car. And incredible car. And of course, nothing succeeds like success; the cynics then turned around, and one after the other they also started saying, ""Yes, we also want to make a car in the Nano Segment. We'll manufacture a car in the Nano Segment."" How did this great story unfold, the making of Nano? Let me tell you a bit about it. For example, how we started: Ratan just began with a five-engineer team, young people in their mid-twenties. And he said, ""Well, I won't define the vehicle for you, but I will define the cost for you. It is one lakh, 100,000 rupees, and you are to make it within that."" And he told them, ""Question the unquestionable. Stretch the envelope."" And at a point in time, he got so engrossed in the whole challenge, that he himself became a member of the team. Can you believe it? I still am told about this story of that single wiper design in which he participated. Until midnight, he'd be thinking. Early morning he'll be coming back with sort of solutions. But who was the team leader? The team leader was Girish Wagh, a 34 year-old boy in [unclear]. And the Nano team average age was just 27 years. And they did innovation in design and beyond. Broke many norms of the standard conventions for the first time. For example, that a two-cylinder gas engine was used in a car with a single balancer shaft. Adhesives were replacing the rivets. There was a co-creation, a huge co-creation, with vendors and suppliers. All ideas on board were welcome. 100 vendors were co-located adjacent to the plant, and innovative business models for automobile dealerships were developed. Imagine that a fellow who sells cloth, for example, will be selling Nano. I mean, it was incredible innovation. Seeking solutions for non-auto sectors. It was an open innovation, ideas from all over were welcome. The mechanism of helicopters seats and windows was used, by the way, as well as a dashboard that was inspired by two-wheelers. The fuel lines and lamps were as in two-wheelers. And the crux of the matter was, however, getting more from less. All the time, you have been given an envelope. You can't cross that envelope, which is 100,000 rupees, 2,000 dollars. And therefore, each component had to have a dual functionality. And the seat riser, for example, serving as a mounting for the seat as well as a structural part of the functional rigidity. Half the number of parts are contained in Nano in comparison to a typical passenger car. The length is smaller by eight percent by the way. But the current entry-level cars in comparison to that is eight percent less, but 21 percent more inside space. And what happened was that — more from less — you can see how much more for how much less. When the Model T was launched — and this is, by the way, all the figures that are adjusted to 2007 dollar prices — Model T was 19,700 by Ford. Volkswagon was 11,333. And British Motor was around 11,000. And Nano was, bang, 2,000 dollars. This is why you started actually a new paradigm shift, where the same people who could not dream of sitting in a car, who were carrying their entire family in a scooter, started dreaming of being in a car. And those dreams are getting fulfilled. This is a photograph of a house and a driver and a car near my own home. The driver's name is Naran. He has bought his own Nano. And you can see, there is a physical space that has been created for him, parking that car, along with the owner's car, but more importantly, they've created a space in their mind that ""Yes, my chauffeur is going to come in his own car and park it."" And that's why I call it a transformational innovation. It is not just technological, it is social innovation that we talk about. And that is where, ladies and gentlemen, this famous theme of getting more from less for more becomes important. I remember talking about this for the first time in Australia, about one and a half years ago, when their academy honored me with a fellowship. And unbelievably, in 40 years, I was the first Indian to be honored. And the title of my talk was therefore ""Indian innovation from Gandhi to Gandhian engineering."" And I titled this more from less for more and more people as Gandhian engineering. And Gandhian engineering, in my judgment, is the one which is going to take the world forward, is going to make a difference, not just for a few, but for everyone. Let me move from mobility in a car to individual mobility for those unfortunates who have lost their legs. Here is an American citizen and his son having an artificial foot. What is its price? 20,000 dollars. And of course, these feet are so designed that they can walk only on such perfect pavement or roads. Unfortunately, that's not the case in India. You can see him walk barefoot on an awkward land, sometimes in a marshy land, and so on and so forth. More importantly, they not only walk far to work, and not only do they cycle to work, but they cycle for work, as you can see here. And they climb up for their work. You have to design an artificial foot for such conditions. A challenge, of course. Four billion people, their incomes are less then two dollars a day. And if you talk about a 20,000-dollar shoe, you're talking about 10,000 days of income. You just don't have it. And therefore, you ought to look at alternatives. And that is how Jaipur Foot was created in India. It had a revolutionary prosthetic fitment and delivery system, a quick molding and modular components, enabling custom-made, on-the-spot limb fitments. You could feel it actually in an hour, by the way, whereas the equivalent other feet took something like a day, as so on. Outer socket made by using heated high-density polyethylene pipes, rather than using heated sheets. And unique high-ankle design and human-like looks, [unclear] and functions. And I like to show how it looks and how it works. (Music) See, he jumps. You can see what stress it must have. (Text: ... any person with a below the knee limb could do this. ... above the limb, yes, it would be difficult ... ""Did it hurt?"" ""No ... not at all."" ... he can run a kilometer in four minutes and 30 seconds ...) One kilometer in four minutes and 30 seconds. (Applause) So that's what it is all about. And therefore Time took notice of this 28-dollar foot, basically. (Applause) An incredible story. Let's move on to something else. I've been talking about getting more from less for more. Let's move to health. We've talked about mobility and the rest of it, let's talk about health. What's happening in the area of health? You know, you have new diseases that require new drugs. And if you look at the drug development 10 years ago and now, what has happened? 10 years ago, it used to cost about a quarter billion. Today it costs 1.5 billion dollars. Time taken for moving a molecule to marketplace, after all the human and animal testing, was 10 years, now it is 15 years. Are you getting more drugs because you are spending more time and more money? No, I'm sorry. We used to have 40, now they have come down to 30. So actually we are getting less from more for less and less people. Why less and less people? Because it is so expensive, so very few will be able to basically afford that. Let us just take an example. Psoriasis is very dreadful disease of the skin. The cost of treatment, 20,000 dollars. 1,000-dollar antibody injections under the skin, by the way, and 20 of them. Time for development — it took around 10 years and 700 million dollars. Let's start in the spirit of more from less and more for more and start putting some targets. For example, we don't want 20,000 dollars; we don't have it. Can we do it [for] 100 dollars? Time for development, not 10 years. We are in a hurry. Five years. Cost of development — 300 million dollars. Sorry. I can't spend more than 10 million dollars. Looks absolutely audacious. Looks absolutely ridiculous. You know something? This has been achieved in India. These targets have been achieved in India. And how they have been achieved ... Sir Francis Bacon once said, ""When you wish to achieve results that have not been achieved before, it is an unwise fancy to think that they can be achieved by using methods that have been used before."" And therefore, the standard process, where you develop a molecule, put it into mice, into men, are not yielding those results — the billions of dollars that have been spent. The Indian cleverness was using its traditional knowledge, however, scientifically validating it and making that journey from men to mice to men, not molecule to mice to men, you know. And that is how this difference has come. And you can see this blending of traditional medicine, modern medicine, modern science. I launched a big program [unclear] CSIR about nine years ago. He is giving us not just for Psoriasis, for cancer and a whole range of things, changing the whole paradigm. And you can see this Indian Psoriasis breakthrough obtained by this reverse form of [unclear] by doing things differently. You can see before treatment and after treatment. This is really getting more from less for more and more people, because these are all affordable treatments now. Let me just remind you of what Mahatma Gandhi had said. He had said, ""Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's need, but not every man's greed."" So the message he was giving us was you must get more from less and less and less so that you can share it for more and more people, not only the current generation, but the future generations. And he also said, ""I would prize every invention of science made for the benefit for all."" So he was giving you the message that you must have it for more and more people, not just a few people. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the theme, getting more from less for more. And mind you, it is not getting just a little more for just a little less. It's not about low cost. It's about ultra-low cost. You cannot say it's a mere treatment 10,000 dollars, but because you are poor I'll give it for 9,000. Sorry, it doesn't work. You have to give it for 100 dollars, 200 dollars. Is it possible? It has been made possible, by the way, for certain other different reasons. So you are not talking about low cost, you are talking about ultra-low cost. You are not talking about affordability, you are talking about extreme affordability. Because of the four billion people whose income is under two dollars a day. You're not talking exclusive innovation. You're talking about inclusive innovation. And therefore, you're not talking about incremental innovation, you're talking about disruptive innovation. The ideas have to be such that you think in completely different terms. And I would also add, it is not only getting more from less for more by more and more people, the whole world working for it. I was very touched when I saw a breakthrough the other day. You know, incubators for infants, for example. They're not available in Africa. They're not available in Indian villages. And infants die. And incubator costs 2,000 dollars. And there's a 25-dollar incubator giving that performance that had been created. And by whom? By young students from Standford University on an extreme affordability project that they had, basically. Their heart is in the right place, like Ratan Tata. It's not just innovation, compassion and passion — compassion in the heart and passion in the belly. That's the new world that we want to create. And that is why the message is that of Gandhian engineering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to end before time. I was also afraid of those 18 minutes. I've still one and a half to go. The message, the final message, is this: India gave a great gift to the world. What was that? [In the] 20th century, we gave Gandhi to the world. The 21st century gift, which is very, very important for the whole world, whether it is global economic meltdown, whether it is climate change — any problem that you talk about is gaining more from less for more and more — not only the current generations, for the future generations. And that can come only from Gandhian engineering. So ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to announce, this gift of the 21st century to the world from India, Gandhian engineering. (Applause) Lakshmi Pratury: Thank you, Dr. Mashelkar. (R.A. Mashelkar: Thank you very much.) LP: A quick question for you. Now, when you were a young boy in this school, what were your thoughts, like what did you think you could become? What do you think that drove you? Was there a vision you had? What is it that drove you? RAM: I'll tell you a story that drove me, that transformed my life. I remember, I went to a poor school, because my mother could not gather the 21 rupees, that half a dollar that was required within the stipulated time. It was [unclear] high school. But it was a poor school with rich teachers, honestly. And one of them was [unclear] who taught us physics. One day he took us out into the sun and tried to show us how to find the focal length of a convex lens. The lens was here. The piece of paper was there. He moved it up and down. And there was a bright spot up there. And then he said, ""This is the focal length."" But then he held it for a little while, Lakshmi. And then the paper burned. When the paper burned, for some reason he turned to me, and he said, ""Mashelkar, like this, if you do not diffuse your energies, if you focus your energies, you can achieve anything in the world."" That gave me a great message: focus and you can achieve. I said, ""Whoa, science is so wonderful, I have to become a scientist."" But more importantly, focus and you can achieve. And that message, very frankly, is valuable for society today. What does that focal length do? It has parallel lines, which are sun rays. And the property of parallel lines is that they never meet. What does that convex lens do? It makes them meet. This is convex lens leadership. You know what today's leadership is doing? Concave length. They divide them farther. So I learned the lesson of convex lens leadership from that. And when I was at National Chemical Laboratory [unclear]. When I was at Council of Scientific Industry Research — 40 laboratories — when two laboratories were not talking to each other, I would [unclear]. And currently I'm president of Global Research Alliance, 60,000 scientists in nine counties, right from India to the U.S. I'm trying to build a global team, which will look at the global grand challenges that the world is facing. That was the lesson. That was the inspirational moment. LP: Thank you very much. (RAM: Thank you.) (Applause)"	"可以遺留下來的東西總是有價值的我們總是試著去獲取金錢的價值而在我們創造金錢價值的時候我們所沒有做到的是追求大眾的價值我們是否曾關心那些每天收入不到2元美金的40億人口也就是所謂的金字塔底層的人們？在我們獲取金錢的價值，也同時去爭取大眾價值的時候其中所產生的挑戰是什麼？在此我們將以性能和價格的角度來闡述這個議題如果你擁有金錢，理所當然你可以獲得價值你可以用很高的價錢去買一部賓士車它有非常優異的性能但是如果你沒有錢的話,那會怎樣？那你就必須騎著腳踏車承載你自己的重量，加上其他物品的重量這樣你才可以賺取日常所需的麵包儘管貧窮不會永遠保持貧窮他們可以變成中低階層如果真的可以這樣那生活的條件就得以改善然後他們就開始騎摩托車然而同樣地，其中的挑戰是他們並沒有獲得太多的價值因為他們無法負擔其他價錢超過摩托車的東西問題是，在這個價格之下你是否可以給予他們額外的價值？那是一種超級的價值讓他們可以藉由開車而獲得尊嚴、獲得安全這看起來在實務上並不可行，不是嗎？ 接下來這就是我們在印度的街頭上常常可以看到的景象但是許多人看到同樣的事情之後然後產生有不同的想法其中之一便是Ratan Tata我們的領導人有一件為大的事蹟就是他們不只要有滿腹的熱情實際上他們都是這樣做另一方面, 他們還非常有創造性所謂創造者就是那些不知道事情無法完成的人他們相信事情可以完成但是像Ratan這樣的偉大領導人懷抱著熱情豐盛女神Lakshmi，您所說的話是百分之百正確的不只是 Ratan Tata還有整個Tatas之家讓我們來看一下她說過的話直到12歲以前我都是光著赤腳我每天都要和環境對抗對我來說那是一件很大的事情後來當我完成SSC,第11等級的時候我在12萬5千名學生中排名第11但是我卻必須離開學校因為貧窮的母親無法負擔讓我繼續上學的費用後來是Tata 信託每個月提供給我6盧比那幾乎是每個月1元美金，連續提供6年那也是我今天可以站在大家面前的原因這就是Tata之家鼓掌創新,憐憫與熱情他們將這些結合起來 然而憐憫, 卻也造成他們的困擾因為當他看到— 事實上, 他在大概在8,9年前跟我提起他那時開著自己的車在路上開著車然後他看到有一家子的人, 就像我剛剛給各位看的在傾盆大雨中全身濕透, 其中還包括一個小嬰兒他那時想, ""嗯, 我一定要給他們一部他們負擔得起的車子""一部價錢10萬盧筆的車子,換算後是2000美元想當然爾, 當你談到這種事情時人們會立刻說, 這是不可能達成的Suzuki當時就這樣講的他說, 喔, 他們大概是要建造一輛三輪摩托車吧！我們來看看這部卡通他們並沒有建造一輛三輪摩托車！他們做了一台適合的汽車,名為Nano.提醒你們, 我的身高有6英尺半英吋而Ratan則比我還高當我們在這輛特別的車裡的時候我們的頭頂還有很充裕的空間,背後也有充裕的空間這是一部很棒的車當然, 沒有什麼事情比成功更加成功接著諷刺者出現了一個接著一個他們開始說""是的,我們也要在Nano的市場區隔裡做一輛車我們也要在Nano的市場區隔裡生產一輛車"""" 在這個這個偉大的故事裡他們是如何呈現Nano的製作過程？讓我來稍微透露一點端倪例如說,這一切是如開始的起初Ratan跟一個5人工程師團隊大概25歲左右的年輕人他說我將不會給你們車子的定義但我會界定出成本成本是10萬盧比而你們必須在這個成本之內做出車子來他也告訴他們去質疑原本不容質疑的事情去延伸極限在某個時間點上他全神貫注地去面對所有的挑戰以致於他自己也變成了團隊中的一員你能相信嗎？到現在他仍在告訴我有關他參與了其中一個刮水器設計的故事他徹夜思考隔天一早他就會帶著答案回來但誰是這個團隊的領導者呢？團隊的領導者是Girish Wagh一個34歲的男生而這個Nano團隊的平均年齡是27歲 由他們從事設計及其他的創新這是有史以來第一次打破傳統的標準規範例如, 裝置在平衡軸上的雙汽缸的汽油引擎用黏著劑代替鉚釘那是一個賣家和供應商之間的一種共同創造, 一個龐大的共同創造歡迎所有被提出來的點子100個供應商在工廠裡共同努力另一方面,也發展了創新的汽車經銷模式想像一下有一個人原本在賣衣服，現在要轉行銷售Nano我的意思是, 這是一個很棒的創舉為非汽車產業的人尋找答案這是一個開放性的創新歡迎所有的點子對了, 連直昇機的座位和窗戶設計也用上了另外還有儀表板這個靈感是來自於兩輪車我們用的燃料管線及燈座與兩輪車使用的一樣 然而,事情的關鍵是從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西一直以來, 我們一直處在既定的限制下我們無法跨越限制那就是10萬盧比,也就是2000美元因此,每一個零件都必須有雙重的功能以座位升降器來說除了可以用來固定座椅它本身也是功能結構的一部份相較於傳統的客車Nano涵蓋了半數的零件但車子的長度卻少了8％相較於市面上的入門款汽車它的長度少8％卻多了21％的車內空間 這就是所謂的從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西你可以發現因為減少而可以增加多少東西當福特的Model T剛推出的時候如果把數字調整成2007年的價格水準價格是1萬9千7百元福斯是1萬1千3百3十3元British Motor大概是1萬1千元而Nano, 只有2千元這就是為什麼我們開啟了一個新的典範移轉在其中原本不敢夢想可以坐在車子裡的人們原本必須在摩托車上擠著全家人的人們開始可以想著坐在車子裡的景象這些夢想已經開始實現了在這張照片裡是在我家附近的一間房子, 一位駕駛者和一輛車駕駛的名字是Naran他買了屬於他自己的Nano我們可以看到,他擁有一個為他創造的實體空間和擁有者的著車子一樣去把那輛車停好但更重要的是在他們心裡的一個空間""我的司機將要進到車子裡然後去停車""這就是為什麼我稱它為一種轉變性的創新這不只是技術上的我們在講的是一種社會性的創新 女士先生們,這就是從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西這個著名的主題變得重要的原因我記得當我在澳洲第一次談論這個主題的時候那大概是1年半以前當他們給我學術研究金的榮耀時難以置信的是,40年以來我是第一位接受這份榮耀的印度人我演講的標題是""印度式的創新,從甘地到甘地主義工程""我把這個標題""從較少的基礎上去獲得更多東西""定義為甘地主義工程甘地主義工程, 在我的判斷裡是一種引領世界向前走然後去創造差異不是為了少數人, 而是為了每一個人讓我從車子的移動跳到那些失去雙腳而不幸的人他們的個人移動問題這是一位美國人以及他那裝義肢的兒子價錢是多少呢？ 2萬美金這些義肢經過特殊的設計他們只能行走在非常平整的路面或道路上 不幸的是, 印度的道路並非如此可以看到他赤腳走在荊棘的道路上, 有時候是在沼澤地諸如此類更重要的是他們不只是走路去上班騎腳踏車也是一樣就像我們可以看到的,他們騎腳踏車是為了工作他們為了工作而努力往上爬為了因應這種狀況,我們必須設計人工義肢當然,這是一項挑戰有40億的人口, 他們的每日收入少於2元美金如果是每一個價值2萬美元的鞋子那就是1萬天的工作收入根本無法負擔因此我們必須思考其他的替代方案 這也是印度Jaipur義肢的由來它具備了革命性的義肢裝置及傳達系統配件的模具可以快速製造,一種可以客製化, 立即裝置的肢體裝備事實上,我們可以在一小時之內完成而其他同等級的義肢卻要花上一天以上的時間外部的底座是用加熱過的高密度聚乙烯管子所打造的而非使用一般加熱過的薄板另外還有獨特的高腳踝設計, 以及和人體看起來一樣的外觀以及其他功能我想展示一下它的外觀以及它是如何使用的音樂這個人跳了起來, 可以見得它足以承受壓力 任何裝上這個人工膝蓋的人都可以做到在這個義肢上面, 顯得有點困難容易受傷嗎？一點都不會他可以在4分30秒之內跑完1公里 4分30秒之內跑完1公里鼓掌這就是它的故事因此基本上, 時間注意到了這個28元美金的義肢鼓掌這是一個了不起的故事 讓我們來看看別的東西我剛剛談到從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西,然後帶給更多的人接下來讓我們來談健康議題我們談到移動性以及相關的議題,讓我們套用在健康上在健康的領域上發生什麼事呢？我們會新的疾病出現,這時就需要有新的藥物如果我們觀察10年前和現在對於藥物的研發可以有什麼發現呢？10年前, 通常得花上2.5億美元現在要15億美元要把化學分子帶到市場上, 需要花費一點時間要經過人體和動物的測試過去是10年,現在要等上15年因為要花更多的時間和金錢,所以才會需要更多的藥物嗎？不是的以前需要40種,現在減少為30種所以事實上, 我們是""較多""的基礎上去獲得較少東西,給越來越少的人使用為什麼說是越來越少的人呢？ 因為價錢很昂貴所以只有少數人買得起 我來舉一個例子人們非常害怕牛皮癬它一種皮膚病治療的成本需要2萬元美金在皮下注射抗體需要1千元總共需要20次開發的時間— 大概花費10年的時間以及7億美元讓我們從精神開始談起""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西, 然後散佈更多的人以及開始設定目標例如,我們不要2萬元美金, 因為我們根本沒有那麼多錢那我們可以用100元的標準來製造嗎？至於開發的時間, 無法有10年那麼長我們的時間緊迫, 只能有5年開發的成本— 3億美元很抱歉！ 我無法花超過1千萬美金這樣的論點看起來相當大膽相當的荒謬 但是你們知道嗎？在印度我們已經做到了這些目標我們已經在印度達成了是如何達成呢？Francis Bacon先生曾經說過當你想要達成過往未曾達成的目標時如果你以為繼續使用過往的老方法就可以做到的話那是非常不智的想法因此, 以前的標準程序開發一種化學分子,然後在老鼠、人體上做測試將無法產生那些新的結果徒然花費數十億美元印度人聰明地使用他們傳統的知識然而仍須科學上的驗證把過程變成從人體,到老鼠,再到人體而非傳統上從老鼠到人體這就是差異的所在這個過程混合了傳統醫學,現代醫學以及現代科學在九年前我發動了一個名為CSIR的計畫不只是牛皮癬還有癌症,和其他的東西, 因而改變了整個典範我們可以看到在印度牛皮癬爆發後我們藉由不同的作法透過這個反向的程序而控制病情我們可以看到治療前後差異這就是從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西,然後帶給更多的人因為這些東西現在都是人們可以負擔得起的 我想提醒一下各位聖雄甘地曾經說過的話他說""地球所提供的資源足以滿足每個人都需求,但無法滿足每個人的貪婪""所以他傳達給我們的訊息是我們必須在較少的基礎上去獲取更多所以我們可以分享給越來越多的人並非僅限於這一個世代還要包括未來的世世代代他也曾說我要讚美每一個帶給人們福祉的科學發明所以他給我們的訊息是,我們必須把福祉傳播給更多的人而非少數特定的人因此, 女士先生們就是這個主題""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西, 然後散佈更多的人我必須提醒這不是在講一點點這不是在講低成本這是在講超低成本不能說這種治療只需要1萬美元但是因為貧窮, 我只能付出9千美元很抱歉,這種方式無效！ 我們必須設定在100或200美元這種事情可能發生嗎？因為幾項不同的原因, 我已經讓它變成可能了這不是在講低成本,這是在講超低成本這不只要讓人負擔得起而是要讓人們輕易就可以的到他們需要的東西因為有40億的人口,他們的每日收入不及2美元這不是一種獨佔的創新這是一種普遍化的創新因此,這不是一種漸進式的創新而是一種快速的破壞性創新想法必須很新穎所以我們得用完全不同的角度去思考我想再補充一點這不只是從""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西, 然後散佈更多的人而且要有越來越多的人來參與這個活動,整個世界都應該來努力 有一天,我看到一個突破而非常地感動例如嬰兒保溫箱在非洲並沒有這種東西在印度的偏遠村落裡你也找不到許多嬰兒因此夭折而一個保溫箱要價2千美元然後有一種要價僅25美元的保溫箱也具備所有的功能誰發明的呢？來自一群史丹福大學的年輕學生在他們所參與的一個計畫中所發明的像Ratan Tata一樣,他們的心處於正確的位置這不僅是創新,執著和熱情的表現還有慈悲心和滿腹的熱情那是一個我們想要創造的新世界也是甘地主義工程想要傳達的訊息 女士先生們,在時間用完前我必須結束演講我擔心會超過18分鐘現在還剩下1分半鐘最後我想講的是印度給了這個世界一個美好的禮物是什麼呢？20在世紀時,我們有甘地而21世紀的禮物對於世界來說是非常重要的不論是全球經濟的崩潰還是氣候的變遷或任何我們討論的問題""較少""的基礎上去獲得更多東西, 然後散佈更多的人不只為了現在的這一個世代也為了未來的世世代代這個訊息只來自甘地主義工程所以,女士先生們,我很高興的宣布印度在21世界帶給世界的禮物就是甘地主義工程 鼓掌 Lakshmi Pratury:謝謝你, Mashelkar博士 LP:問你一個小問題當你是一個學校裡的小朋友你在思考什麼？你想變成什麼樣子的人？是什麼樣的想法驅使你？是某個願景驅使你前進的嗎？ RAM: 我要告訴你一個驅動我的故事, 那件事也改變我的一生我記得, 我上的學校非常貧困因為我的母親無法在規定的時間裡準備好21盧比也就是0.5美元那是一所高中坦白說,學校很貧窮, 裡面的老師卻很富有其中有一位教我物理學的老師有一天他帶著我們教導我們如何找出凸透鏡的焦距這裡是凸透鏡. 那裡是紙張. 他上下移動著然後產生的一個光亮的點接著他說,這就是焦距接著他保持不動一會兒那張紙就燃燒起來當那張紙燃燒起來的時候, 他回頭看我然後說, ""Mashelkar, 就像這張紙一樣如果你可以不讓你的能量分散而專注在你的能量上面你就可以完成世界上所有的事情""這件事情給我一個很重要的訊息：專注就可以達成目標我說""哇！科學是如此美好我想要成為科學家""但更重要的是,專注就可以達成目標坦白說,那個訊息對於現今的社會來說是非常可貴的 焦距是用來做什麼的呢？它擁有平行的光線而平行線的特性是它們永不交會凸透鏡是用來做什麼的呢？它可以讓平行線交會這就是凸透鏡式領導你知道現在的領導在做些什麼嗎？凹透鏡！他們將光線分得更開更遠我從這件事情學習到凸透鏡式領導當我在國家實驗室的時候當我在科學產業研究委員會的時候共有40個實驗室,其中有兩個實驗室彼此不相往來我..(不明)現在我是全球研究聯盟的主席從印度到美國,總共有6萬位科學家分佈在九個國家裡我常試著去建立起一支全球性的團隊將焦點聚集在現今全球所面臨的重大挑戰這是我們要學習的地方,也是一個振奮人心的時刻 謝謝大家 鼓掌"
