Talk	en	zh-tw
rachel_botsman_the_currency_of_the_new_economy_is_trust	"So if someone asked you for the three words that would sum up your reputation, what would you say? How would people describe your judgment, your knowledge, your behaviors, in different situations? Today I'd like to explore with you why the answer to this question will become profoundly important in an age where reputation will be your most valuable asset. I'd like to start by introducing you to someone whose life has been changed by a marketplace fueled by reputation. Sebastian Sandys has been a bed and breakfast host on Airbnb since 2008. I caught up with him recently, where, over the course of several cups of tea, he told me how hosting guests from all over the world has enriched his life. More than 50 people have come to stay in the 18th-century watchhouse he lives in with his cat, Squeak. Now, I mention Squeak because Sebastian's first guest happened to see a rather large mouse run across the kitchen, and she promised that she would refrain from leaving a bad review on one condition: he got a cat. And so Sebastian bought Squeak to protect his reputation. Now, as many of you know, Airbnb is a peer-to-peer marketplace that matches people who have space to rent with people who are looking for a place to stay in over 192 countries. The places being rented out are things that you might expect, like spare rooms and holiday homes, but part of the magic is the unique places that you can now access: treehouses, teepees, airplane hangars, igloos. If you don't like the hotel, there's a castle down the road that you can rent for 5,000 dollars a night. It's a fantastic example of how technology is creating a market for things that never had a marketplace before. Now let me show you these heat maps of Paris to see how insanely fast it's growing. This image here is from 2008. The pink dots represent host properties. Even four years ago, letting strangers stay in your home seemed like a crazy idea. Now the same view in 2010. And now, 2012. There is an Airbnb host on almost every main street in Paris. Now, what's happening here is people are realizing the power of technology to unlock the idling capacity and value of all kinds of assets, from skills to spaces to material possessions, in ways and on a scale never possible before. It's an economy and culture called collaborative consumption, and, through it, people like Sebastian are becoming micro-entrepreneurs. They're empowered to make money and save money from their existing assets. But the real magic and the secret source behind collaborative consumption marketplaces like Airbnb isn't the inventory or the money. It's using the power of technology to build trust between strangers. This side of Airbnb really hit home to Sebastian last summer during the London riots. He woke up around 9, and he checked his email and he saw a bunch of messages all asking him if he was okay. Former guests from around the world had seen that the riots were happening just down the street, and wanted to check if he needed anything. Sebastian actually said to me, he said, ""Thirteen former guests contacted me before my own mother rang."" (Laughter) Now, this little anecdote gets to the heart of why I'm really passionate about collaborative consumption, and why, after I finished my book, I decided I'm going to try and spread this into a global movement. Because at its core, it's about empowerment. It's about empowering people to make meaningful connections, connections that are enabling us to rediscover a humanness that we've lost somewhere along the way, by engaging in marketplaces like Airbnb, like Kickstarter, like Etsy, that are built on personal relationships versus empty transactions. Now the irony is that these ideas are actually taking us back to old market principles and collaborative behaviors that are hard-wired in all of us. They're just being reinvented in ways that are relevant for the Facebook age. We're literally beginning to realize that we have wired our world to share, swap, rent, barter or trade just about anything. We're sharing our cars on WhipCar, our bikes on Spinlister, our offices on Loosecubes, our gardens on Landshare. We're lending and borrowing money from strangers on Zopa and Lending Club. We are trading lessons on everything from sushi-making to coding on Skillshare, and we're even sharing our pets on DogVacay. Now welcome to the wonderful world of collaborative consumption that's enabling us to match wants with haves in more democratic ways. Now, collaborative consumption is creating the start of a transformation in the way we think about supply and demand, but it's also a part of a massive value shift underway, where instead of consuming to keep up with the Joneses, people are consuming to get to know the Joneses. But the key reason why it's taking off now so fast is because every new advancement of technology increases the efficiency and the social glue of trust to make sharing easier and easier. Now, I've looked at thousands of these marketplaces, and trust and efficiency are always the critical ingredients. Let me give you an example. Meet 46-year-old Chris Mok, who has, I bet, the best job title here of SuperRabbit. Now, four years ago, Chris lost his job, unfortunately, as an art buyer at Macy's, and like so many people, he struggled to find a new one during the recession. And then he happened to stumble across a post about TaskRabbit. Now, the story behind TaskRabbit starts like so many great stories with a very cute dog by the name of Kobe. Now what happened was, in February 2008, Leah and her husband were waiting for a cab to take them out for dinner, when Kobe came trotting up to them and he was salivating with saliva. They realized they'd run out of dog food. Kevin had to cancel the cab and trudge out in the snow. Now, later that evening, the two self-confessed tech geeks starting talking about how cool it would be if some kind of eBay for errands existed. Six months later, Leah quit her job, and TaskRabbit was born. At the time, she didn't realize that she was actually hitting on a bigger idea she later called service networking. It's essentially about how we use our online relationships to get things done in the real world. Now the way TaskRabbit works is, people outsource the tasks that they want doing, name the price they're willing to pay, and then vetted Rabbits bid to run the errand. Yes, there's actually a four-stage, rigorous interview process that's designed to find the people that would make great personal assistants and weed out the dodgy Rabbits. Now, there's over 4,000 Rabbits across the United States and 5,000 more on the waiting list. Now the tasks being posted are things that you might expect, like help with household chores or doing some supermarket runs. I actually learned the other day that 12 and a half thousand loads of laundry have been cleaned and folded through TaskRabbit. But I love that the number one task posted, over a hundred times a day, is something that many of us have felt the pain of doing: yes, assembling Ikea furniture. (Laughter) (Applause) It's brilliant. Now, we may laugh, but Chris here is actually making up to 5,000 dollars a month running errands around his life. And 70 percent of this new labor force were previously unemployed or underemployed. I think TaskRabbit and other examples of collaborative consumption are like lemonade stands on steroids. They're just brilliant. Now, when you think about it, it's amazing, right, that over the past 20 years, we've evolved from trusting people online to share information to trusting to handing over our credit card information, and now we're entering the third trust wave: connecting trustworthy strangers to create all kinds of people-powered marketplaces. I actually came across this fascinating study by the Pew Center this week that revealed that an active Facebook user is three times as likely as a non-Internet user to believe that most people are trustworthy. Virtual trust will transform the way we trust one another face to face. Now, with all of my optimism, and I am an optimist, comes a healthy dose of caution, or rather, an urgent need to address some pressing, complex questions. How to ensure our digital identities reflect our real world identities? Do we want them to be the same? How do we mimic the way trust is built face-to-face online? How do we stop people who've behaved badly in one community doing so under a different guise? In a similar way that companies often use some kind of credit rating to decide whether to give you a mobile plan, or the rate of a mortgage, marketplaces that depend on transactions between relative strangers need some kind of device to let you know that Sebastian and Chris are good eggs, and that device is reputation. Reputation is the measurement of how much a community trusts you. Let's just take a look at Chris. You can see that over 200 people have given him an average rating over 4.99 out of 5. There are over 20 pages of reviews of his work describing him as super-friendly and fast, and he's reached level 25, the highest level, making him a SuperRabbit. Now — (Laughter) — I love that word, SuperRabbit. And interestingly, what Chris has noted is that as his reputation has gone up, so has his chances of winning a bid and how much he can charge. In other words, for SuperRabbits, reputation has a real world value. Now, I know what you might be thinking. Well, this isn't anything new. Just think of power sellers on eBay or star ratings on Amazon. The difference today is that, with every trade we make, comment we leave, person we flag, badge we earn, we leave a reputation trail of how well we can and can't be trusted. And it's not just the breadth but the volume of reputation data out there that is staggering. Just consider this: Five million nights have been booked on Airbnb in the past six months alone. 30 million rides have been shared on Carpooling.com. This year, two billion dollars worth of loans will go through peer-to-peer lending platforms. This adds up to millions of pieces of reputation data on how well we behave or misbehave. Now, capturing and correlating the trails of information that we leave in different places is a massive challenge, but one we're being asked to figure out. What the likes of Sebastian are starting to rightfully ask is, shouldn't they own their reputation data? Shouldn't the reputation that he's personally invested on building on Airbnb mean that it should travel with him from one community to another? What I mean by this is, say he started selling second-hand books on Amazon. Why should he have to start from scratch? It's a bit like when I moved from New York to Sydney. It was ridiculous. I couldn't get a mobile phone plan because my credit history didn't travel with me. I was essentially a ghost in the system. Now I'm not suggesting that the next stage of the reputation economy is about adding up multiple ratings into some kind of empty score. People's lives are too complex, and who wants to do that? I also want to be clear that this isn't about adding up tweets and likes and friends in a clout-like fashion. Those guys are measuring influence, not behaviors that indicate our trustworthiness. But the most important thing that we have to keep in mind is that reputation is largely contextual. Just because Sebastian is a wonderful host does not mean that he can assemble Ikea furniture. The big challenge is figuring out what data makes sense to pull, because the future's going to be driven by a smart aggregation of reputation, not a single algorithm. It's only a matter of time before we'll be able to perform a Facebook- or Google-like search and see a complete picture of someone's behaviors in different contexts over time. I envision a realtime stream of who has trusted you, when, where and why, your reliability on TaskRabbit, your cleanliness as a guest on Airbnb, the knowledge that you display on Quora or [unclear], they'll all live together in one place, and this will live in some kind of reputation dashboard that will paint a picture of your reputation capital. Now this is a concept that I'm currently researching and writing my next book on, and currently define as the worth of your reputation, your intentions, capabilities and values across communities and marketplaces. This isn't some far-off frontier. There are actually a wave of startups like Connect.Me and Legit and TrustCloud that are figuring out how you can aggregate, monitor and use your online reputation. Now, I realize that this concept may sound a little Big Brother to some of you, and yes, there are some enormous transparency and privacy issues to solve, but ultimately, if we can collect our personal reputation, we can actually control it more, and extract the immense value that will flow from it. Also, more so than our credit history, we can actually shape our reputation. Just think of Sebastian and how he bought the cat to influence his. Now privacy issues aside, the other really interesting issue I'm looking at is how do we empower digital ghosts, people [who] for whatever reason, are not active online, but are some of the most trustworthy people in the world? How do we take their contributions to their jobs, their communities and their families, and convert that value into reputation capital? Ultimately, when we get it right, reputation capital could create a massive positive disruption in who has power, trust and influence. A three-digit score, your traditional credit history, that only 30 percent of us actually know what it is, will no longer be the determining factor in how much things cost, what we can access, and, in many instances, limit what we can do in the world. Indeed, reputation is a currency that I believe will become more powerful than our credit history in the 21st century. Reputation will be the currency that says that you can trust me. Now the interesting thing is, reputation is the socioeconomic lubricant that makes collaborative consumption work and scale, but the sources it will be generated from, and its applications, are far bigger than this space alone. Let me give you one example from the world of recruiting, where reputation data will make the résumé seem like an archaic relic of the past. Four years ago, tech bloggers and entrepreneurs Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood, decided to start something called Stack Overflow. Now, Stack Overflow is basically a platform where experienced programmers can ask other good programmers highly detailed technical questions on things like tiny pixels and chrome extensions. This site receives five and a half thousand questions a day, and 80 percent of these receive accurate answers. Now users earn reputation in a whole range of ways, but it's basically by convincing their peers they know what they're talking about. Now a few months after this site launched, the founders heard about something interesting, and it actually didn't surprise them. What they heard was that users were putting their reputation scores on the top of their résumés, and that recruiters were searching the platform to find people with unique talents. Now thousands of programmers today are finding better jobs this way, because Stack Overflow and the reputation dashboards provide a priceless window into how someone really behaves, and what their peers think of them. But the bigger principle of what's happening behind Stack Overflow, I think, is incredibly exciting. People are starting to realize that the reputation they generate in one place has value beyond the environments from which it was built. You know, it's very interesting. When you talk to super-users, whether that's SuperRabbits or super-people on Stack Overflow, or Uberhosts, they all talk about how having a high reputation unlocks a sense of their own power. On Stack Overflow, it creates a level playing field, enabling the people with the real talent to rise to the top. On Airbnb, the people often become more important than the spaces. On TaskRabbit, it gives people control of their economic activity. Now at the end of my tea with Sebastian, he told me how, on a bad, rainy day, when he hasn't had a customer in his bookstore, he thinks of all the people around the world who've said something wonderful about him, and what that says about him as a person. He's turning 50 this year, and he's convinced that the rich tapestry of reputation he's built on Airbnb will lead him to doing something interesting with the rest of his life. You know, there are only a few windows in history where the opportunity exists to reinvent part of how our socioeconomic system works. We're living through one of those moments. I believe that we are at the start of a collaborative revolution that will be as significant as the Industrial Revolution. In the 20th century, the invention of traditional credit transformed our consumer system, and in many ways controlled who had access to what. In the 21st century, new trust networks, and the reputation capital they generate, will reinvent the way we think about wealth, markets, power and personal identity, in ways we can't yet even imagine. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	如果有人要你用三個詞來總括你自己的名望你會用哪些詞？他們會怎樣看你在不同處境下的判斷、知識、和行為？今天，我想與你們一起探索為甚麼這問題的答案變得至為重要為甚麼這問題的答案變得至為重要在一個信譽是你最有價值資產的年代 我想先介紹你們認識一個人他的生活因為一個由信譽主導的市場產生了改變賽巴斯汀桑迪斯(Sebastian Sandys)開了一家民宿從2008年開始便通過Airbnb網站經營我最近認識了他一次跟他喝茶時他告訴我藉着招待世界各地來的客人如何豐富了他的生活已有超過50人入住於他跟家貓史奎克(Squeak)共住由18世紀哨房所改建的民宿我要提到史奎克(Squeak), 因為他民宿的第一位客人發現一隻碩大的老鼠在他的廚房內跑過後來她答應不留下負面評語但條件是，他要養一隻貓於是賽巴斯汀桑迪斯(Sebastian Sandys)為保聲譽買下了史奎克(Squeak) 眾所皆知的是Airbnb是一個由客戶互相推介遍及192個國家以上的市場平台把有地方出租的人與找尋住宿的人撮合起來這些出租的地方跟你期待的民宿一樣有多出的房間和給人渡假的旅館但它們奇妙之處在於你現在可以入住一些獨特的地方：如樹屋、 印第安帳篷飛機庫、雪屋如果你不想住酒店，往前走便有一座城堡你可以用5000租住一晚這是一個很好的例子說明科技如何為從未有市場的東西創造市場平台 現在我想給你們看這些巴黎的熱點地圖看看這些市場如何成長性狂飆這是2008年的影像粉紅色的點代表經營民宿的房子即使四年前，讓陌生人留宿你家會令人覺得難以想像這是2010年的同一影像這幅是2012年的巴黎每條大街幾乎都有Airbnb的經營者現在人們已開始發現科技的力量可以釋放閑置的生產力和不同類型資產的價值不論是技能、空間或物質資產都能以前所未有的方式和規模釋放出來這是一種名之為協同消費的經濟和文化透過它，像賽巴斯汀(Sebastian)這樣的人都成為微型創業者他們的固有的資產可以被強化用於賺錢和儲錢之途 但在如Airbnb這些平台的協同消費其背後的真正魔力和秘密源頭不是那些存貨或金錢而是利用科技的力量令陌生人互相信任賽巴斯汀(Sebastian)在去年夏天倫敦發生暴亂期間才真正理解Airbnb這方面的作用他一天早上九時醒來查看電郵他看到一連串電郵全都問他是否安好世界各地的前度客人看到暴亂就在他那條街上發生都發電郵問他是否有甚麼需要賽巴斯汀(Sebastian)向我訴說「共有13位前度客人在媽媽打來之前就已聯絡了他」 這件事說中了為甚麼我那麼熱衷於協同消費和為甚麼我寫完我那本書後決定把這模式推廣為全球運動因為它的核心就在於賦權它促使人們創造有意義的結連這些結連讓我們去重新發現我們已失落的人性讓人參予Airbnb、Kickstarter、Etsy等市場空間這些空間所建基的是人與人的關係而不是空洞的交易 弔詭的是這些想法的確把我們帶回在我們裏面根深蒂固的古舊市場原則和協作行為它們只不過是在臉書世代以適切的模式給再發明出來我們的確才開始了解我們已把世界連結起來可以分享、交換、租賃或交易任何東西我們在WhipCar上共用車子在Spinlister上分享單車、Loosecubes上共用辦公室Landshare上分享園圃、在Zopah和Lending Club上向和給陌生人借錢我們可以在Skillshare交換任何課堂從做壽司到如何做程式編碼我們甚至在DogVacay與人共享寵物歡迎大家來到協同消費這個奇妙世界它以更民主的方式撮合不同人的需求和供給 協同消費引發了一次改革改變我們對供需面的想法它也是進行中的巨大價值轉移的一部份人們不再為追上潮流而消費他們要消費才知道甚麼是潮流這轉變發生得這麼快的主要原因是因為每項新科技的出現都加強了信任的效率和信任對社會的凝聚使得互相分享變得越加容易 我已研究過數以千計這些市場發現信任和效率是不可或缺的因素讓我給大家一個例子這位是46歲的克力斯莫克(Chris Mok)我猜，現在他的職銜「超級兔」是全派遣兔公司(Taskrabbit)最好的四年前克力斯(Chris)不幸地失業了他是美詩百貨(Macy's)的藝術品採購，像許多人一樣他努力地要在不景氣期間找新工作他碰巧遇到一份在派遣兔(Taskrabbit)公司的工作 這間派遣兔公司(Taskrabbit)背後的故事跟很多其他故事一樣由一隻名叫高比(Kobe)的可愛小狗開始故事發生於2008年二月莉亞和她丈夫在等計程車接他們外出晚餐時高比蹓躂到他們面前嘴角流着口水他們發現家中狗糧已吃光了於是凱文取消了計程車冒着大雪蹣跚地走出去那天晚上，這兩個自嘲為科技怪咖的人談到如果eBay可以提供一些跑腿服務那有多好談到如果eBay可以提供一些跑腿服務那有多好六個月後，莉亞辭掉了工作接着派遣兔(Taskrabbit)誕生了那時她還沒有意識到她無意中巧巧遇上一個她後來稱之為「服務網絡」的大生意這生意的要訣在於如何運用我們的線上關係在現實世界中完成一些工作 現時派遣兔(Taskrabbit)的運作模式是有人想外包他們想要做的工作說出他們願付的價錢然後交由兔群們替他們服務那些兔子要經過一個四階段的嚴謹面試目的是找出那些出色的個人助理和除掉那些只會躲賴的人現時全美國有超過4000名兔子超過5000人在後備名單上 那些張貼出來的都是些意料之中的工作像幫助家務或到超市購物跑腿我後來發現原來有一萬二千五百籃子的衣服是經由工作兔送往清洗與摺疊但我喜愛那最多人張貼的工作每天超過100人張貼它是不少人都感到痛苦的工作是的，就是組合宜家宜居(IKEA)的傢俱真的棒極了。我們也許會笑，但克力斯(Chris)每月所賺的5000元就是靠替人服務而得的這勞動力中有百分之七十的人之前都是失業或就業不足的人我覺得工作兔和其他協同消費的例子就像以檸檬汁對付類固醇那樣。真是棒極了。 大家想想看，這真的很奇妙，對吧對去二十年來我們從信任線上的人到互相分享資訊演化至交出我們信用卡的資料現在我們進入了信任的第三波把值得信任的陌生人連繫起來去創造出各種各樣以人為動力的市場空間我這個星期才在皮優研究中心(Pew Center)發現這份令人着迷的報告就是活躍的臉書使用者較非網際網路使用者三倍於認為大部份是都是可靠的虛擬的信任會變了我們要面對面才互相信任的態度 隨着我的樂觀態度，而我是樂觀主義者出現了一定程度健康的審慎可以說出現了解決一些緊急、複雜問題的迫切需要如何確保我們的數位身份真的是我們在真實世界的身份？我們希望兩者一樣嗎？我們如何在線上摹擬面對面建立的信任？如何防止一些在某個羣體做了壞事的人以假名去做同樣的事？一些公司常用某些信賴評價方法去決定是否為你提供無線電話服務計劃或決定你的抵押貸款利率以陌生人之間交易為主的市場也需要一些方法讓你知道賽巴斯汀(Sebastian)或克力斯(Chris)是否是好咖而那個方法的聲譽 信譽代表了一個社群對你的信任度讓我們看看莫先生的例子你看到若以5分為滿分超過200人給了他平均4.99的分數超過20頁有關他工作的評價說他超級友善和快速他更達到最高級的第25級使他榮膺超級兔我喜愛這稱呼—超級兔有趣的是，克力斯(Chris)注意到隨着他信譽上升，他獲派工作的機會和他可以要求的報酬也上升換言之，對超級兔來說信譽在真實世界有其價值 我知道你或許在想這不是甚麼真事物。想想那些eBay上的超級售貨員或亞瑪遜上的星星評級今天不同之處，在於我們做的每單買賣寫的每個意見，標籤的每個人，贏的每個奬章都會留下信譽足跡讓人知道我們值不值得信任驚人的不單是這些信譽資訊的廣度而是它們的數量試想想：單在過去六個月在Airbnb已有人預約了五百萬個夜晚在Carpooling.com有人分享了三千萬次車程今年，值二百億元的貸款便是透過客戶與客戶之間的借貸平台借出這一切加起來便有數以百萬有關我們是否可信的信貸資料 獲取和勾稽我們在不同地方留下的資料是艱巨的挑戰但它也是我們被要求處理的工作像賽巴斯汀(Sebastion)那樣的人開始理直氣壯地問他們的聲譽資料豈不應由他們擁有嗎？他個人投放在Airbnb的努力而建立的聲譽豈不應隨着他從一個社群走到另一個嗎？我的意思是，假如他開始在亞瑪遜售賣二手書為甚麼他要從頭開始建立聲譽？這有點像我從紐約搬到雪梨這真是荒謬。我不能取得手提電話服務因為我的信貸歷史沒有隨我來到雪梨我基本上是制度裏的一個幽靈 我不是要提出信譽經濟的下一階段是要把不同的評級加起來成為一些空洞白的評分人的生活太過複雜了，誰人會想這樣做？我也想說清楚，這不是簡單地把社交網站上的讚好或朋友數目加起來這量度的是影響力不是反映我們可靠度的行為 但最重要的是我們要記著信譽是可以被言語化賽巴斯汀(Sebastion)是一位好的民宿老闆不代表他懂得組合宜家宜居(IKEA)的傢俱我們面對的重大挑戰在於找出有用的資訊因為未來將被巧妙聚集的信譽而推動而不是一個簡單的演算方法我們不但需要時間才能進行臉書或類似Google那樣的搜尋引擎讓我們能夠湊合出一個人在不同時間和場境下的完整行為模式我預見我們要有實時的串流，去查看誰人甚麼時候、在那裏和為甚麼信任你你在派遣免(Taskrabbit)的可靠度你在Airbnb作為客人的整潔度你在Quora(類似知識+論壇網站)展現的知識這些資訊都要聚集在一處成為某種關於你的信譽指標版它會繪畫出你的信譽資產 這是我現正研究的一個概念我下一本書也以此為主題現時這概念可定義為你在不同社羣和市場信譽、動機、能力的價值這不是一些偏遠的領域一些網站如Connect.me、Legit和TrustCloud正啓動一連串計劃，試圖找出如何集合、監控和運用你在網上的信譽 我明白這會令你們部份人感到像被監視是的，我們有很多關乎網路透明度和隱私的問題有待解決但最終來說，我們可以收集自己的信譽可以實質上更有效控制它和抽取其中巨大的價值 另一方面，較諸我們的信任度歷史我們更可以塑造我們的信譽只要想想賽巴斯汀(Sebastion)他如何透過買下那隻貓來影響他的信譽 除了私隱問題外，另一個我正在研究的真正有趣問題是我們如何強化這些數位幽靈就是那些無論為了甚麼原因在線上不活躍但在現實世界又極其值得信賴的人？我們如何將他們對工作、社區和家庭的貢獻轉化為聲譽資產的價值？ 最終來說，若我們走對了方向信譽資產會對誰擁有權力、得人信任、和有影響力產生巨大而正面的衝擊一個代表你傳統信任度歷史的三位數字我們之中只有百份之三十的人知道它的意義它不再成為我們要付出多少成本、我們可以得到甚麼的決定性因素在許多情況下，也不再成為我們可以做甚麼的限制事實上，我認為信譽會在二十一世紀成為較我們的信任度歷史更強勢的貨幣信譽會成為一種貨幣它告訴人你可以信任我 有趣的是目前信譽是個社會經濟的潤滑劑令協同消費得以運作並可以衡量但它的產生的源頭和應用模式遠超出這個層面大家可以以招募人才為例信譽的資料將會令個人履歷成為過時的遺跡 四年前，科技的部落客和企業家們喬爾斯波斯基(Joel Spolsky)和傑夫艾特伍(Jeff Atwood)決意要開展一項名為積智滿溢的計劃現在堆積智滿溢基本上是一個平台讓有經驗的程式員向其他優秀的程式員在如細小像素和谷哥瀏覽器擴充功能等事項上提出極其技術性的仔細問題這個網站每天收到5500條問題其中百份之八十都可獲得正確的答案現在使用者可以以不同方式贏取信譽但基本上都是透過令同儕信服這些人真的是內行人 這個網站運行數月後建立這網站的人聽到一些有趣的東西這些東西令他們感到意外他們聽到有些用戶把他們的信譽評分放在他們的履歷之上而負責招募的人則在這網站上尋找那些有特殊才幹的人現時有數以千計的程式員以這方法覓得更好的工作因為積智滿溢和信譽儀表板開了一個無價的窗口讓人可以從中窺探一些人的真正行為和他們的同儕對這些人的評價 然而積智滿溢背後有一個更大原則在我看來是非常令人興奮的人們可以發現他們在一個地方所累積的信譽在其他地方同樣是有價值的你知嗎，這真有意思你與一些超級用戶談話時不論他們屬於超級免、積智滿溢或Uberhost網站他們都會告訴你好的信譽讓他們感受到自己的能力在堆叠溢流，信譽形成一個公平的競技場讓有真材實料的人出人頭地在Airbnb，人往往較空置的的地方重要在派遣免(Taskrabbit)，它給人權力去控制自己的經濟活動 我與賽巴斯汀(Sebastion)茶聚結束時他告訴我在雨天時他的書室一個客人也沒有他會想起那些在世界各地曾讚賞過他的人和他們覺得他是怎樣的人他今年將屆50歲他確信他在Airbnb所建立的信譽會終其一生引領他做有意義的事情 你知嗎，歷史上只有少數窗口可以給我們機會去重新發現我們的社會經濟制度是如何運作的我們正經歷其中一個這樣的時刻我相信我們位於一個協同革命的起點這革命像工業革命那樣意義重大在20世紀，隨着發明了傳統的信任資訊因而改變了我們的消費制度它也在很多方面決定誰可得到甚麼在21世紀，出現了新的信任網絡它們產生的信譽資產會重新界定我們對財富、市場、能力和個人身份的看法，是我們還沒法想像的多謝大家（鼓掌喝采）
