Talk	en	zh-tw
rachel_botsman_the_case_for_collaborative_consumption	"So today I'm going to talk to you about the rise of collaborative consumption. I'm going to explain what it is and try and convince you — in just 15 minutes — that this isn't a flimsy idea, or a short-term trend, but a powerful cultural and economic force reinventing not just what we consume, but how we consume. Now I'm going to start with a deceptively simple example. Hands up — how many of you have books, CDs, DVDs, or videos lying around your house that you probably won't use again, but you can't quite bring yourself to throw away? Can't see all the hands, but it looks like all of you, right? On our shelves at home, we have a box set of the DVD series ""24,"" season six to be precise. I think it was bought for us around three years ago for a Christmas present. Now my husband, Chris, and I love this show. But let's face it, when you've watched it once maybe, or twice, you don't really want to watch it again, because you know how Jack Bauer is going to defeat the terrorists. So there it sits on our shelves obsolete to us, but with immediate latent value to someone else. Now before we go on, I have a confession to make. I lived in New York for 10 years, and I am a big fan of ""Sex and the City."" Now I'd love to watch the first movie again as sort of a warm-up to the sequel coming out next week. So how easily could I swap our unwanted copy of ""24"" for a wanted copy of ""Sex and the City?"" Now you may have noticed there's a new sector emerging called swap-trading. Now the easiest analogy for swap-trading is like an online dating service for all your unwanted media. What it does is use the Internet to create an infinite marketplace to match person A's ""haves"" with person C's ""wants,"" whatever they may be. The other week, I went on one of these sites, appropriately called Swaptree, and there were over 59,300 items that I could instantly swap for my copy of ""24."" Lo and behold, there in Reseda, CA was Rondoron who wanted swap his or her ""like new"" copy of ""Sex and the City"" for my copy of ""24."" So in other words, what's happening here is that Swaptree solves my carrying company's sugar rush problem, a problem the economists call ""the coincidence of wants,"" in approximately 60 seconds. What's even more amazing is it will print out a postage label on the spot, because it knows the way of the item. Now there are layers of technical wonder behind sites such as Swaptree, but that's not my interest, and nor is swap trading, per se. My passion, and what I've spent the last few years dedicated to researching, is the collaborative behaviors and trust-mechanics inherent in these systems. When you think about it, it would have seemed like a crazy idea, even a few years ago, that I would swap my stuff with a total stranger whose real name I didn't know and without any money changing hands. Yet 99 percent of trades on Swaptree happen successfully, and the one percent that receive a negative rating, it's for relatively minor reasons, like the item didn't arrive on time. So what's happening here? An extremely powerful dynamic that has huge commercial and cultural implications is at play. Namely, that technology is enabling trust between strangers. We now live in a global village where we can mimic the ties that used to happen face to face, but on a scale and in ways that have never been possible before. So what's actually happening is that social networks and real-time technologies are taking us back. We're bartering, trading, swapping, sharing, but they're being reinvented into dynamic and appealing forms. What I find fascinating is that we've actually wired our world to share, whether that's our neighborhood, our school, our office, or our Facebook network, and that's creating an economy of ""what's mine is yours."" From the mighty eBay, the grandfather of exchange marketplaces, to car-sharing companies such as GoGet, where you pay a monthly fee to rent cars by the hour, to social lending platforms such as Zopa, that will take anyone in this audience with 100 dollars to lend, and match them with a borrower anywhere in the world, we're sharing and collaborating again in ways that I believe are more hip than hippie. I call this ""groundswell collaborative consumption."" Now before I dig into the different systems of collaborative consumption, I'd like to try and answer the question that every author rightfully gets asked, which is, where did this idea come from? Now I'd like to say I woke up one morning and said, ""I'm going to write about collaborative consumption,"" but actually it was a complicated web of seemingly disconnected ideas. Over the next minute, you're going to see a bit like a conceptual fireworks display of all the dots that went on in my head. The first thing I began to notice: how many big concepts were emerging — from the wisdom of crowds to smart mobs — around how ridiculously easy it is to form groups for a purpose. And linked to this crowd mania were examples all around the world — from the election of a president to the infamous Wikipedia, and everything in between — on what the power of numbers could achieve. Now, you know when you learn a new word, and then you start to see that word everywhere? That's what happened to me when I noticed that we are moving from passive consumers to creators, to highly enabled collaborators. What's happening is the Internet is removing the middleman, so that anyone from a T-shirt designer to a knitter can make a living selling peer-to-peer. And the ubiquitous force of this peer-to-peer revolution means that sharing is happening at phenomenal rates. I mean, it's amazing to think that, in every single minute of this speech, 25 hours of YouTube video will be loaded. Now what I find fascinating about these examples is how they're actually tapping into our primate instincts. I mean, we're monkeys, and we're born and bred to share and cooperate. And we were doing so for thousands of years, whether it's when we hunted in packs, or farmed in cooperatives, before this big system called hyper-consumption came along and we built these fences and created out own little fiefdoms. But things are changing, and one of the reasons why is the digital natives, or Gen-Y. They're growing up sharing — files, video games, knowledge. It's second nature to them. So we, the millennials — I am just a millennial — are like foot soldiers, moving us from a culture of ""me"" to a culture of ""we."" The reason why it's happening so fast is because of mobile collaboration. We now live in a connected age where we can locate anyone, anytime, in real-time, from a small device in our hands. All of this was going through my head towards the end of 2008, when, of course, the great financial crash happened. Thomas Friedman is one of my favorite New York Times columnists, and he poignantly commented that 2008 is when we hit a wall, when Mother Nature and the market both said, ""No more."" Now we rationally know that an economy built on hyper-consumption is a Ponzi scheme. It's a house of cards. Yet, it's hard for us to individually know what to do. So all of this is a lot of twittering, right? Well it was a lot of noise and complexity in my head, until actually I realized it was happening because of four key drivers. One, a renewed belief in the importance of community, and a very redefinition of what friend and neighbor really means. A torrent of peer-to-peer social networks and real-time technologies, fundamentally changing the way we behave. Three, pressing unresolved environmental concerns. And four, a global recession that has fundamentally shocked consumer behaviors. These four drivers are fusing together and creating the big shift — away from the 20th century, defined by hyper-consumption, towards the 21st century, defined by collaborative consumption. I generally believe we're at an inflection point where the sharing behaviors — through sites such as Flickr and Twitter that are becoming second nature online — are being applied to offline areas of our everyday lives. From morning commutes to the way fashion is designed to the way we grow food, we are consuming and collaborating once again. So my co-author, Roo Rogers, and I have actually gathered thousands of examples from all around the world of collaborative consumption. And although they vary enormously in scale, maturity and purpose, when we dived into them, we realized that they could actually be organized into three clear systems. The first is redistribution markets. Redistribution markets, just like Swaptree, are when you take a used, or pre-owned, item and move it from where it's not needed to somewhere, or someone, where it is. They're increasingly thought of as the fifth 'R' — reduce, reuse, recycle, repair and redistribute — because they stretch the life cycle of a product and thereby reduce waste. The second is collaborative lifestyles. This is the sharing of resources of things like money, skills and time. I bet, in a couple of years, that phrases like ""coworking"" and ""couchsurfing"" and ""time banks"" are going to become a part of everyday vernacular. One of my favorite examples of collaborative lifestyles is called Landshare. It's a scheme in the U.K. that matches Mr. Jones, with some spare space in his back garden, with Mrs. Smith, a would-be grower. Together they grow their own food. It's one of those ideas that's so simple, yet brilliant, you wonder why it's never been done before. Now, the third system is product-service systems. This is where you pay for the benefit of the product — what it does for you — without needing to own the product outright. This idea is particularly powerful for things that have high-idling capacity. And that can be anything from baby goods to fashions to — how many of you have a power drill, own a power drill? Right. That power drill will be used around 12 to 13 minutes in its entire lifetime. (Laughter) It's kind of ridiculous, right? Because what you need is the hole, not the drill. (Laughter) (Applause) So why don't you rent the drill, or, even better, rent out your own drill to other people and make some money from it? These three systems are coming together, allowing people to share resources without sacrificing their lifestyles, or their cherished personal freedoms. I'm not asking people to share nicely in the sandpit. So I want to just give you an example of how powerful collaborative consumption can be to change behaviors. The average car costs 8,000 dollars a year to run. Yet, that car sits idle for 23 hours a day. So when you consider these two facts, it starts to make a little less sense that we have to own one outright. So this is where car-sharing companies such as Zipcar and GoGet come in. In 2009, Zipcar took 250 participants from across 13 cities — and they're all self-confessed car addicts and car-sharing rookies — and got them to surrender their keys for a month. Instead, these people had to walk, bike, take the train, or other forms of public transport. They could only use their Zipcar membership when absolutely necessary. The results of this challenge after just one month was staggering. It's amazing that 413 lbs were lost just from the extra exercise. But my favorite statistic is that 100 out of the 250 participants did not want their keys back. In other words, the car addicts had lost their urge to own. Now products-service systems have been around for years. Just think of libraries and laundrettes. But I think they're entering a new age, because technology makes sharing frictionless and fun. There's a great quote that was written in the New York Times that said, ""Sharing is to ownership what the iPod is to the 8-track, what solar power is to the coal mine."" I believe also, our generation, our relationship to satisfying what we want is far less tangible than any other previous generation. I don't want the DVD; I want the movie it carries. I don't want a clunky answering machine; I want the message it saves. I don't want a CD; I want the music it plays. In other words, I don't want stuff; I want the needs or experiences it fulfills. This is fueling a massive shift from where usage trumps possessions — or as Kevin Kelly, the editor of Wired magazine, puts it, ""where access is better than ownership."" Now as our possessions dematerialize into the cloud, a blurry line is appearing between what's mine, what's yours, and what's ours. I want to give you one example that shows how fast this evolution is happening. This represents an eight-year time span. We've gone from traditional car-ownership to car-sharing companies, such as Zipcar and GoGet, to ride-sharing platforms that match rides to the newest entry, which is peer-to-peer car rental, where you can actually make money out of renting that car that sits idle for 23 hours a day to your neighbor. Now all of these systems require a degree of trust, and the cornerstone to this working is reputation. Now in the old consumer system, our reputation didn't matter so much, because our credit history was far more important that any kind of peer-to-peer review. But now with the Web, we leave a trail. With every spammer we flag, with every idea we post, comment we share, we're actually signaling how well we collaborate, and whether we can or can't be trusted. Let's go back to my first example, Swaptree. I can see that Rondoron has completed 553 trades with a 100 percent success rate. In other words, I can trust him or her. Now mark my words, it's only a matter of time before we're going to be able to perform a Google-like search and see a cumulative picture of our reputation capital. And this reputation capital will determine our access to collaborative consumption. It's a new social currency, so to speak, that could become as powerful as our credit rating. Now as a closing thought, I believe we're actually in a period where we're waking up from this humongous hangover of emptiness and waste, and we're taking a leap to create a more sustainable system built to serve our innate needs for community and individual identity. I believe it will be referred to as a revolution, so to speak — when society, faced with great challenges, made a seismic shift from individual getting and spending towards a rediscovery of collective good. I'm on a mission to make sharing cool. I'm on a mission to make sharing hip. Because I really believe it can disrupt outdated modes of business, help us leapfrog over wasteful forms of hyper-consumption and teach us when enough really is enough. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我今天要跟各位談的是合作消費的興起我會先解釋這個詞並用15分鐘時間，試著說服你們這個想法是可行的、長期的我們現有的文化、經濟力量讓我們消費的東西、如何消費展現出新樣貌 先用個簡單的例子是的話請舉手，在座各位你們有沒有書、CD、DVD、光碟就擺在家中很可能不會再用到但卻捨不得丟掉？看不清楚每隻手但似乎大家都舉手了我家中的櫃子上放了一套影集""24""的DVD精確來說是第六季記得是三年前別人送的耶誕禮物我和我老公Chris都超愛這影集但說實在的，當你看過一次，或兩次你就不會再拿出來看了因為你知道Jack Bauer會打敗恐怖份子那整套DVD就這樣放在櫃子上完全用不到了但對別人來說卻有潛在價值在我往下講之前，我要先坦承我在紐約住了十年我愛""慾望城市""現在，我想要溫習電影版第一集因為續集下禮拜就要上映了那我用我不看的""24""跟別人交換""慾望城市""有多簡單？你可能已經注意到有個興起的行業叫""以物易物(swap trading)""以物易物簡單比喻就像線上交友一樣只是交換的是媒體資料基本上就是用網路創造無限的市場可以將A的東西配對到C的需求不論這東西是什麼 幾週前，我逛了幾個網站其中一個是Swaptree網站上有超過59,300樣東西是我用我的""24""可以換來的注意囉住加州Reseda的網友rondoron想要用他/她的""近全新慾望城市""交換我的""24""換句話說，這網站Swaptree解決了我的困擾經濟學家稱之為""意願雙重巧合(the coincidence of wants)""而且僅用約60秒的時間更神奇的是，可以馬上印出購買標籤因為物品重量網站上都有紀錄像Swaptree這些網站背後有很多的技術面可以探討但我的興趣不是這個也不是以物易物本身 我的興趣，我花了好幾年研究的東西是這些系統所隱含的合作行為以及信任機制你想想幾年前，這可能會是很瘋狂的想法把自己的東西就跟陌生人交換連真實名字都不曉得的人而且不是金錢交換但Swaptree中有99%的交換都是成功的另外1%得到的負評是些相對細微的理由像是物品未即時送達等 所以這是什麼情況？一個極度多元的所隱含的商業、文化活動正在興起也就是，科技促成了陌生人間的信任我們住在地球村我們可以模擬出以前面對面交易的情況但就深度廣度而言是前所未見的所以現在的情況就是社群網站和即時技術帶我們回到從前我們開始物物交換以物易物、分享而且是用更多元更有吸引力的方式我最著迷的是我們其實天生就愛分享不管是鄰居間、學校辦公室裡、臉書上面都是這創造了一種經濟情況 —我的就是你的從偉大的eBay —交換市場之祖到GoGet這種汽車分享公司以小時計費供人租車還有Zopa這種社群租賃平台提供債主—例如是在座的各位每人捐100元Zopa可以將款項借給世界角落的任一個人我們再次的分享、合作分享的方式，我認為真是酷斃了我將這風潮稱為合作消費 在我深入探討合作消費的各種系統之前我想先回答這個問題每位作家都會被問到的就是—這點子打哪來的？我很想說，就某天一醒來就想到""我要來寫關於合作消費的書""但事實上是很複雜的想法也看似不相連下一分鐘你們就會看到我概念的展現我腦袋中的各個點我注意到的第一件事是 —很多大概念慢慢出現烏合之眾的群體智慧為了共同目標而聚集變成多麼簡單的一件事關於這種人群狂熱全世界都找的到例子從總統選舉到Wikipedia等等聚沙成塔 你們會不會覺得，學到一個新字就會到處都看到那個字？我也是這樣當我注意到我們從從被動的消費者轉變成創造者到極富能力的合作者現在情況是網路消弭了仲介一個T恤設計師或是編織衣服的人可以直接和消費者一對一接觸這個一對一革命的普遍勢力表示""分享""以驚人的速度發生著我的意思是，想到這演講的每秒鐘25小時後就會被上傳到YouTube我深迷這些例子是因為它們其實都和我們的動物本能密切相關我意思是，我們原是猴子阿我們就是生來分享、合作的幾千年以來都是如此不管是成群打獵或是合作農耕在所謂的""過度消費""情形到來之前我們築起高牆創造自己的天地但世界正在改變其中一個原因就是這些Y世代、數位中長大的一群他們在分享中長大 —分享檔案、電玩、知識對他們來說是第二天性我們這一輩的人就像步兵慢慢從""我""的文化走向""我們""的文化 轉變如此快速的原因是因為行動方便的合作我們都相互連結著可以即時的找到某人的行蹤且利用手上的小東西就可辦到這想法在我腦子裡激盪著一直到2008年底這時候遇到了經濟危機Thomas Friedman是我最喜歡的紐約時報專欄作家之一尖刻的評論2008年我們碰了壁我們的天性及市場都說：""夠了吧""我們現在理性的了解到以過度消費建造起的經濟就像龐氏騙局，是不牢靠的但對於個人而言，我們不曉得該做些什麼 這些都只是瑣碎的想法我腦子裡的眾多聲音和難題直到我終於了解，這情況的產生是因為四件事的驅使第一：對於群體重要性的新認知和何謂朋友鄰居的新定義第二：點對點的網路洪流和即時技術徹底的改變了我們的行為第三：迫切的環境問題第四：全球經濟蕭條這徹底的衝擊了消費者行為這四件事融合在一起創造出新的轉變不同於20世紀是以過度消費作定義我們前進的21世紀是以合作消費來定義的我深信我們正面臨回折點我們共享的行為 —透過像Flickr和Twitter這些網站由網路形成的第二天性漸漸的在""下線""後，也應用到日常生活中從上班通勤到流行設計、種植食物的方式我們又再次消費、合作了 我和我的共同作者Roo Rogers搜集了成千上萬的例子世界各角落合作消費的例子這些例子不論是成熟度、目的來說都大相逕庭但我們深入研究後發現這些行為可以歸類成三大系統第一：市場的再分配市場的再分配 —就像Swaptree將你用過的二手物品從物品的不需要處轉移到另一個物品的需要處我們覺得這就是第五個""R""原本的""減少、再利用、回收、維修""加上""再分配""因為可以延長物品的生命週期也因此減少浪費 第二：合作的生活方式這是資源的分享像是分享金錢、技能、時間等我敢說，幾年後辦公室共享(coworking)和沙發旅行(couch surfing)、時間銀行(time banks)等概念將會成為稀疏平常的事合作的生活方式中，我最喜歡的例子是土地分享這是在英國找到的例子Jones先生將他後花園的一塊空地借給Smith耕種他們一起種植食物感覺很簡單的概念，卻很天才你會想，怎麼從沒人這樣做 第三個系統是產品出借的服務這是指 你付費使用某種東西但事實上並不全然擁有那樣東西這個點子，在講到一些高度閒置的資本時特別明顯有力例子從嬰兒用品到流行... 甚至—家裡有電鑽的請舉手各位家中有電鑽的？電鑽的使用時間，一生中只有12-13分鐘(笑聲)很誇張吧？我們需要的是鑽出來的洞，不是電鑽阿(笑聲)(掌聲)那要用時，何不用借的就好更好的情況，你將家中的電鑽租給別人還可以賺點小錢呢這三個系統結合起來讓人們在分享資源的同時也不用犧牲本身的生活方式或是本身的自由我並不是要說服各位一定要與人分享 接下來要講的例子是關於合作消費的影響力之大大到能夠改變行為一輛車平均一年要花八千美金然而這輛車一天有23小時是用不到的這樣算下來是不是覺得根本沒有必要花錢去買車了所以車子共享公司像Zipcar和GoGet，就是這樣來的2009年時，Zipcar找了250參與者跨了13的城市他們都承認自己開車狂也是車子共享的新手Zipcar要他們交出車鑰匙一個月的時間因此，這些人必須走路、騎腳踏車、搭火車或是使用其他大眾運輸工具只有迫不得已的情況才能使用Zipcar會員卡借車一個月後的結果非常驚人這些人共減了413磅因為額外的運動消耗了熱量我最愛的數據是250參與者中有100位不想要回他們的車鑰匙也就是說，這些開車狂失去想擁有車的慾望了 產品出借服務已行之多年像是圖書館、自助洗衣店等但現在進入了新的境界因為科技讓分享變的有趣好玩我引用紐約時報很棒的一句話—「分享之於擁有」「就好比iPod之於匣式錄音帶(8-track)」「就如太陽能之於煤礦」(後者皆過時了)我也相信，我們這年代對於物品的滿足感遠比前一世代更加簡單容易我不要DVD片，我要的是裡面的電影我不要笨重的答錄機我要的是裡面的留言我不要CD片，我要的是裡面的音樂也就是說，我不要外在的東西而是那東西所能實現的需求與體驗這也慢慢創造了""使用勝過擁有""的重大轉變就如Wired雜誌編輯Kevin Kelly說的「途徑比擁有更好」 我們身外之物漸漸消失對於什麼是我的、什麼是你的、什麼是我們的這種模糊界線開始浮現再跟各位分享一個例子告訴我們這個演化的速度多快速這是八年的演進過程我們從以往的""擁有一部車""到Zipcar和GoGet的車子分享公司到共乘分享平台最新的方式，是這種一對一的汽車租借讓你能將一天閒置23小時的車租出去賺點錢租給鄰居等好了，這些系統都需某種程度的信任而這個奠基石就是名譽 舊的消費系統不太需要什麼名譽因為個人信譽紀錄遠比相互評價來的重要但因為網路，我們也有了蹤跡每個檢舉的垃圾廣告、貼的每個想法、評語都是我們合作的信號至於我們可否信任彼此我們回到第一個例子Swaptree我可以知道網友rondoron總共有553筆交易紀錄交易成功率100%也就是說，我可以信任他/她記住我的話我們使用像Google一樣的平台來搜尋個人名譽資本圖只是遲早的事這個""名譽資本""將會決定我們合作消費的入徑會是一種新的社會貨幣會像銀行的信用評定一樣有效力 最後作結我相信我們正處於從夜夜酒肉笙歌之後醒來感到的虛無浪費向前一躍創造一個更永續的系統符合我們對於社區以及個人身分的先天需求我相信它會是一種革命當社會面臨極大的挑戰時所做的大幅轉變從個人的花費到重新發現合作的美好我的目標是將分享變的很酷我的目標是將分享變的流行因為我真的相信分享可以瓦解過時的商業行為幫我們一躍越過過度消費文化的浪費並明白：夠了就是夠了 非常謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
