Talk	en	zh-tw
rachel_pike_the_science_behind_a_climate_headline	I'd like to talk to you today about the scale of the scientific effort that goes into making the headlines you see in the paper. Headlines that look like this when they have to do with climate change; and like this when they have to do with air quality or smog. They're two branches of the same field of atmospheric science. Recently, the headlines looked like this when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or IPCC, put out their report on the state of understanding of the atmospheric system. That report was written by 620 scientists from 40 countries. They wrote almost 1,000 pages on the topic, and all of those pages were reviewed by another 400-plus scientists and reviewers from 113 countries. It's a big community; such a big community, in fact, that our annual gathering is the largest scientific meeting in the world. Over 15,000 scientists go to San Francisco every year for that. Every one of those scientists is in a research group, and every research group studies a wide variety of topics. For us at Cambridge, it's as varied as the El Niño Oscillation, which affects weather and climate, to the assimilation of satellite data, to emissions from crops that produce biofuels, which is what I study. And in each one of these research areas, of which there are even more, there are PhD students, like me, and we study incredibly narrow topics, things as narrow as a few processes or a few molecules. And one of the molecules I study is called isoprene, which is here. It's a small organic molecule. You've probably never heard of it. The weight of a paper clip is approximately equal to 900 zeta-illion — 10 to the 21st — molecules of isoprene. But despite its very small weight, enough of it is emitted into the atmosphere every year to equal the weight of all the people on the planet. It's a huge amount of stuff. It's equal to the weight of methane. And because it's so much stuff, it's really important for the atmospheric system. Because it's important to the atmospheric system, we go to all lengths to study this thing. We blow it up and look at the pieces. This is the EUPHORE Smog Chamber in Spain. Atmospheric explosions, or full combustion, takes about 15,000 times longer than what happens in your car. But still, we look at the pieces. We run enormous models on supercomputers; this is what I happen to do. Our models have hundreds of thousands of grid boxes calculating hundreds of variables each, on minute timescales. It takes weeks to perform our integrations, and we perform dozens of integrations in order to understand what's happening. We also fly all over the world looking for this thing. I recently joined a field campaign in Malaysia — there are others. We found a global atmospheric watchtower there in the middle of the rainforest, and hung hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of scientific equipment off this tower, to look for isoprene and other things while we were there. This is the tower in the middle of the rainforest from above, and the tower from below. On part of that field campaign we even brought an aircraft with us. And this plane, the model BAe-146, which was run by FAAM, normally flies 120 to 130 people, so maybe you took a similar aircraft to get here today. But we didn't just fly it. We were flying at 100 meters above the top of the canopy to measure this molecule — incredibly dangerous stuff. We have to fly at a special incline to make the measurements; we hire military and test pilots to do the maneuvering; we need special flight clearance. As you come around the banks in these valleys, the forces can get up to two Gs; the scientists must be completely harnessed in in order to make measurements while on board. So as you can imagine, the inside of the aircraft doesn't look like one you'd take on vacation. It's a flying laboratory we took to make measurements of this molecule. We do all this to understand the chemistry of one molecule. And when one student like me has some sort of inclination or understanding about that molecule, they write one scientific paper on the subject. And out of that field campaign we'll probably get a few dozen papers on a few dozen processes or molecules. As a body of knowledge builds up, it will form one subsection, or one sub-subsection, of an assessment like the IPCC, although we have others. And each one of the 11 chapters of the IPCC has six to ten subsections. So you can imagine the scale of the effort. In each one of the assessments we write, we always tag on a summary, and the summary is written for a non-scientific audience. And we hand that summary to journalists and policy makers in order to make headlines like these. Thank you very much. (Applause)	"今天讓我們來談談在頭條新聞的背後科學家們所做的種種努力這是跟氣候變遷有關的頭條新聞而這是空氣品質或是煙霧汙染有關的頭條新聞以上兩種新聞內容分別屬於大氣科學的兩個分支 這是最近的一則頭條，內容是說IPCC...也就是聯合國的""政府間氣候變化專門委員會""發表了一篇關於大氣系統現況的報告這篇報告是由來自40個國家的620位科學家合力完成整篇報告將近一千頁然後再經由另外來自113個國家的400多位科學家和審查員審定而成這可是個浩大工程事實上，我們每年的聚會可說是物理學界的年度盛事 每年會有超過一萬五千名科學家齊聚於舊金山每個人都代表一個研究團隊也代表每個團隊的研究議題我們在劍橋的團隊，研究議題非常多樣像是影響天氣與氣候的聖嬰現象人造衛星的數據同化或是我正在研究的農作物與生化燃料 而在每個研究領域裡都有許多跟我一樣的博士生每人負責一個專精的主題專精到像是小小的反應過程，或一些小分子我研究的是名叫異戊二烯的分子，如螢幕所示這是種微小的有機分子，你們可能從來沒聽過一個迴紋針的重量大約等於10的21次方個異戊二烯分子 雖然它非常輕但它每年排放到大氣中的量卻相當於地球上所有人的體重總和這可不是團小東西，跟甲烷的重量比起來也不相上下正因如此，它在大氣系統中扮演了至關重要的角色 我們會不遺餘力地研究異戊二烯理由也在此我們將它炸裂並觀察它遺留的碎片這是位於西班牙的EUPHORE煙霧實驗室大氣中的完全燃燒所產生的爆炸次數是車子引擎裡的一千五百倍即使如此，我們仍致力於觀察它的碎片 我們會用超級電腦運算大量的模型我目前在做的就是這個模型裡有上千個網格在運算每分鐘能運算上百筆數據而整合這些數據則花費了數週時間整合次數也不計其數耗費那麼多心力只為了更瞭解異戊二烯 此外，我們也在世界各地尋找這種分子最近我參加了一個在馬來西亞的實地調查活動我們還在當地建立了一個全球大氣觀測站就位在雨林中央，上面懸掛了許多昂貴的科學儀器價值約數十萬美元都是為了尋找異戊二烯當然，也順便觀察其他種類的分子這就是那座觀測站，照片是從飛機上拍的這張是從底下拍的 我們還從FAAM借來了一架BA146飛機進行觀測(譯註：FAAM是英國一家提供大氣觀測機的機構)這種飛機載客量約120到130人也許有人今天就是乘坐類似的飛機來到這裡的但我們是以距離樹冠層僅一百公尺的高度在飛行非常危險，但這都是為了測量異戊二烯 為了進行測量，飛機必須以一特定角度飛行所以我們請來了軍方和測試飛行員來駕駛飛機當然，特殊的飛行許可也是不可少的當飛機沿著河谷飛過時，G力會達到2G科學家們必須完全承受住這些壓力因為他們還要在飛機上進行測量事宜所以，各位應該可以想像飛機上的狀況絕對不會像要去度假一樣悠閒對我們而言，那就像個空中實驗室 以上就是我們為了瞭解一個化學分子所做的努力只要有某個學生像我一樣特別執著於某一種分子或對某一種分子有著深入了解他們就會把自己的想法寫成一篇篇的論文藉由一個實地調查活動，我們可以瞭解許多分子許許多多的研究論文便應運而生 我們的知識體系便由此而建構進而衍生出更進一步的研究與探索這些研究結果於是成為IPCC評估報告的構成要素在報告書的十一個章節裡頭每章都有六到十小節闡述進一步的研究成果所以各位可以想像，科學家們為此付出了多少心力報告完成之後，我們會將報告書的內容...整理成一篇摘要以提供給非專業領域的大眾閱讀最後我們把這篇摘要交給記者以及政府的決策官員報紙上的頭條新聞便由此而生謝謝大家(掌聲)"
