Talk	en	zh-tw
raffaello_d_andrea_the_astounding_athletic_power_of_quadcopters	So what does it mean for a machine to be athletic? We will demonstrate the concept of machine athleticism and the research to achieve it with the help of these flying machines called quadrocopters, or quads, for short. Quads have been around for a long time. They're so popular these days because they're mechanically simple. By controlling the speeds of these four propellers, these machines can roll, pitch, yaw, and accelerate along their common orientation. On board are also a battery, a computer, various sensors and wireless radios. Quads are extremely agile, but this agility comes at a cost. They are inherently unstable, and they need some form of automatic feedback control in order to be able to fly. So, how did it just do that? Cameras on the ceiling and a laptop serve as an indoor global positioning system. It's used to locate objects in the space that have these reflective markers on them. This data is then sent to another laptop that is running estimation and control algorithms, which in turn sends commands to the quad, which is also running estimation and control algorithms. The bulk of our research is algorithms. It's the magic that brings these machines to life. So how does one design the algorithms that create a machine athlete? We use something broadly called model-based design. We first capture the physics with a mathematical model of how the machines behave. We then use a branch of mathematics called control theory to analyze these models and also to synthesize algorithms for controlling them. For example, that's how we can make the quad hover. We first captured the dynamics with a set of differential equations. We then manipulate these equations with the help of control theory to create algorithms that stabilize the quad. Let me demonstrate the strength of this approach. Suppose that we want this quad to not only hover but to also balance this pole. With a little bit of practice, it's pretty straightforward for a human being to do this, although we do have the advantage of having two feet on the ground and the use of our very versatile hands. It becomes a little bit more difficult when I only have one foot on the ground and when I don't use my hands. Notice how this pole has a reflective marker on top, which means that it can be located in the space. (Audience) Oh! (Applause) (Applause ends) You can notice that this quad is making fine adjustments to keep the pole balanced. How did we design the algorithms to do this? We added the mathematical model of the pole to that of the quad. Once we have a model of the combined quad-pole system, we can use control theory to create algorithms for controlling it. Here, you see that it's stable, and even if I give it little nudges, it goes back — to the nice, balanced position. We can also augment the model to include where we want the quad to be in space. Using this pointer, made out of reflective markers, I can point to where I want the quad to be in space a fixed distance away from me. (Laughter) The key to these acrobatic maneuvers is algorithms, designed with the help of mathematical models and control theory. Let's tell the quad to come back here and let the pole drop, and I will next demonstrate the importance of understanding physical models and the workings of the physical world. Notice how the quad lost altitude when I put this glass of water on it. Unlike the balancing pole, I did not include the mathematical model of the glass in the system. In fact, the system doesn't even know that the glass is there. Like before, I could use the pointer to tell the quad where I want it to be in space. (Applause) (Applause ends) Okay, you should be asking yourself, why doesn't the water fall out of the glass? Two facts. The first is that gravity acts on all objects in the same way. The second is that the propellers are all pointing in the same direction of the glass, pointing up. You put these two things together, the net result is that all side forces on the glass are small and are mainly dominated by aerodynamic effects, which at these speeds are negligible. And that's why you don't need to model the glass. It naturally doesn't spill, no matter what the quad does. (Audience) Oh! (Applause) (Applause ends) The lesson here is that some high-performance tasks are easier than others, and that understanding the physics of the problem tells you which ones are easy and which ones are hard. In this instance, carrying a glass of water is easy. Balancing a pole is hard. We've all heard stories of athletes performing feats while physically injured. Can a machine also perform with extreme physical damage? Conventional wisdom says that you need at least four fixed motor propeller pairs in order to fly, because there are four degrees of freedom to control: roll, pitch, yaw and acceleration. Hexacopters and octocopters, with six and eight propellers, can provide redundancy, but quadrocopters are much more popular because they have the minimum number of fixed motor propeller pairs: four. Or do they? (Audience) Oh! (Laughter) If we analyze the mathematical model of this machine with only two working propellers, we discover that there's an unconventional way to fly it. We relinquish control of yaw, but roll, pitch and acceleration can still be controlled with algorithms that exploit this new configuration. Mathematical models tell us exactly when and why this is possible. In this instance, this knowledge allows us to design novel machine architectures or to design clever algorithms that gracefully handle damage, just like human athletes do, instead of building machines with redundancy. We can't help but hold our breath when we watch a diver somersaulting into the water, or when a vaulter is twisting in the air, the ground fast approaching. Will the diver be able to pull off a rip entry? Will the vaulter stick the landing? Suppose we want this quad here to perform a triple flip and finish off at the exact same spot that it started. This maneuver is going to happen so quickly that we can't use position feedback to correct the motion during execution. There simply isn't enough time. Instead, what the quad can do is perform the maneuver blindly, observe how it finishes the maneuver, and then use that information to modify its behavior so that the next flip is better. Similar to the diver and the vaulter, it is only through repeated practice that the maneuver can be learned and executed to the highest standard. (Laughter) (Applause) Striking a moving ball is a necessary skill in many sports. How do we make a machine do what an athlete does seemingly without effort? (Laughter) (Applause) (Applause ends) This quad has a racket strapped onto its head with a sweet spot roughly the size of an apple, so not too large. The following calculations are made every 20 milliseconds, or 50 times per second. We first figure out where the ball is going. We then next calculate how the quad should hit the ball so that it flies to where it was thrown from. Third, a trajectory is planned that carries the quad from its current state to the impact point with the ball. Fourth, we only execute 20 milliseconds' worth of that strategy. Twenty milliseconds later, the whole process is repeated until the quad strikes the ball. (Applause) Machines can not only perform dynamic maneuvers on their own, they can do it collectively. These three quads are cooperatively carrying a sky net. (Applause) (Applause ends) They perform an extremely dynamic and collective maneuver to launch the ball back to me. Notice that, at full extension, these quads are vertical. (Applause) In fact, when fully extended, this is roughly five times greater than what a bungee jumper feels at the end of their launch. The algorithms to do this are very similar to what the single quad used to hit the ball back to me. Mathematical models are used to continuously re-plan a cooperative strategy 50 times per second. Everything we have seen so far has been about the machines and their capabilities. What happens when we couple this machine athleticism with that of a human being? What I have in front of me is a commercial gesture sensor mainly used in gaming. It can recognize what my various body parts are doing in real time. Similar to the pointer that I used earlier, we can use this as inputs to the system. We now have a natural way of interacting with the raw athleticism of these quads with my gestures. (Applause) Interaction doesn't have to be virtual. It can be physical. Take this quad, for example. It's trying to stay at a fixed point in space. If I try to move it out of the way, it fights me, and moves back to where it wants to be. We can change this behavior, however. We can use mathematical models to estimate the force that I'm applying to the quad. Once we know this force, we can also change the laws of physics, as far as the quad is concerned, of course. Here, the quad is behaving as if it were in a viscous fluid. We now have an intimate way of interacting with a machine. I will use this new capability to position this camera-carrying quad to the appropriate location for filming the remainder of this demonstration. So we can physically interact with these quads and we can change the laws of physics. Let's have a little bit of fun with this. For what you will see next, these quads will initially behave as if they were on Pluto. As time goes on, gravity will be increased until we're all back on planet Earth, but I assure you we won't get there. Okay, here goes. (Laughter) (Laughter) (Applause) Whew! You're all thinking now, these guys are having way too much fun, and you're probably also asking yourself, why exactly are they building machine athletes? Some conjecture that the role of play in the animal kingdom is to hone skills and develop capabilities. Others think that it has more of a social role, that it's used to bind the group. Similarly, we use the analogy of sports and athleticism to create new algorithms for machines to push them to their limits. What impact will the speed of machines have on our way of life? Like all our past creations and innovations, they may be used to improve the human condition or they may be misused and abused. This is not a technical choice we are faced with; it's a social one. Let's make the right choice, the choice that brings out the best in the future of machines, just like athleticism in sports can bring out the best in us. Let me introduce you to the wizards behind the green curtain. They're the current members of the Flying Machine Arena research team. (Applause) Federico Augugliaro, Dario Brescianini, Markus Hehn, Sergei Lupashin, Mark Muller and Robin Ritz. Look out for them. They're destined for great things. Thank you. (Applause)	機器的運動能力好是什麼意思？我們將展示機器運動能力的概念以及為了實現而進行的研究靠的是這些飛行機器，叫做「四軸飛行器」 (quadrocopters)簡稱為「四軸」 四軸已經存在很久了最近很受歡迎的原因是因為在機械方面很簡單只要控制這四個螺旋槳的速度這些機器可以側滾，俯仰，偏擺以及沿著共同方向加速上面還有電池及一台電腦各種感測器和無線收發器 四軸極為靈活，但要付出代價它本質上不穩定，需要某種形式的自動回饋控制，才可能飛行 要怎麼做到這點呢？天花板上的攝影機和一台筆記型電腦就像是室內的全球定位系統用來為物體在空間中定位物體上有這些反光標記定位資料送到另一台筆記型電腦執行估計與控制的演算法再反過來把命令送到四軸四軸本身也在執行估計與控制的演算法我們的研究大部分都是演算法演算法是使這些機器活過來的魔法 要怎麼設計演算法才能創造出機器運動員？我們使用的方法泛稱為模型化基礎設計我們首先用數學模型捕捉機器行為的物理法則然後用數學的一個分支—「控制理論」來分析這些模型並合成控制的演算法例如我們想讓四軸原地懸停我們首先捕捉動態是一組微分方程式然後操縱這些方程式在控制理論建立的演算法幫忙下讓四軸得以穩定 讓我展示這種方法的優點假設我們希望四軸不止是懸停還要讓桿子平衡經過一些練習人類很容易可以做到雖然我們有優勢雙腳可以著地還有極為靈活的手像這樣就有點困難：如果只有一腳著地而且不准用手請注意，桿子頂上有反光標記表示可在空間中定到它的位置 （掌聲） 你可以看到，這架四軸正進行微調以讓桿子保持平衡我們是怎麼設計演算法來做到的？我們加入了桿子的數學模型到四軸中一旦我們有了結合四軸與桿子的模型就可以用控制理論建立控制的演算法這裡，你看，很穩定就算我輕輕推一下它仍可回到完全平衡的位置 我們還可以加強模型，以包括我們希望四軸在空間的位置用這根有反光標記的指示棒可以指出我要四軸到的位置和我保持固定的距離這些特技動作的關鍵是演算法它的設計要靠數學模型與控制理論我要告訴四軸回來這裡並讓桿子倒下來接下來我要展示了解物理模型、以及實體世界運作的重要性注意四軸的高度降低了我把這杯水放上去不像平衡桿，我並未把玻璃杯的數學模型加到系統裡事實上，系統根本不知道有杯水我一樣可以用指示棒來告訴四軸我希望它在空間中的位置（掌聲） 好吧，你應該問自己為什麼杯中的水不會灑出來？兩個事實：第一點是重力對所有的物體作用相同第二點是，推進器都指向和杯子相同的方向，也就是向上兩個原因加在一起，最終結果是玻璃杯各方向的側向力都很小還是以空氣動力學效應為主因此這些速度是微不足道的這就是為什麼不需要杯子的模型水自然不會灑出來不管四軸怎麼動 （掌聲） 這裡學到的是，有些高性能任務比其他的容易還有，理解問題背後的物理可告訴我們哪些容易、哪些困難以此為例，載運水很容易平衡桿子則很困難 我們都聽過運動員的故事雖然身體受傷，仍然完成壯舉機器可以在受重傷的情況下運作嗎？傳統觀念認為，你需要至少四個固定的馬達螺旋槳才能飛因為有四個自由度要控制：側滾、俯仰、偏擺、加速六軸和八軸分別有六和八個螺旋槳可提供冗餘但四軸則普及多了因為它具有最小數目的固定馬達螺旋槳：四個是這樣嗎？我們分析這台機器的數學模型如果只有兩個螺旋槳可運作我們發現有種非傳統的方式可飛行我們放棄控制偏擺仍然可以控制側滾、俯仰、加速只要演算法能處理這種新配置數學模型告訴我們何時和為何這是可能的此例中，這種知識讓我們能設計出新穎的機器架構或優雅應對損害的巧妙演算法就像人類運動員而不必建構具有冗餘的機器 我們不禁屏住呼吸當我們看到跳水選手翻個筋斗入水、或撐竿跳選手在空中扭轉、同時快速接近地面跳水選手入水時能否成功壓水花？撐竿跳選手能否完美著地？假設我們希望四軸表演三轉空翻，並結束在開始的同一地點這個動作太快了無法用位置回饋信號糾正執行過程中的動作時間根本不夠相反的，四軸只能盲目進行動作觀察四軸如何完成動作再用這些資訊來修改行為讓下次空翻更進步就像跳水選手和撐竿跳選手只有通過反覆練習才能學會動作並達到最完美的境界 （掌聲） 打擊移動中的球對許多運動是必要技能我們如何讓一台機器做出對運動員看似毫不費力的動作？ （掌聲） 這架四軸頂部綁了個球拍甜蜜點大約一個蘋果大小所以不會太大以下的計算每二十毫秒執行一次也就是每秒執行五十次我們首先弄清楚球會飛到哪裡然後計算四軸如何擊中球四軸飛到球丟出的附近第三，規劃出四軸由目前位置到擊球位置的軌道第四，只需執行這戰略二十毫秒二十毫秒過後，再重複整個過程直到四軸擊中球 （掌聲） 機器不僅可以自主執行動態操作還可以互相合作這三架四軸合作張開網子 （掌聲） 它們執行的，是非常動態且需要合作的動作把球丟回給我請注意的，在完全伸展時這些四軸是垂直的（掌聲）事實上，在完全伸展時大約產生五倍於高空彈跳最低點的力量 做到這點的演算法非常相似於單一四軸把球打回我身邊使用數學模型不斷重新規劃合作策略，每秒五十次 到目前為止，我們看到的一切都是關於機器及其功能我們若把這台機器的運動能力和人結合，會發生什麼事？在我面前的是一具商業的人體動作感測器主要用於遊戲(Kinect)可以即時識別我身體各部位的動作就像剛才我用指示棒我們可用這個作為系統的輸入我們就有了自然的互動方式用我的手勢和四軸的原始運動能力互動 （掌聲） 互動不一定是虛擬也可以是實體的以此四軸為例它試著要待在空間裡固定的一點如果我試著將它移開，它會抵抗並移回它想待的地方但我們可以改變這種行為我們可以用數學模型估算出我對四軸施力的大小一旦知道了力量大小我們也可以改變物理規則當然是對四軸而言這架四軸的行為就好像它在黏性流體中一樣 我們現在有了親密的方式可與機器互動我要用這新功能把載著相機的四軸定位到適當位置以拍攝接下來的示範 我們可以與四軸進行實體互動我們也可以改變物理定律讓我們來玩一下接下來你會看到這些四軸一開始像是在冥王星的引力隨著時間過去，重力逐漸增加直到全都回到地球的引力但我保證不會發生好的，開始 （笑聲） （笑聲） （掌聲）呼！各位現在可能在想這些傢伙也太愛玩了吧你可能也在問自己他們到底為何要建造機械運動員？一個推測是，就像動物王國中遊戲的作用可以磨練技能和發展能力其他人則認為這有更多的社會角色可讓團體聚在一起同樣，我們用運動和運動能力類比來建立機器的新演算法將其能力推昇到極限機器的速度會對我們的生活方式產生什麼影響？就像我們過去的各種創作及創新它們可能被用來改善人類生活條件也可能會被誤用和濫用我們面臨的，不是技術選擇而是社會選擇讓我們做出正確的選擇最能發揮未來機器優點的選擇就像運動的能力能讓人類發揮出最好的部分 讓我來介紹綠色布幕後面的魔法師他們是飛行機器競技場研究團隊的現任成員（掌聲）Federico Augugliaro,Dario Brescianini, Markus Hehn,Sergei Lupashin, Mark Muller和 Robin Ritz注意他們，他們將會有偉大成就 謝謝 （掌聲）
