Talk	en	zh-tw
rainer_strack_the_surprising_workforce_crisis_of_2030_and_how_to_start_solving_it_now	"2014 is a very special year for me: 20 years as a consultant, 20 years of marriage, and I'm turning 50 in one month. That means I was born in 1964 in a small town in Germany. It was a gray November day, and I was overdue. The hospital's maternity ward was really stressed out because a lot of babies were born on this gray November day. As a matter of fact, 1964 was the year with the highest birth rate ever in Germany: more than 1.3 million. Last year, we just hit over 600,000, so half of my number. What you can see here is the German age pyramid, and there, the small black point at the top, that's me. (Laughter) (Applause) In red, you can see the potential working-age population, so people over 15 and under 65, and I'm actually only interested in this red area. Now, let's do a simple simulation of how this age structure will develop over the next couple of years. As you can see, the peak is moving to the right, and I, with many other baby boomers, will retire in 2030. By the way, I don't need any forecasts of birth rates for predicting this red area. The red area, so the potential working-age population in 2030, is already set in stone today, except for much higher migration rates. And if you compare this red area in 2030 with the red area in 2014, it is much, much smaller. So before I show you the rest of the world, what does this mean for Germany? So what we know from this picture is that the labor supply, so people who provide labor, will go down in Germany, and will go down significantly. Now, what about labor demand? That's where it gets tricky. As you might know, the consultant's favorite answer to any question is, ""It depends."" So I would say it depends. We didn't want to forecast the future. Highly speculative. We did something else. We looked at the GDP and productivity growth of Germany over the last 20 years, and calculated the following scenario: if Germany wants to continue this GDP and productivity growth, we could directly calculate how many people Germany would need to support this growth. And this is the green line: labor demand. So Germany will run into a major talent shortage very quickly. Eight million people are missing, which is more than 20 percent of our current workforce, so big numbers, really big numbers. And we calculated several scenarios, and the picture always looked like this. Now, to close the gap, Germany has to significantly increase migration, get many more women in the workforce, increase retirement age — by the way, we just lowered it this year — and all these measures at once. If Germany fails here, Germany will stagnate. We won't grow anymore. Why? Because the workers are not there who can generate this growth. And companies will look for talents somewhere else. But where? Now, we simulated labor supply and labor demand for the largest 15 economies in the world, representing more than 70 percent of world GDP, and the overall picture looks like this by 2020. Blue indicates a labor surplus, red indicates a labor shortfall, and gray are those countries which are borderline. So by 2020, we still see a labor surplus in some countries, like Italy, France, the U.S., but this picture will change dramatically by 2030. By 2030, we will face a global workforce crisis in most of our largest economies, including three out of the four BRIC countries. China, with its former one-child policy, will be hit, as well as Brazil and Russia. Now, to tell the truth, in reality, the situation will be even more challenging. What you can see here are average numbers. We de-averaged them and broke them down into different skill levels, and what we found were even higher shortfalls for high-skilled people and a partial surplus for low-skilled workers. So on top of an overall labor shortage, we will face a big skill mismatch in the future, and this means huge challenges in terms of education, qualification, upskilling for governments and companies. Now, the next thing we looked into was robots, automation, technology. Will technology change this picture and boost productivity? Now, the short answer would be that our numbers already include a significant growth in productivity driven by technology. A long answer would go like this. Let's take Germany again. The Germans have a certain reputation in the world when it comes to productivity. In the '90s, I worked in our Boston office for almost two years, and when I left, an old senior partner told me, literally, ""Send me more of these Germans, they work like machines."" (Laughter) That was 1998. Sixteen years later, you'd probably say the opposite. ""Send me more of these machines. They work like Germans."" (Laughter) (Applause) Technology will replace a lot of jobs, regular jobs. Not only in the production industry, but even office workers are in jeopardy and might be replaced by robots, artificial intelligence, big data, or automation. So the key question is not if technology replaces some of these jobs, but when, how fast, and to what extent? Or in other words, will technology help us to solve this global workforce crisis? Yes and no. This is a more sophisticated version of ""it depends."" (Laughter) Let's take the automotive industry as an example, because there, more than 40 percent of industrial robots are already working and automation has already taken place. In 1980, less than 10 percent of the production cost of a car was caused by electronic parts. Today, this number is more than 30 percent and it will grow to more than 50 percent by 2030. And these new electronic parts and applications require new skills and have created a lot of new jobs, like the cognitive systems engineer who optimizes the interaction between driver and electronic system. In 1980, no one had the slightest clue that such a job would ever exist. As a matter of fact, the overall number of people involved in the production of a car has only changed slightly in the last decades, in spite of robots and automation. So what does this mean? Yes, technology will replace a lot of jobs, but we will also see a lot of new jobs and new skills on the horizon, and that means technology will worsen our overall skill mismatch. And this kind of de-averaging reveals the crucial challenge for governments and businesses. So people, high-skilled people, talents, will be the big thing in the next decade. If they are the scarce resource, we have to understand them much better. Are they actually willing to work abroad? What are their job preferences? To find out, this year we conducted a global survey among more than 200,000 job seekers from 189 countries. Migration is certainly one key measure to close a gap, at least in the short term, so we asked about mobility. More than 60 percent of these 200,000 job seekers are willing to work abroad. For me, a surprisingly high number. If you look at the employees aged 21 to 30, this number is even higher. If you split this number up by country, yes, the world is mobile, but only partly. The least mobile countries are Russia, Germany and the U.S. Now where would these people like to move? Number seven is Australia, where 28 percent could imagine moving. Then France, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, U.K., and the top choice worldwide is the U.S. Now, what are the job preferences of these 200,000 people? So, what are they looking for? Out of a list of 26 topics, salary is only number eight. The top four topics are all around culture. Number four, having a great relationship with the boss; three, enjoying a great work-life balance; two, having a great relationship with colleagues; and the top priority worldwide is being appreciated for your work. So, do I get a thank you? Not only once a year with the annual bonus payment, but every day. And now, our global workforce crisis becomes very personal. People are looking for recognition. Aren't we all looking for recognition in our jobs? Now, let me connect the dots. We will face a global workforce crisis which consists of an overall labor shortage plus a huge skill mismatch, plus a big cultural challenge. And this global workforce crisis is approaching very fast. Right now, we are just at the turning point. So what can we, what can governments, what can companies do? Every company, but also every country, needs a people strategy, and to act on it immediately, and such a people strategy consists of four parts. Number one, a plan for how to forecast supply and demand for different jobs and different skills. Workforce planning will become  more important than financial planning. Two, a plan for how to attract great people: generation Y, women, but also retirees. Three, a plan for how to educate and upskill them. There's a huge upskilling challenge ahead of us. And four, for how to retain the best people, or in other words, how to realize an appreciation and relationship culture. However, one crucial underlying factor is to change our attitudes. Employees are resources, are assets, not costs, not head counts, not machines, not even the Germans. Thank you. (Applause)"	2014 年，在我眼裡這是不同尋常的一年：我從事諮詢師工作已有二十載，2014 年也是我結婚二十週年，還有一個月我就要年滿五十週歲。1964 年，我出生在一個德國小鎮上。 這一天恰逢十一月，天色灰濛濛的。我出生時已超出了預產期。醫院的婦產科病房早已人滿為患，因為這一天出生的嬰兒過多。實不相瞞，1964 年是德國有史以來出生率最高的一年：這一年，有超過 130 萬嬰兒降臨人世。而去年德國僅有 60 多萬嬰兒出生，只有 1964 年的一半。 請大家看這裡，這是一座德國的年齡金字塔，那裡頂上有一個小黑點，就是我。（笑聲）（掌聲）紅色部分是潛在的適齡工作人口，介於 15 至 65 週歲之間，實際上，我只對這一紅色區域感興趣。 目前，讓我們來做一個簡單的模擬詮釋這一年齡結構在今後若干年會呈現什麼樣的發展勢頭。大家可以看到，最高點往右移動，而我和其他嬰兒潮中出生的同齡人一樣將在 2030 年退休。便說一句，我不需要為預測這一紅色區域而對出生率作任何預測。這一紅色區域，2030 年潛在的適齡工作人口，其實今天早已塵埃落定，除了移民率顯著提高外。大家將 2030 年時這一紅色區域與 2014 年時的紅色區域相比，會發現顯然小得多。 因此，在我向大家展示世界其他地方的情況前，這對於德國而言意味著什麼？因此，我們可以從這張圖中獲悉的是勞動力供應狀況，因此，勞動力人口，在德國將呈下降趨勢，而且這一趨勢會越來越明顯。目前，勞動力需求怎麼樣？這正是令人難以捉摸的地方。大家可能知道，對於任何問題，諮詢師最喜歡的回答是，「視情況而定。」因此，我會說視情況而定。我不願意預測未來。這非常耐人尋味。而我做了其他事情。我們關注過去二十年間德國的國內生產總值與生產率增長狀況，並估算接下來的情形：如果德國希望延續這一 GDP 與生產率，我可以直接估算在德國得需要多少人才能支援這一增長勢頭。這條綠線表示勞動力需求。德國將進入一個人才嚴重匱乏的時期。人口將減少整整八百萬，這個數字超過德國目前勞動力人口的 20%，這個數字相當驚人，高得令人咋舌。與此同時，我們估算了若干情形，情況總是如此。 目前，為了彌補差距，德國必須放寬移民限制，增加移民人數，讓更多的婦女參加工作，提高退休年齡──順便說一句，我們今年剛剛延遲了退休年齡並同時出臺了一切相關措施。倘若德國在這方面的努力失敗，德國將會停滯不前，陷入蕭條。我們不會再有任何發展。原因何在？由於發展所需的工人數量供不應求。公司、企業不得不另闢蹊徑，招募人才。從哪裡招募人才呢？ 現在讓我們模擬一下全球十五個經濟體的勞動力供求關係，這些經濟體的 GDP 占全球GDP 總量的 70% 以上，截至 2020 的整體情況就像這個圖。藍色的部分表示有勞動力剩餘的國家，紅色的部分表示勞動力短缺的國家，而灰色的部分則表示勞動力介於剩餘和短缺之間的國家。因此，截至 2020 年，我們依然可以看到一些國家會出現勞動力剩餘狀況。像義大利、法國和美國，但是，這張圖會在 2030 年發生巨大的變化。截至 2030 年，全球大多數大型經濟體包括金磚四國中的三個國家，會面臨全球性的勞動力危機。中國曾長期堅持奉行獨生子女政策，屆時將首當其衝，與此同時，巴西和俄羅斯也難以倖免。 眼下，說句大實話，實際形勢甚至會嚴峻得多。我們在這裡看到的只是平均數字。我們不要平均化而是把這些數位分解成不同的技術水準，如此一來，我們便不難發現高技術人才短缺甚至更嚴重，而低技術工人只是略有剩餘。因此，整個勞動力短缺問題中最嚴重的是我們將來會面臨嚴峻的技術失衡，這就意味著政府和公司在教育、資質認定、技能提升方面將面臨巨大的挑戰。 目前，我們探討的下一個問題是機器人、自動化和科學技術。技術變革是否有助於改變這一狀況並提高生產率？目前，簡單的回答是我們的數字早已證明科學技術促進了生產率的顯著發展。而冗長的回答也不過如此。讓我們再把話題轉回到德國。德國的生產率在全世界聲名顯赫。上世紀九十年代，我在波士頓辦事處工作了兩年左右，當我離任時，一位上了年紀的同僚直截了當地告訴我，「多給我些德國人，你們的工作太棒了，像機器一樣高效。」（笑聲）這是 1998 年發生的事情。十六年後，你們的說法或許正好相反。「多給我些機器，這些機器太棒了，像德國人一樣高效。」（笑聲）（掌聲） 科技將取代大量的工作，常規工作。不僅在生產型行業甚至連辦公室白領也岌岌可危，可能被機器人、人工智能、大數據或自動化取代。因此，主要問題並非科技會取代一部分工作，而是什麼時候，有多快，會取代哪些工作？換句話說，科技是否會幫助我們應對這一波及全球的勞動力危機呢？是與否。這是一個更錯綜複雜的「視情況而定這得看。」（笑聲） 讓我們以自動化工業為例，因為，有超過 40% 的工業機器人已經投入工作，自動化早已各就各位。早在 1980 年，生產一輛汽車的成本只有不到 10%花在了電子部件上。時至今日，電子部件的成本已超過了30%，到 2030 年有望超過 50%。這些新型電子部件與應用要求運用新技術，並會創造更多的工作機會，例如，認知系統工程師，其負責優化司機與電子系統之間的互動。早在 1980 年，人們做夢也不會想到將來會冒出這種工作。事實上，儘管運用了機器人和自動化，但涉及汽車生產的總人數在過去十年間變化很小。 因此，這將為我們帶來什麼啟示呢？不錯，科學技術將取代許多工作崗位，但我們也會看到大量新的工作崗位和新興技能應運而生，這便意味著科技將會使人們的整體技術失衡越發嚴重。而且這種去平均化態勢會對政府機關和商業企業造成嚴峻的挑戰。 因此，員工、尤其是高技術人才未來十年內將成為關注焦點。如果他們成為稀缺資源，我們就得更好地瞭解他們。他們是否願意去國外工作？他們嚮往什麼工作呢？ 為了一窺究竟，今年我們對來自全球 189 個國家的 20 多萬名求職者進行了一次全球大調查。移民恐怕是填補這一空缺的主要途徑，至少在短期內行之有效，因此，讓我們來談談流動性問題。上述 20 萬求職者中 60% 以上的人願意去國外工作。對於我而言，這個數字高得驚人。如果你關注一下 21 至 30 歲的員工，這個數字會更高。如果你按各個不同的國家拆分這一數字，全世界處於流動中，但這只是部分現象。俄羅斯、德國和美國是流動性最小的國家。眼下這些人希望去哪裡呢？排在第七位的是澳大利亞，那裡有28% 的人可能在盤算著遷徙。法國、瑞士、德國、加拿大、英國，而全球最佳選擇是美國。 眼下，這 20 萬人最嚮往什麼工作呢？他們有何追求？在 26 個決定因素中，工資收入僅僅位列第八。排名前四的決定因素均和企業文化有關。排在第四的是，和老闆關係融洽；第三是，工作與生活互不影響，保持平衡；第二是，與同事關係融洽；而排在首位的是熱愛自己的工作這才是全世界擇業最重要的決定因素。大家是否會因此感謝我？不只是為了一年一度的年終大獎，而是希望幸福每一天。而目前，我們的全球勞動力危機可能會與每個人休戚相關。人們眼下正在尋求認同感。我們不是也在自己的工作中尋求認同嗎？ 現在，讓我貫穿一下各個要點。我們將會面臨全球性的勞動力危機，這場危機中不但全球勞動力短缺，而且技能嚴重失衡，還要面臨嚴峻的文化挑戰。這場全球性的勞動力危機已日益逼近。目前，我們正處於十字路口。因此，我們能做些什麼，政府機關能做些什麼，公司能做些什麼？不僅每一家公司，而且每一個國家同樣需要制定人力資源戰略，立即付諸行動，應對未來，該等人力資源戰略有個四方面組成。該等人力資源戰略有個四方面組成。如何預測不同工作和不同技能的供求關係。勞動力規劃在財政規劃中的重要性日益突出。第二點，需要制定規劃吸引優秀人才：不僅是年青一代、婦女，還包括退休人員。第三點，還要為人才的教育和技能提升制定規劃。我們在技能提升上面臨嚴峻的挑戰。第四點，如何才能留住最優秀的人才，或換而言之，如何才能實現鑒賞和關係的文化。 然而，一個重要的潛在動因改變著我們的觀點。員工是資源，更是財產，而不是成本，也不是人數，更不是牟利的機器，即使德國人也非如此。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
