Talk	en	zh-tw
rajesh_rao_computing_a_rosetta_stone_for_the_indus_script	"I'd like to begin with a thought experiment. Imagine that it's 4,000 years into the future. Civilization as we know it has ceased to exist — no books, no electronic devices, no Facebook or Twitter. All knowledge of the English language and the English alphabet has been lost. Now imagine archeologists digging through the rubble of one of our cities. What might they find? Well perhaps some rectangular pieces of plastic with strange symbols on them. Perhaps some circular pieces of metal. Maybe some cylindrical containers with some symbols on them. And perhaps one archeologist becomes an instant celebrity when she discovers — buried in the hills somewhere in North America — massive versions of these same symbols. Now let's ask ourselves, what could such artifacts say about us to people 4,000 years into the future? This is no hypothetical question. In fact, this is exactly the kind of question we're faced with when we try to understand the Indus Valley civilization, which existed 4,000 years ago. The Indus civilization was roughly contemporaneous with the much better known Egyptian and the Mesopotamian civilizations, but it was actually much larger than either of these two civilizations. It occupied the area of approximately one million square kilometers, covering what is now Pakistan, Northwestern India and parts of Afghanistan and Iran. Given that it was such a vast civilization, you might expect to find really powerful rulers, kings, and huge monuments glorifying these powerful kings. In fact, what archeologists have found is none of that. They've found small objects such as these. Here's an example of one of these objects. Well obviously this is a replica. But who is this person? A king? A god? A priest? Or perhaps an ordinary person like you or me? We don't know. But the Indus people also left behind artifacts with writing on them. Well no, not pieces of plastic, but stone seals, copper tablets, pottery and, surprisingly, one large sign board, which was found buried near the gate of a city. Now we don't know if it says Hollywood, or even Bollywood for that matter. In fact, we don't even know what any of these objects say, and that's because the Indus script is undeciphered. We don't know what any of these symbols mean. The symbols are most commonly found on seals. So you see up there one such object. It's the square object with the unicorn-like animal on it. Now that's a magnificent piece of art. So how big do you think that is? Perhaps that big? Or maybe that big? Well let me show you. Here's a replica of one such seal. It's only about one inch by one inch in size — pretty tiny. So what were these used for? We know that these were used for stamping clay tags that were attached to bundles of goods that were sent from one place to the other. So you know those packing slips you get on your FedEx boxes? These were used to make those kinds of packing slips. You might wonder what these objects contain in terms of their text. Perhaps they're the name of the sender or some information about the goods that are being sent from one place to the other — we don't know. We need to decipher the script to answer that question. Deciphering the script is not just an intellectual puzzle; it's actually become a question that's become deeply intertwined with the politics and the cultural history of South Asia. In fact, the script has become a battleground of sorts between three different groups of people. First, there's a group of people who are very passionate in their belief that the Indus script does not represent a language at all. These people believe that the symbols are very similar to the kind of symbols you find on traffic signs or the emblems you find on shields. There's a second group of people who believe that the Indus script represents an Indo-European language. If you look at a map of India today, you'll see that most of the languages spoken in North India belong to the Indo-European language family. So some people believe that the Indus script represents an ancient Indo-European language such as Sanskrit. There's a last group of people who believe that the Indus people were the ancestors of people living in South India today. These people believe that the Indus script represents an ancient form of the Dravidian language family, which is the language family spoken in much of South India today. And the proponents of this theory point to that small pocket of Dravidian-speaking people in the North, actually near Afghanistan, and they say that perhaps, sometime in the past, Dravidian languages were spoken all over India and that this suggests that the Indus civilization is perhaps also Dravidian. Which of these hypotheses can be true? We don't know, but perhaps if you deciphered the script, you would be able to answer this question. But deciphering the script is a very challenging task. First, there's no Rosetta Stone. I don't mean the software; I mean an ancient artifact that contains in the same text both a known text and an unknown text. We don't have such an artifact for the Indus script. And furthermore, we don't even know what language they spoke. And to make matters even worse, most of the text that we have are extremely short. So as I showed you, they're usually found on these seals that are very, very tiny. And so given these formidable obstacles, one might wonder and worry whether one will ever be able to decipher the Indus script. In the rest of my talk, I'd like to tell you about how I learned to stop worrying and love the challenge posed by the Indus script. I've always been fascinated by the Indus script ever since I read about it in a middle school textbook. And why was I fascinated? Well it's the last major undeciphered script in the ancient world. My career path led me to become a computational neuroscientist, so in my day job, I create computer models of the brain to try to understand how the brain makes predictions, how the brain makes decisions, how the brain learns and so on. But in 2007, my path crossed again with the Indus script. That's when I was in India, and I had the wonderful opportunity to meet with some Indian scientists who were using computer models to try to analyze the script. And so it was then that I realized there was an opportunity for me to collaborate with these scientists, and so I jumped at that opportunity. And I'd like to describe some of the results that we have found. Or better yet, let's all collectively decipher. Are you ready? The first thing that you need to do when you have an undeciphered script is try to figure out the direction of writing. Here are two texts that contain some symbols on them. Can you tell me if the direction of writing is right to left or left to right? I'll give you a couple of seconds. Okay. Right to left, how many? Okay. Okay. Left to right? Oh, it's almost 50/50. Okay. The answer is: if you look at the left-hand side of the two texts, you'll notice that there's a cramping of signs, and it seems like 4,000 years ago, when the scribe was writing from right to left, they ran out of space. And so they had to cram the sign. One of the signs is also below the text on the top. This suggests the direction of writing was probably from right to left, and so that's one of the first things we know, that directionality is a very key aspect of linguistic scripts. And the Indus script now has this particular property. What other properties of language does the script show? Languages contain patterns. If I give you the letter Q and ask you to predict the next letter, what do you think that would be? Most of you said U, which is right. Now if I asked you to predict one more letter, what do you think that would be? Now there's several thoughts. There's E. It could be I. It could be A, but certainly not B, C or D, right? The Indus script also exhibits similar kinds of patterns. There's a lot of text that start with this diamond-shaped symbol. And this in turn tends to be followed by this quotation marks-like symbol. And this is very similar to a Q and U example. This symbol can in turn be followed by these fish-like symbols and some other signs, but never by these other signs at the bottom. And furthermore, there's some signs that really prefer the end of texts, such as this jar-shaped sign, and this sign, in fact, happens to be the most frequently occurring sign in the script. Given such patterns, here was our idea. The idea was to use a computer to learn these patterns, and so we gave the computer the existing texts. And the computer learned a statistical model of which symbols tend to occur together and which symbols tend to follow each other. Given the computer model, we can test the model by essentially quizzing it. So we could deliberately erase some symbols, and we can ask it to predict the missing symbols. Here are some examples. You may regard this as perhaps the most ancient game of Wheel of Fortune. What we found was that the computer was successful in 75 percent of the cases in predicting the correct symbol. In the rest of the cases, typically the second best guess or third best guess was the right answer. There's also practical use for this particular procedure. There's a lot of these texts that are damaged. Here's an example of one such text. And we can use the computer model now to try to complete this text and make a best guess prediction. Here's an example of a symbol that was predicted. And this could be really useful as we try to decipher the script by generating more data that we can analyze. Now here's one other thing you can do with the computer model. So imagine a monkey sitting at a keyboard. I think you might get a random jumble of letters that looks like this. Such a random jumble of letters is said to have a very high entropy. This is a physics and information theory term. But just imagine it's a really random jumble of letters. How many of you have ever spilled coffee on a keyboard? You might have encountered the stuck-key problem — so basically the same symbol being repeated over and over again. This kind of a sequence is said to have a very low entropy because there's no variation at all. Language, on the other hand, has an intermediate level of entropy; it's neither too rigid, nor is it too random. What about the Indus script? Here's a graph that plots the entropies of a whole bunch of sequences. At the very top you find the uniformly random sequence, which is a random jumble of letters — and interestingly, we also find the DNA sequence from the human genome and instrumental music. And both of these are very, very flexible, which is why you find them in the very high range. At the lower end of the scale, you find a rigid sequence, a sequence of all A's, and you also find a computer program, in this case in the language Fortran, which obeys really strict rules. Linguistic scripts occupy the middle range. Now what about the Indus script? We found that the Indus script actually falls within the range of the linguistic scripts. When this result was first published, it was highly controversial. There were people who raised a hue and cry, and these people were the ones who believed that the Indus script does not represent language. I even started to get some hate mail. My students said that I should really seriously consider getting some protection. Who'd have thought that deciphering could be a dangerous profession? What does this result really show? It shows that the Indus script shares an important property of language. So, as the old saying goes, if it looks like a linguistic script and it acts like a linguistic script, then perhaps we may have a linguistic script on our hands. What other evidence is there that the script could actually encode language? Well linguistic scripts can actually encode multiple languages. So for example, here's the same sentence written in English and the same sentence written in Dutch using the same letters of the alphabet. If you don't know Dutch and you only know English and I give you some words in Dutch, you'll tell me that these words contain some very unusual patterns. Some things are not right, and you'll say these words are probably not English words. The same thing happens in the case of the Indus script. The computer found several texts — two of them are shown here — that have very unusual patterns. So for example the first text: there's a doubling of this jar-shaped sign. This sign is the most frequently-occurring sign in the Indus script, and it's only in this text that it occurs as a doubling pair. Why is that the case? We went back and looked at where these particular texts were found, and it turns out that they were found very, very far away from the Indus Valley. They were found in present day Iraq and Iran. And why were they found there? What I haven't told you is that the Indus people were very, very enterprising. They used to trade with people pretty far away from where they lived, and so in this case, they were traveling by sea all the way to Mesopotamia, present-day Iraq. And what seems to have happened here is that the Indus traders, the merchants, were using this script to write a foreign language. It's just like our English and Dutch example. And that would explain why we have these strange patterns that are very different from the kinds of patterns you see in the text that are found within the Indus Valley. This suggests that the same script, the Indus script, could be used to write different languages. The results we have so far seem to point to the conclusion that the Indus script probably does represent language. If it does represent language, then how do we read the symbols? That's our next big challenge. So you'll notice that many of the symbols look like pictures of humans, of insects, of fishes, of birds. Most ancient scripts use the rebus principle, which is, using pictures to represent words. So as an example, here's a word. Can you write it using pictures? I'll give you a couple seconds. Got it? Okay. Great. Here's my solution. You could use the picture of a bee followed by a picture of a leaf — and that's ""belief,"" right. There could be other solutions. In the case of the Indus script, the problem is the reverse. You have to figure out the sounds of each of these pictures such that the entire sequence makes sense. So this is just like a crossword puzzle, except that this is the mother of all crossword puzzles because the stakes are so high if you solve it. My colleagues, Iravatham Mahadevan and Asko Parpola, have been making some headway on this particular problem. And I'd like to give you a quick example of Parpola's work. Here's a really short text. It contains seven vertical strokes followed by this fish-like sign. And I want to mention that these seals were used for stamping clay tags that were attached to bundles of goods, so it's quite likely that these tags, at least some of them, contain names of merchants. And it turns out that in India there's a long tradition of names being based on horoscopes and star constellations present at the time of birth. In Dravidian languages, the word for fish is ""meen"" which happens to sound just like the word for star. And so seven stars would stand for ""elu meen,"" which is the Dravidian word for the Big Dipper star constellation. Similarly, there's another sequence of six stars, and that translates to ""aru meen,"" which is the old Dravidian name for the star constellation Pleiades. And finally, there's other combinations, such as this fish sign with something that looks like a roof on top of it. And that could be translated into ""mey meen,"" which is the old Dravidian name for the planet Saturn. So that was pretty exciting. It looks like we're getting somewhere. But does this prove that these seals contain Dravidian names based on planets and star constellations? Well not yet. So we have no way of validating these particular readings, but if more and more of these readings start making sense, and if longer and longer sequences appear to be correct, then we know that we are on the right track. Today, we can write a word such as TED in Egyptian hieroglyphics and in cuneiform script, because both of these were deciphered in the 19th century. The decipherment of these two scripts enabled these civilizations to speak to us again directly. The Mayans started speaking to us in the 20th century, but the Indus civilization remains silent. Why should we care? The Indus civilization does not belong to just the South Indians or the North Indians or the Pakistanis; it belongs to all of us. These are our ancestors — yours and mine. They were silenced by an unfortunate accident of history. If we decipher the script, we would enable them to speak to us again. What would they tell us? What would we find out about them? About us? I can't wait to find out. Thank you. (Applause)"	"首先，我們先做個實驗想像距今4000年後我們所瞭解的文明已不存在沒有書沒有電子產品沒有臉書或推特所有以英文寫成的知識甚至是英文符號都已經消失現在，再來想想考古學家們在某個城市的殘磚瓦片中挖掘他們會發現什麼呢？可能會發現長形的塑膠碎片上面印怪異的符號又或者發現一些圓形的金屬碎片也可能是些圓柱型的容器上頭有些符號還可能有某個考古學家一夕成名是因為她發現了埋沒在北美的某個山上的一堆大量相同符號的圖片現在讓我們捫心自問對4000年後欲瞭解我們現在生活的人們這些物品有什麼意義？ 這不是假設事實上，這正是當我們去瞭解4000年前印度河文明所必須面對的問題古印度河文明和較為人所熟知的埃及以及美所不達米亞文化同時期但實際上印度河文明的範圍比這兩者還要大它所佔的範圍近乎100萬平方公里涵蓋了今天的巴基斯坦東北印度和部份的阿富汗及伊朗如此廣大的文明你可能會期待尋找到主權者，國王以及用來紀念王者的巨大紀念碑事實上考古學者沒有發現那些他們發現了像這些的小東西 這裡有其中的一樣物品很明顯地這只是個複製品但這是誰呢？是某個國王？是某個神？是某個祭司？又或者只是一個普通人就像你我一樣？我們不知道但是古印度河的人們也在他們的人造品後面留了支字片語不，不是塑膠片是 石頭章,銅牌陶器還有一個令人驚訝的大的符號版這被掩埋在城門附近我們不知道在好萊塢還是寶萊塢這些物品能有什麼功用事實上，我們甚至不知道這些物件有什麼意義因為這些印度河文字是解不開的謎我們不知道這些符號的意思 這些符號常出現在印章上你們可以看到這裡有個類似的物品這個方形的物品上有個像是獨角獸的動物這是一件很壯觀的藝術品你覺得這塊有多大呢？這麼大？還是這麼大？讓我告訴你吧！這裡有個印章的複製品只有一英吋平方大非常小那這些東西用來作什麼呢？這些用來蓋在黏土標簽上然後貼在一堆貨品，以利於從此地運送到其他地方所以你知道會從FedEx箱子上拿到這些送貨單了嗎？這些泥版就是用來作為包裹送貨單你可能想用上面的文字來猜測這些東西的內容可能是寄送者的名字或是關於產品從某地送到其他地方的資訊—我們不知道我們需要解開這段文字才能知道回答這問題 解謎這些文字符號不單只是一個得動腦思考的謎題事實上還牽涉到與南亞的政治與文化歷史極為相關的問題實際上，對這些文字符號有三種不同的解讀意見第一，有一群人他們堅決相信認為古印度河文字根本不是種語言這些人認為這些符號就像是交通號誌或者是盾上面的一些象徵符號還有第二群人認為印度河文字代表著某個印歐語言如果來看今天的印度地圖你會看到北印度大部份使用的語言都來自於印歐語系所以一些人相信古印度河文字是某種古老的印歐語，就像梵語一樣 最後一群人相信古印度人是現在住在南印度人的祖先這些人覺得古印度文字是德拉威語系下的的某個語系現今南印度多數人皆使用德拉威語系支持這理論者指出一小部份使用德拉威語的北印度人確實鄰近阿富汗他們認為或許在過去的某個時期全印度皆使用德拉威語這也意味著印度河文明或許就是德拉威文明 這些假設哪個是真的呢？我們不知道，但若能解開這些文字符號就可以找到答案但解開這些文字內容不容易第一，我們沒有羅薩塔石我不是指語言學習軟體我是說一件古物分別以我們知道與不知道的文字書寫著同樣文字內容印度河文化中並沒有像那樣的古物說得更明白一點，我們不知道他們使用哪種語言而且更糟的是大部份的文字都相當短就像我給大家看的，最常發現的是這些印章類的東西他們都非常非常地小 這讓我們更難解讀有些人或許會擔心是否真的有誰可以解開古印度河文字呢？在我接下來的演講中我要來告訴各位我怎麼克服這些解讀障礙並喜歡上解讀古印度河文字所帶來的挑戰我熱衷於古印度河文字大概始自於在中學課本為什麼我如此著迷？因為這是目前唯一未被解開的重要古文字符號我的職業是計算神經科學所以我每天的工作就是製造出大腦的電腦模型來試圖瞭解大腦如何預知事物如何下判斷如何學習等 但在2007年，我與古印度河文字重逢我當時人在印度有著很好的機會與印度科學家見面他們使用電腦模型去分析那些文字符號我想到可以藉由這次機會與這些科學家合作所以我抓住了這次機會我想說明我們所發現的一些成果甚至，讓我們一起來解讀這些文字符號準備好了嗎？ 當你有段未解的文字符號時，你必須先去分辨書寫的方向這裡有兩段相同符號的文字你能告訴我書寫的方向是由右到左還是左到右呢？我給大家幾分鐘的時間好！右到左。有多少？好左到右呢？喔，大概一半一半。好答案是：如果你看這兩段文字的左側你會注意到左邊的符號有點擁擠似乎是4000年前當書寫者從右寫到左時因空間不夠只得縮小間距其中有一個符號也出現在下面的文字符號中意味著書寫的方向應該是從右到左所以我們知道的第一件事是書寫方向是語言符號中的關鍵項目古印度河文字有個特別的特徵 這文字符號中還有什麼其他語言特徵？語言會有一定模式如果我給你一個字母Ｑ然後請你猜下一個字母，你們覺得會是什麼呢？大部份人都會說Ｕ，答對了現在我請你們再猜下個字母你們覺得會是什麼呢？現在這邊有很多種答案，有人說Ｅ，有人說Ｉ，也可能是Ａ但絕對不是Ｂ,C,Ｄ,對吧？印度河文字也有類似的模式有很多段文字的開頭都有菱形符號接著下個字會有類似引號的符號這非常的類似Ｑ跟Ｕ的例子這符號之後會有著類似魚等其他的符號但不會是最底下出現的這些符號更詳細來說，有些符號比較常出現在文章結尾像是這壺型的記號事實上，這記號剛好是在這些文句中最常出現的記號 看出這些慣用模式後，我們有個想法就是用電腦去瞭解這些圖案我們將這些文字符號輸入電腦然後電腦以某種統計模型算出哪些符號會一起出現而哪些符號常以先後順序出現使用此電腦模式我們可以以測驗的方式測試此模式如此我們可以知道某些符號可以被省去甚至可以重建不完整的文字符號這裡有些例子大家可以參考一下比如說像是命運轉輪這種古老的遊戲 我們發現電腦預測符號的成功率達75%而剩下的25%理論上來說，電腦提供的第二或第三選項也會是正確答案這種預測途徑很實用很多文字符號都已經損毀這裡有個例子我們可以使用電腦模式來修復這段文字內容且做出最佳的猜測這邊有一成功預測的例子它真的非常有用，在解開文字的過程中讓我們得到了更多可供分析的數據 現在多了一件藉由電腦模式解決的例子請想像有隻猴子坐在鍵盤上我猜會得到ㄧ堆像這樣隨機跑出的字母這些隨機混亂的字母說明了很高的熵這是物理跟資訊理論說法但想像這是相當隨機混亂的字母排列你們有誰曾經將咖啡濺在鍵盤上？可能會有鍵盤卡住的問題所以基本上有些同樣的符號會一再的重複這類的數列可以說有著非常低的熵因為它們一點都沒變化語言，從別個角度說，有著中間程度的熵他的排列不會太單調也不會過於隨機而古印度河文字呢？我們看到以上所有例子的數值最上面是排序最為隨機的序列是一連串隨機的字母有趣的是，我們還發現人類ＤＮＡ的排序以及旋律優美的音樂兩者排序都很有彈性這是兩者數值較高在圖表較下方的地方你可以看到最單調的排序是一串字母Ａ你也會發現一種電腦程式一種電腦翻譯語言Fortran即是照著這種嚴謹的規則語言文字符號正落於這些中間值 古印度河文字呢？我們發現它落於語言文字範圍值中這結果首次被公開即引起高度爭議有人提出強烈批評這些批評的人相信古印度河文字根本不是文字我甚至收到一些惡意信函我的學生說我應該要好好保護自身安危誰能料到解讀古文字會變成一種危險職業這結果說明了什麼？他說明了古印度河文字有著重要的語言特徵所以，就像古老的諺語說得如果這看起來像是語言性文字且它也有語言性文字的功用那麼我們所擁有的就是語言性文字有什麼其他證據顯示這類文字能對解譯語言呢？ 語言性文字的確能解譯多種語言例如，一句英文還有一句相同的荷蘭文都用同樣的字母如果你不懂荷蘭文，只懂英文你看一些荷蘭文你會告訴我裡面有些字的排序很奇怪有點不對勁你會說這些字不是英文在古印度河文字中，也是同樣的道理電腦發現了一些文字這裡有兩段他們都有著非常少見的符號以第一個例子來說可以看到兩個壺形記號出現這種記號是最常在古印度河文字中發現的符號但只有在這以一對的方式出現 為什麼在這裡是是這樣呢？我們回頭看這些文字符號的出處發現他們來自離古印度河文明非常非常遠的地方他們來自現今的伊拉克以及伊朗為何出處會在那裡？我還沒跟你說的是古印度人很會做生意他們常和遠地區的人們做生意也因此，他們會越洋交易交易地區遍及美索不達米亞，亦即現今的伊拉克我們所看到的是印度商人用他們的文字符號寫下外來語就像我們這邊所舉的英文以及荷蘭語意思相同這也是我們看到這些異常排序的原因它們和你看到古印度河文字符號大相徑庭這也意謂著，同樣的古印度文字符號可能被用在不同的語言上我們從此可論斷古印度河的文字符號，的確是語言 它的確代表一種語言我們如何解讀這些符號呢？這是我們接下來的難題所以你會注意到這些符號看起來像是人，像是昆蟲像魚，像鳥大部份的古代文字符號都是象形字以圖像代表文字像之前的例子，這裡有個字你可以用圖畫來寫它嗎？我給你幾分鐘時間好了嗎？很好！這是我的解決方法你可以先畫一隻蜜蜂，接著畫一片樹葉這就代表 “相信”，對吧還有其他畫法在古印度河文字裡問題剛好相反你必須先瞭解每個圖像的聲音才能瞭解整個排序的意思就像是字謎遊戲只不過這是所有字謎遊戲之始因為代價實在太高了 我的同事，曼哈達凡以及巴布達對這問題都頗有心得我可以讓你看一下巴布達的成果這是很短的文字符號有七條直線後面有一條魚的圖象我想要說明這些印章是被用來蓋在黏土標簽然後被貼在貨物上所以它會很像這些標簽，至少其中的某些有著商號的名字在印度長久以來即習慣以星座來命名以星群象徵出生時間在德拉威語系裡魚的發音是 “meen""而這個字的發音跟星星剛好相同所以七顆星星代表 ""elu meen""就是德拉威語的北斗七星同樣地，這裡有六顆星可以翻成 ”aru meen""在德拉威語代表昴宿星團事實上，還有其他的組合像是，魚的圖象上有個蓋子可以翻成 ""mey meen""在德拉威語意思是土星讓人感到振奮的是我們似乎有所進展 這證明這些印章有著以行星以及星群來命名的德威語但不是這樣就結束了我們仍無法證實這樣的解讀方式無誤但如果越來越多的解讀都有道理越來越長的排序解讀都是正確的我們就能知道這樣的方法是對的今天我們可以用埃及象形文字以及楔形文字寫下ＴＥＤ這樣的名字因為人們在十九世紀早已解開兩者的文字符號內容對於兩種文字的解讀使得我們現在能瞭解過去的文明二十世紀我們也開始瞭解馬亞文明但我們至今仍無法瞭解古印度河文明 為什麼我們需要這麼在乎印度河文明不僅屬於南印度或是北印度人或是巴基斯坦人這屬於我們所有人這些是我們的祖先你我共同的祖先他們因為遭遇了某個不幸的歷史意外而不為人知如果我們解開了這些文字符號就能再次瞭解這些符號的意義他們會傳達什麼呢？我們又會發現什麼呢？是關於我們的事情嗎？我等不及發現 謝謝大家 （鼓掌）"
