Talk	en	zh-tw
ramanan_laxminarayan_the_coming_crisis_in_antibiotics	"The first patient to ever be  treated with an antibiotic was a policeman in Oxford. On his day off from work, he was scratched by a rose thorn while working in the garden. That small scratch became infected. Over the next few days,  his head was swollen with abscesses, and in fact his eye was so infected that they had to take it out, and by February of 1941, this poor man was on the verge of dying. He was at Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford, and fortunately for him, a small team of doctors led by a Dr. Howard Florey had managed to synthesize a very small amount of penicillin, a drug that had been discovered 12 years before by Alexander Fleming but had never actually been  used to treat a human, and indeed no one even  knew if the drug would work, if it was full of impurities  that would kill the patient, but Florey and his team figured if they had to use it,  they might as well use it on someone who was going to die anyway. So they gave Albert Alexander, this Oxford policeman, the drug, and within 24 hours, he started getting better. His fever went down,  his appetite came back. Second day, he was doing much better. They were starting to  run out of penicillin, so what they would do  was run with his urine across the road to re-synthesize  the penicillin from his urine and give it back to him, and that worked. Day four, well on the way to recovery. This was a miracle. Day five, they ran out of penicillin, and the poor man died. So that story didn't end that well, but fortunately for  millions of other people, like this child who was treated  again in the early 1940s, who was again dying of a sepsis, and within just six days, you can see, recovered thanks to this  wonder drug, penicillin. Millions have lived, and global health has been transformed. Now, antibiotics have been used for patients like this, but they've also been  used rather frivolously in some instances, for treating someone  with just a cold or the flu, which they might not have  responded to an antibiotic, and they've also been  used in large quantities sub-therapeutically, which means in small concentrations, to make chicken and hogs grow faster. Just to save a few pennies on the price of meat, we've spent a lot of  antibiotics on animals, not for treatment, not for sick animals, but primarily for growth promotion. Now, what did that lead us to? Basically, the massive use of antibiotics around the world has imposed such large selection pressure on bacteria that resistance is now a problem, because we've now selected for just the resistant bacteria. And I'm sure you've all read about this in the newspapers, you've seen this in every magazine that you come across, but I really want you to appreciate the significance of this problem. This is serious. The next slide I'm about to show you is  of carbapenem resistance in acinetobacter. Acinetobacter is a nasty hospital bug, and carbapenem is pretty much the strongest class of antibiotics that we can throw at this bug. And you can see in 1999 this is the pattern of resistance, mostly under about 10 percent across the United States. Now watch what happens  when we play the video. So I don't know where you live, but wherever it is, it certainly is a lot worse now than it was in 1999, and that is the problem of antibiotic resistance. It's a global issue affecting both rich and poor countries, and at the heart of it,  you might say, well, isn't this really just a medical issue? If we taught doctors how not  to use antibiotics as much, if we taught patients how  not to demand antibiotics, perhaps this really wouldn't be an issue, and maybe the pharmaceutical companies should be working harder to develop more antibiotics. Now, it turns out that there's something  fundamental about antibiotics which makes it different from other drugs, which is that if I misuse antibiotics or I use antibiotics, not only am I affected but  others are affected as well, in the same way as if I  choose to drive to work or take a plane to go somewhere, that the costs I impose on others through global climate change go everywhere, and I don't necessarily take these costs into consideration. This is what economists might  call a problem of the commons, and the problem of the commons is exactly what we face in the case  of antibiotics as well: that we don't consider — and we, including individuals, patients, hospitals, entire health systems — do not consider the costs  that they impose on others by the way antibiotics are actually used. Now, that's a problem that's similar to another area that we all know about, which is of fuel use and energy, and of course energy use both depletes energy as well as leads to local pollution  and climate change. And typically, in the case of energy, there are two ways in which you can deal with the problem. One is, we can make better use of the oil that we have, and that's analogous to making better use of existing antibiotics, and we can do this in a number of ways that we'll talk about in a second, but the other option is the  ""drill, baby, drill"" option, which in the case of antibiotics  is to go find new antibiotics. Now, these are not separate. They're related, because if we invest heavily in new oil wells, we reduce the incentives  for conservation of oil in the same way that's going  to happen for antibiotics. The reverse is also going  to happen, which is that if we use our antibiotics appropriately, we don't necessarily have  to make the investments in new drug development. And if you thought that these two were entirely, fully balanced between these two options, you might consider the fact that this is really a game that we're playing. The game is really one of coevolution, and coevolution is, in  this particular picture, between cheetahs and gazelles. Cheetahs have evolved to run faster, because if they didn't run faster, they wouldn't get any lunch. Gazelles have evolved to run faster because if they don't run faster, they would be lunch. Now, this is the game we're playing against the bacteria, except we're not the cheetahs, we're the gazelles, and the bacteria would, just in the course of this little talk, would have had kids and grandkids and figured out how to be resistant just by selection and trial and error, trying it over and over again. Whereas how do we stay  ahead of the bacteria? We have drug discovery processes, screening molecules, we have clinical trials, and then, when we think we have a drug, then we have the FDA regulatory process. And once we go through all of that, then we try to stay one step ahead of the bacteria. Now, this is clearly not a  game that can be sustained, or one that we can win by simply innovating to stay ahead. We've got to slow the pace of coevolution down, and there are ideas that we  can borrow from energy that are helpful in thinking about how we might want to do this in the case of antibiotics as well. Now, if you think about how we deal with energy pricing, for instance, we consider emissions taxes, which means we're imposing  the costs of pollution on people who actually use that energy. We might consider doing that for antibiotics as well, and perhaps that would make sure that antibiotics actually get used appropriately. There are clean energy subsidies, which are to switch to fuels which don't pollute as much or perhaps don't need fossil fuels. Now, the analogy here is, perhaps we need to move away from using antibiotics, and if you think about it, what are  good substitutes for antibiotics? Well, turns out that anything that reduces the need for the antibiotic would really work, so that could include improving hospital infection control or vaccinating people, particularly against  the seasonal influenza. And the seasonal flu is probably the biggest driver of antibiotic use, both in this country as well as in many other countries, and that could really help. A third option might include something like tradeable permits. And these seem like faraway scenarios, but if you consider the  fact that we might not have antibiotics for many  people who have infections, we might consider the fact that we might want to allocate who actually gets to use some of these antibiotics over others, and some of these might have to be on the basis of clinical need, but also on the basis of pricing. And certainly consumer education works. Very often, people overuse antibiotics or prescribe too much without necessarily knowing that they do so, and feedback mechanisms have been found to be useful, both on energy — When you tell someone that they're using a lot of energy during peak hour, they tend to cut back, and the same sort of example has been performed even in the case of antibiotics. A hospital in St. Louis basically would put up on a chart the names of surgeons in the ordering of how much antibiotics they'd used in the previous month, and this was purely an  informational feedback, there was no shaming, but essentially that provided  some information back to surgeons that maybe they could rethink how they were using antibiotics. Now, there's a lot that can be done on the supply side as well. If you look at the price of penicillin, the cost per day is about 10 cents. It's a fairly cheap drug. If you take drugs that have been introduced since then — linezolid or daptomycin — those are significantly more expensive, so to a world that has been used to paying 10 cents a day for antibiotics, the idea of paying 180 dollars per day seems like a lot. But what is that really telling us? That price is telling us that we should no longer take cheap, effective  antibiotics as a given into the foreseeable future, and that price is a signal to us that perhaps we need to be paying much more attention to conservation. That price is also a signal that maybe we need to start looking at other technologies, in the same way that  gasoline prices are a signal and an impetus, to, say, the development of electric cars. Prices are important signals and we need to pay attention, but we also need to consider the fact that although these high prices seem unusual for antibiotics, they're nothing compared to the price per day of some cancer drugs, which might save a patient's life only for a few months or perhaps a year, whereas antibiotics would potentially save a patient's life forever. So this is going to involve a whole new paradigm shift, and it's also a scary shift because in many parts of this country, in many parts of the world, the idea of paying 200 dollars for a day of antibiotic treatment is simply unimaginable. So we need to think about that. Now, there are backstop options, which is other alternative technologies that people are working on. It includes bacteriophages, probiotics, quorum sensing, synbiotics. Now, all of these are useful avenues to pursue, and they will become even more lucrative when the price of new  antibiotics starts going higher, and we've seen that the market does actually respond, and the government is now considering ways of subsidizing new  antibiotics and development. But there are challenges here. We don't want to just throw money at a problem. What we want to be able to do is invest in new antibiotics in ways that actually encourage appropriate use and sales of those antibiotics, and that really is the challenge here. Now, going back to these technologies, you all remember the line from that famous dinosaur film, ""Nature will find a way."" So it's not as if these are  permanent solutions. We really have to remember that, whatever the technology might be, that nature will find some  way to work around it. You might think, well,  this is just a problem just with antibiotics and with bacteria, but it turns out that we  have the exact same identical problem in  many other fields as well, with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, which is a serious problem  in India and South Africa. Thousands of patients are dying because the second-line drugs are so expensive, and in some instances, even those don't work and you have XDR TB. Viruses are becoming resistant. Agricultural pests. Malaria parasites. Right now, much of the world depends on one drug, artemisinin drugs, essentially to treat malaria. Resistance to artemisinin has already emerged, and if this were to become widespread, that puts at risk the single drug that we have to  treat malaria around the world in a way that's currently  safe and efficacious. Mosquitos develop resistance. If you have kids, you probably  know about head lice, and if you're from New York City, I understand that the  specialty there is bedbugs. So those are also resistant. And we have to bring an example from across the pond. Turns out that rats are  also resistant to poisons. Now, what's common  to all of these things is the idea that we've had these technologies to control nature only for  the last 70, 80 or 100 years and essentially in a blink, we have squandered our ability to control, because we have not recognized that natural selection and  evolution was going to find a way to get back, and we need to completely rethink how we're going to use measures to control biological organisms, and rethink how we incentivize the development, introduction, in the case of antibiotics prescription, and use of these valuable resources. And we really now need to  start thinking about them as natural resources. And so we stand at a crossroads. An option is to go through that rethinking and carefully consider incentives to change how we do business. The alternative is a world in which even a blade of grass is a potentially lethal weapon. Thank you. (Applause)"	第一位接受抗生素治療的患者是一位牛津的警察。有一天，他休假在家，整理自家花園時被玫瑰的刺劃傷。那個小的傷口被感染了。在接下來的幾天裡，他的頭因為膿瘡而腫了起來，事實上他的眼睛受到嚴重感染，醫生只好將它摘除，到了 1941 年二月，這個可憐的警察已經徘徊在生死邊緣。他在牛津的拉德克利夫醫院接受治療，幸運的是，由霍華德·佛洛里醫生領導的一個醫療小團隊成功地合成了微量的青黴素，在 12 年前，由亞歷山大·佛萊明所發現的一種藥物，但是從來沒有在人體上使用過，事實上，甚至沒人知道這個藥是否有效，如果這藥物不純淨的話會不會致死，但是佛洛里和他的團隊覺得如果他們一定要試用這個藥，不妨用在無藥可救的患者身上。 於是他們將藥用在亞柏·亞歷山大那位牛津警察的身上。在 24 小時之內，他的狀況開始好轉。他的燒退了，胃口也恢復了。第二天，他康復得更好。不過青黴素就快用完，所以醫生們採集他的尿液從尿液裡重新合成青黴素，再用來治療他，這個方法也可行。第四天，他仍在慢慢康復。在當時這是一個奇蹟。第五天，青黴素用完了，那位可憐的警察就這樣去世了。 這個故事的結局不太好，不過，在他之後，有百萬人受益，就像是 40 年代初期，在敗血症下垂死掙扎的這個孩子，你們可以看到，在六天之內，因為神奇的青黴素，這孩子痊癒了。上百萬的人因它活了下來，全人類的健康發生了轉變。現在，抗生素用來治療這類病人，但是它們也被輕易用在別的情況下，比如說用來治療感冒和流感，抗生素的治療效果不會很明顯。它們也被大量地使用在非醫療場合裡，用低濃度的抗生素，讓雞和豬長得更快一些。只是為了省一些的買肉的錢，我們在動物身上用很多的抗生素，不是為了醫治生病的動物，主要是為了加速生長， 這會導致什麼結果呢？在全球大量地使用抗生素，促進了細菌適者生存的自然選擇，現在細菌的抗藥性成了問題，因為只有抗藥性強的細菌才能生存到現在。 我敢肯定你們都在報紙上看過類似報導，你們瀏覽的每一本雜誌都有看過類似文章，但是我想讓你們明白這個問題的重要性。這是一個很嚴重的問題。下一張幻燈片展示的是不動桿菌對碳青黴烯的抗藥性，不動桿菌是一種經常存在於醫院的細菌，碳青黴烯是一種最強的抗生素用來對抗這種細菌。你們可以看到，在 1999 年這是抗藥性分布圖，在美國通常是在 10% 以下。接下來隨著時間推移會發生什麼。 我不知道各位是住在哪裡不管你住在哪裡，現在的情況都比 1999 年要差，問題所在就是對抗生素的抗藥性。這是一個全球性的問題富有和貧窮國家都受到了影響，歸根結底，你也許會說，這只是一個醫學問題吧？如果我們讓醫生少用抗生素，讓病人不要求使用抗生素，不就化解難題了嘛，也許醫藥公司應該更努力研發更多的抗生素。但是抗生素在本質上與其他藥物有不同的地方，意味著，如果我誤用抗生素或使用抗生素，不僅我會受到影響，其他人也會受到影響，同理，有如我開車去上班或者坐飛機去別的地方，我造成的污染也會影響到別人因此造成氣候變化其影響無所不在，我卻不會考慮到我帶來的影響。這就是經濟學裡所謂的公共問題，公共問題恰好就是抗生素所面對的問題：我們都不會考慮－包括個人、病患、醫院、整個醫療體系－沒有仔細思考濫用抗生素會給別人帶來什麼影響。 這與我們所熟知的另一個領域的問題很類似，那就是燃油的使用和能源問題，當然，能源的使用問題不僅消耗了大量資源也造成了當地環境污染和氣候變化。特別是能源的使用，有兩個解決方案。一是更加有效率的使用現有的燃油，同樣的，我們可以更好的方式使用現存的抗生素，我們可以通過很多途徑來實現它我們稍後再討論這個問題，另一個選擇就是繼續開採燃油，在抗生素的角度來說就是尋找新的抗生素。 這不是分開的兩個選擇。它們是相關連的，如果我們大量地投資在開採新的油井，我們對原油的節約意識也就降低了，抗生素也會發生同樣的事情。相反的情況也會發生，如果我們適當使用抗生素，我們就不必投資開發新的抗生素。 如果你認為這兩者處在完美的平衡狀態，那你應該知道其實這只是我們玩的一個遊戲。這個遊戲只是一種共同進化，如圖所示，在獵豹和羚羊之間，就存在著共同進化。獵豹進化讓自己跑得更快，因為如果牠們跑得不快，就吃不到午飯。羚羊也進化跑得更快因為如果牠們跑不快，就會被當作午餐，我們就在和細菌玩這個遊戲，但我們不是獵豹，我們是羚羊，而細菌，就在我們說話的同時，會一代一代地繁衍，它們會想辦法抵抗抗生素，通過選擇和試誤，一再地嘗試。那我們要怎麼做才能跑在細菌的前面呢？我們有藥物研發過程，篩選分子，我們有臨床試驗，當我們認為我們研發出新的藥物時，我們還要通過食品藥物管理局的審查。一旦我們完成了這些程序，我們又要再想辦法跑在細菌的前面。 很明顯這不是一個可以長期堅持的遊戲，或是只依靠發現新藥物就能贏得勝利的遊戲。我們需要讓共同進化的腳步慢下來，能源問題的解決方法我們可以引為借鏡，我們可以嫁接解決能源問題的辦法來解決抗生素的問題。如果你們想想我們是怎麼處理能源的價格，我們會考慮污染排放稅，意味著我們讓使用能源的人出錢來解決排放的污染。我們可以在抗生素上做同樣的事，也許可以讓抗生素被適當的使用。還有清潔能源補貼，鼓勵使用低污染的能源，也許最後我們都不需要石油了。同樣的，或許我們必需遠離抗生素，你仔細想想，什麼可以代替抗生素？一切可以減少抗生素使用的東西都是可行的，包括提高醫院防治感染的能力，給人們打疫苗，特別是抵抗季節性流感的疫苗。季節性流感很可能是抗生素使用最多的地方，在我國和其他國家都是，注射疫苗可以提供極大的幫助。第三種選擇包括交易許可。這聽起來似乎和抗生素掛不上邊，但是如果我們沒有足量抗生素給被感染的人治療，我們也許可考慮把抗生素分配給最需要的人，但我們需要考慮臨床需要，以及定價的基礎。當然教育消費者也可行。多數時候，大家濫用抗生素或者醫生開了過量的抗生素，卻不盡然明瞭自己已濫用或過量，而反饋機制讓他們知道情況也被證明有效，不僅在能源問題上－當你告訴某人他們在高峰期用了很多能源，他們一般都會變得節約一些，同樣的例子在抗生素上也有所體現。聖路易斯的一家醫院把外科醫生的名字做成一張表，依上個月用了多少抗生素來進行排名，這全然是一個信息反饋，這張表沒有對醫生指責，只是提供了一些資訊這樣外科醫生可以反思 自己有沒有適當使用抗生素。 如今，在供給這方面也有需要改善的地方。如果你看看青黴素的價格，一天的價格是 10 美分 （三元台幣）。這是非常便宜的藥。如果你使用之後發明的藥物－利奈唑胺或者達託黴素－是要貴得多，如果你可以每天花 10 美分使用抗生素，那麼花 180 美元使用別的藥物看起來就貴多了。這個究竟告訴了我們什麼呢？價格告訴我們我們不應該在可見的未來裡將使用廉價有效的抗生素視為當然，這個價格是一個信號也許我們應該重視節用抗生素。這個價格也給出了另一個信號那就是我們應該開始轉向其他的技術，就好像汽油價格是一個信號可以說它刺激了電動車的發展。價格是很重要的信號我們要更重視這個訊號，但我們也要考慮到雖然高價抗生素似乎不太常見，和某些癌症治療藥物比起來這種高價基本上可以被忽視，癌症藥物可能只能拖延幾個月或者一年的時間，而抗生素可以徹底挽救一個病人的生命。所以一個全新的模式變革將會發生，這種變化也會很可怕因為在這個國家很多地方，在全球各個角落，每天花上 200 美元進行抗生素治療是難以想像的。所以我們需要好好的想一想。 現在，還有一些備案，人們在研發其他可以代替的技術。包括噬菌體、益生菌，細菌群聚感應、合益素。 如今這些都是可以探索的途徑，當新抗生素價格不斷上漲時它們就會變得更有利可圖，我們看到市場已經開始回應，政府也在考慮為新抗生素研發提供補貼。但我們正面臨挑戰。問題不能只光砸錢。我們想做的是投資研發新的抗生素但要能實際鼓勵這些抗生素的銷售和適當使用，這才是真正的挑戰。現在回到技術上， 你們肯定記得那部知名恐龍影片，侏儸紀公園裡面的一句台詞 「大自然會找到自己的出路。」所以這些都不是永久的解決辦法。我們需要記住，不管是什麼科技，大自然總會找到解決方法。 你也許會想，這只是一個有關抗生素和細菌的問題，但是我們在其他領域也有相同的問題，有多重抗藥性肺結核，在南非和印度都是一個大問題。上千的病人面臨死亡的威脅因為二線藥物太昂貴，有的情況，二線藥物都沒有作用，因為你得了廣泛抗藥性肺結核。病毒也變得具抗藥性。農業害蟲、 瘧原蟲。現在，世界上很多地方都依賴一種藥物青蒿素藥物，它用於治療瘧疾。對青蒿素的抗藥性已經開始顯現，如果這種情況蔓延，會使這種目前我們在全球治療瘧疾安全又有效的單一療法藥物產生風險。蚊子也產生了耐藥性。如果你有小孩，你應該會知道頭蝨，如果你是紐約人，我聽說那裡的特產是臭蟲。這些也有了抗藥性。我們還得舉個一洋之隔的英國的例子。那裡的老鼠也變得抗毒藥了。 這些事的共同點就是我們有了這些技術讓我們戰勝了自然 70、80或者 100 年，轉眼之間，我們就失去了控制力，因為我們還沒有意識到自然選擇和進化總會找到一個出路，我們需要全盤反思我們究竟要用什麼去控制生物體，我們需要反思我們如何促進藥物的發展及引進，比如在抗生素的處方上，及如何利用這些寶貴的資源。我們需要把它們當作自然資源。我們站在一個十字路口上。一個選擇就是反思自己謹慎地考慮所有的動機怎麼改變我們做事的方法。要不然我們就會淪落在即便一片草葉子也是致命武器的世界裡。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
