Talk	en	zh-tw
ramona_pierson_an_unexpected_place_of_healing	"I'm actually going to share something with you I haven't talked about probably in more than 10 years. So bear with me as I take you through this journey. When I was 22 years old, I came home from work, put a leash on my dog and went for my usual run. I had no idea that at that moment, my life was going to change forever. While I was preparing my dog for the run, a man was finishing drinking at a bar, picked up his car keys, got into a car and headed south, or wherever he was. I was running across the street, and the only thing that I actually remember is feeling like a grenade went off in my head. And I remember putting my hands on the ground and feeling my life's blood emptying out of my neck and my mouth. What had happened is, he ran a red light and hit me and my dog. She ended up underneath the car. I flew out in front of the car, and then he ran over my legs. My left leg got caught up in the wheel well — spun it around. The bumper of the car hit my throat, slicing it open. I ended up with blunt chest trauma. Your aorta comes up behind your heart, it's your major artery — and it was severed, so my blood was gurgling out of my mouth. It foamed, and ... horrible things were happening to me. I had no idea what was going on, but strangers intervened, kept my heart moving, beating. I say ""moving,"" because it was quivering, and they were trying to put a beat back into it. Somebody was smart and put a Bic pen in my neck to open up my airway, so I could get some air in there. And my lung collapsed, so somebody cut me open and put a pen in there as well, to stop that catastrophic event from happening. Somehow I ended up at the hospital. I was wrapped in ice, and then eventually put into a drug-induced coma. Eighteen months later, I woke up. I was blind, I couldn't speak and I couldn't walk. I was 64 pounds. The hospital really has no idea what to do with people like that. And in fact, they started to call me a ""gomer."" That's another story we won't even get into. I had so many surgeries to put my neck back together, to repair my heart a few times. Some things worked, some things didn't. I had lots of titanium put in me; cadaver bones, to try to get my feet moving the right way. And I ended up with a plastic nose, porcelain teeth and all kinds of other things. But eventually, I started to look human again. But ... It's hard sometimes to talk about these things, so bear with me. I had more than 50 surgeries. But who's counting? (Laughter) So eventually, the hospital decided it was time for me to go. They needed to open up space for somebody else that they thought could come back from whatever they were going through. Everybody lost faith in me being able to recover. So they basically put a map up on the wall, threw a dart, and it landed at a senior home, here in Colorado. And I know all of you are scratching your head: ""A senior citizens' home? What in the world are you going to do there?"" But if you think about all of the skills and talent that are in this room right now, that's what a senior home has. So there were all these skills and talents that these seniors had. The one advantage they had over most of you is wisdom, because they had a long life. And I needed that wisdom at that moment in my life. But imagine what it was like for them when I showed up at their doorstep. At that point, I had gained four pounds, so I was 68 pounds. I was bald. I was wearing hospital scrubs. And somebody donated tennis shoes for me. And I had a white cane in one hand and a suitcase full of medical records in another hand. So the senior citizens realized that they needed to have an emergency meeting. (Laughter) So they pulled back and they were looking at each other, and they were going, ""OK, what skills do we have in this room? This kid needs a lot of work."" So they eventually started matching their talents and skills to all of my needs. But one of the first things they needed to do was assess what I needed right away. I needed to figure out how to eat like a normal human being, since I'd been eating through a tube in my chest and through my veins. So I had to go through trying to eat again. And they went through that process. And then they had to figure out: ""Well, she needs furniture. She is sleeping in the corner of this apartment."" So they went to their storage lockers and all gathered their extra furniture — gave me pots and pans, blankets — everything. And then the next thing that I needed was a makeover. (Laughter) So out went the green scrubs, and in came the polyester and floral prints. (Laughter) We're not going to talk about the hairstyles they tried to force on me once my hair grew back. But I did say no to the blue hair. (Laughter) So eventually, what went on is, they decided that, well, I need to learn to speak. You can't be an independent person if you're not able to speak and you can't see. So they figured not being able to see is one thing, but they need to get me to talk. So while Sally, the office manager, was teaching me to speak in the day — it's hard, because when you're a kid, you take things for granted. You learn things unconsciously. But for me, I was an adult and it was embarrassing, and I had to learn how to coordinate my new throat with my tongue and my new teeth and my lips, and capture the air and get the word out. So, I acted like a two-year-old, and refused to work. But the men had a better idea. They were going to make it fun for me. So they were teaching me cuss-word Scrabble at night. (Laughter) And then, secretly, how to swear like a sailor. (Laughter) I'm going to just leave it to your imagination as to what my first words were — (Laughter) when Sally finally got my confidence built. (Laughter) So I moved on from there. And a former teacher who happened to have Alzheimer's took on the task of teaching me to write. The redundancy was actually good for me. So, we'll just keep moving on. (Laughter) One of the pivotal times for me was actually learning to cross the street again as a blind person. So close your eyes. Now imagine you have to cross a street. You don't know how far that street is, and you don't know if you're going straight. And you hear cars whizzing back and forth, and you had a horrible accident that landed you in this situation. So there were two obstacles I had to get through. One was post-traumatic stress disorder. Every time I approached the corner or the curb, I would panic. And the second one was actually trying to figure out how to cross that street. So one of the seniors just came up to me, and she pushed me up to the corner and said, ""When you think it's time to go, just stick the cane out there. If it's hit, don't cross the street."" (Laughter) Made perfect sense. (Laughter) But by the third cane that went whizzing across the road — (Laughter) they realized that they needed to put their resources together, and they raised funds so that I could go to the Braille Institute and actually gain the skills to be a blind person, and also to go get a guide dog, who transformed my life. And I was able to return to college because of the senior citizens who invested in me, and also the guide dog and skill set I had gained. Ten years later, I gained my sight back. Not magically — I opted in for three surgeries, and one of them was experimental. It was actually robotic surgery that removed a hematoma from behind my eye. The biggest change for me was that the world moved forward, that there were innovations and all kinds of new things — cellphones, laptops, all these things that I had never seen before. And as a blind person, your visual memory fades, and is replaced with how you feel about things and how things sound and how things smell. So one day, I was in my room and I saw this thing sitting in my room. I thought it was a monster, so I was walking around it. And I go, ""I'm just going to touch it."" And I touched it and I went, ""Oh my God, it's a laundry basket."" (Laughter) Everything is different when you're a sighted person, because you take that for granted. But when you're blind, you have the tactile memory for things. The biggest change for me was looking down at my hands and seeing that I'd lost 10 years of my life. I thought that time had stood still for some reason and moved on for family and friends. But when I looked down, I realized that time marched on for me, too, and that I needed to get caught up. So I got going on it. We didn't have words like ""crowdsourcing"" and ""radical collaboration"" when I had my accident. But the concept held true — people working with people to rebuild me; people working with people to reeducate me. I wouldn't be standing here today if it wasn't for extreme radical collaboration. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	注意：我現在要和大家分享的是一個我大約十多年來從來不談的故事因此，請大家多多包涵讓我帶著各位走完這一程我22歲的時候有一天下了班回家，把狗繫上狗帶如往常那樣出去跑步我沒有想到那一刻會從此改變了我的一生我正在準備和我的狗一起跑步有個男人喝了酒從酒吧出來拿起他的車鑰匙上了車然後往南開車沒弄清楚他往哪兒我當時跑過馬路還能記得的是覺得好似一顆手榴彈在我頭上炸開我記得我的雙手撲地感覺到我的生命之血從我的脖子我的口腔傾盆而出 發生的是他闖紅燈撞到我和我的狗我的狗被壓在車下我在車前飛了出去然後他碾過了我的雙腿我的左腿給輪邊纏上了－－順著車輪捲了起來保險桿打中我的喉嚨喉嚨給削開了結果是我受到胸部鈍傷大動脈跑到心臟後面那是主動脈卻割斷了血液從我的口腔咕嚕嚕流出化成血泡還有些可怕的事發生在我身上我完全不知道發生了什麼事但有些陌生人介入讓我的心臟保持運動、跳動，我說運動因為它只在微微顫動他們嘗試恢復我的心跳有個人很聰明，用一支筆管插入我的脖子通開呼吸道，讓我還能吸進一點空氣我的肺也垮了有人幫我切開，放了些別針進去支撐以免造成嚴重災難不知怎的，我已經躺在醫院裡全身被包著冰水然後被送進藥物誘導的昏迷狀態 18個月後我醒來眼睛看不見，話也不能說我無法走路瘦到只剩29公斤醫院也真的不知道該如何處理我這樣的人事實上，他們開始叫我「歌篾」(活死人)了那是另外的故事，我們在這裡不談我動了無數手術才抖正我的脖子心臟也矯治了好幾次有些功能正常，有些不正常我身上放了不少鈦合金還有大體捐贈的骨骼好讓我的腿能正確移動結果鼻子是塑料，牙齒是搪瓷做的還裝了許多其它東西不過，我開始像個人樣再談這些往事，真是令人難過因此，請大家多多包涵我動過50多次手術但是，誰還去算幾次？ 醫院終於做了決定該是要我出院的時候了他們得騰出病床給別人給無論遭遇了什麼他們還認為有救的人人人對我的康復都沒了信心基本上，他們像是在牆上掛了地圖，擲飛鏢決定結果我就進了一家科羅拉多州的老人院我知道你們都在搔腦袋：「送到老人院？你到哪兒幹嘛？」但是，各位想一想今天在這房間裡所有的技能和才智都是老人院裡所擁有的所有這些技能和才智那些那些老人都有其中他們勝過各位大多數的一個長處就是智慧因為他們的人生閱歷長我那時所需的正是那樣的智慧 各位可以想像當時我出現在他們門前，對他們而言會是怎樣的情況那時我胖回了1.8公斤那就是將近31公斤光頭身穿著醫院的寒酸院服腳穿著人家送的網球鞋一手持著白色盲人杖另一手提著滿箱的醫療記錄因此，所有的老人們都知道他們需要召開一次緊急會議（笑聲）他們往後退了一下，對望了一會接著說「好啦，我們這房子裡有什麼辦法？這孩子有好多要弄。」 他們最後開始搭配起他們的才智和技能為我提供所需的一切可是，他們首先要做的是確定我立即需要的是什麼我當時得學會像正常人那樣進食因為我一直是用一根穿過胸部的管子通過靜脈進食的因此， 我得再重新學習如何進食他們帶著我走過那整個過程然後他們也發現：「啊，她需要家具她現在睡的是公寓的角落。」他們跑到儲物箱把多餘的家具湊在一起－－給我水壺、鍋子、毛氈的所有東西接下來，我需要的是添添妝，改改外型寒酸的綠色院服扔掉穿上化學纖維造的花衣（笑聲）我還沒說我頭髮長回來時，他們想強迫我做的髮型，但是我確實反對了把頭髮弄成藍色 （笑聲） 事情還沒完，他們還決定我得重新學會說話如果不能說話、不能看見那就無法獨立生活他們發現要我讓能看見是一回事但他們得先讓我能說話所以，辦事處主管莎莉白天教我說話－－那可真困難，因為小時候，樣樣來得自然不知覺中就學會了但是我當時已是成人，那有多難堪我還得學習如何協調新的嗓門和舌頭新的牙齒和嘴唇學習吸進氣來吐出話所以我就像兩歲小孩那樣拒絕服從 但那些人有更好的主意他們為了讓我得到樂趣晚上就教我來「牙言齦語」的拼說遊戲（笑聲）然後又偷偷教我如何像水手那樣罵人這裡，我準備讓各位想像一下當莎莉終於重建了我的自信後我首先說出來的是哪些話語 （笑聲） 我就從那裡繼續前進有一位以前當老師的，他罹患了阿茲海默擔任教我寫字，這項多餘的學習事實上對我幫助不小我們繼續向進（笑聲）其中有一個轉捩點就是讓我以一個盲人的身份重新學會過馬路請閉上眼睛，想像一下必須那樣過馬路的情況你不知道馬路有多寬你也不曉得能否筆直橫過你聽到那些車聲颼颼來往你還有過恐怖的意外讓你落得這步田地因此，我有兩個難關必須熬過一是嚴重創傷的後遺症每次走近街角或是路肩我會恐慌再是真正嘗試要怎麼橫過馬路 有位老人跑上前來她把我推到街角上，說：「你覺得可以跨出去的時候，把盲人杖伸出去要是被撞啦，不要過馬路。」（笑聲）說得有道理不過，用到第三根盲人杖時拐杖颼地飛過了馬路這下他們明白了要集中資源於是他們集資讓我進了布萊葉學院在那兒學得了盲人的技能也還取得了一隻導盲犬牠改變了我的生命後來我能回到大學上課都是由於這些老人對我的投資以及那隻導盲犬和我所獲得的那些技能 10年後，我重見光明不是奇蹟我同意動了三個手術其中一個是實驗性質的實際上是機控手術他們從我的眼後取出血腫對我而言變化最大是整個世界往前進科技創新種種新的事物－－手機、筆記型電腦這些東西都是我以前沒見過的作為盲人的時候你的視覺記憶會減退會被你對物件的感覺所取代物件會發出什麼聲音物件有什麼氣味 有一天，我在房間裡我看到這麼一個東西我以為是一頭怪物我繞著它走我想：我要摸摸它是什麼我摸了它，恍然大悟「天吶，那是個洗衣籃。」(笑聲)如果你看得見的話所有東西都不一樣因為你認為理所當然但如果你是盲眼的你對東西的記憶是觸覺的 我最大的改變是看著我的雙手看到我的生命失去了10年我想，出於某種緣故，時間靜止了對家人和朋友們而言，時間流逝但當我看下去我明白了，時間也從我身上流逝我必須追趕我得抓住它我發生意外時，並沒有「群眾幫忙」和「徹底協作」這些詞眼但概念是真實存在的－－人們協力讓我重生人們協力讓我重建我今天不可能站在這裡若非真有最大程度的「徹底協作」存在的話 非常感謝 (鼓掌)
