Talk	en	zh-tw
ray_anderson_on_the_business_logic_of_sustainability	"Believe me or not, I come offering a solution to a very important part of this larger problem, with the requisite focus on climate. And the solution I offer is to the biggest culprit in this massive mistreatment of the earth by humankind, and the resulting decline of the biosphere. That culprit is business and industry, which happens to be where I have spent the last 52 years since my graduation from Georgia Tech in 1956. As an industrial engineer, cum aspiring and then successful entrepreneur. After founding my company, Interface, from scratch in 1973, 36 years ago, to produce carpet tiles in America for the business and institution markets, and shepherding it through start-up and survival to prosperity and global dominance in its field, I read Paul Hawken's book, ""The Ecology of Commerce,"" the summer of 1994. In his book, Paul charges business and industry as, one, the major culprit in causing the decline of the biosphere, and, two, the only institution that is large enough, and pervasive enough, and powerful enough, to really lead humankind out of this mess. And by the way he convicted me as a plunderer of the earth. And I then challenged the people of Interface, my company, to lead our company and the entire industrial world to sustainability, which we defined as eventually operating our petroleum-intensive company in such a way as to take from the earth only what can be renewed by the earth, naturally and rapidly — not another fresh drop of oil — and to do no harm to the biosphere. Take nothing: do no harm. I simply said, ""If Hawken is right and business and industry must lead, who will lead business and industry? Unless somebody leads, nobody will."" It's axiomatic. Why not us? And thanks to the people of Interface, I have become a recovering plunderer. (Laughter) (Applause) I once told a Fortune Magazine writer that someday people like me would go to jail. And that became the headline of a Fortune article. They went on to describe me as America's greenest CEO. From plunderer to recovering plunderer, to America's greenest CEO in five years — that, frankly, was a pretty sad commentary on American CEOs in 1999. Asked later in the Canadian documentary, ""The Corporation,"" what I meant by the ""go to jail"" remark, I offered that theft is a crime. And theft of our children's future would someday be a crime. But I realized, for that to be true — for theft of our children's future to be a crime — there must be a clear, demonstrable alternative to the take-make-waste industrial system that so dominates our civilization, and is the major culprit, stealing our children's future, by digging up the earth and converting it to products that quickly become waste in a landfill or an incinerator — in short, digging up the earth and converting it to pollution. According to Paul and Anne Ehrlich and a well-known environmental impact equation, impact — a bad thing — is the product of population, affluence and technology. That is, impact is generated by people, what they consume in their affluence, and how it is produced. And though the equation is largely subjective, you can perhaps quantify people, and perhaps quantify affluence, but technology is abusive in too many ways to quantify. So the equation is conceptual. Still it works to help us understand the problem. So we set out at Interface, in 1994, to create an example: to transform the way we made carpet, a petroleum-intensive product for materials as well as energy, and to transform our technologies so they diminished environmental impact, rather than multiplied it. Paul and Anne Ehrlich's environmental impact equation: I is equal to P times A times T: population, affluence and technology. I wanted Interface to rewrite that equation so that it read I equals P times A divided by T. Now, the mathematically-minded will see immediately that T in the numerator increases impact — a bad thing — but T in the denominator decreases impact. So I ask, ""What would move T, technology, from the numerator — call it T1 — where it increases impact, to the denominator — call it T2 — where it reduces impact? I thought about the characteristics of first industrial revolution, T1, as we practiced it at Interface, and it had the following characteristics. Extractive: taking raw materials from the earth. Linear: take, make, waste. Powered by fossil fuel-derived energy. Wasteful: abusive and focused on labor productivity. More carpet per man-hour. Thinking it through, I realized that all those attributes must be changed to move T to the denominator. In the new industrial revolution extractive must be replaced by renewable; linear by cyclical; fossil fuel energy by renewable energy, sunlight; wasteful by waste-free; and abusive by benign; and labor productivity by resource productivity. And I reasoned that if we could make those transformative changes, and get rid of T1 altogether, we could reduce our impact to zero, including our impact on the climate. And that became the Interface plan in 1995, and has been the plan ever since. We have measured our progress very rigorously. So I can tell you how far we have come in the ensuing 12 years. Net greenhouse gas emissions down 82 percent in absolute tonnage. (Applause) Over the same span of time sales have increased by two-thirds and profits have doubled. So an 82 percent absolute reduction translates into a 90 percent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity relative to sales. This is the magnitude of the reduction the entire global technosphere must realize by 2050 to avoid catastrophic climate disruption — so the scientists are telling us. Fossil fuel usage is down 60 percent per unit of production, due to efficiencies in renewables. The cheapest, most secure barrel of oil there is is the one not used through efficiencies. Water usage is down 75 percent in our worldwide carpet tile business. Down 40 percent in our broadloom carpet business, which we acquired in 1993 right here in California, City of Industry, where water is so precious. Renewable or recyclable materials are 25 percent of the total, and growing rapidly. Renewable energy is 27 percent of our total, going for 100 percent. We have diverted 148 million pounds — that's 74,000 tons — of used carpet from landfills, closing the loop on material flows through reverse logistics and post-consumer recycling technologies that did not exist when we started 14 years ago. Those new cyclical technologies have contributed mightily to the fact that we have produced and sold 85 million square yards of climate-neutral carpet since 2004, meaning no net contribution to global climate disruption in producing the carpet throughout the supply chain, from mine and well head clear to end-of-life reclamation — independent third-party certified. We call it Cool Carpet. And it has been a powerful marketplace differentiator, increasing sales and profits. Three years ago we launched carpet tile for the home, under the brand Flor, misspelled F-L-O-R. You can point and click today at Flor.com and have Cool Carpet delivered to your front door in five days. It is practical, and pretty too. (Laughter) (Applause) We reckon that we are a bit over halfway to our goal: zero impact, zero footprint. We've set 2020 as our target year for zero, for reaching the top, the summit of Mount Sustainability. We call this Mission Zero. And this is perhaps the most important facet: we have found Mission Zero to be incredibly good for business. A better business model, a better way to bigger profits. Here is the business case for sustainability. From real life experience, costs are down, not up, reflecting some 400 million dollars of avoided costs in pursuit of zero waste — the first face of Mount Sustainability. This has paid all the costs for the transformation of Interface. And this dispels a myth too, this false choice between the environment and the economy. Our products are the best they've ever been, inspired by design for sustainability, an unexpected wellspring of innovation. Our people are galvanized around this shared higher purpose. You cannot beat it for attracting the best people and bringing them together. And the goodwill of the marketplace is astonishing. No amount of advertising, no clever marketing campaign, at any price, could have produced or created this much goodwill. Costs, products, people, marketplaces — what else is there? It is a better business model. And here is our 14-year record of sales and profits. There is a dip there, from 2001 to 2003: a dip when our sales, over a three-year period, were down 17 percent. But the marketplace was down 36 percent. We literally gained market share. We might not have survived that recession but for the advantages of sustainability. If every business were pursuing Interface plans, would that solve all our problems? I don't think so. I remain troubled by the revised Ehrlich equation, I equals P times A divided by T2. That A is a capital A, suggesting that affluence is an end in itself. But what if we reframed Ehrlich further? And what if we made A a lowercase 'a,' suggesting that it is a means to an end, and that end is happiness — more happiness with less stuff. You know that would reframe civilization itself — (Applause) — and our whole system of economics, if not for our species, then perhaps for the one that succeeds us: the sustainable species, living on a finite earth, ethically, happily and ecologically in balance with nature and all her natural systems for a thousand generations, or 10,000 generations — that is to say, into the indefinite future. But does the earth have to wait for our extinction as a species? Well maybe so. But I don't think so. At Interface we really intend to bring this prototypical sustainable, zero-footprint industrial company fully into existence by 2020. We can see our way now, clear to the top of that mountain. And now the challenge is in execution. And as my good friend and adviser Amory Lovins says, ""If something exists, it must be possible."" (Laughter) If we can actually do it, it must be possible. If we, a petro-intensive company can do it, anybody can. And if anybody can, it follows that everybody can. Hawken fulfilled business and industry, leading humankind away from the abyss because, with continued unchecked decline of the biosphere, a very dear person is at risk here — frankly, an unacceptable risk. Who is that person? Not you. Not I. But let me introduce you to the one who is most at risk here. And I myself met this person in the early days of this mountain climb. On a Tuesday morning in March of 1996, I was talking to people, as I did at every opportunity back then, bringing them along and often not knowing whether I was connecting. But about five days later back in Atlanta, I received an email from Glenn Thomas, one of my people in the California meeting. He was sending me an original poem that he had composed after our Tuesday morning together. And when I read it it was one of the most uplifting moments of my life. Because it told me, by God, one person got it. Here is what Glenn wrote. And here is that person, most at risk. Please meet ""Tomorrow's Child."" ""Without a name, an unseen face, and knowing not your time or place, Tomorrow's child, though yet unborn, I met you first last Tuesday morn. A wise friend introduced us two. And through his sobering point of view I saw a day that you would see, a day for you but not for me. Knowing you has changed my thinking. For I never had an inkling that perhaps the things I do might someday, somehow threaten you. Tomorrow's child, my daughter, son, I'm afraid I've just begun to think of you and of your good, though always having known I should. Begin, I will. The way the cost of what I squander, what is lost, if ever I forget that you will someday come and live here too."" Well, every day of my life since, ""Tomorrow's Child"" has spoken to me with one simple but profound message, which I presume to share with you. We are, each and every one, a part of the web of life. The continuum of humanity, sure, but in a larger sense, the web of life itself. And we have a choice to make during our brief, brief visit to this beautiful blue and green living planet: to hurt it or to help it. For you, it's your call. Thank you. (Applause)"	"信不信由你，我是來分享一個解決辦法針對一個全面性的重要問題也就是氣候變遷我提供的辦法是對於那些人類造成的重大元兇並對地球產生嚴重的破壞導致生物多樣性的減少元兇就是商業和工業活動自從我1956年從喬治亞理工學院畢業以後52年來就一直持續存在著的問題身為一名工業工程師創業家、成功的企業家我在1973年，也就是三十六年前白手起家建立了我的公司Interface在美國製造方塊地毯銷售給企業或是研究機構我帶領我的公司從草創初期到站穩腳步而後成為世界領導品牌我讀過保羅‧霍肯的書""商業生態學""在1994年的夏天保羅在他的書中指責工商業活動為導致生物圈減少的罪魁禍首並稱這些公司也是唯一夠大夠普遍、夠有力的機構去帶領人們走出這一團混亂順帶一提，他還在書裡指責我為地球的掠奪者 之後我開始給我公司的夥伴一個挑戰帶領我們公司，及整個工業界往永續發展的目標前進最後我們將自己這個石油密集產業定下一個目標-只使用那些可以快速地被自然更新的地球資源當作原料不再使用任何一滴原油並且不傷害生物環境不任取資源、不傷害地球。我簡單地說道，如果霍肯是對的那工商業必定得領導大眾誰又來領導工商業?除非有人挺身而出，否則將群龍無首這是無庸置疑的，為什麼我們不跳出來登高一呼?感謝我公司Interface的夥伴我因而有機會改過向善 (笑) (掌聲) 我曾告訴過一位《財富》雜誌的編輯說像我這種人總有一天會坐牢這則新聞成為該期《財富》報導的頭條他們接著稱我為「美國最環保的公司總裁」從罪魁禍首到洗心革面到美國最環保的公司總裁,只花了五年的時間老實而言，對1999當年的美國總裁們那真是一個非常諷刺的評價而後我被加拿大紀錄片公司The Corporation問道我所謂""坐牢""是什麼意思?我指出竊盜是一種罪行而竊取我們孩子的未來在將來也必定成為一種罪名但我瞭解這必定成真偷竊孩子的未來將被定罪今日必需要有一個明瞭的解決之道對於我們這個""取得資源，做成商品，再被拋棄""的工業制度該制度同時支配著我們的現代社會是偷竊我們幼苗未來的最大元兇藉由開採地球資源並將其轉變為一下子就被丟進垃圾場或焚化爐的廢物簡而言之，剝削地球資源並將其轉成污染源 根據保羅及安‧赫里克和一個舉世皆知的環境影響方程式負面的影響，這是我們所不想要的等於人口乘上財富乘上科技也就是說，負面影響是人為造成的人們用他們的財產消費即對環境產生了影響雖然這個方程式非常主觀但也許你可以將人口量化、甚至將財富量化但科技被大量地濫用以至於無法以數值呈現所以這個方程式是一個概念協助我們了解整個問題 所以我們Interface在1994年開始著手創造一個榜樣轉變我們製造地毯的方式一個不論是材料或能源消耗來說皆大量依靠石油的產品同時改變我們的技術即可減少對環境的衝擊而非使其惡化保羅和安‧赫里克的環境影響方程式:I(負面影響)等於P乘上A乘上TP為人口、A為財富、T為科技我希望Interface公司改寫它為別種形式:I等於P乘上A除以T現在，這個方程式在數學意義上可告訴我們T在分子的話將會造成負面影響擴大但T在分母的話反倒可以減少負面影響所以我便問道""什麼東西可以把T，科技從原本的分子，稱之為T1科技將帶來負面影響將他改移到分母，稱其為T2科技就可以減少環境衝擊 我想到第一次工業革命的幾個特質T1，就如同我們以前在Interface做的具有下列幾種特性開採的:從地球資源中取得原料線性的:取得資源，做成商品，再被拋棄用石油當作動力來源浪費的: 濫用資源且強調勞動生產率工時越長，製造越多地毯越好思考過後，我了解到為了把T移至分母必需將這些因素做個改變在新的工業革命中我們必須用可再生的資源取代原本的原料線性的浪費改為可循環利用化石燃料必需被可更新能源取代，即太陽能改掉人們揮霍浪費的習慣不濫用資源、對環境和善注重資源生產率而非勞動產率我認為只要我們能做到以上這些改變就可以把T1去除將影響減低至零其中也包括對氣候的影響這就成了Interface1995年的策略一直到今日 我們每年都詳盡地計算著我們的進展我可以告訴你我們這十二年來到底做了什麼溫室氣體排放量每噸下降了82個百分比(掌聲)在同期銷售量上升了三分之二同時利潤成雙倍成長之後八成二的溫室氣體減少量增加變成減少九成的溫室起體排放量，跟原先相比這一個數字、這個降幅應該被所有的科技業者體認到並且在2050年前實踐以避免氣候的劇變與災難的形成這也是科學家告訴我們的我們每單位產量降低了六成的化石燃料使用量都歸功於再生能源的使用世界最便宜、最安全的能源用油是那些因為利用率太低而未被充分使用的原油在我們的全球方塊地毯生產工廠中用水量也減少了七十五個百分比在我們1993年開發的廣幅地毯產品製作產線中用水量同樣減少四成就在這裡，加州，工業重鎮水資源特別貴重的地方再生材料和可回收材料佔全部的百分之二十五，並快速成長著再生能源佔全部的百分之二十七並朝百分之百邁進我們總共讓一億四千八百萬磅也就是七萬四千噸的二手地毯，免於被丟進掩埋場的命運結束了原物料難逃的宿命僅僅只靠改變我們的一點想法與邏輯而使用者回收服務這個我們14年前剛開始時還不存在的東西 這些新的循環利用政策對我們2004年以來銷售掉8千5百萬平方碼的氣候無害地毯有著極大的貢獻換句話說，我們沒有對氣候造成更進一步的危害不論是從製造產品到供應鍊方從礦山、油井開始一直到產品回收利用並且獲得了公正第三方的認可我們將它命名為""酷冷地毯""是一個成功區分市場的產品增加了銷售量和利潤三年前我們開始製造家用方塊地毯以Flor這個品牌名稱故意拼成F-L-O-R你可以在Flor.com找到相關訊息同時網路訂購在五天內就可以送到你家門口又美又實惠的產品 (笑) (掌聲) 我們認為我們的任務進行到了一半對於最終目標-不留影響、不留足跡我們希望在2020年達到此一目標攀上名為""永續經營""的山頂我們將其稱為""任務零號""該任務是最重要的一個方案我們了解到任務零號將可以為商業環境帶來極大的利益一個更好的商業模型更好的方法以獲取更多的利潤這就是讓企業永續經營的辦法從真實經驗看來，成本不升反降了這反映出我們在追求零污染的同時節省下了四億元的支出這只是永續經營計劃中的其中一面還順便支付了所有做為Interface轉型的成本 也打破了大眾錯誤的迷思-只能在環境保護與經濟發展中擇一這是我們有史以來最棒的產品靈感來自永續發展真是一個意想不到的創意泉源這個更崇高的目標也激勵了我的夥伴們沒有其他更好的核心價值可以吸引人才並且團結整個工作團隊了市場的好評也出乎我們意料不需廣告、不需精心策劃的行銷活動你原本需要花掉多少資本才能達到這種廣告效果成本、產品、員工、市場還有什麼沒涵蓋到的主題?這的確是一個更佳的商業模型 這是我們十四年來銷售量和利潤的記錄在2001年至2003年間有下滑的趨勢我們的銷售量在那三年間下降了17個百分比但總體市場環境下降了36個百分比這樣看來，我們市場佔有率反倒提高了如果沒有以上這些優勢我們可能就無法在景氣蕭條時倖存下來如果每家企業都像Interface般追求永續發展那麼我們的問題會被解決嗎?我不認為如此我對修改過的赫里克方程持保留態度I等於P乘上A除以T2這裡的A是大寫的A代表財富是人們追求的目標但如果我們再多改寫一點赫里克方程式呢?如果我們把大A改成小寫的a代表財富是我們達到目標的手段之一只不過那目標是""快樂""多點快樂、少點東西 你知道那將會顛覆我們整個現代社會(掌聲)和我們所有的經濟系統就算不是為了人類也是為了那些繼承人類的物種他們可以永續生存，一同生活在這顆行星上合乎道德地、幸福美滿地、環保地與自然和諧共處並繁衍下去，產下數千代或萬代子子孫孫瓜瓞綿綿，無窮無盡但地球會等到我們人類滅絕之後嗎?很可能吧，但我才不這麼想 在Interface我們打算把這種永續觀點零足跡的工業模範在2020年之前實踐我們可看見我們的道路將直通永續經營的山頂而如今最大的挑戰在於執行就如同我的好友兼顧問阿默莉‧蘿芬所言如果某樣東西存在，那它就是有可能實現的(笑)如果我們可以做到，那就有可能成真如果我們，一個石化密集產業的公司可以達成，那每家公司都可以達成又如果每家公司都可以做到，也就是說每個人都可以做到 霍肯成功地為工商業指派了新任務帶領人們走出環境污染的深淵如果再這樣不知節制地破壞生物圈那麼我們最愛的人將會被曝露在危險之中坦白說，一個大災難那人是誰?不是你，不是我。讓我告訴你是誰會曝露其中我前幾天在爬山的時候遇到他在1996年三月的某個星期二的早晨我正在跟其他人講話，那是我的習慣把我的想法告訴他們，雖然我並不知道我們正建立起某種關連但我回到亞特蘭大的五天左右以後我收到一封電子郵件，是葛蘭‧湯馬士寄來的我曾經在加州開會時的遇過他他送給我一首自己寫的詩是他在禮拜二和我一起爬完山之後特別作的當我讀完這首詩，我覺得那是我一生中最振奮的時刻""老天，終於有人了解了。""我這樣想以下是葛蘭所寫的內容，曝露在危險之中的人也就是:""未來之子""，也就是這首詩的標題 我不知你的名字，也不認得你的樣貌，更不知道你何時何地出生 未來之子，尚未出生我卻在上禮拜二的早晨遇見你 聰明的好友介紹我們兩個認識從他沉重的觀點中 我看到了未來你將面臨的一天，屬於你的未來而非我的未來 體會到這點改變了我的想法是我從來未考慮過的 或許我現在做的一切在未來可能間接傷害到你 未來之子，我的女兒、我的兒子 我太晚才想到你們、以及你們的未來 雖然我知道我應該早點考慮到 我會開始實踐 補償那些因我揮霍而付出的代價 我忘了你有天將也會來此並居住生活下來 自從我聽到""未來之子""之後的每一天生活都銘記在心它告訴我們一個簡單但深刻的訊息這也是我想跟你分享的我們是互相且獨立的個體同時又是這星球上生命圈的一份子是人類的一份子，當然，但從巨觀來看，仍然是地球上的一份子我們可以選擇在我們這極短的人生旅程中去加害或幫助這顆美麗、富有活力的藍星對你來說，全看你如何做決定 謝謝你們 (掌聲)"
