Talk	en	zh-tw
rebecca_onie_what_if_our_healthcare_system_kept_us_healthy	"So my freshman year of college I signed up for an internship in the housing unit at Greater Boston Legal Services. Showed up the first day ready to make coffee and photocopies, but was paired with this righteous, deeply inspired attorney named Jeff Purcell, who thrust me onto the front lines from the very first day. And over the course of nine months I had the chance to have dozens of conversations with low-income families in Boston who would come in presenting with housing issues, but always had an underlying health issue. So I had a client who came in, about to be evicted because he hasn't paid his rent. But he hasn't paid his rent, of course, because he's paying for his HIV medication and just can't afford both. We had moms who would come in, daughter has asthma, wakes up covered in cockroaches every morning. And one of our litigation strategies was actually to send me into the home of these clients with these large glass bottles. And I would collect the cockroaches, hot glue-gun them to this poster board that we'd bring to court for our cases. And we always won because the judges were just so grossed out. Far more effective, I have to say, than anything I later learned in law school. But over the course of these nine months, I grew frustrated with feeling like we were intervening too far downstream in the lives of our clients — that by the time they came to us, they were already in crisis. And at the end of my freshman year of college, I read an article about the work that Dr. Barry Zuckerman was doing as Chair of Pediatrics at Boston Medical Center. And his first hire was a legal services attorney to represent the patients. So I called Barry, and with his blessing, in October 1995 walked into the waiting room of the pediatrics clinic at Boston Medical Center. I'll never forget, the TVs played this endless reel of cartoons. And the exhaustion of mothers who had taken two, three, sometimes four buses to bring their child to the doctor was just palpable. The doctors, it seemed, never really had enough time for all the patients, try as they might. And over the course of six months, I would corner them in the hallway and ask them a sort of naive but fundamental question: ""If you had unlimited resources, what's the one thing you would give your patients?"" And I heard the same story again and again, a story we've heard hundreds of times since then. They said, ""Every day we have patients that come into the clinic — child has an ear infection, I prescribe antibiotics. But the real issue is there's no food at home. The real issue is that child is living with 12 other people in a two-bedroom apartment. And I don't even ask about those issues because there's nothing I can do. I have 13 minutes with each patient. Patients are piling up in the clinic waiting room. I have no idea where the nearest food pantry is. And I don't even have any help."" In that clinic, even today, there are two social workers for 24,000 pediatric patients, which is better than a lot of the clinics out there. So Health Leads was born of these conversations — a simple model where doctors and nurses can prescribe nutritious food, heat in the winter and other basic resources for their patients the same way they prescribe medication. Patients then take their prescriptions to our desk in the clinic waiting room where we have a core of well-trained college student advocates who work side by side with these families to connect them out to the existing landscape of community resources. So we began with a card table in the clinic waiting room — totally lemonade stand style. But today we have a thousand college student advocates who are working to connect nearly 9,000 patients and their families with the resources that they need to be healthy. So 18 months ago I got this email that changed my life. And the email was from Dr. Jack Geiger, who had written to congratulate me on Health Leads and to share, as he said, a bit of historical context. In 1965 Dr. Geiger founded one of the first two community health centers in this country, in a brutally poor area in the Mississippi Delta. And so many of his patients came in presenting with malnutrition that be began prescribing food for them. And they would take these prescriptions to the local supermarket, which would fill them and then charge the pharmacy budget of the clinic. And when the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington, D.C. — which was funding Geiger's clinic — found out about this, they were furious. And they sent this bureaucrat down to tell Geiger that he was expected to use their dollars for medical care — to which Geiger famously and logically responded, ""The last time I checked my textbooks, the specific therapy for malnutrition was food."" (Laughter) So when I got this email from Dr. Geiger, I knew I was supposed to be proud to be part of this history. But the truth is I was devastated. Here we are, 45 years after Geiger has prescribed food for his patients, and I have doctors telling me, ""On those issues, we practice a 'don't ask, don't tell' policy."" Forty-five years after Geiger, Health Leads has to reinvent the prescription for basic resources. So I have spent hours upon hours trying to make sense of this weird Groundhog Day. How is it that if for decades we had a pretty straightforward tool for keeping patients, and especially low-income patients, healthy, that we didn't use it? If we know what it takes to have a healthcare system rather than a sick-care system, why don't we just do it? These questions, in my mind, are not hard because the answers are complicated, they are hard because they require that we be honest with ourselves. My belief is that it's almost too painful to articulate our aspirations for our healthcare system, or even admit that we have any at all. Because if we did, they would be so removed from our current reality. But that doesn't change my belief that all of us, deep inside, here in this room and across this country, share a similar set of desires. That if we are honest with ourselves and listen quietly, that we all harbor one fiercely held aspiration for our healthcare: that it keep us healthy. This aspiration that our healthcare keep us healthy is an enormously powerful one. And the way I think about this is that healthcare is like any other system. It's just a set of choices that people make. What if we decided to make a different set of choices? What if we decided to take all the parts of healthcare that have drifted away from us and stand firm and say, ""No. These things are ours. They will be used for our purposes. They will be used to realize our aspiration""? What if everything we needed to realize our aspiration for healthcare was right there in front of us just waiting to be claimed? So that's where Health Leads began. We started with the prescription pad — a very ordinary piece of paper — and we asked, not what do patients need to get healthy — antibiotics, an inhaler, medication — but what do patients need to be healthy, to not get sick in the first place? And we chose to use the prescription for that purpose. So just a few miles from here at Children's National Medical Center, when patients come into the doctor's office, they're asked a few questions. They're asked, ""Are you running out of food at the end of the month? Do you have safe housing?"" And when the doctor begins the visit, she knows height, weight, is there food at home, is the family living in a shelter. And that not only leads to a better set of clinical choices, but the doctor can also prescribe those resources for the patient, using Health Leads like any other sub-specialty referral. The problem is, once you get a taste of what it's like to realize your aspiration for healthcare, you want more. So we thought, if we can get individual doctors to prescribe these basic resources for their patients, could we get an entire healthcare system to shift its presumption? And we gave it a shot. So now at Harlem Hospital Center when patients come in with an elevated body mass index, the electronic medical record automatically generates a prescription for Health Leads. And our volunteers can then work with them to connect patients to healthy food and excercise programs in their communities. We've created a presumption that if you're a patient at that hospital with an elevated BMI, the four walls of the doctor's office probably aren't going to give you everything you need to be healthy. You need more. So on the one hand, this is just a basic recoding of the electronic medical record. And on the other hand, it's a radical transformation of the electronic medical record from a static repository of diagnostic information to a health promotion tool. In the private sector, when you squeeze that kind of additional value out of a fixed-cost investment, it's called a billion-dollar company. But in my world, it's called reduced obesity and diabetes. It's called healthcare — a system where doctors can prescribe solutions to improve health, not just manage disease. Same thing in the clinic waiting room. So every day in this country three million patients pass through about 150,000 clinic waiting rooms in this country. And what do they do when they're there? They sit, they watch the goldfish in the fish tank, they read extremely old copies of Good Housekeeping magazine. But mostly we all just sit there forever, waiting. How did we get here where we devote hundreds of acres and thousands of hours to waiting? What if we had a waiting room where you don't just sit when you're sick, but where you go to get healthy. If airports can become shopping malls and McDonald's can become playgrounds, surely we can reinvent the clinic waiting room. And that's what Health Leads has tried to do, to reclaim that real estate and that time and to use it as a gateway to connect patients to the resources they need to be healthy. So it's a brutal winter in the Northeast, your kid has asthma, your heat just got turned off, and of course you're in the waiting room of the ER, because the cold air triggered your child's asthma. But what if instead of waiting for hours anxiously, the waiting room became the place where Health Leads turned your heat back on? And of course all of this requires a broader workforce. But if we're creative, we already have that too. We know that our doctors and nurses and even social workers aren't enough, that the ticking minutes of health care are too constraining. Health just takes more time. It requires a non-clinical army of community health workers and case managers and many others. What if a small part of that next healthcare workforce were the 11 million college students in this country? Unencumbered by clinical responsibilities, unwilling to take no for an answer from those bureaucracies that tend to crush patients, and with an unparalleled ability for information retrieval honed through years of using Google. Now lest you think it improbable that a college volunteer can make this kind of commitment, I have two words for you: March Madness. The average NCAA Division I men's basketball player dedicates 39 hours a week to his sport. Now we may think that's good or bad, but in either case it's real. And Health Leads is based on the presumption that for too long we have asked too little of our college students when it comes to real impact in vulnerable communities. College sports teams say, ""We're going to take dozens of hours at some field across campus at some ungodly hour of the morning and we're going to measure your performance, and your team's performance, and if you don't measure up or you don't show up, we're going to cut you off the team. But we'll make huge investments in your training and development, and we'll give you an extraordinary community of peers."" And people line up out the door just for the chance to be part of it. So our feeling is, if it's good enough for the rugby team, it's good enough for health and poverty. Health Leads too recruits competitively, trains intensively, coaches professionally, demands significant time, builds a cohesive team and measures results — a kind of Teach for America for healthcare. Now in the top 10 cities in the U.S. with the largest number of Medicaid patients, each of those has at least 20,000 college students. New York alone has half a million college students. And this isn't just a sort of short-term workforce to connect patients to basic resources, it's a next generation healthcare leadership pipeline who've spent two, three, four years in the clinic waiting room talking to patients about their most basic health needs. And they leave with the conviction, the ability and the efficacy to realize our most basic aspirations for health care. And the thing is, there's thousands of these folks already out there. So Mia Lozada is Chief Resident of Internal Medicine at UCSF Medical Center, but for three years as an undergraduate she was a Health Leads volunteer in the clinic waiting room at Boston Medical Center. Mia says, ""When my classmates write a prescription, they think their work is done. When I write a prescription, I think, can the family read the prescription? Do they have transportation to the pharmacy? Do they have food to take with the prescription? Do they have insurance to fill the prescription? Those are the questions I learned at Health Leads, not in medical school."" Now none of these solutions — the prescription pad, the electronic medical record, the waiting room, the army of college students — are perfect. But they are ours for the taking — simple examples of the vast under-utilized healthcare resources that, if we reclaimed and redeployed, could realize our most basic aspiration of healthcare. So I had been at Legal Services for about nine months when this idea of Health Leads started percolating in my mind. And I knew I had to tell Jeff Purcell, my attorney, that I needed to leave. And I was so nervous, because I thought he was going to be disappointed in me for abandoning our clients for some crazy idea. And I sat down with him and I said, ""Jeff, I have this idea that we could mobilize college students to address patients' most basic health needs."" And I'll be honest, all I wanted was for him to not be angry at me. But he said this, ""Rebecca, when you have a vision, you have an obligation to realize that vision. You must pursue that vision."" And I have to say, I was like ""Whoa. That's a lot of pressure."" I just wanted a blessing, I didn't want some kind of mandate. But the truth is I've spent every waking minute nearly since then chasing that vision. I believe that we all have a vision for healthcare in this country. I believe that at the end of the day when we measure our healthcare, it will not be by the diseases cured, but by the diseases prevented. It will not be by the excellence of our technologies or the sophistication of our specialists, but by how rarely we needed them. And most of all, I believe that when we measure healthcare, it will be, not by what the system was, but by what we chose it to be. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我大一的時候申請成為大波士頓法律援助處的實習生在住宅部門第一天上工時我準備好要幫大家煮咖啡、影印卻被分配與一位充滿正義感與啟發性的律師共事他是Jeff Purcell他在我實習的第一天便將我丟到工作前線 而在之後的九個月中我有機會跟許多波士頓低收入的家庭有許多會談他們來我們這裡，通常是因為許多關於居住的問題但潛藏其中，總有與健康相關的問題我有一個客戶他因長期沒付房租，即將被逐出房屋但他一直沒付房租是因為他必須支付愛滋病的醫藥費所以無法負荷兩者加起來的支出也有許多母親來我們這裡女兒有氣喘病卻每天早晨在蟑螂堆中起床我們訴訟的策略之一是派我去這些客戶的家裡用大玻璃瓶蒐集這些蟑螂用熱熔膠把蟑螂黏在海報板上再帶到法庭打官司而我們總能贏得這些案件因為法官看了這些都覺得很噁心這方法，我必須承認比我日後在法學院所學的都還要有效 但是在這九個月中我越來越感到挫敗因為在客戶的生活中我們出手相助的時機總是太晚當他們來尋求幫助時他們的生活早已陷入危機當我大一那年即將結束時我讀到一篇文章是有關Barry Zuckerman博士的工作他是小兒科主任在波士頓醫療中心工作而他的第一份工作是當律師為病患辯護 我打電話給Barry並在他的幫助之下，於1995年10月走進波士頓醫療中心小兒科的候診室我永遠不會忘記他們的電視上不斷播放卡通而那些筋疲力竭的母親們有些已經轉了2、3次，甚至是4次的公車才能帶她的小孩來看醫生她們的疲憊真實的如可觸見 那些醫生看似永遠沒有足夠時間來看所有的病患儘管他們很努力而接下來的六個月我常在走廊上攔下這些醫生問他們一個看似天真但卻很基本的問題：「如果你有無限的資源你會給你的病患什麼？」 同樣的回答一次又一次的出現我們大概聽了一百遍這樣的故事他們說：""我們每天有許多病患來求診像耳朵感染的小孩我會開抗生素但是最大的問題是他們家中沒有食物真正的問題是這小孩與其他12個人一起住在一間只有兩個臥房的公寓而我對於這樣的事卻不願多問因為我也束手無策我與每位病患有13分鐘的診療時間候診室塞滿病人我不曉得最近的救濟中心在哪也沒有人能幫我。""即便今日，在那間醫療中心只有2位社工卻要處理2萬4千位小兒科病人但這狀況已經比其他的醫療中心好了 「導向健康組織(Heath Leads)」從這些會談中誕生運用簡單的模式讓醫生和護士能開營養的食物冬天的暖氣和其他基本的生活資源給病患就像他們開其他藥方一樣病患拿著這些處方籤來我們位於候診室的櫃台在這我們有一群訓練優良的大學生可以從旁協助這些家庭幫他們向外聯繫取得社區現有的資源 一開始我們在診療室設立了一個簡單的櫃台就像賣檸檬汁的攤販那樣但如今我們已有1千名支持這項行動的大學生他們幫忙9千個病患和其家庭幫忙取得他們維持健康所需的資源 18個月前我收到一封改變我人生的電郵是Jack Geiger博士寄給我的他寫來恭賀我和導向健康組織並且分享，如同他說的一些歷史脈絡1965年，Geiger博士創立那時全國唯二社區健康中心的其中一個位於密西西比三角洲，是極為貧窮的地區博士有許多前來求診的病患呈現營養不良的問題於是他開始開食物給病患當藥方病人將這些處方籤拿去當地超市取得他們所需的食物超市則向診所支取這些費用當華府的職業訓練部—他們當時資助Geiger的診所—發現這件事後他們十分不高興派官員告訴Geiger他們期待將這些資助的費用花在醫療保健上Geiger的回應出名且有邏輯：""上回我查課本的時候針對改善營養不良，最好的解藥就是食物。"" (笑聲) 因此當我收到Geiger博士的這封電郵我知道我身為這段歷史的一份子應該感到驕傲但事實上我卻感到挫敗我們現在離Geiger開食物給他的病人當藥方已經45年卻仍有醫生告訴我""面對這些問題我們奉行「不問、不說」的原則""在Geiger開始這項行動的45年後導向健康組織必須重新創造給予病人基本生活資源的的藥方我花了好多時間試圖了解這個怪異的迴圈為什麼這幾十年來我們一直有非常直接的方法讓病患健康特別是低收入戶的患者我們卻從不使用？如果我們知道要如何成立「健保」系統而不是「病保」系統為什麼我們不做呢？ 在我心中，這些問題並不因為答案很複雜而困難它們是如此困難，是因為它需要我們誠實的面對自己我認為這是一件極為痛苦的事以致我們無法表達對健保制度的期望或甚至承認有任何期待因為如果我們這麼做它們將看似遙不可及不可能存在現實生活中但這並不能改變我的信念我認為每個人在心深處在這間大廳和整個國家都有相同的渴望如果我們能誠實的面對自己並安靜的傾聽我們便能懷抱對健保制度的熱切期望：它幫我們保持健康 認為健保制度能讓人們健康的期待是非常強大有影響力的我是這麼認為:健保制度跟其它制度一樣它只是一系列人們的選擇如果我們決定做出不同的選擇，將會如何?如果我們決定不讓健保制度拿走對我們有助益的部分並且堅決的說：""不這些都是屬於我們的它們會幫助我們達成目標它們會被使用並實現我們的期望""所有能讓我們實現對健保制度期望的要件會不會就在我們面前等待被使用？ 這就是導向健康組織的開端我們從處方籤著手一張非常平凡的紙我們不問病患要怎麼做才能健康不是抗生素、吸入劑、藥物治療而是問病患需要什麼才能保持健康讓他們一開始就不會生病而我們選擇使用的藥方專為這個目的離這裡幾哩遠的地方在國家兒童醫療中心當病人來到醫生辦公室他們會被問幾個問題""你的食物夠不夠每月所需？你有安全的住處嗎？""因此當醫生診療時他知道病人的身高、體重、家裡存糧的狀況他的家庭是否住在安全的地方這些問題不只讓診療結果更好醫生也能開給病患他們所需的資源藉由導向健康或其他組織的幫助 問題是當你嚐到實現對健保制度的期望的滋味你會想要更多因此我們想:如果我們可以讓每位醫生開基本的生活資源給患者我們是否能讓整個健保制度改變它先入為主的態度?所以我們決定一試 現在，哈林醫學中心當前來的病患測出有過高身體質量指數(BMI)時電子醫療記錄自動產生處方給導向健康組織而我們的志工即可協助讓病患取得他們的社區中健康飲食與運動計畫我們創造出這個假設:如果你去醫院身體質量指數很高在醫院裡你可能無法得到你需要的你需要健康你需要更多 所以一方面這只是基本重新設計電子醫療的記錄程式另一方面這是大規模的改變對電子醫療記錄而言從靜態儲存診斷記錄變成推廣健康的工具在私營部門當你從固定成本的投資中找出這樣的附加價值這被稱做高盈利公司但在我的世界裡這被稱做減少肥胖和糖尿病這就是健保讓醫生能開好處方的系統讓病人改善健康不只是控制病情 在醫院的候診室也是如此在這個國家裡，每一天3百萬名病人會先待在15萬的候診室他們在那裡要做什麼呢？他們坐著，看水族箱裡的金魚他們讀好久以前的居家生活雜誌但我們大多就在那永無止盡的等待我們怎麼會這樣致力花了很多空間與時間只為了等待？如果我們可以有一個候診室不只是生病時去那坐著而是去那裡恢復健康如果機場可以變成購物中心麥當勞變成遊樂場我們也可以重新設計候診室 而這就是導向健康組織試圖做的事重新審視空間與時間將之利用成為一種幫助病人的途徑讓他們得到能恢復健康的物資今年美國東北的冬天很冷你的孩子有氣喘，你沒有暖氣你當然前往急診室的候診室因為冷空氣導致你小孩氣喘但假使與其在那花幾個小時焦急的等待候診室成為導向健康組織幫你讓暖氣重新運作的地方? 當然這些都需要更多的人力但如果我們夠有創意，我們早已擁有這些我們知道我們的醫生和護士甚至社工都仍不夠時間緊迫的健保制度設限太多健康需要我們花更多的時間需要非診所的團體社區健康工作者和個案負責人還有許多其他的人力 那如果下代健保一部分人力來自我國1億1的大學生呢?不受醫療系統的限制不願意向政府機構那些無法幫助病人的政策低頭與妥協大學生擁有前所未有的能力能取得資料因著這幾年來使用google的經驗 現在，如果你覺得這不可能一個大學志工可以委身這樣的託付我有4個字給你：三月瘋狂(美國大學籃球聯賽賽季)美國體育協會的一級男子籃球競賽中籃球員每週花39小時做訓練不論你覺得是好是壞這是確實發生的事情導向健康組織認為已經太久我們對大學生的要求太少我們需要大學生對脆弱的社群發揮影響力大學球隊會說：""我們要花很多小時在離校園很遠的地方，在討厭的清晨我們要考核你和你隊伍的表現如果你表現不夠好或是你沒出現我們會把你踢出球隊但是我們會高額投資在你的訓練和發展上我們也會給你優良的隊員""而人們總是在門外大排長龍只想要成為球隊的一份子 因此我們認為如果大學生願意參加橄欖球隊他們也會願意幫助健康或窮困導向健康的招募像球隊一樣充滿競爭性高強度訓練並有專業指導需要花一段時間來建立凝聚力高的團隊並驗收成效像是「為美國而教」的健保版(大學畢業生到偏遠、窮困地區教書) 現在於美國十個最多的病人需要醫療補助的城市中各個至少有2萬名大學生僅紐約就有50萬這不是短期的勞動力為了幫病人取得基本資源這是培養下一代健保領導者的管道他們花了2、3、4年在候診室裡與病人協談有關他們最基本的保健需求而他們離開時會有信念能力和功效來完成我們對健保最基本的期望事實上，我們已經有成千上萬委身此事的大學生 Mia Lozada是內科住院總醫師在加州大學舊金山分校的醫學中心但她還是大學生時，她花了三年擔任導向健康組織的志工在波士頓醫學中心的候診室Mia說：""當我的醫學院同學開了處方他們認為他們的工作已結束當我開處方時我會想，這個家庭讀得懂這個處方嗎？他們有辦法通車到藥房嗎？他們有可以搭配療程的食物嗎？他們有保險可以支付這張藥單嗎？這些問題都是我在導向健康工作時學到的不是在醫學院"" 目前這些解決方式：處方籤、電子醫療記錄候診室或大學生志工都仍不完善但只要我們願意，這些都能改善舉個簡單的例子這些大量少被使用的健保資源如果我們重新使用與配置即可實現我們對健保最基本的渴望 當我在法律機構工作9個月後成立導向健康組織的概念在我心中逐漸成型時我知道我必須告訴Jeff Purcell，我的上司我必須離開我當時非常緊張覺得他會對我感到失望因為我為了瘋狂的想法拋棄我們的客戶我們倆坐下商量，我說""Jeff，我有個想法我們可以動員大學生讓他們向社會宣導病患最基本的健康需求""我誠實的告訴你我當時只希望上司不要對我生氣但他卻這麼說""Rebecca，當你有這樣的遠見你有義務去實行它你必須追求這個夢想""我得說，我當時覺得""哇！這個壓力真大""我本來只希望得到他的祝福我不想被命令但事實上自那時起，我花了所有的心力追求我的目標 我相信我們對這國家的健保制度都有一個目標我相信，最後當我們衡量健保的重要性不是用治癒疾病的數量而是用避免疾病的數量也不是用科技的發達或是專家專精的程度而是以我們不用倚賴他們的程度來算最重要的是我相信當我們估算健保的重要性時將不會根據這個制度以往的樣子而是我們決定它成為的樣子 謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲)"
