Talk	en	zh-tw
reed_kroloff_on_modern_and_romantic_architecture	"To be new at TED — it's like being the last high-school virgin. (Laughter) You know that all of the cool people are — they're doing it. And you're on the outside, you're at home. You're like the Raspyni Brothers, where you've got your balls in cold water. And — (Laughter) — you just play with your fingers all day. And then you get invited. And you're on the inside, and it's everything you hoped it would be. It's exciting and there's music playing all of the time and then suddenly it's over. And it's only taken five minutes. And you want to go back and do it again. But I really appreciate being here. And thank you, Chris, and also, thank you, Deborah Patton, for making this possible. So anyway, today we'll talk about architecture a little bit, within the subject of creation and optimism. And if you put creation and optimism together, you've got two choices that you can talk about. You can talk about creationism — which I think wouldn't go down well with this audience, at least not from a view where you were a proponent of it — or you can talk about optimisations, spelled the British way, with an S, instead of a Z. And I think that's what I'd like to talk about today. But any kind of conversation about architecture — which is, in fact, what you were just talking about, what was going on here, setting up TED, small-scale architecture — at the present time can't really happen without a conversation about this, the World Trade Center, and what's been going on there, what it means to us. Because if architecture is what I believe it to be, which is the built form of our cultural ambitions, what do you do when presented with an opportunity to rectify a situation that represents somebody else's cultural ambitions relative to us? And our own opportunity to make something new there? This has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time. I think that the World Trade Center in, rather an unfortunate way, brought architecture into focus in a way that I don't think people had thought of in a long time, and made it a subject for common conversation. I don't remember, in my 20-year career of practicing and writing about architecture, a time when five people sat me down at a table and asked me very serious questions about zoning, fire exiting, safety concerns and whether carpet burns. These are just not things we talked about very often. And yet, now, it's talked about all the time. At the point where you can weaponize your buildings, you have to suddenly think about architecture in a very different way. And so now we're going to think about architecture in a very different way, we're going to think about it like this. How many of you saw USA Today, today? There it is. Looks like that. There's the World Trade Center site, on the front cover. They've made a selection. They've chosen a project by Daniel Libeskind, the enfant terrible of the moment of architecture. Child-prodigy piano player, he started on the squeezebox, and moved to a little more serious issue, a bigger instrument, and now to an even larger instrument, upon which to work his particular brand of deconstructivist magic, as you see here. He was one of six people who were invited to participate in this competition, after six previous firms struck out with things that were so stupid and banal that even the city of New York was forced to go, ""Oh, I'm really sorry, we screwed up."" Right. Can we do this again from the top, except use some people with a vague hint of talent, instead of just six utter boobs like we brought in last time, real estate hacks of the kind who usually plan our cities. Let's bring in some real architects for a change. And so we got this, or we had a choice of that. Oh, stop clapping. (Laughter) It's too late. That is gone. This was a scheme by a team called THINK, a New York-based team, and then there was that one, which was the Libeskind scheme. This one, this is going to be the new World Trade Center: a giant hole in the ground with big buildings falling into it. Now, I don't know what you think, but I think this is a pretty stupid decision, because what you've done is just made a permanent memorial to destruction by making it look like the destruction is going to continue forever. But that's what we're going to do. But I want you to think about these things in terms of a kind of ongoing struggle that American architecture represents, and that these two things talk about very specifically. And that is the wild divergence in how we choose our architects, in trying to decide whether we want architecture from the kind of technocratic solution to everything — that there is a large, technical answer that can solve all problems, be they social, be they physical, be they chemical — or something that's more of a romantic solution. Now, I don't mean romantic as in, this is a nice place to take someone on a date. I mean romantic in the sense of, there are things larger and grander than us. So, in the American tradition, the difference between the technocratic and the romantic, would be the difference between Thomas Jefferson's Cartesian grids spreading across the United States, that gives us basically the whole shape of every western state in the United States, as a really, truly, technocratic solution, a bowing to the — in Jefferson's time — current, popular philosophy of rationalism. Or the way we went to describe that later: manifest destiny. Now, which would you rather be? A grid, or manifest destiny? Manifest destiny. (Laughter) It's a big deal. It sounds big, it sounds important, it sounds solid. It sounds American. Ballsy, serious, male. And that kind of fight has gone on back and forth in architecture all the time. I mean, it goes on in our private lives, too, every single day. We all want to go out and buy an Audi TT, don't we? Everyone here must own one, or at least they craved one the moment they saw one. And then they hopped in it, turned the little electronic key, rather than the real key, zipped home on their new superhighway, and drove straight into a garage that looks like a Tudor castle. (Laughter) Why? Why? Why do you want to do that? Why do we all want to do that? I even owned a Tudor thing once myself. (Laughter) It's in our nature to go ricocheting back and forth between this technocratic solution and a larger, sort of more romantic image of where we are. So we're going to go straight into this. Can I have the lights off for a moment? I'm going to talk about two architects very, very briefly that represent the current split, architecturally, between these two traditions of a technocratic or technological solution and a romantic solution. And these are two of the top architectural practices in the United States today. One very young, one a little more mature. This is the work of a firm called SHoP, and what you're seeing here, is their isometric drawings of what will be a large-scale camera obscura in a public park. Does everybody know what a camera obscura is? Yeah, it's one of those giant camera lenses that takes a picture of the outside world — it's sort of a little movie, without any moving parts — and projects it on a page, and you can see the world outside you as you walk around it. This is just the outline of it, and you can see, does it look like a regular building? No. It's actually non-orthogonal: it's not up and down, square, rectangular, anything like that, that you'd see in a normal shape of a building. The computer revolution, the technocratic, technological revolution, has allowed us to jettison normal-shaped buildings, traditionally shaped buildings, in favor of non-orthogonal buildings such as this. What's interesting about it is not the shape. What's interesting about it is how it's made. How it's made. A brand-new way to put buildings together, something called mass customization. No, it is not an oxymoron. What makes the building expensive, in the traditional sense, is making individual parts custom, that you can't do over and over again. That's why we all live in developer houses. They all want to save money by building the same thing 500 times. That's because it's cheaper. Mass customization works by an architect feeding into a computer, a program that says, manufacture these parts. The computer then talks to a machine — a computer-operated machine, a cad-cam machine — that can make a zillion different changes, at a moment's notice, because the computer is just a machine. It doesn't care. It's manufacturing the parts. It doesn't see any excess cost. It doesn't spend any extra time. It's not a laborer — it's simply an electronic lathe, so the parts can all be cut at the same time. Meanwhile, instead of sending someone working drawings, which are those huge sets of blueprints that you've seen your whole life, what the architect can do is send a set of assembly instructions, like you used to get when you were a child, when you bought little models that said, ""Bolt A to B, and C to D."" And so what the builder will get is every single individual part that has been custom manufactured off-site and delivered on a truck to the site, to that builder, and a set of these instruction manuals. Just simple ""Bolt A to B"" and they will be able to put them together. Here's the little drawing that tells them how that works — and that's what will happen in the end. You're underneath it, looking up into the lens of the camera obscura. Lest you think this is all fiction, lest you think this is all fantasy, or romance, these same architects were asked to produce something for the central courtyard of PS1, which is a museum in Brooklyn, New York, as part of their young architects summer series. And they said, well, it's summer, what do you do? In the summer, you go to the beach. And when you go to the beach, what do you get? You get sand dunes. So let's make architectural sand dunes and a beach cabana. So they went out and they modeled a computer model of a sand dune. They took photographs, they fed the photographs into their computer program, and that computer program shaped a sand dune and then took that sand dune shape and turned it into — at their instructions, using standard software with slight modifications — a set of instructions for pieces of wood. And those are the pieces of wood. Those are the instructions. These are the pieces, and here's a little of that blown up. What you can see is there's about six different colors, and each color represents a type of wood to be cut, a piece of wood to be cut. All of which were delivered by flat bed, on a truck, and hand assembled in 48 hours by a team of eight people, only one of whom had ever seen the plans before. Only one of whom had ever seen the plans before. And here comes dune-scape, coming up out of the courtyard, and there it is fully built. There are only 16 different pieces of wood, only 16 different assembly parts here. Looks like a beautiful piano sounding board on the inside. It has its own built-in swimming pool, very, very cool. It's a great place for parties — it was, it was only up for six weeks. It's got little dressing rooms and cabanas, where lots of interesting things went on, all summer long. Now, lest you think that this is only for the light at heart, or just temporary installations, this is the same firm working at the World Trade Center, replacing the bridge that used to go across West Street, that very important pedestrian connection between the city of New York and the redevelopment of the West Side. They were asked to design, replace that bridge in six weeks, building it, including all of the parts, manufactured. And they were able to do it. That was their design, using that same computer modeling system and only five or six really different kinds of parts, a couple of struts, like this, some exterior cladding material and a very simple framing system that was all manufactured off-site and delivered by truck. They were able to create that. They were able to create something wonderful. They're now building a 16-story building on the side of New York, using the same technology. Here we're going to walk across the bridge at night. It's self-lit, you don't need any overhead lighting, so the neighbors don't complain about metal-halide lighting in their face. Here it is going across. And there, down the other side, and you get the same kind of grandeur. Now, let me show you, quickly, the opposite, if I may. Woo, pretty, huh. This is the other side of the coin. This is the work of David Rockwell from New York City, whose work you can see out here today. The current king of the romantics, who approaches his work in a very different fashion. It's not to create a technological solution, it's to seduce you into something that you can do, into something that will please you, something that will lift your spirits, something that will make you feel as if are in another world — such as his Nobu restaurant in New York, which is supposed to take you from the clutter of New York City to the simplicity of Japan and the elegance of Japanese tradition. ""When it's all said and done, it's got to look like seaweed,"" said the owner. Or his restaurant, Pod, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. I want you to know the room you're looking at is stark white. Every single surface of this restaurant is white. The reason it has so much color is that it changes using lighting. It's all about sensuality. It's all about transforming. Watch this — I'm not touching any buttons, ladies and gentlemen. This is happening by itself. It transforms through the magic of lighting. It's all about sensuality. It's all about touch. Rosa Mexicano restaurant, where he transports us to the shores of Acapulco, up on the Upper West Side, with this wall of cliff divers who — there you go, like that. Let's see it one more time. Okay, just to make sure that you've enjoyed it. And finally, it's about comfort, it's about making you feel good in places that you wouldn't have felt good before. It's about bringing nature to the inside. In the Guardian Tower of New York, converted to a W Union Square — I'm sorry I'm rushing — where we had to bring in the best horticulturists in the world to make sure that the interior of this dragged the garden space of the court garden of the Union Square into the building itself. It's about stimulation. This is a wine-buying experience simplified by color and taste. Fizzy, fresh, soft, luscious, juicy, smooth, big and sweet wines, all explained to you by color and texture on the wall. And finally, it's about entertainment, as in his headquarters for the Cirque du Soleil, Orlando, Florida, where you're asked to enter the Greek theater, look under the tent and join the magic world of Cirque du Soleil. And I think I'll probably leave it at that. Thank you very much."	"在TED新手上路—就像做高中的最後一個處男。(笑)你知道所有夠酷的人都在做，可你被排除在外，待在家里—就像Raspyni兄弟一樣把丸子浸在冷水裡。然後—(笑)整天拿手指玩。忽然有一天你被邀請了然後你終於入流了，一切都如你所願一切很刺激，音樂放個不停可是突然就沒了，只過了五分鐘你想倒回去再來一次無論如何，真的很感謝你們邀請我，謝謝你，Chris,也感謝你Deborah Patton，把這變為可能 所以我今天要講一點關於建築的東西是在創作跟樂觀主義範圍內如果你把創作(creation)跟優化(optimism)兩個詞放在一起你有兩個選擇可以談論你可以談論創作性但我不覺得這會在你們這些聽眾裡有什麼市場至少你們不會是鐵杆支持者—或者你可以談優化設計(optimisations)，英式拼法是s而不是z而我認為這就是今天我所想談的可是任何一種關於建築的談話—比如我們現在正在談論的搭一個TED會場，小規模建築—目前，對話中不可避免談到這個世貿中心和那邊正在進行的事，它對我們的意義 因為如果建築如我所信仰的一樣，應該是我們文化野心的建築形式，是當我們有機會去更正代表他人的文化野心的情況下可做些什麽，及你現在有機會從頭再來，你會做什麼？這是在很長時間裡令人激動不已我覺得世貿中心用一種挺不幸的方式吸引了人們對建築的興趣人們很久沒這樣思考過建築了日常談話裡也很少觸及我做建築和寫評論20年，也想不起來哪一次人們讓我在桌邊坐下問我一些嚴肅的問題：分區，消防出口安全問題，還有地毯會不會引火我們以前不常說這些的可是現在大家總是大談特談直到要把房子全副武裝你突然要對建築另眼相看現在我們就用新的眼光審視建築就要這樣想 你們中多少人今天看了《今日美國》？這就是這是世貿中心地段，印在封面上有關部門挑了挑然後選了Daniel Libeskind的設計當代建築領域的可怕頑童曾經的鋼琴神童，他從六角風琴玩起然後找了一個一正經的事情，一個大一點的樂器現在又轉到更大的樂器上展示他獨此一家的解構主義魔法如你所見他是六個受邀參加競標的設計師之一在六個公司都退出這些人的東西愚蠢庸俗到了極點以致於連紐約市政府都不得不悅噢，實在是抱歉，我們搞砸了我們是否能從頭再做一次只是這次用哪怕有一些才氣的人而不是之前弄進來的六個大白癡那些通常規畫我們城市的房地產黑客是時候讓貨真價實的建築師來改變一下情況了然後就有了這個，那個也是慎選的。不要鼓掌！ (笑) 太晚了。這個沒希望了這是一個叫思考(THINK)設在紐約的團隊的方案而這個是Libeskind的方案它被選中即將成為新的世貿中心大樓一個個落入地上巨大的大洞我不知道妳們怎麼看，但我覺得這個決定挺傻的因為這無非是造就了一個永久性的毀滅紀念碑讓建築看起來彷彿在無限期的自毀，永不停止可是這就是我們要做的但我想讓你想想這些東西把它當作美國建築業持續奮鬥的表現這兩個東西總是被很明確的說道就是我們選擇建築師時考慮的兩個方面是想要我們的建築物產生於技術的問題解決方案—創造一個解決所有問題的技術答案無論社會問題、物理的、化學的—或是找一個浪漫主義的解決方案 我說的""浪漫主義""不是指某個地方用來約會不錯我的意思是""浪漫""指有些東西比我們要偉大、壯麗在美國傳統中技術與浪漫主義的區別就像Thomas Jefferson的橫跨合眾國笛卡爾坐標系留給我們幾乎是所有西部州的版圖形狀這是個真正的，技術的辦法，一種—在Jefferson的時代—是一種對當時流行的理性主義哲學的服膺要不，就像我們在那個時代之後的評價—""天命""看看你們更喜歡什麼?一個座標系，還是""天命""?""天命"" (笑) 很了不起的！聽起來這麼猛，這麼重要聽起來很實在，有美國的感覺。有種，正經，男性建築業就始終為這個鬥爭著這也進入我們日常的個人生活我們都希望去買輛奧迪TT，不是嗎？這裡的每個人必須擁有一輛，至少都想要看到了就想然後跳上車，轉動一下小小的電子鑰匙而不是真的鑰匙，在新修的超級高速公路上狂飆回家直接開進一個像都鐸風格城堡的車庫 (笑) 為什麼大家都想這樣呢？為什麼我們都希望這樣做呢？ 我也曾經擁有都鐸式的東西 (笑) 我們天性中就喜歡在技術的答案和一種更壯觀的，浪漫式的意象之間反覆跳躍所以切入主題麻煩關燈一下可以嗎？我會很簡短的介紹一下兩位建築師他們代表著當今建築界的分歧在技術和浪漫主義的分歧而他們堪稱今天美國建築業的領袖一個很年輕，一個更加成熟這是一家叫SHop的公司的作品你現在看到的是他們的設計公園裡的一個特大號的暗箱的等角圖大家都知道暗箱是什麼吧?就是一個巨大的相機鏡頭一樣的東西可以照出外面的世界就像個小電影機一樣，只是沒有任何移動部件—它把圖像投在一張紙上，你繞著它走過時就能看到外面的景象 這只是概述它，你可以看見它看上去像普通的房子嗎？當然不像它沒有直角，不是由上到下方方正正的而一般房子是正常形狀電腦科技的革命，一種技術的革命已經允許我們拋棄普通的傳統的建築造型，轉而採用這種非直角的設計最有趣的還不是它的形狀而是它的建造方法，它是怎麼被造出來的這是一種嶄新的建造方法一種叫＂集中個性化＂的東西。我可沒自相矛盾在傳統意義上，建造的昂貴費用是出於部件的個性化，你無法重複製造這就是為什麼我們都情願去住開發商的房子而他們都希望建造500次同樣的東西來節省成本因為這樣便宜多了 ＂集中個性化＂就是說建築師把一個程序放進電腦指令是：＂給我製造這些部件＂然後電腦發指令給一個機器就是那種計算機化的輔助設計和製造的機器可以在一瞬間做出數不清的動作因為電腦就是個機器它才不管呢。它只負責生產部件他看不見什麼額外成本，不懂什麼叫加班連工人都不是，只是個電子化的車床所以所有的部件都能同時被裁剪同時，我們用不著找人畫圖畫紙就是你一輩子與之打交道的大疊大疊的工程圖建築師要做的只是發出一套組裝指令就像你童年時所遇到的小玩具模型上的說明，比如＂把Ａ固定在Ｂ上，Ｃ固定在Ｄ上＂這樣建築工人拿到的是每一個單獨的部件都在別的地方被個性化設計生產出來，然後用卡車運來運到工地，工人這邊。還有一套說明手冊就是簡簡單單的＂把Ａ固定在Ｂ＂，工人們就能組裝了這裡有一個示意圖這個是完成品 你站在下面，抬頭看暗箱的鏡頭除非你認為這些都是虛構的，都是幻想，白日夢同樣的一群建築師們還受邀去建PS1的中庭，是在紐約布魯克林的一個博物館這群年輕建築師夏日檔期的作品之一他們就說，好吧，現在是夏天，你會做什麼？夏天當然是去海灘了到了海灘有什麼呢？沙丘那麼我們就做沙丘和一個沙灘小屋於是他們就去做了一個沙丘的電腦模型他們拍照片，把照片輸入軟體裡然後軟體就繪製出一個沙丘的形狀接著他們用這個沙丘的形狀，把它變成—就是用標準化的軟體，發出指令，再加些許變化—就變成切割木料的一系列指令現在我們有一塊塊木頭和一些指令這裡都是木料，有一點是爆炸型的 你能看到這裡有六種不同的顏色每一種代表著等待切割的一種木料都裝在平板上，用卡車運來八個人手工花了48小時就組裝好了其中只有一個人見過圖紙就一個人見過然後名為Dunescape的建築就在中庭誕生了完全竣工只用了16種不同木料只有16個組裝部件從裡面看上去像個漂亮的鋼琴共鳴板有一個內嵌式的游泳池，非常非常酷是派對的絕佳場所—只開六個星期而已—附帶一些小更衣室和小屋各種各樣有意思的事整夏都在發生 好吧，如果你認為這些只適合存心尋歡作樂的人，或者是臨時搭建我告訴你同樣的一家公司正在世貿中心遺址工作更換曾經穿越西街的那座橋很重要的行人通道在紐約市和西區的重建工作之間舉足輕重他們被要求在六個星期內設計取代那座橋建好，把所有部件都造出來他們做成了。這就是他們的設計用了同樣的電腦模擬系統和僅僅五六個不同的部件幾個骨架結構，像這樣，一些表面包層材料和一個很簡單的框架系統這些都是別處造好，用卡車運過來的他們能夠弄出這些來弄出這些不可思議的東西他們現在在紐約建一幢16層的大樓用同樣的技術想像我們在夜間走過這座橋它可以自己發光，你不需要任何頭頂照明鄰居就不會因為光汙染而抱怨這樣跨街過去，然後下到另一邊你看到的是一樣的壯觀 現在讓我趕緊讓你們看看另一種情況，如果時間還夠喔，漂亮吧，呵。這就是硬幣的另一面這就是來自紐約的David Rockwell的作品他的作品我們今天在這裡就能看到當今的浪漫主義者之王，他對待工作採取一種不同的態度不是創造一個技術的答案，而是去誘惑你吸引你進入一個你能完成的事情，一個取悅你的事情中能讓你為之一振的東西能讓你感受到彷彿來到另一個世界—比如說他在紐約的Nobu飯店是要把你帶出紐約的喧囂進入日本文化傳統的簡約與優雅""所有話說回來，這建築看起來就是像海藻""酒店的擁有者說再看看他的Pod酒店，在賓州的費城 我要告訴你你現在看見的屋子是純白的飯店的每一面牆都是白的而有這麼多顏色的原因就是燈光可以變色一切都圍繞著感覺和變化看這個—我什麼鍵也沒按，女士先生們這是自己發生的在燈光的魔法中變色都圍繞著感官和觸覺Rosa Mexicano，這是他設法把我們帶到阿卡普爾科海岸的酒店設計大作在西區上段牆上是懸崖跳水者—誰喜歡這個？我們再來一遍好吧，只是想確定一下你們喜歡最後，這些布置都圍繞著舒適，都是要讓你感覺良好在原本不會感覺好的地方是要把大自然帶到室內來 紐約的Guardian大廈，已經改成西聯合廣場對不起我有點趕—我們得把全世界的園藝家召集起來一定要讓內部整修把聯合廣場的庭院布景拉近大樓裡這是關於刺激這是一個葡萄酒的購買體驗，簡化了顏色和味道氣泡，清新，柔和，甜美多汁，光滑，大又甜的葡萄酒都用牆上的顏色質地向你一一介紹最後，這是關於娛樂的，就像在他設計的太陽馬戲團的總部，佛羅里達的奧蘭多你被帶到一個希臘式的劇院往帳篷看下去，加入太陽馬戲團的魔幻世界我想我就在這裡結束吧。謝謝。"
