Talk	en	zh-tw
reggie_watts_disorients_you_in_the_most_entertaining_way	"(Non English) (French) Mais Des fois on peut voir parce Que Les gens ici faire Des choses on peut manger. (French) Mais quand tu es fâché avec quelqu'un c'est pas passé the first time. (British English) And that's one of the things that I enjoy most about this convention. It's not so much, as so little has to do with what everything is. (Laughter) But it is within our self-interest to understand the topography of our lives unto ourselves. (Laughter) The future states that there is no time other than the collapsation of that sensation of the mirror of the memories in which we are living. (Laughter) Common knowledge, but important nonetheless. (Laughter) As we face fear in these times, and fear is all around us, we also have anti-fear. It's hard to imagine or measure. The background radiation is simply too static to be able to be seen under the normal spectral analysis. (American accent) But we feel as though there are times when a lot of us — you know what I'm saying? But — you know what I'm saying? Because, as a hip hop thing, you know what I'm saying, TED be rocking — you know what I'm saying. Like so I wrote a song, and I hope you guys dig it. It's a song about people and sasquatches — (Laughter) And other French science stuff. That's French science. Okay, here we go. (Singing) I've been trying inside I know that I'm in trouble (Applause) that I'm in trouble by myself But every time it gets me (Vocalization) (Beatbox) (Singing) And I've been trying to be the one that you believe in And you're the one that I want to be so saucy And you're the one I want to [unclear], baby And you can do anything as long as you don't get hurt along the way back (Beatbox) If I survive, I'm going to tell you what is wrong Because if you were [unclear] And I think that you're looking like a [unclear] I give you what I want to be (Music) (Music ends abruptly) (British accent) And it's like, you could use as many of those things that you want. (Applause) And the computer models, no matter how many that you have and how many people that you use, are never going to be able to arrive at the same conclusions. Four years ago I worked with a few people at the Brookings Institute, and I arrived at a conclusion. (Laughter) Tomorrow is another day. (Laughter) Not just any day, but it is a day. It will get here, there's no question. And the important thing to remember is that this simulation is a good one. It's believable, it's tactile. You can reach out — things are solid. You can move objects from one area to another. You can feel your body. You can say, ""I'd like to go over to this location,"" and you can move this mass of molecules through the air over to another location, at will. (Laughter) That's something you live inside of every day. Now with the allocation and the understanding of the lack of understanding, we enter into a new era of science in which we feel nothing more than so much so as to say that those within themselves, comporary or non-comporary, will figuratively figure into the folding of our non-understanding and our partial understanding to the networks of which we all draw our source and conclusions from. (Laughter) So, as I say before the last piece, feel not as though it is a sphere we live on, rather an infinite plane which has the illusion of leading yourself back to the point of origin. (Laughter) Once we understand that all the spheres in the sky are just large infinite planes, it will be plain to see. (Laughter) (Audience) (Laughter) This is my final piece. And just remember, everything you are — it's more important to realize the negative space, as music is only the division of space; it is the space we are listening to divided as such, which gives us the information in comparison to something other that gives us the idea of what the idea that wants to be transmitted wants to be. So please, without further ado. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) This is a fun one. It goes like this. (Beatbox) (Gibberish) (Music ends) Okay, for the last piece I'd like to do, this one goes very similar to this. I hope you guys recognize it. Here we go. Okay, that still works. Okay, good. All right, here we go. (Laughter) (Beatbox) Here we go. (Beatbox) Yeah, yo, yo, yo (Gibberish) (Music fades out) Thank you. Enjoy the rest. (Applause)"	[非英文]這就是其中我最享受這個大會的原因之一這不是很多,但相對於所有事情來說也不是很小(笑聲)不過這是我們自己的興趣去了解我們生活的地形學在我們身上的影響(笑聲)未來表明了除了我們生存中的記憶的感覺會崩塌之外,就不會再有其他時間了(笑聲)非常簡單的常識,卻是十分重要(笑聲)當我們遇到恐懼,而且恐懼就在我們身邊的時候我們還會有反恐懼這很難想像或測量就是因為背景放射線太過於靜態以致於我們不能在正常的光譜分析下看到它不過我們感覺到是有些時候當我們 - 你知道我說的是什麼吧?不過 - 你知道我在說什麼吧?因為，就好像，嘻哈這個東西，你知道我在說什麼吧?TED一定很棒 - 你懂我在說什麼吧?因此呢我寫了一首歌我希望你們會喜歡這是一首關於人們和薩斯科奇人的歌（笑聲）還有其他法國科學的東西那是法國科學好吧，來了喔♪我一直在內心努力♪♪我知道我自己正處於麻煩之中♪♪不過每當它讓我心煩時♪♪【不清楚】♪（音樂）♪我一直在努力成為你相信的人♪♪而你就是我想要成為的那個活潑的人♪♪你就是我想要......的人，寶貝♪♪你可以做任何事♪♪只要你在回來時不會受傷♪♪如果我熬過來了，我會告訴你哪裡錯了♪♪因為如果你是......♪♪而且我認為你看起來像個......♪♪我給了你我想要成為的♪（音樂）這就好像，你可以盡可能的用那些你想要的（鼓掌）這個電腦模式呢不管你有多少或者用了多少人從來不會有一個統一的結論的四年前我在Brookings學校和幾個人一起工作，然後我得到了一個結論（笑聲）明天又是另一個一天（笑聲）不是任何的一天但是是一天毫無疑問的，它總是會到來的應該要記住的重要一點是這個模擬是好的它是可相信的，是有形的你可以伸手摸得到 - 這些都是有形固體狀的你可以將東西從這個地方移到那個地方你可以感覺到你的身體你可以說：“我想去那個地方”你也可以在你的意願下在空氣之間移動你的身體到另一個地方（笑聲）這才是你每天的生活。現在透過缺乏認知的配置與理解我們進入了科學的新紀元在這新紀元中，我們感受不到比在他們與他們自己之間的還要更多的了，現在或者非現在我們會象徵性地去瞭解我們對網絡上所獲取的訊息與所下的結論的不理解與一知半解的疑惑（笑聲）所以，在我呈現最後一個作品之前我想說的是感受不要僅限於這是我們生活的一顆星球而是要想這是一架會給你一種可以引導你回到原點的錯覺的一架大飛機（笑聲）一旦我們瞭解到所有在空中的星球就好像是一些大飛機一樣那就很簡單明瞭了。哈哈哈這是我今天想要呈現最後一個作品所以呢記住你是什麼比較重要的是要去了解負面的生活空間就好像音樂是五線譜的一部份一樣它是被五線譜所分割成的一個我們聆聽的東西從而給我們這些跟其他東西相比較的訊息給我們一些想要被傳輸的想法想變成什麼的一種想法因此，我就不多說了。（鼓掌）謝謝！（鼓掌）這個是很有意思的像這樣（音樂）好吧，最後一個我希望這麼做這個聽起來像是這樣我希望你們能聽得出來來囉！好吧，那也是可行的，很好。好囉，我們開始囉！（笑聲）（音樂）來囉！（音樂）♪耶，yo，yo，yo♪（音樂）謝謝！請享受剩下的。謝謝！(鼓掌)
