Talk	en	zh-tw
reinventing_the_car	"People love their automobiles. They allow us to go where we want to when we want to. They're a form of entertainment, they're a form of art, a pride of ownership. Songs are written about cars. Prince wrote a great song: ""Little Red Corvette."" He didn't write ""Little Red Laptop Computer"" or ""Little Red Dirt Devil."" He wrote about a car. One of my favorites has always been: ""Make Love to Your Man in a Chevy Van,"" because that was my vehicle when I was in college. The fact is, when we do our market research around the world, we see there's a nearly universal aspiration on the part of people to own an automobile — 750 million people in the world today own a car. And you say, boy, that's a lot. But you know what? That's just 12 percent of the population. We really have to ask the question: Can the world sustain that number of automobiles? And if you look at projections over the next 10 to 15 to 20 years, it looks like the world car park could grow to on the order of 1.1 billion vehicles. If you park those end to end and wrap them around the Earth, that would stretch around the Earth 125 times. Now, we've made great progress with automobile technology over the last 100 years. Cars are dramatically cleaner, dramatically safer, more efficient and radically more affordable than they were 100 years ago. But the fact remains: the fundamental DNA of the automobile has stayed pretty much the same. If we were to reinvent the automobile today, rather than 100 years ago, knowing what we know about the issues associated with our product and about the technologies that exist today, what would we do? We wanted something that was really affordable. The fuel cell looked great: one-tenth as many moving parts, a fuel-cell propulsion system as an internal combustion engine, and it emits just water. And we wanted to take advantage of Moore's Law with electronic controls and software, and we absolutely wanted our car to be connected. So we embarked upon the reinvention around an electrochemical engine, the fuel cell, and hydrogen as the energy carrier. First was Autonomy. Autonomy really set the vision for where we wanted to head. We embodied all of the key components of a fuel-cell propulsion system. We then had Autonomy drivable with Hy-Wire, and we showed Hy-Wire here at this conference last year. Hy-Wire is the world's first drivable fuel cell, and we have followed up that now with Sequel. And Sequel truly is a real car. So if we could run the video — (Futuristic music) [Reinventing the Automobile] (Video) It truly is my great pleasure to introduce Sequel. [Acceleration] [Cruising] [Steering] [Braking] But the real key question I'm sure that's on your mind: Where is the hydrogen going to come from? And secondly, when are these kinds of cars going to be available? So let me talk about hydrogen first. The beauty of hydrogen is it can come from so many different sources: it can come from fossil fuels, it can come from any way that you can create electricity, including renewables. And it can come from biofuels. And that's quite exciting. The vision here is to have each local community play to its natural strength in creating the hydrogen. A lot of hydrogen is produced today in the world. It's produced to get sulfur out of gasoline — which I find is somewhat ironic. It's produced in the fertilizer industry; it's produced in the chemical manufacturing industry. That hydrogen is being made because there's a good business reason for its use. But it tells us that we know how to create it, we know how to create it cost-effectively, we know how to handle it safely. We did an analysis where you would have a station in each city with each of the 100 largest cities in the United States, and located the stations so you'd be no more than two miles from a station at any time. We put one every 25 miles on the freeway, and it turns out that translates into about 12,000 stations. And at a million dollars each, that would be about 12 billion dollars. That's a lot of money. But if you built the Alaskan pipeline today, that's half of what the Alaskan pipeline would cost. But the real exciting vision that we see, truly, is home refueling, much like recharging your laptop or recharging your cell phone. So we're pretty excited about the future of hydrogen. We think it's a question of not whether, but a question of when. What we've targeted for ourselves — and we're making great progress toward this goal — is to have a propulsion system based on hydrogen and fuel cells, designed and validated, that can go head-to-head with the internal combustion engine. We're talking about obsoleting the internal combustion engine, and doing it in terms of affordability at scale volumes, its performance and its durability. So that's what we're driving to for 2010. We haven't seen anything yet in our development work that says that isn't possible. We actually think the future is going to be event-driven. So since we can't predict the future, we want to spend a lot of our time trying to create that future. I'm very, very intrigued by the fact that our cars and trucks sit idle 90 percent of the time: they're parked all around us. They're usually parked within 100 feet of the people that own them. Now, if you take the power-generating capability of an automobile and you compare that to the electric grid in the United States, it turns out that the power in four percent of the automobiles equals that of the electric grid of the US. That's a huge power-generating capability, a mobile power-generating capability. And hydrogen and fuel cells give us that opportunity to actually use our cars and trucks when they're parked to generate electricity for the grid. We talked about swarm networks earlier. Talk about the ultimate swarm — having all of the processors and all of the cars when they're sitting idle being part of a global grid for computing capability. We find that premise quite exciting. The automobile becomes, then, an appliance — not in a commodity sense, but an appliance, mobile power, mobile platform for information and computing and communication, as well as a form of transportation. And the key to all of this is to make it affordable, to make it exciting, to get it on a pathway where there's a way to make money doing it. And again, this is a pretty big march to take here. A lot of people say: How do you sleep at night when you're wrestling with a problem of that magnitude? I tell them I sleep like a baby: I wake up crying every two hours. (Laughter) Actually, the theme of this conference, I think, has hit on one of the major keys to pull that off, and that's relationships and working together. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Larry, Larry — wait, wait, wait. Larry, wait one sec. I've got so many questions I could ask you. I just want to ask one. You know, I could be wrong about this, but my sense is that in the public mind today, GM is not viewed as as serious about some of these environmental ideas as some of your Japanese competitors, maybe even as Ford. Are you serious about it, and not just, you know, when the consumers want it, when the regulators force us to do it, we will go there? Will you guys really try and show leadership on this? Larry Burns: Absolutely. We're absolutely serious. We're into this over a billion dollars already, so I would hope people would think we're serious when we're spending that kind of money. And secondly, it's a fundamental business proposition. I'll be honest with you; we're into it for business growth opportunities. We can't grow our business unless we solve these problems. The growth of the auto industry will be capped by sustainability issues if we don't solve the problems. And there's a simple principle of strategy that says: Do unto yourself before others do unto you. If we can see this possible future, others can, too. And we want to be the first one to create it, Chris."	人們很愛自己的車子車子讓我們隨心所欲到各地去車子既是娛樂、也是藝術、更象徵一種擁有的榮耀有人爲車子寫了許多歌音樂鬼才 Prince 寫了一首很棒的「小紅跑車」他並沒有寫一首「小紅筆電」或「小紅吸塵器」的歌而是寫關於車子的歌其中我最愛的一首歌就是「跟妳的男人在雪佛蘭小貨車上交歡」因為那就是我在大學時代開的車 事實上，當我們在世界各地進行市場調查時發現全世界的人幾乎都有個共同的渴望那就是擁有一輛車子今天世界上有七億五千萬人擁有汽車噢！天啊！你也許會說那真是多啊！但是你知道嗎？那只佔了總人口數的百分之十二而已我們真的必須問自己這世界真的受得了那麼多的車子嗎？如果你看未來十年、十五年至二十年的預測全球的停車場看起來會成長到可以容納11億輛汽車如果你把他們一輛接一輛停在一起然後讓他們環繞地球大概可以繞地球125圈 過去一百年來汽車技術有長足的進步現在的汽車比一百年前更乾淨、更安全、更有效率而且更讓人買得起但是事實上汽車的基本基因其實沒有改變太多如果今天我們想要重新改造汽車，而不是像一百年前那樣的話就我們對汽車相關問題的了解以及對今日現有汽車技術的了解我們會怎麼做呢? 我們想要一種真正負擔得起的車子燃料電池看來很棒只占現有汽車十分之一的運轉零件並以燃料電池推進系統替代內燃機而且只排放水我們會利用摩爾定律加上電子控制與軟體徹底讓我們的車子能夠被網路連結於是我們開始重新改造一組電氣化學引擎燃料電池、以氫氣作為電力載體首先是通用汽車的 Autonomy 氫燃料電池概念車Autonomy 讓我們看到汽車未來的方向我們組裝了燃料電池推進系統的主要配件接著讓 Autonomy 概念車變成真正可以駕駛的 Hy-Wire 車款去年我們在這個研討會上介紹了 Hy-WireHy-Wire 是全世界第一輛可以上路的燃料電池汽車接著我們又研發出現在的 Sequel 氫燃料電池汽車而 Sequel 是一輛真真正正的汽車了如果我們可以來看一下影片 不過我相信你現在最想知道的是氫氣要從哪裡來呢？第二個問題是這種汽車何時才會上市呢？首先，先讓我來談談氫氣氫氣的優勢在於它可以被取自許多不同的來源可以來自石化燃料或任何發電方式包括再生能源也可取自生質燃料這真的令人相當振奮我們的願景是讓各個在地社區發揮其天然的優勢來製造氫氣現在世界上已經製造了許多氫氣從汽油中提煉硫磺時就會產生氫氣我覺得這有點好笑肥料業也會產生氫氣化學製造業也會產生氫氣我們製造氫氣是因為它有商業用途但這也代表我們知道如何製造氫氣我們知道如何以划算的方法製造氫氣我們也知道如何安全地處理氫氣 我們做了一個分析在每個城市都設一個加氣站在全美國的前一百個大城市設置許多加氣站每個站距離不會超過兩英哩在高速公路上，每二十五英哩就設一個站最後評估的結果是總共需要 12000 個站如果設一個站需要花費 100 萬美金那全部的設置將花費 120 億美金那是非常龐大的一筆錢但假設今天你要建設阿拉斯加大油管的話120 億只是建設阿拉斯加大油管一半的費用但是，令我們真正感到振奮的願景是，在家充氣有點像是你在家充筆電或充手機所以我們真的對氫氣的未來滿懷期待我們認為問題不是要不要，而是何時？ 我們為自己設定的目標是而目前已經有相當大的進展了就是製造出一個推進系統一個以氫氣和燃料電池為動力的推進系統設計完成並且經過認可可以與內燃機一較高下我們現在談的是要淘汰掉內燃機且務必讓人人都買得起提升汽車的技術、性能及耐力這就是我們在 2010 年希望達成的目標我們在研發工作的過程中還沒有預見任何不可能的事情我們其實認為未來的設計將會是「事件驅動」的方式既然我們無法預測未來我們想要投入大量的時間創造出那個未來 汽車和卡車有百分之九十的時候都是閒置的這點讓我非常感興趣車子全都停放在我們四周通常停放在離主人一百英呎之內如果你將汽車的發電能力跟美國的電力網做比較你會發現汽車所產生電力的百分之四等於美國發電網所提供的電力那是相當大的發電能力啊！是一個會移動的發電能力而氫氣和燃料電池讓我們有機會在汽車和卡車閒置時還能實際利用它們爲發電網提供電力 早先我們談過群體網絡談過最終群體，以及讓所有的運算處理器和所有閒置的汽車成為全球電腦運算網的一環我們認為這個假設很令人振奮如此一來，汽車就會變成一種電器用品不只是一個商品而是一種用品、行動電力、行動資訊平台也是一種電腦運算和電信通訊平台更是一種交通工具 最重要的關鍵就是要讓人買得起讓人期待讓它朝花錢可以做得出來的方向發展再者，這還有很長的一大段路要走很多人會說當你忙著解決這麼重大的問題時，晚上怎麼睡得著啊！我說我睡得像嬰兒一樣每兩個鐘頭就哭醒過來一次其實我覺得這個研討會的主題，真的有碰觸到一個解決這問題的關鍵那就是人際關係和團結合作謝謝大家！(掌聲) 克里斯安德森：Larry，等等，等一下我有好多問題要問你但我只想要請教一個問題你知道的，我或許有可能是錯的但是我認為在今日大眾的心裡面都認為比起日本的競爭者，甚至是福特車廠通用汽車對環保議題並不太注重你是認真的嗎？你們做這些並不是因為消費者的需求也不是為了應付政府法規，才朝那方向去做吧？通用汽車真的想努力成為這方面的領導者嗎？ Larry Burns: 是的，我們絕對很認真我們已經投資超過十億美金在這上面了所以我希望大家會知道我們是認真的尤其是當我們已經投進了這麼龐大的資金再說，這是十分重大的商業計畫我得老實跟你說我們確實是看到了成長的商機才投入的如果不解決這些問題 ，我們的業務就無法成長如果不解決這些問題汽車產業的成長將被人類永續生存的問題給限制住有個很簡單的策略原則是這樣說的自重而後人重如果我們可以看見未來的願景，其他人一定也看得見Chris，我們想成為第一個創造那個未來的人
