Talk	en	zh-tw
renny_gleeson_on_antisocial_phone_tricks	"What I wanted to talk to you about today is two things: one, the rise of a culture of availability; and two, a request. So we're seeing a rise of this availability being driven by mobile device proliferation, globally, across all social strata. We're seeing, along with that proliferation of mobile devices, an expectation of availability. And, with that, comes the third point, which is obligation — and an obligation to that availability. And the problem is, we're still working through, from a societal standpoint, how we allow people to be available. There's a significant delta, in fact, between what we're willing to accept. Apologies to Hans Rosling — he said anything that's not using real stats is a lie — but the big delta there is how we deal with this from a public standpoint. So we've developed certain tactics and strategies to cover up. This first one's called ""the lean."" And if you've ever been in a meeting where you play sort of meeting ""chicken,"" you're sitting there, looking at the person, waiting for them to look away, and then quickly checking the device. Although you can see the gentleman up on the right is busting him. ""The stretch."" OK, the gentleman on the left is saying, ""Screw you, I'm going to check my device."" But the guy, here, on the right, he's doing the stretch. It's that reeeee-e-e-each out, the physical contortion to get that device just below the tabletop. Or, my favorite, the ""Love you; mean it."" (Laughter) Nothing says ""I love you"" like ""Let me find somebody else I give a damn about."" Or, this one, coming to us from India. You can find this on YouTube, the gentleman who's recumbent on a motorcycle while text messaging. Or what we call the ""sweet gravy, stop me before I kill again!"" That is actually the device. What this is doing is, we find a — (Laughter) a direct collision — we find a direct collision between availability — and what's possible through availability — and a fundamental human need — which we've been hearing about a lot, actually — the need to create shared narratives. We're very good at creating personal narratives, but it's the shared narratives that make us a culture. And when you're standing with someone, and you're on your mobile device, effectively what you're saying to them is, ""You are not as important as, literally, almost anything that could come to me through this device."" Look around you. There might be somebody on one right now, participating in multi-dimensional engagement. (Laughter) Our reality right now is less interesting than the story we're going to tell about it later. This one I love. This poor kid, clearly a prop — don't get me wrong, a willing prop — but the kiss that's being documented kind of looks like it sucks. This is the sound of one hand clapping. So, as we lose the context of our identity, it becomes incredibly important that what you share becomes the context of shared narrative, becomes the context in which we live. The stories that we tell — what we push out — becomes who we are. People aren't simply projecting identity, they're creating it. And so that's the request I have for everybody in this room. We are creating the technology that is going to create the new shared experience, which will create the new world. And so my request is, please, let's make technologies that make people more human, and not less. Thank you."	今天我要跟大家談兩件事情，其一，是“通話”文化的興起，其二，是一個呼籲。我們正目睹“通話文化”的興起，是由手機的大量使用造成的，這個現象是全球性的，遍及各個社會階層。我們看到，隨著手機的普及，我們期待可以隨時與其他人聯絡。從而帶來的第三個問題，就是責任——有責任保持待機的狀態。 而問題在於，我們現在還在試圖弄明白，從社會關係角度來看，我們該怎麼讓一個人隨時保持聯絡。事實上，這裡有一個重大的差異，關乎我們樂於接受的程度——這裡要對Hans Rosling說句對不起了，他說過不使用真實的統計數據就等於撒謊——但是這個巨大差異就是我們如何在公共場所處理通話問題。因此我們已經發展出某種戰術和策略來掩飾。 第一招叫“前傾”。如果你曾經在開會的時候和人玩鬥雞眼遊戲，你坐在那兒，瞪住對方，等待他們把視線轉開，然後你就飛快地查看一下手機。但是你可以看到右上方那位先生很鄙視他。 “伸胳膊”。OK,左邊這個人似乎在說，“去你的吧，我就是要看一下我的手機。”但是，右邊這個傢伙，他就在伸胳膊。伸得老長老長的，簡直快成特技了，就是為了讓手機能正好處在桌子下方。 或者，這個是我最喜歡的一招，“愛你；真的。”（觀眾笑聲）說到“我愛你”，莫過於這種“讓我瞅瞅還有別的什麽人沒有。” 或者，這個，來自印度。你可以在YouTube上找到這個，這位先生一邊歪倒在一輛摩托車上，一邊發簡訊。或者我們應該叫這個是“親愛的，在我又撞死人前趕緊阻止我！”手機在這呢。 這種行為被我們認為是（觀眾笑聲）一個直接的衝突——這個衝突存在於接聽手機——或是想用手機做些什麽——和人類的基本需求之間—這個我們已經聽得夠多了—就是需要去創造可以分享的故事。我們很善於創造個人的故事，但是創造出可以分享的故事才會成為大眾文化，而當你和別人站在一起，而你又在專注於你的手機，你事實上就是在告訴這些人，“你就是無關緊要的，我手機裡的任何東西都比你重要。” 看看你周圍，也許現在就有某人正在看手機，正在進行著多種互動活動。 （觀眾笑聲） 我們當下的現實沒有比把它講成故事以後那麼有趣， 我喜歡這個。這倒楣孩子，顯然是個道具——不要誤會我的意思，他很樂意當道具——但是這個正在被記錄的吻看上去不怎麼樣。 這有點像用一個手拍巴掌。 因此，當我們忽略自身所處的環境，有一件事就變得很重要，我們所分享的事情就成了公眾可以分享的故事，並成為我們生活的場景。我們講的故事——我們發表出來的——就成為我們自己。人們不只是反映自我，他們在創造自我。 因此，我想呼籲今天在場的諸位，我們所創造的科技將創造出全新的、可以與人分享的體驗，而這些體驗將創造出新的世界。而我的呼籲就是，希望我們所使用的科技可以令人更有人性，而不是背道而馳。 謝謝大家。
