Talk	en	zh-tw
reuben_margolin_sculpting_waves_in_wood_and_time	"Usually I like working in my shop, but when it's raining and the driveway outside turns into a river, then I just love it. And I'll cut some wood and drill some holes and watch the water, and maybe I'll have to walk around and look for washers. You have no idea how much time I spend. This is the ""Double Raindrop."" Of all my sculptures, it's the most talkative. It adds together the interference pattern from two raindrops that land near each other. Instead of expanding circles, they're expanding hexagons. All the sculptures move by mechanical means. Do you see how there's three peaks to the yellow sine wave? Right here I'm adding a sine wave with four peaks and turning it on. Eight hundred two-liter soda bottles — oh yea. (Laughter) Four hundred aluminum cans. Tule is a reed that's native to California, and the best thing about working with it is that it smells just delicious. A single drop of rain increasing amplitude. The spiral eddy that trails a paddle on a rafting trip. This adds together four different waves. And here I'm going to pull out the double wavelengths and increase the single. The mechanism that drives it has nine motors and about 3,000 pulleys. Four hundred and forty-five strings in a three-dimensional weave. Transferred to a larger scale — actually a lot larger, with a lot of help — 14,064 bicycle reflectors — a 20-day install. ""Connected"" is a collaboration with choreographer Gideon Obarzanek. Strings attached to dancers. This is very early rehearsal footage, but the finished work's on tour and is actually coming through L.A. in a couple weeks. A pair of helices and 40 wooden slats. Take your finger and draw this line. Summer, fall, winter, spring, noon, dusk, dark, dawn. Have you ever seen those stratus clouds that go in parallel stripes across the sky? Did you know that's a continuous sheet of cloud that's dipping in and out of the condensation layer? What if every seemingly isolated object was actually just where the continuous wave of that object poked through into our world? The Earth is neither flat nor round. It's wavy. It sounds good, but I'll bet you know in your gut that it's not the whole truth, and I'll tell you why. I have a two-year-old daughter who's the best thing ever. And I'm just going to come out and say it: My daughter is not a wave. And you might say, ""Surely, Rueben, if you took even just the slightest step back, the cycles of hunger and eating, waking and sleeping, laughing and crying would emerge as pattern."" But I would say, ""If I did that, too much would be lost."" This tension between the need to look deeper and the beauty and immediacy of the world, where if you even try to look deeper you've already missed what you're looking for, this tension is what makes the sculptures move. And for me, the path between these two extremes takes the shape of a wave. Let me show you one more. Thank you very much. Thanks. (Applause) Thanks. (Applause) June Cohen: Looking at each of your sculptures, they evoke so many different images. Some of them are like the wind and some are like waves, and sometimes they look alive and sometimes they seem like math. Is there an actual inspiration behind each one? Are you thinking of something physical or somthing tangible as you design it? RM: Well some of them definitely have a direct observation — like literally two raindrops falling, and just watching that pattern is so stunning. And then just trying to figure out how to make that using stuff. I like working with my hands. There's nothing better than cutting a piece of wood and trying to make it move. JC: And does it ever change? Do you think you're designing one thing, and then when it's produced it looks like something else? RM: The ""Double Raindrop"" I worked on for nine months, and when I finally turned it on, I actually hated it. The very moment I turned it on, I hated it. It was like a really deep-down gut reaction, and I wanted to throw it out. And I happened to have a friend who was over, and he said, ""Why don't you just wait."" And I waited, and the next day I liked it a bit better, the next day I liked it a bit better, and now I really love it. And so I guess, one, the gut reactions a little bit wrong sometimes, and two, it does not look like as expected. JC: The relationship evolves over time. Well thank you so much. That was a gorgeous treat for us. RM: Thanks. (JC: Thank you, Reuben.) (Applause)"	"通常我比較喜歡在自己的店裡工作但每當下雨，外頭馬路氾濫成一條小河時我整個愛死那個景象了我會取一些木材，在上面鑽幾個洞，然後望著水流可能還要四處尋找墊圈我投注的時間多到你無法想像 這是""雙層雨珠""我所有的塑像作品中，它最有看頭它把兩顆雨珠落地時產生的波紋干擾結合在一起擴大的六邊形取代了圓圈 所有的塑像都是藉由機械原理來移動看到黃色正弦波上那三個高點了嗎？現在我要加入一個有四個高點的正弦波並啟動它 800個2公升的汽水罐太棒了（笑聲）四百個鋁罐 銳鹿草是加州當地的一種蘆葦用這種植物當材料最棒的地方就是它聞起來很可口單一雨珠增加中的振幅隨著船槳拖曳出的螺旋漩渦 這裡頭包含四個不同的波我把這雙波減小一點再把單波加大推動這個的裝置有九個馬達和差不多3,000個滑輪驅動 四百四十五根線由三向編織法構成再轉移到更大的規模在大家的幫助下，其實是比以前的大得多了14,064個腳踏車的反光鏡花了20天組裝起來 “結”是和編舞家Gideon Obarzanek合作完成的作品線與舞者相連這是很早以前排練時的鏡頭不過完成的作品已經在巡迴展出了而且將在幾週後來到洛杉磯 一對螺旋裝置和40塊木板伸出你的手指來畫這個線條夏、秋、冬、春正午、黃昏、黑夜、黎明你有看過那些層雲一層一層的平行在天空上嗎？你知道那其實是一塊連綿不斷的雲在凝結層穿梭而形成的嗎？那些看起來孤立的個體會不會就是從那個物體連續的波動探入我們的世界而來的？地球不是平的，也不是圓的而是由波組成的 這聽起來不錯，但我敢說你們打心底知道這不是事實讓我告訴你們為什麼我有一個兩歲的女兒，她是世界上最美好的事物而我要說：我的女兒不是波你可能會說：”當然囉，魯本，但如果你退一小步觀察“飢餓與進食的循環甦醒與睡眠，笑與哭泣都是某種模式“但我會回答：“如果我這麼看的話，”“就會錯過太多東西了” 有種張力存在於想要更深入探索和直接體驗這個世界的美之間越是努力想把這世界看得更深入，反而會錯過想要尋找的東西就是這種張力驅使這些塑像移動對我來說，連結這兩個極端的路徑就是以波的形狀存在 讓我再給你們看個東西非常謝謝，謝謝（鼓掌） 謝謝 （鼓掌） June Cohen：看著你的每一件塑像它們呈現出許多不同的樣貌有些看起來像風，有些像波浪有時候它們像是有生命的，有時候又看起來跟數學一樣每一件作品都來自實際的靈感嗎？你在設計的時候，腦中是否想著某個實際的物體呢？ RM：有部分的確是來自於實際的觀察像是當兩顆雨珠落下然後看著那些激起的波紋是多麼令人驚艷接下來只要想辦法使用材料把它做出來我很喜歡用自己的雙手工作沒有任何事情比得上切割一塊木頭然後想辦法讓它移動 JC：這個過程發生變化過嗎？當你設計出一樣作品結果完成後卻是別的樣子？ RM：我花了九個月製作”雙層雨珠“當我終於完成並啓動它的時候我其實非常討厭它從它啟動的那一刻開始，我就討厭它那真的像是打從心底的本能反應，我甚至想把它拿去丟掉而我有個朋友正好來找我他告訴我：”為什麼不等一等呢？“所以我就等等看，第二天我就比較喜歡它一點了再隔一天，我又更喜歡了一點，現在我真的很喜愛它所以我猜，第一，直覺反應有時候不太正確第二，這件作品的確不是它原本該有的樣子 JC：兩""人""關係總是會不斷發展改變的非常謝謝你，給了我們這麼棒的饗宴！ RM：謝謝（JC：謝謝你，魯本） （鼓掌）"
