Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_sears_planning_for_the_end_of_oil	"For the next few minutes we're going to talk about energy, and it's going to be a bit of a varied talk. I'll try to spin a story about energy, and oil's a convenient starting place. The talk will be broadly about energy, but oil's a good place to start. And one of the reasons is this is remarkable stuff. You take about eight or so carbon atoms, about 20 hydrogen atoms, you put them together in exactly the right way and you get this marvelous liquid: very energy-dense and very easy to refine into a number of very useful products and fuels. It's great stuff. Now, as far as it goes, there's a lot of oil out there in the world. Here's my little pocket map of where it's all located. A bigger one for you to look at. But this is it, this is the oil in the world. Geologists have a pretty good idea of where the oil is. This is about 100 trillion gallons of crude oil still to be developed and produced in the world today. Now, that's just one story about oil, and we could end it there and say, ""Well, oil's going to last forever because, well, there's just a lot of it."" But there's actually more to the story than that. Oh, by the way, if you think you're very far from some of this oil, 1000 meters below where you're all sitting is one of the largest producing oil fields in the world. Come talk to me about it, I'll fill in some of the details if you want. So, that's one of the stories of oil; there's just a lot of it. But what about oil? Where is it in the energy system? Here's a little snapshot of 150 years of oil, and it's been a dominant part of our energy system for most of those 150 years. Now, here's another little secret I'm going to tell you about: For the last 25 years, oil has been playing less and less of a role in global energy systems. There was one kind of peak oil in 1985, when oil represented 50 percent of global energy supply. Now, it's about 35 percent. It's been declining and I believe it will continue to decline. Gasoline consumption in the U.S. probably peaked in 2007 and is declining. So oil is playing a less significant role every year. And so, 25 years ago, there was a peak oil; just like, in the 1920s, there was a peak coal; and a hundred years before that, there was a peak wood. This is a very important picture of the evolution of energy systems. And what's been taking up the slack in the last few decades? Well, a lot of natural gas and a little bit of nuclear, for starters. And what goes on in the future? Well, I think out ahead of us a few decades is peak gas, and beyond that, peak renewables. Now, I'll tell you another little, very important story about this picture. Now, I'm not pretending that energy use in total isn't increasing, it is — that's another part of the story. Come talk to me about it, we'll fill in some of the details — but there's a very important message here: This is 200 years of history, and for 200 years we've been systematically decarbonizing our energy system. Energy systems of the world becoming progressively — year on year, decade on decade, century on century — becoming less carbon intense. And that continues into the future with the renewables that we're developing today, reaching maybe 30 percent of primary energy by mid century. Now that might be the end of the story — Okay, we just replace it all with conventional renewables — but I think, actually, there's more to the story than that. And to tell the next part of the story — and this is looking out say 2100 and beyond. What is the future of truly sustainable, carbon-free energy? Well, we have to take a little excursion, and we'll start in central Texas. Here's a piece of limestone. I picked it up outside of Marble Falls, Texas. It's about 400 million years old. And it's just limestone, nothing really special about it. Now, here's a piece of chalk. I picked this up at MIT. It's a little younger. And it's different than this limestone, you can see that. You wouldn't build a building out of this stuff, and you wouldn't try to give a lecture and write on the chalkboard with this. Yeah, it's very different — no, it's not different. It's not different, it's the same stuff: calcium carbonate, calcium carbonate. What's different is how the molecules are put together. Now, if you think that's kind of neat, the story gets really neat right now. Off the coast of California comes this: It's an abalone shell. Now, millions of abalone every year make this shell. Oh, by the way, just in case you weren't already guessing, it's calcium carbonate. It's the same stuff as this and the same stuff as this. But it's not the same stuff; it's different. It's thousands of times, maybe 3,000 times tougher than this. And why? Because the lowly abalone is able to lay down the calcium carbonate crystals in layers, making this beautiful, iridescent mother of pearl. Very specialized material that the abalone self-assembles, millions of abalone, all the time, every day, every year. This is pretty incredible stuff. All the same, what's different? How the molecules are put together. Now, what does this have to do with energy? Here's a piece of coal. And I'll suggest that this coal is about as exciting as this chalk. Now, whether we're talking about fuels or energy carriers, or perhaps novel materials for batteries or fuel cells, nature hasn't ever built those perfect materials yet because nature didn't need to. Nature didn't need to because, unlike the abalone shell, the survival of a species didn't depend on building those materials, until maybe now when it might just matter. So, when we think about the future of energy, imagine what would it be like if instead of this, we could build the energy equivalent of this just by rearranging the molecules differently. And so that is my story. The oil will never run out. It's not because we have a lot of it. It's not because we're going to build a bajillion windmills. It's because, well, thousands of years ago, people invented ideas — they had ideas, innovations, technology — and the Stone Age ended, not because we ran out of stones. (Laughter) It's ideas, it's innovation, it's technology that will end the age of oil, long before we run out of oil. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	接下來的幾分鐘，我們來談談能源。這是一個不太一樣的演說，我會告訴你們一些有關能源的事，就從石油開始好了。我的演說涵蓋了能源的多個面向，但從石油開始講起是個不錯的選擇。其中一個原因是，這是很了不起的東西。你拿八個碳原子，加上二十個氫原子，用正確的方式組合，就可以得到這瓶神奇的液體。很有用的能源，很容易就可以從中提煉出許多有用的產品與燃料，真的很棒。現在，就我們所知，世界上還有許多石油的存量。 這是我的石油小地圖，上面標示了所有的石油蘊藏地點。你們可以看大一點的地圖，就是這樣。這些是世界上所有的石油。地質學家們都知道石油蘊藏的地點，世界上大約還有一兆加侖的原油，等待我們去開採及提煉。這只是關於石油的一部分事實，我們大可以先談到這裡，然後說「石油的供給量不成問題嘛，還有這麼多...」但事實不只如此。對了，如果你覺得你離油田很遠，各位現在座位下方一千公尺的地方，就是世界上石油蘊藏量最多的地點之一。如果你想深入瞭解更多細節，可以私下再找我討論。 這是關於石油的一部分事實，石油存量其實還很多。石油到底有什麼用？石油在能源體系裡扮演什麼角色？這是150年來石油在能源體系的比重，在這150年來，石油一直扮演很吃重的角色。現在，我要告訴各位一個小祕密，在過去的25年裡，石油在全球能源體系裡所佔的比重正在持續下降。在1985年石油的比重達到高峰，那時的比重高達全球能源的百分之50。現在大約只有百分之35，比以前下降了，我相信還會持續下降。在美國，汽油的比重在2007年達到高峰，現在也開始下降。 石油的重要性正在逐年下降，在25年以前，石油的比重達到高峰，就像在1920年代，煤炭的比重達到高峰，而在100年之前，木柴的比重也曾達到高峰。這張圖清楚地刻劃出能源系統演進的過程。在過去數十年裡，究竟是什麼取代了石油呢？嗯，天然氣和一些核能，這些能源剛開始起步。未來會用什麼能源呢？嗯，我想在未來的數十年裡，天然氣的比重會達到高峰，再過來可能是些可重複使用的能源。 就這張圖片，我想再告訴各位一件重要的事。我不是說全球的能源耗用量沒有增加，事實上是在增加的。那又是另外一回事，想知道的人可以來找我談，我會再補充給你細節資料。有一個很重要的訊息隱藏在裡面，這是200年來的能源史，在這200年來，我們在能源體系上不斷地降低碳排放量。全世界的能源體系，一年又一年、數十年又數十年、幾百年又幾百年，逐漸地在降低對碳的依賴程度。未來也會持續降低，因為我們現在所在開發的可重複使用的能源，在本世紀中可能就會佔所有能源的百分之30。你以為演說到這裡就可以結束了吧？我們把所有能源都用可重複使用的能源來代替不就得了？我覺得事情沒那麼簡單。 接下來的部分，就要往前看，看看2100年之後的情形。未來真正能持久又沒有碳排放的能源到底是什麼？嗯，我們得先安排一段小小的旅行。我們先從德州中部開始，這是一塊石灰石，我在德州的馬波佛市市郊撿到的，這大約有四億年的歷史了，而這只是一塊石灰石，沒有什麼特別的。這裡還有一截粉筆，我在麻省理工學院拿來的，這個就年輕多了，也和石灰石不同，從外表就看得出來。你不會用這玩意兒來蓋房子，你也不會在課堂上用這個在黑板上書寫。對，這二個是很不一樣。但不對哦，他們沒什麼不同，就是沒有不同，他們基本上一樣，都是碳酸鈣，這也是碳酸鈣。唯一不同的，就只是分子排列的方式不同而已。 如果你覺得這很神奇，真正神奇的還在後頭。在加州的海岸邊，有這個東西，這是鮑魚的殼。每年有數百萬的鮑魚在製造這些殼。對了，你猜的沒錯，這也是碳酸鈣。這和這個一樣，也和這個一樣；但又不完全相同，還是有點不同，這個硬度大約是幾千倍，大約是這個的三千倍硬。為什麼？因為這些不起眼的鮑魚，只能夠一層一層地產生這些碳酸鈣結晶，製作出這些美麗、璀燦的珍珠母。這是很特殊的材料，由鮑魚自行生成，許多鮑魚一直製造，每天每年製造。很了不起的東西。這些都一樣，有什麼不同？分子排列的方式不同。 這和能源有什麼關係？這是一塊煤炭，我猜這塊煤炭就和這支粉筆一樣有趣。當我們在談論燃料、或是能源的媒介、或是電池和燃料電池的新型材料時，大自然界裡不一定有這些材料，因為大自然不需要這些材料。大自然之所以不需要這些材料，因為物種的生存並不需要倚賴這些材料，不像鮑魚剛好需要殼來保護自己。所以，當我們在思考未來的能源時，想像一下，未來的能源會像什麼？除了煤炭之外，我們是否能製造出替代能源，就只要把分子重新排列一下就好？ 這就是我要講的。石油永遠沒有用完的一天，並不是因為存量還很多，也不是因為我們會建造很多風車，那是因為數千年以前，人們就有了想法，想法激發發明，進而產生科技。石器時代會結束，並不是因為石頭被用光了。(笑聲)人們的想法、發明和科技，會在我們把石油用光之前，替我們終結石油時代。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
