Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_wilkinson	"You all know the truth of what I'm going to say. I think the intuition that inequality is divisive and socially corrosive has been around since before the French Revolution. What's changed is we now can look at the evidence, we can compare societies, more and less equal societies, and see what inequality does. I'm going to take you through that data and then explain why the links I'm going to be showing you exist. But first, see what a miserable lot we are. (Laughter) I want to start though with a paradox. This shows you life expectancy against gross national income — how rich countries are on average. And you see the countries on the right, like Norway and the USA, are twice as rich as Israel, Greece, Portugal on the left. And it makes no difference to their life expectancy at all. There's no suggestion of a relationship there. But if we look within our societies, there are extraordinary social gradients in health running right across society. This, again, is life expectancy. These are small areas of England and Wales — the poorest on the right, the richest on the left. A lot of difference between the poor and the rest of us. Even the people just below the top have less good health than the people at the top. So income means something very important within our societies, and nothing between them. The explanation of that paradox is that, within our societies, we're looking at relative income or social position, social status — where we are in relation to each other and the size of the gaps between us. And as soon as you've got that idea, you should immediately wonder: what happens if we widen the differences, or compress them, make the income differences bigger or smaller? And that's what I'm going to show you. I'm not using any hypothetical data. I'm taking data from the U.N. — it's the same as the World Bank has — on the scale of income differences in these rich developed market democracies. The measure we've used, because it's easy to understand and you can download it, is how much richer the top 20 percent than the bottom 20 percent in each country. And you see in the more equal countries on the left — Japan, Finland, Norway, Sweden — the top 20 percent are about three and a half, four times as rich as the bottom 20 percent. But on the more unequal end — U.K., Portugal, USA, Singapore — the differences are twice as big. On that measure, we are twice as unequal as some of the other successful market democracies. Now I'm going to show you what that does to our societies. We collected data on problems with social gradients, the kind of problems that are more common at the bottom of the social ladder. Internationally comparable data on life expectancy, on kids' maths and literacy scores, on infant mortality rates, homicide rates, proportion of the population in prison, teenage birthrates, levels of trust, obesity, mental illness — which in standard diagnostic classification includes drug and alcohol addiction — and social mobility. We put them all in one index. They're all weighted equally. Where a country is is a sort of average score on these things. And there, you see it in relation to the measure of inequality I've just shown you, which I shall use over and over again in the data. The more unequal countries are doing worse on all these kinds of social problems. It's an extraordinarily close correlation. But if you look at that same index of health and social problems in relation to GNP per capita, gross national income, there's nothing there, no correlation anymore. We were a little bit worried that people might think we'd been choosing problems to suit our argument and just manufactured this evidence, so we also did a paper in the British Medical Journal on the UNICEF index of child well-being. It has 40 different components put together by other people. It contains whether kids can talk to their parents, whether they have books at home, what immunization rates are like, whether there's bullying at school. Everything goes into it. Here it is in relation to that same measure of inequality. Kids do worse in the more unequal societies. Highly significant relationship. But once again, if you look at that measure of child well-being, in relation to national income per person, there's no relationship, no suggestion of a relationship. What all the data I've shown you so far says is the same thing. The average well-being of our societies is not dependent any longer on national income and economic growth. That's very important in poorer countries, but not in the rich developed world. But the differences between us and where we are in relation to each other now matter very much. I'm going to show you some of the separate bits of our index. Here, for instance, is trust. It's simply the proportion of the population who agree most people can be trusted. It comes from the World Values Survey. You see, at the more unequal end, it's about 15 percent of the population who feel they can trust others. But in the more equal societies, it rises to 60 or 65 percent. And if you look at measures of involvement in community life or social capital, very similar relationships closely related to inequality. I may say, we did all this work twice. We did it first on these rich, developed countries, and then as a separate test bed, we repeated it all on the 50 American states — asking just the same question: do the more unequal states do worse on all these kinds of measures? So here is trust from a general social survey of the federal government related to inequality. Very similar scatter over a similar range of levels of trust. Same thing is going on. Basically we found that almost anything that's related to trust internationally is related to trust amongst the 50 states in that separate test bed. We're not just talking about a fluke. This is mental illness. WHO put together figures using the same diagnostic interviews on random samples of the population to allow us to compare rates of mental illness in each society. This is the percent of the population with any mental illness in the preceding year. And it goes from about eight percent up to three times that — whole societies with three times the level of mental illness of others. And again, closely related to inequality. This is violence. These red dots are American states, and the blue triangles are Canadian provinces. But look at the scale of the differences. It goes from 15 homicides per million up to 150. This is the proportion of the population in prison. There's a about a tenfold difference there, log scale up the side. But it goes from about 40 to 400 people in prison. That relationship is not mainly driven by more crime. In some places, that's part of it. But most of it is about more punitive sentencing, harsher sentencing. And the more unequal societies are more likely also to retain the death penalty. Here we have children dropping out of high school. Again, quite big differences. Extraordinarily damaging, if you're talking about using the talents of the population. This is social mobility. It's actually a measure of mobility based on income. Basically, it's asking: do rich fathers have rich sons and poor fathers have poor sons, or is there no relationship between the two? And at the more unequal end, fathers' income is much more important — in the U.K., USA. And in Scandinavian countries, fathers' income is much less important. There's more social mobility. And as we like to say — and I know there are a lot of Americans in the audience here — if Americans want to live the American dream, they should go to Denmark. (Laughter) (Applause) I've shown you just a few things in italics here. I could have shown a number of other problems. They're all problems that tend to be more common at the bottom of the social gradient. But there are endless problems with social gradients that are worse in more unequal countries — not just a little bit worse, but anything from twice as common to 10 times as common. Think of the expense, the human cost of that. I want to go back though to this graph that I showed you earlier where we put it all together to make two points. One is that, in graph after graph, we find the countries that do worse, whatever the outcome, seem to be the more unequal ones, and the ones that do well seem to be the Nordic countries and Japan. So what we're looking at is general social disfunction related to inequality. It's not just one or two things that go wrong, it's most things. The other really important point I want to make on this graph is that, if you look at the bottom, Sweden and Japan, they're very different countries in all sorts of ways. The position of women, how closely they keep to the nuclear family, are on opposite ends of the poles in terms of the rich developed world. But another really important difference is how they get their greater equality. Sweden has huge differences in earnings, and it narrows the gap through taxation, general welfare state, generous benefits and so on. Japan is rather different though. It starts off with much smaller differences in earnings before tax. It has lower taxes. It has a smaller welfare state. And in our analysis of the American states, we find rather the same contrast. There are some states that do well through redistribution, some states that do well because they have smaller income differences before tax. So we conclude that it doesn't much matter how you get your greater equality, as long as you get there somehow. I am not talking about perfect equality, I'm talking about what exists in rich developed market democracies. Another really surprising part of this picture is that it's not just the poor who are affected by inequality. There seems to be some truth in John Donne's ""No man is an island."" And in a number of studies, it's possible to compare how people do in more and less equal countries at each level in the social hierarchy. This is just one example. It's infant mortality. Some Swedes very kindly classified a lot of their infant deaths according to the British register of general socioeconomic classification. And so it's anachronistically a classification by fathers' occupations, so single parents go on their own. But then where it says ""low social class,"" that's unskilled manual occupations. It goes through towards the skilled manual occupations in the middle, then the junior non-manual, going up high to the professional occupations — doctors, lawyers, directors of larger companies. You see there that Sweden does better than Britain all the way across the social hierarchy. The biggest differences are at the bottom of society. But even at the top, there seems to be a small benefit to being in a more equal society. We show that on about five different sets of data covering educational outcomes and health in the United States and internationally. And that seems to be the general picture — that greater equality makes most difference at the bottom, but has some benefits even at the top. But I should say a few words about what's going on. I think I'm looking and talking about the psychosocial effects of inequality. More to do with feelings of superiority and inferiority, of being valued and devalued, respected and disrespected. And of course, those feelings of the status competition that comes out of that drives the consumerism in our society. It also leads to status insecurity. We worry more about how we're judged and seen by others, whether we're regarded as attractive, clever, all that kind of thing. The social-evaluative judgments increase, the fear of those social-evaluative judgments. Interestingly, some parallel work going on in social psychology: some people reviewed 208 different studies in which volunteers had been invited into a psychological laboratory and had their stress hormones, their responses to doing stressful tasks, measured. And in the review, what they were interested in seeing is what kind of stresses most reliably raise levels of cortisol, the central stress hormone. And the conclusion was it was tasks that included social-evaluative threat — threats to self-esteem or social status in which others can negatively judge your performance. Those kind of stresses have a very particular effect on the physiology of stress. Now we have been criticized. Of course, there are people who dislike this stuff and people who find it very surprising. I should tell you though that when people criticize us for picking and choosing data, we never pick and choose data. We have an absolute rule that if our data source has data for one of the countries we're looking at, it goes into the analysis. Our data source decides whether it's reliable data, we don't. Otherwise that would introduce bias. What about other countries? There are 200 studies of health in relation to income and equality in the academic peer-reviewed journals. This isn't confined to these countries here, hiding a very simple demonstration. The same countries, the same measure of inequality, one problem after another. Why don't we control for other factors? Well we've shown you that GNP per capita doesn't make any difference. And of course, others using more sophisticated methods in the literature have controlled for poverty and education and so on. What about causality? Correlation in itself doesn't prove causality. We spend a good bit of time. And indeed, people know the causal links quite well in some of these outcomes. The big change in our understanding of drivers of chronic health in the rich developed world is how important chronic stress from social sources is affecting the immune system, the cardiovascular system. Or for instance, the reason why violence becomes more common in more unequal societies is because people are sensitive to being looked down on. I should say that to deal with this, we've got to deal with the post-tax things and the pre-tax things. We've got to constrain income, the bonus culture incomes at the top. I think we must make our bosses accountable to their employees in any way we can. I think the take-home message though is that we can improve the real quality of human life by reducing the differences in incomes between us. Suddenly we have a handle on the psychosocial well-being of whole societies, and that's exciting. Thank you. (Applause)"	相信各位都知道我接下來要說什麼。我認為，「不平等」會腐蝕與破壞社會的穩定性,這種思潮在法國大革命前就已經出現。唯一不同的是,現在我們有足夠的資料來比較各個國家的社會型態，分析誰比較平等或不平等,並看看何謂真正的「不平等」。待會我會給各位看各種數據,並且跟各位說明這些數據之間是存在著關聯性的。 在這之前，先來看看現代人有多慘。(笑聲)首先讓我們來看看一個矛盾的現象。這張圖呈現了平均壽命與國民總收入(Gross National Income, GNI)之間的關係。各位可以看到在右邊的國家像是挪威與美國,總收入是左邊國家的兩倍，像是以色列、希臘、葡萄牙。但這五個國家的平均壽命並沒有太大差別。因此它們之間並沒有任何關係存在。但是，看看我們的社會(譯註：這裡指英國),平均壽命與財富之間卻呈現負斜率的關係。縱軸代表平均壽命。 橫軸代表英格蘭與威爾斯地區的人民富裕程度—愈右邊代表愈窮，愈左邊代表愈富裕。財富與壽命之間存在強烈的關聯性。財富稍微少一點的人比起財富稍微多一點的人平均壽命便有些微的差距。所以對現代社會而言收入是非常重要的,沒有人可以否定要解釋這種矛盾的現象必須先檢視一下我們的社會這裡要探討的是「相對收入」也可以稱作「社會地位」—每個人或多或少都會感覺到自己比別人窮或比別人富有。有了這種想法以後各位一定會想知道如果我比現在更富有或是更窮的話會變成什麼情況呢？ 這就是待會兒我要跟各位探討的東西。我不會使用假設性的數據。以下的數據來自聯合國跟世界銀行的數據是一樣的—該數據說明一些自由競爭市場的國家,它們國內的貧富差距。我們來看看這張圖表,非常簡單易懂，各位也能從網路自行下載,它呈現出在每個國家裡面前20%富有以及前20%貧窮人口之間的貧富差距。左邊的國家財富分配比較均等像是日本、芬蘭、挪威、瑞典—富人與窮人之間的貧富差距相差大約3.5倍到4倍之間。但是那些財富分配不均的國家—像是英國、葡萄牙、美國、新加坡—貧富差距比左邊的國家整整多了一倍。由此可見，相較於其他自由競爭市場的國家我們國家的經濟失衡程度整整多了一倍。 現在讓我們來看看，這種現象對我們的社會有何影響。我蒐集了各種社會現象與問題的數據,在社會底層的人民之中這些問題會更為明顯。我統計的數據包括平均壽命,兒童的數學與識字能力,嬰兒死亡率、兇殺案發生率,監獄內的人口與總人口的比例、未成年少女的生育率,人民之間的信賴程度,過度肥胖、心理疾病—這裡所謂的心理疾病，依照標準的診斷分類也包括毒癮與酒癮—最後一個項目則是社會流動率。我們將以上數據整合成一個指數。每筆數據之間都經過均衡的運算。圖中這些國家的位置會反映出它們對該指數的平均表現。現在，各位看到了這張圖跟上一張圖之間的關係這種關係，之後仍會不斷地提到經濟失衡愈嚴重的國家,對於上述社會問題與現象的指數平均表現會愈差。兩者之間有著緊密的關聯性。但如果使用相同的指數也就是上述的各種社會問題與現象與國民生產毛額,或是國民總收入比較的話,這兩者之間就不會有任何關聯。 我們有點擔心或許有人會認為我們只選了支持我們理論的數據,甚至連數據都是偽造的,所以我們也在「英國醫學雜誌」發表了一篇文章採用了聯合國兒童基金會的兒童福利指數。該指數由另一個研究團隊所整合涵蓋了40種不同的變數。包括兒童是否能跟父母溝通,家裡有沒有書本,接種疫苗的比率、有無校園霸凌。可以說包羅萬有。然後我們拿這個指數與先前的資料作比較。發現經濟失衡愈嚴重，兒童的福利就愈差。兩者之間依然有強烈的關聯性。儘管如此,如果我們再把這個兒童福利指數拿來與國民總收入做比較,兩者依然沒有任何關聯,一點邊都沾不上。 從開始演講到現在我說了那麼多其實都在講同一件事那就是社會的安樂與穩定與國民收入或是經濟成長之間是一點關係也沒有。這對於已開發國家而言或許沒什麼,但對貧困國家的影響很大。不過，如果撇開國家的立場不談,改以人的立場來觀察的話,對我們就影響深遠。現在，我把剛剛提到的各種數據拆開來探討。就拿「信賴程度」來舉例吧。這張圖顯示了一個國家的人與人之間對於彼此的信賴程度。統計資料來自「世界價值觀調查協會」。在經濟失衡較嚴重的國家,只有15%的人認為彼此可以信任。但是在經濟發展均衡的國家,卻有60%~65%的人口可以彼此信任。如果把圖的縱軸改成社會參與度或是社會資本的動用,得到的結果都非常相似,都跟經濟失衡與否存在強烈的關係。 事實上，這份調查工作我們作了兩次。第一次是以已開發國家為對象,並把得到的數據當作實驗平台,然後對全美國的五十個州作相同的調查—問他們相同的問題:也就是問他們是否認為經濟失衡較嚴重的州對於上述各種社會問題的表現比較差？這張圖就是針對美國人民所作的調查結果,同樣是經濟失衡與信賴程度之間的關係。最後得到的結果與前幾張圖極為相似。同一件事在各地都是相同的結果。基本上，我們發現根據我們的實驗平台裡的所有資料在國際上跟「信賴程度」有關的調查中其結果跟美國內部的調查結果都極為相似。這絕對不是歪打正著。 這張圖的縱軸換成了心理疾病。數據來自世界衛生組織,他們隨機挑選各國的人民並經由問診而得到這些資料,這些資料讓我們得以分析在各個社會之中擁有心理疾病的人口比例。縱軸代表的就是在前幾年之中擁有心理疾病的人口佔總人口的比例。比例最低與最高的國家之間足足差了三倍—這代表整個美國社會有四分之一的人口患有心理疾病。當然，這與經濟失衡有著高度關聯。 這張圖的縱軸是兇殺案發生率。紅點代表美國各州的比率,藍色三角形則代表加拿大各省。兩種圖形的分布位置有些許不同。每一百萬人中，兇殺案的發生數介於15宗到150宗之間。這張圖的縱軸則是監獄內人口與總人口的比例。不過刻度是採用對數刻度,最低與最高比例相差約十倍。從四十人到四百人都有,相差不小。這種現象的產生並不單純與犯罪率有關。犯罪率只是其中一種因素。主要因素來自於過於嚴厲或粗糙的判決。在經濟失衡較嚴重的國家執行死刑的比率也比較高。這張圖的縱軸則換成了中學生的退學率。最低與最高比率之間依然差異很大。這對於人才的發掘,會造很大的損失。 這張圖的縱軸代表社會流動率。這裡呈現的是以收入為基準來推算出的流動率。講白話一點，它就是在問：富人的父親也是富人嗎？窮人的父親也是窮人嗎？或是根本一點關係也沒有？在經濟失衡較嚴重的國家,像是英國跟美國—你父親的財產就非常重要。相反地，在斯堪地納維亞地區的國家,你父親的財產就比較無關緊要了。因為社會流動率很高。因此，我給各位一些建議—我知道在座的觀眾之中有很多是美國人—如果美國人想完成他們的美國夢的話,最好是往丹麥發展。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 斜體字的部分我們剛剛已經討論過了。現在我們來看看其他的社會問題。這些問題在下層社會之間愈來愈普遍。不過，新的社會問題層出不窮,經濟失衡愈嚴重的國家受害愈大—這些損害不是一點點而已,甚至還有可能持續不斷地擴大。像是物價持續上漲,人民終有一天會吃不消。 現在我們回過頭來看看這張圖綜合所有的資料後,可以得到兩點結論。其一，在這一張張的圖表之中,我們可以發現，社會問題愈多的國家,不論它們的現況為何,愈有可能成為經濟嚴重失衡的國家,反之亦然看看北歐國家或日本就能了解。因此我們可以篤定社會的失常與經濟失衡有絕對的關係。並不是只有一兩件事出問題,而是整個社會都有問題。 其二，也是很重要的一點,請各位看看這張圖的底部,也就是瑞典與日本,就各種面向而言，這是兩個差異極大的國家。像是婦女的社會地位,或是對核能的觀點,都有著天差地別的見解,儘管它們都同樣是高度開發國家。不過，我們探討的重點在於它們是如何做到經濟發展均衡的。在瑞典，各種行業之間的工資差異不小,但是政府用稅收來彌補這段差距,或是提供完善的社會福利,以及大量的補助津貼。日本的方法比較不一樣。它是以縮小工資差異的方法達成平衡。因此稅賦相對地比較低。當然社會福利就差了一些。我們在分析美國的狀況時,發現了一些相似的政策。某些州在所得重分配這方面表現不錯,這些州之所以表現不錯是因為它們的工資差異比較小。所以結論就是要讓經濟均衡發展並沒有特定的方法,重點是要用對方法。 我並不是在評論誰的做法比較好,我只是在闡述某些高度開發的自由競爭市場國家的情況。在下一張圖中，我們會看到另一項驚人的事實,那就是，不是只有窮人才會受到經濟失衡影響。就好像約翰‧多恩(譯註：英國詩人)所說的「沒有人是一座孤島」。經由各項研究，我們可以比較各種社會階層的人民如何受到經濟失衡的影響。這張圖只是個例子。討論的是嬰兒死亡率。有些瑞典學者在統計嬰兒死亡率時所採用的分類法，是根據英國社會經濟學的分類法來劃分。這種分類法有點不符合時代潮流,因為它把父親的職業分成很多等級,卻把單親獨立成一個分類。圖中最左邊的「低階職業」指的是不需要任何技術的勞動業。往右邊指的是需要技術的勞動業,然後是比較不需要專業技能的非勞動業,最右邊則是需要專業知識的職業—像是醫生、律師,或是大型公司的主管。 不論父親從事哪種等級的職業瑞典人的嬰兒死亡率都比英國人低。尤其是社會底層的人民之間差異最大。即使是上層社會的人民,瑞典的表現仍然略勝一籌,足以證明瑞典的經濟失衡較不明顯。現在，我們已經看過了五種不同的數據,包括教育、健康等問題,不管是美國內部還是國際上的數據都已經看過了。在這之中我們可以找到一個共同點—那就是經濟失衡對社會底層的人民影響最大,對上層社會的影響相對較小。 即使如此，有些事我還是不得不說。現在，我們換個觀點來看問題,從經濟失衡對心理層面的影響著手。人們會產生優越感或自卑感,對別人的褒貶特別在意,也會去注意別人對你的態度。當然，不可諱言地群眾的競爭心態其實來自於現今社會的消費主義(Consumerism)。另外，人們的安全感也會受到影響。我們會很在意別人用什麼眼光看我們,我們的表現是否夠吸引人？夠知性？諸如此類。愈在意別人的眼光就會愈沒有安全感。 有趣的是有社會心理學家曾作過以下的實驗:他們分析了208件不同的案例,實驗內容是，先邀請許多自願者進入心理實驗室,然後讓他們做一些充滿壓迫感的工作,並觀察他們體內分泌的壓力荷爾蒙增加量。實驗結果非常地諷刺,他們發現有一種工作會大量地增加皮質醇的分泌量也就是最主要的壓力荷爾蒙。這種工作就是常會被社會大眾品頭論足的工作—人們會感到自尊或社會地位受到威脅因為你會害怕得到負面的評價。來自別人眼光的壓力對一個人的影響最大,這是心理學的研究結果。 我們的研究也曾經受到質疑。當然，有些人不喜歡我們的實驗數據,也有些人對這些數據感到不可思議。我必須在此告訴各位某些人質疑我們只選用支持我們理論的數據,但我們從未這樣做。我們有自己的篩選機制只要是跟我們研究的國家有關的數據,我們就把它加進來分析。唯一會考慮的只有資料的可信度絕無挑選數據。不然這場演講就沒意義了。 至於其他的國家呢？其他還有200多項研究都證明人的健康與收入、經濟狀況有關,這些研究散見於各種學術期刊。並不侷限於今天提到的這些國家,只是這些國家較俱代表性。只要國與國之間的情況相似,經濟失衡程度差不多,兩國內部都會產生相同的問題。我們為什麼不用其他的衡量標準分析呢？我已跟各位說明過，如果改用國民生產毛額作為衡量標準，結果也不會改變的。當然，在現有文獻中，有其他學者用更精密的方法以貧窮、教育等問題做衡量標準,這不在話下。 至於這些數據間的因果關係呢？兩件事之間有關聯性並不能證明它們有因果關係。我們為此花了不少時間。當然，大部分的人都能接受我們研究出的因果關係。我想我們認知上最大的改變就是在富裕已開發的國家中某些慢性病的起因,像是免疫系統疾病,或是心血管疾病,竟是來自社會上的壓力。在經濟失衡嚴重的國家,社會上的暴力事件比較頻繁,也是因為人們對別人的眼光愈來愈敏感。 我必須說，要解決這些問題,就得先確立稅收的標準以及稅收的運用。所有人的所得都必須受到限制,尤其是上層社會的人。我認為，公司老闆應該對員工的薪資負起責任,非這麼做不可。今天我希望各位都能在心中記住一個想法,那就是我們確實能夠藉由縮小收入差距來讓我們的社會更加均衡發展。如果有一天，在座各位的其中一人成功解決了經濟失衡的問題那將會是全人類的福音。 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
