Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_turere_a_peace_treaty_with_the_lions	"This is where I live. I live in Kenya, at the south parts of the Nairobi National Park. Those are my dad's cows at the back, and behind the cows, that's the Nairobi National Park. Nairobi National Park is not fenced in the south widely, which means wild animals like zebras migrate out of the park freely. So predators like lions follow them, and this is what they do. They kill our livestock. This is one of the cows which was killed at night, and I just woke up in the morning and I found it dead, and I felt so bad, because it was the only bull we had. My community, the Maasai, we believe that we came from heaven with all our animals and all the land for herding them, and that's why we value them so much. So I grew up hating lions so much. The morans are the warriors who protect our community and the livestock, and they're also upset about this problem. So they kill the lions. It's one of the six lions which were killed in Nairobi. And I think this is why the Nairobi National Park lions are few. So a boy, from six to nine years old, in my community is responsible for his dad's cows, and that's the same thing which happened to me. So I had to find a way of solving this problem. And the first idea I got was to use fire, because I thought lions were scared of fire. But I came to realize that that didn't really help, because it was even helping the lions to see through the cowshed. So I didn't give up. I continued. And a second idea I got was to use a scarecrow. I was trying to trick the lions [into thinking] that I was standing near the cowshed. But lions are very clever. (Laughter) They will come the first day and they see the scarecrow, and they go back, but the second day, they'll come and they say, this thing is not moving here, it's always here. (Laughter) So he jumps in and kills the animals. So one night, I was walking around the cowshed with a torch, and that day, the lions didn't come. And I discovered that lions are afraid of a moving light. So I had an idea. Since I was a small boy, I used to work in my room for the whole day, and I even took apart my mom's new radio, and that day she almost killed me, but I learned a lot about electronics. (Laughter) So I got an old car battery, an indicator box. It's a small device found in a motorcycle, and it helps motorists when they want to turn right or left. It blinks. And I got a switch where I can switch on the lights, on and off. And that's a small torch from a broken flashlight. So I set up everything. As you can see, the solar panel charges the battery, and the battery supplies the power to the small indicator box. I call it a transformer. And the indicator box makes the lights flash. As you can see, the bulbs face outside, because that's where the lions come from. And that's how it looks to lions when they come at night. The lights flash and trick the lions into thinking I was walking around the cowshed, but I was sleeping in my bed. (Laughter) (Applause) Thanks. So I set it up in my home two years ago, and since then, we have never experienced any problem with lions. And my neighboring homes heard about this idea. One of them was this grandmother. She had a lot of her animals being killed by lions, and she asked me if I could put the lights for her. And I said, ""Yes."" So I put the lights. You can see at the back, those are the lion lights. Since now, I've set up seven homes around my community, and they're really working. And my idea is also being used now all over Kenya for scaring other predators like hyenas, leopards, and it's also being used to scare elephants away from people's farms. Because of this invention, I was lucky to get a scholarship in one of the best schools in Kenya, Brookhouse International School, and I'm really excited about this. My new school now is coming in and helping by fundraising and creating an awareness. I even took my friends back to my community, and we're installing the lights to the homes which don't have [any], and I'm teaching them how to put them. So one year ago, I was just a boy in the savanna grassland herding my father's cows, and I used to see planes flying over, and I told myself that one day, I'll be there inside. And here I am today. I got a chance to come by plane for my first time for TED. So my big dream is to become an aircraft engineer and pilot when I grow up. I used to hate lions, but now because my invention is saving my father's cows and the lions, we are able to stay with the lions without any conflict. Ashê olên. It means in my language, thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: You have no idea how exciting it is to hear a story like yours. So you got this scholarship.Richard Turere: Yep. CA: You're working on other electrical inventions. What's the next one on your list? RT: My next invention is, I want to make an electric fence.CA: Electric fence? RT: But I know electric fences are already invented, but I want to make mine. (Laughter) CA: You already tried it once, right, and you —RT: I tried it before, but I stopped because it gave me a shock. (Laughter) CA: In the trenches. Richard Turere, you are something else. We're going to cheer you on every step of the way, my friend. Thank you so much.RT: Thank you. (Applause)"	這是我住的地方。我住在肯亞，在奈洛比國家公園的南端。背後那些是我父親的牛群，而在牛群背後，就是奈洛比國家公園。奈洛比國家公園在南端有很寬的一部份沒有柵欄，這表示一些野生動物，像是斑馬，會自由地遷徙，離開公園。所以獅子之類的掠食者就跟著它們，這就是牠們幹的好事。牠們吃掉我們的家畜。這是其中一隻在夜晚被殺掉的牛，早上我才剛起床 就發現它死掉了，我心情很差，因為這是我們唯一一隻公牛。 我的部落，馬塞族，我們相信我們來自天上，伴隨著我們的牲畜，以及牧養它們的土地，這是為什麼我們這麼重視它們。所以我開始極度討厭獅子。「莫朗」是我們的戰士，就是那些保護我們部族以及牲畜的勇士，而他們也對這個問題感到憤慨。所以他們殺了那隻獅子。它是在奈洛比被殺的六隻獅子之一。而我想這就是為什麼國家公園裡獅子會這麼少的原因。 所以，在我們部落裡，一個六歲到九歲的男孩必須要對他父親的牛群負責，而對我來說也是如此。 所以我必須想個辦法來解決這個問題。而我第一個想到的是用火，因為我想獅子應該會怕火。但是我開始了解到這並沒什麼實質作用，因為這反倒幫了獅子，讓它們看清楚牛棚。而我並沒放棄。我繼續嘗試。第二個我想到的點子是利用稻草人。我曾經試著去用稻草人騙獅子，（沉思）我站在牛棚旁看。但獅子非常聰明。（笑聲）牠們第一天會先來看看稻草人，然後回去，但第二天，牠們會再來，並說：「這個東西不會動。它總是在那兒。」（笑聲）接著牠就撲上去把牲畜吃了。有一個晚上，我帶著火把在牛棚周圍巡視，那天，獅子並沒有來。然後我發現獅子會害怕移動的光源。所以我有個點子。在我還是個小孩的時候，我很習慣在我的房間忙一整天，我還曾經把我媽的新收音機拆開，那天她差點把我殺了，但是我學到了許多電子學的知識。（笑聲）我有一顆舊的汽車電瓶，還有一個指示盒。那是一個我在機車上找到的小零件，在左右轉時，它可以幫助機車騎士。它會閃爍。接著我找到一個開關，可以控制燈光，開或是關。而這是一個從壞手電筒上找到的小燈泡。 所以我設置好每個元件。就像你看到的，太陽能板可以幫電池充電，而電池提供電力給小指示盒。我把它叫做轉換器。接著指示盒讓燈光閃爍。就像你看到的，燈光是朝外的，因為那是獅子來的方向。獅子晚上來的時候，這就是牠看到的樣子。這些光源會閃爍，然後誘使那些獅子覺得我在牛棚附近走動，但我則在床上睡覺。 （笑聲）（掌聲）謝謝。 所以我兩年前在我家設好這個裝置，接著，我們就沒再遇到任何獅子的問題了。而我的鄰居們聽到了這個點子。其中一個是這位奶奶。她有很多牲畜被獅子吃了，她問我能不能幫她裝上這些燈泡。我回答：「沒問題。」所以我裝了燈泡。你可以看到，背後那些就是嚇獅子的燈。從那天起，我在附近的七戶人家中設了裝置，而它們都真的起了作用。我的點子現在普及整個肯亞用來威嚇其它掠食者，像是土狼、或是豹，而也被用來驅趕象群，讓它們不要踩進人們的農田。 由於這個發明，我很幸運地得到獎學金，讓我在其中一間肯亞最好的學校唸書，Brookhouse 國際學院，這讓我非常興奮。我現在的新學校加入並幫助我，他們幫忙籌款以及宣傳。我甚至帶我的朋友們回到我的部落，然後我們為許多戶還沒設這裝置的家裡，裝上裝置，而我也教他們怎麼設置。 所以，一年前，我只是一個熱帶草原中的小男孩，幫忙父親牧牛，我常看到飛機飛過，然後我告訴我自己有一天我也會坐在裡面。而今天我站在這裡。我有這個機會來這，因為 TED，我第一次坐上飛機。所以我的長遠夢想是成為一個飛機工程師及機長，在我長大以後。 我以前討厭獅子，但現在因為我的發明讓我父親的牛群以及獅子相安無事，所以我們可以和獅子和平共處。Ashê olên。在我母語中這表示：「非常謝謝你們。」 （掌聲） Chris Anderson：你應該很難理解，我們聽到像你這樣的故事，是多麼興奮。所以你得到這個獎學金。Richard Turere：是的。 CA：你正在努力於其它電子發明。下一個發明是什麼？ RT：我的下一個發明是，我想要做一個電柵。CA：電柵？RT：但是我知道電柵已經有人發明了，但我想做出屬於我的。（笑聲） CA：你已經試了一次，對嗎？那你……RT：我試過一次，但我中斷了，因為我被它電到了。（笑聲） CA：還在努力中。Richard Turere，你真的很特別。我們將為你路上的每一步歡呼，我的朋友。非常謝謝你。RT：謝謝。（掌聲）
