Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_pyle_dives_the_twilight_zone	"This is the first of two rather extraordinary photographs I'm going to show you today. It was taken 18 years ago. I was 19 years old at the time. I had just returned from one of the deepest dives I'd ever made at that time — a little over 200 feet. And I had caught this little fish. It turns out that particular one was the first of its kind ever taken alive. I'm not just an ichthyologist, I'm a bona fide fish nerd. And to a fish nerd, this is some pretty exciting stuff. More exciting was the fact that the person who took this photo is a guy named Jack Randall, the greatest living ichthyologist on earth — the Grand Poobah of fish nerds, if you will. And so, it was really exciting to me to have this moment in time. It set the course for the rest of my life. But really, the most significant, most profound thing about this picture is it was taken two days before I was completely paralyzed from the neck down. I made a really stupid kind of mistake that most 19-year-old males do when they think they're immortal, and I got a bad case of the bends and was paralyzed, and had to be flown back for treatment. I learned two really important things that day. The first thing I learned — well, I'm mortal. That's a really big one. And the second thing I learned was that I knew, with profound certainty, that this is exactly what I was going to do for the rest of my life. I had to focus all my energies towards going to find new species of things down on deep coral reefs. When you think of a coral reef, this is what most people think of: these big, hard, elaborate corals, lots of bright, colorful fishes and things. But this is really just the tip of the iceberg. If you look at this diagram of a coral reef, we know a lot about that part up near the top. The reason we know so much about it is scuba divers can very easily go down there and access it. There is a problem with scuba, though, in that it imposes some limitations on how deep you can go. It turns out that depth is about 200 feet. I'll get into why that is in just a minute, but the point is, scuba divers generally stay less than 100 feet deep, and very rarely go much below this, at least, not with any kind of sanity. So to go deeper, most biologists have turned to submersibles. Now, submersibles are great, wonderful things, but if you're going to spend 30,000 dollars a day to use one of these things and it's capable of going 2,000 feet, you're not going to go farting around up here in a couple of hundred feet, you're going to go way down deep. So the bottom line is, almost all research using submersibles has taken place well below 500 feet. Now, it's pretty obvious at this point there's a zone here in the middle. That's the zone that centers around my own personal pursuit of happiness. I want to find out what's in this zone; we know almost nothing about it. Scuba divers can't get there, submarines go right on past it. It took me a year to learn to walk again after my diving accident in Palau. During that year, I spent a lot of time learning about the physics and physiology of diving and how to overcome these limitations. I'm just going to show you a basic idea. We're all breathing air right now. Air is a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen, 20 percent oxygen, 80 percent nitrogen. It's in our lungs. And there's a phenomenon called Henry's law, that says gases will dissolve into a fluid in proportion to the partial pressures you're exposing them to. So, basically the gas dissolves into our body. The oxygen is bound by metabolism, we use it for energy. The nitrogen sort of floats around in our blood and tissues. That's fine, it's how we're designed. The problem happens when you go underwater. The deeper you go underwater, the higher the pressure is. If you were to go down to a depth of about 130 feet, which is the recommended limit for most scuba divers, you'd get this pressure effect. The effect of that pressure is you have an increased density of gas molecules in every breath you take. Over time, those gas molecules dissolve into your blood and tissues and start to fill you up. Now, if you were to go down to, say, 300 feet, you don't have five times as many gas molecules in your lungs, you've got 10 times as many gas molecules in your lungs. And, sure enough, they dissolve into your blood and tissues as well. And if you were to go down to where there's 15 times as much — the deeper you go, the more exacerbating the problem becomes. The limitation of diving with air is all those dots in your body, all the nitrogen and all the oxygen. There are three basic limitations of scuba diving. The first limitation is the oxygen — oxygen toxicity. Now, we all know the song: ""Love is like oxygen. You get too much, you get too high. Not enough, and you're gonna die."" Well, in the context of diving, you get too much, you die also. You die because oxygen toxicity can cause a seizure. It makes you convulse underwater — not a good thing to happen underwater. It happens because there's too much concentration of oxygen in your body. The nitrogen has two problems. One of them is what Jacques Cousteau called ""rapture of the deep."" It's nitrogen narcosis. It makes you loopy; the deeper you go, the loopier you get. You don't want to drive drunk, you don't want to dive drunk. So that's a real big problem. And of course, the third problem is the one I found out the hard way in Palau, which is the bends. One thing I forgot to mention is that to obviate the problem of nitrogen narcosis — all of those blue dots in our body — you remove the nitrogen and replace it with helium. Helium's a gas; there're a lot of reasons why helium's good, it's a tiny molecule, it's inert, it doesn't give you narcosis. So that's the basic concept we use. But the theory's relatively easy. The tricky part is the implementation. So this is how I began about 15 years ago. I'll admit, it wasn't exactly the smartest of starts, but you've got to start somewhere. (Laughter) At the time, I wasn't the only one who didn't know what I was doing. Almost nobody did. This rig was actually used for a dive of 300 feet. But over time we got better at it, and we came up with this really sophisticated-looking rig with four scuba tanks, five regulators and all the right gas mixtures, all that good stuff. It was fine and dandy, it allowed us to go down and find new species. This picture was taken at 300 feet, catching new species of fish. The problem was it didn't allow us much time. For all its bulk and size, it only gave us about 15 minutes at most down at those sorts of depths. We needed more time. There had to be a better way. And indeed, there is a better way. In 1994, I was fortunate enough to get access to these prototype closed-circuit rebreathers. Closed-circuit rebreather: what makes it different from scuba, and why is it better? Well, there are three main advantages to a rebreather. One, they're quiet, they don't make any noise. Two, they allow you to stay underwater longer. Three, they allow you to go deeper. How is it that they do that? In order to really understand how they do that, you have to look underneath the hood and see what's going on. There are three basic systems to a closed-circuit rebreather. The most fundamental is called the breathing loop. It's a breathing loop because you breathe off of it; it's a closed loop, and you breathe the same gas around and around. There's a mouthpiece that you put in your mouth, and there's a counter lung, or in this case, two counter lungs. The counter lungs aren't high tech, they're simply flexible bags. They allow you to mechanically breathe, mechanically ventilate. When you exhale, it goes in the exhale counter lung; when you inhale, it comes from the inhale counter lung. It's just pure mechanics, allowing you to cycle air through this breathing loop. The other component on a breathing loop is the carbon-dioxide-absorbent canister. Now, as we breathe, we produce carbon dioxide, and that carbon dioxide needs to be scrubbed out of the system. There's a chemical filter in there that pulls the carbon dioxide out of the breathing gas, so that when it comes back to us, it's safe to breathe again. That's the breathing loop in a nutshell. The second main component of a closed-circuit rebreather is the gas system. The primary purpose of the gas system is to provide oxygen, to replenish the oxygen that your body consumes. So the main tank, the main critical thing, is this oxygen gas supply cylinder we have here. But if we only had an oxygen gas supply cylinder, we wouldn't be able to go very deep, because we'd run into oxygen toxicity very quickly. So we need another gas, something to dilute the oxygen with. And that, fittingly enough, is called the diluent gas supply. In our applications, we generally put air inside this diluent gas supply, because it's a very cheap and easy source of nitrogen. So that's where we get our nitrogen from. But if we want to go deeper, of course, we need another gas supply, and helium is what we really need to go deep. Usually we'll have a slightly larger cylinder, mounted exterior on the rebreather, like this. That's what we use to inject, as we start to do our deep dives. We also have a second oxygen cylinder, solely as a backup; if there's a problem with our first oxygen supply, we can continue to breathe. The way you manage all these different gases and different gas supplies is this really high-tech, sophisticated gas block up on the front here, where it's easy to reach. It's got the valves and knobs and things you need to inject the right gases at the right time. Normally, you don't have to do that, because all of it's done automatically with the electronics, the third system of a rebreather. The most critical part of a rebreather are the oxygen sensors. You need three, so if one goes bad, you know which one it is. You need voting logic. You also have three microprocessors. Any one of those computers can run the entire system, so if you have to lose two of them, there's back-up power supplies. And there are multiple displays, to get the information to the diver. This is the high-tech gadgetry that allows us to do what we do on these deep dives. I can talk about it all day — just ask my wife — but I want to move on to something much more interesting. I'm going to take you on a deep dive, and show you what it's like to do one. We start up on the boat, For all this high-tech, expensive equipment, this is still the best way to get in the water, just flop over the side of the boat. Now, as I showed you in the earlier diagram, these reefs that we dive on start out near the surface and they go almost vertically, completely straight down. So we drop in the water and go over the edge of this cliff, and then we start dropping, dropping, dropping. People ask if it takes a long time to get there. No; it only takes a couple minutes to get down to three or four hundred feet, which is what we're aiming for. It's like skydiving in slow motion. It's really very interesting. You ever see ""The Abyss,"" where Ed Harris is sinking down along the side of the wall? That's what it feels like. Amazing. And down there, you find that the water is very clear, extremely clear, because there's hardly any plankton. When you turn on your light and look around the caves, you're confronted with a tremendous amount of diversity, much more than anyone used to believe. Now, not all of it is new species — that fish you see with the white stripe, that's a known species. But if you look carefully into the cracks and crevices, you'll see little things scurrying all over the place. There's a just unbelievable diversity. It's not just fish, either. These are crinoids, sponges, black corals. There're some more fishes. Those fishes that you see now are new species. They're still new species, because I had a video camera instead of my net, so they're still waiting down there for someone to go find them. But this is what it looks like. And this kind of habitat just goes on and on and on for miles. This is Papua, New Guinea. Now little fishes and invertebrates aren't the only things we see down there. We also see sharks, much more regularly than I would have expected to. We're not quite sure why. What I want you to do now is imagine yourself 400 feet underwater, with all this high-tech gear on your back, you're in a remote reef off Papua, New Guinea, thousands of miles from the nearest recompression chamber, and you're completely surrounded by sharks. (Video) Diver 1: (In squeaky voice) Look at those ... Diver 2: Uh, oh ... Uh, oh! Audience: (Laughter) (Video) Diver 1: I think we have their attention ... Richard Pyle: When you start talking like Donald Duck, there's no situation in the world that can seem tense. (Laughter) So we're down there — this is at 400 feet. That's looking straight up, by the way, to give a sense of how far the surface is. And if you're a biologist and know about sharks, and you want to assess, how much jeopardy am I really in here, there's one question that sort of jumps to the forefront of your mind immediately, which is — (Video) Diver 1: What kind of sharks? Diver 2: Silvertip sharks. Diver 1: Oh. RP: There are actually three species of sharks here. The silvertips are the ones with the white edges on the fins, and there're also gray reef sharks and hammerheads off in the distance. And yes, it's a little nerve-racking. (Video) Diver 2: Hoo! That little guy is frisky! Audience: (Laughter) Now, you've seen video like this on TV a lot, and it's very intimidating. I think it gives the wrong impression about sharks; they're actually not very dangerous animals. That's why we weren't worried much and were joking around. More people are killed by pigs, by lightning strikes, more people are killed at soccer games in England. There's a lot of other ways you can die. And I'm not making that stuff up. Coconuts! You can get killed by a coconut more likely than killed by a shark. So sharks aren't quite as dangerous as most people make them out to be. Now, I don't know if any of you get US News and World Report — I got the recent issue. There's a cover story about the great explorers of our time. The last article is entitled, ""No New Frontiers."" It questions whether or not there really are any new frontiers out there, whether there are any true, hardcore discoveries that can still be made. My favorite line from the article: [... 'discovery' can mean finding a guppy with an extra spine in its dorsal fin.""] I have to laugh; they don't call us fish nerds for nothing. We actually do get excited about finding a new dorsal spine in a guppy. But it's much more than that. I want to show you a few of the guppies we've found over the years. This one — you can see how ugly it is. (Laughter) Even if you ignore the scientific value of this thing, look at the monetary value of this thing. A couple of these were sold through the aquarium trade to Japan, where they sold for 15,000 dollars apiece. That's half a million dollars a pound. Here's another new angelfish we discovered. This one we first discovered back in the air days — the bad old air days, when we were doing these kind of dives with air. We were at 360 feet. I remember coming up from one of these deep dives and I had this fog, and the narcosis takes a little while to fade away, sort of like sobering up. I had this vague recollection of seeing this yellow fish with a black spot, and thought, ""Damn, I should have caught one — I think that's a new species."" Eventually, I looked in my bucket. Sure enough, I had caught one, I just completely forgot. So this one, we decided to give the name Centropyge narcosis to. That's its official scientific name, in reference to its deep-dwelling habits. This is another neat one. When we first found it, we weren't even sure what family it belonged to, so we just called it the Dr. Seuss fish, since it looked like something from one of those books. Now, this one's pretty cool. If you go to Papua, New Guinea and go down 300 feet, you'll see these big mounds. This may be hard to see, but they're a couple meters in diameter. If you look closely, you'll see there's a little white and gray fish that hangs out near them. It turns out this little white fish builds these giant mounds, one pebble at a time. It's extraordinary to find something like this. It's not just new species, it's new behaviors, new ecology, all kind of new things. What I'm going to show you now, quickly, is a sampling of the new species we've discovered. What's extraordinary is not just the number of species we're finding — though as you can see, that's pretty amazing; this is only half of what we've found — what's extraordinary is how quickly we find them. We're up to seven new species per hour of time we spend at that depth. If you go to an Amazon jungle and fog a tree, you may get a lot of bugs, but for fishes, there's nowhere in the world you can get seven new species per hour of time. Now, we've done some back-of-the-envelope calculations, and we're predicting there are probably about 2,000 to 2,500 new species in the Indo-Pacific alone. There are only five to six thousand known species, so a very large percentage of what is out there isn't really known. We thought we had a handle on all the reef fish diversity — evidently not. I'm going to just close on a very somber note. At the beginning, I said I'd show you two extraordinary photographs. This is the second extraordinary photograph I'm going to show you. This one was taken at the exact moment I was down there filming those sharks. This was taken exactly 300 feet above my head. The reason this photograph is extraordinary is because it captures a moment in the very last minute of a person's life. Less than 60 seconds after this picture was taken, this guy was dead. When we recovered his body, we figured out what had gone wrong. He had made a very simple mistake; he turned the wrong valve when he filled his cylinder. he had 80 percent oxygen in his tank when he should have had 40. He had an oxygen toxicity seizure and he drowned. The reason I show this — not to put a downer on everything — but I just want to use it to key off my philosophy of life in general, which is that we all have two goals. The first goal we share with every other living thing on this planet, which is to survive. I call it perpetuation: the survival of the species and survival of ourselves, And those are both about perpetuating the genome. The second goal, for those of us who have mastered the first goal — call it spiritual fulfillment, call it financial success, you can call it any number of different things. I call it seeking joy, this pursuit of happiness. So, I guess my theme on this is this guy lived his life to the fullest, he absolutely did. You have to balance those two goals. If you live your whole life in fear — I mean, life is a sexually transmitted disease with 100 percent mortality. So you can't live your life in fear. (Laughter) I thought that was an old one! (Applause) But at the same time, you don't want to get so focused on rule number two, goal number two, that you neglect goal number one. Because once you're dead, you really can't enjoy anything after that. So I wish you all the best of luck in maintaining that balance in your future endeavors. Thanks."	這是我今天要給大家展示的兩張非同尋常的圖片中的第一張它是在18年前拍的當時我19歲剛剛從那時所參與的最深的一次潛水歸來比200英尺深一點點在那裡我抓到了這條小魚它成為了第一條被活捕上來後還能存活下來的魚我不僅僅是一個魚類學家，我還是一個真正的魚癡而對於魚癡來說，這是一個非常讓人興奮的工作而更讓人興奮的是，為我拍這張照片的人名字叫做Jack Randall世界上還健在的最偉大的魚類學家你也可以稱他是魚癡的頭兒因此，這個時刻的及時到來令我相當興奮我以後的人生路線也由此劃定 但關於這張圖片最重要，最意義深遠的事情是在拍完它兩天之後我的頸部就完全癱瘓了。我犯了一個非常愚蠢的錯誤就像大多數19歲的小夥子們，他們認為自己是死不了我得上了嚴重的減壓病全身癱瘓，不得不飛回來進行治療那天我明白了兩件非常重要的事情第一，我是終有一死的，這確實很重要第二，我非常肯定地知道我在餘生中所要從事的究竟是什麼我必須將精力都專注地投入到對珊瑚礁深處那些新物種的發現。 現在，當你們想到珊瑚礁時，這就是大多數人所想到的所有這些巨大、堅硬、精巧的珊瑚，還有大量多姿多彩的魚類以及其他但，這僅僅是冰山一角如果你看一下這張珊瑚礁的圖表我們對最上方的那部分瞭解很多之所以如此，是因為水肺潛水夫能輕鬆地下潛到那裡 然而水肺（水下呼吸器）有個問題它給你的下潛深度設了限制大概是200英尺等一會我會解釋這是為什麼但，關鍵是水肺潛水夫們通常只待在100英尺深度以上而很少，至少是有意識地潛到這個深度以下所以，如果要到更深處，多數的生物學家會選擇潛水器現在，潛水器是很了不起的東西但如果你要每天花3萬美元來利用某個潛水器而它能夠下潛的深度是2000英尺那麼你肯定不會就在這幾百英尺的地方晃來晃去你會向下，向下，潛到深處去歸根結底，幾乎所有利用潛水器的研究都是在超過500英尺深的水下進行的 講到這裡，可以很明顯地看到中間的這個區域而這就是圍繞著我個人幸福追求的那個區域我想找出在裡面有什麼我們幾乎對這裡一無所知水肺潛水夫到不了那裡，潛水器又不在那裡停留 自從帛琉群島的潛水事故之後，我花了一年時間才重新學會行走那一年裡，我花了大量時間學習學習潛水的物理學和生理學過程並找出如何克服這些限制的方法我這就給你們展示一些基本的概念此時此刻，我們呼吸的空氣其實是氧氣和氮氣的混合物其中大約20%是氧氣，80%是氮氣有一種稱為“亨利定律”的現象指的是氣體在液體中的溶解與該液面上氣體所受到的分壓成正比所以基本上氣體會溶解到我們的體內氧氣是我們獲取能量所必需的，與新陳代謝息息相關而氮氣只是我們血液和組織裡的某種漂浮物而已這沒什麼關係，我們生來如此問題在於當你開始下潛到水下的時候 潛得越深，所受到的壓力越大當你到達大約130英尺的深度時這是大多數水肺潛水者的建議極限你就會感覺到某種壓力效應即在你的每一次呼吸中氣體的密度是逐漸增加的過一會，這些氣體分子就會溶解到你的血液和組織中並開始充滿你的體內如果你要下潛到300英尺那你的肺裡就不僅僅只充滿相當於平時五倍體積的氣體而是充滿相當於平時10倍體積的氣體肯定的是，它們同樣會溶解到你的血液和組織裡當然，如果你繼續往下的話還有可能是15倍潛得越深，這個問題就會越嚴重而這個帶空氣潛水的極限問題也就是在你體內的所有這些點——所有的氮氣和氧氣 水肺潛水有三個基本的限制第一個限制就是氧氣氧中毒我們都知道那首歌—-“愛情就像氧氣，得到太多，你會太興奮。得到不夠，你就會死去”在潛水這個問題上，你得到太多也會掛掉導致死亡的另一個原因是氧中毒引起的急性痙攣在水下，這可不是什麼好事情罪魁禍首就是體內過高的氧氣濃度 氮氣會造成兩個問題其中之一就是雅克•庫斯托所說的“深海暈眩”也就是氮氣麻醉它會使你暈頭轉向潛得越深，你就越暈你不會願意醉酒開車，你也不會願意醉酒潛水，所以這確實是個大問題當然，第三個問題也就是我在帛琉群島那段艱難旅程所發現的減壓症（bends）我忘記提到的一點是如何排除氮氣麻醉的問題也就是我們體內的這些藍色小點我們可以用氦氣來替換氮氣氦氣也是種氣體，它有許多好處它的分子很小，同時是惰性氣體它不會導致你的昏迷這就是我們所用到的基本設想但這一理論只是相對比較容易而已最有趣的是如何將之變得可行 這就是我大約15年前著手開始時做的我承認，這肯定不是最聰明的開端但無論如何，你總是要開始的而且那個時候，我還真不是唯一一個不知道自己正在做什麼的人幾乎沒有人知道這個裝置實際上是用於300英尺深處的潛水但過了一陣，情況有了一點好轉我們搞出了這個看起來很是先進的裝置上面有四個氣罐和五個調節器還有合適的混合氣體以及所有要用到的好東西它看上去既漂亮又時髦能讓我們潛水去尋找新的物種這是在300英尺深處拍的照片，他正在捕捉魚類新種但問題在於我們的潛水不能進行太久儘管它的體積挺大塊卻只能保證最多在這樣的深度待15分鐘我們需要更多的時間必須找出更好的方法 而且，事實上，的確有個更好的方法 1994年，我幸運地有機會用到這些閉路式換氣器的原型那麼，閉路式換氣器—它與水肺有什麼不同，又為什麼說它更好？換氣器有三個主要的優點第一，它們很安靜，不會產生任何噪音第二，它們能使你在水裡待的更久第三，它們讓你潛得更深 那麼，它們是怎麼做到的？想真正瞭解它們是怎麼做到這些的你必須把外罩拿掉，看看裡面是怎麼工作的 閉路式換氣器裡有三個基本的系統其中最重要的稱為呼吸環路（breathing loop）顧名思義，你利用它來呼吸這是個閉合的環路，所以你會一圈又一圈地呼吸同樣的氣體這裡有個你要放在嘴裡的介面管（counterlung）或者像這裡這個，兩個氣囊這些氣囊並不是什麼高科技，它們就是簡單而又柔韌的袋子它們是你能機動地呼吸，或機動地換氣當你呼氣的時候，氣體進入呼出氣囊當你吸氣的時候，氣體從吸氣氣囊出來這只是純粹的機械過程，使氣體能在呼吸環裡進行迴圈在呼吸環上的另外一個部件是二氧化碳吸收罐我們呼吸的時候會產生二氧化碳這些二氧化碳需要從系統中除去所以在那裡面就有個化學篩檢程式將二氧化碳從呼吸的氣體中去除這就使我們再次呼吸的時候，能安全地呼吸以上介紹的就是外殼下面的呼吸環 閉路式換氣器的第二個主要部件是氣體系統氣體系統最重要的目的 是提供氧氣，補充你身體所消耗的氧氣所以主要的容器，最關鍵的東西就是這邊這個氧氣供應罐但是，如果我們只有這麼一個氧氣供應罐我們就不能潛得太深因為我們很快就會產生氧中毒，非常快所以我們需要另一種氣體來稀釋氧氣足夠合適之後，我們稱之為“稀釋氣體供應”現在，在這個裝置裡，我們就可以將空氣輸入稀釋氣體供應罐中因為這是一種非常便宜和易得的氮氣來源我們的氮氣就是從這裡來的當然，如果想潛得更深，我們還需要補充另一種氣體我們需要氦氣，它是我們深潛時所真正需要的通常我們用的是這個稍微大一點的罐子它就像這樣掛在換氣器的外面當開始向深處潛水的時候，注入的氦氣就來自這裡另外我們還有第二個氧氣罐，僅僅作為後備一旦第一個氧氣供應出現問題，我們還能繼續呼吸如何操縱所有這些氣體及其供應就在於前面這個先進的高科技氣體控制器很容易摸到它上面的閥門和旋鈕等可以讓你在合適的時間注入合適的氣體 一般來說這些都是已經為你自動做好的因為我們有電子設備，換氣器的第三個系統換氣器上最重要的部件是氧氣感測器你需要三個，這樣如果其中一個壞了，你就知道是哪一個你需要表決邏輯（voting logic）你還有三個微處理器這些電腦中的任意一個都能控制整個系統所以就算你失去了其中兩個還有後備的能量供應當然，少不了為潛水者提供資訊的顯示器這就是那個能讓我們在這種深度潛水中能隨心所欲的高科技小部件我能一整天都談論這些，問問我老婆就知道了但，我想講另一些更有趣的東西 我將帶你們深潛下去我將向你們展示我們是怎麼進行這類潛水的我們從船上開始，儘管這是部昂貴的高科技裝備這仍然是最好的入水方式—-噗！怦然從船舷處落下就像我之前給你們展示的那張圖表這些礁石就在我們開始潛水的水面附近它們幾乎是垂直地、完全直直地向下所以我們在水裡往下掉，好像要越過這個懸崖邊緣一般然後我們就開始往下掉，往下掉，往下掉有人問我，“到那兒一定花了不少時間吧？”不，只花了幾分鐘我們就直落到三四百英尺處，我們的目的地有點像慢動作的跳傘這真的非常有趣你們看過電影《深淵》（“The Abyss”）裡面的Ed Harris©沿著絕壁往下墜落的情景吧？這有點像那種感覺，美妙絕倫 還有，下到那裡，你會發現水非常非常的清澈極度清澈的水，因為那裡幾乎沒有什麼浮游生物但是，當你打開燈，環視這些洞穴時你就會突然間面對巨大數量的生物多樣性遠遠超過人們過去所認為的並非所有這些都是新種比如你看到的這條有白道的魚就是個已知種如果你仔細觀察這些裂縫和罅隙你會看到無數的小玩意正來去匆匆這裡的多樣性令人難以置信而且，並不僅僅是魚類的多樣性那裡有海百合，海綿，黑珊瑚——再來一些魚類現在你看到的這些魚類都是新種它們仍然是新種，因為我只裝了攝像機，而沒有帶網所以它們仍然在等待著人們去再把它們找出來這裡的環境就是如此而且這樣的生境連綿數英里這就是巴布亞新磯內亞 小魚和無脊椎動物並非我們看到的全部我們還能看到鯊魚它們比我原先預計的更加常見我們並不很確定為什麼現在，我要你們想像一下自己正身處400英尺水深背著高科技的設備地點是新幾內亞的帛琉群島附近距離最近的減壓艙有數千英里而你正完全被鯊魚所包圍 視頻：看這些……啊噢……啊噢！我想我引起它們注意了 Richard Pyle:當你開始像唐老鴨一樣說話世界上就沒有什麼叫做“緊張”的東西 （笑） 好，我們下到這了，400英尺深這是垂直向上看的情景你可以瞭解距離睡眠有多遠如果你是個生物學家，並瞭解鯊魚你就想評估一下自己的處境到底有多危險所以就有個問題馬上跳進你的大腦裡就是—— 視頻：哪種鯊魚？ 啊，白邊真鯊（silvertip shark） 噢 白邊真鯊——這裡其實有三種鯊魚白邊真鯊是一種鰭上有白邊的鯊魚不遠之處，幾條灰礁鯊 (grey reef shark)和雙髻鯊在遊弋是的，這確實有點傷腦筋 視頻：呼！那小傢夥真活潑！ 現在，你們在電視上經常看到這樣的畫面令人望而生畏，我想，這給出的對鯊魚錯誤的印象鯊魚實際上不是非常危險的動物這也是為什麼我們不是很擔心，而在下面開著玩笑的原因被豬殺死的人，因閃電而死的人甚至因英格蘭的足球賽而死的人都比因鯊魚而死的人多死法有很多種我也不是在這裡瞎編椰子！你被椰子砸死的概率都必被鯊魚咬死的概率高所以鯊魚並非像多數人聲稱的那麼危險 我不知道你們中有沒有人看《美國新聞和世界報導》雜誌我有最近的一期上面的封面故事是關於我們這個時代那些偉大的探險者最後一篇文章的標題是“沒有新領域了”（No New Frontiers）它質疑是否還存在什麼真正的新的領域是否還能做出真實的，絕對的新發現這就是裡面我最喜歡的一句臺詞作為一名魚癡，我應該高興，因為他們不會無緣無故地這樣叫我們確實會因為在孔雀魚的背鰭上發現一根新刺而興奮異常但，還不止這些我想向你們展示我們幾年來發現的幾種孔雀魚 這一隻，你可以看出長得有多醜如果忽略它的科學價值單看它的經濟價值通過水族館的交易，有一對魚被賣到日本每一條就值15000美元接近50萬美元一磅 這是我們發現的一種新的天使魚（angelfish）這實際上是我們在以前的空氣潛水歲月裡發現的，空氣潛水差勁的歲月也就是過去所說的當我們使用空氣來作這類潛水的時候我們在360英尺深處我還記得結束深潛遊上來之後，我像這樣迷糊不清迷糊的狀態持續了一小會才逐漸褪去有點像酒後清醒過來而我有個模糊的回憶，似乎看到了這些有個黑點的黃色小魚我就想：“啊，可惡，我應該抓一條，看起來那是個新種。”最後，我終於有時間來看看我的桶當然，我抓到了一條——我只是完全忘了自己抓過一條所以我們決定叫這條魚為Centropyge narcosis（深海珊瑚神仙，narcosis意為昏迷）這就成了它的學名與它居於深海的習性有關 這是另外一條光彩照人的魚第一次發現它時，我們甚至不敢肯定它屬於什麼科所以我們就叫它蘇斯教授魚（Dr. Seuss，美國少兒圖書作家）因為它看起來就像從他某本書裡出來的 這一條非常酷如果你去巴布亞新磯內亞，潛到300英尺你就會看到這樣的大石堆這麼看也許很吃力，但它們噢，直徑可達數米拉近來看，你會看到那有條白色小魚一條灰白的小魚在它們附近晃悠沒錯，其實就是這種小白魚建起了這些巨大的石堆一次一塊石頭建起來的能有這樣的發現真的太不尋常了不僅僅是新種，還是新的行為，新的生態學，全都是新的東西 好，接下來我將很快向你們展示的就是我們發現的一些新種真正不尋常的不是這些新種的驚人數目——儘管你會覺得這很了不起，但這只是我們發現的一半——真正不尋常的是我們發現它們的速度有多快在那個深度，最多時我們每小時可以發現7個新種如果你去亞馬遜叢林，朝棵樹噴噴煙霧，你或許能得到許多蟲子但對於魚類，世界上還沒有其他地方能讓你每小時發現7個新種作了大概的計算後我們預計單單在印度洋-太平洋地區就有大概2000到2500個新種已知的物種大約是五千到六千種所以那裡的一切還有相當大部分是未知的我們以為自己已經搞清楚了岩礁魚類的多樣性，顯然不是 最後我以一張非常陰鬱的片子作為結束一開始的時候我說過將給你們展示兩張非同尋常的圖片這就是其中的第二張那時我正在那裡拍攝那些鯊魚圖片就是在我頭上300英尺的地方拍的之所以說這張圖片非同尋常是因為它捕捉到了一個人生命的最後一刻圖片拍完後不到一分鐘，這個人死了我們找回他的屍體，發現了悲劇發生的原因他只犯了一個很簡單的錯誤在給氣罐充氣時他旋錯了閥門在他的氣罐裡有80%的氧氣，而不是應該有的40%氧中毒的突然發作使他不幸溺死 我展示這個的原因——絕不是要讓大家沮喪而只是要用它來引出我總的人生哲學也就是，我們都有兩個目標我們與這個星球上其他生物分享了第一個目標即生存——我稱這為“不朽”（perpetuation）因為無論是物種的生存還是我們的生存都是為了基因組的不朽第二個目標是，對我們之中已經實現第一個目標的人來說就是，你可以說是精神的滿足，或者經濟上的成功你把它叫作什麼都可以我稱之為尋找快樂——對幸福的追求所以，我想這也是這位朋友這輩子生活的主旨他確實做到了你必須保持這兩個目標的平衡如果你整個人生都是在恐懼中——我說，生命是一種死亡率100%的性傳播疾病所以，你不能在恐懼中生活 （笑） 我想那是個老笑話了 （掌聲） 但與此同時，你不會願意因為太專注於第二個目標而忽略了第一個目標因為一旦死去，你就什麼也享受不了了祝你們好運，希望你們能努力保持這樣的平衡謝謝 （掌聲）
