Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_baraniuk_on_open_source_learning	"I'm Rich Baraniuk and what I'd like to talk a little bit about today are some ideas that I think have just tremendous resonance with all the things that have been talked about the last two days. So many different points of resonance that it's going to be difficult to bring them all up, but I'll try to do my best. Does anybody remember these? (Laughter) OK, so these are LP records and they've been replaced, right? They've been swept away over the last two decades by these types of world-flattening digitization technologies, right? And I think it was best witnessed when Thomas was playing the music as we came in the room today. What's happened in the music world is there's a culture, or an ecosystem that's been created that, if you take some words from Apple, the catchphrase — that we create, rip, mix and burn. What I mean by that is that anyone in the world is free and allowed to create new music and musical ideas. Anyone in the world is allowed to rip or copy musical ideas, use them in innovative ways. Anyone is allowed to mix them in different types of ways, draw connections between musical ideas, and people can burn them or create final products and continue the circle. And what that's done is it's created, like I said, a vibrant community that's very inclusive, with people continually working to connect musical ideas, innovate them and keep things constantly up to date. Today's hit single is not last year's hit single. But I'm not here to talk about music today. I'm here to talk about books. In particular, textbooks and the kind of educational materials that we use every day in school. Has anyone here ever been to school? (Laughter) OK, does anybody realize there's a crisis in our schools, around the world? I'm not going to spend too much time on that, but what I want to talk about is some of the disconnects that appear when an author publishes a book. That in fact, the publishing process — just because of the fact that it's complicated, it's heavy, books are expensive — creates a sort of a wall between authors of books and the ultimate users of books, be they teachers, students or just general readers. And this is even more true if you happen to speak a language other than one of the world's major languages, and especially English. I'm going to call these people below the barrier ""shutouts"" because they're really shut out of the process of being able to share their knowledge with the world. And so what I want to talk about today is trying to take these ideas that we've seen in the musical culture and try to bring these towards reinventing the way we think about writing books, using them and teaching from them. So, that's what I'd like to talk about and, really, how we get from where we are now to where we need to go. The first thing I'd like you to do is a little thought experiment. Imagine taking all the world's books. OK, everybody imagine books and imagine just tearing out the pages. So, liberating these pages and imagine digitizing them and then storing them in a vast, interconnected, global repository. Think of it as a massive iTunes for book-type content. And then take that material and imagine making it all open, so that people can modify it, play with it, improve it. Imagine making it free, so that anyone in the world can have access to all of this knowledge, and imagine using information technology so that you can update this content, improve it, play with it, on a timescale that's more on the order of seconds instead of years. Instead of editions of a book coming out every two years, imagine them coming out every 25 seconds. So, imagine we could do that and imagine we could put people into this. So that we could truly build an ecosystem with not just authors, but all the people who could be or want to be authors in all the different languages of the world, and I think if you could do this, it would be called — I'm just going to refer to it as a knowledge ecosystem. So, really, this is the dream, and in a sense what you can think of it is we're trying to enable anyone in the world, I mean anyone in the world — (Laughter) to be their own educational DJ, creating educational materials, sharing them with the world, constantly innovating on them. So, this is the dream. In fact, this dream is actually being realized. Over the last six-and-a-half years, we've been working really hard at Rice University on a project called Connexions, and so what I'd like to do for the rest of the talk is just tell you a little bit about what people are doing with Connexions, which you can kind of think of as the counterpoint to Nicholas Negroponte's talk yesterday, where they're working on the hardware of bringing education to the world. We're working on the open-source tools and the content. So, that's sort of to put it in perspective here. So, create. What are some of the people that are using these kind of tools? Well, the first thing is, there's a community of engineering professors, from Cambridge to Kyoto, who are developing engineering content in electrical engineering to develop what you can think of as a massive, super textbook that covers the entire area of electrical engineering. And not only that — it can be customized for use in each of their own individual institutions. If people like Kitty Jones, a shut-out — a private music teacher and mom from Champagne, Illinois, who wanted to share her fantastic music content with the world, on how to teach kids how to play music — Her material is now used over 600,000 times per month. Tremendous use. In fact, a lot of this use coming from United States K-12 schools, because anyone who's involved in a school scale back, the first thing that's cut is the music curriculum. And so this is just indicating the tremendous thirst for this kind of open, free content. A lot of teachers are using this stuff. What about ripping? What about copying, reusing? A team of volunteers at the University of Texas at El Paso — graduate students translating this engineering super textbook ideas. And within about a week, having this be some of our most popular material in widespread use all over Latin America, and in particular in Mexico, because of the open, extensible nature of this. People, volunteers and even companies that are translating materials into Asian languages like Chinese, Japanese and Thai, to spread the knowledge even further. OK, what about people who are mixing? What does ""mixing"" mean? ""Mixing"" means building customized courses, means building customized books. Companies like National Instruments, who are embedding very powerful, interactive simulations into the materials, so that we can go way beyond our regular kind of textbook to an experience that all the teaching materials are things you can actually interact with and play around with and actually learn as you do. We've been working with Teachers Without Borders, who are very interested in mixing our materials. They're going to be using Connexions as their platform to develop and deliver teaching materials for teaching teachers how to teach in 84 countries around the world. TWB is currently in Iraq, training 20,000 teachers supported by USAID. And to them, this idea of being able to remix and customize to the local context is extraordinarily important, because just providing free content to people has actually been likened by people in the developing world to a kind of cultural imperialism — that if you don't empower people with the ability to re-contextualize the material, translate it into their own language and take ownership of it, it's not good. OK, other organizations we've been working with, UC Merced — people know about UC Merced. It's a new university in California, in the Central Valley, working very closely with community colleges. They're actually developing a lot of their science and engineering curriculum to spread widely around the world in our system. And they're also trying to develop all of their software tools completely open-source. We've been working with AMD, which has a project called 50x15, which is trying to bring Internet connectivity to 50 percent of the world's population by 2015. We're going to be providing content to them in a whole range of different languages. And we've also been working with a number of other organizations. In particular, a bunch of the projects that are funded by Hewlett Foundation, who have taken a real leadership role in this area of open content. OK, burn — I think this is, sort of, quite interesting. ""Burn"" is the idea of trying to create the physical instantiation of one of these courses. And I think a lot of you received — I think all of you received one of these music books in your gift pack. A little present for you. Just to tell you quickly about it: this is an engineering textbook. It's about 300 pages long, hardbound. This costs — anybody guess? How much would it cost in a bookstore? (Audience) 65 dollars. Richard Baraniuk: OK. This costs 22 dollars to the student. Why does it cost 22 dollars? Because it's published on demand and it's developed from this repository of open materials. If this book were to be published by a regular publisher, it would cost at least 122 dollars. So what we're seeing is moving this burning or publication process from the regular, sort of single-authored book towards community-authored materials that are modular, that are customized to each individual class and published on demand very inexpensively, either pushed out through Amazon or published directly through an on-demand press, like QOOP. And I think that this is an extraordinarily interesting area because there is tremendous area under this long tail in publishing. We're not talking about the Harry Potter end, right at the left side. We're talking about books on hypergeometric partial differential equations. Books that might sell 100 copies a year, 1,000 copies a year. There is tremendous sustaining revenue under this long tail to sustain open projects like ours, but also to sustain this new emergence of on-demand publishers, like QOOP, who produced these two books. And I think one of the things that you should take away from this talk is that there's an impending cut-out-the-middle-man disintermediation, that's going to be happening in the publishing industry. And it's going to reach a crescendo over the next few years, and I think that it's for our benefit, really, and for the world's benefit. OK, so what are the enablers? What's really making all of this happen? There's tons of technology, and the only piece of technology that I really want to talk about is XML. How many people know about XML? Oh, great. So it's the future of the web, right? It's semantic representation of content. And what you can really think of XML in this case is it's the packaging that we're putting around these pages. Remember we took the book, tore the pages out? Well, what the XML is going to do is it's going to turn those pages into Lego blocks. XML are the nubs on the Lego that allow us to combine the content together in a myriad different ways, and it provides us a framework to share content. So, it lets you take this ecosystem in its primordial state of all this content, all the pages you've torn out of books, and create highly sophisticated learning machines: books, courses, course packs. It gives you the ability to personalize the learning experience to each individual student, so that every student can have a book or a course that's customized to their learning style, their context, their language and the things that excite them. It lets you reuse the same materials in multiple different ways, and surprising new ways. It lets you interconnect ideas, indicating how fields relate to each other. And I'll just give you my personal story. We came up with this six-and-a-half years ago because I teach the stuff in the red box. And my day job, as Chris said — I'm an electrical engineering professor. I teach signal processing and my challenge was to show that this math — Wow, about half of you have already fallen asleep just looking at the equation. (Laughter) But this seemingly dry math is actually the center of this tremendously powerful web that links technology — that links really cool applications like music synthesizers to tremendous economic opportunities, but also governed by intellectual property. And the thing that I realized is there was no way that I, as an engineer, could write this book that would get all of this across. We needed a community to do it and we needed new tools to be able to interconnect these ideas. And I think that really, in a sense, what we're trying to do is make Minsky's dream come to a reality, where you can imagine all the books in a library actually starting to talk to each other. And people who are teachers out here — whoever taught, you know this — it's the interconnections between ideas that teaching is really all about. OK, back to math. Imagine — this is possible: that every single equation that you click on in one of your new e-texts is something that you're going to be able to explore and experiment with. So imagine your kid's algebra textbook in seventh grade. You can click on every single equation and bring up a little tool to be able to experiment with it, tinker with it, understand it. Because we really don't understand until we do. The same type of mark-up, like MathML, for chemistry. Imagine chemistry textbooks that actually understand the structure of how molecules are formed. Imagine Music XML that actually lets you delve into the semantic structure of music, play with it, understand it. It's no wonder that everybody's getting into it, right? Even the three wise men. (Laughter) OK, the second big enabler, and this is where I told a big lie. The second big enabler is intellectual property. Because, in fact, I got up here and I talked about how great the music culture is. We can share and rip, mix and burn, but in fact, that's all illegal. And we would be accused of [piracy] for doing that, because this music has been propertized. It's now owned, much of it by big industries. So, really, the key thing here is we can't let this happen. We can't let this Napster thing happen here. So, what we have to do is get it right from the very beginning. And what we have to do is find an intellectual property framework that makes sharing safe and makes it easily understandable. And the inspiration here is taken from open-source software. Things like Linux and the GPL. The Creative Commons licenses. How many people have heard of creative commons? If you have not, you must learn about it. Creativecommons.org. At the bottom of every piece of material in Connexions and in lots of other projects, you can find their logo. Clicking on that logo takes you to an absolute no-nonsense, human-readable document, a deed, that tells you exactly what you can do with this content. In fact, you're free to share it, to do all of these things: to copy it, to change it, even to make commercial use of it, as long as you attribute the author. Because in academic publishing and much of educational publishing, it's really this idea of sharing knowledge and making impact. That's why people write, not necessarily making bucks. We're not talking about Harry Potter, right? We're at the long tail end here. Behind that is the legal code, very carefully constructed. And Creative Commons is taking off — over 43 million things out there, licensed with a Creative Commons license. Not just text, but music, images, video. And there's actually a tremendous uptake of the number of people that are actually licensing music to make it free for people who do this whole idea of re-sampling, ripping, mixing, burning and sharing. OK, I'd like to conclude with just the last few points. So, we've built this idea of a commons. People are using it. We get over 500,000 unique visitors per month, just to our particular site. MIT OpenCourseWare, which is another large open-content site, gets a similar number of hits. But how do we protect this? How do we protect it into the future? And the first thing that people are probably thinking is quality control, right? Because we're saying that anybody can contribute things to this commons. Anybody can contribute anything. So that could be a problem. It didn't take long until people started contributing materials, for example, on lingerie, which is actually a pretty good module. The only problem is it's plagiarized from a major French feminist journal, and when you go to the supposed course website, it points to a lingerie-selling website. So this is a little bit of a problem. So we clearly need some kind of idea of quality control and this is really where the idea of review and peer review comes in. You come to TED. Why do you come to TED? Because Chris and his team have ensured that things are very, very high quality, right? And so we need to be able to do the same thing. And we need to be able to design structures, and what we're doing is designing social software to enable anyone to build their own peer review process, and we call these things ""lenses."" And basically what they allow is anyone out there can develop their own peer-review process, so that they can focus on the content in the repository that they think is really important. And you can think of TED as a potential lens. So I'd just like to end by saying: you can really view this as a call to action. Connexions and open content is all about sharing knowledge. All of you here are tremendously imbued with tremendous amounts of knowledge, and what I'd like to do is invite each and every one of you to contribute to this project and other projects of its type, because I think together we can truly change the landscape of education and educational publishing. So, thanks very much."	"我是Rich Baraniuk我今天想與各位分享的看法與前兩天大家所討論的問題我認為可以產生很大的共鳴事實上，有太多不同的共鳴點在這裡很難一一提及，但我會盡力而為 還有任何人記得這些東西嗎? (笑聲) 這些是黑膠唱片，它們現在都已經被取代了它們在過去二十年中被席捲殆盡取而代之的是使世界扁平化的數位化科技而我認為這件事最好的見證是在今天大家入場Thomas撥放音樂的時候有一種文化或是生態環境在音樂世界中被創造出來了如果套用蘋果公司的標語那就是我們創造、拆解、混合和重製。我的意思是，世界上的任何人都可以自由地去創造新的音樂以及有關音樂的想法而世界上的每一個人也都被允許去拆解或複製音樂的想法並以創新的方式去使用它們任何人都可以以不同的方式去混和它們並在許多音樂的想法當中建立聯繫然後人們可以將它們燒製出來或創造產品，並繼續這個循環然後像我說的，在這樣的過程中創造了一個活躍的社群，它有很大的包容性人們在此社群中不斷聯繫音樂的想法創新，並讓所有的東西不斷更新。今天的熱門單曲不是去年的熱門單曲 但我今天其實不是來談音樂的我是來此談論書的特別是，教科書以及其他教材我們每天在學校用的東西這裡有任何人上過學嗎？ (笑聲) 好的，有任何人知道世界各地的學校正面臨危機?好，我希望我不要花太多時間在說明這件事但我想談論的事情是，當一位作者出版了一本書的時候有一些斷層在此出現事實上，就是出版過程正因為出版過程是複雜的繁重的並且書價昂貴這些事實在書的作者和書的使用者之間創造了一道牆而他們是老師、學生或一般讀者而且如果你所使用的語言不是這個世界的主要語言，尤其英語，那麼這件事會顯得更真實。而我要稱這些人是在被障礙封鎖之下的人因為他們真的無法進入與世界分享他們的知識的這一個過程。因為如此，我今天想談論的，是想嘗試將這些想法也就是我們今天在音樂的文化中已看到的並將這些想法帶入一個創新的寫書、用書以及教書的方式。這就是我今天想談論的以及，我們如何從現在的位置，到達我們希望的目的地 所以，我想要你們做的第一件事是一個小小的思想實驗想像一下世界上所有的書。來吧，大家想像一下書然後想像一頁頁地撕開這些書將這些書頁解放，將它們數位化然後將它們儲存在一個巨大、互相連結、全球性的寶庫裡。把他想成是一個大規模的iTunes，專門做給書的然後把這些內容與想像開放讓人們可以修改、使用、並改良並想像它是免費的，這樣全世界的每個人都可以使用所有這些知識以及訊息使用的科技你可以更新它的內容、改良、使用它在時間規模上來看，它是以秒而非以年在變化的。書籍以每兩年的速度在出新版本我們以每25秒更新來替代 想像我們都可以做那樣的事情並想像我們也能讓人們也參與這樣的事。由此我們便可真正造出一個生態系統，不再是只由書的作者參與而是所有能夠成為或想要成為作者的人並使用全世界的所有不同語言而我認為如果你們可以做這樣的事情，那是很好的一件事我將把它稱作是一個知識的生態系統。這就是我所談論的夢想某種程度上來說你可以把它想作是我們正嘗試讓世界上的每一個人我指的是世界上的任何人做他們自己的教育的DJ創造教材，並與全世界分享並時常地創新，大概就是這樣的夢想。 而事實上，這個夢想也正在實現在過去的六年半我們在萊斯大學裡非常努力地做一項計畫叫Connexions因此接下來的我的談論我想告訴大家參與Connexions的人在做些甚麼事，而你們可以把它想作是對昨天Nicholas Negroponte的演講的一個對比他們正努力於硬體之上試圖帶給世界教育我們則是努力於開放式資源的工具以及內容因此，在這裡我們有點像是做一番全面性的了解 那麼，是甚麼人在使用這種工具呢？嗯，首先從劍橋到京都，有一群工程的教授他們正在研發電子工程方面的工程內容並建立大規模的超級教科書這教科書範圍涵蓋整個電機領域不僅如此，它還可以被客製化以適用於每一個特定的機構。像Kitty Jones 這樣的人，也就是我說的被隔離在外的人一個私人音樂老師、來自伊利諾州的母親想要與世界分享她美妙的音樂或是分享如何教孩子演奏音樂。她的教材現在每個月被使用超過六十萬次非常驚人的使用量事實上很多使用者都來自美國，從幼稚園到高中所有階段所有參與過學校經費預算縮減的人都知道最先被砍掉的就是音樂課程而這情況正證明了大量對於這種課程以及免費教材的需求。許多的教師正使用這些東西，那麼，甚麼是拆解 甚麼又是複製以及再利用呢？德州大學埃爾帕索分校的一群志願者一群研究生正在翻譯這個工程的超級教科書在一個禮拜之內，讓這成為了我們最受歡迎的教材在拉丁美洲，特別在墨西哥受到了普及的使用由於這開放可擴展的本質。一般人、志願者甚至是公司正在翻譯教材成亞洲語言像是中文、日文或泰文使這些知識散播得更廣更遠。 好，那麼那些在做混合的人呢？混和是甚麼意思？混和指的是建造客製化的課程建造客製化的課本像是國家儀器這類公司正在把很強大的互動模擬裝置內嵌到教材裡以至於讓我們可以跳脫傳統的教科書而體驗到全新的教學材料你都可以與其互動、寓教於樂通過實作進行學習 我們一直在與“教師無國界”組織合作他們對於混和教材非常有興趣他們將使用Connexions作為他們的平台來開發或傳送他們的教材教導教師如何教書這些教師分佈在世界上的84個國家。在美國國際發展署的支持下，教師無國界目前正在伊拉克培訓兩萬多名教師對他們來說，能夠混合以及為當地客製化教材是極重要的事情因為若只是提供人們免費的教材在發展中國家，已被人們視為與某種文化帝國主義聯繫也就是說，如果你不讓那些人有能力重新組織教材翻譯成自己的語言並擁有自己的權利那是不好的。另外我們也跟加州大學梅瑟分校合作人們都知道加州大學梅瑟分校這是一個加州的新大學，位於中央谷地與社區大學合作緊密他們正在開發許多科學與工程的課程用我們的系統向世界各地傳遞他們也正在研發自己的開放式資源的軟體。我們也一直在跟AMD合作進行一項名為50/15的計畫這計畫嘗試在2015年前要將網路連結帶給世界上一半的人口。我們也將提供以許多不同語言的內容給他們我們也在跟其他許多不同的組織合作特別是，有一些計畫是由Hewlett基金會所資助的此基金會在開放式內容的領域裡居於領導的角色。 好接下來，重製，我認為這是很有趣的一點重製是將這些課程之一化為實體的一個想法而我想你們很多人已經收到這樣的東西了我想所以的人在你們的禮物包裡已經收到一本音樂書。這是給你們的一個小禮物很快的跟你們說明一下，這是一本工程的教科書大概有三百多頁的精裝本而這要多少錢呢？有沒有人要猜猜看？這在書店需要賣多少錢？ 65塊錢 這要花學生22塊錢為什麼這要花22塊錢因為它是應需求而出版的而且它是由開放式材料的儲藏庫所發展出來的如果這本書是由一般的出版社所出版的話它將會要價至少122塊錢。 所以我們在這裡所看到的，就是將重製從由單一作者而來的一般出版程序過渡到了社群撰寫的材料這是一種模組，可以對每一個不同的班級客製化並依照需求出版且價格不貴可以通過亞馬遜網站推出或直接通過需要的出版社，比如Coop出版我認為，這是一個非常有趣的領域因為在這出版的長尾之下 ，還有一塊極大的領域我們不是在討論哈利波特的完結篇，那在左邊這一塊我們是在討論像超幾何偏微分方程這樣的書籍。這樣的書一年也許只能賣出一百本或一千本但確實存在極大持續性的收入在這長尾之下支持像我們這樣開放式的計畫也支持應這種新需求而產生的出版社像是出版了這兩本書的Coop出版社我認為你們今天從我的談話裡，應該認識到一點就是中間人即將要被移除了，是吧非居間化，這件事即將發生在出版業當中並在接下來幾年這情況會越來越明顯而我認為這對我們有利，也對世界有利。 那麼，是甚麼促使這一切發生到底是甚麼讓這一切發生？這中間有大量的技術而我真的想談的是XML技術有多少人知道XML？哦，很好，對，它是網路的未來它是內容的語義描述在我們的討論裡面，你可以把XML想做是對於我們書頁的包裝還記得我們將書撕成一頁一頁的嗎是的，XML將要做的，就是它即將要它即將要把它些書業變成樂高積木XML是樂高積木上的小凸塊讓我們可以用無數種的方式將內容結合它提供給我們框架來分享內容它讓我們將這生態系統以其內容最原始的狀態那些你從書上撕下來的書頁然後創造了高度複雜的學習機制，是吧書籍、課程、課程包 它給你能力去根據每個學生的情況讓學習經驗個人化由此每個學生可以擁有適合自己的書或課程是符合他們的學習方式以及背景符合他們的語言和能引起他們興趣的東西它讓你可以用多種、嶄新的方式來重複使用相同的材料。它讓你連結許多想法並指出領域與領域間如何相互關聯我要說一下我自己的故事。我們是六年半前想出這個東西因為我在教這樣的東西 而我的日常工作，如克里斯所說，我是一位電機學教授我教信號處理而我的挑戰是要表明，這種數學—哇，你們大概有一半人只看到這個方程式就睡著了 (笑聲) 但這個看似枯燥的數學其實是這個功能極強大的網路技術核心，將科技以及非常酷的技術應用，像是音樂合成與巨大的商機連結起來當然也受到智慧財產權的保護。問題是，我意識到我沒有辦法做為一名工程師——我沒有辦法寫出這樣一本書，把所有相關問題都談清楚我們需要一個社群去做這件事而我們需要新的工具來連結這些想法我認為某方面來說我們是嘗試要讓Minsky的夢想成真那個夢想是想像所有圖書館的書開始與彼此對話也與所有教書的老師對話不論教的是甚麼。這就是思想相互之間的聯繫，也是教學的真諦。 回到數學上來，我們可以想像，這是可能的在你的新電子文本中，每一個公式，只要你點擊它你就能對它探索與實驗所以，試著想像你小孩七年級的代數課本你可以點擊每個方程式這樣會彈出一個小工具，你可以對它進行實驗探索它並了解它因為我們必須通過做才能理解化學可以用相同類型的標注語言，比如mathML表示想像一下化學教科書可以讓你真正了解分子的構造是如何形成的想像一下音樂的XML可以實際地讓你探究音樂的語義結構讓你演奏它並了解它這樣大家就都能理解它，對吧？甚至包括古希臘三智者也都可以 (笑聲) 而說到第二大的推動者，我在這裡說了個大謊第二大推動者是智慧財產權因為事實上，我在這裡我一直不斷地說音樂文化是多麼的棒我們可以分享、拆解、混合和重製，但事實上這是違法的。是的，而且我們可能會被控訴這些事情是盜版的行為因為這些音樂是有財產權的它們現在大部分都被大企業所擁有著所以，現在的關鍵是，我們不能讓這樣的事發生我們不能讓像Napster這種事在這裡發生。所以我們需要在一開始就做對而我們要做的是找到一個智財權的規範，讓分享變得安全並讓這個規範簡單好懂而這靈感是來自於開放式來源的軟體像是Linux或GPL 還有創用CC的想法有多少人聽過創用CC?如果你沒有，你一定要去看一下，Creativecommons.org.在Connexions的每個項目底下還有許多其它的計畫，你都會發現它們的標誌點擊那個標誌就會帶你到一個沒有廢話且人類都讀得懂的文件一個契約會告訴你可以如何對這樣東西做使用事實上，你可以自由地分享它，或做一些其它的事複製它、改變它甚至將它做商業性的使用只要你將作者標示清楚因為在學術上的出版還有許多教育上的出版都是基於這種分享知識的想法，而這就是為什麼出版，以及做出影響這是為什麼人寫書，卻未必有錢可賺。我們不是在談論哈利波特我們是在長尾的末端在那之後是法律的規範所以如果你想仔細地建造它創用CC正在開始普及那裡有超過四千三百萬種東西都被授予了創用CC的授權許可。不只是文本，還有音樂、圖像、以及影像而真的有非常多的人加入在從事授權音樂這樣的事讓人們可以免費地實踐這整個拆解混合的想法拆解、混合和重製和分享。 好的，我現在要整理出一些結論我們已經實踐這共享的想法，人們也在使用著我們一個月有超過五十萬個訪客，還只是在某個站點麻省理工學院的開放式課程網站，是另一個大規模的開放式內容網站點擊率也跟我們差不多，但我們要如何來保護它?我們該如何保護它邁向未來?很多人第一想到很可能是品質的控管因為我們說了任何人都可以貢獻東西上來到這個共享網站，任何人都可以貢獻任何事情因此那可能會成為問題。 所以，沒多久有人開始提供像內衣相關的資料實際上這是一個很好的想法唯一的問題是，它是抄襲的抄自一份主流法國女性雜誌而當你去這個應該是課程的網站時它卻連結到內衣的銷售網站所以，這裡就有點問題所以我們的確需要品質的管制因此我們才引入了審查和同儕審查的想法。嗯，大家來TED。為什麼來TED呢?是由於克里斯和他的團隊確保了這些是具有相當好的品質的因此我們也需要做相同的事我們需要去設計一個構造其實我們已經正在設計一個社群軟體讓任何人都可以建造他自己的同儕審查過程我們把這東西叫做""鏡頭""它的作用就是允許任何的訪客建立自己的同儕審查過程這樣他們就可以專注於庫中的內容以及他們認為真正重要的東西大家可以把TED視為一種潛在的鏡頭 所以我在這做個結尾呼籲大家關注ConnectionsConnexions和開放式內容是有關乎分享知識。在座的各位都是擁有淵博知識的人而我想要邀請每一個人參與這個計畫或其他類似的計畫因為我認為靠著一起的努力，我們可以改變教育和教育的出版的景況 非常謝謝你們"
