Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_st_john_success_is_a_continuous_journey	"Why do so many people reach success and then fail? One of the big reasons is, we think success is a one-way street. So we do everything that leads up to success, but then we get there. We figure we've made it, we sit back in our comfort zone, and we actually stop doing everything that made us successful. And it doesn't take long to go downhill. And I can tell you this happens, because it happened to me. Reaching success, I worked hard, I pushed myself. But then I stopped, because I figured, ""Oh, you know, I made it. I can just sit back and relax."" Reaching success, I always tried to improve and do good work. But then I stopped because I figured, ""Hey, I'm good enough. I don't need to improve any more."" Reaching success, I was pretty good at coming up with good ideas. Because I did all these simple things that led to ideas. But then I stopped, because I figured I was this hot-shot guy and I shouldn't have to work at ideas, they should just come like magic. And the only thing that came was creative block. I couldn't come up with any ideas. Reaching success, I always focused on clients and projects, and ignored the money. Then all this money started pouring in. And I got distracted by it. And suddenly I was on the phone to my stockbroker and my real estate agent, when I should have been talking to my clients. And reaching success, I always did what I loved. But then I got into stuff that I didn't love, like management. I am the world's worst manager, but I figured I should be doing it, because I was, after all, the president of the company. Well, soon a black cloud formed over my head and here I was, outwardly very successful, but inwardly very depressed. But I'm a guy; I knew how to fix it. I bought a fast car. (Laughter) It didn't help. I was faster but just as depressed. So I went to my doctor. I said, ""Doc, I can buy anything I want. But I'm not happy. I'm depressed. It's true what they say, and I didn't believe it until it happened to me. But money can't buy happiness."" He said, ""No. But it can buy Prozac."" And he put me on anti-depressants. And yeah, the black cloud faded a little bit, but so did all the work, because I was just floating along. I couldn't care less if clients ever called. (Laughter) And clients didn't call. (Laughter) Because they could see I was no longer serving them, I was only serving myself. So they took their money and their projects to others who would serve them better. Well, it didn't take long for business to drop like a rock. My partner and I, Thom, we had to let all our employees go. It was down to just the two of us, and we were about to go under. And that was great. Because with no employees, there was nobody for me to manage. So I went back to doing the projects I loved. I had fun again, I worked harder and, to cut a long story short, did all the things that took me back up to success. But it wasn't a quick trip. It took seven years. But in the end, business grew bigger than ever. And when I went back to following these eight principles, the black cloud over my head disappeared altogether. And I woke up one day and I said, ""I don't need Prozac anymore."" And I threw it away and haven't needed it since. I learned that success isn't a one-way street. It doesn't look like this; it really looks more like this. It's a continuous journey. And if we want to avoid ""success-to-failure-syndrome,"" we just keep following these eight principles, because that is not only how we achieve success, it's how we sustain it. So here is to your continued success. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	為什麼這麼多的人成功之後又邁向了失敗？就主要的原因是，我們以為成功是一條單行道上的終點。因此我們竭盡全力邁向成功。但是一但我們成功了。我們認為我們已經做到了，我們又會退回到我們的舒適區中，更糟糕的是我們沒有持續去做那些曾經讓我們成功的事情。所以要不了多久，就開始走下坡了。我可以告訴你這真的會發生。因為同樣情形曾經發生在我身上。 為了成功，我努力工作，突破自我。但是後來我停了下來，因為我以為：「喔，你知道，我做到了。接下來我只需要翹著二郎腿放輕鬆就行了。」 為了成功，我總是嘗試改進並將工作做到最好。但是後來我停了下來，因為我以為：「嘿，我已經夠好了。我不需要再進步了。」 為了成功﹐我擅於創新﹐而且不斷地有好點子因為我做了這些能夠產生靈感的小事情。但是後來我停了下來，因為我以為我是一個創意金童，我不必辛苦的去找尋靈感。它們應該會像魔法一般的自動顯現。然而唯一出現的是創意瓶頸。我什麼點子都想不出來了。 為了成功，我總是專注在客戶及專案本身，不去考慮錢的問題。然後錢財自然地湧進。於是我分心了。突然之間，我總是在電話上跟我的股票與地產專員說話，但是我本來應該是與我的客戶在談話的。 為了成功，我總是從事我所鍾愛的事業。但是後來，我介入了我不喜歡的事物中，例如管理。我是全世界最糟糕的管理者。但是我認為我應該從事這個職位，畢竟因為我是這間公司的總裁。 然而，很快的，我總是烏雲罩頂，我外表看似非常成功，內在卻非常沮喪。但是我是個男人，我知道如何彌補它。我買了一台跑車。（笑聲）這沒用。我是變快了，但還是一樣沮喪。 因此我去看了醫生。我說：「醫師呀，我能買到任何我要的東西。但是我不快樂。我很沮喪。他們說的是真的，直到這在我身上發生後，我才相信。但是錢真的不能夠買到快樂。」他說：「不。但是它能買百憂解。」然後他開給我抗憂鬱藥物。烏雲消去了一點點。但是我的所有事業也是。因為我總是蠻不在乎。如果客戶不打電話給我，我完全不會在意工作的進度。（笑聲） 所以客戶不跟我來往了。（笑聲）因為他們可以看得出來，我不再為他們服務了，我只為我自己服務。所以他們將他們的錢和專案計畫給了那些能夠提供他們更好服務的人。 我的事業沒過多久就像顆石頭般墜落。我的事業夥伴，湯姆和我不得不解散所有員工。公司縮減至只剩我們兩個人，而且即將倒閉。但是這樣很好。因為沒有員工，表示我不需要管理任何人。 因此我回去從事我所喜歡的工作。我又獲得了樂趣。我更努力工作。長話短說：我做了所有能夠讓我從回成功所需的事情。但是這個過程必須花上一段時間。它花了我七年。 但是最後，我的事業獲得了空前的成長。而且當我回去遵行這八大原則時，原本在我頭頂的烏雲也隨之散去。因此我有一天醒來，然後說：「我不再需要百憂解了。」因此我把它丟了，從此不再需要它。 我學到了成功不是一條單行道上的終點。它並不是像這樣的。它看起來比較像是這樣。它是一個持續的旅程。如果我們希望避免「成功導致失敗症候群」。我們需要持續遵守這八大原則。因為這不只是我們邁向成功的方法，也是我們維持成功的方法。這就是通往你永續成功的道路。非常謝謝你們。（掌聲）
