Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_dawkins_on_militant_atheism	"That splendid music, the coming-in music, ""The Elephant March"" from ""Aida,"" is the music I've chosen for my funeral. (Laughter) And you can see why. It's triumphal. I won't feel anything, but if I could, I would feel triumphal at having lived at all, and at having lived on this splendid planet, and having been given the opportunity to understand something about why I was here in the first place, before not being here. Can you understand my quaint English accent? (Laughter) Like everybody else, I was entranced yesterday by the animal session. Robert Full and Frans Lanting and others; the beauty of the things that they showed. The only slight jarring note was when Jeffrey Katzenberg said of the mustang, ""the most splendid creatures that God put on this earth."" Now of course, we know that he didn't really mean that, but in this country at the moment, you can't be too careful. (Laughter) I'm a biologist, and the central theorem of our subject: the theory of design, Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. In professional circles everywhere, it's of course universally accepted. In non-professional circles outside America, it's largely ignored. But in non-professional circles within America, it arouses so much hostility — (Laughter) it's fair to say that American biologists are in a state of war. The war is so worrying at present, with court cases coming up in one state after another, that I felt I had to say something about it. If you want to know what I have to say about Darwinism itself, I'm afraid you're going to have to look at my books, which you won't find in the bookstore outside. (Laughter) Contemporary court cases often concern an allegedly new version of creationism, called ""Intelligent Design,"" or ID. Don't be fooled. There's nothing new about ID. It's just creationism under another name, rechristened — I choose the word advisedly — (Laughter) for tactical, political reasons. The arguments of so-called ID theorists are the same old arguments that had been refuted again and again, since Darwin down to the present day. There is an effective evolution lobby coordinating the fight on behalf of science, and I try to do all I can to help them, but they get quite upset when people like me dare to mention that we happen to be atheists as well as evolutionists. They see us as rocking the boat, and you can understand why. Creationists, lacking any coherent scientific argument for their case, fall back on the popular phobia against atheism: Teach your children evolution in biology class, and they'll soon move on to drugs, grand larceny and sexual ""pre-version."" (Laughter) In fact, of course, educated theologians from the Pope down are firm in their support of evolution. This book, ""Finding Darwin's God,"" by Kenneth Miller, is one of the most effective attacks on Intelligent Design that I know and it's all the more effective because it's written by a devout Christian. People like Kenneth Miller could be called a ""godsend"" to the evolution lobby, (Laughter) because they expose the lie that evolutionism is, as a matter of fact, tantamount to atheism. People like me, on the other hand, rock the boat. But here, I want to say something nice about creationists. It's not a thing I often do, so listen carefully. (Laughter) I think they're right about one thing. I think they're right that evolution is fundamentally hostile to religion. I've already said that many individual evolutionists, like the Pope, are also religious, but I think they're deluding themselves. I believe a true understanding of Darwinism is deeply corrosive to religious faith. Now, it may sound as though I'm about to preach atheism, and I want to reassure you that that's not what I'm going to do. In an audience as sophisticated as this one, that would be preaching to the choir. No, what I want to urge upon you — (Laughter) Instead, what I want to urge upon you is militant atheism. (Laughter) (Applause) But that's putting it too negatively. If I was a person who were interested in preserving religious faith, I would be very afraid of the positive power of evolutionary science, and indeed science generally, but evolution in particular, to inspire and enthrall, precisely because it is atheistic. Now, the difficult problem for any theory of biological design is to explain the massive statistical improbability of living things. Statistical improbability in the direction of good design — ""complexity"" is another word for this. The standard creationist argument — there is only one; they're all reduced to this one — takes off from a statistical improbability. Living creatures are too complex to have come about by chance; therefore, they must have had a designer. This argument of course, shoots itself in the foot. Any designer capable of designing something really complex has to be even more complex himself, and that's before we even start on the other things he's expected to do, like forgive sins, bless marriages, listen to prayers — favor our side in a war — (Laughter) disapprove of our sex lives, and so on. (Laughter) Complexity is the problem that any theory of biology has to solve, and you can't solve it by postulating an agent that is even more complex, thereby simply compounding the problem. Darwinian natural selection is so stunningly elegant because it solves the problem of explaining complexity in terms of nothing but simplicity. Essentially, it does it by providing a smooth ramp of gradual, step-by-step increment. But here, I only want to make the point that the elegance of Darwinism is corrosive to religion, precisely because it is so elegant, so parsimonious, so powerful, so economically powerful. It has the sinewy economy of a beautiful suspension bridge. The God theory is not just a bad theory. It turns out to be — in principle — incapable of doing the job required of it. So, returning to tactics and the evolution lobby, I want to argue that rocking the boat may be just the right thing to do. My approach to attacking creationism is — unlike the evolution lobby — my approach to attacking creationism is to attack religion as a whole. And at this point I need to acknowledge the remarkable taboo against speaking ill of religion, and I'm going to do so in the words of the late Douglas Adams, a dear friend who, if he never came to TED, certainly should have been invited. (Richard Saul Wurman: He was.) Richard Dawkins: He was. Good. I thought he must have been. He begins this speech, which was tape recorded in Cambridge shortly before he died — he begins by explaining how science works through the testing of hypotheses that are framed to be vulnerable to disproof, and then he goes on. I quote, ""Religion doesn't seem to work like that. It has certain ideas at the heart of it, which we call 'sacred' or 'holy.' What it means is: here is an idea or a notion that you're not allowed to say anything bad about. You're just not. Why not? Because you're not."" (Laughter) ""Why should it be that it's perfectly legitimate to support the Republicans or Democrats, this model of economics versus that, Macintosh instead of Windows, but to have an opinion about how the universe began, about who created the universe — no, that's holy. So, we're used to not challenging religious ideas, and it's very interesting how much of a furor Richard creates when he does it."" — He meant me, not that one. ""Everybody gets absolutely frantic about it, because you're not allowed to say these things. Yet when you look at it rationally, there's no reason why those ideas shouldn't be as open to debate as any other, except that we've agreed somehow between us that they shouldn't be."" And that's the end of the quote from Douglas. In my view, not only is science corrosive to religion; religion is corrosive to science. It teaches people to be satisfied with trivial, supernatural non-explanations, and blinds them to the wonderful, real explanations that we have within our grasp. It teaches them to accept authority, revelation and faith, instead of always insisting on evidence. There's Douglas Adams, magnificent picture from his book, ""Last Chance to See."" Now, there's a typical scientific journal, The Quarterly Review of Biology. And I'm going to put together, as guest editor, a special issue on the question, ""Did an asteroid kill the dinosaurs?"" And the first paper is a standard scientific paper, presenting evidence, ""Iridium layer at the K-T boundary, and potassium argon dated crater in Yucatan, indicate that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs."" Perfectly ordinary scientific paper. Now, the next one. ""The President of the Royal Society has been vouchsafed a strong inner conviction that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs."" (Laughter) ""It has been privately revealed to Professor Huxtane that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs."" (Laughter) ""Professor Hordley was brought up to have total and unquestioning faith"" — (Laughter) — ""that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs."" ""Professor Hawkins has promulgated an official dogma binding on all loyal Hawkinsians that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs."" (Laughter) That's inconceivable, of course. But suppose — [Supporters of the Asteroid Theory cannot be patriotic citizens] (Laughter) (Applause) In 1987, a reporter asked George Bush, Sr. whether he recognized the equal citizenship and patriotism of Americans who are atheists. Mr. Bush's reply has become infamous. ""No, I don't know that atheists should be considered citizens, nor should they be considered patriots. This is one nation under God."" Bush's bigotry was not an isolated mistake, blurted out in the heat of the moment and later retracted. He stood by it in the face of repeated calls for clarification or withdrawal. He really meant it. More to the point, he knew it posed no threat to his election — quite the contrary. Democrats as well as Republicans parade their religiousness if they want to get elected. Both parties invoke ""one nation under God."" What would Thomas Jefferson have said? [In every country and in every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty] Incidentally, I'm not usually very proud of being British, but you can't help making the comparison. (Applause) In practice, what is an atheist? An atheist is just somebody who feels about Yahweh the way any decent Christian feels about Thor or Baal or the golden calf. As has been said before, we are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further. (Laughter) (Applause) And however we define atheism, it's surely the kind of academic belief that a person is entitled to hold without being vilified as an unpatriotic, unelectable non-citizen. Nevertheless, it's an undeniable fact that to own up to being an atheist is tantamount to introducing yourself as Mr. Hitler or Miss Beelzebub. And that all stems from the perception of atheists as some kind of weird, way-out minority. Natalie Angier wrote a rather sad piece in the New Yorker, saying how lonely she felt as an atheist. She clearly feels in a beleaguered minority. But actually, how do American atheists stack up numerically? The latest survey makes surprisingly encouraging reading. Christianity, of course, takes a massive lion's share of the population, with nearly 160 million. But what would you think was the second largest group, convincingly outnumbering Jews with 2.8 million, Muslims at 1.1 million, Hindus, Buddhists and all other religions put together? The second largest group, with nearly 30 million, is the one described as non-religious or secular. You can't help wondering why vote-seeking politicians are so proverbially overawed by the power of, for example, the Jewish lobby — the state of Israel seems to owe its very existence to the American Jewish vote — while at the same time, consigning the non-religious to political oblivion. This secular non-religious vote, if properly mobilized, is nine times as numerous as the Jewish vote. Why does this far more substantial minority not make a move to exercise its political muscle? Well, so much for quantity. How about quality? Is there any correlation, positive or negative, between intelligence and tendency to be religious? [Them folks misunderestimated me] (Laughter) The survey that I quoted, which is the ARIS survey, didn't break down its data by socio-economic class or education, IQ or anything else. But a recent article by Paul G. Bell in the Mensa magazine provides some straws in the wind. Mensa, as you know, is an international organization for people with very high IQ. And from a meta-analysis of the literature, Bell concludes that, I quote — ""Of 43 studies carried out since 1927 on the relationship between religious belief, and one's intelligence or educational level, all but four found an inverse connection. That is, the higher one's intelligence or educational level, the less one is likely to be religious."" Well, I haven't seen the original 42 studies, and I can't comment on that meta-analysis, but I would like to see more studies done along those lines. And I know that there are — if I could put a little plug here — there are people in this audience easily capable of financing a massive research survey to settle the question, and I put the suggestion up, for what it's worth. But let me know show you some data that have been properly published and analyzed, on one special group — namely, top scientists. In 1998, Larson and Witham polled the cream of American scientists, those who'd been honored by election to the National Academy of Sciences, and among this select group, belief in a personal God dropped to a shattering seven percent. About 20 percent are agnostic; the rest could fairly be called atheists. Similar figures obtained for belief in personal immortality. Among biological scientists, the figure is even lower: 5.5 percent, only, believe in God. Physical scientists, it's 7.5 percent. I've not seen corresponding figures for elite scholars in other fields, such as history or philosophy, but I'd be surprised if they were different. So, we've reached a truly remarkable situation, a grotesque mismatch between the American intelligentsia and the American electorate. A philosophical opinion about the nature of the universe, which is held by the vast majority of top American scientists and probably the majority of the intelligentsia generally, is so abhorrent to the American electorate that no candidate for popular election dare affirm it in public. If I'm right, this means that high office in the greatest country in the world is barred to the very people best qualified to hold it — the intelligentsia — unless they are prepared to lie about their beliefs. To put it bluntly: American political opportunities are heavily loaded against those who are simultaneously intelligent and honest. (Laughter) (Applause) I'm not a citizen of this country, so I hope it won't be thought unbecoming if I suggest that something needs to be done. (Laughter) And I've already hinted what that something is. From what I've seen of TED, I think this may be the ideal place to launch it. Again, I fear it will cost money. We need a consciousness-raising, coming-out campaign for American atheists. (Laughter) This could be similar to the campaign organized by homosexuals a few years ago, although heaven forbid that we should stoop to public outing of people against their will. In most cases, people who out themselves will help to destroy the myth that there is something wrong with atheists. On the contrary, they'll demonstrate that atheists are often the kinds of people who could serve as decent role models for your children, the kinds of people an advertising agent could use to recommend a product, the kinds of people who are sitting in this room. There should be a snowball effect, a positive feedback, such that the more names we have, the more we get. There could be non-linearities, threshold effects. When a critical mass has been obtained, there's an abrupt acceleration in recruitment. And again, it will need money. I suspect that the word ""atheist"" itself contains or remains a stumbling block far out of proportion to what it actually means, and a stumbling block to people who otherwise might be happy to out themselves. So, what other words might be used to smooth the path, oil the wheels, sugar the pill? Darwin himself preferred ""agnostic"" — and not only out of loyalty to his friend Huxley, who coined the term. Darwin said, ""I have never been an atheist in the same sense of denying the existence of a God. I think that generally an 'agnostic' would be the most correct description of my state of mind."" He even became uncharacteristically tetchy with Edward Aveling. Aveling was a militant atheist who failed to persuade Darwin to accept the dedication of his book on atheism — incidentally, giving rise to a fascinating myth that Karl Marx tried to dedicate ""Das Kapital"" to Darwin, which he didn't, it was actually Edward Aveling. What happened was that Aveling's mistress was Marx's daughter, and when both Darwin and Marx were dead, Marx's papers became muddled up with Aveling's papers, and a letter from Darwin saying, ""My dear sir, thank you very much but I don't want you to dedicate your book to me,"" was mistakenly supposed to be addressed to Marx, and that gave rise to this whole myth, which you've probably heard. It's a sort of urban myth, that Marx tried to dedicate ""Kapital"" to Darwin. Anyway, it was Aveling, and when they met, Darwin challenged Aveling. ""Why do you call yourselves atheists?"" ""'Agnostic, '"" retorted Aveling, ""was simply 'atheist' writ respectable, and 'atheist' was simply 'agnostic' writ aggressive."" Darwin complained, ""But why should you be so aggressive?"" Darwin thought that atheism might be well and good for the intelligentsia, but that ordinary people were not, quote, ""ripe for it."" Which is, of course, our old friend, the ""don't rock the boat"" argument. It's not recorded whether Aveling told Darwin to come down off his high horse. (Laughter) But in any case, that was more than 100 years ago. You'd think we might have grown up since then. Now, a friend, an intelligent lapsed Jew, who, incidentally, observes the Sabbath for reasons of cultural solidarity, describes himself as a ""tooth-fairy agnostic."" He won't call himself an atheist because it's, in principle, impossible to prove a negative, but ""agnostic"" on its own might suggest that God's existence was therefore on equal terms of likelihood as his non-existence. So, my friend is strictly agnostic about the tooth fairy, but it isn't very likely, is it? Like God. Hence the phrase, ""tooth-fairy agnostic."" Bertrand Russell made the same point using a hypothetical teapot in orbit about Mars. You would strictly have to be agnostic about whether there is a teapot in orbit about Mars, but that doesn't mean you treat the likelihood of its existence as on all fours with its non-existence. The list of things which we strictly have to be agnostic about doesn't stop at tooth fairies and teapots; it's infinite. If you want to believe one particular one of them — unicorns or tooth fairies or teapots or Yahweh — the onus is on you to say why. The onus is not on the rest of us to say why not. We, who are atheists, are also a-fairyists and a-teapotists. (Laughter) But we don't bother to say so. And this is why my friend uses ""tooth-fairy agnostic"" as a label for what most people would call atheist. Nonetheless, if we want to attract deep-down atheists to come out publicly, we're going to have find something better to stick on our banner than ""tooth-fairy"" or ""teapot agnostic."" So, how about ""humanist""? This has the advantage of a worldwide network of well-organized associations and journals and things already in place. My problem with it is only its apparent anthropocentrism. One of the things we've learned from Darwin is that the human species is only one among millions of cousins, some close, some distant. And there are other possibilities, like ""naturalist,"" but that also has problems of confusion, because Darwin would have thought naturalist — ""Naturalist"" means, of course, as opposed to ""supernaturalist"" — and it is used sometimes — Darwin would have been confused by the other sense of ""naturalist,"" which he was, of course, and I suppose there might be others who would confuse it with ""nudism"". (Laughter) Such people might be those belonging to the British lynch mob, which last year attacked a pediatrician in mistake for a pedophile. (Laughter) I think the best of the available alternatives for ""atheist"" is simply ""non-theist."" It lacks the strong connotation that there's definitely no God, and it could therefore easily be embraced by teapot or tooth-fairy agnostics. It's completely compatible with the God of the physicists. When atheists like Stephen Hawking and Albert Einstein use the word ""God,"" they use it of course as a metaphorical shorthand for that deep, mysterious part of physics which we don't yet understand. ""Non-theist"" will do for all that, yet unlike ""atheist,"" it doesn't have the same phobic, hysterical responses. But I think, actually, the alternative is to grasp the nettle of the word ""atheism"" itself, precisely because it is a taboo word, carrying frissons of hysterical phobia. Critical mass may be harder to achieve with the word ""atheist"" than with the word ""non-theist,"" or some other non-confrontational word. But if we did achieve it with that dread word ""atheist"" itself, the political impact would be even greater. Now, I said that if I were religious, I'd be very afraid of evolution — I'd go further: I would fear science in general, if properly understood. And this is because the scientific worldview is so much more exciting, more poetic, more filled with sheer wonder than anything in the poverty-stricken arsenals of the religious imagination. As Carl Sagan, another recently dead hero, put it, ""How is it that hardly any major religion has looked at science and concluded, 'This is better than we thought! The universe is much bigger than our prophet said, grander, more subtle, more elegant'? Instead they say, 'No, no, no! My god is a little god, and I want him to stay that way.' A religion, old or new, that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science, might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths."" Now, this is an elite audience, and I would therefore expect about 10 percent of you to be religious. Many of you probably subscribe to our polite cultural belief that we should respect religion. But I also suspect that a fair number of those secretly despise religion as much as I do. (Laughter) If you're one of them, and of course many of you may not be, but if you are one of them, I'm asking you to stop being polite, come out, and say so. And if you happen to be rich, give some thought to ways in which you might make a difference. The religious lobby in this country is massively financed by foundations — to say nothing of all the tax benefits — by foundations, such as the Templeton Foundation and the Discovery Institute. We need an anti-Templeton to step forward. If my books sold as well as Stephen Hawking's books, instead of only as well as Richard Dawkins' books, I'd do it myself. People are always going on about, ""How did September the 11th change you?"" Well, here's how it changed me. Let's all stop being so damned respectful. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"這美妙的音樂﹐剛剛的進場音樂 -那是歌劇《阿依達》中的“The Elephant March"", 是我為自己的葬禮準備的音樂。(笑)不難理解，它充滿了勝利感。我覺得 - 當然到時候我什麼也感覺不到，但如果我能的話我會覺得活過本身就是勝利，在這麼一個美妙的星球活過，有這個機會能去了解為什麼我會在這裡﹐在我出現在這裡之前 大家都能聽懂我古雅的英文口音嗎？和大家一樣，我為昨天有關動物的那一段而著迷。Robert Full, Frans Lanting, 和其他演講人，都展示了優美的東西。唯一稍微有點不和諧的是當Jeffery Katzenberg說到野馬的時候，「上帝在地球上創造的最優美的生物。」當然，我們知道他不是真的要表達這個意思，但是在這個國家這個時候，你不得不非常小心。（笑） 我是一個生物學家，而我們學科的中心主題是：設計的理論，達爾文的物競天擇的演化論，在任何地方的專業圈裡，都被廣為接受在美國以外的非專業圈裡則是基本上沒人理睬的但是在美國的非專業圈裡呢，它卻引來了那麼多的敵意 —（笑）可以說美國的生物學家們在進行著一場戰爭。而這場戰爭現在是那麼的讓人擔心，法庭訴訟案件在一個又一個的州出現，我覺得我必須說點什麼 如果你想知道我對達爾文主義的看法，恐怕你必須看我的書，那本你無法在外面書店找到的書（笑）現在法庭訴訟案件，經常是關於一種所謂的新版本的創世說，叫智能設計或者ID不要被矇騙了，ID不是什麼新觀念它只是創世說換了個名堂而已。重新洗禮命名—我特意的這麼說—（笑）—因為策略上和政治上的原因。 所謂的ID論者的論據和那些被一次又一次的否定過的論據是一模一樣的，從達爾文的時代到今天。有一個有效的演化論遊說團體，代表著科學組織著戰鬥，而我則盡我所能地幫助他們，當像我這樣的人膽敢提到我是演化論者同時也是無神論者時，他們會很不愉快他們覺得我們在製造不必要的麻煩，你們都明白為什麼原因。創世論者們在沒有任何有效論據的情況下，只能夠利用大眾對無神論的恐懼心理。如果你在生物課裡教你的孩子演化論，那他們很快就會變成癮君子、慣竊、和性變態。（笑） 事實上，當然，自教皇以下有教養的神學家都是堅決地支持演化論的。這本書，Kenneth Miller 的“尋找達爾文的上帝”，是對智能設計最有效的攻擊之一據我所知，而讓它更有效的地方是它是有一個虔誠的基督徒寫的。像Kenneth Miller這樣的人可以說是上帝賜給演化論遊說團體的禮物—（笑）— 因為他們揭露了演化論就是等同於無神論的謊言。而像我這樣的人呢，在製造麻煩。 不過在這裡，我要為創世論者說點好話。這可不是我常幹的事，所以請細心聽好。（笑）我覺得他們在一件事上是對的。他們正確地認識到演化論跟宗教是根本上勢不兩立的。 我已經說過了很多演化論者，像教宗一樣同時信奉宗教，但我覺得他們在自欺欺人。我相信達爾文主義的真正含義是對宗教信仰有很大的腐蝕性的。也許我現在聽起來像是在為無神論講道，但我保證這不是我要做的事情。在一群這麼有智慧的聽眾面前那就像向唱詩班講道。 不，我所要想你們敦促的是—（笑）我所要向你們敦促的是成為無神論的鬥士。（笑）（鼓掌）但這又把它說得太消極了。如果我要—如果我是一個要維護宗教信仰的人，我會非常害怕演化論科學會帶來的任何科學，但特別是演化論，去激勵和吸引人心的積極作用，正因為它是無神的。 現在，一個在所有生物設計論都難解決的問題是怎樣去解析物種生存的極高的統計上的不可能性。向好的設計發展的統計上的不可能性—換個說法就是複雜性。標準的神創論的論據— 只有一個， 它們歸根到底就只有這個—除去所有統計上的不可能性。生物的複雜性不可能只是偶然所以它們一定有一個設計者。這個論據當然，是自相矛盾的。任何可以設計複雜事物的設計者一定要比他所涉及的東西更複雜，這還不包括我們期望他做的其他事情，譬如說寬恕罪過，保佑婚姻，聆聽祈禱—— 和在打仗的時候站到我們這邊 —（笑）— 干涉我們的性生活，和別的。（笑） 複雜性是所有生物理論都要解決的問題，但你不能通過幻想出一個跟複雜的機體來解決它，從而使問題進一步加深。達爾文的自然選擇是那麼讓驚人的優雅因為它解決了解析複雜性的的問題用非常簡單的方式。基本上，這是通過簡單的累積逐漸一步步的變化。不過在這裡， 我只是要強調達爾文主義的優雅對宗教是有腐蝕性的正因為它是如此的優雅，簡單，有力，有那麼強大的經濟性。它有著像一座美麗的吊橋那樣發達的系統。 上帝的理論不僅是劣拙的理論。到頭來，它在原則上不能解決要解決的問題。 那麼，回到策略和演化論遊說團上來，我要辨論也許製造麻煩正是我們應該做的事。我攻擊創世論的方法和演化論遊說團不一樣.我攻擊創世論的方法是從整體上來攻擊宗教，在這個時候我要指出一個異乎尋常的禁忌—我們不能說宗教的壞話的禁忌。而我將藉用已故的Douglas Adams所說的話，他是我一個很好的朋友，如果他沒有來過TED的話，那麼他在世的時候你們真的應該要請他。 (Richard Saul Wurman: 我們邀請過他了。） Richard Dawkins: 是嗎，好。我就想他肯定來過。 在他死前不久有段在劍橋錄製演講是這樣開始的。他說科學假設必須通過各種各樣的測試而這些假設都是建立在容易被反證的基礎上的，他接著說，我引用他的話， “宗教好像並不是這樣子的”在它的中心有一些我們奉以為神聖的概念。它的意思就是有這麼一個概念或者說法你不允許說它有任何不好的地方。你不可以，為什麼呢？因為你不可以。（笑）為什麼我們可以理所當然的支持民主黨或者共和黨，這種經濟模式或者那種經濟模式，蘋果Mac或者微軟Windows,但是當我們說到宇宙起源的時候，當說到誰創造了宇宙的時候— 不行，那是個神聖的話題。所以，我們習慣了不去挑戰宗教的概念而當Richard挑戰宗教時能引起那麼多的不滿， 這真的很有意思，他指的是我不是哪位 「每個人都為此而憤怒了，因為你是不許說這些話的，但當你理性地看這個時間我們沒有理由不去公開辯論這些宗教概念這和其他話題是一樣的，只是我們有不去討論它們的默契而已。」 我引用Douglas的話到此結束。 在我看來，不僅是科學對宗教有腐蝕性，宗教對科學也有腐蝕性。它教導人們去滿足於瑣碎的、超自然的謬論而看不到我們觸手可及的美妙的真理。它教導他們接受權威、啟示、和信仰而放棄對佐證的不懈追求。 這就是Douglas Adams, 在他的書《最後一眼》裡精彩的照片。這裡是一份典型的科學刊物，the Quarterly Review of Biology.而我將作為客座編輯來編輯一份題為《恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的嗎?》的特刊。第一份論文是標準的的科學論文羅列證據， 「在介於白堊紀和第三紀之間的含銥黏土層通過使用鉀-氬法鑑定Yucatan的隕坑里的年代後，顯示了恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的。」非常典型的科學論文。下一份，「皇家學會的主席被賜予了一個堅強的信念 — （笑）—恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的。」（笑）「Huxtane教授在私底下被告示恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的。」（笑）「Hordley 教授被帶引致完全毫無疑問的信仰」—（笑）「恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的道金斯教授頒發了一份官方教條規定所有忠誠的信奉道金斯的人，認知恐龍是因為小行星撞擊地球而滅絕的。」（笑）這當然是不可思議的。 但假如 —（鼓掌）— 1987年，一位記者問老布什總統他是否承認在美國的人們會擁有同等的公民權和愛國主義如果他們是無神論者的話布希先生很著名的回答說「不，我不認為無神論者應該被當作公民，他們也不應該被當作愛國者。這是一個上帝引領下的國度 。」 布希的偏執並不是一個單獨的錯誤，在興致所至的時候脫口而出，然後又收回去。他面對反覆的讓他澄清和收回這句話的要求並沒有退讓。他是真的這麼認為的。更重要的是，他知道這並不影響他的競選，相反，民主黨和共和黨都標榜他們的宗教信仰，如果他們要獲選的話。兩個黨都說這是上帝帶領下的國家。如果托馬斯•杰佛遜看到這個情況的話他會怎麼說呢？順便說一句, 我通常並不為作為英國人而非常自豪，但實在忍不住要作出這個比較。（鼓掌） 事實上，一個無神論者是個怎樣的人呢？一個無神論者只是一個對耶和華的看法和任何正經的基督教徒對托爾或者巴爾或者金牛犢的看法一樣的人。正如之前所說，我們對人類歷史上絕大部分的神來說都是無神論者。只是我們有些人不相信的神要更多一個而已。（笑）（鼓掌） 無論我們怎樣定義無神論，它都肯定是這麼一種學術信仰，一個人有權利去相信而不用為此被詆毀為一個不愛國沒有選舉權的非公民的信仰。然而，這是一個不可否認的現實，選擇成為一個無神論者就是相當於介紹你自己是希特勒先生或者魔王小姐。這些都源於把無神論者看為怪誕的，過時的少數派別。 Natalie Angier 在《紐約客》雜誌上寫過一分相當傷感的文章，說作為一個無神論者她覺得多麼孤獨。她明顯覺得自己屬於受困擾的少數派，但是實際上，到底美國無神論者們的數目加起來有多少呢？最新的調查結果出人意外的振奮人心。基督教，當然，佔了人口裡最大的份額有將近一億六千萬。但你覺得第二大的群體是哪個呢,令人信服的比二百八十萬猶太教，加上一百一十萬的穆斯林，加上印度教，佛教和別的宗教加起來都要多的？第二大的有著將近3千萬的，是那個被稱為不信教或者非宗教的群體。 你是感到奇怪，為什麼追求票數的政客們那麼路人皆知的被譬如說猶太教遊說團體說嚇到。以色列這個國家好像好像都要靠美國猶太人的投票，但在相同的時候，不信教的人卻基本上在政治上不值一提。這部分來在不信教的人的投票，如果適當地動員起來，是猶太教的人票數的九倍。為什麼這個影響力遠超別人的小數派不行動起來去運用它的政治力量呢？ 好麼，數量有了，質量呢？有沒有什麼積極的或者消極的相關性，在智慧和信奉宗教的傾向之間呢？（笑） 我引用這份調查，這是ARIS的調查，並沒有把它的數據從社會經濟等級或者教育程度，或者智商或者別的方面分開表述。但Paul G. Bell不久前在Mensa雜誌上發的一篇文章給了我們一些提示。Mensa，你們知道，是一個國際組織，為有高智商的人而設的。通過對文獻的統計分析，Bell得出的結論， 我在這裡引用， 「從2007年以來展開的43個研究宗教信仰和一個人的智商或受教育的程度的關係的項目裡，除了四個以外都找到了反比關係。也就是說，一個人的智商或者受教育的程度越高，他的信仰宗教的可能性就越低。」好的， 我沒有看過那42個研究項目所以我不能對這個統計分析發表看法但我希望能看到更多這個方向上的研究。而且我知道，如果我可以在這裡提一個小建議的話，在這個聽眾群裡有人可以輕易地資助一個大規模的研究調查來這個問題找個定論，我提出這個建議，就算這是不重要的也好。 但是讓我在這裡給你們看一些數據一些被正當的公佈和分析過的關於一個特別的群體即頂級的科學家的數據。在1998年，Larson 和 Witham調查過最頂尖的美國科學家，那些有著被選入國家科學學院的榮譽科學家。在這個群體裡，相信神的比例劇減至百分之七。大概百分之二十是不可知論者，其餘的都可以被稱作無神論者。而相信有靈魂的比例則與此相近。在生物科學家裡，這個比例就更低了，只有百分之五點五相信有神。物理學家裡是百分之七點五。我沒有看過與此相對應的關於其他領域的頂尖學者的數據例如歷史和哲學，但如果這是不一樣的話我會感到驚訝。 那麼，我們達到了一個真正不簡單的情況，一個怪誕的不搭配存在於美國的知識分子和美國的選民之間。一個關於宇宙的本質的哲學觀，一個為絕大部分頂尖美國科學家甚至於大多數的知識分子所持有的哲學觀，卻那麼受美國選民的憎惡以至於沒有普選的候選人敢於在公眾場合確認它。如果我是正確的話，著就是意味著這個世界上最偉大的國家的高級職位是不向最有能力勝任的人-知識分子-開放的，除非他們做好在他們的信仰上撒謊的準備。直接點說，美國的政治機會對那些既有智慧又誠實的人來說是很不利的。（鼓掌） 我不是這個國家的公民，所以我希望這不會被看作不雅觀如果我指出有些事情必須要做。（笑）而我已經提示過這事什麼了。通過我在TED的所見，我認為這是發起它的理想地方。再重複一遍，我擔心這得花上不少錢我們需要為美國的無神論者搞一個提升自覺性的出櫃運動。（笑）或者這可以像同性戀運動那樣組織，就像幾年前的一樣不過但願我們不用強迫不願意出來遊行的人站出來。在大多數情況下，站出來的人他們自己的身份會除掉無神論者有毛病的荒誕說法。 相反地，他們可以展示無神論者經常是那些可以為你們的孩子做好榜樣的人。他們是那些廣告公司會請來推薦產品的人。他們是那些坐在這裡的人。這應該會產生一個雪球效應，一個積極反饋，以至於當人多起來的時候，就會有更多的人參加。這可能會產生非線性的界限點效應。當我們達到臨界數量以後，人員的招募會得突發性的加速。然後呢，這需要錢。 我懷疑無神論者這個詞本身包含著或者仍然是一個絆腳石遠遠超出了跟它所要表達的意思，對那些本來願意出來表達自我的人是個絆腳石。那麼，還有哪些詞可以用來鋪平道路，為齒輪加潤滑油，給藥丸價格糖衣呢？達爾文他自己偏向於使用不可知論者這個詞—不僅是出於對他的發明這個說法的朋友赫胥黎的忠誠。 達爾文說，「我從來就不是一個無神論者從否認上帝的存在這個意思上來講。我覺得基本上用一個不可知論者這個詞可以很正確的描述我的心理狀態。 」 他甚至一反常態的對Edward Aveling感到惱怒Avelieng 是一個無神論鬥士他並沒有成功地說服達爾文去接受他的關於無神論的書的獻辭 —順帶提一句，這帶來一個有趣的傳說就是卡爾馬克思想把資本論的獻辭寫給達爾文，馬克思並沒有這麼做，其實想這麼做的人是Edward Aveling真正發生的事是Aveling的情婦是馬克思的女兒，當他們都死去後，馬克思的作品和Aveling的作品被搞在一起了其中有一封從達爾文的信說:「親愛的先生，非常感謝你但我不要你把你的書的獻辭寫給我。」這封信被錯誤的認為是寫給馬克思的，這就帶來了你們都可能聽過了的這個傳說。無法核實的街談巷議而已,說馬克思要把資本論的獻辭寫給達爾文。 無論如何，其實是Aveling,當他們相遇的時候，達爾文向Aveling提出挑戰，「為什麼你叫自己做無神論者呢？」「不可知論者，」Aveling反擊說，「只是無神論者的體面的說法而已，而無神論者只是不可知論者激進的說法而已。」達爾文抱怨說:「但你為什麼要那麼激進呢?」達爾文覺得無神論者這個說法可能可以為知識分子所接受，但普通人卻不一定，我引用他的說法，「覺得它的味道太強烈了」這當然，就是我們的老朋友，「不要製造麻煩」的說法。歷史上並沒有記錄Aveling有沒有告訴達爾文說讓他不要自命不凡。（笑） 但無論怎樣都好，那已經是超過一百年以前的事了，你會認為我們或許已經從那時成熟過來了。現在，我的一個朋友，一個平常會顯得更有智慧的猶太人，在觀察安息日的時候順帶提到為了保持文化上的團結一致，他把自己稱作為一個「牙仙子不可知論者」他不願意把自己稱作無神論者因為原則上是不可能證明一個否定的說法的，但不可知論者這個說法卻可能暗示著上帝的存在因此跟他的不存在的可能性是一樣的。 所以，我朋友對牙仙子的存在是嚴格的不可知論者。但它是不太可能存在的，不是嗎？和上帝一樣。這就有了這個說法，「牙仙子不可知論者」但伯特蘭•羅素提到了一樣的說法他用的例子是一個假設上在火星軌道上的茶壺。嚴格來說你必須是一個不可知論者在有沒有一個茶壺在火星的軌道上這個問題上，但這並不就意味著你把它的存在的可能性看作跟它的不存在的可能性一樣。 我們必須嚴格以不可知論者的角度看待的事物不只是牙仙子和茶壺，而是無窮無盡的。如果你要相信它們中的一個，獨角獸或者牙仙子或者茶壺或者耶和華，你就有責任說出為什麼。而不是讓我們說為什麼不。我們是無神論者，同時也是無牙仙子論者和無茶壺論者。（笑） 這是我們不為說這些事實而勞神而已，這就是為什麼我朋友用牙仙子無神論者來稱謂大多數人所說的無神論者。儘管如此，如果我們要讓在內心深處是無神論者的人在公眾場合站出來，我們需要一些比牙仙子和茶壺不可知論者的更恰當的稱號來往在我們的旗號上 那麼，人文主義者怎麼呀呢？它的優勢是有著一個有組織良好的協會組成的世界性網絡而且已經有期刊和別的設施。我對它的唯一問題是它顯而易見的人類中心主義。我們從達爾文學來的的東西之一是人類只不過是幾百萬個近親遠親裡的一個分支。 還有其他的例如自然主義者之類的可能性。但這也會帶來混淆，因為達爾文會認為自然主義者，自然主義者的意思，當然，就是與超自然主義者相反的。有時候它是這樣用的。達爾文會為自然主義者的其他意思感到混淆，他是這麼認為的，當然，而我推斷也會有別人把它錯以為是裸體主義。（笑）那樣的人可能就是那些在英國用私刑那群人他們把錯把兒科醫生當成戀童癖。（笑） 我認為最好的代替無神論者這個叫法的就是簡答的非有神論者。它沒有強力的表示肯定沒有神的含義，所以它會容易被茶壺或者牙仙子不可知論者所接受。它完全可以和物理學家的神相兼容。當人們—無神論者們例如史提芬.霍金和阿爾伯特.愛因斯坦用上帝這個詞的時候，他們當然是把它用作一種簡略的隱喻來表達那部分我們還不明白的深邃的神秘的物理學。非有神論者都可以接受這些，不想無神論者一樣，它不會有哪些恐懼的歇斯底里的反應。當實際上我覺得，我們要果斷的處理無神論者這個詞本身的問題，正因為它是一個禁忌詞一個帶來一浪接一浪的歇斯底里的恐懼的詞。也許使用無神論者這個詞會使參加我們運動的人達到臨界數量的難度比使用非有神論者這個詞或者使用別的非抵抗性的詞要大。但如果我們成功使用無神論者這個令人恐懼的詞本身來達到臨界數量其政治影響將會更大。 現在，我說了 如果我信奉宗教的話，我會很害怕演化論。我會更進一步。我會從總體上害怕科學，如果它能被人們適當的理解的話。這是因為科學的世界觀是那麼的令人興奮，那麼的有詩意，那樣充滿了十足的驚喜，和所有在宗教想像力那貧困不堪的武器庫裡的東西相比。正如另一位剛剛去世的英雄Cal Sagan,所說，「為什麼從來沒有一個主流宗教在審視了科學以後會得出這樣的結論，『這比我們的想法要好！宇宙要比遠遠的我們的先知所說的要更大，更宏偉，更微妙，更優雅？』相反他們說，『不，不，不！我的神是一個渺小的神，但我要他保持這個樣子。』一個宗教，老的還是新的，如果能夠強調宇宙的壯麗輝煌正如現代科學所揭示的一樣那它能夠喚起的崇拜和尊敬或許將是傳統宗教所難以觸及的。 」 現在在座的聽眾都是精英，所以我會預計你們當中大概有百分之十是信仰宗教的。也許你們當中的很多人都讚同我們這個大家都要尊敬宗教的有禮貌的文化信念，當我也懷疑有相當的一部分人會像我那麼的鄙視宗教。（笑）如果你是這些人當中的一個，當然你們當總的很多人可能都不是，但如果你是其中的一個，我向你要求再也不要那麼禮貌了，站出來說出你的觀點，如果你剛好是富有的話，想一想你有什麼辦法能夠帶來一些影響。這個國家的宗教遊說團是受到各種基金的大力贊助的，這還沒提到所有的稅收，例如坦普爾頓基金和發現學院。我們需要一個「反坦普爾頓」站出來。如果我的書能像史提芬.霍金的書那麼好賣的話，而不只像道金斯的書那樣的話，我會自己來幹這件事。 人們老是談到這個話題，「911怎麼樣改變了你?」那麼，這就是它怎麼改變我的。請不要再那麼充滿該死的敬意了。 很感謝大家。（鼓掌）"
