Talk	en	zh-tw
rick_warren_on_a_life_of_purpose	"I'm often asked, ""What surprised you about the book?"" And I say, ""That I got to write it."" I would have never imagined that. Not in my wildest dreams did I think — I don't even consider myself to be an author. And I'm often asked, ""Why do you think so many people have read this? This thing's selling still about a million copies a month."" And I think it's because spiritual emptiness is a universal disease. I think inside at some point, we put our heads down on the pillow and we go, ""There's got to be more to life than this."" Get up in the morning, go to work, come home and watch TV, go to bed, get up in the morning, go to work, come home, watch TV, go to bed, go to parties on weekends. A lot of people say, ""I'm living."" No, you're not living — that's just existing. Just existing. I really think that there's this inner desire. I do believe what Chris said; I believe that you're not an accident. Your parents may not have planned you, but I believe God did. I think there are accidental parents; there's no doubt about that. I don't think there are accidental kids. And I think you matter. I think you matter to God; I think you matter to history; I think you matter to this universe. And I think that the difference between what I call the survival level of living, the success level of living, and the significance level of living is: Do you figure out, ""What on Earth am I here for?"" I meet a lot of people who are very smart, and say, ""But why can't I figure out my problems?"" And I meet a lot of people who are very successful, who say, ""Why don't I feel more fulfilled? Why do I feel like a fake? Why do I feel like I've got to pretend that I'm more than I really am?"" I think that comes down to this issue of meaning, of significance, of purpose. I think it comes down to this issue of: ""Why am I here? What am I here for? Where am I going?"" These are not religious issues. They're human issues. I wanted to tell Michael before he spoke that I really appreciate what he does, because it makes my life work a whole lot easier. As a pastor, I do see a lot of kooks. And I have learned that there are kooks in every area of life. Religion doesn't have a monopoly on that, but there are plenty of religious kooks. There are secular kooks; there are smart kooks, dumb kooks. There are people — a lady came up to me the other day, and she had a white piece of paper — Michael, you'll like this one — and she said, ""What do you see in it?"" And I looked at it and I said, ""Oh, I don't see anything."" And she goes, ""Well, I see Jesus,"" and started crying and left. I'm going, ""OK,"" you know? ""Fine."" (Laughter) Good for you. When the book became the best-selling book in the world for the last three years, I kind of had my little crisis. And that was: What is the purpose of this? Because it brought in enormous amounts of money. When you write the best-selling book in the world, it's tons and tons of money. And it brought in a lot of attention, neither of which I wanted. When I started Saddleback Church, I was 25 years old. I started it with one other family in 1980. And I decided that I was never going to go on TV, because I didn't want to be a celebrity. I didn't want to be a, quote, ""evangelist, televangelist"" — that's not my thing. And all of the sudden, it brought a lot of money and a lot of attention. I don't think — now, this is a worldview, and I will tell you, everybody's got a worldview. Everybody's betting their life on something. You're betting your life on something, you just better know why you're betting what you're betting on. So, everybody's betting their life on something. And when I, you know, made a bet, I happened to believe that Jesus was who he said he was. And I believe in a pluralistic society, everybody's betting on something. And when I started the church, you know, I had no plans to do what it's doing now. And then when I wrote this book, and all of a sudden, it just took off, and I started saying, now, what's the purpose of this? Because as I started to say, I don't think you're given money or fame for your own ego, ever. I just don't believe that. And when you write a book that the first sentence of the book is, ""It's not about you,"" then, when all of a sudden it becomes the best-selling book in history, you've got to figure, well, I guess it's not about me. That's kind of a no-brainer. So, what is it for? And I began to think about what I call the ""stewardship of affluence"" and the ""stewardship of influence."" So I believe, essentially, leadership is stewardship. That if you are a leader in any area — in business, in politics, in sports, in art, in academics, in any area — you don't own it. You are a steward of it. For instance, that's why I believe in protecting the environment. This is not my planet. It wasn't mine before I was born, it's not going to be mine after I die, I'm just here for 80 years and then that's it. I was debating the other day on a talk show, and the guy was challenging me and he'd go, ""What's a pastor doing on protecting the environment?"" And I asked this guy, I said, ""Well, do you believe that human beings are responsible to make the world a little bit better place for the next generation? Do you think we have a stewardship here, to take the environment seriously?"" And he said, ""No."" I said, ""Oh, you don't?"" I said, ""Let me make this clear again: Do you believe that as human beings — I'm not talking about religion — do you believe that as human beings, it is our responsibility to take care of this planet, and make it just a little bit better for the next generation?"" And he said, ""No. Not any more than any other species."" When he said the word ""species,"" he was revealing his worldview. And he was saying, ""I'm no more responsible to take care of this environment than a duck is."" Well now, I know a lot of times we act like ducks, but you're not a duck. You're not a duck. And you are responsible — that's my worldview. And so, you need to understand what your worldview is. The problem is most people never really think it through. They never really ... codify it or qualify it or quantify it, and say, ""This is what I believe in. This is why I believe what I believe."" I don't personally have enough faith to be an atheist. But you may, you may. Your worldview, though, does determine everything else in your life, because it determines your decisions; it determines your relationships; it determines your level of confidence. It determines, really, everything in your life. What we believe, obviously — and you know this — determines our behavior, and our behavior determines what we become in life. So all of this money started pouring in, and all of this fame started pouring in. And I'm going, what do I do with this? My wife and I first made five decisions on what to do with the money. We said, ""First, we're not going to use it on ourselves."" I didn't go out and buy a bigger house. I don't own a guesthouse. I still drive the same four year-old Ford that I've driven. We just said, we're not going to use it on us. The second thing was, I stopped taking a salary from the church that I pastor. Third thing is, I added up all that the church had paid me over the last 25 years, and I gave it back. And I gave it back because I didn't want anybody thinking that I do what I do for money — I don't. In fact, personally, I've never met a priest or a pastor or a minister who does it for money. I know that's the stereotype; I've never met one of them. Believe me, there's a whole lot easier ways to make money. Pastors are like on 24 hours-a-day call, they're like doctors. I left late today — I'd hoped to be here yesterday — because my father-in-law is in his last, probably, 48 hours before he dies of cancer. And I'm watching a guy who's lived his life — he's now in his mid-80s — and he's dying with peace. You know, the test of your worldview is not how you act in the good times. The test of your worldview is how you act at the funeral. And having been through literally hundreds if not thousands of funerals, it makes a difference. It makes a difference what you believe. So, we gave it all back, and then we set up three foundations, working on some of the major problems of the world: illiteracy, poverty, pandemic diseases — particularly HIV/AIDS — and set up these three foundations, and put the money into that. The last thing we did is we became what I call ""reverse tithers."" And that is, when my wife and I got married 30 years ago, we started tithing. Now, that's a principle in the Bible that says give 10 percent of what you get back to charity, give it away to help other people. So, we started doing that, and each year we would raise our tithe one percent. So, our first year of marriage we went to 11 percent, second year we went to 12 percent, and the third year we went to 13 percent, and on and on and on. Why did I do that? Because every time I give, it breaks the grip of materialism in my life. Materialism is all about getting — get, get, get, get all you can, can all you get, sit on the can and spoil the rest. It's all about more, having more. And we think that the good life is actually looking good — that's most important of all — looking good, feeling good and having the goods. But that's not the good life. I meet people all the time who have those, and they're not necessarily happy. If money actually made you happy, then the wealthiest people in the world would be the happiest. And that I know, personally, I know, is not true. It's just not true. So, the good life is not about looking good, feeling good or having the goods, it's about being good and doing good. Giving your life away. Significance in life doesn't come from status, because you can always find somebody who's got more than you. It doesn't come from sex. It doesn't come from salary. It comes from serving. It is in giving our lives away that we find meaning, we find significance. That's the way we were wired, I believe, by God. And so we began to give away, and now after 30 years, my wife and I are reverse tithers — we give away 90 percent and live on 10. That, actually, was the easy part. The hard part is, what do I do with all this attention? Because I started getting all kinds of invitations. I just came off a nearly month-long speaking tour on three different continents, and I won't go into that, but it was an amazing thing. And I'm going, what do I do with this notoriety that the book has brought? And, being a pastor, I started reading the Bible. There's a chapter in the Bible called Psalm 72, and it's Solomon's prayer for more influence. When you read this prayer, it sounds incredibly selfish, self-centered. He says, ""God, I want you to make me famous."" That's what he prays. He said, ""I want you to make me famous. I want you to spread the fame of my name through every land, I want you to give me power. I want you to make me famous, I want you to give me influence."" And it just sounds like the most egotistical request you could make, if you were going to pray. Until you read the whole psalm, the whole chapter. And then he says, ""So that the king ..."" — he was the king of Israel at that time, at its apex in power — ""... so that the king may care for the widow and orphan, support the oppressed, defend the defenseless, care for the sick, assist the poor, speak up for the foreigner, those in prison."" Basically, he's talking about all the marginalized in society. And as I read that, I looked at it, and I thought, you know, what this is saying is that the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence. The purpose of influence is not to build your ego. Or your net worth. And, by the way, your net worth is not the same thing as your self-worth. Your value is not based on your valuables. It's based on a whole different set of things. And so the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence. And I had to admit: I can't think of the last time I thought of widows and orphans. They're not on my radar. I pastor a church in one of the most affluent areas of America — a bunch of gated communities. I have a church full of CEOs and scientists. And I could go five years and never, ever see a homeless person. They're just not in my pathway. Now, they're 13 miles up the road in Santa Ana. So I had to say, ok, I would use whatever affluence and whatever influence I've got to help those who don't have either of those. You know, there's a story in the Bible about Moses, whether you believe it's true or not, it really doesn't matter to me. But Moses, if you saw the movie, ""The Ten Commandments,"" Moses goes out, and there's this burning bush, and God talks to him, and God says, ""Moses, what's in your hand?"" I think that's one of the most important questions you'll ever be asked: What's in your hand? Moses says, ""It's a staff. It's a shepherd's staff."" And God says, ""Throw it down."" And if you saw the movie, you know, he throws it down and it becomes a snake. And then God says, ""Pick it up."" And he picks it back up again, and it becomes a staff again. Now, I'm reading this thing, and I'm going, what is that all about? OK. What's that all about? Well, I do know a couple of things. Number one, God never does a miracle to show off. It's not just, ""Wow, isn't that cool?"" And, by the way, my God doesn't have to show up on cheese bread. You know, if God's going to show up, he's not going to show up on cheese bread. (Laughter) Ok? I just, this is why I love what Michael does, because it's like, if he's debunking it, then I don't have to. But God — my God — doesn't show up on sprinkler images. He's got a few more powerful ways than that to do whatever he wants to do. But he doesn't do miracles just to show off. Second thing is, if God ever asks you a question, he already knows the answer. Obviously, if he's God, then that would mean that when he asks the question, it's for your benefit, not his. So he's going, ""What's in your hand?"" Now, what was in Moses' hand? Well, it was a shepherd's staff. Now, follow me on this. This staff represented three things about Moses' life. First, it represented his identity; he was a shepherd. It's the symbol of his own occupation: I am a shepherd. It's a symbol of his identity, his career, his job. Second, it's a symbol of not only his identity, it's a symbol of his income, because all of his assets are tied up in sheep. In those days, nobody had bank accounts, or American Express cards, or hedge funds. Your assets are tied up in your flocks. So it's a symbol of his identity, and it's a symbol of his income. And the third thing: it's a symbol of his influence. What do you do with a shepherd's staff? Well, you know, you move sheep from point A to point B with it, by hook or by crook. You pull them or you poke them. One or the other. So, he's saying, ""You're going to lay down your identity. What's in your hand? You've got identity, you've got income, you've got influence. What's in your hand?"" And he's saying, ""If you lay it down, I'll make it come alive. I'll do some things you could never imagine possible."" And if you've watched that movie, ""Ten Commandments,"" all of those big miracles that happen in Egypt are done through this staff. Last year, I was invited to speak at the NBA All-Stars game. And so, I'm talking to the players, because most of the NBA teams, NFL teams and all the other teams have done this 40 Days of Purpose, based on the book. And I asked them, I said, ""What's in your hand? So, what's in your hand?"" I said, ""It's a basketball. And that basketball represents your identity, who you are: you're an NBA player. It represents your income: you're making a lot of money off that little ball. And it represents your influence. And even though you're only going to be in the NBA for a few years, you're going to be an NBA player for the rest of your life. And that gives you enormous influence. So, what are you going to do with what you've been given?"" And I guess that's the main reason I came up here today, to all of you very bright people at TED — it is to say, ""What's in your hand?"" What do you have that you've been given? Talent, background, education, freedom, networks, opportunities, wealth, ideas, creativity. What are you doing with what you've been given? That, to me, is the primary question about life. That, to me, is what being purpose-driven is all about. In the book, I talk about how you're wired to do certain things, you're ""SHAPED"" with — a little acrostic: Spiritual gifts, Heart, Ability, Personality and Experiences. These things shape you. And if you want to know what you ought to be doing with your life, you need to look at your shape — ""What am I wired to do?"" Why would God wire you to do something and then not have you do it? If you're wired to be an anthropologist, you'll be an anthropologist. If you're wired to be an undersea explorer, you'll be an undersea explorer. If you're wired to make deals, you make deals. If you're wired to paint, you paint. Did you know that God smiles when you be you? When my little kids — when my kids were little — they're all grown now, I have grandkids — I used to go in and sit on the side of their bed, and I used to watch my kids sleep. And I just watched their little bodies rise and lower, rise and lower. And I would look at them: ""This is not an accident."" Rise and lower. And I got joy out of just watching them sleep. Some people have the misguided idea that God only gets excited when you're doing, quote, ""spiritual things,"" like going to church or helping the poor, or, you know, confessing or doing something like that. The bottom line is, God gets pleasure watching you be you. Why? He made you. And when you do what you were made to do, he goes, ""That's my boy! That's my girl! You're using the talent and ability that I gave you."" So my advice to you is: look at what's in your hand — your identity, your influence, your income — and say, ""It's not about me. It's about making the world a better place."" Thank you."	常常有人問我，這本書最讓你驚訝的地方是什麼？我回答，我能夠來寫這本書。我從沒想過，再瘋狂的夢裡也沒有 －我從沒想過當個作家。也常有人問我，你覺得為何有這麼多人讀這本書？到現在每個月還有大約一百萬本的銷量。我認為這是由於心靈的空虛，已經成為普遍的通病。我想每個人都曾經把頭埋在枕頭裡，說：「人生一定不只是這樣。」早上起床，去上班，回家，看電視，上床睡覺，早上起床，去上班，回家，看電視，上床睡覺，週末去參加派對。很多人說：「我在過生活。」不，你不是在過生活 － 你只是活著。只是活著。我真的認為有一種內在的渴求。我相信 Chris 剛才說的，我相信你的存在不是偶然的。你的父母可能沒有計劃要生你，但是我相信神有。有的人是意外成為父母的，這是事實。我不認為有「意外的小孩」。 我認為你很重要。我認為你對神很重要，我認為你對歷史很重要，我認為你對這個宇宙很重要。我認為這些生活層次的差異：生存的層次、成功的層次、價值的層次，差異在於你知不知道你來到世上到底是為了什麼？我見到過很多非常聰明的人，他們問：「可是為什麼我沒辦法解決自己的問題？」我也見過很多非常成功的人，他們問：「為什麼我感覺不充實？為什麼我覺得自己很虛偽？為什麼我感覺我必須假裝得比真正的自己更了不起？」我認為這些最終都回歸到人生的意義、價值，人生的目的。我認為這要回歸到「我為什麼在這裡？我在這裡做什麼？我要往哪裡去？」這些不是宗教問題 －這些是人的問題。 我想對 Michael 說，我很感謝他剛才所說的，因為這讓我的工作容易多了。身為牧師，我會遇到很多怪人。我發現在生活中的任何領域，都可能出現怪人。宗教在這一方面沒有獨大的特權，但是的確有不少宗教怪人。也有非宗教的怪人、聰明的怪人、愚蠢的怪人。有天一位女士來找我，拿著一張白紙 － Michael, 你一定會喜歡這個故事 －她問：「你看到了什麼？」我看著那張白紙，說：「什麼也沒看到。」她說：「我看到耶穌。」然後哭著走了。我說，ok, 很好。嗯，很好。 過去這三年，這本書成為全球暢銷書，我也面臨到自己的小危機。那就是，這件事的目的是什麼？因為它帶來了龐大的金錢。當你寫出全世界最暢銷的書，你會得到非常非常多的錢。還有很多的矚目，而這兩樣我都不想要。我 25 歲成立 Saddleback 教會，我和另外一家人在 1980 年共同成立教會。我當時就決定我永遠不要上電視，因為我不想成為名人，我不想成為所謂的「福音派」、「電視福音派」－那不是我會做的事。突然之間，這本書帶來很多的金錢和矚目。我不認為 －這是我的世界觀，我可以告訴你，每個人都有自己的世界觀。 每個人都將自己的人生押注在某件事物上。你也將你自己的人生押注在某件事物上 －你最好弄清楚自己為什麼押注在你所押注的這件事物上。每個人都將自己的人生押注在某件事物上，而我下注的時候，我就是相信耶穌就是他自己所稱的那個人。不過每個人都有 － 我相信在多元化的社會裡 －每個人都押注在某件事物上。我成立教會的時候，我並沒有計劃要做教會現在做的這些事情。當我寫完這本書，突然之間大受歡迎，我開始問，這件事的目的是什麼？因為我從來不認為，你能得到金錢或名氣，目的是滿足你的自我意識。我就是不相信。當你寫了一本書，書裡的第一句話是：「生命的重心不是在你」，然後，突然之間這本書成為史上最暢銷的書籍，你應該要明白，這件事的重點不是在於你。不用動腦筋也該想到。所以，究竟是為了什麼？ 我開始思考「財富的代管人」，以及「影響力的代管人」。我相信身為領導者，是要作代管人。如果你在任何領域居領導地位 －在商界、政壇、體育、藝術、學術界，任何領域 －你並不是所有者，而是代管人。舉例來說，這就是我為什麼相信環保。這個地球不是屬於我的。在我出生之前它不是我的，在我死後它也不會是我的。我在這裡只會待上 80 年，僅此而已。 有天我上談話節目進行辯論，挑戰我論點的人說：「牧師跟環境保護有什麼關係？」我問他：「你相不相信人類有責任為了下一代使這個世界變得更好？你認為我們是不是應該負起代管人的責任，認真看待環境議題？」他回答：「不。」我說：「你不這樣認為？讓我再問一次。你相不相信身為人類 － 我不是在談論宗教 －你相不相信身為人類，我們有責任為了下一代來照顧地球，使它變得稍微好一點？」他說：「不。我們的責任不比其它物種的大。」當他說出「物種」，就顯露了他的世界觀。他說：「我對環境保護的責任，並不比一隻鴨子該負的責任大。」有時候我們的行為的確很像鴨子，但你並不是鴨子。你不是一隻鴨子。而且你有責任 － 這是我的世界觀。所以，你需要了解你的世界觀是什麼。 問題是，大多數的人從來沒有把自己的世界觀想清楚。他們從來沒有真正地把它條理化，或定義它，或量化它，然後說：「這就是我所相信的。這就是我為什麼相信我所相信的。」對我個人來說，我沒有足夠的信心成為無神論者。但是你可能有。然而，你的世界觀，將會影響你生命中的所有一切，因為它將影響你的決定，影響你的人際關係，影響你的自信心。它真的會影響你生命中的所有事。我們所相信的，顯然 －你也很清楚 － 影響我們的行為，而我們的行為將決定我們生命的樣貌。 所以當這些錢開始湧進來，名聲開始湧進來，我想，我要拿它怎麼辦？我太太和我為這些錢的用途做了 5 個決定。我們決定，第一點，我們不會把這些錢用在我們自己身上。我沒有去買更大的房子。我也沒買下旅館。我還是開著同一台車齡四年的福特車。我們就是不要把這些錢用在自己身上。第二點，我不再從我牧養的教會支取薪資。第三點，我算出過去 25 年教會付給我的薪資總額，然後還給教會。我還給教會，是因為我不希望有人認為我做這些事是為了錢 － 我不是。說真的，我個人從來沒有見過教士或牧師為了錢而做這份工作。我知道有這種刻板印象存在。我一個也沒遇過。相信我，有太多更容易賺錢的方法了。 牧師要 24 小時待命，就像醫生一樣。我今天來得晚了，我原先希望昨天就來的，因為現在可能是我岳父生命的最後 48 小時，他隨時可能死於癌症。我看著這個人過完自己的一生 －他現在八十幾歲 －面對死亡，心裡平和。你知道嗎，要考驗你的世界觀，不是看你在順境中如何應對。要考驗你的世界觀，要看你在喪禮時的應對。在參加過幾百場，甚至上千場喪禮之後，我知道這真的有差別。你相信什麼，會產生分別的。 所以，我們把薪資還給教會，然後成立了三個基金會，針對世界上的一些重大問題：文盲、貧窮、流行疫症 － 尤其是 HIV/AIDS —成立了三個基金會，把錢用在這裡。最後一點，我們開始「逆向什一奉獻」。我太太和我剛結婚的時候，那是 30 年前，我們開始什一奉獻。這是聖經裡教導的一項原則，將所得的十分之一捐出來，幫助其他人。我們開始這樣做，而且每一年增加百分之一。所以我們結婚一年後，開始奉獻 11%,結婚兩年後，奉獻 12%,結婚三年後，奉獻 13%,以此類推。為什麼我要這麼做呢？因為每一次我奉獻，我就能掙脫物質對我生活的綑綁。物質主義就是要得到東西 － 要、要、要，越多越好，越要越多，貪得無厭。唯一的目標就是要擁有更多。我們認為好的生活是，看上去很體面。這是最重要的 － 看起來體面，感覺很好，擁有物質的滿足。但這並不是好的生活。我常見到擁有全部這些的人，但他們不見得快樂。如果金錢能使人快樂，那麼世界上最有錢的人應該是最快樂的人。而我知道，親身見證，並不真是這樣。並不是這樣。 所以，好的生活並不是看起來體面、感覺很好、物質上滿足，而是做好人、做好事。奉獻你的人生。人生的價值並不是來自地位，因為總是有其他人的地位高過你。也不是來自性愛、不是來自薪資。是來自於服務。只有在奉獻人生時，我們才能發現它的意義，找到人生的價值。我們生來就是這樣，我相信是神這樣設計的。我太太和我開始奉獻，到現在過了 30 年後，我們開始逆向什一奉獻，奉獻 90%, 靠 10% 過活。這是簡單的部份。困難的是，我該拿這些矚目的目光怎麼辦？因為我開始接到各式各樣的邀請。我剛結束長達一個月的巡迴演講，行程涵蓋三大洲，我不打算談細節，但它的確是很不可思議的事情。所以我在想，我該怎麼樣應付這本書帶來的知名度？ 身為牧師，我開始讀聖經。聖經裡有一個章節，詩篇第 72 篇，這是所羅門王的祈禱文，祈求得到更大的影響力。當你讀到這篇祈禱文，它聽起來非常自私、自我中心。他像是在說，「神啊，我要你讓我出名。」這就是他的禱告。他說：我要你讓我出名。我要你讓我的名聲傳遍各國，我要你給我權力，我要你讓我出名，我要你給我影響力。這聽起來像是你所能想到的最自我中心的禱告祈求。不過當你讀完整篇，整個章節，他說，好讓國王 －他是當時的以色列王，那是以色列最昌盛的時候 －好讓國王可以照顧孤兒和寡婦，扶持受壓迫的、保衛無法自保的、照顧患病的、幫助窮苦的、為外族人和遭監禁的發聲。他在談社會的弱勢族群。 當我讀到這裡，我看著它，我想到，這是在說，影響力的目的是為那些沒有力量的人發聲。影響力的目的不是要抬高你的自我意識，或你的個人身價。順帶一提，你的個人身價跟你的個人價值是完全不同的。你的價值並不是取決於你擁有的物品價值，而是取決於完全不同的一套價值標準。所以影響力的目的，是為沒有力量的人發聲。而我必須承認，我不記得我上次想到孤兒和寡婦是什麼時候。他們不在我的關注範圍內。我所牧養的教會位於美國最富裕的地區之一 －有很多設有門禁的高級社區，教會裡有許多 CEO 和科學家。我可能五年也遇不到一個遊民。他們就是不在我的活動範圍內。他們可能在離我 13 英里遠的 Santa Ana 區。所以我必須決定，我要運用我所得到的財富和影響力，去幫助那些兩樣都沒有的人。 聖經中有個關於摩西的故事。不管你相不相信它是真實的 －我真的不在乎。如果你看過電影《十誡》，摩西走到外面，有一叢燃燒的樹叢，然後神對他說話。神說：「摩西，你手裡有什麼？」我想這是你會被問到的最重要的問題之一。你手裡有什麼？摩西說：「一根手杖。」那是一根牧羊人的手杖。神說：「把它丟下。」如果你看過電影，他把手杖丟下，它變成了一條蛇。然後神說：「把它撿起來。」然後他把它撿起來，它又變回一根手杖。我讀到這裡，我想，這到底是要說什麼？到底在說什麼？好，我知道幾件事情。第一，神施行神蹟，從來不是為了炫耀。絕不只是，「哇，很酷！」還有，我的神不需要顯現在乳酪麵包上。如果神要顯現，他不會顯現在乳酪麵包上。 （笑聲） 好嗎？這就是為什麼我喜歡 Michael 剛才做的，因為如果他已經揭穿那些伎倆，我就不用再做一次。但是神 － 我的神 － 不會顯現在灑水器的圖像上。他有一些比這更高明的方法可以完成任何他要做的事。但是他行神蹟絕不只是為了炫耀。 第二，如果神問你問題，他早已經知道答案是什麼了。因為他是神。這就表示神問你問題，是為了你好，不是為他自己。神問：「你手裡有什麼？」摩西手裡有什麼？有一根牧羊人的手杖。聽我解釋。 這根手杖代表摩西生命中的三樣東西。首先，它代表他的身份。他是牧羊人。這是他職業的象徵。我是牧羊人。這是他的身份、事業、工作的象徵。第二，這不只象徵他的身份，也代表了他的收入，因為他所有的資產都在羊群身上。那個年代沒有人有銀行戶頭，或是美國運通信用卡，或避險基金。你的資產都在你的羊群身上。所以那是他身份的象徵，也是收入的象徵。第三點：那象徵著他的影響力。牧羊人的手杖是用來做什麼的？你可以拿手杖將羊從 A 點趕到 B 點，杖頭、杖尾都用得上，用拉的或用趕的，各種方法。所以，神是在說：「你要放下你的身份。你手裡有什麼？你有身份，你有收入，你有影響力。你手裡有什麼？」然後他說：「如果你把它放下，我會將它變成活物。我將要成就超乎你想像的事情。」如果你看過《十誡》這部電影，所有在埃及發生的奇蹟都是透過這根手杖完成的。 去年，我受邀在 NBA 明星賽上演講。我對球員們演講，因為大多數 NBA, NFL 和其他聯盟的球隊，都根據這本書完成了標竿人生 40 天課程。我問這些球員：「你手裡有什麼？你手裡有什麼？」我說：「你手裡有籃球，這顆籃球代表你的身份，代表你是誰。你是 NBA 球員。它代表你的收入。你靠這顆小球可以賺進很多的錢。它也代表你的影響力。即使你在 NBA 的時間只有短短幾年，但是你一輩子都是 NBA 球員。這讓你擁有極大的影響力。所以，你要怎麼運用你所得到的這些東西？」 我想這也是我今天來到這裡的主要原因，與各位非常聰明的 TED 會員見面，就是要問：「你手裡有什麼？」你已經得到的有什麼？天份、背景、教育、自由、人脈、機會、財富、想法、創意。你要怎麼樣運用你所得到的這些東西？對我而言，這是人生中最重要的問題。對我而言，這就是為人生目的而活。在書中，我談到你如何生來就適合做某些事，如何受塑造 (SHAPE),包括靈性恩賜 (Spiritual gifts), 心 (Heart),能力 (Ability), 性格 (Personality) 和經歷 (Experiences).這些元素塑造了你。如果你想知道你在人生中應該做些什麼，你需要看看自己的樣貌 (SHAPE), 想想我生來適合做什麼？神怎麼會把你生成適合做某些事情，卻不讓你去做？如果你生來該做人類學家，你就會成為人類學家。如果你生來該做海底探勘員，你就會成為海底探勘員。如果你生來該做買賣，就去做買賣。如果你生來該畫畫，就去畫畫。 你知道當你做自己的時候，神會為你微笑嗎？我的孩子還小的時候 －他們都大了，我已經有孫子了 －我以前會坐在他們的床邊，看著我的孩子們睡覺。我看著他們小小的身體一起一伏，一起、一伏。我看著他們，想著：這絕不是偶然。一起、一伏。光是看著他們睡覺，我就感到喜悅。有的人有種誤解，認為神只有在你做所謂「有靈性的事」的時候才會開心，像是上教會、幫助窮人，或是懺悔之類的事情。其實，神看到你做自己的時候就感到愉悅。為什麼？他創造了你。當你做你生來該做的事情，他會說：「這才是我的好孩子。這才是我的好女孩。你在運用我給你的天份和才能。」我想建議你，看看你手裡有什麼 －你的身份、你的影響力、你的收入 －然後說：「人生的重心不是我自己，而是怎麼讓世界變得更好。」 謝謝各位。
