Talk	en	zh-tw
rives_a_museum_of_4_o_clock_in_the_morning	"The most romantic thing to ever happen to me online started out the way most things do: without me, and not online. On December 10, 1896, the man on the medal, Alfred Nobel, died. One hundred years later, exactly, actually, December 10, 1996, this charming lady, Wislawa Szymborska, won the Nobel Prize for literature. She's a Polish poet. She's a big deal, obviously, but back in '96, I thought I had never heard of her, and when I checked out her work, I found this sweet little poem, ""Four in the Morning."" ""The hour from night to day. The hour from side to side. The hour for those past thirty..."" And it goes on, but as soon as I read this poem, I fell for it hard, so hard, I suspected we must have met somewhere before. Had I shared an elevator ride with this poem? Did I flirt with this poem in a coffee shop somewhere? I could not place it, and it bugged me, and then in the coming week or two, I would just be watching an old movie, and this would happen. (Video) Groucho Marx: Charlie, you should have come to the first party. We didn't get home till around four in the morning. Rives: My roommates would have the TV on, and this would happen. (Music: Seinfeld theme) (Video) George Costanza: Oh boy,  I was up til four in the morning watching that Omen trilogy. Rives: I would be listening to music, and this would happen. (Video) Elton John: ♪ It's four o'clock in the morning, damn it. ♪ Rives: So you can see what was going on, right? Obviously, the demigods of coincidence were just messing with me. Some people get a number stuck in their head, you may recognize a certain name or a tune, some people get nothing, but four in the morning was in me now, but mildly, like a groin injury. I always assumed it would just go away on its own eventually, and I never talked about it with anybody, but it did not, and I totally did. In 2007, I was invited to speak at TED for the second time, and since I was still an authority on nothing, I thought, what if I made a multimedia presentation on a topic so niche it is actually inconsequential or actually cockamamie. So my talk had some of my four in the morning examples, but it also had examples from my fellow TED speakers that year. I found four in the morning in a novel by Isabel Allende. I found a really great one in the autobiography of Bill Clinton. I found a couple in the work of Matt Groening, although Matt Groening told me later that he could not make my talk because it was a morning session and I gather that he is not an early riser. However, had Matt been there, he would have seen this mock conspiracy theory that was un-freaking-canny for me to assemble. It was totally contrived just for that room, just for that moment. That's how we did it in the pre-TED.com days. It was fun. That was pretty much it. When I got home, though, the emails started coming in from people who had seen the talk live, beginning with, and this is still my favorite, ""Here's another one for your collection: 'It's the friends you can call up at 4 a.m. that matter.'"" The sentiment is Marlene Dietrich. The email itself was from another very sexy European type, TED Curator Chris Anderson. (Laughter) Chris found this quote on a coffee cup or something, and I'm thinking, this man is the Typhoid Mary of ideas worth spreading, and I have infected him. I am contagious, which was confirmed less than a week later when a Hallmark employee scanned and sent an actual greeting card with that same quotation. As a bonus, she hooked me up with a second one they make. It says, ""Just knowing I can call you at four in the morning if I need to makes me not really need to,"" which I love, because together these are like, ""Hallmark: When you care enough to send the very best twice, phrased slightly differently."" I was not surprised at the TEDster and New Yorker magazine overlap. A bunch of people sent me this when it came out. ""It's 4 a.m.—maybe you'd sleep better if you bought some crap."" I was surprised at the TEDster/""Rugrats"" overlap. More than one person sent me this. (Video) Didi Pickles: It's four o'clock in the morning. Why on Earth are you making chocolate pudding? Stu Pickles: Because I've lost control of my life. (Laughter) Rives: And then there was the lone TEDster who was disgruntled I had overlooked what he considers to be a classic. (Video) Roy Neary: Get up, get up! I'm not kidding. Ronnie Neary: Is there an accident? Roy: No, it's not an accident. You wanted to get out of the house anyway, right? Ronnie: Not at four o'clock in the morning. Rives: So that's ""Close Encounters,"" and the main character is all worked up because aliens, momentously, have chosen to show themselves to earthlings at four in the morning, which does make that a very solid example. Those were all really solid examples. They did not get me any closer to understanding why I thought I recognized this one particular poem. But they followed the pattern. They played along. Right? Four in the morning as this scapegoat hour when all these dramatic occurrences allegedly occur. Maybe this was some kind of cliche that had never been taxonomized before. Maybe I was on the trail of a new meme or something. Just when things were getting pretty interesting, things got really interesting. TED.com launched, later that year, with a bunch of videos from past talks, including mine, and I started receiving ""four in the morning"" citations from what seemed like every time zone on the planet. Much of it was content I never would have found on my own if I was looking for it, and I was not. I don't know anybody with juvenile diabetes. I probably would have missed the booklet, ""Grilled Cheese at Four O'Clock in the Morning."" (Laughter) I do not subscribe to Crochet Today! magazine, although it looks delightful. (Laughter) Take note of those clock ends. This is a college student's suggestion for what a ""four in the morning"" gang sign should look like. People sent me magazine ads. They took photographs in grocery stores. I got a ton of graphic novels and comics. A lot of good quality work, too: ""The Sandman,"" ""Watchmen."" There's a very cute example here from ""Calvin and Hobbes."" In fact, the oldest citation anybody sent in was from a cartoon from the Stone Age. Take a look. (Video) Wilma Flintstone: Like how early? Fred Flintstone: Like at 4 a.m., that's how early. Rives: And the flip side of the timeline, this is from the 31st century. A thousand years from now, people are still doing this. (Video): Announcer: The time is 4 a.m. (Laughter) Rives: It shows the spectrum. I received so many songs, TV shows, movies, like from dismal to famous, I could give you a four-hour playlist. If I just stick to modern male movie stars, I keep it to the length of about a commercial. Here's your sampler. (Movie montage of ""It's 4 a.m."") (Laughter) Rives: So somewhere along the line, I realized I have a hobby I didn't know I wanted, and it is crowdsourced. But I was also thinking what you might be thinking, which is really, couldn't you do this with any hour of the day? First of all, you are not getting clips like that about four in the afternoon. Secondly, I did a little research. You know, I was kind of interested. If this is confirmation bias, there is so much confirmation, I am biased. Literature probably shows it best. There are a couple three in the mornings in Shakespeare. There's a five in the morning. There are seven four in the mornings, and they're all very dire. In ""Measure for Measure,"" it's the call time for the executioner. Tolstoy gives Napoleon insomnia at four in the morning right before battle in ""War and Peace."" Charlotte Brontë's ""Jane Eyre"" has got kind of a pivotal four in the morning, as does Emily Brontë's ""Wuthering Heights."" ""Lolita"" has as a creepy four in the morning. ""Huckleberry Finn"" has one in dialect. Someone sent in H.G. Wells' ""The Invisible Man."" Someone else sent in Ralph Ellison's ""Invisible Man."" ""The Great Gatsby"" spends the last four in the morning of his life waiting for a lover who never shows, and the most famous wake-up in literature, perhaps, ""The Metamorphosis."" First paragraph, the main character wakes up transformed into a giant cockroach, but we already know, cockroach notwithstanding, something is up with this guy. Why? His alarm is set for four o'clock in the morning. What kind of person would do that? This kind of person would do that. (Music) (4 a.m. alarm clock montage) (Video) Newcaster: Top of the hour. Time for the morning news. But of course, there is no news yet. Everyone's still asleep in their comfy, comfy beds. Rives: Exactly. So that's Lucy from the Peanuts, ""Mommie Dearest"", Rocky, first day of training, Nelson Mandela, first day in office, and Bart Simpson, which combined with a cockroach would give you one hell of a dinner party and gives me yet another category, people waking up, in my big old database. Just imagine that your friends and your family have heard that you collect, say, stuffed polar bears, and they send them to you. Even if you don't really, at a certain point, you totally collect stuffed polar bears, and your collection is probably pretty kick-ass. And when I got to that point, I embraced it. I got my curator on. I started fact checking, downloading, illegally screen-grabbing. I started archiving. My hobby had become a habit, and my habit gave me possibly the world's most eclectic Netflix queue. At one point, it went, ""Guys and Dolls: The Musical,"" ""Last Tango in Paris,"" ""Diary of a Wimpy Kid,"" ""Porn Star: Legend of Ron Jeremy."" Why ""Porn Star: Legend of Ron Jeremy""? Because someone told me I would find this clip in there. (Video) Ron Jeremy: I was born in Flushing, Queens on March, 12, 1953, at four o'clock in the morning. Rives: Of course he was. (Laughter) (Applause) Yeah. Not only does it seem to make sense, it also answers the question, ""What do Ron Jeremy and Simone de Beauvoir have in common?"" Simone de Beauvoir begins her entire autobiography with the sentence, ""I was born at four o'clock in the morning,"" which I had because someone else had emailed it to me, and when they did, I had another bump up in my entry for this, because porn star Ron Jeremy and feminist Simone de Beauvoir are not just different people. They are different people that have this thing connecting them, and I did not know if that is trivia or knowledge or inadvertent expertise, but I did wonder, is there maybe a cooler way to do this? So last October, in gentleman scholar tradition, I put the entire collection online as ""Museum of Four in the Morning."" You can click on that red ""refresh"" button. It will take you at random to one of hundreds of snippets that are in the collection. Here is a knockout poem by Billy Collins called ""Forgetfulness."" (Video) Billy Collins: No wonder you rise in the middle of the night to look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war. No wonder the moon in the window seems to have drifted out of a love poem that you used to know by heart. Rives: So the first hour of this project was satisfying. A Bollywood actor sang a line on a DVD in a cafe. Half a globe away, a teenager made an Instagram video of it and sent it to me, a stranger. Less than a week later, though, I received a little bit of grace. I received a poignant tweet. It was brief. It just said, ""Reminds me of an ancient mix tape."" The name was a pseudonym, actually, or a pseudo-pseudonym. As soon as I saw the initials, and the profile pic, I knew immediately, my whole body knew immediately who this was, and I knew immediately what mix tape she was talking about. (Music) L.D. was my college romance. This is in the early '90s. I was an undegrad. She was a grad student in the library sciences department. Not the kind of librarian that takes her glasses off, lets her hair down, suddenly she's smoking hot. She was already smoking hot, she was super dorky, and we had a December-May romance, meaning we started dating in December, and by May, she had graduated and became my one that got away. But her mix tape did not get away. I have kept this mix tape in a box with notes and postcards, not just from L.D., from my life, but for decades. It's the kind of box where, if I have a girlfriend, I tend to hide it from her, and if I had a wife, I'm sure I would share it with her, but the story — (Laughter) — with this mix tape is there are seven songs per side, but no song titles. Instead, L.D. has used the U.S. Library of Congress classification system, including page numbers, to leave me clues. When I got this mix tape, I put it in my cassette player, I took it to the campus library, her library, I found 14 books on the shelves. I remember bringing them all to my favorite corner table, and I read poems paired to songs like food to wine, paired, I can tell you, like saddle shoes to a cobalt blue vintage cotton dress. I did this again last October. I'm sitting there, I got new earbuds, old Walkman, I realize this is just the kind of extravagance I used to take for granted even when I was extravagant. And then I thought, ""Good for him."" ""PG"" is Slavic literature. ""7000"" series Polish literature. Z9A24 is a collection of 70 poems. Page 31 is Wislawa Szymborska's poem paired with Paul Simon's ""Peace Like a River."" (Music: Paul Simon, ""Peace Like a River"") (Video) Paul Simon: ♪ Oh, four in the morning ♪ ♪ I woke up from out of my dream ♪ Rives: Thank you. Appreciate it. (Applause)"	我在網路上發生過最浪漫的事起因和大多數事情一樣：與我無關，而且不是在網路上。在1896年的12月10號，這面獎章上的男人，阿弗雷德•諾貝爾，與世長辭。而在一百年後的同一天，也就是1996年的12月10日，這位迷人女士，維斯拉瓦·辛波絲卡，獲得了諾貝爾文學獎。她是位波蘭詩人，而且很顯然的她是位大人物，不過在96年的時候，我以為我從來沒聽過她，於是我找了她的作品，並發現這首可愛的小詩：《凌晨四點鐘》 「從夜晚到白晝的時辰，從此處到彼處的時間，逝去的三十個小時……」 之後的我就不念了，不過當我讀到這首詩時，我就對它著迷了。著迷的程度嚴重到我覺得我以前一定在哪裡遇過它。我是否與這首詩共乘過同一部電梯？我有沒有在咖啡店的某處和這首詩調情過？我不知道，而這一直困擾著我，不過在那時的一兩個禮拜後，我會剛好看到一部老電影，裡面會出現這個片段： Groucho Marx：Charlie，你應該要來第一個派對的，我們玩到了凌晨四點鐘才回家。 我的室友會剛好開著電視，然後我就會看到這個： (背景音樂：歡樂單身派對主題曲) (影片) George Costanza：喔天啊，我昨天熬到凌晨四點鐘看完了天魔三部曲。 我也會剛好在聽音樂的時候聽到這個： (影片) 艾爾頓·強： ♪現在是凌晨四點鐘，該死 ♪ 你們能夠明白發生了什麼事，對吧？很顯然的，巧合之神一直在捉弄我。這就像有些人會不自覺去注意某些數字，或是你也有可能會一直認出某個名字或一段旋律，也有人不會有這種情況，但凌晨四點鐘現在卻一直在影響我，就像鼠蹊部受傷一樣。我一直以為它很快就會自己離開我的思緒，而我也沒有和任何人談起過。不過我錯了，所以我乾脆說出來。 在2007年，我第二次被TED邀請來演講。既然我當時並不是任何事情的權威，我就想，如果我做了一個多媒體簡報，而且主題十分可笑，以至於讓整個演講很不合理或看起來很荒謬的話不知道會怎樣。於是我那次演講含概了許多我找到的凌晨四點鐘例子不過其中也有一些是其他TED研究會員提供的。我在伊莎貝·阿言德的小說中發現凌晨四點鐘的蹤影。我也在比爾·柯林頓的自傳中找到了非常好的例子。除此之外還有幾個馬特·格朗寧的作品。話說回來，馬特·格朗寧在那演講過後告訴我他沒有聽到我的演講，因為那是在早上的時段，我猜他應該不是個早起的人吧。但總之，如果馬特當時有到場，他就會看見我因為感到離奇而創造出的假陰謀論。那個理論完全是捏造出來的，純粹是為了當時的演講。這完全是我們在TED.com時代前的老時光會做的事，很有趣，不過也就這樣了。 不過當我回家之後，電子郵件開始湧入我的信箱，它們來自當時在演講現場的人。我現在還是很喜歡的第一封信寫著：「這裡有另一個可以加入你收藏的例子：『唯有那些在凌晨四點鐘還願意接你電話的朋友才重要。』」這是瑪琳·黛德麗說的。而這封電子郵件則是來自另一位非常性感的歐洲人：TED策展人克里斯·安德森。(笑聲)克里斯在咖啡杯還是什麼的找到了這句引言。接著我就想，這位「值得傳播的想法」界中的傷寒瑪莉，居然被我感染了。我有傳染力，而不到一個禮拜後我又更確信這一點。Hallmark公司的員工掃描了一張真正的賀卡並寄給我看，上面有一模一樣的引言。她還寄了另一張她們公司做的賀卡來，上面寫道：「一想到如果我需要的話就算是凌晨四點也能打給你，就使我心裡感到寬慰。」我超愛這個，因為這兩張卡片就像在說：「Hallmark公司：當你在乎那個人深到你要寄兩次祝福給他，稍微改一下說詞就好了。」 對於TED族和New Yorker雜誌的讀者群重疊我並不是很驚訝。有一群人在雜誌刊出這個時候把它寄給我。「現在是凌晨四點鐘，也許當你買了一些垃圾之後你會睡的比較好。」 不過我倒是對TED族和Rugrats粉絲之間的聯繫感到吃驚。不只一個人寄給我這個： (影片) Didi Pickles：「現在是凌晨四點鐘，你為什麼非得要在這時做巧克力布丁？」 Stu Pickles：「因為我無法掌控我的生活。」 (笑聲) 接著有一位TED族成員對於我忽略了以下他認為是經典的片段而感到不滿： (影片) Roy Neary：「起床！起床！這不是在開玩笑。」Ronnie Neary：「發生意外了嗎？」 Roy：「不，這不是意外啦。反正你說過你想要離開這間房子的，對吧？」 Ronnie：「我又沒說要在凌晨四點鐘。」 以上是第三類接觸的片段，裡頭的要角之所以如此激動的原因，是因為外星人非得選在凌晨四點鐘在地球人們面前盛大的現身，這又是一個充分的例子。剛剛你看到的全都是很出色的例子。它們並沒有讓我更了解為什麼我看見那首詩時會覺得似曾相識，但它們都擁有某種關聯性，對吧？凌晨四點鐘就是一頭代罪羔羊，所有戲劇性事件都被宣稱發生在此時。也許這是一種從來沒有被辨認出來的老掉牙說辭。又或者我可能正在發現通往一種新模因還是什麼的路上。 就在事情變得有趣之後，它並沒有因此停止。TED.com在一年之後，發佈了幾個演講的影片，其中包括我的。我因此開始收到各種不同的凌晨四點鐘引證，它們似乎來自這星球的每處。大多數的內容都是靠我一個人沒辦法找到的，話說其實我也沒在找。因為我不認識任何患有青少年糖尿病的人，因此我可能不會接觸到這本書：《凌晨四點鐘的烤起司三明治》(笑聲)我也沒有訂閱這本《Crochet Today! 今日針織》雜誌，儘管它看起來還蠻宜人的啦。(笑聲)注意一下時鐘指針的位置。這張照片是一位大學生提供的，它展示了代表「凌晨四點鐘」的幫派手勢。人們寄給我他們在雜貨店拍的雜誌廣告。我也收到一堆圖像小說和漫畫，很多都是很棒的作品：《沙人》、《守護者》，還有一些來自《Calvin與Hobbes》的可愛例子。事實上，人們寄來最老的例子來自一部「石器時代」的卡通，來看看吧。 (影片) 威瑪·弗林史東：「像是有多早？」 弗萊德·弗林史東：「凌晨四點鐘，就是這麼早。」 Rives：而在時間軸的另一端，像是31世紀，也就是一千年之後，人們還是會這麼說： (影片) 廣播員：「現在是凌晨四點鐘。」(笑聲)Rives：完全展現出了例子的範圍。 我收到無以計數的歌、電視節目、電影，從爛片到有名的都有。而光光是把範圍集中在男電影明星，並且把每個片段的長度都弄得和廣告一樣，我就可以有4小時的例子給你看。以下就是例子： (包含「凌晨四點鐘」台詞的電影片段) (笑聲) Rives：所以當我回神的時候，我發現我有了一個興趣，我不知道我想不想要，但它得到大眾迴響。而我也想到了你們也許正在想到的事，也就是：難道我們不能夠針對一天中其他的時刻做一樣的事嗎？ 首先，你並沒有收到像這樣的關於下午四點的片段。其次，我做了一點小研究。你知道，我也蠻有興趣的。說不定這是個確認偏誤，也就是因為這些例子讓我選擇性注意這個時段。文學大概給了這點最好的證明。莎士比亞的作品中有幾個凌晨三點的例子。有一個凌晨五點也存在。另外還有七個凌晨四點，而且那時發生的事都很緊急。在《量.度》中，這是劊子手被傳喚的時間。托爾斯泰在《戰爭與和平》中，讓拿破崙在戰爭前夕的凌晨四點鐘失眠。夏綠蒂·勃朗特所著的《簡愛》中有一個關鍵的凌晨四點鐘場景。艾蜜莉·勃朗特的《咆嘯山莊》也是一樣。《羅莉塔》一書的凌晨四點鐘場景則很嚇人。《頑童歷險記》有一個方言版的凌晨四點鐘。有人寄給我赫伯特·喬治·威爾斯著的《隱形人》另外也有拉爾夫·艾里森的《隱形人》《大亨小傳》的主角在他人生中的最後一個凌晨四點鐘，等著從未現身的愛人。文學中最著名的「起床」大概是《變形記》中的第一段，主角醒來之後變成了一隻巨大的蟑螂。但撇開蟑螂不說，其實我們早就知道主角有哪裡不對勁了。為什麼？因為這傢伙設了一個凌晨四點鐘的鬧鐘。誰會做這種事啊？這種人就會： (音樂) (凌晨四點鐘片段)(影片) 新聞主播：「又到了新的小時，現在是新聞時間。不過當然，現在沒有新聞，因為每個人都現在都還在他們舒服的被窩中睡覺。」 Rives：完全正確。剛剛看到的是《花生》中的露西、在《親愛的媽咪》中第一天訓練的洛基、納爾遜·曼德拉在辦公室的第一天、還有霸子·辛普森，只要讓他跟蟑螂在一起，你的晚餐派對就毀了。這些例子都能夠在我的資料庫中成立新的條目：起床的人們。 想像一下，如果你的朋友或家人聽說你在收集北極熊玩偶，所以不斷寄給你的話，就算一開始並沒有這回事，不過在某個時間點之後，你就真的在收集北極熊玩偶了。而且你的收藏大概會蠻驚人的。當我面臨那個時間點時，我欣然接受了。我弄了一個資料庫，而且開始對這些例子做認證、下載、非法地擷取畫面，並開始歸檔工作。我的興趣變成了習慣，而這個習慣帶給我一個大概是最兼容並蓄的待看影片列表。有時候我會看到Guys and Dolls音樂劇，《巴黎最後的探戈》《遜咖日記》、《艷星傳奇》。為什麼會有《艷星傳奇》？因為某人告訴我我可以在這部電影找到以下片段： (影片)羅恩·傑里米：我出生於皇后區的法拉盛，時間是1953年的3月12號，凌晨四點。 Rives：這還用說嗎。(笑聲) (掌聲)對，它不僅看起來很合理，而且還回答了這個問題：「 羅恩·傑里米和西蒙·波娃有什麼共通點呢？」西蒙·波娃在她的一整本自傳開頭就這麼寫：「我出生於凌晨四點」。我會知道這個是因為有人寄給我。當我收到之後，這項收藏的價值又被提高了，因為色情片演員羅恩·傑里米和女權主義者西蒙·波娃並不是截然不同的人。他們之間有著這樣的聯繫，而我不知道這是瑣事、一種知識，或是不注意的專門技術，不過我在想，難道沒有更酷的方法可以做這件事嗎？ 所以去年十月，根據學者們的慣例，我決定把我的全部收藏放上網，並命名為「凌晨四點鐘博物館」。你只要點這個紅色的「重新整理」按鈕，這網站就會隨機地讓你看到在這上百個收藏中的其中一個小片段。這裡有一首很美的詩，是比利·柯林斯所著的《忘卻》 (影片)比利·柯林斯：「難怪你會在深夜中起床，就為了査找書中有名的戰爭發生在何時。難怪在窗上的月亮就彷彿來自一首你牢記在心的情詩。」 Rives：這個計劃開始後第一個小時的成果讓人很滿意。一位寶萊塢演員在咖啡店裡哼了一部DVD中的一段台詞。在地球另一半，一位青少年做了Instagram影片寄給我，我們完全素不相識。 不過在幾天之後，我收到了一點恩賜。我收到一則諷刺的推文，它很短，它只說：「這讓我想起了一捲老錄音帶。」 上頭的名字是個假名，或是假假名，當我看到這名字縮寫和大頭照之後，我馬上，不，我的整個身體馬上就知道她是誰。而我也馬上就想到了她到底在說哪一捲錄音帶。(音樂) L.D.是我大學時的交往對象。事情發生在90年代早期，當時我還是大學生。而她是一位主修圖書館學的研究生。不是那種拿掉眼鏡、放下頭髮，就突然變性感的圖書館員。她一直都很性感，而且她很呆，我們就這樣有了一段十二月/五月戀情，意思是說我們從十二月開始交往，而到了她在五月畢業之後，她就走離我的生命。 但她的那捲錄音帶並沒有離去。我把這捲錄音帶收藏在一個盒子中幾十年，其他還有一些筆記和明信片，不是L.D.寄的，只是我人生的收藏。這盒子是那種如果我有女朋友，我會藏起來不讓她看到的東西。但如果我有妻子，我確定我會和她一同分享。不過 — (笑聲) — 這個錄音帶呢，每一面都有七首歌，不過並沒有歌名。相反的，L.D使用了美國國會圖書館的分類系統，包括頁碼，來給我線索。當我收到這錄音帶之後，我就把它放進我的隨身聽，並帶到學校的圖書館，也就是她的圖書館，在那裡我從架子上找到了14本書。我還記得當時我把它們全都帶到了一個我喜歡的角落座位，並讀著與每首歌搭配的詩，就像食物和酒一樣。我能告訴你，它們就像涼鞋和鈷藍色的棉質洋裝一樣是搭配好的。 去年十月，我又做了同樣的事。我坐在那裡，戴著新耳機，用著老隨身聽，雖然我那時也很奢侈，我了解到這是一種不過我了解到這是一種我已習以為常的奢侈。接著我想「這件事對他來說是好事」。 「PG」代表斯拉夫文學，「7000」則是指當中的波蘭文學，「Z9A24」是一本含概70首詩的詩選。在第31頁有一首維斯拉瓦·辛波絲卡的詩，搭配保羅·賽門的歌《Peace Like A River》。 (音樂：保羅·賽門，《Peace Like A River》) (影片) 保羅·賽門：♪ 喔，凌晨四點的時候♪♪ 我自我的夢中醒來♪ Rives：謝謝，感謝你們的聆聽 。 (掌聲)
