Talk	en	zh-tw
rives_tells_a_story_of_mixed_emoticons	"This means, ""I'm smiling."" So does that. This means ""mouse."" ""Cat."" Here we have a story. The start of the story, where this means guy, and that is a ponytail on a passer-by. Here's where it happens. These are when. This is a cassette tape the girl puts into her cassette-tape player. She wears it every day. It's not considered vintage — she just likes certain music to sound a certain way. Look at her posture; it's remarkable. That's because she dances. Now he, the guy, takes all of this in, figuring, ""Honestly, geez, what are my chances?"" (Laughter) And he could say, ""Oh my God!"" or ""I heart you!"" ""I'm laughing out loud."" ""I want to give you a hug."" But he comes up with that, you know. He tells her, ""I'd like to hand-paint your portrait on a coffee mug."" (Laughter) Put a crab inside it. Add some water. Seven different salts. He means he's got this sudden notion to stand on dry land, but just panhandle at the ocean. He says, ""You look like a mermaid, but you walk like a waltz."" And the girl goes, ""Wha'?"" So, the guy replies, ""Yeah, I know, I know. I think my heartbeat might be the Morse code for inappropriate. At least, that's how it seems. I'm like a junior varsity cheerleader sometimes — for swearing, awkward silences, and very simple rhyme schemes. Right now, talking to you, I'm not even really a guy. I'm a monkey — (Laughter) — blowing kisses at a butterfly. But I'm still suggesting you and I should meet. First, soon, and then a lot. I'm thinking the southwest corner of 5th and 42nd at noon tomorrow, but I'll stay until you show up, ponytail or not. Hell, ponytail alone. I don't know what else to tell you. I got a pencil you can borrow. You can put it in your phone."" But the girl does not budge, does not smile, does not frown. She just says, ""No thank you."" You know? [ ""i don't need 2 write it down."" ] (Applause)"	"這表示我正在微笑這個也是這個表示老鼠貓這裡我們有個故事故事一開始，這表示有個男人那是一個綁著馬尾的路人這是發生的地方那些是發生的時間這是一個錄音帶 女孩把錄音帶放進錄音機中她每天帶著它她不是想要復古她只是喜歡用某種方式來聽某種音樂看她的姿勢 這很了不起那是因為她在跳舞現在，那個男的看到這些，心裡想著老實說，哎呀，我有什麼機會阿~~ (笑聲) 而他可以說 ""喔~我的天""或 ""我心心你!""我笑得很大聲我想給你一個擁抱但是他想出這些 你知道的他跟她說 我想要手繪你的肖像在馬克杯上 笑聲 放一隻螃蟹在裡面加上一些水七種不同的鹽他表示他一時興起站在陸地上但是向大海乞求他說，你看起來像美人魚，但你走起路來像跳華爾茲那女孩說 ""什麼??""所以男的就說 對 我知道我知道我想我的心跳像是摩斯密碼一樣不規則至少，事情就是這樣我有時候像是大一的啦啦隊長只會漫罵，不知如何是好的安靜，以及十分簡單的韻律 在這一刻 告訴你吧 我甚至不是個人我是一隻猴子(笑)獻上飛吻給一隻蝴蝶但是我仍然建議你和我碰個面首先，要快，然後要經常碰面我想就約在明天中午在第五街與第42街西南角但是我會在那兒直到你出現，不管有沒有綁著馬尾嘿~馬尾女孩我不知道還要告訴你些什麼我有一支鉛筆可以借給你你可以放在你的電話裡但是女孩並沒有動靜 沒有微笑 沒有皺眉她只是說，不用了，謝謝你知道嗎？我不需要寫下來... (鼓掌)"
