Talk	en	zh-tw
rives_on_4_a_m	"This is a recent comic strip from the Los Angeles Times. The punch line? ""On the other hand, I don't have to get up at four every single morning to milk my Labrador."" This is a recent cover of New York Magazine. Best hospitals where doctors say they would go for cancer treatment, births, strokes, heart disease, hip replacements, 4 a.m. emergencies. And this is a song medley I put together — (Music) Did you ever notice that four in the morning has become some sort of meme or shorthand? It means something like you are awake at the worst possible hour. (Laughter) A time for inconveniences, mishaps, yearnings. A time for plotting to whack the chief of police, like in this classic scene from ""The Godfather."" Coppola's script describes these guys as, ""exhausted in shirt sleeves. It is four in the morning."" (Laughter) A time for even grimmer stuff than that, like autopsies and embalmings in Isabel Allende's ""The House of the Spirits."" After the breathtaking green-haired Rosa is murdered, the doctors preserve her with unguents and morticians' paste. They worked until four o'clock in the morning. A time for even grimmer stuff than that, like in last April's New Yorker magazine. This short fiction piece by Martin Amis starts out, ""On September 11, 2001, he opened his eyes at 4 a.m. in Portland, Maine, and Mohamed Atta's last day began."" For a time that I find to be the most placid and uneventful hour of the day, four in the morning sure gets an awful lot of bad press — (Laughter) across a lot of different media from a lot of big names. And it made me suspicious. I figured, surely some of the most creative artistic minds in the world, really, aren't all defaulting back to this one easy trope like they invented it, right? Could it be there is something more going on here? Something deliberate, something secret, and who got the four in the morning bad rap ball rolling anyway? I say this guy — Alberto Giacometti, shown here with some of his sculptures on the Swiss 100 franc note. He did it with this famous piece from the New York Museum of Modern Art. Its title — ""The Palace at Four in the Morning — (Laughter) 1932. Not just the earliest cryptic reference to four in the morning I can find. I believe that this so-called first surrealist sculpture may provide an incredible key to virtually every artistic depiction of four in the morning to follow it. I call this The Giacometti Code, a TED exclusive. No, feel free to follow along on your Blackberries or your iPhones if you've got them. It works a little something like — this is a recent Google search for four in the morning. Results vary, of course. This is pretty typical. The top 10 results yield you four hits for Faron Young's song, ""It's Four in the Morning,"" three hits for Judi Dench's film, ""Four in the Morning,"" one hit for Wislawa Szymborska's poem, ""Four in the Morning."" But what, you may ask, do a Polish poet, a British Dame, a country music hall of famer all have in common besides this totally excellent Google ranking? Well, let's start with Faron Young — who was born incidentally in 1932. (Laughter) In 1996, he shot himself in the head on December ninth — which incidentally is Judi Dench's birthday. (Laughter) But he didn't die on Dench's birthday. He languished until the following afternoon when he finally succumbed to a supposedly self-inflicted gunshot wound at the age of 64 — which incidentally is how old Alberto Giacometti was when he died. Where was Wislawa Szymborska during all this? She has the world's most absolutely watertight alibi. On that very day, December 10, 1996 while Mr. Four in the Morning, Faron Young, was giving up the ghost in Nashville, Tennessee, Ms. Four in the Morning — or one of them anyway — Wislawa Szymborska was in Stockholm, Sweden, accepting the Nobel Prize for Literature. 100 years to the day after the death of Alfred Nobel himself. Coincidence? No, it's creepy. (Laughter) Coincidence to me has a much simpler metric. That's like me telling you, ""Hey, you know the Nobel Prize was established in 1901, which coincidentally is the same year Alberto Giacometti was born?"" No, not everything fits so tidily into the paradigm, but that does not mean there's not something going on at the highest possible levels. In fact there are people in this room who may not want me to show you this clip we're about to see. (Laughter) Video: Homer Simpson: We have a tennis court, a swimming pool, a screening room — You mean if I want pork chops, even in the middle of the night, your guy will fry them up? Herbert Powell: Sure, that's what he's paid for. Now do you need towels, laundry, maids? HS: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait — let me see if I got this straight. It is Christmas Day, 4 a.m. There's a rumble in my stomach. Marge Simpson: Homer, please. Rives: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let me see if I got this straight, Matt. (Laughter) When Homer Simpson needs to imagine the most remote possible moment of not just the clock, but the whole freaking calendar, he comes up with 0400 on the birthday of the Baby Jesus. And no, I don't know how it works into the whole puzzling scheme of things, but obviously I know a coded message when I see one. (Laughter) I said, I know a coded message when I see one. And folks, you can buy a copy of Bill Clinton's ""My Life"" from the bookstore here at TED. Parse it cover to cover for whatever hidden references you want. Or you can go to the Random House website where there is this excerpt. And how far down into it you figure we'll have to scroll to get to the golden ticket? Would you believe about a dozen paragraphs? This is page 474 on your paperbacks if you're following along: ""Though it was getting better, I still wasn't satisfied with the inaugural address. My speechwriters must have been tearing their hair out because as we worked between one and four in the morning on Inauguration Day, I was still changing it."" Sure you were, because you've prepared your entire life for this historic quadrennial event that just sort of sneaks up on you. And then — (Laughter) three paragraphs later we get this little beauty: ""We went back to Blair House to look at the speech for the last time. It had gotten a lot better since 4 a.m."" Well, how could it have? By his own writing, this man was either asleep, at a prayer meeting with Al and Tipper or learning how to launch a nuclear missile out of a suitcase. What happens to American presidents at 0400 on inauguration day? What happened to William Jefferson Clinton? We might not ever know. And I noticed, he's not exactly around here today to face any tough questions. (Laughter) It could get awkward, right? I mean after all, this whole business happened on his watch. But if he were here — (Laughter) he might remind us, as he does in the wrap-up to his fine autobiography, that on this day Bill Clinton began a journey — a journey that saw him go on to become the first Democrat president elected to two consecutive terms in decades. In generations. The first since this man, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who began his own unprecedented journey way back at his own first election, way back in a simpler time, way back in 1932 — (Laughter) the year Alberto Giacometti (Laughter) made ""The Palace at Four in the Morning."" The year, let's remember, that this voice, now departed, first came a-cryin' into this big old crazy world of ours. (Music) (Applause)"	這是最近洛杉磯時報裡的一幅漫畫笑點是？「另一方面，我不用每天凌晨四點起床」「替我的拉布拉多餵奶」這是紐約雜誌最近一期封面醫生都會去的最佳醫院，提供癌症治療、婦產、中風、心臟病、髖關節置換、凌晨四點的急救這是一首我自己接的歌 (音樂) 有沒有發現凌晨四點已經變成一種代稱了？它表示，你在世上最糟糕的時間還醒著 (笑聲) 不方便、悲劇、打哈欠的時間像是《教父》裡的經典鏡頭這密謀攻擊警察局長的時間柯波拉的劇本對這些人的描述是：「穿著短袖、精疲力盡」「已經凌晨四點了」 (笑聲) 還有更糟的像是伊莎貝爾．阿言德小說《精靈之屋》裡解剖防腐的時間就在美麗的綠髮少女Rosa被害後醫生們用油膏、防腐劑來保存屍體他們工作到凌晨四點 更糟的還沒完去年四月的《紐約客》雜誌裡有部馬丁．艾米斯(Martin Amis)寫的短篇小說小說開頭：「2001年9月11日，他張開雙眼，」「就在凌晨四點，於緬因州的波特蘭市」「Mohamed Atta的最後一天開始了。」這個我覺得很平靜、悠閒的時間凌晨四點鐘竟然有這麼多負面評價 (笑聲) 各大媒體都這樣報害我生疑了起來我想，世界上這麼多極富創意的人不可能就這樣接受這比喻還好像他們發明的一樣是不是有更多原因？故意的、 神秘的原因還有，到底是誰開始講凌晨四點壞話的？我說，就是這個人：阿貝特．傑克梅第(Alberto Giacometti)以及他印在瑞士百元鈔的雕像他在紐約現代藝術博物館展出的這個作品：《凌晨四點的宮殿》 (笑聲) 於1932年我不止因此找到最早的凌晨四點神秘來源我相信這個所謂的第一個超現實主義雕塑就是往後的創作者對於凌晨四點描述的關鍵我取名為：傑克梅第密碼，TED獨家如果手上有黑莓機、iPhone的歡迎上網搜尋一下 結果大概像這樣，這是最近用Google作的凌晨四點搜尋結果當然很多，一定的前十名的結果裡有四個是費倫楊(Faron Young)的歌：凌晨四點鐘有三個是茱蒂丹契的電影《凌晨四點鐘》一個是辛波斯卡(Wislawa Szymborska)的詩《凌晨四點鐘》你會問，一個波蘭詩人、一個英國女爵士、與一個鄉村名歌手的共通點在哪？當然除了Google排行前幾名以外 先講費倫楊好了，他正好在1932年出生 (笑聲) 1996年12月9日，他舉槍自盡那天正好是茱蒂丹契的生日 (笑聲) 但他其實不是在丹契的生日當天死掉他命危到隔天下午才離開人世因為自己造成的槍傷，享年64歲竟然和傑克梅第以同樣的年齡去世 那辛波斯卡到哪去了？她有全世界最完美的不在場證明1996年12月10日這天，凌晨四點鐘先生費倫楊在田納西州的納什維爾歸西天時凌晨四點鐘女士之一的辛波斯卡正在瑞典首都接受諾貝爾文學獎正好是諾貝爾本人去世第100年巧合嗎？不，超毛的 (笑聲) 巧合還比較簡單一點好像我說：「你知道諾貝爾獎在1901年設立」「那年正好是傑克梅第的出生年」當然不是每件事都這麼巧合但不表示沒有其他詭異的事也發生著事實上，在座一定有人不想看我將要播的影片 (笑聲) 我們有網球場、游泳池、影音室你是說，如果我半夜想吃豬排有人會幫我煎？ 當然，我花錢請來的你需要毛巾、洗衣服、女傭嗎？ 等等、等等，讓我搞清楚如果是耶誕節凌晨四點我肚子餓了 荷馬，拜託 等等、等等讓我搞清楚，Matt (辛普森家庭作者) (笑聲) 當荷馬辛普森想著世界上最糟的時刻他想到的是，耶穌誕生這天的凌晨四點鐘我不知道是怎麼搞的這整個難解的陰謀，不過我看到密碼就知道 (笑聲) 我說，我看到密碼就知道各位可以到旁邊書局買本柯林頓回憶錄《我的人生》從頭到尾找尋神秘線索或者可以到藍燈書屋網站找節錄你滑鼠要捲多久才找的到神秘寶物？你相信嗎？大概就十幾段這是平裝版第474頁，可以看到：「就職演說稿已經寫得很好了，」「但我還是不滿意，」「我的撰稿人一定快抓破頭了，」「因為我們在就職典禮當天，從凌晨一點弄到四點」「還是沒弄出最終稿。」 最好是，好像你等一輩子的這個四年一次的典禮，就這樣偷偷來到一樣然後－ (笑聲) 三段之後果然發現了「我們回到布萊爾賓館，檢查最終稿，」「四點過後果然好多了。」真的是這樣嗎？照他的邏輯，這個人不是在睡覺就是和高爾夫婦一起禱告，或是學著怎麼將核彈從手提包裡發射就職典禮當天凌晨四點的美國總統們到底在幹嘛？柯林頓那時候到底在幹嘛？我們無從得知我也注意到，他今天沒有來現場無法接受提問 (笑聲) 這樣應該很尷尬我是說，這些事都在他眼下發生他如果有來－ (笑聲) 他可能會提醒我們，就如他自傳裡寫的從這天起，柯林頓開始了他的旅程這旅程，他成為好幾世代以來民主黨首位連任的總統自羅斯福總統以後的首位羅斯福總統前所未見的旅程從他第一次選舉正是簡單的那年－1932(笑聲) 傑克梅第創作 (笑聲) 《凌晨四點的宮殿》那年那年，讓我們記得，這逝去的聲音...首度來到這個瘋狂的世上 (音樂) (掌聲)
