Talk	en	zh-tw
rives_remixes_ted2006	"Mockingbirds are badass. (Laughter) They are. Mockingbirds — that's Mimus polyglottos — are the emcees of the animal kingdom. They listen and mimic and remix what they like. They rock the mic outside my window every morning. I can hear them sing the sounds of the car alarms like they were songs of spring. I mean, if you can talk it, a mockingbird can squawk it. So check it, I'm gonna to catch mockingbirds. I'm going to trap mockingbirds all across the nation and put them gently into mason jars like mockingbird Molotov cocktails. (Laughter) Yeah. And as I drive through a neighborhood, say, where people got-a-lotta, I'll take a mockingbird I caught in a neighborhood where folks ain't got nada and just let it go, you know. Up goes the bird, out come the words, ""Juanito, Juanito, vente a comer mi hijo!"" Oh, I'm going to be the Johnny Appleseed of sound. (Laughter) Cruising random city streets, rocking a drop-top Cadillac with a big backseat, packing like 13 brown paper Walmart bags full of loaded mockingbirds, and I'll get everybody. (Laughter) I'll get the nitwit on the network news saying, ""We'll be back in a moment with more on the crisis."" I'll get some asshole at a watering hole asking what brand the ice is. I'll get that lady at the laundromat who always seems to know what being nice is. I'll get your postman making dinner plans. I'll get the last time you lied. I'll get, ""Baby, just give me the frickin' TV guide."" I'll get a lonely, little sentence with real error in it, ""Yeah, I guess I could come inside, but only for a minute."" (Laughter) I'll get an ESL class in Chinatown learning ""It's Raining, It's Pouring."" I'll put a mockingbird on a late-night train just to get an old man snoring. I'll get your ex-lover telling someone else, ""Good morning."" I'll get everyone's good mornings. I don't care how you make 'em. Aloha. Konichiwa. Shalom. Ah-Salam Alaikum. Everybody means everybody, means everybody here. And so maybe I'll build a gilded cage. I'll line the bottom with old notebook pages. Inside it, I will place a mockingbird for — short explanation, hippie parents. (Laughter) What does a violin have to do with technology? Where in the world is this world heading? On one end, gold bars — on the other, an entire planet. We are 12 billion light years from the edge. That's a guess. Space is length and breadth continued indefinitely, but you cannot buy a ticket to travel commercially to space in America because countries are beginning to eat like us, live like us and die like us. You might wanna avert your gaze, because that is a newt about to regenerate its limb, and shaking hands spreads more germs than kissing. There's about 10 million phage per job. It's a very strange world inside a nanotube. Women can talk; black men ski; white men build strong buildings; we build strong suns. The surface of the Earth is absolutely riddled with holes, and here we are, right in the middle. (Laughter) It is the voice of life that calls us to come and learn. When all the little mockingbirds fly away, they're going to sound like the last four days. I will get uptown gurus, downtown teachers, broke-ass artists and dealers, and Filipino preachers, leaf blowers, bartenders, boob-job doctors, hooligans, garbage men, your local Congressmen in the spotlight, guys in the overhead helicopters. Everybody gets heard. Everybody gets this one, honest mockingbird as a witness. And I'm on this. I'm on this 'til the whole thing spreads, with chat rooms and copycats and moms maybe tucking kids into bed singing, ""Hush, little baby, don't say a word. Wait for the man with the mockingbird."" (Laughter) Yeah. And then come the news crews, and the man-in-the-street interviews, and the letters to the editor. Everybody asking, just who is responsible for this citywide, nationwide mockingbird cacophony, and somebody finally is going to tip the City Council of Monterey, California off to me, and they'll offer me a key to the city. A gold-plated, oversized key to the city and that is all I need, 'cause if I get that, I can unlock the air. I'll listen for what's missing, and I'll put it there. Thank you, TED. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Wow. (Applause) Wow. (Applause)"	仿聲鳥很討厭， （笑）這是真的。仿聲鳥，又稱反舌鳥，在動物世界裡充當著司儀， 它們聆聽、模仿，然後隨心所欲地混合各種聲音。它們每天早晨在我的窗外唱歌，我可以聽到它們模仿汽車警鈴聲，唱得就好像春天的歌聲。我是說只要你發出聲音，它就會模仿。看著吧，我要捉仿聲鳥，我要把全國所有的仿聲鳥捉起來，然後小心的放進瓶裡，像是仿聲鳥莫洛托夫雞尾酒。 （笑） 真的。當我開車經過某個有錢人的社區，我要把一隻我從窮人社區裡抓到的仿聲鳥放出來，讓那隻鳥一邊飛，一邊唱著“華尼托，華尼托，吃了我的孩子！”噢，我聽起來真像約翰‧蘋果種子(美國開墾時期童話) （笑） 在城市街道上，駕駛著敞蓬凱迪拉克亂逛，寬闊的後座上放著13個沃爾瑪的紙袋，全都裝滿仿聲鳥，這樣就會收集到每個人的聲音。 （笑） 我會收集到糊塗蟲在網路新聞裡的聲音：“待會兒回來會有更多災難詳情”；我會收集到某個混蛋在酒吧裡詢問冰的品牌；我會收集到洗衣店裡那永遠客氣的女士的聲音；我會收集到你的郵差在計畫晚餐吃什麼；我會收集到你上一次說謊的聲音；我會收集到：“親愛的，給我可惡的電視節目表”；我會收集到孤獨的、簡短的句子，代表某人犯錯了：“好的，我會進來，但只能待一分鐘”； （笑） 我會收集到唐人街的英語課：“下雨了，下大雨了”；我會把仿聲鳥放在夜班車上，去收集老人的鼾聲；我會收集到你的前任愛人跟別人說：“早安”；我會收集到每個人的“早安”，不管你用甚麼語言說，夏威夷語、日語、阿拉伯語，每種語言的意思都一樣，都是早安。或許我會蓋一個鍍金的籠子，下面撲滿一頁頁的筆記紙，裡面放著一隻仿聲鳥，給...就是給嬉皮年代的父母。 （笑） 小提琴與科技有甚麼關係？世界將朝什麼方向發展？這一頭是金條...另外一頭是整個星球。我們的距離有120億光年，我猜。太空是長度和寬度不斷的擴張，但在美國你買不到去太空旅行的機票，因為其他國家已開始模仿美國人的食衣住行。你可能想要轉移別人對你的注意力，因為蠑螈的四肢將會再生，而握手會比接吻傳播更多細菌，每次可以傳播大概一千萬個噬菌，奈米管是一個奇怪的世界。女人發表談話、黑人滑雪、白人建造穩固建築，我們則創造熾熱的太陽。地球表面千瘡百孔，而我們就在這裡，就在地球的正中間。 （笑） 生命的聲音在呼喚我們來學習，當小小的仿聲鳥飛走時，他們發出的聲音會像世界末日的最後四天。我會收集到各種聲音，包括上城大師、下城老師、貧窮的畫家和經紀人、菲律賓傳教士、清掃落葉的工人、酒保、隆乳醫生、流氓、垃圾清潔工人、聚光燈下的當地眾議員、在直升機裡的人等，我會聽到每個人的聲音，每個人都會有一隻老實的仿聲鳥做見證，我就是要這樣做，直到大家都知道我這麼做為止，直到有我的聊天室和模仿我的人出現，還有陪伴孩子入睡的媽媽唱著，“噓，小寶寶，不要說話，拿著仿聲鳥的男人等一下就出現” （笑） 真的。然後新聞界的人會來，幫我做街頭訪問，把文章交給編輯。每個人都會問，誰該為全市或全國的仿聲鳥發出的雜音負責？最後終於有某個人出來向加州蒙特利市的議會舉發我，然後他們會頒給我城市之鑰，一條鍍金、超大尺寸的城市之鑰，這就是我要的，因為如果我有這把鑰匙，我就有辦法，我會傾聽人們缺少什麼，然後給他們那些東西。感謝你們，TED。 （掌聲） 克里斯．安德生：“哇” （掌聲） 哇！ （掌聲）
