Talk	en	zh-tw
rives_controls_the_internet	"I wrote this poem after hearing a pretty well known actress tell a very well known interviewer on television, ""I'm really getting into the Internet lately. I just wish it were more organized."" So ... (Laughter) If I controlled the Internet, you could auction your broken heart on eBay. Take the money; go to Amazon; buy a phonebook for a country you've never been to — call folks at random until you find someone who flirts really well in a foreign language. (Laughter) If I were in charge of the Internet, you could Mapquest your lover's mood swings. Hang left at cranky, right at preoccupied, U-turn on silent treatment, all the way back to tongue kissing and good lovin'. You could navigate and understand every emotional intersection. Some days, I'm as shallow as a baking pan, but I still stretch miles in all directions. If I owned the Internet, Napster, Monster and Friendster.com would be one big website. That way you could listen to cool music while you pretend to look for a job and you're really just chattin' with your pals. (Laughter) Heck, if I ran the Web, you could email dead people. (Laughter) They would not email you back (Laughter) — but you'd get an automated reply. (Laughter) Their name in your inbox (Laughter) — it's all you wanted anyway. And a message saying, ""Hey, it's me. I miss you. (Laughter) Listen, you'll see being dead is dandy. Now you go back to raising kids and waging peace and craving candy."" If I designed the Internet, childhood.com would be a loop of a boy in an orchard, with a ski pole for a sword, trashcan lid for a shield, shouting, ""I am the emperor of oranges. I am the emperor of oranges. I am the emperor of oranges."" Now follow me, OK? (Laughter) Grandma.com would be a recipe for biscuits and spit-bath instructions. One, two, three. That links with hotdiggitydog.com. That is my grandfather. They take you to gruff-ex-cop-on-his-fourth-marriage.dad. He forms an attachment to kind-of-ditzy-but-still-sends-ginger-snaps-for-Christmas.mom, who downloads the boy in the orchard, the emperor of oranges, who grows up to be me — the guy who usually goes too far. So if I were emperor of the Internet, I guess I'd still be mortal, huh? But at that point, I would probably already have the lowest possible mortgage and the most enlarged possible penis (Laughter) — so I would outlaw spam on my first day in office. I wouldn't need it. I'd be like some kind of Internet genius, and me, I'd like to upgrade to deity and maybe just like that — pop! — I'd go wireless. (Laughter) Huh? Maybe Google would hire this. I could zip through your servers and firewalls like a virus until the World Wide Web is as wise, as wild and as organized as I think a modern-day miracle/oracle can get, but, ooh-eee, you want to bet just how whack and un-PC your Mac or PC is going to be when I'm rocking hot-shit-hot-shot-god.net? I guess it's just like life. It is not a question of if you can — it's: do ya? We can interfere with the interface. We can make ""You've got Hallelujah"" the national anthem of cyberspace every lucky time we log on. You don't say a prayer. You don't write a psalm. You don't chant an ""om."" You send one blessed email to whomever you're thinking of at dah-da-la-dat-da-dah-da-la-dat.com. Thank you, TED. (Applause)"	我寫下這首詩是在我聽到一個十分知名的女演員在電視上告訴一個家瑜戶曉的主持人「最近我迷上了網路不過我希望它能更加有規律。」所以(笑聲)如果由我來掌控網路的話你可以在eBay拍賣你破碎的心拿著錢，聯結到亞馬遜網上(網路書店)買一本你從未去過的國家的電話簿，打給不認識的人打不停，直到你找到很會用外文調情的人為止 (笑聲) 如果由我掌管網際網路你可以查詢你情人的心情動態地圖。暴躁時左轉，沒時間時右轉冷戰時來個迴轉，一路回到舌吻和美好的戀愛每一個情緒路口你都可以導航和理解。有時候我膚淺的跟平底鍋一樣，但我仍朝各個方向延伸好幾哩。如果網際網路歸我所有，Napster, Monster and Friendster.com會整合成為一個大網站。這樣你就可以邊聽酷酷的音樂然後一邊假裝找工作但是你其實上是在和朋友聊天。 (笑聲) 為什不行呢~如果我管網路，你可以寄電子郵件給死人 (笑聲) 雖然他們無法回信給你(笑聲)但你會得到一封自動回覆。 (笑聲)他們的名字在你的收件夾匣出現－(笑聲)反正你要的不過也是如此。內容寫著：「喂，是我。我想你。 (笑聲) 告訴你，你以後就會知道死亡有多讚。你現在繼續去養孩子、鼓吹和平和渴望糖果吧。」如果網際網路是我設計的，童年網會是有關一個在果樹園裡的男孩，以滑雪桿為劍，垃圾桶蓋為盾，一直喊著：「我是橘子之王。我是橘子之王。我是橘子之王。」跟著我的思考方式一起，好嗎？ (笑聲) 祖母網，會是餅乾食譜和如何用口水幫孫子清理的教學。一、二、三(用口水梳小孩的頭髮)。這帶入了hotdiggitydog.com。他是我祖父。他們倆連結你到「臭臉－退休警察－和他的第四次婚姻的爸爸」。隨帶著的連結是「有點愚蠢－但聖誕節仍然送薑餅的母親」，她下載了在果園裡的男孩，橘子之王，長大了之後就是我－一個總是扯太遠的人。所以如果我是網路之王我猜我應該還是凡人吧？但到時候，我可能已經有低到不能再低的房貸及大到不能再大的”大老二”(笑聲)那麼我會在上班第一天宣布垃圾郵件不需要過濾了。因為我不會需要它。我會是個網路天才，而我，我希望升級為神人，而或許我就會－碰－我變無線了。 (笑聲) 啥？搞不好谷歌會用我這個主意。我能快速穿梭於你的伺服器和防火牆，就像病毒直到全球資訊網，如此狂野又有規律一如我覺得現今奇蹟/預言之所能及，但，哎呀，你們要不要賭賭看你們的電腦會變得多不電腦化，一旦我掌控了熱門神人的網站？我想這就像人生。問題不在於你是否可以。而是，你要嗎？我們可以干涉任何的介面。我們可以立「你有哈雷路亞」為虛擬空間的國歌在每一次我們登入的幸運時間不用念祈禱文。不用寫讚美詩。不用唱頌翁。只要發送一封祈福過的電郵給你想到的任何人在答答啦答答答答啦搭.com。謝謝，TED。 (掌聲)
