Talk	en	zh-tw
rob_hopkins_transition_to_a_world_without_oil	"As a culture, we tell ourselves lots of stories about the future, and where we might move forward from this point. Some of those stories are that somebody is just going to sort everything out for us. Other stories are that everything is on the verge of unraveling. But I want to tell you a different story here today. Like all stories, it has a beginning. My work, for a long time, has been involved in education, in teaching people practical skills for sustainability, teaching people how to take responsibility for growing some of their own food, how to build buildings using local materials, how to generate their own energy, and so on. I lived in Ireland, built the first straw-bale houses in Ireland, and some cob buildings and all this kind of thing. But all my work for many years was focused around the idea that sustainability means basically looking at the globalized economic growth model, and moderating what comes in at one end, and moderating the outputs at the other end. And then I came into contact with a way of looking at things which actually changed that profoundly. And in order to introduce you to that, I've got something here that I'm going to unveil, which is one of the great marvels of the modern age. And it's something so astounding and so astonishing that I think maybe as I remove this cloth a suitable gasp of amazement might be appropriate. If you could help me with that it would be fantastic. (Laughter) This is a liter of oil. This bottle of oil, distilled over a hundred million years of geological time, ancient sunlight, contains the energy equivalent of about five weeks hard human manual labor — equivalent to about 35 strong people coming round and working for you. We can turn it into a dazzling array of materials, medicine, modern clothing, laptops, a whole range of different things. It gives us an energy return that's unimaginable, historically. We've based the design of our settlements, our business models, our transport plans, even the idea of economic growth, some would argue, on the assumption that we will have this in perpetuity. Yet, when we take a step back, and look over the span of history, at what we might call the petroleum interval, it's a short period in history where we've discovered this extraordinary material, and then based a whole way of life around it. But as we straddle the top of this energy mountain, at this stage, we move from a time where our economic success, our sense of individual prowess and well-being is directly linked to how much of this we consume, to a time when actually our degree of oil dependency is our degree of vulnerability. And it's increasingly clear that we aren't going to be able to rely on the fact that we're going to have this at our disposal forever. For every four barrels of oil that we consume, we only discover one. And that gap continues to widen. There is also the fact that the amount of energy that we get back from the oil that we discover is falling. In the 1930s we got 100 units of energy back for every one that we put in to extract it. Completely unprecedented, historically. Already that's fallen to about 11. And that's why, now, the new breakthroughs, the new frontiers in terms of oil extraction are scrambling about in Alberta, or at the bottom of the oceans. There are 98 oil-producing nations in the world. But of those, 65 have already passed their peak. The moment when the world on average passes this peak, people wonder when that's going to happen. And there is an emerging case that maybe that was what happened last July when the oil prices were so high. But are we to assume that the same brilliance and creativity and adaptability that got us up to the top of that energy mountain in the first place is somehow mysteriously going to evaporate when we have to design a creative way back down the other side? No. But the thinking that we have to come up with has to be based on a realistic assessment of where we are. There is also the issue of climate change, is the other thing that underpins this transition approach. But the thing that I notice, as I talk to climate scientists, is the increasingly terrified look they have in their eyes, as the data that's coming in, which is far ahead of what the IPCC are talking about. So the IPCC said that we might see significant breakup of the arctic ice in 2100, in their worst case scenario. Actually, if current trends continue, it could all be gone in five or 10 years' time. If just three percent of the carbon locked up in the arctic permafrost is released as the world warms, it would offset all the savings that we need to make, in carbon, over the next 40 years to avoid runaway climate change. We have no choice other than deep and urgent decarbonization. But I'm always very interested to think about what might the stories be that the generations further down the slope from us are going to tell about us. ""The generation that lived at the top of the mountain, that partied so hard, and so abused its inheritance."" And one of the ways I like to do that is to look back at the stories people used to tell before we had cheap oil, before we had fossil fuels, and people relied on their own muscle, animal muscle energy, or a little bit of wind, little bit of water energy. We had stories like ""The Seven-League Boots"": the giant who had these boots, where, once you put them on, with every stride you could cover seven leagues, or 21 miles, a kind of travel completely unimaginable to people without that kind of energy at their disposal. Stories like The Magic Porridge Pot, where you had a pot where if you knew the magic words, this pot would just make as much food as you liked, without you having to do any work, provided you could remember the other magic word to stop it making porridge. Otherwise you'd flood your entire town with warm porridge. There is the story of ""The Elves and the Shoemaker."" The people who make shoes go to sleep, wake up in the morning, and all the shoes are magically made for them. It's something that was unimaginable to people then. Now we have the seven-league boots in the form of Ryanair and Easyjet. We have the magic porridge pot in the form of Walmart and Tesco. And we have the elves in the form of China. But we don't appreciate what an astonishing thing that has been. And what are the stories that we tell ourselves now, as we look forward about where we're going to go. And I would argue that there are four. There is the idea of business as usual, that the future will be like the present, just more of it. But as we've seen over the last year, I think that's an idea that is increasingly coming into question. And in terms of climate change, is something that is not actually feasible. There is the idea of hitting the wall, that actually somehow everything is so fragile that it might just all unravel and collapse. This is a popular story in some places. The third story is the idea that technology can solve everything, that technology can somehow get us through this completely. And it's an idea that I think is very prevalent at these TED Talks, the idea that we can invent our way out of a profound economic and energy crisis, that a move to a knowledge economy can somehow neatly sidestep those energy constraints, the idea that we'll discover some fabulous new source of energy that will mean we can sweep all concerns about energy security to one side, the idea that we can step off neatly onto a completely renewable world. But the world isn't Second Life. We can't create new land and new energy systems at the click of a mouse. And as we sit, exchanging free ideas with each other, there are still people mining coal in order to power the servers, extracting the minerals to make all of those things. The breakfast that we eat as we sit down to check our email in the morning is still transported at great distances, usually at the expense of the local, more resilient food systems that would have supplied that in the past, which we've so effectively devalued and dismantled. We can be astonishingly inventive and creative. But we also live in a world with very real constraints and demands. Energy and technology are not the same thing. What I'm involved with is the transition response. And this is really about looking the challenges of peak oil and climate change square in the face, and responding with a creativity and an adaptability and an imagination that we really need. It's something which has spread incredibly fast. And it is something which has several characteristics. It's viral. It seems to spread under the radar very, very quickly. It's open source. It's something which everybody who's involved with it develops and passes on as they work with it. It's self-organizing. There is no great central organization that pushes this; people just pick up an idea and they run with it, and they implement it where they are. It's solutions-focused. It's very much looking at what people can do where they are, to respond to this. It's sensitive to place and to scale. Transitional is completely different. Transition groups in Chile, transition groups in the U.S., transition groups here, what they're doing looks very different in every place that you go to. It learns very much from its mistakes. And it feels historic. It tries to create a sense that this is a historic opportunity to do something really extraordinary. And it's a process which is really joyful. People have a huge amount of fun doing this, reconnecting with other people as they do it. One of the things that underpins it is this idea of resilience. And I think, in many ways, the idea of resilience is a more useful concept than the idea of sustainability. The idea of resilience comes from the study of ecology. And it's really about how systems, settlements, withstand shock from the outside. When they encounter shock from the outside that they don't just unravel and fall to pieces. And I think it's a more useful concept than sustainability, as I said. When our supermarkets have only two or three days' worth of food in them at any one time, often sustainability tends to focus on the energy efficiency of the freezers and on the packaging that the lettuces are wrapped up in. Looking through the lens of resilience, we really question how we've let ourselves get into a situation that's so vulnerable. Resilience runs much deeper: it's about building modularity into what we do, building surge breakers into how we organize the basic things that support us. This is a photograph of the Bristol and District Market Gardeners Association, in 1897. This is at a time when the city of Bristol, which is quite close to here, was surrounded by commercial market gardens, which provided a significant amount of the food that was consumed in the town, and created a lot of employment for people, as well. There was a degree of resilience, if you like, at that time, which we can now only look back on with envy. So how does this transition idea work? So basically, you have a group of people who are excited by the idea. They pick up some of the tools that we've developed. They start to run an awareness-raising program looking at how this might actually work in the town. They show films, they give talks, and so on. It's a process which is playful and creative and informative. Then they start to form working groups, looking at different aspects of this, and then from that, there emerge a whole lot of projects which then the transition project itself starts to support and enable. So it started out with some work I was involved in in Ireland, where I was teaching, and has since spread. There are now over 200 formal transition projects. And there are thousands of others who are at what we call the mulling stage. They are mulling whether they're going to take it further. And actually a lot of them are doing huge amounts of stuff. But what do they actually do? You know, it's a kind of nice idea, but what do they actually do on the ground? Well, I think it's really important to make the point that actually you know, this isn't something which is going to do everything on its own. We need international legislation from Copenhagen and so on. We need national responses. We need local government responses. But all of those things are going to be much easier if we have communities that are vibrant and coming up with ideas and leading from the front, making unelectable policies electable, over the next 5 to 10 years. Some of the things that emerge from it are local food projects, like community-supported agriculture schemes, urban food production, creating local food directories, and so on. A lot of places now are starting to set up their own energy companies, community-owned energy companies, where the community can invest money into itself, to start putting in place the kind of renewable energy infrastructure that we need. A lot of places are working with their local schools. Newent in the Forest of Dean: big polytunnel they built for the school; the kids are learning how to grow food. Promoting recycling, things like garden-share, that matches up people who don't have a garden who would like to grow food, with people who have gardens they aren't using anymore. Planting productive trees throughout urban spaces. And also starting to play around with the idea of alternative currencies. This is Lewes in Sussex, who have recently launched the Lewes Pound, a currency that you can only spend within the town, as a way of starting to cycle money within the local economy. You take it anywhere else, it's not worth anything. But actually within the town you start to create these economic cycles much more effectively. Another thing that they do is what we call an energy descent plan, which is basically to develop a plan B for the town. Most of our local authorities, when they sit down to plan for the next five, 10, 15, 20 years of a community, still start by assuming that there will be more energy, more cars, more housing, more jobs, more growth, and so on. What does it look like if that's not the case? And how can we embrace that and actually come up with something that was actually more likely to sustain everybody? As a friend of mine says, ""Life is a series of things you're not quite ready for."" And that's certainly been my experience with transition. From three years ago, it just being an idea, this has become something that has virally swept around the world. We're getting a lot of interest from government. Ed Miliband, the energy minister of this country, was invited to come to our recent conference as a keynote listener. Which he did — (Laughter) (Applause) — and has since become a great advocate of the whole idea. There are now two local authorities in this country who have declared themselves transitional local authorities, Leicestershire and Somerset. And in Stroud, the transition group there, in effect, wrote the local government's food plan. And the head of the council said, ""If we didn't have Transition Stroud, we would have to invent all of that community infrastructure for the first time."" As we see the spread of it, we see national hubs emerging. In Scotland, the Scottish government's climate change fund has funded Transition Scotland as a national organization supporting the spread of this. And we see it all over the place as well now. But the key to transition is thinking not that we have to change everything now, but that things are already inevitably changing, and what we need to do is to work creatively with that, based on asking the right questions. I think I'd like to just return at the end to the idea of stories. Because I think stories are vital here. And actually the stories that we tell ourselves, we have a huge dearth of stories about how to move forward creatively from here. And one of the key things that transition does is to pull those stories out of what people are doing. Stories about the community that's produced its own 21 pound note, for example, the school that's turned its car park into a food garden, the community that's founded its own energy company. And for me, one of the great stories recently was the Obamas digging up the south lawn of the White House to create a vegetable garden. Because the last time that was done, when Eleanor Roosevelt did it, it led to the creation of 20 million vegetable gardens across the United States. So the question I'd like to leave you with, really, is — for all aspects of the things that your community needs in order to thrive, how can it be done in such a way that drastically reduces its carbon emissions, while also building resilience? Personally, I feel enormously grateful to have lived through the age of cheap oil. I've been astonishingly lucky, we've been astonishingly lucky. But let us honor what it has bought us, and move forward from this point. Because if we cling to it, and continue to assume that it can underpin our choices, the future that it presents to us is one which is really unmanageable. And by loving and leaving all that oil has done for us, and that the Oil Age has done for us, we are able to then begin the creation of a world which is more resilient, more nourishing, and in which, we find ourselves fitter, more skilled and more connected to each other. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	人類文化裡，有許多關於未來的故事這些故事激勵我們前進在某些故事中有人努力採取對策在另一些故事中，所有事物都瀕臨瓦解 但我今天要帶來一個不同的故事如同所有故事，它也有起始長期以來，我涉入教育事業甚深我教人們永續性的實用技能教大家如何承擔責任比如，自己耕種、用在地的材料蓋房子、使用自發的電力......等等 我住在愛爾蘭，在那裡造了第一座稻草屋，和一些圓形建築與其他類似的事很多年來，在我的工作中，我都關注於一個想法: 永續性它意謂著: 著眼於全球經濟成長模型、監控其所投入的，也調節著另一端產出接著，我開始觀察那些根深蒂固的巨大轉變 為了向大家清楚介紹在這裏，我打算向各位展示一個現代的偉大奇蹟它是如此驚天動地所以我不如先揭開它的真面目讓大家喘口氣，再來述說比較合適如果你們能幫我一下，那就再好不過了（笑聲）這是一公升的石油 這瓶油是從上億年前的地質中所提煉而出經過遠古的陽光照射它飽含的能量相當於5星期的人類體力勞動——相當於三十五個壯漢為您服務我們可以把它轉變為各式各樣令人炫目的材料:藥物、現代服飾、筆記型電腦、還有其他不同的材料等等它給予我們歷史上難以想像的巨大能源收益:我們賴以為生的生計、經濟學模型、運輸計畫、甚至經濟成長的觀點，都以它為基礎而設計，有些人認定我們可以永久地使用石油 然而，倘若我們退一步審視整個人類的歷史我們所謂的石油時代從我們發現這個無與倫比的材料，到完全依賴石油之間的這個短暫時期不過是歷史中的一瞬罷了但，當我們處在現階段能源的頂峰時，我們已脫離了以往那個時期:經濟效益、個人能力和福利必須直接取決於我們對能源的消耗；而現在，我們來到了一個高度依賴石油的時期這正是我們的弱點 有一個日益明白的道理:我們將無法再以這樣的方式處置能源了我們每消耗4桶石油，卻只能發現1桶。這個鴻溝持續不斷地擴大同時，我們從石油中所發掘出的能源正在減少1930年代，我們每個人可以從提煉石油中得到100單位的能源這個數據在歷史上前所未見現在，能源利用值已跌到11這就是為什麼，現在石油萃取的新技術爭奪得如此激烈的原因，不管是在Alberta還是在海底 世界上有98個產油國但，其中65個已經超過了開採的高峰世界平均開採早晚都會超過這個峰值人們只想知道什麼時候發生一個新近的例子是大約在去年7月所發生的油價上漲 然而，人類的智慧、創造力、與適應力曾使我們第一次達到了能源高峰，當我們必須設計一個新的解決方案，讓自己越過低谷時這種智慧、創造力、和適應力為何莫名其妙地神秘蒸發了呢？不，這想法並不正確。這是基於一個現實的假設，我們已經達到了開採巔峰 面對氣候變化時，也同樣支持了這種轉變方法。當我和氣候學家討論時，我注意到他們眼裏與日俱增的恐懼，它是伴隨著近日比 IPCC（聯合國政府間氣候變化專門委員會）更有說服力更新資料而出現的IPCC 的提到:我們可以預見2100年在最壞的情況下，北極冰川嚴重斷裂。事實上，如果目前的趨勢持續惡化，它將在五年或十年內發生。如果北極永凍土中所包含的 3% 的二氧化碳在全球暖化中釋放，它將抵消我們為減少二氧化碳所做的一切努力，在未來的四十年間，將難以防範無常的氣候變化除了更進一步實施緊急二氧化碳減排，我們沒有其他選擇 但我一直好奇地想著也許故事是這樣的:下幾個世代的人們將會告訴我們「我們這一世代，生活在山頂，忍受艱難，亦所剩無幾。」我喜歡的方法之一是回首往事時，人們通常這麼說:在我們擁有便宜的汽油和化石燃料之前，人們依賴於他們的肌肉、動物肌肉中的能量、或者一些風能水力 我們有像「七大靴子」的童話故事:一旦巨人穿上這樣的靴子，每邁出一步，可以完 21 英里，對於沒有這種功能靴子的人們來說，這是一種完全無法想像的旅程 還有像「神奇魔術鍋」的故事，如果你知道術語，你可以讓一個魔術鍋不斷地做出你想要的食物，當然你什麽也無需做假如你記得其他術語，就可以停止做燕麥粥否則，整個城市將被溫燕麥粥淹沒 還有一個「鞋匠和小矮人」的故事鞋匠晚上沒做完鞋就睡著了，當他早上睡醒的時候，卻發現所有的鞋子都神奇地做好了對人類來說，這真是不可思議 現在，我們有 Ryanair 和 Easyjet 飛機形式的七大靴子也有類似神奇魔術鍋的Walmart 和 Tesco 等大型超市還有好比小矮人一樣的中國但是我們並不特別感謝這些令人驚愕的正發生的事情 現在我們要講的是我們所期盼的的關於前途的問題我認為有四個方向，通常的商業想法是未來僅只是現在的延續，甚至是更好然而回顧去年，我認為那個想法已逐漸成為問題從氣候變遷上看來，事實上，這想法行不通 還有一個碰壁的想法是所有東西都變得很脆弱，即將瓦解，全部崩潰在某些地方，這是一種流行的故事第三種想法是: 科技可以解決所有問題科技可以帶領我們完全客服困難 我認為，這種觀點在 TED 討論者當中非常普遍，我們發明一種方法，走出嚴峻的經濟與能源危機，這種知識經濟的運動可以遠離能源的桎梏與瓶頸，發現一些極好的新能源，使我們可以把能源安全的問題擱置一邊，於是輕鬆地邁入一個全新的可再生能源世界 然而，世界並非「第二人生」（遊戲: Second Life）我們不能單單地憑藉點擊滑鼠，創造出新大陸和新的能源體系當我們坐在這裏，彼此自由交換點子的時候，仍然有人在挖煤，爲了提供能量，使之運轉當我們早上坐下來查閱郵件的時候，早餐仍然是從從很遠的地方運來，通常，取自當地、更具恢復性的食物系統長久以來便存在我們卻大大地低估它，甚至讓它們消失 我們極具創意與發明性然而在現實約束的世界中能源和科技不是同一件事於是，我參與了回應轉變的積極措施。這是當前關於石油開採高峰和氣候變化的巨大挑戰，以創造性、適應性、和我們急需的想像力來回應這個轉變以驚人的速度散播它有多種特徵， 像病毒一樣，猶如在雷達偵測下飛快傳播著它是開放的，每個從事這個工作的人開發、並且把知識分享給他人自我組織，沒有龐大的中央機構來推動，人們一有想法就實地運作，貫徹執行它是問題解決取向的，在很大的程度上，端看人們如何設身處地行事，進行回應根據不同的地方、規模，會不同的因應措施 轉變方式也完全不同無論是智利的轉變小組、美國的轉變小組，還是這裏的轉變小組，每個地方看法都不一樣從錯誤中，你可以學習到很多這個轉變極具歷史意義。它創造了一種歷史機會讓人們從事非凡的事業在此過程中，的確充滿樂趣在做這件事時，人們感到充滿喜悅許多人也彼此串聯支持上述的其中一個觀點是所謂的彈性思維 我認為，在許多方面，這種彈性思維比永續續理論更有效彈性思維源自於生態學它與系統、定居、與如何抵擋外部衝擊等息息相關當它們遇到外部衝擊時，它們不只分解或崩潰而已我認為彈性思維比永續的觀點更有用，正如我所說的 在任何時候，當超市只有2、3天的食物存貨時，通常永續理論關注於冰箱的功效、和生菜的包裝從彈性思維的角度來看，我們會質疑 自己竟依賴於這種如此脆弱的超市消費模式彈性可以更廣泛地運作:它從我們所做的事中建立模型我們應該如何自行組織、建立生產自給自足必需品的社區 這是布里斯托 (Bristol) 和湖區的照片，1897 年，市場園丁協會(Market Gardeners Association)成立了當時，布里斯托市就在這附近，四周圍繞著商業市場菜園，提供城市所需的大量食物，也創造了許多就業機會這就是彈性思維的一個例子，現在我們只能帶著欽羨的眼光 回首過去 因此，轉變的想法是如何運作的?大體上，有很多人為這個想法感到興奮不已他們使用我們已開發的一些工具，他們發起宣導活動，在城鎮中，測試實際運作情況他們播放電影、開啟討論等等過程有趣而且極具創意同時也具有教育意義接著他們開始籌建工作小組，分別負責不同的方面，從這個活動開始，延伸出許多計劃使得轉變計劃本身開始獲得支持與運作 在愛爾蘭我開始了相關的工作，愛爾蘭是我教學的地方，也是工作展開的地方目前已有超過200項正式的轉變專案在我們的醞釀階段，曾有上千的工作人員他們醞釀這些方案的未來可行性實際上，他們許多人做了大量的工作但實際上到底做了什麼呢？大家知道，這是一個新穎的想法，實際的情況如何？ 嗯，我認為有一點非常重要，大家都知道，轉變不是一蹴可幾的我們需要哥本哈根大會的立法...我們需要國內的回應、我們需要地方政府的回應然而所有事情都會變得非常簡單只要我們有活躍的社區與最新的想法，加上引領群眾，使相關政策 在接下來的五到十年通過立法 許多計劃會相繼出現，比如本地食物計劃、比如社區支持的農業計畫、都市食物計畫、在地飲食目錄等等目前，許多地方已自行建立發電廠、社區自建電廠它們由社區獨立投資開始建立可再生能源基礎設施，這正是我們所需要的在許多地方，學校也參與進來迪恩森林國家公園附近的 Newent 市: 人們在學校建起大型的結構聚乙烯管道(polytunnel)，孩子在那學習如何種植食物提倡循環再利用，例如菜園共用，使沒有菜園的人們可以在閒置的地方種植食物在廣闊的都市空間種植經濟作物同時，也開始推廣另類流通貨幣的概念 這是在薩塞克斯的路易斯市(Lewes)當地近來推行了路易斯英鎊，這是一種只能在當地流通的貨幣作為地區經濟的流動貨幣之用在其他地方，此貨幣就一文不值了但實際上，在當地，這種經濟循環模式是更加有效率的 他們做的另一件事，稱為節約能源計畫，這是一個為城鎮開發的備用計畫當大部分的地方政府在為未來五年、十年、十五年、到二十年著手進行計劃時，仍然理所當然地認為 未來將有更多的石化能源、更多汽車、更多房屋、更多工作、以及更多成長等等倘若情況不是那樣呢？我們要如何才能採納新的解決辦法來永續經營社區？就如我的一個朋友說：「生活是由一連串毫無準備的事所組成的。」而那也是我親身經歷的轉變，三年前，它僅僅只是一個想法，如今，這一轉變已快速散播到世界各地我們引起政府的興趣，Ed Miliband (英國能源部長)最近受邀參加我們的會議作為一個演講的聽眾他的確—（笑聲）（掌聲）成為整個轉變想法的極力倡議者 目前，在這個國家 有兩個地方政府宣佈它們要轉變為不依賴石油的政府，萊斯特郡 (Leicestershiere) 和薩默塞特郡 (Somerset)。另外，在斯特勞德市 (Stroud)，轉變小組真的為當地政府起草了食物計畫委員會主席說：「如果我們沒有徹底『轉變斯特勞德市』(Transition Stroud)，我們至少也得率先發明所有社區的基礎設施。」正如計劃的大量散播，我們看到了國家把轉變計劃交付議會議程 在蘇格蘭，蘇格蘭政府氣候變遷基金提供資金給「轉變蘇格蘭」(Transition Scotland)作為支持計劃廣泛傳播的國家機構誠如大家所見，目前所有地方都已大量開展了然而，轉變的關鍵是，不要想著我們必須一朝一夕地改變所有事而是，改變那些急需、迫切的事我們要做的，是創意地從事這些計劃提出正確的問題 不如讓我直接回到這想法的故事結尾因為我認為這些故事很重要我們自己談論著實際中的故事，我們還缺少許多故事來指導我們進行創意的轉變關於轉變，關鍵的一點是分享人們所做的故事比如，社區可以自行生產21英鎊紙幣，或是，把學校的汽車停車場轉變為一個食物花園建立自己的社區發電廠等等對我來說，最近有個精彩的故事是歐巴馬夫婦在白宮南邊的草坪開闢蔬菜園，因為當上次埃莉諾•羅斯福 (Eleanor Roosevelt) 這麼做時，她使得人們在全美各地 興建了2千萬蔬菜園 所以，我留給你們的問題是，為了社區繁榮，考慮到需求的各個面向的事情，如何用這種方式，轉變、回應大幅降低二氧化碳的排放又同時建立可恢復性？ 我非常感謝我所經歷過的廉價石油時代我曾非常幸運，我們曾非常幸運讓我們為石油所提供的一切感到榮幸，然而，從現在起要轉變這一點因為如果我們仍舊仰賴石油，繼續認定這樣的做法足以支持我們的選擇的話，那麼，我們的未來將更難以駕馭由熱愛石油，到遠離石油石油年代給了我們的一切，我們能夠開啟一個更具有彈性恢複性、更有活力的世界，我們將發現人與人之間，更加健康，更加優秀，並且更加緊密地彼此聯繫非常感謝（掌聲）
