Talk	en	zh-tw
rob_harmon_how_the_market_can_keep_streams_flowing	"This is a river. This is a stream. This is a river. This is happening all over the country. There are tens of thousands of miles of dewatered streams in the United States. On this map, the colored areas represent water conflicts. Similar problems are emerging in the East as well. The reasons vary state to state, but mostly in the details. There are 4,000 miles of dewatered streams in Montana alone. They would ordinarily support fish and other wildlife. They're the veins of the ecosystem, and they're often empty veins. I want to tell you the story of just one of these streams, because it's an archetype for the larger story. This is Prickly Pear Creek. It runs through a populated area from East Helena to Lake Helena. It supports wild fish including cutthroat, brown and rainbow trout. Nearly every year for more than a hundred years ... it looked like this in the summer. How did we get here? Well, it started back in the late 1800s when people started settling in places like Montana. In short, there was a lot of water and there weren't very many people. But as more people showed up wanting water, the folks who were there first got a little concerned, and in 1865, Montana passed its first water law. It basically said, everybody near the stream can share in the stream. Oddly, a lot of people showed up wanting to share the stream, and the folks who were there first got concerned enough to bring out their lawyers. There were precedent-setting suits in 1870 and 1872, both involving Prickly Pear Creek. And in 1921, the Montana Supreme Court ruled in a case involving Prickly Pear that the folks who were there first had the first, or ""senior water rights."" These senior water rights are key. The problem is that all over the West now it looks like this. Some of these creeks have claims for 50 to 100 times more water than is actually in the stream. And the senior water rights holders, if they don't use their water right, they risk losing their water right — along with the economic value that goes with it. So they have no incentive to conserve. So it's not just about the number of people; the system itself creates a disincentive to conserve because you can lose your water right if you don't use it. So after decades of lawsuits and 140 years, now, of experience, we still have this. It's a broken system. There's a disincentive to conserve, because if you don't use your water right, you can lose your water right. And I'm sure you all know, this has created significant conflicts between the agricultural and environmental communities. OK, now I'm going to change gears here. Most of you will be happy to know that the rest of the presentation's free ... (Laughter) and some of you'll be happy to know that it involves beer. (Laughter) There's another thing happening around the country, which is that companies are starting to get concerned about their water footprint. They're concerned about securing an adequate supply of water, they're trying to be really efficient with their water use, and they're concerned about how their water use affects the image of their brand. Well, it's a national problem, but I'm going to tell you another story from Montana ... and it involves beer. I bet you didn't know, it takes about 5 pints of water to make a pint of beer. If you include all the drain, it takes more than a hundred pints of water to make a pint of beer. Now the brewers in Montana have already done a lot to reduce their water consumption, but they still use millions of gallons of water. I mean, there's water in beer. So what can they do about this remaining water footprint that can have serious effects on the ecosystem? These ecosystems are really important to the Montana brewers and their customers. After all, there's a strong correlation between water and fishing, and for some, there's a strong correlation between fishing and beer. (Laughter) So the Montana brewers and their customers are concerned and they're looking for some way to address the problem. So how can they address this remaining water footprint? Remember Prickly Pear. Up until now, business water stewardship has been limited to measuring and reducing, and we're suggesting that the next step is to restore. Remember Prickly Pear. It's a broken system. You've got a disincentive to conserve, because if you don't use your water right, you risk losing your water right. Well, we decided to connect these two worlds — the world of the companies with their water footprints and the world of the farmers with their senior water rights on these creeks. In some states, senior water rights holders can leave their water in the stream while legally protecting it from others, and maintaining their water right. After all, it is their water right, and if they want to use that water right to help the fish grow in the stream, it's their right to do so. But they have no incentive to do so. So, working with local water trusts, we created an incentive to do so. We pay them to leave their water in stream. That's what's happening here. This individual has made the choice and is closing this water diversion, leaving the water in the stream. He doesn't lose the water right, he just chooses to apply that right, or some portion of it, to the stream, instead of to the land. Because he's the senior water-rights holder, he can protect the water from other users in the stream. OK? He gets paid to leave the water in the stream. This guy's measuring the water that this leaves in the stream. We then take the measured water, we divide it into thousand-gallon increments. Each increment gets a serial number and a certificate, and then the brewers and others buy those certificates as a way to return water to these degraded ecosystems. The brewers pay to restore water to the stream. It provides a simple, inexpensive and measurable way to return water to these degraded ecosystems, while giving farmers an economic choice and giving businesses concerned about their water footprints an easy way to deal with them. After 140 years of conflict and 100 years of dry streams, a circumstance that litigation and regulation has not solved, we put together a market-based, willing buyer, willing seller solution — a solution that does not require litigation. It's about giving folks concerned about their water footprints a real opportunity to put water where it's critically needed, into these degraded ecosystems, while at the same time providing farmers a meaningful economic choice about how their water is used. These transactions create allies, not enemies. They connect people rather than dividing them. And they provide needed economic support for rural communities. And most importantly, it's working. We've returned more than four billion gallons of water to degraded ecosystems. We've connected senior water-rights holders with brewers in Montana, with hotels and tea companies in Oregon, and with high-tech companies that use a lot of water in the Southwest. And when we make these connections, we can and we do turn this ... into this. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"這是一條河這是一條溪這也是一條河全國到處都發生這種情況美國的河川溪流有數萬英里沒有水在這張地圖上著色區塊表示有用水衝突的問題美國東部也有類似的問題各州的原因雖然不同但差別大多在於細節單單蒙大拿這一州缺水的河流就有4千英里原本提供魚類和野生動物生息原本是生態系統血脈的河流如今經常乾涸了 我想告訴各位其中一條河流的故事因為它將是一個更大故事的雛形這條溪叫仙人掌球溪流經居住地區從東海倫娜流到海倫娜湖裡它提供野生魚類生息割喉鱒、褐鱒還有虹鱒一百多年來這條河幾乎每年夏天看起來都像這樣怎會變成這樣的呢？話說19世紀末期有人開始移居像蒙大拿這樣的地方簡單來說，當時水源豐沛居民也不多但用水的人越來越多先到者開始有點擔心1865年蒙大拿通過第一部水資源法基本上說，凡居住河流附近者皆有權共享河流的水怪的是許多人都來要共享河水先到者感到憂慮便找來律師於是1870和1872年發生了兩樁訴訟先例都與仙人掌球溪有關1921年蒙大拿最高法院裁定了一樁有關仙人掌球溪的案子凡先到該地區的居住者有優先使用該地水源的權利水源的優先使用權是關鍵 現在美國西部也開始出現同樣的問題這些溪流當中有些配出的用水權高達實有溪水的50到100倍以上有優先用水權的人如果不行使他們的用水權可能就會失去用水權也同時失去其他附帶的經濟價值因此他們不受到節約用水的鼓勵這不只是用水人數的問題而是制度不鼓勵節約用水因為你不用水就會失去用水權因此經過幾十年訴訟累積了140年的經驗老問題還是沒有解決這是個失敗的制度不能鼓勵節約用水因為不行使用水權就會失去用水權我相信大家都知道這造成了農業和環保團體間的嚴重衝突 好，我現在換個方式來說在座的各位大概都會高興知道以下的演講是免費的有些人還會高興知道這裡有供應啤酒(笑聲)全國到處還發生另一件事有些公司也開始憂慮他們的""水足跡""相關問題(水足跡指製作產品時消費地球水資源的程度)他們關心能否保有充足的水源他們試圖有效地利用水資源也關心自己的用水情況將如何影響到公司的形象好，這是全國性的問題不過我再說個蒙大拿州的故事這跟啤酒有關我猜大家可能沒想到釀造一品脫的啤酒需要大約五品脫的水所有的廢水都算進來釀造一品脫啤酒需要用到超過一百品脫的水 當今蒙大拿州的釀酒商已經盡了很大的努力節約用水但還是用了數百萬加侖的水我是說啤酒裡不能沒有水那麼針對生態環境方面可能會造成嚴重影響的其他""水足跡""問題他們能怎麼辦？對蒙大拿的釀酒商和顧客而言生態環境當然重要畢竟在水和釣魚之間兩者很有關聯對某些人來說釣魚和啤酒也很有關聯(笑聲)蒙大拿的釀酒商和顧客也開始關心開始找尋能解決這個問題的方法 他們能如何解決剩餘的""水足跡""問題呢？請記得仙人掌球溪到目前為止商業水資源管理一直局限在測量和減少水資源的利用而我們建議的下一步是恢復水資源請記得仙人掌球溪那是個失敗的制度它不能鼓勵節約用水因為不行使用水權就可能失去用水權我們決定連接這兩個世界一邊是關心""水足跡""的公司另一邊是擁有溪流優先用水權的農民在某些州裡有優先用水權的人可以把他們有權用的水留在溪裡同時法律保障不被他人佔用並保留他們的用水權畢竟這是他們的用水權如果他們要行使用水權來幫助溪流裡的魚類那也是他們的權利但是他們並沒有意願這麼做 因此我們和當地水資源託管機構合作創造出這麼做的獎勵辦法我們付錢讓他們把水留在溪裡就像這裡這位居民做了決定關閉引水道讓水留在溪裡他沒有失去水資源他只是選擇運用這項權利或一部分的權利讓水留在溪裡而不用到陸地上因為他有優先用水權他的水受到保障，他人不得使用了解嗎?他收錢讓水留在溪裡 這個人正在測量他留在溪裡的水量然後我們把測到的水量分成一千加侖的增幅每一增幅發給一組序號和證書然後釀酒商或其他人可以買這個證書作為把水還給受損的生態環境的一種方式釀酒商付錢讓水資源恢復到溪流裡這提供了既簡單也不貴又能測量的方法讓水回到受損的生態環境裡既給予農民們一個經濟上的選擇也讓關心""水足跡""的公司行號有了方法應對問題 經過140年的水資源衝突和100年來的河流乾涸在訴訟與調解下都沒能解決的問題我們理出一個讓買賣雙方你情我願的市場解決機制這個解決方案無須訴訟這是讓關切""水足跡""的人們有一個真正的機會把水放到迫切需要之處放回受到損害的生態系統裡於此同時也讓農民們在經濟上能在用水方面得到一個有意義的選擇 這種交易創造出來的是盟友而非敵人把人連結起來而非分開來而且為鄉村社區提供所需的經濟支持最重要的是，這方法行得通超過四十億加侖的水因而返回受損的生態環境系統裡我們連結了有用水權者和蒙大拿的釀酒商以及奧勒岡的飯店和茶葉公司還有西南部用水需要量龐大的高科技公司只要我們做這樣的連結我們能做到也確實做到把這個樣子轉變成這個樣子 非常謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
