Talk	en	zh-tw
rob_dunbar	"If you really want to understand the problem that we're facing with the oceans, you have to think about the biology at the same time you think about the physics. We can't solve the problems unless we start studying the ocean in a very much more interdisciplinary way. So I'm going to demonstrate that through discussion of some of the climate change things that are going on in the ocean. We'll look at sea level rise. We'll look at ocean warming. And then the last thing on the list there, ocean acidification — if you were to ask me, you know, ""What do you worry about the most? What frightens you?"" for me, it's ocean acidification. And this has come onto the stage pretty recently. So I will spend a little time at the end. I was in Copenhagen in December like a number of you in this room. And I think we all found it, simultaneously, an eye-opening and a very frustrating experience. I sat in this large negotiation hall, at one point, for three or four hours, without hearing the word ""oceans"" one time. It really wasn't on the radar screen. The nations that brought it up when we had the speeches of the national leaders — it tended to be the leaders of the small island states, the low-lying island states. And by this weird quirk of alphabetical order of the nations, a lot of the low-lying states, like Kiribati and Nauru, they were seated at the very end of these immensely long rows. You know, they were marginalized in the negotiation room. One of the problems is coming up with the right target. It's not clear what the target should be. And how can you figure out how to fix something if you don't have a clear target? Now, you've heard about ""two degrees"": that we should limit temperature rise to no more than two degrees. But there's not a lot of science behind that number. We've also talked about concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Should it be 450? Should it be 400? There's not a lot of science behind that one either. Most of the science that is behind these numbers, these potential targets, is based on studies on land. And I would say, for the people that work in the ocean and think about what the targets should be, we would argue that they must be much lower. You know, from an oceanic perspective, 450 is way too high. Now there's compelling evidence that it really needs to be 350. We are, right now, at 390 parts per million of CO2 in the atmosphere. We're not going to put the brakes on in time to stop at 450, so we've got to accept we're going to do an overshoot, and the discussion as we go forward has to focus on how far the overshoot goes and what's the pathway back to 350. Now, why is this so complicated? Why don't we know some of these things a little bit better? Well, the problem is that we've got very complicated forces in the climate system. There's all kinds of natural causes of climate change. There's air-sea interactions. Here in Galapagos, we're affected by El Ninos and La Nina. But the entire planet warms up when there's a big El Nino. Volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere. That changes our climate. The ocean contains most of the exchangeable heat on the planet. So anything that influences how ocean surface waters mix with the deep water changes the ocean of the planet. And we know the solar output's not constant through time. So those are all natural causes of climate change. And then we have the human-induced causes of climate change as well. We're changing the characteristics of the surface of the land, the reflectivity. We inject our own aerosols into the atmosphere, and we have trace gases, and not just carbon dioxide — it's methane, ozone, oxides of sulfur and nitrogen. So here's the thing. It sounds like a simple question. Is CO2 produced by man's activities causing the planet to warm up? But to answer that question, to make a clear attribution to carbon dioxide, you have to know something about all of these other agents of change. But the fact is we do know a lot about all of those things. You know, thousands of scientists have been working on understanding all of these man-made causes and the natural causes. And we've got it worked out, and we can say, ""Yes, CO2 is causing the planet to warm up now."" Now, we have many ways to study natural variability. I'll show you a few examples of this now. This is the ship that I spent the last three months on in the Antarctic. It's a scientific drilling vessel. We go out for months at a time and drill into the sea bed to recover sediments that tell us stories of climate change, right. Like one of the ways to understand our greenhouse future is to drill down in time to the last period where we had CO2 double what it is today. And so that's what we've done with this ship. This was — this is south of the Antarctic Circle. It looks downright tropical there. One day where we had calm seas and sun, which was the reason I could get off the ship. Most of the time it looked like this. We had a waves up to 50 ft. and winds averaging about 40 knots for most of the voyage and up to 70 or 80 knots. So that trip just ended, and I can't show you too many results from that right now, but we'll go back one more year, to another drilling expedition I've been involved in. This was led by Ross Powell and Tim Naish. It's the ANDRILL project. And we made the very first bore hole through the largest floating ice shelf on the planet. This is a crazy thing, this big drill rig wrapped in a blanket to keep everybody warm, drilling at temperatures of minus 40. And we drilled in the Ross Sea. That's the Ross Sea Ice Shelf on the right there. So, this huge floating ice shelf the size of Alaska comes from West Antarctica. Now, West Antarctica is the part of the continent where the ice is grounded on sea floor as much as 2,000 meters deep. So that ice sheet is partly floating, and it's exposed to the ocean, to the ocean heat. This is the part of Antarctica that we worry about. Because it's partly floating, you can imagine, is sea level rises a little bit, the ice lifts off the bed, and then it can break off and float north. When that ice melts, sea level rises by six meters. So we drill back in time to see how often that's happened, and exactly how fast that ice can melt. Here's the cartoon on the left there. We drilled through a hundred meters of floating ice shelf then through 900 meters of water and then 1,300 meters into the sea floor. So it's the deepest geological bore hole ever drilled. It took about 10 years to put this project together. And here's what we found. Now, there's 40 scientists working on this project, and people are doing all kinds of really complicated and expensive analyses. But it turns out, you know, the thing that told the best story was this simple visual description. You know, we saw this in the core samples as they came up. We saw these alternations between sediments that look like this — there's gravel and cobbles in there and a bunch of sand. That's the kind of material in the deep sea. It can only get there if it's carried out by ice. So we know there's an ice shelf overhead. And that alternates with a sediment that looks like this. This is absolutely beautiful stuff. This sediment is 100 percent made up of the shells of microscopic plants. And these plants need sunlight, so we know when we find that sediment there's no ice overhead. And we saw about 35 alternations between open water and ice-covered water, between gravels and these plant sediments. So what that means is, what it tells us is that the Ross Sea region, this ice shelf, melted back and formed anew about 35 times. And this is in the past four million years. This was completely unexpected. Nobody imagined that the West Antarctic Ice Sheet was this dynamic. In fact, the lore for many years has been, ""The ice formed many tens of millions of years ago, and it's been there ever since."" And now we know that in our recent past it melted back and formed again, and sea level went up and down, six meters at a time. What caused it? Well, we're pretty sure that it's very small changes in the amount of sunlight reaching Antarctica, just caused by natural changes in the orbit of the Earth. But here's the key thing: you know, the other thing we found out is that the ice sheet passed a threshold, that the planet warmed up enough — and the number's about one degree to one and a half degrees Centigrade — the planet warmed up enough that it became ... that ice sheet became very dynamic and was very easily melted. And you know what? We've actually changed the temperature in the last century just the right amount. So many of us are convinced now that West Antarctica, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, is starting to melt. We do expect to see a sea-level rise on the order of one to two meters by the end of this century. And it could be larger than that. This is a serious consequence for nations like Kiribati, you know, where the average elevation is about a little over a meter above sea level. Okay, the second story takes place here in Galapagos. This is a bleached coral, coral that died during the 1982-'83 El Nino. This is from Champion Island. It's about a meter tall Pavona clavus colony. And it's covered with algae. That's what happens. When these things die, immediately, organisms come in and encrust and live on that dead surface. And so, when a coral colony is killed by an El Nino event, it leaves this indelible record. You can go then and study corals and figure out how often do you see this. So one of the things thought of in the '80s was to go back and take cores of coral heads throughout the Galapagos and find out how often was there a devastating event. And just so you know, 1982-'83, that El Nino killed 95 percent of all the corals here in Galapagos. Then there was similar mortality in '97-'98. And what we found after drilling back in time two to 400 years was that these were unique events. We saw no other mass mortality events. So these events in our recent past really are unique. So they're either just truly monster El Ninos, or they're just very strong El Ninos that occurred against a backdrop of global warming. Either case, it's bad news for the corals of the Galapagos Islands. Here's how we sample the corals. This is actually Easter Island. Look at this monster. This coral is eight meters tall, right. And it been growing for about 600 years. Now, Sylvia Earle turned me on to this exact same coral. And she was diving here with John Lauret — I think it was 1994 — and collected a little nugget and sent it to me. And we started working on it, and we figured out we could tell the temperature of the ancient ocean from analyzing a coral like this. So we have a diamond drill. We're not killing the colony; we're taking a small core sample out of the top. The core comes up as these cylindrical tubes of limestone. And that material then we take back to the lab and analyze it. You can see some of the coral cores there on the right. So we've done that all over the Eastern Pacific. We're starting to do it in the Western Pacific as well. I'll take you back here to the Galapagos Islands. And we've been working at this fascinating uplift here in Urbina Bay. That the place where, during an earthquake in 1954, this marine terrace was lifted up out of the ocean very quickly, and it was lifted up about six to seven meters. And so now you can walk through a coral reef without getting wet. If you go on the ground there, it looks like this, and this is the grandaddy coral. It's 11 meters in diameter, and we know that it started growing in the year 1584. Imagine that. And that coral was growing happily in those shallow waters, until 1954, when the earthquake happened. Now the reason we know it's 1584 is that these corals have growth bands. When you cut them, slice those cores in half and x-ray them, you see these light and dark bands. Each one of those is a year. We know these corals grow about a centimeter and a half a year. And we just count on down to the bottom. Then their other attribute is that they have this great chemistry. We can analyze the carbonate that makes up the coral, and there's a whole bunch of things we can do. But in this case, we measured the different isotopes of oxygen. Their ratio tells us the water temperature. In this example here, we had monitored this reef in Galapagos with temperature recorders, so we know the temperature of the water the coral's growing in. Then after we harvest a coral, we measure this ratio, and now you can see, those curves match perfectly. In this case, at these islands, you know, corals are instrumental-quality recorders of change in the water. And of course, our thermometers only take us back 50 years or so here. The coral can take us back hundreds and thousands of years. So, what we do: we've merged a lot of different data sets. It's not just my group; there's maybe 30 groups worldwide doing this. But we get these instrumental- and near-instrumental-quality records of temperature change that go back hundreds of years, and we put them together. Here's a synthetic diagram. There's a whole family of curves here. But what's happening: we're looking at the last thousand years of temperature on the planet. And there's five or six different compilations there, But each one of those compilations reflects input from hundreds of these kinds of records from corals. We do similar things with ice cores. We work with tree rings. And that's how we discover what is truly natural and how different is the last century, right? And I chose this one because it's complicated and messy looking, right. This is as messy as it gets. You can see there's some signals there. Some of the records show lower temperatures than others. Some of them show greater variability. But they all tell us what the natural variability is. Some of them are from the northern hemisphere; some are from the entire globe. But here's what we can say: what's natural in the last thousand years is that the planet was cooling down. It was cooling down until about 1900 or so. And there is natural variability caused by the Sun, caused by El Ninos. A century-scale, decadal-scale variability, and we know the magnitude; it's about two-tenths to four-tenths of a degree Centigrade. But then at the very end is where we have the instrumental record in black. And there's the temperature up there in 2009. You know, we've warmed the globe about a degree Centigrade in the last century, and there's nothing in the natural part of that record that resembles what we've seen in the last century. You know, that's the strength of our argument, that we are doing something that's truly different. So I'll close with a short discussion of ocean acidification. I like it as a component of global change to talk about, because, even if you are a hard-bitten global warming skeptic, and I talk to that community fairly often, you cannot deny the simple physics of CO2 dissolving in the ocean. You know, we're pumping out lots of CO2 into the atmosphere, from fossil fuels, from cement production. Right now, about a third of that carbon dioxide is dissolving straight into the sea, right? And as it does so, it makes the ocean more acidic. So, you cannot argue with that. That is what's happening right now, and it's a very different issue than the global warming issue. It has many consequences. There's consequences for carbonate organisms. There are many organisms that build their shells out of calcium carbonate — plants and animals both. The main framework material of coral reefs is calcium carbonate. That material is more soluble in acidic fluid. So one of the things we're seeing is organisms are having to spend more metabolic energy to build and maintain their shells. At some point, as this transience, as this CO2 uptake in the ocean continues, that material's actually going to start to dissolve. And on coral reefs, where some of the main framework organisms disappear, we will see a major loss of marine biodiversity. But it's not just the carbonate producers that are affected. There's many physiological processes that are influenced by the acidity of the ocean. So many reactions involving enzymes and proteins are sensitive to the acid content of the ocean. So, all of these things — greater metabolic demands, reduced reproductive success, changes in respiration and metabolism. You know, these are things that we have good physiological reasons to expect to see stressed caused by this transience. So we figured out some pretty interesting ways to track CO2 levels in the atmosphere, going back millions of years. We used to do it just with ice cores, but in this case, we're going back 20 million years. And we take samples of the sediment, and it tells us the CO2 level of the ocean, and therefore the CO2 level of the atmosphere. And here's the thing: you have to go back about 15 million years to find a time when CO2 levels were about what they are today. You have to go back about 30 million years to find a time when CO2 levels were double what they are today. Now, what that means is that all of the organisms that live in the sea have evolved in this chemostatted ocean, with CO2 levels lower than they are today. That's the reason that they're not able to respond or adapt to this rapid acidification that's going on right now. So, Charlie Veron came up with this statement last year: ""The prospect of ocean acidification may well be the most serious of all of the predicted outcomes of anthropogenic CO2 release."" And I think that may very well be true, so I'll close with this. You know, we do need the protected areas, absolutely, but for the sake of the oceans, we have to cap or limit CO2 emissions as soon as possible. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"如果你真的想了解我們目前所面對的海洋問題，那麼在你思考生物學時也必須同時思考物理學。除非我們能夠以跨領域的方式來對海洋進行研究，否則我們不可能解決這些問題。所以我將會藉由討論海洋面臨的一些氣候變遷來證明這些問題。我們會討論海面上升。以及海洋暖化現象。然後是最後一個問題，海洋酸化現象 —如果你問我，""你最擔心的事情是什麼?什麼會令你恐懼?""對我來說，那就是海洋酸化。這是最近剛浮上檯面的問題。所以我會在最後花一點時間來討論它。 在10月的時候，我參加了哥本哈根會議，如同在座部份人一樣。我想我們都同時發現，一個令人大開眼界卻也令人沮喪的經驗。我坐在巨大的協商會議廳裡，在同一個位子上三~四個小時，完全沒有聽見""海洋""這個字。它確實沒有被列入議題。當各國領袖開始發言時，它才被人提到 —但卻都只是一些小型島國的領袖，一些地勢低窪的島國。而由於這個詭異的國名排列方式，許多地勢低窪的國家例如吉里巴斯共和國以及諾魯共和國，他們都坐在這些長排座位的最尾端。你知道的，他們在這間會議廳中被邊緣化了。 其中一項問題是要找出一個正確的目標。他們並不清楚目標是什麼。那麼你又怎麼可能在目標不明確時，找出解決問題的辦法呢?大家都聽過 ""二度"" 吧，我們應該避免溫度上升超過二度。但這數字背後並沒有什麼科學根據。我們還討論了大氣層中二氧化碳的濃度。它應該被設在450? 還是400呢?這些數字同樣也沒有什麼科學根據。這些數字背後大部分的科學根據，這些重要的目標，都是依據在陸地上進行的研究。而我想說的是，對於那些研究海洋以及思考該設定哪些目標的人來說，我們都認為它們應該要更低才對。你知道嗎，對於海洋生態而言，450 實在太高了。目前已經有強力的證據來說明那必須設定在 350。現在大氣中的二氧化碳濃度是 百萬分之390。我們不可能在450的時候才踩煞車，所以我們必須接受去設定一個嚴苛的標準，而在我們接下來的討論中，必須專注於這個嚴苛的標準要進行多久，還有要如何讓它降回350。 為什麼這件事會那麼複雜呢?為何我們還不太了解這些事呢?嗯，問題在於氣候系統裡有很複雜的力量存在。有許多導致氣候變遷的自然因素。有空氣和海洋的相互作用。在加拉巴哥群島這裡，我們被聖嬰和反聖嬰現象所影響著。但是當巨大的聖嬰現象出現時，整個地球都會出現暖化現象。火山噴出的氣體會曠散到大氣中。這會改變氣候。海洋含有地球上最大量的可交換熱能。因此任何能夠影響海洋表層與深海海水混合的因素將會改變地球上的海洋。我們知道太陽照射的能量並不是永遠都固定的。所以這些都是導致氣候變遷的自然因素。然而，我們還有因為人類所造成的氣候變遷因素。我們正在改變地表的特質，所謂的反射率。我們排放氣體到大氣中，我們追蹤了幾種氣體，不只是二氧化碳 —還有甲烷、臭氧、以及硫和氮的氧化物。 所以事情就是這樣。聽起來似乎是個簡單的問題。人類活動所產生的二氧化碳導致了全球暖化嗎?但是想回答那個問題，想了解二氧化碳扮演的角色，你就必須先了解所有造成氣候變遷的其它因素。但事實上我們確實知道許多關於這些的資訊。你知道嗎，有上千位科學家正在致力於了解這些人為因素以及自然因素。而且我們已經弄清楚了，我們可以說，""是的，二氧化碳正在造成全球暖化現象。""目前我們有許多方法來研究自然界的變異性。現在讓我給你們看一些例子。 這是我最近三個月來在南極待的那艘船。這是一艘科學鑽探船。每次出海都會航行好幾個月，然後鑽入海床收集一些沉積物，這東西可以讓我們了解氣候變遷的狀況，對吧。例如，想了解未來溫室效應狀況的其中一個方法就是下向挖掘，從現今的部份到最後一個時期，我們發現那裡的二氧化碳含量是現在的兩倍。那就是我們在這艘船上完成的工作。這邊是南極圈的南邊。它看起來簡直就像熱帶地區。某天海水平靜，陽光和煦的時候，也就是我能夠下船的原因。在大部分時候看起來就像這樣。海浪高達50呎，而在大部分航行中風速平均是40節(約時速74公里)，最高可達70~80節(時速130~150公里)。 於是那趟旅程到此結束，我現在還有沒辦法給你們看許多當時的結果，但我們來看看前一年，我曾參予過的另一項鑽探工程。這是由Ross Powell和Tim Naish所主導的。這個項目叫ANDRILL。而我們所鑚的第一個鑽孔，是從地球上最大的浮冰層開始的。這是一件很瘋狂的事。這個巨大的鑚探設備被毛毯包裹著，以保持大家的溫暖，在零下40度的低溫下進行鑚探作業。我們在羅斯海中進行鑽探。那邊那個就是羅斯海的冰層。那麼，這塊有如阿拉斯加那麼大的巨大浮冰層，是從西南極飄過來的。現在，西南極成為大陸版塊的一部份，冰層在海底積聚，在深達2000公尺的地方。因此那塊冰層有一部分是浮起來的，它暴露在海洋中，在海洋的熱氣中。 這是南極令我們擔心的其中一件事。由於它有部份是浮起來的，你可以想像，只要海平面上升一點點，冰層會從海底浮上來，然後會裂開，並朝向北邊漂移。一旦冰層溶化，海平面就會上升6公尺。所以我們利用鑚探方式來研究這種事發生的頻率，以及冰層實際溶化的速度有多快。左邊這裡有一個插畫。我們鑽過厚達一百公尺的浮冰層，然後穿過900公尺深的海水，然後再往下進入海底1300公尺深。這是有史以來最深的地質鑚探。 這個項目大概花了10年的籌備工作。這是我們所發現的東西。現在，有40位科學家正在進行這個項目，還有許多人在進行各種既複雜又昂貴的分析作業。但結果呢，最能說明一切的就是這個簡單的視覺描述。當樣品被採集出來時，我們在核心樣品中發現這個。我們在沉積物裡面發現這些交替層，看起來就像這樣 —裡面有碎石和圓石，還有大量的沙子。這就是深海裡面的物質。它是被冰層所帶過去的。我們知道冰層就在它的上面。而這個含有沉積物的交替層看起來就像這樣。這絕對是很美的東西。這些沉積物是百分之百由微小植物的外皮所形成的。而這些植物需要陽光，所以當我們找到那些沉積物時便知道，它的上面沒有冰層。在開放水域和冰層覆蓋的水域中我們發現了大概35個交替層，位於碎石和這些植物沉積物之間。 所以意思是說，它能告訴我們，在羅斯海域的這塊冰層，曾經溶化又再次形成冰層重複大約35次。而這是在過去400萬年發生的事。這是完全出乎意料的。沒有人能夠想像西南極洲冰原是如此多變的。事實上，多年來的認知一直以為，""這些冰層是在幾千萬年前形成的，並且從未改變過。""現在我們知道在接近現今的過去，它曾經溶化又再次形成冰層，每次海平面上升和下降幅度大約6公尺。 這是什麼造成的呢?嗯, 我們非常確定在南極洲太陽光的照射量並沒有什麼改變，只有因為地球軌道造成的少許自然變異。但是，接下來的才是關鍵：你知道嗎, 我們發現另一件事情，就是冰層已經超過了一個臨界點，地球暖化的程度已經高到足以 —大概在 1 到 1.5 攝氏度 —地球暖化的程度已經高到足以讓 ...冰層變得非常的不穩定，變得很容易溶化。你能想像嗎?我們在上一個世紀，讓溫度上升的幅度就是這個數字。因此我們大多都相信，西南極，西南極洲冰原已經開始溶化了。我們已經可以預期在這個世紀末，海平面將會上升一到兩公尺高。而且還可能會更高。這對吉里巴斯這類的國家，會是一個很嚴重的結果，你知道的，他們地表的平均高度只比海平面高出一公尺左右。 第二個問題發生在加拉巴哥群島。這兒發生了珊瑚的白化現象，珊瑚因為1982-83年的聖嬰現象而死亡。這件事發生在冠軍島上。那是長達1公尺的柱形雀屏珊瑚群。最後它被海藻所覆蓋。事情就這樣發生了。當這些珊瑚死亡後，立刻有一些有機生物了進來，包覆並寄居在這死掉的珊瑚表面上。所以，當珊瑚群因為聖嬰現象而死亡後，便會留下這個無法消去的紀錄。你可以到那兒，然後研究這些珊瑚，看看你有多常遇到這種事情。所以在80年代有一個概念，就是到那兒去，將散落於加拉巴哥群島的珊瑚頭部核心取出，研究這種毀滅性事件發生的頻率。如你所知的，在1982-83年間，聖嬰現象導致加拉巴哥群島95%的珊瑚死去。而在1997-98年間有著類似的死亡率。而我們因為挖掘而發現追朔過去2年到400年間，這是很罕見的現象。我們沒有發現其他大量死亡的事件。所以這些事件在最近幾百年中是相當罕見的。所以這些聖嬰現象要不就是一個大怪獸，又或者只是很強烈聖嬰現象恰巧遇上了全球暖化。不論是哪一種狀況，對於加拉巴哥群島的珊瑚來說都是壞消息。 接下來是我們採集珊瑚樣本的方式。這兒是復活節島。看看這個怪物。這珊瑚長達八公尺。它已經生長了大約六百年的時間。Sylvia Earle 曾經用同樣的珊瑚引起我的興趣。她曾經和 John Lauret 在這兒潛水 — 我想那是 1994 年的事 —並且收集了一些碎片寄給我。然後我們開始進行研究，於是我們發現我們藉由分析這類珊瑚來得知古代海洋的溫度。所以我們準備了鑽石鑽頭。我們不會毀掉整個珊瑚群，我們只是拿取核心頂端的一小塊樣本。當石灰岩柱被推到上方時，這些核心就會跑上來。之後我們會將這些物質帶回實驗室進行分析。你可以在右邊看見一些珊瑚的核心。 我們已經針對整個東太平洋進行了這個分析。我們也開始針對西太平洋進行研究。接下來我們在繼續談加拉巴哥群島。我們在爾比納海岸針對這令人感興趣的地層隆起進行研究。這個地方，在1954年的地震當中，這個海階相當迅速地從海裡被推出海平面，它被提升了大約六到七公尺高。所以現在你可以走過珊瑚礁都不會碰到水。如果你在這兒晃的話，看起來就像這樣，這是一株老祖父級的珊瑚。它的直徑有十一公尺寬，我們知道它從1584年就開始生長到現在。想像一下。這珊瑚本來開心的在淺水灘裡生長著，直到1954年地震發生。 我們之所以知道它生長於1584年，是因為珊瑚有這些年輪。當你將它們切開，將核心切成一半然後用X光分析，你會看見這些黑白相間的環。每一圈代表一年。我們知道這些珊瑚每年大約生長1.5公分左右。我們由下面計算到底部。它們另一個性質是，它們有著很棒的化學成份。我們可以針對碳酸鹽珊瑚的主成份進行分析，還有許多分析我們可以作。在這個例子裡，我們量測了不同氧的同位素。它們的比例可以讓我們知道海水的溫度。在這個例子裡，我們藉由這個溫度紀錄器來監測加拉巴哥群島的珊瑚礁。於是我們可以得知珊瑚生長環境的海水溫度。當我們採收珊瑚之後，我們量測這個同位素的比例，然後你可以發現，這些曲線的結果相當吻合。 在這個例子中，在這些島嶼裡，如你所見，珊瑚在水裡可以當作測溫度變化的高品質記錄器。當然，我們的溫度計只能讓我們知道近50年左右的溫度。而這些珊瑚可以讓我們知道近百年甚至千年的溫度。所以我們做了什麼呢？我們整合了許多不同的數據組。並不只有我的團隊，世界上還有將近30組的團隊在進行這件事。但是，我們使用這種高品質記錄器得出幾百年來的溫度變化紀錄，然後我們將這些數據整合在一起。這是一個綜合的圖表。有許多的曲線組在這裡。 這代表什麼呢? 我們正在看的，是這個星球幾百年來的溫度紀錄。這裡有5~6種不同的版本，但每一種版本所對應的是由幾百種珊瑚所取得的溫度紀錄。我們也對冰核作同樣的分析研究。我們研究這些冰輪。這是我們用來發掘真正的自然現象以及上一個世紀有什麼不同的方式，對吧。因為它的複雜且紊亂的外表，所以我選了這個。這和剛取得時一樣紊亂。你可以看見這兒傳遞出一些訊息。某些紀錄顯示著溫度比其它還來得低。某些顯示著很大的變異性。但這也正告訴我們，自然有多麼的多變。有一部分是來自於北半球。某些是來自世界各地。 不過我們可以這樣說，在過去千年的時間中，這個星球溫度一直在下降。它不停的降溫，直到1900年左右。然而，有一些自然的變數，例如太陽的影響，例如聖嬰現象的影響。累計數十年到數百年的變化，我們知道他的影響性，大概是在0.2到0.4攝氏度左右。但是在最後，我們發現了隱藏的紀錄。在2009年的溫度是一個高點。你知道我們在上一個世紀，讓地球上升了一攝氏度，而在自然界的紀錄中，從未曾有過任何跡象顯示，過去這個世紀的問題曾經發生過。這就是我們論點的說服力所在，我們所做的是完全不一樣的事情。 所以我將再談一小段海洋酸化問題來作為今天的結論。我想將它視為地球暖化問題的一部分來談，因為，即使你不相信地球暖化問題，我常和這種人談話，但你不能夠否認二氧化碳會溶入海水這種簡單的物理現象。你知道我們正在排放大量的二氧化碳到大氣層中，不論是從石化原料或是水泥製品。現在, 大概有1/3的二氧化碳會直接溶入海水中，對吧?而當它發生的時候，它就會讓海水變得更酸一點。所以你無法去爭論這件事。這就是正在發生的事情，而這個和地球暖化是完全不同的事情。這會造成許多後果。 對於碳酸鹽類的有機生物會產生影響。有許多有機生物居住在碳酸鈣作成的甲殼之中 —不論是植物或動物。像是珊瑚礁的主要骨架原料就是碳酸鈣。這種原料在酸性的液體中會比較容易溶解的。所以我們會發現這些有機生物必須付出更多的新陳代謝能量來製造或是維持它們的甲殼完整。就在這個現象發生的同時，當二氧化碳持續溶入海水中，這些物質將會開始溶解。於是那些居住在珊瑚礁主骨架上的那些有機生物逐漸消失，我們將會發現海洋生物的多元性正在逐漸的減少。但並不只是碳酸鹽產物會受到影響。許多的生理現象也會因為海洋的酸化而受到影響。許多跟酵素和蛋白質相關的反應對於海洋的酸度都很敏感。所以，所有這類的事情 —造成更大的新陳代謝需求，改變了呼吸系統與新陳代謝系統，同時降低了受孕的成功率。我們可以找出許多完整的生理學解釋，讓我們知道這個現象會導致這些可預期的問題。 於是我們發現了一些有意思的方式來追蹤過去幾百年中二氧化碳跑進大氣中的數量。我們原本只是把它用在冰核之中，但是在這裡，我們將可以追朔到兩千萬年前。我們取了一些沉積物的樣品，它可以讓我們知道海洋中的二氧化碳含量，於是可以知道大氣中二氧化碳的含量。這就是怎麼作到的：你必須先回到一千五百萬年前，找到二氧化碳含量和今日差不多的時代。你必須到三千萬年前，找到二氧化氮含量是今日兩倍的時代。意思是說，居住在海中的生物在這個穩定的海洋之中演化，從海中的二氧化碳含量比現今更低的時候開始。因為它們無法承受或適應現在正在逐漸不停的變酸的海水。 所以 Charlie Veron去年說了這段話：""海洋酸化現象將會是所有人為二氧化碳排放所導致的可預期問題中最嚴重的一個。""而我想這將會成真，所以我用這個來做為結論。我們絕對需要去規劃出保護區，但是為了海洋的未來，我們需要的是去遮蔽或限制二氧化碳的排放量，而且是越快越好。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)"
