Talk	en	zh-tw
roberto_d_angelo_francesca_fedeli_in_our_baby_s_illness_a_life_lesson	"Francesca Fedeli: Ciao. So he's Mario. He's our son. He was born two and a half years ago, and I had a pretty tough pregnancy because I had to stay still in a bed for, like, eight months. But in the end everything seemed to be under control. So he got the right weight at birth. He got the right Apgar index. So we were pretty reassured by this. But at the end, 10 days later after he was born, we discovered that he had a stroke. As you might know, a stroke is a brain injury. A perinatal stroke could be something that can happen during the nine months of pregnancy or just suddenly after the birth, and in his case, as you can see, the right part of his brain has gone. So the effect that this stroke could have on Mario's body could be the fact that he couldn't be able to control the left side of his body. Just imagine, if you have a computer and a printer and you want to transmit, to input to print out a document, but the printer doesn't have the right drives, so the same is for Mario. It's just like, he would like to move his left side of his body, but he's not able to transmit the right input to move his left arm and left leg. So life had to change. We needed to change our schedule. We needed to change the impact that this birth had on our life. Roberto D'Angelo: As you may imagine, unfortunately, we were not ready. Nobody taught us how to deal with such kinds of disabilities, and as many questions as possible started to come to our minds. And that has been really a tough time. Questions, some basics, like, you know, why did this happen to us? And what went wrong? Some more tough, like, really, what will be the impact on Mario's life? I mean, at the end, will he be able to work? Will he be able to be normal? And, you know, as a parent, especially for the first time, why is he not going to be better than us? And this, indeed, really is tough to say, but a few months later, we realized that we were really feeling like a failure. I mean, the only real product of our life, at the end, was a failure. And you know, it was not a failure for ourselves in itself, but it was a failure that will impact his full life. Honestly, we went down. I mean we went really down, but at the end, we started to look at him, and we said, we have to react. So immediately, as Francesca said, we changed our life. We started physiotherapy, we started the rehabilitation, and one of the paths that we were following in terms of rehabilitation is the mirror neurons pilot. Basically, we spent months doing this with Mario. You have an object, and we showed him how to grab the object. Now, the theory of mirror neurons simply says that in your brains, exactly now, as you watch me doing this, you are activating exactly the same neurons as if you do the actions. It looks like this is the leading edge in terms of rehabilitation. But one day we found that Mario was not looking at our hand. He was looking at us. We were his mirror. And the problem, as you might feel, is that we were down, we were depressed, we were looking at him as a problem, not as a son, not from a positive perspective. And that day really changed our perspective. We realized that we had to become a better mirror for Mario. We restarted from our strengths, and at the same time we restarted from his strengths. We stopped looking at him as a problem, and we started to look at him as an opportunity to improve. And really, this was the change, and from our side, we said, ""What are our strengths that we really can bring to Mario?"" And we started from our passions. I mean, at the end, my wife and myself are quite different, but we have many things in common. We love to travel, we love music, we love to be in places like this, and we started to bring Mario with us just to show to him the best things that we can show to him. This short video is from last week. I am not saying — (Applause) — I am not saying it's a miracle. That's not the message, because we are just at the beginning of the path. But we want to share what was the key learning, the key learning that Mario drove to us, and it is to consider what you have as a gift and not only what you miss, and to consider what you miss just as an opportunity. And this is the message that we want to share with you. This is why we are here. Mario! And this is why — (Applause) — And this is why we decided to share the best mirror in the world with him. And we thank you so much, all of you. FF: Thank you. RD: Thank you. Bye. (Applause) FF: Thank you. (Applause)"	弗蘭且斯卡‧費達利：大家好 他是馬里奧，我們的兒子他在兩年半前出生我懷孕的過程很艱難我必須在床上待八個月但最後一切看來還算好他出生時體重標準阿普伽新生兒評分（皮膚、脈搏、反應、肌肉張力、呼吸）也正常所以我們都很放心但他出生後十天我們發現他中風過 你或許會知道中風是一種大腦損傷產期中風可能發生在懷孕期間的九個月內或在出生之後突然發生你可以看到他的情況是他失去了右邊的大腦 那次中風可能會對馬里奧的身體有不良影響他或許不能夠控制他左邊的身體請試想一下，假如你有一台電腦和一台印表機你要傳送、輸入或列印一份文書檔案但是印表機沒有合適的驅動程式馬里奧就是這樣的情況比如，如果他想移動左邊身體但是他不能夠傳送正確的輸入信號去移動他的左臂和左腿 生活必須作出改變我們需要更改日程表我們需要改變這次生育對我們生活的影響 羅伯特‧D‧安傑羅：也許你們能想像到不幸地是我們還沒有準備好沒人教導我們怎樣處理這樣子的殘疾接著很多問題陸續浮現湧向心頭這真是一段艱難的時期一些基本的問題，例如，為什麼會這會發生在我們身上還有那裡出了問題？一些更艱深的問題，比如說，這樣子對馬里奧的生活帶來什麼衝擊？我的意思是最終他能否工作？他能變回正常嗎？而且作為一名家長，尤其第一次為什麼他不會比我們好一些呢？然而這個問題卻真的難以說出口但是數個月之後，我們意識到我們感到失敗：我們生命中唯一真實的產物最終卻失敗了而且，你知道嗎，這並不是我們自己的失敗而是這項失敗將會影響他的一生 坦白說，我們感覺很失落是非常的失落，然而最後我們開始看著馬里奧我們對自己說，必須要做些什麽 所以，就像弗蘭且斯卡說的那樣，我們立即改變了生活我們開始進行物理療法、我們開始長期復健照料我們遵循的復健治療路徑之一就是鏡像神經元試驗計劃基本上我們花了幾個月與馬里奧一起做我們拿著一件物體，給他展示如何抓取這東西鏡像神經元理論表明當你看著我的動作時，你的大腦也確切地啟動了相同神經元就像你也做著同樣的動作這看來似乎是走在時代尖端的復健治療 但是有一天，我們發現馬里奧並不是看著我們的手他看著我們我們就是他的鏡像或許你能感覺到，這是一個問題我們也很低迷、很沮喪我們視他為一個難題而不是兒子，不從正面角度來看但從那天開始，我們試著換一個角度去看我們意識到為了馬里奧我們必須成為更好的鏡像 我們從我們的強項重新出發同時也從他的強項重新出發我們不再看待他為一項難題而是一次進步的機會真的，這就是改變在我們這邊，我們問自己，「我們有什麼強項，真的能給馬里奧帶來好處？」那麼我們從熱情開始我的意思是終究妻子和我十分不同但我們也有很多相同之處我們熱愛旅遊、我們熱愛音樂我們喜歡來到這樣的地方我們開始與馬里奧一起來我們盡力而為給他展示最好的東西 這是上周的錄像 我沒說 - (掌聲) 我沒說這是一個奇跡，這並不是我們想要傳達的訊息因為我們也只是剛剛起步但是我們要和大家分享我們從中學到的是，馬里奧帶給我們夫妻倆的學習要點就是把你所擁有的看成是一個禮物而不是你所失去的而所失去的看成一次機遇這就是我們要跟大家分享的訊息也就是我們來到這裡的原因 馬里奧！ 這就是原因 — (掌聲) 這就是原因我們決定與他一起分享這世上最好的鏡像我們非常感謝大家，每一位 費達利： 謝謝！安傑羅： 謝謝！拜拜！ (掌聲) 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
