Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_neuwirth_the_power_of_the_informal_economy	"In System D, this is a store, and what I mean by that is that this is a photograph I took in Makoko, shantytown in Lagos, Nigeria. It's built over the lagoon, and there are no streets where there can be stores to shop, and so the store comes to you. And in the same community, this is business synergy. This is the boat that that lady was paddling around in, and this artisan makes the boat and the paddles and sells directly to the people who need the boat and the paddles. And this is a global business. Ogandiro smokes fish in Makoko in Lagos, and I asked her, ""Where does the fish come from?"" And I thought she'd say, ""Oh, you know, up the lagoon somewhere, or maybe across Africa,"" but you'll be happy to know she said it came from here, it comes from the North Sea. It's caught here, frozen, shipped down to Lagos, smoked, and sold for a tiny increment of profit on the streets of Lagos. And this is a business incubator. This is Olusosun dump, the largest garbage dump in Lagos, and 2,000 people work here, and I found this out from this fellow, Andrew Saboru. Andrew spent 16 years scavenging materials on the dump, earned enough money to turn himself into a contract scaler, which meant he carried a scale and went around and weighed all the materials that people had scavenged from the dump. Now he's a scrap dealer. That's his little depot behind him, and he earns twice the Nigerian minimum wage. This is a shopping mall. This is Oshodi Market in Lagos. Jorge Luis Borges had a story called ""The Aleph,"" and the Aleph is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists, and for me, this image is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists. So, what am I talking about when I talk about System D? It's traditionally called the informal economy, the underground economy, the black market. I don't conceive of it that way. I think it's really important to understand that something like this is totally open. It's right there for you to find. All of this is happening openly, and aboveboard. There's nothing underground about it. It's our prejudgment that it's underground. I've pirated the term System D from the former French colonies. There's a word in French that is débrouillardise, that means to be self-reliant, and the former French colonies have turned that into System D for the economy of self-reliance, or the DIY economy. But governments hate the DIY economy, and that's why — I took this picture in 2007, and this is the same market in 2009 — and I think, when the organizers of this conference were talking about radical openness, they didn't mean that the streets should be open and the people should be gone. I think what we have is a pickle problem. I had a friend who worked at a pickle factory, and the cucumbers would come flying down this conveyer belt, and his job was to pick off the ones that didn't look so good and throw them in the bin labeled ""relish"" where they'd be crushed and mixed with vinegar and used for other kinds of profit. This is the pickle economy. We're all focusing on — this is a statistic from earlier this month in the Financial Times — we're all focusing on the luxury economy. It's worth 1.5 trillion dollars every year, and that's a vast amount of money, right? That's three times the Gross Domestic Product of Switzerland. So it's vast. But it should come with an asterisk, and the asterisk is that it excludes two thirds of the workers of the world. 1.8 billion people around the world work in the economy that is unregulated and informal. That's a huge number, and what does that mean? Well, it means if it were united in a single political system, one country, call it ""The United Street Sellers Republic,"" the U.S.S.R., or ""Bazaaristan,"" it would be worth 10 trillion dollars every year, and that would make it the second largest economy in the world, after the United States. And given that projections are that the bulk of economic growth over the next 15 years will come from emerging economies in the developing world, it could easily overtake the United States and become the largest economy in the world. So the implications of that are vast, because it means that this is where employment is — 1.8 billion people — and this is where we can create a more egalitarian world, because people are actually able to earn money and live and thrive, as Andrew Saboru did. Big businesses have recognized this, and what's fascinating about this slide, it's not that the guys can carry boxes on their heads and run around without dropping them off. it's that the Gala sausage roll is a product that's made by a global company called UAC foods that's active throughout Africa and the Middle East, but the Gala sausage roll is not sold in stores. UAC foods has recognized that it won't sell if it's in stores. It's only sold by a phalanx of street hawkers who run around the streets of Lagos at bus stations and in traffic jams and sell it as a snack, and it's been sold that way for 40 years. It's a business plan for a corporation. And it's not just in Africa. Here's Mr. Clean looking amorously at all the other Procter & Gamble products, and Procter & Gamble, you know, the statistic always cited is that Wal-Mart is their largest customer, and it's true, as one store, Wal-Mart buys 15 percent, thus 15 percent of Procter & Gamble's business is with Wal-Mart, but their largest market segment is something that they call ""high frequency stores,"" which is all these tiny kiosks and the lady in the canoe and all these other businesses that exist in System D, the informal economy, and Procter & Gamble makes 20 percent of its money from that market segment, and it's the only market segment that's growing. So Procter & Gamble says, ""We don't care whether a store is incorporated or registered or anything like that. We want our products in that store."" And then there's mobile phones. This is an ad for MTN, which is a South African multinational active in about 25 countries, and when they came into Nigeria — Nigeria is the big dog in Africa. One in seven Africans is a Nigerian, and so everyone wants in to the mobile phone market in Nigeria. And when MTN came in, they wanted to sell the mobile service like I get in the United States or like people get here in the U.K. or in Europe — expensive monthly plans, you get a phone, you pay overages, you're killed with fees — and their plan crashed and burned. And they went back to the drawing board, and they retooled, and they came up with another plan: We don't sell you the phone, we don't sell you the monthly plan. We only sell you airtime. And where's the airtime sold? It's sold at umbrella stands all over the streets, where people are unregistered, unlicensed, but MTN makes most of its profits, perhaps 90 percent of its profits, from selling through System D, the informal economy. And where do the phones come from? Well, they come from here. This is in Guangzhou, China, and if you go upstairs in this rather sleepy looking electronics mall, you find the Guangzhou Dashatou second-hand trade center, and if you go in there, you follow the guys with the muscles who are carrying the boxes, and where are they going? They're going to Eddy in Lagos. Now, most of the phones there are not second-hand at all. The name is a misnomer. Most of them are pirated. They have the name brand on them, but they're not manufactured by the name brand. Now, are there downsides to that? Well, I guess. You know, China has no — (Laughter) — no intellectual property, right? Versace without the vowels. Zhuomani instead of Armani. S. Guuuci, and — (Laughter) (Applause) All around the world this is how products are being distributed, so, for instance, in one street market on Rua 25 de Março in São Paulo, Brazil, you can buy fake designer glasses. You can buy cloned cologne. You can buy pirated DVDs, of course. You can buy New York Yankees caps in all sorts of unauthorized patterns. You can buy cuecas baratas, designer underwear that isn't really manufactured by a designer, and even pirated evangelical mixtapes. (Laughter) Now, businesses tend to complain about this, and their, they, I don't want to take away from their entire validity of complaining about it, but I did ask a major sneaker manufacturer earlier this year what they thought about piracy, and they told me, ""Well, you can't quote me on this, because if you quote me on this, I have to kill you,"" but they use piracy as market research. The sneaker manufacturer told me that if they find that Pumas are being pirated, or Adidas are being pirated and their sneakers aren't being pirated, they know they've done something wrong. (Laughter) So it's very important to them to track piracy exactly because of this, and the people who are buying, the pirates, are not their customers anyway, because their customers want the real deal. Now, there's another problem. This is a real street sign in Lagos, Nigeria. All of System D really doesn't pay taxes, right? And when I think about that, first of all I think that government is a social contract between the people and the government, and if the government isn't transparent, then the people aren't going to be transparent either, but also that we're blaming the little guy who doesn't pay his taxes, and we're not recognizing that everyone's fudging things all over the world, including some extremely respected businesses, and I'll give you one example. There was one company that paid 4,000 bribes in the first decade of this millennium, and a million dollars in bribes every business day, right? All over the world. And that company was the big German electronics giant Siemens. So this goes on in the formal economy as well as the informal economy, so it's wrong of us to blame — and I'm not singling out Siemens, I'm saying everyone does it. Okay? I just want to end by saying that if Adam Smith had framed out a theory of the flea market instead of the free market, what would be some of the principles? First, it would be to understand that it could be considered a cooperative, and this is a thought from the Brazilian legal scholar Roberto Mangabeira Unger. Cooperative development is a way forward. Secondly, from the [Austrian] anarchist philosopher Paul Feyerabend, facts are relative, and what is a massive right of self-reliance to a Nigerian businessperson is considered unauthorized and horrible to other people, and we have to recognize that there are differences in how people define things and what their facts are. And third is, and I'm taking this from the great American beat poet Allen Ginsberg, that alternate economies barter and different kinds of currency, alternate currencies are also very important, and he talked about buying what he needed just with his good looks. And so I just want to leave you there, and say that this economy is a tremendous force for global development and we need to think about it that way. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	在「D體系」的世界裡這是間商店而我要說的是，這張照片是我在奈及利亞，拉哥斯的馬可可貧民窟(Makoko)拍的商店位於潟湖的上方，那裡沒有街道也就沒有商店可逛因此流動攤販就這麼出現了 在同一個社區中有所謂的企業合作這艘小船是剛剛那位小販的這位是製作船和槳的工匠現做現賣給需要的人 這是個跨國生意小販歐甘狄羅(Ogandiro)在拉哥斯的馬可可賣燻魚我問她「這些魚是哪來的？」我猜她應該會說，「噢，這個啊...」「就在這潟湖裡，要不就非洲」不過你會很高興聽到她說魚是從我們這裡，北海來的在北海捕撈，冷凍，再運到拉哥斯煙燻料理後再以微薄利潤賣到拉哥斯的街頭 這是那兒的企業創新育成中心奧盧梭森(Olusosun)，拉哥斯最大的垃圾場有2000多人在這討生活這是安德魯‧薩布魯(Andrew Saboru)跟我說的安德魯在這拾荒了16年他賺了錢，成了約聘秤重員也就是說，他得帶著磅秤到處跑測量大家撿來的東西有多重現在的他則是廢棄回收物商在他身後的是他的小倉庫他的薪水為奈及利亞最低薪資的2倍 這是他們的購物中心位於拉哥斯的奧修地市場(Oshodi Market)博爾赫斯(Jorge Luis Borges)有部作品叫「阿萊斯」(The Aleph)「阿萊斯」是世界的上一個小小的點卻無奇不有對我而言，這畫面就好比是「阿萊斯」什麼都有，是世界的縮影 而當談到「D體系」時，該講些什麼呢?他正式的說法是非法經濟地下經濟或黑市我無法想像這種模式但我認為這非常重要，必須得去理解這個情況畢竟黑市就大剌剌的擺在眼前，等著你去探索沒有任何遮掩，完全赤裸地公開根本沒有地下不地下這回事那只是我們的刻板印象 我從前法國殖民地那借用了「D體系」這個詞法文有個單字是débrouillardise即自力更生的意思後來前法國殖民地把這個字變成「D體系」用來表示他們自助式的經濟方式或稱DIY經濟 但是政府痛恨DIY經濟這就是為什麼我在2007年拍了這張照片同一個市場在2009年卻變了樣我相信，這場演講的策畫人在討論到「極端開放」之時並不會把街道清空或驅散民眾 我想我們面對的是醃菜問題我有個朋友曾在醃菜工廠上班有些小黃瓜會被丟出輸送帶他的工作就是去撿那些小黃瓜把賣相不好的小黃瓜丟進標有「可口」字樣的籃子裡再被送去攪碎、用醋調和當作其他商品販售這就是醃菜的獲利方式但我們都只關注數據月初在金融時報中的數據只關注大型的經濟活動這每年可值1.5兆美元相當龐大的數字，是吧?相當於瑞士GDP的3倍的確是一塊大餅，但我們應該給它標記一下這個大餅把3分之2的工作者排除在外全世界的工作者全球18億人是在沒有規範、非法的情況下工作這個驚人的數字又意味著什麼?這代表著，如果把這些人集結為單一政治體系變成一個國家稱為「攤販聯盟共和國」，簡稱U.S.S.R.或「市集斯坦」那每年將值10兆美元甚至會是全球第二大經濟體僅次於美國而從未來15年，開發中國家新興經濟體龐大的經濟成長規模可以預測得到美國被取代是早晚的是地下經濟將成為最大經濟體 言外之意是，這是不容小覷的因為這就是勞動力的來源，18億人口我們甚至能創造更平等的世界因為大家是真的為了討生活而賺錢接著繁榮起來，就像安德魯的例子一樣。 商人很清楚這點在這張幻燈片裡令人驚訝的並非是有人可以用頭頂著箱子跑東跑西還可穩如泰山令人眼睛為之一亮的是那裡頭的Gala牌的臘腸捲是由跨國食品公司UAC生產的在非洲和中東都有這家公司的蹤影不過在店裡可是買不到Gala臘腸捲的UAC公司發現臘腸捲擺在裡是賣不掉的大家只到街頭攤販那買小販會把臘腸當作點心，在拉哥斯靠公車站的街道上或在塞車的時候奔走叫賣這樣的販賣方式已經持續40年了這對公司來說是商業策略 這不單是在非洲這是寶僑清潔品牌「清潔先生」和其他寶僑的產品一說到寶僑數據總是會說沃爾瑪(Wal-Mart)是寶僑的頭號大客戶，以一家店的規模來看這沒有錯有15%由沃爾瑪買單，也就是說寶僑在生意上有15%是和沃爾瑪合作的但是他們最大市場區是他們所謂的「高頻率商店」指的就是一些小販售亭一個亭子配一個店員，其他類似的經營手法就和地下經濟「D體系」的情況一樣而寶僑在這樣的市場區裡獲利了20%那也是唯一正成長的市場區寶僑還說:「我們不考慮商店是否有合法登記之類的問題我們只想要貨品在店裡上架」 在來是手機這是MTN電信的廣告一家南非的跨國電信公司觸角遍及約25國當他們進入奈及利亞市場奈及利亞在非洲是個金礦7個非洲人中有1個就是奈及利亞人大家都想打進奈及利亞的手機市場MTN電信進駐後，想用在美國的一樣方案兜售電信服務或像大家在英國或歐洲那樣的方案付昂貴的月費後有了手機接著完全超支整個人被淹沒在帳單堆中電信公司推出的方案觸礁失敗因此他們重新規劃，改良方案最後推出了新的方案不賣手機也沒有月費方案只收通話費那通話時間要上哪買呢?就在街頭巷尾隨處可見的陽傘下沒有人是合法登記或持照的但卻幫MTN電信賺了大把鈔票公司大概有90%的利潤是來自「D體系」，所謂的地下經濟 那麼手機又是哪來的呢?這兒，這是中國的廣州如果你走到這間看似死氣沉沉電子商場的樓上你會看到「廣州大沙頭」二手交易中心如果你走進來逛逛，跟著身材壯碩搬著箱子的人走，會通到哪呢?拉哥斯的艾迪那兒大部分的手機並非二手貨大家會錯意了大多是山寨機，上頭有牌子但並非出自原廠 那麼，這樣做會不會有問題呢?我想，在中國...是沒有智慧財產權的，對吧?少了幾個字母的凡爾賽斯(Versace)亞曼尼(Armani)變成卓瑪妮這是S.古烏...烏馳...全世界都是如此這就是產品批發的過程，舉例來說在巴西聖保羅的25街( Rua 25 de Março)上你可以買到盜版的名牌太陽眼鏡盜版古龍水當然也有盜版光碟紐約洋基隊棒球帽名牌仿冒品隨處可見還有廉價的名牌內褲也非出自原廠之手甚至還有基督教的聖樂合集 現在，商人們開始抱怨了他們...我不想質疑他們抱怨的正確性但我在年初的時候，的確有問一家運動鞋大廠問問他們對盜版的看法他們說:「這個嘛，你可不能說是我說的...要不然我得殺你滅口」他們把盜版視為市場調查的一部分運動鞋製造商告訴我如果他們發現Puma或Adidas被人仿冒自己出產的鞋子卻沒被盜版商抄襲他們就會知道大事不妙了 (笑聲)所以盜版方面的消息他們來說是很重要的而掏腰包買盜版商品人也不屬於他們的客群因為他們的買家想要的是正版商品 現在，另一個問題出現了這是奈及利亞的拉哥斯，路標上就寫著「落實納稅」顯然「D體系」的人沒在繳稅的，是吧?當我思考這問題時，我第一個想到的是政府扮演的是他和人民間「社會契約」的角色如果政府辦事不夠透明人民當然就有樣學樣但是我們卻用放大鏡再看那些不繳稅的少數人上，我們沒意識到的是騙術戲碼在世界各地都上演著甚至包括一些受人敬重的大企業我這就有一個例子有個公司行賄量達到了4000筆就發生在2000~2010年間每天花一百萬美元行賄，對吧?全球各地都一樣，這家大公司就是德國電子大廠西門子這就在我們所謂的合法經濟上真實上演當然在地下經濟的世界也不例外因此，怪罪地下經濟是不對的；我並非針對西門子我的意思的是大家都這麼做 我想以亞當‧斯密(Adam Smith)作的例子為結語如果他的理論為跳蚤市場畫出了藍圖而非構想中的自由市場這些原則代表了什麼? 首先得要了解到這是巴西法學家羅貝多‧溫格(Roberto Mangabeira Unger)的構想合作開發是條康莊大道 第二，奧地利無政府主義哲學家保羅‧費耶阿本德(Paul Feyerabend) 認為事實是相對應的，而奈及利亞商人他們自助性的經濟對其他人而言是不好、非法的我們必須承認，差異一直都存在於人們定義事情的方式和事情本身的事實之間 第三，是我從垮掉派美國詩人艾倫‧金斯堡(Allen Ginsberg)那引用的另類經濟世界中的以物易物不同類型的貨幣、替代貨幣都是很重要的，他還談到他用他充滿魅力的外表就能買到想要的東西 我就不再多話，讓你們想想地下經濟對全球的發展來說是顆強而有力的引擎我們得改變對它的刻板印象謝謝大家(掌聲)
