Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_palmer_the_panama_papers_exposed_a_huge_global_problem_what_s_next	"[On April 3, 2016 we saw the largest data leak in history.] [The Panama Papers exposed rich and powerful people] [hiding vast amounts of money in offshore accounts.] [What does this mean?] [We called Robert Palmer of Global Witness to explain.] This week, there have been a whole slew and deluge of stories coming out from the leak of 11 million documents from a Panamanian-based law firm called Mossack Fonseca. The release of these papers from Panama lifts the veil on a tiny piece of the secretive offshore world. We get an insight into how clients and banks and lawyers go to companies like Mossack Fonseca and say, ""OK, we want an anonymous company, can you give us one?"" So you actually get to see the emails, you get to see the exchanges of messages, you get to see the mechanics of how this works, how this operates. Now, this has already started to have pretty immediate repercussions. The Prime Minister of Iceland has resigned. We've also had news that an ally of the brutal Syrian dictator Bashar Al-Assad has also got offshore companies. There's been allegations of a $2 billion money trail that leads back to President Vladimir Putin of Russia via his close childhood friend, who happens to be a top cellist. And there will be a lot of rich individuals out there and others who will be nervous about the next set of stories and the next set of leaked documents. Now, this sounds like the plot of a spy thriller or a John Grisham novel. It seems very distant from you, me, ordinary people. Why should we care about this? But the truth is that if rich and powerful individuals are able to keep their money offshore and not pay the taxes that they should, it means that there is less money for vital public services like healthcare, education, roads. And that affects all of us. Now, for my organization Global Witness, this exposé has been phenomenal. We have the world's media and political leaders talking about how individuals can use offshore secrecy to hide and disguise their assets — something we have been talking about and exposing for a decade. Now, I think a lot of people find this entire world baffling and confusing, and hard to understand how this sort of offshore world works. I like to think of it a bit like a Russian doll. So you can have one company stacked inside another company, stacked inside another company, making it almost impossible to really understand who is behind these structures. It can be very difficult for law enforcement or tax authorities, journalists, civil society to really understand what's going on. I also think it's interesting that there's been less coverage of this issue in the United States. And that's perhaps because some prominent US people just haven't figured in this exposé, in this scandal. Now, that's not because there are no rich Americans who are stashing their assets offshore. It's just because of the way in which offshore works, Mossack Fonseca has fewer American clients. I think if we saw leaks from the Cayman Islands or even from Delaware or Wyoming or Nevada, you would see many more cases and examples linking back to Americans. In fact, in a number of US states you need less information, you need to provide less information to get a company than you do to get a library card. That sort of secrecy in America has allowed employees of school districts to rip off schoolchildren. It has allowed scammers to rip off vulnerable investors. This is the sort of behavior that affects all of us. Now, at Global Witness, we wanted to see what this actually looked like in practice. How does this actually work? So what we did is we sent in an undercover investigator to 13 Manhattan law firms. Our investigator posed as an African minister who wanted to move suspect funds into the United States to buy a house, a yacht, a jet. Now, what was truly shocking was that all but one of those lawyers provided our investigator with suggestions on how to move those suspect funds. These were all preliminary meetings, and none of the lawyers took us on as a client and of course no money moved hands, but it really shows the problem with the system. It's also important to not just think about this as individual cases. This is not just about an individual lawyer who's spoken to our undercover investigator and provided suggestions. It's not just about a particular senior politician who's been caught up in a scandal. This is about how a system works, that entrenches corruption, tax evasion, poverty and instability. And in order to tackle this, we need to change the game. We need to change the rules of the game to make this sort of behavior harder. This may seem like doom and gloom, like there's nothing we can do about it, like nothing has ever changed, like there will always be rich and powerful individuals. But as a natural optimist, I do see that we are starting to get some change. Over the last couple of years, we've seen a real push towards greater transparency when it comes to company ownership. This issue was put on the political agenda by the UK Prime Minister David Cameron at a big G8 Summit that was held in Northern Ireland in 2013. And since then, the European Union is going to be creating central registers at a national level of who really owns and controls companies across Europe. One of the things that is sad is that, actually, the US is lagging behind. There's bipartisan legislation that had been introduced in the House and the Senate, but it isn't making as much progress as we'd like to see. So we'd really want to see the Panama leaks, this huge peek into the offshore world, be used as a way of opening up in the US and around the world. For us at Global Witness, this is a moment for change. We need ordinary people to get angry at the way in which people can hide their identity behind secret companies. We need business leaders to stand up and say, ""Secrecy like this is not good for business."" We need political leaders to recognize the problem, and to commit to changing the law to open up this sort of secrecy. Together, we can end the secrecy that is currently allowing tax evasion, corruption, money laundering to flourish."	［ 2016 年 4 月 3 號我們看到了史上最大宗的資料檔案洩密］［ 巴拿馬文件揭穿了權貴者們一直隱藏在海外帳戶的巨款 ］［ 這有什麼涵意呢？］［我們找來「全球見證」的羅伯特．帕爾默為我們說明］ 本周從巴拿馬的莫薩克．馮塞卡律師事務所外洩出的 1,100 萬份文件，為我們帶來了整體大量的驚人故事。這些巴拉拿文件的公布揭開了鮮為人知之離岸公司世界的滄海一粟我們見識到委託人、銀行以及律師們如何找上像莫薩克．馮塞卡這種公司，開口說：「我們要開一間不記名公司，可以幫我們搞一個嗎？」所以你一定要去看看這些電子郵件、一定要去看看他們往來的信息、一定要去了解這個機制是如何進行、如何運作的。 如今這事已經開始有了噩耗影響──冰島總理已經引辭。我們也已經有了消息指出敘利亞獨裁者巴沙爾．阿薩德的一名同夥也有好幾間離岸公司。也有指控說 20 億美金的金流透過俄羅斯總統 普丁的兒時密友回流給他，該玩伴後來變成了頂尖的大提琴家。而且將會有很多除此其外的富豪和其他人等將要開始擔心下一波新聞和下一批外洩檔案。 這現在聽起來像是間諜小說的故事，或是約翰．葛里遜的小說，聽起來對你、我和一般大眾好像非常遙不可及的。為何我們應該在意呢？真相是因為如果權貴者們得以把錢滯留在海外，而不繳交他們應付的稅金，這就代表用來做必要之公共服務的錢比較少了──像是醫療、教育、修橋鋪路，而那樣就影響到我們所有人了。 在我們「全球見證」裡面，這件大爆料是不得了的。我們找來各國媒體與政治領袖談論關於私人如何使用離岸公司的保密性來藏匿和粉飾他們的資產──我們已經不停談論並揭發長達十年了。 現在很多人發現到這整個境外天地是猜不透和令人困惑的，而且很難理解這種境外天地如何運作；我喜歡把它們想成有點像俄羅斯娃娃，所以你可以把一間公司完好收進另一間公司裡，再完好收進另一家公司裡，讓它幾乎無法讓人理解，究竟幕後真正的黑手是誰。對執法單位、稅務機關、記者、公民團體而言要了解究竟怎麼回事真的是很困難。 另外我也覺得有趣的是──在美國這個議題的報導很少，可能是因為一些有頭臉的美國人僅僅還沒在這個大爆料、醜聞裡被點到名。並不是因為沒有美國的富人不斷大量藏匿資產在海外，只是因為境外天地運作的該管道──莫薩克．馮賽卡有著較少的美國委託人。我認為如果我們去看來自開曼群島、甚或德拉瓦、懷俄明、內華達州的洩密案件，你會看到多許多的案例背後牽扯上美國人。 事實上美國有幾個州你只需提供一點點資料，比申請圖書館證還要少的資料，你就可以申請到一家公司。在美國的這種黑箱已經放任學區的職員欺詐學生，甚至還放任詐騙集團詐騙易受騙的投資人。這類行為影響到我們全部人。 我們「全球見證」想要知道在實務面這個到底是什麼樣貌？這究竟是如何運作的？我們當時做的就是把一名持假身分的調查員送到曼哈頓的13 間律師事務所裡，我們的調查員喬裝成一名非洲高官，想把來路不明的資金移到美國的，來購買房子、遊艇、噴射機；讓我們真正震驚的是所有律師中竟有一位給我們的調查員一個如何移動這筆資金的建議。這些全都只是初來乍到的會面，而且都沒有律師把我們視為委託人承接案件，當然也就沒有錢轉手了，但是確實顯示出這個體系有了問題。 同樣重要的是不要把這件事當成不過就是私人個案，這不光是單獨一位律師跟我們調查員洽談跟給建言有關，也不光是特定的資深政治人物在醜聞中被抓到了；這是關於我們的系統如何運行加深了腐敗、逃漏稅、貧窮、社會的不安定。為了解決掉這件事，我們必須改變遊戲，我們必須改變遊戲規則，來讓這種行為更為困難。 這看起來好像沒甚麼希望，好像我們都沒轍一樣，好像沒有事情會改變一樣，好像永遠都會有權貴者在。但身為一位天生的樂觀主義者，我真的看到了我們正開始要改變。 最近這幾年來提到公司的持有人時我們已經看到公司更加透明化的實質推動。這件事情被英國首相 大衛．卡麥隆在 2013 年北愛爾蘭舉行的G8 高峰會放在政治議題上。自此歐盟打算建立國家層級的中央註冊中心，說明清楚是誰真正持有、控制這些歐洲境內的公司。 但令人難過的事是美國實際上還在後面托拖拉拉。兩黨共推的法案已經被提案進參、眾兩院，但是並沒有做出我們想要看到的進展。所以我們真的很想看到巴拿馬文件，被用來作為公佈在美國和世界各處的黑箱，這個對離岸公司世界的大肆窺探。 對「全球見證」的我們來說現在是求取改變的時刻，我們需要小老百姓對有人可以在黑箱公司背後隱藏身份的方法感到生氣。我們想要商業領袖站出來說：「這樣做生意的方式是不對的」；我們需要政治領袖們體認到這個問題，並承諾修改法律來打開這些黑箱。 我們一起來就能終止這個黑箱－目前正放任逃漏稅、貪汙、洗錢蓬勃滋生。
