Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_gordon_the_death_of_innovation_the_end_of_growth	That's how we traveled in the year 1900. That's an open buggy. It doesn't have heating. It doesn't have air conditioning. That horse is pulling it along at one percent of the speed of sound, and the rutted dirt road turns into a quagmire of mud anytime it rains. That's a Boeing 707. Only 60 years later, it travels at 80 percent of the speed of sound, and we don't travel any faster today because commercial supersonic air travel turned out to be a bust. So I started wondering and pondering, could it be that the best years of American economic growth are behind us? And that leads to the suggestion, maybe economic growth is almost over. Some of the reasons for this are not really very controversial. There are four headwinds that are just hitting the American economy in the face. They're demographics, education, debt and inequality. They're powerful enough to cut growth in half. So we need a lot of innovation to offset this decline. And here's my theme: Because of the headwinds, if innovation continues to be as powerful as it has been in the last 150 years, growth is cut in half. If innovation is less powerful, invents less great, wonderful things, then growth is going to be even lower than half of history. Now here's eight centuries of economic growth. The vertical axis is just percent per year of growth, zero percent a year, one percent a year, two percent a year. The white line is for the U.K., and then the U.S. takes over as the leading nation in the year 1900, when the line switches to red. You'll notice that, for the first four centuries, there's hardly any growth at all, just 0.2 percent. Then growth gets better and better. It maxes out in the 1930s, '40s and '50s, and then it starts slowing down, and here's a cautionary note. That last downward notch in the red line is not actual data. That is a forecast that I made six years ago that growth would slow down to 1.3 percent. But you know what the actual facts are? You know what the growth in per-person income has been in the United States in the last six years? Negative. This led to a fantasy. What if I try to fit a curved line to this historical record? I can make the curved line end anywhere I wanted, but I decided I would end it at 0.2, just like the U.K. growth for the first four centuries. Now the history that we've achieved is that we've grown at 2.0 percent per year over the whole period, 1891 to 2007, and remember it's been a little bit negative since 2007. But if growth slows down, instead of doubling our standard of living every generation, Americans in the future can't expect to be twice as well off as their parents, or even a quarter [more well off than] their parents. Now we're going to change and look at the level of per capita income. The vertical axis now is thousands of dollars in today's prices. You'll notice that in 1891, over on the left, we were at about 5,000 dollars. Today we're at about 44,000 dollars of total output per member of the population. Now what if we could achieve that historic two-percent growth for the next 70 years? Well, it's a matter of arithmetic. Two-percent growth quadruples your standard of living in 70 years. That means we'd go from 44,000 to 180,000. Well, we're not going to do that, and the reason is the headwinds. The first headwind is demographics. It's a truism that your standard of living rises faster than productivity, rises faster than output per hour, if hours per person increased. And we got that gift back in the '70s and '80s when women entered the labor force. But now it's turned around. Now hours per person are shrinking, first because of the retirement of the baby boomers, and second because there's been a very significant dropping out of the labor force of prime age adult males who are in the bottom half of the educational distribution. The next headwind is education. We've got problems all over our educational system despite Race to the Top. In college, we've got cost inflation in higher education that dwarfs cost inflation in medical care. We have in higher education a trillion dollars of student debt, and our college completion rate is 15 points, 15 percentage points below Canada. We have a lot of debt. Our economy grew from 2000 to 2007 on the back of consumers massively overborrowing. Consumers paying off that debt is one of the main reasons why our economic recovery is so sluggish today. And everybody of course knows that the federal government debt is growing as a share of GDP at a very rapid rate, and the only way that's going to stop is some combination of faster growth in taxes or slower growth in entitlements, also called transfer payments. And that gets us down from the 1.5, where we've reached for education, down to 1.3. And then we have inequality. Over the 15 years before the financial crisis, the growth rate of the bottom 99 percent of the income distribution was half a point slower than the averages we've been talking about before. All the rest went to the top one percent. So that brings us down to 0.8. And that 0.8 is the big challenge. Are we going to grow at 0.8? If so, that's going to require that our inventions are as important as the ones that happened over the last 150 years. So let's see what some of those inventions were. If you wanted to read in 1875 at night, you needed to have an oil or a gas lamp. They created pollution, they created odors, they were hard to control, the light was dim, and they were a fire hazard. By 1929, electric light was everywhere. We had the vertical city, the invention of the elevator. Central Manhattan became possible. And then, in addition to that, at the same time, hand tools were replaced by massive electric tools and hand-powered electric tools, all achieved by electricity. Electricity was also very helpful in liberating women. Women, back in the late 19th century, spent two days a week doing the laundry. They did it on a scrub board. Then they had to hang the clothes out to dry. Then they had to bring them in. The whole thing took two days out of the seven-day week. And then we had the electric washing machine. And by 1950, they were everywhere. But the women still had to shop every day, but no they didn't, because electricity brought us the electric refrigerator. Back in the late 19th century, the only source of heat in most homes was a big fireplace in the kitchen that was used for cooking and heating. The bedrooms were cold. They were unheated. But by 1929, certainly by 1950, we had central heating everywhere. What about the internal combustion engine, which was invented in 1879? In America, before the motor vehicle, transportation depended entirely on the urban horse, which dropped, without restraint, 25 to 50 pounds of manure on the streets every day together with a gallon of urine. That comes out at five to 10 tons daily per square mile in cities. Those horses also ate up fully one quarter of American agricultural land. That's the percentage of American agricultural land it took to feed the horses. Of course, when the motor vehicle was invented, and it became almost ubiquitous by 1929, that agricultural land could be used for human consumption or for export. And here's an interesting ratio: Starting from zero in 1900, only 30 years later, the ratio of motor vehicles to the number of households in the United States reached 90 percent in just 30 years. Back before the turn of the century, women had another problem. All the water for cooking, cleaning and bathing had to be carried in buckets and pails in from the outside. It's a historical fact that in 1885, the average North Carolina housewife walked 148 miles a year carrying 35 tons of water. But by 1929, cities around the country had put in underground water pipes. They had put in underground sewer pipes, and as a result, one of the great scourges of the late 19th century, waterborne diseases like cholera, began to disappear. And an amazing fact for techno-optimists is that in the first half of the 20th century, the rate of improvement of life expectancy was three times faster than it was in the second half of the 19th century. So it's a truism that things can't be more than 100 percent of themselves. And I'll just give you a few examples. We went from one percent to 90 percent of the speed of sound. Electrification, central heat, ownership of motor cars, they all went from zero to 100 percent. Urban environments make people more productive than on the farm. We went from 25 percent urban to 75 percent by the early postwar years. What about the electronic revolution? Here's an early computer. It's amazing. The mainframe computer was invented in 1942. By 1960 we had telephone bills, bank statements were being produced by computers. The earliest cell phones, the earliest personal computers were invented in the 1970s. The 1980s brought us Bill Gates, DOS, ATM machines to replace bank tellers, bar code scanning to cut down on labor in the retail sector. Fast forward through the '90s, we had the dotcom revolution and a temporary rise in productivity growth. But I'm now going to give you an experiment. You have to choose either option A or option B. (Laughter) Option A is you get to keep everything invented up till 10 years ago. So you get Google, you get Amazon, you get Wikipedia, and you get running water and indoor toilets. Or you get everything invented to yesterday, including Facebook and your iPhone, but you have to give up, go out to the outhouse, and carry in the water. Hurricane Sandy caused a lot of people to lose the 20th century, maybe for a couple of days, in some cases for more than a week, electricity, running water, heating, gasoline for their cars, and a charge for their iPhones. The problem we face is that all these great inventions, we have to match them in the future, and my prediction that we're not going to match them brings us down from the original two-percent growth down to 0.2, the fanciful curve that I drew you at the beginning. So here we are back to the horse and buggy. I'd like to award an Oscar to the inventors of the 20th century, the people from Alexander Graham Bell to Thomas Edison to the Wright Brothers, I'd like to call them all up here, and they're going to call back to you. Your challenge is, can you match what we achieved? Thank you. (Applause)	這是我們 1900 年用的交通工具輕便敞篷馬車，沒有裝暖氣也沒有裝冷氣那隻馬以 1% 的聲速前進而布滿車輪痕跡的泥濘小路一下雨就成了沼澤地這是波音 707 客機只過了 60 年就能以 80% 的聲速移動而現在我們沒有更快的交通工具因為超音速商務飛機最後失敗了 所以我開始思索會不會美國經濟最蓬勃發展的年代已經過去了？這也意味著，或許經濟成長幾乎已經結束了有些結束的原因沒有太大的爭議現在有四大困境正迎面襲擊美國現在的經濟實力包括人口統計、教育、債務及不平等的問題這些問題足以減少一半的成長所以我們需要大量創新來抵銷經濟下滑的趨勢這就是我的主題：因為這些困境假如創新的表現能和過去 150 年一樣亮眼經濟成長會減半假如創新力沒有進步無法再發明更多有用的東西那麼經濟成長將比不上過去的一半 這是過去八個世紀經濟成長的表現縱軸代表每年成長的百分比一年 0%、1% 或 2%白線代表英國，後段是美國在 1900 年成為世界強權也就是紅色線段的部分大家可以注意到，前面四個世紀幾乎沒有任何成長，只有 0.2%接著成長越來越快在 1930、1940 及 1950 年有最高的經濟成長率然後成長逐漸趨緩，要注意的是紅線中最後一次下滑的部分不是實際的資料是我六年前做的預測經濟成長將下滑至 1.3%但是你們知道實際數據是多少嗎？你們知道過去六年，美國每人所得成長率是多少嗎？是負數 假設一下我試著以曲線表示這份歷史紀錄我可以自己決定曲線在哪裡結束我認為會在 0.2 的部分就跟英國前面四個世紀一樣歷史上我們的經濟成長表現是從 1891 年到 2007 年，每年都成長了2%而且別忘了從 2007 年就開始出現負成長如果成長趨緩而不是每一代的生活水準都有兩倍成長未來美國人無法過的比自己的父母加倍幸福或甚至連他們幸福的四分之一都不到現在我們來看看每人平均所得水準縱軸是以現在物價來衡量的價格大家可以看到在 1891 年，左手邊的部分大約是平均 5000 元現在大約每人總產出是四萬四千元萬一接下來的 70 年，我們可以達到2% 成長的表現，結果會是如何呢？這就是算術上的問題了2% 的成長率，70 年後是現在生活水準的四倍代表我們將從四萬四成長到十八萬但我們做不到原因就是那些困境 第一個困境是人口統計我們都知道，如果每小時的人力增加生活水準會成長得比生產力更快也比每小時的產出更快從 70 和 80 年代女性投入勞動力，就可以看的出來但現在情況不同了現在每小時的人力逐漸在萎縮第一個原因是因為嬰兒潮出生的人退休了第二個原因是因為大量男性壯年人口的勞動力下降這些人分布於受教育人口的底層 第二個困境是教育儘管推動了「力爭上游」的教育改革計畫整個教育體制還是有問題大學裡，高等教育的成本膨脹使得醫療照顧的成本萎縮高等教育的學生負債高達一兆美元而我們大學的畢業率是 15 個百分點，比加拿大低 15 個百分點我們有很多的債務我們的經濟從 2000 年到 2007 年有所成長是因為消費者大量的借貸需要償還貸款的消費者就是我們現在經濟蕭條的主因而大家當然都知道聯邦政府的公債也在持續上升急速成為國內生產毛額的一部分要阻止債務增加唯一的方法是結合高稅率及低津貼的方式也叫做轉移支付這使得我們教育有的 1.5% 成長率因負債下滑至 1.3% 最後是不平等的問題金融危機前 15 年底部 99% 所得分配的成長率比我們之前所提過的平均成長率還要低 0.5 個百分點剩下的都是頂端 1%因此使得我們的成長率下滑至 0.8%這 0.8% 又是一大挑戰我們有 0.8% 的經濟成長率嗎？如果有，那我們的創新就必須和過去 150 年的創新一樣重要我們來看看這些創新有哪些 在 1875 年，如果你晚上想要讀書你需要一盞油燈或煤氣燈這些燈會造成污染，產生氣味光線微弱，難以控制還有火災的危險到了 1929 年，到處都有電燈因為電梯的發明，我們有了向上發展的城市曼哈頓的繁榮才能成真除此之外，同時手持工具被大量的電動工具和手動操作的電動工具所取代一切都歸功於電的發明 電力對於婦女解放也有很大的幫助19 世紀晚期，女性一週花兩天的時間在洗衣服用洗衣板洗衣服然後還要把衣服拿出去晾乾再把衣服收進來整個過程一個禮拜就花了兩天後來發明了洗衣機到了 1950 年，已經普遍使用但婦女還是得每天上街買菜事實上不需要，因為電帶動了冰箱的發明 19 世紀晚期，大部分家庭唯一的熱源是廚房裡用來煮飯的大壁爐臥房都很冷，沒有暖氣但是到了 1929 年，更確定是到 1950 年中央暖氣系統已無所不在 那麼 1879 年發明的內燃機呢？在美國，車子發明以前交通完全倚賴馬匹牠們每天會在街道上無限制的排放 25 到 50 磅的糞便以及一加侖的尿液城市每平方英里一天會有 5 到 10 噸的排放量那些馬還吃了美國四分之一的農地這就是美國農地用來養馬的比例當然，車子發明了以後到 1929 年，幾乎已普遍使用那些農地就能讓人使用或是出口這個數據很有趣，1900 年開始只過了 30 年，美國每戶擁有車子的比率從 0% 成長到 90%，只花了 30 年 在上個世紀之前婦女還遇到另外一個難題所有煮飯、清潔或梳洗的用水都必須用水桶從外面裝回來這是 1885 年的史實北卡羅來納州的家庭主婦一年走了 145 英里，裝 35 噸的水但是到了 1929 年，全國各城市都建設了地下水道他們鋪了下水道因此，19 世紀晚期最嚴重的災難透過水所傳染的疾病像霍亂，逐漸消失對技術樂觀主義者來說，最驚人的是20 世紀前半平均壽命改善的速率比 19 世紀後半快了 3 倍 所以理所當然你知道這已經是最好的表現了我給大家舉一些例子我們從 0% 的聲速進步到 90%電氣化、中央暖氣系統、汽車都從無到有，0% 進步到 100%比起農場，城市的環境讓我們更有生產力戰後初期，城市化的比率從 25% 上升至 75% 那麼電子方面的革命呢？這是早期的電腦非常驚人，大型電腦在 1942 年時發明到了 1960 年，我們的電話和銀行帳單都交由電腦處理最早的手機、最早的個人電腦都在 1970 年出現1980 年代我們有了比爾蓋茲、磁碟作業系統以及自動提款機，來取代銀行的出納員條碼掃描器減少了零售業的人力一下就到了 90 年代我們有了網路革命生產力一度上升 現在給大家做個實驗只能選 A 或選 B(笑聲)A 選項是你可以保留一直到 10 年前所發明的東西所以你有谷歌、亞馬遜可以用還有維基百科、自來水和室內廁所或是 B 選項，你可以擁有直至今日發明的所有東西包括臉書和蘋果的智慧型手機但你必須放棄，你必須到外面裝水回來颶風桑迪讓許多人失去了 20 世紀的一切也許是幾天有些人超過一個禮拜沒有電、自來水、暖氣和汽油也沒辦法幫手機充電 現在的問題是，未來我們要有比得上這些偉大發明的創新而我預期，未來不會有更偉大的發明我們從原來的 2% 成長率下滑到我一開始畫的 0.2% 的未來預測 現在回到馬匹及馬車我想頒個奧斯卡獎給 20 世紀的發明家從亞歷山大·格拉漢姆·貝爾到湯瑪斯·愛迪生，再到萊特兄弟我想請他們到這裡來告訴大家你們面臨的挑戰是：能不能戰勝我們的成就呢？ 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
