Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_ballard_on_exploring_the_oceans	"The first question is this. Our country has two exploration programs. One is NASA, with a mission to explore the great beyond, to explore the heavens, which we all want to go to if we're lucky. And you can see we have Sputnik, and we have Saturn, and we have other manifestations of space exploration. Well, there's also another program, in another agency within our government, in ocean exploration. It's in NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. And my question is this: ""why are we ignoring the oceans?"" Here's the reason, or not the reason, but here's why I ask that question. If you compare NASA's annual budget to explore the heavens, that one-year budget would fund NOAA's budget to explore the oceans for 1,600 years. Why? Why are we looking up? Is it because it's heaven? And hell is down here? Is it a cultural issue? Why are people afraid of the ocean? Or do they just assume the ocean is just a dark, gloomy place that has nothing to offer? I'm going to take you on a 16-minute trip on 72 percent of the planet, so buckle up. OK. And what we're going to do is we're going to immerse ourselves in my world. And what I'm going to try — I hope I make the following points. I'm going to make it right now in case I forget. Everything I'm going to present to you was not in my textbooks when I went to school. And most of all, it was not even in my college textbooks. I'm a geophysicist, and all my Earth science books when I was a student — I had to give the wrong answer to get an A. We used to ridicule continental drift. It was something we laughed at. We learned of Marshall Kay's geosynclinal cycle, which is a bunch of crap. In today's context, it was a bunch of crap, but it was the law of geology, vertical tectonics. All the things we're going to walk through in our explorations and discoveries of the oceans were mostly discoveries made by accident. Mostly discoveries made by accident. We were looking for something and found something else. And everything we're going to talk about represents a one tenth of one percent glimpse, because that's all we've seen. I have a characterization. This is a characterization of what it would look like if you could remove the water. It gives you the false impression it's a map. It is not a map. In fact, I have another version at my office and I ask people, ""Why are there mountains here, on this area here, but there are none over here?"" And they go, ""Well, gee, I don't know,"" saying, ""Is it a fracture zone? Is it a hot spot?"" No, no, that's the only place a ship's been. Most of the southern hemisphere is unexplored. We had more exploration ships down there during Captain Cook's time than now. It's amazing. All right. So we're going to immerse ourselves in the 72 percent of the planet because, you know, it's really naive to think that the Easter Bunny put all the resources on the continents. (Laughter) You know, it's just ludicrous. We are always, constantly playing the zero sum game. You know, we're going to do this, we're going to take it away from something else. I believe in just enriching the economy. And we're leaving so much on the table, 72 percent of the planet. And as I will point out later in the presentation, 50 percent of the United States of America lies beneath the sea. 50 percent of our country that we own, have all legal jurisdiction, have all rights to do whatever we want, lies beneath the sea and we have better maps of Mars than that 50 percent. Why? OK. Now, I began my explorations the hard way. Back then — actually my first expedition was when I was 17 years old. It was 49 years ago. Do the math, I'm 66. And I went out to sea on a Scripps ship and we almost got sunk by a giant rogue wave, and I was too young to be — you know, I thought it was great! I was a body surfer and I thought, ""Wow, that was an incredible wave!"" And we almost sank the ship, but I became enraptured with mounting expeditions. And over the last 49 years, I've done about 120, 121 — I keep doing them — expeditions. But in the early days, the only way I could get to the bottom was to crawl into a submarine, a very small submarine, and go down to the bottom. I dove in a whole series of different deep diving submersibles. Alvin and Sea Cliff and Cyana, and all the major deep submersibles we have, which are about eight. In fact, on a good day, we might have four or five human beings at the average depth of the Earth — maybe four or five human beings out of whatever billions we've got going. And so it's very difficult to get there, if you do it physically. But I was enraptured, and in my graduate years was the dawn of plate tectonics. And we realized that the greatest mountain range on Earth lies beneath the sea. The mid-ocean ridge runs around like the seam on a baseball. This is on a Mercator projection. But if you were to put it on an equal area projection, you'd see that the mid-ocean ridge covers 23 percent of the Earth's total surface area. Almost a quarter of our planet is a single mountain range and we didn't enter it until after Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin went to the moon. So we went to the moon, played golf up there, before we went to the largest feature on our own planet. And our interest in this mountain range, as Earth scientists in those days, was not only because of its tremendous size, dominating the planet, but the role it plays in the genesis of the Earth's outer skin. Because it's along the axis of the mid-ocean ridge where the great crustal plates are separating. And like a living organism, you tear it open, it bleeds its molten blood, rises up to heal that wound from the asthenosphere, hardens, forms new tissue and moves laterally. But no one had actually gone down into the actual site of the boundary of creation as we call it — into the Rift Valley — until a group of seven of us crawled in our little submarines in the summer of 1973, 1974 and were the first human beings to enter the Great Rift Valley. We went down into the Rift Valley. This is all accurate except for one thing — it's pitch black. It's absolutely pitch black, because photons cannot reach the average depth of the ocean, which is 12,000 feet. In the Rift Valley, it's 9,000 feet. Most of our planet does not feel the warmth of the sun. Most of our planet is in eternal darkness. And for that reason, you do not have photosynthesis in the deep sea. And with the absence of photosynthesis you have no plant life, and as a result, you have very little animal life living in this underworld. Or so we thought. And so in our initial explorations, we were totally focused on exploring the boundary of creation, looking at the volcanic features running along that entire 42,000 miles. Running along this entire 42,000 miles are tens of thousands of active volcanoes. Tens of thousands of active volcanoes. There are more active volcanoes beneath the sea than on land by two orders of magnitude. So, it's a phenomenally active region, it's not just a dark, boring place. It's a very alive place. And it's then being ripped open. But we were dealing with a particular scientific issue back then. We couldn't understand why you had a mountain under tension. In plate tectonic theory, we knew that if you had plates collide, it made sense: they would crush into one another, you would thicken the crust, you'd uplift it. That's why you get, you know, you get seashells up on Mount Everest. It's not a flood, it was pushed up there. We understood mountains under compression, but we could not understand why we had a mountain under tension. It should not be. Until one of my colleagues said, ""It looks to me like a thermal blister, and the mid-ocean ridge must be a cooling curve."" We said, ""Let's go find out."" We punched a bunch of heat probes. Everything made sense, except, at the axis, there was missing heat. It was missing heat. It was hot. It wasn't hot enough. So, we came up with multiple hypotheses: there's little green people down there taking it; there's all sorts of things going on. But the only logical [explanation] was that there were hot springs. So, there must be underwater hot springs. We mounted an expedition to look for the missing heat. And so we went along this mountain range, in an area along Galapagos Rift, and did we find the missing heat. It was amazing. These giant chimneys, huge giant chimneys. We went up to them with our submersible. We wanted to get a temperature probe, we stuck it in there, looked at it — it pegged off scale. The pilot made this great observation: ""That's hot."" (Laughter) And then we realized our probe was made out of the same stuff — it could have melted. But it turns out the exiting temperature was 650 degrees F, hot enough to melt lead. This is what a real one looks like, on the Juan de Fuca Ridge. What you're looking at is an incredible pipe organ of chemicals coming out of the ocean. Everything you see in this picture is commercial grade: copper, lead, silver, zinc and gold. So the Easter Bunny has put things in the ocean floor, and you have massive heavy metal deposits that we're making in this mountain range. We're making huge discoveries of large commercial-grade ore along this mountain range, but it was dwarfed by what we discovered. We discovered a profusion of life, in a world that it should not exist [in]. Giant tube worms, 10 feet tall. I remember having to use vodka — my own vodka — to pickle it because we don't carry formaldehyde. We went and found these incredible clam beds sitting on the barren rock. Large clams, and when we opened them, they didn't look like a clam. And when we cut them open, they didn't have the anatomy of a clam. No mouth, no gut, no digestive system. Their bodies had been totally taken over by another organism, a bacterium, that had figured out how to replicate photosynthesis in the dark, through a process we now call chemosynthesis. None of it in our textbooks. None of this in our textbooks. We did not know about this life system. We were not predicting it. We stumbled on it, looking for some missing heat. So, we wanted to accelerate this process. We wanted to get away from this silly trip, up and down on a submarine: average depth of the ocean, 12,000 feet; two and half hours to get to work in the morning; two and half hours to get to home. Five hour commute to work. Three hours of bottom time, average distance traveled — one mile. (Laughter) On a 42,000 mile mountain range. Great job security, but not the way to go. So, I began designing a new technology of telepresence, using robotic systems to replicate myself, so I wouldn't have to cycle my vehicle system. We began to introduce that in our explorations, and we continued to make phenomenal discoveries with our new robotic technologies. Again, looking for something else, moving from one part of the mid-ocean ridge to another. The scientists were off watch and they came across incredible life forms. They came across new creatures they had not seen before. But more importantly, they discovered edifices down there that they did not understand. That did not make sense. They were not above a magma chamber. They shouldn't be there. And we called it Lost City. And Lost City was characterized by these incredible limestone formations and upside down pools. Look at that. How do you do that? That's water upside down. We went in underneath and tapped it, and we found that it had the pH of Drano. The pH of 11, and yet it had chemosynthetic bacteria living in it and at this extreme environment. And the hydrothermal vents were in an acidic environment. All the way at the other end, in an alkaline environment, at a pH of 11, life existed. So life was much more creative than we had ever thought. Again, discovered by accident. Just two years ago working off Santorini, where people are sunning themselves on the beach, unbeknownst to them in the caldera nearby, we found phenomenal hydrothermal vent systems and more life systems. This was two miles from where people go to sunbathe, and they were oblivious to the existence of this system. Again, you know, we stop at the water's edge. Recently, diving off — in the Gulf of Mexico, finding pools of water, this time not upside down, right side up. Bingo. You'd think you're in air, until a fish swims by. You're looking at brine pools formed by salt diapirs. Near that was methane. I've never seen volcanoes of methane. Instead of belching out lava, they were belching out big, big bubbles of methane. And they were creating these volcanoes, and there were flows, not of lava, but of the mud coming out of the Earth but driven by — I've never seen this before. Moving on, there's more than just natural history beneath the sea — human history. Our discoveries of the Titanic. The realization that the deep sea is the largest museum on Earth. It contains more history than all of the museums on land combined. And yet we're only now penetrating it. Finding the state of preservation. We found the Bismarck in 16,000 feet. We then found the Yorktown. People always ask, ""Did you find the right ship?"" It said Yorktown on the stern. (Laughter) More recently, finding ancient history. How many ancient mariners have had a bad day? The number's a million. We've been discovering these along ancient trade routes, where they're not supposed to be. This shipwreck sank 100 years before the birth of Christ. This one sank carrying a prefabricated, Home Depot Roman temple. And then here's one that sank at the time of Homer, at 750 B.C. More recently, into the Black Sea, where we're exploring. Because there's no oxygen there, it's the largest reservoir of hydrogen sulfide on Earth. Shipwrecks are perfectly preserved. All their organics are perfectly preserved. We begin to excavate them. We expect to start hauling out the bodies in perfect condition with their DNA. Look at the state of preservation — still the ad mark of a carpenter. Look at the state of those artifacts. You still see the beeswax dripping. When they dropped, they sealed it. This ship sank 1,500 years ago. Fortunately, we've been able to convince Congress. We begin to go on the Hill and lobby. And we stole recently a ship from the United States Navy. The Okeanos Explorer on its mission. Its mission is as good as you could get. Its mission is to go where no one has gone before on planet Earth. And I was looking at it yesterday, it's up in Seattle. OK. (Applause) It comes online this summer, and it begins its journey of exploration. But we have no idea what we're going find when we go out there with our technology. But certainly, it's going to be going to the unknown America. This is that part of the United States that lies beneath the sea. We own all of that blue and yet, like I say, particularly the western territorial trust, we don't have maps of them. We don't have maps of them. We have maps of Venus, but not of the western territorial trust. The way we're going to run this — we have no idea what we're going to discover. We have no idea what we're going to discover. We're going to discover an ancient shipwreck, a Phoenician off Brazil, or a new rock formation, a new life. So, we're going to run it like an emergency hospital. We're going to connect our command center, via a high-bandwidth satellite link to a building we're building at the University of Rhode Island, called the Interspace Center. And within that, we're going to run it just like you run a nuclear submarine, blue-gold team, switching them off and on, running 24 hours a day. A discovery is made, that discovery is instantly seen in the command center a second later. But then it's connected through Internet too — the new Internet highway that makes Internet one look like a dirt road on the information highway — with 10 gigabits of bandwidth. We'll go into areas we have no knowledge of. It's a big blank sheet on our planet. We'll map it within hours, have the maps disseminated out to the major universities. It turns out that 90 percent of all the oceanographic intellect in this country are at 12 universities. They're all on I-2. We can then build a command center. This is a remote center at the University of Washington. She's talking to the pilot. She's 5,000 miles away, but she's assumed command. But the beauty of this, too, is we can then disseminate it to children. We can disseminate. They can follow this expedition. I've started a program — where are you Jim? Jim Young who helped me start a program called the Jason Project. More recently, we've started a program with the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, so that we can use exploration, and the excitement of live exploration, to motivate them and excite them and then give them what they're already ready for. I would not let an adult drive my robot. You don't have enough gaming experience. But I will let a kid with no license take over control of my vehicle system. (Applause) Because we want to create — we want to create the classroom of tomorrow. We have stiff competition and we need to motivate and it's all being done. You win or lose an engineer or a scientist by eighth grade. The game is not over — it's over by the eighth grade, it's not beginning. We need to be not only proud of our universities. We need to be proud of our middle schools. And when we have the best middle schools in the world, we'll have the best kids pumped out of that system, let me tell you. Because this is what we want. This is what we want. This is a young lady, not watching a football game, not watching a basketball game. Watching exploration live from thousands of miles away, and it's just dawning on her what she's seeing. And when you get a jaw drop, you can inform. You can put so much information into that mind, it's in full [receiving] mode. (Applause) This, I hope, will be a future engineer or a future scientist in the battle for truth. And my final question, my final question — why are we not looking at moving out onto the sea? Why do we have programs to build habitation on Mars, and we have programs to look at colonizing the moon, but we do not have a program looking at how we colonize our own planet? And the technology is at hand. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	第一個問題是我們的國家有兩個探險計畫其一是NASA太空總署，而使命是探測太空探索那個我們都想去的天堂～如果我們夠幸運的話你可以看到我們有史波尼克(Sputnik)衛星和農神火箭我們有其他探索太空的形式此外，我們還有一個計畫政府有另一個機構負責探索海洋也就是NOAA，國家海洋與大氣管理局而我的疑問是 — 我們為什麼忽略海洋？也許這是原因、或者這不是，但這就是我為什麼要問如果比較太空總署探索太空的年度預算這一年的預算可以支持NOAA探索海洋一千六百年為什麼？為什麼我們往上看？難道是因為天堂在上面？而地獄在下面？這是因為文化的影響嗎？為什麼人們害怕海洋？或他們認為海洋只是一片漆黑、又陰森的地方一點貢獻也沒有 繫好安全帶，我將帶領你們在下面16分鐘遊遍這佔地球72％的地方好啦～我們接下來將要讓大家進入我的世界我會試著 — 我希望可以把以下幾點講清楚我得現在講以免忘記—每一樣各位即將看到的在我的學校課本裡面都沒有更重要的是，那也沒不在我大學的課本裡我是地球物理學家而我當學生時的地球科學書籍我必須填上錯誤的答案才能拿高分我們曾揶揄大陸板塊飄移，讓我們笑到不行我們學習馬歇爾．凱(Marshall Kay)的地槽圈，那真的是鬼話連篇今日的課本裡他才是鬼話但它曾是地質學裡垂直地殼運動的定律我們即將討論的是我們在海洋的發現與探索很多是意外發現的很多新發現都來自意外我們想找某樣東西，卻發現了另一樣而我們即將要講的每件事情都這只是驚鴻一瞥中的十分之一，因為我們也只看到這些 我有個描述是說，這是你想像中把全部的水都移開以後的樣子讓你誤認這是張地圖這不是地圖我有另一個版本在我辦公室裡而我問人們：「為什麼這裡，這塊區域有山脈」「而那邊卻沒有呢？」他們通常都會說：「嗯～天啊」「我不知道耶」「這是地質脆弱地區嗎？它是熱點嗎？」不不～那些地方只有船去過大部分的南半球都沒有被探索過我們曾有很多探測船隻在那裡是在庫克船長的時代，比現代還多，這真叫人吃驚！好啦～我們現在即將潛入這星球的另外72％是因為，你知道嗎如果你認為復活節的兔子會把所有的好東西都放在大陸上嗎，就太天真了 （眾笑） 你知道嗎～這真是太荒誕不羈了我們老是玩著零和遊戲知道嗎，現在我們要試試看別的路子我相信這可以振興經濟我們還有很多籌碼，這72％的地球資源而我會在之後演講中一一指出美國有50％的領域在海平面以下我們國家擁有的50％，依法管轄而可以任意處置的，都在海洋底下而火星的地圖卻比這50%更仔細為什麼？好吧，剛開始探險的時候很辛苦在過去 — 事實上我第一次的探險是49年前，在我十七歲的時候算算看吧，現在我66歲。當我跟著Scripps的船出海還差點因為瘋狗浪而沉沒當時我太年輕了 — 你知道的，我想說這超棒的！我用身體衝浪，還想著「哇～這個浪頭真棒」而我們差點因此沉船，但是後來我漸漸為此著迷經歷很多探險活動，在後來這49年間我一共經歷了120、121次探險 — 而我還繼續的從事這項工作 不過，早年唯一能讓我到達海底的方式就是爬進潛水艇，非常小的潛水艇一路沉到海底在一系列的活動我藉著各式潛艇到達各種深度艾文號、海蝕崖號以及Cyana號以及其他八艘深海潛水艇為主力事實上，天氣好的時候我們大約有四到五位人員在海洋深處大約四到五位人員正在進行任何一項探險親身去做這些工作非常的辛苦但我深深著迷，而在我畢業的那幾年正是板塊構造學說的啟蒙時期，而我們已經知道最偉大的山脈其實躺在海洋底下 大西洋中洋脊就像棒球上的縫線一般跨越地球這是在麥卡托投影下的地圖如果你把放在等區域投影地圖上你會發現中洋脊佔據相當於23％地球上陸地的面積幾乎四分之一的地球被一個山脈佔據而我們一直等到尼爾．阿姆斯壯(Neil Armstrong)和巴茲．艾德林(Buzz Aldrin)上了月球之後才發現我們上了月球，在上面玩了一下高爾夫在這之前我們卻沒有去過我們星球上最大的一個地貌當時的地球科學家們對於這山脈的最大興趣不只是因為山脈在這星球上佔據極大面積而是山脈在地球外層形成時所扮演的角色因為他是中洋脊的軸線大型地殼向兩邊分離開來像是有機體一般，當你把它撕開它將會流出古老的熔岩之血，來癒合這個傷口岩漿來自軟流圈，硬化形成新的組織，向側面擴散 但是從來沒有人真正到下面去到這我們稱作「創造的邊界」的地方進入這個裂谷 — 直到我們七人小組在1973～1974年夏天爬近我們小小的潛水艇而這是人類史上第一次抵達大裂谷我們下到這個裂谷一切描述都十分正確，除了一件事情 — 下面一片漆黑完全沒有任何光線因為光子不能到達這麼深的海洋一萬兩千英呎(3,657.6公尺)，而裂谷則位於九千英呎(2,743.2公尺)地球大部分地方都感受不到太陽的溫暖大部分永遠都在黑暗中因此，在深海沒有辦法行光合作用由於缺乏光合作用所以沒有植物，因此在這個世界裡很少有生物生活至少我們是這麼認為的，在最初的幾次探險中我們全部心力都放在探索這正在形成的邊界在42000英哩(67,592公里)的海裏找尋著火山地形在這42000英哩的地方有著成千上萬的活火山成千上萬的活火山而海平面之下有更多的活躍的火山強度比陸地還大兩倍它是完全是個活躍區而不是一個漆黑又無聊的地方，充滿了生命而且正被撕裂著 不過我們當時正著手於特定的科學研究不懂為什麼在這個充滿張力的地方有高山在板塊構造理論裏我們知道，如果地殼碰撞會相互的擠壓，這還蠻可以理解這會使地殼變厚，然後把它抬高這就是為什麼海裡的貝殼會出現在聖母峰上不是因為洪水，而是被擠壓到那裡我們了解山脈是由擠壓產生但我們不明白為什麼山脈會在拉扯中形成不該是這樣，直到一位我的同事說「看起來像是在高溫下產生的水泡，在這中洋脊上」「一定是一個冷卻的過程」我們說，「去看看吧」我們把地熱探針插進去，一切真相大白除了在軸線以外，其他地方都不夠熱，熱量不見了那很熱，但不足以融化因此我們想出很多個假設在那個下面一定有小綠人在掌控著所有在那裡發生的事情不過，最合理的假設是下面一定有熱泉所以一定是海底熱泉 我們開始一趟尋找失落的熱度之旅沿著加拉巴哥斷層的山脈邊緣尋找而我們的確發現了那失落的熱度看起來很驚人，這些巨大的煙囪，龐然巨物般的煙囪我們駕著潛艇靠近他們想把溫度探針伸進去，卻卡住了仔細一看 — 溫度探針破表了潛艇駕駛有了大發現：「它好燙」 （眾笑） 突然之間我們都明白了，探針跟噴出物是同一種物質它被融化了，不過測出的實際溫度是華式650度(攝氏343度)，熱得可以將鉛融化這是皇安德富卡(Juan de Fuca)斷層實際的樣子你看到的是那不可思議的管風琴從海洋中噴發出各種化學物質每一樣你在畫面中看到的都具有商業價值銅、鉛、銀、鋅和黃金所以我們知道復活節兔子真的有放東西在海底而且是大量的金屬蘊藏是在這個山脈發現的還有更巨大的發現，以及大量具有商業價值的礦物在這個山脈地區，不過跟我們整體所發現的相比，這只是一小塊我們發現了豐富的生命根本不應該在這個地方出現，巨大的管蟲，10英呎(3公尺)高我記得我們用伏特加來保存它 — 我自己喝的伏特加因為我們並沒有帶福馬林然後我們發現不可思議的蚌群附在這不毛的岩石上 — 巨大的蚌類當我們打開他的時候，看起來又不像蚌類解剖時發現它們根本沒有蚌類的構造沒有嘴、沒有內臟、沒有消化系統他們的身體完全被另一種有機體接管一種細菌，而這種細菌學會了怎麼在黑暗中行光合作用經過一個叫化學合成的過程這根本就不曾在我們的教科書中出現我們根本不了解這種生物系統也不可能憑空臆測出來而是在搜尋熱源的時候，不經意的撞上了它 為了深入研究這個過程我們想結束這愚蠢的潛艇上上下下的程序平均海洋深度將近12000英呎早上花兩到兩個半小時來上班兩到兩個半小時回家，花五個小時通勤只在海底待三個小時，平均移動距離 — 一英哩(1.6公里) （眾笑） 要探索42000英哩的海底山脈，這工作真有保障，但是這樣不是辦法因此我開始設計一種新的遠端臨場科技使用機器人來代替我自己這樣就不用一直重複減壓過程我們開始在探險中使用它而持續有重大發現應用我們新的機器人科技，再一次尋找某些東西在這中洋脊移過來、移過去這些科學家遇到、也看到不可思議的生物他們發現了從來沒有看過的新物種更重要的是他們在下面發現無法理解的高樓大廈這不合理，那位於岩漿庫底下根本就不該在那兒出現，因此我們稱它為失落的城市 而失落的城市是由這些不可思議的石灰岩構成還有反過來的水池，看起來像是這樣這是怎麼弄出來的，那水是倒過來的我們跑到它下面去取水，我們發現他的酸鹼值跟通樂一樣PH值高達11，不過居然還有細菌在裡面以化學合成作用生活在這個極端的環境裡這個海底熱泉是酸性的而另一端則是在鹼性的環境PH值高達11，生命依然存在因此生命比我們所想像得更有創意又一次意外的發現，就在兩年前我們在聖托里尼外面工作，在海灘上人們做著日光浴卻不知道那附近有個火山口我們發現了巨大的海底熱泉系統和更多的生物群離人們做日光浴的海灘距離約兩英哩人們完全沒注意到這個系統然後，你知道嗎，我們站在水邊 最近我們在墨西哥灣面潛水，發現了大水池這次不是反過來，而是朝上的中了～你想你是在空氣中，直到發現一條魚游過身旁你看到的是鹹水池，由鹽份貫入而形成附近的是甲烷，我從未看過甲烷形成的火山沒有噴出岩漿卻噴出大大的甲烷泡泡，形成了這個火山那是流體，不是岩漿而是泥土從地球內冒出來我從來沒有看過這種景象 繼續下去，不光是自然史躺在海底下也有人類史，我們發現鐵達尼號瞭解到深海是地球上最大的博物館它容納的歷史可能是所有陸地上的博物館的總和而我們才剛剛走進去看到這些保存物的現況我們在16000英呎(4876.8公尺)發現俾斯麥號戰艦，我們發現約克鎮號航空母艦人們總是問：「你們真找到那艘船了嗎？」在船舷上寫著〔約克鎮號〕 （眾笑） 最近，我們發現古代歷史到底有多少古代水手運氣很差？上百萬…我們在古代的貿易航路上發現了這些他們不該躺在海底在基督出生前100年這些船就沉了這沉船帶著羅馬時代的廟宇的B&Q特力屋而這艘船在荷馬出生的西元前750年沉沒不久之前我們在黑海有所發現因為那兒沒有氧氣，而且是地球上最大的硫化氫倉庫沉船保存情況都很好所有的有機物質都被保存下來，我們開始挖掘期待可以找到依然保存著DNA的遺體看看這保存的狀態依然看得到木匠所留下的鑿痕，看看這些人造物品還可以看到這些當密封時滴下來的蜂蠟這艘船已經沉了1500年之久 很幸運的，我們說服了國會我們開始去國會山莊遊說最近從美軍海軍那裡偷了一艘船The Okeanos Explorer號正在執行任務你們大概能猜到它的任務它的任務是前往地球上前人未至的領域我昨天去看過它，在西雅圖蓄勢待發，一切OK （掌聲） 今年的夏天它就會上線開始它的探險旅程不過，我們依然不知道將會在探索的過程中發現什麼當然它將會去探索不為人知的美國就是那些海底下的美國領域我們所擁有的海洋，卻不曾到過就像我說的，特別是那些西部的託管島嶼我們沒有那裏的地圖我們有金星的地圖卻沒有那些島嶼的照我們的計畫不知道我們會發現什麼我們不知道我們將要發現什麼可能是發現古代的沉船、在巴西外海發現腓尼基人遺跡或是新的岩石形成結構，新的生命型態因此我們將會像是急診室一樣的經營 我們將會連接總部藉著衛星寬頻連接到一棟正在興建的建築在羅德島大學裡，我們稱它為內太空中心裡面的運作會像核子潛艇一樣藍班、金班輪值，24小時全天運作一個新發現幾秒後馬上就會被傳送到指揮中心讓大家看見而這些也會被連上網際網路新的高速網際網路會讓舊的網際網路看起來像是一條泥巴路，這高速網際網路頻寬有10GB我們將要進入一個完全未知的地區在我們星球史上一片空白，而我們會在幾小時內把地圖畫上然後發送到各主要的大學全美海洋學者的90%都在這12所大學內，他們是最優秀的之後我們會建立一個指揮中心這個遠端遙控中心將設在華盛頓大學她正在和駕駛通訊，而她跟駕駛的船隻相距5000英哩遠 更美妙的是，我們可以將這些訊息散播給孩童散播給他們讓他們跟著一起探險，我已經開始一項計畫吉姆你在哪裡？吉姆．楊在計畫開始時幫了不少忙這叫傑森計畫，最近我們又開始了另一個計畫和美國的兒童群益會一起所以我們可以用探險和實地探險的刺激，來激勵並啟發兒童發揮本來就具備的能力我不會讓一個成年人來駕駛機器人大人們電動打的不夠多但是我會讓沒有執照的孩子來做，操縱我的水下載具 （掌聲） 因為我們想要建立一個未來的教室競爭相當艱難，我們得啟發他們，而這些都已經辦到了在八年級時就已經決定會不會找到科學家或工程師了遊戲還沒結束，那在八年級時就結束了 — 而不是開始我們不只得對我們的大學感到驕傲也得為我們的中學感到驕傲我們擁有全世界最好的中學最棒的孩子都是從這個教育系統中脫穎而出的因為這就是我們所要的這個小女孩不是在看足球賽不是在看籃球賽她正看著幾千哩之外傳回來的探索現場畫面而這是只是她所看見的開端當你發現她對這一切感到吃驚時，你會知道她正全力接收著，可以盡量把資訊灌輸到她腦海 （掌聲） 我希望她會是未來的工程師或者是與真理戰鬥的科學家而我最後一個問題是我們為什麼沒有想過搬到海裡去？為什麼我們計畫在火星上興建居住地還有計畫考慮在月球殖民但卻沒有想過在我們自己的星球上殖民？而那科技已經在我們手上了 非常謝謝大家 （掌聲）
