Talk	en	zh-tw
robin_morgan_4_powerful_poems_about_parkinson_s_and_growing_older	"When I was only three or four, I fell in love with poetry, with the rhythms and the music of language; with the power of metaphor and of imagery, poetry being the essence of communication — the discipline, the distillation. And all these years later, the poems I'll read today are from my just-finished seventh book of poetry. Well, five years ago, I was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Though there's no cure yet, advances in treatment are really impressive. But you can imagine that I was appalled to learn that women are largely left out of research trials, despite gender-specific medical findings having demonstrated that we are not actually just small men — (Laughter) who happen to have different reproductive systems. Gender-specific medicine is good for men, too. But you bring to a crisis the person you already are, including the, yes, momentum that you've learned to invoke through passionate caring and through action, both of which require but also create energy. So as an activist, I began working with the Parkinson's Disease Foundation — that's pdf.org — to create a major initiative to put women on the Parkinson's disease map. And as a poet, I began working with this subject matter, finding it tragic, hilarious, sometimes even joyful. I do not feel diminished by Parkinson's; I feel distilled by it, and I actually very much like the woman I'm distilling into. ""No Signs of Struggle"" Growing small requires enormity of will: just sitting still in the doctor's waiting room watching the future shuffle in and out, watching it stoop; stare at you while you try not to look. Rare is an exchange: a smile of brief, wry recognition. You are the new kid on the block. Everyone here was you once. You are still learning that growing small requires a largeness of spirit you can't fit into yet: acceptance of irritating help from those who love you; giving way and over, but not up. You've swallowed hard the contents of the ""Drink Me"" bottle, and felt yourself shrink. Now, familiar furniture looms, floors tilt, and doorknobs yield only when wrestled round with both hands. It demands colossal patience, all this growing small: your diminished sleep at night, your handwriting, your voice, your height. You are more the incredible shrinking woman than the Buddhist mystic, serene, making do with less. Less is not always more. Yet in this emptying space, space glimmers, becoming visible. Here is a place behind the eyes of those accustomed by what some would call diminishment. It is a place of merciless poetry, a gift of presence previously ignored, drowned in the daily clutter. Here every gesture needs intention, is alive with consciousness. Nothing is automatic. You can spot it in the provocation of a button, an arm poking at a sleeve, a balancing act at a night-time curb while negotiating the dark. Feats of such modest valor, who would suspect them to be exercises in an intimate, fierce discipline, a metaphysics of being relentlessly aware? Such understated power here, in these tottering dancers who exert stupendous effort on tasks most view as insignificant. Such quiet beauty here, in these, my soft-voiced, stiff-limbed people; such resolve masked by each placid face. There is immensity required in growing small, so bent on such unbending grace. (Applause) Thank you. This one is called ""On Donating My Brain to Science."" (Laughter) Not a problem. Skip over all the pages reassuring religious people. Already a universal donor: kidneys, corneas, liver, lungs, tissue, heart, veins, whatever. Odd that the modest brain never imagined its unique value in research, maybe saving someone else from what it is they're not quite sure I have. Flattering, that. So fill in the forms, drill through the answers, trill out a blithe spirit. And slice me, dice me, spread me on your slides. Find what I'm trying to tell you. Earn me, learn me, scan me, squint through your lens. Uncover what I'd hint at if I could. Be my guest, do your best, harvest me, track the clues. This was a good brain while alive. This was a brain that paid its dues. So slice me, dice me, smear me on your slides, stain me, explain me, drain me like a cup. Share me, hear me: I want to be used I want to be used I want to be used up. (Applause) (Applause ends) And this one's called ""The Ghost Light."" Lit from within is the sole secure way to traverse dark matter. Some life forms — certain mushrooms, snails, jellyfish, worms — glow bioluminescent, and people as well; we emit infra-red light from our most lucent selves. Our tragedy is we can't see it. We see by reflecting. We need biofluorescence to show our true colors. External illumination can distort, though. When gravity bends light, huge galaxy clusters can act as telescopes, elongating background images of star systems to faint arcs — a lensing effect like viewing distant street lamps through a glass of wine. A glass of wine or two now makes me weave as if acting the drunkard's part; as if, besotted with unrequited love for the dynamic Turner canvasses spied out by the Hubble, I could lurch down a city street set without provoking every pedestrian walk-on stare. Stare as long as you need to. If you think about it, walking, even standing, is illogical — such tiny things, feet! — (Laughter) especially when one's body is not al dente anymore. (Laughter) Besides, creature of extremes and excess, I've always thought Apollo beautiful but boring, and a bit of a dumb blonde. Dionysians don't do balance. Balance, in other words, has never been my strong point. But I digress. More and more these days, digression seems the most direct route through from where I've lost or found myself out of place, mind, turn, time. Place your foot just so, mind how you turn: too swift a swivel can bring you down. Take your time ushering the audience out, saying goodbye to the actors. The ghost light is what they call the single bulb hanging above the bare stage in an empty theater. In the empty theater of such a night, waking to meet no external radiance, this is the final struggle left to win, this the sole beacon to beckon the darkness in and let the rest begin, this the lens through which at last to see both Self and Other arrayed with the bright stain of original sin: lit from within. (Applause) And this is the last one. ""This Dark Hour"" Late summer, 4 A.M. The rain slows to a stop, dripping still from the broad leaves of blue hostas unseen in the garden's dark. Barefoot, careful on the slick slate slabs, I need no light, I know the way, stoop by the mint bed, scoop a fistful of moist earth, then grope for a chair, spread a shawl, and sit, breathing in the wet green August air. This is the small, still hour before the newspaper lands in the vestibule like a grenade, the phone shrills, the computer screen blinks and glares awake. There is this hour: poem in my head, soil in my hand: unnamable fullness. This hour, when blood of my blood bone of bone, child grown to manhood now — stranger, intimate, not distant but apart — lies safe, off dreaming melodies while love sleeps, safe, in his arms. To have come to this place, lived to this moment: immeasurable lightness. The density of black starts to blur umber. Tentative, a cardinal's coloratura, then the mourning dove's elegy. Sable glimmers toward grey; objects emerge, trailing shadows; night ages toward day. The city stirs. There will be other dawns, nights, gaudy noons. Likely, I'll lose my way. There will be stumbling, falling, cursing the dark. Whatever comes, there was this hour when nothing mattered, all was unbearably dear. And when I'm done with daylights, should those who loved me grieve too long a while, let them remember that I had this hour — this dark, perfect hour — and smile. Thank you. (Applause)"	我三四歲的時候，就已經愛上了詩歌，愛上了語言中蘊含著的節奏和旋律；還有隱喻和意象的力量，詩歌是語言表達的精髓 —是語言的錘煉與升華。而經過那麼多年，我今天要朗誦的詩歌來自於我剛完成的第七本詩集。 五年前，我被診斷為巴金森症。雖然現在還沒有治愈的方法，但治療方法的進步很令人佩服。可是我很詫異的發現女性多數被排除於臨床試驗之外，即便針對性別差異的醫學研究證實了 我們女人不是縮小版的男人 — （笑聲） 不僅僅只有生殖器官之差。性別差異醫學對男性也有好處。 但是人的存在，本身就是一個危機包括你通過熱情待人和積極行動所獲得的動力，這兩者都是在付出的同時為自己帶來力量。所以呢，身為行動主義者我開始跟巴金森氏症基金會合作 —簡稱PDF，pdf.org —一起倡導也將女性納入巴金森氏症的研究對象中。作為詩人，我也開始研究這個主題，有時會覺得可悲、可笑，但有時又覺得很愉快。我不因為自己患了巴金森氏症而覺得渺小；反而覺得自己因此而淨化，而且我竟然蠻喜歡被淨化之後的自己。 『從未掙扎』 把自己看得渺小需要強大的意志力：靜靜地坐在候診室，看著未來在眼前飛逝，看著它彎腰；凝視著你而你嘗試躲開它的眼神。罕見的交流：短暫的笑容，扭曲的臉孔。 你初來乍到。這裡所有的人都曾是現在的你。你還在學習如何變得渺小而這，需要你仍然不足的巨大意志：接受愛你的人所伸出的令你難受的援手；我讓步我託付，但我不卻步。 你硬吞標示著『喝我』藥罐裡的藥物，隨後感覺自己變得越來越小。那一刻，熟悉的家具變得模糊地板開始傾斜，門把要經一番搏鬥才肯屈服。變渺小這件事需要龐大的耐心：你徹夜難眠，你的字跡、聲音、身高。 你像那萎縮著的偉大女人遠超越那神秘的僧侶，那麼的平靜，知足知止。寡未必是眾。但在這空曠的世界中，空間閃耀著，變得清晰。此處的人習慣了所謂的退化萎縮。 這裡是無情詩詞處，是沉浸在日常的雜亂之中曾被漠視的寶貴禮物，在這裡的每一個動作皆需動機，充滿著意識的活力。沒有一樣是自動的。 一按動按鈕一望向袖口，就能發現它。在跟黑暗談判的同時平衡的走在路邊石上如此謙遜又英勇的壯舉，又有誰會懷疑它們是私密和嚴謹的進行著，是無情覺知的形上學？ 如此被輕描的力量，蘊藏在那些為生活瑣碎事費盡九牛二虎之力的颤巍舞者。如此無聲的艷麗，存在其中，我聲音細小四肢僵硬的夥伴們；如此的堅決遮蔽於每個淡漠表情之後。縮小是那麼的重大那麼的臣服於不屈的榮耀。 (掌聲） 謝謝。 這首叫做『關於捐贈腦袋給科學』 （笑聲） 沒問題。略過安撫宗教人士的頁面我已是個全適捐贈者：腎臟、角膜、肝臟、肺臟、組織、心臟、靜脈，隨便你。 奇怪 怎麼謙遜的頭腦沒想過它在研究裡獨特的價值—從他們不了解的疾病魔掌中把其他人救出來的可能性。過獎了。 那就填寫表格，回答一項項的問題，唱出愉悅的心情。 將我割了，切了，抹在你的玻片上。揪出我心深處的苦衷。 將我讀取，學習，掃描，細心的看透鏡片。將我一直想要提示的答案找出。 別客氣，再接再厲，將我收割，追踪蛛絲馬跡。這是在生時的好腦袋。這是仁至義盡的腦袋。 將我割了，切了，抹在你的玻片上。將我染色，闡釋，像杯子一樣倒乾淨將我分享，傾聽： 我想要被利用我想要被利用我想要被完全的利用。 （掌聲） （掌聲結束） 還有這首，叫做『靈光』 內在的光芒是唯一穩當穿越暗質的管道有些生物 - 如蕈類、蝸牛、水母、蠕蟲有生物熒光，人類亦如此；我們自內在的光明散發著紅外線。可悲的是我們看不見。 我們依靠反射來看見。我們需要生物熒光來揭露真面目。然而外在的光可以扭曲。當引力彎曲光線，巨大的星體可以充當望遠鏡，將星系的背景源延長成淡淡的弧線—透鏡效應就像透過酒杯看著遠方的路燈。 一兩杯酒如今足以讓我暈眩好比醉漢一樣；好比陶醉在一廂情願的對哈伯望遠鏡窺視的透納畫布有所期望，我能夠蹣跚於城市中的街道而不招惹路人經過時的注視。 你儘管注視吧。想想看，行走，甚至站立，都不合邏輯 —多麼渺小的東西啊，雙腳！— （笑聲） 尤其身體已經不是剛剛好（義式彈牙）的時候。 （笑聲） 再者，極端和過量的生物，我一直都認為阿波羅美麗但無趣，有點像傻大姐。帝奧尼索斯主義者（喝酒的）從不平衡。 平衡，其實也從來不是我所強調的。但我離題了。如今離題似乎越來越是通往我迷思自我處或發現自己已經面目全非最直接的路徑。 小心的走每一步，轉身時注意：轉得太迅速會讓你失足。你可以慢慢的催促觀眾離場，跟演員道別。靈光是那盞燈泡高掛在那空曠的劇院裡無人的舞台上。 在這夜裡寂靜的劇院中，醒來卻看不見外在的光芒，這是終極的掙扎的機會，這是召喚黑暗唯一的燈塔讓剩下的一切開始，這是讓我終於能夠看穿自我和他人的玻片陣列著染有明亮的原罪：來自內在的明亮。 （掌聲） 這是最後一首。 『這黑暗的時刻』 夏末，半夜四點。慢慢的雨停了，在黑暗的花園從那寬闊的玉簪滴著。赤著腳，小心那光滑的石板，我不需要光源，我知道路，薄荷團上彎著身子抓一把濕潤的泥土，摸索找著椅子攤開圍巾坐下，呼吸八月份濕潤綠意的空氣。 這短暫寂靜的時刻，在報紙像炸彈一樣落在前庭之前，在刺耳的鈴聲之前，在電腦螢幕閃爍開啟之前。 這時刻：我腦海中的詩，手中的泥：莫名的滿足。這時刻，我的血我的骨頭，如今長大成人的小孩—陌生，親暱靠近但分離—安穩的躺著，夢鄉的旋律響起愛安穩的睡在他的懷中。 能夠來到此地，活至當下：無量的輕快。深深的黑色開始變成模糊的棕色。短暫的是那紅雀的花腔，和那居喪白鴿的悲歌；暗色微微發光的轉灰；物體浮現，影子尾隨著；夜晚趨向白天。城市熱鬧起來。 會有另外的黎明，夜晚和華麗的中午。同樣的，我還是會迷路。會有蹣跚，跌倒，以及咒罵黑夜。無論如何，會有這時刻什麼都無所謂，全都是至愛。 當我告別了日光，讓那些曾經愛我的哀傷過久的讓他們記得我曾擁有這時刻—這黑暗，完美的時刻—而面露微笑。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
