Talk	en	zh-tw
robin_ince_science_versus_wonder	"I'd like to apologize, first of all, to all of you because I have no form of PowerPoint presentation. So what I'm going to do is, every now and again, I will make this gesture, and in a moment of PowerPoint democracy, you can imagine what you'd like to see. I do a radio show. The radio show is called ""The Infinite Monkey Cage."" It's about science, it's about rationalism. So therefore, we get a lot of complaints every single week — complaints including one we get very often, which is to say the very title, ""Infinite Monkey Cage,"" celebrates the idea of vivisection. We have made it quite clear to these people that an infinite monkey cage is roomy. (Laughter) We also had someone else who said, ""'The Infinite Monkey Cage' idea is ridiculous. An infinite number of monkeys could never write the works of Shakespeare. We know this because they did an experiment."" Yes, they gave 12 monkeys a typewriter for a week, and after a week, they only used it as a bathroom. (Laughter) So the main element though, the main complaint we get — and one that I find most worrying — is that people say, ""Oh, why do you insist on ruining the magic? You bring in science, and it ruins the magic."" Now I'm an arts graduate; I love myth and magic and existentialism and self-loathing. That's what I do. But I also don't understand how it does ruin the magic. All of the magic, I think, that may well be taken away by science is then replaced by something as wonderful. Astrology, for instance: like many rationalists, I'm a Pisces. (Laughter) Now astrology — we remove the banal idea that your life could be predicted; that you'll, perhaps today, meet a lucky man who's wearing a hat. That is gone. But if we want to look at the sky and see predictions, we still can. We can see predictions of galaxies forming, of galaxies colliding into each other, of new solar systems. This is a wonderful thing. If the Sun could one day — and indeed the Earth, in fact — if the Earth could read its own astrological, astronomical chart, one day it would say, ""Not a good day for making plans. You'll been engulfed by a red giant."" And that to me as well, that if you think I'm worried about losing worlds, well Many Worlds theory — one of the most beautiful, fascinating, sometimes terrifying ideas from the quantum interpretation — is a wonderful thing. That every person here, every decision that you've made today, every decision you've made in your life, you've not really made that decision, but in fact, every single permutation of those decisions is made, each one going off into a new universe. That is a wonderful idea. If you ever think that your life is rubbish, always remember there's another you that's made much worse decisions than that. (Laughter) If you ever think, ""Ah, I want to end it all,"" don't end it all. Remember that in the majority of universes, you don't even exist in the first place. This to me, in its own strange way, is very, very comforting. Now reincarnation, that's another thing gone — the afterlife. But it's not gone. Science actually says we will live forever. Well, there is one proviso. We won't actually live forever. You won't live forever. Your consciousness, the you-ness of you, the me-ness of me — that gets this one go. But every single thing that makes us, every atom in us, has already created a myriad of different things and will go on to create a myriad of new things. We have been mountains and apples and pulsars and other people's knees. Who knows, maybe one of your atoms was once Napoleon's knee. That is a good thing. Unlike the occupants of the universe, the universe itself is not wasteful. We are all totally recyclable. And when we die, we don't even have to be placed in different refuse sacs. This is a wonderful thing. Understanding, to me, does not remove the wonder and the joy. For instance, my wife could turn to me and she may say, ""Why do you love me?"" And I can with all honesty look her in the eye and say, ""Because our pheromones matched our olfactory receptors."" (Laughter) Though I'll probably also say something about her hair and personality as well. And that is a wonderful thing there. Love does not die because of that thing. Pain doesn't go away either. This is a terrible thing, even though I understand pain. If someone punches me — and because of my personality, this is recently a regular occurrence — I understand where the pain comes from. It is basically momentum to energy where the four-vector is constant — that's what it is. But at no point can I react and go, ""Ha! Is that the best momentum-to-energy fourth vector constant you've got?"" No, I just spit out a tooth. (Laughter) And that is all of these different things — the love for my child. I have a son. His name is Archie. I'm very lucky, because he's better than all the other children. Now I know you don't think that. You may well have your own children and think, ""Oh no, my child's best."" That's the wonderful thing about evolution — the predilection to believe that our child is best. Now in many ways, that's just a survival thing. The fact we see here is the vehicle for our genes, and therefore we love it. But we don't notice that bit; we just unconditionally love. That is a wonderful thing. Though I should say that my son is best and is better than your children. I've done some tests. And all of these things to me give such joy and excitement and wonder. Even quantum mechanics can give you an excuse for bad housework, for instance. Perhaps you've been at home for a week on your own. You house is in a terrible state. Your partner is about to return. You think, what should I do? Do nothing. All you have to do is, when she walks in, using a quantum interpretation, say, ""I'm so sorry. I stopped observing the house for a moment, and when I started observing again, everything had happened."" (Laughter) That's the strong anthropic principle of vacuuming. For me, it's a very, very important thing. Even on my journey up here — the joy that I have on my journey up here every single time. If you actually think, you remove the myth and there is still something wonderful. I'm sitting on a train. Every time I breathe in, I'm breathing in a million-billion-billion atoms of oxygen. I'm sitting on a chair. Even though I know the chair is made of atoms and therefore actually in many ways empty space, I find it comfortable. I look out the window, and I realize that every single time we stop and I look out that window, framed in that window, wherever we are, I am observing more life than there is in the rest of the known universe beyond the planet Earth. If you go to the safari parks on Saturn or Jupiter, you will be disappointed. And I realize I'm observing this with the brain, the human brain, the most complex thing in the known universe. That, to me, is an incredible thing. And do you know what, that might be enough. Steven Weinberg, the Nobel laureate, once said, ""The more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it seems pointless."" Now for some people, that seems to lead to an idea of nihilism. But for me, it doesn't. That is a wonderful thing. I'm glad the universe is pointless. It means if I get to the end of my life, the universe can't turn to me and go, ""What have you been doing, you idiot? That's not the point."" I can make my own purpose. You can make your own purpose. We have the individual power to go, ""This is what I want to do."" And in a pointless universe, that, to me, is a wonderful thing. I have chosen to make silly jokes about quantum mechanics and the Copenhagen interpretation. You, I imagine, can do much better things with your time. Thank you very much. Goodbye. (Applause)"	"首先 我想向大家為我沒有任何投影片的事情先道個歉所以 爲了補償我會不時的做這個動作並停一下 你可以用這個片刻想像一下你有看到的投影片 我做了一個廣播節目名字叫做“無限的猴子籠”是關於科學和純理論想法我們每週會收到很多的抱怨最常收到的就是關於我們的這個特別的名字， ""無限猴子籠""提倡了活體解剖然後我們都很明白的回覆了那些人無限猴子籠是很寬廣的一個籠子 （笑） 也有人說道無限猴子理論是荒謬的無限數量的猴子不可能打出莎士比亞的作品我們是通過實驗知道的是這樣的， 他們給了12個猴子一台打字機過了一個星期，打字機只是被猴子當成了廁所 （笑） 雖然大多都是在抱怨我們的標題但有一個我感覺很焦慮的抱怨是有人說道爲什麽你總是毀滅我們的想像你帶來了科學，然後它完全破壞了幻想好吧， 這樣說吧！我是一個念藝術的人我喜愛神話和幻想還有存在主義和自我厭惡這就是我但是我還是不明白科學是怎麼毀掉了幻想我認為所有的幻想被科學證明其錯誤後都會被一個完美的東西代替掉 比如說 占星學和很多理性主義者一樣我也是雙魚座（笑）占星學我們廢棄了我們的生活是可以被預知的古板的思想像你今天可能碰到一個幸運的男人一個戴帽子的男人占星學已經過去了但是假如我們觀測天空來預測點什麽，我們還是可以做到的我們是可以預知星系的形成的兩個星系相互碰撞成為新的星系這是一件極為美妙的事情假如太陽系有一天，舉說地球來說吧假如地球人有一天能夠讀懂地球的星象，有一天是有可能這樣的一幕的今天並不是一個做事的日子你將會被紅巨星包圍 我自己身上也能有這樣的例子我其實在擔心消失的世界平行世界論 你知道的從量子論中得出的一個很有意思有時有相當駭人的理論它是一個有趣的東西我們每個人每天所作的決定在你生活中的每個決定也許不是真的想要做那樣的決定但是實際上每個一決定間的置換那麼每個都會形成一個新的宇宙多麼奇妙的想法啊假如你有想過你的生活很無聊永遠記住有那麼一個比你要慘的多的你（笑）你如何曾想過 我要結束這一切別想不開記住那裡還有宇宙的大多數你不是宇宙第一的存在雖然是個很奇怪的方法但是對我而言是很有效的自我安慰 重生轉世，又是一個不在被相信的東西但是它還沒走是科學告訴我們我們是可以永生的但是這是有一個前提的我們其實不能永生 沒有誰可以你的意識 你的自我 我的自我這是會消失的但是組成我們的東西每個組成我們的原子是已經創造了各種東西的然後再將來還會繼續創造我們可能是山是蘋果 是脈衝星是別人的膝蓋可能你的原子回事拿破崙的膝蓋這是件好事宇宙並不像宇宙中的物質一樣是浪費的我們是完全可回收的但我們死了我們不必把我們自己分類裝入不同的回收袋這太有趣了 真的我並不是想否奇蹟和幻想比如 我老婆會問我我爲什麽愛他然後我會十分真誠的看著她的眼睛然後說因為我們的費洛蒙和我們的嗅覺神經是相匹配的（笑）可能我還會說點別的比如她的頭髮和個性我這樣回答是有好處的因為如此 愛情是永恆的 疼痛一樣是不會消失的只是一件可怕的事情 儘管我理解疼痛假如有人因為我的性格打了我一拳這是最近經常發生的事情我知道疼痛是從哪裡來的而且其本身只不過是動能所轉換出的能量同時四維能量守恆的概念而起但是我不可能這樣回應他啊嘿 這就是你能做到的最好的動能轉換以維持四維能量守恆嗎?當然不可能啊 我只會吐出一顆牙齒 （笑） 這就是以上這些不同的事我對我孩子的愛 我有個孩子就阿奇我很幸運因為他比任何一個小孩都要好我知道你可能不那樣想你可能有你自己的小孩並認為：我的才是最棒的這就是進化的美妙了大家都傾向於相信我的孩子最棒但是從很多方面來說 那隻不過是生存的問題實際上我們眼中看到的是我們基因的遺傳者然後我們回去愛它但是我們並沒有注意到這點 我們就無條件的去愛了這是一件多麼好的事但是我還是要說我兒子好比你們的都好我做了這樣一些實驗 然後這些東西給了我很多快樂和幻想甚至量子理論都可以幫你找到一個理由比如說相當糟的家務也許你一個人在家待了一個星期你家的房子相當的亂然後你的伴侶要回來了你認為我該幹什麼什麽也別做你要做的就是當她向你說教時，你可以用上量子理論說：對不起我停止觀察這個房間有一段時間了但我再次觀察時所有的事情發生了（笑）這就是在真空下強烈的人擇原理 對我來說快樂真的是一件很重要的事啊從我活到現在從我活到現在每一次都很快樂如果屏除你的迷思你仔細想一想你扔然還有許多美好的事情我現在就在一個火車上每一次我呼吸我都呼入了 無數的氧原子我坐在椅子上就算我知道 椅子只不過是由原子構成的而且有很多的空隙但是我感覺它很舒服我往窗戶外面看 然後我發現每一次我們停下來看向窗外鑲在窗戶上的景象我正在看比除了地球以外已知宇宙中所有東西加起來還顯得生機盎然假如你去到在土星或者冥王星上的徒步公園你將會相當失望然後是我發現了我在觀察這個用的腦袋 人腦在已知宇宙中最為複雜的東西這對我而已是不可思議的你知道你在做什麽 這已經不可思議了 史蒂夫溫伯格 諾貝爾的得獎人曾說過宇宙越是看起來能理解就越是沒有意義現在這句話對有些人理解成了虛無主義但是對我不是這樣的 這是件美好的事我很高興宇宙是不能定論的這就意味著 當我死的時候有種不看能對我說 傻子 你做了什麽啊這都是無意義的我可以做我自己的打算你可以有你的想法我們每個人都有能力說 這是我想要的在這沒有定論的宇宙中 這樣的感覺 對我是很有趣的事我選擇了對量子論和哥本哈根的理論做些愚蠢的笑話我認為你們肯定可以用你們的時間做些更有價值的事 謝謝大家 再見 掌聲"
