Talk	en	zh-tw
roger_ebert_remaking_my_voice	"Roger Ebert: These are my words, but this is not my voice. This is Alex, the best computer voice I've been able to find, which comes as standard equipment on every Macintosh. For most of my life, I never gave a second thought to my ability to speak. It was like breathing. In those days, I was living in a fool's paradise. After surgeries for cancer took away my ability to speak, eat or drink, I was forced to enter this virtual world in which a computer does some of my living for me. For several days now, we have enjoyed brilliant and articulate speakers here at TED. I used to be able to talk like that. Maybe I wasn't as smart, but I was at least as talkative. I want to devote my talk today to the act of speaking itself, and how the act of speaking or not speaking is tied so indelibly to one's identity as to force the birth of a new person when it is taken away. However, I've found that listening to a computer voice for any great length of time can be monotonous. So I've decided to recruit some of my TED friends to read my words aloud for me. I will start with my wife, Chaz. Chaz Ebert: It was Chaz who stood by my side through three attempts to reconstruct my jaw and restore my ability to speak. Going into the first surgery for a recurrence of salivary cancer in 2006, I expected to be out of the hospital in time to return to my movie review show, 'Ebert and Roeper at the Movies.' I had pre-taped enough shows to get me through six weeks of surgery and recuperation. The doctors took a fibula bone from my leg and some tissue from my shoulder to fashion into a new jaw. My tongue, larynx and vocal cords were still healthy and unaffected. (Laughter) (Laughter) CE: I was optimistic, and all was right with the world. The first surgery was a great success. I saw myself in the mirror and I looked pretty good. Two weeks later, I was ready to return home. I was using my iPod to play the Leonard Cohen song 'I'm Your Man' for my doctors and nurses. Suddenly, I had an episode of catastrophic bleeding. My carotid artery had ruptured. Thank God I was still in my hospital room and my doctors were right there. Chaz told me that if that song hadn't played for so long, I might have already been in the car, on the way home, and would have died right there and then. So thank you, Leonard Cohen, for saving my life. (Applause) There was a second surgery — which held up for five or six days and then it also fell apart. And then a third attempt, which also patched me back together pretty well, until it failed. A doctor from Brazil said he had never seen anyone survive a carotid artery rupture. And before I left the hospital, after a year of being hospitalized, I had seven ruptures of my carotid artery. There was no particular day when anyone told me I would never speak again; it just sort of became obvious. Human speech is an ingenious manipulation of our breath within the sound chamber of our mouth and respiratory system. We need to be able to hold and manipulate that breath in order to form sounds. Therefore, the system must be essentially airtight in order to capture air. Because I had lost my jaw, I could no longer form a seal, and therefore my tongue and all of my other vocal equipment was rendered powerless. Dean Ornish: At first for a long time, I wrote messages in notebooks. Then I tried typing words on my laptop and using its built in voice. This was faster, and nobody had to try to read my handwriting. I tried out various computer voices that were available online, and for several months I had a British accent, which Chaz called Sir Lawrence."" (Laughter) ""It was the clearest I could find. Then Apple released the Alex voice, which was the best I'd heard. It knew things like the difference between an exclamation point and a question mark. When it saw a period, it knew how to make a sentence sound like it was ending instead of staying up in the air. There are all sorts of html codes you can use to control the timing and inflection of computer voices, and I've experimented with them. For me, they share a fundamental problem: they're too slow. When I find myself in a conversational situation, I need to type fast and to jump right in. People don't have the time or the patience to wait for me to fool around with the codes for every word or phrase. But what value do we place on the sound of our own voice? How does that affect who you are as a person? When people hear Alex speaking my words, do they experience a disconnect? Does that create a separation or a distance from one person to the next? How did I feel not being able to speak? I felt, and I still feel, a lot of distance from the human mainstream. I've become uncomfortable when I'm separated from my laptop. Even then, I'm aware that most people have little patience for my speaking difficulties. So Chaz suggested finding a company that could make a customized voice using my TV show voice from a period of 30 years. At first I was against it. I thought it would be creepy to hear my own voice coming from a computer. There was something comforting about a voice that was not my own. But I decided then to just give it a try. So we contacted a company in Scotland that created personalized computer voices. They'd never made one from previously-recorded materials. All of their voices had been made by a speaker recording original words in a control booth. But they were willing to give it a try. So I sent them many hours of recordings of my voice, including several audio commentary tracks that I'd made for movies on DVDs. And it sounded like me, it really did. There was a reason for that; it was me. But it wasn't that simple. The tapes from my TV show weren't very useful because there were too many other kinds of audio involved — movie soundtracks, for example, or Gene Siskel arguing with me — (Laughter) and my words often had a particular emphasis that didn't fit into a sentence well enough. I'll let you hear a sample of that voice. These are a few of the comments I recorded for use when Chaz and I appeared on the Oprah Winfrey program. And here's the voice we call Roger Jr. or Roger 2.0. Roger 2.0: Oprah, I can't tell you how great it is to be back on your show. We have been talking for a long time, and now here we are again. This is the first version of my computer voice. It still needs improvement, but at least it sounds like me and not like HAL 9000. When I heard it the first time, it sent chills down my spine. When I type anything, this voice will speak whatever I type. When I read something, it will read in my voice. I have typed these words in advance, as I didn't think it would be thrilling to sit here watching me typing. The voice was created by a company in Scotland named CereProc. It makes me feel good that many of the words you are hearing were first spoken while I was commenting on ""Casablanca"" and ""Citizen Kane."" This is the first voice they've created for an individual. There are several very good voices available for computers, but they all sound like somebody else, while this voice sounds like me. I plan to use it on television, radio and the Internet. People who need a voice should know that most computers already come with built-in speaking systems. Many blind people use them to read pages on the Web to themselves. But I've got to say, in first grade, they said I talked too much, and now I still can. (Laughter) Roger Ebert: As you can hear, it sounds like me, but the words jump up and down. The flow isn't natural. The good people in Scotland are still improving my voice, and I'm optimistic about it. But so far, the Apple Alex voice is the best one I've heard. I wrote a blog about it and actually got a comment from the actor who played Alex. He said he recorded many long hours in various intonations to be used in the voice. A very large sample is needed. John Hunter: All my life I was a motormouth. Now I have spoken my last words, and I don't even remember for sure what they were. I feel like the hero of that Harlan Ellison story titled ""I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream."" On Wednesday, David Christian explained to us what a tiny instant the human race represents in the time-span of the universe. For almost all of its millions and billions of years, there was no life on Earth at all. For almost all the years of life on Earth, there was no intelligent life. Only after we learned to pass knowledge from one generation to the next, did civilization become possible. In cosmological terms, that was about 10 minutes ago. Finally came mankind's most advanced and mysterious tool, the computer. That has mostly happened in my lifetime. Some of the famous early computers were being built in my hometown of Urbana, the birthplace of HAL 9000. When I heard the amazing talk by Salman Khan on Wednesday, about the Khan Academy website that teaches hundreds of subjects to students all over the world, I had a flashback. It was about 1960. As a local newspaper reporter still in high school, I was sent over to the computer lab of the University of Illinois to interview the creators of something called PLATO. The initials stood for Programmed Logic for Automated Teaching Operations. This was a computer-assisted instruction system, which in those days ran on a computer named ILLIAC. The programmers said it could assist students in their learning. I doubt, on that day 50 years ago, they even dreamed of what Salman Khan has accomplished. But that's not the point. The point is PLATO was only 50 years ago, an instant in time. It continued to evolve and operated in one form or another on more and more sophisticated computers, until only five years ago. I have learned from Wikipedia that, starting with that humble beginning, PLATO established forums, message boards, online testing, email, chat rooms, picture languages, instant messaging, remote screen sharing and multiple-player games. Since the first Web browser was also developed in Urbana, it appears that my hometown in downstate Illinois was the birthplace of much of the virtual, online universe we occupy today. But I'm not here from the Chamber of Commerce. (Laughter) I'm here as a man who wants to communicate. All of this has happened in my lifetime. I started writing on a computer back in the 1970s when one of the first Atech systems was installed at the Chicago Sun-Times. I was in line at Radio Shack to buy one of the first Model 100's. And when I told the people in the press room at the Academy Awards that they'd better install some phone lines for Internet connections, they didn't know what I was talking about. When I bought my first desktop, it was a DEC Rainbow. Does anybody remember that?"" (Applause) ""The Sun Times sent me to the Cannes Film Festival with a portable computer the size of a suitcase named the Porteram Telebubble. I joined CompuServe when it had fewer numbers than I currently have followers on Twitter. (Laughter) CE: All of this has happened in the blink of an eye. It is unimaginable what will happen next. It makes me incredibly fortunate to live at this moment in history. Indeed, I am lucky to live in history at all, because without intelligence and memory there is no history. For billions of years, the universe evolved completely without notice. Now we live in the age of the Internet, which seems to be creating a form of global consciousness. And because of it, I can communicate as well as I ever could. We are born into a box of time and space. We use words and communication to break out of it and to reach out to others. For me, the Internet began as a useful tool and now has become something I rely on for my actual daily existence. I cannot speak; I can only type so fast. Computer voices are sometimes not very sophisticated, but with my computer, I can communicate more widely than ever before. I feel as if my blog, my email, Twitter and Facebook have given me a substitute for everyday conversation. They aren't an improvement, but they're the best I can do. They give me a way to speak. Not everybody has the patience of my wife, Chaz. But online, everybody speaks at the same speed. This whole adventure has been a learning experience. Every time there was a surgery that failed, I was left with a little less flesh and bone. Now I have no jaw left at all. While harvesting tissue from both my shoulders, the surgeries left me with back pain and reduced my ability to walk easily. Ironic that my legs are fine, and it's my shoulders that slow up my walk. When you see me today, I look like the Phantom of the Opera. But no you don't. (Laughter) (Applause) It is human nature to look at someone like me and assume I have lost some of my marbles. People — (Applause) People talk loudly — I'm so sorry. Excuse me. (Applause) People talk loudly and slowly to me. Sometimes they assume I am deaf. There are people who don't want to make eye contact. Believe me, he didn't mean this as — anyway, let me just read it. (Laughter) You should never let your wife read something like this. (Laughter) It is human nature to look away from illness. We don't enjoy a reminder of our own fragile mortality. That's why writing on the Internet has become a lifesaver for me. My ability to think and write have not been affected. And on the Web, my real voice finds expression. I have also met many other disabled people who communicate this way. One of my Twitter friends can type only with his toes. One of the funniest blogs on the Web is written by a friend of mine named Smartass Cripple. (Laughter) Google him and he will make you laugh. All of these people are saying, in one way or another, that what you see is not all you get. So I have not come here to complain. I have much to make me happy and relieved. I seem, for the time being, to be cancer-free. I am writing as well as ever. I am productive. If I were in this condition at any point before a few cosmological instants ago, I would be as isolated as a hermit. I would be trapped inside my head. Because of the rush of human knowledge, because of the digital revolution, I have a voice, and I do not need to scream. RE: Wait. I have one more thing to add. A guy goes into a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist says, ""You're crazy."" The guy says, ""I want a second opinion."" The psychiatrist says, ""All right, you're ugly."" (Laughter) You all know the test for artificial intelligence — the Turing test. A human judge has a conversation with a human and a computer. If the judge can't tell the machine apart from the human, the machine has passed the test. I now propose a test for computer voices — the Ebert test. If a computer voice can successfully tell a joke and do the timing and delivery as well as Henny Youngman, then that's the voice I want. (Applause)"	"下面的話是我說的，但卻不是我的聲音聲音的名字叫 Alex，是我能找到的最好的電腦發音，每台蘋果電腦上都有的基本功能我的前半生，從未擔心過自己說話的能力，說話就像呼吸一樣自然。那些日子裡，我無憂無慮。抗癌治療後，我失去了講話、咀嚼和喝水的能力。我被迫進入了電腦發音的虛擬世界。 幾天來﹐ 在TED，我們聆聽那些精彩的、抑揚頓挫的演講。曾經，我也可以那樣演講。就算我沒那麼聰敏，但也算侃侃而談。我多麼想用自己的聲音來做今天的演講，然而，講與不能講，是兩種極不同的身份，當你不能發出聲音，你被強迫變成另一個人。而我覺得聆聽電腦發音，不論長短，都很單調。所以我邀請一些我在TED的朋友，來口述我所想說的話。先由我太太Chaz開始。 Chaz Ebert：“在我三次重建下巴，和重建談話能力的期間，都是 Chaz 陪在我身旁。我的第一次手術，是唾液腺癌復發時，當時是2006，當時電視台在等我出院回去主持我的影評節目‘艾伯特和羅特論電影’為了應付我為期六週的手術，和之後的恢復期，已經預先錄了六週的節目。醫生從我腿上取走了一塊腓骨，從我肩膀裡取走了一些組織，來重建我的下巴。我的舌頭，喉嚨和聲帶，不受影響，仍然健康。 （觀眾笑） （觀眾笑） 當時我很樂觀，覺得一切都好。第一次手術很成功。我看看鏡子裡的自己，看上去還不錯。兩周後，我準備回家時，我用我的iPod，播放了Leonard Cohen的一首歌，叫“我是你的男人”，放給我的醫生和護士聽。突然我開始大出血我的頸動脈爆裂了。謝天謝地，當時我還在醫院房間，我的醫生都還在，太太Chaz告訴我，要不是那首歌播的時間夠久，我可能已經在回家的車上，當場就把命丟了。唉，謝謝 Leonard Cohen，謝謝你救了我的命啊。 （觀眾鼓掌） 再來是第二次手術，持續了五六天但後來還是失敗了。第三次手術，嘗試將我下巴修復，但仍以失敗告終。一個來自巴西的醫生說他從沒見過我這種頸動脈爆裂還活下來的人。我在醫院整整待了一年才出院總共經歷過7次頸動脈爆裂。 再也沒有任何人告訴我我能重新講話；因為大家都看得出是怎麼回事。人類的聲音是由精密控制口腔和呼吸系統裡的呼吸而發出的。講話時，我們需要控制呼吸從而發聲。因而，發聲系統必須緊密才能控制空氣。而我失去了下顎，我的口腔漏氣，因此我的舌頭以及其他的發聲器官都無力回天。 Dean Ornish: ""有挺長的一段時間，我只能在本子上寫話。後來我試著在手提電腦上打字讓電腦裡的發音軟體來念。這快多了，別人也不用再嘗試閱讀我的筆跡了。我試遍了所有網上的電腦發音軟體，有段時間用的是英式發音的，Chaz尊稱它Lawrence先生。（觀眾笑）那是當時最清楚的一款發音了。隨後，蘋果發佈了Alex版發音軟體，是我認為效果最好的一款Alex知道驚歎號和問號的句子讀出來不一樣。看到句號時，它知道怎麼斷句讀出來的聲音就是降調的而不是繼續懸在空中。有各種HTML編碼用來管理電腦發聲的時間和音調，那些我都試過。但是對我來說，他們的共同問題是太慢了。比如我在跟人交流時，我就得打字飛快反應迅速。但是別人沒時間或者耐心等著我和那些代碼玩每個字每句話都得那樣 但是我們自己的聲音價值何在呢？它對我們的形象有什麽影響？每次人們聽到電腦Alex替我說話時，他們會不會覺得很遙遠生硬？會不會因此讓我和人們產生距離或隔閡？不能講話的感受是怎樣的？我能一直感覺到，跟人群、社會脫節。一離開我的手提電腦我就不自在。即使那樣，我也能感覺到人們對我講話障礙沒啥耐心 之後我的太太Chaz建議最好能找一家公司給我量身打造我的聲音從30年來我做的節目裡選我的聲音。最開始我反對。我覺得會害怕聽到自己的聲音從電腦裡出來。我還是習慣電腦發出的聲音不是我自己的。但最後我還是決定試試。於是我們聯絡了一家在蘇格蘭的公司他們的專業是個人化電腦發音。他們從來沒有從錄製資料裡提取過語音。他們所用的一般都是直接在他們的錄音室錄製的談話。但他們決定一試。 於是我把以前我節目裡的的聲音發給他們，包括一些電影DVD裏面的一些我的評論。確實聽著像我自己的聲音。因為那就是我啊。那是製作也沒那麼簡單。那些來自我電視節目的資料並不好用因為裏面夾雜太多別的聲音—比如電影背景音或者Gene Siskel和我爭吵的聲音。（觀眾笑）因為有時我說一些字句時特別用力不太適合重新組合成新句子。 我讓大家先聽聽當時製作的聲音。來自我和太太有次參加Oprah Winfrey的節目。下面這段聲音我叫他 羅傑初級版，或者羅傑2.0版。 羅傑2.0版：Oprah，我無法形容回到你節目有多麼棒。我們以前聊過很多，現在又開聊啦。這是我電腦發音的初級版。還需改進，但是至少聽著像我了而不是什麽HAL 9000。我第一次聽的時候，一身雞皮疙瘩。我打字輸入，它就按我打的開始念。我讀什麽，它就用我的聲音讀什麽。我把要說的提前打出來，因為我覺得看一個人坐在那裡打字不是什麼令人興奮的畫面。 這個聲音是蘇格蘭一家公司為我定制，公司叫CereProc.我感覺還不錯而且很多你們現在聽到的發音都是合成的用的是我在《卡撒布蘭卡》和《大國民》的錄音。這也是他們公司第一次為專人製作聲音。雖然電腦發音好幾個版本都很好聽，但是都是別人的聲音啊。只有這個是我自己的。於是我打算在電視、廣播還有網上用。大家應該知道，很多電腦都自帶發音系統。很多盲人也用有助於他們瀏覽網頁。但我得說，一年级的时候他們抱怨我話多，我現在還是這樣。 （觀眾笑） 你聽，確實聽著像我，但是發音忽高忽低，語調不自然。蘇格蘭公司的人還在改進我的聲音，我也很樂觀。但目前，蘋果的Alex發音是我聽到的最好的了。我發表過一篇部落格給Alex語音錄製聲音的人留言給我。他說他錄製了很久，各種語調都錄以備各種情況。需要大量發音樣本。 John Hunter: ""曾經的我多麼健談，而我也不記得何時，我說出了最後一句話也不記得說了什麽。我感覺像Harlan Ellison故事里的主人公“我沒有嘴，卻必須喊”週三的時候，David Christian還給我們講過和浩翰的宇宙相比人類文明史多麼短暫在它數百萬年﹐ 數十億年的歷史中地球上沒有生命。而在地球有生命的時間裡，也沒有高等生物。而當人類開始傳承知識後一代又一代，人類文明才得以發展。要是跟浩翰的宇宙比，那也不過是10分鐘之前的事。而現在居然誕生了人類最進步和神秘的工具，就是電腦。基本上是我長大後才有。 著名的早期電腦在我故鄉厄巴纳製造，也是HAL 9000誕生之地。週三時，聽到Salman Khan的演講，關於Khan學院網站給世界各地的學生傳授各種知識是我回憶起在1960年的時候當時我是一名新聞記者，仍在上高中我去了伊利諾伊大學的電腦室進行採訪PLATO的開發者PLATO是自動教學程式的編寫邏輯的縮寫是一種電腦輔助教學系統當時在ILLIAC電腦上運行。開發者說那個系統可以協助學生學習。 我懷疑50年前的那天，他們想也想不到今日Salman Khan的成就。但這不是重點重點是PLATO系統僅僅50年前也是很短的時間但是PLATO就演變了好幾代所用電腦系統也更加的複雜知道5年前我從維基百科上獲知他們從當時簡單的起點，到現在已經建立自己的論壇、留言板、線上測試、郵箱和聊天室圖片文字、即時通訊，遠距影片分享多人遊戲。 還有第一個網頁瀏覽器的產地也是在Urbana所以我的家鄉即伊利諾伊南部居然是各種我們今天試用的網絡工具的誕生地。但我並不是代表我們商會來推銷啊。（觀眾笑）我來這裡是來交流的。 上述這些都是發生在我有生之年我在70年代就開始在電腦上寫字那會用的還是第一代Atech系統當時我在芝加哥太陽時報。我在Radio Shack商店排隊購買第一代的Model 100's。我在奧斯卡金像獎被採訪的時候，我告訴人們要裝一些電話撥號上網，他們都不知道我在講什麽。我買第一台桌上型電腦時，是一台DEC Rainbow機。還有誰記得它？（觀眾鼓掌）太陽時報派我去坎城電影節讓我帶著個像手提皮箱大小的“移動式”式電腦叫做Porteram Telebubble我還加入了Compuserve（美國信息服務機構）當時他們的會員很少還沒有我現在Twitter微博上關注我的人多呢。 （觀眾笑） 太太：所有這一切彷彿發生在轉瞬間。難以想像，以後會有什麽出現。我非常幸運可以能活在這個歷史性的時刻。說真的，能活在歷史裡已經很幸運了因為如果沒有智能和記憶就沒有歷史。億萬年來，整個宇宙自轉運作從來沒人注意過。但現在我們活在網路時代，全球化意識來臨也因為此，我可以如常與人交流。我們這個時代像時空交叉的盒子我們用文字和交流來突破它來接觸到其他人 對我來說，網路開始的時候只是一種工具現在卻成了生活的依賴以維持我的存在我不能講話，我只能飛快打字。電腦發音的交流有時候比較單調，但是我使用電腦，就可以更廣泛的與人交流這在以前可沒有。我的部落格我的電郵，推特和臉書取代了我的日常對話。這不算什麼進步，但已經是我有的最好的了。它們賦予我一種表達方式。並不是每個人都和我太太 Chaz 一樣有耐心但是在網上，大家書寫的速度是一樣的 這些嘗試都是學習的過程。每當我手術失敗的時候，我下巴的肉和骨頭都更少了現在根本就沒有下巴了手術移植我肩膀上的組織，導致背痛牽制了我的行走能力。諷刺的是我的腿還好，是我的肩膀使我行走困難。看看今日的我我簡直是《歌劇魅影》的主角 不，你不像。 （觀眾笑） （鼓掌） 當人們看到我的模樣很自然地覺得我的只能也不如往常人們...（鼓掌）人們講話大聲 抱歉抱歉 （鼓掌） 人們把聲音放大，速度減低有時他們覺得我聾了。有些人不願意和我做目光交流 相信我，他的意思不是 —不管如何，讓我念完（觀眾笑）沒有人應該讓自己的太太朗讀這種東西的。 （觀眾笑） 人類的本性是把頭在疾病面前別開我們不喜歡有人來提醒自己隨時可能面臨死亡的事實所以在網路上寫作成了我的救命法寶我思考和寫作的能力並不受影響在網路上，我真正的話語有了表達的途徑我也碰到了一些用這種方法溝通的殘障人士我在推特上有一個好友他只能用腳趾打字網路上最搞笑的一個部落格是我一個朋友寫的他叫“殘而聰明”（觀眾笑）試著Google他，他的部落格會博你一笑。這些人在各種場合都說眼睛所能見到的不是事物的全部。 我不是來這裡抱怨的我有很多讓我開心放鬆的東西我似乎暫時沒有癌症威脅我像以往一樣寫作也很多產如果我現在的狀況在以前的話那我會是獨居的隱者自我糾結正因為人類知識快速發展，還有數位革命才讓我有了“聲音”不用呐喊 最後，我還有一事要說有一個人去找精神科醫生精神病醫生對他說“你瘋了”那個人說“還有其它診斷嗎”精神病醫生對他說“好吧，你醜死了“ （觀眾笑） 大家都知道這是人工智能搞的鬼—Turing測試如果是一個人嘗試分辨人和機器的聲音如果分辨不出機器和人的話機器不就蒙混過關了嗎現在我用我的電腦發音參加Ebert測試如果電腦發音能成功的說個笑話說笑的口氣和時機能像Henny Youngman一樣那就是我想要的聲音了。 （鼓掌）"
