Talk	en	zh-tw
roman_mars_why_city_flags_may_be_the_worst_designed_thing_you_ve_never_noticed	"I know what you're thinking: ""Why does that guy get to sit down?"" That's because this is radio. (Music) I tell radio stories about design, and I report on all kinds of stories: buildings and toothbrushes, mascots and wayfinding and fonts. My mission is to get people to engage with the design that they care about so they begin to pay attention to all forms of design. When you decode the world with design intent in mind, the world becomes kind of magical. Instead of seeing the broken things, you see all the little bits of genius that anonymous designers have sweated over to make our lives better. And that's essentially the definition of design: making life better and providing joy. And few things give me greater joy than a well-designed flag. (Laughter) Yeah! (Applause) Happy 50th anniversary on your flag, Canada. It is beautiful, gold standard. Love it. I'm kind of obsessed with flags. Sometimes I bring up the topic of flags, and people are like, ""I don't care about flags,"" and then we start talking about flags, and trust me, 100 percent of people care about flags. There's just something about them that works on our emotions. My family wrapped my Christmas presents as flags this year, including the blue gift bag that's dressed up as the flag of Scotland. I put this picture online, and sure enough, within the first few minutes, someone left a comment that said, ""You can take that Scottish Saltire and shove it up your ass."" (Laughter) See, people are passionate about flags, you know? That's the way it is. What I love about flags is that once you understand the design of flags, what makes a good flag, what makes a bad flag, you can understand the design of almost anything. So what I'm going to do here is, I cracked open an episode of my radio show, ""99% Invisible,"" and I'm going to reconstruct it here on stage, so when I press a button over here — Voice: S for Sound — Roman Mars: It's going to make a sound, and so whenever you hear a sound or a voice or a piece of music, it's because I pressed a button. Voice: Sound. RM: All right, got it? Here we go. Three, two. This is 99% Invisible. I'm Roman Mars. (Music) Narrator: The five basic principles of flag design. Roman Mars: According to the North American Vexillological Association. Vexillological. Ted Kaye: Vexillology is the study of flags. RM: It's that extra ""lol"" that makes it sound weird. Narrator: Number one, keep it simple. The flag should be so simple that a child can draw it from memory. RM: Before I moved to Chicago in 2005, I didn't even know cities had their own flags. TK: Most larger cities do have flags. RM: Well, I didn't know that, that's Ted Kaye, by the way. TK: Hello. RM: He's a flag expert, he's a totally awesome guy. TK: I'm Ted Kaye, I have edited a scholarly journal on flag studies, and I am currently involved with the Portland Flag Association and the North American Vexillological Association. RM: Ted literally wrote the book on flag design. Narrator: ""Good Flag, Bad Flag."" RM: It's more of a pamphlet, really, it's about 16 pages. TK: Yes, it's called ""Good Flag, Bad Flag: How to Design a Great Flag."" RM: And that first city flag I discovered in Chicago is a beaut: white field, two horizontal blue stripes, and four six-pointed red stars down the middle. (Sound) Narrator: Number two, use meaningful symbolism. TK: The blue stripes represent the water, the river and the lake. Narrator: The flag's images, colors or pattern should relate to what it symbolizes. TK: The red stars represent significant events in Chicago's history. RM: Namely, the founding of Fort Dearborn on the future site of Chicago, the Great Chicago Fire, the World Columbian Exposition, which everyone remembers because of the White City, and the Century of Progress Exposition, which no one remembers at all. Narrator: Number three, use two to three basic colors. TK: The basic rule for colors is to use two to three colors from the standard color set: red, white, blue, green, yellow and black. RM: The design of the Chicago flag has complete buy-in with an entire cross-section of the city. It is everywhere; every municipal building flies the flag. Whet Moser: There's probably at least one store on every block near where I work that sells some sort of Chicago flag paraphernalia. RM: That's Whet Moser from Chicago magazine. WM: Today, just for example, I went to get a haircut, and when I sat down in the barber's chair, there was a Chicago flag on the box that the barber kept all his tools in, and then in the mirror, there was a Chicago flag on the wall behind me. When I left, a guy passed me who had a Chicago flag badge on his backpack. RM: It's adaptable and remixable. The six-pointed stars in particular show up in all kinds of places. WM: The coffee I bought the other day had a Chicago star on it. RM: It's a distinct symbol of Chicago pride. TK: When a police officer or a firefighter dies in Chicago, often it's not the flag of the United States on his casket. It can be the flag of the city of Chicago. That's how deeply the flag has gotten into the civic imagery of Chicago. RM: And it isn't just that people love Chicago and therefore love the flag. I also think that people love Chicago more because the flag is so cool. TK: A positive feedback loop there between great symbolism and civic pride. RM: OK, so when I moved back to San Francisco in 2008, I researched its flag, because I had never seen it in the previous eight years I lived there. And I found it, I am sorry to say, sadly lacking. (Laughter) I know. It hurts me, too. (Laughter) TK: Well, let me start from the top. Narrator: Number one, keep it simple. TK: Keeping it simple. Narrator: The flag should be so simple that a child can draw it from memory. TK: It's a relatively complex flag. RM: OK, here we go, OK. The main component of the San Francisco flag is a phoenix representing the city rising from the ashes after the devastating fires of the 1850s. TK: A powerful symbol for San Francisco. RM: I still don't really dig the phoenix. Design-wise, it manages to both be too crude and have too many details at the same time, which if you were trying for that, you wouldn't be able to do it, and it just looks bad at a distance, but having deep meaning puts that element in the plus column. Behind the phoenix, the background is mostly white, and then it has a substantial gold border around it. TK: Which is a very attractive design element. RM: I think it's OK, but — (Laughter) here come the big no-nos of flag design. Narrator: Number four, no lettering or seals. Never use writing of any kind. RM: Underneath the phoenix, there's a motto on a ribbon that translates to ""Gold in peace, iron in war,"" plus — and this is the big problem — it says San Francisco across the bottom. TK: If you need to write the name of what you're representing on your flag, your symbolism has failed. (Laughter) (Applause) RM: The United States flag doesn't say ""USA"" across the front. In fact, country flags, they tend to behave. Like, hats off to South Africa and Turkey and Israel and Somalia and Japan and Gambia. There's a bunch of really great country flags, but they obey good design principles because the stakes are high. They're on the international stage. But city, state and regional flags are another story. (Laughter) There is a scourge of bad flags — (Laughter) and they must be stopped. (Laughter) (Applause) That is the truth and that is the dare. The first step is to recognize that we have a problem. (Laughter) A lot of people tend to think that good design is just a matter of taste, and quite honestly, sometimes it is, actually, but sometimes it isn't, all right? (Laughter) Here's the full list of NAVA flag design principles. Narrator: The five basic principles of flag design. Narrator: Number one. TK: Keep it simple. Narrator: Number two. TK: Use meaningful symbolism. Narrator: Number three. TK: Use two to three basic colors. Narrator: Number four. TK: No lettering or seals. Narrator: Never use writing of any kind. TK: Because you can't read that at a distance. Narrator: Number five. TK: And be distinctive. RM: All the best flags tend to stick to these principles. And like I said before, most country flags are OK. But here's the thing: if you showed this list of principles to any designer of almost anything, they would say these principles — simplicity, deep meaning, having few colors or being thoughtful about colors, uniqueness, don't have writing you can't read — all those principles apply to them, too. But sadly, good design principles are rarely invoked in US city flags. Our biggest problem seems to be that fourth one. We just can't stop ourselves from putting our names on our flags, or little municipal seals with tiny writing on them. Here's the thing about municipal seals: They were designed to be on pieces of paper where you can read them, not on flags 100 feet away flapping in the breeze. So here's a bunch of flags again. Vexillologists call these SOBs: Seals on a bedsheet — (Laughter) and if you can't tell what city they go to, yeah, that's exactly the problem, except for Anaheim, apparently, they fixed it. (Laughter) These flags are everywhere in the US. The European equivalent of the municipal seal is the city coat of arms ... and this is where we can learn a lesson for how to do things right. So this is the city coat of arms of Amsterdam. Now, if this were a United States city, the flag would probably look like this. You know, yeah. (Laughter) But instead, the flag of Amsterdam looks like this. Rather than plopping the whole coat of arms on a solid background and writing ""Amsterdam"" below it, they just take the key elements of the escutcheon, the shield, and they turn it into the most badass city flag in the world. (Laughter) (Applause) And because it's so badass, those flags and crosses are found throughout Amsterdam, just like Chicago, they're used. Even though seal-on-a-bedsheet flags are particularly painful and offensive to me, nothing can quite prepare you for one of the biggest train wrecks in vexillological history. (Laughter) Are you ready? It's the flag of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. (Laughter) I mean, it's distinctive, I'll give them that. Steve Kodis: It was adopted in 1955. RM: The city ran a contest and gathered a bunch of submissions with all kinds of designs. SK: And an alderman by the name of Fred Steffan cobbled together parts of the submissions to make what is now the Milwaukee flag. RM: It's a kitchen sink flag. There's a gigantic gear representing industry, there's a ship recognizing the port, a giant stalk of wheat paying homage to the brewing industry. It's a hot mess, and Steve Kodis, a graphic designer from Milwaukee, wants to change it. SK: It's really awful. It's a misstep on the city's behalf, to say the least. RM: But what puts the Milwaukee flag over the top, almost to the point of self-parody, is on it is a picture of the Civil War battle flag of the Milwaukee regiment. SK: So that's the final element in it that just makes it that much more ridiculous, that there is a flag design within the Milwaukee flag. RM: On the flag. Yeah. Yeah. (Laughter) Yeah. (Music) Now, Milwaukee is a fantastic city. I've been there, I love it. The most depressing part of this flag, though, is that there have been two major redesign contests. The last one was held in 2001. 105 entries were received. TK: But in the end, the members of the Milwaukee Arts Board decided that none of the new entries were worthy of flying over the city. RM: They couldn't agree to change that thing! (Laughter) That's discouraging enough to make you think that good design and democracy just simply do not go together. (Laughter) But Steve Kotas is going to try one more time to redesign the Milwaukee flag. SK: I believe Milwaukee is a great city. Every great city deserves a great flag. RM: Steve isn't ready to reveal his design yet. One of the things about proposing one of these things is you have to get people on board, and then you reveal your design. But here's the trick: If you want to design a great flag, a kick-ass flag like Chicago's or DC's, which also has a great flag, start by drawing a one-by-one-and-a-half-inch rectangle on a piece of paper. Your design has to fit within that tiny rectangle. Here's why. TK: A three-by-five-foot flag on a pole 100 feet away looks about the same size as a one-by-one-and-a-half-inch rectangle seen about 15 inches from your eye. You'd be surprised by how compelling and simple the design can be when you hold yourself to that limitation. RM: Meanwhile, back in San Francisco. Is there anything we can do? TK: I like to say that in every bad flag there's a good flag trying to get out. The way to make San Francisco's flag a good flag is to take the motto off because you can't read that at a distance. Take the name off, and the border might even be made thicker, so it's more a part of the flag. And I would simply take the phoenix and make it a great big element in the middle of the flag. RM: But the current phoenix, that's got to go. TK: I would simplify or stylize the phoenix. Depict a big, wide-winged bird coming out of flames. Emphasize those flames. RM: So this San Francisco flag was designed by Frank Chimero based on Ted Kaye's suggestions. I don't know what he would do if we was completely unfettered and didn't follow those guidelines. Fans of my radio show and podcast, heard me complain about bad flags. They've sent me other suggested designs. This one's by Neil Mussett. Both are so much better. (Laughter) And I think if they were adopted, I would see them around the city. In my crusade to make flags of the world more beautiful, many listeners have taken it upon themselves to redesign their flags and look into the feasibility of getting them officially adopted. (Music) If you see your city flag and like it, fly it, even if it violates a design rule or two. I don't care. But if you don't see your city flag, maybe it doesn't exist, but maybe it does, and it just sucks, and I dare you to join the effort to try to change that. As we move more and more into cities, the city flag will become not just a symbol of that city as a place, but also, it could become a symbol of how that city considers design itself, especially today, as the populace is becoming more design-aware. And I think design awareness is at an all-time high. A well-designed flag could be seen as an indicator of how a city considers all of its design systems: its public transit, its parks, its signage. It might seem frivolous, but it's not. TK: Often when city leaders say, ""We have more important things to do than worry about a city flag,"" my response is, ""If you had a great city flag, you would have a banner for people to rally under to face those more important things."" (Music) RM: I've seen firsthand what a good city flag can do in the case of Chicago. The marriage of good design and civic pride is something that we need in all places. The best part about municipal flags is that we own them. They are an open-source, publicly owned design language of the community. When they are done well, they are remixable, adaptable, and they are powerful. We could control the branding and graphical imagery of our cities with a good flag, but instead, by having bad flags we don't use, we cede that territory to sports teams and chambers of commerce and tourism boards. Sports teams can leave and break our hearts. And besides, some of us don't really care about sports. And tourism campaigns can just be cheesy. But a great city flag is something that represents a city to its people and its people to the world at large. And when that flag is a beautiful thing, that connection is a beautiful thing. So maybe all the city flags can be as inspiring as Hong Kong or Portland or Trondheim, and we can do away with all the bad flags like San Francisco, Milwaukee, Cedar Rapids, and finally, when we're all done, we can do something about Pocatello, Idaho, considered by the North American Vexillological Association as the worst city flag in North America. [Proud to be Pocatello] (Laughter) (Applause) Yeah. (Applause) That thing has a trademark symbol on it, people. (Laughter) That hurts me just to look at. (Laughter) Thank you so much for listening. (Applause) [Music by: Melodium (@melodiumbox) and Keegan DeWitt (@keegandewitt)]"	我知道你們在想什麼：「為什麼這傢伙坐着？」因為這是在廣播。 （音樂） 我廣播有關設計的故事，我講述各種各樣的故事：建築和牙刷吉祥物、路標還有字體。我的任務是讓人們關注他們在乎的設計，讓人們開始注意各種形式的設計。當你用設計的眼光看世界時，世界開始變得神奇。看見的不再是支零破碎的物體，而是點點滴滴的智慧由無名的設計家辛苦構建目的是讓我們生活更加美好。而這就是設計的精華定義：讓生活更美好、為生活提供歡樂。精心設計的旗幟是最能給我帶來歡樂的事物之一。 （掌聲）（笑聲） 沒錯！50歲生日快樂，加拿大國旗。非常漂亮，黃金標準。人見人愛。 我對旗幟非常著迷。有時我跟別人聊旗幟，對方就會說：「我不在乎旗幟。」然後我們開始聊旗幟，信不信由你，所有人都在乎旗幟。旗幟裡面有一種奇妙的東西左右著我們的情感。 今年我的家人用國旗包裝我的聖誕禮物，也包括右上方那個藍色禮物袋設計用的是蘇格蘭旗。我將這照片擺上網，當然，幾分鐘內就有人留言說：「收起蘇格蘭的聖安德魯十字旗，塞到你屁股裡。」（笑聲）看吧，人們相當熱衷於旗幟。這就是旗幟的力量。 我之所以喜歡旗幟，是因為一旦你理解了旗幟的設計理解怎樣才算好的旗幟，怎樣才算壞的旗幟，你就可以理解幾乎所有事物的設計。所以我現在要做的是我開始我的設計廣播節目「99% Invisible」我將會在台上呈現這個節目所以當我在這點擊按鈕時——聲音：S代表聲音——羅曼·馬斯：就會發出聲音，所以大家要是聽到聲音或者音樂，那是因為我按了按鈕。 聲音：嘶——聲音。 馬斯：好了？我們開始吧。三，二。 歡迎收聽「99% Invisible」我是羅曼·馬斯 陳述者：設計旗幟的五個基本原則。 馬斯：根據北美旗幟學協會旗幟學 泰德·凱伊（旗幟學家）：旗幟學指對旗幟的研究。 馬斯：聽上去有點怪異，是因為裡面的笑意。 陳述者：第一，設計要簡單。旗幟應該設計簡單，連小孩子也能記住畫出來。 馬斯：2005年搬到芝加哥之前我並不知道城市也有自己的旗幟。 凱伊：大部分的大型城市的確有自己的旗幟。 馬斯：我那時並不知道。噢，這是泰德·凱伊。 凱伊：大家好。馬斯：他是旗幟學專家。他超級棒。 凱伊：我叫泰德·凱伊。我編輯過一本旗幟學的學術周刊，目前我在波特蘭旗幟協會還有北美旗幟學協會。 馬斯：泰德寫了一本關於旗幟設計的書。 陳述者：「好旗，壞旗」 馬斯：這看上去更像小冊子。大概有16頁。 凱伊：沒錯，書名為「好旗，壞旗：如何設計一支出色的旗幟」 馬斯：我在芝加哥發現的第一支市旗美麗動人：白色背景，兩條水平藍色條紋，還有中間四個六角紅星。 陳述者：第二，使用有意義的象徵。 凱伊：藍色條紋代表水、河流、湖泊。 陳述者：旗幟的圖案、顏色、圖形應該與象徵的事物相關。 凱伊：紅星代表芝加哥的重要歷史事件。馬斯：指的是未來芝加哥的迪爾伯恩堡的建立；1871年的芝加哥大火；芝加哥哥倫布世界紀念博覽館，由於懷特城，大家都記得這一事件；還有芝加哥萬國博覽會，沒有人記得這一事件。 陳述者：第三，使用兩到三種基本顏色。 凱伊：顏色的基本原則是使用標準顏色集裡的兩到三種基本顏色：紅、白、藍、綠、黃、黑。 馬斯：芝加哥市旗的設計深受大眾喜愛，在城市各個地方都可看見。非常普遍；每幢市建築都立著這一支旗。 Whet Moser：我工作附近每條街上都有至少一家商店會賣帶有芝加哥市旗的用具。 馬斯：他是芝加哥雜誌的Whet Moser。 Moser：譬如今天我去剪頭髮，我坐在理髮師的椅子上，看見理髮師的工具箱上就有一支芝加哥市旗，然後鏡子裡面在我身後也有一支芝加哥市旗。我離開的時候，經過一個男子背包上面有一個芝加哥市旗徽章。馬斯：旗幟的適應力和混搭力很強。特別是六角形在各種地方都能看見。Moser：有天我買的咖啡上就有一顆芝加哥星。馬斯：這是芝加哥驕傲的獨特標誌。凱伊：芝加哥裡有警察或消防員身亡時靈柩上一般放的不是美國國旗。放的可以是芝加哥市旗。這就是市旗對芝加哥市民形象的力量。 馬斯：這不只是人們喜歡芝加哥才喜歡芝加哥的市旗。我認為因為芝加哥市旗太棒了所以人們更加喜歡芝加哥。 凱伊：偉大象徵和市民驕傲之間一個相當正面的反饋循環。 馬斯：因此2008年搬回三藩市時，我搜索了三藩市的市旗，因為我從未見過這支旗，儘管我在那裡住過八年。然後我發現，很抱歉地說，這支旗不夠力。 （笑聲） 我知道。這也讓我很傷心。 （笑聲） 凱伊：讓我從頭說起。 陳述者：第一，設計要簡單。凱伊：設計要簡單。 陳述者：旗幟設計應盡量簡單，連小孩子也能記住畫出來。 凱伊：這是相對複雜的一支旗。 馬斯：好，我們來。三藩市市旗的主要元素是鳳凰代表經歷了18世紀50年代的災難性大火後三藩市在灰燼中重生。 凱伊：三藩市的有力象徵。 馬斯：我仍然不太喜歡那隻鳳凰。設計方面，旗幟表現得太粗野同時又包涵太多細節，要是試圖涵蓋太多細節，你終歸是做不出好旗，遠看一點都不順眼，但這些深層的含義也讓旗幟加點分。鳳凰後面大部分是白色背景，然後有大量的金色邊界。 凱伊：這是相當有魅力的設計元素。 馬斯：我認為這還過得去。但是——（笑聲）——看看旗幟設計的大忌。 陳述者：第四，不要有字母或者印章。絕對不要使用任何字體。 馬斯：鳳凰下面的緞帶上寫著一句格言其譯文為：「和平金色，戰爭鐵色」另外——這是大問題——下面寫著三藩市。 凱伊：如果你得靠寫下旗幟所代表的事物的名稱，這象徵就失敗了。 （笑聲）（掌聲） 馬斯：美國國旗上可不寫「美國」。事實上，國家國旗一般比較聽話。比如說，看看南非、土耳其、以色列看看索馬里、日本、岡比亞。這些國旗都很棒，但是他們遵循優秀設計的原則，因為風險太高。他們走的是國際舞台。但是市旗、州旗、區旗又是另一回事。（笑聲）也有一幫壞旗，這些旗幟得有人叫停。（笑聲）（掌聲）這就是真相和膽量。第一步是認清我們有一個問題。許多人一般認為好的設計不過是品味問題，老實說，有時候是這樣，但有時候又不是這樣。以下是北美旗幟學協會旗幟設計的全部原則。 陳述者：旗幟設計的五大基本原則。第一。凱伊：設計要簡單。陳述者：第二。凱伊：使用有意義的象徵。 陳述者：第三。凱伊：使用兩到三種基本顏色。 陳述者：第四。凱伊：不要用任何字母或印章。 陳述者：絕對不要使用任何字體。 凱伊：因為在遠處你不會看到這些字。 陳述者：第五。凱伊：要獨特。 馬斯：所有出眾的旗幟一般會遵循這些原則。像我說的那樣，大部分國旗都很好。但問題是：如果你讓任何設計師看這些原則，他們會說這些原則——簡單、有意義、用色簡單、謹慎，獨特、不帶任何看不到的字體——所有這些原則都適用於所有設計師。但不幸的是，好的設計原則很少體現在美國的市旗上。我們最大的問題看來是第四條原則。我們就是不能阻止自己將自己的名字放到旗幟上，或者小小的市章和小小的字體。使用市章的問題是：這些市章原來的設計目的是用在一張紙上，讓大家看得清，而不是用在100尺外隨風飄揚的旗幟上。 這裡有一堆市旗。旗幟學家稱這些為「床照」：床單上的印照——（笑聲）如果你不知道它們屬於哪個城市沒錯，這就是問題，明顯除了阿納海姆市旗（Anaheim，右上角）他們解決了這個問題。（笑聲） 這些旗幟在美國隨處可見。歐洲國家的市章是城市的遁形紋章，我們能從中學習一下怎樣把旗幟設計好。這是阿姆斯特丹的紋章。倘若這是一個美國城市，這支市旗估計會長成這樣。你懂的，是吧。（笑聲）但是阿姆斯特丹的市旗是這樣的。它不是把整個紋章扔進去丟到一個硬邦邦的背景裡下面再寫著「阿姆斯特丹」；而是採納紋章盾牌的關鍵要素，將其變成世界上最惹是生非的市旗。（笑聲）（掌聲） 正因為這支旗夠搗蛋，這些旗幟和交叉在阿姆斯特丹隨處可見，就像芝加哥市旗一樣受歡迎。 儘管這些床照旗幟有夠讓我特別痛苦、受不了，你怎麼也不會受得了旗幟學歷史上最嚴重的事故之一。準備好了嗎？威斯康星州 密爾沃基市的市旗（笑聲）我想，這夠獨特的。這個我可以贊。 史提芬·柯蒂斯：這支旗始用於1955年。 馬斯：密爾沃基市舉行了一場設計比賽收集了一堆作品各種各樣的作品設計。 柯蒂斯：一名市政議員名叫Fred Steffan將這些作品的一些部分拼湊起來組成了今天我們所見的密爾沃基市市旗。 馬斯：這是一支廚房水槽旗幟。大大的齒輪，代表工業；一隻船，代表港口；一大支麥穗向釀造業致敬。亂得一塌糊塗。史提芬·柯蒂斯是密爾沃基市的平面設計師，他想改變這支旗。 柯蒂斯：這有夠可怕的。是這座城市的代表性失誤，退一步來說。 馬斯：但這支旗最讓人無法接受的是——簡直就是一個惡搞——裡面還有密爾沃基兵團在內戰期間所用的戰旗。 柯蒂斯：正是這最後一擊讓這支旗變得最最滑稽，密爾沃基市旗裡面竟然還有一支旗。 馬斯：旗中旗，沒錯。（笑聲）好。 （音樂） 密爾沃基市相當迷人我去過那裡。相當喜愛。然而，這支旗最讓人傷心的是已經舉辦過兩場大型設計比賽。最近一場是在2001年。收到了105份作品。 柯蒂斯：但最後，密爾沃基市的藝術委員會成員決定沒有作品能夠取代舊旗飄揚在城市上空。 馬斯：他們不能就達成共識換掉這東西！（笑聲）這夠讓你挫敗認為好的設計和民主就是水火不相容。但是柯蒂斯要再次嘗試重新設計密爾沃基市旗。 柯蒂斯：我相信密爾沃基市相當出色。每個出色的城市都值得擁有一支出色的市旗。 馬斯：柯蒂斯暫未預備展現他的設計。要提這樣的建議，其中一個要務是你得讓大眾參與在乎，然後你在呈現你的設計。但這就是竅門：要是你想設計出色的旗幟，一支像芝加哥旗或首都華盛頓旗那樣了不起的旗幟，那就先開始在紙上畫一個1×1.5英寸長方形。你的設計必須能上這個小長方形。請聽原因。 柯蒂斯：一支3×5英尺的旗立在100尺外旗桿上尺寸看上去就像你在15英寸外看一個1×1.5英寸長方形。你可能不知道這樣的設計限制可以讓你的設計變得多麼簡單有力。 馬斯：同時，在三藩市。我們能做些什麼嗎？ 凱伊：我想說，每支壞旗裡都有一些好旗的元素躍躍欲現。（笑聲）要把三藩市市旗設計好，就要摘下那句格言，因為你遠處什麼都看不見。把市名拿走，然後金邊可以再厚一點，這就更融合到旗幟裡。我會簡單利用這隻鳳凰，讓它變成一個出色的大型元素，立在旗幟的中心位置。 馬斯：但是眼前的這隻鳳凰必須閃人。 凱伊：我會簡化或風格化這隻鳳凰。想像一隻展翼大鳥從火焰出降生。強調火焰。 馬斯：所以三藩市市旗由Frank Chimero從新設計參考了凱伊提出的建議。要是我們完全沒有限制也不遵循那些原則，我不知道他會設計出什麼。我的廣播電台粉絲已經聽過我抱怨這些壞旗。他們寄給我其他一些設計建議。這一張是由 Neil Mussett 設計。兩張都好很多。我想，要是採用任一張，它們會在市裡大受歡迎。 我一路遠征讓世界上的旗幟更加漂亮，許多聽眾也親身體驗，從新設計他們的旗幟，並考慮讓這些旗幟得到官方認可的可行性。要是你看見你的市旗、喜歡你的市旗就讓它飄揚，儘管這可能違反一兩條設計原則。我不在意。但是要是你看不見你的市旗，也許市旗不存在，但也許是存在的，只不過是設計很醜，那我就向你挑戰，一起致力嘗試作出改變。 現在我們逐漸遷入城市，市旗會變成不只是這個城市的地方象徵，這還可以體現出城市自身如何看待設計，特別在現今，大眾越來越關注設計。我認為，設計意識正處於歷史高位。一支設計出色的旗幟可以反映一個城市如何看待自身的設計體系：城市的大眾捷運、城市公園、城市標牌。看似無足輕重，但其實很重要。 凱伊：通常當市領導說：「我們有更要緊的事做，而不是擔憂一支市旗。」我的反應是：「如果你有一支出色的市旗，你會有一張旗幟去團結大眾共同面對更要緊的事情。」 馬斯：我見證過一流市旗的力量，在芝加哥的時候。優秀設計和市民驕傲的完美結合是我們在任何地方都需要的元素。市旗最誘人的一點是我們有擁有權。市旗是開放資源，是公眾共有的社區設計語言。市旗做得好，就會有很強的適應力和混搭力，也會帶來很大的力量。我們可以利用一支好旗來控制一個城市的品牌形象，反之，要是我們有的是一支沒用的壞旗，我們就放棄了這一領域，讓給了運動隊、商會、旅遊局。運動隊可以拍拍屁股離開讓我們心碎。另有，一些人其實一點都不關心運動。而旅遊宣傳活動可以很俗氣。但是一支出色的市旗才是市民的真正城市表徵，才是世界的真正人民表徵。要是一支旗幟設計動人，旗幟建立起來的聯繫也會動人。所以也許所有的市旗可以變得相當鼓舞人心，像香港市旗譬如波特蘭市旗、 特隆赫姆市旗，也許我們可以逃脫所有的壞旗，像三藩市市旗、密爾沃基市旗錫達拉皮茲市旗，最後要是我們都搞定了，我們可以為愛達荷州的波卡特洛市旗想想辦法，北美旗幟學協會認為波卡特洛市旗是北美最糟糕的旗幟。（笑聲）（掌聲）沒錯。這東西有個商標在上面。（笑聲）光看見就讓我傷心。 謝謝大家的收聽。（掌聲） [音樂: Melodium (@melodiumbox)以及Keegan DeWitt (@keegandewitt)]
