Talk	en	zh-tw
ron_gutman_the_hidden_power_of_smiling	"When I was a child, I always wanted to be a superhero. I wanted to save the world and make everyone happy. But I knew that I'd need superpowers to make my dreams come true. So I used to embark on these imaginary journeys to find intergalactic objects from planet Krypton, which was a lot of fun, but didn't yield much result. When I grew up and realized that science fiction was not a good source for superpowers, I decided instead to embark on a journey of real science, to find a more useful truth. I started my journey in California, with a UC Berkeley 30-year longitudinal study that examined the photos of students in an old yearbook, and tried to measure their success and well-being throughout their life. By measuring the students' smiles, researchers were able to predict how fulfilling and long-lasting a subject's marriage would be, (Laughter) how well she would score on standardized tests of well-being, and how inspiring she would be to others. In another yearbook, I stumbled upon Barry Obama's picture. When I first saw his picture, I thought that his superpowers came from his super collar. (Laughter) But now I know it was all in his smile. Another aha! moment came from a 2010 Wayne State University research project that looked into pre-1950s baseball cards of Major League players. The researchers found that the span of a player's smile could actually predict the span of his life. Players who didn't smile in their pictures lived an average of only 72.9 years, where players with beaming smiles lived an average of almost 80 years. (Laughter) The good news is that we're actually born smiling. Using 3D ultrasound technology, we can now see that developing babies appear to smile, even in the womb. When they're born, babies continue to smile — initially, mostly in their sleep. And even blind babies smile to the sound of the human voice. Smiling is one of the most basic, biologically uniform expressions of all humans. In studies conducted in Papua New Guinea, Paul Ekman, the world's most renowned researcher on facial expressions, found that even members of the Fore tribe, who were completely disconnected from Western culture, and also known for their unusual cannibalism rituals, (Laughter) attributed smiles to descriptions of situations the same way you and I would. So from Papua New Guinea to Hollywood all the way to modern art in Beijing, we smile often, and use smiles to express joy and satisfaction. How many people here in this room smile more than 20 times per day? Raise your hand if you do. Oh, wow. Outside of this room, more than a third of us smile more than 20 times per day, whereas less than 14 percent of us smile less than five. In fact, those with the most amazing superpowers are actually children, who smile as many as 400 times per day. Have you ever wondered why being around children, who smile so frequently, makes you smile very often? A recent study at Uppsala University in Sweden found that it's very difficult to frown when looking at someone who smiles. You ask why? Because smiling is evolutionarily contagious, and it suppresses the control we usually have on our facial muscles. Mimicking a smile and experiencing it physically helps us understand whether our smile is fake or real, so we can understand the emotional state of the smiler. In a recent mimicking study at the University of Clermont-Ferrand in France, subjects were asked to determine whether a smile was real or fake while holding a pencil in their mouth to repress smiling muscles. Without the pencil, subjects were excellent judges, but with the pencil in their mouth — when they could not mimic the smile they saw — their judgment was impaired. (Laughter) In addition to theorizing on evolution in ""The Origin of Species,"" Charles Darwin also wrote the facial feedback response theory. His theory states that the act of smiling itself actually makes us feel better, rather than smiling being merely a result of feeling good. In his study, Darwin actually cited a French neurologist, Guillaume Duchenne, who sent electric jolts to facial muscles to induce and stimulate smiles. Please, don't try this at home. (Laughter) In a related German study, researchers used fMRI imaging to measure brain activity before and after injecting Botox to suppress smiling muscles. The finding supported Darwin's theory, by showing that facial feedback modifies the neural processing of emotional content in the brain, in a way that helps us feel better when we smile. Smiling stimulates our brain reward mechanism in a way that even chocolate — a well-regarded pleasure inducer — cannot match. British researchers found that one smile can generate the same level of brain stimulation as up to 2,000 bars of chocolate. (Laughter) Wait — The same study found that smiling is as stimulating as receiving up to 16,000 pounds sterling in cash. (Laughter) That's like 25 grand a smile. It's not bad. And think about it this way: 25,000 times 400 — quite a few kids out there feel like Mark Zuckerberg every day. (Laughter) And unlike lots of chocolate, lots of smiling can actually make you healthier. Smiling can help reduce the level of stress-enhancing hormones like cortisol, adrenaline and dopamine, increase the level of mood-enhancing hormones like endorphins, and reduce overall blood pressure. And if that's not enough, smiling can actually make you look good in the eyes of others. A recent study at Penn State University found that when you smile, you don't only appear to be more likable and courteous, but you actually appear to be more competent. So whenever you want to look great and competent, reduce your stress or improve your marriage, or feel as if you just had a whole stack of high-quality chocolate without incurring the caloric cost, or as if you found 25 grand in a pocket of an old jacket you hadn't worn for ages, or whenever you want to tap into a superpower that will help you and everyone around you live a longer, healthier, happier life, smile. (Applause)"	在我童年的時候，我一直渴望成為一位超級英雄。我想拯救世界及令全部的人快樂。但我明白我需要超能力才可以夢想成真。因此我開始了幻想式的旅程去氪星球(超人國土)尋找一些銀河物體，這些旅程很好玩，但當然沒有什麼成果。當我長大後發覺到科幻小說並不是尋找超能力的好地方，我決定開始從真正旳科學旅程尋找一些較有用的真理。 我從加州開始我的旅程在柏克萊加州大學,，一個三十多年的縱貫性研究在舊學生年冊裡觀察學生的照片，嘗試計算他們一生中的成就和幸福。透過測量學生的微笑，研究人員能夠預測該學生的婚姻是否滿足和是否長久，和該學生在標準化幸福評量中的得分，和該學生將帶給別人多少啟發。在另一本年冊裡，我偶然發現了Barry Obama的照片。當我第一次看到他的照片,我認為他的超能力是來自他的超大衣領。但是現在我知道是來自他的笑容。 另一個「 啊！」的時刻來自2010年韋恩州立大學的研究計畫探討五十年代前美國職棒大聯盟的棒球卡。研究人員發現利用一個球員的笑容有多少燦爛便可以預測他的壽命。那些在他們的照片沒有笑容的球員平均壽命僅72.9歲，而那些有燦爛笑容的球員，平均壽命近80歲。 (笑聲) 好消息是，我們實際上是微笑著誕生。使用3D超音波技術，現在我們可以看到，即使在子宮裡成長中的嬰兒似乎都是微笑的。當嬰兒出生時，他們繼續微笑—初期大多是在睡眠中。甚至失明的嬰兒聽到人的聲音也會微笑。微笑是人類一種最基本，最統一的表達方式。 在巴布亞新幾內亞的實驗中，Paul Ekman，一位研究情緒和臉部表情的美國心理學權威，發現在Fore部落中的成員，即使與西方文化完全隔絕,即使他們有眾所週知的不尋常的同類相食儀式，他們和你我一樣,也會在類似的情況微笑。從巴布亞新幾內亞到好萊塢到在北京現代藝術，我們總是帶著微笑，我們用微笑來表達喜悅和滿足感。 在這個房間裡,有多少人會每天微笑超過二十次？如果你會，請舉起你的手。哇。在這個房間外，超過三分之一的人每天會微笑超過二十次，而微笑少於五次的只有百分之十四以下。事實上，最有這種驚人超能力的是孩子們，他們每天微笑多達四百次。 你有沒有想過為什麼與時常笑的孩子待在一塊兒也會讓你經常微笑？最近在瑞典Uppsala大學的一項研究發現當看著人微笑時別人要皺眉是非常困難的。你會問，為什麼？因為微笑是在具有演化的傳染性，它抑制了我們平常對臉部肌肉的控制能力。模仿一個微笑，和實際體驗一個微笑能讓我們了解我們的微笑是真是假，令我們可以理解微笑者的情緒狀態。 在法國Clermont-Ferrand大學最近一次模仿的研究,受試者被要求確定微笑是真是假,但他們亦要同時用口含住鉛筆壓制微笑的肌肉。沒有鉛筆，受試者是優秀的評判員，但是，當鉛筆在口裡，當他們不能模仿看到的笑容，判斷能力馬上變差。 (笑聲) 除了寫了進化理論的《 物種起源 》，Charles Darwin亦寫了臉部反應的理論。他的理論陳述微笑的舉動實際上使我們得到更好的感覺 —而不是單純為一個好的感覺而微笑。在他的研究裡，Darwin列舉了法國神經學家，Guillaume Duchenne，他使用電能震動來刺激臉部肌肉誘發微笑。請你們不要在家裡嘗試。 (笑聲) 在德國一份相關的研究裡，研究人員使用功能性核磁共振攝影測量大腦活動，拍攝在注射抑制微笑肌肉的肉毒桿菌前與注射後的照片。結果發現支持Darwin的理論,當我們臉部表情的反應是微笑時，我們的神經處理系統會改變影響大腦的情感部分在某種程度上，令我們可以有更好的感覺。微笑刺激我們大腦獎勵的機能就算是深受眾人喜愛的巧克力都無法比擬。 英國研究人員發現，一個微笑產生的大腦刺激可以等同於二千塊巧克力糖的影響。(笑聲)還有，同一項研究發現微笑的刺激能力也等同於獲得高達一萬六千英鎊現金的感覺。一個微笑就像是二萬五千元。這挺不錯的。試想：二萬五千元乘以四百 (個微笑)—外面有不少孩子每天都有像Mark Zuckerberg的感覺(facebook創造者) 。 而且，不像大量的巧克力，多些微笑實際上可以讓你更健康。微笑可以幫助降低會提升壓力的荷爾蒙，如皮質醇，腎上腺素和多巴胺，它們提高增強情緒的荷爾蒙如腦內啡也能降低整體血壓。 如果這還不夠，在別人眼中,微笑是好看的。在賓州州立大學最近的一項研究發現當你微笑時你不僅顯得更可愛，有禮貌，你實際上顯得更能幹。 所以每當你想看起來非常能幹，減低你的壓力或改善你的婚姻，或想有吃了成堆高品質巧克力的感覺—又不想產生熱量 —或像在一件舊外套的口袋裡找到二萬五千元的感覺，又或者當你想擁有那種能幫助你和你周圍的人活得更長久，更健康，更幸福的超能力，請微笑。 (掌聲)
