Talk	en	zh-tw
rory_stewart_time_to_end_the_war_in_afghanistan	"The question today is not: Why did we invade Afghanistan? The question is: why are we still in Afghanistan one decade later? Why are we spending $135 billion? Why have we got 130,000 troops on the ground? Why were more people killed last month than in any preceding month of this conflict? How has this happened? The last 20 years has been the age of intervention, and Afghanistan is simply one act in a five-act tragedy. We came out of the end of the Cold War in despair. We faced Rwanda; we faced Bosnia, and then we rediscovered our confidence. In the third act, we went into Bosnia and Kosovo and we seemed to succeed. In the fourth act, with our hubris, our overconfidence developing, we invaded Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the fifth act, we plunged into a humiliating mess. So the question is: What are we doing? Why are we still stuck in Afghanistan? And the answer, of course, that we keep being given is as follows: we're told that we went into Afghanistan because of 9/11, and that we remain there because the Taliban poses an existential threat to global security. In the words of President Obama, ""If the Taliban take over again, they will invite back Al-Qaeda, who will try to kill as many of our people as they possibly can."" The story that we're told is that there was a ""light footprint"" initially — in other words, that we ended up in a situation where we didn't have enough troops, we didn't have enough resources, that Afghans were frustrated — they felt there wasn't enough progress and economic development and security, and therefore the Taliban came back — that we responded in 2005 and 2006 with troop deployments, but we still didn't put enough troops on the ground. And that it wasn't until 2009, when President Obama signed off on a surge, that we finally had, in the words of Secretary Clinton, ""the strategy, the leadership and the resources."" So, as the president now reassures us, we are on track to achieve our goals. All of this is wrong. Every one of those statements is wrong. Afghanistan does not pose an existential threat to global security. It is extremely unlikely the Taliban would ever be able to take over the country — extremely unlikely they'd be able to seize Kabul. They simply don't have a conventional military option. And even if they were able to do so, even if I'm wrong, it's extremely unlikely the Taliban would invite back Al-Qaeda. From the Taliban's point of view, that was their number one mistake last time. If they hadn't invited back Al-Qaeda, they would still be in power today. And even if I'm wrong about those two things, even if they were able to take back the country, even if they were to invite back Al-Qaeda, it's extremely unlikely that Al-Qaeda would significantly enhance its ability to harm the United States or harm Europe. Because this isn't the 1990s anymore. If the Al-Qaeda base was to be established near Ghazni, we would hit them very hard, and it would be very, very difficult for the Taliban to protect them. Furthermore, it's simply not true that what went wrong in Afghanistan is the light footprint. In my experience, in fact, the light footprint was extremely helpful. And these troops that we brought in — it's a great picture of David Beckham there on the sub-machine gun — made the situation worse, not better. When I walked across Afghanistan in the winter of 2001-2002, what I saw was scenes like this. A girl, if you're lucky, in the corner of a dark room — lucky to be able to look at the Koran. But in those early days when we're told we didn't have enough troops and enough resources, we made a lot of progress in Afghanistan. Within a few months, there were two and a half million more girls in school. In Sangin where I was sick in 2002, the nearest health clinic was within three days walk. Today, there are 14 health clinics in that area alone. There was amazing improvements. We went from almost no Afghans having mobile telephones during the Taliban to a situation where, almost overnight, three million Afghans had mobile telephones. And we had progress in the free media. We had progress in elections — all of this with the so-called light footprint. But when we began to bring more money, when we began to invest more resources, things got worse, not better. How? Well first see, if you put 125 billion dollars a year into a country like Afghanistan where the entire revenue of the Afghan state is one billion dollars a year, you drown everything. It's not simply corruption and waste that you create; you essentially replace the priorities of the Afghan government, the elected Afghan government, with the micromanaging tendencies of foreigners on short tours with their own priorities. And the same is true for the troops. When I walked across Afghanistan, I stayed with people like this. This is Commandant Haji Malem Mohsin Khan of Kamenj. Commandant Haji Malem Mohsin Khan of Kamenj was a great host. He was very generous, like many of the Afghans I stayed with. But he was also considerably more conservative, considerably more anti-foreign, considerably more Islamist than we'd like to acknowledge. This man, for example, Mullah Mustafa, tried to shoot me. And the reason I'm looking a little bit perplexed in this photograph is I was somewhat frightened, and I was too afraid on this occasion to ask him, having run for an hour through the desert and taken refuge in this house, why he had turned up and wanted to have his photograph taken with me. But 18 months later, I asked him why he had tried to shoot me. And Mullah Mustafa — he's the man with the pen and paper — explained that the man sitting immediately to the left as you look at the photograph, Nadir Shah had bet him that he couldn't hit me. Now this is not to say Afghanistan is a place full of people like Mullah Mustafa. It's not; it's a wonderful place full of incredible energy and intelligence. But it is a place where the putting-in of the troops has increased the violence rather than decreased it. 2005, Anthony Fitzherbert, an agricultural engineer, could travel through Helmand, could stay in Nad Ali, Sangin and Ghoresh, which are now the names of villages where fighting is taking place. Today, he could never do that. So the idea that we deployed the troops to respond to the Taliban insurgency is mistaken. Rather than preceding the insurgency, the Taliban followed the troop deployment, and as far as I'm concerned, the troop deployment caused their return. Now is this a new idea? No, there have been any number of people saying this over the last seven years. I ran a center at Harvard from 2008 to 2010, and there were people like Michael Semple there who speak Afghan languages fluently, who've traveled to almost every district in the country. Andrew Wilder, for example, born on the Pakistan-Iranian border, served his whole life in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Paul Fishstein who began working there in 1978 — worked for Save the Children, ran the Afghan research and evaluation unit. These are people who were able to say consistently that the increase in development aid was making Afghanistan less secure, not more secure — that the counter-insurgency strategy was not working and would not work. And yet, nobody listened to them. Instead, there was a litany of astonishing optimism. Beginning in 2004, every general came in saying, ""I've inherited a dismal situation, but finally I have the right resources and the correct strategy, which will deliver,"" in General Barno's word in 2004, the ""decisive year."" Well guess what? It didn't. But it wasn't sufficient to prevent General Abuzaid saying that he had the strategy and the resources to deliver, in 2005, the ""decisive year."" Or General David Richards to come in 2006 and say he had the strategy and the resources to deliver the ""crunch year."" Or in 2007, the Norwegian deputy foreign minister, Espen Eide, to say that that would deliver the ""decisive year."" Or in 2008, Major General Champoux to come in and say he would deliver the ""decisive year."" Or in 2009, my great friend, General Stanley McChrystal, who said that he was ""knee-deep in the decisive year."" Or in 2010, the U.K. foreign secretary, David Miliband, who said that at last we would deliver the ""decisive year."" And you'll be delighted to hear in 2011, today, that Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, assures us that we are in the ""decisive year."" (Applause) How do we allow any of this to happen? Well the answer, of course, is, if you spend 125 billion or 130 billion dollars a year in a country, you co-opt almost everybody. Even the aid agencies, who begin to receive an enormous amount of money from the U.S. and the European governments to build schools and clinics, are somewhat disinclined to challenge the idea that Afghanistan is an existential threat to global security. They're worried, in other words, that if anybody believes that it wasn't such a threat — Oxfam, Save the Children wouldn't get the money to build their hospitals and schools. It's also very difficult to confront a general with medals on his chest. It's very difficult for a politician, because you're afraid that many lives have been lost in vain. You feel deep, deep guilt. You exaggerate your fears, and you're terrified about the humiliation of defeat. What is the solution to this? Well the solution to this is we need to find a way that people like Michael Semple, or those other people, who are telling the truth, who know the country, who've spent 30 years on the ground — and most importantly of all, the missing component of this — Afghans themselves, who understand what is going on. We need to somehow get their message to the policymakers. And this is very difficult to do because of our structures. The first thing we need to change is the structures of our government. Very, very sadly, our foreign services, the United Nations, the military in these countries have very little idea of what's going on. The average British soldier is on a tour of only six months; Italian soldiers, on tours of four months; the American military, on tours of 12 months. Diplomats are locked in embassy compounds. When they go out, they travel in these curious armored vehicles with these somewhat threatening security teams who ready 24 hours in advance who say you can only stay on the ground for an hour. In the British embassy in Afghanistan in 2008, an embassy of 350 people, there were only three people who could speak Dari, the main language of Afghanistan, at a decent level. And there was not a single Pashto speaker. In the Afghan section in London responsible for governing Afghan policy on the ground, I was told last year that there was not a single staff member of the foreign office in that section who had ever served on a posting in Afghanistan. So we need to change that institutional culture. And I could make the same points about the United States and the United Nations. Secondly, we need to aim off of the optimism of the generals. We need to make sure that we're a little bit suspicious, that we understand that optimism is in the DNA of the military, that we don't respond to it with quite as much alacrity. And thirdly, we need to have some humility. We need to begin from the position that our knowledge, our power, our legitimacy is limited. This doesn't mean that intervention around the world is a disaster. It isn't. Bosnia and Kosovo were signal successes, great successes. Today when you go to Bosnia it is almost impossible to believe that what we saw in the early 1990s happened. It's almost impossible to believe the progress we've made since 1994. Refugee return, which the United Nations High Commission for Refugees thought would be extremely unlikely, has largely happened. A million properties have been returned. Borders between the Bosniak territory and the Bosnian-Serb territory have calmed down. The national army has shrunk. The crime rates in Bosnia today are lower than they are in Sweden. This has been done by an incredible, principled effort by the international community, and, of course, above all, by Bosnians themselves. But you need to look at context. And this is what we've lost in Afghanistan and Iraq. You need to understand that in those places what really mattered was, firstly, the role of Tudman and Milosevic in coming to the agreement, and then the fact those men went, that the regional situation improved, that the European Union could offer Bosnia something extraordinary: the chance to be part of a new thing, a new club, a chance to join something bigger. And finally, we need to understand that in Bosnia and Kosovo, a lot of the secret of what we did, a lot of the secret of our success, was our humility — was the tentative nature of our engagement. We criticized people a lot in Bosnia for being quite slow to take on war criminals. We criticized them for being quite slow to return refugees. But that slowness, that caution, the fact that President Clinton initially said that American troops would only be deployed for a year, turned out to be a strength, and it helped us to put our priorities right. One of the saddest things about our involvement in Afghanistan is that we've got our priorities out of sync. We're not matching our resources to our priorities. Because if what we're interested in is terrorism, Pakistan is far more important than Afghanistan. If what we're interested in is regional stability, Egypt is far more important. If what we're worried about is poverty and development, sub-Saharan Africa is far more important. This doesn't mean that Afghanistan doesn't matter, but that it's one of 40 countries in the world with which we need to engage. So if I can finish with a metaphor for intervention, what we need to think of is something like mountain rescue. Why mountain rescue? Because when people talk about intervention, they imagine that some scientific theory — the Rand Corporation goes around counting 43 previous insurgencies producing mathematical formula saying you need one trained counter-insurgent for every 20 members of the population. This is the wrong way of looking at it. You need to look at it in the way that you look at mountain rescue. When you're doing mountain rescue, you don't take a doctorate in mountain rescue, you look for somebody who knows the terrain. It's about context. You understand that you can prepare, but the amount of preparation you can do is limited — you can take some water, you can have a map, you can have a pack. But what really matters is two kinds of problems — problems that occur on the mountain which you couldn't anticipate, such as, for example, ice on a slope, but which you can get around, and problems which you couldn't anticipate and which you can't get around, like a sudden blizzard or an avalanche or a change in the weather. And the key to this is a guide who has been on that mountain, in every temperature, at every period — a guide who, above all, knows when to turn back, who doesn't press on relentlessly when conditions turn against them. What we look for in firemen, in climbers, in policemen, and what we should look for in intervention, is intelligent risk takers — not people who plunge blind off a cliff, not people who jump into a burning room, but who weigh their risks, weigh their responsibilities. Because the worst thing we have done in Afghanistan is this idea that failure is not an option. It makes failure invisible, inconceivable and inevitable. And if we can resist this crazy slogan, we shall discover — in Egypt, in Syria, in Libya, and anywhere else we go in the world — that if we can often do much less than we pretend, we can do much more than we fear. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Rory, you mentioned Libya at the end. Just briefly, what's your take on the current events there and the intervention? Rory Stewart: Okay, I think Libya poses the classic problem. The problem in Libya is that we are always pushing for the black or white. We imagine there are only two choices: either full engagement and troop deployment or total isolation. And we are always being tempted up to our neck. We put our toes in and we go up to our neck. What we should have done in Libya is we should have stuck to the U.N. resolution. We should have limited ourselves very, very strictly to the protection of the civilian population in Benghazi. We could have done that. We set up a no-fly zone within 48 hours because Gaddafi had no planes within 48 hours. Instead of which, we've allowed ourselves to be tempted towards regime change. In doing so, we've destroyed our credibility with the Security Council, which means it's very difficult to get a resolution on Syria, and we're setting ourselves up again for failure. Once more, humility, limits, honesty, realistic expectations and we could have achieved something to be proud of. BG: Rory, thank you very much. RS: Thank you. (BG: Thank you.)"	今天的問題不是:我們為什麼侵略阿富汗?而是我們為什麼還待在那裡?十年之後?我們為什麼要花135億美元我們為什麼要有13萬軍隊部屬在戰爭現場為什麼有更多人死去上個月比之前任何一個月都多因為這個戰爭?為什麼會這樣?最後20年是干預的年代而阿富汗只是其中一個行動在一個接連5個行動的悲劇我們絕望地從冷戰末期走出我們面對過盧安達(種族)大屠殺我們面對波士尼亞(瑟布雷尼卡)屠殺事件然後我們重拾信心在第三個行動中，我們進入波士尼亞和科索沃最終我們似乎成功了在第四個行動中，我們以驕傲的心態，變得越來越過度自信我們侵略了伊拉克和阿富汗在第五個行動中我們慘陷令人不堪的泥诏 所以，我們在幹嘛?為什麼我們還陷在阿富汗?當然這個答案提供我們的一直是如下我們被告知去阿富汗是因為911恐怖攻擊而我們之所以還待在這裡是因為塔利班的存在對全球安全帶來了威脅歐巴馬總統多次談到如果塔利班捲土重來他們將會迎回蓋達組織這組織將盡他們所能試著殺死我們的人民我們被告知的說法是我們最初只是輕輕地踏上那土地換句話說，我們的結局反而造成了我們並沒有足夠的軍力我們沒有足夠的資源使阿富汗人民很沮喪他們感覺不到足夠的進展經濟發展和安全因此塔利班才會回來2005年和2006年之間我們部屬了軍隊但數量依然不足夠一直到2009年當歐巴馬總統在波濤洶湧的情勢下批准後我們才終於有了套句美國國務卿希拉克林頓的話策略，領導精神和資源所以，當總統又再次向我們保證我們正走在實現目標的正軌上時 這些都是錯的那些陳素也都是錯的阿富汗並不是對全球安全來說並不是個威脅根本不可能塔利班能夠再次接管這個國家他們更不可能能夠佔領喀布爾她們就是沒有一個傳統的軍隊選擇即使她們能夠這樣做，即使我錯了依然不太可能塔利班會迎回蓋達組織從塔利班的角度來看，上次是他們犯過最大的錯誤如果他們沒有贏回蓋達組織他們今天就應該還會掌權 即使我對這兩件事的看法都錯了即使她們可以奪回國家即使他們會迎回蓋達組織還是非常不可能蓋達組織會顯著地強大傷害美國的能力或傷害英國因為現在已經不是1990年代了如果蓋達組織基地會蓋在加茲尼附近我們會猛烈攻擊他們那將會非常困難要保護他們的話 那完全不是事實在阿富汗造成的錯誤只是輕微的影響事實上，就我經驗談這個輕微影響其實很有幫助而那些我們帶進去的軍隊這是一張貝克漢的照片拿著衝鋒槍這使情況更糟，沒有更好當我行走阿富汗時在2001和2002年間的冬天我看到的是像這樣的場景如果你夠幸運，一個女孩在昏暗房間的角落裡幸運地能夠看著可蘭經但是在早些日子那時我們被告知沒有足夠的軍隊和資源我們其實在阿富汗有很大的進展在幾個月內學校裡有超過250萬的女孩們就讀2002年時我在Sangin病倒了最近的衛生診所還要走三天的路今天，有14個衛生珍所單單在那個區域那時其實有驚人的改善我們從幾乎沒有阿富汗人在塔利班時期擁有電話進展到一個現象，幾乎一夜之間三百萬阿富汗人擁有手機我們在媒體自由上也有進展我們在選舉上也有進展這些都是所謂的輕輕踏過 但是當我們開始帶來更多金錢開始投資更多資源時事情沒變好卻更糟。 怎麼這樣?嗯 首先 如果你一年投入125億元在像阿富汗這樣的國家上整個國家財政收入一年才一億元那就是像石沉大海你造成的不只是貪汙和浪費你根本上替換了阿富汗政府的執政重點那個被選出來的政府而傾向由短期旅居的外國人隨著他們的喜好管東管西對軍隊來說也是這樣 當我行走阿富汗時我借住在這樣的人家裡這位是指揮官 Haji Malem Mohsin Khan of Kamenj他是一位很讚的東家非常大方就像我借住過的很多阿富汗人一樣但他相對來說也比較保守比較仇外比較伊斯蘭基本教義派比起我們認為的譬如說 這個人Mullah Mustafa想要射殺我我之所以在照片裡看來有點迷茫是因為我有點被嚇到而且我在這樣的場合下太害怕問他 在我在沙漠中跑了一小時後終於在這屋裡可以避難後為什麼他突然要和我合照但18個月後，我問他為什麼他要射殺我Mullah Mustafa 拿著筆和紙的那個人解釋坐在照片左邊的那個人Nadir Shah和他打賭他不敢打我我的意思不是說在阿富汗都是像Nadir Shah這樣的人不是 它是一個好地方充滿著難以置信的能量和智慧但是這個地方部屬軍隊只會增加暴力而不是減少 2005年時 Anthony Fitzherbert一個農業工程師可以旅經爾曼德可以待在奈德阿里Sangin 和Ghoresh但現在那些村莊戰爭正在進行現在他再也不能這樣做了所以我們想部屬軍隊來回應塔利班的暴亂是錯的不但沒有早於暴亂發生之前塔利班還接著軍隊部屬後而來就我所知軍對部屬導致他們重返 難道這是個新的想法嗎?不，在過去七年裡很多人一直提出這個想法我在哈佛主持一個中心從2008到2010年間那裡有像Michael Semple會一口流利阿富汗語的人幾乎去過整個國家的每一區比如說Andrew Wilder他出生在巴基斯坦和伊朗的邊界把他的一生都奉獻於巴基斯坦和阿富汗像從1978年就在那裡工作的Paul Fishstein是為了拯救孩童他主持阿富汗研究和評估單位這些人可以肯定一貫地說發展援助的增加讓阿富汗更不安全而不是更安全而且反暴動策略不但過去無效也不可能有效但是卻沒人聽得進去反之卻有一連串驚人的樂觀主義出現 從膽2004開始每個將軍都說我承接著了一個慘淡的局勢但終於有了對的資源和正確的策略將帶來套一句Barno將軍在2004年的話決定性的一 年你猜怎麼著? 那並沒有發生。但這並足夠阻止General Abuzaid說他有策略和資源在2005年帶來決定性的一年或在2006年 阻止General David Richards說他有策略和資源帶來緊縮的一年或是2007時挪威外交部長代表Espen Eide說的即將帶來決定性的一年或是2008年時 少將 Champoux說他會帶來決定性的一年或2009年 我的好朋友Stanley McChrystal將軍他身處決定性的一年裡或2010年英國外交部長David Miliband說我們終於將帶來決定性的一年你會很開心聽到2011年的今天德國的外交部長 Guido Westerwelle向我們保證今年是決定性的一年 (掌聲) 我們怎能容許這些發生答案當然是如果你每年花125億或130億美元在一個國家上你幾乎吸收了每個人甚至援助機構他們開始收到一大筆錢來自美國和英國政府用來蓋學校和診所他們不太願意挑戰這個阿富汗是是對全球安全的一個存在威脅的想法換句話說 他們擔心如果有人相信其實阿富汗不具有如此威脅性樂施會，拯救孩童就不能得到錢來建造醫院和學校要對抗一個胸上有獎牌的上將也是非常難的對一個政治人物來說非常困難因為你害怕太多生命已經徒勞犧牲你感到愧疚萬分你誇大了恐懼而且你被失敗的羞辱嚇死了嚇死了 這個解決方法是什麼呢?解決方法就是我們需要找到一個方法讓像Michael Semple的人或其它那些人那些說真話，了解這個國家那些花了30年在現場最重要的是這件事情少了的部分阿富汗人他們自己他們才了解正在發生什麼我們必須想辦法讓他們的訊息傳給立法者知道因為我們的結構這很難辦到 首要改變的是我們政府的結構令人很難過的是我們的外國服務，聯合國這些國家的軍隊不甚了解發生了甚麼事英國軍人平均巡迴阿富汗六個月義大利軍人四個月美國軍人12個月外交官被關在大使館圍牆裡就算他們出去，也是躲在奇怪的裝甲車裡帶著這些有些嚇人的安防隊伍每天24小時前就準備好說你只能現場待一小時 阿富汗的英國大使館裡2008年時在350個人的大使管理只有3個人可以說像樣程度的Dari語阿富汗的主要語言沒有一個說Pashto語的人在倫敦的阿富汗區負責治理阿富汗現場的政策去年我被告知在那一個外交辦公室的組別裡沒有任何一個組員曾經用阿富汗語張貼過任何消息所以我們必須改變那個體制文化對美國和聯合國來說我講得也是有道理的 第二，我們必須把目標從那些上將的樂觀主義上轉移我們必須確定我們有些多疑我們知道樂觀是軍人基因中與生俱來的我們不能太敏捷地回應它第三，我們必須謙虛一點我們必須從了解到我們的知識，力量和合法性是有限的定位出發這並不是指干預國際事務是個災難不是 波士尼亞和科索沃是成功的信號偉大的成功如果你現在去波士尼亞你幾乎不會相信我們在1990年代看到以及自從1994年來我們促進的發展發生過難民回來了這是聯合國難民屬覺得極不可能發生的竟然大大的發生了一百萬個檔案資料已經被送回在波士尼亞領土附近的邊界以及波士尼亞和賽爾維亞邊界的情勢已經安定下來播士尼亞國軍已經縮減現在波士尼亞的犯罪率比瑞典還低 這全靠驚人 有紀律的努力以及國際社會當然最重要的是波士尼亞人們自己才能辦到但是必須要知道事情前後脈絡這是我們在阿富汗和伊拉克所喪失的你必須知道在那些地方真正重要的首先是圖季曼和米洛舍維奇的角色能夠達成協議以及那些人真的去了區域的情勢改善了歐盟也提供波士尼亞很棒的東西那個可以成為一個新東西，一個新社團可以加入一個更大的團體的機會 最後，我們必須了解在波士尼亞和科索沃我們所做得絕大秘密我們成功的絕大秘密都功歸於我們的謙虛和我們試驗性的參與天性我們在波士尼亞批評了很多人太慢與戰爭罪人對抗批評他們太慢送回難民但是那個慢速度，那個慎重柯林頓總統最初說的事實美國軍隊只會部屬一年結果變成我們的強處幫助我們放對重點 在我們涉入阿富汗事件中最可悲的事情就是我們的重點沒做到同步我們並沒有把資源運用在我們的重點上因為如果我們關心恐怖主義巴基斯坦比阿富汗重要得多了如果我們關心的是區域性的穩定埃及重要得多了如果我們擔心的是貧窮和發展次撒哈拉非洲地區重要得多了這並不是說阿富汗不重要但只是世界上40個國家中我們需要參與其中的其中之一 所以如果用一個比喻來說干預這件事我們需要想到的是像山區救援這樣的事情為什麼呢因為當人們談到干預他們認為某些蘭德公司做的科學理論把之前43起叛亂算出一個公式告訴你你需要一個訓練好的反叛亂行動給人口中每20個人一個這是錯誤的看法你需要像看山區救援那樣看待它 當你進行山區救援時你不需要博士學位才行你要找一個瞭解地勢的人這和背景有關你知道可以準備但你能做的準備有限你可以帶些水，帶個地圖你可以準備一個包包但真的重要的是兩種問題山裡會發生的問題而你預料不到例如像是坡上的冰但你還可以逃開以及預料不到又逃不開的問題像突然的暴風雪和雪崩或是天氣驟變 對此的解決之道就是一個曾經在山上待過各種氣候任何時間的嚮導最重要的是， 一個知道什麼時候該回頭當情勢轉劣時不會堅持前進的嚮導我們從消防員，登山員和警察以及應該從干預中找的是聰明的冒險者不是盲目跳下懸崖的人不是跳進火坑的人而是會衡量風險衡量她們的責任因為我們在阿富汗做過最糟的事就是抱著沒有失敗的選擇的想法這使失敗隱形了無法想像且無可避免如果我們能抵抗這個瘋狂口號我們會發現在埃及 敘利亞 利比亞以及世界上任何其他國家如果我們能卸去偽裝我們就能無畏地做得更多 非常感謝你們 (掌聲) 謝謝。謝謝你們。謝謝，謝謝你們。謝謝你們謝謝你們謝謝你們 (掌聲) 謝謝你們謝謝你們謝謝你們謝謝你們 (掌聲) Bruno Giussani: Rory你最後提到利比亞簡短說一下，你對現今在那裏發生的事情的想法還有那邊的干預 好 我認為利比亞構成一個經典的問題利比亞的問題是我們總是在推動黑人或白人我們以為只有兩個選擇不是全心投入部屬軍隊就是完全與之隔離我們總是對誘惑動心萬分我們踏進泥诏然後滿身泥濘出來我們在利比亞應該做的是我們應該謹守聯合國的決議我們應該嚴格限制自己只要保護班加西的平民我們應該早就做得到我們設立一個48小時內無飛機的區域因為格達費48小時內沒有飛機反之，我們允許自己被誘惑想改變政權因為這樣，我們已經摧毀安全理事會對我們的信任這使得對敘利亞的決議非常困難而且我們又再次邁向自己設好的失敗我再重申一次 謙虛限制 誠實實際的期望那我們就能做到值得驕傲的事情 Rory非常謝謝你 謝謝 謝謝
