Talk	en	zh-tw
rory_stewart_how_to_rebuild_democracy	"So little Billy goes to school, and he sits down and the teacher says, ""What does your father do?"" And little Billy says, ""My father plays the piano in an opium den."" So the teacher rings up the parents, and says, ""Very shocking story from little Billy today. Just heard that he claimed that you play the piano in an opium den."" And the father says, ""I'm very sorry. Yes, it's true, I lied. But how can I tell an eight-year-old boy that his father is a politician?"" (Laughter) Now, as a politician myself, standing in front of you, or indeed, meeting any stranger anywhere in the world, when I eventually reveal the nature of my profession, they look at me as though I'm somewhere between a snake, a monkey and an iguana, and through all of this, I feel, strongly, that something is going wrong. Four hundred years of maturing democracy, colleagues in Parliament who seem to me, as individuals, reasonably impressive, an increasingly educated, energetic, informed population, and yet a deep, deep sense of disappointment. My colleagues in Parliament include, in my new intake, family doctors, businesspeople, professors, distinguished economists, historians, writers, army officers ranging from colonels down to regimental sergeant majors. All of them, however, including myself, as we walk underneath those strange stone gargoyles just down the road, feel that we've become less than the sum of our parts, feel as though we have become profoundly diminished. And this isn't just a problem in Britain. It's a problem across the developing world, and in middle income countries too. In Jamaica, for example — look at Jamaican members of Parliament, you meet them, and they're often people who are Rhodes Scholars, who've studied at Harvard or at Princeton, and yet, you go down to downtown Kingston, and you are looking at one of the most depressing sites that you can see in any middle-income country in the world: a dismal, depressing landscape of burnt and half-abandoned buildings. And this has been true for 30 years, and the handover in 1979, 1980, between one Jamaican leader who was the son of a Rhodes Scholar and a Q.C. to another who'd done an economics doctorate at Harvard, over 800 people were killed in the streets in drug-related violence. Ten years ago, however, the promise of democracy seemed to be extraordinary. George W. Bush stood up in his State of the Union address in 2003 and said that democracy was the force that would beat most of the ills of the world. He said, because democratic governments respect their own people and respect their neighbors, freedom will bring peace. Distinguished academics at the same time argued that democracies had this incredible range of side benefits. They would bring prosperity, security, overcome sectarian violence, ensure that states would never again harbor terrorists. Since then, what's happened? Well, what we've seen is the creation, in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, of democratic systems of government which haven't had any of those side benefits. In Afghanistan, for example, we haven't just had one election or two elections. We've gone through three elections, presidential and parliamentary. And what do we find? Do we find a flourishing civil society, a vigorous rule of law and good security? No. What we find in Afghanistan is a judiciary that is weak and corrupt, a very limited civil society which is largely ineffective, a media which is beginning to get onto its feet but a government that's deeply unpopular, perceived as being deeply corrupt, and security that is shocking, security that's terrible. In Pakistan, in lots of sub-Saharan Africa, again you can see democracy and elections are compatible with corrupt governments, with states that are unstable and dangerous. And when I have conversations with people, I remember having a conversation, for example, in Iraq, with a community that asked me whether the riot we were seeing in front of us, this was a huge mob ransacking a provincial council building, was a sign of the new democracy. The same, I felt, was true in almost every single one of the middle and developing countries that I went to, and to some extent the same is true of us. Well, what is the answer to this? Is the answer to just give up on the idea of democracy? Well, obviously not. It would be absurd if we were to engage again in the kind of operations we were engaged in, in Iraq and Afghanistan if we were to suddenly find ourselves in a situation in which we were imposing anything other than a democratic system. Anything else would run contrary to our values, it would run contrary to the wishes of the people on the ground, it would run contrary to our interests. I remember in Iraq, for example, that we went through a period of feeling that we should delay democracy. We went through a period of feeling that the lesson learned from Bosnia was that elections held too early enshrined sectarian violence, enshrined extremist parties, so in Iraq in 2003 the decision was made, let's not have elections for two years. Let's invest in voter education. Let's invest in democratization. The result was that I found stuck outside my office a huge crowd of people, this is actually a photograph taken in Libya but I saw the same scene in Iraq of people standing outside screaming for the elections, and when I went out and said, ""What is wrong with the interim provincial council? What is wrong with the people that we have chosen? There is a Sunni sheikh, there's a Shiite sheikh, there's the seven — leaders of the seven major tribes, there's a Christian, there's a Sabian, there are female representatives, there's every political party in this council, what's wrong with the people that we chose?"" The answer came, ""The problem isn't the people that you chose. The problem is that you chose them."" I have not met, in Afghanistan, in even the most remote community, anybody who does not want a say in who governs them. Most remote community, I have never met a villager who does not want a vote. So we need to acknowledge that despite the dubious statistics, despite the fact that 84 percent of people in Britain feel politics is broken, despite the fact that when I was in Iraq, we did an opinion poll in 2003 and asked people what political systems they preferred, and the answer came back that seven percent wanted the United States, five percent wanted France, three percent wanted Britain, and nearly 40 percent wanted Dubai, which is, after all, not a democratic state at all but a relatively prosperous minor monarchy, democracy is a thing of value for which we should be fighting. But in order to do so we need to get away from instrumental arguments. We need to get away from saying democracy matters because of the other things it brings. We need to get away from feeling, in the same way, human rights matters because of the other things it brings, or women's rights matters for the other things it brings. Why should we get away from those arguments? Because they're very dangerous. If we set about saying, for example, torture is wrong because it doesn't extract good information, or we say, you need women's rights because it stimulates economic growth by doubling the size of the work force, you leave yourself open to the position where the government of North Korea can turn around and say, ""Well actually, we're having a lot of success extracting good information with our torture at the moment,"" or the government of Saudi Arabia to say, ""Well, our economic growth's okay, thank you very much, considerably better than yours, so maybe we don't need to go ahead with this program on women's rights."" The point about democracy is not instrumental. It's not about the things that it brings. The point about democracy is not that it delivers legitimate, effective, prosperous rule of law. It's not that it guarantees peace with itself or with its neighbors. The point about democracy is intrinsic. Democracy matters because it reflects an idea of equality and an idea of liberty. It reflects an idea of dignity, the dignity of the individual, the idea that each individual should have an equal vote, an equal say, in the formation of their government. But if we're really to make democracy vigorous again, if we're ready to revivify it, we need to get involved in a new project of the citizens and the politicians. Democracy is not simply a question of structures. It is a state of mind. It is an activity. And part of that activity is honesty. After I speak to you today, I'm going on a radio program called ""Any Questions,"" and the thing you will have noticed about politicians on these kinds of radio programs is that they never, ever say that they don't know the answer to a question. It doesn't matter what it is. If you ask about child tax credits, the future of the penguins in the south Antarctic, asked to hold forth on whether or not the developments in Chongqing contribute to sustainable development in carbon capture, and we will have an answer for you. We need to stop that, to stop pretending to be omniscient beings. Politicians also need to learn, occasionally, to say that certain things that voters want, certain things that voters have been promised, may be things that we cannot deliver or perhaps that we feel we should not deliver. And the second thing we should do is understand the genius of our societies. Our societies have never been so educated, have never been so energized, have never been so healthy, have never known so much, cared so much, or wanted to do so much, and it is a genius of the local. One of the reasons why we're moving away from banqueting halls such as the one in which we stand, banqueting halls with extraordinary images on the ceiling of kings enthroned, the entire drama played out here on this space, where the King of England had his head lopped off, why we've moved from spaces like this, thrones like that, towards the town hall, is we're moving more and more towards the energies of our people, and we need to tap that. That can mean different things in different countries. In Britain, it could mean looking to the French, learning from the French, getting directly elected mayors in place in a French commune system. In Afghanistan, it could have meant instead of concentrating on the big presidential and parliamentary elections, we should have done what was in the Afghan constitution from the very beginning, which is to get direct local elections going at a district level and elect people's provincial governors. But for any of these things to work, the honesty in language, the local democracy, it's not just a question of what politicians do. It's a question of what the citizens do. For politicians to be honest, the public needs to allow them to be honest, and the media, which mediates between the politicians and the public, needs to allow those politicians to be honest. If local democracy is to flourish, it is about the active and informed engagement of every citizen. In other words, if democracy is to be rebuilt, is to become again vigorous and vibrant, it is necessary not just for the public to learn to trust their politicians, but for the politicians to learn to trust the public. Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	"有一天，小比利去上學老師問他""你爸爸是做什麼的？""小比利說""爸爸在鴉片館裡彈鋼琴""於是老師打電話給家長""今天小比利說""""你在鴉片館裡彈鋼琴""""我實在是不敢相信""小比利的爸爸說，""真的非常抱歉，我的確撒了謊""""但你要我怎麼向一個八歲大的男孩""""坦承自己是個政治人物？""（笑聲） 身為一名政治人物，現在我站在你們面前就像在世界各地和不同的人會面一樣當我最終揭示我職業的性質人們會用一種奇怪的眼神看著我好像我是隻四不像我非常強烈地感覺到這有些不對勁我們的民主政治已經發展了四百年國會裡的那些同事，在我看來都是非常有魅力，受過高等教育精力充沛且見識廣博的人但人民卻對我們失望透頂新一屆的議會中，我的同事包括家庭醫師、企業家、教授著名經濟學家、歷史學家、作家和各級軍官，上至上校下至准尉但所有人，包括我自己在內都對現在的政治情勢感到不安感到膽顫心驚如履薄冰 這並不是英國才有的問題這個問題普遍存在於開發中和中等收入國家以牙買加的國會議員為例他們通常是羅德學者畢業於哈佛或普林斯頓大學但是，你到了金斯頓市中心（牙買加首都）看到的卻是在任何中等收入國家都能看到最蕭條的景象放眼望去無數燒毀的房舍和半廢棄大樓這樣的光景已經持續了30年1979年、1980年的權力交接時期領導人從一個羅德學者，和皇室法律顧問的兒子變成一個哈佛經濟學博士一樁樁牽涉毒品的暴行仍然在街頭上演死亡人數高達八百人 然而，十年前民主的承諾似乎很偉大小布希在2003年的國情咨文中表示""民主政治""""是世界上多數問題的解藥""因為民主政府尊重人民尊重鄰國，自由會帶來和平學者們同時認為民主有超乎想像的附加價值能帶來繁榮、安定消弭宗派之間的暴力並確保國家永遠不再窩藏恐怖份子 但在那之後，情況又如何呢？我們可以看到，伊拉克和阿富汗成立的民主政府卻無法享受上述的任何好處舉例來說，我們在阿富汗不只有一、兩次選舉阿富汗已經舉行了三次選舉，有總統大選也有議會選舉結果呢？是否就此建立一個繁榮昌盛，人人奉公守法和平安定的民主社會呢？並沒有，我們在阿富汗看到的是一個軟弱、腐敗的司法制度一個無能的公民社會媒體才剛起步政府卻失去公信力政權極度腐化治安更是糟糕透頂在巴基斯坦和許多撒哈拉以南地區可以看到一些實行選舉制度的民主政權仍嚴重腐化國家動盪不安記得有一次和伊拉克人民的對話中有人問我眼前這群暴民洗劫省議會大樓的暴動是不是新民主政權的好兆頭？在我造訪過的每一個發展中國家甚至於我自己的國家這樣的情況都是存在的 那有什麼解決之道呢？難道要就此放棄民主嗎？顯然，答案是否定的如果要把伊拉克和阿富汗再次變回以前的模樣如果我們突然意識到我們推行的並非一套民主制度而是其他東西其他和我們的價值觀，人民的意志和我們的利益背道而馳的東西那就會非常荒謬還記得我在伊拉克的時候有一段時間，我們覺得應該拖延民主的進程我們學到了波士尼亞的教訓太早舉行選舉反而助長宗派主義暴力，和極端主義黨派的發展所以 ，2003 年，我們在伊拉克做出了決定那就是，兩年內不進行選舉優先投入選民教育和民主化結果就是，我辦公室門外聚集了一群人這張照片其實是在利比亞拍的但和我在伊拉克看到的一模一樣人們在門外嚷嚷著要求選舉我一出去，他們就喊道""臨時省議會怎麼了？""""我們選出來的人哪裡出問題了？""""議會成員有一名遜尼派族長、一名什葉派族長""""七大部落的七位酋長""""一名基督徒、一名薩比教徒""""數名女性代表，和各黨派人士""""我們選出來的人到底哪裡出了問題?""我的解讀是，""問題不在於你們的人選""""問題在於你們選了他們""在阿富汗即使是最偏遠的地區每一個人都想參與決定誰來統治他們從來沒有人說他不想投票 所以我們要體認即使數據顯示84%的英國人認為政治已死即使我們在伊拉克做了一項民意調查在2003年，我們要求民眾選擇他們喜歡的政治體系結果7%想要美國模式5%想要法國模式3%想要英國模式卻有將近40%選擇了杜拜模式阿拉伯聯合大公國根本不是一個民主國家而是相對繁榮的君主制國家民主，是我們必須一同奮鬥的價值觀但首先，我們應該避免整天把那些""民主的好處""掛在嘴邊，同樣的我們不該說人權有很多好處婦權有很多好處所以它們很重要為什麼不該這樣說呢？因為這種論證很脆弱舉個例子，酷刑是錯誤的，因為它無法取得有利的資訊或者說，我們需要婦女權利因為它能提升勞動力，刺激經濟增長最後，反而留下把柄這時候北韓政府就可以說""事實上，我們正是以酷刑""""換取不少有利的資訊""沙烏地阿拉伯政府也可以說""謝謝關心，我們的經濟還可以""""可能還比你們好一點""""所以，也許不需要推動婦權運動了"" 民主的重要性，不在於其本身的""好處""也不是它帶來的利益民主的重要性不在於它體現了法律的正當性、有效性，和繁榮發展民主不能保證一國及其鄰邦的安全民主的奧義在於它反映了平等的理念自由的理念，以及人的尊嚴它體現了每個人都有平等的權利用選票決定誰來組成政府 但如果我們真的想讓民主復甦我們需要公民和政治人物的共同努力民主不單單是政權結構的問題它是一種思想狀態，也是一種行動而誠實則是其中的一部分今天演講結束後，我要去參加一個叫做""你問我答""的電台節目，你們可能有發現參加這類節目的政治人物們永遠永遠都不會說""不知道""不管是什麼樣的問題問兒童稅收抵免問南極企鵝的未來問中國重慶的發展或對可持續發展之炭的回收封存我們都有答案我們必須停止這麼說不要再假裝無所不知政治人物偶爾也要說一些選民想聽的話一些曾向選民承諾過的事可能是一些做不到的事或覺得不應該做 我們應該做的第二件事是理解這個社會的天才我們的社會從來沒有像現在這麼高的教育水準從來沒有像現在這樣，健康，充滿活力人們從來沒有像現在這樣知道這麼多，關心這麼多需要這麼多，這是整個社會的智慧結晶我們為何要離開我們所在的宴會大廳？看看天花板上耀眼的壁畫描繪著國王登基的場景這裡上演過各種各樣的戲碼英國國王在這裡被砍頭為什麼我們要走出大廳，走下王座走進了現在的市政廳？因為我們要開始關注人民的力量 改變的意義對每一個國家來說不盡相同對英國而言，這意味著向法國學習學習法國公民社會體系直接選舉市長的模式對阿富汗來說，這意味著不再執著於總統大選和議會選舉首先，我們應該完成阿富汗的憲法從當地直接選出省長市長開始一步步推行民主 若要這些方法生效誠實必須被放在首位這不僅僅是政治人物的問題也是每個公民的問題公眾應該要求政治人物誠實，他們才會變誠實而在政治人物和公眾之間協調的媒體也應要求政治人物們必須誠實每個公民都享有充分知的權利並積極地參與當地民主建設，民主才能夠蓬勃發展 換句話說，如果我們想要重塑民主讓它再次充滿活力不僅公眾需要學會怎樣去相信他們的政治人物政治人物也要學會怎樣信任他們的民眾謝謝各位！（掌聲）"
