Talk	en	zh-tw
rose_goslinga_crop_insurance_an_idea_worth_seeding	"In Kenya, 1984 is known as the year of the cup, or the goro goro. The goro goro is a cup used to measure two kilograms of maize flower on the market, and the maize flower is used to make ugali, a polenta-like cake that is eaten together with vegetables. Both the maize and the vegetables are grown on most Kenyan farms, which means that most families can feed themselves from their own farm. One goro goro can feed three meals for an average family, and in 1984, the whole harvest could fit in one goro goro. It was and still is one of the worst droughts in living memory. Now today, I insure farmers against droughts like those in the year of the cup, or to be more specific, I insure the rains. I come from a family of missionaries who built hospitals in Indonesia, and my father built a psychiatric hospital in Tanzania. This is me, age five, in front of that hospital. I don't think they thought I'd grow up to sell insurance. (Laughter) So let me tell you how that happened. In 2008, I was working for the Ministry of Agriculture of Rwanda, and my boss had just been promoted to become the minister. She launched an ambitious plan to start a green revolution in her country, and before we knew it, we were importing tons of fertilizer and seed and telling farmers how to apply that fertilizer and plant. A couple of weeks later, the International Monetary Fund visited us, and asked my minister, ""Minister, it's great that you want to help farmers reach food security, but what if it doesn't rain?"" My minister answered proudly and somewhat defiantly, ""I am going to pray for rain."" That ended the discussion. On the way back to the ministry in the car, she turned around to me and said, ""Rose, you've always been interested in finance. Go find us some insurance."" It's been six years since, and last year I was fortunate enough to be part of a team that insured over 185,000 farmers in Kenya and Rwanda against drought. They owned an average of half an acre and paid on average two Euros in premium. It's microinsurance. Now, traditional insurance doesn't work with two to three Euros of premium, because traditional insurance relies on farm visits. A farmer here in Germany would be visited for the start of the season, halfway through, and at the end, and again if there was a loss, to estimate the damages. For a small-scale farmer in the middle of Africa, the maths of doing those visits simply don't add up. So instead, we rely on technology and data. This satellite measures whether there were clouds or not, because think about it: If there are clouds, then you might have some rain, but if there are no clouds, then it's actually impossible for it to rain. These images show the onset of the rains this season in Kenya. You see that around March 6, the clouds move in and then disappear, and then around the March 11, the clouds really move in. That, and those clouds, were the onset of the rains this year. This satellite covers the whole of Africa and goes back as far as 1984, and that's important, because if you know how many times a place has had a drought in the last 30 years, you can make a pretty good estimate what the chances are of drought in the future, and that means that you can put a price tag on the risk of drought. The data alone isn't enough. We devise agronomic algorithms which tell us how much rainfall a crop needs and when. For example, for maize at planting, you need to have two days of rain for farmers to plant, and then it needs to rain once every two weeks for the crop to properly germinate. After that, you need rain every three weeks for the crop to form its leaves, whereas at flowering, you need it to rain more frequently, about once every 10 days for the crop to form its cob. At the end of the season, you actually don't want it to rain, because rains then can damage the crop. Devising such a cover is difficult, but it turned out the real challenge was selling insurance. We set ourselves a modest target of 500 farmers insured after our first season. After a couple of months' intense marketing, we had signed up the grand total of 185 farmers. I was disappointed and confounded. Everybody kept telling me that farmers wanted insurance, but our prime customers simply weren't buying. They were waiting to see what would happen, didn't trust insurance companies, or thought, ""I've managed for so many years. Why would I buy insurance now?"" Now many of you know microcredit, the method of providing small loans to poor people pioneered by Muhammad Yunus, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work with the Grameen Bank. Turns out, selling microcredit isn't the same as selling insurance. For credit, a farmer needs to earn the trust of a bank, and if it succeeds, the bank will advance him money. That's an attractive proposition. For insurance, the farmer needs to trust the insurance company, and needs to advance the insurance company money. It's a very different value proposition. And so the uptick of insurance has been slow, with so far only 4.4 percent of Africans taking up insurance in 2012, and half of that number is in one country, South Africa. We tried for some years selling insurance directly to farmers, with very high marketing cost and very limited success. Then we realized that there were many organizations working with farmers: seed companies, microfinance institutions, mobile phone companies, government agencies. They were all providing loans to farmers, and often, just before they'd finalize the loan, the farmer would say, ""But what if it doesn't rain? How do you expect me to repay my loan?"" Many of these organizations were taking on the risk themselves, simply hoping that that year, the worst wouldn't happen. Most of the organizations, however, were limiting their growth in agriculture. They couldn't take on this kind of risk. These organizations became our customers, and when combining credit and insurance, interesting things can happen. Let me tell you one more story. At the start of February 2012 in western Kenya, the rains started, and they started early, and when rains start early, farmers are encouraged, because it usually means that the season is going to be good. So they took out loans and planted. For the next three weeks, there wasn't a single drop of rain, and the crops that had germinated so well shriveled and died. We'd insured the loans of a microfinance institution that had provided those loans to about 6,000 farmers in that area, and we called them up and said, ""Look, we know about the drought. We've got you. We'll give you 200,000 Euros at the end of the season."" They said, ""Wow, that's great, but that'll be late. Could you give us the money now? Then these farmers can still replant and can get a harvest this season."" So we convinced our insurance partners, and later that April, these farmers replanted. We took the idea of replanting to a seed company and convinced them to price the cost of insurance into every bag of seed, and in every bag, we packed a card that had a number on it, and when the farmers would open the card, they'd text in that number, and that number would actually help us to locate the farmer and allocate them to a satellite pixel. A satellite would then measure the rainfall for the next three weeks, and if it didn't rain, we'd replace their seed. One of the first — (Applause) — Hold on, I'm not there! One of the first beneficiaries of this replanting guarantee was Bosco Mwinyi. We visited his farm later that August, and I wish I could show you the smile on his face when he showed us his harvest, because it warmed my heart and it made me realize why selling insurance can be a good thing. But you know, he insisted that we get his whole harvest in the picture, so we had to zoom out a lot. Insurance secured his harvest that season, and I believe that today, we have all the tools to enable African farmers to take control of their own destiny. No more years of the cup. Instead, I am looking forward to, at least somehow, the year of the insurance, or the year of the great harvest. Thank you. (Applause)"	在肯亞，人稱 1984 年為杯子之年，或稱咕嚕咕嚕。咕嚕咕嚕是一種量杯，在市場上拿來秤兩公斤的玉米粒，而玉米粒則拿來煮烏伽黎，一種很像義式玉米粥的餅，與蔬菜同吃。玉米及蔬菜兩者都種在大部分的肯亞農場上，也就是說大部分的家庭都能自給自足。一杯咕嚕咕嚕能做出三頓餐點給一個普通人家吃，而 1984 年，一年的總收穫只能裝滿一杯咕嚕咕嚕。這到現在仍是人們記憶中最慘的旱災。今天，我提供保險給農民對抗像杯子之年的旱災。或更精確的說，我確保降雨。 我來自一個傳教士家族，先人曾在印尼蓋醫院，我的父親則在坦尚尼亞蓋了間精神病醫院。這是我，五歲，在那間醫院前。我從不認為他們會想到我長大後要賣保險。（笑聲）所以讓我告訴你們這怎麼發生的。 2008 年，我在盧安達的農業部工作，我的頂頭上司升了官成為部長。她發起一項雄心勃勃的計畫要在她的國家開始綠色革命，在我們瞭解狀況之前，我們就從國外先進口很多噸的肥料及種子，並告訴農民如何施肥及種植。幾個星期後，國際貨幣基金組織來拜訪我們，並問我的部長，「部長，這是好事，你要幫農民達成糧食安全，但是如果不下雨怎麼辦？」我的部長很自負的回答也有點挑戰的意味，「我要祈禱降雨。」這回答終結了討論。在回到部裡的車上，她轉頭向我說「蘿絲，妳一向都對財務很有興趣。去替我們找找保險。」 六年過了，去年我很幸運能成為保險團隊的一員，替在肯亞及盧安達超過十八萬五千民農夫投保旱災險。他們擁有平均約半畝的地，保費平均在二歐元左右。這是微型保險。 那麼，傳統保險業不會保只有二、三歐元保費的保險，因為傳統的保險要靠查勘農場。在德國這裡，一位農夫可能會在農季開始、期中、及農季結束時被查勘，如果有損失，還要再來估算賠償金。對一個中非的小農，這些查勘怎麼算都不合算。所以我們要靠科技及數據代替現場查勘。這個衛星測量一個地方有沒有雲，因為你想一下：如果有雲，大概就會降雨，但是如果沒有雲，那一點下雨的機會都沒有。這些影像顯示這個季節肯亞雨季來臨。你看大概在三月六日雲飄進來然後消失，然後大約在三月十一日雲真的進來了。那個，及這些雲是本年雨季的開始。這個衛星涵蓋整個非洲，並可回溯早至 1984 年，而這很重要，因為如果你知道一個地方在過去 30 年發生過多少次旱災，你就可以做個還滿準的估算看看未來乾旱的機會有多大。也就是說你可以標價在乾旱風險上。 只靠數據是不夠的。我們還設計了農事演算法，告訴我們一種作物需要多少降雨及何時降雨。舉個例，在玉米栽植期你需要兩天的雨給農夫下種用，然後要每兩個星期下一次雨讓作物好好發芽。之後，你要每三星期下一次雨讓作物長葉子，在開花期，你需要更頻繁的降雨，大概每十天一次讓作物結穗。在生長期尾聲，你其實不想要下雨因為雨會破壞作物收成。 要做到這麼廣的設計的確很難但結果證明賣保險才是真的挑戰。我們給自己制定還算合理的目標，希望在第一季後有約 500 位農夫投保。在幾個月的強力行銷後，我們簽下了總計185 位農夫。我好失望，非常不解。每個人都說農夫想要買保險，但是我們的主要客戶就是不買。他們在觀望會發生什麼事，不信任保險公司，或是想，「我都撐了這麼多年了，為什麼現在還要我買保險？」 在座很多人都知道微型信貸，就是提供窮人一小筆貸款的方法，由穆罕默德·尤納斯首創，他得了諾貝爾和平獎，因他在孟加拉鄉村銀行的作為。事實證明，賣微型信貸與賣一般保險截然不同。在信貸方面，農夫必須得到銀行的信任，如果成功了，銀行就會墊款給他。那是很吸引人的提議。在保險方面，農夫得信任保險公司，還得預付保險公司錢。那是非常不同的價值主張。所以保險的漲勢很慢到目前為止只有 4.4% 的非洲人在 2012 年投保，而且還有半數是來自同一個國家，南非。 我們試了幾年要直接賣保險給農夫，行銷成本很高，成功卻極為有限。然後我們才知道已經有很多組織與農夫合作：種苗公司、微型金融機構、手機公司、政府單位。他們都提供貸款給農民，而且常常就在他們完成貸款之前，農民會說，「可是如果不下雨怎麼辦？這樣我要怎麼還貸款？」這種組織很多都會自行吸收風險，只希望那一年最壞的情況不會發生。但是，大部分的組織都會限制他們在農業部門的成長。他們無法承擔這種風險。這些組織就成了我們的客戶，而且當你把信貸與保險結合，有趣的事就發生了。讓我再說一個故事。 2012 年二月初，在肯亞西部雨季開始了，而且很早就開始。當雨季早早開始，農夫都很受鼓舞，因為這通常意味著這季會有好收成。所以他們開始借貸栽種。接下來三星期，連一滴雨都沒有，原本發芽得很好的作物枯萎死亡。我們擔保一家微型金融機構的貸款，而他們已經提供貸款給那個地區大約六千民農夫，我們打電話給他們，說：「聽好，我們瞭解旱情。我們會幫你一把。我們會在季末時給你二十萬歐元。」他們說：「哇，那很棒，但是那太遲了。你能不能現在就把錢給我們？這樣這些農夫還能及時補植，這季還有收穫。」所以我們說服我們的保險事業夥伴，之後那個四月，這些農夫補植。我們把補植的想法告訴一家種苗公司，並說服他們把保險的費用加在每一袋種子上，在每一袋種子裡，我們都包一張小卡，上面有一個數字，當農夫打開那張卡片，他們就把上面的數字傳給我們，那個數字可以實際幫助我們確定那位農夫的地點，並把他們寫進一個衛星像元裡。衛星就可以測量未來三星期的降雨。如果沒下雨我們就換新的種子給他們。 第一批—（掌聲）等等，我還沒講完！ 第一批這個補植保證的受益人，其中有一位叫波思科·米尼。之後那年八月我們去查訪他的農田，我真的很想讓你們看看他臉上在展示他的收穫給我們看時的笑容。因為那溫暖了我的心，而且讓我瞭解為什麼賣保險是件好事。但你知道，他堅持要我們把他所有的收成都照在一張相片裡，所以我們得把鏡頭拉很遠。保險確保了他那季的收成，而我相信今天，我們擁有一切的方法，能賦予非洲農民掌握他們自己命運的能力。不再有杯子之年。相反的，我很期待，至少一點點保險之年，或大豐收之年。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
