Talk	en	zh-tw
ross_lovegrove_shares_organic_designs	"My name is Lovegrove. I only know nine Lovegroves, two of which are my parents. They are first cousins, and you know what happens when, you know — (Laughter) So there's a terribly weird freaky side to me, which I'm fighting with all the time. So to try and get through today, I've kind of disciplined myself with an 18-minute talk. I was hanging on to have a pee. I thought perhaps if I was hanging on long enough, that would guide me through the 18 minutes. (Laughter) OK. I am known as Captain Organic and that's a philosophical position as well as an aesthetic position. But today what I'd like to talk to you about is that love of form and how form can touch people's soul and emotion. Not very long ago, not many thousands of years ago, we actually lived in caves, and I don't think we've lost that coding system. We respond so well to form. But I'm interested in creating intelligent form. I'm not interested at all in blobism or any of that superficial rubbish that you see coming out as design. This artificially induced consumerism — I think it's atrocious. My world is the world of people like Amory Lovins, Janine Benyus, James Watson. I'm in that world, but I work purely instinctively. I'm not a scientist. I could have been, perhaps, but I work in this world where I trust my instincts. So I am a 21st-century translator of technology into products that we use everyday and relate beautifully and naturally with. And we should be developing things — we should be developing packaging for ideas which elevate people's perceptions and respect for the things that we dig out of the earth and translate into products for everyday use. So, the water bottle. I'll begin with this concept of what I call DNA. DNA: Design, Nature, Art. These are the three things that condition my world. Here is a drawing by Leonardo da Vinci, 500 years ago, before photography. It shows how observation, curiosity and instinct work to create amazing art. Industrial design is the art form of the 21st century. People like Leonardo — there have not been many — had this amazingly instinctive curiosity. I work from a similar position. I don't want to sound pretentious saying that, but this is my drawing made on a digital pad a couple of years ago — well into the 21st century, 500 years later. It's my impression of water. Impressionism being the most valuable art form on the planet as we know it: 100 million dollars, easily, for a Monet. I use, now, a whole new process. A few years ago I reinvented my process to keep up with people like Greg Lynn, Thom Mayne, Zaha Hadid, Rem Koolhaas — all these people that I think are persevering and pioneering with fantastic new ideas of how to create form. This is all created digitally. Here you see the machining, the milling of a block of acrylic. This is what I show to the client to say, ""That's what I want to do."" At that point, I don't know if that's possible at all. It's a seductor, but I just feel in my bones that that's possible. So we go, we look at the tooling. We look at how that is produced. These are the invisible things that you never see in your life. This is the background noise of industrial design. That is like an Anish Kapoor flowing through a Richard Serra. It is more valuable than the product in my eyes. I don't have one. When I do make some money, I'll have one machined for myself. This is the final product. When they sent it to me, I thought I'd failed. It felt like nothing. It has to feel like nothing. It was when I put the water in that I realized that I'd put a skin on water itself. It's an icon of water itself, and it elevates people's perception of contemporary design. Each bottle is different, meaning the water level will give you a different shape. It's mass individualism from a single product. It fits the hand. It fits arthritic hands. It fits children's hands. It makes the product strong, the tessellation. It's a millefiori of ideas. In the future, they will look like that, because we need to move away from those type of polymers and use that for medical equipment and more important things, perhaps, in life. Biopolymers, these new ideas for materials, will come into play in probably a decade. It doesn't look as cool, does it? But I can live up to that. I don't have a problem with that. I design for that condition, biopolymers. It's the future. I took this video in Cape Town last year. This is the freaky side coming out. I have this special interest in things like this, which blow my mind. I don't know whether to, you know, drop to my knees, cry; I don't know what I think. But I just know that nature — nature improves with ever-greater purpose that which once existed, and that strangeness is a consequence of innovative thinking. When I look at these things, they look pretty normal to me. But these things evolved over many years, and what we're trying to do — I get three weeks to design a telephone. How the hell do I do that, when you get these things that take hundreds of millions of years to evolve? How do you condense that? It comes back to instinct. I'm not talking about designing telephones that look like that and I'm not looking at designing architecture like that. I'm just interested in natural growth patterns and the beautiful forms that only nature really creates. How that flows through me and how that comes out is what I'm trying to understand. This is a scan through the human forearm. It's then blown up through rapid prototyping to reveal its cellular structure. I have these in my office. My office is a mixture of the Natural History Museum and a NASA space lab. It's a weird, kind of freaky place. This is one of my specimens. This is made — bone is made from a mixture of inorganic minerals and polymers. I studied cooking in school for four years, and in that experience, which was called ""domestic science,"" it was a bit of a cheap trick for me to try and get a science qualification. (Laughter) Actually, I put marijuana in everything I cooked — (Laughter) And I had access to all the best girls. It was fabulous. All the guys in the rugby team couldn't understand. Anyway — this is a meringue. This is another sample I have. A meringue is made exactly the same way, in my estimation, as a bone. It's made from polysaccharides and proteins. If you pour water on that, it dissolves. Could we be manufacturing from foodstuffs in the future? Not a bad idea. I don't know. I need to talk to Janine and a few other people about that, but I believe instinctively that that meringue can become something, a car — I don't know. I'm also interested in growth patterns: the unbridled way that nature grows things so you're not restricted by form at all. These interrelated forms, they do inspire everything I do, although I might end up making something incredibly simple. This is a detail of a chair that I've designed in magnesium. It shows this interlocution of elements and the beauty of, kind of, engineering and biological thinking, shown pretty much as a bone structure. Any one of those elements you could sort of hang on the wall as some kind of art object. It's the world's first chair made in magnesium. It cost 1.7 million dollars to develop. It's called ""Go,"" by Bernhardt, USA. It went into Time magazine in 2001 as the new language of the 21st century. Boy. For somebody growing up in Wales in a little village, that's enough. It shows how you make one holistic form, like the car industry, and then you break up what you need. This is an absolutely beautiful way of working. It's a godly way of working. It's organic and it's essential. It's an absolutely fat-free design, and when you look at it, you see human beings. When that moves into polymers, you can change the elasticity, the fluidity of the form. This is an idea for a gas-injected, one-piece polymer chair. What nature does is it drills holes in things. It liberates form. It takes away anything extraneous. That's what I do. I make organic things which are essential. And they look funky, too — but I don't set out to make funky things because I think that's an absolute disgrace. I set out to look at natural forms. If you took the idea of fractal technology further, take a membrane, shrinking it down constantly like nature does — that could be a seat for a chair. It could be a sole for a sports shoe. It could be a car blending into seats. Wow. Let's go for it. That's the kind of stuff. This is what exists in nature. Observation now allows us to bring that natural process into the design process every day. That's what I do. This is a show that's currently on in Tokyo. It's called ""Superliquidity."" It's my sculptural investigation. It's like 21st-century Henry Moore. When you see a Henry Moore, still, your hair stands up. There's some amazing spiritual connect. If he was a car designer, phew, we'd all be driving one. In his day, he was the highest taxpayer in Britain. That is the power of organic design. It contributes immensely to our — sense of being, our sense of relationships with things, our sensuality and, you know, the sort of — even the sort of socio-erotic side, which is very important. This is my artwork. This is all my process. These actually are sold as artwork. They're very big prints. But this is how I get to that object. Ironically, that object was made by the Killarney process, which is a brand-new process here for the 21st century, and I can hear Greg Lynn laughing his socks off as I say that. I'll tell you about that later. When I look into these data images, I see new things. It's self-inspired. Diatomic structures, radiolaria, the things that we couldn't see but we can do now — these, again, are cored out. They're made virtually from nothing. They're made from silica. Why not structures from cars like that? Coral, all these natural forces, take away what they don't need and they deliver maximum beauty. We need to be in that realm. I want to do stuff like that. This is a new chair which should come on the market in September. It's for a company called Moroso in Italy. It's a gas-injected polymer chair. Those holes you see there are very filtered-down, watered-down versions of the extremity of the diatomic structures. It goes with the flow of the polymer and you'll see — there's an image coming up right now that shows the full thing. It's great to have companies in Italy who support this way of dreaming. If you see the shadows that come through that, they're actually probably more important than the product, but it's the minimum it takes. The coring out of the back lets you breathe. It takes away any material you don't need and it actually garners flexure too. I was going to break into a dance then. This is some current work I'm doing. I'm looking at single-surface structures and how they stretch and flow. It's based on furniture typologies, but that's not the end motivation. It's made from aluminum ... as opposed to aluminium, and it's grown. It's grown in my mind, and then it's grown in terms of the whole process that I go through. This is two weeks ago in CCP in Coventry, who build parts for Bentleys and so on. It's being built as we speak and it will be on show in Phillips next year in New York. I have a big show with Phillips Auctioneers. When I see these animations, oh Jesus, I'm blown away. This is what goes on in my studio everyday. I walk — I'm traveling. I come back. Some guy's got that on a computer — there's this like, oh my goodness. So I try to create this energy of invention every day in my studio. This kind of effervescent — fully charged sense of soup that delivers ideas. Single-surface products. Furniture's a good one. How you grow legs out of a surface. I would love to build this one day and perhaps I'd like to build it also out of flour, sugar, polymer, wood chips — I don't know, human hair. I don't know. I'd love a go at that. I don't know. If I just got some time. That's the weird side coming out again. A lot of companies don't understand that. Three weeks ago I was with Sony in Tokyo. They said, ""Give us the dream. What is our dream? How do we beat Apple?"" I said, ""You don't copy Apple, that's for sure. You get into biopolymers."" They looked straight through me. What a waste. Anyway. (Laughter) No, it's true. Fuck them. You know, I mean — (Laughter) I'm delivering; they're not taking. I've had this image 20 years. I've had this image of a water droplet for 20 years, sitting on a hot bed. That is an image of a car for me. That's the car of the future. It's a water droplet. I've been banging on about this like I can't believe. Cars are all wrong. I'm going to show you something a bit weird now. They laughed everywhere over the world I showed this. The only place that didn't laugh was Moscow. Cars are made from 30,000 components. How ridiculous is that? Couldn't you make that from 300? It's got a vacuum-formed, carbon-nylon pan. Everything's holistically integrated. It opens and closes like a bread bin. There is no engine. There's a solar panel on the back and there are batteries in the wheels; they're fitted like Formula 1. You take them off your wall, you plug them in. Off you go. A three-wheeled car: slow, feminine, transparent, so you can see the people in there. You drive different. You see that thing. You do. You do. And not anesthetized, separated from life. There's a hole at the front and there's a reason for that. It's a city car. You drive along. You get out. You drive on to a proboscis. You get out. It lifts you up. It presents the solar panel to the sun, and at night, it's a street lamp. (Applause) That's what happens if you get inspired by the street lamp first, and do the car second. I can see these bubbles with these hydrogen packages, floating around on the ground, driven by AI. When I showed this in South Africa, everybody afterwards was going, ""Hey, car on a stick. Like this."" Can you imagine? A car on a stick. (Laughter) If you put it next to contemporary architecture, it feels totally natural to me. And that's what I do with my furniture. I'm not putting Charles Eames' furniture in buildings anymore. I'm trying to build furniture which fits architecture. I'm trying to build transportation systems. I work on aircraft for Airbus, I do all this sort of stuff trying to force these natural, inspired-by-nature dreams home. I'm going to finish on two things. This is the stereolithography of a staircase. It's a little bit of a dedication to James, James Watson. I built this thing for my studio. It cost me 250,000 dollars to build this. Most people go and buy the Aston Martin. I built this. This is the data that goes with that. Incredibly complex. Took about two years, because I'm looking for fat-free design. Lean, efficient things. Healthy products. This is built by composites. It's a single element which rotates around to create a holistic element, and this is a carbon-fiber handrail which is only supported in two places. Modern materials allow us to do modern things. This is a shot in the studio. This is how it looks pretty much every day. You wouldn't want to have a fear of heights coming down it. There is virtually no handrail. It doesn't pass any standards. (Laughter) Who cares? (Laughter) And it has an internal handrail which gives it its strength. It's this holistic integration. That's my studio. It's subterranean. It's in Notting Hill, next to all the crap — the prostitutes and all that stuff. It's next to David Hockney's original studio. It has a lighting system that changes throughout the day. My guys go out for lunch. The door's open. They come back in, because it's normally raining and they prefer to stay in. This is my studio. Elephant skull from Oxford University, 1988. I bought that last year. They're very difficult to find. If anybody's got a whale skeleton they want to sell me, I'll put it in the studio. So I'm just going to interject a little bit with some of the things that you'll see in the video. It's a homemade video, made it myself at three o'clock in the morning just to show you how my real world is. You never see that. You never see architects or designers showing you their real world. This is called a ""Plasnet."" It's a new bio-polycarbonate chair I'm doing in Italy. World's first bamboo bike with folding handlebars. We should all be riding one of these. As China buys all these crappy cars, we should be riding things like this. Counterbalance. Like I say, it's a cross between Natural History Museum and a NASA laboratory. It's full of prototypes and objects. It's self-inspirational, again. I mean, the rare times when I'm there, I do enjoy it. And I get lots and lots of kids coming. I'm a contaminator for all those children of investment bankers — wankers. Sorry. (Laughter) That's a solar seed. It's a concept for new architecture. That thing on the top is the world's first solar-powered garden lamp — the first produced. Giles Revell should be talking here today — amazing photography of things you can't see. The first sculptural model I made for that thing in Tokyo. Lots of stuff. There's a little leaf chair — that golden looking thing is called ""Leaf."" It's made from Kevlar. On the wall is my book called ""Supernatural,"" which allows me to remember what I've done, because I forget. There's an aerated brick I did in Limoges last year, in Concepts for New Ceramics in Architecture. Gernot Oberfell, working at three o'clock in the morning — and I don't pay overtime. Overtime is the passion of design, so join the club or don't. (Laughter) No, it's true. People like Tom and Greg — we're traveling like you can't — we fit it all in. I don't know how we do it. Next week I'm at Electrolux in Sweden, then I'm in Beijing on Friday. You work that one out. And when I see Ed's photographs, I think, why the hell am I going to China? It's true. It's true. Because there's a soul in this whole thing. We need to have a new instinct for the 21st century. We need to combine all this stuff. If all the people who were talking over this period worked on a car together, it would be a joy, absolute joy. So there's a new X-light system I'm doing in Japan. There's Tuareg shoes from North Africa. There's a Kifwebe mask. These are my sculptures. A copper jelly mold. (Laughter) It sounds like some quiz show or something, doesn't it? So, it's going to end. Thank you, James, for your great inspiration. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我姓 Lovegrove。我只認識九個姓 Lovegrove 的，其中兩個是我父母。他們是四等血親, 因此你知道出了什麼事, 你知道的因此我有極端怪異可怕的一面，我一直為這爭扎不已。為了今天順利,我試著約束自己做好一個 18 分鐘的演講。我忍著不去上廁所。我想也許如果我忍得夠久，我將可以控制在 18 分鐘內講完。（笑聲） 好吧。我被稱為「有機隊長」，這個稱號既有哲學味道又有美學意思。但是今天我想要講的是我對形態的愛好，以及形態如何感動人的靈魂和情緒。不久以前，只是幾千年前，我們實際是住在洞穴裡的，我不認為我們已經喪失了那個生存密碼。我們對形態有很好的反應，但我感興趣的是創造智慧的形態。我對於流體造形主義不感興趣，或那些被「設計」出來的膚淺的廢物。這些人為誘導的消費主義, 我覺得很討厭。我的世界是像Amory Lovins，Janine Benyus，詹姆士•華生的世界。我屬於那個世界，但我全憑直覺工作。我不是科學家。或許曾經我能成為科學家，但我在這個直覺能被信賴的世界中工作。所以我是 21 世紀的科技翻譯者醉心於將我們每日使用的商品與美及自然連結在一起。我們必須發展事物 —我們必須為創意發展造形, 來提升人們的知覺並尊敬我們取之於地球的事物將它轉換為日常生活用品。 那麼，看看水瓶。我將用這個我稱為 DNA 的概念起頭。DNA 是指設計、自然、藝術。這三件事限定了我的世界。這是一張李奧納多•達文西的繪畫，畫在五百年前，攝影術發明之前。它顯示了觀察、好奇及直覺如何創造出神奇的藝術。工業設計是 21 世紀的藝術形式。像李奧納多這樣的人 — 雖然為數不多 —都有這種驚人的好奇心本能。我也以相似的立場工作。我不想讓人覺得我是自誇，但這是幾年前我用數位板作的畫 —在五百年後的 21 世紀中。這是我對水的印象。印象派是地球上最有價值的藝術形式：一張莫內的畫動輒一億美元。現在我用全新的程序。幾年前我再次發明了我的程序而跟上像Greg Lynn, Tom Main, 薩哈•哈帝, 雷姆•庫哈斯 —我認為這些人都堅持保持並開拓以奇妙的新想法來創造形態。這全是用數位方式創造出來的。 這裡你看到加工方法，壓克力塊的車削。我秀給客戶看這個，告訴他：「這就是我要做的。」那時我一點都不知道這是否可行。那是個誘惑人的東西，而在我骨子裡相信那是可能的。因此我們開始。我們找機具，看要如何製造。這些是你一生中看不到的無形事物。這是工業設計的背景雜音。那就像一件 Anish Kapoor 的雕塑品流過 Richard Serra 的雕塑品。在我眼裡，這東西比成品更有價值。我自己還沒有。當我賺了錢，我將為自己做一個。 這是最後的成品。當他們寄給我時，我以為失敗了。它沒有什麼感覺。它就是沒有什麼感覺。但當我將它裝了水，我才體會出我為水加了一層外皮。它是水本身的象徵，而且它提升了人們對當代設計的感受。每個瓶子都不同，意味著水位將給你不同的形狀。這是單一產品的大量個人主義。它適合手握。適合患關節炎的手，適合兒童的手。凹凸使瓶子更堅固。這是創意的千層糕。未來它們將會是那個樣子，因為我們需要從這種聚合物上離開並將它用在醫學儀器上，或用在生命中更重要的事情上。生物聚合物，這些材料上的新構想，將在大約十年內上場。它看起來並不起眼，不是嗎？但我可以實現它。對我來說那並不是問題。我以生物聚合物的條件來設計。這是未來趨勢。 這是去年我在開普敦錄製的影像。這是怪異的一面出現了。我對這一類能讓我驚奇的事情特別感興趣。我不知道是否要～你知道的，跪下來，大叫。我不知道我在想什麼，但我只知道自然不斷地在以比既存的更偉大的目標進步著，而怪異正是創新思維的結果。當我看著這些事物，它們對我來說很正常。但這些事物是經過多年的演化，而現在我們試著要去做的 —我只有三星期來設計一個電話。我怎麼能在三星期內設計一個電話呢？而這些東西卻用了好幾億年的時間去演化？你如何去濃縮它呢？這又回歸到直覺了。我不是說設計看起來像那樣的電話，我也不是指設計像那樣的建築。我感興趣的只是自然的成長模式，以及只有自然才能創造出的美麗形態。它如何流經我，然後得出來的才是我試著要去理解的。 這是人類前臂的掃描。然後利用快速成型技術放大顯現其細胞結構。這些東西放在我辦公室裡。我的辦公室就像自然歷史博物館和 NASA 太空實驗室的混合。那是一個怪異，有點反常的地方。這是我的其中一個收藏。這個骨頭是由無機礦物和聚合物混合製成的。在校時我學了四年廚藝，在那個經驗中，當時稱為家政科學，我耍小聰明，企圖用它來取得科學資格。（笑聲）實際上，不論煮什麼我都加進大麻 —（笑聲）— 並能處在一群漂亮的女生中。快樂得像神仙。那些橄欖球隊的傢伙是不會了解的，總之 —這是蛋白甜霜。這是我的另一個樣本。我推估，蛋白甜霜的組成和骨頭完全一樣。它是由多糖類和蛋白質製成的。如果你澆水在其上，它會溶化。將來我們可能用食材來製造東西嗎？想法不錯。但是我也不知道。我需要去和 Janine及一些其他人聊聊，但直覺上我相信蛋白甜霜可以變成某些東西，一輛車 — 也許。 我也對於成長模式感興趣：自然界無限制的成長方式使你毫不受到形態的限制。這些相互聯繫的形態，確實激發了我做的每件事，雖然最後我做出的東西可能難以置信的簡單。這是我設計的鎂金屬椅子的細部。這顯示了多個要素的對話, 以及工程和生物思維的美妙，表現出類似骨骼的結構。任何一個元件多多少少都可以掛在牆上當藝術品。這是世界上第一個用鎂製造的椅子。開發它花了 170 萬美元。美國的 Bernhardt 公司稱它為 ""Go""。它登上 2001 年時代雜誌，被喻為 21 世紀的新語言。天呀！對於某些在威爾斯某個小村莊長大的人來說，這已經足夠了。這說明你如何創作一個整體的形態，如汽車業，然後打破你所需要的。這絕對是一個美麗的工作方式。是一個虔誠的工作方式。這是有機的，是必要的。這絕對是一個無脂的設計，當你看著它時，你看到人類。保佑你。當那進入聚合物時，你可以變更形態的彈性，流動性。 這是一個氣體注入的單件式聚合物椅子概念。自然會在物體裡鑽洞。它解放形態。它移除任何多餘的事物。而這就是我要做的。我做必要的有機物品。雖然它們像是搞怪，但是我絕不是為「怪」而怪，因為我認為那是絕對丟臉的事。我的用意是要觀察自然形態。如果你進一步採用碎形技術的概念，拿一層薄膜，像自然一樣不斷地縮小它：這可能是椅子的座位，可能是運動鞋的鞋底，可能是一輛和座位融為一體的汽車。哇～讓我們去做吧！就是這樣的東西。這是存在自然界的東西。觀察使我們現在能夠把自然的過程帶到日常的設計過程中。這就是我要做的。 這是正在東京進行的一個展覽。它叫「超流動性」。這是我的雕塑研究。這就像 21 世紀的亨利摩爾。看到亨利摩爾的作品，你仍會驚異不已。這裡也有一些令人驚訝的精神連結。如果他是一名汽車設計師，呼，我們都會開著一輛。他在世時，曾是全英國納稅最多的人。這就是有機設計的力量。它極大地促進了我們的存在意識，我們與物品關係的意識，一種我們的肉體感受 —甚至是社會情慾面的感受，這是非常重要的。 這是我的藝術品。這是我所有的工作過程。這些實際上是當藝術品在賣。它們是很大的照片。但是這就是我如何做出那個物品的。諷刺的是，這個物品是由基拉尼程序製成的，這是一個全新的 21 世紀的程序，當我這樣說時，我可以聽到 Greg Lynn 笑掉了他的襪子。關於這件事我晚點再告訴你。當我看這些資料影像時，我看到新的東西。我是自我 — 自我啟發的。雙原子結構，放射蟲，我們以往看不到的東西，但是我們現在能夠做到。這些又都是空心的。它們幾乎不耗什麼材料。它們是矽土做的。為什麼汽車結構不能這樣呢？珊瑚，所有這些自然力都會除去它們不需要的並且它們表現極大的美。我們需要這樣的領域。我要做這樣的東西。 這是一張將在九月上市的新椅子，是為一家叫 Moroso 的義大利公司設計的。它是一張氣體注入的聚合物椅子。這些你看到的孔洞是經過精簡，簡化到極致的雙原子結構。它隨著聚合物一起流動，你會看到 —有一個顯示整個東西的影像現在將出現。在義大利有公司願意支持這樣的夢想是一件很棒的事。如果你看到光線穿透它所造成的陰影效果，它們實際上可能比產品更重要但是它最少是這樣。背部的鏤空讓你可以透氣。它移除了任何你不需要的材料而它實際上也照應了彎曲，所以 —我幾乎要手舞足蹈了起來。 這是一些目前我在做的工作。我嘗試研究的是單一表面的結構以及它們如何流動 —如何延伸和流動。這是基於家具形態，但這不是最終的動機。它是鋁製的，相對於鋁，它是生長出來的。它生長在我的腦海裡，然後它依照我想過的整個流程製造出來。這是兩個星期前在英國科芬特里的 CCP，他們為賓特利汽車等公司製作零件。於我們現在談話的同時它正在建造，明年它將在紐約的 Phillips 展出。我在 Phillips 拍賣公司有個大展覽。當我看到這些動畫，噢！天呀！我太高興了。這些事每天都發生在我的工作室。我走開 — 我去旅行。我回來。有人用電腦把它弄了出來 — 就這樣，噢！我的天！所以每天我在工作室嘗試製造這種發明的能量。這種能傳遞構想的滾燙，有味的湯汁。單表面產品。家具是一個很好的例子。你如何從一個表面長出腳來。有一天我希望能將它做出來。也許我會想用麵粉、糖、聚合物、木屑等來建造它 —也許，人的頭髮。我不確定。我真想試一試。我並不確定。只要我有時間。我怪異的一面又跑出來了，很多公司不理解這一點。三個星期前我在東京 Sony 公司。他們說：「給我們一個夢想。」「我們的夢想是什麼？我們該如何擊敗 Apple？」我說：「嗯，你不要抄襲 Apple，這是肯定的。」我說：「你們可以引入生物聚合物。」他們完全忽視我所說的。真是白費口舌。總之。（笑聲）不，這是真的。他媽的。他媽的。你知道，我是說…（笑聲） 我願意給，他們卻不要。我有這張圖片已經 20 年了。這張 20 年來一直待在加熱版上的水滴圖片。對我而言這是汽車的形象。未來的汽車。它是一個水滴。我一 直以難以置信的方式測試它。汽車全都錯了。我現在要讓你們看一件怪異的東西。不管在世界上哪裡當我秀給別人看時，大家都笑了。唯一不笑的地方是莫斯科。汽車是由三萬個零件組成的。那是多麼可笑？不能用三百個做成嗎？它有個真空形成的碳-奈龍底盤。所有東西都是整體整合的。它就如同個漢堡麵包一般打開和關上。沒有引擎。背面有太陽能電池板，輪子裡有電池。組裝就如同一級方程式賽車。你從牆上取下輪子。把它們插入車體。就可以快樂上路了。這是一輛三輪汽車：緩慢、女性化、透明，你可以看到裡面的人。你開車行為不同了。（笑聲）你看這東西。你看到它。你看到而不會麻痺，從生活中脫離。前面有個洞，這個設計是有原因的。這是一個城市車。你開它走。你出來。你開到某個地點。你下車。它幫你升起。把太陽能電池板朝向太陽，到了晚上它是路燈。（掌聲）但是如果你先從路燈得到靈感然後再加上汽車的設計，它就會變成下面這樣。這些泡泡 —我可以看到這些泡泡和這些氫氣包，漂浮在地面上由人工智慧駕駛。 當我在南非發表這個時，會後大家都說，「嘿，棍子上的車子。像這樣。」你能想像嗎？棍子上的車子。如果你把它擺在現代建築旁邊，我覺得十分自然。我就是這樣搭配我的家具的。我已不再在建築物裡擺查理斯•伊姆斯的家具了。別提它。我們往前走。我試圖建造適合建築的家具。我試圖建造運輸系統。我為空中巴士公司的飛機裡裡外外做設計 —我所做的這些事都在試圖為這些自然的，啟發於自然的夢想找個家。有兩件事我一定要完成。 這是以立體原型法製作的樓梯。某部份是向詹姆士，詹姆士•華生致敬。我為我的工作室建造這個。它花了我 25 萬美元。大多數人花錢買奧斯頓•馬汀。我花錢做這個。這是建造的資料。難以置信的複雜。花了大約兩年，因為我要求無脂的設計。精簡，高效率的東西。健康的產品。這是用複合材料建造的。這是由一個單元經由環繞而創出整體單元，而這是一個碳纖扶手它只有兩個支撐點。現代材料使我們能夠做現代的東西。這是工作室一景。它平日看起來就是這個樣子。下來時但願你沒有懼高症。幾乎沒有扶手。它沒有通過任何標準。（笑聲）誰在乎呢？（笑聲）是啊，它有一個內部扶手，給它強度。正是這樣的全面整合。 這就是我的工作室。它在地下。它在諾丁山，旁邊龍蛇雜處 —你知道的，像是妓女及所有那類的東西。它就在 David Hockney 原始的工作室旁。它有全天自動調整的照明系統。我的同事們出去吃午飯了。門是開著的。他們回來了，因為外面通常在下雨，他們寧願留在裡面。這是我的工作室。來自牛津大學 1988 年的大象頭骨。我去年買了它。它們很難找到。如果誰有鯨魚骨骼要賣給我，我會買。我會把它放在工作室。所以，我想切進，說明一些影片中你會看到東西。這是一個自製的影片; 我自己在凌晨三點鐘錄製的只是讓你看看我的真實世界。你很難看到這部份。你很難看到建築師或設計師讓你看他們的真實的世界。 這個叫做 Plasnet。它是一種聚碳 —我正在義大利製作的生物聚碳化合物的新椅子。世界上第一台有可摺把手的竹子腳踏車。我們都應該騎這種車子。當中國開始買這些爛汽車時，我們都該騎這種東西。制衡。如我說的，它橫跨自然歷史博物館及NASA 實驗室。它堆滿了原型和物件。是個自我啟發的地方。我的意思是，少數機會當我在這裡時，我很喜歡這裡，也有許多小孩會來這裡 —許多許多的小孩來。我是有感染力的，對那些投資銀行家的小孩而言 — 那些癟三。 這 — 對不起 —（笑聲）— 那是太陽能種子。是一個新建築概念。上面的那個東西是世上第一個太陽能發電的庭院燈 —第一個生產的。Giles Revell 今天該來這裡演講的 —你看不到的事物的神奇攝影。在東京為那東西所製造的第一件雕塑模型。一大堆東西。這是一個小葉椅子 — 那個金色的東西叫做葉子它是以凱夫勒製成的。牆上是我的書, 叫做 「超自然，」它讓我記起我做過的事，因為我常忘記。這是一塊去年我在法國里蒙做的透氣磚，在「建築的新瓷器概念」中。又是清晨三點做的 —但我不付加班費。 加班是對設計的熱心，要就來否則拉倒。不，這是真的。真的。像 Tom 和 Greg 這樣的人 —我們超乎常人所能的旅行個不停 — 我們配合所有行程。不知道我們如何做到的。下星期我在瑞典的伊萊克斯公司，然後星期五我在北京。你看看我們是如何做到的。但當我看了 Ed 的照片，我想，幹嘛我要去中國? 真的。真的。因為整個當中有個靈魂為了 21 世紀，我們該有新的直覺。我們必須結合所有的東西。如果這段時間內在交談的所有人一起製做一輛車，那是一種愉快，絕對很愉快。這是我正在日本做的一個新的 X 光系統。那是來自北非的 Tuareg 鞋子。那是 Kifwebe 面具。這些是我的雕塑。一個銅製的果膠模子。這聽起來好像是機智問答或什麼的，不是嗎？嗯，就要結束了。謝謝，詹姆士，感謝你偉大的啟發。感謝大家。（掌聲）"
