Talk	en	zh-tw
roxane_gay_confessions_of_a_bad_feminist	"I am failing as a woman, I am failing as a feminist. I have passionate opinions about gender equality, but I worry that to freely accept the label of ""feminist,"" would not be fair to good feminists. I'm a feminist, but I'm a rather bad one. Oh, so I call myself a Bad Feminist. Or at least, I wrote an essay, and then I wrote a book called ""Bad Feminist,"" and then in interviews, people started calling me The Bad Feminist. (Laughter) So, what started as a bit of an inside joke with myself and a willful provocation, has become a thing. Let me take a step back. When I was younger, mostly in my teens and 20s, I had strange ideas about feminists as hairy, angry, man-hating, sex-hating women — as if those are bad things. (Laughter) These days, I look at how women are treated the world over, and anger, in particular, seems like a perfectly reasonable response. But back then, I worried about the tone people used when suggesting I might be a feminist. The feminist label was an accusation, it was an ""F"" word, and not a nice one. I was labeled a woman who doesn't play by the rules, who expects too much, who thinks far too highly of myself, by daring to believe I'm equal — (Coughs) — superior to a man. You don't want to be that rebel woman, until you realize that you very much are that woman, and cannot imagine being anyone else. As I got older, I began to accept that I am, indeed, a feminist, and a proud one. I hold certain truths to be self-evident: Women are equal to men. We deserve equal pay for equal work. We have the right to move through the world as we choose, free from harassment or violence. We have the right to easy, affordable access to birth control, and reproductive services. We have the right to make choices about our bodies, free from legislative oversight or evangelical doctrine. We have the right to respect. There's more. When we talk about the needs of women, we have to consider the other identities we inhabit. We are not just women. We are people with different bodies, gender expressions, faiths, sexualities, class backgrounds, abilities, and so much more. We need to take into account these differences and how they affect us, as much as we account for what we have in common. Without this kind of inclusion, our feminism is nothing. I hold these truths to be self-evident, but let me be clear: I'm a mess. I am full of contradictions. There are many ways in which I'm doing feminism wrong. I have another confession. When I drive to work, I listen to thuggish rap at a very loud volume. (Laughter) Even though the lyrics are degrading to women — these lyrics offend me to my core — the classic Yin Yang Twins song ""Salt Shaker"" — it is amazing. (Laughter) ""Make it work with your wet t-shirt. Bitch, you gotta shake it 'til your camel starts to hurt!"" (Laughter) Think about it. (Laughter) Poetry, right? I am utterly mortified by my music choices. (Laughter) I firmly believe in man work, which is anything I don't want to do, including — (Laughter) — all domestic tasks, but also: bug killing, trash removal, lawn care and vehicle maintenance. I want no part of any of that. (Laughter) Pink is my favorite color. I enjoy fashion magazines and pretty things. I watch ""The Bachelor"" and romantic comedies, and I have absurd fantasies about fairy tales coming true. Some of my transgressions are more flagrant. If a woman wants to take her husband's name, that is her choice, and it is not my place to judge. If a woman chooses to stay home to raise her children, I embrace that choice, too. The problem is not that she makes herself economically vulnerable in that choice; the problem is that our society is set up to make women economically vulnerable when they choose. Let's deal with that. (Applause) I reject the mainstream feminism that has historically ignored or deflected the needs of women of color, working-class women, queer women and transgender women, in favor of supporting white, middle- and upper-class straight women. Listen, if that's good feminism — I am a very bad feminist. (Laughter) There is also this: As a feminist, I feel a lot of pressure. We have this tendency to put visible feminists on a pedestal. We expect them to pose perfectly. When they disappoint us, we gleefully knock them from the very pedestal we put them on. Like I said, I am a mess — consider me knocked off that pedestal before you ever try to put me up there. (Laughter) Too many women, particularly groundbreaking women and industry leaders, are afraid to be labeled as feminists. They're afraid to stand up and say, ""Yes, I am a feminist,"" for fear of what that label means, for fear of being unable to live up to unrealistic expectations. Take, for example, Beyoncé, or as I call her, The Goddess. (Laughter) She has emerged, in recent years, as a visible feminist. At the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards, she performed in front of the word ""feminist"" 10 feet high. It was a glorious spectacle to see this pop star openly embracing feminism and letting young women and men know that being a feminist is something to celebrate. As the moment faded, cultural critics began endlessly debating whether or not Beyoncé was, indeed, a feminist. They graded her feminism, instead of simply taking a grown, accomplished woman at her word. (Laughter) (Applause) We demand perfection from feminists, because we are still fighting for so much, we want so much, we need so damn much. We go far beyond reasonable, constructive criticism, to dissecting any given woman's feminism, tearing it apart until there's nothing left. We do not need to do that. Bad feminism — or really, more inclusive feminism — is a starting point. But what happens next? We go from acknowledging our imperfections to accountability, or walking the walk, and being a little bit brave. If I listen to degrading music, I am creating a demand for which artists are more than happy to contribute a limitless supply. These artists are not going to change how they talk about women in their songs until we demand that change by affecting their bottom line. Certainly, it is difficult. Why must it be so catchy? (Laughter) It's hard to make the better choice, and it is so easy to justify a lesser one. But — when I justify bad choices, I make it harder for women to achieve equality, the equality that we all deserve, and I need to own that. I think of my nieces, ages three and four. They are gorgeous and headstrong, brilliant girls, who are a whole lot of brave. I want them to thrive in a world where they are valued for the powerful creatures they are. I think of them, and suddenly, the better choice becomes far easier to make. We can all make better choices. We can change the channel when a television show treats sexual violence against women like sport, Game of Thrones. We can change the radio station when we hear songs that treat women as nothing. We can spend our box office dollars elsewhere when movies don't treat women as anything more than decorative objects. We can stop supporting professional sports where the athletes treat  their partners like punching bags. (Applause) In other ways, men — and especially straight white men — can say, ""No, I will not publish with your magazine, or participate in your project, or otherwise work with you, until you include a fair number of women, both as participants and decision makers. I won't work with you until your publication, or your organization, is more inclusive of all kinds of difference."" Those of us who are underrepresented and invited to participate in such projects, can also decline to be included until more of us are invited through the glass ceiling, and we are tokens no more. Without these efforts, without taking these stands, our accomplishments are going to mean very little. We can commit these small acts of bravery and hope that our choices trickle upward to the people in power — editors, movie and music producers, CEOs, lawmakers — the people who can make bigger, braver choices to create lasting, meaningful change. We can also boldly claim our feminism — good, bad, or anywhere in between. The last line of my book ""Bad Feminist"" says, ""I would rather be a bad feminist than no feminist at all."" This is true for so many reasons, but first and foremost, I say this because once upon a time, my voice was stolen from me, and feminism helped me to get my voice back. There was an incident. I call it an incident so I can carry the burden of what happened. Some boys broke me, when I was so young, I did not know what boys can do to break a girl. They treated me like I was nothing. I began to believe I was nothing. They stole my voice, and in the after, I did not dare to believe that anything I might say could matter. But — I had writing. And there, I wrote myself back together. I wrote myself toward a stronger version of myself. I read the words of women who might understand a story like mine, and women who looked like me, and understood what it was like to move through the world with brown skin. I read the words of women who showed me I was not nothing. I learned to write like them, and then I learned to write as myself. I found my voice again, and I started to believe that my voice is powerful beyond measure. Through writing and feminism, I also found that if I was a little bit brave, another woman might hear me and see me and recognize that none of us are the nothing the world tries to tell us we are. In one hand, I hold the power to accomplish anything. And in my other, I hold the humbling reality that I am just one woman. I am a bad feminist, I am a good woman, I am trying to become better in how I think, and what I say, and what I do, without abandoning everything that makes me human. I hope that we can all do the same. I hope that we can all be a little bit brave, when we most need such bravery. (Applause)"	我是個失敗的女人，我是個失敗的女性主義者。 談起性別平等我說得慷慨激昂，但我卻擔心自在接受「女性主義者」的標籤，對優秀的女性主義者來說太不公平。 我是女性主義者，不過是不好的那一種。噢，所以我自稱「壞的女性主義者」。至少我寫了篇論文，接著出了本書叫《壞的女性主義者》，之後接受訪問，大家開始稱我「那個壞的女性主義者」。（笑聲） 本來只是關於我個人的圈內人笑話和故意挑釁的行為，就成了我的金字招牌。 讓我先退一步來談。我還年輕的時候，主要是在十幾、二十多歲的時候，我對女性主義者有種奇怪的想法，像是多毛、易怒、恨男人、討厭做愛的女人…等等，就像那都是壞事一樣。（笑聲）這陣子，我觀察全世界女性遭受的待遇，我發現尤其是「生氣」，似乎是非常合理的回應。 但在當時，我會擔心大家說話的腔調，特別是提到我可能是女性主義者的時候。女性主義者的標籤是種指控，以「F」開頭，而且是不好的字眼。我被貼上標籤，說我這個女人不按牌理出牌、期待太多、把自己想得太崇高，膽敢相信自己如同（咳嗽聲）男人一樣偉大。沒人想成為那種會造反的女人，直到了解自己骨子裡就是那種女人，無法想像有別的可能。 我年長一點之後開始接受「我」就是──女性主義者，而且是引以為榮的那一種。告訴各位一些不證自明的事實：女性與男性地位相同。我們值得同工同酬。我們有權搬到世界上自己想去的任何地方，不受騷擾或暴力威脅。我們有權要求簡單、負擔得起的節育計畫和生育服務。我們有權為自己的身體做決定，不受立法機關監督或是教條限制。我們有尊重的權利。 還有更多問題。每當我們談到女人的需求，我們就必須顧及自己的其他身分，我們不只是女人而已。我們同樣是人，只是有不同的身體、性別表現、信仰、性取向、階級背景、能力…等等許多差異。我們必須考量這些差異，以及差異對我們的影響，如同考量共通點對我們的影響。沒有這種包容性，我們的女性主義就什麼也不是。 我視這些事實為不證自明的事，但我要講清楚說明白：我本人是一團糟。我有各式各樣的矛盾。從許多方面來看，我用錯誤的方式實踐女性主義。 我還要坦誠另一件事。我開車去工作的時候聽幫派饒舌，而且放超大聲。（笑聲）即使歌詞貶低女性──這些歌詞侵犯我的核心──陰陽雙煞的歌〈灑鹽罐〉──超讚的。（笑聲）「穿著你的溼上衣，來吧！」「賤人，你要搖到你的雙臀痛！」（笑聲）你們想一下。（笑聲）很有詩意吧？我對自己的音樂品味感到非常羞愧。（笑聲） 我完全相信有屬於男人做的工作，我是說所有我不想做的事，包括──（笑聲）所有家務事，還有除蟲、倒垃圾、打理草坪和維修車子。我完全不想做那些事。（笑聲）我最愛的是粉紅色。我熱愛流行雜誌和美麗事物。我看《鑽石求千金》和浪漫喜劇，而且我很愚蠢地迷戀童話故事成真。 我有些犯規行為更是惡名昭彰。如果有女人想冠夫姓，那是她的選擇，我沒有立場批評。如果有女人選擇待在家帶小孩，我也接受那樣的選擇。問題不是她在那選擇中讓自己在經濟上成為弱勢；問題是我們的社會讓女性做出選擇後，造成她的經濟成為弱勢。我們來處理這個問題。（掌聲） 我拒絕主流的女性主義長久以來一直忽視或避而不談某些女性的需求，像是非白人女性、勞工婦女、女同性戀或女變性人，反而偏袒白皮膚、中產或上層階級的異性戀女性。聽著，如果那叫做好的女性主義，我就是非常壞的女性主義者。（笑聲） 還有這個：身為女性主義者，我感受到很多壓力。我們傾向崇拜公開的女性主義者。我們期待她們的表現完美。一旦她們讓我們失望，我們再愉快地將她們從我們搭起的舞台上狠打下臺。就像我所說的，我是一團糟，想想我被狠打下臺的樣子，在你打算把我送上臺前先想好。（笑聲） 對許多女性來說，尤其是開創性女性及產業領袖，她們害怕被貼上女性主義者的標籤。她們害怕站起來說：「沒錯，我是女性主義者。」因為她們擔心那個標籤的意義，擔心無法堅持那些不切實際的期待。 以碧昂絲為例，或是我稱她為「女神」。（笑聲）她在近年來以公開的女性主義者之姿嶄露頭角。在 2014 年 MTV 音樂錄影帶大獎中，她在十呎高的「女性主義者」字樣前表演。這難得一見的場面不僅讓我們看見這位搖滾巨星坦率接納女性主義，並讓年輕男女知道身為女性主義者是值得慶祝的事。當這一刻褪去，文化評判開始無止境辯論碧昂絲到底是不是女性主義者。他們最終將她放進女性主義的類別裡，卻不是單純以一位成年、有才女性自己說的話來歸類。（笑聲）（掌聲） 我們要求女性主義者完美，因為我們還要爭取很多，我們還想要很多，我們要得太多。 我們已超出合理、有建設性的評論，變成剖析特定女性的女性主義，將女性主義撕裂到片甲不留，我們不需要做到這樣。壞女性主義者──或該說是廣義的女性主義者──是個起點。 但下一步是什麼？我們從承認自己不完美，到負起責任、身體力行，並且鼓起一點勇氣。如果我聽沒品的音樂，我就在創造一種需求，讓音樂家欣然無止盡的創作沒品的音樂。這些藝術家不會改變他們在歌曲中對女性的評論，除非我們透過影響他們的基本態度來要求他們改變。說實在的，這很難。為什麼他們的歌這麼容易朗朗上口？（笑聲）要做出更好的決定很難，為差一點的決定找藉口卻很容易。但是，當我為壞決定開脫時，我讓女性更難得到平等，那是我們都應得的平等，而我必須擁有那份平等。 我想到我三歲和四歲的姪女。她們都是很可愛又頭好壯壯的聰明女孩，而且非常勇敢。我希望她們可以在一個重視她們的世界發光發熱，就因為她們是這麼棒的人。我想到她們，突然間，要做出更好的選擇就變得簡單多了。 我們都可以做出更好的選擇。我們可以選擇電視節目、切換頻道，只要有對女性做出性暴力內容，像是運動或《權力遊戲》就不看。我們可以選擇廣播節目，只要當中有視女性如敝屣的歌曲就不聽。我們可以將電影票錢花在其它地方，只要那部電影只把女性當做花瓶就不看。我們可以停止支持職業運動，只要有運動員對待他們的伴侶像出氣包就不支持。（掌聲） 其它方式還有，男人──尤其是異性戀的白人男性──能說出：「不！我不會發行你的雜誌、參與你的計畫，或是和你一起工作，直到你將女性成員拉到一定比例，不論是參與者或是決定的角色。我不會和你一起工作，直到你的刊物、或是你的組織能夠接納各種差異。」 我們這些常被忽略的人，在獲邀參與此類計畫時，也可以拒絕身為其中一員，直到我們的獲邀人數超越往例，直到我們不再是那少數的弱勢保留席次。 沒有這些努力，沒有支持這些立場，我們的成果就沒什麼意義。我們可以做到這些出於勇氣的小舉動，並期待我們的選擇能向上影響有權力的人，像是編輯、電影或音樂製作人、執行長、立法者，這些人可以做出更大、更勇敢的選擇，做出永久且有意義的改變。 我們也可以大膽宣告我們的女性主義：無論是好、是壞，或是在這之間的灰色地帶。我在著作《壞的女性主義者》最後一行提到：「我寧可當個壞的女性主義者，也不要連女性主義者都不是。」在各方面這都真實不虛，但首先也最重要的是，我會這樣說是因為過去有一度我的聲音被剝奪了，女性主義幫助我取回我的聲音。 那是過去發生的事件。我稱之事件，如此我就能帶著過往經驗的重擔繼續向前。當時有幾個男孩傷害了我，我還年輕的時候還不知道男孩可以怎麼傷害女孩。他們待我的方式就好像我毫無價值，我開始相信自己毫無價值。他們奪走我的聲音，之後，我不敢相信自己說的任何話會有多重要。 但是，我還有寫作。在那裡，我筆下的自己回到完整的模樣。我筆下的自己變成一個更強壯的人。我閱讀女性寫的文字，這些人可能理解跟我一樣的故事，理解長得像我這樣的女性，理解以褐色皮膚走過世界各地是什麼樣子。我學著讀某些女性的文字，她們讓我知道自己並非毫無價值。我學著模仿她們寫作，然後學著寫出自己的風格。我再次找回自己的聲音。我開始相信我的聲音力量無窮。 透過寫作與女性主義，我也發現如果我更勇敢一點，另一位女性也許會聽見、看見我，並理解沒有人像這個世界試圖告訴我們的那樣一無是處。 在一方面來說，我有成就任何事的能力；而另一方面，我也抱持著自己只是一名女性這樣讓人感到謙遜的事實。 我是壞的女性主義者，我是個好女人，我試著讓自己能想得更好、說得更好、做得更好，毋需摒棄讓我成為人的任何東西。我希望我們都可以如此。我希望我們都可以更勇敢一點，在我們最需要這份勇氣的時候。（掌聲）
