Talk	en	zh-tw
roy_gould_and_curtis_wong_preview_the_worldwide_telescope	"Roy Gould: Less than a year from now, the world is going to celebrate the International Year of Astronomy, which marks the 400th anniversary of Galileo's first glimpse of the night sky through a telescope. In a few months, the world is also going to celebrate the launch of a new invention from Microsoft Research, which I think is going to have as profound an impact on the way we view the universe as Galileo did four centuries ago. It's called the WorldWide Telescope, and I want to thank TED and Microsoft for allowing me to bring it to your attention. And I want to urge you, when you get a chance, to give it a closer look at the TED Lab downstairs. The WorldWide Telescope takes the best images from the world's greatest telescopes on Earth and in space, and has woven them seamlessly to produce a holistic view of the universe. It's going to change the way we do astronomy, it's going to change the way we teach astronomy and I think most importantly it's going to change the way we see ourselves in the universe. If we were having this TED meeting in our grandparents' day, that might not be so big a claim. In 1920, for example, you weren't allowed to drink; if you were a woman, you weren't allowed to vote; and if you looked up at the stars and the Milky Way on a summer night, what you saw was thought to be the entire universe. In fact, the head of Harvard's observatory back then gave a great debate in which he argued that the Milky Way Galaxy was the entire universe. Harvard was wrong, big time. (Laughter) Of course, we know today that galaxies extend far beyond our own galaxy. We can see all the way out to the edge of the observable universe, all the way back in time, almost to the moment of the Big Bang itself. We can see across the entire spectrum of light, revealing worlds that had previously been invisible. We see these magnificent star nurseries, where nature has somehow arranged for just the right numbers and just the right sizes of stars to be born for life to arise. We see alien worlds, we see alien solar systems — 300 now, and still counting — and they're not like us. We see black holes at the heart of our galaxy, in the Milky Way, and elsewhere in the universe, where time itself seems to stand still. But until now, our view of the universe has been disconnected and fragmented, and I think that many of the marvelous stories that nature has to tell us have fallen through the cracks. And that's changing. I want to just briefly mention three reasons why my colleagues and I, in astronomy and in education, are so excited about the WorldWide Telescope and why we think it's truly transformative. First, it enables you to experience the universe: the WorldWide Telescope, for me, is a kind of magic carpet that lets you navigate through the universe where you want to go. Second: you can tour the universe with astronomers as your guides. And I'm not talking here about just experts who are telling you what you're seeing, but really people who are passionate about the various nooks and crannies of the universe, who can share their enthusiasm and can make the universe a welcoming place. And third, you can create your own tours — you can share them with friends, you can create them with friends — and that's the part that I think I'm most excited about because I think that at heart, we are all storytellers. And in telling stories, each of us is going to understand the universe in our own way. We're going to have a personal universe. I think we're going to see a community of storytellers evolve and emerge. Before I introduce the person responsible for the WorldWide Telescope, I just want to leave you with this brief thought: when I ask people, ""How does the night sky make you feel?"" they often say, ""Oh, tiny. I feel tiny and insignificant."" Well, our gaze fills the universe. And thanks to the creators of the WorldWide Telescope, we can now start to have a dialogue with the universe. I think the WorldWide Telescope will convince you that we may be tiny, but we are truly, wonderfully significant. Thank you. (Applause) I can't tell you what a privilege it is to introduce Curtis Wong from Microsoft. (Applause) Curtis Wong: Thank you, Roy. So, what you're seeing here is a wonderful presentation, but it's one of the tours. And actually this tour is one that was created earlier. And the tours are all totally interactive, so that if I were to go somewhere ... you may be watching a tour and you can pause anywhere along the way, pull up other information — there are lots of Web and information sources about places you might want to go — you can zoom in, you can pull back out. The whole resources are there available for you. So, Microsoft — this is a project that — WorldWide Telescope is dedicated to Jim Gray, who's our colleague, and a lot of his work that he did is really what makes this project possible. It's a labor of love for us and our small team, and we really hope it will inspire kids to explore and learn about the universe. So basically, kids of all ages, like us. And so WorldWide Telescope will be available this spring. It'll be a free download — thank you, Craig Mundie — and it'll be available at the website WorldWideTelescope.org, which is something new. And so, what you've seen today is less than a fraction of one percent of what is in here, and in the TED Lab, we have a tour that was created by a six-year-old named Benjamin that will knock your socks off. (Laughter) So we'll see you there. Thank you. (Applause)"	羅伊‧古爾德：再過不到一年，世界將要慶祝國際天文年，紀念伽利略首次使用望遠鏡進行天文觀測四百週年。幾個月以後世界也將慶祝微軟研究院發佈的一項發明，就像伽利略四個世紀以前的創舉一樣，這項發明將對我們觀測宇宙產生深遠影響。這就是「萬維天文望遠鏡」(WorldWide Telescope)非常感謝TED和微軟給我這個機會向大家介紹。同時我也希望您有空的話，到樓下的TED實驗室近距離感受一下。 「萬維天文望遠鏡」彙集了來自地面和太空中的全球頂級望遠鏡的優質圖片，這些圖片密合的拼接在一起創造出一幅壯觀的宇宙風景畫。這將會改變天文學的研究方式，也將改變教授天文學的方式而且，最重要的，這將改變我們在這個宇宙中看待自己的方式。 如果我們祖父那個時代就有TED集會，可能不會引起這樣大的關注。比如，在1920年代，禁酒令還在執行；婦女還沒有投票權。如果您在夏夜中仰望銀河，您就以為看到了整個宇宙。實際上，當時的哈佛天文台的負責人就此展開過大辯論他認為銀河系就是整個宇宙。 哈佛無疑是大錯特錯。現在我們知道許多恆星系遠遠超出了銀河系的範圍。我們幾乎能觀測到宇宙邊緣，能夠觀察到時間的流動，幾乎追溯到宇宙大爆炸的瞬間。我們可以透過光譜，發現以前觀測不到的世界。我們可以看到這些壯觀星星的搖籃，在那裡大自然用適當的數量和大小創造孕育生命的星星。我們觀測外星世界，我們觀測外星類太陽系現在找到300個恆星系，還在增加中。它們不像我們的太陽系。我們觀測銀河系中心的黑洞，在銀河系中以及在宇宙的其他地方，在黑洞裡時間看起來是凝固靜止的。到目前為止，我們對宇宙的認識仍是不連續的，片斷性的，大自然想告訴我們的許多奇妙故事，都在這些片斷中失真了。但現在有了轉機。 我簡要列舉三個原因來說明為什麼我和我的天文學方面的和教育方面的同事們都一致對「萬維天文望遠鏡」感到興奮為什麼我們認為它是一場變革。第一，它可以讓你體驗整個宇宙。「萬維天文望遠鏡」就像魔毯可以隨心所欲的帶我們飛躍整個宇宙。第二，在瀏覽宇宙的旅途中可以讓天文學家作為您的嚮導。我說的不是僅僅是一些告訴你看到的是什麼的專家們，而是那些對宇宙各種角落裂縫都充滿熱情的人那些散發著熱情的人們讓宇宙成為好客之地。第三，你可以自己設計旅程。你可以與朋友分享，也可以與朋友一起設計。這一點是最讓人興奮的，因為從心底裡，我們都是愛講故事的人。在講述故事時，我們會以自己的方式認識宇宙。每個人都有一個自己所認知的宇宙。我認為，未來能見到將來故事家社群的形成。 在我介紹「萬維天文望遠鏡」負責人之前，我想留給您一個簡單的問題。當我問別人：「夜空給你什麼樣的感受？」他們通常說：「渺小，我感到渺小且微不足道。」好的，讓我們的目光凝視這個宇宙。感謝「萬維天文望遠鏡」的創造者，現在我們可以與宇宙對話了。「萬維天文望遠鏡」會讓你明白人類可能很渺小，但人生很精彩，很有意義。謝謝。（掌聲） 我十分榮幸的介紹來自微軟的柯蒂斯‧黃（Curtis Wong）。 柯蒂斯‧黃：謝謝，羅伊。如您剛剛所見這是一個精彩的演示，但是這只是眾多旅程中的一個。而且，事實上這是之前就設計好的一個旅程。所有的旅程都都能隨時交換作互動，如果你想到某個地方你可以觀看旅程，也可以隨時隨地停留，收集其他信息。關於您要前往的目的地，有許多資料可供查看。你可以縮放畫面所有的資源都在這裡，為你所用。 「萬維天文望遠鏡」要獻給吉姆蓋瑞（2007.1.28失蹤於海上）他是我們的同事，他做了大量的貢獻是他讓這個專案成真這是我們小組充滿愛心的成果，我們希望這可以啟迪兒童探索和學習宇宙。適用於各年齡層，像我們也行。 「萬維天文望遠鏡」今年春天發佈。它可免費使用。謝謝你，克雷格蒙迪 （微軟的研發和策略長）你可以到Worldwidetelescope.org下載，並查閱各種新資訊今天您看到的其實還不到這軟體的1%，在TED實驗室，有一個叫班傑明的六歲小孩設計的旅程一定會讓你大吃一驚。我們在那裡見。謝謝。（掌聲）
