Talk	en	zh-tw
roz_savage_why_i_m_rowing_across_the_pacific	"Hi, my name is Roz Savage and I row across oceans. Four years ago, I rowed solo across the Atlantic, and since then, I've done two out of three stages across the Pacific, from San Francisco to Hawaii and from Hawaii to Kiribati. And tomorrow, I'll be leaving this boat to fly back to Kiribati to continue with the third and final stage of my row across the Pacific. Cumulatively, I will have rowed over 8,000 miles, taken over three million oar strokes and spent more than 312 days alone on the ocean on a 23 foot rowboat. This has given me a very special relationship with the ocean. We have a bit of a love/hate thing going on. I feel a bit about it like I did about a very strict math teacher that I once had at school. I didn't always like her, but I did respect her, and she taught me a heck of a lot. So today I'd like to share with you some of my ocean adventures and tell you a little bit about what they've taught me, and how I think we can maybe take some of those lessons and apply them to this environmental challenge that we face right now. Now, some of you might be thinking, ""Hold on a minute. She doesn't look very much like an ocean rower. Isn't she meant to be about this tall and about this wide and maybe look a bit more like these guys?"" You'll notice, they've all got something that I don't. Well, I don't know what you're thinking, but I'm talking about the beards. (Laughter) And no matter how long I've spent on the ocean, I haven't yet managed to muster a decent beard, and I hope that it remains that way. For a long time, I didn't believe that I could have a big adventure. The story that I told myself was that adventurers looked like this. I didn't look the part. I thought there were them and there were us, and I was not one of them. So for 11 years, I conformed. I did what people from my kind of background were supposed to do. I was working in an office in London as a management consultant. And I think I knew from day one that it wasn't the right job for me. But that kind of conditioning just kept me there for so many years, until I reached my mid-30s and I thought, ""You know, I'm not getting any younger. I feel like I've got a purpose in this life, and I don't know what it is, but I'm pretty certain that management consultancy is not it. So, fast forward a few years. I'd gone through some changes. To try and answer that question of, ""What am I supposed to be doing with my life?"" I sat down one day and wrote two versions of my own obituary, the one that I wanted, a life of adventure, and the one that I was actually heading for which was a nice, normal, pleasant life, but it wasn't where I wanted to be by the end of my life. I wanted to live a life that I could be proud of. And I remember looking at these two versions of my obituary and thinking, ""Oh boy, I'm on totally the wrong track here. If I carry on living as I am now, I'm just not going to end up where I want to be in five years, or 10 years, or at the end of my life."" I made a few changes, let go of some loose trappings of my old life, and through a bit of a leap of logic, decided to row across the Atlantic Ocean. (Laughter) The Atlantic Rowing Race runs from the Canaries to Antigua, it's about 3,000 miles, and it turned out to be the hardest thing I had ever done. Sure, I had wanted to get outside of my comfort zone, but what I'd sort of failed to notice was that getting out of your comfort zone is, by definition, extremely uncomfortable. And my timing was not great either: 2005, when I did the Atlantic, was the year of Hurricane Katrina. There were more tropical storms in the North Atlantic than ever before, since records began. And pretty early on, those storms started making their presence known. All four of my oars broke before I reached halfway across. Oars are not supposed to look like this. But what can you do? You're in the middle of the ocean. Oars are your only means of propulsion. So I just had to look around the boat and figure out what I was going to use to fix up these oars so that I could carry on. So I found a boat hook and my trusty duct tape and splintered the boat hook to the oars to reinforce it. Then, when that gave out, I sawed the wheel axles off my spare rowing seat and used those. And then when those gave out, I cannibalized one of the broken oars. I'd never been very good at fixing stuff when I was living my old life, but it's amazing how resourceful you can become when you're in the middle of the ocean and there's only one way to get to the other side. And the oars kind of became a symbol of just in how many ways I went beyond what I thought were my limits. I suffered from tendinitis on my shoulders and saltwater sores on my bottom. I really struggled psychologically, totally overwhelmed by the scale of the challenge, realizing that, if I carried on moving at two miles an hour, 3,000 miles was going to take me a very, very long time. There were so many times when I thought I'd hit that limit, but had no choice but to just carry on and try and figure out how I was going to get to the other side without driving myself crazy. And eventually after 103 days at sea, I arrived in Antigua. I don't think I've ever felt so happy in my entire life. It was a bit like finishing a marathon and getting out of solitary confinement and winning an Oscar all rolled into one. I was euphoric. And to see all the people coming out to greet me and standing along the cliff tops and clapping and cheering, I just felt like a movie star. It was absolutely wonderful. And I really learned then that, the bigger the challenge, the bigger the sense of achievement when you get to the end of it. So this might be a good moment to take a quick time-out to answer a few FAQs about ocean rowing that might be going through your mind. Number one that I get asked: What do you eat? A few freeze-dried meals, but mostly I try and eat much more unprocessed foods. So I grow my own beansprouts. I eat fruits and nut bars, a lot of nuts. And generally arrive about 30 pounds lighter at the other end. Question number two: How do you sleep? With my eyes shut. Ha-ha. I suppose what you mean is: What happens to the boat while I'm sleeping? Well, I plan my route so that I'm drifting with the winds and the currents while I'm sleeping. On a good night, I think my best ever was 11 miles in the right direction. Worst ever, 13 miles in the wrong direction. That's a bad day at the office. What do I wear? Mostly, a baseball cap, rowing gloves and a smile — or a frown, depending on whether I went backwards overnight — and lots of sun lotion. Do I have a chase boat? No I don't. I'm totally self-supporting out there. I don't see anybody for the whole time that I'm at sea, generally. And finally: Am I crazy? Well, I leave that one up to you to judge. So, how do you top rowing across the Atlantic? Well, naturally, you decide to row across the Pacific. Well, I thought the Atlantic was big, but the Pacific is really, really big. I think we tend to do it a little bit of a disservice in our usual maps. I don't know for sure that the Brits invented this particular view of the world, but I suspect we might have done so: we are right in the middle, and we've cut the Pacific in half and flung it to the far corners of the world. Whereas if you look in Google Earth, this is how the Pacific looks. It pretty much covers half the planet. You can just see a little bit of North America up here and a sliver of Australia down there. It is really big — 65 million square miles — and to row in a straight line across it would be about 8,000 miles. Unfortunately, ocean rowboats very rarely go in a straight line. By the time I get to Australia, if I get to Australia, I will have rowed probably nine or 10,000 miles in all. So, because nobody in their straight mind would row straight past Hawaii without dropping in, I decided to cut this very big undertaking into three segments. The first attempt didn't go so well. In 2007, I did a rather involuntary capsize drill three times in 24 hours. A bit like being in a washing machine. Boat got a bit dinged up, so did I. I blogged about it. Unfortunately, somebody with a bit of a hero complex decided that this damsel was in distress and needed saving. The first I knew about this was when the Coast Guard plane turned up overhead. I tried to tell them to go away. We had a bit of a battle of wills. I lost and got airlifted. Awful, really awful. It was one of the worst feelings of my life, as I was lifted up on that winch line into the helicopter and looked down at my trusty little boat rolling around in the 20 foot waves and wondering if I would ever see her again. So I had to launch a very expensive salvage operation and then wait another nine months before I could get back out onto the ocean again. But what do you do? Fall down nine times, get up 10. So, the following year, I set out and, fortunately, this time made it safely across to Hawaii. But it was not without misadventure. My watermaker broke, only the most important piece of kit that I have on the boat. Powered by my solar panels, it sucks in saltwater and turns it into freshwater. But it doesn't react very well to being immersed in ocean, which is what happened to it. Fortunately, help was at hand. There was another unusual boat out there at the same time, doing as I was doing, bringing awareness to the North Pacific Garbage Patch, that area in the North Pacific about twice the size of Texas, with an estimated 3.5 million tons of trash in it, circulating at the center of that North Pacific Gyre. So, to make the point, these guys had actually built their boat out of plastic trash, 15,000 empty water bottles latched together into two pontoons. They were going very slowly. Partly, they'd had a bit of a delay. They'd had to pull in at Catalina Island shortly after they left Long Beach because the lids of all the water bottles were coming undone, and they were starting to sink. So they'd had to pull in and do all the lids up. But, as I was approaching the end of my water reserves, luckily, our courses were converging. They were running out of food; I was running out of water. So we liaised by satellite phone and arranged to meet up. And it took about a week for us to actually gradually converge. I was doing a pathetically slow speed of about 1.3 knots, and they were doing only marginally less pathetic speed of about 1.4: it was like two snails in a mating dance. But, eventually, we did manage to meet up and Joel hopped overboard, caught us a beautiful, big mahi-mahi, which was the best food I'd had in, ooh, at least three months. Fortunately, the one that he caught that day was better than this one they caught a few weeks earlier. When they opened this one up, they found its stomach was full of plastic. And this is really bad news because plastic is not an inert substance. It leaches out chemicals into the flesh of the poor critter that ate it, and then we come along and eat that poor critter, and we get some of the toxins accumulating in our bodies as well. So there are very real implications for human health. I eventually made it to Hawaii still alive. And, the following year, set out on the second stage of the Pacific, from Hawaii down to Tarawa. And you'll notice something about Tarawa; it is very low-lying. It's that little green sliver on the horizon, which makes them very nervous about rising oceans. This is big trouble for these guys. They've got no points of land more than about six feet above sea level. And also, as an increase in extreme weather events due to climate change, they're expecting more waves to come in over the fringing reef, which will contaminate their fresh water supply. I had a meeting with the president there, who told me about his exit strategy for his country. He expects that within the next 50 years, the 100,000 people that live there will have to relocate to New Zealand or Australia. And that made me think about how would I feel if Britain was going to disappear under the waves; if the places where I'd been born and gone to school and got married, if all those places were just going to disappear forever. How, literally, ungrounded that would make me feel. Very shortly, I'll be setting out to try and get to Australia, and if I'm successful, I'll be the first woman ever to row solo all the way across the Pacific. And I try to use this to bring awareness to these environmental issues, to bring a human face to the ocean. If the Atlantic was about my inner journey, discovering my own capabilities, maybe the Pacific has been about my outer journey, figuring out how I can use my interesting career choice to be of service to the world, and to take some of those things that I've learned out there and apply them to the situation that humankind now finds itself in. I think there are probably three key points here. The first one is about the stories that we tell ourselves. For so long, I told myself that I couldn't have an adventure because I wasn't six foot tall and athletic and bearded. And then that story changed. I found out that people had rowed across oceans. I even met one of them and she was just about my size. So even though I didn't grow any taller, I didn't sprout a beard, something had changed: My interior dialogue had changed. At the moment, the story that we collectively tell ourselves is that we need all this stuff, that we need oil. But what about if we just change that story? We do have alternatives, and we have the power of free will to choose those alternatives, those sustainable ones, to create a greener future. The second point is about the accumulation of tiny actions. We might think that anything that we do as an individual is just a drop in the ocean, that it can't really make a difference. But it does. Generally, we haven't got ourselves into this mess through big disasters. Yes, there have been the Exxon Valdezes and the Chernobyls, but mostly it's been an accumulation of bad decisions by billions of individuals, day after day and year after year. And, by the same token, we can turn that tide. We can start making better, wiser, more sustainable decisions. And when we do that, we're not just one person. Anything that we do spreads ripples. Other people will see if you're in the supermarket line and you pull out your reusable grocery bag. Maybe if we all start doing this, we can make it socially unacceptable to say yes to plastic in the checkout line. That's just one example. This is a world-wide community. The other point: It's about taking responsibility. For so much of my life, I wanted something else to make me happy. I thought if I had the right house or the right car or the right man in my life, then I could be happy. But when I wrote that obituary exercise, I actually grew up a little bit in that moment and realized that I needed to create my own future. I couldn't just wait passively for happiness to come and find me. And I suppose I'm a selfish environmentalist. I plan on being around for a long time, and when I'm 90 years old, I want to be happy and healthy. And it's very difficult to be happy on a planet that's racked with famine and drought. It's very difficult to be healthy on a planet where we've poisoned the earth and the sea and the air. So, shortly, I'm going to be launching a new initiative called Eco-Heroes. And the idea here is that all our Eco-Heroes will log at least one green deed every day. It's meant to be a bit of a game. We're going to make an iPhone app out of it. We just want to try and create that awareness because, sure, changing a light bulb isn't going to change the world, but that attitude, that awareness that leads you to change the light bulb or take your reusable coffee mug, that is what could change the world. I really believe that we stand at a very important point in history. We have a choice. We've been blessed, or cursed, with free will. We can choose a greener future, and we can get there if we all pull together to take it one stroke at a time. Thank you. (Applause)"	嗨，我叫羅茲﹒沙維奇，我划船横渡海洋。四年前，我獨自划船横越大西洋，在那之後，我完成了三階段横渡太平洋的前兩個階段的航行，從舊金山到夏威夷，再從夏威夷到吉里巴斯。明天我將暫別我的這艘船，飛回吉里巴斯繼續我第三個，也是最後一個階段的划船橫越太平洋的航行。算一算，我總共將划行8000多英里，重覆300多萬次划船的動作，獨自一人在這艘23呎長的船上度過312天。獨自划船横渡海洋使得我對大海產生了特殊的情感。我跟大海可以說是愛恨交織啊。這感受有點像是我以前學校裡的那一位非常嚴格的數學老師。我不是一直都很喜歡她，但是我真的很尊敬她。她教會了我許多東西。今天我想跟各位分享一些我的海上冒險故事，還有這些故事教會了我什麼，以及如何把從這些故事裡學的東西運用在我們現今所面臨的環境挑戰。 在座之中有些人可能在想，「等一下，她看起來一點也不像個橫渡海洋的人。」「個頭又不高，體型又不壯，一點也不像這些壯漢啊?」各位不難發現，他們有一些我所沒有的東西。我不曉得你們心裡想的是什麼，我是指他們的絡腮鬍。不論我在海上航行多久，我還是沒辦法留那樣好看的大鬍子。我希望還是保持原狀好了。 有段很長的時間，我一直不認為自己能夠勇於冒險犯難。我對自己說冒險家得長得像那樣。看來是與我無緣了。我心想我們是不同類的人，我不是他們之中的一份子。所以11年裡，我循規蹈矩。按部就班，做好我這類社會背景的人該做的。當時我在倫敦的一家公司擔任管理顧問。打從第一天起，我很清楚這份工作根本就不適合我。但是心裡自我設限的聲音就這樣把我綁住了這麼多年，直到三十四、五歲時我想：「嗯，我已經年紀不小了。」我感受到人生中有某種有價值的東西，但不知道究竟是什麼，可是我心知肚明那不是管理顧問這份工作。 幾年過去了我經歷了一些轉變。我試著回答這個懸而未決的問題：「這一生中，我真正最想做什麼?」終於有一天我坐了下來為我自己寫了兩份不同版本的訃文，一份是我想要的，充滿冒險的一生，另一份是我當時所過的生活的寫照，一個美好、正常、安逸的一生，但是我並不想要如此終老。我渴望過一種我可以引以為傲的生活。我仍記得當時看著這兩份訃文心裡想著：喔!天哪!我根本就是誤入歧途嘛！如果我繼續現在的生活，那我的夢想不論是5年還是10年後，甚至到我生命的終點，是永遠不可能達成的。所以我做了一些改變，放棄了一些當時生活中的身外之物，做了些腦力激盪，然後決定去横渡大西洋。 （笑聲） 划船横渡大西洋的行程從加那利群島到安提瓜。全程大約3000英里。結果這一次的航行成為我做過的最艱難的事。的確，我當時一直想要跳脫出我舒適安逸的生活，只是我萬萬沒想到離開舒適安逸的生活，意味著極度的難過、不舒服。還有我選的時機也不對。2005年我横渡大西洋時，正好是卡崔娜颶風肆虐的那一年。當時北大西洋正遭逢有史以來數目最多的熱帶風暴。可以說在2005年初時這些熱帶風暴就開始形成了。 在我還沒划到一半的航程時我的四隻船槳就全都折斷了。船槳不應該是這副模樣。但是我人在一片汪洋之中，我能怎麼辦呢?船槳是向前推進的唯一工具。我只好找遍了整艘船看看有什麼可以用來修理壞掉的船槳以繼續完成航行。我終於找到了一隻船竿和強力萬用膠帶，然後把船竿折斷用來加強固定船槳。等到船竿也折斷了，我又把備用划船座椅的輪軸鋸下來用。座椅輪軸又壞了，我又把一支壞掉的槳分解拆開來用。以前的我並不是個擅長修理東西的人。但是當你在汪洋大海之中急中生智的應變能力真是令人驚訝，也唯有如此才能划向彼岸。 這些壞了的船槳也成為我超越過去諸多制約觀念的象徵。我承受著肩膀的肌腱炎，浸泡在海水裡也使我的臀部非常疼痛。當時我的內心承受著難以言喻的巨大挑戰，我心想，要是一小時只能划兩英里，那3000英里得花上很久，很久的時間。好幾次我覺得自己已經撐不下去了，但除了保持理智，繼續前行繼續嘗試抵達大海的另一邊我別無選擇。 終於在海上航行了103天以後，我抵達了安提瓜。我想我一輩子從來沒有那麼開心過。那感覺像是你同時跑完了馬拉松，成功捱過了獨自一人的閉關，而且還贏得了奧斯卡獎一般。那一刻，我欣喜若狂。看到所有的人站在懸崖頂鼓掌歡呼，向我致意，我覺得像個電影明星似的。感覺棒透了。在那一刻我明白了— 挑戰越艱辛，當你終於抵達終點時，成就感也就越大。 現在我想抽點時間來回答各位可能心裡想問的一些有關橫越大海的問題。我最常被問到的問題是：我都吃什麼？一些冷凍脫水食品，但我大部分盡量多吃些未經加工的食物。所以我自己種豆芽。我吃水果和堅果棒，吃很多的堅果，通常在我抵達上岸時我大概瘦了30磅。第二個問題是：我怎麼睡覺？閉著眼睛睡。哈哈。我猜各位想問的是：如果我睡着了，船怎麼辦？嗯，我會事先計畫我的航線，當我在睡覺時，我的船可以順著風向及洋流漂行。運氣好的話，我曾經順著正確的航線漂流了11英里。最糟的時候，我曾經偏離航線13英里之遠。那是最糟糕的一天。我穿什麼衣服？大部分的时候我會戴棒球帽，一副划船手套，還有，面带微笑或是眉頭深鎖，這要看我的船前一晚是否偏離航道。還有厚厚的一層防曬乳液。有護航船跟著我嗎？沒有。在海上我全靠自己一個人。整個航海旅程中我完全沒有和任何人見到面。最後一個問題：我是不是瘋了？這就留給各位看倌來評斷吧。 我怎樣才能超越自己横渡大西洋的記錄?當然囉，我就決定要橫渡太平洋啦。以前我覺得大西洋好大喔，但太平洋才真的是非常，非常的大。我想我們觀看地圖的方式需要一些轉變。不太確定是不是英國人發展出這樣的世界地圖觀，但我猜很有可能，因為英國就在這兒，就在正中央。這張地圖把太平洋給切成兩半而且把它放到了兩邊去了，如果你看看Google Earth的話，太平洋的全貌看起來是樣的。它幾乎覆蓋了半個地球。在上面能够看到一點北美洲下面銀色的部分是澳大利亞。它真的是很大。有6500萬平方英里。想要以直線橫越太平，距離大約是 8,000英里。不幸的是，划船橫渡海洋很少是以直線行進的。當我抵達澳大利亞，如果我順利抵達澳大利亞，我總計大概要划 9,000 到10,000英里。 所有神智清楚的人在划船經過夏威夷時一定會停船靠岸，因此我把這一項非常艱鉅的任務分成三個階段。第一次的嘗試並不順利。在2007年，有一次在24小時内3次翻船。有點像掉進洗衣機裡。我的船受到輕微撞撞擊，我也是。我在部落格寫了這個故事。更慘的是，某個有英雄情節的人認為這個遭遇船難的落難女子需要被拯救。當海岸巡邏隊的飛機在我頭頂盤旋時我才知道有人報警了。我試著請他們離開。我們僵持了一陣子。最後我沒輒了，只好搭上飛機。真是糟糕透頂了。那是我一生中最糟最糟的感覺之一。直昇機的吊掛繩套把我吊起來，我往下看著我的小船在20呎高的大浪裡載浮載沉時心裡想著不知道還能不能再見到它。之後我不得不展開一次所費不貲的打撈作業，然後又等了漫長的九個月才能回到大海繼續横渡太平洋。 能怎麼辦呢?只有屢仆屢起。第二年，我再度出航這一次我幸運的順利抵達夏威夷。但也不是完全一帆風順。我的造水機故障了，這是我船上最重要的裝備。它是靠太陽能板供給電力，將吸入的海水轉變成淡水。泡在海水裡它就無法正常運作，這就是問題所在。很幸運的是，救兵及時出現了。 正好有一艘很特別的船從我旁邊經過他們正在做和我一樣的事情，希望喚起大眾對北太平洋垃圾環流的重視，北太平洋垃圾環流大約有兩個德州那麼大，估計有350萬噸的垃圾，圍繞著北太平洋環流系統的中心打轉。這些人為了表達他們的訴求真的用塑膠垃圾打造了他們的船，他們用15,000空塑膠瓶綁成兩艘駁船。他們航行的速度非常緩慢。所以他們進度落後了。在他們從加州長灘出發後不久，不得不在卡塔利娜島靠岸，因為塑膠瓶的瓶蓋開始鬆了，船開始下沉。所以他們必需得靠岸把瓶蓋固定栓好。 但是正當我的儲水就要用盡時，很幸運的，我們的航線就快交會了。他們快没有食物了，而我快没有水了。我們靠衛星電話取得聯絡，安排見面。花了將近一個禮拜我們才真正會合。我航行的速度慢的可憐只有1.3 海里，他們也好不到哪裡，也只不過1.4海里。就像是兩隻蝸牛在跳求偶舞。終於，我們還是碰頭了，喬伊跳上我的船，為大家釣到了一條好大的鬼頭刀魚，那是我三個月以來吃過最棒的一餐。 運氣很好，那天他釣到的魚比他幾個禮拜前釣到要好的多。當他們把魚剖開時居然發現裡面全是塑膠。這真的很糟糕，因為塑膠是不能被消化的。而且它會釋放出化學毒素進入那些吃了這條魚的可憐的生物體內，接著我們人類又吃這可憐的生物，所以我們的體內也囤積了化學毒素。這對人類的健康有實質的影響。 最後我活著抵達夏威夷。隔年我再度出航繼續橫越太平洋的第二階段，從夏威夷到塔拉瓦。你可以看到塔拉瓦地勢非常的低。就是水平面上那一小段銀綠色的陸地，這使得他們對於海平面的上升十分緊張。對於塔拉瓦人民來說問題可大了。塔拉瓦沒有任何一個地方是高過海平面六英呎的。也因為全球暖化而極劇增加的天候異常，塔拉瓦正面臨越來越多的巨浪侵襲陸地邊緣的岸礁，這麼一來海水將會破壞淡水水源。我曾拜會塔拉瓦總統，他告訴我他們現有的因應方案。他預估在未來的50年內，居住在塔拉瓦的數萬名居民將不得不遷往紐西蘭或是澳大利亞。我不禁聯想要是英國將沉入海中不知道我心中會作何感想。要是我出生，上學，成家的地方，要是這一切都即將永遠的消失，就算只是想像而已，我真不知道自己會有何感受。 很快，我又即將啟航前往澳大利亞。如果我成功了，我將會成為世界第一位單獨划船橫越太平洋的女性。我想用我的行動喚起大家對於環保議題的覺醒，對海洋展現關懷。如果橫越大西洋是我發現自己能力的一趟向內探索的旅程，那麼或許橫越太平洋可以說是一趟向外彰顯的旅程，讓我尋找如何把我熱愛的事業和貢獻服務世界結合在一起，把我在大海上所學到的一切運用在我們人類現在所面臨的狀況中。 我想重點有三個。首先是我們的自我內在對話。有很長很長的時間，我對自己說我不可能去冒險犯難因為我沒有180公分高，既不強壯也沒有鬍子。但是後來，這些想法都改變了。我找到一些曾划船橫越大海的人。我還和其中一位女性見了面，她的個子和我差不多。即使我沒長高，也沒長鬍子，有一些東西改變了，我內心的自我對話改變了。現在，我們大家認為我們需要這些東西，我們需要石油。但是要是我們肯改變我們的想法呢？我們當然還有别的選擇，我們有自由選擇的力量，可以選擇那些替代燃料，永續性的燃料創造一個更綠色的未來。 第二個重點是許多小小的行動所匯聚的力量。大家可能會想我一個人的小小行動不過就像是茫茫大海中的一滴水滴，改變不了什麼。但是小小的行動的確可以產生轉變。是的，我們是沒有直接造成這些重大災難。像是艾克森瓦帝茲號漏油事件和車諾比爾核能電廠災變，但這些事故主要是因為一連串由幾十億人日復一日，年復一年累積的錯誤決定所造成的。所以，同樣地，我們可以力挽狂潮。我們可以開始做出更好，更明智，更永續的決定。當我們開始這樣做，我們絕對不是孤軍奮鬥。這會引起漣漪效應。假如在超市的結帳隊伍裡，你拿出自己的環保購物袋，其他人會看到的。或許如果我們全部都開始這麼做，那麼整個社會可能會接受在超市結帳時不使用塑膠袋。這只是一個例子。我們是一個地球村。 另一個重點是：是關於承擔責任的問題。我大半輩子裡，總是想著要得到一些東西來讓我快樂。我以為如果我生命中擁有好房子，好車子，或好男人，那我就會心滿意足了，但是當我在寫自己的訃文時，那一刻我發現自己又成熟了一點我明白未來是要自己去創造的。我不能只是消極的等待幸福自己送上門。我想我是個自私的環保運動者。我想要長命百歲，到我90歲的時候，我還想要健康快樂的活著。可是當這個地球上處處有饑荒和旱災肆虐時你很難快樂起來。當我們污染這個地球上的海洋和空氣時你很難活的健康。 不久之後，我即將開始推動一項叫做＜環保英雄＞的新運動。這個運動的構想是每位環保英雄每天至少都要上網寫下一件所做的環保的行為。這有點像遊戲一般。我們將寫一個＜環保英雄＞iPhone的應用程式。我們只是努力試著喚起環保意識，當然啦，換一個燈泡並不會改變世界，但是保護環境的心態，這樣的環保意識讓你改換節能燈泡或是帶自己的環保杯，這樣的態度可以改變世界。 我深信我們現在正處於歷史上一個非常重要的關鍵點。我們是有選擇的，過去我們所享有的福佑，或受到的災禍，也是我們選擇。我們可以選擇一個更綠色的未來。如果我們同心協力，一步一腳印，這是指日可待的。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
