Talk	en	zh-tw
ryan_merkley_online_video_annotated_remixed_and_popped	To understand the world that live in, we tell stories. And while remixing and sharing have come to define the web as we know it, all of us can now be part of that story through simple tools that allow us to make things online. But video has been left out. It arrived on the web in a small box, and there it has remained, completely disconnected from the data and the content all around it. In fact, in over a decade on the web, the only thing that has changed about video is the size of the box and the quality of the picture. Popcorn changes all of that. It's an online tool that allows anyone to combine video with content pulled live directly from the web. Videos created with Popcorn behave like the web itself: dynamic, full of links, and completely remixable, and finally allowed to break free from the frame. I want to give you a demo of a prototype that we're working on that we'll launch later this fall. It will be completely free, and it will work in any browser. So, every Popcorn production begins with the video, and so I've made a short, 20-second clip using a newscaster template that we use in workshops. So let's watch it. We'll go back, and I'll show you how we made it. Hi, and welcome to my newscast. I've added my location with a Google Map, and it's live, so try moving it around. You can add pop-ups with live links and custom icons, or pull in content from any web service, like Flickr, or add articles and blog posts with links out to the full content. So let's go back, and I'll show you what you saw. There was a lot there. So this is the timeline, and if you've ever edited video, you're familiar with this, but instead of clips in the timeline, what you're looking at is web events pulled into the video. Now in this Popcorn production we've got the title card, we've got a Google Map that shows up picture-in-picture, then Popcorn lets it push outside the frame and take over the whole screen. There are two pop-ups bringing you some other information, and a final article with a link out to the original article. Let's go to this Google Map, and I'll show you how you can edit it. All you do, go into the timeline, double-click the item, and I've set it to Toronto, because that's where I'm from. Let's set it to something else. Popcorn immediately goes out onto the web, talks to Google, grabs the map, and puts it in the display. And it's exactly the same for the people who watch your production. And it's live. It's not an image. So you click on it, you zoom in, right down to street view if you want to. Now in the video, I mentioned adding a live feed, which we can do right now, so let's add a live feed from Flickr. Go over to the right-hand side, grab Flickr from the list of options, drag it into the timeline, and put it where you'd like it to go, and it immediately goes out to Flickr and starts pulling in images based on the tags. Now, my developers really like ponies, and so they've set that as the default tag. Let's try something else, maybe something a bit more relevant to today. Now here are live images being pulled straight from the feed. If you come and watch this a week from now, this will be completely different, dynamic, just like the web, and just like the web, everything is sourced, so click your link, and you go straight to Flickr and see the source image. Everything you've seen today is built with the basic building blocks of the web: HTML, CSS and JavaScript. That means it's completely remixable. It also means there's no proprietary software. All you need is a web browser. So imagine if every video that we watched on the web worked like the web, completely remixable, linked to its source content, and interactive for everyone who views it. I think Popcorn could change the way that we tell stories on the web, and the way we understand the world we live in. Thank you. (Applause)	想要了解我們生活的世界，我們說故事當混搭與分享定義了我們所知的網路網絡，就如同我們所知道的每個人都可以成為故事的一部份透過讓我們在網路上創作的簡單工具但是影片被遺漏了他以小方框內的姿態抵達網路就此停留，與周遭的資訊與內容完全脫離事實上，網路這十年來唯一改變的只有影片框格大小以及畫面的品質 Popcorn 改變了一切它是個線上工具讓任何人可以將影片結合網路上的即時內容透過 Popcorn 製作的影片如同網路自身：動態、充滿連結、完全得以混搭而且終於能夠跳脫外框 在此我向各位展示開發中將在今年秋天釋出的原型完全免費，相容於任何瀏覽器所有 Popcorn 作品都從單一影片開始所以我錄製了一個 20 秒的短片使用我們工作坊中使用的新聞臺模板先看看成品，然後再回頭說明如何製作 嗨！歡迎來到我的新聞時間我透過 Google 地圖指出所在地他是即時的，你可以移動看看你可以跳出訊息，內含超連結及自訂圖示或者從任何網路服務導入內容，例如 Flickr 相簿或者增加文章與部落格，搭配原文連結 現在讓我們從頭回看剛剛的影片這是時間軸，如果你曾編輯過影片，應該很熟悉但是上頭的不是影片而是加入影片中的網路事件在這個 Popcorn 作品中，我們加入了標題圖卡以子畫面的方式顯示 Google MapPopcorn 接著讓它跳出外框佔滿整個螢幕兩個跳出訊息帶出其他資訊最後是附加原文連結的一則短文 我們打開這個 Google 地圖，示範該如何編輯你應該指向時間軸，雙點一個物件我將他設定在多倫多，那是我的來處我們把它設定到別的地方Popcorn 即時地連接上網路跟 Google 聯繫、取回地圖，將它顯示出來與觀看你作品的人有完全一樣的效果它是即時的，不只是一張圖片；你可以點擊如果你想的話，一直放大到街景視點 在影片中我提到可以加入即時資訊現在我們就來試試從右手邊的選項中選擇 Flickr拉到時間軸上放到你想要的地方它會馬上連接 Flickr，根據設定的標籤擷取相片我們的開發者很喜歡小馬，所以把小馬作為預設標籤我們來試試其他的或許來一些跟今天比較有關的這是即時從資訊串流擷取的圖片如果你在一星期後觀看結果將會完全不同與網路一樣動態、且所有東西都有來源點擊這個連結，就會開啟 Flickr 上的原始圖片 今天你所看到的一切，都由基礎的網路元素組成HTML、CSS 及 JavaScript代表這全然得以混搭也代表其中完全沒有專利軟體你只需要網路瀏覽器 想像所有網路上所看到的影片都像網路一樣運作：連結到原始內容與所有觀看者互動我想 Popcorn 可以我們了解居住的世界的方法謝謝
