Talk	en	zh-tw
safwat_saleem_why_i_keep_speaking_up_even_when_people_mock_my_accent	"I used to have this recurring dream where I'd walk into a roomful of people, and I'd try not to make eye contact with anyone. Until someone notices me, and I just panic. And the person walks up to me, and says, ""Hi, my name is So-and-so. And what is your name?"" And I'm just quiet, unable to respond. After some awkward silence, he goes, ""Have you forgotten your name?"" And I'm still quiet. And then, slowly, all the other people in the room begin to turn toward me and ask, almost in unison, (Voice-over, several voices) ""Have you forgotten your name?"" As the chant gets louder, I want to respond, but I don't. I'm a visual artist. Some of my work is humorous, and some is a bit funny but in a sad way. And one thing that I really enjoy doing is making these little animations where I get to do the voice-over for all kinds of characters. I've been a bear. (Video) Bear (Safwat Saleem's voice): Hi. (Laughter) Safwat Saleem: I've been a whale. (Video) Whale (SS's voice): Hi. (Laughter) SS: I've been a greeting card. (Video) Greeting card (SS's voice): Hi. (Laughter) SS: And my personal favorite is Frankenstein's monster. (Video) Frankenstein's monster (SS's voice): (Grunts) (Laughter) SS: I just had to grunt a lot for that one. A few years ago, I made this educational video about the history of video games. And for that one, I got to do the voice of Space Invader. (Video) Space Invader (SS's voice): Hi. SS: A dream come true, really, (Laughter) And when that video was posted online, I just sat there on the computer, hitting ""refresh,"" excited to see the response. The first comment comes in. (Video) Comment: Great job. SS: Yes! I hit ""refresh."" (Video) Comment: Excellent video. I look forward to the next one. SS: This was just the first of a two-part video. I was going to work on the second one next. I hit ""refresh."" (Video) Comment: Where is part TWO? WHEREEEEE? I need it NOWWWWW!: P (Laughter) SS: People other than my mom were saying nice things about me, on the Internet! It felt like I had finally arrived. I hit ""refresh."" (Video) Comment: His voice is annoying. No offense. SS: OK, no offense taken. Refresh. (Video) Comment: Could you remake this without peanut butter in your mouth? SS: OK, at least the feedback is somewhat constructive. Hit ""refresh."" (Video) Comment: Please don't use this narrator again u can barely understand him. SS: Refresh. (Video) Comment: Couldn't follow because of the Indian accent. SS: OK, OK, OK, two things. Number one, I don't have an Indian accent, I have a Pakistani accent, OK? And number two, I clearly have a Pakistani accent. (Laughter) But comments like that kept coming in, so I figured I should just ignore them and start working on the second part of the video. I recorded my audio, but every time I sat down to edit, I just could not do it. Every single time, it would take me back to my childhood, when I had a much harder time speaking. I've stuttered for as long as I can remember. I was the kid in class who would never raise his hand when he had a question — or knew the answer. Every time the phone rang, I would run to the bathroom so I would not have to answer it. If it was for me, my parents would say I'm not around. I spent a lot of time in the bathroom. And I hated introducing myself, especially in groups. I'd always stutter on my name, and there was usually someone who'd go, ""Have you forgotten your name?"" And then everybody would laugh. That joke never got old. (Laughter) I spent my childhood feeling that if I spoke, it would become obvious that there was something wrong with me, that I was not normal. So I mostly stayed quiet. And so you see, eventually for me to even be able to use my voice in my work was a huge step for me. Every time I record audio, I fumble my way through saying each sentence many, many times, and then I go back in and pick the ones where I think I suck the least. (Voice-over) SS: Audio editing is like Photoshop for your voice. I can slow it down, speed it up, make it deeper, add an echo. And if I stutter along the way, and if I stutter along the way, I just go back in and fix it. It's magic. SS: Using my highly edited voice in my work was a way for me to finally sound normal to myself. But after the comments on the video, it no longer made me feel normal. And so I stopped using my voice in my work. Since then, I've thought a lot about what it means to be normal. And I've come to understand that ""normal"" has a lot to do with expectations. Let me give you an example. I came across this story about the Ancient Greek writer, Homer. Now, Homer mentions very few colors in his writing. And even when he does, he seems to get them quite a bit wrong. For example, the sea is described as wine red, people's faces are sometimes green and sheep are purple. But it's not just Homer. If you look at all of the ancient literature — Ancient Chinese, Icelandic, Greek, Indian and even the original Hebrew Bible — they all mention very few colors. And the most popular theory for why that might be the case is that cultures begin to recognize a color only once they have the ability to make that color. So basically, if you can make a color, only then can you see it. A color like red, which was fairly easy for many cultures to make — they began to see that color fairly early on. But a color like blue, which was much harder to make — many cultures didn't begin to learn how to make that color until much later. They didn't begin to see it until much later as well. So until then, even though a color might be all around them, they simply did not have the ability to see it. It was invisIble. It was not a part of their normal. And that story has helped put my own experience into context. So when I first read the comments on the video, my initial reaction was to take it all very personally. But the people commenting did not know how self-conscious I am about my voice. They were mostly reacting to my accent, that it is not normal for a narrator to have an accent. But what is normal, anyway? We know that reviewers will find more spelling errors in your writing if they think you're black. We know that professors are less likely to help female or minority students. And we know that resumes with white-sounding names get more callbacks than resumes with black-sounding names. Why is that? Because of our expectations of what is normal. We think it is normal when a black student has spelling errors. We think it is normal when a female or minority student does not succeed. And we think it is normal that a white employee is a better hire than a black employee. But studies also show that discrimination of this kind, in most cases, is simply favoritism, and it results more from wanting to help people that you can relate to than the desire to harm people that you can't relate to. And not relating to people starts at a very early age. Let me give you an example. One library that keeps track of characters in the children's book collection every year, found that in 2014, only about 11 percent of the books had a character of color. And just the year before, that number was about eight percent, even though half of American children today come from a minority background. Half. So there are two big issues here. Number one, children are told that they can be anything, they can do anything, and yet, most stories that children of color consume are about people who are not like them. Number two is that majority groups don't get to realize the great extent to which they are similar to minorities — our everyday experiences, our hopes, our dreams, our fears and our mutual love for hummus. It's delicious! (Laughter) Just like the color blue for Ancient Greeks, minorities are not a part of what we consider normal, because normal is simply a construction of what we've been exposed to, and how visible it is around us. And this is where things get a bit difficult. I can accept the preexisting notion of normal — that normal is good, and anything outside of that very narrow definition of normal is bad. Or I can challenge that preexisting notion of normal with my work and with my voice and with my accent and by standing here onstage, even though I'm scared shitless and would rather be in the bathroom. (Laughter) (Applause) (Video) Sheep (SS's voice): I'm now slowly starting to use my voice in my work again. And it feels good. It does not mean I won't have a breakdown the next time a couple dozen people say that I talk (Mumbling) like I have peanut butter in my mouth. (Laughter) SS: It just means I now have a much better understanding of what's at stake, and how giving up is not an option. The Ancient Greeks didn't just wake up one day and realize that the sky was blue. It took centuries, even, for humans to realize what we had been ignoring for so long. And so we must continuously challenge our notion of normal, because doing so is going to allow us as a society to finally see the sky for what it is. (Video) Characters: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Frankenstein's monster: (Grunts) (Laughter) SS: Thank you. (Applause)"	我以前常常反覆的做一個同樣的夢。在夢裏，我走進一個擠滿人的房間。我試著不跟任何人有目光上的接觸。這樣一直到有人注意到我，我驚慌極了。這個人走向我說：“嗨，我叫某某，你呢？”但我只是靜靜的，無法回應。經過一陣尷尬的沉默，他問：“你忘了自己的名字嗎？”但我還是只是靜靜的.然後慢慢的，在房間裏其他所有的人，開始慢慢轉向我，幾乎是齊聲一起問我： （許多聲音重疊） “你忘記自己的名字了嗎？”就當這個重覆口號越來越大聲時，我想反應，但我沒有。 我是一個視覺藝術家。我的有些作品是詼諧的有些則是有趣中帶點感傷。有一件我非常喜欢做的事情就是制作這些動畫短片。因爲我可以爲不同的角色配旁白。我當過熊。 （視頻）熊（Safwat Saleem 的聲音）：嗨。 （笑聲） Safwat Saleem: 我當過鯨魚。 （視頻）鯨魚 （SS 的聲音）：嗨。 （笑聲） SS: 我當過贺卡。 （視頻）贺卡（SS 的聲音）：嗨。 （笑聲） SS：我自己最喜歡的是科學怪人。 （視頻）科學怪人（SS 的聲音）：咕噥呼嚕聲 （笑聲） SS：這個角色我真得發出許多咕噥呼嚕聲。 幾年前，我製作了一個教育性的視頻內容是有關電玩歷史。在那視頻，我是太空侵略者的配音。 （視頻）太空侵略者 （SS 的聲音）：嗨。 SS：真是夢想成真！ （笑聲）當那個視頻上網時，我就只坐在電腦前 , 一直接按 '網頁刷新'。興奮的想看網友的回應。第一個評論上網了。 （視頻) 評論：做得好。SS : 太好了!我再按 '網頁刷新'。 （視頻) 評論：很棒的視頻。我很期待下一個作品。 SS: 這還只是兩部分視頻的頭一部分。我還要繼續製作第二部分。我再按 ‘綱頁刷新‵。 (視頻)評論: 第二部在那裏?那那那裏裏?我現在就要! :P （笑聲） SS: 除了我媽以外,在網上的其他人都讚美我!這讓我覺得我終於做到了!我再按 ‘綱頁刷新‵。 (視頻)評論: 他的聲音有點惹人厭。不要見怪。 SS: 沒有見怪。刷新綱頁。 (視頻)評論: 可以重作這部視頻？這次不要有花生醬在嘴裡嗎？ SS: 好吧。至少是個有建設性的回饋。按 ‘綱頁刷新‵。 (視頻)評論: 拜託不要再用這個解說員。幾乎聽不懂他說的話。 SS: 刷新綱頁。 (視頻)評論: 沒有辦法理解他的印度口音。 SS: 好好好，兩件事情需要釐清一下。第一：我沒有印度口音，我有的是巴勒斯坦的，好嗎？第二：我有明明就的是巴勒斯坦的。 （笑聲） 但這樣的評論一直出現，所以我想我該不於理會，繼續影片的第二部分。我錄下我的音頻，但每當我一坐下來剪輯時，我就是做不到。因為這總會讓我回想到我的童年，那時與人談話。更為困難。 自我有記憶以來，我就有口吃的毛病。在班上我總是那個即使有問題也不舉手問，或知道答案也不回答的孩子。每當電話響起，我就跑到浴室去。這樣我就不用接電話。若是找我的，我父母會說我不在。我在浴室度過了許多時間。我厭惡做自我介紹，尤其是在群體裡。我總結結巴巴的說我的名字；也總有那一兩個人會問：“你忘記了自己的名字嗎？”然後大家都笑成一團。這個笑話永遠不會過時。 （笑聲） 我度過童年自覺著，只要我一開口，別人就會很明顯看出我的問題，我的不一樣。因此大部分時我總是安安靜靜的。因此，演變到後來，即使當我在工作上要用我的聲音時，對我而言都是很大的挑戰。每次我錄音時，我結結巴巴，笨拙地將每個句子說很多很多次。在我檢視時，我再挑選出我覺得是最可以的。 （旁白）SS: 剪輯音頻就像是為你的聲音修圖。我可以將它放慢，加快，讓它變深沉，或加上回音。如果我口吃，如果我口吃我只要回頭修飾。就像變摩魔法一樣。 SS：在工作裏，用我高度修飾過的聲音，對我而言，是讓我自己，終於可以聽起來像正常人一樣。但在看了視頻上的評論後，這個辦法不管用了。所以我不再在工作中用我的聲音。從那時候起，我開始思考許多有關 '正常的定義。'我從而瞭解所謂'正常'其實是與期待息息相關。 舉例而言：我無意間看到這個有關古希臘作家，荷馬的故事。荷馬在他的作品，僅用少許顏色來描繪事物。即便他用到時，差錯似乎也很大。譬如說，海被形容成酒紅色的，人的臉是有時是綠色的，而羊則是紫色。但這不只有荷馬這樣寫，如果你看所有古代文學－古中國的，冰島的，希臘的，印度的，甚至原始的新約聖經，它們都只用的幾種顏色而已。在眾多解釋中，最被結受的理論認為文化只能在它有能力製造某種顏色時，才能開始辨認那種顏色。基本上，你要有能力製造那個顏色，才能看得到那顏色。像紅色這顏色，對許多文化而言，因滿容易被製作的，在滿早時，許多文化就已認得了。但藍色，則因製作比較困難，許多文化一直到滿晚期時，才開始學習如何製造藍色。人們也因此一直到晚期，才開始認得這個顏色。在這之前，即便顏色已存在人們的週遭，因他們沒有能力辨識那個顏色，它等於是無形的。因為它不是所謂常態的一部分。 這個故事幫我把我的經歷前後連貫起來。在我一開始看視頻上的評論時，我最初的反應是，把它們看成是人身攻擊。但寫評論的人並不知道我對自己的聲音有多難為情。他們大都只是針對我的口音，因為一個解說員有口音並不尋常。 但究竟什麼是 '正常'？我們知道，如果評論家認為你是黑人的話，他們會在你的寫作中，找出較多的拼字錯誤。我們知道，教授比較不會幫助女性或少數民族學生。我們也知道，履歷表有聽起來像白人名字的，比其他聽起來像黑人的，有較高的覆試機會。但為什麼是這樣呢？這是因為我們對所謂 '正常'的預期。我們認為，當黑人學生有拼字錯誤時，是正常的。我們認為，當女性或少數民族學生失敗時，是正常的。而我們也認為，白人員工比黑人工員是較好的雇員選擇。但研究指出，這種歧見在大部分的案例中，其實只是偏好的選擇，這是跟因我們較想協助跟我們有關聯的人，而產生的結果。而非源於那些想傷害與己無關的人的欲望。 這種偏好選擇，在我們很小時就開始了。讓我舉例說明。一個每年監測兒童圖書中角色的圖書館，在2014年發現，在書中，只有百分之十一是以有色人種為角色。在前一年中，甚至只有百分之八而已，即使在今天，有一半的美國兒童是來自少數民族的家庭背景。一半！ 所以這引起兩個很大的爭議。第一個：一方面孩童總被告知，他們可以當任何人，做任何事。但在另一方面，在大部分的故事裡，有色兒童讀到的是跟他們不一樣的人。第二點：多數民族團體並不瞭解，在很多方面，他們和少數民族團體是很相似的。我們的日常經驗，我們的希望，我們的夢想，我們的恐懼及我們的對鷹嘴豆沙共同的熱愛。好吃極了！ （笑聲） 就像藍色對古希臘一樣，少數群體並非我們所謂 '常態 ' 的一部分。因為所謂 '常態 ' 只不過是我們已知的構造，及它在我們的週遭的明顯度而已。 這也是事情變得有點難解的地方。我可以就接受已存在的 '常態' 是好的概念；其他任何在那狹隘定義外的 '常態' ，都是不好的。或者我也可以質疑這已存在的常態概念用我的工作，我的聲音，及我的口音，甚至以僅僅站在台上。即使事實上我怕的要死，寧可躲在浴室裏。 （笑聲） （鼓掌） (視頻）綿羊（SS的聲音)：我又慢慢開始在我的工作用我的聲音這感覺很好。這不代表，我就不會再崩潰，當下次又有若干人說我講話（含糊不清）像是有花生醬在嘴裏。 （笑聲） SS: 這只表示我現在比較能體會牽涉在內的成敗關係，及放棄不是之一的選擇。 古希臘也不是一天醒來後，就領悟到天空是藍色的。而是經過好幾世紀，人類才體會到我們長久以來所忽視的。所以我們必須繼續質問這所謂常態的概念。因為這樣做，才能讓身為社會一份子的我們，終能看見天空真實的樣子。 （視頻）角色：謝謝。謝謝。謝謝。謝謝。謝謝。科學怪人：（咕噥） （笑聲） SS: 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
