Talk	en	zh-tw
salman_khan_let_s_use_video_to_reinvent_education	"Khan Academy is most known for its collection of videos, so before I go any further, let me show you a little bit of a montage. (Video) Salman Khan: So the hypotenuse is now going to be five. This animal's fossils are only found in this area of South America — a nice clean band here — and this part of Africa. We can integrate over the surface, and the notation usually is a capital sigma. National Assembly: They create the Committee of Public Safety, which sounds like a very nice committee. Notice, this is an aldehyde, and it's an alcohol. Start differentiating into effector and memory cells. A galaxy. Hey! There's another galaxy. Oh, look! There's another galaxy. And for dollars, is their 30 million, plus the 20 million dollars from the American manufacturer. If this does not blow your mind, then you have no emotion. (Laughter) (Applause) (Live) SK: We now have on the order of 2,200 videos, covering everything from basic arithmetic, all the way to vector calculus, and some of the stuff that you saw up there. We have a million students a month using the site, watching on the order of 100 to 200,000 videos a day. But what we're going to talk about in this is how we're going to the next level. But before I do that, I want to talk a little bit about really just how I got started. And some of you all might know, about five years ago, I was an analyst at a hedge fund, and I was in Boston, and I was tutoring my cousins in New Orleans, remotely. And I started putting the first YouTube videos up, really just as a kind of nice-to-have, just kind of a supplement for my cousins, something that might give them a refresher or something. And as soon as I put those first YouTube videos up, something interesting happened. Actually, a bunch of interesting things happened. The first was the feedback from my cousins. They told me that they preferred me on YouTube than in person. (Laughter) And once you get over the backhanded nature of that, there was actually something very profound there. They were saying that they preferred the automated version of their cousin to their cousin. At first it's very unintuitive, but when you think about it from their point of view, it makes a ton of sense. You have this situation where now they can pause and repeat their cousin, without feeling like they're wasting my time. If they have to review something that they should have learned a couple of weeks ago, or maybe a couple of years ago, they don't have to be embarrassed and ask their cousin. They can just watch those videos; if they're bored, they can go ahead. They can watch at their own time and pace. Probably the least-appreciated aspect of this is the notion that the very first time that you're trying to get your brain around a new concept, the very last thing you need is another human being saying, ""Do you understand this?"" And that's what was happening with the interaction with my cousins before, and now they can just do it in the intimacy of their own room. The other thing that happened is — I put them on YouTube just — I saw no reason to make it private, so I let other people watch it, and then people started stumbling on it, and I started getting some comments and some letters and all sorts of feedback from random people around the world. These are just a few. This is actually from one of the original calculus videos. Someone wrote it on YouTube, it was a YouTube comment: ""First time I smiled doing a derivative."" (Laughter) Let's pause here. This person did a derivative, and then they smiled. (Laughter) In response to that same comment — this is on the thread, you can go on YouTube and look at the comments — someone else wrote: ""Same thing here. I actually got a natural high and a good mood for the entire day, since I remember seeing all of this matrix text in class, and here I'm all like, 'I know kung fu.'"" (Laughter) We get a lot of feedback along those lines. This clearly was helping people. But then, as the viewership kept growing and kept growing, I started getting letters from people, and it was starting to become clear that it was more than just a nice-to-have. This is just an excerpt from one of those letters: ""My 12 year-old son has autism, and has had a terrible time with math. We have tried everything, viewed everything, bought everything. We stumbled on your video on decimals, and it got through. Then we went on to the dreaded fractions. Again, he got it. We could not believe it. He is so excited."" And so you can imagine, here I was, an analyst at a hedge fund — it was very strange for me to do something of social value. (Laughter) (Applause) But I was excited, so I kept going. And then a few other things started to dawn on me; that not only would it help my cousins right now, or these people who were sending letters, but that this content will never grow old, that it could help their kids or their grandkids. If Isaac Newton had done YouTube videos on calculus, I wouldn't have to. (Laughter) Assuming he was good. We don't know. (Laughter) The other thing that happened — and even at this point, I said, ""OK, maybe it's a good supplement. It's good for motivated students. It's good for maybe home-schoolers."" But I didn't think it would somehow penetrate the classroom. Then I started getting letters from teachers, and the teachers would write, saying, ""We've used your videos to flip the classroom. You've given the lectures, so now what we do —"" And this could happen in every classroom in America tomorrow — ""what I do is I assign the lectures for homework, and what used to be homework, I now have the students doing in the classroom."" And I want to pause here — (Applause) I want to pause here, because there's a couple of interesting things. One, when those teachers are doing that, there's the obvious benefit — the benefit that now their students can enjoy the videos in the way that my cousins did, they can pause, repeat at their own pace, at their own time. But the more interesting thing — and this is the unintuitive thing when you talk about technology in the classroom — by removing the one-size-fits-all lecture from the classroom, and letting students have a self-paced lecture at home, then when you go to the classroom, letting them do work, having the teacher walk around, having the peers actually be able to interact with each other, these teachers have used technology to humanize the classroom. They took a fundamentally dehumanizing experience — 30 kids with their fingers on their lips, not allowed to interact with each other. A teacher, no matter how good, has to give this one-size-fits-all lecture to 30 students — blank faces, slightly antagonistic — and now it's a human experience, now they're actually interacting with each other. So once the Khan Academy — I quit my job, and we turned into a real organization — we're a not-for-profit — the question is, how do we take this to the next level? How do we take what those teachers were doing to its natural conclusion? And so, what I'm showing over here, these are actual exercises that I started writing for my cousins. The ones I started were much more primitive. This is a more competent version of it. But the paradigm here is, we'll generate as many questions as you need, until you get that concept, until you get 10 in a row. And the Khan Academy videos are there. You get hints, the actual steps for that problem, if you don't know how to do it. The paradigm here seems like a very simple thing: 10 in a row, you move on. But it's fundamentally different than what's happening in classrooms right now. In a traditional classroom, you have homework, lecture, homework, lecture, and then you have a snapshot exam. And that exam, whether you get a 70 percent, an 80 percent, a 90 percent or a 95 percent, the class moves on to the next topic. And even that 95 percent student — what was the five percent they didn't know? Maybe they didn't know what happens when you raise something to the zeroth power. Then you build on that in the next concept. That's analogous to — imagine learning to ride a bicycle. Maybe I give you a lecture ahead of time, and I give you a bicycle for two weeks, then I come back after two weeks, and say, ""Well, let's see. You're having trouble taking left turns. You can't quite stop. You're an 80 percent bicyclist."" So I put a big ""C"" stamp on your forehead — (Laughter) and then I say, ""Here's a unicycle."" (Laughter) But as ridiculous as that sounds, that's exactly what's happening in our classrooms right now. And the idea is you fast forward and good students start failing algebra all of the sudden, and start failing calculus all of the sudden, despite being smart, despite having good teachers, and it's usually because they have these Swiss cheese gaps that kept building throughout their foundation. So our model is: learn math the way you'd learn anything, like riding a bicycle. Stay on that bicycle. Fall off that bicycle. Do it as long as necessary, until you have mastery. The traditional model, it penalizes you for experimentation and failure, but it does not expect mastery. We encourage you to experiment. We encourage you to fail. But we do expect mastery. This is just another one of the modules. This is trigonometry. This is shifting and reflecting functions. And they all fit together. We have about 90 of these right now. You can go to the site right now, it's all free, not trying to sell anything. But the general idea is that they all fit into this knowledge map. That top node right there, that's literally single-digit addition, it's like one plus one is equal to two. The paradigm is, once you get 10 in a row on that, it keeps forwarding you to more and more advanced modules. Further down the knowledge map, we're getting into more advanced arithmetic. Further down, you start getting into pre-algebra and early algebra. Further down, you start getting into algebra one, algebra two, a little bit of precalculus. And the idea is, from this we can actually teach everything — well, everything that can be taught in this type of a framework. So you can imagine — and this is what we are working on — from this knowledge map, you have logic, you have computer programming, you have grammar, you have genetics, all based off of that core of, if you know this and that, now you're ready for this next concept. Now that can work well for an individual learner, and I encourage you to do it with your kids, but I also encourage everyone in the audience to do it yourself. It'll change what happens at the dinner table. But what we want to do is use the natural conclusion of the flipping of the classroom that those early teachers had emailed me about. And so what I'm showing you here, this is data from a pilot in the Los Altos school district, where they took two fifth-grade classes and two seventh-grade classes, and completely gutted their old math curriculum. These kids aren't using textbooks, or getting one-size-fits-all lectures. They're doing Khan Academy, that software, for roughly half of their math class. I want to be clear: we don't view this as a complete math education. What it does is — this is what's happening in Los Altos — it frees up time — it's the blocking and tackling, making sure you know how to move through a system of equations, and it frees up time for the simulations, for the games, for the mechanics, for the robot-building, for the estimating how high that hill is based on its shadow. And so the paradigm is the teacher walks in every day, every kid works at their own pace — this is actually a live dashboard from the Los Altos school district — and they look at this dashboard. Every row is a student. Every column is one of those concepts. Green means the student's already proficient. Blue means they're working on it — no need to worry. Red means they're stuck. And what the teacher does is literally just say, ""Let me intervene on the red kids."" Or even better, ""Let me get one of the green kids, who are already proficient in that concept, to be the first line of attack, and actually tutor their peer."" (Applause) Now, I come from a very data-centric reality, so we don't want that teacher to even go and intervene and have to ask the kid awkward questions: ""What don't you understand? What do you understand?"" and all the rest. So our paradigm is to arm teachers with as much data as possible — data that, in any other field, is expected, in finance, marketing, manufacturing — so the teachers can diagnose what's wrong with the students so they can make their interaction as productive as possible. Now teachers know exactly what the students have been up to, how long they've spent each day, what videos they've watched, when did they pause the videos, what did they stop watching, what exercises are they using, what have they focused on? The outer circle shows what exercises they were focused on. The inner circle shows the videos they're focused on. The data gets pretty granular, so you can see the exact problems the student got right or wrong. Red is wrong, blue is right. The leftmost question is the first one the student attempted. They watched the video over there. And you can see, eventually they were able to get 10 in a row. It's almost like you can see them learning over those last 10 problems. They also got faster — the height is how long it took them. When you talk about self-paced learning, it makes sense for everyone — in education-speak, ""differentiated learning"" — but it's kind of crazy, what happens when you see it in a classroom. Because every time we've done this, in every classroom we've done, over and over again, if you go five days into it, there's a group of kids who've raced ahead and a group who are a little bit slower. In a traditional model, in a snapshot assessment, you say, ""These are the gifted kids, these are the slow kids. Maybe they should be tracked differently. Maybe we should put them in different classes."" But when you let students work at their own pace — we see it over and over again — you see students who took a little bit extra time on one concept or the other, but once they get through that concept, they just race ahead. And so the same kids that you thought were slow six weeks ago, you now would think are gifted. And we're seeing it over and over again. It makes you really wonder how much all of the labels maybe a lot of us have benefited from were really just due to a coincidence of time. Now as valuable as something like this is in a district like Los Altos, our goal is to use technology to humanize, not just in Los Altos, but on a global scale, what's happening in education. And that brings up an interesting point. A lot of the effort in humanizing the classroom is focused on student-to-teacher ratios. In our mind, the relevant metric is: student-to-valuable-human-time- with-the-teacher ratio. So in a traditional model, most of the teacher's time is spent doing lectures and grading and whatnot. Maybe five percent of their time is sitting next to students and working with them. Now, 100 percent of their time is. So once again, using technology, not just flipping the classroom, you're humanizing the classroom, I'd argue, by a factor of five or 10. As valuable as that is in Los Altos, imagine what it does to the adult learner, who's embarrassed to go back and learn stuff they should have known before going back to college. Imagine what it does to a street kid in Calcutta, who has to help his family during the day, and that's the reason he or she can't go to school. Now they can spend two hours a day and remediate, or get up to speed and not feel embarrassed about what they do or don't know. Now imagine what happens where — we talked about the peers teaching each other inside of a classroom. But this is all one system. There's no reason why you can't have that peer-to-peer tutoring beyond that one classroom. Imagine what happens if that student in Calcutta all of the sudden can tutor your son, or your son can tutor that kid in Calcutta. And I think what you'll see emerging is this notion of a global one-world classroom. And that's essentially what we're trying to build. Thank you. (Applause) Bill Gates: I'll ask about two or three questions. Salman Khan: Oh, OK. (Applause continues) (Applause ends) BG: I've seen some things you're doing in the system, that have to do with motivation and feedback — energy points, merit badges. Tell me what you're thinking there. SK: Oh yeah. No, we have an awesome team working on it. I have to be clear, it's not just me anymore. I'm still doing all the videos, but we have a rock-star team doing the software. We've put a bunch of game mechanics in there, where you get badges, we're going to start having leader boards by area, you get points. It's actually been pretty interesting. Just the wording of the badging, or how many points you get for doing something, we see on a system-wide basis, like tens of thousands of fifth-graders or sixth-graders going one direction or another, depending what badge you give them. (Laughter) BG: And the collaboration you're doing with Los Altos, how did that come about? SK: Los Altos, it was kind of crazy. Once again, I didn't expect it to be used in classrooms. Someone from their board came and said, ""What would you do if you had carte Blanche in a classroom?"" I said, ""Well, every student would work at their own pace, on something like this, we'd give a dashboard."" They said, ""This is kind of radical. We have to think about it."" Me and the rest of the team were like, ""They're never going to want to do this."" But literally the next day they were like, ""Can you start in two weeks?"" (Laughter) BG: So fifth-grade math is where that's going on right now? SK: It's two fifth-grade classes and two seventh-grade classes. They're doing it at the district level. I think what they're excited about is they can follow these kids, not only in school; on Christmas, we saw some of the kids were doing it. We can track everything, track them as they go through the entire district. Through the summers, as they go from one teacher to the next, you have this continuity of data that even at the district level, they can see. BG: So some of those views we saw were for the teacher to go in and track actually what's going on with those kids. So you're getting feedback on those teacher views to see what they think they need? SK: Oh yeah. Most of those were specs by the teachers. We made some of those for students so they could see their data, but we have a very tight design loop with the teachers themselves. And they're saying, ""Hey, this is nice, but —"" Like that focus graph, a lot of the teachers said, ""I have a feeling a lot of the kids are jumping around and not focusing on one topic."" So we made that focus diagram. So it's all been teacher-driven. It's been pretty crazy. BG: Is this ready for prime time? Do you think a lot of classes next school year should try this thing out? SK: Yeah, it's ready. We've got a million people on the site already, so we can handle a few more. (Laughter) No, no reason why it really can't happen in every classroom in America tomorrow. BG: And the vision of the tutoring thing. The idea there is, if I'm confused about a topic, somehow right in the user interface, I'd find people who are volunteering, maybe see their reputation, and I could schedule and connect up with those people? SK: Absolutely. And this is something I recommend everyone in this audience do. Those dashboards the teachers have, you can go log in right now and you can essentially become a coach for your kids, your nephews, your cousins, or maybe some kids at the Boys and Girls Club. And yeah, you can start becoming a mentor, a tutor, really immediately. But yeah, it's all there. BG: Well, it's amazing. I think you just got a glimpse of the future of education. BG: Thank you. SK: Thank you. (Applause)"	Khan 學院因它豐富的影片資源而出名在我開始演講前先讓我們看一段剪輯影片 於是這個直角三角形的斜邊就成了5這種動物的化石只能在南美這個地區找到一條很清楚的界限還有非洲的這個區域我們可以合併表面通常用 Σ 來標記國民大會：他們創造了公共安全委員會聽上去像是個不錯的委員會注意，這是乙醛是一種酒精開始分化為效應與記憶細胞一個銀河。哇，那裡又有一個銀河看啊，那裡還有另外一個對美元來說，是三千萬加上從美國製造商來的兩千萬如果這還不夠讓你瞠目結舌你就是麻木不仁 （笑聲） （掌聲） 我們現在有兩千兩百個影片從基本的算術一直到向量微積分還有一些你剛剛看到的科目一個月有百萬個學生使用我們的網站一天有一百到二十萬個影片被觀看但我們今天所要談論的是如何提升這項服務在我這樣做以前我想先談談我究竟是如何開始的你們其中的一些人或許知道五年前我是個避險基金分析師我當時人在波士頓給我在紐澳良的表弟上課當我把第一支影片放上 YouTube不過是把它當成一種不錯的輔助教材讓他們耳目一新之類的 當我把第一個 YouTube 影片放上去以後有趣的事發生了事實上是許多有趣的事發生了第一是我表弟的反應他們說他們喜歡 YouTube 上的我更勝真人（笑聲）而且一旦你忘記話中那諷刺的部份你便能聽見一件非常重要的訊息他們是說他們喜歡自動化版本的表哥勝於真正的表哥剛開始會覺得很反常但當你用他們的角度來想，事實上很合理狀況是他們可以把表哥暫停或重複而不用感覺浪費了我的時間如果他們要復習兩個禮拜前學的東西甚至是幾年前學的東西他們不用不好意思地來問我只要看這些影片就好。無聊了可以隨時關掉可以在自己想要的時間，用自己想要的速度看而最少人想到的是在你第一次第一次在你的大腦嘗試理解一個新概念時你最不需要的事情就是另外一個人在你旁邊說“到底懂了沒有？”但這就是我和我表弟互動時發生的現在他們可以在自己的房間看 另外一件事就是但我把影片放到 YouTube 上時我覺得沒必要隱藏大家都可以看有人發現這些影片我開始收到留言和一些信件還有來自世界各地很多不同的回應這些是其中一些這個回應是給最早的那些微積分影片的有人在 Youtube上留言到“這是我第一次算導數會微笑”（笑聲）等等這個人在算導數然後他微笑了然後有人回應了這個微笑的人你可以上 YouTube 去看這些回應另外一個人說“我也是”那天我整個人飄飄欲仙以前我在課堂上看見這些天書現在我好像學得了絕世功夫 （笑聲） 我們得到了很多這種回應很明顯地，這幫助了很多人觀影人數越來越多我開始收到這些信件漸漸的你開始明白這不只是輔助教材這裡有一封信是這樣說的“我12歲的自閉症兒子對數學一籌莫展我們試過所有方法看過所有書籍，買了所有教材我們發現了你的十進位影片，他看懂了於是我們播可怕的分數影片，他又懂了我們不可置信他超興奮的。”你可以想像身為一位避險基金分析師做一些有益社會的事對我來說非常陌生 （笑聲） （掌聲） 但我很興奮，於是我繼續製作這些影片一些其它事情開始發生了這些影片不但能幫助我表弟和這些寫信給我的人而且這些影片永遠不會變老它可以幫助他們的孩子或孫子如果牛頓上傳一個微積分的 YouTube 影片就用不著我了（笑聲）當然，那得要他很會教，我們無從得知 （笑聲） 就算發生了這些事就算到了那個時候，我仍想“好吧，或許它是不錯的輔助教材很能激勵學生給在家上課的學生也很有用”但我從來沒想到它竟然能打進課堂但我開始收到老師的信這些老師寫著“我們在課堂上播你的影片你已經解釋過了，那我們呢⋯⋯”說真的，這件事可以明天就在美國每個學校發生“⋯⋯ 我們只要把看影片變成他們的功課然後把以前的回家作業變成在課堂上的習作” 我想要在這裡打個岔 －（掌聲）我想在這裡打個岔因為這裡有幾項有趣的事一，當這些老師開始這麼做的時候比較明顯的好處是現在這些學生都可以像我的表弟一樣用自己的節奏學習隨時暫停或復習但更有趣的事是當你把科技帶到課堂裡便實現了因材施教的理想學生們可以回家用自己的方式學習當他們到了課堂，開始做作業老師可以作為輔助甚至讓學生互相教導學習這些老師用科技把教室變得更人性過去的課堂經驗是很去人性的30個孩子不許開口不許和彼此交談無論一個老師多優秀都得用一樣的方法教30個不同的孩子面無表情，還帶著些敵意現在人性多了現在他們總算可以交流了 於是有了 Khan 學院我辭掉工作把學院變成一個真正的組織我們是個非營利組織問題是，下一步該怎麼走？我們該如何幫助這些老師的做法讓它變得更好？我現在所要展示的都是當時我為了我表弟所做的題目當時的畫面比較原始現在的比較好用這個範例所展現的是，我們讓你做許多題目直到你理解了這個概念直到你連續答對十題如果你不知道怎麼做Khan 學院影片在這有提示，還有解題的步驟這個範例看上去很簡單：十題，然後繼續它和現在的教室有所不同 在傳統的教室裡你有一些作業作業、講課、作業、講課然後你有個短短的考試無論你在考試裡拿了70分、80分90或95分課堂都會繼續但就算你拿了95分他不知道的那5分怎麼辦或許他們不知道你把數提到零功率的時候會怎樣但你已經開始講解下個概念了那就像是想像你在學騎腳踏車我事先和你講解然後把腳踏車給你兩個禮拜兩個禮拜後我回來說“我看看，你左轉有問題不太停的下來你是個80分的旗手”然後我在你額頭上打個C印然後說“這是你的單輪車。”就算它聽上去很可笑這就是每天發生在我們教室裡的事把情況往前快轉好學生突然當掉了代數當掉微積分就算他們聰明，又有好老師往往是來自那些打基礎時造成的那些瑞士乳酪孔隙一樣的差距我們的模式是用你學其它事物的方式學習數學就像你學騎腳踏車一樣坐在腳踏車上，從腳踏車上跌下直到你真正學會為止傳統的模式懲罰學生的嘗試和失敗它不期待你完全理解我們鼓勵你實驗，鼓勵你失敗但我們要你完全理解掌控 這是另外一個課題這是三角習題這是移位和反射函數他們全都有關聯我們現在大概有90個這樣的課程你可以自己上網站看，全免費，沒有要賣甚麼重點是他們全都包含在這知識地圖裡上面那個最高的結是個位數加法像一加一等於二它的用法是，一旦你連續答對十題你就會進階到下一個課題如果你這張知識地圖持續前進便會進入更進階的演算再往下去，你就會到前代數和早期代數再下去，就有代數一一些早期微積分我們的想法是，我們可以教所有東西至少那些所有可以教的東西在這個框架下你可以想像 － 這是我們現在在做的 －從這個知識地圖你有邏輯、寫電腦程式文法、遺傳學中心思想是如果你懂了這個和那個就已經準備好理解下一個概念了當然你可以自己學但是我鼓勵家長和孩子一起我也鼓勵在場的個位觀眾自己試試可以改變晚餐桌上的一些習慣 但我們想做的是應用這些老師寫信給我的內容來改變現在的教育。我現在要給你看的是從洛杉磯 Los Altos 學區來的數據他們帶兩班五年級和兩班七年級學生完全遺棄他們過去的數學課程這些學生不用課本不用千篇一律的課堂解說他們加入 Khan 學院用半節課來用這套軟體我必須要說清楚，我們不是說這是完整的數學教育它所做的是 － 就像在 Los Atlos 所做的一樣它讓你有自由時間這是針對問題解答確定你知道如何在這些方程式系統中來去自如你還有時間可以模擬、玩遊戲學機械、做機器人用影子估算山究竟有多高 這個模式是，老師走進教室每個學生用自己的速度學習這是 Los Atlos 學區的測量表數據在這裡一目瞭然每一列是一個學生每一行是一個概念綠色代表這個學生已經通過了藍色代表他們還在繼續學習 － 不用擔心紅色代表他們有困難了而教師所該做的不過是“讓我看看這些紅色的學生遇見了甚麼困難”更好的是“讓我把這些綠色的學生那些已經學會的學生送到前線教導他們的同學。” （掌聲） 這是以數據為主的我們不希望老師去介入或問學生奇怪的問題像“你有甚麼不懂的嗎？”或“你到底懂甚麼？”等等的。我們的軟體是用數據來幫助這些老師這些在金融、市場或製造業都有的真實數據這些老師可以由此看出他們的學生有甚麼困難讓他們的互動更有效率現在這些老師知道他們的學生都做了些甚麼他們一天花了多少時間、看了多少影片他們甚麼時候暫停、停止了甚麼影片他們做了甚麼習題他們的學習重心是甚麼？外面的圈顯示他們專注於那些習題裡面的圈顯示他們看了甚麼影片然後數據變得更仔細你可以看到學生做對和做錯的問題紅色是錯了，藍色是對了左邊的問題是學生第一個嘗試的問題他們在這裡看影片然後終於，他們答對了十個問題就像你可以看到他們慢慢靠向最後那十個問題他們的速度更快了高度是他們的答題時間 當你談到自主學習大家都聽得懂 － 因材施教但親眼教室看到時還是很令人吃驚因為每一次在每一個我們實驗的課堂一次又一次，五天下來一群孩子往前直衝一群孩子較為緩慢在過去的模式，如果你用以前的衡量方法你會說“這些是聰明的孩子，這些是遲緩的孩子或許他們應該用不同的方式衡量或許我們應該把他們放到不同班級。”但一旦你讓學生用他們自己的速率學習我們一次又一次的見證那些在某些習題上花較多時間的學生只要搞懂了那個概念便順利向前。六個禮拜前覺得緩慢的學生現在你會覺得他們很聰明我們真的一次又一次地看見這種狀況不禁讓人想到我們身上所貼的這些好標簽到底有多少不過來自偶然 像這樣珍貴的發現在 Los Altos 這樣的學區我們的目標是用科技帶回人性不只在 Los Altos，更在全球各地我們的教育情況究竟如何事實上，這讓我們看見一些有趣的點許多有關人性教育的討論都注重老師和學生的比例上在我們看來，更有效的衡量方法應該是以學生得到了老師多少時間作為衡量在傳統模式裡，老師大部分的時間都在講課、改作業、打分數或許只有百分之五的時間真的和學生一起相處現在他們可以有百分百的注意力我要再說一次，科技不但讓課堂更有趣也讓課堂更人性至少增加五到十倍 就像在 Los Altos 所呈現的想像這會對那些因為羞於承認而不敢回去學習的成年學生帶來多大的幫助想像它會對加爾各答的街童帶來甚麼樣的改變他們因為要工作幫助家裡而無法上學現在他們可以一天花兩小時補救或迎頭趕過而不用因為他們的程度而感到困窘想像那些同儕在教室裡互相學習的狀況這都在同一個體系裡沒甚麼理由你不能把這種同儕學習的形態延伸到教室外想像一個加爾各答的學生突然開始教你的兒子或是你的兒子開始教他我想這就是你會在世界如教室教室如世界的今日所看到的情況而這就是我們所想要建構的 謝謝各位 （掌聲） 比爾蓋茲：我有看過系統裡有些與動力和反饋有關的機制精神點數、榮譽胸章告訴我那是甚麼回事？ SK: 是的，現在我們有一組很棒的人正在開發它我要說清楚，現在不只有我我仍然錄製所有的影片但我們有一組超贊的人在開發軟體我們設計了很多遊戲機制學生們可以拿獎章我們還要設計一個地區排行榜，讓他們拿點數非常有趣就算只是獎章的名稱或是一些點數都可以看到整個系統裡的幾萬個五年級六年級生轉換方向就看你給他們甚麼獎章 （笑聲） 蓋茲：你和 Los Altos 的合作是怎麼開始的？ SK: Los Altos，那真是有點瘋狂說真的，我沒有預期它會被用在課堂裡有時候他們的理事會來問我“如果我把學校全權授權與你，你會怎麼做？”我會說“我會讓所有學生用這個軟體自主學習然後我們會給一個數據表”他們會說“嗯這有點激進，我們得好好考慮。”我和其他組員會想“他們永遠不可能想試的。”結果隔天他們就回來問“兩個禮拜內開始可以嗎？” （笑聲） 蓋茲：所以你們現在用五年級學生測試嗎？ SK: 是兩堂五年級和兩堂七年級生整個學區我想他們對於可以追蹤學生的進度感到很興奮這不只是校內的事情我們看到有些學生甚至在聖誕節也在做題我們可以追蹤他們的學習狀態他們也可以用學區來分別追蹤這些狀態暑假過去，在他們換老師的時候你有這些持續的數據就算學區層次也能看到 蓋茲：所以我們剛剛所看到的這些是給老師用來追蹤學生的進度你有老師對這些數據的看法嗎？ SK: 有的，大部分的這些規格都來自老師的意見我們也有一些是為學生做的，讓他們可以看到他們的數據但在設計過程中我們和這些老師保持緊密的合作關係他們會說“這不錯，但⋯⋯”就像這個重心圖，許多老師說“我覺得許多孩子都會跳躍學習而不會把重心放在一個主題上”於是我們做了重心圖這是非常以教師為重心的設計非常瘋狂 蓋茲：這已經可以使用了嗎？你覺得明年是否有許多學校應該試試這個 SK:我們已經有幾百萬人在使用網站我們還可以承受一些（笑聲）真的沒甚麼理由明天美國的每個教室都可以使用它 蓋茲：所以這個教學的如果我不明白某個主題在用戶界面中我就能找到志願者看看別人對他的評語然後我可以和他約時間？ SK: 沒錯。我建議在座的每個人都這麼做。老師有的這些平台，你也可以登入你可以成為你的孩子姪子或表弟妹的教練甚至男孩或女孩社團的教練你也可以開始做個家教、教練馬上就行都已經好了。 蓋茲：實在太好了我想你正瞥見了教育的未來謝謝你（SK：謝謝你） （掌聲）
