Talk	en	zh-tw
salvatore_iaconesi_what_happened_when_i_open_sourced_my_brain_cancer	"This back here was my brain cancer. Isn't it nice? (Laughter) The key phrase is ""was,"" phew. (Applause) Having brain cancer was really, as you can imagine, shocking news for me. I knew nothing about cancer. In Western cultures, when you have cancer, it's as if you disappear in a way. Your life as a complex human being is replaced by medical data: Your images, your exams, your lab values, a list of medicines. And everyone changes as well. You suddenly become a disease on legs. Doctors start speaking a language which you don't understand. They start pointing their fingers at your body and your images. People start changing as well because they start dealing with the disease, instead of with the human being. They say, ""What did the doctor say?"" before even saying, ""Hello."" And in the meanwhile, you're left with questions to which nobody gives an answer. These are the ""Can I?"" questions: Can I work while I have cancer? Can I study? Can I make love? Can I be creative? And you wonder, ""What have I done to deserve this?"" You wonder, ""Can I change something about my lifestyle?"" You wonder, ""Can I do something? Are there any other options?"" And, obviously, doctors are the good guys in all these scenarios, because they are very professional and dedicated to curing you. But they also are very used to having to deal with patients, so I'd say that they sometimes lose the idea that this is torture for you and that you become, literally, a patient — ""patient"" means ""the one who waits."" (Laughter) Things are changing, but classically, they tend to not engage you in any way to learn about your condition, to get your friends and family engaged, or showing you ways in which you can change your lifestyle to minimize the risks of what you're going through. But instead, you're forced there to wait in the hands of a series of very professional strangers. While I was in the hospital, I asked for a printed-out picture of my cancer and I spoke with it. It was really hard to obtain, because it's not common practice to ask for a picture of your own cancer. I talked to it and I said, ""Okay, cancer, you're not all there is to me. There's more to me. A cure, whichever it is, will have to deal with the whole of me."" And so, the next day, I left the hospital against medical advice. I was determined to change my relationship with the cancer and I was determined to learn more about my cancer before doing anything as drastic as a surgery. I'm an artist, I use several forms of open-source technologies and open information in my practice. So my best bet was to get it all out there, get the information out there, and use it so that it could be accessed by anyone. So I created a website, which is called La Cura, on which I put my medical data, online. I actually had to hack it and that's a thing which we can talk about in another speech. (Laughter) I chose this word, La Cura — La Cura in Italian means ""the cure"" — because in many different cultures, the word ""cure"" can mean many different things. In our Western cultures, it means eradicating or reversing a disease, but in different cultures, for example, a culture from Asia, from the Mediterranean, from Latin countries, from Africa, it can mean many more things. Of course, I was interested in the opinions of doctors and healthcare providers, but I was also interested in the cure of the artist, of the poet, of the designer, of, who knows, the musicians. I was interested in the social cure, I was interested in the psychological cure, I was interested in the spiritual cure, I was interested in the emotional cure, I was interested in any form of cure. And, it worked. The La Cura website went viral. I received lots of media attention from Italy and from abroad and I quickly received more than 500,000 contacts — emails, social networking — most of them were a suggestion on how to cure my cancer, but more of them were about how to cure myself as a full individual. For example, many thousands of videos, images, pictures, art performances were produced for La Cura. For example, here we see Francesca Fini in her performance. Or, as artist Patrick Lichty has done: He produced a 3D sculpture of my tumor and put it on sale on Thingiverse. Now you can have my cancer, too! (Laughter) Which is a nice thing, if you think about it, we can share our cancer. And this was going on — scientists, the traditional medicine experts, several researchers, doctors — all connected with me to give advice. With all this information and support, I was able to form a team of several neurosurgeons, traditional doctors, oncologists, and several hundred volunteers with whom I was able to discuss the information I was receiving, which is very important. And together, we were able to form a strategy for my own cure in many languages, according to many cultures. And the current strategy spans the whole world and thousands of years of human history, which is quite remarkable for me. [Surgery] The follow-up MRIs showed, luckily, little to no growth of the cancer. So I was able to take my time and choose. I chose the doctor I wanted to work with, I chose the hospital I wanted to stay in, and in the meanwhile, I was supported by thousands of people, none of whom felt pity for me. Everyone felt like they could take an active role in helping me to get well, and this was the most important part of La Cura. What are the outcomes? I'm fine, as you can see, pretty fine. (Applause) I had excellent news after the surgery — I have — I had a very low-grade glioma, which is a ""good"" kind of cancer which doesn't grow a lot. I have completely changed my life and my lifestyle. Everything I did was thoughtfully designed to get me engaged. Up until the very last few minutes of the surgery, which was very intense, a matrix of electrodes was implanted in my brain from this side, to be able to build a functional map of what the brain controls. And right before the operation, we were able to discuss the functional map of my brain with the doctor, to understand which risks I was running into and if there were any I wanted to avoid. Obviously, there were. [Open] And this openness was really the fundamental part of La Cura. Thousands of people shared their stories, their experiences. Doctors got to talk with people they don't usually consult when they think about cancer. I'm a self-founding, continuous state of translation among many different languages, in which science meets emotion and conventional research meets traditional research. [Society] The most important thing of La Cura was to feel like a part of a really engaged and connected society whose wellness really depends on the wellness of all of its components. This global performance is my open-source cure for cancer. And from what I feel, it's a cure for me, but for us all. Thank you. (Applause)."	我的腦惡性腫瘤以前就在這漂不漂亮？（笑聲）最關鍵的詞語是＂以前＂唷！（鼓掌聲） 你可以想像得到 當我知道患腦癌時真是非常震驚我對癌症一無所知生活在西方文化 如果你得了癌症便好像失去自己一個複雜的人 卻被醫療數據取代：你的影象 檢查報告 化驗結果和一連串的藥物清單所有人都變了你忽然變成一個有腳的疾病醫生漸漸講一些難懂的語言開始指著你的身體和圖像其他人也變得陌生他們只會把你當成疾病來應付而不是對待一個人他們未跟你說聲好前只會問：醫生説了什麼？ 當時我有很多疑問但是沒有人回答我這些都是＂可否＂的問題我有癌症 可否上班？可否讀書？可否做愛？可否創作？那時覺得不解＂我做了什麼得到這樣的對待？＂＂可否改變自己的生活方式？＂＂我可否做點什麼？＂＂有沒有其他選擇？＂ 很明顯 醫生在這種環境 是最得人心因為他們非常專業 而且盡心醫病但是醫生照顧病人 實在太過熟練有時忘記了這樣治療 只會折磨你你變成字面上 病人的稱呼其實 等如＂一個等待的人＂（笑聲）每件事不停在變 但方式守舊醫生不會讓你知道病情只讓親朋戚友商量病情也不會教你如何改善生活方式減低疾病帶來的風險反而要我在那裡呆等任由那幾位陌生的大國手決定 我住院時要求醫院給我一張自己腫瘤的圖片好讓我跟腫瘤對話這是很難辦到的因為醫院通常不會允許病人這樣做我跟這圖片說：＂腫瘤 我不只剩得你我還擁有很多東西無論什麼方法 也要待我如完整的人第二日我不理他們的勸告 離開醫院決心要改變我跟癌症的關係要做重要的決定前 例如動手術決心要先多了解自己的腫瘤 我從事藝術工作 因此可以在制作室利用多種的網上共享技術和資料這是我最好的辦法 從那跟著用來研究 任何人也可以享用我建立了一個網站 叫做La Cura把自己所有醫療數據 放上網我其實入侵了那個網站這個話題 我們留待下次演講再說（笑聲）我決定用La Cura 這個名字它的意大利語意思是＂cure＂由於不同的文化＂cure＂可以有不同的解釋在我們的西方文化它表示根絕或打敗疾病但在不同的文化例如文化源自亞洲 地中海 拉丁美洲 和非洲它有很多層意思 當然 我重視醫生保健人員的意見但我也在意藝術家 詩人設計師的療方誰知道 可能是音樂家的良方我對社交療法有興趣對心理學療法有興趣對心靈療法有興趣也對情緒療法有興趣幾乎都留意所有療法 最後果然有效La Cura 網站變得非常受歡迎獲得很多意大利和海外媒體的注意我很快收到超過50萬的聯絡來自電郵 社交聯網多數是提議怎樣醫好我的病大部分人都視我為一個人來討論療法例如他們製造無數的影片圖像 又做藝術表演幫助La Cura例如 這是F. Fini 的演出又或者藝術家P. Lichty他替我的腫瘤做了一個立體雕刻品放在Thingivese 網出售現在你也可以擁有我的腫瘤（笑聲）這是一件好事 如果你想到大家共同感受我患癌病的經歷 這件事還有下文科學家 醫學專家 硏究學者 醫生等都找我提供意見得到這些資訊和支持後我建立一支團隊 包括神經㚈科專家醫生腫瘤專家 還有數百名義工我可以跟這批人一同研究重要的資料根據不同的文化 用不同的語言研究治病的策略現時的策略席捲全球以至人類數千年的歷史我覺得這是很了不起的［㚈科手術］ 接著我做了磁力共振 幸好病程沒有惡化於是我有充足的時間做決定挑選合適的醫生 跟我並肩作戰挑選合適的醫院入住一時間 獲得那麼多人的支持沒有一個是因為可憐我每人都很積極地幫助我盡快復原這是La Cura 最可貴的地方 最後的結果如何？我身體很好 你看我面色不錯吧！（鼓掌聲）我有好消息手術完畢後我只有微量的膠質瘤那是良性的腫瘤 癌細胞不再增生我徹底了改變自己的生活方式所有事情都盡量參與其中 甚至在手術前的片刻時間非常緊迫要從腦部的這一邊植入電極矩陣然後構成一張功能腦地圖趕及在動手術前大家可以跟醫生 利用這面腦地圖討論我會遇到那些風險如果有的 又怎樣去避開它很明顯 那是有風險［開明］ 開明真是La Cura 的核心部分很多朋友分享他們的故事經歷醫生為了硏究癌症跟不來看病的人對話我自發地不斷翻譯不同的語言做成科學跟情緒的交滙常規研究跟傳統研究的交滙［社會］ La Cura 裡 最重要的事情 就是人人可以參與 互相交流的社會每個成員的健康 都是息息相關我的癌症療方 就是來自他們的努力成果而我覺得這個療方屬於我的 也屬於大家的 多謝 （鼓掌聲）
