Talk	en	zh-tw
sam_martin_builds_a_room_of_his_own	"So, I am indeed going to talk about the spaces men create for themselves, but first I want to tell you why I'm here. I'm here for two reasons. These two guys are my two sons Ford and Wren. When Ford was about three years old, we shared a very small room together, in a very small space. My office was on one half of the bedroom, and his bedroom was on the other half. And you can imagine, if you're a writer, that things would get really crowded around deadlines. So when Wren was on the way, I realized I needed to find a space of my own. There was no more space in the house. So I went out to the backyard, and without any previous building experience, and about 3,000 dollars and some recycled materials, I built this space. It had everything I needed. It was quiet. There was enough space. And I had control, which was very important. As I was building this space, I thought to myself, ""Surely I'm not the only guy to have to have carved out a space for his own."" So I did some research. And I found that there was an historic precedence. Hemingway had his writing space. Elvis had two or three manspaces, which is pretty unique because he lived with both his wife and his mother in Graceland. In the popular culture, Superman had the Fortress of Solitude, and there was, of course, the Batcave. So I realized then that I wanted to go out on a journey and see what guys were creating for themselves now. Here is one of the first spaces I found. It is in Austin, Texas, which is where I'm from. On the outside it looks like a very typical garage, a nice garage. But on the inside, it's anything but. And this, to me, is a pretty classic manspace. It has neon concert posters, a bar and, of course, the leg lamp, which is very important. I soon realized that manspaces didn't have to be only inside. This guy built a bowling alley in his backyard, out of landscaping timbers, astroturf. And he found the scoreboard in the trash. Here's another outdoor space, a little bit more sophisticated. This a 1923 wooden tugboat, made completely out of Douglas fir. The guy did it all himself. And there is about 1,000 square feet of hanging-out space inside. So, pretty early on in my investigations I realized what I was finding was not what I expected to find, which was, quite frankly, a lot of beer can pyramids and overstuffed couches and flat-screen TVs. There were definitely hang-out spots. But some were for working, some were for playing, some were for guys to collect their things. Most of all, I was just surprised with what I was finding. Take this place for example. On the outside it looks like a typical northeastern garage. This is in Long Island, New York. The only thing that might tip you off is the round window. On the inside it's a recreation of a 16th century Japanese tea house. The man imported all the materials from Japan, and he hired a Japanese carpenter to build it in the traditional style. It has no nails or screws. All the joints are hand-carved and hand-scribed. Here is another pretty typical scene. This is a suburban Las Vegas neighborhood. But you open one of the garage doors and there is a professional-size boxing ring inside. (Laughter) And so there is a good reason for this. It was built by this man who is Wayne McCullough. He won the silver medal for Ireland in the 1992 Olympics, and he trains in this space. He trains other people. And right off the garage he has his own trophy room where he can sort of bask in his accomplishments, which is another sort of important part about a manspace. So, while this space represents someone's profession, this one certainly represents a passion. It's made to look like the inside of an English sailing ship. It's a collection of nautical antiques from the 1700s and 1800s. Museum quality. So, as I came to the end of my journey, I found over 50 spaces. And they were unexpected and they were surprising. But they were also — I was really impressed by how personalized they were, and how much work went into them. And I realized that's because the guys that I met were all very passionate about what they did. And they really loved their professions. And they were very passionate about their collections and their hobbies. And so they created these spaces to reflect what they love to do, and who they were. So if you don't have a space of your own, I highly recommend finding one, and getting into it. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我要談的是男人為自己所創造的專屬空間首先，我要告訴你們為什麼我會在這裡我在這裡有二個原因這二個小男孩是我的二個兒子Ford和Wren在Ford三歲左右的時候我們共同使用一個非常小的房間空間很小我的寫作空間在這間臥室的這一半他的臥室則在另一半你可以想像對一個作家而言在截稿前夕房間會亂成什麼樣子 所以當Wren快要出生的時候我發現我真的需要一個屬於自己的空間但是房子裡已經沒有多餘的空間了，所以我轉向後院發展我先前沒有任何建築的經驗我只花了大約3千美金也使用了一些回收的材料，就建造了這個空間裡面有我需要的所有東西，而且很安靜有足夠的空間，最重要的是，我擁有絕對的控制權 當我在建立這個空間時，我心裡想我一定不是世界上唯一一個想要擁有自己空間的男人所以我做了一些研究我發現過去有許多著名的例子海明威有自己的寫作空間貓王有二個或三個個人空間這很特別，因為他還同時和妻子及母親住在Graceland在漫畫裡，超人有他自己的堡壘當然蝙蝠俠也有自己的洞穴 我發現，我想要去拜訪那些為自己創造出專屬空間的男人們這是我最初拜訪的地方之一，在德州的奧斯汀我現在住在那兒從外表看起來只是一個普通的車庫，還不錯的車庫但是一進到裡面我發現那是一個非常典型的男人專屬空間裡面有用霓虹燈裝飾的樂團海報、吧枱最重要的是還有一盞美腿造型枱燈 我很快就發現男人的專屬空間不一定是在室內這個人在他自己的後院舖了一條保齡球道就在他的庭園造景和人工草坪旁邊計分板還掛在垃圾桶上 這裡還有另外一個戶外空間，但是有點複雜這是一艘1923年的木製拖船全部使用美國大松樹建造這個人完全憑一己之力將她改造裡面大約有1千平方呎的居住空間 在我一開始進行調查的時候我看到了一些和我原先想得不一樣的地方坦白說，我看到成堆的啤酒罐舒適的躺椅和平面電視等佈置得和一般的居住環境沒有兩樣但其中卻有些人將他們的專屬空間打造成工作環境和玩樂空間有些人則拿來收藏物品我對這項發現感到非常驚訝 就拿這個例子來說從外表看，這只是一間東北部常見的車庫這間車庫位於紐約長島唯一會引起注意的是上面的圓窗裡面改裝成16世紀的日本和室屋主從日本進口了所有的材料還請了一位日本木匠裝修成日本傳統的樣式沒有用到鐵釘或螺絲所有的接榫都是手工雕刻而成 還有另外一個例子，這是拉斯維加斯的郊區打開其中一間車庫的門你會看到裡面有一個職業級的拳擊場(笑聲)這是有原因的屋主是Wayne McCullough他在1992年奧運中為愛爾蘭奪得銀牌他在這個場地進行訓練，也訓練其他選手除了車庫之外，他還有一間獎牌展示間讓他可以沈浸在他的光榮時刻這也是男人專屬空間存在的另一個重要原因 這個專屬空間代表這個人的職業另外這個就代表這個人的嗜好這個房間裝飾得像一艘英國船隻的內部這個人蒐集了1700年到1800年間的各種航海古董有博物館的水準 在我這次的旅程中我發現超過50個男人的專屬空間每一個都出乎我的意料之外但最令我驚訝的是每個人都依照自己的個性並花了許多時間來打造自己的空間我發現那是因為我所拜訪的這些人每個人都對自己所做的事情擁有超乎常人的熱情他們都很喜愛自己的職業也都非常喜愛自己的收藏品和自己的嗜好他們藉由創造自己的空間來反映他們所喜愛的事物並突顯自己的個人特質 若你還沒有自己的專屬空間我強烈建議你打造一個屬於自己的空間謝謝大家(掌聲)
