Talk	en	zh-tw
sam_richards_a_radical_experiment_in_empathy	"My students often ask me, ""What is sociology?"" And I tell them it's the study of the way in which human beings are shaped by things that they don't see. And they say, ""So, how can I be a sociologist? How can I understand those invisible forces?"" And I say, ""Empathy. Start with empathy. It all begins with empathy. Take yourself out of your shoes, put yourself into the shoes of another person."" Here, I'll give you an example. So I imagine my life if, a hundred years ago, China had been the most powerful nation in the world and they came to the United States in search of coal. And they found it, and, in fact, they found lots of it right here. And pretty soon, they began shipping that coal, ton by ton, railcar by railcar, boatload by boatload, back to China and elsewhere around the world. And they got fabulously wealthy in doing so. And they built beautiful cities all powered on that coal. And back here in the United States, we saw economic despair, deprivation. This is what I saw. I saw people struggling to get by, not knowing what was what and what was next. And I asked myself the question: How is it possible that we could be so poor here in the United States, because coal is such a wealthy resource; it's so much money? And I realize: because the Chinese ingratiated themselves with a small ruling class here in the United States, who stole all of that money and all of that wealth for themselves. And the rest of us, the vast majority of us, struggle to get by. And the Chinese gave this small ruling elite loads of military weapons and sophisticated technology in order to ensure that people like me would not speak out against this relationship. Does this sound familiar? And they did things like train Americans to help protect the coal. And everywhere, there were symbols of the Chinese — everywhere, a constant reminder. And back in China, what do they say in China? Nothing! They don't talk about us. They don't talk about the coal. If you ask them, they'll say, ""Well, you know, we need the coal. I mean, come on, I'm not going to turn down my thermostat. You can't expect that."" And so, I get angry, and I get pissed, as do lots of average people. And we fight back, and it gets really ugly. And the Chinese respond in a very ugly way. And before we know it, they send in the tanks and they send in the troops. And lots of people are dying. And it's a very, very difficult situation. Can you imagine what you would feel if you were in my shoes? Can you imagine walking out of this building and seeing a tank sitting out there, or a truck full of soldiers? Just imagine what you would feel, because you know why they're here; you know what they're doing here. And you just feel the anger and you feel the fear. If you can, that's empathy. That's empathy. You've left your shoes, and you've stood in mine. And you've got to feel that. OK, so that's the warm-up. That's the warm-up. Now we're going to have the real radical experiment. So, for the remainder of my talk, what I want you to do is put yourselves in the shoes of an ordinary Arab Muslim living in the Middle East — in particular, in Iraq. And so to help you, perhaps you're a member of this middle-class family in Baghdad. What you want is the best for your kids. You want your kids to have a better life. And you watch the news, you pay attention. You read the newspaper, you go down to the coffee shop with your friends, you read the newspapers from around the world. Sometimes you even watch satellite, CNN, from the United States. You have a sense of what the Americans are thinking. But really, you just want a better life for yourself. That's what you want. You're Arab Muslim living in Iraq. You want a better life for yourself. So here, let me help you. Let me help you with some things that you might be thinking. Number one: this incursion into your land these past 20 years and before — the reason anyone is interested in your land, and particularly the United States, is oil. It's all about oil; you know that, everybody knows that. People back in the United States know it's about oil. It's because somebody else has a design for your resource. It's your resource — it's not somebody else's. It's your land; it's your resource. Somebody else has a design for it. And you know why they have a design? You know why they have their eyes set on it? Because they have an entire economic system that's dependent on that oil — foreign oil, oil from other parts of the world that they don't own. And what else do you think about these people? The Americans, they're rich. Come on, they live in big houses, they have big cars. They all have blond hair, blue eyes. They're happy. You think that. It's not true, of course, but that's the media impression. And that's what you get. And they have big cities, and the cities are all dependent on oil. And back home, what do you see? Poverty, despair, struggle. Look, you don't live in a wealthy country. I mean — this is Iraq. This is what you see. You see people struggling to get by. It's not easy; you see a lot of poverty. And you feel something about this. These people have designs for your resource, and this is what you see? Something else you see that you talk about — Americans don't talk about this, but you do — there's this thing, this militarization of the world, and it's centered right in the United States. And the United States is responsible for almost one half of the world's military spending. Four percent of the world's population! And you feel it; you see it every day. It's part of your life. And you talk about it with your friends. You read about it. And back when Saddam Hussein was in power, the Americans didn't care about his crimes. When he was gassing the Kurds and gassing Iran, they didn't care about it. When oil was at stake, somehow, suddenly, things mattered. And what you see, something else: the United States, the hub of democracy around the world — they don't seem to really be supporting democratic countries all around the world. There are a lot of countries, oil-producing countries, that aren't very democratic, but supported by the United States. That's odd. Oh — these incursions, these two wars, the 10 years of sanctions, the eight years of occupation, the insurgency that's been unleashed on your people, the tens of thousands, the hundreds of thousands of civilian deaths? All because of oil. You can't help but think that. You talk about it. It's in the forefront of your mind, always. You say, ""How is that possible?"" And this man, he's everyman — your grandfather, your uncle, your father, your son, your neighbor, your professor, your student. Once a life of happiness and joy and suddenly, pain and sorrow. Everyone in your country has been touched by the violence, the bloodshed, the pain, the horror — everybody. Not a single person in your country has not been touched. But there's something else. There's something else about these people, these Americans who are there. There's something else about them that you see that they don't see themselves. And what do you see? They're Christians! They're Christians. They worship the Christian God, they have crosses, they carry Bibles. Their Bibles have a little insignia that says ""US Army"" on them. And their leaders, their leaders: before they send their sons and daughters off to war in your country — and you know the reason — before they send them off, they go to a Christian church, and they pray to their Christian God, and they ask for protection and guidance from that god. Why? Well, obviously, when people die in the war, they are Muslims, they are Iraqis — they're not Americans. You don't want Americans to die — ""Protect Our Troops."" And you feel something about that — of course you do. And they do wonderful things. You read about it, you hear about it. They're there to build schools and help people. That's what they want to do. They do wonderful things, but they also do the bad things, and you can't tell the difference. And this guy, you get a guy like Lt. Gen. William Boykin. Here's a guy who says that your god is a false god. Your god's an idol; his god is the true god. The solution to the problem in the Middle East, according to him, is to convert you all to Christianity — just get rid of your religion. And you know that. Americans don't read about this guy. They don't know anything about him, but you do. You pass it around. You pass his words around. I mean, this is serious. You're afraid. He was one of the leading commanders in the second invasion of Iraq. And you're thinking, ""My God, if this guy is saying that, then all the soldiers must be saying that."" And this word here — George Bush called this war a crusade. Man, the Americans, they're just like, ""Ah, crusade. Whatever. I don't know what that means."" You know what it means — it's a holy war against Muslims. Look, invade, subdue them, take their resources. If they won't submit, kill them. That's what this is about. And you're thinking, ""My God, these Christians are coming to kill us."" This is frightening. You feel frightened. Of course you feel frightened. And this man, Terry Jones: I mean here's a guy who wants to burn Qurans, right? And the Americans: ""Ah, he's a knucklehead. He's a former hotel manager; he's got three dozen members of his church ..."" They laugh him off. You don't laugh him off, because in the context of everything else, all the pieces fit. Of course this is how Americans think. So people all over the Middle East, not just in your country, are protesting. ""He wants to burn Qurans, our holy book. These Christians — who are these Christians? They're so evil, they're so mean — this is what they're about?"" This is what you're thinking as an Arab Muslim, as an Iraqi. Of course you're going to think this. And then your cousin says, ""Hey coz, check out this website. You've got to see this — Bible Boot Camp. These Christians are nuts! They're training their little kids to be soldiers for Jesus. They take little kids and run them through these things till they teach them how to say, 'Sir! Yes, sir!' and things like 'grenade toss' and 'weapons care and maintenance.' And go to the website — it says 'US Army' right on it. I mean, these Christians, they're nuts. How can they do this to their little kids?"" And you're reading this website. And of course, Christians in the United States, or anybody, says, ""This is some little church in the middle of nowhere."" You don't know that. For you, this is like, all Christians. It's all over the Web: ""Bible Boot Camp."" And look at this. They even teach their kids — they train them in the same way the US Marines train. Isn't that interesting. And it scares you, and it frightens you. So these guys, you see them. You see, I, Sam Richards — I know who these guys are. They're my students, my friends; I know what they're thinking. You don't know. When you see them, they're something else. They're something else. That's what they are to you. We don't see it that way in the United States, but you see it that way. So here. Of course, you've got it wrong. You're generalizing. It's wrong. You don't understand the Americans. It's not a Christian invasion. We're not just there for oil; we're there for lots of reasons. You have it wrong. You've missed it. And of course, most of you don't support the insurgency; you don't support killing Americans; you don't support the terrorists. Of course you don't. Very few people do. But — some of you do. And this is a perspective. OK. So now, here's what we're going to do. Step outside of your shoes that you're in right now, and step back into your normal shoes. So everyone's back in the room. OK? Now here comes the radical experiment. So we're all back home. This photo: this woman — man, I feel her. I feel her. She's my sister, my wife, my cousin, my neighbor. She's anybody to me. These guys standing there, everybody in the photo — I feel this photo, man. So here's what I want you to do. Let's go back to my first example, of the Chinese. I want you to go there. It's all about coal, and the Chinese are here in the United States. What I want you to do is picture her as a Chinese woman receiving a Chinese flag because her loved one has died in America in the coal uprising. And the soldiers are Chinese, and everybody else is Chinese. As an American, how do you feel about this picture? What do you think about that scene? OK, try this. Bring it back. This is the scene here. It's an American, American soldiers, American woman who lost her loved one in the Middle East, in Iraq or Afghanistan. Now, put yourself in the shoes, go back to the shoes of an Arab Muslim living in Iraq. What are you feeling and thinking about this photo, about this woman? OK, now follow me on this, because I'm taking a big risk here. And so I'm going to invite you to take a risk with me. These gentlemen here, they're insurgents. They were caught by the American soldiers, trying to kill Americans. And maybe they succeeded. Maybe they succeeded. Put yourself in the shoes of the Americans who caught them. Can you feel the rage? Can you feel that you just want to take these guys and wring their necks? Can you go there? It shouldn't be that difficult. You just — oh, man. Now, put yourself in their shoes. Are they brutal killers or patriotic defenders? Which one? Can you feel their anger, their fear, their rage at what has happened in their country? Can you imagine that maybe one of them, in the morning, bent down to their child and hugged their child and said, ""Dear, I'll be back later. I'm going out to defend your freedom, your lives. I'm going out to look out for us, the future of our country."" Can you imagine that? Can you imagine saying that? Can you go there? What do you think they're feeling? You see, that's empathy. It's also understanding. [understand] Now, you might ask, ""OK, Sam, so why do you do this sort of thing? Why would you use this example of all examples?"" And I say, because. You're allowed to hate these people. You're allowed to just hate them with every fiber of your being. And if I can get you to step into their shoes and walk an inch — one tiny inch — then imagine the kind of sociological analysis that you can do in all other aspects of your life. You can walk a mile when it comes to understanding why that person's driving 40 miles per hour in the passing lane; or your teenage son; or your neighbor who annoys you by cutting his lawn on Sunday mornings. Whatever it is, you can go so far. And this is what I tell my students: step outside of your tiny, little world. Step inside of the tiny, little world of somebody else. And then do it again and do it again and do it again. And suddenly, all these tiny, little worlds, they come together in this complex web. And they build a big, complex world. And suddenly, without realizing it, you're seeing the world differently. Everything has changed. Everything in your life has changed. And that's, of course, what this is about. Attend to other lives, other visions. Listen to other people, enlighten ourselves. I'm not saying that I support the terrorists in Iraq. But as a sociologist, what I am saying is: I understand. And now perhaps — perhaps — you do, too. Thank you. (Applause)"	我的學生經常問我，「甚麼是社會學？」我告訴他們，「它是研究人類是如何被自己看不見的東西所塑造的學科。」然後他們問：「那我要如何成為一個社會學家？我如何理解那些看不見的力量？」我就會回答說：「同理心，從同理心開始一切源自同理心。從你自己固有的角落走出來，從別人的角度來看問題。」 我來給你舉個例子。我曾經設想，如果一百年前，當中國是世界上最強大的國家的時候，他們來到美國搜尋煤炭然後他們找到了，並且，他們找到很多。很快，他們開始運輸那些煤礦，一噸又一噸，一車又一車，一船又一船，運回中國及世界其他地方。他們因此變得非常富有。他們用煤炭作為能源動力，建造了美麗的城市。我們把視線轉回美國，我們看到的是經濟蕭條破敗。這是我看到的。我看到人們掙扎着糊口，茫然無措，求助無門。然後我就會問自己「美國怎麼會變得這麼貧窮？因為我們的煤炭資源是這樣的有價值，值很多錢。」然後我意識到，原來是因為中國對於美國小部分統治階層投其所好，這小部分同志階層自己取得了這些煤炭帶來的財富。其餘大部分美國人，我們這些普通人掙扎着糊口。中國給這些統治精英階層大量的軍事武器和尖端科技，以保證像我這樣的普通民眾不至於表達對於這種關係的反對意見。這個故事是不是聽著很熟悉？ 然後他們做了一些事，比如訓練美國人幫忙保護煤礦。到處都是中國的印記——任何地方，不斷地提醒我們中國的存在。我們再回到中國，中國人都在談論什麼？他們對此隻字不談。他們不談論美國。不談論煤礦。如果你問中國人，他們會說：「好吧，你知道煤礦的重要性，我們需要煤礦。我說，你別指望我調低我家暖氣的溫度。別指望這會發生。」於是我生氣了，我非常惱火，就像大多數普通人那樣。然後我們開始抗議，情況變得很難堪。中國也以一種非常不友好的方式回應我們。我們還沒反應過來，他們就已經派來坦克，之後由派進來軍隊，很多人因此死去，情況變得很難處理 如果你是我，你能想象你會怎麼想嗎？你能想象，當你走出這裡，看到一個坦克停在那兒或者一大卡車士兵。想象一下你會有甚麼感覺。因為你知道這些士兵為甚麼來這兒，你也知道他們在這兒做甚麼。然後你就感到憤怒和恐懼。如果你能感覺到，這就說明你有同理心——這就是同理心。你從自己的世界裡走出來，來以我的角度來看問題。你已經感覺到了tonglixin。 好的，這是熱身。這只是熱身。現在我們將開始真正激進的實驗。在下面的時間裡，我希望你們從一個居住在中東的普通阿拉伯穆斯林的角度出發——具體點說就是伊拉克為了幫助你進入狀態，假設你是巴格達一個中產階級家庭的一員，你希望給你的孩子們創造最好的環境。你希望你的孩子過更好的生活。平時你看新聞，關心大事。你看報紙，你和朋友們去咖啡館，讀世界各地的報紙。有時候你甚至看衛星電視，美國的CNN。你大致知道美國人在想什麼。但是，說到底，你只是希望自己過得更好，那才是你想要的。你是住在伊拉克的阿拉伯穆斯林，你想過得更好。 在這兒，我來幫你，我來幫你梳理一下你也許正在思考的問題。一：過去20年間，甚至更早，你的國土被入侵，所有人，特別是美國，都對你的國土感興趣，其原因就是石油。都是因為石油；這是事實你知我知天下人都知道。美國人也知道這是為了石油。因為別人在盤算你的資源這是你的資源，不是別人的。這是你的國土，你的資源。有人盤算着你的資源你知道他們是為什麼盤算你的石油？你知道他們為甚麼對此這麼感興趣？因為他們的這個經濟依賴石油而存在——並且是進口石油，來自他們的國土之外的石油。 關於這些人，你還想到甚麼？這些美國人，他們很富有。拜託，他們住在大房子裡，他們有大汽車，他們都是金髮碧眼，他們很幸福。你會這麼想。當然這不是真的，但這是媒體給人的印象，這是他們所得到的信息。美國有大城市，這些大城市都依賴石油。回到家裡，你看到甚麼？貧窮，絕望，掙扎。看，你不住在一個富裕的國家。這是伊拉克，這是你看到，你看到人們掙扎求生。沒錯，世事艱難，你也看到很多貧困現象，並且你對此有一些感觸。這些人在盤算你的資源，而你看到這些現狀。 你還看到一些其他你們在討論的東西——美國人不討論這些，但是你們會。比如說，世界的軍國主義化，並且美國現在有保守化傾向。並且美國的軍費佔世界各國總軍費開支的二分之一——他們僅有世界上百分之四的人口。你每天都能感覺到、看到這些情況，這是你生活的一部分。你和朋友們談論這些，你閱讀相關的內容。當薩達姆.侯賽因當權的時候，美國不關心他的罪行。當他用毒氣攻擊庫爾德人和伊朗時，美國沒不關心這些。當石油成為一個問題的時候，不知道為什麼，突然間事情變得對美國重要了。你看到了甚麼，別的一些東西，美國，作為世界民主的中心，他們似乎並不真的支持世界上的民主國家。有好多這樣的國家，產油國，他们不是非常民主，但美国支持他们。这很奇怪。 哦，这些侵略，两次战争，十年的制裁，八年的佔領，由你自己的人民發動的叛亂，成百上千的平民死亡，都是因為石油。你忍不住思考，和談論這些。它總是在你頭腦中佔據首要位置。你說：“這怎麼可能？”然後這個人，他可以是任何人——你祖父，你叔叔，你父親，你兒子，你的鄰居，你的教授，你的學生。曾經幸福快樂的生活，突然變成痛苦和悲傷。你國家的每一個人都被動亂所影響，流血，痛苦，恐懼，每個人都被影響。在你的國家裡，沒有一個人不被影響。 還有在伊拉克的這些美國人還有別的一些問題有一些你看到的而他們自己沒有意識到的問題。你看到了什麼問題？問題就是，他們是基督徒，他們是基督徒。他們崇拜耶穌，他們有十字架，他們帶著聖經。他們的聖經上有一個寫著「美國陸軍」的小徽章。他們的領導者，他們的領導者，在他們送他們的兒子女兒們上你們國家的戰場之前，你知道其中的原由——在送他們出發前，他們去基督教堂，他們向耶穌祈禱，他們祈求上帝的保護和指引。為甚麼？很顯然，當人們在戰爭中死去時，他們是穆斯林，他們是伊拉克人——他們不是美國人。你不希望美國人死。希望上帝保護我們的軍隊，你感覺到這些了——裡所應當的。美國軍隊做了一些好事，你讀到了、聽到了關於這些事情的內容。他們建造學校，並幫助那兒的人，這是他們想做的。他們做了好事，但他們也做壞事，你看不出區別。 當你看到一個像威廉姆.博伊金中將那樣的人，一個說你的神是虛假的神。你的上帝是一個偶像，他的上帝才是真的。對他來說，解決中東問題的辦法，就是把大家都變成基督徒——去處你的宗教。你知道這些。美國人不關心這個人。他們對他一無所知，但是你知道。你把它傳播給別人，你把他的話傳給周圍的人。我是說真的。這個人是第二次入侵伊拉克時的其中一個指揮官。你在想：「上帝啊，如果這個人這麼想，那他手下全體士兵都會這麼想的。」還有一個詞，喬治.布什稱這個戰爭為聖戰。美國人們只會說，「哦，聖戰。管它呢，愛怎樣怎樣。」但你知道聖戰意味著什麼。這是針對穆斯林的聖戰。看，入侵，征服他們，拿走他們的資源，如果他們不服從，就殺了他們。就是這麼回事。你在想，「我的天，這些基督徒將會殺了我們。」這很恐怖，你被嚇到了。當然你會被嚇到。 這個人，泰瑞.瓊斯，他想要燒了所有古蘭經。美國人只是說：「哦，他是個傻瓜，他以前是個酒店經理；他有大概三打的他們教會的成員支持他。」他們對他一笑置之。你沒有把他當兒戲，因為，在整個大背景下，一切說法都有意義。我的意思是，當然，這是美國人對待它的態度，但中東所有的人，不僅僅在你的國家，都在抗議。「他想要燒了古蘭經，我們的聖書。這些基督徒，他們是誰？他們如此邪惡，他們如此卑劣——他們就是這樣的。」這是你作為一個阿拉伯穆斯林，或一個伊拉克人在想的事，你當然會這麼想。 然後，你的堂姐說：「嘿，堂弟，看看這個網站。你得看看這個——聖經訓練營，這些基督徒瘋了，他們在訓練自己的小孩成為上帝的士兵，他們帶走這些孩子，把這些事情灌輸到他們的腦袋裡直到他們學會說：『長官，是，長官』，然後是投擲手榴彈和保養維修武器之類的事情。繼續看網站，上面寫著『美國陸軍』。我是說，這些基督徒，他們瘋了，他們怎麼能對他們的小孩做這些？」然後你繼續瀏覽這個網站。當然，在美國的基督徒們，或者任何人，只會說：「哦，這只是一個偏僻地區的小教堂。」但你不知道這個。對你來說，這代表了所有的基督徒，網絡上鋪天蓋地的都是它，聖經訓練營。再看看這個他們甚至教他們的孩子——他們在用美國海軍陸戰隊的訓練方法來訓練他們。這不是很有趣嗎？它把你嚇著了。 這些人，你看他們。你看，我，山姆.理查茲，我知道這些人是誰。他們是我的學生，我的朋友，我知道他們在想甚麼：「你不知道。」你看到他們時，他們意味着別的東西。他們對你來說是這樣。在美國我們不這麼看，但是你們這麼看。所以這裡，當然，你錯了。你在不合理的退而廣之。這是不對的。你不了解美國人。這不是基督教入侵。我們去那兒不僅僅為了石油，我們去那還有別的很多原因。你錯了，你誤解了。當然了，你們中的大多數不支持武裝動亂；你們不贊成殺美國人，你們不支持恐怖分子。你們當然不。只有很少人這樣，但是你們中的一些人支持，這是一種看法。好的，現在，我們將要 走出你現在的角度回到正常的狀態大家都回到這個房間了，好的激進的實驗來了。於是我們都回家了。這張照片，這個女人，天啊，我能感受到她的感受。我理解她。她是我的姐妹我的妻子，我的堂姐，我的鄰居。她對我來說是很親近。這些人站在那兒，照片裡的每個人。我看到這張照片有身處其境的感覺。接下來是我要你們做的。 讓我們回到第一個關於中國的例子。我希望你想像那個情況/都是為了煤礦，中國人在美國。我要你們把她想像成一位中國婦女，她正在接收中國國旗，因為她愛的人在美國在煤礦起義中被殺死了。現在士兵是中國人，其他人也是中國人。作為一個美國人，你對這張照片有甚麼感覺？你對這樣的場景怎麼想？ 好的，試試看。再回到開始。這是這兒的景象，這是一個美國人，美國士兵，在中東——伊拉克或阿富汗——失去所愛的人的美國婦女。現在，把你自己放在這樣的處境中，從一個伊拉克的阿拉伯穆斯林的角度去看。你感覺到、想到了甚麼？當你看到這張照片這個婦女時 好的，現在，跟著我，因為我在冒很大的風險。我也邀請你和我一起冒這個險，这几位男士，他們是叛亂分子。他們因為想要殺美國士兵被抓住，也許他們成功了，也許他們成功了。把你自己想像成抓他們的美國士兵。你感到憤怒嗎？你能感覺到你想抓住這些人扭他們的脖子嗎？能想象嗎？這不會太難。你就是想——天啊。現在，把你自己放到這些叛亂者的處境中，他們是野蠻的殺手還是愛國的保衛者？是哪一個？你能感到他們的憤怒、恐惧、和暴怒嗎？當他們的國家發生了這些。你能否想象，也許他們中的一個，早上還彎下腰擁抱他的孩子說：「寶貝兒，我一會就回來。我是出去保衛你的自由，你的生命。我是出去保衛我們國家的未來。」你能想象嗎？你能想象他正在說這些嗎？能嗎？你覺得他們是甚麼感覺？你看，這就是同理心，這也是理解。 現在，你也許會問：「好的，山姆，你為甚麼做這些事情？你為甚麼選了這個例子？”我說，因為…因為，你可以憎恨這些人，你可以用盡所有力量來憎恨他們。如果我可以讓你們置身於他們的處境進行一些思考很簡單的思考，然後設想一下你將這種社會學分析方法運用到生活各方面。你能走得更遠。如果你開始理解為甚麼那個人在超車道上以四十邁的速度開車，或者你十幾歲兒子，或者你的鄰居因為在星期天的早晨割草吵到了你。不管是甚麼，你可以走得那麼遠。這就是我告訴學生的：走出你的小世界，走進別人的小世界。一次又一次地這麼做，然後，所有這些小世界突然匯聚成一張複雜的網。他們構成了巨大的複雜的世界。突然間，不知不覺你看世界的角度就變了，一切都變了。你生命中的每件事都變了。這，當然，就是我想實現的目的。 關心別人的生命，別人的視角。傾聽別人，啓迪自己。我不是說我支持伊拉克的恐怖份子，但是作為一個社會學家，我是說我理解了現在，也許——也許——你也理解了。 謝謝 (鼓掌)
