Talk	en	zh-tw
sandrine_thuret_you_can_grow_new_brain_cells_here_s_how	"Can we, as adults, grow new nerve cells? There's still some confusion about that question, as this is a fairly new field of research. For example, I was talking to one of my colleagues, Robert, who is an oncologist, and he was telling me, ""Sandrine, this is puzzling. Some of my patients that have been told they are cured of their cancer still develop symptoms of depression."" And I responded to him, ""Well, from my point of view that makes sense. The drug you give to your patients that stops the cancer cells multiplying also stops the newborn neurons being generated in their brain."" And then Robert looked at me like I was crazy and said, ""But Sandrine, these are adult patients — adults do not grow new nerve cells."" And much to his surprise, I said, ""Well actually, we do."" And this is a phenomenon that we call neurogenesis. [Neurogenesis] Now Robert is not a neuroscientist, and when he went to medical school he was not taught what we know now — that the adult brain can generate new nerve cells. So Robert, you know, being the good doctor that he is, wanted to come to my lab to understand the topic a little bit better. And I took him for a tour of one of the most exciting parts of the brain when it comes to neurogenesis — and this is the hippocampus. So this is this gray structure in the center of the brain. And what we've known already for very long, is that this is important for learning, memory, mood and emotion. However, what we have learned more recently is that this is one of the unique structures of the adult brain where new neurons can be generated. And if we slice through the hippocampus and zoom in, what you actually see here in blue is a newborn neuron in an adult mouse brain. So when it comes to the human brain — my colleague Jonas Frisén from the Karolinska Institutet, has estimated that we produce 700 new neurons per day in the hippocampus. You might think this is not much, compared to the billions of neurons we have. But by the time we turn 50, we will have all exchanged the neurons we were born with in that structure with adult-born neurons. So why are these new neurons important and what are their functions? First, we know that they're important for learning and memory. And in the lab we have shown that if we block the ability of the adult brain to produce new neurons in the hippocampus, then we block certain memory abilities. And this is especially new and true for spatial recognition — so like, how you navigate your way in the city. We are still learning a lot, and neurons are not only important for memory capacity, but also for the quality of the memory. And they will have been helpful to add time to our memory and they will help differentiate very similar memories, like: how do you find your bike that you park at the station every day in the same area, but in a slightly different position? And more interesting to my colleague Robert is the research we have been doing on neurogenesis and depression. So in an animal model of depression, we have seen that we have a lower level of neurogenesis. And if we give antidepressants, then we increase the production of these newborn neurons, and we decrease the symptoms of depression, establishing a clear link between neurogenesis and depression. But moreover, if you just block neurogenesis, then you block the efficacy of the antidepressant. So by then, Robert had understood that very likely his patients were suffering from depression even after being cured of their cancer, because the cancer drug had stopped newborn neurons from being generated. And it will take time to generate new neurons that reach normal functions. So, collectively, now we think we have enough evidence to say that neurogenesis is a target of choice if we want to improve memory formation or mood, or even prevent the decline associated with aging, or associated with stress. So the next question is: can we control neurogenesis? The answer is yes. And we are now going to do a little quiz. I'm going to give you a set of behaviors and activities, and you tell me if you think they will increase neurogenesis or if they will decrease neurogenesis. Are we ready? OK, let's go. So what about learning? Increasing? Yes. Learning will increase the production of these new neurons. How about stress? Yes, stress will decrease the production of new neurons in the hippocampus. How about sleep deprivation? Indeed, it will decrease neurogenesis. How about sex? Oh, wow! (Laughter) Yes, you are right, it will increase the production of new neurons. However, it's all about balance here. We don't want to fall in a situation — (Laughter) about too much sex leading to sleep deprivation. (Laughter) How about getting older? So the neurogenesis rate will decrease as we get older, but it is still occurring. And then finally, how about running? I will let you judge that one by yourself. So this is one of the first studies that was carried out by one of my mentors, Rusty Gage from the Salk Institute, showing that the environment can have an impact on the production of new neurons. And here you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had no running wheel in its cage. And the little black dots you see are actually newborn neurons-to-be. And now, you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had a running wheel in its cage. So you see the massive increase of the black dots representing the new neurons-to-be. So activity impacts neurogenesis, but that's not all. What you eat will have an effect on the production of new neurons in the hippocampus. So here we have a sample of diet — of nutrients that have been shown to have efficacy. And I'm just going to point a few out to you: Calorie restriction of 20 to 30 percent will increase neurogenesis. Intermittent fasting — spacing the time between your meals — will increase neurogenesis. Intake of flavonoids, which are contained in dark chocolate or blueberries, will increase neurogenesis. Omega-3 fatty acids, present in fatty fish, like salmon, will increase the production of these new neurons. Conversely, a diet rich in high saturated fat will have a negative impact on neurogenesis. Ethanol — intake of alcohol — will decrease neurogenesis. However, not everything is lost; resveratrol, which is contained in red wine, has been shown to promote the survival of these new neurons. So next time you are at a dinner party, you might want to reach for this possibly ""neurogenesis-neutral"" drink. (Laughter) And then finally, let me point out the last one — a quirky one. So Japanese groups are fascinated with food textures, and they have shown that actually soft diet impairs neurogenesis, as opposed to food that requires mastication — chewing — or crunchy food. So all of this data, where we need to look at the cellular level, has been generated using animal models. But this diet has also been given to human participants, and what we could see is that the diet modulates memory and mood in the same direction as it modulates neurogenesis, such as: calorie restriction will improve memory capacity, whereas a high-fat diet will exacerbate symptoms of depression — as opposed to omega-3 fatty acids, which increase neurogenesis, and also help to decrease the symptoms of depression. So we think that the effect of diet on mental health, on memory and mood, is actually mediated by the production of the new neurons in the hippocampus. And it's not only what you eat, but it's also the texture of the food, when you eat it and how much of it you eat. On our side — neuroscientists interested in neurogenesis — we need to understand better the function of these new neurons, and how we can control their survival and their production. We also need to find a way to protect the neurogenesis of Robert's patients. And on your side — I leave you in charge of your neurogenesis. Thank you. (Applause) Margaret Heffernan: Fantastic research, Sandrine. Now, I told you you changed my life — I now eat a lot of blueberries. Sandrine Thuret: Very good. MH: I'm really interested in the running thing. Do I have to run? Or is it really just about aerobic exercise, getting oxygen to the brain? Could it be any kind of vigorous exercise? ST: So for the moment, we can't really say if it's just the running itself, but we think that anything that indeed will increase the production — or moving the blood flow to the brain, should be beneficial. MH: So I don't have to get a running wheel in my office? ST: No, you don't! MH: Oh, what a relief! That's wonderful. Sandrine Thuret, thank you so much. ST: Thank you, Margaret. (Applause)"	我們成人可否長出新的神經細胞？有些人對這個問題感到疑惑，畢竟這是較新的研究領域。例如我曾經跟同事Robert聊過，他是腫瘤專家，他對我説， Sandrine，我真是不明白我明明跟病人講，他們的癌症已經痊癒，他們卻出現了抑鬱症。我回答說，對我而言，這容易理解。因為你給病人開的藥阻止了癌細胞繁殖，也同時阻礙了他們的腦部生長新的神經細胞。接著Robert望向我，好像我神經錯亂，他説，可是Sandrine，這些患者都是成年人，成年人是不會長新神經細胞的。出乎他意料之外，我說，其實可以的。我們稱這種現象是神經再生。 ［神經再生］ 因為Robert不是神經學家以前他讀醫學院時，並沒有學過我們今天認識的現象，成人腦部是可以生長新神經細胞的。Robert是一位好醫生，他要來我的實驗室，想多了解這個議題。於是我向他介紹腦部最令人興奮之處，就是它有神經再生能力—這是海馬體這是灰質，位於腦部的中央。我們很早已經知道這些部分對於學習、記憶、心情、和情感尤其重要。但是直到最近我們才知曉這是成人腦部之中一個特別的組織可以產生新的神經細胞。如果我們切開海馬體然後用鏡頭放大看裡面的東西，便可以見到這個藍色的地方它是成年老鼠腦部的新生神經。說到人類的腦部—我的同事Jonas Frisen 來自Karolinska研究所，據其估計，我們的海馬體每天有700個新生的神經。你可能會覺得跟人體內數十億的神經相比，這實在是微不足道。可是，在我們到達50歲前，海馬體內的天生神經將會因此全由成年再生的神經替換掉。 為什麼這些新神經那麼重要，其功能為何？首先，我們知道這些神經對學習和記憶很重要。我們做了實驗證明如果我們阻止成年腦部在海馬體製造新神經，則同時我們也阻礙了某些記憶能力的發展。特別是有關空間認知的最新發現更是如此，這說明你為何可以在城裏認路。 我們不停地學習，神經不單影響記憶容量，也影響記憶品質。這些細胞將會延長我們的記憶，也會協助我們從類似記憶中，分辨出細微的差異：例如你每天出入同一個車站，腳踏車停在同一塊區域，你怎麼找得到自己今天停放的不同位置？ 我的同事Robert一直對我們進行的神經再生和抑鬱症研究感興趣。在抑鬱症的動物模型中，我們見到動物的神經再生量較低。但是如果我們給予抗抑鬱藥，便會增加其新生神經的數量，並減少抑鬱症狀。這證明神經再生跟抑鬱症有明顯的關係。還有，若你阻止神經再生，則你也阻止抗抑鬱藥發揮效用。因此，Robert開始明白，他的患者為何癌症已經痊癒，卻常受抑鬱症之苦的理由，因為癌症藥阻止了新神經的生長。而新神經需要時間生長，才能達到正常功能。 所以，我們現在共同認識到，已經有足夠的證據顯示神經再生是重要關鍵，如果我們想要改善記憶或情緒或者預防因為老化或壓力招致的腦部衰退。 所以，接下來要問的問題是：我們可以控制神經再生嗎？答案是可以的。現在就讓大家來做一個小測驗。我將提示一連串的行為和活動，請大家告訴我，它們會助長神經再生或者減少神經再生。預備好了嗎？好，開始。 你認為學習怎樣呢？增加？對。學習會幫助腦部製造更多新神經。 壓力又如何？對，壓力會減低海馬體的神經再生。 睡眠不足又如何？其實那會減低神經再生。 性行為又如何？噢，哇！ （笑聲） 對，你們答對了。那會增加新神經生長。但是每樣事都要適可而止。我們不希望陷入另一種情況— （笑聲） 太多性行為會導致睡眠不足。 （笑聲） 年老又怎樣？隨著年紀漸長，神經再生的速度會慢下來，但仍然會發生。 最後，跑步又如何？我讓大家自己來判斷。 這是我們最早作的一個硏究，是由我的導師 Rusty Gage 做實驗。他來自 Salk 研究所。這個實驗證明環境會影響新神經的生長。這是一隻老鼠的海馬體切片，牠的籠子沒有轉輪。而那些黑點其實是新生的準神經。現在你看看另一隻老鼠的海馬體切片，牠的籠子裝了轉輪。你可以看到切片上有大量新増的黑點，那是新生的準神經。 所以活動會影響神經再生，但是不只這樣。你吃什麼也會影響海馬體的神經再生。這裡有份飲食樣本內含一些有效的營養物。我現在只提出幾點供參考：減少20-30％的卡路里攝取量會增加神經再生。間歇性的禁食，把兩餐之間的用餐時間隔開一點，有助神經再生。攝食類黃酮，黑巧克力或者藍莓都含有類黃酮，有助增加神經再生。奧米加-3 脂肪酸可以在多脂魚類，例如鮭魚中找到，會增加神經再生。相反的，常吃太多飽和脂肪食物會對神經再生有壞影響。乙醇，即喝酒，會減低神經再生。但不是每樣都要捨棄；紅酒含有白藜蘆醇(resveratrol)已經證明可以增加新神經的存活率。所以下次你參加晚宴，也許可以去拿這杯可能《不影響神經再生》的飲品。 （笑聲） 最後，我想提出最後一點，較古怪的一點。有日本團隊著迷於食物軟硬質地的研究，其結果顯示太軟的飲食，有礙神經再生，這跟需要咀嚼或者鬆脆的食物有助再生剛好相反。 有關上述數據，我們皆需從細胞層次觀察，其資料皆來自動物模型。但這些飲食我們也有給人做實驗。我們觀察到這些飲食調控記憶和情緒好壞的情形，跟調控神經再生多寡的方向一致，例如限制卡路里攝取會改善記憶容量，而高脂肪飲食會加劇抑鬱症狀，相反的，奥米加-3 脂肪酸有助神經再生，也有助減輕抑鬱症狀。所以我們認為飲食會影響精神健康，記憶和情緒，其實是藉由調控海馬體內新神經的生長而達成的。 影響因子並不只是你吃下什麼東西，還包括食物的軟硬質地，何時進食，及吃了多少份量。 就研究神經再生的神經科學家而言，我們需要再深入了解這些新神經的功用，怎樣才能控制其存活及再生率。我們也需想辦法保護Robert患者的神經再生。而就你們而言—-就請大家好好負責自己的神經再生吧。 謝謝。 （鼓掌聲） Margaret Heffernan：Sandrine，你的研究非常好。我現在告訴你，你改變了我的生活。我現在吃很多藍莓。 Sandrine Thuret：很好。 MH： 我對跑步之類很有興趣。我是否一定要跑步？或者也可作些有氧運動，讓腦部吸入氧氣？做其他劇烈運動也可以嗎？ ST：目前來看，我們真的不會說只有跑步才有用，但會認為只要可以幫助細胞再生—或是讓血液流向腦部的運動，都是有益的。 MH：那麼我不用在辦公室安裝一個轉輪嗎？ ST：不用了。 MH： 噢，鬆了一口氣！真好。多謝你，Sandrine Thuret ST：多謝，Margaret。 (鼓掌聲）
