Talk	en	zh-tw
sanford_biggers_an_artist_s_unflinching_look_at_racial_violence	"As a conceptual artist, I'm constantly looking for creative ways to spark challenging conversations. I do this though painting, sculpture, video and performance. But regardless of the format, two of my favorite materials are history and dialogue. In 2007, I created ""Lotus,"" a seven-and-a-half-foot diameter, 600-pound glass depiction of a lotus blossom. In Buddhism, the lotus is a symbol for transcendence and for purity of mind and spirit. But a closer look at this lotus reveals each petal to be the cross-section of a slave ship. This iconic diagram was taken from a British slaving manual and later used by abolitionists to show the atrocities of slavery. In America, we don't like to talk about slavery, nor do we look at it as a global industry. But by using this Buddhist symbol, I hope to universalize and transcend the history and trauma of black America and encourage discussions about our shared past. To create ""Lotus,"" we carved over 6,000 figures. And this later led to a commission by the City of New York to create a 28-foot version in steel as a permanent installation at the Eagle Academy for Young Men, a school for black and latino students, the two groups most affected by this history. The same two groups are very affected by a more recent phenomenon, but let me digress. I've been collecting wooden African figures from tourist shops and flea markets around the world. The authenticity and origin of them is completely debatable, but people believe these to be imbued with power, or even magic. Only recently have I figured out how to use this in my own work. (Gun shots) Since 2012, the world has witnessed the killings of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Tamir Rice and literally countless other unarmed black citizens at the hands of the police, who frequently walk away with no punishment at all. In consideration of these victims and the several times that even I, a law-abiding, Ivy League professor, have been targeted and harassed at gunpoint by the police. I created this body of work simply entitled ""BAM."" It was important to erase the identity of each of these figures, to make them all look the same and easier to disregard. To do this, I dip them in a thick, brown wax before taking them to a shooting range where I re-sculpted them using bullets. And it was fun, playing with big guns and high-speed video cameras. But my reverence for these figures kept me from actually pulling the trigger, somehow feeling as if I would be shooting myself. Finally, my cameraman, Raul, fired the shots. I then took the fragments of these and created molds, and cast them first in wax, and finally in bronze like the image you see here, which bears the marks of its violent creation like battle wounds or scars. When I showed this work recently in Miami, a woman told me she felt every gun shot to her soul. But she also felt that these artworks memorialized the victims of these killings as well as other victims of racial violence throughout US history. But ""Lotus"" and ""BAM"" are larger than just US history. While showing in Berlin last year, a philosophy student asked me what prompted these recent killings. I showed him a photo of a lynching postcard from the early 1900s and reminded him that these killings have been going on for over 500 years. But it's only through questions like his and more thoughtful dialogue about history and race can we evolve as individuals and society. I hope my artwork creates a safe space for this type of honest exchange and an opportunity for people to engage one another in real and necessary conversation. Thank you. (Applause)"	作為一位觀念藝術家，我經常在找尋激起爭論性對話的創作方式。我透過繪畫、雕塑、錄影及表演來做到。但無論採取何種方式，我最喜愛用的兩種素材就是歷史和對話。 2007 年時，我設計了「蓮花」，直徑 7.5 英尺，600 磅的蓮花玻璃圖案。在佛教，蓮花是一種超越以及心、靈純淨的象徵。但仔細看這蓮花，顯示每一花瓣都是販奴船的橫切面。這圖像是來自英國的奴隸手冊，後來被廢奴主義者用以證明奴隸制度的暴行。在美國，我們不喜歡談論奴隷制度，也不把它視為全球產業。但藉著用這佛教的象徵，我希望能普及並超越美國黑人的歷史及創傷，並鼓勵討論我們共同的過去。 為了製造「蓮花」，我們刻了超過 6,000 個圖形，稍後紐約市也因而委託我們製造一個 28 英尺的鋼製版，固定架設在老鷹男子高級中學 ──此校為黑人及拉丁裔學生就讀，兩個在這歷史上受害最深的族群。一個最近的事件對這兩族群也有很大影響，但容我岔開話題。 我一直在收集來自全世界旅遊商店及跳蚤市場的木製非洲塑像，它們的真實性及來源完全是有疑問的，但人們認為這些具有能力，甚至魔力。只是最近我已想出如何將這用在我的作品上。 （槍聲） 自 2012 年起，世人見證實了特雷沃恩·馬丁命案，麥克·布朗、埃里克·加納、桑德拉·布蘭德、塔米爾·萊斯，簡直多到數不清手無寸鐵的黑人公民死於警察手中，而他們絲毫無罪地全身而退。考慮到這些受害者，以及連我── 一位守法的長春藤大學聯盟教授 ──也曾多次被警察盯上及槍口的騷擾，我設計了這個作品，單純命名為「砰」。 將每個塑像的面貌去掉是重要的，使它們看起來一樣且較易忽略其身份。為此，我將它們浸入濃稠棕色蠟，而後帶它們到靶場，用子彈重新雕塑它們。射大槍和使用高速錄影機是蠻好玩的，但我對這些塑像的敬畏心讓我無法真正扣下扳機，好像覺得我是在射擊自己，最後，是由我的攝影師 Raul 開槍的。隨後我將這些殘片碎塊做一個石膏模，再先用蠟做個模型，最後用銅鑄成，就如你現在所見的塑像。上面有用暴力製造過程的痕跡，就像戰爭傷口或疤痕。 當我最近在邁阿密展示這作品時，一位女士告訴我，她覺得每一槍都擊中她的心靈，但她也感受到這些作品悼念了命案受害者，以及整個美國史上種族暴力下的其他受害者。 但「蓮花」及「砰」比只是美國歷史意義更深遠。當去年在柏林展示時，一位學哲學的學生問我這些最近的命案是為何發生。我拿一張 1900 年代初期處私刑的照片給他看，並提醒他這種殺戮已經持續超過 500 年了。但唯有透過像他這樣的問題和更多有關歷史及種族的思考性對話，我們個人與社會才能成長。 我希望我的作品可創造一個安全空間提供這種坦誠交流，並提供機會讓大家參與彼此真實及必要的對談。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
