Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_kay_how_many_lives_can_you_live	"(Singing) I see the moon. The moon sees me. The moon sees somebody that I don't see. God bless the moon, and God bless me. And God bless the somebody that I don't see. If I get to heaven, before you do, I'll make a hole and pull you through. And I'll write your name on every star, and that way the world won't seem so far. The astronaut will not be at work today. He has called in sick. He has turned off his cell phone, his laptop, his pager, his alarm clock. There is a fat yellow cat asleep on his couch, raindrops against the window and not even the hint of coffee in the kitchen air. Everybody is in a tizzy. The engineers on the 15th floor have stopped working on their particle machine. The anti-gravity room is leaking, and even the freckled kid with glasses, whose only job is to take out the trash, is nervous, fumbles the bag, spills a banana peel and a paper cup. Nobody notices. They are too busy recalculating what this all mean for lost time. How many galaxies are we losing per second? How long before next rocket can be launched? Somewhere an electron flies off its energy cloud. A black hole has erupted. A mother finishes setting the table for dinner. A Law & Order marathon is starting. The astronaut is asleep. He has forgotten to turn off his watch, which ticks, like a metal pulse against his wrist. He does not hear it. He dreams of coral reefs and plankton. His fingers find the pillowcase's sailing masts. He turns on his side, opens his eyes at once. He thinks that scuba divers must have the most wonderful job in the world. So much water to glide through! (Applause) Thank you. When I was little, I could not understand the concept that you could only live one life. I don't mean this metaphorically. I mean, I literally thought that I was going to get to do everything there was to do and be everything there was to be. It was only a matter of time. And there was no limitation based on age or gender or race or even appropriate time period. I was sure that I was going to actually experience what it felt like to be a leader of the civil rights movement or a ten-year old boy living on a farm during the dust bowl or an emperor of the Tang dynasty in China. My mom says that when people asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up, my typical response was: princess-ballerina-astronaut. And what she doesn't understand is that I wasn't trying to invent some combined super profession. I was listing things I thought I was gonna get to be: a princess and a ballerina and an astronaut. and I'm pretty sure the list probably went on from there. I usually just got cut off. It was never a question of if I was gonna get to do something so much of a question of when. And I was sure that if I was going to do everything, that it probably meant I had to move pretty quickly, because there was a lot of stuff I needed to do. So my life was constantly in a state of rushing. I was always scared that I was falling behind. And since I grew up in New York City, as far as I could tell, rushing was pretty normal. But, as I grew up, I had this sinking realization, that I wasn't gonna get to live any more than one life. I only knew what it felt like to be a teenage girl in New York City, not a teenage boy in New Zealand, not a prom queen in Kansas. I only got to see through my lens. And it was around this time that I became obsessed with stories, because it was through stories that I was able to see through someone else's lens, however briefly or imperfectly. And I started craving hearing other people's experiences because I was so jealous that there were entire lives that I was never gonna get to live, and I wanted to hear about everything that I was missing. And by transitive property, I realized that some people were never gonna get to experience what it felt like to be a teenage girl in New York city. Which meant that they weren't gonna know what the subway ride after your first kiss feels like, or how quiet it gets when its snows. And I wanted them to know, I wanted to tell them. And this became the focus of my obsession. I busied myself telling stories and sharing stories and collecting them. And it's not until recently that I realized that I can't always rush poetry. In April for National Poetry Month, there's this challenge that many poets in the poetry community participate in, and its called the 30/30 Challenge. The idea is you write a new poem every single day for the entire month of April. And last year, I tried it for the first time and was thrilled by the efficiency at which I was able to produce poetry. But at the end of the month, I looked back at these 30 poems I had written and discovered that they were all trying to tell the same story, it had just taken me 30 tries to figure out the way that it wanted to be told. And I realized that this is probably true of other stories on an even larger scale. I have stories that I have tried to tell for years, rewriting and rewriting and constantly searching for the right words. There's a French poet and essayist by the name of Paul Valéry who said a poem is never finished, it is only abandoned. And this terrifies me because it implies that I could keep re-editing and rewriting forever and its up to me to decide when a poem is finished and when I can walk away from it. And this goes directly against my very obsessive nature to try to find the right answer and the perfect words and the right form. And I use poetry in my life, as a way to help me navigate and work through things. But just because I end the poem, doesn't mean that I've solved what it was I was puzzling through. I like to revisit old poetry because it shows me exactly where I was at that moment and what it was I was trying to navigate and the words that I chose to help me. Now, I have a story that I've been stumbling over for years and years and I'm not sure if I've found the prefect form, or whether this is just one attempt and I will try to rewrite it later in search of a better way to tell it. But I do know that later, when I look back I will be able to know that this is where I was at this moment and this is what I was trying to navigate, with these words, here, in this room, with you. So — Smile. It didn't always work this way. There's a time you had to get your hands dirty. When you were in the dark, for most of it, fumbling was a given. If you needed more contrast, more saturation, darker darks and brighter brights, they called it extended development. It meant you spent longer inhaling chemicals, longer up to your wrist. It wasn't always easy. Grandpa Stewart was a Navy photographer. Young, red-faced with his sleeves rolled up, fists of fingers like fat rolls of coins, he looked like Popeye the sailor man come to life. Crooked smile, tuft of chest hair, he showed up to World War II, with a smirk and a hobby. When they asked him if he knew much about photography, he lied, learned to read Europe like a map, upside down, from the height of a fighter plane, camera snapping, eyelids flapping the darkest darks and brightest brights. He learned war like he could read his way home. When other men returned, they would put their weapons out to rest, but he brought the lenses and the cameras home with him. Opened a shop, turned it into a family affair. My father was born into this world of black and white. His basketball hands learned the tiny clicks and slides of lens into frame, film into camera, chemical into plastic bin. His father knew the equipment but not the art. He knew the darks but not the brights. My father learned the magic, spent his time following light. Once he traveled across the country to follow a forest fire, hunted it with his camera for a week. ""Follow the light,"" he said. ""Follow the light."" There are parts of me I only recognize from photographs. The loft on Wooster Street with the creaky hallways, the twelve-foot ceilings, white walls and cold floors. This was my mother's home, before she was mother. Before she was wife, she was artist. And the only two rooms in the house, with walls that reached all the way up to the ceiling, and doors that opened and closed, were the bathroom and the darkroom. The darkroom she built herself, with custom-made stainless steel sinks, an 8x10 bed enlarger that moved up and down by a giant hand crank, a bank of color-balanced lights, a white glass wall for viewing prints, a drying rack that moved in and out from the wall. My mother built herself a darkroom. Made it her home. Fell in love with a man with basketball hands, with the way he looked at light. They got married. Had a baby. Moved to a house near a park. But they kept the loft on Wooster Street for birthday parties and treasure hunts. The baby tipped the grayscale, filled her parents' photo albums with red balloons and yellow icing. The baby grew into a girl without freckles, with a crooked smile, who didn’t understand why her friends did not have darkrooms in their houses, who never saw her parents kiss, who never saw them hold hands. But one day, another baby showed up. This one with perfect straight hair and bubble gum cheeks. They named him sweet potato. When he laughed, he laughed so loudly he scared the pigeons on the fire escape And the four of them lived in that house near the park. The girl with no freckles, the sweet potato boy, the basketball father and darkroom mother and they lit their candles and said their prayers, and the corners of the photographs curled. One day, some towers fell. And the house near the park became a house under ash, so they escaped in backpacks, on bicycles to darkrooms But the loft of Wooster Street was built for an artist, not a family of pigeons, and walls that do not reach the ceiling do not hold in the yelling and the man with basketball hands put his weapons out to rest. He could not fight this war, and no maps pointed home. His hands no longer fit his camera, no longer fit his wife's, no longer fit his body. The sweet potato boy mashed his fists into his mouth until he had nothing more to say. So, the girl without freckles went treasure hunting on her own. And on Wooster Street, in a building with the creaky hallways and the loft with the 12-foot ceilings and the darkroom with too many sinks under the color-balanced lights, she found a note, tacked to the wall with a thumb-tack, left over from a time before towers, from the time before babies. And the note said: ""A guy sure loves the girl who works in the darkroom."" It was a year before my father picked up a camera again. His first time out, he followed the Christmas lights, dotting their way through New York City's trees, tiny dots of light, blinking out at him from out of the darkest darks. A year later he traveled across the country to follow a forest fire stayed for a week hunting it with his camera, it was ravaging the West Coast eating 18-wheeler trucks in its stride. On the other side of the country, I went to class and wrote a poem in the margins of my notebook. We have both learned the art of capture. Maybe we are learning the art of embracing. Maybe we are learning the art of letting go. (Applause)"	（清唱）我看見了月亮，月亮也看見了我。月亮也看見了那些我看不到的人。上帝保佑那月亮，上帝也保佑我。上帝也保佑那些我看不到的人。如果我在你的前面，去到了天堂，我會挖一個洞，把你也拉進來。我會在每一顆星星上都寫下你的名字，這樣的話，這個世界看起來就離你不會太遠。 太空人今天不上班。他今天請了病假。他關掉了他的手機，他的筆電，他的呼叫器，他的鬧鐘。黃色的大肥貓躺在他的沙發上，窗外下著大雨，廚房的空氣中，也絲毫沒有咖啡的香味。每個人都很緊張。15 樓的工程師不再操作他的粒子加速器。反重力房間也發生了洩漏，甚至連那個專門負責倒垃圾的戴眼鏡的雀斑小子都很緊張，不停地撥弄著垃圾袋，連香蕉皮和紙杯都掉出來了。沒有任何人注意到。他們都忙著重新計算時間流逝代表的意義。我們每秒鐘失去了多少星系？距離下一個火箭發射還有多長時間？某個地方的電子飛離了它的能量雲。一個黑洞坍塌了。一個媽媽佈置好了晚餐的餐桌。一個名叫《法律與秩序》的美劇開演了。太空人睡著了。他忘記關掉了他的手錶，滴答滴答響著，像是金屬脈衝撞擊在他手腕上。他沒有聽到。他夢到了珊瑚礁和浮游生物。他用手指抓住枕頭套，像是抓著船桅一樣，他翻了個身，有那麼一秒他睜開了眼睛。他覺得，潛水員是這個世上最棒的工作了。可以在無限的大海裡徜徉！ （鼓掌） 謝謝。 在我很小的時候，有一個概念我不能夠理解，就是，一個人只能過一種生活。我不是在比喻什麼，我是說，我真的認為我可以做所有我想做的事情。成為所有我想成為的人，而這只是時間的問題而已！並且沒有年齡、性別、種族的限制，甚至也無需顧慮甚麼是「合適的時段」。我確信我可以真正的去體驗，那種做為人權運動領袖的感受，或像一個 10 歲的小男孩，活在 30 年代「黑色風暴事件」的農場那樣，或者像中國唐朝時代的皇帝那樣。我媽媽說，小時候人家問我：「你長大後想當什麼人？」我的標準答案總是：公主—芭蕾舞者—太空人。其實她不知道，我並不是要把許多職業合併，創造出一個新的超級職業。當時我只是列出以後我想成為的人而已。公主、芭蕾舞者、太空人，而且我確信那些夢想以後都會一一實現。不過我通常都是被潑冷水。至於我將來是否做得到？對我來說，它從來都不是我的問題，它只是「甚麼時候去做」而已。 而且我確信我會實現我所有的目標。這可能意味著我要行動迅速，因為我要做的事情太多太多了。所以我的生活一直都是奔波忙碌的。我總是擔心進度落後。加上我是在紐約市區長大的，步調緊湊本來就是這裡的生活常態。但我長大了之後，我失望的意識到，我不可能有多重的人生。身為一個在紐約長大的女孩，我就只能感受到那種感覺而已，我卻無法體會到，做為一個紐西蘭青少年的那種感覺，或是做為堪薩斯畢業舞會皇后的那種感覺，我只能用我的視角去看這個世界，而也恰好是在那段時間裡，我開始迷上了故事。因為透過故事，我才可以站在別人的視角，去認識這個世界。不管它是如何短暫，或是不完美！我開始渴望聽到別人的經歷，因為我嫉妒他們的生活，而那些都是我從來沒過的經歷。我想要聽我所錯過的一切的故事。而且根據遞移關係，我發現有些人，是永遠無法體驗紐約長大的女孩﹑她們的經歷是怎樣的。這意味著，他們不會知道，初吻後坐地鐵是什麼樣的感受。也不會知道下雪的時候外面有多安靜，我想要他們知道，我想告訴他們， 就是因為有這些事，所以成為我執著的焦點，我馬不停蹄的寫我的故事、分享我的故事、以及收集我自己的故事。至今最近我才意識到，我不能總是那樣匆匆忙忙的寫詩。4 月份舉辦的國家詩歌月有一個挑戰，詩歌協會的很多詩人都參與了這個挑戰。這個挑戰的名稱為 30/30 挑戰賽。它的規則是，在 4 月份的每一天，你都要創作出一首新詩。去年我開始了我的第一次嘗試，我被我自己創作詩歌的效力嚇著了。但是在那個月的最後一天，我回過頭看我寫的 30 首詩。發現它們都在嘗試寫同樣的故事，我經歷了 30 次的嘗試後，才想出我想敘述的方法，我也理解到，對於其他規模更大的故事，情況似乎也是差不多。我有一些故事，多年來一直嘗試想講給別人聽，我一而再不停的重寫，不斷的尋找適合的文字。 法國有位詩人兼散文家，保羅·瓦雷里曾經說過：「詩是無法完成的，它只能被放棄。」這句話讓我嚇到了，因為它給了我一個暗示，那就是我可以永遠不停的重新編輯、不斷的重新修改，而這給了我權利來決定何時寫完這首詩，並決定何時抽身離開。而這也直接違反了我非常執著的本性，總是在嘗試尋找正確的答案，完美的詞語和正確的形式。我在生活中常常使用詩句，來做為幫助我尋求和解決問題的方法。但當我寫完我的詩篇時，並不代表這我當時的疑惑也獲得了解決。我喜歡回顧我的舊詩，因為它們可以準確告訴我，那個時候我是什麼樣的狀態，我在嘗試去探尋什麼，以及，我當時選來幫助我的詞又是什麼。 我有一個故事，我躊躇了很多年。我不確定我是否找到了完美的形式，或者只是一種讓我可以繼續完成的嘗試，用來尋找重新再敘述這故事的更好辦法。但是我的確知道，當我再回顧這首詩的時候，到時我就可以知道，當時的我就是那個樣子，那就是我當時在嘗試追尋的，用這些詞語，在這間屋子裡，跟你們在一起。 所以，笑一個。 這樣通常行不通。有些時候，你總得親力而為，大部分時間你都是在黑暗中摸索；而「探索」本身其實就是一種恩典。如果你需要更多的對比，更多的飽和度，讓黑暗變得更暗、亮的變得更亮，他們把它稱之為「靜止顯影」。也就是說：你花更長時間吸進更多的化學物質，泡得更久。這不是一直都是那麼容易的。我祖父斯圖爾特過去是一位海軍攝影師，他年輕時紅光滿面，袖子總是捲起來，拳頭手指握起來就像厚厚一疊硬幣。看起來就像大力水手的真人版。笑起來嘴巴彎彎的，一簇簇的胸毛，他去參加二戰，帶著得意，帶著嗜好。當人們問他對攝影了解多少時，他沒說實話。他學會看歐洲就像看地圖，上下顛倒，從戰鬥機的高度。快門不停的開闔，眼皮不斷的眨動，他看到最黯的黑色，也看過最亮的光明。他了解戰爭，就像識途老馬認識回家的路一樣。 別的軍人退伍歸鄉時，武器一拋，不再留戀，但是他把鏡頭和相機帶回家。將它們轉變為一個家庭事業。我父親生出在黑白照片的世代，他用籃球運動員般的大手，學習操作那些細小的按鍵，學習如何固定鏡頭、將膠捲裝入相機、把化學物質裝入塑料桶。他的父親了解那些器材，但是不懂藝術，他瞭解暗影的技術，但是不知道如何利用光線。我父親學到了其中的奧妙，花了很多時間去追逐光線。有一次他橫穿整個國家，去追蹤一場森林大火，用他的相機獵捕火災現場，記錄了整整一周的景象。「跟著光走！」 他這麼說。「跟著亮光走。」 我有一部分的人生，只有照片的記憶，伍斯特街上的閣樓，吱呀吱呀響的走廊，12 英吋高的天花板、白色的牆、冰冷的地板；在她身為人母之前，那就是我母親的家。在嫁人之前她是個藝術家。房子裡僅僅只有 2 個房間，牆壁直達天花板，門開了又關，裡面有洗手間和暗房。暗房是她自己製作的，裡面有特製的不鏽鋼水池，一個 8x10 英吋大的相片放大器。還有一支很大的手動曲柄，可以用來上下移動工作平台，一整排的色彩平衡燈泡，一面白色玻璃牆用來看沖洗出來的照片，一個可以從牆上拉進拉出的相片乾燥架。我的母親為她自己搭建了一個暗房，把它變成了她的家。愛上了一個有一雙手掌長得像籃球員那樣大的男人，愛上了他看待光線時的那種樣子。 他們結婚了，生了一個小孩，搬去了一個靠近公園的房子，但是他們留著伍斯特街上的那個閣樓。用來舉辦生日聚會和尋寶遊戲。小寶寶顛覆了黑白相冊，用紅色的氣球和黃色糖霜蛋糕，點綴她父母相冊的色彩。小寶寶長大後成為一個沒有雀斑的女孩，笑起來嘴巴彎彎的。她不明白為什麼她朋友家中都沒有暗房，也從來沒有見過他們的父母互相親吻，沒有見過他們牽手。 但是有一天，另外一個寶寶出現了。一個有著完美直髮，臉頰像泡泡糖一樣的寶寶。他們管他叫「番薯。」 當他笑的時候，總是笑得很大聲，嚇跑了站在逃生梯上的鴿子。他們四個住在一座靠近公園的房子裡，一個臉上沒有雀斑的少女，還有一個名字稱為「番薯」的男孩，有雙大手掌的父親和有一間暗房的母親，他們點亮了蠟燭，輕聲祈禱。照片的四角在流逝的時光中開始捲曲。 有一天，塔樓倒塌了，靠近公園的房子，變成了灰燼下的房子，所以他們背上背包逃走了。騎上單車，逃向了暗房。但伍斯特街的那個閣樓，是為一個藝術家建造的，不是為了流浪鴿棲息而建造的，牆壁不再是高到天花板，房子也頂不住孩子的尖叫聲，有雙大手的男人，棄械投降，他無法打贏這場戰爭，也沒地圖引導他回家。他的手再也無法操作他和太太的照相機。他的手也無法聽從他的指揮。番薯男孩打爛拳頭，塞進他的嘴巴，直到他再也說不出話來。 至於那個沒有雀斑的女孩，則展開了自己的尋寶之旅。在伍斯特街那棟走廊吱吱響的房子裡面，天花板 12 英尺高的閣樓中，佈滿很多水槽的暗房裡，就在那座平衡色彩的燈架下，她找到一張紙條，被大頭針釘在牆壁上，在塔樓建造之前早就被留那裏，甚至在嬰兒們出生之前就已存在。紙條上寫著：「有個男人一定很珍愛這暗房內的女孩。」這是我父親重拾他的照相機，之前一年發生的事情，也是他之後第一次外出拍照，跟著聖誕節的燈光，沿著紐約市樹梢上的燈光，所點綴出來的路，微弱的光點不停的閃爍，從最暗的暗處指引著他。 一年後，他跨過了整個國家去追尋一場森林大火，用他的照相機搜尋火場，整整記錄了一周的景象。這場大火吞噬了整個西海岸，所到之處數不清的貨櫃車葬身火海。在國家的另外一邊，我在課堂上的筆記本上寫下了一首詩。我們兩個彼此都掌握了捕捉的藝術。也許我們正在學習了擁抱的藝術。也許我們都是在學習坦然放手的藝術。 （鼓掌）
