Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_jones_what_does_the_future_hold_11_characters_offer_quirky_answers	"First of all, for those of you who are not familiar with my work, I create multicultural characters, so characters from lots of different backgrounds. So before the present is the new future, a bit about the past is that I grew up in a family that was multi-everything — multi-racial, multi-cultural, black and white, Caribbean, Irish-American, German-American. There was Dominican music blasting from stereos. There were Christians and Jews. That's a long story filled with intrigue and interfaith guilt and shame. But I was totally immersed in this world that was filled with everybody, and then I went on to the United Nations school, and that just completely — So I began sort of developing these voices and these people, all of whom were loosely based on people I really know, and so, for example, in performing them, I would really try to inhabit them. And for example, I don't really talk like that, but that was one of my people, and I'm going to bring a few of my friends — I think of them as my friends — to this stage, in this spirit of the idea that the present is the new future, in sort of a meta way, because I thought about it, and the future, for me, what can be so frightening is that I don't know what's coming. I don't know if that's true for other people, but that notion of thinking about how we can understand the future and predict outcomes, for me, it's terrifying to not know what might be coming. And so the idea that there are questions that I've never seen that my people are going to answer, and some of these characters have been with me for ages, some of them don't even have names, I don't know what's going to happen. I don't know what's coming, and all I can do is remind myself that I told Chris I'd fly by the seat of my pants, and now that I'm up here it sort of feels like that dream where you don't have any pants on, and so I suppose I'm going to be flying by the seat of my ass. That said, let's just see who comes out. May we have the first question: ""Do you ever get headaches from the microchips implanted in your brain?"" Right. Okay. Well first of all, I'll just say that I hope you can hear me okay. My name is Lorraine Levine, and the idea of microchips implanted in my brain, frankly, just putting on my glasses reminds me of thank God I'm not wearing the Google Glasses. No offense to them. I'm glad that you all enjoy them, but at my age, just putting on the regular ones I have already gives me too much information. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? I don't need to know more. I don't want to know. That's it. That's enough. I love you all. You're wonderful. It's fabulous to be here with such big machers again this year. Mwah! Okay, next question. (Applause) Next, please. ""Is dating boring, now that humans reproduce asexually?"" Who do we got? Hi, um, okay, hi everybody. My name is Nereida. I just want to say first of all that dating is never boring under any circumstance. But I am very excited to be here right now, so I am just trying to remind myself that, you know, like, the purpose of being here and everything, I mean, trying to answer these questions, it is very exciting. But I also, I just need to acknowledge that TED is an incredible experience right now in the present, like, I just need to say, like, Isabel Allende. Isabel Allende! Okay, maybe it doesn't mean, of course it means something to you, but to me, it's like, another level, okay? Because I'm Latina and I really appreciate the fact that there are role models here that I can really, I don't know, I just need to say that. That's incredible to me, and sometimes when I'm nervous and everything like that, I just need to, like, say some affirmations that can help me. I usually just try to use, like, the three little words that always make me feel better: Sotomayor, Sotomayor, Sotomayor. (Laughter) Just, it really helps me to get grounded. Now I can use Allende, Allende, Allende, and, you know, I just need to say it, like, it's so incredible to be here, and I knew that we were going to have these questions. I was so nervous and I was thinking just, like, oh my God, oh my God, and reminding me, because I've had, like, some very, especially since the last time we were here at TED, it was, like, unbelievable, and then right after that, like, so many crazy things happened, like, we ended up going to the White House to perform. That was, like, amazing, and I'm standing there, and I was just like, please don't say, ""Oh my God."" Don't say, ""Oh my God."" And I just kept saying it: ""Oh my God. Oh my God."" And, you know, I kept thinking to myself, like, President Obama has to come up here at the same podium, and I'm standing here saying, ""Oh my God."" It's like, the separation of church and state. It's just, I couldn't, like, I couldn't process. It was really too much. So I think I've lost my way. But what I wanted to say is that dating, for me, you know, as far as I'm concerned, however you reproduce, as long as you're enjoying yourself and it's with another consenting asexual — I don't know. You know where I'm going with that. Okay, ciao, gracias. Okay, next question. (Applause) What are your top five favorite songs right now? All right, well first of all, I'mma say, you know what I'm saying, I'm the only dude up here right now. My name is Rashid, and I never been at TED before, you know what I'm saying. I think, Sarah Jones, maybe she didn't want me to come out last time. I don't know why. You know what I'm saying. Obviously I would be like a perfect fit for TED. You know what I'm saying. First of all, that I'm in hip hop, you know what I'm saying. I know some of y'all may be not really as much into the music, but the first way y'all can always know, you know what I'm saying, that I'm in hip hop, is 'cos I hold the microphone in an official emcee posture. Y'all can see that right there. That's how you hold it. All right, so you get your little tutorial right there. But when Sarah Jones told me we was gonna come up here, I was like, betch, you know what I'm saying, TED is real fly, I got a whole lot of dope, you know what I'm saying, shit going on and everything, but she was like, yeah, we're going to have to answer, like, some random questions, just like, and I was like, what the hell is that? You know what I'm saying, just stand up there and answer some random questions? I don't want to, I mean, it's like an intellectual stop-and-frisk. You know what I'm saying? (Laughter) I don't want to be standing up there just all getting interrogated and whatnot. That's what I'm trying to leave behind in New York. You know what I'm saying? So anyway, I would have to say my top five songs right now is all out of my own personal catalogue, you know what I mean? So if you want to know more about that, you know what I'm saying, we could talk about the anti-piracy and all that, but as far as I'm concerned, you know, I believe in creative commons, and I think it's really important that, you know, that needs to be sustainable and everything, and I mean, as far as I'm concerned, I mean, this right here, this environment, I would like to sustain. You know what I mean? But I'm just saying, if y'all are interested in the top five songs, you need to holler at me. You know what I'm saying? Aight? In the future or the present. Yeah. Enjoy the rest of it. Okay, next question. What do you got? ""How many of your organs have been 3D printed?"" (Laughter) Well I have to say that I don't know about how many of my organs have been 3-D printed as such, but I can tell you that it is so challenging to me, kind of thinking about this concept of the future and that, you know, all around the world parents are kind of telling their small children, please, you have to eat that, you know, I have slaved over a hot 3D printer all day so that you can have this meal. You know, that kind of thing. And of course now that we have changed, you know, from the global South, there is this total kind of perspective shift that is happening around the — You can't just say to them, well, there are starving children. Well, it is the future. Nobody is starving anymore, thank God. But as you can tell I have kind of that optimism, and I do hope that we can continue to kind of 3D print, well, let us just say I like to think that even in the future we will have the publication, kind of, you know, all the food that's fit to print. But everybody, please do enjoy that, and again, I think that you do throw a cracking good party here at TED. Thank you. Next question. (Applause) What has changed? Okay, it's like, I have to think about that. ""What has changed now that women run the world?"" First of all, I really, like, I just want to say, and my name is Bella, I just want to, like, identify myself, that, like, as a feminist, I, like, I really find that, like, because I was born in the '90s, and, like, there were a lot of women who were as far as feminism was concerned, like, maybe they didn't understand that, like, a feminist like me, like, I don't think it's required that you have to have a certain kind of voice, or, like, a certain way of presenting yourself to be feminist, because I think that, like, feminism can be really hot, and I think actually that it's really vital and important. Like, the quotation I'm wearing is from, like, Gloria Steinem, and, like, I'm named Bella for, like, Bella Abzug, who's, like, obviously, like, a really important feminist from, like, history, and like, I just think that those women, like, really represent, like, that you can, like, be vital and, like, amazing, like, a-mazing, and you don't have to wear, like, an Eileen Fisher caftan, just to, like, prove that you are a feminist. Like, not that there's anything wrong with that, but my mom, she's like, like, why do you have to wear pants that, like, objectify your body? I like my pants. Like, I like my voice. Like, she's like, why do you have to talk like — Talk like what? Like, I'm expressing myself, and I think that we have to, like, reach out, like, not only across, like, the different generations of feminists, but also across the, like, vocal ranges, so that, like, we, because otherwise it's just, like, restriculous within feminism, which is just, like, a word that I created that means, like, so strict it's ridiculous. So that's my feeling about that. You guys are a-mazing, by the way. Okay. Next question. (Applause) [""They've discovered a cure for cancer, but not baldness? What's up with that?""] Yeah, you know what, so my name is Joseph Mancuso. First of all, I just want to say that I appreciate that TED in general has been a pretty orderly crowd, a pretty orderly group. And, you know, I just have to say, the whole thing with baldness, and, you know, here's the thing. As long as the woman, in my case — because it's a modern world, do whatever you want to do, I don't have any problem with anybody, enjoy yourself, LGBTQLMNOP. All right? But as far as I'm concerned, attractiveness, women don't really care as much as you think they do about the, you know. I mean, I remember hearing this woman. She loved her husband, it was the sweetest thing. It's a pretty young girl, you know? And this guy's older. And, you know, she said she would love him even if he had snow on the roof or even if melted and disappeared altogether. As far as I'm concerned, it's about the love. Am I right, or am I right? So that's it. That's it. That's it. I don't got nothing more to say. Keep your noses clean. All right, next question. ""Have you ever tasted meat that's not lab grown?"" Um, well, I, I want to start by saying that this is a very difficult experience for a Chinese-American. I don't know what to call myself now, because I have really my Chinese identity, but my kids, they are American-Chinese, but it's difficult to try to express myself in front of audience of people like this. But if had to give my opinion about meat, I think first, the most important thing is to say that we don't have to have perfect food, but maybe it can also not be poison. Maybe we can have some middle ground for that. But I will continue to consider this idea, and I will report back maybe next year. Next. Next. Next. (Applause) ""Will there ever be a post-racial world?"" Thank you for having me. My name is Gary Weaselhead. Enjoy that. I'm a member of the Blackfeet Nation. I'm also half Lakota, but that is my given name, and no, even though it would have seemed like an obvious choice, no, I did not go into politics. Tough crowd. (Laughter) But I always like to just let people know when they ask about race or those kinds of things, you know, as a member of the First Nations community, you know, I'm probably not your typical guy. For example, in addition to being an activist, I'm also a professional stand-up comedian. (Laughter) And, you know, I'm most popular on college and university campuses. You know, whenever they want to do a diversity day, or hey-we're-not-all-white week, then I'm there. (Laughter) Do I think there will ever be a post-racial world? I think, really, I can't talk about race without remembering that it is a construct in certain respects, but also that, you know, until we redress the wrongs of the past, we're going to be turned around. I don't care if the present is the new future. I think there's a lot of great people here at TED who are working to address that, so with that, if anything I've said today makes you feel uncomfortable, you're welcome. (Applause) I think we have time for one more. ""What's the most popular diet these days?"" Who's here? Okay, well, I'm just gonna answer this really fast, as, like, three or four different people. I mean really fast. I'm just gonna let y'all know that, as far as diet is concerned, if you don't love yourself inside, there is no diet on this Earth that is going to make your behind small enough for you to feel good, so just stop wasting your time. I would just like to say as an African woman that I believe the diet that we need is really to remove the crazy belief that there is anything wrong with a nice backside. No, I am teasing about that. There is nothing wrong with a woman of size. That is what I am trying to say. Women, celebrate your body, for God's sake. Stop running around starving. You are making yourselves and other people miserable. Last answer. So we're talking about what's the most popular diet? I'm gonna start off by telling y'all that this is my first time here at TED. I might not be your typical person you find on this stage. My dental work not as nice as some people. But I made Sarah Jones promise she gonna bring me this time, 'cause she didn't bring me before, but you know, I just want to say, there's a lot of things more important than counting calories, and as somebody living on the streets in New York, and getting to come here, hear y'all ideas worth spreading, I want to tell y'all I believe in this idea that the present is the new future, that where you sit, you create everything that's gonna come, for better or worse. And for me, I think homeless is the wrong word for it anyway. You know, I might not have me no place to lay my head at night, but that just makes me houseless. I have me a home. You do too. Find it and try to find yourself in there. Make sure you know, it's not just about virtual reality in space. That's wonderful, but it's also about the actual reality here on Earth. How are people living today? How can you be part of the solution? Thank y'all for thinking about that right now in the present moment to influence the future. I appreciate it. Bye-bye. (Applause) Thank you all very, very much. Thank you for trusting me, Chris. (Applause)"	首先，我希望向那些不了解我工作性質的觀眾解釋一下，我的工作是創造多元文化人物角色，亦即是擁有各種各樣文化背景的人物角色。那麼在談“現在就是新未來”之前，我要說說過去，我成長所處的家庭是一個凡事多元的家庭—多元種族、多元文化黑人、白人、加勒比人愛爾蘭裔美國人、德國裔美國人，音響爆發的多米尼加音樂震耳欲聾。家裡既有基督教徒，又有猶太人我的家事錯綜複雜、信仰各異充滿了罪過與愧疚，恥辱與遺憾。但我當時完全沉浸在充滿了各種角色的世界裡，然後我就去了聯合國的學校讀書，而這樣的經歷完全就—— 因此我開始建立這些聲音建立這些人物角色，這些人物都來自於我生活中認識的真實人物，所以比方說，為了扮演他們我會真正嘗試進入他們的角色。給大家一個例子，事實上我一般不會那樣講話，但那是我其中一個人物的說話方式，而我即將把幾個朋友——我視他們為我的朋友——帶到台上從變化轉換的角度來看“現在就是新未來”因為有時我考慮現在和未來對於我而言，可怕的是我不知道將來會發生什麼。我不知道其他人會不會有同樣的想法但是我的想法是思考我們如何能夠理解未來、預測未來，對於我而言，對未來的無知是相當可怕的。一想到會有許多問題我從來沒見過的問題但我的人物朋友要回答這些問題，其中一些人物與我一起很多年了，其中一些甚至連名字都沒有，我不知道會發生什麼事情，我不知道會有什麼問題，我可以做的就是提醒自己，我跟克里斯說，我要像武松那樣赤手空拳試試現在我站在台上感覺彷彿在夢中變成武大郎，所以我想我只能是憑著武大的炊餅試試。 既然這麼說了，那就看看誰先出場。我們可以看第一個問題嗎： 『你有沒有試過因為大腦植入的芯片而頭疼？』沒錯 好首先，我會說我希望在座各位都能聽見我說話。我叫羅琳·萊文一想到我大腦裡植入的芯片，老實說，單單讓我戴上眼鏡就夠讓我謝天謝地：我戴的不是谷歌眼鏡。我無心冒犯。我樂意你們都喜歡這些眼鏡，但是到了我這個年紀，單單讓我戴上普通的眼鏡，就已經帶來多得不得了的資訊。大家理解我的話嗎？我不要知道更多。我不想知道。就是這樣。這就夠了。我愛各位。你們太好了。今年可以再次跟這些大人物同台真是無與倫比，嘸哇！ 好，下一個問題 。（掌聲）下一個，謝謝 『約會是否太無聊了，既然現在人類都進行無性繁殖？』 我們有誰呢？ （西班牙文口音）大家好，唔，大家好。我叫樂蕊達我想說的是無論如何約會都不無聊。但是來到這裡我覺得很興奮，我在努力地提醒自己今天上來的目的之類。我是說，試著回答這些問題，真的很刺激。但是我也必須承認TED就是現今不可多得的體驗就像、我只是需要說、就像伊莎貝·阿言德、伊莎貝·阿言德！(智利女小說家，04年獲選美國文學藝術院院士)好吧，或者這沒什麼意義，當然這對於你們來說是有意義的，但對於我來說，這就像，另一種意義，好吧？因為我是拉美裔，我真的很欣慰現在有一些楷模讓我真的可以，我不知道。我只是需要說這些。這真讓我不可置信，有時我一緊張遇到那樣的情況，我只需要，比如，說一些肯定的話來幫助自己。通常我就只會試著用，譬如，那三個詞會讓我感覺好一點的三個詞：索托馬約爾、索托馬約爾、索托馬約爾 （笑聲）（美國聯邦最高法院第一位拉丁裔法官）就是，這真的會幫助我鎮定下來。現在我可以用阿言德、阿言德、阿言德你們都知道，我就是需要說出來，好像是，來到這裡太不可置信了，我知道我們要回答一些問題我就是太緊張，一直想著，就像，噢，老天爺、老天爺，一直提醒自己，因為我一直都想一些非常特別是在上次來了TED之後，那就像，真不可置信，在那之後馬上就發生了那麼多瘋狂的事情，比如，我們竟然去了白宮表演。那簡直就是太神奇了。我站在那裡我只是想，千萬不要說『我的老天爺』不要說『我的老天爺』然後我就一直說不要說『我的老天爺、我的老天爺』那你知道，我在一直跟我自己說，比如奧巴馬總統都要上來同一個講台而我卻站在這裡喊『我的老天爺』就像，要分裂教堂和國家的關係這就是，我，我要當機了處理不了所以我想我已經不知所云了但是我想說，約會，對於我來說，你知道嗎，就我所知，無論你怎麼繁殖，只要你享受這個過程，而且是跟另一位合意的無性人——我不知道。你知道我要說什麼好了，再見，（西班牙文）謝謝。 好，下一個問題。（掌聲） 目前你最喜愛的五首歌曲是？ （紐約口音）好，首先，我要說你知道我要說什麼。我是台上的唯一一位老友我叫拉希德我從未來過TED你知道我說什麼我想薩拉·瓊斯，也許她上次不想讓我出場我不知道為什麼。你懂我說啥很明顯我就相當適合TED的舞台。你懂我說啥首先，我是玩街舞的，你懂我說啥。我知道在場的有些人也許不是那麼喜歡音樂但首先所有人都可以理解你懂我說啥，我玩的是街舞因為我拿麥克風的姿態就是主持人拿麥的風格大家坐着都可以看到這就是你拿麥的標準姿勢好，那大家都上了一門小課。但是當薩拉·瓊斯跟我說我們要上台我就，操，你懂我說啥TED不是開玩笑的，我討了一大堆藥，你懂我說啥，老天無時無刻都在下狗屎，但是她就像，沒錯，我們要回答一些比較隨意的問題就像，然後我就想，這搞什麼鬼？你懂我說啥，就要我站在那裡，回到一些隨意的問題？我才不要我是說，這活脫脫就是停下來搜身你懂我說啥？（掌聲）我才不想愣站在那裡被人審問莫名其妙的問題。那就是為什麼我想要留在紐約你懂我說啥？不管怎樣，我得說現在我最喜愛的五首歌曲就是我個人專輯的所有歌曲你懂我說啥？所以如果你想知道更多你懂我說啥我們可以談談反盜版問題但對於我來說你知道，我贊成知識共享相當要緊的是，你知道這玩意必須能養活人我是說，對於我來說我是說，就是在這裡這個環境下，我要養家活口你懂我說啥？我不過是說，如果大家對這五首歌感興趣，你就得支持我你懂我說啥？得了？無論是將來還是現在，沒錯請繼續享受。 好，下一個問題 你有什麼問題？ 你身上有多少個器官已被3D打印？（笑聲） （印度口音）我必須說，我珍惜不知道我有多少個器官已經被3D打印過但我可以跟你說，真正有挑戰性的是考慮『將來』這個概念想到世界各地的父母都跟他們的小孩說『拜託，你一定要吃，你知不知道我整天在高溫3D打印機旁賣命就是為了讓你吃上這一頓飯』你知道，諸如此類的事情。當然，既然我們現在已經從南半球轉到北半球，就有某種視覺轉移到處蔓延——你就是不可以跟他們說現在有很多小孩在忍受飢餓在未來不會再有人忍受飢餓，謝天謝地但是你聽得出我比較樂觀我真心希望我們可以繼續做這3D打印我願意想像即使在未來，我們會有文章發表你知道，所有的食物都可以打印出來。但是各位輕慢用我得再次說，你們在TED的確有夠好玩的。謝謝 下一個問題（掌聲） 有什麼改變了？好，這就像，我得想想這個問題。『女人掌控的世界裡發生了什麼變化？』首先我只想說我叫貝拉我只想認清自己作為一位女權主義者我真心覺得因為我出生在九十年代街上有大把大把的女人都是女權主義者或者他們不理解但是像我這樣的女權主義者，我想是你不一定需要有某種發言權或者某種特定的方式來表現自己是個女權主義者，因為我認為女權主義也可以很性感我認為這才是最重要的。比如說我身上穿的這句話是葛羅莉亞·斯坦能的話（二十世紀中婦女解放運動的代表人物）而我的名字也是隨貝拉·阿布朱格而起的這個人也是女權主義歷史上的大人物我就想，這些女性真的很能說明你可以變得很重要，真的很神奇超級神奇你也不用穿一件艾琳·費雪的褶皱背心來證明你是一位女權主義者穿這麼的衣服沒有錯但我媽媽，她就問你幹嘛非得穿褲子穿褲子來體現自己的身體？我喜歡我的褲子我也喜歡我的聲音她就說為什麼你非得這樣說話說成這樣？我，我不過是在表達自己我認為我們必須不僅要跨越不同年代的女權主義者聯繫各個年代的女權主義者還有跨越不同的聲域這樣我們才能——不然這樣不過是女權主義的局笑這是我創的一個詞意思是，局限得可笑這就是我的想法你們這幫人真是超級神奇 好。下一個問題（掌聲） 『他們發現了癌症解藥，但不治禿頭？到底是怎麼回事？』 好，你們知道嗎？（粗啞的聲音）我叫喬瑟·曼庫索首先我要說我非常感謝TED組織了這麼一幫有秩序的傢伙非常有秩序你知道，我得說這個禿頭的問題你知道，這就是問題。只要是女人，在我看來——因為這是一個現代世界你就可以做你想做的，跟任何人都沒有衝突享受自我，LGBTQLMNOP（一個同/雙性戀社區），好吧？就我所知比起魅力女人其實並不像人們想的那樣那麼在意那個，你懂的。我是說，我記得有一個女人她很愛她的丈夫，真是羨煞旁人她又漂亮又年輕，你懂嗎？而這男人比她老你知道嗎，她說她愛她的男人就算他頭上頂雪就算頭頂的雪化了消失了，她也照樣愛。就我所知，這就是愛。我說對了，還是我說對了？所以就是這樣。就是這樣。就是這樣。我沒有更多要說的潔身自愛 好，下一個問題 『你曾否嚐過不是實驗室培養出來的肉？』 （中文口音）呃，我我希望首先說對於美籍華人來說這是相當困難的體驗我現在都不知道怎麼叫自己因為我是千真萬確的中國人但是我的小孩，他們就是華裔美國人但是要試著表達自我，實在是很困難特別是面前有這麼一群觀眾要是我必須得說說對肉的想法我想首先，最重要的是我們不是一定要有完美的食物但是也許我們吃的食物也可以不是毒藥也許在這兩者之間可以有第三種選擇我會繼續考慮這個問題或許下一年我會回來做報告 下一個下一個、下一個 （掌聲） 『會否有後種族世界？』 （聲音粗啞）謝謝大家邀請我過來我叫咖哩·偉蘇海。好好享受。我是黒腳族國的一員我一半血統是拉科塔族，但那就是我的名字沒有，雖然看上去會是必然的選擇但是沒有，我沒有進入政治界這幫觀眾不易對付（笑聲）但是當有人問我關於種族之類的話題我經常喜歡告訴他們你懂的，作為第一國家社區的成員你懂的，也許啊我不是你們想的典型人物打個比方，我是一個激進分子，除此之外我還是一個專業的棟篤笑喜劇演員（笑聲）你懂的，我是頂受歡迎的特別是在中學和大學校園你懂的，他們要是哪一天想要搞個“多彩文化日”或者辦個“我們並不全是白人”週我就會到那裡（笑聲）你問我未來會不會有一個後種族世界？我想，的確，我不能談種族一談種族我就想起在某些方面的一些構建我就想到，你懂的我們不正視過去的過失就們就要原地踏步我才不管你們說什麼現在就是新的未來我想今天TED來了很多大人物他們不斷努力正視過去的過失既然這樣，如果我今天說了什麼讓你覺得不舒服，不用謝。（掌聲） 我想我們還有時間請多一位。 『現在最流行的飲食是什麼？』 誰在？ 好，我會代表三四個人簡短回答這個問題非常簡短我只想跟大家說，說到飲食如果你不愛自己地球上就沒有什麼飲食可以讓你的小屁股嬌小得讓你歡心所以別再浪費時間了 我只想說作為一個非洲女性我相信我們所需的飲食就是真正改變一個瘋狂的想法：一個漂亮的臀部其實是罪過。這樣的想法很可笑女人臀部有多大，一點都不是問題這就是我想說的女人啊，為你的身材慶賀吧，老天爺。不要再空着肚子到處跑來你這不過是在讓你自己和其他人痛苦。 最後一個回答 （紐約口音）我們在談什麼是最流行的飲食？我得先告訴你們我第一次上來TED我不是你們經常在TED看到的那類人我的牙醫不像有些人的那麼好但是我要薩拉·瓊斯保證她這一次一定要帶我過來因為她從來都沒帶我過來但是你懂的，我只想說世界上有一大堆的事情比數卡路里重要作為一個紐約街頭流浪女人我來到這裡聽你們說這些值得傳播的想法我想告訴大家，我相信這個想法我相信現在就是新的未來你所到之處，處處生花創造力源源不斷對於我來說，我覺得“無家可歸”不是正確的用詞。你懂的，也許我就是找不到地方讓我在晚上躺下我的腦袋但這不過是無屋可歸我有自己的家。你們也有自己的家找到這個地方，嘗試為自己找到一個家確保自己知道這不是單單的空間上的虛擬現實這是很美妙的事情，這也是地球上的真實現實。現今人們如何生活？你怎樣才能成為解決方案的一分子？謝謝大家現在就在這個時刻考慮如何影響未來。我非常感謝各位。再見。 （掌聲） 謝謝大家，非常感謝謝謝你相信我，克里斯 （掌聲）
