Talk	en	zh-tw
sara_ramirez_and_michael_pemberton_rollercoaster	"(Guitar) (Singing) Rollercoaster, carousel. Where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell. You can grab the ring, you can ring that bell, when the ride is over, you can never tell. People tell you this one thing — will make your life complete. So you, you give it everything you got and you wind up on the street. Then one day you wake up, and they tell you ""you're a queen,"" but then you find that someone else is pulling on the strings. Rollercoaster, carousel. Where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell. You can grab the ring, you can ring that bell, when the ride is over, you can never tell. The one you love, they love you — oh yeah — until the end of time. But lose your edge or lose your cool, they will drop you like a dime. Everyone is crowding 'round when fortune is your friend. When your luck is running out, you're all alone again. Rollercoaster, carousel. Where the highs are heaven but the lows, oh, they can be hell. You can grab the ring, you can ring that bell, when the ride is over you can never tell. Well, maybe I'm just cynical, and all these words are lies, but experience keeps telling me that the cautious one is wise. But caution makes you hesitate, and hesitate you're lost, so take your opportunities and never count the cost. Rollercoaster, carousel. Where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell. You can grab the ring, you can ring that bell, when the ride is over — over, over, you can never, ever tell. Rollercoaster, carousel, rollercoaster, yeah, yeah, yeah, carousel. Carousel, carousel, carousel, carousel. (Applause) Michael Pemberton. (Applause) Thank you so much. Thank you."	（吉他） 雲霄飛車，旋轉木馬。 高處是天堂，但是低處，哦，他們或許是地獄。 你可以抓住圈圈，你可以響鈴， 當乘坐結束時，你沒查覺。 人們說這件事──會讓你的生命圓滿。 所以你，你盡量發揮所能但你最後還是流落街頭。一日你醒來， 他們說「你是皇后」， 但你發現別人在操縱著你。 雲霄飛車，旋轉木馬。 高處是天堂，但是低處，哦，他們可以是地獄。 你可以抓住圈圈，你可以響鈴， 當乘坐結束時，你沒察覺。 你愛的人，他們愛你──喔，是啊──直到海枯石爛。 磨去你的邊角或不要耍酷，否則他們棄你不顧。 每個人都靠過來，當幸運眷顧你時。 當不再風光，你就孤單一人。 雲霄飛車，旋轉木馬。 高處是天堂，但是低處，哦，他們或許是地獄。 你可抓住圈圈，你可以響鈴，當乘坐結束時，你沒察覺。 好，或許我憤世嫉俗，這些話都是謊言， 但我從經驗知道謹慎是明智的。 但謹慎使你猶豫，猶豫你就輸了， 所以抓住機會不要計算成本。 雲霄飛車，旋轉木馬。高處是天堂，但是低處，哦，他們或許是地獄。 你可以抓住圈圈，你可以響鈴， 當乘坐結束時，坐完了，坐完了，你都沒察覺，沒察覺。 雲霄飛車，旋轉木馬。雲霄飛車，是啊，是啊，是啊，旋轉木馬。是啊，是啊，是啊，旋轉木馬。是啊，是啊，是啊。旋轉木馬。是啊，是啊，是啊。旋轉木馬。是啊，是啊，是啊。旋轉木馬。是啊。 （掌聲） 邁克爾·彭伯頓 （掌聲） 非常感謝你們。 謝謝。
