Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_kay_if_i_should_have_a_daughter	"If I should have a daughter, instead of ""Mom,"" she's going to call me ""Point B,"" because that way she knows that no matter what happens, at least she can always find her way to me. And I'm going to paint solar systems on the backs of her hands so she has to learn the entire universe before she can say, ""Oh, I know that like the back of my hand."" And she's going to learn that this life will hit you hard in the face, wait for you to get back up just so it can kick you in the stomach. But getting the wind knocked out of you is the only way to remind your lungs how much they like the taste of air. There is hurt, here, that cannot be fixed by Band-Aids or poetry. So the first time she realizes that Wonder Woman isn't coming, I'll make sure she knows she doesn't have to wear the cape all by herself, because no matter how wide you stretch your fingers, your hands will always be too small to catch all the pain you want to heal. Believe me, I've tried. ""And, baby,"" I'll tell her, don't keep your nose up in the air like that. I know that trick; I've done it a million times. You're just smelling for smoke so you can follow the trail back to a burning house, so you can find the boy who lost everything in the fire to see if you can save him. Or else find the boy who lit the fire in the first place, to see if you can change him. But I know she will anyway, so instead I'll always keep an extra supply of chocolate and rain boots nearby, because there is no heartbreak that chocolate can't fix. Okay, there's a few that chocolate can't fix. But that's what the rain boots are for, because rain will wash away everything, if you let it. I want her to look at the world through the underside of a glass-bottom boat, to look through a microscope at the galaxies that exist on the pinpoint of a human mind, because that's the way my mom taught me. That there'll be days like this. (Singing) There'll be days like this, my momma said. When you open your hands to catch and wind up with only blisters and bruises; when you step out of the phone booth and try to fly and the very people you want to save are the ones standing on your cape; when your boots will fill with rain, and you'll be up to your knees in disappointment. And those are the very days you have all the more reason to say thank you. Because there's nothing more beautiful than the way the ocean refuses to stop kissing the shoreline, no matter how many times it's sent away. You will put the wind in win some, lose some. You will put the star in starting over, and over. And no matter how many land mines erupt in a minute, be sure your mind lands on the beauty of this funny place called life. And yes, on a scale from one to over-trusting, I am pretty damn naive. But I want her to know that this world is made out of sugar. It can crumble so easily, but don't be afraid to stick your tongue out and taste it. ""Baby,"" I'll tell her, ""remember, your momma is a worrier, and your poppa is a warrior, and you are the girl with small hands and big eyes who never stops asking for more."" Remember that good things come in threes and so do bad things. Always apologize when you've done something wrong, but don't you ever apologize for the way your eyes refuse to stop shining. Your voice is small, but don't ever stop singing. And when they finally hand you heartache, when they slip war and hatred under your door and offer you handouts on street-corners of cynicism and defeat, you tell them that they really ought to meet your mother. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thanks. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) All right, so I want you to take a moment, and I want you to think of three things that you know to be true. They can be about whatever you want — technology, entertainment, design, your family, what you had for breakfast. The only rule is don't think too hard. Okay, ready? Go. Okay. So here are three things I know to be true. I know that Jean-Luc Godard was right when he said that, ""A good story has a beginning, a middle and an end, although not necessarily in that order."" I know that I'm incredibly nervous and excited to be up here, which is greatly inhibiting my ability to keep it cool. (Laughter) And I know that I have been waiting all week to tell this joke. (Laughter) Why was the scarecrow invited to TED? Because he was out standing in his field. (Laughter) I'm sorry. Okay, so these are three things I know to be true. But there are plenty of things I have trouble understanding. So I write poems to figure things out. Sometimes the only way I know how to work through something is by writing a poem. Sometimes I get to the end of the poem, look back and go, ""Oh, that's what this is all about,"" and sometimes I get to the end of the poem and haven't solved anything, but at least I have a new poem out of it. Spoken-word poetry is the art of performance poetry. I tell people it involves creating poetry that doesn't just want to sit on paper, that something about it demands it be heard out loud or witnessed in person. When I was a freshman in high school, I was a live wire of nervous hormones. And I was underdeveloped and over-excitable. And despite my fear of ever being looked at for too long, I was fascinated by the idea of spoken-word poetry. I felt that my two secret loves, poetry and theater, had come together, had a baby, a baby I needed to get to know. So I decided to give it a try. My first spoken-word poem, packed with all the wisdom of a 14-year-old, was about the injustice of being seen as unfeminine. The poem was very indignant, and mainly exaggerated, but the only spoken-word poetry that I had seen up until that point was mainly indignant, so I thought that's what was expected of me. The first time that I performed, the audience of teenagers hooted and hollered their sympathy, and when I came off the stage, I was shaking. I felt this tap on my shoulder, and I turned around to see this giant girl in a hoodie sweatshirt emerge from the crowd. She was maybe eight feet tall and looked like she could beat me up with one hand, but instead she just nodded at me and said, ""Hey, I really felt that. Thanks."" And lightning struck. I was hooked. I discovered this bar on Manhattan's Lower East Side that hosted a weekly poetry open Mic, and my bewildered, but supportive, parents took me to soak in every ounce of spoken word that I could. I was the youngest by at least a decade, but somehow the poets at the Bowery Poetry Club didn't seem bothered by the 14-year-old wandering about. In fact, they welcomed me. And it was here, listening to these poets share their stories, that I learned that spoken-word poetry didn't have to be indignant, it could be fun or painful or serious or silly. The Bowery Poetry Club became my classroom and my home, and the poets who performed encouraged me to share my stories as well. Never mind the fact that I was 14. They told me, ""Write about being 14."" So I did and stood amazed every week when these brilliant, grown-up poets laughed with me and groaned their sympathy and clapped and told me, ""Hey, I really felt that too."" Now I can divide my spoken-word journey into three steps. Step one was the moment I said, ""I can. I can do this."" And that was thanks to a girl in a hoodie. Step two was the moment I said, ""I will. I will continue. I love spoken word. I will keep coming back week after week."" And step three began when I realized I didn't have to write indignant poems, if that's not what I was. There were things that were specific to me, and the more that I focused on those things, the weirder my poetry got, but the more that it felt like mine. It's not just the adage ""Write what you know."" It's about gathering up all of the knowledge and experience you've collected up to now to help you dive into the things you don't know. I use poetry to help me work through what I don't understand, but I show up to each new poem with a backpack full of everywhere else that I've been. When I got to university, I met a fellow poet who shared my belief in the magic of spoken-word poetry. And actually, Phil Kaye and I coincidentally also share the same last name. When I was in high school I had created Project V.O.I.C.E. as a way to encourage my friends to do spoken word with me. But Phil and I decided to reinvent Project V.O.I.C.E., this time changing the mission to using spoken-word poetry as a way to entertain, educate and inspire. We stayed full-time students, but in between we traveled, performing and teaching nine-year-olds to MFA candidates, from California to Indiana to India to a public high school just up the street from campus. And we saw over and over the way that spoken-word poetry cracks open locks. But it turns out sometimes, poetry can be really scary. Turns out sometimes, you have to trick teenagers into writing poetry. So I came up with lists. Everyone can write lists. And the first list that I assign is ""10 Things I Know to be True."" And here's what happens, you would discover it too if we all started sharing our lists out loud. At a certain point, you would realize that someone has the exact same thing, or one thing very similar, to something on your list. And then someone else has something the complete opposite of yours. Third, someone has something you've never even heard of before. Fourth, someone has something you thought you knew everything about, but they're introducing a new angle of looking at it. And I tell people that this is where great stories start from — these four intersections of what you're passionate about and what others might be invested in. And most people respond really well to this exercise. But one of my students, a freshman named Charlotte, was not convinced. Charlotte was very good at writing lists, but she refused to write any poems. ""Miss,"" she'd say, ""I'm just not interesting. I don't have anything interesting to say."" So I assigned her list after list, and one day I assigned the list ""10 Things I Should Have Learned by Now."" Number three on Charlotte's list was, ""I should have learned not to crush on guys three times my age."" I asked her what that meant, and she said, ""Miss, it's kind of a long story."" And I said, ""Charlotte, it sounds pretty interesting to me."" And so she wrote her first poem, a love poem unlike any I had ever heard before. And the poem began, ""Anderson Cooper is a gorgeous man."" (Laughter) ""Did you see him on 60 Minutes, racing Michael Phelps in a pool — nothing but swim trunks on — diving in the water, determined to beat this swimming champion? After the race, he tossed his wet, cloud-white hair and said, 'You're a god.' No, Anderson, you're the god."" (Laughter) (Applause) Now, I know that the number one rule to being cool is to seem unfazed, to never admit that anything scares you or impresses you or excites you. Somebody once told me it's like walking through life like this. You protect yourself from all the unexpected miseries or hurt that might show up. But I try to walk through life like this. And yes, that means catching all of those miseries and hurt, but it also means that when beautiful, amazing things just fall out of the sky, I'm ready to catch them. I use spoken word to help my students rediscover wonder, to fight their instincts to be cool and unfazed and, instead, actively pursue being engaged with what goes on around them, so that they can reinterpret and create something from it. It's not that I think that spoken-word poetry is the ideal art form. I'm always trying to find the best way to tell each story. I write musicals; I make short films alongside my poems. But I teach spoken-word poetry because it's accessible. Not everyone can read music or owns a camera, but everyone can communicate in some way, and everyone has stories that the rest of us can learn from. Plus, spoken-word poetry allows for immediate connection. It's not uncommon to feel like you're alone or that nobody understands you, but spoken word teaches that if you have the ability to express yourself and the courage to present those stories and opinions, you could be rewarded with a room full of your peers, or your community, who will listen. And maybe even a giant girl in a hoodie who will connect with what you've shared. And that is an amazing realization to have, especially when you're 14. Plus, now with YouTube, that connection's not even limited to the room we're in. I'm so lucky that there's this archive of performances that I can share with my students. It allows for even more opportunities for them to find a poet or a poem that they connect to. Once you've figured this out, it is tempting to keep writing the same poem, or keep telling the same story, over and over, once you've figured out that it will gain you applause. It's not enough to just teach that you can express yourself. You have to grow and explore and take risks and challenge yourself. And that is step three: infusing the work you're doing with the specific things that make you you, even while those things are always changing. Because step three never ends. But you don't get to start on step three, until you take step one first: ""I can."" I travel a lot while I'm teaching, and I don't always get to watch all of my students reach their step three, but I was very lucky with Charlotte, that I got to watch her journey unfold the way it did. I watched her realize that, by putting the things that she knows to be true into the work she's doing, she can create poems that only Charlotte can write, about eyeballs and elevators and Dora the Explorer. And I'm trying to tell stories only I can tell — like this story. I spent a lot of time thinking about the best way to tell this story, and I wondered if the best way was going to be a PowerPoint, a short film — And where exactly was the beginning, the middle or the end? I wondered whether I'd get to the end of this talk and finally have figured it all out, or not. And I always thought that my beginning was at the Bowery Poetry Club, but it's possible that it was much earlier. In preparing for TED, I discovered this diary page in an old journal. I think December 54th was probably supposed to be 24th. It's clear that when I was a child, I definitely walked through life like this. I think that we all did. I would like to help others rediscover that wonder — to want to engage with it, to want to learn, to want to share what they've learned, what they've figured out to be true and what they're still figuring out. So I'd like to close with this poem. When they bombed Hiroshima, the explosion formed a mini-supernova, so every living animal, human or plant that received direct contact with the rays from that sun was instantly turned to ash. And what was left of the city soon followed. The long-lasting damage of nuclear radiation caused an entire city and its population to turn into powder. When I was born, my mom says I looked around the whole hospital room with a stare that said, ""This? I've done this before."" She says I have old eyes. When my Grandpa Genji died, I was only five years old, but I took my mom by the hand and told her, ""Don't worry, he'll come back as a baby."" And yet, for someone who's apparently done this already, I still haven't figured anything out yet. My knees still buckle every time I get on a stage. My self-confidence can be measured out in teaspoons mixed into my poetry, and it still always tastes funny in my mouth. But in Hiroshima, some people were wiped clean away, leaving only a wristwatch or a diary page. So no matter that I have inhibitions to fill all my pockets, I keep trying, hoping that one day I'll write a poem I can be proud to let sit in a museum exhibit as the only proof I existed. My parents named me Sarah, which is a biblical name. In the original story, God told Sarah she could do something impossible, and — she laughed, because the first Sarah, she didn't know what to do with impossible. And me? Well, neither do I, but I see the impossible every day. Impossible is trying to connect in this world, trying to hold onto others while things are blowing up around you, knowing that while you're speaking, they aren't just waiting for their turn to talk — they hear you. They feel exactly what you feel at the same time that you feel it. It's what I strive for every time I open my mouth — that impossible connection. There's this piece of wall in Hiroshima that was completely burnt black by the radiation. But on the front step, a person who was sitting there blocked the rays from hitting the stone. The only thing left now is a permanent shadow of positive light. After the A-bomb, specialists said it would take 75 years for the radiation-damaged soil of Hiroshima City to ever grow anything again. But that spring, there were new buds popping up from the earth. When I meet you, in that moment, I'm no longer a part of your future. I start quickly becoming part of your past. But in that instant, I get to share your present. And you, you get to share mine. And that is the greatest present of all. So if you tell me I can do the impossible — I'll probably laugh at you. I don't know if I can change the world yet, because I don't know that much about it — and I don't know that much about reincarnation either, but if you make me laugh hard enough, sometimes I forget what century I'm in. This isn't my first time here. This isn't my last time here. These aren't the last words I'll share. But just in case, I'm trying my hardest to get it right this time around. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	如果我有個女兒而不是媽媽她會叫我Ｂ據點因為她知道，無論發生什麼事她都可以回到我身邊我會在她手背畫上太陽系讓她先認識整個宇宙在她能說出「那跟我手背上畫的圖一樣」之前她也會學到生命往往會重擊妳它等妳找到後援，只為了可以再狠狠地揍妳一頓但其實，讓狂風將妳擊倒是唯一的方法可以喚醒妳的肺它與空氣的味道是如此相似是一定有些傷痛是無法被繃帶或詩所治癒的她將會第一次意識到神奇女超人不會出現我會讓她知道她不需要自己穿上神奇女超人的套裝因為無論妳將手指張得多開妳的手永遠無法大到足以包覆妳想要治癒的傷痛相信我，我試過「還有，寶貝」我會告訴她別再那樣大口吸氣了我知道那招數，我也做過幾千次妳只是想要沿著煙的氣味找到那正在燃燒的屋子在那裡妳會找到個在大火中失去一切的男孩妳會試著去拯救他或著，找到那個放火燒了房子的男孩試著去改變他但我知道她不管怎樣一定會成功所以我會提供巧克力與雨靴作為獎勵因為沒有巧克力不能修補的心碎好吧，還是有少數的心碎是巧克力無法修補的但這時雨靴就派上用場了因為如果妳願意，雨會將一切沖刷殆盡我要她從玻璃船的底部去看這世界藉由顯微鏡去觀察那存在於人類心中閃閃發光的銀河因為這就是我媽媽教我的總會有這樣的日子♫總會有這樣的日子，我媽媽說♫當妳努力張開雙臂去擁抱卻只換來毆打和瘀傷當妳踏出電話亭，試著像超人一樣飛妳最想救的那些人卻是一腳踩住妳披風的人當妳的雨靴裡充滿雨水妳會感到無比絕望但正是這些日子，讓妳更有理由去感謝因為沒有什麼比這更美麗即使海洋潮起潮落了無數遍也不願停止親吻海岸風會成為妳揚帆的助力，也會成為阻力星星則會給予妳不畏懼失敗以及重複挑戰的力量無論有多少地雷一觸即發在這名為人生的曼趣之地上，妳必須為妳的心尋找一片美麗淨土當然，以一個從無到過度信任的尺度來衡量我確實太過天真但我要她知道，這世界是糖組成的非常容易崩塌但不要抗拒用妳的味蕾去品嚐它我會告訴她「記著寶貝，你的媽媽杞人憂天但妳爸爸卻是個戰士而妳是個有雙小手和大眼睛充滿好奇心的女孩記著，好事總是接踵而來但壞事也是做錯事的時候一定要道歉但妳絕對不要為了拒絕讓自己的眼睛不再發光而道歉妳的聲音也許微弱，但絕不要停止歌唱當他們最終使妳心痛悄悄將戰爭和憎恨帶至妳家門前並在街角發給妳一張張寫滿憤世嫉俗與挫敗的傳單妳就叫他們來見見妳的媽媽 謝謝，謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝你們 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲） 好的，現在我需要你們花些時間去想出三件你知道是真實的事情他們可以是任何事物科技、娛樂、設計、你的家人、你早餐吃了什麼唯一的條件是，不要想得太複雜可以嗎？好，請開始好 以下是我知道的三件事我知道尚盧‧高達曾說過的一句話是對的「一個好的故事有開頭，中間和結尾即使不見得以此為順序」我知道我現在站在這裡是無比的緊張和興奮而我的力量一點也無法使自己冷靜（笑聲）我也知道我整個禮拜都等著自己講出這個笑話（笑聲）為什麼稻草人會受到ＴＥＤ的邀請呢？因為他筆直地站在田裡（原文有傑出之意）(笑聲)很抱歉好的，這就是我知道的三件事情但還是有很多事情是我難以理解的所以我藉由寫詩去釐清有時唯一讓我了解一件事的方法就是寫詩有時當我寫到詩的結尾再重新看過整首詩會發現「喔，原來就是這麼一回事阿」但有時我寫到詩的結局還是沒有解決任何事但至少一首新的詩就此誕生 有聲詩將表演詩以藝術的方式呈現我告訴人們，它就是一種拒絕乖乖待在紙上的詩是一種，希望能被大聲的聽到或被人見證的詩我剛上高中時是個神經緊繃又精力充沛的人我發育不良而且容易興奮儘管我害怕長時間受到眾人注視我仍被有聲詩的概念深深吸引這就好像是我兩個秘密的愛人: 詩和戲劇兩個人結合，並且有了小孩一個我需要好好認識的小孩所以我決定試試看我的第一首有聲詩充斥著年僅１４歲孩子的智慧這是首抗議因為自己毫無女人味而受到不平等待遇的詩整首詩充滿憤慨而且整體來說很誇張但我當時看過的有聲詩幾乎都非常憤慨所以我想，這就是我要的我第一次表演年輕的觀眾們高聲為我歡呼當我從台上下來我全身都在顫抖這時有人拍了我的肩膀我轉身一看，在人群中看見一位穿著連帽衫的高大女孩差不多２５０公分這麼高吧看起來一拳就可以把我擊倒在地但她只是對我點了點頭，說「嘿，我真的感受到了，謝謝妳」就像被電到一樣我着迷了 我在曼哈頓的東下城發現這個地方它每個禮拜都會舉行公開的詩歌朗誦會我那對此不甚了解，但態度支持的父母帶我參加這個活動讓我徹底浸淫在有聲詩的世界中我是那之中最小的，起碼比他們小了１０歲但鮑威利詩會的詩人們似乎不認為１４歲小女生的好奇心令人厭煩他們甚至很歡迎我就在這裡，我聽著那些詩人分享他們的故事我學到，有聲詩不一定要充滿憤慨它也可以是有趣的，痛苦的嚴肅的或是愚笨的從此，鮑威利詩會變成我的教室和另一個家而那些表演的詩人們也鼓勵我分享自己的故事不必在乎自己年紀是否太小他們告訴我「就寫出妳的１４歲吧」我這麼做了。而接下來每個禮拜那些既有才華，又成熟的詩人們與我一同歡笑，或發出同情的嘆息他們為我鼓掌，並告訴我「嘿，我也感受到了」 現在我將我創作有聲詩的旅程劃分為三個階段第一階段是當我說「我可以，我可以做得到」這得要感謝那位穿著連帽衫的女孩第二階段是當我說「我會，我會繼續創作我深愛有聲詩，我也會不斷不斷的挑戰」然後第三階段開始了我發現如果我並不滿心憤怒，就不需要再寫出那些憤慨的詩有些事物對我而言很特別而我越是專注在那些事物上我的詩就變的越奇怪但這才像我寫的詩並不是常言所說「寫出你知道的」就好而是集結你至今所累積的智慧與經驗來幫助你泅潛於未知的世界我利用詩來釐清難以理解的事物但我寫每一首詩都會帶著滿滿的包袱裡面裝著我去過的所有地方 我在大學裡遇到一位志同道合的同伴他與我一同分享有聲詩的魔力事實上，Phil Kaye與我碰巧擁有相同的姓我高中時製作了V.O.I.C.E.計畫以此鼓勵我的朋友與我一同進入有聲詩的世界而Phil跟我決定重現V.O.I.C.E.計畫這次我們將任務改變為利用有聲詩來娛樂、教育和啟發人群我們依舊是全職學生，但我們也去旅行在旅行途中表演和教導學生從九歲小孩，到MFA(藝術創作碩士)的應試者們從加州到印地安納州、印度再到我們學校附近的公立高中 我們不斷地看見有聲詩如何突破枷鎖的束縛但有時詩會變的令人害怕有時你必須用些小伎倆才能讓年輕人寫詩所以我想到可以寫清單，每個人都會寫清單而我第一個指定他們寫的就是10件我所知道的真實事物接下來你就會發現如果我們願意大聲分享自己的清單這時候，你會突然明白到原來有人有跟你清單上完全一樣或是非常相似的事物也有些人有跟你清單上完全相反的事物第三，也有人會寫出你從未聽過的事物第四，有人會寫出你自認完全了解的事物但引導你從一個全新的角度詮釋我告訴他們，一個好故事的開端就始於四個方向的交集每個都與你的熱情有關或足以引起別人的興趣 絕大多數的人在這次練習都回答得很棒但其中一名學生，一位叫做Charlotte的新鮮人沒有被說服Charlotte非常會寫清單，但她拒絕寫出任何一首詩她說「老師，我真的不有趣我沒一件有趣的事可以說」於是我指派一份又一份的清單給她寫有一天我讓她寫10件我該從現在開始學習的事物Charlotte的清單上，第三件寫著在我這年紀，我要試著三次不愛上任何男孩我問她那是什麼意思她說「老師，說來話長」我說「Charlotte，這聽起來很有趣喔!」於是她開始創作她的第一首詩一首迴異於我所聽過的任何愛情詩這首詩的開頭是Anderson Cooper是一個完美的男人(笑聲)你有看到他與Michael Phelps在節目 — ６０分鐘裡進行的游泳比賽嗎？他全身只穿著一件泳褲潛於水中，一心一意只想贏得冠軍比賽過後，他甩著他濕潤，如雲般銀白的頭髮說「你是神」不，Anderson，你才是神 （笑聲） （掌聲） 現在，我知道變酷的最好方法就是讓自己看起來泰若自然絕對不讓任何事嚇到你讓你驚嘆或是使你興奮有人跟我說過人生就像這樣你保護自己免於被難以意料的悲傷與疼痛傷害但我試著伸出雙手是的，這樣或許會接住所有的悲傷和疼痛但這代表所有美麗，令人驚豔的事物也同樣會從天上掉落而我已準備要將它們全部抓住我利用有聲詩來幫助學生重新發掘新奇改變他們只想耍酷的本能讓他們主動試著去了解發生在他們周遭的一切這樣他們就可以重新詮釋，並從之中創造出新的事物 我並不認為有聲詩是一種最理想的藝術型態我一直在尋找一個最棒的方法來敘述故事我創作詩的同時，一邊創作音樂劇和短片但我教授有聲詩是因為這最容易上手不是每個人都懂音樂或擁有一台照相機但每個人或多或少都會溝通每個人都有故事值得讓我們從中學習再加上，有聲詩可以迅速產生聯繫人覺得寂寞，或是不被了解並不是件罕見的事但有聲詩教會他們如果你有能力表達自己或願意與眾人分享你的故事與意見你就會得到滿屋子的同儕們或是任何願意傾聽的人的讚揚甚至也會有一位身穿連帽衫的巨大女孩與你感同身受這時你就會有那種奇妙的體會尤其當你只是個１４歲的孩子加上，現在有YouTube使得這種聯繫不在侷限於一個空間內擁有這種表現方式我真的覺得很幸運它讓我可以跟學生一同分享提供了更多機會讓他們發現與自己有關聯的詩和詩人 這真的非常有吸引力，你會發現重複寫同一首詩或述說同樣的故事，是多麼具吸引力的一件事因為它們會為你帶來掌聲只教你表達自己是不夠的你必須要自我成長與自我發掘冒險去挑戰你自己這就是階段三為你的作品注滿那些讓你成為你的特殊事物儘管那些事可能會不斷改變因為階段三永遠沒有終止的一天但你不能到達階段三除非你先經歷階段一: 我可以 我教書的時候不斷旅遊所以無法看到每位學生達到階段三但我很幸運能夠看到Charlotte展開她全新的人生旅程我看到她領悟只要將她所有知道的事情放進她的作品中她就可以創作出屬於自己的詩也許有關眼球、電梯和愛探險的朵拉而我則試著述說只有我知道的故事就像這個故事我花了很多時間去思考，如何以最棒的方式呈現這個故事我想過最好的方式是不是該用簡報或短片來呈現但到底那裏才是真正的開頭，過程或著是結尾？我也想，到了演講的結尾我會找到答案？還是不會？ 我也一直認為鮑威利詩社是我的起點但也有可能是更早在準備這場演講的過程我在一本舊雜誌裡，發現了這頁日記我想我把１２月２４號寫成１２月５４號很明顯的，當我還是個孩子時我確信要這樣走過我的人生我想我們都一樣我想要幫助其他人重新發現生命中的驚奇讓他們產生興趣，想要學習想要與他人分享自己學會的事物他們發現是真實的事物以及他們還正在摸索的事物 所以我想以這首詩作為結尾 原子彈炸毀廣島市時這場爆炸形成了迷你的超新星所以每個直接承受如太陽光般的輻射照射的動物、人類和植物們瞬間成了灰燼緊跟著，城市的殘骸也灰飛煙滅輻射所造成的長久傷害使的整座城市，以及所有的人變成粉末我媽媽說，我剛出生的時候眼睛環視了醫院一周那眼神就好像在說「噢，這我之前做過了嘛」她說我有雙老人的眼睛我祖父Genji去世的時候，我只有５歲但我握住媽媽的雙手並告訴她「別難過，爺爺會以嬰兒的方式再回到這世上」雖然我曾經出生過一次我還是什麼都不了解我在台上還是會雙腿發軟我的自信可以用攪動詩的茶匙來測量而它在我嘴中嘗起來永遠都是這麼有趣但是，廣島市的很多人都在那場事件中被消滅了只留下手錶，或一頁的日記所以不管我還有多少不足我會不斷嘗試希望有天我會寫出一首可以很驕傲地展示在博物館裡的詩來證明我曾經存在過我的父母將我命名為Sarah這是出自聖經的名字在聖經的故事中，神告訴Sarah她會做出件不可能的事她大笑因為第一個Sarah她不知道該拿不可能怎麼辦而我?我也一樣但我每天都見證不可能不可能嘗試著想要與世界產生聯繫即使你周遭的事物一個個毀滅，他試著守住其他東西你要知道，當你說話的時候他們不是只等你講完，他們傾聽在你有此感受的當下他們也會有跟你完全相同的感受這就是我每次準備說話時努力想感受的—那種與不可能的聯繫在廣島有片殘垣被輻射照得焦黑但在那片石牆的前面，有個人坐著為它抵擋輻射的照射現在唯一僅存的是迎面的光線所形成的陰影原子彈事件後專家指出，廣島那片被輻射汙染的土地將會有７５年的時間無法長出任何東西但就在那年春天，有株新芽破土而出當我，遇見你的那一刻我就不再是你未來的一部分了而是成為你的過去但在那瞬間，我分享了你的現在而你，你也正分享我的這就是最棒的禮物所以如果你告訴我，我可以做出些不可能的事我可能會笑你我不知道我能不能改變世界因為我對它了解的並不透徹 —我也不甚了解輪迴轉世但如果你能讓我不停的大笑那會讓我忘記我現在身處的世紀我不是第一次出生在這世上，也不會是最後一次這不會是我分享的最後一段話但以防萬一，我正努力嘗試讓這段人生沒有白費 謝謝大家 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲）
