Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_jones_as_a_one_woman_global_village	"I should tell you that when I was asked to be here, I thought to myself that well, it's TED. And these TEDsters are — you know, as innocent as that name sounds — these are the philanthropists and artists and scientists who sort of shape our world. And what could I possibly have to say that would be distinguished enough to justify my participation in something like that? And so I thought perhaps a really civilized-sounding British accent might help things a bit. And then I thought no, no. I should just get up there and be myself and just talk the way I really talk because, after all, this is the great unveiling. And so I thought I'd come up here and unveil my real voice to you. Although many of you already know that I do speak the Queen's English because I am from Queens, New York. (Laughter) But the theme of this session, of course, is invention. And while I don't have any patents that I'm aware of, you will be meeting a few of my inventions today. I suppose it's fair to say that I am interested in the invention of self or selves. We're all born into certain circumstances with particular physical traits, unique developmental experiences, geographical and historical contexts. But then what? To what extent do we self-construct, do we self-invent? How do we self-identify and how mutable is that identity? Like, what if one could be anyone at any time? Well my characters, like the ones in my shows, allow me to play with the spaces between those questions. And so I've brought a couple of them with me. And well, they're very excited. What I should tell you — what I should tell you is that they've each prepared their own little TED talks. So feel free to think of this as Sarah University. (Laughter) Okay. Okay. Oh, well. Oh, wonderful. Good evening everybody. Thank you so very much for having me here today. Ah, thank you very much. My name is Lorraine Levine. Oh my! There's so many of you. Hi sweetheart. Okay. (Laughter) Anyway, I am here because of a young girl, Sarah Jones. She's a very nice, young black girl. Well you know, she calls herself black — she's really more like a caramel color if you look at her. But anyway. (Laughter) She has me here because she puts me in her show, what she calls her one-woman show. And you know what that means, of course. That means she takes the credit and then makes us come out here and do all the work. But I don't mind. Frankly, I'm kvelling just to be here with all the luminaries you have attending something like this, you know. Really, it's amazing. Not only, of course, the scientists and all the wonderful giants of the industries but the celebrities. There are so many celebrities running around here. I saw — Glenn Close I saw earlier. I love her. And she was getting a yogurt in the Google cafe. Isn't that adorable? (Laughter) So many others you see, they're just wonderful. It's lovely to know they're concerned, you know. And — oh, I saw Goldie Hawn. Oh, Goldie Hawn. I love her, too; she's wonderful. Yeah. You know, she's only half Jewish. Did you know that about her? Yeah. But even so, a wonderful talent. (Laughter) And I — you know, when I saw her, such a wonderful feeling. Yeah, she's lovely. But anyway, I should have started by saying just how lucky I feel. It's such an eye-opening experience to be here. You're all so responsible for this world that we live in today. You know, I couldn't have dreamed of such a thing as a young girl. And you've all made these advancements happen in such a short time — you're all so young. You know, your parents must be very proud. But I — I also appreciate the diversity that you have here. I noticed it's very multicultural. You know, when you're standing up here, you can see all the different people. It's like a rainbow. It's okay to say rainbow. Yeah. I just — I can't keep up with whether you can say, you know, the different things. What are you allowed to say or not say? I just — I don't want to offend anybody. You know. But anyway, you know, I just think that to be here with all of you accomplished young people — literally, some of you, the architects building our brighter future. You know, it's heartening to me. Even though, quite frankly, some of your presentations are horrifying, absolutely horrifying. It's true. It's true. You know, between the environmental degradation and the crashing of the world markets you're talking about. And of course, we know it's all because of the — all the ... Well, I don't know how else to say it to you, so I'll just say it my way: the ganeyvish schticklich coming from the governments and the, you know, the bankers and the Wall Street. You know it. Anyway. (Laughter) The point is, I'm happy somebody has practical ideas to get us out of this mess. So I salute each of you and your stellar achievements. Thank you for all that you do. And congratulations on being such big makhers that you've become TED meisters. So, happy continued success. Congratulations. Mazel tov. (Applause) Hi. Hi. Thank you everybody. Sorry, this is such a wonderful opportunity and everything, to be here right now. My name is Noraida. And I'm just — I'm so thrilled to be part of like your TED conference that you're doing and everything like that. I am Dominican-American. Actually, you could say I grew up in the capital of Dominican Republic, otherwise known as Washington Heights in New York City. But I don't know if there's any other Dominican people here, but I know that Juan Enriquez, he was here yesterday. And I think he's Mexican, so that's — honestly, that's close enough for me right now. So — (Laughter) I just — I'm sorry. I'm just trying not to be nervous because this is a very wonderful experience for me and everything. And I just — you know I'm not used to doing the public speaking. And whenever I get nervous I start to talk really fast. Nobody can understand nothing I'm saying, which is very frustrating for me, as you can imagine. I usually have to just like try to calm down and take a deep breath. But then on top of that, you know, Sarah Jones told me we only have 18 minutes. So then I'm like, should I be nervous, you know, because maybe it's better. And I'm just trying not to panic and freak out. So I like, take a deep breath. Okay. Sorry. So anyway, what I was trying to say is that I really love TED. Like, I love everything about this. It's amazing. Like, it's — I can't get over this right now. And, like, people would not believe, seriously, where I'm from, that this even exists. You know, like even, I mean I love like the name, the — TED. I mean I know it's a real person and everything, but I'm just saying that like, you know, I think it's very cool how it's also an acronym, you know, which is like, you know, is like very high concept and everything like that. I like that. And actually, I can relate to the whole like acronym thing and everything. Because, actually, I'm a sophomore at college right now. At my school — actually I was part of co-founding an organization, which is like a leadership thing, you know, like you guys, you would really like it and everything. And the organization is called DA BOMB, A\and DA BOMB — not like what you guys can build and everything — it's like, DA BOMB, it means like Dominican — it's an acronym — Dominican-American Benevolent Organization for Mothers and Babies. So, I know, see, like the name is like a little bit long, but with the war on terror and everything, the Dean of Student Activities has asked us to stop saying DA BOMB and use the whole thing so nobody would get the wrong idea, whatever. So, basically like DA BOMB — what Dominican-American Benevolent Organization for Mothers and Babies does is, basically, we try to advocate for students who show a lot of academic promise and who also happen to be mothers like me. I am a working mother, and I also go to school full-time. And, you know, it's like — it's so important to have like role models out there. I mean, I know sometimes our lifestyles are very different, whatever. But like even at my job — like, I just got promoted. Right now it's very exciting actually for me because I'm the Junior Assistant to the Associate Director under the Senior Vice President for Business Development — that's my new title. So, but I think whether you own your own company or you're just starting out like me, like something like this is so vital for people to just continue expanding their minds and learning. And if everybody, like all people really had access to that, it would be a very different world out there, as I know you know. So, I think all people, we need that, but especially, I look at people like me, you know like, I mean, Latinos — we're about to be the majority, in like two weeks. So, we deserve just as much to be part of the exchange of ideas as everybody else. So, I'm very happy that you're, you know, doing this kind of thing, making the talks available online. That's very good. I love that. And I just — I love you guys. I love TED. And if you don't mind, privately now, in the future, I'm going to think of TED as an acronym for Technology, Entertainment and Dominicans. Thank you very much. (Laughter) (Applause) So, that was Noraida, and just like Lorraine and everybody else you're meeting today, these are folks who are based on real people from my real life: friends, neighbors, family members. I come from a multicultural family. In fact, the older lady you just met: very, very loosely based on a great aunt on my mother's side. It's a long story, believe me. But on top of my family background, my parents also sent me to the United Nations school, where I encountered a plethora of new characters, including Alexandre, my French teacher, okay. Well, you know, it was beginner French, that I am taking with her, you know. And it was Madame Bousson, you know, she was very [French]. It was like, you know, she was there in the class, you know, she was kind of typically French. You know, she was very chic, but she was very filled with ennui, you know. And she would be there, you know, kind of talking with the class, you know, talking about the, you know, the existential futility of life, you know. And we were only 11 years old, so it was not appropriate. (Laughter) But [German]. Yes, I took German for three years, [German], and it was quite the experience because I was the only black girl in the class, even in the UN school. Although, you know, it was wonderful. The teacher, Herr Schtopf, he never discriminated. Never. He always, always treated each of us, you know, equally unbearably during the class. So, there were the teachers and then there were my friends, classmates from everywhere, many of whom are still dear friends to this day. And they've inspired many characters as well. For example, a friend of mine. Well, I just wanted to quickly say good evening. My name is Praveen Manvi and thank you very much for this opportunity. Of course, TED, the reputation precedes itself all over the world. But, you know, I am originally from India, and I wanted to start by telling you that once Sarah Jones told me that we will be having the opportunity to come here to TED in California, originally, I was very pleased and, frankly, relieved because, you know, I am a human rights advocate. And usually my work, it takes me to Washington D.C. And there, I must attend these meetings, mingling with some tiresome politicians, trying to make me feel comfortable by telling how often they are eating the curry in Georgetown. (Laughter) So, you can just imagine — right. So, but I'm thrilled to be joining all of you here. I wish we had more time together, but that's for another time. Okay? Great. (Applause) And, sadly, I don't think we'll have time for you to meet everybody I brought, but — I'm trying to behave myself, it's my first time here. But I do want to introduce you to a couple of folks you may recognize, if you saw ""Bridge and Tunnel."" Uh, well, thank you. Good evening. My name is Pauline Ning, and first I want to tell you that I'm — of course I am a member of the Chinese community in New York. But when Sarah Jones asked me to please come to TED, I said, well, you know, first, I don't know that, you know — before two years ago, you would not find me in front of an audience of people, much less like this because I did not like to give speeches because I feel that, as an immigrant, I do not have good English skills for speaking. But then, I decided, just like Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, I try anyway. (Laughter) My daughter — my daughter wrote that, she told me, ""Always start your speech with humor."" But my background — I want to tell you story only briefly. My husband and I, we brought our son and daughter here in 1980s to have the freedom we cannot have in China at that time. And we tried to teach our kids to be proud of their tradition, but it's very hard. You know, as immigrant, I would speak Chinese to them, and they would always answer me back in English. They love rock music, pop culture, American culture. But when they got older, when the time comes for them to start think about getting married, that's when we expect them to realize, a little bit more, their own culture. But that's where we had some problems. My son, he says he is not ready to get married. And he has a sweetheart, but she is American woman, not Chinese. It's not that it's bad, but I told him, ""What's wrong with a Chinese woman?"" But I think he will change his mind soon. So, then I decide instead, I will concentrate on my daughter. The daughter's marriage is very special to the mom. But first, she said she's not interested. She only wants to spend time with her friends. And then at college, it's like she never came home. And she doesn't want me to come and visit. So I said, ""What's wrong in this picture?"" So, I accused my daughter to have like a secret boyfriend. But she told me, ""Mom, you don't have to worry about boys because I don't like them."" (Laughter) And I said, ""Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that."" She said, ""No Mom. I mean, I don't like boys. I like girls. I am lesbian."" So, I always teach my kids to respect American ideas, but I told my daughter that this is one exception — (Laughter) — that she is not gay, she is just confused by this American problem. But she told me, ""Mom, it's not American."" She said she is in love — in love with a nice Chinese girl. (Laughter) So, these are the words I am waiting to hear, but from my son, not my daughter. (Laughter) But at first I did not know what to do. But then, over time, I have come to understand that this is who she is. So, even though sometimes it's still hard, I will share with you that it helps me to realize society is more tolerant, usually because of places like this, because of ideas like this, and people like you, with an open mind. So I think maybe TED, you impact people's lives in the ways maybe even you don't realize. So, for my daughter's sake, I thank you for your ideas worth spreading. Thank you. Xie xie. (Applause) Good evening. My name is Habbi Belahal. And I would like to first of all thank Sarah Jones for putting all of the pressure on the only Arab who she brought with her to be last today. I am originally from Jordan. And I teach comparative literature at Queens College. It is not Harvard. But I feel a bit like a fish out of water. But I am very proud of my students. And I see that a few of them did make it here to the conference. So you will get the extra credit I promised you. But, while I know that I may not look like the typical TED-izen, as you would say, I do like to make the point that we in global society, we are never as different as the appearances may suggest. So, if you will indulge me, I will share quickly with you a bit of verse, which I memorized as a young girl at 16 years of age. So, back in the ancient times. [Arabic] And this roughly translates: ""Please, let me hold your hand. I want to hold your hand. I want to hold your hand. And when I touch you, I feel happy inside. It's such a feeling that my love, I can't hide, I can't hide, I can't hide."" Well, so okay, but please, please, but please. If it is sounding familiar, it is because I was at the same time in my life listening to the Beatles. On the radio [unclear], they were very popular. So, all of that is to say that I like to believe that for every word intended as to render us deaf to one another, there is always a lyric connecting ears and hearts across the continents in rhyme. And I pray that this is the way that we will self-invent, in time. That's all, shukran. Thank you very much for the opportunity. Okay? Great. (Applause) Thank you all very much. It was lovely. Thank you for having me. (Applause) Thank you very, very much. I love you. (Applause) Well, you have to let me say this. I just — thank you. I want to thank Chris and Jacqueline, and just everyone for having me here. It's been a long time coming, and I feel like I'm home. And I know I've performed for some of your companies or some of you have seen me elsewhere, but this is honestly one of the best audiences I've ever experienced. The whole thing is amazing, and so don't you all go reinventing yourselves any time soon. (Applause)"	"我要告訴你們，當我知道被邀請來此時我對自己說，這是TED這名字也許聽起來很單純，但這些TEDsters是影響世界的慈善家、藝術家及科學家而我能夠在這裡說些什麼與眾不同的東西來證明我的參加是有意義的所以我想也許一口有教養的純正英國腔可以幫我的忙 但一轉念，我想，不，不對。我應該上台做我自己用自己平常的腔調因為，畢竟這是盛大的開幕呀所以我想我該在你們面前揭開我真正的聲音雖然你們當中很多人知道我會說道地的女王式英語因為我是從紐約的皇后區來的（笑聲）當然這次大會的主題是關於創造如果我沒記錯的話，我從來沒有擁有過任何一項專利但今天諸位將會見識我所創造的一些東西我想這樣說好了,我喜歡像是發掘另一個或者多個新的自我在各種環境下長大的我們在在都擁有不同的人格特質擁有獨特的成長經驗、生長環境與歷史脈絡接著呢?我們在自我建構、自我成長的過程中，都達到了甚麼樣的程度?我們自我認同的角色是甚麼，而這角色又是如何的多變?舉例來說，如果一個人能夠在任何時間扮轉變為另一個角色?關於以上這些問題，在我表演裡的那些夥伴們都有一些看法。所以我帶了一些夥伴過來。當然~他們都非常的興奮可以來到這邊我~我跟各位說明一下，他們每一位都準備了一小段演講。所以各位現在可以把這邊想像成像是一所莎拉大學一樣。(笑聲~) Ok~等等好了~太棒了~~~各位晚安~今天很開心可以在這邊見到大家恩~謝謝各位。我的名子是 ""洛琳 萊文""噢~天呀!! 今天來了好多人呀~哈嘍~親愛的....(大笑聲~)今天呢~今天是一位年輕的女孩邀請我來的，她就是""莎拉 瓊斯""她是一位非常和善，而且年輕的黑皮膚的女孩。各位知道的，她總說她自己是黑皮膚，但如果你靠近一點看的話，她的皮膚其實比較像是焦糖那種顏色。但無論如何~(大笑聲~)她邀請我來在她的""一個女人的脫口秀""的節目中，擔任一個角色。你能想像的，這代表說雖然她掛名演出，但其實我們才是真正上場表演的人。但我覺得沒有關係。 而且老實說，對於可以來到這邊，我感到非常的開心而且驕傲，可以跟那些你們曾經參加過的有名的TED Talk演說家一樣受邀到這邊來。真的令人感覺非常棒。受邀來到這邊的人，不只包含了那些科學家與事業上獲得極大成功的人也包含了許多名人。你知道嗎，有很多名人在這邊出沒唷。我剛剛遇到了""葛倫 克蘿絲""。我好喜歡他唷。她剛好在谷歌咖啡裡面買優格。你們看，是不是很棒呀?(大笑聲~)還有其他好多人，她們都非常棒。很高興知道她們都很關注這邊討論的話題。噢~還有，我剛也看到了""歌蒂 韓""""歌蒂 韓"" 她也好棒。我也很喜歡她。而且，她只有一半的猶太血統。妳知道這件事情嗎?對的，即使如此，她還是一個有天賦的人。而我~~看到她的時候~感覺很棒唷。~她感覺很可愛。好的。我現在就開始來跟大家說說，我覺得自己有多幸運吧。來到這邊真的是令我大開眼界呢。這邊的每一個人都努力的為這個世界盡自己的責任。在我年輕的時候，我根本不可能有這樣的想法。但是各位在這麼短的時間內就達到了這麼多的進展。而且各位都是這麼的年輕。我想，妳們的父母一定相當以你們為榮。 而且，我也注意到這邊很多元化唷。我留意到這邊有好多來自不同文化的人當你站到台上來的時候，可以看到好多各式各樣的人。好像彩虹一樣。咦~說彩虹應該可以吧(註:彩虹旗象徵同志)有時候我會搞不清楚哪些說法洽當，哪些說法不洽當。你們有些人可能覺得這種說法不太好其實，我並沒有刻意要冒犯誰，好嗎?我來到這邊，只是想要跟各位有成就的年輕人，一起參予這個盛會，你們很多人就像建築師一樣，一直在為了我們更好的未來而打拼。這讓我得到相當大的鼓舞。即使如此，老實說，有些人作的演講，其實是令人震驚的，相當震驚。這絕對是真的。就像你們所說的有關環境惡化以及全球市場崩潰等等的話題。當然壓~我們都知道這些現象的原因都是因為那些~好吧~因為我想不到其他的說法，所以我用我自己的母語說了，都是因為那些政府的鬼鬼祟祟的勾當(此處為德國俚語)還有那些來自華爾街的銀行家好吧。(大笑聲~) 重點是，我很開心有人提供了一些實用的想法，來解救這場混亂。所以，我在這邊要向各位偉大且傑出的成就致敬。多謝各位所作的一切。而且恭喜各位來這邊成為TED的一份子。祝各位可以繼續邁向成功的道路。恭喜各位。(掌聲) 大家好。多謝各位。好的，來到這個舞台上真的是一個很棒的機會。我的名字叫做""諾拉達""。 我~我真的很高興可以來這邊與你們一起參與像TED的這樣類似的盛會我是多明尼加裔的美國人其實，我是在多明尼加共和國的首都長大的也就是妳們所知的""紐約市""裡面的""華盛頓高地""(美裔多明尼加人的聚集地)我不知道是不是還有其他多明尼加裔的人在此地，但我知道""璜 安利奎斯""他昨天有到這裡來雖然我想他是墨西哥裔人.....但其實我覺得這已經很接近了...(笑聲) 我......很抱歉我想要保持不要這麼緊張，因為這些事情對我而言是一個非常美妙的體驗。而我~其實我不太習慣在這麼多人面前講話。而且每次我緊張的時候，說話就會特別快。你可以了解，如果沒人可以聽懂我說了些甚麼那我會覺得很灰心。我常常藉著深呼吸來試著冷靜一點。但糟糕的是。""莎拉 瓊斯""說我們只有18分鐘的時間來演說。所以我想，也許對我而言，緊張一點可能也不錯。我不想要表現得很慌張。所以我想我還是需要深呼吸一下才對。 好了。無論如何，我想說的是，我愛TED我喜歡這裡的所有東西。這真的很神奇。喜歡~我永遠無法忘記這一切。人們常常不相信我是從多明尼加來的。甚至不相信這個地方存在。我喜歡TED這個名字。我知道這是一個真人的名字，但我真的挺喜歡的。你知道的，聽起來很酷，而且居然還是個縮寫。這裡就像個高深莫測的地方。我喜歡這個感覺。 事實上，我也和某些縮寫相關的事很有淵源。事實上，我現在正好是大學二年級。我在學校裡面也和別人一起成立了一個組織，是一個有關於領導的組織。像你們，你們一定會喜歡這組織的。這組織叫作""DA BOMB"" (諧音聽起來像是""炸彈"")""DA BOMB"" 組織跟妳們的那些組織不大一樣。""DA BOMB"" 代表""多明尼加......."" 它是一個縮寫。它代表""美裔多明尼加人的母親與嬰孩慈善組織""好的，我知道這名字有一點長。另外，因為現在有很多恐怖攻擊事件。學生事務處的主任希望我們可以不要用”DA BOMB”這個名字。他希望我們使用全名讓大家比較不容易誤會。基本上”DA BOMB”也就是""美裔多明尼加人的母親與嬰孩慈善組織""作的事情就是我們想要針對那些學業上相當努力，但是同時也是一個母親角色的學生，表達我們的支持。我是一個母親，但是同時我也必須一邊工作一邊上完學校所有的課程。你要知道，找到一個可以學習的模範是相當重要的。我的意思是說，有時候我們生活的方式其實有很大的不同。 像現在在工作上，我也得到了一些上司的認同以及提拔。現在我真的是感到非常的開心，因為我是事業發展部門的資深副總底下的副主任的初階助理。那是我的新職稱。無論你是擁有你自己的公司或者是像我一樣剛剛開始，像這樣的開始是很重要的。如果你可以不斷的持續學習。像一般人堅持的那樣…你我都知道，這世界就會變得十分的不一樣…所以我想，我們都需要那樣子的決心。尤其是當我看著那些像我一樣的人，你知道的，拉丁裔人~~我們快要變成多數民族了，大概就在兩周以後。所以我想，我們就像其他人一樣有資格和別人交換一些想法以及意見。所以我很開心，在場的各位舉辦了這樣的活動。而且將這些想法放在網路上供人觀賞。這真的太棒了，我真喜歡。我就是…..我愛妳們大家。我愛TED如果妳們不介意的話，我想我個人在以後，我會將TED這個縮寫，翻譯成是”科技 娛樂 和多明尼加人”謝謝各位(笑聲)(掌聲) 所以，那就是”諾拉達”就像""洛琳 "" 以及其他你們今天見到的人一樣，這些夥伴的概念其實都來自我真實生活的活生生的人。像是朋友，鄰居或者是家族裡的人。我來自一個多元文化組成的家庭事實上，你剛剛看到的那位老太太，有一點點像是我媽媽那邊的一位阿姨。相信我，說來話長。除了我家裡的背景之外，我父母也送我去聯合國國際學校(位於紐約)就讀，我在那邊遇到相當多別種性格的人像是我的法語老師 ""巴頌""女士 要知道，她那時候教我們初級法文。""巴頌""女士~她是一個非常......(法文)可以想像的，在課堂上的時候，她就像是典型的法國人。他看來十分優雅，但是又有一點懶散的感覺。而她在課堂上說話的時候，說的東西大概就是，講述那種慵懶隨意的生活是真的存在...對於只有11歲孩子來說，我想有一點不恰當。 但是...(德語)是的，我曾經學過3年德語。這是一個很特別的經驗，因為即使我是在聯合國國際學校裡面，我也是唯一的黑人學生。這是一個很特別的經驗。我們的老師”施托普”先生，她從來沒有歧視過任何人。總是，他總是公平的對待我們每個人。公平到有時候在課堂上會無法忍受的地步。 所以，這就是我的老師們，朋友們，還有來自世界各地的同學們。有很多人到現在都還是我很好的朋友。她們都給了我很多不同角色的創作靈感。舉例來說，我的一位朋友。 我想首先先跟各位說晚安。我的名字是”普拉文 曼維”，多謝各位給我這個機會。毫無疑問的，TED的名聲已經傳遍了整個世界。我來自印度，而在這裡我想要告訴妳們。當”莎拉 瓊斯”告訴我們，我們將會有機會來加州參加TED的時候。一開始我感到非常的高興，並且鬆了一口氣。因為我是一位人權提倡者。因為工作需要，我常常需要到華盛頓特區去。在那裏我必須要參加各種會議，並且和那些煩人的政客打交道。她們為了要讓我感覺自在一點，常常告訴我她們在喬治城裡有多常吃咖哩。你應該可以想像吧~但我非常高興來這邊參加這個活動。我希望有更多的時間可以和你們在一起，但讓我們保留到下次見面的時候吧。好嗎?(掌聲) 可惜的是，我想我們有沒足夠的時間和所有我帶來的朋友見面，但是~怎麼了?我可是努力要好好表現自己呀。這可是我第一次來呀。但我想要介紹一些你們可能認識的朋友，如果你看過那些住在郊區的人的話。 好的，謝謝你們。晚安~我的名字是”寶琳 寧”首先我想要告訴妳們，我是紐約華人社區的一份子。當”莎拉 瓊斯”想要邀請我來參加TED的時候，我說，我不確定我是不是可以做得來。你要知道，大約兩年前，你絕對不會看到我在大眾面前演講，即使比這個場合還要少的人，我也沒辦法。因為我並不喜歡演講，也因為我覺得我這個外來移民的英文還沒有到可以演講的地步。但是，我決定學習”阿諾史瓦辛格”州長當初一樣的精神，不試試看怎麼知道。(笑聲)我的女兒，她幫我寫了這段開頭，她告訴我”演講開始的時候最好展示一點幽默感” 關於我的背景~我要來簡短的告訴各位一個故事。我和我先生，帶著我們的兒女在1980年來到這邊，來這裡品嘗在當時中國所沒有的自由氛圍。我們努力的教育我們的孩子要以他們的傳統自豪，但其實非常困難。你可以體會到的，身為一個移民家庭，我們在家裡是說中文的，但他們總是會用英文來回答。他們喜歡搖滾音樂，流行文化以及美國文化。當他們長大了一點的時候，到了論及婚嫁的年齡了。我們會開始希望她們可以更進一步了解他們自己的文化。接著我們就遇到一些問題了。我兒子說他還沒準備好要結婚。他有一個女朋友，但她不是中國人，而是一個美國女孩。其實這也沒甚麼不好，但是我還是跟他說”其實中國女孩也不錯呀”我想他有天可能會改變他的主意的。 所以我想，乾脆把重心放在女兒的交友狀況上好了。你知道，女兒的婚事對媽媽來講是非常特別的。但剛開始的時候，她說她沒有興趣。她只想要跟她的朋友在一起。接著在讀大學的時候，她基本上就很少回家了。而且她也不大想要我過去學校看看她。我就開始想，這其中可能有甚麼問題才對。我問她是不是有偷偷交了男朋友。但她跟我說。 媽媽，你其實不用操心有關男孩子的問題。因為我根本不喜歡他們(笑聲)我說，對呀，男人有時候很難理解，但所有女人都會慢慢習慣的。她說，”不不，我的意思是，我不喜歡男生。我喜歡的是女生。”我是同性戀。我一直跟我的孩子說，要尊重美國文化，但我跟我女兒說，這件事情是一個例外。(笑聲)她不是同性戀，她只是被這個美國文化給搞糊塗了。但她告訴我，”媽媽，她不是美國人”她說她戀愛了，她愛上了一個中國女孩子。(笑聲)這就是我長久以來一直想聽到的事情，但我是指從我的兒子，而不是我的女兒。(笑聲)剛開始的時候，我不知道應該怎麼辦才好。但一段時間過了之後，我開始明白她就是這樣的人。 雖然有的時候還是很難接受，但我跟各位分享，在這件事情上我學習到因為有像這樣子的地方，因為有這樣子的聲音，因為有像在場各位這樣開闊心胸的人，所以社會上越來越有包容力。我覺得TED用各式各樣不同的方式，潛移默化的影響了我們的生活。所以我要代表我的女兒，多謝各位分享這些值得傳頌的想法。多謝，謝謝。(掌聲) 晚安~我的名字是”哈比 貝拉艾”首先我要先跟”莎拉 瓊斯” 說謝謝，將今天最後一個發言的機會，給了今天唯一一位她帶來的阿拉伯人。我是從約旦來的。我在皇后學院中教授比較文學。不是哈佛。雖然我感覺到有點不適應。但是我為我的學生感覺到相當自豪。而且我在這場會議中有一些學生來到了現場。我保證會遵守之前的承諾給妳們額外分數的。你們可能會覺得我看起來不像是本地人。但我想要強調我們現在是在一個地球村的社會裡頭。其實我們並沒有像外表那樣子看起來不同。 如果各位允許的話，我想要跟各位分享一首詩，這是當我16歲的時候所背誦的一首詩。讓我們回到遠古時代吧。(阿拉伯語)它的意思大概是說：“請讓我握住你的手。”“我想要握住你的手。”“我想要握住你的手。”“當我與你有接觸之後，我的內心就感到無比的幸福快樂。”“我的親愛的，這種感覺我一點也無法隱瞞，無法隱藏，無法隱藏。”好了。但是請注意，請注意。如果這詩聽起來很熟悉的話，那是因為差不多在我人生的同一個時期中，我也在聽”披頭四”的歌曲。 (註:以上翻譯很像”披頭四”的歌曲I want to hold your hand)你也常常在電台裡頭聽到他們的歌曲 所以，我想表達的是我情願相信，雖然有很多字語讓我們對外面的世界默不關心，但總是有動人的歌詞透過動聽的旋律在世界各地感動你的耳朵與心靈。而我期盼我們將會透過這樣子的方式不斷的自我實現。就是這樣。多謝各位給我這個機會。好嗎? 好的。(掌聲) 多謝各位。這裡真是太棒了。多謝各位今天的到來。(起立掌聲)多謝，多謝各位。我愛你們。(掌聲)再讓我說幾句話。我很…謝謝各位。我想謝謝”克里斯”和”賈桂琳”，還有其他每一位邀請我來這裡的人。我花很長的時間才來到這邊，但是我覺得好像回到家裡了一樣，我知道我可能曾經到你們之中的某些公司表演過。或者你們曾經在別的場合看過我，但老實說，你們是我遇過最棒的觀眾。這裡的一切都太棒了，期待妳們快點開始重新發掘自我吧。(掌聲)"
