Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_jayne_blakemore_the_mysterious_workings_of_the_adolescent_brain	"Fifteen years ago, it was widely assumed that the vast majority of brain development takes place in the first few years of life. Back then, 15 years ago, we didn't have the ability to look inside the living human brain and track development across the lifespan. In the past decade or so, mainly due to advances in brain imaging technology such as magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, neuroscientists have started to look inside the living human brain of all ages, and to track changes in brain structure and brain function, so we use structural MRI if you'd like to take a snapshot, a photograph, at really high resolution of the inside of the living human brain, and we can ask questions like, how much gray matter does the brain contain, and how does that change with age? And we also use functional MRI, called fMRI, to take a video, a movie, of brain activity when participants are taking part in some kind of task like thinking or feeling or perceiving something. So many labs around the world are involved in this kind of research, and we now have a really rich and detailed picture of how the living human brain develops, and this picture has radically changed the way we think about human brain development by revealing that it's not all over in early childhood, and instead, the brain continues to develop right throughout adolescence and into the '20s and '30s. So adolescence is defined as the period of life that starts with the biological, hormonal, physical changes of puberty and ends at the age at which an individual attains a stable, independent role in society. (Laughter) It can go on a long time. (Laughter) One of the brain regions that changes most dramatically during adolescence is called prefrontal cortex. So this is a model of the human brain, and this is prefrontal cortex, right at the front. Prefrontal cortex is an interesting brain area. It's proportionally much bigger in humans than in any other species, and it's involved in a whole range of high level cognitive functions, things like decision-making, planning, planning what you're going to do tomorrow or next week or next year, inhibiting inappropriate behavior, so stopping yourself saying something really rude or doing something really stupid. It's also involved in social interaction, understanding other people, and self-awareness. So MRI studies looking at the development of this region have shown that it really undergoes dramatic development during the period of adolescence. So if you look at gray matter volume, for example, gray matter volume across age from age four to 22 years increases during childhood, which is what you can see on this graph. It peaks in early adolescence. The arrows indicate peak gray matter volume in prefrontal cortex. You can see that that peak happens a couple of years later in boys relative to girls, and that's probably because boys go through puberty a couple of years later than girls on average, and then during adolescence, there's a significant decline in gray matter volume in prefrontal cortex. Now that might sound bad, but actually this is a really important developmental process, because gray matter contains cell bodies and connections between cells, the synapses, and this decline in gray matter volume during prefrontal cortex is thought to correspond to synaptic pruning, the elimination of unwanted synapses. This is a really important process. It's partly dependent on the environment that the animal or the human is in, and the synapses that are being used are strengthened, and synapses that aren't being used in that particular environment are pruned away. You can think of it a bit like pruning a rosebush. You prune away the weaker branches so that the remaining, important branches, can grow stronger, and this process, which effectively fine-tunes brain tissue according to the species-specific environment, is happening in prefrontal cortex and in other brain regions during the period of human adolescence. So a second line of inquiry that we use to track changes in the adolescent brain is using functional MRI to look at changes in brain activity across age. So I'll just give you an example from my lab. So in my lab, we're interested in the social brain, that is the network of brain regions that we use to understand other people and to interact with other people. So I like to show a photograph of a soccer game to illustrate two aspects of how your social brains work. So this is a soccer game. (Laughter) Michael Owen has just missed a goal, and he's lying on the ground, and the first aspect of the social brain that this picture really nicely illustrates is how automatic and instinctive social emotional responses are, so within a split second of Michael Owen missing this goal, everyone is doing the same thing with their arms and the same thing with their face, even Michael Owen as he slides along the grass, is doing the same thing with his arms, and presumably has a similar facial expression, and the only people who don't are the guys in yellow at the back — (Laughs) — and I think they're on the wrong end of the stadium, and they're doing another social emotional response that we all instantly recognize, and that's the second aspect of the social brain that this picture really nicely illustrates, how good we are at reading other people's behavior, their actions, their gestures, their facial expressions, in terms of their underlying emotions and mental states. So you don't have to ask any of these guys. You have a pretty good idea of what they're feeling and thinking at this precise moment in time. So that's what we're interested in looking at in my lab. So in my lab, we bring adolescents and adults into the lab to have a brain scan, we give them some kind of task that involves thinking about other people, their minds, their mental states, their emotions, and one of the findings that we've found several times now, as have other labs around the world, is part of the prefrontal cortex called medial prefrontal cortex, which is shown in blue on the slide, and it's right in the middle of prefrontal cortex in the midline of your head. This region is more active in adolescents when they make these social decisions and think about other people than it is in adults, and this is actually a meta-analysis of nine different studies in this area from labs around the world, and they all show the same thing, that activity in this medial prefrontal cortex area decreases during the period of adolescence. And we think that might be because adolescents and adults use a different mental approach, a different cognitive strategy, to make social decisions, and one way of looking at that is to do behavioral studies whereby we bring people into the lab and we give them some kind of behavioral task, and I'll just give you another example of the kind of task that we use in my lab. So imagine that you're the participant in one of our experiments. You come into the lab, you see this computerized task. In this task, you see a set of shelves. Now, there are objects on these shelves, on some of them, and you'll notice there's a guy standing behind the set of shelves, and there are some objects that he can't see. They're occluded, from his point of view, with a kind of gray piece of wood. This is the same set of shelves from his point of view. Notice that there are only some objects that he can see, whereas there are many more objects that you can see. Now your task is to move objects around. The director, standing behind the set of shelves, is going to direct you to move objects around, but remember, he's not going to ask you to move objects that he can't see. This introduces a really interesting condition whereby there's a kind of conflict between your perspective and the director's perspective. So imagine he tells you to move the top truck left. There are three trucks there. You're going to instinctively go for the white truck, because that's the top truck from your perspective, but then you have to remember, ""Oh, he can't see that truck, so he must mean me to move the blue truck,"" which is the top truck from his perspective. Now believe it or not, normal, healthy, intelligent adults like you make errors about 50 percent of the time on that kind of trial. They move the white truck instead of the blue truck. So we give this kind of task to adolescents and adults, and we also have a control condition where there's no director and instead we give people a rule. We tell them, okay, we're going to do exactly the same thing but this time there's no director. Instead you've got to ignore objects with the dark gray background. You'll see that this is exactly the same condition, only in the no-director condition they just have to remember to apply this somewhat arbitrary rule, whereas in the director condition, they have to remember to take into account the director's perspective in order to guide their ongoing behavior. Okay, so if I just show you the percentage errors in a large developmental study we did, this is in a study ranging from age seven to adulthood, and what you're going to see is the percentage errors in the adult group in both conditions, so the gray is the director condition, and you see that our intelligent adults are making errors about 50 percent of the time, whereas they make far fewer errors when there's no director present, when they just have to remember that rule of ignoring the gray background. Developmentally, these two conditions develop in exactly the same way. Between late childhood and mid-adolescence, there's an improvement, in other words a reduction of errors, in both of these trials, in both of these conditions. But it's when you compare the last two groups, the mid-adolescent group and the adult group where things get really interesting, because there, there is no continued improvement in the no-director condition. In other words, everything you need to do in order to remember the rule and apply it seems to be fully developed by mid-adolescence, whereas in contrast, if you look at the last two gray bars, there's still a significant improvement in the director condition between mid-adolescence and adulthood, and what this means is that the ability to take into account someone else's perspective in order to guide ongoing behavior, which is something, by the way, that we do in everyday life all the time, is still developing in mid-to-late adolescence. So if you have a teenage son or a daughter and you sometimes think they have problems taking other people's perspectives, you're right. They do. And this is why. So we sometimes laugh about teenagers. They're parodied, sometimes even demonized in the media for their kind of typical teenage behavior. They take risks, they're sometimes moody, they're very self-conscious. I have a really nice anecdote from a friend of mine who said that the thing he noticed most about his teenage daughters before and after puberty was their level of embarrassment in front of him. So, he said, ""Before puberty, if my two daughters were messing around in a shop, I'd say, 'Hey, stop messing around and I'll sing your favorite song,' and instantly they'd stop messing around and he'd sing their favorite song. After puberty, that became the threat. (Laughter) The very notion of their dad singing in public was enough to make them behave. So people often ask, ""Well, is adolescence a kind of recent phenomenon? Is it something we've invented recently in the West?"" And actually, the answer is probably not. There are lots of descriptions of adolescence in history that sound very similar to the descriptions we use today. So there's a famous quote by Shakespeare from ""The Winter's Tale"" where he describes adolescence as follows: ""I would there were no age between ten and three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the rest; for there is nothing in the between but getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry, stealing, fighting."" (Laughter) He then goes on to say, ""Having said that, would any but these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty hunt in this weather?"" (Laughter) So almost 400 years ago, Shakespeare was portraying adolescents in a very similar light to the light that we portray them in today, but today we try to understand their behavior in terms of the underlying changes that are going on in their brain. So for example, take risk-taking. We know that adolescents have a tendency to take risks. They do. They take more risks than children or adults, and they are particularly prone to taking risks when they're with their friends. There's an important drive to become independent from one's parents and to impress one's friends in adolescence. But now we try to understand that in terms of the development of a part of their brain called the limbic system, so I'm going to show you the limbic system in red in the slide behind me, and also on this brain. So the limbic system is right deep inside the brain, and it's involved in things like emotion processing and reward processing. It gives you the rewarding feeling out of doing fun things, including taking risks. It gives you the kick out of taking risks. And this region, the regions within the limbic system, have been found to be hypersensitive to the rewarding feeling of risk-taking in adolescents compared with adults, and at the very same time, the prefrontal cortex, which you can see in blue in the slide here, which stops us taking excessive risks, is still very much in development in adolescents. So brain research has shown that the adolescent brain undergoes really quite profound development, and this has implications for education, for rehabilitation, and intervention. The environment, including teaching, can and does shape the developing adolescent brain, and yet it's only relatively recently that we have been routinely educating teenagers in the West. All four of my grandparents, for example, left school in their early adolescence. They had no choice. And that's still the case for many, many teenagers around the world today. Forty percent of teenagers don't have access to secondary school education. And yet, this is a period of life where the brain is particularly adaptable and malleable. It's a fantastic opportunity for learning and creativity. So what's sometimes seen as the problem with adolescents — heightened risk-taking, poor impulse control, self-consciousness — shouldn't be stigmatized. It actually reflects changes in the brain that provide an excellent opportunity for education and social development. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause)"	"在15年前, 大家普遍地認為腦部的發育成長, 主要都在剛出生的前幾個年頭發生在15年前做研究的人並無法觀察到活生生的人的腦部運作更談不上追蹤人的一生期間的腦部發展但在過去的十年間主要由於腦部造影技術的發展例如: 核磁共振造影, 簡稱 MRI神經學研究者開始有辦法看到, 各年齡層的活生生的人的腦部運作, 並且追蹤隨著時間腦部結構與功能所發生的改變因此，若要觀察腦部結構, 我們會使用結構性的MRI一張高解析度的照片, 可以看到活著的人的腦內結構, 可以解答我們的這些疑問, 例如:大腦裡的灰質占了多少?隨著年齡又有什麼樣的變化我們也可以使用功能性的MRI, 又稱 fMRI來拍攝大腦活動的影片被拍攝的人同時正在進行某項工作比如思考或感覺或感知某些事物 世界各地有很多實驗室都在參與這種研究，我們現在擁有大量的觀察資料記錄活的人的腦部發展的的詳細照片/影片這些影像資料完全改變了我們對人類大腦發展的觀點資料顯示了, 人腦並非僅在童年早期就發展完畢相反的, 大腦持續在發展, 延續到整個青春期, 一直到 廿幾 到 卅幾 歲 都還在發展 青春期的定義, 是一段生命的期間, 始於生物上的、 內分泌上的、 身體上的改變一直到個人建立了一個社會中的穩定而且獨立的地位的時間為止（笑聲）青春期有可能延續的很長久（笑聲）在青春期, 腦部劇烈改變的區域之一,叫做 前額葉皮層。這裡是一個人的腦部的模型而這是前額葉皮層，就在前面。前額葉皮層是一個有趣的大腦區域。比例上來說, 人腦的前額葉皮層遠大於任何其他物種，這個腦部區域負責一系列的抽象認知功能，如決策，規劃，規劃你明天要做的事情或是下星期或明年，這個腦區也會抑制不適當的行為，比方阻止你自己說出一些粗魯的話語, 或是做很蠢的事情這個腦區也涉及社會互動，瞭解其他人, 還有自我知覺 有些 MRI 研究觀察了這個腦區的發展發現在這個區域經歷了劇烈的變化在青春期的期間例如, 就 灰質的體積來說從4歲到22歲的期間, 灰質的體積在兒童時期開始增加, 如同你在投影片上看到的增加到頂的時候, 大約是青春期的早期兩個箭頭標示著 前額葉皮層 灰質最高的時間點你可以看到這個最高點在女生較早發生而男生的最高點則晚了一兩年這有可能是因為男孩進入青春期的年紀普遍來說比女孩晚上一兩年然後在後續的青春期, 數值就明顯地下降前額葉皮層的灰質體積一路降低這聽起來好像不太好, 但事實上這是真正重要的發展過程，因為灰質包含細胞本體, 還有細胞間的連接器又稱為 神經突觸，這段期間發生的額葉皮層的灰質減少被解讀成 突觸 修剪的過程把不需要的神經突觸刪去這是一個非常重要的過程。有一部分是因為這個動物或人類所處的環境的影響讓有用到的突觸變強而在所處環境下用不到的突觸就被修剪掉了。你可以把它想像如同修剪薔薇叢。你會把較弱的分支剪掉讓留下來的, 較重要的分支, 可以長得更好這樣的過程, 有效地微調了腦部的組織來因應該物種所處的特定的環境這個過程 發生在前額葉皮層, 還有大腦的其他區域在人類青春期的期間。 第二層的研究, 是用功能性的 MRI (fMRI)來追蹤青春期的腦部的變化各個年齡階段腦部活動狀況有什麼改變這裡用我的實驗室的一個例子來說明我的實驗室研究的是 ""社交腦""，就是大腦各區域的相互連結, 讓人類可以理解其他人，並與其他人進行互動。這裡我想展示一張在足球賽裡拍的照片來說明你的 社交腦 運作的兩個面向在這場足球賽裡（笑聲）麥克 · 歐文 剛剛射門沒進，他正躺在地上你的社交腦的第一個面向可以用這張照片貼切的展現出來, 就是 社交情緒是如此自動且本能的流露出來所以只在 麥克 · 歐文 射門沒進的 幾分之一秒裡每個人的反應都一樣, 雙手抱頭臉上的表情也都一樣, 就連 麥克 · 歐文在滑倒在草皮上的時候, 也是相同的動作與表情雙手也抱著頭, 臉上應該也是一樣的表情而照片中有議群與眾不同的是在後面的黃色的傢伙 — — （笑） — —我想他們應該是坐錯邊了, 跑到敵隊陣營裡了他們有著另一種社交情緒反應我們大家都馬上就認出來了, 這也是社交腦的第二個面向透過這張找片很好地展現了我們是多麼地善於解讀別人的舉動從 他們的行動，他們的手勢，臉部表情，可以知道他們蘊含的情感與心裡面的狀態所以你不必開口問這些人就能相當了解他們的感受還有在那個時刻的他們的想法 這就是我的實驗室有興趣研究的所以在我的實驗室, 我們邀來了青少年和成人來進行腦部掃描，我們會給他們一些任務任務中涉及了, 猜測其他人心裡想什麼其他人的精神狀態、 情緒。我們有一項發現我們重覆觀察到好幾次, 也有其他的實驗室在世界其他地方觀察到，大腦前額葉皮層的一部分叫做 內側前額葉皮層，在投影片上標示藍色的地方就在 前額葉皮層的中間在你的頭中線。青少年的這個區域變得更加活躍, 當他們進行一些社交決定, 還有想到其他人的時候成人相對就沒那麼活躍。這項分析集合了這個領域在全球各地的實驗室的九項不同研究結果所有研究都顯示了相同的狀況, 就是內側前額葉皮層區的活動降低的現象出現在青春期的被觀察者腦部我們認為這可能是由於青少年和成人使用不同的思維方式，不同認知策略，來進行社交的決定要研究這件事的方法之一, 是透過行為研究我們把人請到實驗室裡, 並請他們進行某些行為上的工作項目。這裡我會說明另一個例子, 關於在實驗室中採用的工作項目 想像一下, 你是我們請來參與實驗的其中一人你走進實驗室，你看到這個電腦化的任務。在此任務中，你看到一組貨架。這些貨架上有些格子裡擺了東西你會注意到有一個人站在貨架的另一邊而且有一些格子的東西他是看不到的這些格子從他那邊看, 是被擋住的, 他只看得到灰色的木板這是他的方向看過來的同一個貨架請注意, 他只能所看到的一部分的物件而從你這邊, 你可以看到更多的物件現在你的任務是要移動物件。站在貨架對面的人是指揮者將會給你搬動物件的指令但是請記住，他不會叫你去搬動那些他看不到的物件。這就帶來了非常有趣狀況:其中存在著一種衝突性就是你的視角與指揮者的視角的不同所以想像若他告訴, 把最上層的卡車向左移你看得到三輛卡車, 本能地你會想去搬白色的卡車，因為這是最上層的卡車從您的角度看，但是你要記得""哦，他看不到那輛卡車，所以他說的應該是要我搬藍色的卡車"" 這才是最上層的卡車從他的角度看。那麼, 不知道你信不信像你這樣的正常、 健康、 聰明的成人, 出錯的比例大概是 50%, 在這樣的實驗裡.他們去搬白色卡車, 而不是藍色的。我們把這樣的工作交給參加實驗的青少年與成人我們也設計了一個控制組在控制組沒有指揮者, 而是我們給定了一個規則,我們告訴他們，好吧，我們要做完全一樣的事情但這次沒有指揮者。而是你自己要記得去忽略掉黑灰色背景格子裡的物件。你可以看到這是完全相同的狀況, 唯一的差別是在沒有指揮者的控制組, 他們只要記得用上這條多少有點隨心所欲的規則, 而在有指揮者那組, 他們必須記得要考慮到指揮者的視角來決定他們要進行的動作 好, 那我要讓大家看看出錯的百分比的數據來自我們所進行的一個大型的發展研究研究對象的年齡層從七歲到成年你將會看到的是出錯的百分比在成人族群中, 實驗組與控制組的數據圖灰色的是有指揮者的狀況, 你可以看到這些聰明的成人大概有50%的犯錯比例而他們出錯的比例相對來說低了很多在沒有指揮者的狀況下, 在他們只要自己記得那條規則, 忽略掉灰色背景的格子從發展的過程來看, 兩組的發展趨勢幾乎是完全相同的。從兒童期的後段,到青春期的中段, 一直都有進步換句話說, 出錯率降低了, 在兩種實驗都如此在這兩個年齡層也都如此。但當您比較最後兩組數據青春期中段 與 成年人就變得很有意思了, 因為在這兩個階段之間沒有指揮者狀況下, 出錯率並沒有變低了換句話說，你所需要的關於去記住規則和應用規則的部分, 似乎已經完全發展好了在青春期中段之前就完成了，而相比之下，如果你看看最後兩個灰色線條，仍有很明顯的進步, 在有指揮者的部分從 青春期 中段 到成年還是有進步這代表了, 把其他人的觀點列入考量來導引所進行的行為的能力這也是我們日常生活每天都在做的事情這種能力在青春期的中段到後段仍然在發展因此，若你剛好有十幾歲的兒子或女兒而且你有時候會覺得他們不太容易接納別人的觀點你的感覺沒錯, 他們確實如此, 你也知道為什麼了 所以我們有時候會笑青少年他們被醜化, 有時甚至被媒體妖魔化只因為他們的一些典型的青少年舉動，他們會冒險他們有時喜怒無常，他們的自我意識很強我有一個朋友告訴我一個小故事我朋友說, 他所注意到關於他的十幾歲的女兒, 在青春期前後最大的變化是女兒在他面前受窘的程度他說到, 在青春期之前, 如果我的兩個女兒在一家店裡胡鬧, 我會說: ""嘿!別再胡鬧了, 我就唱一首你們最愛聽的歌""而當他開始唱她們最喜歡的歌,女兒們馬上就停止胡鬧。而在青春期之後，這招就變成威脅了（笑聲）她們想到爸爸在公眾場合唱歌這件事就足以讓她們守規矩了 所以人們常會問，""嗯，青春期是最近流行的一種現象嗎?這是西方社會最近才發明出來的嗎?""其實答案很可能是否定的。歷史上有很多關於青春期的描寫, 聽起來跟我們現在描寫的方式很相像。 在莎士比亞的《冬天的故事》有一句名言他是這樣描寫 青春期 的:""我想, 在十歲和廿三歲之間, 是沒有年齡的不然年輕應該會在其餘的時間沉睡因為在這段歲月中沒有什麼事值得做, 除了讓女僕懷孕、敗壞古風、 偷竊、 打架""。（笑聲）他接著說，""儘管如此，除了這些十九歲到廿二歲的燒壞的腦袋, 還會有什麼人在這種天氣出來打獵啊？""（笑聲）所以近 400 年前，莎士比亞所描繪的青少年的形象，跟我們現在描繪的非常相近而在今天我們試著去理解他們的行為, 從他們身體裡的腦部發展的變化 所以, 就以冒險來當例子, 我們知道青少年有冒險的傾向。他們的確如此。他們比兒童或成人更願意冒險，他們特別喜歡冒險, 尤其是當他們與他們的朋友一起的時候。這存在著一種重大的驅動力想要脫離父母親而變得獨立並且想讓他的同齡朋友印象深刻現在我們可以試著去理解這件事, 從他們大腦的稱為邊緣系統一部分的發展過程來看我給大家展示的圖上, 紅色部分就是邊緣系統在我身後的投影片，還有手上的這個腦模型這個邊緣系統位於大腦的深處它負責的事情包括 情感處理獎勵處理。它會讓你感受到回饋從做一些有趣的事情中產生, 包括冒險他驅使你去冒險而這個腦區, 這個包含在邊緣系統內部的區域已經被觀察到, 對於冒險所產生的回饋感覺在青少年的身上, 是超級敏感, 相較於成人而言而在這個時期, 正好也是 前額葉皮層，就是在投影片中的藍色區域也是阻止我們過度冒險的腦部區域在青少年時期, 卻仍然還在發展中 所以透過研究大腦，我們知道青春期的大腦正經歷深刻的改變這對於 教育 還有 復健 與 矯正措施, 有相當的意義整個環境，包括教學，可以也實際上會影響青少年大腦的發育，而相對來說, 西方世界也只是從最近, 才開始經常教育青少年以我的祖父母為例，他們四個人在離開學校的時候都是在青春期前段, 他們沒有選擇。而還有很多很多像這樣的案例,今天全世界的青少年。有 40%沒有接受中學教育然而，在生命的這個階段，正是大腦特別具有適應性和可塑性的期間也正是學習和創新的大好機會。 所以有些被視為問題的事情關於青少年的 — —高漲的冒險企圖，孱弱的衝動控制自我意識 — — 不應該被污名化這些實際上反映了大腦中的變化, 也提供了極好的機會, 來施以教育和社交能力的發展。謝謝。（掌聲）（掌聲）"
