Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_kaminsky	"I am the daughter of a forger, not just any forger ... When you hear the word ""forger,"" you often understand ""mercenary."" You understand ""forged currency,"" ""forged pictures."" My father is no such man. For 30 years of his life, he made false papers — never for himself, always for other people, and to come to the aid of the persecuted and the oppressed. Let me introduce him. Here is my father at age 19. It all began for him during World War II, when at age 17 he found himself thrust into a forged documents workshop. He quickly became the false papers expert of the Resistance. And it's not a banal story — after the liberation he continued to make false papers until the '70s. When I was a child I knew nothing about this, of course. This is me in the middle making faces. I grew up in the Paris suburbs and I was the youngest of three children. I had a ""normal"" dad like everybody else, apart from the fact that he was 30 years older than ... well, he was basically old enough to be my grandfather. Anyway, he was a photographer and a street educator, and he always taught us to obey the law very strictly. And, of course, he never talked about his past life when he was a forger. There was, however, an incident I'm going to tell you about, that perhaps could have led me suspect something. I was in high school and got a bad grade, a rare event for me, so I decided to hide it from my parents. In order to do that, I set out to forge their signature. I started working on my mother's signature, because my father's is absolutely impossible to forge. So, I got working. I took some sheets of paper and started practicing, practicing, practicing, until I reached what I thought was a steady hand, and went into action. Later, while checking my school bag, my mother got hold of my school assignment and immediately saw that the signature was forged. She yelled at me like she never had before. I went to hide in my bedroom, under the blankets, and then I waited for my father to come back from work with, one could say, much apprehension. I heard him come in. I remained under the blankets. He entered my room, sat on the corner of the bed, and he was silent, so I pulled the blanket from my head, and when he saw me he started laughing. He was laughing so hard, he could not stop and he was holding my assignment in his hand. Then he said, ""But really, Sarah, you could have worked harder! Can't you see it's really too small?"" Indeed, it's rather small. I was born in Algeria. There I would hear people say my father was a ""moudjahid"" and that means ""fighter."" Later on, in France, I loved eavesdropping on grownups' conversations, and I would hear all sorts of stories about my father's previous life, especially that he had ""done"" World War II, that he had ""done"" the Algerian war. And in my head I would be thinking that ""doing"" a war meant being a soldier. But knowing my father, and how he kept saying that he was a pacifist and non-violent, I found it very hard to picture him with a helmet and gun. And indeed, I was very far from the mark. One day, while my father was working on a file for us to obtain French nationality, I happened to see some documents that caught my attention. These are real! These are mine, I was born an Argentinean. But the document I happened to see that would help us build a case for the authorities was a document from the army that thanked my father for his work on behalf of the secret services. And then, suddenly, I went ""wow!"" My father, a secret agent? It was very James Bond. I wanted to ask him questions, which he didn't answer. And later, I told myself that one day I would have to question him. And then I became a mother and had a son, and finally decided it was time — that he absolutely had to talk to us. I had become a mother and he was celebrating his 77th birthday, and suddenly I was very, very afraid. I feared he'd go and take his silences with him, and take his secrets with him. I managed to convince him that it was important for us, but possibly also for other people that he shared his story. He decided to tell it to me and I made a book, from which I'm going to read you some excerpts later. So, his story. My father was born in Argentina. His parents were of Russian descent. The whole family came to settle in France in the '30s. His parents were Jewish, Russian and above all, very poor. So at the age of 14 my father had to work. And with his only diploma, his primary education certificate, he found himself working at a dyer - dry cleaner. That's where he discovered something totally magical, and when he talks about it, it's fascinating — it's the magic of dyeing chemistry. During that time the war was happening and his mother was killed when he was 15. This coincided with the time when he threw himself body and soul into chemistry because it was the only consolation for his sadness. All day he would ask many questions to his boss to learn, to accumulate more and more knowledge, and at night, when no one was looking, he'd put his experience to practice. He was mostly interested in ink bleaching. All this to tell you that if my father became a forger, actually, it was almost by accident. His family was Jewish, so they were hounded. Finally they were all arrested and taken to the Drancy camp and they managed to get out at the last minute thanks to their Argentinean papers. Well, they were out, but they were always in danger. The big ""Jew"" stamp was still on their papers. It was my grandfather who decided they needed false documents. My father had been instilled with such respect for the law that although he was being persecuted, he'd never thought of false papers. But it was he who went to meet a man from the Resistance. In those times documents had hard covers, they were filled in by hand, and they stated your job. In order to survive, he needed to be working. He asked the man to write ""dyer."" Suddenly the man looked very, very interested. As a ""dyer,"" do you know how to bleach ink marks? Of course he knew. And suddenly the man started explaining that actually the whole Resistance had a huge problem: even the top experts could not manage to bleach an ink, called ""indelible,"" the ""Waterman"" blue ink. And my father immediately replied that he knew exactly how to bleach it. Now, of course, the man was very impressed with this young man of 17 who could immediately give him the formula, so he recruited him. And actually, without knowing it, my father had invented something we can find in every schoolchild's pencil case: the so-called ""correction pen."" (Applause) But it was only the beginning. That's my father. As soon as he got to the lab, even though he was the youngest, he immediately saw that there was a problem with the making of forged documents. All the movements stopped at falsifying. But demand was ever-growing and it was difficult to tamper with existing documents. He told himself it was necessary to make them from scratch. He started a press. He started photoengraving. He started making rubber stamps. He started inventing all kind of things — with some materials he invented a centrifuge using a bicycle wheel. Anyway, he had to do all this because he was completely obsessed with output. He had made a simple calculation: In one hour he could make 30 forged documents. If he slept one hour, 30 people would die. This sense of responsibility for other people's lives when he was just 17 — and also his guilt for being a survivor, since he had escaped the camp when his friends had not — stayed with him all his life. And this is maybe what explains why, for 30 years, he continued to make false papers at the expense of all kinds of sacrifices. I'd like to talk about those sacrifices, because there were many. There were obviously financial sacrifices because he always refused to be paid. To him, being paid would have meant being a mercenary. If he had accepted payment, he wouldn't be able to say ""yes"" or ""no"" depending on what he deemed a just or unjust cause. So he was a photographer by day, and a forger by night for 30 years. He was broke all of the time. Then there were the emotional sacrifices: How can one live with a woman while having so many secrets? How can one explain what one does at night in the lab, every single night? Of course, there was another kind of sacrifice involving his family that I understood much later. One day my father introduced me to my sister. He also explained to me that I had a brother, too, and the first time I saw them I must have been three or four, and they were 30 years older than me. They are both in their sixties now. In order to write the book, I asked my sister questions. I wanted to know who my father was, who was the father she had known. She explained that the father that she'd had would tell them he'd come and pick them up on Sunday to go for a walk. They would get all dressed up and wait for him, but he would almost never come. He'd say, ""I'll call."" He wouldn't call. And then he would not come. Then one day he totally disappeared. Time passed, and they thought he had surely forgotten them, at first. Then as time passed, at the end of almost two years, they thought, ""Well, perhaps our father has died."" And then I understood that asking my father so many questions was stirring up a whole past he probably didn't feel like talking about because it was painful. And while my half brother and sister thought they'd been abandoned, orphaned, my father was making false papers. And if he did not tell them, it was of course to protect them. After the liberation he made false papers to allow the survivors of concentration camps to immigrate to Palestine before the creation of Israel. And then, as he was a staunch anti-colonialist, he made false papers for Algerians during the Algerian war. After the Algerian war, at the heart of the international resistance movements, his name circulated and the whole world came knocking at his door. In Africa there were countries fighting for their independence: Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Angola. And then my father connected with Nelson Mandela's anti-apartheid party. He made false papers for persecuted black South Africans. There was also Latin America. My father helped those who resisted dictatorships in the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and then it was the turn of Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Colombia, Peru, Uruguay, Chile and Mexico. Then there was the Vietnam War. My father made false papers for the American deserters who did not wish to take up arms against the Vietnamese. Europe was not spared either. My father made false papers for the dissidents against Franco in Spain, Salazar in Portugal, against the colonels' dictatorship in Greece, and even in France. There, just once, it happened in May of 1968. My father watched, benevolently, of course, the demonstrations of the month of May, but his heart was elsewhere, and so was his time because he had over 15 countries to serve. Once, though, he agreed to make false papers for someone you might recognize. (Laughter) He was much younger in those days, and my father agreed to make false papers to enable him to come back and speak at a meeting. He told me that those false papers were the most media-relevant and the least useful he'd had to make in all his life. But, he agreed to do it, even though Daniel Cohn-Bendit's life was not in danger, just because it was a good opportunity to mock the authorities, and to show them that there's nothing more porous than borders — and that ideas have no borders. All my childhood, while my friends' dads would tell them Grimm's fairy tales, my father would tell me stories about very unassuming heroes with unshakeable utopias who managed to make miracles. And those heroes did not need an army behind them. Anyhow, nobody would have followed them, except for a handful [of] men and women of conviction and courage. I understood much later that actually it was his own story my father would tell me to get me to sleep. I asked him whether, considering the sacrifices he had to make, he ever had any regrets. He said no. He told me that he would have been unable to witness or submit to injustice without doing anything. He was persuaded, and he's still convinced that another world is possible — a world where no one would ever need a forger. He's still dreaming about it. My father is here in the room today. His name is Adolfo Kaminsky and I'm going to ask him to stand up. (Applause) Thank you."	我是個偽造者的女兒但他不是一般偽造者一般聽到「偽造者」，都會想到貪圖錢財的騙子想到「偽幣」、「偽畫」我父親不是這種人他的人生中有三十年在偽造文書但從不為自己，都是為別人而做幫助遭受迫害的人容我向你們介紹他這是我父親19歲的照片他的偽造生涯始於第二次大戰17歲的他意外投身一間工廠那是間偽造文書的工廠他很快就成為抵抗運動方的偽造文書專家這可不是一般老掉牙的故事解放運動之後他繼續偽造文書直到70年代 小時候我當然對此一無所知那個在中間扮鬼臉的是我我在巴黎近郊長大是家中三個孩子的老么我和所有人一樣，有個「平凡」的父親只不過他比別人父親老了30歲基本上他的年紀足以當我祖父總之，他是個攝影師，也是我家的教育者他總是教導我們要嚴守法律當然，他不曾談過自己的過去偽造文書的那些日子 不過我等等要說的這個小插曲應該就是我開始懷疑一些事情的契機我讀高中時，有一次作業成績不好這對我來說很少見所以我決定要隱瞞父母因此，我著手開始偽造他們的簽名我決定偽造我母親的簽名因為我父親的百分之百不可能模仿成功接著我開始動工，拿來好幾疊紙不斷練習、練習、再練習直到我覺得已經夠順手了便付諸行動不久之後，我媽媽檢查我的書包看了我的學校作業，馬上發現了簽名是假的於是我挨罵了，之前她從沒那麼兇罵我我躲進房間，窩進毛毯等我父親工作回來可以說，我真的很害怕我聽到他回家的聲音我仍然窩在毯子裡，而他進了我房間坐在我的床角上他沒有說話，所以我把毯子從頭上拉下來他看到我就對我大笑他笑得不能自己、停不下來，手上還拿著我的作業接著說：「不過莎拉，說真的，你應該再多用點心，不覺得你簽得太小了嗎？」的確，我簽得很小 我在阿爾及利亞出生常聽到有人說我父親是個moudjahid也就是「戰士」的意思後來在法國，我愛上偷聽大人談話也就能聽到各式各樣我父親早年的故事尤其他曾「參予」二次大戰的部分他「參予」過阿爾及利亞戰爭我認為「參予」戰爭，應該就是當士兵的意思吧但因為熟知我父親的為人，加上他不斷強調自己是和平主義和反暴力者我發現很難想像他戴鋼盔、背著槍的樣子的確，我猜的離真相可遠了 某天我父親在處理一份卷宗要讓我們取得法國國籍我湊巧看到了一些文件引起我的注意這些護照是真的兩本都是我的護照，我是阿根廷裔法國人我看到的那份文件讓我們能得到法國官方承認是軍隊所發的這要多虧我父親在工作之餘做了點額外的秘密服務發現之後，我說「哇」我爸爸難道是個情報員?這真的很像詹姆士龐德做的事我想問他好多問題，那些他不曾回答的問題之後，我告訴自己總有一天，我得好好問他後來我成為了母親，育有一子才終於下了決心，是時候讓他說明白了我當媽媽時他正好過77歲生日我突然很害怕我怕他會突然離開把他的沉默帶走也把他的秘密帶走我說服他，他的故事不單對我們很重要也可能對其他人很重要他才決定告訴我我把這些事寫成一本書我要跟各位分享一些書中的片段 我父親的故事從他在阿根廷出生開始他的雙親是俄國人的後代他們家在30年代搬來法國定居他父母是俄國人，也是猶太人，而且很窮所以我父親14歲就得工作他唯一的文憑就是小學畢業證書他在染坊工作在那兒，他發現了一種魔法他說到這裡時一臉陶醉他發現的魔法就是染色化學他母親在戰時遭到殺害當時他15歲在這段期間裡他將身心都投入了染色化學之中因為唯有這樣才能減輕他的哀痛他整天追著老闆問問題學習累積更多更多的知識晚間四下無人時他便將所學付諸實踐他對漂白墨水最有興趣 到這裡我想說的是其實我父親會成為一個偽造文書專家完全是意外由於他家是猶太人，所以當時被人追捕最後全家都被逮捕，送進德蘭西營直到最後一秒多虧阿根廷的身份文件，他們才得以離開可是他們逃出來後卻仍然處於危險之中，因為身份文件上有大大的猶太人印記於是我祖父決定他們需要假身份文件我父親從小被灌輸要遵守法律所以雖然遭受迫害他也不曾想過要偽造文書不過他還是去見了從事抵抗運動的人 那時候的身份公文都是硬殼裝手工把文書夾入上面要寫你的職業我父親為了生活得要工作他要那個人在職業上寫了染坊工人那人突然看起來很有興趣的樣子問他，你是染坊工人，知道怎麼漂白墨水印嗎？我父親當然知道那人隨即開始解釋其實抵抗運動團體有一個大難題連一流專家也搞不定那就是漂白一種人稱「去不掉」的藍色「華德曼」墨水我爸爸馬上回答他知道怎麼去掉這種墨水印這下子，那人當然對這位17歲的年輕人感到很驚艷因為他立刻能交出配方洗掉墨水，所以我父親就被徵召了其實就算不知道配方，我父親早已發明了一件東西我們可以在每個學童的鉛筆盒裡找到它那就是「修正液」(掌聲) 不過這只是開始這是我父親他一進到實驗室雖然在裡面他年紀最輕他馬上發現那兒在製作假文書上有個問題所有流程到竄改的關卡都陷入停擺需求卻有增無減可是光處理手邊的文件都很費時了他告訴自己一切得從頭做起他開始做印刷機，開始照相製板開始做橡皮章開始發明各種必需品他用腳踏車輪等材料發明了離心機總之，他什麼都做了因為他很在乎輸出的成果他粗略估計一小時能製作三十份偽造文件所以只要他睡一小時，就可能有30人死亡 他才17歲就已經背負了拯救人命的責任感同時他也懷有作為倖存者的罪惡感因為當年他成功逃走了，他的朋友卻沒有逃掉責任及罪惡感終生與他為伍這或許可以解釋為什麼三十年內他不停偽造文件不計一切犧牲代價我想談談他付出的那些代價因為實在太多了顯見的是經濟上的犧牲因為他總是拒絕收錢對他來說，拿了錢就等於是在詐財一旦他收了錢他就沒有權利談要接受或拒絕那些在他看來不正當的案子他白天照相製板晚上偽造文件，三十年來天天如此一直是經濟拮据 他也付出了情感上的代價一個身負重多秘密的人要如何和妻子共處?如何去解釋他每晚在實驗室裡在做些什麼?還有一種代價少不了的就是犧牲他的家庭，這我後來才明白某天我父親讓我和姊姊相認同時他跟我說，我還有個哥哥我想我多半3、4歲時曾初次見過他們他們比我年長三十多歲現在都六十幾歲了 為了寫這本書我問了姊姊一些問題，我想知道我父親的事想知道父親在她眼中是怎樣的人她說，她認識的父親會告訴他們星期天要來帶他們去走走為此他們總盛裝打扮等著父親可是父親幾乎都食言了他說「等我的電話」，卻總等不到後來他也沒回家從某天起父親就真的不見蹤影時光飛逝起初，孩子們都以為父親已經忘了他們又過了一段時間幾乎快過了兩年，他們想「父親可能過世了吧」我這才發現我問了父親許多問題都會讓他想起那些過去，他大概不想多談的事情因為太痛苦了在我的異母兄姐認為自己被遺棄成了孤兒的時候我父親其實在偽造文書他不告訴兒女，當然是想保護他們 解放運動後他繼續偽造文書幫助集中營的倖存者在以色列建國前移民到巴勒斯坦再者，由於他忠實擁護反殖民主義者他也在阿爾及利亞戰爭期間幫助該國人偽造文書阿爾及利亞戰爭過後由於他身處國際反抗運動核心他的名字傳遍了世界全世界的人都求助於他當時非洲有許多國家發動獨立戰爭包括幾內亞、幾內亞比索、安哥拉我父親於是和曼德拉的反種族隔離派聯繫他替被迫害的南非黑人偽造文書 同樣，在拉丁美洲我父親幫助拒絕獨裁政權的人民這些人來自多明尼加共和國和海地後來更幫助了巴西、阿根廷、委內瑞拉、薩爾瓦多、尼加拉瓜哥倫比亞、秘魯、烏拉圭、智利和墨西哥等國人民越戰時期我父親替美國逃兵偽造文書因為這些人不希望拿起武器和越南人交戰在歐洲也不例外我父親替異議份子偽造文書反抗西班牙的佛朗哥抵抗希臘的獨裁殖民政權甚至在法國也是有一次，在1968年五月的時候我父親以慈悲之心關注整個五月示威的進展同時他也心繫他方，當時其他人也是因為有超過15個國家的人民需要我父親的服務 有一次他答應要為一個人偽造文件那個人你們應該也認識(笑聲)那時候他還很年輕我父親答應了要幫他偽造文件讓他能夠回國，在一個會議上發言父親告訴我，這些假文件是他做過媒體最感興趣也是最無用武之地的一件案子但他仍答應要做雖然Daniel Cohn-Bendit並沒有生命危險他答應的唯一理由就是要藉這個機會好好戲弄一下掌權人士讓他們看到，沒什麼比各國國境更漏洞百出了而且這個想法舉世皆然 我的整個童年當朋友的爸爸都在講格林童話的故事我父親告訴我的，都是無名英雄的故事而且毫無置疑充滿烏托邦色彩那些英雄都締造了奇蹟而他們身後都不需要軍隊的支持總之，沒有人會追隨他們只有小部份有信念和勇氣的男男女女會跟隨他們很久以後我才明白父親講的床邊故事，正是他自己的故事我問他，考慮到他所付出的犧牲他是否曾後悔過他說，他不曾後悔他告訴我，若他當初什麼都沒做就不能見證這一切，或者就向不公義投降了他當時就確信，而現在依然堅信我們能擁有不一樣的世界而這個世界裡沒有人需要人幫忙偽造身分這依然是他的夢想我的父親今天就在現場他叫作Adolfo Kaminsky，我要請他站起來(掌聲)謝謝你
