Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_gray_how_my_son_s_short_life_made_a_lasting_difference	"I was three months pregnant with twins when my husband Ross and I went to my second sonogram. I was 35 years old at the time, and I knew that that meant we had a higher risk of having a child with a birth defect. So, Ross and I researched the standard birth defects, and we felt reasonably prepared. Well, nothing would have prepared us for the bizarre diagnosis that we were about to face. The doctor explained that one of our twins, Thomas, had a fatal birth defect called anencephaly. This means that his brain was not formed correctly because part of his skull was missing. Babies with this diagnosis typically die in utero or within a few minutes, hours or days of being born. But the other twin, Callum, appeared to be healthy, as far as the doctor could tell, and these twins were identical, genetically identical. So after a lot of questions about how this could have possibly happened, a selective reduction was mentioned, and while this procedure was not impossible, it posed some unique risks for the healthy twin and for me, so we decided to carry the pregnancy to term. So there I was, three months pregnant, with two trimesters ahead of me, and I had to find a way to manage my blood pressure and my stress. And it felt like having a roommate point a loaded gun at you for six months. But I stared down the barrel of that gun for so long that I saw a light at the end of the tunnel. While there was nothing we could do to prevent the tragedy, I wanted to find a way for Thomas's brief life to have some kind of positive impact. So I asked my nurse about organ, eye and tissue donation. She connected with our local organ-procurement organization, the Washington Regional Transplant Community. WRTC explained to me that Thomas would probably be too small at birth to donate for transplant, and I was shocked: I didn't even know you could be rejected for that. But they said that he would be a good candidate to donate for research. This helped me see Thomas in a new light. As opposed to just a victim of a disease, I started to see him as a possible key to unlock a medical mystery. On March 23, 2010, the twins were born, and they were both born alive. And just like the doctor said, Thomas was missing the top part of his skull, but he could nurse, drink from a bottle, cuddle and grab our fingers like a normal baby, and he slept in our arms. After six days, Thomas died in Ross's arms surrounded by our family. We called WRTC, who sent a van to our home and brought him to Children's National Medical Center. A few hours later, we got a call to say that the recovery was a success, and Thomas's donations would be going to four different places. His cord blood would go to Duke University. His liver would go to a cell-therapy company called Cytonet in Durham. His corneas would go to Schepens Eye Research Institute, which is part of Harvard Medical School, and his retinas would go to the University of Pennsylvania. A few days later, we had a funeral with our immediate family, including baby Callum, and we basically closed this chapter in our lives. But I did find myself wondering, what's happening now? What are the researchers learning? And was it even worthwhile to donate? WRTC invited Ross and I to a grief retreat, and we met about 15 other grieving families who had donated their loved one's organs for transplant. Some of them had even received letters from the people who received their loved one's organs, saying thank you. I learned that they could even meet each other if they'd both sign a waiver, almost like an open adoption. And I was so excited, I thought maybe I could write a letter or I could get a letter and learn about what happened. But I was disappointed to learn that this process only exists for people who donate for transplant. So I was jealous. I had transplant envy, I guess. (Laughter) But over the years that followed, I learned a lot more about donation, and I even got a job in the field. And I came up with an idea. I wrote a letter that started out, ""Dear Researcher."" I explained who I was, and I asked if they could tell me why they requested infant retinas in March of 2010, and I asked if my family could visit their lab. I emailed it to the eye bank that arranged the donation, the Old Dominion Eye Foundation, and asked if they could send it to the right person. They said that they had never done this before, and they couldn't guarantee a response, but they wouldn't be an obstacle, and they would deliver it. Two days later, I got a response from Dr. Arupa Ganguly of the University of Pennsylvania. She thanked me for the donation, and she explained that she is studying retinoblastoma, which is a deadly cancer of the retina that affects children under the age of five, and she said that yes, we were invited to visit her lab. So next we talked on the phone, and one of the first things she said to me was that she couldn't possibly imagine how we felt, and that Thomas had given the ultimate sacrifice, and that she seemed to feel indebted to us. So I said, ""Nothing against your study, but we didn't actually pick it. We donated to the system, and the system chose your study. I said, ""And second of all, bad things happen to children every day, and if you didn't want these retinas, they would probably be buried in the ground right now. So to be able to participate in your study gives Thomas's life a new layer of meaning. So, never feel guilty about using this tissue."" Next, she explained to me how rare it was. She had placed a request for this tissue six years earlier with the National Disease Research Interchange. She got only one sample of tissue that fit her criteria, and it was Thomas's. Next, we arranged a date for me to come visit the lab, and we chose March 23, 2015, which was the twins' fifth birthday. After we hung up, I emailed her some pictures of Thomas and Callum, and a few weeks later, we received this T-shirt in the mail. A few months later, Ross, Callum and I piled in the car and we went for a road trip. We met Arupa and her staff, and Arupa said that when I told her not to feel guilty, that it was a relief, and that she hadn't seen it from our perspective. She also explained that Thomas had a secret code name. The same way Henrietta Lacks is called HeLa, Thomas was called RES 360. RES means research, and 360 means he was the 360th specimen over the course of about 10 years. She also shared with us a unique document, and it was the shipping label that sent his retinas from DC to Philadelphia. This shipping label is like an heirloom to us now. It's the same way that a military medal or a wedding certificate might be. Arupa also explained that she is using Thomas's retina and his RNA to try to inactivate the gene that causes tumor formation, and she even showed us some results that were based on RES 360. Then she took us to the freezer and she showed us the two samples that she still has that are still labeled RES 360. There's two little ones left. She said she saved it because she doesn't know when she might get more. After this, we went to the conference room and we relaxed and we had lunch together, and the lab staff presented Callum with a birthday gift. It was a child's lab kit. And they also offered him an internship. (Laughter) So in closing, I have two simple messages today. One is that most of us probably don't think about donating to research. I know I didn't. I think I'm a normal person. But I did it. It was a good experience, and I recommend it, and it brought my family a lot of peace. And second is if you work with human tissue and you wonder about the donor and about the family, write them a letter. Tell them you received it, tell them what you're working on, and invite them to visit your lab, because that visit may be even more gratifying for you than it is for them. And I'd also like to ask you a favor. If you're ever successful in arranging one of these visits, please tell me about it. The other part of my family's story is that we ended up visiting all four facilities that received Thomas's donations. And we met amazing people doing inspiring work. The way I see it now is that Thomas got into Harvard, Duke and Penn — (Laughter) And he has a job at Cytonet, and he has colleagues and he has coworkers who are in the top of their fields. And they need him in order to do their job. And a life that once seemed brief and insignificant revealed itself to be vital, everlasting and relevant. And I only hope that my life can be as relevant. Thank you. (Applause)"	我剛懷雙胞胎三個月，我丈夫羅斯陪我照第二次超音波時。 當時我三十五歲。這意味著我們的孩子患有先天缺陷的風險非常高魯斯跟我便研究常態的先天缺陷我們也覺得可以應付。 但我們根本沒料到，會有不尋常的診斷。醫生告訴我們其中一個胎兒，也就是湯瑪斯，得了致命的先天缺陷-無腦畸型。就是他的腦袋發育不正常。因為他部分頭骨沒有成形。這類嬰兒通常會在死在子宮裡或在出生後數分鐘至數日內死亡但是另一孩子，也就是卡勒，根據醫生所判，似乎是健康的。兩人是同卵雙胞胎。基因組合相同。 關於為何如此，我們也問過醫生一堆問題，醫生提出減胎的建議。這個辦法或許行得通，但可能會為我和另一個健康的胎兒帶來風險於是我們決定讓他足月出生那時我懷孕三個月，還要等待6個月而且要妥善控制自己的血壓和情緒感覺有如一個室友在那六個月裡用上膛的槍指著我而我瞪著那個槍口良久直到我從黑暗中看到一線曙光雖然我們不能避免悲劇但我為湯瑪斯短暫的一生找到了些許積極的影響。 於是我問護士有關捐贈器官等事情她聯絡了本地的器官捐贈組織華盛頓地區移植協會（WRTC）這所協會向我解釋湯瑪斯出生時可能太小，難以把他的器官移植到其他人我很震驚：我不知道竟然連你們也會拒絕接受捐贈。但他們說他很適合捐贈做硏究。這樣令我對湯瑪斯有了新看法與其只是做一個疾病的受害者，我倒發覺他會是打開醫學謎團的鎖匙。 2012年3月23日，孖胎兒出生了，兩人都活下來正如醫生說過湯瑪斯失去了頭骨的頂部但他可以吃奶瓶裡的奶像正常的嬰兒般依偎和抓緊我們的手指還躺在我們的臂彎睡覺。六天後，湯瑪斯躺在魯斯懷裡逝世全家人都陪伴著他。 我們通知 WRTC 後，他們派車把他送到國家兒童醫療中心數小時後，我們收到器官恢復成功的通知捐贈的器官將會送到4處不同的地方他的臍帶血送到社克大學肝臟送到位於德罕城的一所叫Cytonet 細胞治療公司。眼角膜送到Schepens眼科硏究院，它隸屬於哈佛大學醫學院，而視網膜被送到賓卅大學。 數日後，我們舉行了喪禮當日嬰兒卡姆勒也有出席大致上我們人生的這一節已告一段落但我感到納悶現在發生什麼事？硏究學者正在硏習什麼？是否值得捐贈？ WRTC 邀請我和魯斯參加哀傷靜修。我們見了15個喪親家庭他們把心愛親人的器官捐贈出來有些家庭甚至收到來自那些器官捐贈獲得者的感謝信。我聽說雙方甚至為了見面 要簽署棄權聲明，就好像是公開領養一樣。我非常興奮，心想或許可以寫一封信或者收到一封信，知道後來怎樣但是我非常失望，因為得知這些過程只有捐贈器官移植的家庭才會經歷我猜想自己可能炉忌別人移植器官。 （笑聲） 但是接下來的幾年我對器官捐贈認識了不少甚至這個領域找到工作。 跟著我有一個想法我寫了一封信，開始是這樣說：「親愛的硏究學者。」我先解釋自己是誰然後問他們可否告訴我為什麼在2010年3月需要嬰兒的視網膜還問他們讓我們參觀那我電郵到眼庫的舊眼科統籌基金他們負責安排捐贈事宜我問他們可否分配給合適的人選他們說以往從未做過這樣的事情而且不能擔保有回應。這樣難不倒我，他們一定回覆。 兩日後，我收到答覆那是來自賓州大學的Arupa Ganguly博士她感謝我的捐贈還説她正在硏究視網膜細胞瘤那是一種致命的視網膜癌症影響五歲以下的小童她邀請我們到訪她的實驗室 其後我們電話交談其中有一件事她最想對我說就是她無法想像我們的感受湯瑪斯終極的奉獻令她感到好像虧欠了我們於是我說：「我不是反對妳的硏究我們其實無從選擇我們捐贈到體制，它選擇了你的研究。其次是每天都有兒童發生不幸的事情如果你不要這些視網膜 它們很可能已經長埋地下所以能夠為妳的硏究出一分力將會為湯瑪斯的生命添上新意義。請不要因為採用這些組織而內疚。」 跟著她向我解釋那些組織非常罕有她早在6年前已向國家疾病交流硏究院要求採用這些組織最後只得一個組織樣本符合她的要求那就是湯瑪斯的組織 其後我們安排了日子到訪實驗室選擇了2015年3月23日，那天是雙胞胎的5歲生日。掛線後，我電郵了幾張雙胞胎照片給她數星期後，我收到這件郵寄送來的T恤 再過幾個月後，魯斯、卡勒姆和我一起擠進車子踏上旅程。我們跟Arupa和她的職員見面Arupa 說當我叫她不要內疚時，她不禁舒了一口氣還提到她沒有顧及我們的想法她告訴我們湯瑪斯有一個密碼名字就像海莉耶塔.拉克斯叫海拉一樣湯瑪斯叫做 RES 360RES 的意思是硏究360 代表研究的十年過程中他是第360個標本 她還讓我們看一份不尋常的文件。那是一張船運標記表示湯瑪斯的視網膜從華盛頓送到費城現在這個標記仿彿成為我們的傳家寶等同軍事獎章或結婚證書 Arupa還說她正在利用湯瑪斯的視網膜和RNA試圖阻止那些形成腫瘤的基因活動她甚至給我們看根據 RES 360硏究得到的結果跟著她帶我們往冷涷櫃然後展示兩個她一直保存的樣本仍舊標示 RES 360那裡剩下兩個小小的樣本她說她保存下來因為她還未知道何時或會有更多收穫。其後我們到了會議室大家休息一會，然後吃午飯接著職員送給卡姆勒一份生日禮物。那是一份兒童實驗室工具包還聘請他做實習生。 （笑聲） 最後我今天帶來兩個簡單的信息一是大多數人不會想到捐贈器官作硏究我知道我以前一定不會因為我認為自己是個普通人但我已經捐贈出來了。那是一次很好的經歷，我樂意推薦它讓我們一家人心情得以平伏。二是如果你從事人體組織的研究想到捐贈者和他（她）的家人寫一封信給他們告訴他們你收到了和正在做什麼工作邀請他們來探訪你的實驗室因為那次探訪可能令你比他們還要高興。我也想請求你們幫個忙如果你們曾成功地做了一次這樣的探訪請告訴我 我們家庭其餘的經歷就是我們探訪了那些接受湯瑪斯捐贈的所有四間機構碰到出色的人材，做令人鼓舞的工作。我覺得好像是湯瑪斯進了哈佛大學社克大家和賓州大學 （笑聲） 而且他在 Cytonet 還有份工作他有同事和幫手他們都是那行業的頂尖人物需要湯瑪斯才能完成他們的工作一個曾經似乎是短暫而微不足道的生命現在變得那麼重要、永恆和意義重大我只希望我的生命變得有意義。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
