Talk	en	zh-tw
scilla_elworthy_fighting_with_non_violence	"In half a century of trying to help prevent wars, there's one question that never leaves me: How do we deal with extreme violence without using force in return? When you're faced with brutality, whether it's a child facing a bully on a playground or domestic violence — or, on the streets of Syria today, facing tanks and shrapnel, what's the most effective thing to do? Fight back? Give in? Use more force? This question: ""How do I deal with a bully without becoming a thug in return?"" has been with me ever since I was a child. I remember I was about 13, glued to a grainy black and white television in my parents' living room as Soviet tanks rolled into Budapest, and kids not much older than me were throwing themselves at the tanks and getting mown down. And I rushed upstairs and started packing my suitcase. And my mother came up and said, ""What on Earth are you doing?"" And I said, ""I'm going to Budapest."" And she said, ""What on Earth for?"" And I said, ""Kids are getting killed there. There's something terrible happening."" And she said, ""Don't be so silly."" And I started to cry. And she got it, she said, ""Okay, I see it's serious. You're much too young to help. You need training. I'll help you. But just unpack your suitcase."" And so I got some training and went and worked in Africa during most of my 20s. But I realized that what I really needed to know I couldn't get from training courses. I wanted to understand how violence, how oppression, works. And what I've discovered since is this: Bullies use violence in three ways. They use political violence to intimidate, physical violence to terrorize and mental or emotional violence to undermine. And only very rarely in very few cases does it work to use more violence. Nelson Mandela went to jail believing in violence, and 27 years later he and his colleagues had slowly and carefully honed the skills, the incredible skills, that they needed to turn one of the most vicious governments the world has known into a democracy. And they did it in a total devotion to non-violence. They realized that using force against force doesn't work. So what does work? Over time I've collected about a half-dozen methods that do work — of course there are many more — that do work and that are effective. And the first is that the change that has to take place has to take place here, inside me. It's my response, my attitude, to oppression that I've got control over, and that I can do something about. And what I need to develop is self-knowledge to do that. That means I need to know how I tick, when I collapse, where my formidable points are, where my weaker points are. When do I give in? What will I stand up for? And meditation or self-inspection is one of the ways — again it's not the only one — it's one of the ways of gaining this kind of inner power. And my heroine here — like Satish's — is Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma. She was leading a group of students on a protest in the streets of Rangoon. They came around a corner faced with a row of machine guns. And she realized straight away that the soldiers with their fingers shaking on the triggers were more scared than the student protesters behind her. But she told the students to sit down. And she walked forward with such calm and such clarity and such total lack of fear that she could walk right up to the first gun, put her hand on it and lower it. And no one got killed. So that's what the mastery of fear can do — not only faced with machine guns, but if you meet a knife fight in the street. But we have to practice. So what about our fear? I have a little mantra. My fear grows fat on the energy I feed it. And if it grows very big it probably happens. So we all know the three o'clock in the morning syndrome, when something you've been worrying about wakes you up — I see a lot of people — and for an hour you toss and turn, it gets worse and worse, and by four o'clock you're pinned to the pillow by a monster this big. The only thing to do is to get up, make a cup of tea and sit down with the fear like a child beside you. You're the adult. The fear is the child. And you talk to the fear and you ask it what it wants, what it needs. How can this be made better? How can the child feel stronger? And you make a plan. And you say, ""Okay, now we're going back to sleep. Half-past seven, we're getting up and that's what we're going to do."" I had one of these 3 a.m. episodes on Sunday — paralyzed with fear at coming to talk to you. (Laughter) So I did the thing. I got up, made the cup of tea, sat down with it, did it all and I'm here — still partly paralyzed, but I'm here. (Applause) So that's fear. What about anger? Wherever there is injustice there's anger. But anger is like gasoline, and if you spray it around and somebody lights a match, you've got an inferno. But anger as an engine — in an engine — is powerful. If we can put our anger inside an engine, it can drive us forward, it can get us through the dreadful moments and it can give us real inner power. And I learned this in my work with nuclear weapon policy-makers. Because at the beginning I was so outraged at the dangers they were exposing us to that I just wanted to argue and blame and make them wrong. Totally ineffective. In order to develop a dialogue for change we have to deal with our anger. It's okay to be angry with the thing — the nuclear weapons in this case — but it is hopeless to be angry with the people. They are human beings just like us. And they're doing what they think is best. And that's the basis on which we have to talk with them. So that's the third one, anger. And it brings me to the crux of what's going on, or what I perceive as going on, in the world today, which is that last century was top-down power. It was still governments telling people what to do. This century there's a shift. It's bottom-up or grassroots power. It's like mushrooms coming through concrete. It's people joining up with people, as Bundy just said, miles away to bring about change. And Peace Direct spotted quite early on that local people in areas of very hot conflict know what to do. They know best what to do. So Peace Direct gets behind them to do that. And the kind of thing they're doing is demobilizing militias, rebuilding economies, resettling refugees, even liberating child soldiers. And they have to risk their lives almost every day to do this. And what they've realized is that using violence in the situations they operate in is not only less humane, but it's less effective than using methods that connect people with people, that rebuild. And I think that the U.S. military is finally beginning to get this. Up to now their counter-terrorism policy has been to kill insurgents at almost any cost, and if civilians get in the way, that's written as ""collateral damage."" And this is so infuriating and humiliating for the population of Afghanistan, that it makes the recruitment for al-Qaeda very easy, when people are so disgusted by, for example, the burning of the Koran. So the training of the troops has to change. And I think there are signs that it is beginning to change. The British military have always been much better at this. But there is one magnificent example for them to take their cue from, and that's a brilliant U.S. lieutenant colonel called Chris Hughes. And he was leading his men down the streets of Najaf — in Iraq actually — and suddenly people were pouring out of the houses on either side of the road, screaming, yelling, furiously angry, and surrounded these very young troops who were completely terrified, didn't know what was going on, couldn't speak Arabic. And Chris Hughes strode into the middle of the throng with his weapon above his head, pointing at the ground, and he said, ""Kneel."" And these huge soldiers with their backpacks and their body armor, wobbled to the ground. And complete silence fell. And after about two minutes, everybody moved aside and went home. Now that to me is wisdom in action. In the moment, that's what he did. And it's happening everywhere now. You don't believe me? Have you asked yourselves why and how so many dictatorships have collapsed over the last 30 years? Dictatorships in Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Mali, Madagascar, Poland, the Philippines, Serbia, Slovenia, I could go on, and now Tunisia and Egypt. And this hasn't just happened. A lot of it is due to a book written by an 80-year-old man in Boston, Gene Sharp. He wrote a book called ""From Dictatorship to Democracy"" with 81 methodologies for non-violent resistance. And it's been translated into 26 languages. It's flown around the world. And it's being used by young people and older people everywhere, because it works and it's effective. So this is what gives me hope — not just hope, this is what makes me feel very positive right now. Because finally human beings are getting it. We're getting practical, doable methodologies to answer my question: How do we deal with a bully without becoming a thug? We're using the kind of skills that I've outlined: inner power — the development of inner power — through self-knowledge, recognizing and working with our fear, using anger as a fuel, cooperating with others, banding together with others, courage, and most importantly, commitment to active non-violence. Now I don't just believe in non-violence. I don't have to believe in it. I see evidence everywhere of how it works. And I see that we, ordinary people, can do what Aung San Suu Kyi and Ghandi and Mandela did. We can bring to an end the bloodiest century that humanity has ever known. And we can organize to overcome oppression by opening our hearts as well as strengthening this incredible resolve. And this open-heartedness is exactly what I've experienced in the entire organization of this gathering since I got here yesterday. Thank you. (Applause)"	﻿在爲防止戰爭所做的半個世紀工作中，我始終有一個問題：我們在不使用暴力的情況下如何面對極端暴力？當你面對暴力，不管是一個小孩面對欺負他的小混混，還是家庭暴力或者是敘利亞今天的街道上面對坦克和彈藥，最有效的方式是什麽？反擊？屈服？使用更多暴力？ “我在不變成暴徒的情況下如何面對威脅？”這個問題自從我還是孩子時就伴隨著我。我記得當我大約13歲時，被我父母房間裏的黑白電視所吸引電視上放著蘇聯坦克開過布達佩斯，和我差不多大的孩子在坦克前逃跑並且被碾壓過去。然後我就跑上了樓梯打包我的行李。 媽媽說：“你在幹什麽？” 我說：“我要去布達佩斯。” 她說“爲什麽” 我說“他們在殺害那些孩子。有一些可怕的事正在發生。” 她說“別傻了。”然後我就開始哭。她懂了，說，“我知道這很嚴重。但你太小了。你需要訓練。來我幫你。但先把行李放下。” 然後我得到了一些訓練並且在20幾歲時到非洲工作。但我意識到我真正需要的卻是我從那些訓練中得不到的。我想知道暴力，壓迫有什麽作用。我發現：惡棍使用三種暴力。政治暴力來威懾，肉體暴力來恐嚇，以及精神暴力來摧毀。並且用更多的暴力幾乎不起作用。 尼爾遜·曼德拉在相信暴力時被送進了監獄，27年後，他和同事已經慢慢地，很仔細地練成了把一個窮凶極惡的政府變成一個民主政府的技能。並且他們以一種完全非暴力的方式實現。他們發現以暴制暴不管用。 那什麽管用？在這些年裏我積累了一些管用的方法當然方法還有很多這些方法的確管用。第一個是該發生的改變必須發生。我的對壓迫的反應，態度就是我必須控制，並且我能做一些事。 我需要的就是增長知識。這意味著當我垮掉時我要知道如何保持平衡，我的優點在哪，我的弱點在哪。我什麽時候屈服？我爲了什麽堅持？冥想或自我反思是一種方式——當然也不是唯一的方式——這是一種方式來獲得這種內在的力量。 我戲中的英雄是在緬甸的Aung San Suu Kyi她是一群在Rangoon的學生抗議團隊的領導者。他們面對一排機關槍，她立刻意識到在扳機上手抖動的士兵比學生抗議者更害怕。但她告訴學生坐下。然後她以出奇的冷靜無畏走向第一個槍，把她的手放上去，把槍放下來，所有人都安全了。 這就是控制恐懼能做的——不僅當面對機關槍時，更是當你在路上遇到刀戰。但我們必須練習。那麽我們害怕什麽呢？我有一箴言。我越害怕，我的恐懼越大。如果恐懼太大了，不好的事情就會發生了。 我們都知道淩晨三點綜合征，當一些你擔心的事把你弄醒，我看到許多人你害怕一小時然後他越來越厲害，在四點你被一個這麽大的怪獸釘在枕頭上唯一能做的就是起床，衝杯茶，然後和恐懼一起坐下，你是一個成人，恐懼像孩子，你和恐懼說話你問他他要什麽這怎樣變得更好這個孩子如何變得更強壯？然後你有一個計劃。你說“好吧，我們要睡覺了。七點半，我們再起床。” 在周日我就有過這種經曆已經被恐懼所感到癱瘓（笑聲）所以我這麽做了。我起床，衝杯茶，坐下，做了這一切所以我在這裏——仍然有些麻木，但我在這裏。 （掌聲） 所以這就是恐懼。那憤怒呢？只要有不公正就有憤怒。但憤怒像汽油，如果你潑出汽油，然後有人點了一個火柴，那你就在地獄裏了。但作爲引擎，憤怒是很有力的。如果我們能把憤怒放入引擎裏，他能帶我們向前，他能讓我們走過悲慘的時刻，能給我們真正的內部力量。 我在和核武器政策制定者的工作中知道了這個因爲一開始我對于他們給我們帶來的危險感到很憤怒以至于我想辯論，責備，並且讓他們感到錯誤。根本不管用。爲了開始一個帶來改變的對話，我們需要應付我們的憤怒。對此感到憤怒很正常也就是核武器但對人憤怒是沒有用的。他們和我們一樣是人。他們在做他們認爲對的。而這就是我們和他們交流的基礎。 所以這就是第三個，憤怒。現在我們來到了這次演講的核心，也就是現在在這個世界正在發生什麽，在上個世紀是由上而下的權利。過去政府仍然告訴人們該做什麽。這個世紀有了變化。現在是由下而上或者說草根權利。想從混凝土中長出的蘑菇。像Bundy所說，是人和人連結在一起，來帶來改變。 和平指導這個項目很快就發現了在衝突發生的地區的當地人知道該做什麽。他們知道最好做什麽。所以和平指導爲他們提供支持。他們做的是解散軍隊，重建經濟，安置難民，甚至解放兒童軍人。他們爲這些事必須要冒生命風險。他們已經意識到了在這些情況下使用武力不僅更不人道，而且更沒有效果，和連接每個人這種方式比起來。 我認爲美國部隊終于開始懂得這些了。直到現在爲止他們的反恐政策一直是不惜代價殺死暴亂的人，並且如果平民在其中得到了傷害，這會被記錄爲“附屬傷害”。這激怒並羞辱了阿富汗人，所以，比如，當人們被焚燒可蘭經激怒時，基地組織的擴充就很容易了。 所以部隊的訓練必須改變。我認爲現在已經有改變的迹象了。英國部隊已經做得很好了。現在他們能得到一個很好的暗示，這就是一個美國陸軍上尉，克裏斯·休。他正在帶領他的人在伊拉克——一瞬間人們就從街道兩旁的房屋中衝出來，尖叫，呐喊，極爲憤怒，並包圍了這些已經被驚嚇到的士兵，這些士兵不知道發生了什麽，也不會說阿拉伯語。克裏斯·休走到人群中間把武器舉在頭上，指著地面，說“跪下”。然後休的士兵帶著他們的背包和武裝搖晃的趴在地上。然後沒有一點聲音。兩分鍾過後，人群散開並回家。 這在我認爲就是智慧。在那一刻，那就是他做的。現在在每個地方都會發生。你不相信我？你有沒有問過自己爲什麽以及有多少獨裁政府在過去30年內倒塌了？在捷克斯洛伐克，東德愛沙尼亞，拉脫維亞，立陶宛，馬裏，馬達加斯加，波蘭，菲律賓，塞爾維亞，斯洛維尼亞的獨裁政府，我可以繼續，還有現在的突尼斯和埃及。這還沒有發生。很多這些都是因爲一本在波士頓的80歲老人Gene Sharp寫的書而發生的。書名是“從獨裁到民主”寫了非暴力抗爭的81種方法。這本書被翻譯成了26種語言。現在在全世界流行。這本書被世界各地的人使用，因爲它很有效。 這本書給了我希望——不只是希望，這本書讓我感覺到我是對的，因爲人們最後正在達到它。我們在使用實用的，可行的方法來回答我的問題：我們在面對威脅時如何不使用暴力？我們正在用我說過的方法：內在的力量，自我了解認識並且利用我們的恐懼，把憤怒化作燃料，與他人合作，和他人結合在一起，勇氣，以及最重要的，積極的非暴力抗爭。 現在我不僅僅相信非暴力。我不用相信它。我已經在所有地方看到了它如何工作。現在我看到，我們，普通人，能做Aung San Suu Kyi，甘地，和曼德拉所做的。我們能終結人類曆史上見過的最血腥的時代。我們可以通過打開我們的心來組織克服鎮壓，同時堅定決心。 這種開放的胸懷正是我從昨天在這裏在整個集會組織中所感受到的。謝謝。 （掌聲）
