Talk	en	zh-tw
scott_mccloud_on_comics	"Of the five senses, vision is the one that I appreciate the most, and it's the one that I can least take for granted. I think this is partially due to my father, who was blind. It was a fact that he didn't make much of a fuss about, usually. One time in Nova Scotia, when we went to see a total eclipse of the sun — (Laughter) Yeah, same one as in the Carly Simon song, which may or may not refer to James Taylor, Warren Beatty or Mick Jagger; we're not really sure. They handed out these dark plastic viewers that allowed us to look directly at the sun without damaging our eyes. But Dad got really scared; he didn't want us doing that. He wanted us instead to use these cheap cardboard viewers, so that there was no chance at all that our eyes would be damaged. I thought this was a little strange at the time. What I didn't know at the time was that my father had actually been born with perfect eyesight. When he and his sister Martha were just very little, their mom took them out to see a total eclipse — or actually, a solar eclipse — and not long after that, both of them started losing their eyesight. Decades later, it turned out that the source of their blindness was most likely some sort of bacterial infection. As near as we can tell, it had nothing whatsoever to do with that solar eclipse, but by then my grandmother had already gone to her grave thinking it was her fault. So, Dad graduated Harvard in 1946, married my mom, and bought a house in Lexington, Massachusetts, where the first shots were fired against the British in 1775, although we didn't actually hit any of them until Concord. He got a job working for Raytheon designing guidance systems, which was part of the Route 128 high-tech axis in those days — so, the equivalent of Silicon Valley in the '70s. Dad wasn't a real militaristic kind of guy; he just felt bad that he wasn't able to fight in World War II on account of his handicap, although they did let him get through the several-hour-long army physical exam before they got to the very last test, which was for vision. (Laughter) So Dad started racking up all of these patents and gaining a reputation as a blind genius, rocket scientist, inventor. But to us he was just Dad, and our home life was pretty normal. As a kid, I watched a lot of television and had lots of nerdy hobbies like mineralogy and microbiology and the space program and a little bit of politics. I played a lot of chess. But at the age of 14, a friend got me interested in comic books, and I decided that was what I wanted to do for a living. So, here's my dad: he's a scientist, he's an engineer and he's a military contractor. So, he has four kids, right? One grows up to become a computer scientist, one grows up to join the Navy, one grows up to become an engineer ... And then there's me: the comic book artist. (Laughter) Which, incidentally, makes me the opposite of Dean Kamen, because I'm a comic book artist, son of an inventor, and he's an inventor, son of a comic book artist. (Laughter) Right? It's true. (Applause) The funny thing is, Dad had a lot of faith in me. He had faith in my abilities as a cartoonist, even though he had no direct evidence that I was any good whatsoever; everything he saw was just a blur. Now, this gives a real meaning to the term ""blind faith,"" which doesn't have the same negative connotation for me that it does for other people. Now, faith in things which cannot be seen, which cannot be proved, is not the sort of faith that I've ever really related to all that much. I tend to like science, where what we see and can ascertain are the foundation of what we know. But there's a middle ground, too — a middle ground tread by people like poor old Charles Babbage and his steam-driven computers that were never built. Nobody really understood what it was that he had in mind except for Ada Lovelace, and he went to his grave trying to pursue that dream. Vannevar Bush with his memex — this idea of all of human knowledge at your fingertips — he had this vision. And I think a lot of people in his day probably thought he was a bit of a kook. And, yeah, we can look back in retrospect and say, ""Yeah, ha-ha, it's all microfilm — (Laughter) But that's not the point; he understood the shape of the future. So did J.C.R. Licklider and his notions for computer-human interaction. Same thing: he understood the shape of the future, even though it was something that would only be implemented by people much later. Or Paul Baran, and his vision for packet switching. Hardly anybody listened to him in his day. Or even the people who actually pulled it off, the people at Bolt, Beranek and Newman in Boston, who just would sketch out these structures of what would eventually become a worldwide network, and sketching things on the back of napkins and on note papers and arguing over dinner at Howard Johnson's — on Route 128 in Lexington, Massachusetts, just two miles from where I was studying the Queen's Gambit Deferred and listening to Gladys Knight & The Pips singing ""Midnight Train to Georgia"" — (Laughter) in my dad's big easy chair, you know? So, three types of vision, right? Vision based on what one cannot see, the vision of that unseen and unknowable. The vision of that which has already been proven or can be ascertained. And this third kind, a vision of something which can be, which may be, based on knowledge but is, as yet, unproven. Now, we've seen a lot of examples of people who are pursuing that sort of vision in science, but I think it's also true in the arts, it's true in politics, it's even true in personal endeavors. What it comes down to, really, is four basic principles: learn from everyone; follow no one; watch for patterns; and work like hell. I think these are the four principles that go into this. And it's that third one, especially, where visions of the future begin to manifest themselves. What's interesting is that this particular way of looking at the world, is, I think, only one of four different ways that manifest themselves in different fields of endeavor. In comics, I know that it results in sort of a formalist attitude towards trying to understand how it works. Then there's another, more classical attitude which embraces beauty and craft; another one which believes in the pure transparency of content; and then another, which emphasizes the authenticity of human experience and honesty and rawness. These are four very different ways of looking at the world. I even gave them names: the classicist, the animist, the formalist and iconoclast. Interestingly, they seem to correspond more or less to Jung's four subdivisions of human thought. And they reflect a dichotomy of art and delight on left and the right; tradition and revolution on the top and the bottom. And if you go on the diagonal, you get content and form, and then beauty and truth. And it probably applies just as much to music and movies and fine art, which has nothing whatsoever to do with vision at all, or, for that matter, nothing to do with our conference theme of ""Inspired by Nature,"" except to the extent of the fable of the frog who gives a ride to the scorpion on his back to get across the river because the scorpion promises not to sting him, but the scorpion stings him anyway and they both die, but not before the frog asks him why, and the scorpion says, ""Because it's my nature."" In that sense, yes. (Laughter) So this was my nature. The thing was, I saw that the route I took to discovering this focus in my work and who I was — I saw it as just this road to discovery. Actually, it was just me embracing my nature, which means that I didn't actually fall that far from the tree, after all. So what does a ""scientific mind"" do in the arts? I started making comics, but I also started trying to understand them, almost immediately. One of the most important things about comics that I discovered was that comics are a visual medium, but they try to embrace all of the senses within it. So, the different elements of comics, like pictures and words, and the different symbols and everything in between that comics presents, are all funneled through the single conduit, a vision. So we have things like resemblance, where something which resembles the physical world can be abstracted in a couple of different directions: abstracted from resemblance, but still retaining the complete meaning, or abstracted away from both resemblance and meaning towards the picture plane. Put all these three together, and you have a nice little map of the entire boundary of visual iconography, which comics can embrace. And if you move to the right you also get language, because that's abstracting even further from resemblance, but still maintaining meaning. Vision is called upon to represent sound and to understand the common properties of those two and their common heritage as well; also, to try to represent the texture of sound to capture its essential character through visuals. There's also a balance between the visible and the invisible in comics. Comics is a kind of call and response, in which the artist gives you something to see within the panels, and then gives you something to imagine between the panels. Also, another sense which comics' vision represents, and that's time. Sequence is a very important aspect of comics. Comics presents a kind of temporal map. And this temporal map was something that energizes modern comics, but I was wondering if perhaps it also energizes other sorts of forms, and I found some in history. You can see this same principle operating in these ancient versions of the same idea. What's happening is, an art form is colliding with a given technology, whether it's paint on stone, like the Tomb of Menna the Scribe in ancient Egypt, or a bas-relief sculpture rising up a stone column, or a 200-foot-long embroidery, or painted deerskin and tree bark running across 88 accordion-folded pages. What's interesting is, once you hit ""print"" — and this is from 1450, by the way — all of the artifacts of modern comics start to present themselves: rectilinear panel arrangements, simple line drawings without tone, and a left-to-right reading sequence. And within 100 years, you already start to see word balloons and captions, and it's really just a hop, skip and a jump from here to here. So I wrote a book about this in '93, but as I was finishing the book, I had to do a little bit of typesetting, and I was tired of going to my local copy shop to do it, so I bought a computer. And it was just a little thing — it wasn't good for much except text entry — but my father had told me about Moore's law back in the '70s, and I knew what was coming. And so, I kept my eyes peeled to see if the sort of changes that happened when we went from pre-print comics to print comics would happen when we went beyond, to post-print comics. So, one of the first things proposed was that we could mix the visuals of comics with the sound, motion and interactivity of the CD-ROMs being made in those days. This was even before the Web. And one of the first things they did was, they tried to take the comics page as is and transplant it to monitors, which was a classic McLuhanesque mistake of appropriating the shape of the previous technology as the content of the new technology. And so, what they would do is have these comic pages that resemble print comics pages, and they would introduce all this sound and motion. The problem was that if you go with this basic idea that space equals time in comics, what happens is that when you introduce sound and motion, which are temporal phenomena that can only be represented through time, they break with that continuity of presentation. Interactivity was another thing. There were hypertext comics, but the thing about hypertext is that everything in hypertext is either here, not here, or connected to here; it's profoundly nonspatial. The distance from Abraham Lincoln to a Lincoln penny to Penny Marshall to the Marshall Plan to ""Plan 9"" to nine lives: it's all the same. (Laughter) But in comics, every aspect of the work, every element of the work, has a spatial relationship to every other element at all times. So the question was: Was there any way to preserve that spatial relationship while still taking advantage of all of the things that digital had to offer us? And I found my personal answer for this in those ancient comics that I was showing you. Each of them has a single unbroken reading line, whether it's going zigzag across the walls or spiraling up a column or just straight left to right, or even going in a backwards zigzag across those 88 accordion-folded pages, the same thing is happening; that is, that the basic idea that as you move through space you move through time, is being carried out without any compromise, but there were compromises when print hit. Adjacent spaces were no longer adjacent moments, so the basic idea of comics was being broken again and again and again and again. And I thought, OK, well, if that's true, is there any way, when we go beyond today's print, to somehow bring that back? Now, the monitor is just as limited as the page, technically, right? It's a different shape, but other than that, it's the same basic limitation. But that's only if you look at the monitor as a page, but not if you look at the monitor as a window. And that's what I propose, that perhaps we could create these comics on an infinite canvas, along the X axis and the Y axis and staircases. We could do circular narratives that were literally circular. We could do a turn in a story that was literally a turn. Parallel narratives could be literally parallel. X, Y and also Z. So I had all these notions. This was back in the late '90s, and other people in my business thought I was pretty crazy, but a lot of people then went on and actually did it. I'm going to show you a couple now. This was an early collage comic by a fellow named Jasen Lex. And notice what's going on here. What I'm searching for is a durable mutation — that's what all of us are searching for. As media head into this new era, we are looking for mutations that are durable, that have some sort of staying power. Now, we're taking this basic idea of presenting comics in a visual medium, and we're carrying it through all the way from beginning to end. That's that entire comic you just saw, up on the screen right now. But even though we're only experiencing it one piece at a time, that's just where the technology is right now. As the technology evolves, as you get full immersive displays and whatnot, this sort of thing will only grow; it will adapt. It will adapt to its environment; it's a durable mutation. Here's another one. This is by Drew Weing; this is called ""'Pup' Ponders the Heat Death of the Universe."" See what's going on here as we draw these stories on an infinite canvas is you're creating a more pure expression of what this medium is all about. We'll go by this a little quickly. You get the idea. I just want to get to the last panel. [Cat 1: Pup! Earth to Pup! Cat 2: Come play baseball with us!] (Laughter) [Pup: Did either of you realize that eventually the universe will be nothing but a thin, cold gas spread across infinite, lonely space?] [Cat 1: Oh ... Cat 2: We'd better hurry, then!] (Laughter) Just one more. Talk about your infinite canvas. It's by a guy named Daniel Merlin Goodbrey, in Britain. Why is this important? I think this is important because media — all media — provide us a window back into our world. Now, it could be that motion pictures and eventually, virtual reality, or something equivalent to it, some sort of immersive display, is going to provide us with our most efficient escape from the world that we're in. That's why most people turn to storytelling, to escape. But media provides us with a window back into the world we live in. And when media evolve so that the identity of the media becomes increasingly unique — because what you're looking at is comics cubed, you're looking at comics that are more comics-like than they've ever been before — when that happens, you provide people with multiple ways of reentering the world through different windows. And when you do that, it allows them to triangulate the world they live in and see its shape. That's why I think this is important. One of many reasons, but I've got to go now. Thank you for having me."	"在五感中,我最珍惜的是視覺,而且我最不會把他視為理所當然.我想這有部分是因為我的父親.他是盲人這是一個他通常不會拿來大做文章的事實有次,在(加拿大的)新斯科舍省,我們去看日蝕的時候對,就是卡麗·賽門(Carly Simon)在她的歌(You're so vain)裡面提到的那個那是不是在影射詹姆士·泰勒,華倫·比提或米克·傑格,就不得而知了他們發給大家黑色的觀測用塑膠片可以讓我們直視太陽不會傷到眼睛但我爸非常害怕他不要我們那樣做他希望我們用便宜的厚紙板觀測器代替所以我們的眼睛連一丁點受到傷害的機會都沒有我當時覺得有點奇怪 但我當時不知道的是其實我爸生下來時視力是完好無缺的當他跟他的姊妹馬莎還很小的時候它們的母親帶他們去看全蝕 —正確的說是全日蝕然後那之後沒多久它們兩個的視力都開始退化幾十年後它們發現她們眼盲的原因很有可能是某種細菌感染據我們所知跟那個全日蝕一點關係都沒有但是我的祖母一直到進墳墓都認為是她的錯 所以,我爹1946從哈佛畢業跟我媽結婚然後在麻省的列星頓買了個房子就在美國1775年頭一次對英國開火的地方雖然直到康科特鎮之前我們都沒有打中他們他在雷神公司(Raytheon)找到了工作設計飛彈導向系統在那時那是屬於128公路高科技產業的中樞之一128公路大概等同於七零年代的矽谷我爸並不是那種很軍國主義的人他只是對他在二戰時無法參戰這點感到很糟因為他的身體障礙雖然他們是有讓他通過長達數小時的軍人體能測試直到最後的那關就是視力測驗(笑) 所以,我爸開始累積很多的發明專利然後他得到盲眼天才發明家,火箭科學家的名聲不過對我們來說,他就只是我們的爸而且我們的家庭生活還挺普通的我小時候看了很多電視還有很多很書呆子的興趣像是礦物學或是微生物學還有太空活動還有一點點的政治我下很多西洋棋但我14歲時有個朋友讓我對漫畫起了興趣我決定了我就是想靠這個吃飯 所以,我爸是這樣的人他是科學家,他是工程師,然後他待在國防合約商他有四個小孩一個長大成為科學家一個加入了海軍一個成了工程師然後是我:漫畫家(笑)這順帶讓我成了迪恩卡門(Dean Kamen)的相反因為我是科學家的漫畫家兒子他是漫畫家的科學家兒子(笑)是真的(鼓掌) 有意思的是,我老爸對我非常有信心他對我身為漫畫家的能力有信心雖然他完全不知道我做得好不好他看到的只有一片模糊這就是所謂的""盲信""對我來說他並不帶有負面意義信仰,也就是相信看不見或無法證實的事情存在我從來就不是很了解我比較喜歡科學因為我們知道的就是我們看到的或我們可以確認的 然後在這兩者之間也有個中間地帶有些人在中間地帶,像是可憐的查爾斯·巴貝奇和他的蒸氣電腦,雖然從未被建出來沒人知道他的腦子裡面有怎樣的構想除了艾妲拉弗雷斯他直到臨終前都在追求他的夢想萬尼瓦爾·布希和他的Memex(麥克斯存儲器) —一個讓所有人類知識都在你的手指邊的構想他有這樣的一個視野而且我想很多他那個時代的人大概認為他有點瘋瘋癲癲的沒錯,我們現在當然能說哈哈—那不過是微縮影片—但這不是重點,重點是他當時就瞭解了未來的型態還有利克萊德(J.C.R. Liklider) 和他對人類-電腦間的互動的見解同樣的,他也掌握了未來的型態就算那些構想要到很久以後才能被其他人實踐或是保羅巴倫(Paul Barron),還有他對分封交換技術(packet switching)的先見在他的時代很少人理解他或甚至是那些成功的實現了他們的想法的人在BBN科技公司的那些人,那些人畫出的架構最後成了網際網路畫在筆記本和衛生紙上連在豪生餐廳吃晚飯時也爭論不休他們就在麻省列星頓的128公路,離在學習西洋棋(Queen's Gambit Deferred)的我不過兩哩我正在聽格蕾蒂絲奈特唱""到喬治亞州的午夜列車""—(笑)在我爸的大搖椅上 總之,看法有三種一種是存在在看不見的事情上看不見也無法證明一種是已經被證明或確定的還有第三種這一種看法是可以,是能夠建立在已知的事物上,但還不能被證明在科學的領域中,我們已經有看過很多人在追求著這類視野但我認為這些人也存在在藝術和政治甚至是個人成就 這些其實有四個基本原則:向所有人學習不盲目跟從任何人仔細的觀察找出模式還有努力的工作我認為這是第三種視野需要的四個原則尤其是第三項因為第三項會讓對未來的視野自動浮現有趣的是這種特定的看法我認為.只是四種方法中的一種在各種領域成就中實踐的方法在漫畫這個領域中,我知道這變成了一種很正規的態度去了解漫畫到底如何運作而還有另外一種,用比較傳統的態度去讚頌漫畫的美與技法還有一種, 認為內容本身的純粹度與透明度才是重點以及最後一種專注於忠實的傳達真正的人生體驗純粹而真實的經驗 這是四種很不同的看待世界的方法.我甚至給它們取了名字古典派, 意識派, 形式派, 以及真實派有趣的是這多多少少與榮格口中的人類思考的四個分類有點像這樣分類由藝術性和感性分別占據在左邊和右邊而傳統在上面,革命在下面如果你斜著看,就會得到內容與形式還有美與真實同樣的規則大概也存在在音樂,電影與純藝術中有的已經跟視覺完全無關所以,也跟我們今天的主題—""從自然(Nature)中獲得靈感""無關除非是在這個關於青蛙的寓言中青蛙載著蠍子過河因為蠍子說好不會螫他但蠍子還是螫了,結果蠍子和青蛙都死了青蛙問蠍子為什麼要螫他,蠍子說.""因為這是我的本性(Nature)""以這層意義來說,是的(笑)所以—所以這是我的本性.當我回顧我是如何尋找發現我作品的重心我是個什麼樣的人我以為我只是慢慢的摸索出來的其實我只是遵從我的本性這表示其實我離我的家族並沒有很遠 所以像我這樣的""科學思維""能在藝術的領域做什麼呢?當我開始畫漫畫時我同時也開始研究他們結果我發現,漫畫最重要的特點是就是他是個單純只用視覺表現的媒體但他試著用視覺去呈現聽覺,觸覺及所有其他的感覺所以,漫畫裡不同的元素,譬如圖像和文字不同的符號,以及所有漫畫所呈現的全都透過視覺這個單一管道所以我們會利用一些表現去模擬真實世界的特徵我們能從幾個不同的方向去表現真實世界:將真實世界的形象抽象化但保留他的意義,或者是將真實世界的形象去意義化,成為純粹的幾何圖案 將這三樣合起來,就會得到一個圖表這圖表可以囊括所有的視覺符號漫畫所能夠呈現的再往右移,就是語言因為那更抽象但還是保留了他的意義聽覺也可用視覺來表現這需要去理解他們之間共通的特性還有它們共同的歷史漫畫也試著表現聲音的特質還有透過視覺呈現聲音的特色漫畫也要去取得那,在看得見與看不見之間的平衡漫畫是一種作者與讀者間的相互呼應漫畫家們呈現漫畫格裡面發生的事情然後讓讀者自己去想像分格和分格間發生的事 漫畫試著用視覺去呈現的另一種感覺是時間連續性是漫畫中很重要的一部分漫畫呈現了一種節奏譜而這節奏譜給了漫畫活力但我在想是不是也有其他的節奏用不同的型式帶給圖畫活力然後我在歷史當中找到一些你能看到同樣的節奏感同樣的方法也存在在這些古老的繪畫之中事實上,藝術的型式會跟當時的科技結合不管是石頭上的壁畫,像是古埃及的墓碑圖文或是沿著石柱盤旋而上的浮雕或是2000英呎長的刺繡或是印在鹿皮或樹皮上橫跨88個折頁 有趣的是,當印刷術發明時這張圖大概是1450年左右所有現代漫畫的特徵都出現了直線的分格排列法簡單的黑白線條還有由左至右的閱讀方式在發展了一百年後已經可以看到對話框和文字敘述當時和現代漫畫真的只有很小的差距而已所以我在1993年寫了一本有關這主題的書但在我快寫完時我需要做一些文字排版我不想再到附近的影印店去於是我買了台電腦那時電腦還很簡單 —除了打打字外沒什麼其他功能但是我老爸曾跟我提過摩爾定律摩爾定律在七零年代的成長,所以我知道未來會發生什麼所以靜觀其變看是不是當初印刷術帶給漫畫的巨大改變會在我們邁入後印刷術時代時再度重現 我提出的第一個改變就是我們可以將漫畫的視覺元素跟聲音,動態和互動性做結合像當時的CD-ROM一樣當時,甚至還沒有網際網路而且他們做的第一項嘗試就是完全保留了漫畫的翻頁然後直接移植到螢幕上這是個典型的麥克盧恩式錯誤沿用舊科技採用的型式作為新科技的型式它們還會做的一項嘗試則是用既有的印刷漫畫的方式呈現漫畫然後將聲音和動態加在上面問題是,當你這樣做時漫畫中特有的""空間等於時間""的基本概念在帶入聲音和動態這些只有利用時間才能表示的元素之後漫畫所表現的連續性就被破壞了 互動性又是另一點當時有超連結漫畫但是超連結的問題是就是所有的東西部是在這裡,就是不在這裡,不然就是連到這裡他完全不具任何空間性從林肯到林肯錢幣到潘妮‧馬歇爾到馬歇爾計劃到第九計劃到九條命的距離通通都是一樣的(笑)而且-在漫畫裡作品裡的每個元素永遠跟其他的每個元素都有空間上的關係 所以問題在於有沒有一種方法可以保存這種空間上的關係但還是能夠運用所有數位媒體所能帶給我們的利益?我找到了我自己的答案在剛剛給你們看過的古老漫畫中找到了每件作品中都有一個單一連續的閱讀路徑不管是在牆壁上崎嶇而行或是沿著柱子盤旋而上或者只是簡單的由左而右,甚至是往反方向曲折前進穿過那八十八折的折頁同樣的事情重複發生,那單純的空間移動代表時間移動的本質毫無妥協的在這些作品中表現了出來但是當我們進入印刷後,開始有了一些妥協相鄰的時間不再代表相鄰的空間所以漫畫的本質就這樣被破壞一而再再而三的被破壞 所以我想,好吧如果這是真的,有沒有任何方法當我們走過了印刷時代後可以將當初的本質找回來?現在,電腦螢幕單純就物理上而言,跟書本一樣有很多限制他的形狀不同,但除此之外有著同樣的物理限制但是那是因為你把螢幕只當成一本書的一頁來看但如果你把螢幕想像成一扇窗戶 我認為,那我們或許可以將漫畫創作在張無限的畫布上沿著X軸,Y軸和樓梯我們也可以有真的是圓型的環狀故事動線在一個故事的轉折,我們也能讓他真的有個轉折同時發生的故事路線可以真的並排X,Y及Z所以我有這麼多的想法,在九零年代後期然後當時很多我的同行認為我還挺瘋狂的但是也有很多人真的實踐了接下來我們會看到其中一些範例 這個是Jason Lex所做的早期拼貼注意看發生了什麼我在尋找的是一個能夠長久流傳的新型態我們都在尋找一個當媒體進入新的時代我們在尋找蛻變能夠持續被傳承下去的新的蛻變在接下來的作品中,我們保留了用視覺呈現漫畫的基本構想從頭到尾完整的實現這個構想你目前看到的,就是整部漫畫濃縮在電腦螢幕裡但雖然我們一次只經驗一部分我們目前的科技只能做到這樣當科技持續進步當我們有更身臨其境的顯示方式這些方法未來只會更加進步漫畫的呈現方式將會去適應這整個環境這會是個永久的蛻變 再來看另一個作品,這是Drew Weing的作品;這叫做""狗狗想像著宇宙因過熱而毀滅""看當我們擁有無限大的畫布你能夠創造出更純粹的表現表現出漫畫是個什麼樣的媒材我現在要快轉我想給妳們看最後一格(笑)最後一格到了(笑)(笑)再看一件作品就好,說到無限大的畫布這是英國的Daniel Merlin Goodbrey的作品 為什麼這很重要?我認為這很重要,因為媒體所有的媒體都提供了我們一扇觀察世界的窗這扇窗可能是電影或者,遲早會是,虛擬實境,或是類似的東西某種身臨其境的顯示工具能更有效率的讓我們脫離現實環境這是為什麼大家都喜歡故事,為了脫離現實但是媒體提供了我們一扇窗讓我們能回到現實世界而隨著媒體進步不同的媒體也會發展出獨特的個性因為你看到的東西,你現在所看到的漫畫是立體的你現在看到的漫畫比過去更像漫畫,更有他的獨特性當這些媒體都有獨特的特性時,我們就能有很多不同的方法能從不同的窗戶重新觀察我們所處的世界讓我們能多元交叉衡量我們的世界看到他完整的形狀這是為什麼我覺得這件事這麼重要的其中一個原因。但,我現在得走了很榮幸能在這裡演講"
