Talk	en	zh-tw
sebastian_thrun_google_s_driverless_car	As a boy, I loved cars. When I turned 18, I lost my best friend to a car accident. Like this. And then I decided I'd dedicate my life to saving one million people every year. Now I haven't succeeded, so this is just a progress report, but I'm here to tell you a little bit about self-driving cars. I saw the concept first in the DARPA Grand Challenges where the U.S. government issued a prize to build a self-driving car that could navigate a desert. And even though a hundred teams were there, these cars went nowhere. So we decided at Stanford to build a different self-driving car. We built the hardware and the software. We made it learn from us, and we set it free in the desert. And the unimaginable happened: it became the first car to ever return from a DARPA Grand Challenge, winning Stanford 2 million dollars. Yet I still hadn't saved a single life. Since, our work has focused on building driving cars that can drive anywhere by themselves — any street in California. We've driven 140,000 miles. Our cars have sensors by which they magically can see everything around them and make decisions about every aspect of driving. It's the perfect driving mechanism. We've driven in cities, like in San Francisco here. We've driven from San Francisco to Los Angeles on Highway 1. We've encountered joggers, busy highways, toll booths, and this is without a person in the loop; the car just drives itself. In fact, while we drove 140,000 miles, people didn't even notice. Mountain roads, day and night, and even crooked Lombard Street in San Francisco. (Laughter) Sometimes our cars get so crazy, they even do little stunts. (Video) Man: Oh, my God. What? Second Man: It's driving itself. Sebastian Thrun: Now I can't get my friend Harold back to life, but I can do something for all the people who died. Do you know that driving accidents are the number one cause of death for young people? And do you realize that almost all of those are due to human error and not machine error, and can therefore be prevented by machines? Do you realize that we could change the capacity of highways by a factor of two or three if we didn't rely on human precision on staying in the lane — improve body position and therefore drive a little bit closer together on a little bit narrower lanes, and do away with all traffic jams on highways? Do you realize that you, TED users, spend an average of 52 minutes per day in traffic, wasting your time on your daily commute? You could regain this time. This is four billion hours wasted in this country alone. And it's 2.4 billion gallons of gasoline wasted. Now I think there's a vision here, a new technology, and I'm really looking forward to a time when generations after us look back at us and say how ridiculous it was that humans were driving cars. Thank you. (Applause)	孩提時我就愛車在我滿18歲時我最要好的朋友死於車禍就這樣我便決定要將我的人生致力於挽救每年一百萬人的生命損失我還沒成功, 所以這次只是個進度報告今天我要介紹自動駕駛車輛 構想是來自於DARPA 的大挑戰U.S. 政府提供一個獎項給能於沙漠中完成自動駕駛的團隊即使有一百多隊參加但這些車都沒能完成因此Standford 決定建構一個不同的自動駕駛車輛我們同時構造硬體與軟體我們使它能向人類學習我們把它放到沙漠中想不到的事發生了:它竟成為第一部能完成 DARPA 大挑戰的車 —為 Standford 贏得兩百萬美元但我還沒救到任何一條命 一開始, 我們的設計就是要建構一部車能在任何路況作無人駕駛在加州的任何街道上我們已開了 14萬英哩我們的車有許多感應器也就讓車子能看到環繞車子四周的任何事物作所有駕駛會遇到的即時判斷堪稱是完美的駕駛機制我們開過市區像這裡是舊金山也開上從舊金山到洛杉磯的 1 號高速公路 我們遇到過慢跑者繁忙的高速公路，收費站這些都是無人控制的車子自動駕駛事實上呢, 這些14 萬英哩的測試也多是無人察覺山路日與夜甚至是舊金山彎彎曲曲的Lombard 街(笑聲)有時 我們的車會玩瘋了也會做些電影特技駕駛 (影片中對白) 甲: 哦! 天啊!什麼?乙: 是車子自己在開 ST: 現在我雖不能救回我朋友 Harold 的命但我能為死於車禍的人盡些心力你們知道嗎: 車禍事故是年輕人喪命的頭號殺手?還有，你們知道嗎？那幾乎都是由於人為疏失不是機器過失所以由機器來替代人將有可能避免這些事故? 你們知道嗎:我們將能把高速公路的車輛容量提高將近二到三倍將車輛開在車道内如果不依賴人為的控制的話也就是說藉著自動駕駛能精準控制位置大家能開得靠近一些車道寬度縮減後就能改善高速公路的塞車TED 來賓, 你們知道嗎？大家每天平均花費52 分鐘在交通中你的時間浪費在每天的通勤中你可以再取回這些時間對國家而言 這些是總共每年 40 億小時的浪費也是 24億加崙的汽油被浪費 在這裡 我認為可以有個願景 有種新科技我真的期待會有一天當我們的後代 再回顧現在的時代會說人們竟然需要開車 真是太好笑了 謝謝 (掌聲)
