Talk	en	zh-tw
sebastian_seung	"We live in in a remarkable time, the age of genomics. Your genome is the entire sequence of your DNA. Your sequence and mine are slightly different. That's why we look different. I've got brown eyes; you might have blue or gray. But it's not just skin-deep. The headlines tell us that genes can give us scary diseases, maybe even shape our personality, or give us mental disorders. Our genes seem to have awesome power over our destinies. And yet, I would like to think that I am more than my genes. What do you guys think? Are you more than your genes? (Audience: Yes.) Yes? I think some people agree with me. I think we should make a statement. I think we should say it all together. All right: ""I'm more than my genes"" — all together. Everybody: I am more than my genes. (Cheering) Sebastian Seung: What am I? (Laughter) I am my connectome. Now, since you guys are really great, maybe you can humor me and say this all together too. (Laughter) Right. All together now. Everybody: I am my connectome. SS: That sounded great. You know, you guys are so great, you don't even know what a connectome is, and you're willing to play along with me. I could just go home now. Well, so far only one connectome is known, that of this tiny worm. Its modest nervous system consists of just 300 neurons. And in the 1970s and '80s, a team of scientists mapped all 7,000 connections between the neurons. In this diagram, every node is a neuron, and every line is a connection. This is the connectome of the worm C. elegans. Your connectome is far more complex than this because your brain contains 100 billion neurons and 10,000 times as many connections. There's a diagram like this for your brain, but there's no way it would fit on this slide. Your connectome contains one million times more connections than your genome has letters. That's a lot of information. What's in that information? We don't know for sure, but there are theories. Since the 19th century, neuroscientists have speculated that maybe your memories — the information that makes you, you — maybe your memories are stored in the connections between your brain's neurons. And perhaps other aspects of your personal identity — maybe your personality and your intellect — maybe they're also encoded in the connections between your neurons. And so now you can see why I proposed this hypothesis: I am my connectome. I didn't ask you to chant it because it's true; I just want you to remember it. And in fact, we don't know if this hypothesis is correct, because we have never had technologies powerful enough to test it. Finding that worm connectome took over a dozen years of tedious labor. And to find the connectomes of brains more like our own, we need more sophisticated technologies, that are automated, that will speed up the process of finding connectomes. And in the next few minutes, I'll tell you about some of these technologies, which are currently under development in my lab and the labs of my collaborators. Now you've probably seen pictures of neurons before. You can recognize them instantly by their fantastic shapes. They extend long and delicate branches, and in short, they look like trees. But this is just a single neuron. In order to find connectomes, we have to see all the neurons at the same time. So let's meet Bobby Kasthuri, who works in the laboratory of Jeff Lichtman at Harvard University. Bobby is holding fantastically thin slices of a mouse brain. And we're zooming in by a factor of 100,000 times to obtain the resolution, so that we can see the branches of neurons all at the same time. Except, you still may not really recognize them, and that's because we have to work in three dimensions. If we take many images of many slices of the brain and stack them up, we get a three-dimensional image. And still, you may not see the branches. So we start at the top, and we color in the cross-section of one branch in red, and we do that for the next slice and for the next slice. And we keep on doing that, slice after slice. If we continue through the entire stack, we can reconstruct the three-dimensional shape of a small fragment of a branch of a neuron. And we can do that for another neuron in green. And you can see that the green neuron touches the red neuron at two locations, and these are what are called synapses. Let's zoom in on one synapse, and keep your eyes on the interior of the green neuron. You should see small circles — these are called vesicles. They contain a molecule know as a neurotransmitter. And so when the green neuron wants to communicate, it wants to send a message to the red neuron, it spits out neurotransmitter. At the synapse, the two neurons are said to be connected like two friends talking on the telephone. So you see how to find a synapse. How can we find an entire connectome? Well, we take this three-dimensional stack of images and treat it as a gigantic three-dimensional coloring book. We color every neuron in, in a different color, and then we look through all of the images, find the synapses and note the colors of the two neurons involved in each synapse. If we can do that throughout all the images, we could find a connectome. Now, at this point, you've learned the basics of neurons and synapses. And so I think we're ready to tackle one of the most important questions in neuroscience: how are the brains of men and women different? (Laughter) According to this self-help book, guys brains are like waffles; they keep their lives compartmentalized in boxes. Girls' brains are like spaghetti; everything in their life is connected to everything else. (Laughter) You guys are laughing, but you know, this book changed my life. (Laughter) But seriously, what's wrong with this? You already know enough to tell me — what's wrong with this statement? It doesn't matter whether you're a guy or girl, everyone's brains are like spaghetti. Or maybe really, really fine capellini with branches. Just as one strand of spaghetti contacts many other strands on your plate, one neuron touches many other neurons through their entangled branches. One neuron can be connected to so many other neurons, because there can be synapses at these points of contact. By now, you might have sort of lost perspective on how large this cube of brain tissue actually is. And so let's do a series of comparisons to show you. I assure you, this is very tiny. It's just six microns on a side. So, here's how it stacks up against an entire neuron. And you can tell that, really, only the smallest fragments of branches are contained inside this cube. And a neuron, well, that's smaller than brain. And that's just a mouse brain — it's a lot smaller than a human brain. So when show my friends this, sometimes they've told me, ""You know, Sebastian, you should just give up. Neuroscience is hopeless."" Because if you look at a brain with your naked eye, you don't really see how complex it is, but when you use a microscope, finally the hidden complexity is revealed. In the 17th century, the mathematician and philosopher, Blaise Pascal, wrote of his dread of the infinite, his feeling of insignificance at contemplating the vast reaches of outer space. And, as a scientist, I'm not supposed to talk about my feelings — too much information, professor. (Laughter) But may I? (Laughter) (Applause) I feel curiosity, and I feel wonder, but at times I have also felt despair. Why did I choose to study this organ that is so awesome in its complexity that it might well be infinite? It's absurd. How could we even dare to think that we might ever understand this? And yet, I persist in this quixotic endeavor. And indeed, these days I harbor new hopes. Someday, a fleet of microscopes will capture every neuron and every synapse in a vast database of images. And some day, artificially intelligent supercomputers will analyze the images without human assistance to summarize them in a connectome. I do not know, but I hope that I will live to see that day, because finding an entire human connectome is one of the greatest technological challenges of all time. It will take the work of generations to succeed. At the present time, my collaborators and I, what we're aiming for is much more modest — just to find partial connectomes of tiny chunks of mouse and human brain. But even that will be enough for the first tests of this hypothesis that I am my connectome. For now, let me try to convince you of the plausibility of this hypothesis, that it's actually worth taking seriously. As you grow during childhood and age during adulthood, your personal identity changes slowly. Likewise, every connectome changes over time. What kinds of changes happen? Well, neurons, like trees, can grow new branches, and they can lose old ones. Synapses can be created, and they can be eliminated. And synapses can grow larger, and they can grow smaller. Second question: what causes these changes? Well, it's true. To some extent, they are programmed by your genes. But that's not the whole story, because there are signals, electrical signals, that travel along the branches of neurons and chemical signals that jump across from branch to branch. These signals are called neural activity. And there's a lot of evidence that neural activity is encoding our thoughts, feelings and perceptions, our mental experiences. And there's a lot of evidence that neural activity can cause your connections to change. And if you put those two facts together, it means that your experiences can change your connectome. And that's why every connectome is unique, even those of genetically identical twins. The connectome is where nature meets nurture. And it might true that just the mere act of thinking can change your connectome — an idea that you may find empowering. What's in this picture? A cool and refreshing stream of water, you say. What else is in this picture? Do not forget that groove in the Earth called the stream bed. Without it, the water would not know in which direction to flow. And with the stream, I would like to propose a metaphor for the relationship between neural activity and connectivity. Neural activity is constantly changing. It's like the water of the stream; it never sits still. The connections of the brain's neural network determines the pathways along which neural activity flows. And so the connectome is like bed of the stream; but the metaphor is richer than that, because it's true that the stream bed guides the flow of the water, but over long timescales, the water also reshapes the bed of the stream. And as I told you just now, neural activity can change the connectome. And if you'll allow me to ascend to metaphorical heights, I will remind you that neural activity is the physical basis — or so neuroscientists think — of thoughts, feelings and perceptions. And so we might even speak of the stream of consciousness. Neural activity is its water, and the connectome is its bed. So let's return from the heights of metaphor and return to science. Suppose our technologies for finding connectomes actually work. How will we go about testing the hypothesis ""I am my connectome?"" Well, I propose a direct test. Let us attempt to read out memories from connectomes. Consider the memory of long temporal sequences of movements, like a pianist playing a Beethoven sonata. According to a theory that dates back to the 19th century, such memories are stored as chains of synaptic connections inside your brain. Because, if the first neurons in the chain are activated, through their synapses they send messages to the second neurons, which are activated, and so on down the line, like a chain of falling dominoes. And this sequence of neural activation is hypothesized to be the neural basis of those sequence of movements. So one way of trying to test the theory is to look for such chains inside connectomes. But it won't be easy, because they're not going to look like this. They're going to be scrambled up. So we'll have to use our computers to try to unscramble the chain. And if we can do that, the sequence of the neurons we recover from that unscrambling will be a prediction of the pattern of neural activity that is replayed in the brain during memory recall. And if that were successful, that would be the first example of reading a memory from a connectome. (Laughter) What a mess — have you ever tried to wire up a system as complex as this? I hope not. But if you have, you know it's very easy to make a mistake. The branches of neurons are like the wires of the brain. Can anyone guess: what's the total length of wires in your brain? I'll give you a hint. It's a big number. (Laughter) I estimate, millions of miles, all packed in your skull. And if you appreciate that number, you can easily see there is huge potential for mis-wiring of the brain. And indeed, the popular press loves headlines like, ""Anorexic brains are wired differently,"" or ""Autistic brains are wired differently."" These are plausible claims, but in truth, we can't see the brain's wiring clearly enough to tell if these are really true. And so the technologies for seeing connectomes will allow us to finally read mis-wiring of the brain, to see mental disorders in connectomes. Sometimes the best way to test a hypothesis is to consider its most extreme implication. Philosophers know this game very well. If you believe that I am my connectome, I think you must also accept the idea that death is the destruction of your connectome. I mention this because there are prophets today who claim that technology will fundamentally alter the human condition and perhaps even transform the human species. One of their most cherished dreams is to cheat death by that practice known as cryonics. If you pay 100,000 dollars, you can arrange to have your body frozen after death and stored in liquid nitrogen in one of these tanks in an Arizona warehouse, awaiting a future civilization that is advanced to resurrect you. Should we ridicule the modern seekers of immortality, calling them fools? Or will they someday chuckle over our graves? I don't know — I prefer to test their beliefs, scientifically. I propose that we attempt to find a connectome of a frozen brain. We know that damage to the brain occurs after death and during freezing. The question is: has that damage erased the connectome? If it has, there is no way that any future civilization will be able to recover the memories of these frozen brains. Resurrection might succeed for the body, but not for the mind. On the other hand, if the connectome is still intact, we cannot ridicule the claims of cryonics so easily. I've described a quest that begins in the world of the very small, and propels us to the world of the far future. Connectomes will mark a turning point in human history. As we evolved from our ape-like ancestors on the African savanna, what distinguished us was our larger brains. We have used our brains to fashion ever more amazing technologies. Eventually, these technologies will become so powerful that we will use them to know ourselves by deconstructing and reconstructing our own brains. I believe that this voyage of self-discovery is not just for scientists, but for all of us. And I'm grateful for the opportunity to share this voyage with you today. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們生在一個偉大的時代一個染色體組的時代。你的染色體是你所有的DNA序列你的序列和我的有些不同因此我們長得不一樣我的眼睛是褐色的你的可能是藍或灰但這不只是表面新聞標題告訴我們基因裡可能隱藏著遺傳疾病甚至影響我們的個性或給我們帶來精神異常我們的基因似乎對我們的命運有著極大的影響力仍然﹐我希望我不只是我的基因你覺得呢﹖你不只是你的基因吧﹖(觀眾﹕不只) 是嗎﹖我想觀眾中有些人同意我的說法我認為我們應該宣示一下我認為我們應該一起宣示來吧﹕我不只是我的基因 — 一起來眾人﹕我不只是我的基因(歡呼)那我是什麼﹖(笑聲)我是我的聯結體。你們實在太棒了為了讓我開心﹐或許我們可以再宣示一次﹖(笑聲)好﹐一起來眾人﹕我是我的聯結體。這實在太棒了。你們實在太棒了﹐你們甚至不知道聯結體是什麼配合度這麼高或許我現在就可以走了 現在﹐我們只知道一個聯結體在這個小蟲裡最小的神經系統裡面有300個神經元在1970和80年代有一組科學家畫出神經元中間的七千個聯繫這個圖表裡的每個結都是一個神經元每條線都是一個聯結。這就是秀麗隱桿線蟲的聯結體你的聯結體比這個複雜多了因為你的腦子裡有一百億個神經元以及一萬倍的聯結體你的腦子也能做成像這樣的圖表只是不可能放得進這張投影片你聯結體的聯結是基因體編碼的一百萬倍裡面有很多資料 這些資料裡包含了什麼﹖我們還不能確定﹐但有一些學說從十九世紀以來﹐神經科學家推測你的記憶 -那些讓你之所以為你的資料 -說不定你的記憶就儲存在腦子裡神經元的聯結裡或者你其他的個人特性你的個性和你的思維方式說不定它們都寫在你的神經元的聯結裡現在你可以了解為什麼我要提出這個假設﹕我就是我的聯結體。我要你和我一起吟誦不是因為它是真的我只是希望你記住它事實上﹐我們不知道這個假設是否正確因為我們從來沒有如此強大的科技足以測試這個假設找到這個線蟲的聯結體花了12年的努力要找到我們腦子裡的這些聯結體我們需要更精密的自動儀器才能加速我們找尋聯結體的速度。接下來的幾分鐘﹐我會告訴你們這些在我和我的合作者的實驗室裡發展中的新科技。 你可能看過神經元的圖片你可以從它們的姿態裡輕易的認出它來它們延伸著長長的精密分支簡單來說﹐看上去就像棵樹但這只是一個神經元如果我們要找尋聯結體我們需要同時看見所有神經元讓我們認識這位Bobby Kasthuri他在哈佛 Jeff Lichtman 實驗室裡面工作Bobby 手握著一片奇妙的老鼠腦。讓我們放大十萬倍得到一個更清晰的分辨率讓我們一次看見神經元的所有分支除了﹐你可能認不出它來因為我們需要在三維度裡看 讓我們把一片片的腦部圖片堆起來我們就得到了這個3D圖像但是你還是看不到這些分支於是我們從上面把橫斷面裡的分支塗成紅色然後再塗下一片再下一片我們一直這樣做一片又一片直到我們把整堆都塗完我們就可以在3D形狀裡重現神經元分支的一小部份我們可以把另一個神經元涂成綠色我們可以看到綠色和紅色神經元在兩個地方接觸這就是所謂的突觸(synapses) 讓我們放大這個突觸繼續看著綠色神經元的內部你會看到小小的圈這些就是突觸小泡(囊泡)裡面有叫神經傳遞素的分子當綠色神經元想和紅色神經元溝通傳遞訊息的時候它就從突觸吐出神經傳遞素兩個神經元就這樣聯繫像兩個朋友講電話一樣 這就是找到突觸的方法但要怎麼找到整個聯結體呢我們把這堆層層疊起的3D畫面把它變成一個超大型的3D塗色簿把所有神經元涂成不同顏色看過所有切片圖找到突觸然後在記錄參與突觸的兩個神經元如果我們可以這樣處理所有圖片就可以找到一個聯結體 目前為止你們已經學到了神經元和突觸的基礎我想我們已經可以處理神經科學裡最重要的問題之一﹕男人和女人的大腦有什麼不同﹖(笑聲)從這本勵志書裡看來男人的大腦像鬆餅把生活分門別類放在小格子裡女人的大腦則像意大利麵人生裡的每件事都習習相關(笑聲)你們現在在笑但這本書改變了我的生命(笑聲)但說真的﹐它錯在哪裡﹖你們已經有能力可以告訴我﹐這句話錯在哪裡無論你是男人還是女人每個人的大腦都是意大利麵或是﹐加上分支的超細天使髮麵就像在你盤子裡的一條意大利麵碰觸其它意大利麵一樣一個神經元會用它們糾纏的分支觸碰許多其它神經元一個神經元可以和許多其它神經元連接因為在這些聯結點可以有許多突觸現在你可能已經忘記這塊腦尺度究竟有多小 我們來比較一下這真的很小﹐只有六微米(百萬分之一米)面對整條神經元又是怎樣呢你可以發現﹐這個方塊只是這個分支其中的一小小塊而神經元﹐當然比腦還小而這甚至只是老鼠的腦比人腦還小很多於是當我給朋友看這些的時候他們會告訴我“Sebastian﹐我想你放棄好了。神經科學簡直無可救藥。”因為當你用肉眼看大腦時你不知道它到底有多麼複雜但當你把它放在顯微鏡下這些隱藏的複雜性就顯露出來了。 在十七世紀法國哲學家和數學家巴斯卡寫下他對無限的恐懼當他思考外太空時感到自己是如何的微不足道身為科學家我不應該談論我的感受教授﹐我真的不想知道(笑聲)我...... 可以嗎﹖(笑聲)(掌聲)我感到好奇我感到驚嘆但有時我也感到絕望為什麼我要選擇學習這樣一個複雜到不可思議有可能接近無限的器官﹖這太荒謬了我們怎麼敢妄想我們有可能可以理解它呢﹖ 但﹐我仍然想踏上這唐吉訶德式的旅程最近﹐我有了新的希望或許某天某種顯微鏡能捕捉巨大圖片資料庫裡的每一個神經元和突觸有這麼一天﹐一個人工智慧的超級電腦能在無人操作的狀況下分析這些圖像並把它們總結成一個聯結體我不知道能不能﹐但我希望我能看到這一天因為找出人類的所有聯結體是科技史上最大的挑戰之一可能要幾個世代才能成功目前﹐我和我的夥伴我們的目標較為微小不過是在鼠腦和人腦間找到部份的聯結體但就算只是這樣﹐也足以實驗“我就是我的聯結體“這個假設現在我只是想說服你們﹐這個假設有它的可信度它是值得被認真對待的 在你的成長過程不同的經歷你對自己的身份認同也逐漸改變同樣地﹐每個聯結體也隨著時間改變怎樣的改變呢﹖神經元﹐就像樹一樣可以長出新的枝幹也可以失去一些老枝幹突觸可以被創造也可以被淘汰突觸可以長大也可以變小第二個問題是﹕這些改變是從哪裡來的﹖沒錯某種程度而言﹐它們寫在你的基因裡但那不是全部因為有訊號﹐電位訊號在神經元枝幹裡運行還有化學訊號從枝幹跳往枝幹這些訊號就叫神經活動有很多證據神經活動寫就了我們的想法﹐感覺和感知我們所有的思考經驗有許多的證據證明神經活動可以改變這些連結如果你綜合這兩個事實這代表著你的經驗能改變你的聯結體這就是為什麼每個聯結體都獨一無二就算是基因完全相同的雙胞胎也一樣聯結體便是先天加上後天的綜合體有可能就算只是想想而已也能改變你的聯結體你也許能從這想法中得到力量。 這是什麼﹖有人會說，一條清涼的小河還有呢﹖別忘了下面那條刻在地球上的河床沒有它﹐河水不知往哪裡流我想以這條河流作為說明神經活動和連接兩者關係的隱喻。神經活動是一直在改變的就像河水﹐從不停息而連接大腦的神經組織則決定了這些神經活動的方向聯結體就像河床這個比喻還不止這樣因為雖然是河床帶領著河水在悠長的時間裡河水也改變了河床的方向。就像我剛告訴你的神經活動可以改變聯結體如果你允許我提昇到一種文學的層次我再次提醒各位，神經活動是人類思想、感覺、感知的生物基礎﹐至少神經科學家是這麼認為的。我們甚至可以說它是意識流。神經活動是河水聯結體是河床 讓我們從文學的高度回到科學上假設我們的科技真的可以找出所有的聯結體我們該如何測試這個”我就是我的聯結體“的假設﹖讓我提議一個直接的測試法讓我們嘗試從聯結體中解讀出我們的記憶想像記憶是一連串綿長的短樂章就像一個彈奏貝多芬夜曲的鋼琴家。從一個十九世紀的學說看來這些回憶就儲存在你腦子裡的那串突觸聯結如果這串聯結的第一個神經元被啟動了開始對第二個神經元傳送訊息一路延續下去就像一整條骨牌這一系列的神經活動便是假設中的連續動態的神經基礎 測試這個學說的辦法之一便是找到聯結體中的這串連接但這並不容易﹐因為它們看起來不會像這樣它們會全部纏在一起我們需要用電腦嘗試把它們解開如果我們鬆開這些纏在一起的神經元序列就能夠預測回憶時所重放的神經活動模式如果這也成功了那就會成為從聯結體中讀出記憶的第一例 (笑聲) 真是一團亂你試過為這麼複雜的系統接上線嗎﹖希望你沒有這種經驗但如果你有這種經驗﹐你便知道犯錯是難免的神經元的樹突就像腦子裡的電線誰能猜出﹐腦中所有電線的長度﹖給你一點提示﹐很長。(笑聲)我測量過﹐幾百萬公里全擠在你的腦殼裡如果你想像這個數字可以很容易發現頭腦裡很有可能會接錯線於是﹐許多媒體喜歡用這種頭條﹐""厭食症患者腦神經異於常人“或""自閉症患者腦神經異於常人“這些聽上去都很可信但事實上我們根本沒法看清楚這些腦連接更不可能知道這樣說是否真實若我們有了能看見聯結體的科技我們就能從大腦接錯的線路中從聯結體來辨識神經疾病。 有時候﹐證明假設最好的方法便是把可能性推到極限。哲學家很擅長這個游戲如果你相信我就是我的聯結體你也必須接受死亡便是破壞聯結體的想法我這麼說是因為今日有許多先知聲明科技將會徹底的改變人類的生存狀態甚至改變人類這個物種其中一個最迷人的夢想就是克服死亡用人體冷藏法你付上十萬美金的代價就可以把死後的身體急速冷藏儲存在某個充滿液氮的鐵罐裡放在亞歷桑納州的某個倉庫等待未來某個先進的文明來讓你復活 我們應該開這些追求長生不老者的玩笑嗎﹖還是某天他們會在我們的墳前呵呵地笑﹖我不知道。但我可以使用科學方法把他們的信念拿來實驗假設我們在某個冷凍的大腦裡找到一個聯結體我們知道死後急凍將會破壞大腦組織於是問題是﹕聯結體被破壞了嗎﹖如果答案是肯定的﹐未來的文明決不可能恢復這些冷凍大腦裡的記憶身體或許可以復活但思想卻沒有。另一種可能是﹐如果聯結體都還在我們便不能隨便嘲笑這些死後冷凍的想法 我描繪了一個旅程從一個很小的世界開始一直到很遠的未來連接體將會成為人類史上的轉捩點在進化的過程中﹐我們較大的腦是唯一讓我們和非洲老祖宗猩猩唯一不同之處。我們用我們的大腦創造了更多令人驚異的科技總有一天﹐這些科技會強大到讓我們可以使用它們來了解自己用解構﹐再重新建構我們大腦的方法。我相信這個自我尋找的旅程不只屬於科學家也是屬於我們所有人的。我很榮幸今天有這個機會，能和你分享這個旅程 謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
