Talk	en	zh-tw
sebastian_junger_our_lonely_society_makes_it_hard_to_come_home_from_war	"I worked as a war reporter for 15 years before I realized that I really had a problem. There was something really wrong with me. This was about a year before 9/11, and America wasn't at war yet. We weren't talking about PTSD. We were not yet talking about the effect of trauma and war on the human psyche. I'd been in Afghanistan for a couple of months with the Northern Alliance as they were fighting the Taliban. And at that point the Taliban had an air force, they had fighter planes, they had tanks, they had artillery, and we really got hammered pretty badly a couple of times. We saw some very ugly things. But I didn't really think it affected me. I didn't think much about it. I came home to New York, where I live. Then one day I went down into the subway, and for the first time in my life, I knew real fear. I had a massive panic attack. I was way more scared than I had ever been in Afghanistan. Everything I was looking at seemed like it was going to kill me, but I couldn't explain why. The trains were going too fast. There were too many people. The lights were too bright. Everything was too loud, everything was moving too quickly. I backed up against a support column and just waited for it. When I couldn't take it any longer, I ran out of the subway station and walked wherever I was going. Later, I found out that what I had was short-term PTSD: post-traumatic stress disorder. We evolved as animals, as primates, to survive periods of danger, and if your life has been in danger, you want to react to unfamiliar noises. You want to sleep lightly, wake up easily. You want to have nightmares and flashbacks of the thing that could kill you. You want to be angry because it makes you predisposed to fight, or depressed, because it keeps you out of circulation a little bit. Keeps you safe. It's not very pleasant, but it's better than getting eaten. Most people recover from that pretty quickly. It takes a few weeks, a few months. I kept having panic attacks, but they eventually went away. I had no idea it was connected to the war that I'd seen. I just thought I was going crazy, and then I thought, well, now I'm not going crazy anymore. About 20 percent of people, however, wind up with chronic, long-term PTSD. They are not adapted to temporary danger. They are maladapted for everyday life, unless they get help. We know that the people who are vulnerable to long-term PTSD are people who were abused as children, who suffered trauma as children, people who have low education levels, people who have psychiatric disorders in their family. If you served in Vietnam and your brother is schizophrenic, you're way more likely to get long-term PTSD from Vietnam. So I started to study this as a journalist, and I realized that there was something really strange going on. The numbers seemed to be going in the wrong direction. Every war that we have fought as a country, starting with the Civil War, the intensity of the combat has gone down. As a result, the casualty rates have gone down. But disability rates have gone up. They should be going in the same direction, but they're going in different directions. The recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have produced, thank God, a casualty rate about one third of what it was in Vietnam. But they've also created — they've also produced three times the disability rates. Around 10 percent of the US military is actively engaged in combat, 10 percent or under. They're shooting at people, killing people, getting shot at, seeing their friends get killed. It's incredibly traumatic. But it's only about 10 percent of our military. But about half of our military has filed for some kind of PTSD compensation from the government. And suicide doesn't even fit into this in a very logical way. We've all heard the tragic statistic of 22 vets a day, on average, in this country, killing themselves. Most people don't realize that the majority of those suicides are veterans of the Vietnam War, that generation, and their decision to take their own lives actually might not be related to the war they fought 50 years earlier. In fact, there's no statistical connection between combat and suicide. If you're in the military and you're in a lot of combat, you're no more likely to kill yourself than if you weren't. In fact, one study found that if you deploy to Iraq or Afghanistan, you're actually slightly less likely to commit suicide later. I studied anthropology in college. I did my fieldwork on the Navajo reservation. I wrote a thesis on Navajo long-distance runners. And recently, while I was researching PTSD, I had this thought. I thought back to the work I did when I was young, and I thought, I bet the Navajo, the Apache, the Comanche — I mean, these are very warlike nations — I bet they weren't getting PTSD like we do. When their warriors came back from fighting the US military or fighting each other, I bet they pretty much just slipped right back into tribal life. And maybe what determines the rate of long-term PTSD isn't what happened out there, but the kind of society you come back to. And maybe if you come back to a close, cohesive, tribal society, you can get over trauma pretty quickly. And if you come back to an alienating, modern society, you might remain traumatized your entire life. In other words, maybe the problem isn't them, the vets; maybe the problem is us. Certainly, modern society is hard on the human psyche by every metric that we have. As wealth goes up in a society, the suicide rate goes up instead of down. If you live in modern society, you're up to eight times more likely to suffer from depression in your lifetime than if you live in a poor, agrarian society. Modern society has probably produced the highest rates of suicide and depression and anxiety and loneliness and child abuse ever in human history. I saw one study that compared women in Nigeria, one of the most chaotic and violent and corrupt and poorest countries in Africa, to women in North America. And the highest rates of depression were urban women in North America. That was also the wealthiest group. So let's go back to the US military. Ten percent are in combat. Around 50 percent have filed for PTSD compensation. So about 40 percent of veterans really were not traumatized overseas but have come home to discover they are dangerously alienated and depressed. So what is happening with them? What's going on with those people, the phantom 40 percent that are troubled but don't understand why? Maybe it's this: maybe they had an experience of sort of tribal closeness in their unit when they were overseas. They were eating together, sleeping together, doing tasks and missions together. They were trusting each other with their lives. And then they come home and they have to give all that up and they're coming back to a society, a modern society, which is hard on people who weren't even in the military. It's just hard on everybody. And we keep focusing on trauma, PTSD. But for a lot of these people, maybe it's not trauma. I mean, certainly, soldiers are traumatized and the ones who are have to be treated for that. But a lot of them — maybe what's bothering them is actually a kind of alienation. I mean, maybe we just have the wrong word for some of it, and just changing our language, our understanding, would help a little bit. ""Post-deployment alienation disorder."" Maybe even just calling it that for some of these people would allow them to stop imagining trying to imagine a trauma that didn't really happen in order to explain a feeling that really is happening. And in fact, it's an extremely dangerous feeling. That alienation and depression can lead to suicide. These people are in danger. It's very important to understand why. The Israeli military has a PTSD rate of around one percent. The theory is that everyone in Israel is supposed to serve in the military. When soldiers come back from the front line, they're not going from a military environment to a civilian environment. They're coming back to a community where everyone understands about the military. Everyone's been in it or is going to be in it. Everyone understands the situation they're all in. It's as if they're all in one big tribe. We know that if you take a lab rat and traumatize it and put it in a cage by itself, you can maintain its trauma symptoms almost indefinitely. And if you take that same lab rat and put it in a cage with other rats, after a couple of weeks, it's pretty much OK. After 9/11, the murder rate in New York City went down by 40 percent. The suicide rate went down. The violent crime rate in New York went down after 9/11. Even combat veterans of previous wars who suffered from PTSD said that their symptoms went down after 9/11 happened. The reason is that if you traumatize an entire society, we don't fall apart and turn on one another. We come together. We unify. Basically, we tribalize, and that process of unifying feels so good and is so good for us, that it even helps people who are struggling with mental health issues. During the blitz in London, admissions to psychiatric wards went down during the bombings. For a while, that was the kind of country that American soldiers came back to — a unified country. We were sticking together. We were trying to understand the threat against us. We were trying to help ourselves and the world. But that's changed. Now, American soldiers, American veterans are coming back to a country that is so bitterly divided that the two political parties are literally accusing each other of treason, of being an enemy of the state, of trying to undermine the security and the welfare of their own country. The gap between rich and poor is the biggest it's ever been. It's just getting worse. Race relations are terrible. There are demonstrations and even riots in the streets because of racial injustice. And veterans know that any tribe that treated itself that way — in fact, any platoon that treated itself that way — would never survive. We've gotten used to it. Veterans have gone away and are coming back and seeing their own country with fresh eyes. And they see what's going on. This is the country they fought for. No wonder they're depressed. No wonder they're scared. Sometimes, we ask ourselves if we can save the vets. I think the real question is if we can save ourselves. If we can, I think the vets are going to be fine. It's time for this country to unite, if only to help the men and women who fought to protect us. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我曾經當了十五年的戰地記者，直到我意識到我有一個問題。這個問題一直在困擾著我。 那距離 911 事件發生還有一年，美國還沒有向阿富汗宣戰。當時大家還沒有開始談論「創傷後壓力症候群」大家還沒有討論戰爭和精神創傷對人類心理的影響。我曾經在阿富汗和北方聯盟一起待過幾個月。當時他們正在和塔利班作戰。當時塔利班他們有空軍，他們有戰機，有坦克，有大炮，而我們的確有幾次受到了重創。我們看到了非常悲慘的事情。但我不覺得它影響了我。我甚至不會回想起它。 後來我回到我生活的紐約。有一天我去到地鐵站，人生中第一次，我感受到了真正的恐懼。嚴重的恐慌症突然發作。這要比我在阿富汗經歷過的更使我害怕。我能看到的所有東西都像將要殺了我一樣，但我不能解釋這是為什麼。地鐵看上去開得太快了。人群看上去實在是太多了。燈光太亮。所有的事情都太吵、都動的太快了。我靠在一根柱子上等待這陣恐慌過去。當我再也忍受不了的時候，我跑出了地鐵站，毫無目的地走在路上。 後來我發現我患上了短期的 PTSD：也就是「創傷後壓力症候群」。我們從動物、人猿演化而來，在危險情境中生存了下來，如果你的生命處於危險的情境當中，你會想對不熟悉的噪音作出反應。你會淺眠，而且很容易驚醒。你就會做噩夢並回憶起那些差點把你殺掉的事情。你會變得很生氣，因為它會讓你進入準備戰鬥的狀態，或者變得絕望，因為它會讓你有點喘不過氣來，你會想隨時保持自己的安全。這並不令人愉快，但總比死亡要好。 大部分的人很快就可以從這精神障礙中康復。這個過程要幾週，或者幾個月。我一直經歷著這種痛苦的打擊，但我最後還是康復了。我從不知道他們和我目睹過的戰爭有聯繫。我只覺得我快要瘋了。然後我只是覺得，現在我不會再發瘋了。 然而，大概有 20% 的人，遭受著慢性的、長期的創傷後壓力症。他們不是要去面對短期的危險，而是不能適應日常的生活，除非他們尋求幫助。我們知道有些人比較容易得長期的創傷後壓力症：這些人也許是童年時受過虐待，也許是童年時遭受過精神創傷，也許是沒有受過高等教育的人，也許是有精神病的家庭遺傳，假如你曾經在越南服役而且你有一個患精神分裂症的兄弟，那你在越南回國後，有更大的可能會患上長期的創傷後壓力症。 所以作為一個記者，我開始研究這個問題，我意識到有一些奇怪的事情存在。數據看上去正在往一個錯誤的方向變化。每一次我們國家參與的戰爭，——從獨立戰爭開始，戰爭的強度開始下降。所以，傷亡率也開始下降。但是殘疾率卻開始上升。它們本應該按同樣的方向變化，但是它們變化的方向卻相反。 感謝上帝，最近在伊拉克和阿富汗的戰爭僅造成越南戰爭 1/3 的傷亡率。但是它們也造成了，越戰殘疾率的三倍。將近有 10% 的美國軍人經歷過戰場，——將近 10% 或者 10% 以下。他們在戰場上開火、殺人、中彈、或者看著他們的戰友倒下。這真的是十分痛苦。但這只是我們軍隊的 10%。然而從政府的檔案中，我們看到有一半的軍人正在領取創傷後壓力症候群的救濟金。 從邏輯看來，自殺人數根本不符合這個數據。我們都聽過一個悲慘的統計數據，這個國家平均一天，有 22 位退伍軍人選擇自殺。多數人沒有意識到這些自殺者的大多數是從越南戰爭回國的軍人，在那一個年代，他們選擇結束生命的方式也許和他們在五十年前參與過的戰爭不太有關連性。事實上，還沒有戰爭與自殺率相關性的統計數據。假如你在軍隊中參與過很多場戰役，你更不會傾向於選擇自殺，事實上，一個研究表明假如你參與過伊拉克或者阿富汗戰爭，其實你是更不可能在以後選擇自殺的。 我在大學學習的是人類學。我在納瓦霍族遺址做過實地調查，寫過關於納瓦霍族長跑者的論文。最近我在研究創傷後壓力症候群的時候，我有了一個想法。我想起我年輕時做過的研究，我在想納瓦霍人、阿帕奇人、科曼奇人，——這些好戰的民族——我猜他們不會像我們一樣患上創傷後壓力症。當他們的戰士從抵抗美國軍隊的戰爭中回到家鄉或者從互相攻擊的戰爭中回來，我猜他們肯定很容易就重新融入部落生活。 也許決定長期創傷後壓力症的因素不是在戰場上發生了什麼，而是你回到了什麼樣的社會。也許假如你回到一個緊密聯繫的、團結的、部落化的社會，你很快就能從精神創傷中康復。但假如你回到一個人與人疏遠的現代的社會，你可能在以後的一輩子都遭受精神創傷。也就是說，也許問題不在於退伍軍人本身；而在於社會上的我們。 的確，現代社會對人類的精神帶來了重大的壓力，這些壓力來自於我們社會上各種的衡量標準。隨著社會財富的積累，自殺率上升而不是下降。假如你生活在現代社會，你患上抑鬱症的可能性相比於你在貧窮的農業社會生活要高八倍。現代社會也許產生了最高的自殺率抑鬱症、焦慮症、孤僻症和受到童年虐待的可能，這比例要比歷史任一時代都高。我看過一個研究，它把奈吉利亞的婦女，也就是非洲最混亂、最暴力、最腐敗最貧窮的國家之一，和北美的女性進行比較。北美的城市女性是憂鬱症患病率最高的。她們也是最富裕的群體。 我們回頭來看美軍的狀況。10% 的軍人經歷過戰爭。這裡面有將近 50% 的軍人登記在案，領取創傷後壓力症候群的補償。所以大概 40% 的退休軍人並不是在海外受到精神創傷，而是回到家後發現他們被孤立並感到沮喪絕望。那麼他們遭遇了什麼？在他們身上究竟發生了什麼，我們讓 40% 的人，患上創傷後壓力症，卻不清楚成因？ 也許是這樣的：也許當時他們在海外，經歷過部隊親密的戰友關係。他們一起吃飯，一起睡覺，一起完成任務。他們以生命維護彼此的信任。當他們回到家，他們必須捨棄戰場上的所有情誼，他們回到社會，這個現代社會，這個即使沒有入過伍的人都覺得艱難的社會。所有人在這社會都活得艱苦。 而我們卻一直關注精神創傷、創傷後壓力症，但對大部分人來說，也許這不是精神創傷。我的意思是，士兵的確是受過精神創傷，也有士兵接受過治療。但他們中的很多人——也許困擾他們的只是一種隔離感。我的意思是，也許我們只是錯用了詞語去形容他們，只要改變我們的語言、我們的認知，就能幫助改變現狀。「 戰後孤獨感症候群 」也許只要這樣稱呼他們其中的一部分人，就能幫助他們停止聯想一個根本沒有發生過的創傷，這是為了解釋一種他們正在經歷的感受。而事實上，這是一種非常危險的感覺。隔離感和抑鬱會導致自殺。這些人正處於危險中。瞭解成因是非常重要的事情。 以色列軍隊的創傷後壓力症比例在1%左右。有一種理論是說，因為以色列的所有人都需要服兵役。當軍人從前線回來，他們不是要從軍隊環境回到文明社會，而是回到一個人人都瞭解甚麼是當兵的社會。每個人都曾經服役、或者準備去服役。每個人都瞭解他們處於的環境，就像他們都處於一個大部落。 我們知道假如你用一隻實驗鼠，讓它受到精神創傷，再把它獨自放在籠子里，你可以永無止境地讓牠保持在精神創傷的狀態。但假如你把同樣的實驗鼠放在有其他老鼠的籠子里，幾個星期後，牠的表現就會回復正常了。 9/11事件以後，紐約市的謀殺率降低了 40%，自殺率也下降了，紐約市暴力犯罪率在911 事件後也下降了。即使經歷過之前的戰爭、患有創傷後壓力症候群的退伍軍人也說他們的症狀在 911 事件之後減輕了。原因是，假如你讓整個社會受到精神創傷，我們不會瓦解崩潰並和別人針鋒相對。我們會團結起來。從根本上說，我們部落化了，團結一起的過程讓人感覺很好，也對我們有益，而且它甚至可以幫助那些正在精神障礙中掙扎的人們。在二戰倫敦被德國轟炸的期間，精神病醫院的患者減少了。 有一段時間，美軍從海外返回的國家是一個團結的國家。我們團結在一起。我們嘗試去瞭解我們面對的威脅。我們嘗試去幫助自己以至於整個世界。但情況改變了。現在美軍，美國的退伍軍人正在回到一個極其分裂的國家，兩黨互相指控對方叛國、是國家的敵人、或者暗中顛覆國家的國土安全和福利。貧富差距是有史以來最大的。現狀還在惡化。族群關係也很糟糕。因為種族的不平等，街上有抗議活動，甚至暴亂。退伍軍人知道任何一個部落或者連隊以這樣的方式對待自己的戰友，都不會存活。我們卻已經習慣了。退伍軍人曾經離開，現在重新回來以全新的角度看待自己的國家。他們看到現在正在發生的事。這就是他們為之奮鬥的國家。難怪他們會絕望。難怪他們會害怕。 有時我們問自己我們能不能拯救退伍軍人。我覺得真正的問題在於我們能不能拯救自己。假如我們可以，那麼我覺得退伍軍人就能康復。現在這個國家需要團結起來了，只願能幫助那些為了保護我們而戰爭的男人和女人。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
