Talk	en	zh-tw
seema_bansal_how_to_fix_a_broken_education_system_without_any_more_money	"So we all have our own biases. For example, some of us tend to think that it's very difficult to transform failing government systems. When we think of government systems, we tend to think that they're archaic, set in their ways, and perhaps, the leadership is just too bureaucratic to be able to change things. Well, today, I want to challenge that theory. I want to tell you a story of a very large government system that has not only put itself on the path of reform but has also shown fairly spectacular results in less than three years. This is what a classroom in a public school in India looks like. There are 1 million such schools in India. And even for me, who's lived in India all her life, walking into one of these schools is fairly heartbreaking. By the time kids are 11, 50 percent of them have fallen so far behind in their education that they have no hope to recover. 11-year-olds cannot do simple addition, they cannot construct a grammatically correct sentence. These are things that you and I would expect an 8-year-old to be able to do. By the time kids are 13 or 14, they tend to drop out of schools. In India, public schools not only offer free education — they offer free textbooks, free workbooks, free meals, sometimes even cash scholarships. And yet, 40 percent of the parents today are choosing to pull their children out of public schools and pay out of their pockets to put them in private schools. As a comparison, in a far richer country, the US, that number is only 10 percent. That's a huge statement on how broken the Indian public education system is. So it was with that background that I got a call in the summer of 2013 from an absolutely brilliant lady called Surina Rajan. She was, at that time, the head of the Department of School Education in a state called Haryana in India. So she said to us, ""Look, I've been heading this department for the last two years. I've tried a number of things, and nothing seems to work. Can you possibly help?"" Let me describe Haryana a little bit to you. Haryana is a state which has 30 million people. It has 15,000 public schools and 2 million plus children in those public schools. So basically, with that phone call, I promised to help a state and system which was as large as that of Peru or Canada transform itself. As I started this project, I was very painfully aware of two things. One, that I had never done anything like this before. And two, many others had, perhaps without too much success. As my colleagues and I looked across the country and across the world, we couldn't find another example that we could just pick up and replicate in Haryana. We knew that we had to craft our own journey. But anyway, we jumped right in and as we jumped in, all sorts of ideas started flying at us. People said, ""Let's change the way we recruit teachers, let's hire new principals and train them and send them on international learning tours, let's put technology inside classrooms."" By the end of week one, we had 50 ideas on the table, all amazing, all sounded right. There was no way we were going to be able to implement 50 things. So I said, ""Hang on, stop. Let's first at least decide what is it we're trying to achieve."" So with a lot of push and pull and debate, Haryana set itself a goal which said: by 2020, we want 80 percent of our children to be at grade-level knowledge. Now the specifics of the goal don't matter here, but what matters is how specific the goal is. Because it really allowed us to take all those ideas which were being thrown at us and say which ones we were going to implement. Does this idea support this goal? If yes, let's keep it. But if it doesn't or we're not sure, then let's put it aside. As simple as it sounds, having a very specific goal right up front has really allowed us to be very sharp and focused in our transformation journey. And looking back over the last two and a half years, that has been a huge positive for us. So we had the goal, and now we needed to figure out what are the issues, what is broken. Before we went into schools, a lot of people told us that education quality is poor because either the teachers are lazy, they don't come into schools, or they're incapable, they actually don't know how to teach. Well, when we went inside schools, we found something completely different. On most days, most teachers were actually inside schools. And when you spoke with them, you realized they were perfectly capable of teaching elementary classes. But they were not teaching. I went to a school where the teachers were getting the construction of a classroom and a toilet supervised. I went to another school where two of the teachers had gone to a nearby bank branch to deposit scholarship money into kids' accounts. At lunchtime, most teachers were spending all of their time getting the midday meal cooking, supervised and served to the students. So we asked the teachers, ""What's going on, why are you not teaching?"" And they said, ""This is what's expected of us. When a supervisor comes to visit us, these are exactly the things that he checks. Has the toilet been made, has the meal been served. When my principal goes to a meeting at headquarters, these are exactly the things which are discussed."" You see, what had happened was, over the last two decades, India had been fighting the challenge of access, having enough schools, and enrollment, bringing children into the schools. So the government launched a whole host of programs to address these challenges, and the teachers became the implicit executors of these programs. Not explicitly, but implicitly. And now, what was actually needed was not to actually train teachers further or to monitor their attendance but to tell them that what is most important is for them to go back inside classrooms and teach. They needed to be monitored and measured and awarded on the quality of teaching and not on all sorts of other things. So as we went through the education system, as we delved into it deeper, we found a few such core root causes which were determining, which were shaping how people behaved in the system. And we realized that unless we change those specific things, we could do a number of other things. We could train, we could put technology into schools, but the system wouldn't change. And addressing these non-obvious core issues became a key part of the program. So, we had the goal and we had the issues, and now we needed to figure out what the solutions were. We obviously did not want to recreate the wheel, so we said, ""Let's look around and see what we can find."" And we found these beautiful, small pilot experiments all over the country and all over the world. Small things being done by NGOs, being done by foundations. But what was also interesting was that none of them actually scaled. All of them were limited to 50, 100 or 500 schools. And here, we were looking for a solution for 15,000 schools. So we looked into why, if these things actually work, why don't they actually scale? What happens is that when a typical NGO comes in, they not only bring in their expertise but they also bring in additional resources. So they might bring in money, they might bring in people, they might bring in technology. And in the 50 or 100 schools that they actually operate in, those additional resources actually create a difference. But now imagine that the head of this NGO goes to the head of the School Education Department and says, ""Hey, now let's do this for 15,000 schools."" Where is that guy or girl going to find the money to actually scale this up to 15,000 schools? He doesn't have the additional money, he doesn't have the resources. And hence, innovations don't scale. So right at the beginning of the project, what we said was, ""Whatever we have to do has to be scalable, it has to work in all 15,000 schools."" And hence, it has to work within the existing budgets and resources that the state actually has. Much easier said than done. (Laughter) I think this was definitely the point in time when my team hated me. We spent a lot of long hours in office, in cafés, sometimes even in bars, scratching out heads and saying, ""Where are the solutions, how are we going to solve this problem?"" In the end, I think we did find solutions to many of the issues. I'll give you an example. In the context of effective learning, one of the things people talk about is hands-on learning. Children shouldn't memorize things from books, they should do activities, and that's a more effective way to learn. Which basically means giving students things like beads, learning rods, abacuses. But we did not have the budgets to give that to 15,000 schools, 2 million children. We needed another solution. We couldn't think of anything. One day, one of our team members went to a school and saw a teacher pick up sticks and stones from the garden outside and take them into the classroom and give them to the students. That was a huge eureka moment for us. So what happens now in the textbooks in Haryana is that after every concept, we have a little box which are instructions for the teachers which say, ""To teach this concept, here's an activity that you can do. And by the way, in order to actually do this activity, here are things that you can use from your immediate environment, whether it be the garden outside or the classroom inside, which can be used as learning aids for kids."" And we see teachers all over Haryana using lots of innovative things to be able to teach students. So in this way, whatever we designed, we were actually able to implement it across all 15,000 schools from day one. Now, this brings me to my last point. How do you implement something across 15,000 schools and 100,000 teachers? The department used to have a process which is very interesting. I like to call it ""The Chain of Hope."" They would write a letter from the headquarters and send it to the next level, which was the district offices. They would hope that in each of these district offices, an officer would get the letter, would open it, read it and then forward it to the next level, which was the block offices. And then you would hope that at the block office, somebody else got the letter, opened it, read it and forwarded it eventually to the 15,000 principals. And then one would hope that the principals got the letter, received it, understood it and started implementing it. It was a little bit ridiculous. Now, we knew technology was the answer, but we also knew that most of these schools don't have a computer or email. However, what the teachers do have are smartphones. They're constantly on SMS, on Facebook and on WhatsApp. So what now happens in Haryana is, all principals and teachers are divided into hundreds of WhatsApp groups and anytime something needs to be communicated, it's just posted across all WhatsApp groups. It spreads like wildfire. You can immediately check who has received it, who has read it. Teachers can ask clarification questions instantaneously. And what's interesting is, it's not just the headquarters who are answering these questions. Another teacher from a completely different part of the state will stand up and answer the question. Everybody's acting as everybody's peer group, and things are getting implemented. So today, when you go to a school in Haryana, things look different. The teachers are back inside classrooms, they're teaching. Often with innovative techniques. When a supervisor comes to visit the classroom, he or she not only checks the construction of the toilet but also what is the quality of teaching. Once a quarter, all students across the state are assessed on their learning outcomes and schools which are doing well are rewarded. And schools which are not doing so well find themselves having difficult conversations. Of course, they also get additional support to be able to do better in the future. In the context of education, it's very difficult to see results quickly. When people talk about systemic, large-scale change, they talk about periods of 7 years and 10 years. But not in Haryana. In the last one year, there have been three independent studies, all measuring student learning outcomes, which indicate that something fundamental, something unique is happening in Haryana. Learning levels of children have stopped declining, and they have started going up. Haryana is one of the few states in the country which is showing an improvement, and certainly the one that is showing the fastest rate of improvement. These are still early signs, there's a long way to go, but this gives us a lot of hope for the future. I recently went to a school, and as I was leaving, I ran into a lady, her name was Parvati, she was the mother of a child, and she was smiling. And I said, ""Why are you smiling, what's going on?"" And she said, ""I don't know what's going on, but what I do know is that my children are learning, they're having fun, and for the time being, I'll stop my search for a private school to send them to."" So I go back to where I started: Can government systems transform? I certainly believe so. I think if you give them the right levers, they can move mountains. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們都有自己的偏見比如有些人覺得改變一個正走下波的政府系統是很困難的當我們談到政府系統，我們常認為它們古老，有著既定的運轉模式又或者領導階層太官僚以至於不易改變那麼今天我想挑戰這個理論我想告訴你一個故事，是關於一個不僅正走在改革道路上而且還在三年內取得了不俗成績的非常大的政府系統 這是一個公立學校的教室的摸樣。在印度有一百萬所這樣的學校即使是對於一個生活在印度一輩子的我，走進一個這樣的學校還是挺傷心的到孩子十一歲的時候，他們之中的百分之五十已經在教育之路上落後了太多以至於他們沒有恢復的希望十一歲的孩子不能做簡單的加法，不能組成一個語法正確的句子這些是我們希望在八歲孩子能夠做的事在孩子十三或十四歲時，他們常常傾向於選擇輟學。在印度，公立學校不但提供免費教育而且還有免費課本，練習本和食物 ，有時甚至還有現金獎學金但是，現在仍然有百分之四十的父母選擇讓孩子離開學校和繳學費讓他們進入私立學校相對來講，美國作為一個比印度富有得多的國家那個比例只有百分之十這非常有力地證明了印度公立教育系統有多失敗 所以這樣的情況讓我在2013年暑假接到了從一個非常有才華的叫Surina Rajan的女士打來的電話她那時是在一個在印度叫哈里亞納邦的州擔任學校教育部門的領導。她對我說，""我已經管理這部門兩年了。我已經嘗試不少方法，但都沒有效果。你能夠幫忙嗎？” 讓我給你描述一下哈里亞納邦的情況哈里亞納邦是一個住著三百萬人的州。它有一萬五千所公立學校和超過兩百萬孩子在這些公立學校就讀。所以基本上，憑藉這通電話，我承諾了幫助一個州和一個有著和秘魯或加拿大的改革一樣大的系統當我開始這項目，我痛苦地意識到兩件事情。第一是我從未解決過類似的問題第二，很多人已經嘗試但都沒成功當我和我的同事對國內以及全世界進行了考察，我們未能找到讓我們可以借鑒和在哈里亞納邦模仿的案例。我們知道我們要自己鋪路。 但總之，我們開始進行了嘗試，而當我們開始嘗試各種意見開始圍繞我們有人說：""我們應該改變我們僱用教師的方法，應該聘請新校長並訓練他們和送他們去國外學習應該把技術引進課室。""第一個星期結束時，我們提及了50個意見全都很精彩，也聽起來沒錯但我們沒辦法執行全部50個方法 所以我說，""等一下我們應該至少決定我們想要達到的目標。""所以通過了很多的選拔和討論哈里亞納邦有了自己的目標：在2020年之時我們想要百分之八十的孩子達到他們這個年級應有的知識現在目標的細節不是關鍵重要的是這個目標有多麼具體因為它能讓我們評估所有擺在我們面前的想法和選出哪個應該執行這想法能夠幫助實現目標嗎？如果能，那就保留它但如果沒有或者我們不確定，那就暫且擱置就這麼簡單，有一個明確的目標擺在眼前真的讓我們在改革的道路上保持精準和堅定回頭看過去的兩年半這給我們帶來了極大的有利條件 當我們有了目標，現在我們需要找出問題是什麼，損壞的部分在哪裡。在我們進入學校之前，很多人告訴我們教育質量很低要麼是老師們很懶散，他們沒到學校，就是他們無能，其實不懂得怎麼教書。當我們走進學校，我們發現了事情的緣由完全不同。在大多數日子裡，大多數教室其實都在學校。而且當你跟他們談話時就能發現，他們其實完全能夠勝任小學教師一職然而他們卻沒有在教書我去過一間學校 老師們所負責的是監督教室以及衛生間的修理狀況我去了另外一個學校，有兩位教師去了附近的銀行為把獎學金寄存到學生帳號在午餐時，大多數老師都把時間用在了烹飪午餐上，以及監督和服務學生 所以我們問那些老師“什麼情況，你們為什麼沒在教書？”他們說，""這是我們被要求完成的工作。當監督者來考察時這些就是我們被考察的項目衛生間清理了嗎，午餐發放了嗎當我們的校長去參加總部的會議時這些正是被討論的問題 從此可看到的問題是，在過去的二十年來印度正在試圖克服資源匱乏的問題，是否有足夠的學校以及學生入學的問題，希望吸引孩子們到學校就讀所以政府實施了一系列的方案來解決這些問題然而老師們卻成為了這些計畫最終的執行者不是明確被要求的，而是間接成為的現在，需要做的不是訓練教師 或者檢查他們的出勤率而是告訴他們走進教室教學是最重要的他們需要根據教學質量得到監督評估以及得到獎勵而不是根據其他工作來測評 所以當我們著手觀察教育系統對它有了更深的了解后，我們找到了一些關鍵性的因素這些問題因素導致人們在這個教育系統中形成了一些的行為我們發現除非改變這些根本性的因素我們才能更進一步地做其他的我們可以提供培訓，可以把科技帶進學校但是，教學系統本身不會改變因此，解決那些不易發現的核心問題成為了這次活動的關鍵部分 終於，我們確定了目標和問題所在現在我們需要找出解決辦法我們當然不想再次走進惡性循環所以我們說，""讓我們試著觀察四周，看看能否找出些什麼。”然後我們找到了這些遍佈于印度和世界各地的精彩的小實驗是那些由非政府組織和基金會所組織的小規模活動然而有趣的是它們其中沒有一個是在大規模上實施的它們全部只限制在50，100 或者500間學校以內但我們要找的是能夠改善一萬五千所學校的方法 因此我們開始尋找這些小實驗為何無法被大規模實現原因如果這些辦法有效，為什麼不擴展得更廣呢？原因是當一個典型的非政府機構採取措施時他們帶來的不只是他們的專業知識更還有額外的資源他們可能帶來財力可能是人力也可能是科技技術在他們實施改革的50或100 間學校裡，那些額外資源確實帶來了效果但試想一下，如果這些組織的領導對學校教育部門的領導說""我們把這些方法實施在一萬五千所學校上吧""他要從哪裡去找那麼豐厚的一筆財力去把資源供應給一萬五千所學校他沒有這麼多的資金 也沒有這麼多的資源所以，這些創新和改革都沒有得到大規模地拓展在這項目的最開始我們就明確了一點""不管我們做什麼，都一定要能夠進行大規模化的普及，要能夠被實施于多達一萬五千所學校。“所以，它要在州政府現有的預算和資源以內得以實施說起來容易做起來難（笑聲） 我想那時是我的團隊最討厭我的時候我們花了很多時間在辦公室，咖啡廳有時甚至在酒吧想破了腦袋然後說，""方法到底在哪裡，我們如何才能解決這個問題？"" 最後，我認為我們確實想出了很多問題的解決方法舉一個例子在討論有效的學習方法時我們常說通過實踐來學習非常有效孩子們不應對課本上的知識死記硬背他們需要動手因為這是一個更有效的學習途徑這個意思基本上就是給學生一些小東西比如珠子，學習桿，算盤等但我們沒有預算能夠將這些提供給一萬五千所學校，兩百萬個孩子我們需要其他方法但我們想不出來有一天，我們團隊中的一名成員來到一所學校然後看到了一個老師從外面的公園撿起棍子和石頭然後帶進教室分發給學生們那是讓我們期待已久的喜悅時刻所以從此之後在哈里亞納邦的教科書裡在每個概念之後，我們都有一個小方塊寫著對老師的指示：""為了教好這個概念，可以做以下活動并且為了做這些活動這是你能從所在的環境中直接獲取的東西，不論是在外邊的花園還是課室裡面的都可以讓一些東西成為孩子們的教學輔助工具之後我們看到了哈里亞納邦各處的老師們利用了很多有創意的東西給孩子們教學在這方式下，不論我們設計什麼方案，我們都能真正立刻在 一萬五千所學校執行 現在，這促使我走到了最後一點，我們如何將解決方案傳遞給一萬五千所學校以及十萬位老師相關部門曾經有一個很有趣的程序我喜歡把它叫做""希望之鏈""他們會從總部寫出一封信然後寄信到下一個階層也就是區辦公室他們會希望每個區域的辦公室中會一名官員會收到信，會打開和閱讀它然後轉交給下一個階層也就是部門辦公室然後你會希望部門辦公室的某個人會收到信打開，閱讀和轉交給一萬五千所學校的校長最後會希望各位校長們收到並且理解信的內容開始把它實現這聽起來有點荒繆現在，我們知道科技成了答案但我們也知道大多數學校沒有電腦或電子郵件但是，老師們都擁有手機他們時常在SMS，臉書或者Whatsapp上 所以現在的情況是所有校長和老師們被分到了幾百個Whatsapp群里一旦有什麼事需要溝通他們只要公佈在Whatsapp群體上它會像野火般擴散你能夠立刻看到有誰收到了信息誰已經查閱了老師們也可以及時提問，以求更清晰的解釋有趣的是不只是總部的人會回答這些問題其他老師從州里一個完全不同的地方也可以站出來回答問題每個人成為了彼此的同伴然後所有的事情得到實施此時，當你走到哈里亞納邦的學校情況變得不同了老師們回到了教室他們在教書而且常使用了創新的技巧當監督者勘查教室他們不只檢查衛生間的建設還檢查了教學質量每個季度一次，州內的全體學生都會得到學習成果的考察做得好的學校會得到讚賞而沒發揮好的學校會覺得自己難以交代當然，他們也會得到外加的幫助以在將來做得更好在教育的領域裡快速看到成果是很困難的 當人們提及系統性的大規模的改變時他們所討論的都是長達7年或10 年的時間但在哈里亞納邦在過去一年裡，有三個獨立的研究測量了學生學習成果全部都指出了根本性的、獨特的改變正在發生在哈里亞納邦孩子們的學習水平不但已經停止下滑而且正在開始往上攀升哈里亞納邦是全國少數顯示出進步的州之一並且被確認是進步速度最快的那一個這些都只是早期的跡象還有很長一段路要走但這給予了我們對將來的希望我最近去到了一所學校當我要離去時我遇見了一位女士她的名字叫Parvati她是一個孩子的母親她在笑著我問，""妳為甚麼這麼開心，發生了什麼事？""她說，""我也不知道發生了什麼事，但我知道的是我的孩子們在學習，他們很快樂，所以現在，我會停止尋找私立學校的念頭。"" 現在回到我在最初所提出的問題：政府系統能否被成功改革？我百分百相信可以。我相信如果你給他們正確的方法和工具，他們可以把山都轉移了。 謝謝。 （鼓掌聲）"
