Talk	en	zh-tw
sendhil_mullainathan	"As a researcher, every once in a while you encounter something a little disconcerting. And this is something that changes your understanding of the world around you, and teaches you that you're very wrong about something that you really believed firmly in. And these are unfortunate moments, because you go to sleep that night dumber than when you woke up. So, that's really the goal of my talk, is to A, communicate that moment to you and B, have you leave this session a little dumber than when you entered. So, I hope I can really accomplish that. So, this incident that I'm going to describe really began with some diarrhea. Now, we've known for a long time the cause of diarrhea. That's why there's a glass of water up there. For us, it's a problem, the people in this room. For babies, it's deadly. They lack nutrients, and diarrhea dehydrates them. And so, as a result, there is a lot of death, a lot of death. In India in 1960, there was a 24 percent child mortality rate, lots of people didn't make it. This is incredibly unfortunate. One of the big reasons this happened was because of diarrhea. Now, there was a big effort to solve this problem, and there was actually a big solution. This solution has been called, by some, ""potentially the most important medical advance this century."" Now, the solution turned out to be simple. And what it was was oral rehydration salts. Many of you have probably used this. It's brilliant. It's a way to get sodium and glucose together so that when you add it to water the child is able to absorb it even during situations of diarrhea. Remarkable impact on mortality. Massive solution to the problem. Flash forward: 1960, 24 percent child mortality has dropped to 6.5 percent today. Still a big number, but a big drop. It looks like the technological problem is solved. But if you look, even today there are about 400,000 diarrhea-related deaths in India alone. What's going on here? Well the easy answer is, we just haven't gotten those salts to those people. That's actually not true. If you look in areas where these salts are completely available, the price is low or zero, these deaths still continue abated. Maybe there's a biological answer. Maybe these are the deaths that simple rehydration alone doesn't solve. That's not true either. Many of these deaths were completely preventable, and this what I want to think of as the disconcerting thing, what I want to call ""the last mile"" problem. See, we spent a lot of energy, in many domains — technological, scientific, hard work, creativity, human ingenuity — to crack important social problems with technology solutions. That's been the discoveries of the last 2,000 years, that's mankind moving forward. But in this case we cracked it, but a big part of the problem still remains. Nine hundred and ninety-nine miles went well, the last mile's proving incredibly stubborn. Now, that's for oral rehydration therapy. Maybe this is something unique about diarrhea. Well, it turns out — and this is where things get really disconcerting — it's not unique to diarrhea. It's not even unique to poor people in India. Here's an example from a variety of contexts. I've put a bunch of examples up here. I'll start with insulin, diabetes medication in the U.S. OK, the American population. On Medicaid — if you're fairly poor you get Medicaid, or if you have health insurance — insulin is pretty straightforward. You get it, either in pill form or you get it as an injection; you have to take it every day to maintain your blood sugar levels. Massive technological advance: took an incredibly deadly disease, made it solvable. Adherence rates. How many people are taking their insulin every day? About on average, a typical person is taking it 75 percent of the time. As a result, 25,000 people a year go blind, hundreds of thousands lose limbs, every year, for something that's solvable. Here I have a bunch of other examples, all suffer from the last mile problem. It's not just medicine. Here's another example from technology: agriculture. We think there's a food problem, so we create new seeds. We think there's an income problem, so we create new ways of farming that increase income. Well, look at some old ways, some ways that we'd already cracked. Intercropping. Intercropping really increases income. Sometimes in rice we found incredible increases in yield when you mix different varieties of rice side by side. Some people are doing that, many are not. What's going on? This is the last mile. The last mile is, everywhere, problematic. Alright, what's the problem? The problem is this little three-pound machine that's behind your eyes and between your ears. This machine is really strange, and one of the consequences is that people are weird. They do lots of inconsistent things. (Applause) They do lots of inconsistent things. And the inconsistencies create, fundamentally, this last mile problem. See, when we were dealing with our biology, bacteria, the genes, the things inside here, the blood? That's complex, but it's manageable. When we're dealing with people like this? The mind is more complex. That's not as manageable, and that's what we're struggling with. Let me go back to diarrhea for a second. Here's a question that was asked in the National Sample Survey, which is a survey asked of many Indian women: ""Your child has diarrhea. Should you increase, maintain or decrease the number of fluids?"" Just so you don't embarrass yourselves, I'll give you the right answer: It's increase. Now, diarrhea's interesting because it's been around for thousands of years, ever since humankind really lived side by side enough to have really polluted water. One Roman strategy that was very interesting was that — and it really gave them a comparative advantage — they made sure their soldiers didn't drink even remotely muddied waters. Because if some of your troops get diarrhea they're not that effective on the battlefield. So, if you think of Roman comparative advantage part of it was the breast shields, the breastplates, but part of it was drinking the right water. So, here are these women. They've seen their parents have struggled with diarrhea, they've struggled with diarrhea, they've seen lots of deaths. How do they answer this question? In India, 35 to 50 percent say ""Reduce."" Think about what that means for a second. Thirty-five to 50 percent of women forget oral rehydration therapy, they are increasing — they are actually making their child more likely to die through their actions. How is that possible? Well, one possibility — I think that's how most people respond to this — is to say, ""That's just stupid."" I don't think that's stupid. I think there is something very profoundly right in what these women are doing. And that is, you don't put water into a leaky bucket. So, think of the mental model that goes behind reducing the intake. Just doesn't make sense. Now, the model is intuitively right. It just doesn't happen to be right about the world. But it makes a whole lot of sense at some deep level. And that, to me, is the fundamental challenge of the last mile. This first challenge is what I refer to as the persuasion challenge. Convincing people to do something — take oral rehydration therapy, intercrop, whatever it might be — is not an act of information: ""Let's give them the data, and when they have data they'll do the right thing."" It's more complex than that. And if you want to understand how it's more complex let me start with something kind of interesting. I'm going to give you a little math problem, and I want you to just yell out the answer as fast as possible. A bat and a ball together cost $1.10. The bat costs a dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost? Quick. So, somebody out there says, ""Five."" A lot of you said, ""Ten."" Let's think about 10 for a second. If the ball costs 10, the bat costs... this is easy, $1.10. Yeah. So, together they would cost $1.20. So, here you all are, ostensibly educated people. Most of you look smart. The combination of that produces something that is actually, you got this thing wrong. How is that possible? Let's go to something else. I know algebra can be complicated. So, let's dial this back. That's what? Fifth grade? Fourth grade? Let's go back to kindergarten. OK? There's a great show on American television that you have to watch. It's called ""Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?"" I think we've learned the answer to that here. Let's move to kindergarten. Let's see if we can beat five-year-olds. Here's what I'm going to do: I'm going to put objects on the screen. I just want you to name the color of the object. That's all it is. OK? I want you to do it fast, and say it out loud with me, and do it quickly. I'll make the first one easy for you. Ready? Black. Now the next ones I want you to do quickly and say it out loud. Ready? Go. Audience: Red. Green. Yellow. Blue. Red. (Laughter) Sendhil Mullainathan: That's pretty good. Almost out of kindergarten. What is all this telling us? You see, what's going on here, and in the bat and ball problem is that you have some intuitive ways of interacting with the world, some models that you use to understand the world. These models, like the leaky bucket, work well in most situations. I suspect most of you — I hope that's true for the rest of you — actually do pretty well with addition and subtraction in the real world. I found a problem, a specific problem that actually found an error with that. Diarrhea, and many last mile problems, are like that. They are situations where the mental model doesn't match the reality. Same thing here: You had an intuitive response to this that was very quick. You read ""blue"" and you wanted to say ""blue,"" even though you knew your task was red. Now, I do this stuff because it's fun. But it's more profound than fun. I'll give you a good example of how it actually effects persuasion. BMW is a pretty safe car. And they are trying to figure out, ""Safety is good. I want to advertise safety. How am I going to advertise safety?"" ""I could give people numbers. We do well on crash tests."" But the truth of the matter is, you look at that car, it doesn't look like a Volvo, and it doesn't look like a Hummer. So, what I want you to think about for a few minutes is: How would you convey safety of the BMW? Okay? So now, while you're thinking about that let's move to a second task. The second task is fuel efficiency. Okay? Here's another puzzle for all of you. One person walks into a car lot, and they're thinking about buying this Toyota Yaris. They are saying, ""This is 35 miles per gallon. I'm going to do the environmentally right thing, I'm going to buy the Prius, 50 miles per gallon."" Another person walks into the lot, and they're about to buy a Hummer, nine miles per gallon, fully loaded, luxury. And they say, ""You know what? Do I need turbo? Do I need this heavyweight car?"" I'm going to do something good for the environment. I'm going to take off some of that weight, and I'm going to buy a Hummer that's 11 miles per gallon."" Which one of these people has done more for the environment? See, you have a mental model. Fifty versus 35, that's a big move. Eleven versus nine? Come on. Turns out, go home and do the math, the nine to 11 is a bigger change. That person has saved more gallons. Why? Because we don't care about miles per gallon, we care about gallons per mile. Think about how powerful that is if you're trying to encourage fuel efficiency. Miles per gallon is the way we present things. If we want to encourage change of behavior, gallons per mile would have far more effectiveness. Researchers have found these type of anomalies. Okay, back to BMW. What should they do? The problem BMW faces is this car looks safe. This car, which is my Mini, doesn't look that safe. Here was BMW's brilliant insight, which they embodied into an ad campaign. They showed a BMW driving down the street. There's a truck on the right. Boxes fall out of the truck. The car swerves to avoid it, and therefore doesn't get into an accident. BWM realizes safety, in people's minds, has two components. You can be safe because when you're hit, you survive, or you can be safe because you avoid accidents. Remarkably successful campaign, but notice the power of it. It harnesses something you already believe. Now, even if I persuaded you to do something, it's hard sometimes to actually get action as a result. You all probably intended to wake up, I don't know, 6:30, 7 a.m. This is a battle we all fight every day, along with trying to get to the gym. Now, this is an example of that battle, and makes us realize intentions don't always translate into action, and so one of the fundamental challenges is how we would actually do that. OK? So, let me now talk about the last mile problem. So far, I've been pretty negative. I've been trying to show you the oddities of human behavior. And I think maybe I'm being too negative. Maybe it's the diarrhea. Maybe the last mile problem really should be thought of as the last mile opportunity. Let's go back to diabetes. This is a typical insulin injection. Now, carrying this thing around is complicated. You gotta carry the bottle, you gotta carry the syringe. It's also painful. Now, you may think to yourself, ""Well, if my eyes depended on it, you know, I would obviously use it every day."" But the pain, the discomfort, you know, paying attention, remembering to put it in your purse when you go on a long trip: These are the day-to-day of life, and they do pose problems. Here is an innovation, a design innovation. This is a pen, it's called an insulin pen, preloaded. The needle is particularly sharp. You just gotta carry this thing around. It's much easier to use, much less painful. Anywhere between five and 10 percent increase in adherence, just as a result of this. That's what I'm talking about as a last mile opportunity. You see, we tend to think the problem is solved when we solve the technology problem. But the human innovation, the human problem still remains, and that's a great frontier that we have left. This isn't about the biology of people; this is now about the brains, the psychology of people, and innovation needs to continue all the way through the last mile. Here's another example of this. This is from a company called Positive Energy. This is about energy efficiency. We're spending a lot of time on fuel cells right now. What this company does is they send a letter to households that say, ""Here's your energy use, here's your neighbor's energy use: You're doing well."" Smiley face. ""You're doing worse."" Frown. And what they find is just this letter, nothing else, has a two to three percent reduction in electricity use. And you want to think about the social value of that in terms of carbon offsets, reduced electricity, 900 million dollars per year. Why? Because for free, this isn't a new technology, this is a letter — we're getting a Big Bang in behavior. So, how do we tackle the last mile? I think this tells us there is an opportunity. And I think to tackle it, we need to combine psychology, marketing, art, we've seen that. But you know what we need to combine it with? We need to combine this with the scientific method. See what's really puzzling and frustrating about the last mile, to me, is that the first 999 miles are all about science. No one would say, ""Hey, I think this medicine works, go ahead and use it."" We have testing, we go to the lab, we try it again, we have refinement. But you know what we do on the last mile? ""Oh, this is a good idea. People will like this. Let's put it out there."" The amount of resources we put in are disparate. We put billions of dollars into fuel-efficient technologies. How much are we putting into energy behavior change in a credible, systematic, testing way? Now, I think that we're on the verge of something big. We're on the verge of a whole new social science. It's a social science that recognizes — much like science recognizes the complexity of the body, biology recognizes the complexity of the body — we'll recognize the complexity of the human mind. The careful testing, retesting, design, are going to open up vistas of understanding, complexities, difficult things. And those vistas will both create new science, and fundamental change in the world as we see it, in the next hundred years. All right. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Sendhil, thank you so much. So, this whole area is so fascinating. I mean, it sometimes feels, listening to behavioral economists that they are kind of putting into place academically, what great marketers have sort of intuitively known for a long time. How much is your field talking to great marketers about their insights into human psychology? Because they've seen it on the ground. Sendhil Mullainathan: Yeah, we spend a lot of time talking to marketers, and I think 60 percent of it is exactly what you say, there are insights to be gleaned there. Forty percent of it is about what marketing is. Marketing is selling an ad to a firm. So, in some sense, a lot of marketing is about convincing a CEO, ""This is a good ad campaign."" So, there is a little bit of slippage there. That's just a caveat. That's different from actually having an effective ad campaign. And one of the new movements in marketing is: How do we actually measure effectiveness? Are we effective? CA: How you take your insights here and actually get them integrated into working business models on the ground, in Indian villages, for example? SM: So, the scientific method I alluded to is pretty important. We work closely with companies that have operational capacity, or nonprofits that have operational capacity. And then we say, ""Well, you want to get this behavior change. Let's come up with a few ideas, test them, see which is working, go back, synthesize, and try to come up with a thing that works,"" and then we're able to scale with partners. It's kind of the model that has worked in other contexts. If you have biological problems we try and fix it, see if it works, and then work the scale. CA: Alright Sendhil, thanks so much for coming to TED. Thank you. (Applause)"	身為一個研究人員，每過一陣子，總是會遇到一些令人驚訝的事，這些事會改變你對週遭世界的認知，讓你瞭解你以往所深信的某些事，其實是大錯特錯。我認為遇到這種事其實不好過，因為你會覺得自己比前一天又笨了一點。這就是我今天演說的目的，第一，和你們談談那些不好過的經驗，第二，希望你們在離開會場時，會變得比之前更笨一點。我希望我能達成這二個目標。 我要談的這件事，其實可以從痢疾談起。我們早就知道痢疾是怎麼引起的，所以我放了一張一杯水的投影片在上面。對我們在座的各位來說，那不就只是個健康問題而已，但是對小嬰兒來說，卻有可能致命，因為他們吸收不到養份，痢疾還會使他們脫水，因此造成了極高的死亡率，很多嬰兒死亡。在1960代的印度，孩童的死亡率是24%，很多小孩熬不過去，真的很不幸！死亡率居高不下的主要原因，就是痢疾。現在，有很多人致力於改善這個問題，也有很有效的解決方法，有人稱這個方法為：「有可能是本世紀最重要的醫學突破」。 這個方法出奇地簡單，就是使用口服補液鹽，在座各位可能有使用過，那真是一個好方法！裡面混合了鈉與葡萄糖，所以當我們摻入水中，孩子們即使感染了痢疾，還是能夠吸收到這些養份。這大幅降低了孩童死亡率，並大幅改善了這個問題。讓我們看看，1960年代有24%的孩童死亡率，現在已經降到了6.5%了， 雖然比率還是很高，但已經下降了許多。看起來這個問題的技術面已經克服了，但是，如果我們看看今天的狀況，在印度，仍然有40萬人死於痢疾相關的疾病，究竟是怎麼回事？不用想也知道，就是我們沒有提供那些鹽給需要的人啊...這個想法不對，如果你仔細觀察，你會發現這種鹽到處都買得到，價格也很低，甚至不用錢，但是死亡率還是很高。或許是生物學上的問題吧？或許他們純粹是因為脫水而沒有辦法醫治好？這也不對。大部分痢疾患者的死亡都是可以避免的，這就是我所說的令人驚訝的事，也就是我稱之為「最後一哩」的問題。 我們在不同的領域裡都投注了相當多的精力，不管是科技、科學、勞動、創造或工藝等，我們都運用了科技來解決這些重要的社會問題。我們近二千年來都是這麼做，是人性推動著我們往前邁進。但我們在處理痢疾這個問題時，卻仍有一大部分的問題沒有解決；前面那999哩路我們都走得很順暢，但最後那一哩路卻顯得異常艱難。 我們運用口服補液療法來治療痢疾，但或許這種痢疾特別難治，可是我們發現了驚人的事實，這種痢疾並不算特別，在印度的窮人間算是很普遍的。我要舉一個綜合了多種元素的例子，我會把各種例子都放在上面， 就先從美國治療糖尿病的胰島素開始談起吧。好，先談美國的人口結構，如果你是個很窮的美國人，你可以靠醫療補助取得胰島素，或如果你有醫療保險的話，你也可以輕易得到胰島素治療，不管是服用胰島素藥劑或是針劑注射都可以，你必須每天服用或注射，以維持血糖的水準。我們在這上面運用了大量先進的科技，讓這種致死率極高的病症獲得控制。我們來看看持續率，有多少人每天都服用或注射胰島素？平均來說，每個人大約都只有75%的時間會依照指示用藥，因此，每年都有2萬5千人因此而失明，每年都有數十萬人因此截肢，糖尿病並非無藥可醫啊... 我還有一大堆這種例子，都是無法堅持到最後一哩才產生問題，不只是醫療方面的問題，這裡還有其他科技上的問題，像是農業。我們以為會有糧食危機，所以我們製造出新品種的種子；我們以為農人的收入會是問題，所以我們開發新的農耕技術以提升收入。嗯，我們來看看以前的老方法，那些我們已經實行多年的老方法，例如交叉耕作。交叉耕作確實能增加農民的收入，在耕作稻米時，有時我們會發現，當你將不同品種的稻米一排一排地交叉耕作時，其產量會出奇地高。有些人會這樣做，但大部分的人不採用這種方法，為什麼？這就是最後一哩的問題，每一個例子的問題都出在最後一哩， 那麼，究竟最後一哩的問題是什麼？問題出在這個重約1.5公斤、躲在你眼睛後面、夾在你耳朵中間的玩意兒，這玩意兒真的很奇怪，所以讓人們的行為也變得很怪異，人們會做出一堆前後不一致的事情出來！(掌聲)人們就是會做一堆前後不一致的事情！就是這種不一致，才製造出我們剛才所談的最後一哩的問題。看看，在我們研究生物學、細菌、基因、這裡面的東西、血液等，看似很複雜，但我們都還能處理；但是當我們處理這一類人的問題時，人的心智又更複雜，並不像先前那些東西容易應付，那就是我們陷入的困境。 我想先回來談一下痢疾，國家抽樣調查協會在一項針對印度婦女的調查中，曾問過這樣一個問題，「如果你的孩子得了痢疾，你該增加／不變／減少孩子攝取的水份量？」為了不讓各位難堪，我就直接把答案公布出來，答案是增加。痢疾很有趣，它已經存在了幾千年了，自從人類開始群居在一起，群居的密度大到足以污染水源時就開始存在。羅馬人對付痢疾很有一套，這讓羅馬人佔盡了優勢，他們要求士兵不得飲用髒污的水，即使在很遠以外的污水也不可以。因為士兵一旦染上了痢疾，就無法在戰場上發揮戰鬥力。如果你以為羅馬人的優勢是在於他們的盾牌，在於他們的盔甲，那麼另一個優勢就是他們知道要飲用乾淨的水。 好，這些印度婦女早就看過他們的父母與痢疾纏鬥，他們自己也與痢疾纏鬥過，他們看過無數人死去，那麼他們的答案是什麼呢？有35%到50%的印度婦女的答案是「減少」。請你花點時間好好想想這代表了什麼意思，有35%到50%的印度婦女忘記了有口服補液療法，他們反而加速...他們所採取的行動，反而讓孩子們加速死去，為什麼會這樣？嗯，我認為大部份的人會想：「因為他們愚昧無知。」我不覺得他們愚昧無知，我反而認為這些婦女所做的事，一定有非常正確的理由，也就是：你不會把水倒進會漏水的桶子裡吧... 想想看他們減少孩子的水份攝取量背後所持的理由，儘管不合理，但在直覺上來說卻是沒有問題的，只是世界上其他的人並不這麼想，但你只要再深入想想你就會瞭解他們的想法。這對我來說，就是最後一哩背後所代表的艱鉅挑戰。 第一個挑戰，我稱之為說服的挑戰。要說服別人做一件事，像是採用口服補液療法、交叉耕作等等，都不只是告訴他們有這件事而已。「我們來把資料發送出去，他們拿到資料就會開始做正確的事了。」沒有這麼簡單。如果你想要知道為什麼沒有這麼簡單，就讓我用一些有趣的例子來說明吧。 我先給你們做一些小小的數學測驗，我要你們儘快地將答案大聲說出來。一支球棒和一顆球加起來是1.1美元，球棒比球貴1元，請問球是多少錢？快點答！那邊有人說5美分，大部分的人說10美分，我們先來想想10美分這個答案，如果球是10美分，那球棒是...這很簡單嘛...1.1元對吧？所以加起來就是1.2美元。在座各位很明顯都是受過教育的人，大部分的人都很聰明，受過教育又聰明的人卻做出這個錯誤的答案， 怎麼會這樣？我們來看看其他的問題，我覺得代數太複雜了，我們往回推一點好了，那要回推到哪裡呢？五年級？還是四年級？要不乾脆回推到幼稚園好了？美國有一個很棒的電視節目，你一定得看，節目叫做「你比五年級生聰明嗎？」，我們剛剛才證明了你們是不是比五年級生聰明。那麼我們考些幼稚園的問題好了，看看你們是否能打敗五歲的小孩。我要做的是，把幾個圖案放在投影片上，我要請你們把圖案的顏色說出來，這樣就好了，可以嗎？ 我要你們很快地說出顏色，和我一起大聲地說出來，而且要很快。第一個先來個簡單的，準備好了嗎？黑色。接下來，我要你們很快地大聲說出顏色，可以嗎？開始！ 觀眾：紅色、綠色、黃色、藍色、紅色。(笑聲) 山迪：很好！幾乎比幼稚園小朋友還要好了！這件事有什麼意義？你們剛才的表現，和剛才回答球棒與球的問題，你們都是用直覺來回應這個世界的問題，你所使用的是你以往所瞭解的模式，這些模式就像印度婦女所想到的漏水的桶子，在大部分狀況下都可以應付一般的問題。我相信大部分的人...希望其他的人也是一樣，在現實生活裡應該都能做出正確的加法與減法。 但我發現了一個特別的問題，會讓我們犯下錯誤，也就是我們在痢疾和其他最後一哩的問題上所犯的錯誤。我發現，有時候我們的直覺反應與現實世界並不相符。剛才也是一樣，你們的直覺反應非常迅速，你看到了用紅色所書寫的「blue(藍色)」，你沒有說出紅色，卻說成了藍色。 我這麼做純粹只是逗你們玩，但其背後的意義卻不只好玩而已。我來舉一個例子，讓你們瞭解說服的影響力。BMW是很安全的車子，他們想要瞭解：「我們的安全性很好啊...希望大家都能知道我們的安全性，要怎麼在廣告上呈現安全性呢？」「我們就把數據呈現出來吧！我們在撞擊測試中表現得很好！」但事實上，當你看著那台車，它就不像Volvo那麼堅固，也不像悍馬車那麼堅固。 我要你們花個幾分鐘想一下，要怎麼傳達出BMW的安全性？好嗎？好，在你們想的同時，我們來談第二個主題。第二個主題是省油，可以嗎？ 我要來出另一道難題了，有一個人走進一個賣車場，他想要買Toyota Yaris，他說：「這部車每加崙的油可以跑35哩，我想要環保一點，就買Prius吧，一加崙可以跑50哩。」另一個人也進來這個賣車場，他想要買悍馬車，要全部配件的豪華精裝版，每加崙可跑9哩。然後他說：「嗯，我需要渦輪引擎嗎？我需要這麼重配備的車嗎？我想要環保一點，把一些配備拿掉，減少重量，那麼這台悍馬車就可以每加崙跑11哩了！」 誰對環保的貢獻比較大？看吧！你們的直覺心理又在作用了！50對35，進步很多啊！11對9？比不上吧！但請你回家好好算一下，你會發現，從9進步到11是多大的進步！那個人省下的油其實比較多耶！為什麼？因為每一加崙跑幾哩並不重要，重要的是每一哩需要多少加崙的油！想想看，如果你想提倡省油，這將具有多大的效果！我們目前都是看每一加崙可以跑幾哩， 如果我們想要鼓勵大眾改變行為模式，用每一哩需要多少加崙的油來呈現數據會比較有用。研究人員已經發現有好幾種這類型反常的例子。好，我們回到BMW，他們應該怎麼做？BMW所面對的問題是，這種車看起來很安全，而這種車，就是我的Mini，看起來則不怎麼安全。BMW想到了一個好點子，他們把這個點子用廣告呈現出來：一輛BMW行駛在街上，有一輛卡車在它的右邊，卡車上的箱子突然掉落，BMW卻突然轉向避開了那些箱子，才沒有釀成意外。 BMW發現，人們心中所認定的安全性，具有二個要素，第一是在你被撞時你能保有性命，這就叫安全；第二則是能避開危險，也叫做安全。這個廣告非常地成功，注意看看它所造成的影響，它已經改變了你原先的看法。即使我想說服你去做某件事，但有時就是很難讓你去採取行動。大家可能都很想在早上大概6:30或7:00起床吧，我們每天早上都為了起床而奮戰，也為了要不要上健身房而奮戰。這個早起奮戰的例子告訴我們，你想要做的事不一定都會去做，所以我們面對最基本的挑戰就是該如何讓我們採取行動，對吧？ 好，我們回來談談最後一哩的問題，到目前為止，我所談的都很負面，我告訴了各位人類行為中怪異的一面，但我覺得或許自己太悲觀了，或許是痢疾這件事對我造成了這種影響，也或許我們應該把最後一哩這個問題，當成是一種機會來看待。 我們來看看糖尿病，這是一般的胰島素針劑，把這個針劑帶著到處走確實很麻煩，你得帶著藥瓶，還得帶著針筒，打針還會痛。你可能會想：「嗯，如果我可能因此而失明，我一定會天天注射。」但是那種痛苦，那種不舒服的感覺，請各位想一想，如果你要出發去長途旅行，你得記得把這些針劑放進皮包裡，這些是每天都要做的事，確實造成不少困擾。現在有了新的發明，設計上的創新。這枝筆叫做胰島素筆，事先已填入胰島素，針頭比一般的更鋒利，你只要帶著這枝筆，去到哪裡都方便，而且比原先的針劑容易使用，也比較不會痛。只要改用這枝筆，服用胰島素的持續率就會提升5%到10%。 這就是我說的最後一哩的轉機。每次我們解決了科技上的問題，我們就以為問題已經解決了。儘管我們有所創新，但問題還是持續存在，我們忘了還有許多問題沒有克服。這與人類的生理構造無關，這完全是由人類的大腦—也就是人類的心理狀況來決定，創新必須要能夠一路持續到最後一哩。 這裡有一個例子，這個公司叫做正向能源(Positive Energy)，他們主要研究節能產品。我們花了很多時間研究燃料電池，但這個公司做的只是寄給每個家庭一封信，上面寫著：「這是你的用電量，這是你鄰居的用電量，你做得不錯。」附上一個笑臉，「你做得比較差。」附上一個苦瓜臉。他們發現，光是這封信，就可以節省2%到3%的用電量。 我們可以接著想像這件事所帶來的社會效益：碳排放量減少了、用電量降低、一年節省9億美金。為什麼？因為這封信沒花什麽錢，也不是什麼新科技，就只是一封信而已，就能對我們的行為產生很大的影響。那麼，我們該怎麼處理最後一哩這個問題？我認為，這個例子讓我們看到了轉機，我相信要處理這個問題，我們必得結合心理層面、行銷層面、與藝術層面，就像我們剛才看到的一樣。但你知道這些東西該與什麼結合起來嗎？這些東西必須與科學方法相結合。 對我來說，最後一哩真正難解與困擾人的地方在於，前面那999哩都是由科學方法來解決。沒有人會說：「嘿，我覺得這種藥很有效，讓我們開始用這種藥吧！」我們要先進行測試，要進到實驗試裡再試驗個幾次，還得要改良，但你知道我們在最後一哩時會怎麼做嗎？「噢，這真是個好主意！大家一定會喜歡的！就開始實施吧！」我們所投入的資源完全不對等。我們在節能科技上投入了數十億元的經費，但我們又投入了多少經費，去開發可靠、有系統、驗證過的方法，以改變人們使用能源的習慣？ 現在，我認為我們已經摸到一點邊了，我們已經摸到嶄新社會科學領域的邊了，社會科學能幫助我們瞭解，就像科學能幫助我們瞭解人體的奧妙，或像生物學能幫助我們瞭解人體的奧妙，社會科學能幫助我們瞭解人類心智的奧妙。透過嚴謹的測試、再測試和設計，我們必將開啟認知的大門，讓我們瞭解複雜、困難的事物；這種認知不但會開啟新的科學，還會在未來的100年內，徹底顛覆我們所認知的世界。謝謝各位！(掌聲) 克里斯．安德森：山迪，謝謝你的演說。這個領域真的很吸引人！我覺得，有時候聽你們這些行為經濟學家的演說，就像是把行銷技巧以學術理論呈現，但傑出的推銷員早就在無形中運用自如了。在你的研究領域裡，是否曾和傑出的推銷員們聊過他們對於人類心理的觀察？我想他們早就瞭然於胸了吧？ 山迪：對，我們花了很長的時間與推銷員們對話，我想有60%是被你說中了，他們確實是有些觀察入微的見解值得我們去蒐集，另外40%則是談論有關推銷的技巧。舉例來說，當你要向一家公司推銷一則廣告時，有絕大部分的時間，你會去說服那位CEO，告訴他那則廣告的效果會有多好。但這裡面有陷阱，你只是告訴他可能有的效果而已，真正的效果一定有所不同，而目前在行銷業界的新課題，就是想辦法去衡量效果，要怎麼確認一個廣告是有效的？ 克里斯：舉例來說，你要怎麼把你的觀點和印度這裡的企業運作方式相結合？ 山迪：我剛才所提到的科學方法是很重要的，我們和一些具有營運規模的私人企業及非營利組織緊密合作，我們會說，嗯，如果你想要改變人們的行為，我們就來想幾個方法，測試一下，看哪一個方法有效，回去重組一下，找出最有效的方法，才能在其他企業裡面大量推廣。就好像其他科學領域的研究人員所做的事情一樣，如果你有生物學上的問題，你會想辦法解決，看什麼方法有效，再決定推廣出去。 克里斯：好的，山迪！謝謝你來TED演講，謝謝！(掌聲)
