Talk	en	zh-tw
sergey_brin_and_larry_page_on_google	"Sergey Brin: I want to discuss a question I know that's been pressing on many of your minds. We spoke to you last several years ago. And before I get started today, since many of you are wondering, I just wanted to get it out of the way. The answer is boxers. Now I hope all of you feel better. Do you know what this might be? Does anyone know what that is? Audience: Yes. SB: What is it? Audience: It's people logging on to Google around the world. SB: Wow, OK. I didn't really realize what it was when I first saw it. But this is what helped me see it. This is what we run at the office, that actually runs real time. Here it's slightly logged. But here you can see around the world how people are using Google. And every one of those rising dots represents probably about 20, 30 searches, or something like that. And they're labeled by color right now, by language. So you can see: here we are in the U.S., and they're all coming up red. There we are in Monterey — hopefully I can get it right. You can see that Japan is busy at night, right there. We have Tokyo coming in in Japanese. There's a lot of activity in China. There's a lot of activity in India. There's some in the Middle East, the little pockets. And Europe, which is right now in the middle of the day, is going really strong with a whole wide variety of languages. Now you can also see, if I turn this around here — hopefully I won't shake the world too much. But you can also see, there are places where there's not so much. Australia, because there just aren't very many people there. And this is something that we should really work on, which is Africa, which is just a few trickles, basically in South Africa and a few other urban cities. But basically, what we've noticed is these queries, which come in at thousands per second, are available everywhere there is power. And pretty much everywhere there is power, there is the Internet. And even in Antarctica — well, at least this time of year — we from time to time will see a query rising up. And if we had it plotted correctly, I think the International Space Station would have it, too. So this is some of the challenge that we have here, is you can see that it's actually kind of hard to get the — there we go. This is how we have to move the bits around to actually get the people the answers to their questions. You can see that there's a lot of data running around. It has to go all over the world: through fibers, through satellites, through all kinds of connections. And it's pretty tricky for us to maintain the latencies as low as we try to. Hopefully your experience is good. But you can see also, once again — so some places are much more wired than others, and you can see all the bandwidth across the U.S., going up over to Asia, Europe in the other direction, and so forth. Now what I would like to do is just to show you what one second of this activity would look like. And if we can switch to slides — all right, here we go. So this is slowed down. This is what one second looks like. And this is what we spend a lot of our time doing, is just making sure that we can keep up with this kind of traffic load. Now, each one of those queries has an interesting life and tale of its own. I mean, it could be somebody's health, it could be somebody's career, something important to them. And it could potentially be something as important as tomato sauce, or in this case, ketchup. So this is a query that we had — I guess it's a popular band that was more popular in some parts of the world than others. You can see that it got started right here. In the U.S. and Spain, it was popular at the same time. But it didn't have quite the same pickup in the U.S. as it did in Spain. And then from Spain, it went to Italy, and then Germany got excited, and maybe right now the U.K. is enjoying it. And so I guess the U.S. finally, finally started to like it, too. And I just wanted to play it for you. Anyway, you can all enjoy it for yourselves — hopefully that search will work. As a part of — you know, part of what we want to do to grow our company is to have more searches. And what that means is we want to have more people who are healthy and educated. More animals, if they start doing searches as well. But partly, we want to make the world a better place, and so one thing that we're embarking upon is the Google Foundation, and we're in the process of setting that up. We also have a program already called Google Grants that now serves over 150 different charities around the world, and these are some of the charities that are on there. And it's something I'm very excited to be a part of. In fact, many of the organizations that are here — the Acumen Fund, I think ApproTEC we have running, I'm not sure if that one's up yet — and many of the people who have presented here are running through Google Grants. They run Google ads, and we just give them the ad credit so they can let organizations know. One of the earlier results that we got — we have a Singaporean businessman who is now sponsoring a village of 25 Vietnamese girls for their education, and that was one of the earliest results. And as I said, now there have been many, many stories that have come in, because we do have hundreds of charities in there, and the Google Foundation will be an even broader endeavor. Now does anybody know who this is? A-ha! Audience: Orkut. SB: Yes! Somebody got it. This is Orkut. Is anybody here on Orkut? Do we have any? Okay, not very many people know about it. I'll explain it in a second. This is one of our engineers. We find that they work better when they're submerged and covered with leaves. That's how we churn those products out. Orkut had a vision to create a social network. I know all of you are thinking, ""Yet another social network."" But it was a dream of his, and we, basically, when people really want to do something, well, we generally let them. So this is what he built. We just released it in a test phase last month, and it's been taking off. This is our VP of Engineering. You can see the red hair, and I don't know if you can see the nose ring there. And these are all of his friends. So this is how — we just deployed it — we just decided that people would send each other invitations to get into the service, and so we just had the people in our company initially send them out. And now we've grown to over 100,000 members. And they spread, actually, very quickly, even outside the U.S. You can see, even though the U.S. is still the majority here — though, by the way, search-wise, it's only about 30 percent of our traffic — but it's already going to Japan, and the U.K., and Europe, and all the rest of the countries. So it's a fun little project. There are a variety of demographics. I won't bore you with these. But it's just the kind of thing that we just try out for fun and see where it goes. And — well, I'll leave you in suspense. Larry, you can explain this one. Larry Page: Thank you, Sergey. So one of the things — both Sergey and I went to a Montessori school, and I think, for some reason, this has been incorporated in Google. And Sergey mentioned Orkut, which is something that, you know, Orkut wanted to do in his time, and we call this — at Google, we've embodied this as ""the 20 percent time,"" and the idea is, for 20 percent of your time, if you're working at Google, you can do what you think is the best thing to do. And many, many things at Google have come out of that, such as Orkut and also Google News. And I think many other things in the world also have come out of this. Mendel, who was supposed to be teaching high-school students, actually, you know, discovered the laws of genetics — as a hobby, basically. So many, many useful things come out of this. And News, which I just mentioned, was started by a researcher. And he just — he — after 9/11, he got really interested in the news. And he said, ""Why don't I look at the news better?"" And so he started clustering it by category, and then he started using it, and then his friends started using it. And then, besides just looking cute on a baby's bottom, we made it a Googlette, which is basically a small project at Google. So it'd be like three people, or something like that, and they would try to make a product. And we wouldn't really be sure if it's going to work or not. And in News' case, you know, they had a couple of people working on it for a while, and then more and more people started using it, and then we put it out on the Internet, and more and more people started using it. And now it's a real, full-blown project with more people on it. And this is how we keep our innovation running. I think usually, as companies get bigger, they find it really hard to have small, innovative projects. And we had this problem, too, for a while, and we said, ""Oh, we really need a new concept."" You know, the Googlettes — that's a small project that we're not quite sure if it's going to work or not, but we hope it will, and if we do enough of them, some of them will really work and turn out, such as News. But then we had a problem because then we had over 100 projects. And I don't know about all of you, but I have trouble keeping 100 things in my head at once. And we found that if we just wrote all of them down and ordered them — and these are kind of made up. Don't really pay attention to them. For example, the ""Buy Iceland"" was from a media article. We would never do such a crazy thing, but — in any case, we found if we just basically wrote them all down and ordered them, that most people would actually agree what the ordering should be. And this was kind of a surprise to me, but we found that as long as you keep the 100 things in your head, which you did by writing them down, that you could do a pretty good job deciding what to do and where to put your resources. And so that's basically what we've done since we instituted that a few years ago, and I think it has really allowed us to be innovative and still stay reasonably well-organized. The other thing we discovered is that people like to work on things that are important, and so naturally, people sort of migrate to the things that are high priorities. I just wanted to highlight a couple of things that are new, or you might not know about. And the top thing, actually, is the Deskbar. So this is a new — how many of you use the Google Toolbar? Raise your hands. How many of you use the Deskbar? All right, see? You guys should try it out. But if you go to our site and search for ""Deskbar,"" you'll get this. And the idea is, instead of a toolbar, it's just present all the time on your screen on the bottom, and you can do searches really easily. And it's sort of like a better version of the toolbar. Thank you, Sergey. This is another example of a project that somebody at Google was really passionate about, and they just, they got going, and it's really, really a great product, and really taking off. Google Answers is something we started, which is really cool, which lets you — for five to 100 dollars, you can type a question in, and then there's a pool of researchers that go out and research it for you, and it's guaranteed and all that, and you can get actually very good answers to things without spending all that time yourself. Froogle lets you search shopping information, and Blogger lets you publish things. But all of these — well, these were all sort of innovative things that we did that — you know, we try many, many different things in our company. We also like to innovate in our physical space, and we noticed in meetings, you know, you have to wait a long time for projectors to turn on and off, and they're noisy, so people shut them off. And we didn't like that, so we actually, in maybe a couple of weeks, we built these little enclosures that enclosed the projectors, and so we can leave them on all the time and they're completely silent. And as a result, we were able to build some software that also lets us manage a meeting, so when you walk into a meeting room now, it lists all the meetings that are happening, you can very easily take notes, and they just get emailed automatically to all the people that were present in the meeting. And as we become more of a global company, we find these things really affect us — you know, can we work effectively with people who aren't in the room? And things like that. And simple things like this can really make a big difference. We also have a lot of engineers in those meetings, and they don't always do their laundry as much as they should. And so we found it was pretty helpful to have laundry machines, for our younger employees especially, and ... we also allow dogs and things like that, and we've had, I think, a really fun culture at our company, which helps people work and enjoy what they're doing. This is actually our ""cult picture."" I just wanted to show quickly. We had this on our website for a while, but we found that after we put it on our website, we didn't get any job applications anymore. But anyway, every year we've taken the whole company on a ski trip. A lot of work happens in companies from people knowing each other, and informally. And I think we've done a good job encouraging that. It makes it a really fun place to work. Along with our logos, too, which I think really embody our culture when we change things. In the early days, we were actually advised we should never change our logo because we should establish our brand, you know, because, you know, you'd never want to change your logo. You want it to be consistent. And we said, ""Well, that doesn't sound so much fun. Why don't we try changing it every day?"" One of the things that really excites me about what we're doing now is we have this thing called AdSense, and this is a little bit foreshadowing — this is from before Dean dropped out. But the idea is, like, on a newspaper, for example, we show you relevant ads. And this is hard to read, but this says ""Battle for New Hampshire: Howard Dean for President"" — articles on Howard Dean. And these ads are generated automatically — like in this case, on the Washington Post — from the content on the site. And so we use our over 150,000 advertisers and millions of advertisements, so we pick the one that's most relevant to what you're actually looking at, much as we do on search. So the idea is we can make advertising useful, not just annoying, right? And the nice thing about this, we have a self-serve program, and many thousands of websites have signed up, and this let's them really make money. And I — you know, there's a number of people I met — I met this guy who runs a conservation site at a party, and he said, ""You know, I wasn't making any money. I just put this thing on my site and I'm making 10,000 dollars a month. And, you know, thank you. I don't have to do my other job now."" And I think this is really important for us, because it makes the Internet work better. It makes content get better, it makes searching work better, when people can really make their livelihood from producing great content. So this session is supposed to be about the future, so I'd thought I'd talk at least briefly about it. And the idea behind this is to do the perfect job doing search, you really have to be smart. Because you can type, you know, any kind of thing into Google, and you expect an answer back, right? But finding things is tricky, and so you really want intelligence. And in fact, the ultimate search engine would be smart. It would be artificial intelligence. And so that's something we work on, and we even have some people who are excited enough and crazy enough to work on it now, and that's really their goal. So we always hope that Google will be smart, but we're always surprised when other people think that it is. And so I just wanted to give a funny example of this. This is a blog from Iraq, and it's not really what I'm going to talk about, but I just wanted to show you an example. Maybe, Sergey, you can highlight this. So we decided — actually, the highlight's right there. Oh, thank you. So, ""related searches,"" right there. You can't see it that well, but we decided we should put in this feature into our AdSense ads, called ""related searches."" And so we'd say, you know, ""Did you mean 'search for'"" — what is this, in this case, ""Saddam Hussein,"" because this blog is about Iraq — and you know, in addition to the ads, and we thought this would be a great idea. And so there is this blog of a young person who was kind of depressed, and he said, ""You know, I'm sleeping a lot."" He was just kind of writing about his life. And our algorithms — not a person, of course, but our algorithms, our computers — read his blog and decided that the related search was, ""I am bored."" And he read this, and he thought a person had decided that he was boring, and it was very unfortunate, and he said, ""You know, what are these, you know, bastards at Google doing? Why don't they like my blog?"" And so then we read his blog, which was getting — you know, sort of going from bad to worse, and we said the related search was, ""Retards."" And then, you know, he got even more mad, and he wrote — like, started swearing and so on. And then we produced ""You suck."" And finally, it ended with ""Kiss my ass."" And so basically, he thought he was dealing with something smart, and of course, you know, we just sort of wrote this program and we tried it out, and it didn't quite work, and we don't have this feature anymore. So with that, maybe I can switch back to the world. I wanted to end just by saying that there's a couple things that really make me excited to be involved with Google, and one of those is that we're able to make money largely through advertising, and one of the benefits that I didn't expect from that was that we're able to serve everyone in the world without worrying about, you know, places that don't have as much money. So we don't have to worry about our products being sold, for example, for less money in places that are poor, and then they get re-imported into the U.S. — for example, with the drug industry. And I think we're really lucky to have that kind of business model because everyone in the world has access to our search, and I think that's a tremendous, tremendous benefit. The other thing I wanted to mention just briefly is that we have a tremendous ability and responsibility to provide people the right information, and we view ourselves like a newspaper or a magazine — that we should provide very objective information. And so in our search results, we never accept payment for our search results. We accept payment for advertising, and we mark it as such. And that's unlike many of our competitors. And I think decisions we're able to make like that have a tremendous impact on the world, and it makes me really proud to be involved with Google. So thank you."	"Sergey Brin：我要討論一個問題我知道你們之中有很多人一直都很想知道我們在幾年前和你們談過在我開始今天的討論以前既然你們很多人都想知道我想簡單帶過一下答案就是—男性內褲我希望現在你們感覺好一點了 你們知道這有可能是什麼嗎？有沒有人知道這是什麼？ 觀眾：知道。 SB:這是什麼？ 觀眾：那是全球登入Google的人們 SB：哇！很好，我第一次看到時還完全不知道這是什呢！但這幫助我了解那個這就是我們在辦公室裡進行的，是實際運作的這裡很少人登入但在這裡你可以看到全世界的人們使用Google的情形每個上升的小點代表大約20到30筆的搜尋或類似的動作而現在他們使用的語言用不同的顏色標出 你可以看到：這是我們在美國的情況他們都是用紅色表示蒙特瑞公園市(美國加州)—希望我沒猜錯你可以看到日本夜晚很忙碌在那兒我們把東京用日文標示在中國有很多活動在印度有很多活動在中東有一些，那一小撮的地方再來，歐洲現在是中午時間多種不同的語言的量都很大 現在，你也可以看到，如果把它轉到這邊來希望我沒有把世界搖晃太劇烈但你也可以發現，有一些地方並不那麼活躍澳洲，因為剛好那裡人口不多還有這裡是我們必須好好努力的地方在非洲，只有一點點細小光束基本上都在南非還有少數幾個其他城市，我們注意到只要在有電力的地方，就有這些每秒湧進來的數千筆搜尋而通常再有電力供應的地方，就會有網路即使是在南極洲—至少在一年中這個時候—我們不時可以看到一筆搜尋出現如果我們繪製的圖是正確的，我想太空總署我想太空總署也有搜尋 所以，這就是我們面臨的挑戰如你所看到的，要到那裡有點困難好，到了這就是我們如何藉由移動這些小點來讓人們得到他們問題的答案你可以看到很多資料在運轉它們必須經由光纖、經由衛星、或經由其他各種連結而到達世界各地對我們來說，要把潛在變因維持在最低限度是很困難的但願你的經驗是好的但你也可以再次看到，有些地方纜線設置比起其他地方多很多你也可以看到穿越全美各地的頻寬到達另一端的亞洲、歐洲等地 現在我想做的事是向各位展示這種活動在一秒鐘內是什麼樣子如果我們切換一下投影片好的，就是這樣這就是被放慢的樣子這就是一秒鐘的樣子這也就是我們花費很多時間在做的事要確保我們能跟得上這樣的流量現在，這些搜尋每一筆都有著屬於自己、有趣的生命和故事我的意思是，那可有關某人的健康、某人的職業、某些對他們來說重要的事它們很有潛力變成像是蕃茄醬一樣重要的東西或是在這例子中的，Ketchup（一西班牙女子團體） 這裡是其中一筆搜尋我猜那是一個在某個地方很流行的樂團你可以看到它從這個地方開始它同時在美國還有西班牙流行但是在美國卻沒有和在西班牙相同的搜尋數量然後從西班牙來到了義大利然後是德國為之瘋狂，或許現在是英國也在欣賞這個樂團所以我猜想，美國終究終究也會開始喜歡她們我只是想展示給你們看。 無論如何，你們都可以自己玩玩希望搜尋可以做到。其中的一部分—你知道的，就是我們要擴展公司的其中一部分就是造就更多的搜尋意思是說，我們希望有更多人是健康且受過教育的還有更多動物—如果他們也開始搜尋但有一部分是，我們想要創造一個更好的世界我們正在著手進行的一件事是Google基金會還正在籌措當中 我們已經成立一個計畫叫做Google Grants現在這個組織協助了全世界超過150個慈善團體這些是那些慈善團體的其中幾個這也是我很興奮能參與其中的一件事事實上，這裡其中許多機構像是Accumen Fund，還有我正在運作的Appro TEC，我不確定是不是已經上線了還有我們今天提到的其中許多人都瀏覽過Google Grants他們瀏覽Google廣告，我們則給予他們廣告額度能夠讓一些機構認識他們 其中一個早期的成果就是我們幫助一個新加坡商人成為一個越南村莊25個女孩的教育贊助人而那只是早期的一個成果，而現在，如同我剛剛說的有許多許多這樣的例子因為我們這裡有上百個慈善機構且Google基金會將更努力深耕推廣有人知道這是誰嗎？啊哈！ （觀眾：Orkut） SB:是的！有人答對了他是Orkut。這裡有人用過Orkut嗎？有人嗎？好吧，沒有很多人知道他我簡短的解釋一下這是我們的一個工程師我們發現他們在被樹葉淹沒時工作表現比較好這就是我們生產出大量產品的方法。Orkut對於創造社群網路很有洞察力我知道你們大家都在想：「又是另一個社群網路。」但這是他們一個夢想，也是我們的當人們很想要作一件事，好的，我們就會讓他們做這就是他所建立的我們上個月才剛發布測試階段的版本也正在成長 這是我們工程部的副總你可以看到他的紅頭髮，我不確定你能不能看到他的鼻環這些都是他的朋友這就是我們如何部署我們決定讓人們互相邀請使用這項服務所以我們先從讓公司員工開始發送邀請現在我們已成長到擁有超過100,000名會員事實上，這項服務甚至在美國以外的地方也擴展的相當快速 你們可以看到，儘管美國依然佔了大多數附帶一提，再搜尋方面美國只佔了百分之30但這項服務已擴及日本、英國和歐洲以及其他各國這是個好玩的小計劃這裡有許多種類的統計資料，我不會拿這些資料來讓你們無聊這些不過是一些為了好玩而嘗試的數據還能看看進展的如何然後嗯，我將替你賣點關子Larry，你可以解釋一下這個 Larry Page：謝謝你，Sergey有一件事—Sergey和我都去過一所蒙特梭利學校而我認為，基於某些原因這已經被納入了Google剛剛Sergey 提到了Orkut，你知道的，Orkut當時想要做一件事在Google我們將它體現為「百分之二十自由時間」這個概念就是，如果你在Google工作你會有百分之二十的時間你可以做你想做的事有好多好多Google的服務就是這樣來的像是Orkut和Google新聞我認為世界上很多其他事情也是這樣來的孟德爾本來是要當高中老師的而事實上，你知道的，他發現了遺傳學定律基本上是基於興趣非常多有用的事情來自於此 還有我剛剛提到的Google新聞是由一個研究者創立的而他只是，在911事件後，對於新聞非常有興趣然後他說：「我何不讓新聞更好看呢？」所以他按照類型把新聞集中起來然後他開始使用、他的朋友們也開始使用然後，在看著嬰兒可愛的小屁屁之外我們讓它成為Google小嬰兒（Google的產品）基本上是一個小小的計畫 那就像是大概三個人之類的試著做出一樣產品我們不太確定那項產品究竟可行或不可行在Google新聞的例子裡，有幾個人在做這件事然後越來越多人開始使用然後我們將它發表在網路上然後又有越來越多人開始使用這項服務現在它已經是個有著更多人使用的真實的且完善的計畫這就是我們讓創新不段運轉的方法 我認為，當公司變得越大他們就會發現要發展小規模的、創新的計畫越不容易我們有一段時間也有這個問題，後來我們說：「喔！我們真的需要一個新的概念。」你知道的，Google小嬰兒—也就是我們不知道是否可行的小計畫但我們希望，若我們為它們做得夠多的話，它們中的一些可以開花結果，就像是Google新聞 但有一個問題是，我們因為這樣有了超過一百個計畫我無法認識你們全部人因為我要努力讓這一百件事同時在我腦袋裡運轉然後我們發現如果我們把它們都寫下來然後整理它們—這聽起來有點像是在胡說不要在上面花心思比如說：「買冰島」是來自於媒體的一篇文章我們絕對不會做這麼瘋狂的事，但無論如何，我們發現如果我們只是寫下它們然後整理排序大部分的人都會同意應該要將點子整理排序這對我來說有些驚訝我們發現一旦你藉由把它們寫下來來將一百件事情同時放在腦子裡運轉則你會非常正確的決定出你要做什麼以及要將資源如何分配以上基本上就是我們所做的自從我們在幾年前制定了這套規矩，我認為它大大幫助了我們創新並同時維持著良好組織化的 我們另一個發現就是人們喜歡在重要的事情上努力自然而然人們多少會將心思移到優先事項上我想強調幾件新的或是你可能還不知道的事情其中最首要的，就是桌面捷徑列(Deskbar)這是新的—你們有幾個人使用Google工具列？請舉手 你們有多少人使用桌面捷徑列？好的，看，你們應該要試一試但如果你們上我們的網站搜尋「桌面捷徑列」，你會得到這個這個概念就是，不同於「工具列」它會一直出現在你的螢幕下方你可以很輕易的進行搜尋那有點像是「工具列」的改良版謝謝你，Sergey 這是另一個例子而他們剛開始研發這真的真的是一個非常棒的產品，而且確實開始著手執行Google Answers是一項我們已經開始的項目，這真的非常的酷這讓你能花5到100美元輸入一個你想問的問題接著將有一大群的研究人員為你研究這個問題，且有品質保證你可以不用花費自己太多的時間就得到很好的答案 Froogle幫助你找尋購物資訊然後Blogger部落格讓你發表東西經由這些許多種類的創新產品你們可以得知我們公司嘗試了許許多多不同的產品我們也喜歡在我們的物理空間上做革新我們也注意到在開會時，你知道的，你必須等很長的時間去等待投影機開關而且它們的噪音很大，所以人們總會把它關掉而我們不喜歡這樣，所以事實上我們花了大約兩週，製作了這個小容器可以放置投影機，因此我們可以使投影機隨時開著而且完全安靜結果，我們也得以製作一些軟體也可以讓我們進行會議管理所以現在當你走進會議室這個軟體會列舉所有正在進行的會議你會非常容易的作紀錄，而且它還會自動發出電子郵件給所有出席會議的人 隨著我們成為更加全球化的公司我們發現這真的對我們很有影響你知道，我們能有效率的和不在會議室中的人一起工作諸如此類，而這簡單的事情卻能造成很大的改變我們也有很多的工程師在這些會議中雖然他們應該常洗衣服，但他們總是做不到所以我們發現提供洗衣機對他們很有幫助特別是那些年輕的工程師我們也允許帶狗上班或這一類的事我們擁有，就我認為，非常有趣的公司文化這讓員工能享受於他們的工作 這是我們的 ""異教照片""我只想快速的讓你們看一下我們讓這張照片在我們的網站上放了一陣子而我們發現在我們放上照片後就沒有任何人來應徵了但無論如何，我們每年都會帶全公司的人去滑雪之旅很多公司的作品都在員工輕鬆的互相交流之中產生我認為我們有效的鼓勵了其發生這使得工作場所變得更有趣 還有我們的商標，我認為在我們改變商標的時體現出了我們的文化在早期我們就被建議過絕對不要更改我們的商標因為我們必須建立自己的品牌，你知道的，因為，你知道的，你永遠也不會想要更改自己的商標你會希望它始終如一的然後我們說：「嗯...那聽起來不太有趣。」我們何不試著每天換商標呢？ 關於我們現在所做的事情有一件讓我特別感到興奮的事就是我們有一個叫做AdSense的產品這是一個小開端開始於Howard Dean退選以前而這個主意就像是，例如在報紙上我們會給你展示相關廣告而這很難閱讀，但是有關 ""新漢普郡之戰：Howard Dean競選總統"" —Howard Dean的相關文章這些廣告幾乎都是自動生成的像這個例子，在華盛頓郵報它是來自網站內容因此我們利用超過150000位廣告客戶和幾百萬則廣告中，選出一則與你所看到的內容中最相關的一則我們會儘量搜尋這個概念就是我們要讓廣告有用不只是惱人，對吧？ 關於這個有一件很不錯的事我們有一套自助計畫有數千到數萬個網站註冊了並且這讓他們賺大錢我遇過到很多人我在一個派對上遇到了這個經營一個保育網站的傢伙他說：「你知道嗎，我以前沒有賺到任何錢。」「我只是把這些東西放到我的網站上，結果現在我每個月就有一萬元入袋」「感謝你」「我現在不需要再做我另一份工作了」我認為這對我們而言很重要，因為這讓網際網路變得更好這讓網路上的內容變得更好，也讓搜尋運作更順利人們能夠從提供好的內容中獲得溫飽 這個部份是關於未來的所以我覺得我至少應該簡短談一下這背後的想法是：要做出完美的搜尋你必須要很聰明因為你可以在Google上鍵入任何類型的東西你就可以得到結果，對吧？但要找東西是很棘手的，所以你很想要有智慧而事實上，終極搜尋引擎是很聰明的它將會成為人工智慧那就是我們正在努力的事我們現在甚至有著一群夠興奮也夠瘋狂的人來做這件事這也是他們的目標我們總是希望Google能夠很聰明但在別人這麼認為時，我們也總是很驚訝 我想要舉出一個有趣的例子這是一個伊拉克的部落格這並不是我真正要談論的但我只是想給你們看個例子或許Sergey你可以標一下重點所以我們決定事實上，標示在那兒，喔，謝啦 「相關搜尋」在那兒，你可能看不太清楚但我們決定要在我們的AdSense放上這個功能叫做「相關搜尋」所以我們會說：「你是不是要找......」在這個例子中，會出現「海珊」因為這個部落格和伊拉克有關在廣告之外我們認為這會是一個好主意 這裡有一個部落格是屬於一個有點沮喪的年輕人的，他說：「你知道的，我睡很多」他只是寫下他的生活點滴而我們的演算法—當然不是一個真人我們的演算法，我們的電腦，讀到了他的部落格並決定將它列為「我很無聊」的相關搜尋然後他看到了，他以為是一個人決定了他很無聊這樣的評語這很不幸，然後他說：「這些Google的混帳在做什麼？他們為什麼不喜歡我的部落格？」所以後來我們去看了他的部落格，事情變得越來越糟，我們的相關搜尋顯示「發育遲緩」後來，你知道的，他更生氣了他寫了一些像是咒罵等等的然後我們產生出「你這爛人」最後結果是以「你去吃屎吧！」作終基本上，他以為他是在跟有智慧的對象打交道但當然的，我們只是寫下了這個程式並且試試看但不太好用後來我們就不再使用這個功能了 或許我可以切換回到這個世界圖我想以談談這個來做結有幾件事讓我對於身處Google之中感到興奮其中之一就是我們可以藉由廣告來賺錢其中一個我不曾預期到的好處是我們可以服務世界上每一個人而不用擔心有些地方沒有那麼多錢我們不用擔心產品被賣到—例如：被賣到比較沒有錢的貧窮地區然後被進口到美國例如，和製藥業一樣。 我認為我們有著這樣的商業模式是很幸運的因為世界上每一個人都可以使用我們的搜尋我認為這是極大的、驚人的利益另一件我想要簡單提到的是我們有著很大的能力及責任來提供人們正確的資訊我們將自己視為報紙或是雜誌也就是說我們應該提供很客觀的資訊 所以我們從不接受為了搜尋結果而付費我們只接受為廣告付費而我們也是如此行銷這和我們的許多競爭者都很不一樣我們能夠做出對世界有重大影響的決定這讓我以身為Google一員為傲謝謝"
