Talk	en	zh-tw
sergei_lupashin_a_flying_camera_on_a_leash	"I came here to show you the Fotokite. It's a tethered, flying camera. But before I do that, I want to tell you a bit about where it came from, what motivated it. So I was born in Russia, and three years ago, in 2011, there were the Russian federal elections. There were massive irregularities reported, and people came out to protest, which was very unlikely for Russia. And no one really knew how significant these protests were, because, for whatever reason, the world media largely ignored it. Now, there was a group of photographers who kind of flew flying cameras as a hobby — usually photographing things like the Sphinx, the Pyramids — who happened to be right around the corner, and they flew a camera and they took some snapshots, some panoramas of this demonstration. Just completely independent entity, completely random occurrence, and the image, when I saw it, it really struck me. Here's one of the panoramas. So in a single image, you can really see the scale of this event — just the number of people, the colors, the banners. You just can't consider this insignificant. All in a single image, which was really cool to me. And I think, in the future, journalism and many other professions, there are flying cameras already quite commonly out there, but I think, you wait a few months, a few years, and for many professions, it's really going to be a requirement. And it make sense. It's  such a unique perspective. Nothing really communicates  this scale, for example, in context, in a way that this does. But there are a few hurdles,  and they are quite basic and quite fundamental. One is piloting. So for this image, they flew a camera, a five kilogram device with an SLR under it. It's quite heavy, lots of  spinning, sharp things. It's a bit uncomfortable to fly, probably also for the operator. In fact, you can see that on the  back of the pilot's shirt, it says, ""No questions until landing"" in Russian and in English, because people are curious, and they'll go tap you, and then you lose your focus and things happen. And these guys are great. They're professionals; they're really careful in what they do. So in the protests, maybe you noticed, they flew over the river so it was quite safe. But this doesn't necessarily apply to all people and all conditions, so we really have to make piloting easier. The other problem is regulations, or rather, the lack of good regulation. For many good reasons, it's just difficult to come up with common sense laws to regulate flying cameras. So we already have cameras. Everyone here, I'm sure, has a smartphone with a camera, right? There are more and more of them. You hear about people with Google Glass being attacked. You hear about, actually, a drone pilot, a hobbyist, was attacked two weeks ago because he was flying near a beach. Here's some personal input I didn't expect. Just yesterday, I was attacked by a guy who claimed that I was filming him. I was checking my email right here — easy way to get input for your talk. But I think there are better solutions. I think we have to defuse the situation. We have to come up with responsible solutions that address the privacy issues and the safety, accountability issues but still give us that perspective. And this is one potential solution. So this is the Fotokite. Well, let me see, it's a quadrocopter, but what's kind of special  about it is there's a leash. It's literally a dog leash. It's very convenient. And the neat thing about it is, to fly it, there's no joysticks, nothing like this. You just turn it on and you point in the direction that you want to fly. You give it a little twist. That's kind of the way you communicate. And there it goes. (Applause) So the interaction is super simple. It's like a personal flying pet. It just always maintains a certain angle to you, and if I move around with it, it'll actually follow me naturally. And of course, we can build on top of this. So this leash has some additional electronics. You can turn it on. And now, it's like telling your dog to fly lower, if you have such a dog. So, I can press a button and manipulate it rather easily. So I just shifted its position. And it's really safe. I don't know about you guys in the front row — (Laughter) — but at least in principle, you have to agree that you feel safer because there is a physical connection. Live demos are hard, right? Things go wrong all the time. But no matter what, this thing will actually prevent this thing from going into you. What's more, it tells you immediately that I am the one responsible for this device. You don't have to look for someone controlling it. Now, I can tell you that it's easy a lot, but I think a really good way to prove that is to grab a second one and launch it. And if I can do this on stage live, then I can show each and every one of you in five minutes how to  operate one of these devices. So now we have two eyes in the sky. (Applause) And now the trick is getting them back. (Laughter) So my question now to you is, well, it's a nice solution, it's very accessible, it's safe. What would you use it for? What would you use such a camera for in your life? Thank you. (Applause)"	我今天來向大家展示空中攝影機。它是種被栓著、能飛的照相機。但是在我展示它之前，我想先跟你們說說它是從哪兒來，是如何被發明出來的。 我在俄羅斯出生。3 年前，也就是 2011 年，俄羅斯舉行了聯邦政府選舉活動。當時有大量違規的事情被曝出，於是人們出來抗議遊行，這在俄羅斯是很少見的。當時並沒人知道這些抗議有多重要，因為由於某些原因，世界上大多數媒體並沒有報導它們。不過有一群攝影師喜歡讓自己的相機在空中飛。他們經常拍一些東西，比如獅身人面像、金字塔，他們正好在附近，於是他們把相機放到空中，拍一些快照，一些俄羅斯抗議遊行的全景照片。它們都是完全不相關的照片，完全隨機的情景，而當我看到那些照片的時候，我震驚了。這是其中一張全景照。在一張單獨的照片裡，你就能真正感受到遊行的規模之大，人數之多，色彩以及布條帶來的的視覺衝擊，使你無法把它們視為無關緊要。而這些景象都在僅僅一張照片裡，讓我感覺很酷。 我也覺得，在未來，新聞業以及其他許多職業，空中攝影機都會普及。但我也認為，在幾個月或者數年之後，它將會在許多領域，成為必需品， 這說得通，因為它提供很特別的觀點，沒有東西能這麼好地紀錄下這樣的場面，呈現出事件的全部風貌。但仍然存在著一些問題，雖然十分基本，卻也十分重要。 其中一個是飛行問題，這張照片是他們用空中攝影機拍的。那是一個 5 公斤的機器，下面有一個單鏡頭反射器。它很重，很鋒利，也轉得很快，所以飛的時候有一點兒不自在。對操控的人大概也是一樣。其實，你能看見飛行員衣服上所寫的：「降落前，一切都別問問題。」用俄語和和英語寫的。因為人們會好奇，於是他們會走過來拍你，然後你就不能專注，事故就這樣發生了。這些人很棒，他們都是專業的操作者，他們也對自己所做的事十分謹慎。所以你也許注意到了，在遊行中，他們讓相機飛過河，所以蠻安全的。但這並不總是適用於所有情況中的所有操作者。因此，我們必須讓飛行操控更便捷。 另一個問題是管理問題，或者說，是缺少規範。這其中有不少好的理由，但是仍然十分困難來制定對此的法律，使空中攝影更為規範。而我們也已經有了攝影機。我確定，在座的每一位都有具攝影功能的手機，對嗎？它們的數量正變得越來越龐大，你應該聽說過有人因為帶著谷歌眼鏡而被攻擊，也聽說過遙控飛機操作者，其實是個業餘好手，兩週前被攻擊了，因為飛得離海灘太近了。還有一些我預料之外的個人經歷。就在昨天，我被一個傢伙攻擊了，他聲稱我在拍攝他。我其實在那兒檢查我的郵箱，正好可以當演講的好例子。但我認為還有更好的解決方式，我認為我們必須要想個緩和的辦法。必須要給出負責任的解決方法，來解決關於個人隱私的問題，還有關於安全和飛機負責的問題，同時帶給我們很棒的視覺觀點。 而這是一個潛在的解決方法。這就是空中攝影機。這是一個四軸飛行器，但有一點很特殊，這是一條牽帶，嚴格來說是牽狗帶，它很方便。飛行的時候這很簡潔，沒有像駕駛桿這樣的東西。你只需要把它打開，指向你想要讓它飛的方向，你讓它轉一下。這就是你們交流的方法，奏效了。 （掌聲） 交互體驗十分容易，它好像成了你一個能飛的寵物。它會一直和你保持固定的角度。如果我和它在周圍走的話，它會自然地跟著我。當然，我們可以在上面建東西。這樣這條牽狗帶就有一些電子附件。你能把它打開。現在就好像在告訴你的狗飛得低一些，如果你真有這樣一隻狗的話。這樣，我能按下一個按鈕，就十分容易地操作了。我來改變一下它的位置。 這真的很安全。我不清楚你們幾個坐在前排的...（笑聲）不過至少原則上你們可以同意它是更安全了，因為這裡有身體上的連接。現場示範很難，是吧？事情時不時會出錯，但不管怎樣，這條帶子能防止這種事對你造成傷害。而且，它能立即告訴你我是負責這台設備的人，你不必再去找是誰操控它的了。 現在，我能告訴你們這容易多了。但我覺得要進一步證明，最好再拿第二台飛機放到空中測試。如果我能在台上做這樣的演示，那麼我就能給你們每個人演示如何在 5 分鐘內操作一台這樣的機器了。 所以我們空中有兩隻眼睛，現在我要把它們變回來。（笑聲）所以我給你們的問題是：這是一個合理的解決方案，它更易接近、安全的。那麼你會如何使用它呢？在生活中你會如何使用這樣一個相機呢？謝謝大家。（掌聲）
