Talk	en	zh-tw
seth_godin_on_sliced_bread	"I'm going to give you four specific examples, I'm going to cover at the end about how a company called Silk tripled their sales; how an artist named Jeff Koons went from being a nobody to making a whole bunch of money and having a lot of impact; to how Frank Gehry redefined what it meant to be an architect. And one of my biggest failures as a marketer in the last few years — a record label I started that had a CD called ""Sauce."" Before I can do that I've got to tell you about sliced bread, and a guy named Otto Rohwedder. Now, before sliced bread was invented in the 1910s I wonder what they said? Like the greatest invention since the telegraph or something. But this guy named Otto Rohwedder invented sliced bread, and he focused, like most inventors did, on the patent part and the making part. And the thing about the invention of sliced bread is this — that for the first 15 years after sliced bread was available no one bought it; no one knew about it; it was a complete and total failure. And the reason is that until Wonder came along and figured out how to spread the idea of sliced bread, no one wanted it. That the success of sliced bread, like the success of almost everything we've talked about at this conference, is not always about what the patent is like, or what the factory is like — it's about can you get your idea to spread, or not. And I think that the way you're going to get what you want, or cause the change that you want to change, to happen, is to figure out a way to get your ideas to spread. And it doesn't matter to me whether you're running a coffee shop or you're an intellectual, or you're in business, or you're flying hot air balloons. I think that all this stuff applies to everybody regardless of what we do. That what we are living in is a century of idea diffusion. That people who can spread ideas, regardless of what those ideas are, win. When I talk about it I usually pick business, because they make the best pictures that you can put in your presentation, and because it's the easiest sort of way to keep score. But I want you to forgive me when I use these examples because I'm talking about anything that you decide to spend your time to do. At the heart of spreading ideas is TV and stuff like TV. TV and mass media made it really easy to spread ideas in a certain way. I call it the ""TV-industrial complex."" The way the TV-industrial complex works, is you buy some ads, interrupt some people, that gets you distribution. You use the distribution you get to sell more products. You take the profit from that to buy more ads. And it goes around and around and around, the same way that the military-industrial complex worked a long time ago. That model of, and we heard it yesterday — if we could only get onto the homepage of Google, if we could only figure out how to get promoted there, or grab that person by the throat, and tell them about what we want to do. If we did that then everyone would pay attention, and we would win. Well, this TV-industrial complex informed my entire childhood and probably yours. I mean, all of these products succeeded because someone figured out how to touch people in a way they weren't expecting, in a way they didn't necessarily want, with an ad, over and over again until they bought it. And the thing that's happened is, they canceled the TV-industrial complex. That just over the last few years, what anybody who markets anything has discovered is that it's not working the way that it used to. This picture is really fuzzy, I apologize; I had a bad cold when I took it. (Laughter) But the product in the blue box in the center is my poster child. I go to the deli; I'm sick; I need to buy some medicine. The brand manager for that blue product spent 100 million dollars trying to interrupt me in one year. 100 million dollars interrupting me with TV commercials and magazine ads and Spam and coupons and shelving allowances and spiff — all so I could ignore every single message. And I ignored every message because I don't have a pain reliever problem. I buy the stuff in the yellow box because I always have. And I'm not going to invest a minute of my time to solve her problem, because I don't care. Here's a magazine called ""Hydrate."" It's 180 pages about water. (Laughter) Articles about water, ads about water. Imagine what the world was like 40 years ago, with just the Saturday Evening Post and Time and Newsweek. Now there are magazines about water. New product from Coke Japan: water salad. (Laughter) Coke Japan comes out with a new product every three weeks, because they have no idea what's going to work and what's not. I couldn't have written this better myself. It came out four days ago — I circled the important parts so you can see them here. They've come out... Arby's is going to spend 85 million dollars promoting an oven mitt with the voice of Tom Arnold, hoping that that will get people to go to Arby's and buy a roast beef sandwich. (Laughter) Now, I had tried to imagine what could possibly be in an animated TV commercial featuring Tom Arnold, that would get you to get in your car, drive across town and buy a roast beef sandwich. (Laughter) Now, this is Copernicus, and he was right, when he was talking to anyone who needs to hear your idea. ""The world revolves around me."" Me, me, me, me. My favorite person — me. I don't want to get email from anybody; I want to get ""memail."" (Laughter) So consumers, and I don't just mean people who buy stuff at the Safeway; I mean people at the Defense Department who might buy something, or people at, you know, the New Yorker who might print your article. Consumers don't care about you at all; they just don't care. Part of the reason is — they've got way more choices than they used to, and way less time. And in a world where we have too many choices and too little time, the obvious thing to do is just ignore stuff. And my parable here is you're driving down the road and you see a cow, and you keep driving because you've seen cows before. Cows are invisible. Cows are boring. Who's going to stop and pull over and say — ""Oh, look, a cow."" Nobody. (Laughter) But if the cow was purple — isn't that a great special effect? I could do that again if you want. If the cow was purple, you'd notice it for a while. I mean, if all cows were purple you'd get bored with those, too. The thing that's going to decide what gets talked about, what gets done, what gets changed, what gets purchased, what gets built, is: ""Is it remarkable?"" And ""remarkable"" is a really cool word, because we think it just means ""neat,"" but it also means ""worth making a remark about."" And that is the essence of where idea diffusion is going. That two of the hottest cars in the United States is a 55,000-dollar giant car, big enough to hold a Mini in its trunk. People are paying full price for both, and the only thing they have in common is that they don't have anything in common. (Laughter) Every week, the number one best-selling DVD in America changes. It's never ""The Godfather,"" it's never ""Citizen Kane,"" it's always some third-rate movie with some second-rate star. But the reason it's number one is because that's the week it came out. Because it's new, because it's fresh. People saw it and said ""I didn't know that was there"" and they noticed it. Two of the big success stories of the last 20 years in retail — one sells things that are super-expensive in a blue box, and one sells things that are as cheap as they can make them. The only thing they have in common is that they're different. We're now in the fashion business, no matter what we do for a living, we're in the fashion business. And people in the fashion business know what it's like to be in the fashion business — they're used to it. The rest of us have to figure out how to think that way. How to understand that it's not about interrupting people with big full-page ads, or insisting on meetings with people. But it's a totally different sort of process that determines which ideas spread, and which ones don't. They sold a billion dollars' worth of Aeron chairs by reinventing what it meant to sell a chair. They turned a chair from something the purchasing department bought, to something that was a status symbol about where you sat at work. This guy, Lionel Poilâne, the most famous baker in the world — he died two and a half months ago, and he was a hero of mine and a dear friend. He lived in Paris. Last year, he sold 10 million dollars' worth of French bread. Every loaf baked in a bakery he owned, by one baker at a time, in a wood-fired oven. And when Lionel started his bakery, the French pooh-pooh-ed it. They didn't want to buy his bread. It didn't look like ""French bread."" It wasn't what they expected. It was neat; it was remarkable; and slowly, it spread from one person to another person until finally, it became the official bread of three-star restaurants in Paris. Now he's in London, and he ships by FedEx all around the world. What marketers used to do is make average products for average people. That's what mass marketing is. Smooth out the edges; go for the center; that's the big market. They would ignore the geeks, and God forbid, the laggards. It was all about going for the center. But in a world where the TV-industrial complex is broken, I don't think that's a strategy we want to use any more. I think the strategy we want to use is to not market to these people because they're really good at ignoring you. But market to these people because they care. These are the people who are obsessed with something. And when you talk to them, they'll listen, because they like listening — it's about them. And if you're lucky, they'll tell their friends on the rest of the curve, and it'll spread. It'll spread to the entire curve. They have something I call ""otaku"" — it's a great Japanese word. It describes the desire of someone who's obsessed to say, drive across Tokyo to try a new ramen noodle place, because that's what they do: they get obsessed with it. To make a product, to market an idea, to come up with any problem you want to solve that doesn't have a constituency with an otaku, is almost impossible. Instead, you have to find a group that really, desperately cares about what it is you have to say. Talk to them and make it easy for them to tell their friends. There's a hot sauce otaku, but there's no mustard otaku. That's why there's lots and lots of kinds of hot sauces, and not so many kinds of mustard. Not because it's hard to make interesting mustard — you could make interesting mustard — but people don't, because no one's obsessed with it, and thus no one tells their friends. Krispy Kreme has figured this whole thing out. It has a strategy, and what they do is, they enter a city, they talk to the people, with the otaku, and then they spread through the city to the people who've just crossed the street. This yoyo right here cost 112 dollars, but it sleeps for 12 minutes. Not everybody wants it but they don't care. They want to talk to the people who do, and maybe it'll spread. These guys make the loudest car stereo in the world. (Laughter) It's as loud as a 747 jet. You can't get in, the car's got bulletproof glass, because it'll blow out the windshield otherwise. But the fact remains that when someone wants to put a couple of speakers in their car, if they've got the otaku or they've heard from someone who does, they go ahead and they pick this. It's really simple — you sell to the people who are listening, and just maybe, those people tell their friends. So when Steve Jobs talks to 50,000 people at his keynote, who are all tuned in from 130 countries watching his two-hour commercial — that's the only thing keeping his company in business — it's that those 50,000 people care desperately enough to watch a two-hour commercial, and then tell their friends. Pearl Jam, 96 albums released in the last two years. Every one made a profit. How? They only sell them on their website. Those people who buy them have the otaku, and then they tell their friends, and it spreads and it spreads. This hospital crib cost 10,000 dollars, 10 times the standard. But hospitals are buying it faster than any other model. Hard Candy nail polish, doesn't appeal to everybody, but to the people who love it, they talk about it like crazy. This paint can right here saved the Dutch Boy paint company, making them a fortune. It costs 35 percent more than regular paint because Dutch Boy made a can that people talk about, because it's remarkable. They didn't just slap a new ad on the product; they changed what it meant to build a paint product. AmIhotornot.com — everyday 250,000 people go to this site, run by two volunteers, and I can tell you they are hard graders — (Laughter) They didn't get this way by advertising a lot. They got this way by being remarkable, sometimes a little too remarkable. And this picture frame has a cord going out the back, and you plug it into the wall. My father has this on his desk, and he sees his grandchildren everyday, changing constantly. And every single person who walks into his office hears the whole story of how this thing ended up on his desk. And one person at a time, the idea spreads. These are not diamonds, not really. They're made from ""cremains."" After you're cremated you can have yourself made into a gem. (Laughter) Oh, you like my ring? It's my grandmother. (Laughter) Fastest-growing business in the whole mortuary industry. But you don't have to be Ozzie Osborne — you don't have to be super-outrageous to do this. What you have to do is figure out what people really want and give it to them. A couple of quick rules to wrap up. The first one is: Design is free when you get to scale. The people who come up with stuff that's remarkable more often than not figure out how to put design to work for them. Number two: The riskiest thing you can do now is be safe. Proctor and Gamble knows this, right? The whole model of being Proctor and Gamble is always about average products for average people. That's risky. The safe thing to do now is to be at the fringes, be remarkable. And being very good is one of the worst things you can possibly do. Very good is boring. Very good is average. It doesn't matter whether you're making a record album, or you're an architect, or you have a tract on sociology. If it's very good, it's not going to work, because no one's going to notice it. So my three stories. Silk put a product that does not need to be in the refrigerated section next to the milk in the refrigerated section. Sales tripled. Why? Milk, milk, milk, milk, milk — not milk. For the people who were there and looking at that section, it was remarkable. They didn't triple their sales with advertising; they tripled it by doing something remarkable. That is a remarkable piece of art. You don't have to like it, but a 40-foot tall dog made out of bushes in the middle of New York City is remarkable. (Laughter) Frank Gehry didn't just change a museum; he changed an entire city's economy by designing one building that people from all over the world went to see. Now, at countless meetings at, you know, the Portland City Council, or who knows where, they said, we need an architect — can we get Frank Gehry? Because he did something that was at the fringes. And my big failure? I came out with an entire — (Music) A record album and hopefully a whole bunch of record albums in SACD, this remarkable new format — and I marketed it straight to people with 20,000-dollar stereos. People with 20,000-dollar stereos don't like new music. (Laughter) So what you need to do is figure out who does care. Who is going to raise their hand and say, ""I want to hear what you're doing next,"" and sell something to them. The last example I want to give you. This is a map of Soap Lake, Washington. As you can see, if that's nowhere, it's in the middle of it. (Laughter) But they do have a lake. And people used to come from miles around to swim in the lake. They don't anymore. So the founding fathers said, ""We've got some money to spend. What can we build here?"" And like most committees, they were going to build something pretty safe. And then an artist came to them — this is a true artist's rendering — he wants to build a 55-foot tall lava lamp in the center of town. That's a purple cow; that's something worth noticing. I don't know about you, but if they build it, that's where I'm going to go. Thank you very much for your attention."	我要告訴你們四個具體的例子，我將會留到最後說明。一家名為Silk的公司，如何用一件事創造了三倍的銷售業績。藝術家傑夫‧昆斯，如何從無名小卒變成賺進大把鈔票和具有影響力的人，還有法蘭克‧蓋瑞，如何重新定義建築師，以及過去幾年，我身為行銷專員的最大敗筆之一，就是創立一個唱片品牌，並出了一張大碟叫「醬汁」。 但在那之前我想跟你談談切片麵包及歐土‧羅威德的故事。在1910年代切片麵包被發明之前，我很好奇當時人們說了什麼？像是繼電報之後最偉大的發明之類的。有個人叫歐土‧羅威德發明了切片麵包，他像許多發明家一樣，專注於專利和製造的部分。切片麵包這項發明有趣的一點是，在最初發明的15年，沒有人要買它，也沒有人知道，完全是個徹底的失敗。直到「奇異麵包」出現，找出如何散播切片麵包這個想法，才開始有人要買。切片麵包的成功，就像所有我們在這座談會上談論的成功例子，並非總是關於專利或工廠的規模，而是關於你是否能夠散播你的想法。我認為要獲得你所想要的東西，或是實踐你想要創造的改變，就是你必須找出辦法散播你的想法。 對我而言無論你是在經營咖啡店，或你是學者，或是商人，或是你駕駛熱氣球，我認為這個觀念對每個人都有用，不管我們從事什麼工作。我們所處的是一個觀念傳播的世紀，有能力傳播觀念的人，無論傳播的是什麼觀念，都會是贏家。我常拿商業來當例子，因為他們有最棒的照片讓你做簡報 ，也是保留記錄最簡單的方法。但是請包容我使用這些例子 ，因為這些都可能是你想花時間做的事。 傳播觀念的核心就是電視及類似的媒體，電視和大眾媒體，以特定的方式，使傳播觀念變得容易。我稱它為「電視工業綜合體」。運作的方式是你購買廣告時段，打擾一些人，讓你散佈訊息，利用這訊息的傳播賣出更多商品。你再利用銷售的盈利，來購買更多的廣告。這模式一直不斷的循環重複，跟多年前軍隊和工業綜合體的運作方式一樣，那個模式也就是我們昨天聽到的。如果我們能登上Google的首頁，如果我們懂得如何在那上面行銷，如果我們懂得如何抓住人的注意力，然後告訴他們我們想做的事。如果我們做得到每個人就會注意到，我們就贏了。電視工業綜合體在我和你的童年散播資訊，這些商品會成功，是因為有人知道了如何，以驚喜的方式觸動人心，或是以人們不希望的方式，持續廣告直到人們買下它為止。 接下來發生的是，他們取消了電視工業綜合體，就在過去幾年，任何做行銷的專員都發現到，電視工業綜合體已經失去以往的效果了。我很抱歉這張照片很模糊，因為當時我感冒很嚴重。但是在中央的那個藍色產品，就是我要說的範例。我到熟食店去我生病了，我需要買藥。那藍色產品的品牌經理花了一億美金，嘗試在一年內讓我停下來看。用一億元打電視和雜誌廣告，嘗試用垃圾、郵件、優待券、空架子和包裝來吸引我，好讓我可以漠視所有的訊息。我漠視所有訊息，因為我沒有止痛的需要。我買黃色包裝的東西，因為習慣了。而我不會花任何時間來解決她的問題，因為我沒興趣。 這是一本叫「水合物」的雜誌，有180頁關於水的報導。 (笑聲) 關於水的報導，關於水的廣告，想像一下40年前的世界，當時只有星期六晚郵時代雜誌、商業週刊，現在則有關於水的雜誌。日本可口可樂的新產品：水沙拉， (笑聲) 每三個星期，日本可口可樂就推出一個新產品。因為他們根本不知道，什麼產品會賣，什麼不會。我自己都無法寫得更好，這是四天前推出的。我將重要的部分圈起來，好讓你們看清楚。出現了。阿比斯將花八千五百萬推銷一個烤箱手套，用湯姆‧阿諾特的聲音做廣告，期待人們會到阿比斯速食店，買烤牛肉三明治。 (笑聲) 我嘗試想像電視上的動畫廣告會如何利用湯姆‧阿諾特的聲音，使你想跳進車子，開進城裡買一個烤牛肉三明治。 (笑聲) 這是哥白尼，而他說對了。當他跟一個想聽別人意見的人說話時，他說：他說：世界繞著我旋轉，我、我、我、我、我。我最愛的人：我。我不想收到別人寄的電子郵件，我想要收到「我的郵件」。 (笑聲) 消費者，我不只是指在Safeway超市買東西的人，我指的是在國防部工作且想買東西的人，或是在紐約客雜誌幫你印文章的那些人。消費者根本不管你死活，他們不在乎你。其中一個原因是，現在他們比以前擁有更多的選擇，卻擁有更少的時間。在這個擁有太多選擇，卻太少時間的世界，最明顯的事情就是忽視。我打個比喻，你正在路上開車 ，看到一隻牛，然後又繼續向前開，因為你已經看過牛了。牛是透明的、無聊的。誰會停到路邊然後指著牛說：看！有一隻牛耶！沒人會這樣做。 (笑聲) 但是，如果那隻牛是紫色的—這是一個很棒的特效，對吧？如果你想看我可以再做一次。如果牛是紫色的，你會注意一下。因為如果牛全部都是紫色的，你就又會感到無聊了。被決定成為話題的、被完成的、被改變的、被購買的、被建蓋的、其關鍵就是：那是否與眾不同？與眾不同是一個酷字，我們常覺得與眾不同只是代表很棒，但也代表值得被談論，而這就是觀念傳播未來的主要方向。在美國最熱門的兩部車就是，一輛55000美金的巨型車，大到可以載一輛MINI奧斯汀在後車廂內。人們付全價買這兩部車，而這兩部車唯一的共同點，就是它們沒有共同點。 (笑聲) 每個星期，美國暢銷第一的DVD都在改變，永遠不是「教父」或「大國民」。永遠都是一些二級演員演的三級電影。它成為第一的原因是，那週剛好是它上架的時間。因為它是新的、沒人看過的。因為人們看到會說：啊！我不知道有這個，然後就注意到了。過去20年來最成功的兩個零售商—其中一個用藍盒子賣，超貴的東西;另一個則是賣跟製作成本一樣便宜的東西。它們唯一的共同點就是它們是不同的， 我們做的是流行商業，無論我們以什麼謀生，我們都在流行產業裡。而在流行產業裡的人，知道在流行產業裡的狀況，因為習慣了。剩下的我們則必須發掘，如何跟他們想的一樣，了解到這不是用全面廣告去打擾消費者，或強調要跟人面對面。這是一個全然不同的運作方式，來決定哪些觀念，傳播得出去，而哪些不行。這張椅子，銷售額高達十億的Aeron椅子，靠的就是重新創造販賣椅子所代表的意義。他們把採購部門所購買的椅子，變成地位象徵，代表你在職場的位置。這位是萊尼爾‧普蘭，世界上最有名的麵包師—他在兩個半月前去逝了，他既是我的英雄，也是我的好友。他住在巴黎，去年他賣法國麵包的營業額高達一千萬元，他所擁有的每家麵包店所烤出的每一條麵包，都是一次由一位麵包師傅，用木柴烤爐烤出來的。萊尼爾剛創業的時候，法國人嘲笑他，法國人不想買他做的麵包，因為看起來不像法國麵包。這並不是人們所期待的。但是，那麵包很棒且與眾不同，慢慢地一個傳一個地傳播了出去。直到最後，那麵包成了巴黎三星餐廳的指定麵包 。現在倫敦也有分店，靠著聯邦快遞運送到全球。 行銷專員過去做的是，為普通人製造普通的產品。這就是所謂的大眾行銷。磨平兩端，取中間的那段，就是大市場。他們會忽略那些怪客及老天保佑、那些落後者，全都只鎖定中間那塊大餅。但是在電視工業綜合體瓦解的世界裡，我不認為這是我們想要繼續使用的策略。我認為我們想要用的策略是，不再鎖定那些人做行銷，因為他們太會忽略你了 。但是針對這些人做行銷，因為他們關心。這些是對某些東西著迷的人，當你跟他們說話時他們會聽，因為他們喜歡聽，這些跟他們有關。如果你幸運的話，他們會告訴在其餘曲線上的朋友，然後傳播出去。傳播到整個曲線上。 這被稱為「御宅」，一個很棒的日本字。形容有人對某種東西的渴望，讓人著迷到開車橫跨東京去嘗試新的拉麵。這就是御宅族會做的事情，他們沉迷於自己有興趣的東西。製造一樣產品，行銷一個觀念，解決你想解決的問題。如果當中沒有一個御宅族的顧客，那將不可能成功。你必須找到一個族群，真心且迫切想知道你想說的事情，跟那些人說，並讓他們能夠很容易地傳達給朋友。現在有辣椒醬的御宅族，卻沒有芥末醬的御宅族。這就是為什麼有許許多多不同的辣椒醬，卻沒有很多種的芥末醬。並不是因為很難做出有趣的芥末醬—你可以做出有趣的芥末醬—而是因為沒有人著迷所以人們不會去做，也因此沒人會告訴他們的朋友。Krispy Kreme甜甜圈完全搞懂了這回事，Krispy Kreme有一個策略就是，它進入一個城市跟御宅族對話，接著散播到整個城市，甚至是對街的人。 這個溜溜球價值112元美金，但是需要睡12分鐘，並不是每個人都想買，可是廠商不在乎。廠商想跟有興趣的人溝通，也許這會散播開來。這些人製造全世界最大聲的汽車音響。 (笑聲) 簡直跟747噴射機一樣大聲，你無法搶東西，因為車子有防彈玻璃因為車子有防彈玻璃，否則那音量就會炸碎擋風板。但事實就是，當有人想在車裡放兩個音箱。如果他們剛好是御宅族，或是從御宅族身上得到消息，他們就會自然選擇這些， 這很簡單—你就是把東西賣給想聽的人，而也許那些人就會告訴其他朋友。所以當史蒂夫‧賈伯斯用Keynote對著五萬人演講時，那些人從130個國家飛來，觀賞他兩個小時的廣告—那是唯一讓蘋果繼續經營下去的原因—那五萬人的興趣多得足以有耐心看完兩個小時的廣告，並且告訴他們的朋友。珍珠果醬在過去兩年發行了96張大碟，每張都賺錢，怎麼辦到的?他們只在官網上賣。在那些消費者當中有御宅族，然後就告訴其他朋友，接著就傳播得更多更遠了。這個醫院嬰兒床要價一萬美金，是標準床的十倍價格。可是醫院搶買的速度比其他款式都快。「硬糖指甲油」並非人人喜愛，可是對喜歡的人來說，他們瘋狂地討論著。這個油漆桶，保住了「荷蘭男孩」油漆公司。讓他們大賺一筆，比起一般油漆桶高出35%的成本。但是荷蘭男孩製造了一個，大家會討論的油漆桶，因為這油漆桶與眾不同。他們並不是只是貼了一張新的廣告，而是改變了製造油漆產品的意義。「我辣不辣」網站每天有25萬人訪客，由兩位志工維護，我可以告訴各位他們是嚴厲的評分者。 (笑聲) 他們並不是靠大量廣告獲得人氣，而是靠著與眾不同，有時候太過與眾不同，這個相框背後有條電線，插上插頭 。我父親的桌上有一個這種相框，他就可以每天看到他的孫子，照片不停的變換，每個走進他辦公室的人，就會聽見這相框的來龍去脈，一次一個人這產品就會傳播出去。這些不是真的鑽石，而是骨灰做的。當你火葬之後，就可以把骨灰做成寶石。 (笑聲) 噢！你喜歡我的戒指嗎？這是我奶奶。 (笑聲) 殯葬業成長最快的商機。你不需要是奧茲．奧斯朋—或是無法無天才能做到。你只要能找出人們想要的東西，然後把東西提供給他們就成功了。 最後以兩個原則做結尾。第一個是，當你有規模時設計是免費的，能創造出與眾不同的產品的人，通常都知道，如何利用設計來讓自己獲利。第二個是，現在最危險的事，就是做安全的事。寶僑家品最了解了。寶僑的模式總是提供普通產品給普通人。這很危險，現在安全的事就是站在極端上，變得與眾不同。而成為非常好的，是你可能做的最壞的事。非常好是無聊的、非常好是普通的，不管你是在製作唱片，或是一個建築師，或是你有社會學的背景。如果是非常好就不會成功，因為沒有人會注意到。 回到我要說的三個故事。Silk將一個不需要冷藏產品放在冷藏牛奶的旁邊。銷售量就成長了三倍，爲什麼?牛奶、牛奶、牛奶、牛奶、牛奶、不是牛奶。對站在那裡看到這架子的人來說，那是很與眾不同的。Silk並沒有靠廣告增加銷售量，而是靠做了一件與眾不同的事情。那是一件與眾不同的藝術品，你不需要喜歡它。但是用植物做的40英尺高的狗，站在紐約市的中央是很出眾的。法蘭克‧蓋瑞不只是改變了一個博物館，他改變了整個城市的經濟，透過設計一個世界各地的人都跑去看的建築物，無數個會議在波特蘭市政府等地方舉行。那些人說：我們需要一個建築師，可以請到法蘭克‧蓋瑞嗎？因為他做了一件非常極端的事情。而我的大失敗呢？我出了一張大碟。 (音樂) 希望一大堆唱片都用超級SACD規格—這個與眾不同的新規格—我針對擁有兩萬元音響的人做行銷，擁有兩萬元音響的人不喜歡新的音樂。 (笑聲) 所以你需要做的是，找出哪些人會有興趣，誰會舉手說：我想知道你下一歩會做什麼，然後賣東西給他們。最後一個例子是，這是華盛頓肥皂湖市的地圖。如你所看到的，如果那是個不知名的地方，肥皂湖市就位在那正中央。 (笑聲) 可是他們真的有個湖。而人們曾經一度大老遠地來到湖裡游泳，現在再也不會了。於是發起者就說：我們有些預算可以利用，我們可以在那裡蓋什麼呢？就像許多理事會一樣，他們想蓋一個很安全的東西。接著來了一位藝術家—這真的是藝術家的描繪—他想在鎮中心蓋一個55英尺高的岩漿燈，那是一隻紫色的牛，那是值得注意的事。我不曉得各位怎麼想，但是如果他們要蓋這件作品，那將會是我想去的地方。 謝謝各位的聆聽。
