Talk	en	zh-tw
seth_priebatsch_the_game_layer_on_top_of_the_world	"My name's Seth Priebatsch. I'm the chief ninja of SCVNGR. I'm a proud Princeton dropout. Also proud to have relocated here to Boston, where I actually grew up. (Applause) Yeah, Boston. Easy wins, I should just name the counties that we've got around here. I'm also fairly determined to try and build a game layer on top of the world. This is sort of a new concept and it's really important, because while the last decade was the decade of social, the decade where the framework in which we connect with other people was built, this next decade will be the decade where the game framework is built, where the motivations we use to actually influence behavior and the framework in which that is constructed, is decided upon, and that's really important. I say I want to build a game layer on top of the world, but that's not quite true, because it's already under construction; it's already happening. And it looks like this right now. It looks like the Web did back in 1997, right? It's not very good. It's cluttered. It's filled with lots of different things that, in short, aren't that fun. There are credit card schemes and airline mile programs, coupon cards and all these loyalty schemes that actually do use game dynamics and are building the game layer — they just suck. They're not very well-designed. (Laughter) So that's unfortunate. But luckily, as my favorite action hero, Bob the Builder, says, ""We can do better. We can build this better."" And the tools, the resources that we use to build a game layer, are game dynamics themselves. And so the crux of this presentation is going to go through four really important game dynamics, really interesting things, that, if you use consciously, you can use to influence behavior, both for good, for bad, for in-between. Hopefully for good. But this is the important stage in which that framework will get built, and so we want to all be thinking about it consciously now. Before we jump into that, there's a question of: Why is this important? I'm making this claim that there's a game layer on top of the world, and it's very important that we build it properly. The reason it's so important is that, in the last decade, what we've seen has been building the social layer, has been this framework for connections, and construction on that layer is over, it's finished. There's still a lot to explore, still a lot of people trying to figure out social and how we leverage this and how we use this, but the framework itself is done, and it's called Facebook. And that's OK, right? A lot of people are very happy with Facebook. I like it quite a lot. They've created this thing called the Open Graph, and they own all of our connections. They own half a billion people. So when you want to build on the social layer, the framework has been decided; it is the Open Graph API. And if you're happy with that, fantastic. If you're not, too bad. There's nothing you can do. And that's a real thing. I mean, we want to build frameworks in a way that makes it acceptable and makes it productive down the road. So, the social layer is all about these connections. The game layer is all about influence. It's not about adding a social fabric to the web and connecting you to other people everywhere you are and everywhere you go, it's actually about using dynamics, using forces, to influence the behavior of where you are, what you do there, how you do it. That's really, really powerful. And it's going to be more important than the social layer, and affect our lives more deeply and perhaps more invisibly. So it's incredibly critical that at this moment, while it's just getting constructed, while the frameworks like Facebook or Open Graph are being created for the game-layer equivalent, that we think about it very consciously, and that we do it in a way that is open, available, and can be leveraged for good. So that's what I want to talk about for game dynamics, because construction has just begun, and the more consciously we can think about this, the better we'll be able to use it for anything we want. So like I said, the way you go through and build on the game layer is not with glass and steel and cement. And the resources we use are not this two-dimensional swath of land that we have. The resources are mindshare, and the tools, the raw materials, are these game dynamics. With that, a couple game dynamics to talk about. Back at SCVNGR, we like to joke that with seven game dynamics, you can get anyone to do anything. Today, I'm going to show you four, because I hope to have a competitive advantage at the end of this, still. (Laughter) So the first one, it's a very simple game dynamic. It's called the appointment dynamic. It's a dynamic in which to succeed, players have to do something at a predefined time, generally at a predefined place. And these dynamics are a little scary sometimes, because you think, ""Other people can be using forces that will manipulate how I interact: what I do, where I do it, when I do it."" This sort of ""loss of free will"" that occurs in games can be frightening. So with each dynamic, I'm going to give three examples: one that shows how it's already being used in the real world, so you can rationalize it a bit; one that shows it in what we consider a conventional game — I think everything is a game, but this is more what you'd think of as a game played on a board or on a computer screen; and one of how it can be used for good, so you can see that these forces can be very powerful. So the first one, the most famous appointment dynamic in the world, is something called, ""Happy Hour."" So I had just recently dropped out of Princeton and actually ended up for the first time in a bar, and I saw these happy hour things all over the place. And this is simply an appointment dynamic: come here at a certain time, get your drinks half off. To win, all you have to do is show up at the right place at the right time. This game dynamic is so powerful, it doesn't just influence our behavior; it's influenced our entire culture. That's a really scary thought, that one game dynamic can change things so powerfully. It also exists in more conventional game forms. I'm sure you've all heard of Farmville by now. If you haven't, I recommend playing it. You won't do anything else for the rest of your day. Farmville has more active users than Twitter. It's incredibly powerful, and it has this dynamic where you have to return at a certain time to water your fake crops, or they wilt. And this is so powerful that when they tweak their stats, when they say your crops wilt after eight hours, or after six hours, or after 24 hours, it changes the life cycle of some 70 million people during the day. They will return, like clockwork, at different times. So if they wanted the world to end, if they wanted productivity to stop, they could make it a 30-minute cycle, and no one could do anything else, right? (Laughter) That's a little scary. But this could also be used for good. This local company called Vitality has created a product to help people take their medicine on time. That's an appointment. It's something that people don't do very well. They have these GlowCaps which flash and email you and do cool things to remind you to take your medicine. This isn't a game yet, but really should be. You should get points for doing it on time and lose points for not doing it on time. They should recognize they've built an appointment dynamic, and leverage the games. Then you can really achieve good in some interesting ways. We're going to jump onto the next one. Influence and status. This is one of the most famous game dynamics, used all over the place. It's used in your wallets, right now. We all want that credit card on the far left, because it's black. And you see someone at CVS or — not CVS — like, Christian Dior — (Laughter) I don't know. I don't have a black card; I've got a debit card. (Laughter) So they whip it out and you see that black card, and: ""I want that because it means they're cooler than I am, and I need that."" And this is used in games as well. ""Modern Warfare,"" one of the most successful selling games of all time. I'm only a level four, but I desperately want to be a level 10, because they've got that cool red badge, and that means that I am somehow better than everyone else. And that's very powerful to me. Status is really good motivator. It's also used in more conventional settings, and can be used more consciously there. School — and remember, I made it through one year, so I think I'm qualified to talk on school — is a game; it's just not a terribly well-designed game. There are levels. There are C. There are B. There's A. There are statuses. I mean, what is valedictorian, but a status? If we called valedictorian a ""White Knight Paladin level 20,"" I think people would probably work a lot harder. (Laughter) (Applause) So school is a game, and there has been lots of experimentation on how we do this properly. But let's use it consciously. Why have games you can lose? Why go from an A to an F or a B to a C? That sucks. Why not level-up? At Princeton, they've actually experimented with this, with quizzes where you gain experience points, and you level up from B to an A. And it's very powerful. It can be used in interesting ways. The third one I'll talk about is the progression dynamic, where you have to make progress, move through different steps in a very granular fashion. This is used all over the place, including LinkedIn, where I am an unwhole individual. I am only 85 percent complete on LinkedIn, and that bothers me. And this is so deep-seated in our psyche that when we're presented with a progress bar and presented with easy, granular steps to take to try and complete that progress bar, we will do it. We will find a way to move that blue line all the way to the right edge of the screen. This is used in conventional games as well. I mean, this is a Paladin level 10, and that's a Paladin level 20. And if you were going to fight Orcs on the fields of Mordor against the Ra's Al Ghul, you'd probably want to be the bigger one, right? I would. And so people work very hard to level-up. ""World of Warcraft"" is one of the most successful games of all time. The average player spends some six, six-and-a-half hours a day on it, their most dedicated players — it's like a full-time job, it's insane. And they have these systems where you can level-up. And that's a very powerful thing. Progression is powerful. It can also be used in very compelling ways for good. One of the things we work on at SCVNGR is: How do you use games to drive traffic and business to local businesses, to something that is very key to the economy? And here, we have a game that people play. They go places, do challenges, earn points. And we've introduced a progression dynamic into it, where, by going to the same place over and over, doing challenges, engaging with the business, you move a green bar from the left edge of the screen to the right, and unlock rewards. This is powerful enough that we can see it hooks people into these dynamics, pulls them back to the same local businesses, creates loyalty, creates engagement, and is able to drive meaningful revenue and fun and engagement to businesses. These progression dynamics are powerful and can be used in the real world. The final one I want to talk about — and it's a great one to end on — is this concept of communal discovery, a dynamic in which everyone has to work together to achieve something. Communal discovery is powerful because it leverages the network that is society to solve problems. This is used in some famous consumer web stories like Digg, which I'm sure you've all heard of. Digg is a communal dynamic to try to find and source the best news, the most interesting stories. And they made this into a game, initially. They had a leader board where, if you recommended the best stories, you would get points. And that really motivated people to find the best stories. But it became so powerful, there was actually a cabal, a group of people, the top seven on the leader board, who would work together to make sure they maintained that position, recommending people's stories. The game became more powerful than the goal. They ended up shutting down the leader board because, while it was effective, it was so powerful that it stopped sourcing the best stories, and started having people work to maintain leadership. So we have to use this one carefully. It's also used in things like McDonald's Monopoly, where the game is not the Monopoly you're playing, but the cottage industries that form to try and find Boardwalk. There, they're just looking for a sticker that says ""Boardwalk,"" but it can also be used to find real things. This is the DARPA balloon challenge, where they hid a couple balloons all across the United States and said, ""Use networks. Try and find these balloons fastest, and the winner will get $40,000."" The winner was a group out of MIT, where they created sort of a pyramid scheme, a network, where the first person to recommend the location of a balloon got $2,000, and anyone else to push that recommendation up also got a cut. And in 12 hours, they were able to find all these balloons, all across the country. Really powerful dynamic. And so, I've got about 20 seconds left, so if I'm going to leave you with anything, last decade was the decade of social. This next decade is the decade of games. We use game dynamics to build on it. We build with mindshare. We can influence behavior. It's very powerful. It's very exciting. Let's all build it together, let's do it well and have fun playing. (Applause)"	"我叫Seth Priebatsch。我是SCVNGR的首席忍者。(註：SCVNGR為美國的網路遊戲公司，公司將CEO稱chief ninja)我是個驕傲的普林斯頓輟學生。同時也非常驕傲能夠再回到波士頓，這個我出生的地方。我愛波士頓。我到處走訪各地，為了宣達這種概念。我決定要去嘗試建立一個超棒的遊戲社交圈。這是一種新的概念，但它很重要。因為，過去十年，是網路社交的黃金十年，在過去的這十年間我們建構了連接人與人的網路平台，而下一個十年，將會是遊戲型平台的建構期，玩遊戲的動機會影響我們的行為，這些正在建構的平台，是很重要的。 所以剛剛說，我要建立一個最棒的遊戲社交圈，這可能有點不對，因為它已經是進行式了，它正在發生。它現在看起來是這模樣。這看起來像1997年時的網頁畫面，對吧?因為它現在又糟又亂。有一大堆不同類型的遊戲充斥在網路上，總之，看起來一點都不好玩。像是信用卡公司的刷卡專案、航空公司的里程計畫、優惠券等等它們利用民眾玩遊戲的驅動力來建立遊戲社交圈，以便提升顧客忠誠，真的是爛透了。這種消費遊戲設計的很爛，對吧?這真是不幸。不過運氣很好的是，我最愛的動作巨星，建築師巴布說，(註：Bob the Builder，在歐美相當受歡迎的卡通影片)""我們可以做的更好，我們可以蓋出更棒的建物""而其實我們用來建構遊戲社交圈的工具和資源，就是遊戲驅動力。今天演講的關鍵點，就是要介紹4個重要的遊戲驅動力，非常有趣，如果你利用這些驅動力，你就能影響他人行為，可以引導他人做出好的行為，或是壞的行為，或是同時發生。希望都是好的行為。這個遊戲平台的建立將是最重要的一個階段，我們應該認真清楚的思考這件事情。 在我們開始說明之前，讓我們先自問：為什麼它很重要?為什麼我剛說建立最棒的遊戲社交圈會是我們優先建立的重要工作。原因就是，在最近十年間，我們已經建立了一種網路社交圈，一種連接人與人的網路平台，這種社交圈的建設已經到達終點，已經結束了。許多人仍在這領域摸索新的新的可能性。還有許多人試著創造這種社會性網路平台，還在試著去了解該如何利用這平台，但其實這種平台目前已經走到了盡頭，這盡頭叫做Facebook。走到盡頭也沒關係，對吧?反正有很多人樂於使用Facebook。我其實也挺愛的。Facebook利用所謂的""開放圖表""(Open Graph)，擁有所有使用者的關係資料。這網站擁有5億人的關係資料。若你才剛想到要去建立網路社交圈，Facebook早就知道你跟什麼有關聯了，這就是""開放圖表應用程式""(Open Graph API)。若你因此而高興，那很棒。若你覺得這樣不太好，那太糟了，因為你無能為力。 但接下來的十年，某件事一定會發生。我是要講，我們要建立一種平台，這種平台的資料是人人可以讀取的，而且，當然，內容更豐富。所以，網路社交圈就包含了所有人的關係鏈。而遊戲社交圈將帶來重大的影響。它可不僅僅只有網路社交的部份，它可以隨時隨地把你跟別人連接在一起，不論你在哪或是想去哪。它使用了某些驅動力，會有某種力量去影響你的行為，不論你在哪，不論你在那做什麼，還有你打算怎麼做。這會非常有力，而且重要性會遠超過網路社交圈。它會影響我們的生活更深入，更無形。這難以置信的關鍵點，就在這一切正在形成的此時此刻，社交平台如Facebook、或是開放圖表，最多也只能跟遊戲社交圈並駕齊驅，我們認為這是非常合理的，我們也將它設計成開放、人人都能使用，甚至給人帶來益處。 我想先來聊聊遊戲驅動力，因為這才剛起步，更合理地來說，我們希望在各種領域裡，可以把它發揮得更好。你在遊戲社交圈中所建立的、所經歷的的任何東西，都將受到保護不任意外洩。我們使用的資源可不僅是那在螢幕上的平面地圖。這資源是心靈市佔率，這是遊戲驅動力中的原料。所以，我今天要跟各位介紹4種遊戲驅動力。在SCVNGR，我們總是開玩笑說，如果有了7種遊戲驅動力，你可以指使任何人做任何事情。所以今天，我只會跟各位介紹4個，因為我還希望演講後公司還能保有一點競爭優勢。 (笑) 第一個，是非常簡單的遊戲驅動力。稱為約定動力(appointment dynamic)。這個動力是來自於玩家得在某特定時間做出某件事，一般來說也要在特定的地點作。這些動力有時候有點恐怖，因為，各位想像一下，會有其他人使用這種力量去操縱我和他人的互動、行為、行為的地點、行為的時間點。失去自由的情況會出現在遊戲中，這很可怕，對於這4種驅動力，我會從三方面來講，第一，我會舉例這在真實世界裡如何運用，這樣各位比較容易體會，第二，我會講這些是出自傳統遊戲中的哪部分，我認為所有事物都是個遊戲，就像你在玩某種棋盤遊戲或是電腦遊戲，第三，這會被如何應用在好的方面，我們會見識到這些力量是多麼有影響力。 首先，世界上最著名的約定動力，就是""快樂時光""(註：歐美酒吧的減價時段)。我才剛從普林斯頓大學輟學，第一次在酒吧結束學生生涯，然後我在發現許多酒吧都有這個優惠時段。這是一個簡易的約定動力。特定時間到這裡集合，買到一杯半價飲料。為了勝利，因為你會在特定時間出現在特定地點。這種遊戲驅動力影響力很大，這不只是影響我們的行為，是影響了我們整個文化。這是個很可怕的，僅僅一個遊戲驅動力能如此有效的改變事物。 這同樣也存在許多傳統遊戲裡。相信各位都聽過Farmville這款遊戲。(註：Facebook上的知名網頁遊戲)若你沒聽過，我建議你來試試看。只要一碰，你就不會想在閒暇時間裡做其他事情了。Farmville的玩家可能比Twitter的使用者更多。這真是不可思議的強大，而這種驅動力會讓你在特定時間一再的打開電腦，為你的穀物灌溉，虛擬穀物，否則它們會枯死。這強大的地方在於，遊戲公司只要稍微動一下遊戲數值，讓你的穀物枯死時間是在8小時後，或是6小時後，或24小時後，這一點動作就會改變7千萬人一天的生活作息。他們會像時鐘一樣準時回來種田。除非想要農莊倒掉或是生產停止，不然玩家會每30分鐘回來看一下，然後整天都不用做別的事了。(笑)這實在很嚇人。 但這也能應用在好的事物上。這是一家國內公司，叫Vitality，他們製造了一種產品可以幫助人們在固定吃間吃藥。這就是一種約定。有些事情人總是做不好。而這家公司就推出了GlowCaps，它會發光或是發送email或是做一堆奇怪的事情來提醒你該吃藥。這還不太像是一種遊戲，但實際上它是。你準時做到就會得分。妳沒準時做到就會扣分。使用者會清楚的意識到他們已經建立了一種約定力，充份利用了遊戲功能。也因此你能透過有趣的過程做到某些好事。 讓我們進入下一個，沒錯，就是感染力(Influence)和地位(status)。這是遊戲驅動力中最受歡迎的部分。這能應用在任何領域。這現在就應用在各位的皮夾裡，我們都希望拿到畫面最右邊的那張信用卡，運通頂級黑卡。當你看到某人在便利商店...不是便利商店，是在迪奧(Christian Dior)或是其他精品專賣店時，這張卡才會出現..我不熟啦，我又沒拿過黑卡，提款卡倒是有1張。(笑)他們手一伸，你看到他們手上拿著黑卡。我會想要黑卡，是因為這張卡意味著身分高人一等，所以我想要。 這也是一種遊戲。這種""現代戰爭""，是商業遊戲最成功的一環。我在這場遊戲中只有等級4，但我會拼老命衝到等級10來得到卡，因為這張黑卡就像是英勇的紅色勳章，擁有它意味著我在某方面比他人強。這對人是很有影響力的。所以說，地位是很棒的激勵因素。 它也被應用在很多傳統的事物上，甚至非常刻意的用在某些常見的事物上。像是學校，喔！別忘了我在大學裡呆過1年，我想我有資格用學校當例子，其實學校就是遊戲，它是個設計良好的遊戲，學校裡有等級制度，等級C、B、A。學校裡有地位制度，就像畢業生致詞代表，這不是個地位嗎?若把致詞代表換個名稱，叫""等級20的白色騎馬戰士""，我猜學生一定會超用功唸書。(笑)所以說學校就是遊戲，裡面有各種測驗，端看我們如何好好通過這些測驗。測驗是必要的，你不會想要在這遊戲中當輸家吧?誰要從A變成F，或是從B變成C阿?這樣就很遜，要提升等級才對阿。在普林斯頓裡，也有許多測驗，獲得經驗值的方式就是參加考試，做的好才能從等級B變成等級A。這很有影響力。但它可以應用在更有趣的事情上。 第三個，我想講快一點，它是進步動力(progression dynamic)。這種動力會讓你想更進步，你會透過一些細小的任務來進步。這應用在許多地方，像是LinkedIn網站(註：LinkedIn是使用者靠自己的履歷做網路社交)在這個網站上，我的資料不夠完整。我在LinkedIn上只完成了85%的進度，我會很在意這件事。這個網站會深植在我們的心理，是因為網頁上會有個""目前進度""的長條，它會細分成很多小小的步驟，讓你會願意嘗試完成這個""目前進度""。我們會有方法移動藍色長條，讓它一直往螢幕右邊移動。 這在傳統的電玩中也應用很多。看，左邊是個等級10的武士，右邊是等級20的武士，若現在各位將前往魔多攻擊半獸人，並對抗黑暗大頭目，各位應該都會想當右邊的大塊頭吧。我就會選右邊的。所以人們會埋首於等級提升。""魔獸世界(World of Warcraft)""是目前最成功的遊戲之一。平均一個玩家一天會投入6.5小時。還有更專業的玩家，把這個當全職工作。根本是瘋了。這是一個能讓你提升等級的系統。進步動力非常有影響力。 同樣它也能應用在很多好的事情上。其中一個是SCVNGR，我們的目標就是想出如何利用遊戲的手法，去針對當地企業做商業操作，這對經濟是重要的關鍵。所以我們設計了一個遊戲給大眾。他們到某個地點，接受某個挑戰，然後賺取經驗值。我們就是將進步動力引進了遊戲之中，你可以一直前往某個地方，或是接受某種由企業贊助的挑戰活動，你就能將綠色小方條從最左邊移動到最右邊，最後你能獲得獎賞。這種影響力是顯而易見的，人們受到這種動力影響，促使人們一直光顧同個當地商家，建立極大的忠誠度、密切關係，這給企業帶來收益娛樂、承諾。這種進步動力很有影響力，並能推廣應用到全世界。 最後一個我要講的，這當結尾很棒，就是""社群探索""概念的產生，這種驅動力會引領每個人一起工作，以便達成某個目標。社群探索的有力點，在於它能利用網路社會的力量解決各種問題。這些使用在一些受歡迎的消費性網路商店裡。像是Digg，我相信大家都聽過。(註：書籤社群網站)Digg就是一種社群動力讓使用者去尋找最棒的新聞，或是最有趣的小故事。最初，這對他們而言只是個遊戲。若你所推薦的某個故事登上了網頁首頁，就能得到分數。這會刺激使用者去找更多更棒的故事。這很有影響力，很像某種幫派，有一群人總是能佔據首頁前7名的位置，因為他們會一起合作確保在首頁的位置。這群體的成員會互相推薦彼此的文章。遊戲的過程會比達成目標還要有影響力。最後，霸佔首頁會變成主要的目標，這種情形發生的時候，社群動力就會讓使用者不再推薦好故事，只會讓使用者專注在如何維持在首頁。所以這種影響力的使用要很小心。另一個例子，像""麥當勞大富翁遊戲""(註：McDonald's Monopoly，麥當勞從1987年開始在歐美的促銷活動，在店內玩類似大富翁的遊戲。)這不太像我們平常在玩的大富翁，消費者會像民宿業者一樣尋找它們的濱海長堤(註：Boardwalk，紐澤西州大西洋城名景)。消費者都會希望抽中一張有寫""濱海長堤""的貼紙(註：抽中此貼紙通常是最大獎)。 這能應用在找些真實存在的東西。美國國防部高級研究規劃局(DARPA)推出了氣球挑戰賽，他們隨機在美國內放了10個氣球，他們宣布：""請使用網路，最快找到這些氣球的人，可以贏得4萬美金。""拿走獎金的是麻省理工的一個團隊，他們創立了一個類似老鼠會的網站，第一個到網站報告氣球位置的人，就能拿到2千美金，然後將消息傳給發現者的所有人，能均分1千美金。12小時內，這個團隊就蒐集到散布在全美國的10個氣球的位置。非常有效的驅動力。 喔，我還剩20秒，讓我做個總結，近十年來是網路社交的黃金十年，下一個十年是遊戲社交的十年。我們正在使用這些遊戲驅動力來建立。我們要的是心靈市佔率。我們可以影響人類行為。這會很有影響力，也令人非常興奮。讓我們一起建構這個世界，讓我們能一起沉溺在遊戲的世界裡。"
