Talk	en	zh-tw
seth_godin_on_the_tribes_we_lead	"So sometimes I get invited to give weird talks. I got invited to speak to the people who dress up in big stuffed animal costumes to perform at sporting events. Unfortunately I couldn't go. But it got me thinking about the fact that these guys, at least most of them, know what it is that they do for a living. What they do is they dress up as stuffed animals and entertain people at sporting events. Shortly after that I got invited to speak at the convention of the people who make balloon animals. And again, I couldn't go. But it's a fascinating group. They make balloon animals. There is a big schism between the ones who make gospel animals and porn animals, but — (Laughter) they do a lot of really cool stuff with balloons. Sometimes they get in trouble, but not often. And the other thing about these guys is, they also know what they do for a living. They make balloon animals. But what do we do for a living? What exactly to the people watching this do every day? And I want to argue that what we do is we try to change everything. That we try to find a piece of the status quo — something that bothers us, something that needs to be improved, something that is itching to be changed — and we change it. We try to make big, permanent, important change. But we don't think about it that way. And we haven't spent a lot of time talking about what that process is like. And I've been studying it for a couple years. And I want to share a couple stories with you today. First, about a guy named Nathan Winograd. Nathan was the number two person at the San Francisco SPCA. And what you may not know about the history of the SPCA is, it was founded to kill dogs and cats. Cities gave them a charter to get rid of the stray animals on the street and destroy them. In a typical year four million dogs and cats were killed, most of them within 24 hours of being scooped off of the street. Nathan and his boss saw this, and they could not tolerate it. So they set out to make San Francisco a no-kill city: create an entire city where every dog and cat, unless it was ill or dangerous, would be adopted, not killed. And everyone said it was impossible. Nathan and his boss went to the city council to get a change in the ordinance. And people from SPCAs and humane shelters around the country flew to San Francisco to testify against them — to say it would hurt the movement and it was inhumane. They persisted. And Nathan went directly to the community. He connected with people who cared about this: nonprofessionals, people with passion. And within just a couple years, San Francisco became the first no-kill city, running no deficit, completely supported by the community. Nathan left and went to Tompkins County, New York — a place as different from San Francisco as you can be and still be in the United States. And he did it again. He went from being a glorified dogcatcher to completely transforming the community. And then he went to North Carolina and did it again. And he went to Reno and he did it again. And when I think about what Nathan did, and when I think about what people here do, I think about ideas. And I think about the idea that creating an idea, spreading an idea has a lot behind it. I don't know if you've ever been to a Jewish wedding, but what they do is, they take a light bulb and they smash it. Now there is a bunch of reasons for that, and stories about it. But one reason is because it indicates a change, from before to after. It is a moment in time. And I want to argue that we are living through and are right at the key moment of a change in the way ideas are created and spread and implemented. We started with the factory idea: that you could change the whole world if you had an efficient factory that could churn out change. We then went to the TV idea, that said if you had a big enough mouthpiece, if you could get on TV enough times, if you could buy enough ads, you could win. And now we're in this new model of leadership, where the way we make change is not by using money or power to lever a system, but by leading. So let me tell you about the three cycles. The first one is the factory cycle. Henry Ford comes up with a really cool idea. It enables him to hire men who used to get paid 50 cents a day and pay them five dollars a day. Because he's got an efficient enough factory. Well with that sort of advantage you can churn out a lot of cars. You can make a lot of change. You can get roads built. You can change the fabric of an entire country. That the essence of what you're doing is you need ever-cheaper labor, and ever-faster machines. And the problem we've run into is, we're running out of both. Ever-cheaper labor and ever-faster machines. (Laughter) So we shift gears for a minute, and say, ""I know: television; advertising. Push push. Take a good idea and push it on the world. I have a better mousetrap. And if I can just get enough money to tell enough people, I'll sell enough."" And you can build an entire industry on that. If necessary you can put babies in your ads. If necessary you can use babies to sell other stuff. And if babies don't work, you can use doctors. But be careful. Because you don't want to get an unfortunate juxtaposition, where you're talking about one thing instead of the other. (Laughter) This model requires you to act like the king, like the person in the front of the room throwing things to the peons in the back. That you are in charge, and you're going to tell people what to do next. The quick little diagram of it is, you're up here, and you are pushing it out to the world. This method — mass marketing — requires average ideas, because you're going to the masses, and plenty of ads. What we've done as spammers is tried to hypnotize everyone into buying our idea, hypnotize everyone into donating to our cause, hypnotize everyone into voting for our candidate. And, unfortunately, it doesn't work so well anymore either. (Laughter) But there is good news around the corner — really good news. I call it the idea of tribes. What tribes are, is a very simple concept that goes back 50,000 years. It's about leading and connecting people and ideas. And it's something that people have wanted forever. Lots of people are used to having a spiritual tribe, or a church tribe, having a work tribe, having a community tribe. But now, thanks to the internet, thanks to the explosion of mass media, thanks to a lot of other things that are bubbling through our society around the world, tribes are everywhere. The Internet was supposed to homogenize everyone by connecting us all. Instead what it's allowed is silos of interest. So you've got the red-hat ladies over here. You've got the red-hat triathletes over there. You've got the organized armies over here. You've got the disorganized rebels over here. You've got people in white hats making food. And people in white hats sailing boats. The point is that you can find Ukrainian folk dancers and connect with them, because you want to be connected. That people on the fringes can find each other, connect and go somewhere. Every town that has a volunteer fire department understands this way of thinking. (Laughter) Now it turns out this is a legitimate non-photoshopped photo. People I know who are firemen told me that this is not uncommon. And that what firemen do to train sometimes is they take a house that is going to be torn down, and they burn it down instead, and practice putting it out. But they always stop and take a picture. (Laughter) You know the pirate tribe is a fascinating one. They've got their own flag. They've got the eye patches. You can tell when you're running into someone in a tribe. And it turns out that it's tribes — not money, not factories — that can change our world, that can change politics, that can align large numbers of people. Not because you force them to do something against their will, but because they wanted to connect. That what we do for a living now, all of us, I think, is find something worth changing, and then assemble tribes that assemble tribes that spread the idea and spread the idea. And it becomes something far bigger than ourselves, it becomes a movement. So when Al Gore set out to change the world again, he didn't do it by himself. And he didn't do it by buying a lot of ads. He did it by creating a movement. Thousands of people around the country who could give his presentation for him, because he can't be in 100 or 200 or 500 cities in each night. You don't need everyone. What Kevin Kelley has taught us is you just need, I don't know, a thousand true fans — a thousand people who care enough that they will get you the next round and the next round and the next round. And that means that the idea you create, the product you create, the movement you create isn't for everyone, it's not a mass thing. That's not what this is about. What it's about instead is finding the true believers. It's easy to look at what I've said so far, and say, ""Wait a minute, I don't have what it takes to be that kind of leader."" So here are two leaders. They don't have a lot in common. They're about the same age. But that's about it. What they did, though, is each in their own way, created a different way of navigating your way through technology. So some people will go out and get people to be on one team. And some people will get people to be on the other team. It also informs the decisions you make when you make products or services. You know, this is one of my favorite devices. But what a shame that it's not organized to help authors create movements. What would happen if, when you're using your Kindle, you could see the comments and quotes and notes from all the other people reading the same book as you in that moment. Or from your book group. Or from your friends, or from the circle you want. What would happen if authors, or people with ideas could use version two, which comes out on Monday, and use it to organize people who want to talk about something. Now there is a million things I could share with you about the mechanics here. But let me just try a couple. The Beatles did not invent teenagers. They merely decided to lead them. That most movements, most leadership that we're doing is about finding a group that's disconnected but already has a yearning — not persuading people to want something they don't have yet. When Diane Hatz worked on ""The Meatrix,"" her video that spread all across the internet about the way farm animals are treated, she didn't invent the idea of being a vegan. She didn't invent the idea of caring about this issue. But she helped organize people, and helped turn it into a movement. Hugo Chavez did not invent the disaffected middle and lower class of Venezuela. He merely led them. Bob Marley did not invent Rastafarians. He just stepped up and said, ""Follow me."" Derek Sivers invented CD Baby, which allowed independent musicians to have a place to sell their music without selling out to the man — to have place to take the mission they already wanted to go to, and connect with each other. What all these people have in common is that they are heretics. That heretics look at the status quo and say, ""This will not stand. I can't abide this status quo. I am willing to stand up and be counted and move things forward. I see what the status quo is; I don't like it."" That instead of looking at all the little rules and following each one of them, that instead of being what I call a sheepwalker — somebody who's half asleep, following instructions, keeping their head down, fitting in — every once in a while someone stands up and says, ""Not me."" Someone stands up and says, ""This one is important. We need to organize around it."" And not everyone will. But you don't need everyone. You just need a few people — (Laughter) — who will look at the rules, realize they make no sense, and realize how much they want to be connected. So Tony Hsieh does not run a shoe store. Zappos isn't a shoe store. Zappos is the one, the only, the best-there-ever-was place for people who are into shoes to find each other, to talk about their passion, to connect with people who care more about customer service than making a nickel tomorrow. It can be something as prosaic as shoes, and something as complicated as overthrowing a government. It's exactly the same behavior though. What it requires, as Geraldine Carter has discovered, is to be able to say, ""I can't do this by myself. But if I can get other people to join my Climb and Ride, then together we can get something that we all want. We're just waiting for someone to lead us."" Michelle Kaufman has pioneered new ways of thinking about environmental architecture. She doesn't do it by quietly building one house at a time. She does it by telling a story to people who want to hear it. By connecting a tribe of people who are desperate to be connected to each other. By leading a movement and making change. And around and around and around it goes. So three questions I'd offer you. The first one is, who exactly are you upsetting? Because if you're not upsetting anyone, you're not changing the status quo. The second question is, who are you connecting? Because for a lot of people, that's what they're in it for: the connections that are being made, one to the other. And the third one is, who are you leading? Because focusing on that part of it — not the mechanics of what you're building, but the who, and the leading part — is where change comes. So Blake, at Tom's Shoes, had a very simple idea. ""What would happen if every time someone bought a pair of these shoes I gave exactly the same pair to someone who doesn't even own a pair of shoes?"" This is not the story of how you get shelf space at Neiman Marcus. It's a story of a product that tells a story. And as you walk around with this remarkable pair of shoes and someone says, ""What are those?"" You get to tell the story on Blake's behalf, on behalf of the people who got the shoes. And suddenly it's not one pair of shoes or 100 pairs of shoes. It's tens of thousands of pairs of shoes. My friend Red Maxwell has spent the last 10 years fighting against juvenile diabetes. Not fighting the organization that's fighting it — fighting with them, leading them, connecting them, challenging the status quo because it's important to him. And the people he surrounds himself with need the connection. They need the leadership. It makes a difference. You don't need permission from people to lead them. But in case you do, here it is: they're waiting, we're waiting for you to show us where to go next. So here is what leaders have in common. The first thing is, they challenge the status quo. They challenge what's currently there. The second thing is, they build a culture. A secret language, a seven-second handshake, a way of knowing that you're in or out. They have curiosity. Curiosity about people in the tribe, curiosity about outsiders. They're asking questions. They connect people to one another. Do you know what people want more than anything? They want to be missed. They want to be missed the day they don't show up. They want to be missed when they're gone. And tribe leaders can do that. It's fascinating, because all tribe leaders have charisma, but you don't need charisma to become a leader. Being a leader gives you charisma. If you look and study the leaders who have succeeded, that's where charisma comes from — from the leading. Finally, they commit. They commit to the cause. They commit to the tribe. They commit to the people who are there. So I'd like you to do something for me. And I hope you'll think about it before you reject it out-of-hand. What I want you to do, it only takes 24 hours, is: create a movement. Something that matters. Start. Do it. We need it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. (Applause)"	"有時候，我會被邀請去參加很奇怪的演講。有一次，我被邀請去向穿動物戲服，在運動場上表演的人演講。可惜，我那次不能去。但卻使我去思考，至少這些人大多數都知道自己靠什麼維生。他們裝扮成動物去娛樂參加大型運動活動的人。 過不久我又被邀請到氣球動物達人的大會上演講。我還是無法去。但他們很吸引人。他們會做氣球動物。製作吉祥動物與情色動物的人很不同。(笑聲)他們會用氣球做很多很酷的東西，有時候會碰上困難，但機會不多。另外，這些人也知道自己靠什麼維生，他們做氣球動物。 那我們靠什麼維生呢？那些看這些演講的人每天都做什麼呢？我認為我們想要改變一切。我們嘗試尋找現況中，一塊惱人的或需要改進的部分。某些渴望被改變的東西，然後改變它們。我們嘗試進行大型的、永久的、重要的改變，可是我們並不這麼想，也沒有花很多時間去談談，那是怎樣的過程。而我已經研究了兩年，所以，今天想跟大家分享一兩個故事。 首先，是內森‧溫諾格先生，他曾是舊金山愛護動物協會的第二號人物。你可能不清楚愛護動物協會的歷史，這協會成立的目的是殺死貓狗。市政府給他們特許，清掃並消滅街上流浪的動物，通常，一年內有400萬隻貓狗被殺，大多是在被捉到後24小時內處置。內森和他的老闆看到這情形，覺得無法忍受，於是就決定要讓舊金山成為一個禁止殺戮的城市。創造出一個城市，讓所有的貓狗，除非生病或有危險性，否則都會被認養而不是捕殺，所有人都說不可能。內森跟他老闆到市政府申請更改法令，國內所有愛護動物協會和人道收留所的人，都飛到舊金山來，作證抗議他們。說內森會破壞整個運動且是不人道的。那些人持續抗議，於是內森直接走向社群，他聯繫那些關心這議題的群眾。非專業的人士們、充滿熱情的人，就在短短兩年之內，舊金山變成了第一個禁止殺戮的城市。毫無虧損，完全靠社群的支持運作，內森接著到紐約的湯金郡去。一個跟舊金山不同的地方，美國沒有地方是一樣的。再次成功地實踐，他從一個被美化的捕犬者，變成徹底將社群轉型的人。他到北卡羅來納州去也成功了，他到雷諾市去也成功了。 當我想到內森做的事，還有想到這裡的人從事的工作，我就會有一些念頭。我想到要創造和散播這個念頭背後是需要有很多東西。我不知道各位是否去參加過猶太人的婚禮，但是猶太人在婚禮上會拿出一個電燈泡，然後踩碎它。這個動作有許多理由和典故，這象徵一個改變，從事前到事後。是一個時刻。而我認為現在我們正在經歷，也處在一個關鍵時刻，就是創意的模式在創造散播和實踐中改變了。 我們從工廠的概念開始，如果你有個有效率的工廠，就可以改變世界，可以大量生產改變。接著是電視概念，如果你的大聲公夠大，能夠出現在電視上夠多, 買的廣告夠多，你就會贏。現在我們進入一種新的領導模式，就是要製造改變，並不是用錢，或權力來操縱整個系統，而是靠領導力。 讓我告訴你這三種循環。第一個是工廠循環，亨利‧福特有個很酷的想法，這想法令他雇用了原本一天只賺五毛錢的人，變成支付他們一天五塊錢。因為他有一個有效率的工廠，有了這樣的優勢，你可以大量生產汽車。你能製造許多改變，且讓人們蓋更多馬路，你可以改變整個國家的建設。這行為的本質是你需要愈來愈便宜的人工，以及愈來愈快的機器。現在的問題是，我們正在失去這兩樣東西，更便宜的人工及更快的機器。(笑聲) 於是我們轉換一下方法,說：我知道可以用電視，打廣告、不斷地推，採用一個好點子，然後向世界推銷。我有更好的捕鼠器，如果我有足夠的錢來告訴很多人就可以賣很多。你甚至可因為這個而成立一整個產業，如果有需要你可以用嬰兒做廣告，如果有需要你還可以用嬰兒賣其他東西，如果嬰兒沒效果, 你可以用醫生。可是要小心，你可不想有一個不幸的組合，讓人誤解你的廣告本意。(笑聲)這模式要求你像國王一樣行動，像坐在場內前排的人，將東西丟給後排的勞工一樣。你掌控全場。你要告訴別人下一步該做什麼。用簡單的圖示來看就是，你在最上面，向世界各處散播訊息。這個大眾行銷的方法，只需要普通的點子，因為是用來告訴大眾的，且要用大量的廣告。身為訊息傳播者，我們嘗試催眠每個人來買我們的點子。催眠每個人為我們的理想貢獻，催眠每個人投票給我們推舉的候選人 ，不幸的是，這個方法也不再有效了。(笑聲) 不過現在有個好消息，很好的消息，我稱之為""部落""的構想。""部落""是個很簡單的概念，早在五萬年前就存在了。關係到領導和連結人們及想法，而且一直以來就是人們所渴求的。很多人習慣有靈修部落或教堂部落，有個工作部落，或社區部落。現在歸功於網路及大眾媒體的爆炸，及其他許多正在世界各個社會活躍起來，部落已經無所不在。 網路原本該透過連結每個人而把人們同類化，相反地，卻允許各種興趣的地盤存在，於是，在這邊你看到戴紅帽的婦女，在那邊有戴紅帽的鐵人三項運動選手，這邊有整齊的軍隊，那邊有混亂的造反者，有戴白帽子煮菜的人，也有戴白帽子航海的人，重點是，你可以找到烏克蘭土風舞者，然後，與他們連繫。因為你想跟人有連繫，那些在遠處的人可以找到彼此，產生連繫及相約出去。每個設有義工消防隊員的城鎮，都了解這個道理。(笑聲) 結果證實這真的是沒有經過修圖的照片，我認識的消防隊員告訴我這很平常，消防隊員在訓練時，有時候會縱火燒一棟即將被拆除的房子，用來練習如何撲火，不過他們中途都會停下來拍照留念。(笑聲) 你知道海盜部落是令人驚奇的一群人，他們有自己的旗幟及獨眼罩，當你遇到部落中的一員你能馬上認出來，結果證明是部落，不是金錢或工廠，可以改變世界和政治 ，可以聯盟一大群人。並不是因為你逼迫他們，違背意願行動，而是因為他們想要與人連繫， 現在我們可以賴以維生的就是，我認為所有人，應該尋找值得改變的東西，然後召集會召集部落的部落，把想法一圈一圈地傳播出去。成為比我們自己還要大的組織，最後成為一種運動 。所以當高爾重新開始改變世界的時候，他並不是靠自己辦到的，也不是靠購買大量的廣告，而是靠創造一個運動來達成。全國有成千上萬的人，可以為他做簡報 。因為他不可能每晚出現在100個或200個或500個城市裡， 你不需要號召每一個人。凱文‧凱利教我們的是，你只需要，也許一千個忠實的粉絲而已。一千個真正關心的粉絲，為你帶來下一輪，下下一輪，再下下一輪。也就是你所創造的想法、產品及運動，並不是創造給每一個人。這不是一個大眾的東西。這不是它的意義而是關於找到虔誠的信徒。你能輕易明白我剛才所說的，然後說：「等一下, 我沒有那種領導者的特質啊」 這裡有兩位領導者，他們沒有多大的共通點，他們年齡相約, 頂多就是這樣而已，而他們所做的是以他們各自的方法，去創造出不同的模式讓你航行在科技之中 。所以會有人出去找人來參加這一隊，也會有人去找人來參加另外一隊。 當你製造產品或服務時，這也會告訴你關於自己做的決定。你知道這是我最喜歡的產品之一。可惜的是，它的組成不是去幫助作家創造一個運動。假使你使用電子書Kindle時，你可以同時讀到其他正在讀同一本書的人，他們的感想引語及筆記，會如何呢？或來自你的讀書會，你的朋友或你想連結的圈子，假使作者或其他有念頭的人，可以使用星期一將上市的第二版。利用電子書來集合想要討論的人們，我可以在這裡分享過百種關於這個機制，不過就讓我試著說一兩個好了。 披頭四並沒有創造出青少年 ，純粹只決定要領導他們而已 ，大部分我們進行的運動及領導，都是關於尋找一個尚未連結的群體，但卻有渴望存在。並不是去說服別人渴望得到尚未擁有的東西。 當黛安海茲著手進行「駭肉任務」，整支影片橫掃網路，紀錄農場動物被對待的事實。她並沒有發明素食主義者的概念，也沒有發明關注這議題的想法，而是幫助組織這些人，協助將這議題變成一個運動。 查維茲並沒有創造出委內瑞拉不滿的中下階級，他只是領導那些人而已。 鮑勃·馬利並沒有創造拉斯特法里教，他只是走上去說：「跟我來」。 德瑞克·席偉司創造了CD Baby，讓獨立音樂家，有地方可以賣自己的音樂，而不需要出賣自己。有地方讓他們帶著理念去跟同好連結在一起。 這些領導者的共同點就是他們都是異端者，異端者看到現況然後說：這不成，我無法忍受現況。我願意站起來加入推動事情向前的隊伍，我知道現況是什麼。我不喜歡，與其探究並遵從那些小規矩，與其成為夢遊者，半睡半醒，遵照指示動作，低著頭融入其中。偶爾會有人站起來說：「我才不要」有人站起來說：「這個想法很重要。我們需要以它來組織人群。」並不是每個人都肯，但你不需要每一個人，你只需要幾個人。(笑聲)看到那些規矩，了解那根本沒道理，意識到自己多麼想與人連結在一起就行了。 湯尼席爾並不開鞋店 ，Zappos並不是一家鞋店，Zappos是一間，亦是唯一，而且是最棒的地方，讓喜愛鞋子的人到那裡找到彼此，談論他們的愛好，和注重顧客服務勝於賺錢的人連結在一起 。這可以平凡的以鞋子為主，也可以複雜的以推翻政府為目的。但行為是一樣的， 它所需要的，如傑拉丁卡特發現的 ，是你必須能夠說：我無法獨力完成，可是，如果我能讓別人加入我的行列，就可以一起得到我們都想獲得的東西。我們就等著有人來領導我們， 蜜雪兒卡夫曼開創出對環保建築的新理念。她並不是靠安靜地蓋一棟又一棟的房子，而是對想聽的人說故事，連結一個盼望與彼此連結的部落。靠著領導一個運動及製造改變，就形成一個永續的循環。 所以我想問大家三個問題，第一、你到底在惹誰不高興呢？因為如果你沒有讓誰不高興，你就沒有在改變現況。第二、你跟誰連結呢？因為對許多人來說，這才是他們的目的。一個又一個的連結。第三、你在領導誰呢？因為專注在人上面，不是關心你在建設時的技術面，關心人及領導就會帶來改變。 於是Tom’s Shoes的布雷克就有個很簡單的想法，如果每次有人買了一雙鞋子，我就把一雙同樣的鞋子，送給沒有鞋子的人會發生什麼事呢？這不是如何在Neiman Marcus百貨設櫃的故事，而是關於一個會說故事的產品。你穿著如此有故事性的鞋子外出時，當有人問：那是哪一款鞋子？你就可以代替布雷克說故事，替得到免費鞋子的人說故事。突然那不再只是一雙或一百雙鞋子，而是好幾萬雙鞋子的生意。 我朋友瑞德麥斯威爾花了過去十年的時間，與幼年型糖尿病對抗。並不是反抗糖尿病協會，而是與他們一起奮鬥、領導他們，建立彼此的連結，挑戰現況，因為這對他而言很重要圍繞在他身邊的人需要那個連結，他們需要領導者就創造了改變， 你不需要經過人的許可，才能領導他們。但是如果需要的話，可以這麼做。他們正在等待 ，我們正在等待，你們來秀給我們看下一步往哪兒走，這是領導者的共同點。首先，他們會挑戰現況，他們挑戰現有的東西。第二、是他們創立一個文化，一個神秘的語言，七秒鐘的握手，用來識別你在圈內或圈外的東西。領導者有好奇心，對部落內的人感到好奇，對部落外的人，感到好奇他們會問問題，在人與人之間搭起連結。你知道人們最想要的東西是什麼嗎 ？他們想要被想念，在缺席那天被人想念 ，在離開後被人想念，部落的領導者可以做到這點。令人驚奇的是，所有的領導者都有領袖魅力。但你不需要領袖魅力來成為領導者，當個領導者會賦予你領袖魅力，如果你觀察成功的領導者，領袖魅力來自領導行為本身。最後一點是，他們履行承諾他們對信念承諾，對部落承諾，對在場的人承諾 。 所以我想請大家為我做一件事 ，我希望你可以考慮一下，而不是直接拒絕。我想要各位做的事只需要花24小時 ，那就是創造一個運動。一件很重要的事 ，現在開始去行動，我們需要它。謝謝各位！感激各位！(掌聲)"
