Talk	en	zh-tw
severine_autesserre_to_solve_mass_violence_look_to_locals	"I want to speak about  a forgotten conflict. It's a conflict that rarely hits the headlines. It happens right here, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Now, most people outside of Africa don't know much about the war in Congo, so let me give you a couple of key facts. The Congolese conflict is the deadliest  conflict since World War II. It has caused almost four million deaths. It has destabilized most of Central Africa for the past 18 years. It is the largest ongoing humanitarian crisis in the world. That's why I first went to Congo in 2001. I was a young humanitarian aid worker, and I met this woman who was my age. She was called Isabelle. Local militias had attacked Isabelle's village. They had killed many men, raped many women. They had looted everything. And then they wanted to take Isabelle, but her husband stepped in, and he said, ""No, please don't take Isabelle. Take me instead."" So he had gone to the forest with the militias, and Isabelle had never seen him again. Well, it's because of people like Isabelle and her husband that I have devoted my career to studying this war that we know so little about. Although there is one story about Congo that you may have heard. It's a story about minerals and rape. Policy statements and media reports both usually focus on a primary cause of violence in Congo — the illegal exploitation and trafficking of natural resources — and on a main consequence — sexual abuse of women and girls as a weapon of war. So, not that these two issues aren't important and tragic. They are. But today I want to tell you  a different story. I want to tell you a story that emphasizes a core cause of the ongoing conflict. Violence in Congo is in large part driven by local bottom-up conflicts that international peace efforts have failed to help address. The story starts from the fact that not only is Congo notable for being the world's worst ongoing humanitarian crisis, but it is also home to some of the largest international peacebuilding efforts in the world. Congo hosts the largest and most expensive United Nations peacekeeping mission in the world. It was also the site of the first European-led peacekeeping mission, and for its first cases ever, the International Criminal Court chose to prosecute Congolese warlords. In 2006, when Congo held the first  free national elections in its history, many observers thought that an end to  violence in the region had finally come. The international community lauded the  successful organization of these elections as finally an example of successful international intervention in a failed state. But the eastern provinces have continued to face massive population displacements and horrific human rights violations. Shortly before I went back there last summer, there was a horrible massacre in the province of South Kivu. Thirty-three people were killed. They were mostly women and children, and many of them were hacked to death. During the past eight years, fighting in the eastern provinces has regularly reignited full-scale civil and international war. So basically, every time we feel that we are on the brink of peace, the conflict explodes again. Why? Why have the massive international efforts failed to help Congo  achieve lasting peace and security? Well, my answer to this question revolves around two central observations. First, one of the main reasons for the continuation of violence in Congo is fundamentally local — and when I say local, I really mean at the level of the individual, the family, the clan, the municipality, the community, the district, sometimes the ethnic group. For instance, you remember the story of Isabelle that I told you. Well, the reason why militias had attacked Isabelle's village was because they wanted to take the land that the villagers needed to cultivate food and to survive. The second central observation is that international peace efforts have failed to help address local conflicts because of the presence of a dominant peacebuilding culture. So what I mean is that Western and African diplomats, United Nations peacekeepers, donors, the staff of most nongovernmental organizations that work with the resolution of conflict, they all share a specific way of seeing the world. And I was one of these people, and I shared this culture, so I know all too well how powerful it is. Throughout the world, and throughout conflict zones, this common culture shapes the intervener's understanding of the causes of violence as something that is primarily located in the national and international spheres. It shapes our understanding of the path toward peace as something again that requires top-down intervention to address national and international tensions. And it shapes our understanding of the roles of foreign actors as engaging in national and international peace processes. Even more importantly, this common culture enables international peacebuilders to ignore the micro-level tensions that often jeopardize the macro-level settlements. So for instance, in Congo, because of how they are socialized and trained, United Nations officials, donors, diplomats, the staff of most nongovernmental organizations, they interpret continued fighting and massacres as a top-down problem. To them, the violence they see is the consequence of tensions between President Kabila and various national opponents, and tensions between Congo, Rwanda and Uganda. In addition, these international  peacebuilders view local conflicts as simply the result of national and international tensions, insufficient state authority, and what they call the Congolese people's so-called inherent penchant for violence. The dominant culture also constructs intervention at the national and international levels as the only natural and legitimate task for United Nations staffers and diplomats. And it elevates the organization of general elections, which is now a sort of cure-all, as the most crucial state reconstruction mechanism over more effective state-building approaches. And that happens not only in Congo but also in many other conflict zones. But let's dig deeper, into the other main sources of violence. In Congo, continuing violence is motivated not only by the national and international causes but also by longstanding bottom-up agendas whose main instigators are villagers, traditional chiefs, community chiefs or ethnic leaders. Many conflicts revolve around political, social and economic stakes that are distinctively local. For instance, there is a lot of competition at the village or district level over who can be chief of village or chief of territory according to traditional law, and who can control the distribution of land and the exploitation of local mining sites. This competition often results in localized fighting, for instance in one village or territory, and quite frequently, it escalates into generalized fighting, so across a whole province, and even at times into neighboring countries. Take the conflict between Congolese  of Rwandan descent and the so-called indigenous  communities of the Kivus. This conflict started in the 1930s during Belgian colonization, when both communities competed over access to land and to local power. Then, in 1960, after Congolese independence, it escalated because each camp tried to align with national politicians, but still to advance their local agendas. And then, at the time of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, these local actors allied with Congolese and Rwandan armed groups, but still to advance their local agendas in the provinces of the Kivus. And since then, these local disputes over land and local power have fueled violence, and they have regularly jeopardized the national and international settlements. So we can wonder why in these circumstances the international peacebuilders have failed to help implement local peacebuilding programs. And the answer is that international interveners deem the resolution of grassroots conflict an unimportant, unfamiliar, and illegitimate task. The very idea of becoming involved at the local level clashes fundamentally with existing cultural norms, and it threatens key organizational interests. For instance, the very identity of the United Nations as this macro-level diplomatic organization would be upended if it were to refocus on local conflicts. And the result is that neither the internal resistance to the dominant ways of working nor the external shocks have managed to convince international actors that they should reevaluate their understanding of violence and intervention. And so far, there have been only very few exceptions. There have been exceptions, but only very few exceptions, to this broad pattern. So to wrap up, the story I just told you is a story about how a dominant peacebuilding culture shapes the intervener's understanding of what the causes of violence are, how peace is made, and what interventions should accomplish. These understandings enable international peacebuilders to ignore the micro-level foundations that are so necessary for sustainable peace. The resulting inattention to local conflicts leads to inadequate peacebuilding in the short term and potential war resumption in the long term. And what's fascinating is that this analysis helps us to better understand many cases of lasting conflict and international intervention failures, in Africa and elsewhere. Local conflicts fuel violence in most war and post-war environments, from Afghanistan to Sudan to Timor-Leste, and in the rare cases where there have been comprehensive, bottom-up peacebuilding initiatives, these attempts have been successful at making peace sustainable. One of the best examples is the contrast between the relatively peaceful situation in Somaliland, which benefited from sustained grassroots peacebuilding initiatives, and the violence prevalent in the rest of Somalia, where peacebuilding has been mostly top-down. And there are several other cases in which local, grassroots conflict resolution has made a crucial difference. So if we want international peacebuilding to work, in addition to any top-down intervention, conflicts must be resolved from the bottom up. And again, it's not that national and international tensions don't matter. They do. And it's not that national and international peacebuilding isn't necessary. It is. Instead, it is that both macro-level and micro-level peacebuilding are needed to make peace sustainable, and local nongovernmental organizations, local authorities and  civil society representatives should be the main actors in the bottom-up process. So of course, there are obstacles. Local actors often lack the funding and sometimes the logistical means and the technical capacity to implement effective, local peacebuilding programs. So international actors should expand their funding and support for local conflict resolution. As for Congo, what can be done? After two decades of conflict and the deaths of millions, it's clear that we need to change our approach. Based on my field research, I believe that international and Congolese actors should pay more attention to the resolution of land conflict and the promotion of inter-community reconciliation. So for instance, in the province of the Kivus, the Life and Peace Institute and its Congolese partners have set up inter-community forums to discuss the specifics of local conflicts over land, and these forums have found solutions to help manage the violence. That's the kind of program that is sorely needed throughout eastern Congo. It's with programs like this that we can help people like Isabelle and her husband. So these will not be magic wands, but because they take into account deeply rooted causes of the violence, they could definitely be game-changers. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想要講一個早已被遺忘的紛爭，那是很少上頭條的紛爭。就發生在這裡 ─ 剛果民主共和國。 當今在非洲以外的大部分人都不太知道在剛果的戰爭，讓我來向你們介紹幾個重大的真相：「剛果紛爭」是二次世界大戰之後死傷最慘重的紛爭，奪走了將近四百萬條性命，讓中非的許多地方在過去18年來不安定，是世界上最大、進行中的人道災難， 那就是我在 2001 年首次去剛果的原因。當時我是個年輕的人道援助人員，碰到了一位和我同年齡的女士，她的名字是「伊莎貝爾」。地方民兵攻擊了她的村落，他們殺掉許多男人、強姦許多女人，他們搜括走所有東西。後來他們還打算帶走伊莎貝爾，但是她的丈夫出面干涉了，他說：「不行，請不要帶走伊莎貝爾，用我來頂替吧！」，為此他就和民兵一起了進入森林裡，而伊莎貝爾就不曾再見過他了。 就是因為有像伊莎貝爾和她丈夫的這些人，我才投入我的生涯來研究這場我們所知極少的戰爭。 有一種對剛果的報導你們可能知道，乃有關礦產和強暴的報導。政策聲明以及新聞媒體，通常皆關注於剛果動亂的一個主要原因－非法盜採和走私天然資源；還有一個重大的不良後果－當作戰爭手段來性侵女人和女孩。 並非這兩個主題不重要、不悲慘，它們既重要也悲慘；不過今天我想要跟你們講不一樣的故事，我的故事側重在進行中之紛爭的核心原因。在剛果的動亂大部分是地方由下而上擴展的紛爭所帶動，國際建立和平任務在協助處理這些紛爭上也受到挫敗。 故事始於剛果在現實中不但是世界上惡名昭彰、進行中之最惡劣的人道災難，同時還是世界上某些最大規模國際的和平任務建立之據點。在剛果進行著世界上最大、最耗錢的聯合國維護和平任務，它也是第一個由歐洲主導維護和平任務的地方；國際刑事法庭決定起訴剛果的軍閥，這也是剛果有史以來的第一次。在 2006 年剛果舉辦了史上第一次的全民選舉，許多觀察家認為此地區的動亂終於快要結束了；國際社會讚揚選舉成功的籌辦，就像是在破敗的國家裡終於有成功的國際介入案例。 不過東部的省份持續面臨著大量流離失所的人口，還有可怕的侵犯人權行為。去年夏天在我重回那裡的不久前，南基伍省發生了恐怖的屠殺案，有33 人被殺害；大多數是女人跟小孩，許多是被砍殺致死的。在過去八年的期間裡，東部省份的鬥爭經常地激發出全面性的內戰和跨國戰爭。基本而言，每次我們感覺已經走到了和平的邊上，紛爭卻又會再次爆發。 為什麼？為什麼有了大量的國際奧援，要幫助剛果獲取長久的和平與安全上卻不管用呢？我的答案與兩個主要的觀察脫離不了關係，第一、在剛果動亂持續不斷的主要原因之一，本質上是地方的原因；我說的「地方」 ─其實是指個人、家庭、宗族、自治市、社群、地區的等級，有時候可能是種族之層級。比如說還記得伊莎貝爾的故事吧，民兵之所以攻擊伊莎貝爾的村落，是因為他們想要取得土地；而村民需要這些土地來栽種食物與維持生計。 第二個主要觀察、國際的和平推動在協助處理地方性紛爭上是不管用的，因為目前建立和平的主流文化 ─我指的是大多數致力於化解衝突的西方與非洲的外交官們、聯合國的維護和平人員、贊助者們、非政府組織的成員們，他們全都共享著一個看待世界的獨特方式，我也曾是其中的一份子，我有分享到這種文化，所以我極其明白它有多強大。遍及整個世界、紛爭區域，這個共同的文化影響著國際介入者對動亂起因的認知，把它當作是主要定位在國家與國際範疇的東西。它影響到我們對和平之路的理解：當做同樣需要從中央往地方去推行的某種介入；而且它影響了我們對國際外力在參與國內和跨國和平步驟時角色的認知。更重要的是這個共有文化讓國際建立和平的介入者忽視了細瑣的衝突，但那經常有損於總體面之和平協定。 舉例來說在剛果，正因為這樣的社交化和培訓，聯合國官員、贊助者、外交人員、和大多數非政府機構的成員們，他們將持續不斷的鬥爭和屠殺理解成從中央往地方衍生出來的問題；對他們而言所見之動亂，乃是卡比拉總統和許多國內對手之間、剛果與盧安達和烏干達之間緊張關係的後果。此外這些國際和平組織視地方紛爭單純是國內和國際之緊張關係、不完善的國家權力所造成的結果，還有他們指稱所謂的剛果人對動亂固有的喜好。 主流文化也構成了在國家與國際程度的介入，是聯合國職員和外交官們唯一合本分與合法的任務；還有它拉抬了普選的籌辦，普選如今有點像是萬靈丹，變成最為關鍵的國家重建機制，遠勝過其他有效的國家發展手段。這不只是剛果，在許多其他衝突地區也一樣。 不過就讓我們再看深入一點，找出動亂的其他主要根源。在剛果持續上演的動亂，不只是被國家和國際的因素所驅動，更是因為由來已久的從地方擴及全國的紛爭，這些首要的煽動者是村民、傳統頭目、社群頭目或是種族領袖。許多紛爭都和政治、社會、經濟方面脫不了關係，都是專屬於地方性的議題：比如說在村落或地區的層級有多不勝數的競爭，糾執於根據傳統律法誰可以成為村落或領地的主事者、誰可以決定土地的分配、誰有地方礦區的開採權等等。這種競爭經常造成地方性的爭鬥，比如說在村落或領地裡，又很頻繁地擴大成全面性的戰事，延燒到整個省份，甚至有幾次還打到鄰國裡去。 就拿有著盧安達血緣的剛果人以及俗稱「基伍人」的原住民社群之間的紛爭來說吧，紛爭始於 1930 年代比利時殖民期間，當雙邊社群在競逐土地使用權以及地方權勢時；1960 年剛果獨立後紛爭更嚴重了，因為每個陣營都企圖與國內政治人物結盟，但是仍然要推展地方事項。之後在 1994 年盧安達的種族大屠殺，這些地方人物與剛果、盧安達的武裝團體結盟，不過依然要推展基伍數個省份之地方事項。自此之後，這些土地和權勢的地方爭議一直在助漲動亂，它們也一再地損害國家與國際的協定。 因此我們可以想一想為什麼在這些情形下，國際建立和平者在協助推動地方性和平建造計畫上是失敗的。答案就是國際介入者認為基層衝突的化解是不重要、不熟悉、不合法的任務，逐漸牽扯進地方層級事務的想法會重大地牴觸到現存的常規，而且威脅到重大的組織利益。就拿聯合國的身份來說，要是它改為關注地方紛爭，這個宏觀層面的外交組織將會被顛覆。而結局就是－既非主流方法之運作的內部排斥，亦非外部衝擊，有成功說服國際外力重新評估他們對暴亂以及介入的認識。迄今只發生過非常少的例外情形; 相對於廣泛的案例來說，是有例外情形不過極少見。 那麼總結一下，我的故事講述了主流的建造和平文化如何影響到介入者對動亂起因的認知、如何締造和平、以及介入應該要達成的目標。這些理解讓國際建立和平介入者得以漠視細瑣程度的根本問題，但那對可持久的和平來說卻是非常必要。對地方性紛爭的不看重，會導致短期內不合宜的和平建立計畫，以及長期來說可能發生的戰事重啟，這個分析有意思的地方，是它能幫助我們更了解非洲及他處許多沒完沒了的紛爭以及國際介入失敗的案例。從阿富汗、蘇丹到東帝汶共和國等地地方紛爭在戰爭最嚴重或戰後的環境煽起動亂。極少的案例會有完整的、從地方往中央進行的建立和平手段，而這些做法成功地讓和平得以維持。最佳的案例之一是相對狀況較為和平的索瑪利蘭，其受益於可持久、基層的建立和平方法，相比之下，大多由中央向下推動和平的索馬利亞其它地區依然動亂猖獗。還有其他幾個案例，對地方、基層的紛爭排解辦法已經造成了重大的差異。 要是我們希望國際建立和平行得通，除了由中央往地方的介入以外，紛爭必定要由地方往中央依序來解決。不是說國家和國際的緊張情勢不重要，那是重要的； 不是說國家和國際的建立和平不必要，那是必要的。然而為了讓和平永續長存，大方向和小細節的和平建設都是必要的。而且地方型非政府組織、治理機關和人民代表應該成為由地方往中央推展的建立和平之主角。 當然了也會碰到屏障：地方介入者常常欠缺資金、後勤通路和技術能力，以執行有效的地方和平建立計畫。國際介入者應該增加資金和援助，以支持地方之紛爭排解。 拿剛果來說可以做些什麼呢？歷經 20 年的紛爭、數百萬條性命逝去後，很明確的是我們必須改變方法。根據我的實地研究，我深信國際和剛果的介入者，應該多放些心力來解決土地紛爭、和促進社群內的和解。例如基伍省，「生活與和平機構」與其剛果的同僚已經建立了社群內部論壇，討論針對土地紛爭的細節問題，而這些論壇已經找到有助於控制動亂的解決方案，那就是整個東剛果極度需要的計畫。有了像這樣的計畫我們可以用來幫助類似伊沙貝兒和她丈夫這樣的人。 這不會成為魔法棒，但因為它們考慮到了深植於動亂的緣由，它們一定可以開創新機 ！ 謝謝你們！ (掌聲)
