Talk	en	zh-tw
shaffi_mather_a_new_way_to_fight_corruption	"The anger in me against corruption made me to make a big career change last year, becoming a full-time practicing lawyer. My experiences over the last 18 months, as a lawyer, has seeded in me a new entrepreneurial idea, which I believe is indeed worth spreading. So, I share it with all of you here today, though the idea itself is getting crystallized and I'm still writing up the business plan. Of course it helps that fear of public failure diminishes as the number of ideas which have failed increases. I've been a huge fan of enterprise and entrepreneurship since 1993. I've explored, experienced, and experimented enterprise and capitalism to my heart's content. I built, along with my two brothers, the leading real estate company in my home state, Kerala, and then worked professionally with two of India's biggest businessmen, but in their startup enterprises. In 2003, when I stepped out of the pure play capitalistic sector to work on so-called social sector issues, I definitely did not have any grand strategy or plan to pursue and find for-profit solutions to addressing pressing public issues. When life brought about a series of death and near-death experiences within my close circle, which highlighted the need for an emergency medical response service in India, similar to 911 in USA. To address this, I, along with four friends, founded Ambulance Access for All, to promote life-support ambulance services in India. For those from the developing world, there is nothing, absolutely nothing new in this idea. But as we envisioned it, we had three key goals: Providing world-class life support ambulance service which is fully self-sustainable from its own revenue streams, and universally accessible to anyone in a medical emergency, irrespective of the capability to pay. The service which grew out of this, Dial 1298 for Ambulance, with one ambulance in 2004, now has a hundred-plus ambulances in three states, and has transported over 100,000 patients and victims since inception. The service is — (Applause) fully self-sustainable from its own revenues, without accessing any public funds, and the cross-subsidy model actually works, where the rich pays higher, poor pays lower, and the accident victim is getting the service free of charge. The service responded effectively and efficiently, during the unfortunate 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. And as you can see from the visuals, the service was responding and rescuing victims from the incident locations even before the police could cordon off the incident locations and formally confirm it as a terror strike. We ended up being the first medical response team in every incident location and transported 125 victims, saving life. (Applause) In tribute and remembrance of 26/11 attacks over the last one year, we have actually helped a Pakistani NGO, Aman Foundation, to set up a self-sustainable life support ambulance service in Karachi, facilitated by Acumen Fund. (Applause) It's a small message from us, in our own small way to the enemies of humanity, of Islam, of South Asia, of India, and of Pakistan, that humanity will continue to bloom, irrespective of such dastardly attacks. Since then I've also co-founded two other social enterprises. One is Education Access for All, setting up schools in small-town India. And the other is Moksha-Yug Access, which is integrating rural supply chain on the foundations of self-help group-based microfinance. I guess we seem to be doing at least a few things right. Because diligent investors and venture funds have committed over 7.5 million dollars in funding. With the significance being these funds have come in as a QT capital, not as grant or as philanthropy. Now I come back to the idea of the new social enterprise that I'm exploring. Corruption, bribes, and lack of transparency. You may be surprised to know that eight speakers yesterday actually mentioned these terms in their talks. Bribes and corruption have both a demand and a supply side, with the supply side being mostly of greedy corporate unethical businesses and hapless common man. And the demand side being mostly politicians, bureaucrats and those who have discretionary power vested with them. According to World Bank estimate, one trillion dollars is paid in bribes every year, worsening the condition of the already worse off. Yet, if you analyze the common man, he or she does not wake up every day and say, ""Hmm, let me see who I can pay a bribe to today."" or, ""Let me see who I can corrupt today."" Often it is the constraining or the back-to-the-wall situation that the hapless common man finds himself or herself in that leads him to pay a bribe. In the modern day world, where time is premium and battle for subsistence is unimaginably tough, the hapless common man simply gives in and pays the bribe just to get on with life. Now, let me ask you another question. Imagine you are being asked to pay a bribe in your day-to-day life to get something done. What do you do? Of course you can call the police. But what is the use if the police department is in itself steeped in corruption? Most definitely you don't want to pay the bribe. But you also don't have the time, resources, expertise or wherewithal to fight this. Unfortunately, many of us in this room are supporters of capitalist policies and market forces. Yet the market forces around the world have not yet thrown up a service where you can call in, pay a fee, and fight the demand for a bribe. Like a bribe buster service, or 1-800-Fight-Bribes, or www.stopbribes.org or www.preventcorruption.org. Such a service simply do not exist. One image that has haunted me from my early business days is of a grandmother, 70 plus years, being harassed by the bureaucrats in the town planning office. All she needed was permission to build three steps to her house, from ground level, making it easier for her to enter and exit her house. Yet the officer in charge would not simply give her the permit for want of a bribe. Even though it pricked my conscience then, I could not, or rather I did not tend to her or assist her, because I was busy building my real estate company. I don't want to be haunted by such images any more. A group of us have been working on a pilot basis to address individual instances of demands for bribes for common services or entitlement. And in all 42 cases where we have pushed back such demands using existing and legitimate tools like the Right to Information Act, video, audio, or peer pressure, we have successfully obtained whatever our clients set out to achieve without actually paying a bribe. And with the cost of these tools being substantially lower than the bribe demanded. I believe that these tools that worked in these 42 pilot cases can be consolidated in standard processes in a BPO kind of environment, and made available on web, call-center and franchise physical offices, for a fee, to serve anyone confronted with a demand for a bribe. The target market is as tempting as it can get. It can be worth up to one trillion dollars, being paid in bribes every year, or equal to India's GDP. And it is an absolutely virgin market. I propose to explore this idea further, to examine the potential of creating a for-profit, fee-based BPO kind of service to stop bribes and prevent corruption. I do realize that the fight for justice against corruption is never easy. It never has been and it never will be. In my last 18 months as a lawyer, battling small- and large-scale corruption, including the one perpetrated by India's biggest corporate scamster. Through his charities I have had three police cases filed against me alleging trespass, impersonation and intimidation. The battle against corruption exacts a toll on ourselves, our families, our friends, and even our kids. Yet I believe the price we pay is well worth holding on to our dignity and making the world a fairer place. What gives us the courage? As my close friend replied, when told during the seeding days of the ambulance project that it is an impossible task and the founders are insane to chalk up their blue-chip jobs, I quote: ""Of course we cannot fail in this, at least in our own minds. For we are insane people, trying to do an impossible task. And an insane person does not know what an impossible task is."" Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Shaffi, that is a really exciting business idea. Shaffi Mather: I just have to get through the initial days where I don't get eliminated. (Laughter) CA: What's on your mind? I mean, give us a sense of the numbers here — a typical bribe and a typical fee. I mean, what's in your head? SM: So let me ... Let me give you an example. Somebody who had applied for the passport. The officer was just sitting on it and was demanding around 3,000 rupees in bribes. And he did not want to pay. So we actually used the Right to Information Act, which is equal to the Freedom of Information Act in the United States, and pushed back the officers in this particular case. And in all these 42 cases, when we kept pushing them back, there was three kinds of reaction. A set of people actually say, ""Oh, let me just grant it to them, and run away from it."" Some people actually come back and say, ""Oh, you want to screw me. Let me show you what I can do."" And he will push us back. So you take the next step, or use the next tool available in what we are putting together, and then he relents. By the third time, in all 42 cases, we have achieved success. CA: But if it's a 3,000-rupee, 70-dollar bribe, what fee would you have to charge, and can you actually make the business work? SM: Well, actually the cost that we incurred was less than 200 rupees. So, it actually works. CA: That's a high gross margin business. I like it. (Laughter) SM: I actually did not want to answer this on the TED stage. CA: OK, so these are provisional numbers, no pricing guarantee. If you can pull this off, you will be a global hero. I mean, this could be huge. Thank you so much for sharing this idea at TED. (Applause)"	我對貪腐的憤怒促使我在去年轉換跑道，成為一名全職的執業律師。過去18個月的律師經驗使我產生了新的創業想法，我相信這個想法一定很值得傳播。所以，我今天在這裡和你們分享這個想法，雖然這個想法才在成形，而且我還在寫營運企劃書。當然，隨著愈來愈多的失敗的點子，我也比較不怕在大家面前出糗。 從1993年以來，我一直熱衷於企業與創業。我已盡情地探索、體驗、實驗創業和資本主義。我和我的兩個兄弟一起在我的家鄉喀拉拉創立了首屈一指的房地產公司。接著我以專業的身分和兩位印度的商業鉅子一同工作，不過是在他們事業的草創時期。2003年，我離開純資本主義部門到所謂的社會部門工作時，我完全沒有任何遠大的策略或計畫要追求和尋找可營利的方式來解決迫切的公共議題， 直到一連串死亡與瀕死經驗出現在我周遭。這些經驗突顯了印度對緊急醫療服務的需求，也就是類似美國的911系統。為了解決此需求，我和四名友人成立了「全民救護車服務」，希望改善印度救命的救護車服務。對開發中國家來說，這個想法一點都不新。但根據我們的展望，我們有三大目標：提供世界級的救護車服務、其運作完全仰賴自身獨立的收入來源、任何遭遇緊急事故的人都可使用，不論病患是否負擔得起。這個服務從「1298救護專線」開始，2004年時只有一輛救護車，現在已經在印度三個邦擁有一百多輛救護車，自運行以來，累計載運的傷患超過了十萬人。 這個服務的運作...(掌聲)完全仰賴自身的營收，不需任何公共資金，交叉補貼的模式確實行得通，也就是富人收費較高，窮人收費較低，意外事故的受害者則免費。在不幸的1126孟買恐怖攻擊發生時，此服務做了迅速有效的回應。你們可以看到畫面，我們的救護服務正在事故現場援助受害者，這時候警方甚至還未封鎖現場，也還未正式確認此為恐怖攻擊。結果我們在每一個事故現場都是第一個到達的醫療團隊，運送了125名傷患，拯救生命。 (掌聲) 為了紀念1126攻擊事件，過去一年，我們幫一個巴基斯坦非政府組織－－阿曼基金會，在聰明人基金的贊助下，於喀拉蚩成立一個獨立營運的救護車服務。 (掌聲) 用我們微薄的力量，我們想要傳達一個小小的訊息給那些泯滅人性，和伊斯蘭、南亞、印度，以及巴基斯坦為敵的人，人道主義不會因為那些拙劣的手段就停止發光發熱。從那時起，我也和他人共同創辦了兩個社會企業。其中之一是「全民教育」，在印度的偏遠城鎮廣設學校。另一個是「實現莫克夏」，以自助團體組成的微型金融為基礎，整合鄉村的供給鏈。我想我們至少做對了幾件事，因為盡責的投資人和創投基金已經挹注了750萬美元以上的資金。重要性在於，這些基金都是合格交易的資金，而非慈善捐款。 回到我目前正在探索的那個新社會企業－－貪腐、賄賂、與黑箱作業。你們可能不知道，事實上，昨天有八位講者在演講中提到了這些詞。賄賂和貪腐都擁有供需兩面。供給面大部分是貪婪的公司、不道德的企業，以及遭遇不幸的一般人。需求面則多為政客、官僚，以及有權力任意行事的人。 根據世界銀行的估計，每年賄賂的總額約為一兆美元，這讓原本就很糟的情況雪上加霜。然而，你若分析一般人的情況會發現，一般百姓不會每天醒來說：「嗯，我來想想今天該賄賂誰。」或是，「我來想想今天要收買誰。」通常是因為迫於現實或陷入絕境，不幸的平民百姓才會行賄。現代社會，時間就是金錢，生存非常困難，以至於遭遇不幸的百姓只能屈服於現實，為了生計而行賄。 現在，我要問你們另一個問題。想像在你的日常生活中，要辦成某些事必須用錢買通。你該怎麼辦？當然你可以報警，但如果警局本身已經充斥著貪腐，報警又有什麼用呢？你絕對不想行賄，但你也沒有時間、資源、專業知識、或足夠的資金來對抗此惡習。遺憾的是，在座的各位很多人是資本主義政策與市場力量的支持者。 但全世界的市場力量卻還沒能產生一個服務，讓你可以打電話進去、付費，來對抗賄賂的需求面。像是反貪腐服務、反貪腐協會、www.stopbribes.org,或是www.preventcorruption.org,這樣的服務就是沒有。在我事業起步初期，有一個畫面一直在我腦海揮之不去，一名七十多歲的老婦人被都市發展處的官僚刁難。老婦人只是要申請許可，好從地面建造三級階梯到她的房子，這樣她比較方便進出。但是，負責接洽的公務員就是不給她許可，因為沒有賄金。雖然當時我備受良心的譴責，但是我不能，或者說我沒有去關心或幫助她，因為我正忙著成立我的房地產公司。我不想再被這樣的畫面困擾。 我們有一群人已經開始試辦，在公共服務和人民應得的權利方面解決收賄的個案。在42件我們所解決的個案中，我們利用現有合法的手段，像是《資訊權利法》、錄影、錄音，或同儕壓力，已經成功達到客戶設定的任何目標，而沒有付出任何賄金。使用這些方法的費用遠低於賄賂所需。我相信這42個試辦個案所使用的方法可以結合成類似商業流程委外（BPO）中的標準作業程序，透過網路、客服中心，以及特許經營的實體企業就可付費使用，服務任何被迫行賄的人。這個目標市場相當吸引人。每年花在賄賂的金額高達一兆美元，相當於印度的國內生產毛額。而且這個市場完全未被開發。 我打算進一步拓展我的計畫，證明創造一個營利、付費的，類似商業流程委外的服務，來終止賄賂、杜絕貪腐並不是痴人說夢。我知道為了正義打擊貪腐絕對不簡單，從過去到未來都是如此。在我擔任律師的18個月中，曾和大大小小的賄賂案奮戰過，包括印度最大的企業弊案主使人利用其公益事業涉貪的案子。我曾經被三件案子纏身，控告我侵害、冒充和恐嚇罪。我們、我們的家人、朋友，甚至孩子必須為打擊貪腐付出代價。但我相信，為了我們的尊嚴以及世界的公平，我們付出的代價非常值得。 我們的勇氣從哪來？如同我的摯友在救護車計劃起步時，回答別人時所說的，當有人說救護車計劃是天方夜譚，創辦人根本是頭殼壞去才會放棄他們的夢幻工作，我朋友回答：「我們不會失敗，至少在我們的心中我們不會失敗。因為我們是一群試著完成不可能任務的瘋子，而瘋子不知道什麼叫做不可能的任務。」謝謝。 （掌聲） 夏非，這個計劃讓人非常興奮。我只要渡過起步的這段時間沒被幹掉就好了。 （笑聲） 你有什麼想法？我是說，可不可以給我們一點數字概念－－像是一般的賄賂和你們的收費各是多少。你有什麼想法？ 我舉個例子好了，某人去申請護照，辦事員兩手一攤，要求三千盧比上下的賄金，而某人並不想付這筆錢。所以我們採用《資訊權利法》，類似美國的《資訊自由法》，迫使辦事員讓步。在42個案例中，我們的反制行動通常會遭遇三種反應。有些人會說：「噢，他們要什麼我就給什麼吧，我不想惹事。」有些人則會反過來對我們說：「想找我麻煩是吧！我讓你們吃不完兜著走。」然後做出反擊。這時我們就得採取下一步，或用其他我們想得到的辦法，對方接著就會讓步。42個案子全部都到第三次就成功。 如果說賄金是三千盧比，也就是七十美元，你們要收費多少，這門生意才做得起來呢？ 我們的收費實際上低於兩百盧比。所以，的確是行得通。 利潤很高啊！我喜歡。 （笑聲） 我本來沒打算在TED提的。 OK，這些都是暫定的數字，實際收費不見得是如此。如果你成功了，你就是全世界的英雄。這相當了不起。非常謝謝你在TED與我們分享。 （掌聲）
