Talk	en	zh-tw
shah_rukh_khan_thoughts_on_humanity_fame_and_love	"Namaskar. I'm a movie star, I'm 51 years of age, and I don't use Botox as yet. (Laughter) So I'm clean, but I do behave like you saw like a 21-year-old in my movies. Yeah, I do that. I sell dreams, and I peddle love to millions of people back home in India who assume that I'm the best lover in the world. (Laughter) If you don't tell anyone, I'm going to tell you I'm not, but I never let that assumption go away. (Laughter) I've also been made to understand there are lots of you here who haven't seen my work, and I feel really sad for you. (Laughter) (Applause) That doesn't take away from the fact that I'm completely self-obsessed, as a movie star should be. (Laughter) That's when my friends, Chris and Juliet called me here to speak about the future ""you."" Naturally, it follows I'm going to speak about the present me. (Laughter) Because I truly believe that humanity is a lot like me. (Laughter) It is. It is. It's an aging movie star, grappling with all the newness around itself, wondering whether it got it right in the first place, and still trying to find a way to keep on shining regardless. I was born in a refugee colony in the capital city of India, New Delhi. And my father was a freedom fighter. My mother was, well, just a fighter like mothers are. And much like the original homo sapiens, we struggled to survive. When I was in my early 20s, I lost both my parents, which I must admit seems a bit careless of me now, but — (Laughter) I do remember the night my father died, and I remember the driver of a neighbor who was driving us to the hospital. He mumbled something about ""dead people don't tip so well"" and walked away into the dark. And I was only 14 then, and I put my father's dead body in the back seat of the car, and my mother besides me, I started driving back from the hospital to the house. And in the middle of her quiet crying, my mother looked at me and she said, ""Son, when did you learn to drive?"" And I thought about it and realized, and I said to my mom, ""Just now, Mom."" (Laughter) So from that night onwards, much akin to humanity in its adolescence, I learned the crude tools of survival. And the framework of life was very, very simple then, to be honest. You know, you just ate what you got and did whatever you were told to do. I thought celiac was a vegetable, and vegan, of course, was Mr. Spock's lost comrade in ""Star Trek."" (Laughter) You married the first girl that you dated, and you were a techie if you could fix the carburetor in your car. I really thought that gay was a sophisticated English word for happy. And Lesbian, of course, was the capital of Portugal, as you all know. (Laughter) Where was I? We relied on systems created through the toil and sacrifice of generations before to protect us, and we felt that governments actually worked for our betterment. Science was simple and logical, Apple was still then just a fruit owned by Eve first and then Newton, not by Steve Jobs, until then. And ""Eureka!"" was what you screamed when you wanted to run naked on the streets. You went wherever life took you for work, and people were mostly welcoming of you. Migration was a term then still reserved for Siberian cranes, not human beings. Most importantly, you were who you were and you said what you thought. Then in my late 20s, I shifted to the sprawling metropolis of Mumbai, and my framework, like the newly industrialized aspirational humanity, began to alter. In the urban rush for a new, more embellished survival, things started to look a little different. I met people who had descended from all over the world, faces, races, genders, money-lenders. Definitions became more and more fluid. Work began to define you at that time in an overwhelmingly equalizing manner, and all the systems started to feel less reliable to me, almost too thick to hold on to the diversity of mankind and the human need to progress and grow. Ideas were flowing with more freedom and speed. And I experienced the miracle of human innovation and cooperation, and my own creativity, when supported by the resourcefulness of this collective endeavor, catapulted me into superstardom. I started to feel that I had arrived, and generally, by the time I was 40, I was really, really flying. I was all over the place. You know? I'd done 50 films by then and 200 songs, and I'd been knighted by the Malaysians. I had been given the highest civil honor by the French government, the title of which for the life of me I can't pronounce even until now. (Laughter) I'm sorry, France, and thank you, France, for doing that. But much bigger than that, I got to meet Angelina Jolie — (Laughter) for two and a half seconds. (Laughter) And I'm sure she also remembers that encounter somewhere. OK, maybe not. And I sat next to Hannah Montana on a round dinner table with her back towards me most of the time. Like I said, I was flying, from Miley to Jolie, and humanity was soaring with me. We were both pretty much flying off the handle, actually. And then you all know what happened. The internet happened. I was in my late 40s, and I started tweeting like a canary in a birdcage and assuming that, you know, people who peered into my world would admire it for the miracle I believed it to be. But something else awaited me and humanity. You know, we had expected an expansion of ideas and dreams with the enhanced connectivity of the world. We had not bargained for the village-like enclosure of thought, of judgment, of definition that flowed from the same place that freedom and revolution was taking place in. Everything I said took a new meaning. Everything I did — good, bad, ugly — was there for the world to comment upon and judge. As a matter of fact, everything I didn't say or do also met with the same fate. Four years ago, my lovely wife Gauri and me decided to have a third child. It was claimed on the net that he was the love child of our first child who was 15 years old. Apparently, he had sown his wild oats with a girl while driving her car in Romania. And yeah, there was a fake video to go with it. And we were so disturbed as a family. My son, who is 19 now, even now when you say ""hello"" to him, he just turns around and says, ""But bro, I didn't even have a European driving license."" (Laughter) Yeah. In this new world, slowly, reality became virtual and virtual became real, and I started to feel that I could not be who I wanted to be or say what I actually thought, and humanity at this time completely identified with me. I think both of us were going through our midlife crisis, and humanity, like me, was becoming an overexposed prima donna. I started to sell everything, from hair oil to diesel generators. Humanity was buying everything from crude oil to nuclear reactors. You know, I even tried to get into a skintight superhero suit to reinvent myself. I must admit I failed miserably. And just an aside I want to say on behalf of all the Batmen, Spider-Men and Supermen of the world, you have to commend them, because it really hurts in the crotch, that superhero suit. (Laughter) Yeah, I'm being honest. I need to tell you this here. Really. And accidentally, I happened to even invent a new dance form which I didn't realize, and it became a rage. So if it's all right, and you've seen a bit of me, so I'm quite shameless, I'll show you. It was called the Lungi dance. So if it's all right, I'll just show you. I'm talented otherwise. (Cheers) So it went something like this. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi dance. Lungi. That's it. It became a rage. (Cheers) It really did. Like you notice, nobody could make any sense of what was happening except me, and I didn't give a damn, really, because the whole world, and whole humanity, seemed as confused and lost as I was. I didn't give up then. I even tried to reconstruct my identity on the social media like everyone else does. I thought if I put on philosophical tweets out there people will think I'm with it, but some of the responses I got from those tweets were extremely confusing acronyms which I didn't understand. You know? ROFL, LOL. ""Adidas,"" somebody wrote back to one of my more thought-provoking tweets and I was wondering why would you name a sneaker, I mean, why would you write back the name of a sneaker to me? And I asked my 16-year-old daughter, and she enlightened me. ""Adidas"" now means ""All day I dream about sex."" (Laughter) Really. I didn't know if you know that. So I wrote back, ""WTF"" in bold to Mr. Adidas, thanking secretly that some acronyms and things won't change at all. WTF. But here we are. I am 51 years old, like I told you, and mind-numbing acronyms notwithstanding, I just want to tell you if there has been a momentous time for humanity to exist, it is now, because the present you is brave. The present you is hopeful. The present you is innovative and resourceful, and of course, the present you is annoyingly indefinable. And in this spell-binding, imperfect moment of existence, feeling a little brave just before I came here, I decided to take a good, hard look at my face. And I realized that I'm beginning to look more and more like the wax statue of me at Madame Tussaud's. (Laughter) Yeah, and in that moment of realization, I asked the most central and pertinent question to humanity and me: Do I need to fix my face? Really. I'm an actor, like I told you, a modern expression of human creativity. The land I come from is the source of inexplicable but very simple spirituality. In its immense generosity, India decided somehow that I, the Muslim son of a broke freedom fighter who accidentally ventured into the business of selling dreams, should become its king of romance, the ""Badhshah of Bollywood,"" the greatest lover the country has ever seen ... with this face. Yeah. (Laughter) Which has alternately been described as ugly, unconventional, and strangely, not chocolatey enough. (Laughter) The people of this ancient land embraced me in their limitless love, and I've learned from these people that neither power nor poverty can make your life more magical or less tortuous. I've learned from the people of my country that the dignity of a life, a human being, a culture, a religion, a country actually resides in its ability for grace and compassion. I've learned that whatever moves you, whatever urges you to create, to build, whatever keeps you from failing, whatever helps you survive, is perhaps the oldest and the simplest emotion known to mankind, and that is love. A mystic poet from my land famously wrote, (Recites poem in Hindi) (Poem ends) Which loosely translates into that whatever — yeah, if you know Hindi, please clap, yeah. (Applause) It's very difficult to remember. Which loosely translates into actually saying that all the books of knowledge that you might read and then go ahead and impart your knowledge through innovation, through creativity, through technology, but mankind will never be the wiser about its future unless it is coupled with a sense of love and compassion for their fellow beings. The two and a half alphabets which form the word ""प्रेम,"" which means ""love,"" if you are able to understand that and practice it, that itself is enough to enlighten mankind. So I truly believe the future ""you"" has to be a you that loves. Otherwise it will cease to flourish. It will perish in its own self-absorption. So you may use your power to build walls and keep people outside, or you may use it to break barriers and welcome them in. You may use your faith to make people afraid and terrify them into submission, or you can use it to give courage to people so they rise to the greatest heights of enlightenment. You can use your energy to build nuclear bombs and spread the darkness of destruction, or you can use it to spread the joy of light to millions. You may filthy up the oceans callously and cut down all the forests. You can destroy the ecology, or turn to them with love and regenerate life from the waters and trees. You may land on Mars and build armed citadels, or you may look for life-forms and species to learn from and respect. And you can use all the moneys we all have earned to wage futile wars and give guns in the hands of little children to kill each other with, or you can use it to make more food to fill their stomachs with. My country has taught me the capacity for a human being to love is akin to godliness. It shines forth in a world which civilization, I think, already has tampered too much with. In the last few days, the talks here, the wonderful people coming and showing their talent, talking about individual achievements, the innovation, the technology, the sciences, the knowledge we are gaining by being here in the presence of TED Talks and all of you are reasons enough for us to celebrate the future ""us."" But within that celebration the quest to cultivate our capacity for love and compassion has to assert itself, has to assert itself, just as equally. So I believe the future ""you"" is an infinite you. It's called a chakra in India, like a circle. It ends where it begins from to complete itself. A you that perceives time and space differently understands both your unimaginable and fantastic importance and your complete unimportance in the larger context of the universe. A you that returns back to the original innocence of humanity, which loves from the purity of heart, which sees from the eyes of truth, which dreams from the clarity of an untampered mind. The future ""you"" has to be like an aging movie star who has been made to believe that there is a possibility of a world which is completely, wholly, self-obsessively in love with itself. A world — really, it has to be a you to create a world which is its own best lover. That I believe, ladies and gentlemen, should be the future ""you."" Thank you very much. Shukriya. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	大家好。 我是電影明星，今年 51 歲。還沒打過肉毒桿菌。 （笑聲） 儘管如此，如各位所見，我戲裡戲外都當自己 21 歲。沒錯。身為明星，我賣夢想和愛情給我廣大的印度同胞。他們都覺得我是夢中情人。 （笑聲） 偷偷告訴你，我不是大情聖。但我寧願大家繼續誤會。 （笑聲） 我也聽說，在座很多人沒看過我的作品，你們虧大了。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 大家應該已經發現，我跟其他巨星一樣自戀。 （笑聲） 所以儘管我的朋友，克里斯和茱麗葉找我來，要聊未來的「你們」，但我要先講現在的我。 （笑聲） 畢竟人類的發展，就展現在我身上。 （笑聲） 真的。它像我這個老影星，每天有新的體會，又擔心自己根基不良，卻還是想要走上正途。 我出生於首都新德里的難民營。我爸是人權鬥士。我媽就像其他媽媽一樣每天都在戰鬥。就像原始人一樣，我們的生活很苦。我 20 歲出頭的時候，爸媽就過世了。我其實早就不難過了，但是…… （笑聲） 我記得我爸過世那晚，是一個鄰居載我們到醫院。他碎念「死人的小費賺不到」，然後就不見了。我那年才 14 歲。我把我爸的遺體放在後座。我媽坐副駕，我開車從醫院要回家。我媽默默哭到一半，轉頭問我，「兒子，你怎麼會開車？」我想了一下，回她，「剛剛學會的。」 （笑聲） 那天晚上之後，就像進入青春期，我被迫要奮力求生，老實說那種生活很簡單。反正有什麼就吃什麼，人家交代你就照做。我以為「乳糜瀉 (celiac)」是一種蔬菜，「全素食 (vegan)」是星際迷航記的「瓦肯族 (Vulcan)」。 （笑聲） 以為會和初戀相守一生，以為會修化油器就是汽車專家。以為「同性戀 (gay)」只是「開心」的優雅講法，誤以為「女同志 (lesbian)」是葡萄牙首都里斯本 (Lisbon)。 （笑聲） 扯遠了。庇護我們的生活體制，是先人用血汗打拼出來的成果。相信政府會為人民福祉努力。科學單純又有邏輯，蘋果還只是一種水果，先被夏娃咬一口，再砸到牛頓，而不是賈伯斯的品牌。阿基米德大叫「我知道了！」只是在街上裸奔的藉口。你為了工作隨遇而安，大家都對你很和善。「遷徙」只用來形容白鶴，而不是難民。更重要的是，你可以做自己，想到什麼說什麼。 將近 30 歲時，我搬到了繁華的孟買。我的人生，就像人類進入工業革命，開始劇變。要在變化萬千的城市求生存，一切都變得不一樣了。我遇見來自世界各地的人，不同面孔、種族、性別、財富。我的價值觀開始改變。職業變成一種標準，定義你是什麼樣的人。其他一切都變得不可靠，完全無法解釋人的多樣性，我們要不斷進步、成長。許多想法更自由、更迅速傳遞。我也體會到，創新、合作的奇蹟。還有我的創意。我得到的這些支持和資源，將我推上巨星的位置。 我覺得我成功了。40 歲時，我簡直身處雲端。我變得無所不在。我拍了 50 部電影，唱了 200 首歌，被馬來西亞封銜。法國頒給我平民的最高榮譽，雖然我至今唸不出那個頭銜。 （笑聲） 法國對不起，還是謝謝你的獎。更重要的是，我還因此遇見安潔莉娜裘莉， （笑聲） 雖然只有兩秒半。 （笑聲） 她一定也記得我倆曾相遇。也可能沒有。我還和孟漢娜同桌共進晚餐，雖然她幾乎都背對著我。我的事業來到頂點，人類社會也在黃金歲月。我們都處在巔峰。 接下來的發展各位都知道。網路出現了。我快要 50 歲的時候，默默玩起推特，期待外人有興趣一窺我的世界，欣賞我所相信的奇蹟。但事情不如我所料。我們以為想法和夢想，會隨著網路擴散出去。但網路的負面影響：故步自封的愚見、論斷、貼標籤，蓋過了它的好處：自由解放和思想革命。我說的話被扭曲，我做過的事，無論好壞美醜，都被攤在陽光下公評。連我沒做的事、沒說的話，也面臨同樣的命運。 四年前，我和我太太高麗生了第三胎。結果網路上竟然說，那是我大兒子的私生子。我大兒子才 15 歲。狗仔說他開女友的車，在羅馬尼亞搞車震。還流出一段假影片。我們全家不堪其擾。我兒子現在 19 歲，現在跟他打招呼，他都會馬上說：「我根本沒有歐洲駕照。」 （笑聲） 在這個嶄新世界，真假變得難以區分。我開始覺得，我不能做自己，也不能暢所欲言，此時的人類社會，就跟我一模一樣。這就是中年危機吧。人類社會和我都沒有底線了。我開始什麼都賣，從髮油到柴油發電機。人類也是什麼都買，從原油到核子反應爐。我一度想要穿緊身衣，重新雕塑身材。我承認，那是大失敗。打個岔，我想幫蝙蝠俠、蜘蛛人、超人說，請給他們一點掌聲，因為穿超人裝胯下超痛。 （笑聲） 我忍不住要提一下。真的很痛。我碰巧發明了新舞步，無意間還造成一股風潮。不介意的話，你們也知道我厚臉皮，讓我現一下，這叫做「隆基舞」。我要秀兩招。雖然沒有很厲害。 （歡呼聲） 跳起來是這樣的。 隆基、隆基…… 超級流行。 （歡呼聲） 真的很紅。除了我之外，沒人知道發生什麼事。但我根本不在乎。因為整個世界、全人類，跟我一樣茫然失措。但我沒有放棄。我試圖在社群媒體上重建自我，就跟大家一樣。我以為寫一些有哲理的推特，大家應該會覺得我有內涵，但我收到的一些回文，都是我完全看不懂的縮寫。比如 ROFL（笑死我了）、LOL（大笑）。有一篇深度文被回「Adidas（愛迪達）」，我不懂留「愛迪達」是什麼意思，幹嘛在底下回運動品牌？我問我 16 歲的女兒，她跟我說，那是「整天只想愛愛」的縮寫。 （笑聲） 還真不知道。你們知道這個嗎？所以我就回他 WTF（搞屁）。好險我還知道幾個縮寫。搞屁啊。 總之如此。如我所說，我已經 51 歲，還學了那些荒謬的縮寫，只想跟各位說，如果人類有那麼一刻真實存在，就是現在了。因為現在的你是勇敢的，現在的你是充滿希望的。現在的你有創意又有機智，而且現在的你充滿無限可能。此時這個迷人又不完美的存在，讓我更有勇氣，決定好好凝視我的面容。然後我越看越仔細，像在看我本人的蠟像。 （笑聲） 此刻我靈光一閃，問全人類和我自己最關鍵的問題：我需要進廠維修嗎？我畢竟是個演員，是人類創意的現代展現。我的家鄉印度，是神祕卻又單純的靈性之地。可能基於慷慨無私，印度不知怎地決定，讓我一個穆斯林自由鬥士之子，進入帶給大眾夢想的產業，贏得「浪漫之王」、「寶萊塢天王」、「印度史上最偉大情聖」的稱號。靠這張臉？（笑聲） 有人說醜、不帥、很奇怪、 不夠黝黑？ （笑聲） 要感謝我的鄉親，用無私的愛包容我。我從他們身上學到，權勢也好，貧困也罷，生活不會因此改變，或是少點波折。我從印度人身上學到，生命、身而為人、一個文化、一個宗教、一個國家的品性，取決於他們有沒有能力，去包容和同理。無論你受到什麼感動，受到什麼刺激而創造，力爭上游不認輸，咬著牙也硬撐下去，可能就是這個最古老單純的情緒，那就是「愛」。印度有一首古詩寫道： （印度語詩句） 翻成中文大概的意思就是，不管是……如果你懂印度語，可以先鼓掌。 （掌聲） 真的很難背。翻成中文大概的意思就是，你可能學富五車，把知識應用在創新、創意、科技。但人類的發展有限，除非我們對他人保有一顆慈愛關懷的心。印度字的「प्रेम」，是「愛」的意思。如果你剛好了解愛，並身體力行，就足以啟發全人類。所以我深信未來的「你們」必須有能力去愛。不然我們不會進步，反而會被自私自利摧毀。 你可以浪費力氣，築起高牆，把一切擋在牆外；或努力打破藩籬，擁抱世界。你可以用信仰，令人生畏，讓人不得不低頭；你也能用信仰給人勇氣，讓他們獲得啟發、向上提升。你可以用能源製造核彈，將世界毀於一旦；或用來點亮無數燈火、帶來喜悅。你大可汙染海洋、砍光森林，把生態破壞殆盡；或是用愛灌溉，在清水和樹苗間重現生機。有朝一日登上火星，你要建造軍事要塞，還是尋找外星生命、物種，互相學習、尊重？我們辛苦賺來的財富，可以發動無用的戰爭，讓小孩子拿起槍枝，自相殘殺；還是換個方式，去創造更多食物，讓他們得以溫飽。 印度讓我學到，愛人的能力才是神的旨意。愛照亮這個已經沒有文明可言的世界。這幾天在這裡的演講，很多講者帶來各種精彩分享：個人成就、創新、科技、科學，坐在臺下就學到好多知識。歸功於 TED 平臺和你們的支持，人類的未來還是很有希望。但要記得，培養關愛和同理的能力，讓它們得以展現，缺一不可。 我相信未來的各位，充滿無限可能。就像印度人說的「脈輪」，周而復始、不斷循環。你分別去感受時空，了解箇中奧妙。你不可限量、覺得自己無比重要，但對比浩瀚宇宙，你又顯得那麼微不足道。當你反求諸己，回到人性的根本：用單純的心去愛、用真誠的眼去看、用未被汙染、純淨的心智去夢想。 未來的「你們」要像我這老去的電影明星。用我的經驗告訴你，還是有機會讓世界，毫無保留地愛上自己。需要大家一起，讓這個世界，當自己最好的情人。我相信這才是未來的「你們」。 謝謝。感恩。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
