Talk	en	zh-tw
sharon_brous_it_s_time_to_reclaim_and_reinvent_religion	"I was a new mother and a young rabbi in the spring of 2004 and the world was in shambles. Maybe you remember. Every day, we heard devastating reports from the war in Iraq. There were waves of terror rolling across the globe. It seemed like humanity was spinning out of control. I remember the night that I read about the series of coordinated bombings in the subway system in Madrid, and I got up and I walked over to the crib where my six-month-old baby girl lay sleeping sweetly, and I heard the rhythm of her breath, and I felt this sense of urgency coursing through my body. We were living through a time of tectonic shifts in ideologies, in politics, in religion, in populations. Everything felt so precarious. And I remember thinking, ""My God, what kind of world did we bring this child into? And what was I as a mother and a religious leader willing to do about it? Of course, I knew it was clear that religion would be a principle battlefield in this rapidly changing landscape, and it was already clear that religion was a significant part of the problem. The question for me was, could religion also be part of the solution? Now, throughout history, people have committed horrible crimes and atrocities in the name of religion. And as we entered the 21st century, it was very clear that religious extremism was once again on the rise. Our studies now show that over the course of the past 15, 20 years, hostilities and religion-related violence have been on the increase all over the world. But we don't even need the studies to prove it, because I ask you, how many of us are surprised today when we hear the stories of a bombing or a shooting, when we later find out that the last word that was uttered before the trigger is pulled or the bomb is detonated is the name of God? It barely raises an eyebrow today when we learn that yet another person has decided to show his love of God by taking the lives of God's children. In America, religious extremism looks like a white, antiabortion Christian extremist walking into Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs and murdering three people. It also looks like a couple inspired by the Islamic State walking into an office party in San Bernardino and killing 14. And even when religion-related extremism does not lead to violence, it is still used as a political wedge issue, cynically leading people to justify the subordination of women, the stigmatization of LGBT people, racism, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism. This ought to concern deeply those of us who care about the future of religion and the future of faith. We need to call this what it is: a great failure of religion. But the thing is, this isn't even the only challenge that religion faces today. At the very same time that we need religion to be a strong force against extremism, it is suffering from a second pernicious trend, what I call religious routine-ism. This is when our institutions and our leaders are stuck in a paradigm that is rote and perfunctory, devoid of life, devoid of vision and devoid of soul. Let me explain what I mean like this. One of the great blessings of being a rabbi is standing under the chuppah, under the wedding canopy, with a couple, and helping them proclaim publicly and make holy the love that they found for one another. I want to ask you now, though, to think maybe from your own experience or maybe just imagine it about the difference between the intensity of the experience under the wedding canopy, and maybe the experience of the sixth or seventh anniversary. (Laughter) And if you're lucky enough to make it 16 or 17 years, if you're like most people, you probably wake up in the morning realizing that you forgot to make a reservation at your favorite restaurant and you forgot so much as a card, and then you just hope and pray that your partner also forgot. Well, religious ritual and rites were essentially designed to serve the function of the anniversary, to be a container in which we would hold on to the remnants of that sacred, revelatory encounter that birthed the religion in the first place. The problem is that after a few centuries, the date remains on the calendar, but the love affair is long dead. That's when we find ourselves in endless, mindless repetitions of words that don't mean anything to us, rising and being seated because someone has asked us to, holding onto jealously guarded doctrine that's completely and wildly out of step with our contemporary reality, engaging in perfunctory practice simply because that's the way things have always been done. Religion is waning in the United States. Across the board, churches and synagogues and mosques are all complaining about how hard it is to maintain relevance for a generation of young people who seem completely uninterested, not only in the institutions that stand at the heart of our traditions but even in religion itself. And what they need to understand is that there is today a generation of people who are as disgusted by the violence of religious extremism as they are turned off by the lifelessness of religious routine-ism. Of course there is a bright spot to this story. Given the crisis of these two concurrent trends in religious life, about 12 or 13 years ago, I set out to try to determine if there was any way that I could reclaim the heart of my own Jewish tradition, to help make it meaningful and purposeful again in a world on fire. I started to wonder, what if we could harness some of the great minds of our generation and think in a bold and robust and imaginative way again about what the next iteration of religious life would look like? Now, we had no money, no space, no game plan, but we did have email. So my friend Melissa and I sat down and we wrote an email which we sent out to a few friends and colleagues. It basically said this: ""Before you bail on religion, why don't we come together this Friday night and see what we might make of our own Jewish inheritance?"" We hoped maybe 20 people would show up. It turned out 135 people came. They were cynics and seekers, atheists and rabbis. Many people said that night that it was the first time that they had a meaningful religious experience in their entire lives. And so I set out to do the only rational thing that someone would do in such a circumstance: I quit my job and tried to build this audacious dream, a reinvented, rethought religious life which we called ""IKAR,"" which means ""the essence"" or ""the heart of the matter."" Now, IKAR is not alone out there in the religious landscape today. There are Jewish and Christian and Muslim and Catholic religious leaders, many of them women, by the way, who have set out to reclaim the heart of our traditions, who firmly believe that now is the time for religion to be part of the solution. We are going back into our sacred traditions and recognizing that all of our traditions contain the raw material to justify violence and extremism, and also contain the raw material to justify compassion, coexistence and kindness — that when others choose to read our texts as directives for hate and vengeance, we can choose to read those same texts as directives for love and for forgiveness. I have found now in communities as varied as Jewish indie start-ups on the coasts to a woman's mosque, to black churches in New York and in North Carolina, to a holy bus loaded with nuns that traverses this country with a message of justice and peace, that there is a shared religious ethos that is now emerging in the form of revitalized religion in this country. And while the theologies and the practices vary very much between these independent communities, what we can see are some common, consistent threads between them. I'm going to share with you four of those commitments now. The first is wakefulness. We live in a time today in which we have unprecedented access to information about every global tragedy that happens on every corner of this Earth. Within 12 hours, 20 million people saw that image of Aylan Kurdi's little body washed up on the Turkish shore. We all saw this picture. We saw this picture of a five-year-old child pulled out of the rubble of his building in Aleppo. And once we see these images, we are called to a certain kind of action. My tradition tells a story of a traveler who is walking down a road when he sees a beautiful house on fire, and he says, ""How can it be that something so beautiful would burn, and nobody seems to even care?"" So too we learn that our world is on fire, and it is our job to keep our hearts and our eyes open, and to recognize that it's our responsibility to help put out the flames. This is extremely difficult to do. Psychologists tell us that the more we learn about what's broken in our world, the less likely we are to do anything. It's called psychic numbing. We just shut down at a certain point. Well, somewhere along the way, our religious leaders forgot that it's our job to make people uncomfortable. It's our job to wake people up, to pull them out of their apathy and into the anguish, and to insist that we do what we don't want to do and see what we do not want to see. Because we know that social change only happens — (Applause) when we are awake enough to see that the house is on fire. The second principle is hope, and I want to say this about hope. Hope is not naive, and hope is not an opiate. Hope may be the single greatest act of defiance against a politics of pessimism and against a culture of despair. Because what hope does for us is it lifts us out of the container that holds us and constrains us from the outside, and says, ""You can dream and think expansively again. That they cannot control in you."" I saw hope made manifest in an African-American church in the South Side of Chicago this summer, where I brought my little girl, who is now 13 and a few inches taller than me, to hear my friend Rev. Otis Moss preach. That summer, there had already been 3,000 people shot between January and July in Chicago. We went into that church and heard Rev. Moss preach, and after he did, this choir of gorgeous women, 100 women strong, stood up and began to sing. ""I need you. You need me. I love you. I need you to survive."" And I realized in that moment that this is what religion is supposed to be about. It's supposed to be about giving people back a sense of purpose, a sense of hope, a sense that they and their dreams fundamentally matter in this world that tells them that they don't matter at all. The third principle is the principle of mightiness. There's a rabbinic tradition that we are to walk around with two slips of paper in our pockets. One says, ""I am but dust and ashes."" It's not all about me. I can't control everything, and I cannot do this on my own. The other slip of paper says, ""For my sake the world was created."" Which is to say it's true that I can't do everything, but I can surely do something. I can forgive. I can love. I can show up. I can protest. I can be a part of this conversation. We even now have a religious ritual, a posture, that holds the paradox between powerlessness and power. In the Jewish community, the only time of year that we prostrate fully to the ground is during the high holy days. It's a sign of total submission. Now in our community, when we get up off the ground, we stand with our hands raised to the heavens, and we say, ""I am strong, I am mighty, and I am worthy. I can't do everything, but I can do something."" In a world that conspires to make us believe that we are invisible and that we are impotent, religious communities and religious ritual can remind us that for whatever amount of time we have here on this Earth, whatever gifts and blessings we were given, whatever resources we have, we can and we must use them to try to make the world a little bit more just and a little bit more loving. The fourth and final is interconnectedness. A few years ago, there was a man walking on the beach in Alaska, when he came across a soccer ball that had some Japanese letters written on it. He took a picture of it and posted it up on social media, and a Japanese teenager contacted him. He had lost everything in the tsunami that devastated his country, but he was able to retrieve that soccer ball after it had floated all the way across the Pacific. How small our world has become. It's so hard for us to remember how interconnected we all are as human beings. And yet, we know that it is systems of oppression that benefit the most from the lie of radical individualism. Let me tell you how this works. I'm not supposed to care when black youth are harassed by police, because my white-looking Jewish kids probably won't ever get pulled over for the crime of driving while black. Well, not so, because this is also my problem. And guess what? Transphobia and Islamophobia and racism of all forms, those are also all of our problems. And so too is anti-Semitism all of our problems. Because Emma Lazarus was right. (Applause) Emma Lazarus was right when she said until all of us are free, we are none of us free. We are all in this together. And now somewhere at the intersection of these four trends, of wakefulness and hope and mightiness and interconnectedness, there is a burgeoning, multifaith justice movement in this country that is staking a claim on a countertrend, saying that religion can and must be a force for good in the world. Our hearts hurt from the failed religion of extremism, and we deserve more than the failed religion of routine-ism. It is time for religious leaders and religious communities to take the lead in the spiritual and cultural shift that this country and the world so desperately needs — a shift toward love, toward justice, toward equality and toward dignity for all. I believe that our children deserve no less than that. Thank you. (Applause)"	在 2004 年的春天，我成為一位新手媽媽，也成為一位年輕的拉比，而當時全球正處於動盪不安的局勢。各位可能還記得，我們每天都會聽到伊拉克戰爭的災難報導，以及全球一波又一波的恐怖攻擊。似乎人性已經失去了控制。我仍記得那天晚上當我讀到在馬德里的地鐵系統發生的連環爆炸案時，我起床走向六個月大寶貝女兒的嬰兒床邊，當時她睡的很香甜，聽著她呼吸的節奏……身上感受到的卻是一股急迫感。我們當時生活在意識形態的結構轉變期，無論是在政治、宗教還是人口方面。每件事感覺都那麼的不穩定。我記得當時在想，「我的天啊！我們把這孩子帶到什麼樣的世界啊？」「而身為一位母親與宗教領袖的我，願意貢獻出些什麼呢？」 當然，我知道，宗教是這個快速變化的國際情勢裡的主戰場，大家都明白，宗教就是問題的重要部分。而我的疑問是：宗教有沒有可能也是解決問題的辦法之一？綜觀歷史，人們以宗教之名犯下了很多恐怖的暴力事蹟。而當我們來到了 21 世紀，宗教極端主義又開始盛行了。我們的研究顯示，在過去的 15~20 年，與敵對及信仰有關的暴力事件在全球各地都有增加的趨勢。我們甚至不需要研究報告就能證明這一切，因為我來問一下就知道，我們當中有多少人會感到驚訝，當我們聽到某起炸彈攻擊或槍擊事件，那些惡徒在扣下板機或引爆炸彈之前，呼喊上帝之名？現今這樣的訊息已經吸引不了人們的關注了：當我們聽到一個人藉著殺害上帝子民的性命來展現他對上帝的愛戴。在美國，宗教極端主義者看起來像是一個反對墮胎的白種極端基督教徒，走進科羅拉多州溫泉市的計劃生育診所謀殺了三個人。也像是一對夫妻受了伊斯蘭國的鼓動走進聖貝納迪諾的辦公部門派對中殺掉 14 個人。即使與信仰有關的極端主義沒有導致暴力事件，但也經常成為政治操弄的議題工具，憤世嫉俗地誘導民眾去合理化女性的從屬地位、汙名化同性戀、雙性戀與跨性別者，鼓吹種族歧視、伊斯蘭恐懼症、反猶太主義。這些議題值得我們這些關心宗教、關心信仰未來發展的人做深度地探討。我們可以稱這些現象為：信仰上的大失敗。 問題是，這並不是目前宗教所面臨的唯一挑戰。與此同時，我們更需要宗教能成為一股對抗極端主義的堅強力量，雖然它目前正遭受著第二波毀滅的趨勢，我稱之為「宗教例行化」。這也是我們的機構和領導人被困在一個很草率、制式化、缺乏生命力、沒有願景、沒有靈魂的典型框架中。 讓我來解釋一下我為什麽這樣說。身為一位拉比，最開心的事就是，站在結婚禮棚下，為一對新婚夫妻做結婚的公證，聖潔他們彼此之間的愛。但我現在想請各位就你個人經驗或者就想像一下，下列兩組在感情的強列程度上有多大的差距，一組是站在結婚禮棚下剛結婚的，另一組是結婚 6、7 周年的。 （笑聲） 如果你夠幸運，可以慶祝第 16、17 年的紀念日，如果你跟大多數人一樣，早上醒來，發現自己忘記預定了最愛的餐廳，忘記了祝福的卡片，然後你只希望或祈禱你的另一半也忘了這件事。 傳統宗教的儀式與慣例基本上是為了迎合周年紀念日而設計、為了成為一個器皿，能使我們堅守住那神聖、具天啟、創造了宗教的遺風習俗而設計。問題是，經過了幾世紀後，日曆上仍有紀念日，但愛慕之情已然消逝。這時我們才發現自己陷入在一種永無止境、毫無意義的惡性循環中，起立和坐下，僅是因為有人要我們這麼做，小心地固守著那完全與當今現實環境脫節了的謹慎教條，深陷在敷衍、老舊的儀式中，只因為長久以來，大家都這麼做。 在美國，宗教正逐漸式微。世界各地的教會、猶太教會、清真寺都在抱怨，要維持新世代年輕人對宗教的興趣有多麼困難，因為這些年輕人不僅對代表傳統核心價值的宗教團體不感興趣，也對宗教本身不感興趣。但這些教會裡的人需要明白的是，當今這世代有一群人，他們厭惡宗教極端主義的殘暴，就如同他們排斥一成不變的宗教例行儀式一樣。 當然這些事仍有轉機。鑒於這兩種同時出現在宗教史上的災難趨勢，大約 12~13 年前，我決定開始尋找方法重新恢復我所屬的猶太教的傳統核心，協助它在這個動蕩的世界上重新找回意義。我開始在想，要是我們可以利用我們這一代偉大的思想，並以一個大膽、健全、具豐富想像力的角度去思考世代更迭過的宗教生活會是怎樣的模式？我們沒有錢、沒有地方、沒有計劃，但是我們有電子郵件。於是我的朋友瑪莉薩和我開始發一些電郵給我們的朋友和同事。基本內容就是：「在你要放棄你的信仰之前，何不讓我們在禮拜五晚上小聚一下呢，看看我們還能為猶太的文化遺產做些什麽？」 我們原本以為頂多20 個人會出席，結果來了 135 個人。有憤世嫉俗的人、有尋找生命意義的人，還有無神論者及拉比們。很多人都說，那晚是他們有生以來，第一次度過這麼有意義的宗教體驗。所以我去做了一般人在這情況下都會做的合理事情：我辭掉了工作，嘗試去建立這個大膽、重新改造過、重新思考過的宗教生活夢想，我們稱這個計劃為《IKAR》它是「本質精華或事物之核心」的意思。 《IKAR》在當今宗教局勢中並不孤單。有很多的猶太教、基督教、穆斯林教和天主教領袖，順道一提，他們之中有很多都是女性，都開始重新定義傳統宗教的核心價值意義了，他們相信是時候讓宗教成為問題的解決方案之一了。我們要回到神聖的傳統，並認知所有我們的傳統有包含合理化暴力和極端主義的素材、也有包含發揚憐憫、共存、仁慈的素材——所以當他人從我們的文章中讀出憎恨與復仇時，我們可以選擇從同樣的文章中讀出愛和寬容的指導方針。 我發現多元化的宗教團體，如東西兩岸的猶太教獨立小教會，比如女性的清真寺、比如紐約和北卡羅來納的黑人教會、比如滿載著修女的神聖巴士，她們在這個國家傳遞著正義與和平的訊息，都有著同樣的宗教價值觀，在國內正以宗教復興的態勢崛起。雖然這些獨立機構彼此之間的宗教理論與慣例相當不同，我們還是可以看到其中的一些共同點。 接著我就跟大家分享這四個共同點。 第一個是覺醒。我們生活在一個年代，一個可以透過史無前例的方式獲知發生在世界各個角落的悲劇的年代。有二千萬人，在 12 小時內得知艾蘭·庫迪小朋友的身軀在土耳其的海岸邊被海浪無情的沖刷。我們也都看到了這張相片，一位五歲男童，在阿勒坡被人從已成廢墟的家中救出來。而每當我們看到類似的景象，我們都會有所行動。 在我的傳統裡有這麼一個旅人走在路上的故事，有一天他看到了一間漂亮的房子失火了，他說：「為什麼這麼漂亮的房子失火，卻都沒有人看到或甚至關心？」同樣的，我們的世界也正在失火，我們應當敞開心扉，擦亮眼睛，並認知這其實這是我們的責任，我們要協助滅火， 這件事的確很困難，因為心理學家告訴我們，人們越是了解造成這世界支離破碎的原因，就越會漠不關心。這就是所謂的心理麻木現象。我們在某個時點，關閉了心門。然而，各宗教的領袖們似乎忘記了，帶領人們離開舒適圈、讓人們覺醒是我們的責任，把他們從冷默的深淵裡拉出來，去感受改變的痛苦，去堅決要求我們做原本不想做的事情，去看我們選擇忽視的人事物。因為我們知道社會的改變永遠只發生在—— （掌聲） 我們清醒地意識到需要改變的時候。 第二個原則是希望，我想說一下「希望」這件事，希望不是天真，也不是什麽麻醉劑。「希望」可能是對抗悲觀的政治和絕望的文化唯一的最佳武器。因為希望能帶我們走出那個把我們與外在世界隔絕的「容器」牢籠。並且希望告訴了我們，「你可以再次豁達地夢想與思考，它們是控制不了你的。」 今年夏天，在芝加哥南部我看到希望已經在美國非裔的教堂裡顯現，我帶著13 歲的女兒，現在比我要高一點點，去聽我朋友歐提斯‧傌司牧師講道。今年夏天，從一月到七月在芝加哥大約已經有 3000 人被槍殺。我們去教堂聽傌司牧師講道，結束後，100 個優雅堅強的合唱團女成員站起來開始合唱。「我需要你，你需要我，我愛你，我要你好好活著。」在那一瞬間我恍然大悟，這就是宗教活動應有的樣子。它應當給予人們生存的目的、希望的感覺、一種世上每個人和他的夢想都至關重要的感覺，縱使這個世界讓人們覺得自己微不足道。 第三個是強大原則。我們猶太教有一項傳統，我們在走路時會放兩張紙條在口袋裡。一張上面寫著，「我渺小如灰塵。」世界並非繞著你在轉。我無法掌控每件事，憑我一己之力做不到。而另一張紙上寫著，「世界因我而創造。」意思是，雖然我不能做每件事，但我確定我有能力可以去做些事。我可以寬恕、我可以愛、我可以站出來、我可以抗議、我可以成為這場談話裡的一分子。我們現在甚至有一個宗教儀式、一種姿勢，象徵著無能為力與無所不能之間的弔詭平衡。在猶太社群裡，我們一年中唯一一次完全俯身拜倒在地上的日子，是在聖潔日裡，這是一種完全順從的表現。如今，在我們的社群，當我們從地上站起來後，我們會向天堂高舉雙手，然後說，「我很堅強、我很強大、我很有價值，我雖然不能每件事都做，但我可以做些事情。」 在這個努力想要讓我們認為自己渺小如塵、無能為力的世界，宗教團體和宗教儀式能提醒我們不管我們能在這個世上活多久，不管我們得到多少天賦與祝福，不管我們有什麼資源，我們都可以，也必須利用它們來試著讓這個世界變得更公正、更有愛些。 第四也是最後一點：緊密關係。幾年前，有一位男子，在阿拉斯加的海灘上散步，當時他撿到了一顆足球，上面寫了一些日文。他把足球拍了張照片並且把它放到社群媒體上，一位日本的少年聯繫上他。他說他在重創日本的海嘯中失去了一切，但他有幸能找到他的足球，在它漂流橫越整個太平洋後。我們的世界變得如此之小。生為人類的我們，我們很難記得我們是多麼的緊密相連。然而，我們都知道是這種壓迫系統受惠了會說謊的激進個人主義者。 我來告訴各位它是如何運作的。我本不該關心黑人青年被警察騷擾的事件，因為我白皮膚的猶太小孩也許永遠都不會因為同樣的事而被警察攔下來。但並非如此，因為這也是我的問題。各位知道嗎？變性歧視、伊斯蘭教歧視、各種形式的種族歧視，這些都是我們的問題。反猶太問題也是。因為美國女詩人艾瑪‧拉撒路說的對。 （掌聲） 她說，除非我們全部都獲得自由，否則沒有任何一個人是自由的。我們在這些議題上是同船共濟的。現在，在這四個趨勢──覺醒、希望、強大、緊密關係的交會處，國內迅速發展出跨信仰的正義活動，它正漸漸成為重申信仰的反潮流砥柱，這告訴了我們，宗教應當也必須成為世界的一股正能量。 失敗的宗教極端主義傷了我們的心，我們值得擁有生氣盎然、激勵人心的信仰。是時候讓宗教領袖和信仰團體在精神與文化改變方面做出領頭作用了，因為我們的國家和全世界都極渴望這樣的改變——轉向愛、轉向正義、平等與尊嚴的改變。我相信我們的下一代值得擁有這樣美好的世界。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
