Talk	en	zh-tw
shekhar_kapur_we_are_the_stories_we_tell_ourselves	"So, I was just asked to go and shoot this film called ""Elizabeth."" And we're all talking about this great English icon and saying, ""She's a fantastic woman, she does everything. How are we going to introduce her?"" So we went around the table with the studio and the producers and the writer, and they came to me and said, ""Shekhar, what do you think?"" And I said, ""I think she's dancing."" And I could see everybody looked at me, somebody said, ""Bollywood."" The other said, ""How much did we hire him for?"" And the third said, ""Let's find another director."" I thought I had better change. So we had a lot of discussion on how to introduce Elizabeth, and I said, ""OK, maybe I am too Bollywood. Maybe Elizabeth, this great icon, dancing? What are you talking about?"" So I rethought the whole thing, and then we all came to a consensus. And here was the introduction of this great British icon called ""Elizabeth."" Leicester: May I join you, my lady? Elizabeth: If it please you, sir. (Music) Shekhar Kapur: So she was dancing. So how many people who saw the film did not get that here was a woman in love, that she was completely innocent and saw great joy in her life, and she was youthful? And how many of you did not get that? That's the power of visual storytelling, that's the power of dance, that's the power of music: the power of not knowing. When I go out to direct a film, every day we prepare too much, we think too much. Knowledge becomes a weight upon wisdom. You know, simple words lost in the quicksand of experience. So I come up, and I say, ""What am I going to do today?"" I'm not going to do what I planned to do, and I put myself into absolute panic. It's my one way of getting rid of my mind, getting rid of this mind that says, ""Hey, you know what you're doing. You know exactly what you're doing. You're a director, you've done it for years."" So I've got to get there and be in complete panic. It's a symbolic gesture. I tear up the script, I go and I panic myself, I get scared. I'm doing it right now; you can watch me. I'm getting nervous, I don't know what to say, I don't know what I'm doing, I don't want to go there. And as I go there, of course, my A.D. says, ""You know what you're going to do, sir."" I say, ""Of course I do."" And the studio executives, they would say, ""Hey, look at Shekhar. He's so prepared."" And inside I've just been listening to Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan because he's chaotic. I'm allowing myself to go into chaos because out of chaos, I'm hoping some moments of truth will come. All preparation is preparation. I don't even know if it's honest. I don't even know if it's truthful. The truth of it all comes on the moment, organically, and if you get five great moments of great, organic stuff in your storytelling, in your film, your film, audiences will get it. So I'm looking for those moments, and I'm standing there and saying, ""I don't know what to say."" So, ultimately, everybody's looking at you, 200 people at seven in the morning who got there at quarter to seven, and you arrived at seven, and everybody's saying, ""Hey. What's the first thing? What's going to happen?"" And you put yourself into a state of panic where you don't know, and so you don't know. And so, because you don't know, you're praying to the universe because you're praying to the universe that something — I'm going to try and access the universe the way Einstein — say a prayer — accessed his equations, the same source. I'm looking for the same source because creativity comes from absolutely the same source that you meditate somewhere outside yourself, outside the universe. You're looking for something that comes and hits you. Until that hits you, you're not going to do the first shot. So what do you do? So Cate says, ""Shekhar, what do you want me to do?"" And I say, ""Cate, what do you want to do?"" (Laughter) ""You're a great actor, and I like to give to my actors — why don't you show me what you want to do?"" (Laughter) What am I doing? I'm trying to buy time. I'm trying to buy time. So the first thing about storytelling that I learned, and I follow all the time is: Panic. Panic is the great access of creativity because that's the only way to get rid of your mind. Get rid of your mind. Get out of it, get it out. And let's go to the universe because there's something out there that is more truthful than your mind, that is more truthful than your universe. [unclear], you said that yesterday. I'm just repeating it because that's what I follow constantly to find the shunyata somewhere, the emptiness. Out of the emptiness comes a moment of creativity. So that's what I do. When I was a kid — I was about eight years old. You remember how India was. There was no pollution. In Delhi, we used to live — we used to call it a chhat or the khota. Khota's now become a bad word. It means their terrace — and we used to sleep out at night. At school I was being just taught about physics, and I was told that if there is something that exists, then it is measurable. If it is not measurable, it does not exist. And at night I would lie out, looking at the unpolluted sky, as Delhi used to be at that time when I was a kid, and I used to stare at the universe and say, ""How far does this universe go?"" My father was a doctor. And I would think, ""Daddy, how far does the universe go?"" And he said, ""Son, it goes on forever."" So I said, ""Please measure forever because in school they're teaching me that if I cannot measure it, it does not exist. It doesn't come into my frame of reference."" So, how far does eternity go? What does forever mean? And I would lie there crying at night because my imagination could not touch creativity. So what did I do? At that time, at the tender age of seven, I created a story. What was my story? And I don't know why, but I remember the story. There was a woodcutter who's about to take his ax and chop a piece of wood, and the whole galaxy is one atom of that ax. And when that ax hits that piece of wood, that's when everything will destroy and the Big Bang will happen again. But all before that there was a woodcutter. And then when I would run out of that story, I would imagine that woodcutter's universe is one atom in the ax of another woodcutter. So every time, I could tell my story again and again and get over this problem, and so I got over the problem. How did I do it? Tell a story. So what is a story? A story is our — all of us — we are the stories we tell ourselves. In this universe, and this existence, where we live with this duality of whether we exist or not and who are we, the stories we tell ourselves are the stories that define the potentialities of our existence. We are the stories we tell ourselves. So that's as wide as we look at stories. A story is the relationship that you develop between who you are, or who you potentially are, and the infinite world, and that's our mythology. We tell our stories, and a person without a story does not exist. So Einstein told a story and followed his stories and came up with theories and came up with theories and then came up with his equations. Alexander had a story that his mother used to tell him, and he went out to conquer the world. We all, everybody, has a story that they follow. We tell ourselves stories. So, I will go further, and I say, ""I tell a story, and therefore I exist."" I exist because there are stories, and if there are no stories, we don't exist. We create stories to define our existence. If we do not create the stories, we probably go mad. I don't know; I'm not sure, but that's what I've done all the time. Now, a film. A film tells a story. I often wonder when I make a film — I'm thinking of making a film of the Buddha — and I often wonder: If Buddha had all the elements that are given to a director — if he had music, if he had visuals, if he had a video camera — would we get Buddhism better? But that puts some kind of burden on me. I have to tell a story in a much more elaborate way, but I have the potential. It's called subtext. When I first went to Hollywood, they said — I used to talk about subtext, and my agent came to me, ""Would you kindly not talk about subtext?"" And I said, ""Why?"" He said, ""Because nobody is going to give you a film if you talk about subtext. Just talk about plot and say how wonderful you'll shoot the film, what the visuals will be."" So when I look at a film, here's what we look for: We look for a story on the plot level, then we look for a story on the psychological level, then we look for a story on the political level, then we look at a story on a mythological level. And I look for stories on each level. Now, it is not necessary that these stories agree with each other. What is wonderful is, at many times, the stories will contradict with each other. So when I work with Rahman who's a great musician, I often tell him, ""Don't follow what the script already says. Find that which is not. Find the truth for yourself, and when you find the truth for yourself, there will be a truth in it, but it may contradict the plot, but don't worry about it."" So, the sequel to ""Elizabeth,"" ""Golden Age."" When I made the sequel to ""Elizabeth,"" here was a story that the writer was telling: A woman who was threatened by Philip II and was going to war, and was going to war, fell in love with Walter Raleigh. Because she fell in love with Walter Raleigh, she was giving up the reasons she was a queen, and then Walter Raleigh fell in love with her lady in waiting, and she had to decide whether she was a queen going to war or she wanted... Here's the story I was telling: The gods up there, there were two people. There was Philip II, who was divine because he was always praying, and there was Elizabeth, who was divine, but not quite divine because she thought she was divine, but the blood of being mortal flowed in her. But the divine one was unjust, so the gods said, ""OK, what we need to do is help the just one."" And so they helped the just one. And what they did was, they sent Walter Raleigh down to physically separate her mortal self from her spirit self. And the mortal self was the girl that Walter Raleigh was sent, and gradually he separated her so she was free to be divine. And the two divine people fought, and the gods were on the side of divinity. Of course, all the British press got really upset. They said, ""We won the Armada."" But I said, ""But the storm won the Armada. The gods sent the storm."" So what was I doing? I was trying to find a mythic reason to make the film. Of course, when I asked Cate Blanchett, I said, ""What's the film about?"" She said, ""The film's about a woman coming to terms with growing older."" Psychological. The writer said ""It's about history, plot."" I said ""It's about mythology, the gods."" So let me show you a film — a piece from that film — and how a camera also — so this is a scene, where in my mind, she was at the depths of mortality. She was discovering what mortality actually means, and if she is at the depths of mortality, what really happens. And she's recognizing the dangers of mortality and why she should break away from mortality. Remember, in the film, to me, both her and her lady in waiting were parts of the same body, one the mortal self and one the spirit self. So can we have that second? (Music) Elizabeth: Bess? Bess? Bess Throckmorton? Bess: Here, my lady. Elizabeth: Tell me, is it true? Are you with child? Are you with child? Bess: Yes, my lady. Elizabeth: Traitorous. You dare to keep secrets from me? You ask my permission before you rut, before you breed. My bitches wear my collars. Do you hear me? Do you hear me? Walsingham: Majesty. Please, dignity. Mercy. Elizabeth: This is no time for mercy, Walsingham. You go to your traitor brother and leave me to my business. Is it his? Tell me. Say it. Is the child his? Is it his? Bess: Yes. My lady, it is my husband's child. Elizabeth: Bitch! (Cries) Raleigh: Majesty. This is not the queen I love and serve. Elizabeth: This man has seduced a ward of the queen, and she has married without royal consent. These offenses are punishable by law. Arrest him. Go. You no longer have the queen's protection. Bess: As you wish, Majesty. Elizabeth: Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out. (Music) Shekhar Kapur: So, what am I trying to do here? Elizabeth has realized, and she's coming face-to-face with her own sense of jealousy, her own sense of mortality. What am I doing with the architecture? The architecture is telling a story. The architecture is telling a story about how, even though she's the most powerful woman in the world at that time, there is the other, the architecture's bigger. The stone is bigger than her because stone is an organic. It'll survive her. So it's telling you, to me, stone is part of her destiny. Not only that, why is the camera looking down? The camera's looking down at her because she's in the well. She's in the absolute well of her own sense of being mortal. That's where she has to pull herself out from the depths of mortality, come in, release her spirit. And that's the moment where, in my mind, both Elizabeth and Bess are the same person. But that's the moment she's surgically removing herself from that. So the film is operating on many many levels in that scene. And how we tell stories visually, with music, with actors, and at each level it's a different sense and sometimes contradictory to each other. So how do I start all this? What's the process of telling a story? About ten years ago, I heard this little thing from a politician, not a politician that was very well respected in India. And he said that these people in the cities, in one flush, expend as much water as you people in the rural areas don't get for your family for two days. That struck a chord, and I said, ""That's true."" I went to see a friend of mine, and he made me wait in his apartment in Malabar Hill on the twentieth floor, which is a really, really upmarket area in Mumbai. And he was having a shower for 20 minutes. I got bored and left, and as I drove out, I drove past the slums of Bombay, as you always do, and I saw lines and lines in the hot midday sun of women and children with buckets waiting for a tanker to come and give them water. And an idea started to develop. So how does that become a story? I suddenly realized that we are heading towards disaster. So my next film is called ""Paani"" which means water. And now, out of the mythology of that, I'm starting to create a world. What kind of world do I create, and where does the idea, the design of that come? So, in my mind, in the future, they started to build flyovers. You understand flyovers? Yeah? They started to build flyovers to get from A to B faster, but they effectively went from one area of relative wealth to another area of relative wealth. And then what they did was they created a city above the flyovers. And the rich people moved to the upper city and left the poorer people in the lower cities, about 10 to 12 percent of the people have moved to the upper city. Now, where does this upper city and lower city come? There's a mythology in India about — where they say, and I'll say it in Hindi, [Hindi] Right. What does that mean? It says that the rich are always sitting on the shoulders and survive on the shoulders of the poor. So, from that mythology, the upper city and lower city come. So the design has a story. And now, what happens is that the people of the upper city, they suck up all the water. Remember the word I said, suck up. They suck up all the water, keep to themselves, and they drip feed the lower city. And if there's any revolution, they cut off the water. And, because democracy still exists, there's a democratic way in which you say ""Well, if you give us what [we want], we'll give you water."" So, okay my time is up. But I can go on about telling you how we evolve stories, and how stories effectively are who we are and how these get translated into the particular discipline that I am in, which is film. But ultimately, what is a story? It's a contradiction. Everything's a contradiction. The universe is a contradiction. And all of us are constantly looking for harmony. When you get up, the night and day is a contradiction. But you get up at 4 a.m. That first blush of blue is where the night and day are trying to find harmony with each other. Harmony is the notes that Mozart didn't give you, but somehow the contradiction of his notes suggest that. All contradictions of his notes suggest the harmony. It's the effect of looking for harmony in the contradiction that exists in a poet's mind, a contradiction that exists in a storyteller's mind. In a storyteller's mind, it's a contradiction of moralities. In a poet's mind, it's a conflict of words, in the universe's mind, between day and night. In the mind of a man and a woman, we're looking constantly at the contradiction between male and female, we're looking for harmony within each other. The whole idea of contradiction, but the acceptance of contradiction is the telling of a story, not the resolution. The problem with a lot of the storytelling in Hollywood and many films, and as [unclear] was saying in his, that we try to resolve the contradiction. Harmony is not resolution. Harmony is the suggestion of a thing that is much larger than resolution. Harmony is the suggestion of something that is embracing and universal and of eternity and of the moment. Resolution is something that is far more limited. It is finite; harmony is infinite. So that storytelling, like all other contradictions in the universe, is looking for harmony and infinity in moral resolutions, resolving one, but letting another go, letting another go and creating a question that is really important. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	所以, 我就被要求去拍攝這電影: 伊莉莎白女王接著, 我們談著這個英國代表性人物, 說著:她真是一個了不起的女人, 她做了許多事我們應該怎樣去介紹她呢?於是, 我們一群人, 包括編劇, 監製, 圍著拍攝廠的大枱踱步盤算著跟著, 他們走過來跟我說: 謝加, 你認為怎樣? 我說: 我想她應該在跳舞 我看到所有人都望著我有人說: 寶萊塢的電影人 另一個人說: 我們出了多少錢請他? 第三個說: 不如我們另外找個導演吧 我在想, 也許我應該改變於是, 我們仍繼續討論怎樣去介紹伊莉莎白跟著我說, 好吧, 或許我還是太印度式吧但伊莉莎白, 這個偉大的人物, 或許仍可跳舞吧?你在說些什麼?於是, 我再重新思考這件事最後, 我們全部都達成了協議而這就是, 英國偉大的代表性人物,名叫: 伊莉莎白的出場介紹 箂斯特: 我的女士, 我可以跟你一起嗎? 伊莉莎白:先生, 如果你喜歡的話音樂 謝加. 凱普爾: 於是, 她在跳舞有多少人看過這電影, 會感受不到這女士墜入愛河她是如此的純真讓人看到她生命裡的快樂, 還有她的青春你們有多少人不會看到這些?這就是用影像來說故事的力量這是舞蹈的力量, 這是音樂的力量還是, 「不知道」的力量 當我開始去導一齣電影通常我們都會準備得太多, 想得太多但知識有時會變成智慧的負擔你知, 在快速流轉的經驗之中簡單的言詞便會失去於是, 我走出來, 我說「我今天要做什麼事?」, 我今天不準備做我計劃了的事於是, 我把自己放置在一個絕對恐慌的狀態裡這是一種掏空自己的方法掏空自己的意思是「喂, 你知道你應該怎做, 你知道很清楚自己該怎做你是一個導演, 你做了導演許多年」於是我到了那個空白的狀態也變成了非常的恐懼加上一個很有象徵意義的姿態, 我會撕掉手上的劇本我繼續, 讓自己變得恐慌。我很驚我現在就做著, 你看看我, 我很緊張呢我不知道要說什麼, 我不知道我在做什麼, 我不知要到那裡去 我到了那裡, 當然, 我的副導演說:「先生, 你知道自己打算怎樣做.」 我說, 「當然, 我知道」 跟著, 攝影廠的管事人會說「你看, 謝加, 他是如此的有備而來。」可是, 在我的裡面, 我聽到一些聲音因為他現在一片混亂我容讓我自己走進這種混亂之中因為在混亂中, 我在期待著一些真理的時刻會來臨所有的準備就是準備我甚至不知道這是否誠實我也不知道這是否真實真相有時只在那一剎那間出現, 有生命的如果你在那些偉大的, 有感染力的東西之中有五個偉大的時刻在你的故事, 在你的電影裡你的電影觀眾會感受得到它的我為了尋找那樣的時刻, 我站在那裡說著 : 『我不知要說什麼。』 最後, 每個人都看著你早上七時, 有二百人在六時四十五分已經到了, 而你在七時出現每個人都說「喂, 什麼是第一件要做的事? 跟著有些什麼會發生?」而你, 卻把你自己放在那恐慌的處境裡你連自己在那裡也不知道, 所以你不知道就是這樣, 因為你不知道你向天地祈禱, 因為你向天地祈禱,這樣的, 我便嘗試走進了天地之中就好像愛因斯坦那樣的—-誠心祈禱去到—- 他的方程式同一個源頭, 我在尋找同一個源頭因為創造力其實是來自同一個源頭那裡, 你好像在自身之外默想在天地之外你在找著一些會來走過來觸動你的東西直等到這一刻的觸動, 否則, 你實在不會開始第一個鏡頭所以, 你可以做些什麼？ 就正如凱特所說: 「謝加, 你想我怎樣做?」 跟著我說: 「凱特, 你想我怎樣做?」 (笑聲)「你是一個偉大的演員, 我喜歡我的演員能自我發揮為什麼你不展示給我看你想怎樣做」笑聲我在做什麼? 其實我想去拖延時間我嘗試去拖延時間 這是我學懂講故事的第一件事我接下來的時間, 仍是—-恐慌恐慌就是開啟我創作力的鑰匙因為這是唯一的方式, 讓你去清空你自己清空自己的思想掏空自己, 清淨自己讓我們一起走進宇宙的天地, 因為那裡存著有些比起你的思想更真實的東西比起你的宇宙更真實的存在你昨天說, 我現在只在覆述因為這是我一直跟隨去那在某處的空性, 那虛空的感覺那刻的創造力就是存在於虛空之中這就是我的做法 當我還是小孩—-大約八歲的時候你也許會想起印度是怎樣的, 那裡沒有汚染在德里, 我們以前住的地方—— 我們曾經叫它chata 或是khota.Khota現在變成了一句壞話, 意思是他們的陽台我們以前通常會在街上睡覺在學校, 我們會學到物理於是, 我就是被教導假如有些東西是真實存在的它是可以量度的假如它是不可以量度的它便不是存在的那一個晚上, 我睡在沒有汚染的天空下以前德里常常是這樣的, 當我還是孩子的時候我想會凝視著宇宙, 然後說「這個宇宙走了多遠?」 我的爸爸是一個醫生我會問: 「爸爸, 宇宙走了多遠?」 他說, 「兒子, 宇宙是永遠的走下去的」 我說: 「請量度永遠因為學校的老師教我假如我不能够量度它, 它便不是存在的它便不是在我的理解範圍之內的了」所以, 究竟永恒可以走多遠永遠是什麼的意思於是, 我便會在夜裡躺著哭因為我的想像力不能接觸到那樣的創造力 我可以做些什麼呢?在那時, 一個幼小的七歲孩子我創造了一個故事什麼是我的故事?我不知道為什麼, 但我記得那故事那裡有一個樵夫他準備去用他的斧刀砍開一塊木頭整個星球, 就是那樵夫手上斧刀上的一粒原子而當斧刀砍進木頭的時候所有的東西都會被毀滅巨大的爆炸便會發生可是回到一切之前, 這只是一個樵夫接著, 當我走出這故事之外我想像這樵夫的宇宙也是一粒原子, 其實就是另一個樵夫手持的那斧刀的其中一粒原子所以每一次, 我都可以重覆的去講說我的故事跟著便處理了這個問題於是, 我便解決了這問題 我怎樣做成的? 講故事什麼是故事?故事是我們的 —- 所有的我們我們就是說給自己聽的故事在這個宇宙, 在這個存有我們是跟這個二元性共存的其一是, 我們究竟有沒有存在以及, 我們是誰那些我們告訴自己的故事, 是故事當中定義了我們存在的可能性我們是我們說給自己聽的故事就好像我們看著故事一樣的一個故事是一份關係是你跟你是誰所建立的關係或是你跟你可能是誰之間所建立的關係以及那個無限之間的關係, 這就是我的神話 我們講述自己的故事一個沒有故事的人, 是不存在的所以愛因斯坦講了一個故事隨著他的故事, 出現了他的理論有了理論, 便有了他的方程式亞歷山大有一個他媽媽告訴他的故事所以他走出去統治了全世界我們所有人, 每一個人, 都有一個我們跟隨的故事我們告訴自己故事所以, 接下去, 我會說我講一個故事, 所以我存在我存在, 因為這裡有故事如果這裡沒有故事, 我們並不存在我們創造故事去解說自己的存在如果我們沒有創造這些故事也許我們會發瘋我不知道, 我不太肯定, 但我卻常常會做的 現在, 一齣電影電影講故事當我拍電影的時候, 我常想弄清楚 —- 我正在想拍一齣有關佛陀的電影我常常懷疑, 假如佛陀把所有的元素都給了導演假如他有音樂, 假如他有影像, 假如他有攝影機我們會不會更能領受佛教的教義但這樣想法卻讓我有負擔我要講;一個故事用一種更詳盡的方法但我有這樣的潛質這叫做潛台詞當我第一次跑到好箂塢, 他們說我常說到潛台詞, 我的經理人告訴我你是否可以不再講潛台詞我問: 「為什麼? 」他說:「 因為這裡沒有人會給你一齣電影如果你要說潛台詞你就說有關劇本同時說你會怎樣把電影拍得很好那些畫面怎樣」 所以當我看一齣電影這就是我們想要看到的東西我們想看到劇情裡的故事接著我們會想看到故事裡的心理層面我們跟著也想看到故事的政治層面然後, 我們又會想看到故事裡神話部份其實我是想看到故事裡的每一個不同層面現在, 但故事之間卻不一定必然的會調合起來最奇妙的是在許多的時候, 故事會互相矛盾起來所以, 當我跟偉大的音樂家拉赫曼合作的時候我常告訴他: 「不要跟隨著劇本已經說了的部份去找劇本沒有說的部份去找你自己內裡的真實當你能够找到你自己的真實這就是一個故事裡的真實, 但它可能會跟劇情違背但不用擔心」 所以, 伊莉莎白的續集 —-黃金歲月當我在準備拍伊莉莎白的續集時, 這裡已經有一個編劇寫了的故事一個被菲臘二世威脅的女人她準備去打仗就在準備去打扙的時候, 跟雷利墮入了愛河就是因為她愛上了雷利她放棄了當一個女皇的憑藉跟著瓦爾特. 雷利愛上了女王的宮女於是, 她需要決定究竟她需要去準備打仗還是去爭取她所愛的 這就是我要說的故事這裡有上帝這裡有二個人菲臘二世, 他是神聖的因為他常常禱告這裡也有伊莉莎白, 她也是神聖的但也不是很神聖, 因為她以為自己應該神聖但是她身上也流著凡人的血這個神聖的人也不是很公義所以上帝說「好吧, 我們需要做的是去幫公義的那個」他們去幫那個公義他們怎樣做, 他們派遣雷利下到凡間去讓伊莉莎白的凡人的自我從她的靈性的自我, 具體地分裂出來那個凡人的自我就是那女孩雷利被派送下來後來, 他離開了她讓她可以自由的變成神聖同時, 那兩個神聖的人打鬥於是, 上帝始於站在神聖的一方 當然, 許多英國媒體會感到不滿他們說, 我們贏了西班牙艦隊 但我說, 可是風暴卻戰勝了艦隊上帝把風暴送下來 我可以做些什麼?我在嘗試去找一個神話式的原因去拍這電影當然, 當我去問凱特.布蘭切特的時候, 這電影是關於什麼的?她說, 這電影是關於一個女人老化過程的故事」心理學編劇說這電影是關於歷史的 —— 劇情我會說這是一個神話上帝 所以, 讓我給你看電影的這個片段以及攝影機怎樣同時.....表達在我腦海中的這樣的一個場景,她是在人性的深處她僈僈的發現人性的真相假如她是在有限的生命深處有些什麼是在真實的發生著她慢慢的發現了死亡的危險以及她為什麼要逃避死亡記住, 在電影裡, 對我來說她和那個宮女其實是同一個人的不同部份一個是凡人的自我一個是靈性的自我 那我們可以有這樣的一刻? 音樂 貝絲貝絲貝絲 斯羅克莫頓 貝絲: 對, 我在, 我的女王 伊莉莎白: 告訴我, 這是不是真的你有了孩子嗎?你有了孩子嗎? 貝絲: 是的, 女王 伊莉莎白: 你這個叛徒你竟然敢對著我說謊你向我要求批准在你呼吸之前我的母狗穿了我的頸圈你聽到我嗎? 你聽到我嗎? 沃辛漢: 女王, 請你, 尊重 伊莉莎白: 現在沒有時間講禮貌你去你的叛徒兄弟那裡, 讓我自己處理我的事是他嗎?告訴我, 說, 那個孩子, 是他嗎? 貝絲: 是女王他是我丈夫的孩子哭聲 雷利: 女王這不是我所愛以及服待的女王 伊莉莎白:這男子竟然引誘女王的婢女還有, 她結婚沒有得到皇室的認可這些都是犯法的, 捉他去你不再會有女王的保護了 貝絲: 女王, 如你所願 伊莉莎白: 走, 走走 音樂 謝加. 凱普爾: 所以, 我在這裡想做些什麼?伊莉莎白已經發現以及, 她要面對面的去接觸她自己的妒忌她自己的死亡我在這些建築當中做了些什麼?那些建築也在說故事那些建築也在說故事在說明, 即使她是當時世上最有權力 的女人可是仍有其他的, 那些建築比她更大石頭比她更大因為石頭是死物這拯救了她這是告訴你, 對我來說, 石頭是她的天命的部份不單止這樣, 為什麼攝影機的鏡頭會向下望?鏡頭向下望是因為她是在一個井裡她是在一個絕對陷於死亡的井這裡是那個她讓自己掙脫死亡的地方在那裡, 釋放她的靈魂也是在我腦海中的, 那個時刻伊莉莎白和貝絲都是同一個人但在這個時刻她好像外科手術一樣的把自己切離所以這電影這場景, 其實在很多很多的層面上運作著這就是我們透過影像, 音樂, 透過演員在每一個層面, 不同的觀感在說故事但有時, 這些是會互相矛盾的為什麼我會這樣開始說故事的過程又是什麼? 大概十年前我從一個政治家那裡聽到一些小事其實政治家在印度並不是十分受到尊重他說那些住在城市的人在每一次沖廁, 所用的水會讓那些住在鄉間地區的人兩天沒有水用這是真的我曾經去探望過我一個朋友他叫我等一下就在他在馬拉巴山的房子裡是在二十樓的這真是一個在孟買十分十分高尚的住宅他在浴室洗了二十分鐘的澡我感到悶了, 便離開, 開了車出去我開車經過孟買的貧民窟就好像你經常做的我看到烈日當空下一行又一行的婦女和孩子, 帶著水桶的在一個水車前排隊為的是去取水當時立刻有一個念頭閃過怎樣去把這個變成一個故事我突然之間感到, 我們好像快要遇到災難了 所以我下一部電影名叫「帕亞尼」意思是水現在, 在我的神話之中我開始去創造這樣的一個世界我在創造怎樣的世界那些點子, 設計從那裡來?在我的腦海裡, 在未來他們開始去建那些天橋你知道天橋嗎? 對?他們開始去建天橋那就從A 去到B 可以快一點但他們是從一個相對富有的地方去另一個相對富有的地方這就是他們所做的他們建造了一個在天橋上的城市那些有錢的人搬到最上層的城市讓那些窮人住在下面的城市大約10%到12%的人搬到上層的城市 現在, 那些上層城市和下層城市是在那裡的?這是印度的一個神話他們說, 我用印地文說出來(印地文)對, 是什麼的意思?我說, 那些有錢的, 總是坐在, 活在窮人的肩膊上於是, 由這個神話, 上層城市和下層城市就讓這個設計有了故事 現在, 那些上層城市的人有什麼事他們吸乾了所有的水記住我說的這個字: 吸乾他們把水吸乾了, 留給自己跟著滴飼給下層城市假如有什麼的革命, 他們就切掉水源同時, 因為民主仍然存在你會說, 這是一個民主的方法對, 如果你給我們所要的, 我們會給你水 啊, 對了, 我的時間够了但我仍可以繼續告訴你我們怎樣衍生故事以及故事怎樣有效的變成我們是誰以及故事怎樣在不同的專業之中被傳譯就好像我, 在電影但最後, 什麼是故事? 這是一個矛盾每一樣東西都是矛盾宇宙是矛盾我們所有人都持續地追求和諧當你起來, 日和夜是矛盾但當你在早上四時醒來第一抹的藍天就是日和夜在尋找大家共存的和諧和諧是莫扎特不會給你的音符但有時, 他那些矛盾的音符又會展現和諧所以他那些矛盾的音符都在展示和諧這就是追尋和諧的效果存在於詩人那些矛盾的意念存在於說故事的人的矛盾意念死亡就是創作者意念的相反詩人的意念, 跟文字其實是一場衝突在宇宙的意念, 在日和夜之間在男人和女人的思想之中男性和女性都在持續發生衝突但我們都在追尋大家共存的和諧 整個矛盾的概念但接納矛盾是在說一個故事, 不是一個解決的方法在好箂塢, 說故事最大的問題在許多電影,就是我們嘗試去解決所有的矛盾和諧不是解決和諧是展現一些比起解決最更大的事和諧是展示一些能够擁抱宇宙擁抱永恒, 以及那一刻的一些東西解決是一些很有限的東西它是有限的, 和諧是無限的所以講故事, 就好像宇宙裡所有的衝突都在追尋和諧和無限在世的處理, 解決了一件事, 但放棄了另一件事放下和創造問題確實是很重要的 謝謝大家(掌聲)
