Talk	en	zh-tw
sheryl_sandberg_why_we_have_too_few_women_leaders	"So for any of us in this room today, let's start out by admitting we're lucky. We don't live in the world our mothers lived in, our grandmothers lived in, where career choices for women were so limited. And if you're in this room today, most of us grew up in a world where we have basic civil rights, and amazingly, we still live in a world where some women don't have them. But all that aside, we still have a problem, and it's a real problem. And the problem is this: Women are not making it to the top of any profession anywhere in the world. The numbers tell the story quite clearly. 190 heads of state — nine are women. Of all the people in parliament in the world, 13 percent are women. In the corporate sector, women at the top, C-level jobs, board seats — tops out at 15, 16 percent. The numbers have not moved since 2002 and are going in the wrong direction. And even in the non-profit world, a world we sometimes think of as being led by more women, women at the top: 20 percent. We also have another problem, which is that women face harder choices between professional success and personal fulfillment. A recent study in the U.S. showed that, of married senior managers, two-thirds of the married men had children and only one-third of the married women had children. A couple of years ago, I was in New York, and I was pitching a deal, and I was in one of those fancy New York private equity offices you can picture. And I'm in the meeting — it's about a three-hour meeting — and two hours in, there needs to be that bio break, and everyone stands up, and the partner running the meeting starts looking really embarrassed. And I realized he doesn't know where the women's room is in his office. So I start looking around for moving boxes, figuring they just moved in, but I don't see any. And so I said, ""Did you just move into this office?"" And he said, ""No, we've been here about a year."" And I said, ""Are you telling me that I am the only woman to have pitched a deal in this office in a year?"" And he looked at me, and he said, ""Yeah. Or maybe you're the only one who had to go to the bathroom."" (Laughter) So the question is, how are we going to fix this? How do we change these numbers at the top? How do we make this different? I want to start out by saying, I talk about this — about keeping women in the workforce — because I really think that's the answer. In the high-income part of our workforce, in the people who end up at the top — Fortune 500 CEO jobs, or the equivalent in other industries — the problem, I am convinced, is that women are dropping out. Now people talk about this a lot, and they talk about things like flextime and mentoring and programs companies should have to train women. I want to talk about none of that today, even though that's all really important. Today I want to focus on what we can do as individuals. What are the messages we need to tell ourselves? What are the messages we tell the women that work with and for us? What are the messages we tell our daughters? Now, at the outset, I want to be very clear that this speech comes with no judgments. I don't have the right answer. I don't even have it for myself. I left San Francisco, where I live, on Monday, and I was getting on the plane for this conference. And my daughter, who's three, when I dropped her off at preschool, did that whole hugging-the-leg, crying, ""Mommy, don't get on the plane"" thing. This is hard. I feel guilty sometimes. I know no women, whether they're at home or whether they're in the workforce, who don't feel that sometimes. So I'm not saying that staying in the workforce is the right thing for everyone. My talk today is about what the messages are if you do want to stay in the workforce, and I think there are three. One, sit at the table. Two, make your partner a real partner. And three, don't leave before you leave. Number one: sit at the table. Just a couple weeks ago at Facebook, we hosted a very senior government official, and he came in to meet with senior execs from around Silicon Valley. And everyone kind of sat at the table. He had these two women who were traveling with him pretty senior in his department, and I kind of said to them, ""Sit at the table. Come on, sit at the table,"" and they sat on the side of the room. When I was in college, my senior year, I took a course called European Intellectual History. Don't you love that kind of thing from college? I wish I could do that now. And I took it with my roommate, Carrie, who was then a brilliant literary student — and went on to be a brilliant literary scholar — and my brother — smart guy, but a water-polo-playing pre-med, who was a sophomore. The three of us take this class together. And then Carrie reads all the books in the original Greek and Latin, goes to all the lectures. I read all the books in English and go to most of the lectures. My brother is kind of busy. He reads one book of 12 and goes to a couple of lectures, marches himself up to our room a couple days before the exam to get himself tutored. The three of us go to the exam together, and we sit down. And we sit there for three hours — and our little blue notebooks — yes, I'm that old. We walk out, we look at each other, and we say, ""How did you do?"" And Carrie says, ""Boy, I feel like I didn't really draw out the main point on the Hegelian dialectic."" And I say, ""God, I really wish I had really connected John Locke's theory of property with the philosophers that follow."" And my brother says, ""I got the top grade in the class."" (Laughter) ""You got the top grade in the class? You don't know anything."" (Laughter) The problem with these stories is that they show what the data shows: women systematically underestimate their own abilities. If you test men and women, and you ask them questions on totally objective criteria like GPAs, men get it wrong slightly high, and women get it wrong slightly low. Women do not negotiate for themselves in the workforce. A study in the last two years of people entering the workforce out of college showed that 57 percent of boys entering, or men, I guess, are negotiating their first salary, and only seven percent of women. And most importantly, men attribute their success to themselves, and women attribute it to other external factors. If you ask men why they did a good job, they'll say, ""I'm awesome. Obviously. Why are you even asking?"" If you ask women why they did a good job, what they'll say is someone helped them, they got lucky, they worked really hard. Why does this matter? Boy, it matters a lot. Because no one gets to the corner office by sitting on the side, not at the table, and no one gets the promotion if they don't think they deserve their success, or they don't even understand their own success. I wish the answer were easy. I wish I could go tell all the young women I work for, these fabulous women, ""Believe in yourself and negotiate for yourself. Own your own success."" I wish I could tell that to my daughter. But it's not that simple. Because what the data shows, above all else, is one thing, which is that success and likeability are positively correlated for men and negatively correlated for women. And everyone's nodding, because we all know this to be true. There's a really good study that shows this really well. There's a famous Harvard Business School study on a woman named Heidi Roizen. And she's an operator in a company in Silicon Valley, and she uses her contacts to become a very successful venture capitalist. In 2002 — not so long ago — a professor who was then at Columbia University took that case and made it [Howard] Roizen. And he gave the case out, both of them, to two groups of students. He changed exactly one word: ""Heidi"" to ""Howard."" But that one word made a really big difference. He then surveyed the students, and the good news was the students, both men and women, thought Heidi and Howard were equally competent, and that's good. The bad news was that everyone liked Howard. He's a great guy. You want to work for him. You want to spend the day fishing with him. But Heidi? Not so sure. She's a little out for herself. She's a little political. You're not sure you'd want to work for her. This is the complication. We have to tell our daughters and our colleagues, we have to tell ourselves to believe we got the A, to reach for the promotion, to sit at the table, and we have to do it in a world where, for them, there are sacrifices they will make for that, even though for their brothers, there are not. The saddest thing about all of this is that it's really hard to remember this. And I'm about to tell a story which is truly embarrassing for me, but I think important. I gave this talk at Facebook not so long ago to about 100 employees, and a couple hours later, there was a young woman who works there sitting outside my little desk, and she wanted to talk to me. I said, okay, and she sat down, and we talked. And she said, ""I learned something today. I learned that I need to keep my hand up."" ""What do you mean?"" She said, ""You're giving this talk, and you said you would take two more questions. I had my hand up with many other people, and you took two more questions. I put my hand down, and I noticed all the women did the same, and then you took more questions, only from the men."" And I thought to myself, ""Wow, if it's me — who cares about this, obviously — giving this talk — and during this talk, I can't even notice that the men's hands are still raised, and the women's hands are still raised, how good are we as managers of our companies and our organizations at seeing that the men are reaching for opportunities more than women?"" We've got to get women to sit at the table. (Cheers) (Applause) Message number two: Make your partner a real partner. I've become convinced that we've made more progress in the workforce than we have in the home. The data shows this very clearly. If a woman and a man work full-time and have a child, the woman does twice the amount of housework the man does, and the woman does three times the amount of childcare the man does. So she's got three jobs or two jobs, and he's got one. Who do you think drops out when someone needs to be home more? The causes of this are really complicated, and I don't have time to go into them. And I don't think Sunday football-watching and general laziness is the cause. I think the cause is more complicated. I think, as a society, we put more pressure on our boys to succeed than we do on our girls. I know men that stay home and work in the home to support wives with careers, and it's hard. When I go to the Mommy-and-Me stuff and I see the father there, I notice that the other mommies don't play with him. And that's a problem, because we have to make it as important a job, because it's the hardest job in the world to work inside the home, for people of both genders, if we're going to even things out and let women stay in the workforce. (Applause) Studies show that households with equal earning and equal responsibility also have half the divorce rate. And if that wasn't good enough motivation for everyone out there, they also have more — how shall I say this on this stage? They know each other more in the biblical sense as well. (Cheers) Message number three: Don't leave before you leave. I think there's a really deep irony to the fact that actions women are taking — and I see this all the time — with the objective of staying in the workforce actually lead to their eventually leaving. Here's what happens: We're all busy. Everyone's busy. A woman's busy. And she starts thinking about having a child, and from the moment she starts thinking about having a child, she starts thinking about making room for that child. ""How am I going to fit this into everything else I'm doing?"" And literally from that moment, she doesn't raise her hand anymore, she doesn't look for a promotion, she doesn't take on the new project, she doesn't say, ""Me. I want to do that."" She starts leaning back. The problem is that — let's say she got pregnant that day, that day — nine months of pregnancy, three months of maternity leave, six months to catch your breath — Fast-forward two years, more often — and as I've seen it — women start thinking about this way earlier — when they get engaged, or married, when they start thinking about having a child, which can take a long time. One woman came to see me about this. She looked a little young. And I said, ""So are you and your husband thinking about having a baby?"" And she said, ""Oh no, I'm not married."" She didn't even have a boyfriend. (Laughter) I said, ""You're thinking about this just way too early."" But the point is that what happens once you start kind of quietly leaning back? Everyone who's been through this — and I'm here to tell you, once you have a child at home, your job better be really good to go back, because it's hard to leave that kid at home. Your job needs to be challenging. It needs to be rewarding. You need to feel like you're making a difference. And if two years ago you didn't take a promotion and some guy next to you did, if three years ago you stopped looking for new opportunities, you're going to be bored because you should have kept your foot on the gas pedal. Don't leave before you leave. Stay in. Keep your foot on the gas pedal, until the very day you need to leave to take a break for a child — and then make your decisions. Don't make decisions too far in advance, particularly ones you're not even conscious you're making. My generation really, sadly, is not going to change the numbers at the top. They're just not moving. We are not going to get to where 50 percent of the population — in my generation, there will not be 50 percent of [women] at the top of any industry. But I'm hopeful that future generations can. I think a world where half of our countries and our companies were run by women, would be a better world. It's not just because people would know where the women's bathrooms are, even though that would be very helpful. I think it would be a better world. I have two children. I have a five-year-old son and a two-year-old daughter. I want my son to have a choice to contribute fully in the workforce or at home, and I want my daughter to have the choice to not just succeed, but to be liked for her accomplishments. Thank you. (Applause)"	"對於今天任何一個出現在這個房間裡的人，讓我們從承認我們很幸運開始吧。我們不是生活在我們的母親生活的世界，我們的祖母生活的世界，那時婦女的職業選擇是如此有限。如果你今天在這個房間裡，我們大多數人成長在一個有基本的公民權利的世界裡。而令人驚奇的是我們仍然生活在一個有些女性沒有這些權利的世界裡。除此以外，我們還有一個問題，一個真正的問題。而這個問題是：女人並沒有成為任何專業的頂峰，在世界任何地方。數字可以很清晰的說明這個故事。一百九十位國家元首 —有九個是婦女。在世界上所有的議會裡的人，百分之十三是婦女。在企業部門，在頂端的婦女，C級職位，董事會席位 —頂多是百分之十五、十六。自2002年以來，這些數字都沒有變化，還是朝著錯誤的方向邁進。即使在非營利的世界裡，一個我們有時會想是由婦女領導的世界，在頂端的婦女：百分之二十。 我們還面臨著另一個問題，就是婦女在職業成就和個人實現方面面對較艱難的選擇。在美國最近的一項研究表明，已婚的高級管理人員，三分之二的是已婚而有孩子的男性，只有三分之一的是已婚而有孩子的婦女。幾年前，我在紐約，我在談一宗交易，我在一個別緻的紐約私募基金辦公室，你能想像。而我在會議 — 這是個大約三小時的會議 —在兩小時時，大家需要一種生理小息，每個人都站起來，而那個舉行會議的合作夥伴開始看起來真的很尷尬。我意識到他不知道哪裡他的辦公室哪裡有女洗手間。所以我開始環顧四周找那些搬運的箱子，心想他們才剛搬進來，但我也看不到。所以我說，“你剛剛搬進這個辦公室嗎？”而他說：“不，我們已經在這裡差不多一年。”我說，“你是不是告訴我我是這一年裡在這個辦公室裡談交易的唯一一個女人？”他看著我，他說：“是啊。或許你是唯一一個要去洗手間的。” （眾笑） 所以問題是，我們如何去解決這個問題？我們如何改變這些在頂端的數字？我們如何令它不同？我想開始說，我講這一點 —關於讓婦女留在職場 —因為我真的認為這是問題的答案。在勞動人口中高收入的一群，在那群最終在頂端的人裡 —財富500強的CEO職位，或等值的其它行業 —問題，我深信，是婦女退出了。現在人們經常談論這個，他們談論像彈性時間和顧問指導的事和公司應該有計劃培訓婦女。我今天不想說任何一個 —儘管這一切都非常重要。今天，我希望把重點放在我們個人能做些什麼。什麼是我們需要告訴自己的信息？有什麼信息是我們要告訴那些與我們工作和為我們工作的婦女？有什麼信息是我們要告訴女兒的？ 現在，首先，我要非常清楚，這個演講沒有定論。我沒有正確答案，連我自己都沒有。我離開舊金山，我住的地方，在星期一，我為了這個會議上飛機。而我的女兒，三歲，當我在幼兒園放下她時，她整個抱著我的腿，哭叫著：“媽媽，不要上飛機” 的東西。這是困難的。有時我感到內疚。我知道沒有婦女，無論她們在家，還是在職場，有時候不覺得那樣。所以我不是說留在職場對所有人來說都是正確的事。 我今天的講座是關於提供什麼信息給大家，如果你真的想繼續留在職場我認為有三種。一，坐在桌旁。二，使你的合作夥伴成為一個真正的合作夥伴。三，不要你離開之前離開。第一：坐在桌旁。就在幾個星期前，在Facebook的辦公室裡，我們招待了一個很高級的政府官員，他來跟在矽谷周邊的高管會面。每個人都坐在桌子旁。而他有兩個跟他一起出訪的女人她們在他部門也算高級的。而且我客氣地對她們說：“坐在桌旁。來吧，坐在桌旁。”而他們坐在房間的一旁。當我在大學畢業那年，我報讀了一個名為歐洲思想史課程。你不喜歡大學的那種事情嗎。我希望我現在能做到了。我和我的室友，嘉莉，一起報讀，她當時是一個傑出的文學學生 —而發展成一個傑出的文學學者 —而我的弟弟 —聰明的傢伙，但是一個打水球的醫學預科生，是個二年級學生。 我們三人一起上課。嘉莉讀了所有的書包括希臘和拉丁文原文 —上了所有的演講 —我讀了所有的英文書籍去了大部分的演講。我弟弟比較忙；他讀了十二本書的其中一本上了幾課演講，他遊行到我們的房間在考試前幾天讓自己被我們輔導。我們三人一起去考試，我們坐下。我們坐在那裡三個小時 —我們的藍色小筆記本 — 是的，我就是那麼老。我們走出來，看了看對方，而我們說，“你做得怎樣？”嘉莉說，“各位，我覺得我並沒有真正畫出黑格爾的辯證法的重點。”而我說：“上帝，我真的希望我有真正連接洛克的財產理論與哲學家的後續。”我弟弟說：“我得到了全班最好的成績。”“你得到了全班最好的成績？你什麼都不知道。” 這些故事的問題是，他們顯示了數據顯示：女性系統性地低估了自己的能力。如果你測試男人和女人，你問他們一些有完全客觀的標準的問題，像GPA（大學學分），男人把它錯估稍高，女人把它錯估稍低。婦女不為她們自己在職場作談判。在過去兩年的一項關於離開校門進入職場的人的研究，發現百分之五十七的男孩進入 —或者男人，我猜 —有為他們的第一份工資談判，只有百分之七的婦女有談判。而最重要的是，男人把成功歸因於自己，而婦女把它歸功於其他外部因素。如果你問男人，為什麼他們的工作做得不錯，他們會說，“我棒極了。很明顯。為什麼你還需要問？”如果你問婦女為什麼她們的工作做得很好，她們會說是有人幫助她們，她們很幸運，她們真的很辛苦工作。為什麼這有影響呢？各位，這是相當重要的，因為沒有人會選擇坐在辦公室角落坐在一邊的，而不是在桌邊的人。而沒有人會得到晉升，如果她們不認為她們應該得到屬於自己的成功，或者她們甚至不認識自己的成功。 我希望答案是很容易的。我希望我能去告訴所有跟我一起工作的年輕女人，所有那些極好的婦女，“相信自己，為你自己進行談判。你擁有自己的成功。”我希望我能告訴我的女兒。但它不是那麼簡單。因為數據顯示，高於一切，是一件事 —那就是成功和討喜對男性呈正相關，對女性呈負相關。而每個人都點頭，因為我們都知道這是真的。 有一個很好的研究非常好的顯示了這個。有一個著名的哈佛商學院的研究關於一個叫海蒂·羅森的女人。她是公司的一個經營者在矽谷，而她用她的人脈成為一個非常成功的風險資本家。在2002 — 不久前 —一位當時在哥倫比亞大學的教授拿這個案例，把她改成霍華‧德羅森。他提出案例 — 兩個案例 —給兩組學生。他只改變了一個字：海蒂 改成 霍華德。但是，這一個字做了非常大的差異。然後他訪問那些學生。好消息，這些是學生，無論男女，都覺得海蒂和霍華德同樣勝任，這很好。而壞消息是，每個人都喜歡霍華德。他是一個很棒的傢伙，你想為他工作，你想花一天時間與他捕魚。但海蒂？不敢肯定。她有一點點少了自己。她有一點點政治化。你不知道自己要不要為她工作。這就是併發症。我們要告訴我們的女兒和同事，我們要告訴自己，相信我們得到了A，以達到晉升，坐在桌邊。而且我們必須這樣做，在一個世界裡，對她們來說將要犧牲來彌補這一點，儘管對兄弟來說沒有。 關於這一切最可悲的一點是，我們真的很難記住這一點。而我要告訴大家一個對我來說確實很尷尬的故事，但我認為重要的。我在不久之前在Facebook做這個演講，約有一百名員工。而幾個小時後，有一名在這裡工作的年輕女子坐在我的小桌子外面，她想和我說話。我說，好吧，她坐了下來，和我們交談。她說，“我今天學到了一些東西。我學到我需要保持舉手。”我說：“你是什麼意思？”她說：“嗯，你做這個講座，而你說你會接納多兩個問題。我和其他大量的人都舉了手，而你接納了兩個問題。當我把我的手放下來，我注意到所有的女人都把自己的手放下來，然後你又接納了更多的問題，只從男人。“我心想，哇，如果這就是我 — 誰在乎這個，很明顯 —給這個講座 —而在這個講座，我連是男子的雙手仍然舉高了，還是婦女的手仍然舉高了都沒有發覺，作為公司和團體的管理者我們有多好去觀察男人比女性得到更多的機會？我們得讓女人坐在桌邊。 （鼓掌） 信息二：讓合作夥伴成為一個真正的合作夥伴。我相信，我們已經在職場取得一定進展比我們在家裡。數據顯示得很清楚。如果一個女人和一個男人全職工作，而有一個孩子，女人的家務勞動量比男人多兩倍，而女人做了比男人多三倍的照顧兒童工作。因此，她有三份或兩份工作，而他有一個。你認為當家裡需要人時，誰會退出？導致這個的原因真的很複雜，我沒有時間深入討論。而我不認為週日看足球和普遍懶惰是原因。 我認為原因較為複雜。我認為，在我們的社會裡，我們給男孩更大要求成功的壓力，和女孩相對比較。我知道男人留在家裡，在家工作來支持妻子的事業是很難的。當我去""媽媽和我""那一類的商店時，我看到了父親在那裡，我發現其他媽媽們不跟他交流。這是一個問題，因為我們已經使這工作變得重要因為在家工作是世界上最難的工作無論男女，如果我們平分東西，並讓婦女留在職場。（鼓掌）研究表明，家庭有相同的收入和同等責任也有一半的離婚率。如果這還不夠鼓動每個人，他們也有更多 —我在這個舞台上該怎麼說呢？ —他們按照聖經的意義了解彼此更多。 （歡呼） 信息三：不要在你離開之前離開。我覺得有一個非常深刻的諷刺是，事實上婦女正在採取行動 —我看這一切的時候 —與留在勞動人口的原因，實際上導致他們最終離開。這是發生的事：我們都忙，每個人都忙，一個女人很忙。而她開始想著要個孩子。而那一刻她開始想著要有個孩子時，她開始想著留些空間給這個孩子。“我應該如何把這個和我所有的生活融合呢？”而從字面上那一刻起，她不會舉起她的手了，她不再尋找升職，她不接受新的項目，她沒有說，“我。我要做那個。”她開始後退。問題是 —就說她懷孕的那一天，那一天 —九個月的懷孕，產假三個月，六個月讓你喘口氣 —快進兩年，更多的時候 — 因為我見過 —女性很早就開始思考這件事 —當她們訂了婚，當她們結婚，當她們開始思考想要一個孩子，這可能需要很長時間。一位婦女為了這件事來見我，我看著她 — 她看上去有點年輕。而我說，“所以你和你的丈夫想生孩子？”她說，“哦，不，我還沒結婚。”她甚至沒有一個男朋友。我說：“你在想這只是為時尚早。” 重點是有什麼會發生，當你開始靜靜的後退？每一個經歷過這些的人 —而我在這裡告訴你，一旦你家裡有個孩子，你最好還是回去工作，因為很難把孩子留在家裡 —你的工作需要有挑戰性。它需要有回報的。你需要感覺自己在發揮作用。而如果兩年前你沒有晉升和你身邊的人有，如果三年前你停止尋找新的機會，你將會覺得無聊，因為你應該把你的腳保持在油門踏板。不要在你離開之前離開。留下來。把你腳保持在油門踏板上，直到那一天你需要離開為一個孩子休息一下 —然後做出自己的決定。不要太早作出決定，特別是那些你甚至沒有意識到自己正在做的決定。 我這一代真的很可惜，是不會改變在頂端的數字了。他們只是沒有前進。我們不會去到百分之五十的人口 —在我這一代，將不會有百分之五十的人在任何行業的頂端。但我希望未來一代可以。我認為一個世界有一半的國家和一半的公司是由婦女來營運，將會是一個更美好的世界。而這不僅僅是因為人們會知道哪裡有婦女的洗手間，雖然那是非常有用的。我認為這會是一個更美好的世界。我有兩個孩子。我有一個五歲的兒子和一個三歲的女兒。我想我的兒子可以選擇在職場或在家裡作出貢獻。而且我想我的女兒可以選擇不只是成功，而是因為她的成就而被人喜歡。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）"
