Talk	en	zh-tw
sheryl_sandberg_so_we_leaned_in_now_what	"Pat Mitchell: Your first time back on the TEDWomen stage. Sheryl Sandberg: First time back. Nice to see everyone. It's always so nice to look out and see so many women. It's so not my regular experience,  as I know anyone else's. PM: So when we first started talking about, maybe the subject wouldn't be social media, which we assumed it would be, but  that you had very much on your mind the missing leadership positions, particularly  in the sector of technology and social media. But how did that evolve for you as a thought, and end up being the TED Talk that you gave? SS: So I was really scared to get on  this stage and talk about women, because I grew up in the business  world, as I think so many of us did. You never talk about being a woman, because  someone might notice that you're a woman, right? They might notice. Or worse, if you say ""woman,""  people on the other end of the table think you're asking for special  treatment, or complaining. Or worse, about to sue them.  And so I went through — (Laughter) Right? I went through my entire business career, and never spoke about being a woman,  never spoke about it publicly. But I also had noticed that it wasn't working. I came out of college over  20 years ago, and I thought that all of my peers were men and women,  all the people above me were all men, but that would change, because your generation had done such  an amazing job fighting for equality, equality was now ours for the taking. And it wasn't. Because year after year, I was one of fewer and fewer, and now, often the only woman in a room. And I talked to a bunch of people about, should I give a speech at TEDWomen  about women, and they said, oh no, no. It will end your business career. You  cannot be a serious business executive and speak about being a woman.  You'll never be taken seriously again. But fortunately, there were the few, the proud — like you — who told me I should give the speech, and I asked myself the question  Mark Zuckerberg might — the founder of Facebook and my boss — asks all of us, which is, what  would I do if I wasn't afraid? And the answer to what would I do if I wasn't  afraid is I would get on the TED stage, and talk about women, and leadership.  And I did, and survived. (Applause) PM: I would say, not only survived.  I'm thinking of that moment, Sheryl, when you and I were standing backstage  together, and you turned to me, and you told me a story. And I said — very last minute — you know,  you really should share that story. SS: Oh, yeah. PM: What was that story? SS: Well, it's an important part of the  journey. So I had — TEDWomen — the original one was in D.C. — so I live here,  so I had gotten on a plane the day before, and my daughter was three, she was  clinging to my leg: ""Mommy, don't go."" And Pat's a friend, and so, not related  to the speech I was planning on giving, which was chock full of facts and  figures, and nothing personal, I told Pat the story. I said, well,  I'm having a hard day. Yesterday my daughter was clinging  to my leg, and ""Don't go."" And you looked at me and said,  you have to tell that story. I said, on the TED stage? Are you kidding? I'm going to get on a stage and admit  my daughter was clinging to my leg? And you said yes, because if you want to talk  about getting more women into leadership roles, you have to be honest about how hard it is. And I did. And I think that's a really  important part of the journey. The same thing happened when I wrote my book.  I started writing the book. I wrote a first chapter, I thought it was fabulous. It was  chock-full of data and figures, I had three pages on matrilineal Maasai  tribes, and their sociological patterns. My husband read it and he was like, this  is like eating your Wheaties. (Laughter) No one — and I apologize to Wheaties if there's  someone — no one, no one will read this book. And I realized through the process that I  had to be more honest and more open, and I had to tell my stories. My stories of still  not feeling as self-confident as I should, in many situations. My first and  failed marriage. Crying at work. Felling like I didn't belong there,  feeling guilty to this day. And part of my journey, starting on this stage,  going to ""Lean In,"" going to the foundation, is all about being more open and  honest about those challenges, so that other women can be more open and honest, and all of us can work together towards real equality. PM: I think that one of the most  striking parts about the book, and in my opinion, one of the reasons it's hit such  a nerve and is resonating around the world, is that you are personal in the book,  and that you do make it clear that, while you've observed some things that are  very important for other women to know, that you've had the same challenges  that many others of us have, as you faced the hurdles and the barriers and  possibly the people who don't believe the same. So talk about that process: deciding  you'd go public with the private part, and then you would also put yourself in  the position of something of an expert on how to resolve those challenges. SS: After I did the TED Talk, what happened was — you know, I never really expected to write  a book, I'm not an author, I'm not a writer, and it was viewed a lot, and it really  started impacting people's lives. I got this great —- one of the first  letters I got was from a woman who said that she was offered a really big  promotion at work, and she turned it down, and she told her best friend she turned  it down, and her best friend said, you really need to watch this TED Talk. And so she watched this TED Talk, and she  went back the next day, she took the job, she went home, and she handed her  husband the grocery list. (Laughter) And she said, I can do this. And what really mattered to me — it wasn't  only women in the corporate world, even though I did hear from a lot of  them, and it did impact a lot of them, it was also people of all different circumstances. There was a doctor I met who was an  attending physician at Johns Hopkins, and he said that until he saw my TED  Talk, it never really occurred to him that even though half the students in  his med school classes were women, they weren't speaking as much as  the men as he did his rounds. So he started paying attention, and as he waited for  raised hands, he realized the men's hands were up. So he started encouraging the  women to raise their hands more, and it still didn't work. So he told everyone, no more  hand raising, I'm cold-calling. So he could call evenly on men and women.  And what he proved to himself was that the women knew the answers just as well or better, and he was able to go back  to them and tell them that. And then there was the woman, stay-at-home  mom, lives in a really difficult neighborhood, with not a great school, she said that TED  Talk — she's never had a corporate job, but that TED Talk inspired her to go to her school  and fight for a better teacher for her child. And I guess it was part of was finding my own voice. And I realized that other women and  men could find their voice through it, which is why I went from the talk to the book. PM: And in the book, you not only found your  voice, which is clear and strong in the book, but you also share what you've learned — the experiences of other people in the lessons. And that's what I'm thinking about  in terms of putting yourself in a — you became a sort of expert in how you lean in. So what did that feel like, and  become like in your life? To launch not just a book, not just  a best-selling, best-viewed talk, but a movement, where people began to  literally describe their actions at work as, I'm leaning in. SS: I mean, I'm grateful, I'm honored,  I'm happy, and it's the very beginning. So I don't know if I'm an expert, or if anyone is  an expert. I certainly have done a lot of research. I have read every study, I have  pored over the materials, and the lessons are very clear.  Because here's what we know: What we know is that stereotypes are holding women  back from leadership roles all over the world. It's so striking. ""Lean In"" is very global,  I've been all over the world, talking about it, and — cultures are so different. Even within our own country, to Japan,  to Korea, to China, to Asia, Europe, they're so different. Except for one thing: gender. All over the world, no matter what our cultures are, we think men should be strong,  assertive, aggressive, have voice; we think women should speak  when spoken to, help others. Now we have, all over the world, women are called ""bossy.""  There is a word for ""bossy,"" for little girls, in every language there's one. It's a word that's pretty much not used for little boys, because if a little boy leads,  there's no negative word for it, it's expected. But if a little girl leads, she's bossy. Now I know there aren't a lot of  men here, but bear with me. If you're a man, you'll have  to represent your gender. Please raise your hand if you've been  told you're too aggressive at work. (Laughter) There's always a few, it runs about  five percent. Okay, get ready, gentlemen. If you're a woman, please raise your hand if you've  ever been told you're too aggressive at work. (Laughter) That is what audiences have  said in every country in the world, and it's deeply supported by the data. Now, do we think women are more  aggressive than men? Of course not. It's just that we judge them through a different lens, and a lot of the character traits that you must  exhibit to perform at work, to get results, to lead, are ones that we think, in a man, he's a boss, and in a woman, she's bossy. And the good news about this is that we  can change this by acknowledging it. One of the happiest moments  I had in this whole journey is, after the book came out, I stood on a stage  with John Chambers, the CEO of Cisco. He read the book. He stood on a stage with me, he  invited me in front of his whole management team, men and women, and he said, I thought we  were good at this. I thought I was good at this. And then I read this book, and I  realized that we — my company — we have called all of our  senior women too aggressive, and I'm standing on this stage, and I'm sorry. And I want you to know we're  never going to do it again. PM: Can we send that to a lot of other  people that we know? (Applause) SS: And so John is doing that because  he believes it's good for his company, and so this kind of acknowledgement  of these biases can change it. And so next time you all see  someone call a little girl ""bossy,"" you walk right up to that person,  big smile, and you say, ""That little girl's not bossy. That little girl has  executive leadership skills."" (Laughter) PM: I know that's what you're telling your daughter.  SS: Absolutely. PM: And you did focus in the book — and  the reason, as you said, in writing it, was to create a dialogue about this. I mean, let's just put it out there,  face the fact that women are — in a time when we have more open  doors, and more opportunities — are still not getting to the leadership positions. So in the months that have come since the book, in which ""Lean In"" focused on that and said, here are some of the challenges that remain, and  many of them we have to own within ourselves and look at ourselves. What has changed? Have you seen changes? SS: Well, there's certainly more  dialogue, which is great. But what really matters to me,  and I think all of us, is action. So everywhere I go, CEOs,  they're mostly men, say to me, you're costing me so much money because all the women want to  be paid as much as the men. And to them I say, I'm not sorry at all. (Laughter) At all. I mean, the women should  be paid as much as the men. Everywhere I go, women tell me they ask for raises. Everywhere I go, women say they're getting  better relationships with their spouses, asking for more help at home, asking for the  promotions they should be getting at work, and importantly, believing it  themselves. Even little things. One of the governors of one of the states told me  that he didn't realize that more women were, in fact, literally sitting on the side  of the room, which they are, and now he made a rule that all the women  on his staff need to sit at the table. The foundation I started along  with the book ""Lean In"" helps women, or men, start circles — small groups, it can be 10, it can be however many  you want, which meet once a month. I would have hoped that by now, we'd have  about 500 circles. That would've been great. You know, 500 times roughly 10. There are over 12,000 circles  in 50 countries in the world. PM: Wow, that's amazing. SS: And these are people who  are meeting every single month. I met one of them, I was in Beijing. A group of women, they're all about 29 or 30,  they started the first Lean In circle in Beijing, several of them grew up in very poor, rural China. These women are 29, they are told by  their society that they are ""left over,"" because they are not yet married, and the process of coming together  once a month at a meeting is helping them define who they are for themselves. What they want in their careers. The  kind of partners they want, if at all. I looked at them, we went around  and introduced ourselves, and they all said their names  and where they're from, and I said, I'm Sheryl Sandberg,  and this was my dream. And I kind of just started crying. Right, which, I admit, I do. Right?  I've talked about it before. But the fact that a woman so far away out in  the world, who grew up in a rural village, who's being told to marry someone  she doesn't want to marry, can now go meet once a month with  a group of people and refuse that, and find life on her own terms. That's the kind of change we have to hope for. PM: Have you been surprised by  the global nature of the message? Because I think when the book first  came out, many people thought, well, this is a really important handbook  for young women on their way up. They need to look at this, anticipate  the barriers, and recognize them, put them out in the open, have the dialogue about it, but that it's really for women who are that.  Doing that. Pursuing the corporate world. And yet the book is being read, as you  say, in rural and developing countries. What part of that has surprised you, and  perhaps led to a new perspective on your part? SS: The book is about self-confidence,  and about equality. And it turns out, everywhere in the world,  women need more self-confidence, because the world tells us we're not equal to men. Everywhere in the world, we live in  a world where the men get ""and,"" and women get ""or."" I've never met a man who's been  asked how he does it all. (Laughter) Again, I'm going to turn to the men in the audience: Please raise your hand if you've  been asked, how do you do it all? (Laughter) Men only. Women, women. Please raise your hand  if you've been asked how you do it all? We assume men can do it all,  slash — have jobs and children. We assume women can't, and that's ridiculous, because the great majority of women everywhere  in the world, including the United States, work full time and have children. And I think people don't fully understand  how broad the message is. There is a circle that's been started  for rescued sex workers in Miami. They're using ""Lean In"" to help  people make the transition back to what would be a fair life, really rescuing  them from their pimps, and using it. There are dress-for-success groups  in Texas which are using the book, for women who have never been to college. And we know there are groups  all the way to Ethiopia. And so these messages of equality — of how women  are told they can't have what men can have — how we assume that leadership is for men,  how we assume that voice is for men, these affect all of us, and I  think they are very universal. And it's part of what TEDWomen does. It unites all of us in a cause we have to believe in, which is more women, more voice, more equality. PM: If you were invited now to  make another TEDWomen talk, what would you say that is a result  of this experience, for you personally, and what you've learned about women, and men, as you've made this journey? SS: I think I would say — I tried to say this strongly, but I think I can say it more strongly — I want to say that the status quo is not enough. That it's not good enough, that it's  not changing quickly enough. Since I gave my TED Talk and published my book,  another year of data came out from the U.S. Census. And you know what we found? No movement in the wage gap  for women in the United States. Seventy-seven cents to the dollar. If you are a black woman, 64 cents. If you are a Latina, we're at 54 cents. Do you know when the last  time those numbers went up? 2002. We are stagnating, we are  stagnating in so many ways. And I think we are not really being honest about that, for so many reasons. It's so  hard to talk about gender. We shy away from the word ""feminist,""  a word I really think we need to embrace. We have to get rid of the  word bossy and bring back — (Applause) I think I would say in a louder voice,  we need to get rid of the word ""bossy"" and bring back the word ""feminist,""  because we need it. (Applause) PM: And we all need to do a lot more leaning in. SS: A lot more leaning in. PM: Thank you, Sheryl. Thanks for leaning in and saying yes. SS: Thank you. (Applause)"	帕特·米歇爾：妳第一次回到 TEDWomen雪莉·桑德伯格：是的很高興見到大家，總是很高興可以見到這麼多女性聚在一起這不像是我平常會有的經驗我想其他人也是我們第一次談話時或許主題不算是社群媒體我們以為會是，但妳有許多其它想法失落的領導位階特別是科技與社群媒體但這些是如何讓妳產生想法最後成為妳上次在 TED 談話的主題呢？我本來很害怕在這裡討論女性議題因為我在商場上打滾我想我們很多人都是如此妳不曾談論身為女性這件事因為這會讓人發覺妳是一位女性他們可能會察覺，或者更糟妳提到「女性」時，桌子另一頭的人會覺得妳在要求特別的待遇或是在抱怨或者更糟的情況是要告發他們所以我在我... （笑聲）是吧？我在我整個職涯中從不在公開場合提及身為女性這件事但我發覺得這樣是沒有效果的我二十年前從大學離開就在想我的同事有男有女但老闆都是男的我以為這種狀況會改變因為妳們這一代為了平等做了許多驚人的貢獻我們得到平等待遇，但沒有改變一年過了一年，我是少數中的少數現在是辦公室裡唯一的女性我跟一些人提到我應該在 TEDWomen 提到女性嗎？他們都說不要不要這會毀了妳的工作妳無法同時是執行長又談論女性議題這樣沒有人會再把妳當一回事但幸運地，還有些人，值得驕傲的人像是妳，告訴我應該談論這議題而我問自己一個問題這也是馬克·祖克柏臉書創辦人，我的老闆也可能會問我們的問題那就是如果我不退縮的話會怎麼做？而答案是，如果我不退縮我就會站在 TED 的講台上談論女性議題和領導力我做到了，而且活過來了（掌聲）我想說，不單只是活過來雪莉，我想到當時我們站在後台的時候，妳轉向我跟我說了一個故事在最後一刻，我跟妳說妳真的應該分享這個故事沒錯那是什麼故事？那是旅程中很重要的一部分TEDWomen 一開始是在華盛頓特區，我住在這裡所以我前一天就要搭飛機過去我3歲女兒則是纏著我的腿說：「媽咪不要走」帕特則是我的朋友所以這跟我要演講的無關演講是關於事實和圖表不是私人的經驗我跟帕特講了這個故事說我有個難過的一天昨天我女兒纏著我腿叫我別走而妳看著我叫我要講這段故事我說，在 TED 台上嗎？妳開玩笑的吧？我要站在講台上然後承認我女兒纏著我的腿？妳說，對，如果妳要讓更多女性扮演領導者的角色妳必須承認這是有多困難的而我就真的講了這故事那真的是旅程中很重要的一部分同樣的事在我寫書的時候又發生一次我開始寫書，寫了第一章我認為寫得很好都是數據和圖表我有三頁在講母系社會的馬賽部落和其社會習性我老公讀了之後他覺得這像是在吃威迪（Wheaties）麥片 （笑聲）沒有人 — 如果這裡有吃威迪麥片的人我先說抱歉 — 沒有人會讀這本書的在過程中，我發現我必須要更坦白更放得開我必須要講我自己的故事在很多情況下對自己不夠有自信的故事我第一次失敗的婚姻工作時掉眼淚感覺我不屬於那裡、至今仍感到內咎我的旅程某部分從這個台上開始一直到《挺身而進》出版，再到基金會全部都是更開闊更坦然地去面對這些挑戰所以其他女性也能更開闊更坦然地去面對我們可以一起朝向真實的平等前進我想書裡最令人震驚的是我認為，這本書能切中要害在全世界引起共鳴某個原因是妳在書裡分享私人的經驗而且講得很清楚妳發現某些事是其他女性也必須知道的妳也和其他人面對相同的挑戰妳面對的障礙和困難可能其他人並不相信是一致的跟我們談談這個過程：妳決定公開妳私人的生活讓自己成為克服挑戰的專家我在 TED 演講之後，接下來我沒有想過會去寫一本書我並不是一位作家但很多人看了這本書也開始影響很多人的生活我覺得很棒 — 我收到的第一封信是來自一位女性說她的工作獲得升遷但她拒絕了她跟她的好朋友說她拒絕了她好朋友說妳真的應該去看看這個 TED 演講她去看了 TED 演講第二天回去上班，她接受了升遷她回家後把購物清單交給她老公（笑聲）她說，我也可以做得到對我真正有意義的是它不只影響在公司中的女性雖然回應有很多是來自商場上的女性也確實深深影響她們但它也影響到所有不同環境下的人我遇到一位在約翰·霍普金斯的主治醫師他說在他看 TED 之前他從沒發現雖然他醫學課有一半女學生她們卻不像其他男生踴躍發言之後他開始留意，等學生舉手結果他發現舉手的確實都是男生所以他開始鼓勵女生舉手但沒有什麼效果他就告訴大家不用舉手了，用叫名字的他就男女均等的叫名結果他發現女生回答的跟男生一樣好，或更好他決定要回課堂上告訴大家這件事還有一位家庭主婦住在非常糟的社區不是好的學區她從沒在公司行號上班過但 TED 演講啟發她讓她去學校替小孩爭取好的老師我猜這像是找回自己的發聲權我發覺其他女性和男性也能找回自己的發聲權這也是為什麼我從演講變成出書妳在書裡很明白的強調妳不只是找回妳的發聲權妳也分享了妳的經驗在這些過程中其他人的經驗這讓我想到，把妳自己放在...妳像是成為挺身而進的專家這是什麼的感覺？對妳人生有什麼改變？不只是出版一本最暢銷的書或最多人瀏覽的演講也是一個運動讓人們開始可以說自己在職場上我挺身而進我很感激，很榮幸，也很開心這只是一個開始我不知道我是不是專家，或誰是專家但我做了很多研究我研讀每一個報告探究每一份資料而我學到的是顯而易見的因為我們知道：刻版印象讓全世界的女性難以坐上領導者的位子這很驚人「挺身而進」 是全球化的我在世界各地演講各地文化差異很大就算在國內，在日本、韓國中國、亞洲、歐洲文化都不一樣但有一項例外：性別議題在這個世界上不管我們是什麼文化我們都認為男性應該是強壯的決斷的、積極的、有發言權的我們認為女性只有在被允許時才發言在全世界我們都會說女性很「跋扈」在所有言語中都有形容小女生「跋扈」 的字眼這是一個幾乎不會用在小男生身上的字眼因為小男生位居領導時沒有負面的意義那是預期中的但小女生位居領導時，她就是跋扈我知道現場沒有太多男性不過還是先忍耐一下如果你是男性就請你代表全體的男生如果你在工作上被說過太積極的，請舉手（笑聲） 總是會有一些的，大約是 5%好，男士們請準備好女士們，如果妳在工作上被說過太積極的，請舉手（笑聲） 這就是每個國家都有的現象而且數據可以有效證明我們真的認為女性比男性更積極？當然不是這只是我們對女性用不同的標準在工作上表現突出，領導他人的人是男性，我們認為他是老闆是女性，我們認為她很跋扈好消息是，我們可以因為認知這件事而改變它在整個旅程中，我最開心的事是在書出版之後，我和思科 (Cisco) 的執行長 約翰·錢伯斯 (Chambers) 一同站在台上他看了這本書，他邀請我與他同台站在他經營團隊的前面有男有女，他說，我以為我們在這方面做得很好了但我看了妳的書之後我才發覺我們 — 整個公司 —會覺得資深女性員工太過積極而我現在站在這台上要說，我很抱歉我要妳們知道我們再也不會這樣認為了我們可以把這件事告訴我們認識的每個人吧？（掌聲）約翰這樣做是因為他相信這對他公司是件好事所以認知到有這樣的偏差是可以改變現況的所以下次你們看到有人稱小女生 「跋扈」 時你要微笑地走向那個人，跟他說「那個女生不是跋扈她是有領導才能的。」（笑聲）我知道妳是這樣教導妳女兒的當然妳也在書中強調這點而妳提到原因是妳想要引發這個議題的對話我是說，先把這個放一邊正視關於女性— 我們有愈來愈多的管道和機會 —但仍然很難達到領導的位階所以這本書發表後的幾個月中《挺身而進》 著重的部分仍舊存在很多挑戰很多是我們必須承認必須檢視的，這些改變了嗎？妳有見到任何改變嗎？已經開啟了很多對話，這是很好的但真正重要的是，我認為我們要有所行動每到一個地方，執行長告訴我大部分都是男性他們說妳讓我花費太多錢了因為所有女性都想跟男性拿一樣高的薪水而我回說我一點也不覺得有什麼不對（笑聲）一點也不，女性應該跟男性領一樣的薪水我所到之處女性跟我說她們要求加薪我所到之處女性跟我說她們和另一半的關係更好了在家裡要求更多的協助在工作上要求應得的待遇重要的是，她們肯相信即使只是小小的事情某一位政府官員跟我說他沒有查覺到現實上很多女性都坐在房間的一角現在他訂了規則他所屬的所有女性都要坐在會議桌旁我跟這本書《挺身而進》發表時同時成立的基金會幫助了女性和男性發起了小團體約十個人左右，但可以容納更多人每個月聚會一次開始時希望到目前為止可以達到 500 個小團體就很不錯你知道的， 500 乘上大約 10但現在全世界 50 多個國家有超過一萬兩千個小團體哇，這相當驚人這些人每個月聚一次會我在北京時遇到其中一個小團體女性的團體，她們全部大約是 29、 30 歲她們是在北京第一個「挺進」 小團體其中有些人是在很貧窮的中國鄉下長大的她們 29 歲被社會視為是 「過剩的」因為她們還沒有結婚每個月一次聚會的過程幫助她們找到自己是誰在工作上希望得到什麼選擇什麼樣的伴侶我看著她們逐一地自我介紹她們說出自己的姓名說自己來自哪裡我說，我是雪莉·桑德伯格這是我的夢想我開始有點想掉眼淚對，我承認我是先前我已經談過了但事實上，在世界某個角落的一位女性在偏遠的村落長大她被要求嫁給她不想嫁的人現在卻可以每個月和團體聚一次而且拒絕妥協並找到她自己生命的定義這就是我們希望帶來的改變妳有被這些來自世界各地的訊息震驚到嗎？因為我認為當這本書剛上市時很多人覺得這對年輕女性提升自我是非常重要的參考書她們應該要讀這本書遇期會有阻礙，然後面對它把它公諸於世提出相關的對話這真的是給那些女性想做到在業界有所追求的女性像妳說的，這本書在農村裡和發展中國家有人閱讀有哪一部分讓妳感到震驚？或是讓妳有新的看法？這本書是關於自信和平等這顯示在世界任何角落女性都需要更有自信因為這世界告訴我們女性跟男性是不平等的世界上任何角落我們身在男人得到這個「和」那個而女人只有這個「或」那個 的世界我沒有遇過任何一名男性被問到你是怎麼辦到的 （笑聲）再一次，我要問問在座的男性：如果你被問過你是怎麼做到的，請舉手（笑聲）只有男性女性們，如果妳們被問過妳是如何辦到的，請舉手我們假設男性可以做到兼顧工作和小孩而我們卻假設女性辦不到這很荒謬因為世界上絕大部分的女性包括在美國都有女性全職工作還帶小孩我想人們無法完全理解這個訊息範圍是多遼闊的在邁阿密有一個剛發起的團體是為了那些性工作者她們用《挺身而進》這本書的概念幫助人們過正常的人生救她們脫離老鴇在德州有一個 「穿上成功」的團體利用這本書幫助那些沒上過大學的女性遠到衣索比亞也有許多團體這些關於平等的訊息 — 關於女性如何被灌輸她們無法與男性擁有相同待遇的觀念我們為何假設領導者是男性我們為何發聲的人是男性 —這些都影響我們每一個人我覺得這是普遍的現象而這正是 TEDWomen 在做的它在我們都相信的基礎下讓我們聚在一起更多的女性、更多的聲音更加的平等如果妳再次受 TEDWomen 邀請演講妳會說什麼關於妳個人的一些成果還有在這個旅程中，妳從女性和男性學到了什麼？我想我會說 — 我試著強調但我想我要更加地強調 —我會說目前還不夠好不夠好，而且改變不夠快自從我在 TED 演講並出書美國另一年統計資料出爐了妳知道我們發現什麼嗎？在美國，女性的薪水落差沒有改變0.77 元對上1元如果妳是黑人女性，0.64元如果妳是拉丁裔的，只有 0.54 元妳知道上次數字有上漲時是什麼時候嗎？2002 年我們在很多方面都停滯不前我想我們還沒準備好坦承地面對談論性別真的是非常困難的我們避免談到「女性主義」這個字但我覺得我們應該要接受它我們應該要捨棄跋扈（掌聲）我要說得大聲一點我們應該要捨棄「跋扈」重新談論「女性主義」因為我們需要它（掌聲）我們都要更加挺身而進更加挺身而進謝謝妳，雪莉感謝妳挺身而進並給予肯定的答覆謝謝（掌聲）
