Talk	en	zh-tw
sherwin_nuland_on_hope	"You know, I am so bad at tech that my daughter — who is now 41 — when she was five, was overheard by me to say to a friend of hers, If it doesn't bleed when you cut it, my daddy doesn't understand it. (Laughter) So, the assignment I've been given may be an insuperable obstacle for me, but I'm certainly going to try. What have I heard during these last four days? This is my third visit to TED. One was to TEDMED, and one, as you've heard, was a regular TED two years ago. I've heard what I consider an extraordinary thing that I've only heard a little bit in the two previous TEDs, and what that is is an interweaving and an interlarding, an intermixing, of a sense of social responsibility in so many of the talks — global responsibility, in fact, appealing to enlightened self-interest, but it goes far beyond enlightened self-interest. One of the most impressive things about what some, perhaps 10, of the speakers have been talking about is the realization, as you listen to them carefully, that they're not saying: Well, this is what we should do; this is what I would like you to do. It's: This is what I have done because I'm excited by it, because it's a wonderful thing, and it's done something for me and, of course, it's accomplished a great deal. It's the old concept, the real Greek concept, of philanthropy in its original sense: phil-anthropy, the love of humankind. And the only explanation I can have for some of what you've been hearing in the last four days is that it arises, in fact, out of a form of love. And this gives me enormous hope. And hope, of course, is the topic that I'm supposed to be speaking about, which I'd completely forgotten about until I arrived. And when I did, I thought, well, I'd better look this word up in the dictionary. So, Sarah and I — my wife — walked over to the public library, which is four blocks away, on Pacific Street, and we got the OED, and we looked in there, and there are 14 definitions of hope, none of which really hits you between the eyes as being the appropriate one. And, of course, that makes sense, because hope is an abstract phenomenon; it's an abstract idea, it's not a concrete word. Well, it reminds me a little bit of surgery. If there's one operation for a disease, you know it works. If there are 15 operations, you know that none of them work. And that's the way it is with definitions of words. If you have appendicitis, they take your appendix out, and you're cured. If you've got reflux oesophagitis, there are 15 procedures, and Joe Schmo does it one way and Will Blow does it another way, and none of them work, and that's the way it is with this word, hope. They all come down to the idea of an expectation of something good that is due to happen. And you know what I found out? The Indo-European root of the word hope is a stem, K-E-U — we would spell it K-E-U; it's pronounced koy — and it is the same root from which the word curve comes from. But what it means in the original Indo-European is a change in direction, going in a different way. And I find that very interesting and very provocative, because what you've been hearing in the last couple of days is the sense of going in different directions: directions that are specific and unique to problems. There are different paradigms. You've heard that word several times in the last four days, and everyone's familiar with Kuhnian paradigms. So, when we think of hope now, we have to think of looking in other directions than we have been looking. There's another — not definition, but description, of hope that has always appealed to me, and it was one by Václav Havel in his perfectly spectacular book ""Breaking the Peace,"" in which he says that hope does not consist of the expectation that things will come out exactly right, but the expectation that they will make sense regardless of how they come out. I can't tell you how reassured I was by the very last sentence in that glorious presentation by Dean Kamen a few days ago. I wasn't sure I heard it right, so I found him in one of the inter-sessions. He was talking to a very large man, but I didn't care. I interrupted, and I said, ""Did you say this?"" He said, ""I think so."" So, here's what it is: I'll repeat it. ""The world will not be saved by the Internet."" It's wonderful. Do you know what the world will be saved by? I'll tell you. It'll be saved by the human spirit. And by the human spirit, I don't mean anything divine, I don't mean anything supernatural — certainly not coming from this skeptic. What I mean is this ability that each of us has to be something greater than herself or himself; to arise out of our ordinary selves and achieve something that at the beginning we thought perhaps we were not capable of. On an elemental level, we have all felt that spirituality at the time of childbirth. Some of you have felt it in laboratories; some of you have felt it at the workbench. We feel it at concerts. I've felt it in the operating room, at the bedside. It is an elevation of us beyond ourselves. And I think that it's going to be, in time, the elements of the human spirit that we've been hearing about bit by bit by bit from so many of the speakers in the last few days. And if there's anything that has permeated this room, it is precisely that. I'm intrigued by a concept that was brought to life in the early part of the 19th century — actually, in the second decade of the 19th century — by a 27-year-old poet whose name was Percy Shelley. Now, we all think that Shelley obviously is the great romantic poet that he was; many of us tend to forget that he wrote some perfectly wonderful essays, too, and the most well-remembered essay is one called ""A Defence of Poetry."" Now, it's about five, six, seven, eight pages long, and it gets kind of deep and difficult after about the third page, but somewhere on the second page he begins talking about the notion that he calls ""moral imagination."" And here's what he says, roughly translated: A man — generic man — a man, to be greatly good, must imagine clearly. He must see himself and the world through the eyes of another, and of many others. See himself and the world — not just the world, but see himself. What is it that is expected of us by the billions of people who live in what Laurie Garrett the other day so appropriately called despair and disparity? What is it that they have every right to ask of us? What is it that we have every right to ask of ourselves, out of our shared humanity and out of the human spirit? Well, you know precisely what it is. There's a great deal of argument about whether we, as the great nation that we are, should be the policeman of the world, the world's constabulary, but there should be virtually no argument about whether we should be the world's healer. There has certainly been no argument about that in this room in the past four days. So, if we are to be the world's healer, every disadvantaged person in this world — including in the United States — becomes our patient. Every disadvantaged nation, and perhaps our own nation, becomes our patient. So, it's fun to think about the etymology of the word ""patient."" It comes initially from the Latin patior, to endure, or to suffer. So, you go back to the old Indo-European root again, and what do you find? The Indo-European stem is pronounced payen — we would spell it P-A-E-N — and, lo and behold, mirabile dictu, it is the same root as the word compassion comes from, P-A-E-N. So, the lesson is very clear. The lesson is that our patient — the world, and the disadvantaged of the world — that patient deserves our compassion. But beyond our compassion, and far greater than compassion, is our moral imagination and our identification with each individual who lives in that world, not to think of them as a huge forest, but as individual trees. Of course, in this day and age, the trick is not to let each tree be obscured by that Bush in Washington that can get — can get in the way. (Laughter) So, here we are. We are, should be, morally committed to being the healer of the world. And we have had examples over and over and over again — you've just heard one in the last 15 minutes — of people who have not only had that commitment, but had the charisma, the brilliance — and I think in this room it's easy to use the word brilliant, my God — the brilliance to succeed at least at the beginning of their quest, and who no doubt will continue to succeed, as long as more and more of us enlist ourselves in their cause. Now, if we're talking about medicine, and we're talking about healing, I'd like to quote someone who hasn't been quoted. It seems to me everybody in the world's been quoted here: Pogo's been quoted; Shakespeare's been quoted backwards, forwards, inside out. I would like to quote one of my own household gods. I suspect he never really said this, because we don't know what Hippocrates really said, but we do know for sure that one of the great Greek physicians said the following, and it has been recorded in one of the books attributed to Hippocrates, and the book is called ""Precepts."" And I'll read you what it is. Remember, I have been talking about, essentially philanthropy: the love of humankind, the individual humankind and the individual humankind that can bring that kind of love translated into action, translated, in some cases, into enlightened self-interest. And here he is, 2,400 years ago: ""Where there is love of humankind, there is love of healing."" We have seen that here today with the sense, with the sensitivity — and in the last three days, and with the power of the indomitable human spirit. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我對科技是一竅不通我女兒，現在41歲了在她5歲的時候，我聽到她對朋友說任何切下去不會流血的東西我老爸是不會懂的(眾人大笑)所以，現在我要談的話題，對我來說也許是項艱鉅的任務但是我會全力以赴 在這過去四天當中我都聽到了些什麼？這是我第三次參加TED大會前兩次，其中一次是TEDMED; 而另一次，就如你們剛剛聽說的是兩年前的年度TED大會這四天我所聽到的，我認為是非常了不起的在前兩次我並沒有這麼深刻的感覺許多的演講者他們的演講內容中傳達出的社會責任感交織、交疊、交融在一起實際上，是全球責任感投合其開明的自身利益但遠遠超脫了開明的自身利益其中最讓我佩服的事是有些主講人，也許有10位主講人他們所說的是他們的身體力行。就在你聆聽他們在台上的演說時，他們並不是在告訴大家：「嗯，這是我們該做的；或這是我希望大家做的。」而是：「這是我目前已經完成的，因為我很熱衷因為這不僅是一個很棒的事，我也從中受益許多而且目前我們也已經成就了不少」其實這就是博愛，一個很古老、來自希臘的概念在希臘哲學中的原始解釋是博愛：對人類的大愛 (希臘字根phil-:愛; anthropos:人類) 所以對於過去四天中我們在這裡所體會的我能提供的唯一解釋是這對人類的愛的昇華而這讓我感到極大的希望而希望，當然是我今天應該要談的主題而我在到這裡之前完全忘的一乾二淨當我抵達後，我想喔，我最好去查查字典搞清楚這個詞的意義所以，我和我太太莎拉去了一趟公立圖書館就在離這裡不遠四條街外的太平洋街上。我們查了牛津英文字典我們仔細地查了整本字典，找到了希望的14個定義但是沒有一個讓人覺得是一語道破的一個簡明且適切的定義而當然了，那是很自然的因為希望是一個抽象的表現，一個抽象的概念不是一個具體的名詞 這倒有些讓我聯想到了手術如果某種疾病只有一種手術，你知道這個手術會有效如果有15種手術，你知道沒一個是保證完全有效的而定義一個詞也是如此如果你得了盲腸炎，醫生開刀切除盲腸，然後你就好了如果你有食道逆流的問題，有15種手術可以選擇甲醫師選這一種乙醫師選另一種可是沒一個可以保證療效的，就像定義希望這個詞的情形一樣所有的定義都指向一種期望期待好事終究會發生可是你知道我發現了什麼？希望這個詞的印歐字源是KEU這個字根我們拼作K-E-U , 發音是「ㄎㄡ一」跟彎曲(curve)這個詞的字根是一樣的而這個字根原本在印歐語言的意義是方向的改變，以不同的方式發展 這讓我感覺十分有趣而且興奮因為在過去幾天大家這裡所聽到的就是改變方向的概念採取不同且獨特的策略去解決問題針對一個主題的研究可以發展出多種不同的範式「範式」這個詞過去四天來多次被提出且人人熟悉庫恩的經典理論—跳躍式範型變革所以，現在當我們想到希望那表示我們必須跳脫在已熟悉的領域之外另尋其他的方向此外 — 不是定義，而是一個關於希望的描述我一直很欣賞，瓦茨拉夫·哈維爾他一本偉大的著作中「打破平靜」在書中他說，希望，不在於希冀所有事情一定會有完美的結果而是期待會有合理的演變發展無論最終結果是如何 我無法形容，我有多感到欣慰就因為Dean Kamen幾天前在他的那場極佳的演說中所說的最後一句話我不確定我當下有沒有聽錯所以在一次中場休息時我去找他他當時在跟很多大人物說話，但是我不管我打斷他，我問：「這是你說的嗎？」他回答：「 我想是的。」所以，這是他說的，我現在重複一遍他說：「世界並不會被網際網路所拯救」這實在是太美好了。你知道什麼才會拯救這世界嗎？我告訴你，人類精神才會拯救這個世界當我說人類精神，我不是說什麼神聖的也不是什麼超自然的當然更不是說什麼多疑的在下本人的任何高見我指的是，我們每個人都有這樣的能力去成就更高的自我去提升平凡的自身去成就原本不以為自己有能力達成的目標本能上，我們其實都已經體會過那樣的靈性，打從我們出生後你們當中有些人已經在實驗室裡體會過有些人是在工作台或是在音樂會我曾經在開刀房、在病床邊有過這樣的感受那是一種昇華、超脫自我的感受假以時日，而我想那將會是我們這幾天所感受到的，人類精神的精髓點點滴滴由許多主講者所傳達出的如果有一樣感動已經瀰漫充斥了這個空間那正是人類精神 我很著迷於在十九世紀初期被提出的一個概念更準確的說，十九世紀的第二個十年由一位二十七歲的詩人珀西·雪萊 (Percy Shelley) 提出現在我們都認為雪萊是偉大的浪漫主義詩人大多數的的我們常忘記他也寫了一些極佳的散文最讓人印象深刻的一篇散文叫做「詩的辯護」這篇散文長約有五至八頁而且大約從第三頁開始略顯艱澀但是在第二頁當中他開始談論他稱之「道德想像」的概念這是他所說的，我大約翻譯一下一個人— 一個普通人要成就不凡必須清楚的去想望他必須看清自己及這個世界透過他人的眼睛透過眾人的眼睛去瞭解他自己跟這個世界— 不是只有外在的世界，更是看清自己 去瞭解世上千萬人對我們的期待的是什麼世上無數人生存於 Laurie Garrett貼切形容的所謂「絕望或不公」他們對我們的期待的是什麼到底是什麼，世界大眾有權力去要求我們付出？到底是什麼，為了我們人類及人類精神我們必須去要求自己付出？你完全知道答案是什麼有一個很大的爭論關於美國，我們這個的強大的國家是否該扮演世界警察這個角色成為維護世界秩序的力量但是應該幾乎沒有人會有異議關於美國是否該承擔起修復治療這世界的的責任在這過去的四天中，在這大講堂中無疑的並沒有這樣的爭議 所以，如果我們要成為世界的治療者世界上每一個弱勢者 —包含美國境內 — 都是我們的病人每個弱勢的國家，也可能是我們自己的國家都成為我們的病人去細想關於病人(patient)這個詞的來源是很有趣的這個詞的來源是拉丁文patior, 意思是去忍受、遭受痛苦所以，你再回頭看看它的古老的印歐語系來源你會發現其印歐語言字根 paen拼做 P-A-E-N — 等等，這真是太妙了跟憐憫(compassion)是同樣的的字根，P-A-E-N 所以，這教訓就非常清楚了。這教訓是我們的病人—這世界, 還有世界上的弱勢者—是我們必須憐憫同情的病人但在我們的憐憫心之外，比憐憫心更重要的是我們的道德想像及我們對世上的每一個個體的同理心就像在廣大森林中去關注每一顆樹當然了，今時今日，要特別小心的是不要讓華盛頓特區的那叢灌木來礙事 (注：指小布希總統)（笑聲）所以，現在我們在這裡我們應該義不容辭的獻身要成為這世界的治療者我們身邊已經有很多的例證在這15分鐘你們才聽到了許多人不但身負這樣的使命感甚至兼具領導魅力，還有傑出的才智 —這令我想到在這大堂中滿滿的都是人才，天啊聰明才智至少讓他們有了好的開始在他們追求目標的路上而無疑的他們會繼續朝目標邁進只要我們有愈來愈多的人加入他們的行列 現在，既然我們談到關於醫學我們談到治療我想要引用一位尚未被引用過的哲人的著作似乎全世界所有哲人的名言都在這邊被引用過了Pogo被引用過了莎士比亞被正著、反著、從裡到外都引用過了我倒是想要引用我自家的神所說的我懷疑他真的說過這些因為我們無從所知希波克拉底(西方醫學之父)到底說過些什麼但我們確信一位偉大的希臘醫師說過這些而被記錄於希式文集的其中一本書名為「格言」而現在我要唸出來記住，我一直在談的主要都關於博愛：人類的大愛，每個個體對世界的大愛而一個人懷著這樣的愛，將之轉化為行動有些人將這愛轉化為開明的自身利益兩千四百年前，這位醫者說了：「哪裡有人類之愛存在的地方，就有療癒的愛的力量。」今日我們已經親眼見證以理性去理解以感性去體會在這過去的三天中以大無畏的人類精神謝謝大家（掌聲）
