Talk	en	zh-tw
shereen_el_feki_pop_culture_in_the_arab_world	"Hello, everyone. Because this is my first time at TED, I've decided to bring along an old friend to help break the ice a bit. Yes. That's right. This is Barbie. She's 50 years old. And she's looking as young as ever. (Laughter) But I'd also like to introduce you to what may be an unfamiliar face. This is Fulla. Fulla is the Arab world's answer to Barbie. Now, according to proponents of the clash of civilizations, Barbie and Fulla occupy these completely separate spheres. They have different interests. They have divergent values. And should they ever come in contact ... well, I've got to tell you, it's just not going to be pretty. My experience, however, in the Islamic world is very different. Where I work, in the Arab region, people are busy taking up Western innovations and changing them into things which are neither conventionally Western, nor are they traditionally Islamic. I want to show you two examples. The first is 4Shbab. It means ""for youth"" and it's a new Arab TV channel. (Video): Video clips from across the globe. The USA. ♫ I am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ I am not afraid to stand alone, if Allah is by my side ♫ ♫ I am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ Everything will be all right ♫ ♫ I am not afraid to stand alone ♫ The Arab world. (Music) ♫ She was preserved by modesty of the religion ♫ ♫ She was adorned by the light of the Quran ♫ Shereen El Feki: 4Shbab has been dubbed Islamic MTV. Its creator, who is an Egyptian TV producer called Ahmed Abu Haïba, wants young people to be inspired by Islam to lead better lives. He reckons the best way to get that message across is to use the enormously popular medium of music videos. 4Shbab was set up as an alternative to existing Arab music channels. And they look something like this. (Music) That, by the way is Haifa Wehbe. She's a Lebanese pop star and pan-Arab pin-up girl. In the world of 4Shbab, it's not about bump and grind. But it's not about fire and brimstone either. Its videos are intended to show a kinder, gentler face of Islam, for young people to deal with life's challenges. Now, my second example is for a slightly younger crowd. And it's called ""The 99."" Now, these are the world's first Islamic superheroes. They were created by a Kuwaiti psychologist called Naif Al Mutawa. And his desire is to rescue Islam from images of intolerance, all in a child-friendly format. ""The 99."" The characters are meant to embody the 99 attributes of Allah: justice, wisdom, mercy, among others. So, for example, there is the character of Noora. She is meant to have the power to look inside people and see the good and bad in everyone. Another character called Jami has the ability to create fantastic inventions. Now, ""The 99"" is not just a comic book. It's now a theme park. There is an animated series in the works. And by this time next year, the likes of Superman and Wonder Woman will have joined forces with ""The 99"" to beat injustice wherever they find it. ""The 99"" and 4Shbab are just two of many examples of this sort of Islamic cross-cultural hybridization. We're not talking here about a clash of civilizations. Nor is it some sort of indistinguishable mash. I like to think of it as a mesh of civilizations, in which the strands of different cultures are intertwined. Now, while 4Shbab and ""The 99"" may look new and shiny, there is actually a very long tradition of this. Throughout its history, Islam has borrowed and adapted from other civilizations both ancient and modern. After all, it's the Quran which encourages us to do this: ""We made you into nations and tribes so that you could learn from one another."" And to my mind, those are pretty wise words, no matter what your creed. Thank you. (Applause)"	"大家好，這是我第一次來TED演講先來開場破冰一下讓你們看看我帶來的老朋友你沒看錯，這是芭比娃娃她50歲了，但依然貌美如昔（笑聲）不過我也想向各位介紹一位可能比較陌生的朋友這是芙拉，阿拉伯世界的芭比 文化衝突派認為芭比跟芙拉各據山頭她們興趣不同，價值觀也差很多一旦彼此接觸結果不會太好看 不過，我自己的經驗很不一樣我在阿拉伯地區工作在那裡，大家紛紛擷取西方創意再轉化成其他產物這些產物打破西方慣例也跳脫伊斯蘭傳統給大家看兩個例子第一個是""4Shbab""""給年輕人看的"" 阿拉伯新電視頻道 （影片）世界各地的音樂錄影帶美國 （影片）我一個人無所畏懼 只要阿拉在一旁，我無所畏懼 我一個人無所畏懼 凡事皆會解決 我一個人無所畏懼 阿拉伯世界 （音樂） 她持守戒律，穩重端莊散發著可蘭經的光芒 （雪琳）4Shbab被稱為伊斯蘭的MTV音樂台幕後推手為埃及的電視製作人阿梅德˙阿布˙漢巴他希望年輕人能受到伊斯蘭文化激勵活的更好更精采他認為散播此信息最好的方式就是利用廣受歡迎的音樂錄影帶4Shbab和現有的阿拉伯音樂頻道不同提供觀眾另類的選擇而現有的阿拉伯音樂頻道就像這樣（音樂） 剛剛那位是哈菲，黎巴嫩的偶像明星也是阿拉伯區的寫真女郎在4Shbab你看不到扭腰擺臀的畫面也沒有烈火地獄的教義內容而是用音樂錄影帶呈現比較友善溫和的伊斯蘭形象好讓年輕人面對人生的挑戰 第二個例子是給更年輕的觀眾看的叫做《99個阿拉伯英雄》這是世上首見的伊斯蘭超級英雄作者是科威特心理學家納伊夫˙艾˙穆塔瓦他想打破伊斯蘭世界沒有包容力的形象以適合孩童的新面貌出現《99個阿拉伯英雄》中的人物具體展現阿拉的99個特質像是正義、智慧、憐憫等等例如努拉這個角色她有種能力可以看穿他人心思以及看透人心善惡另外一個角色，迦米常有神奇的發明 現在，《99個阿拉伯英雄》除了漫畫還有一座主題樂園也有改編的動畫系列明年的這個時候類似超人與神力女超人的角色也會加入《99個阿拉伯英雄》伸張正義，平反冤屈 《99個阿拉伯英雄》和4Shbab只是兩個小例子伊斯蘭跨文化融合後這種例子很多這並非文化衝突也不是一團混沌的文化大雜燴我把它看成不同文明的完美結合不同文化就像絲線，交纏成堅韌的繩子 《99個阿拉伯英雄》和4Shbab外表新潮光鮮其實背後傳統深遠長久以來，伊斯蘭都是這樣吸收許多古今文明話說回來，可蘭經也鼓勵這種作法「我們在你們之中創建了眾多民族和宗教」「這樣你們就可以互相學習」我認為無論你的信仰為何這些話都很有智慧。謝謝大家。（掌聲）"
