Talk	en	zh-tw
shimon_schocken_s_rides_of_hope	"Mountain biking in Israel is something that I do with great passion and commitment. And when I'm on my bike, I feel that I connect with the profound beauty of Israel, and I feel that I'm united with this country's history and biblical law. And also, for me, biking is a matter of empowerment. When I reach the summit of a steep mountain in the middle of nowhere, I feel young, invincible, eternal. It's as if I'm connecting with some legacy or with some energy far greater than myself. You can see my fellow riders at the end of the picture, looking at me with some concern. And here is another picture of them. Unfortunately, I cannot show their faces, neither can I disclose their true names, and that's because my fellow riders are juvenile inmates, offenders spending time in a correction facility about 20 minutes' ride from here — well, like everything in Israel. And I've been riding with these kids once a week, every Tuesday, rain or shine, for the last four years and by now, they've become a very big part of my life. This story began four years ago. The correction facility where they are locked up happens to be right in the middle of one of my usual trips, and it's surrounded by barbed wires and electric gates and armed guards. So on one of these rides, I talked my way into the compound and went to see the warden. I told the warden that I wanted to start a mountain biking club in this place and that basically I wanted to take the kids from here to there. And I told him, ""Let's find a way in which I'll be able to take out 10 kids once a week to ride with in the summer in the country."" And the warden was quite amused, and he told me he thought that I was a nut and he told me, ""This place is a correction facility. These guys are serious offenders. They are supposed to be locked up. They aren't supposed to be out at large."" And yet, we began to talk about it, and one thing led to another. And I can't see myself going into a state prison in New Jersey and making such a proposition, but this being Israel, the warden somehow made it happen. And so two months later, we found ourselves ""at large"" — myself, 10 juvenile inmates and a wonderful fellow named Russ, who became a very good friend of mine and my partner in this project. And in the next few weeks, I had the tremendous pleasure of introducing these kids to the world of total freedom, a world consisting of magnificent vistas like these — everything you see here is obviously in Israel — as well as close encounters with all sorts of small creatures coming in all sorts of sizes, colors, shapes, forms and so on. In spite of all this splendor, the beginning was extremely frustrating. Every small obstacle, every slight uphill, would cause these fellows to stop in their tracks and give up. So we had a lot of this going on. I found out that they had a very hard time dealing with frustration and difficulties — not because they were physically unfit. But that's one reason why they ended up where they were. And I became increasingly more and more agitated, because I was there not only to be with them, but also to ride and create a team and I didn't know what to do. Now, let me give you an example. We're going downhill in some rocky terrain, and the front tire of Alex gets caught in one of these crevasses here. So he crashes down, and he gets slightly injured, but this does not prevent him from jumping up and then starting to jump up and down on his bike and curse violently. Then he throws his helmet in the air. His backpack goes ballistic in some other direction. And then he runs to the nearest tree and starts to break branches and throw rocks and curse like I've never heard. And I'm just standing there, watching this scene with a complete disbelief, not knowing what to do. I'm used to algorithms and data structures and super motivated students, and nothing in my background prepared me to deal with a raging, violent adolescent in the middle of nowhere. And you have to realize that these incidents did not happen in convenient locations. They happened in places like this, in the Judean Desert, 20 kilometers away from the nearest road. And what you don't see in this picture is that somewhere between these riders there, there's a teenager sitting on a rock, saying, ""I'm not moving from here. Forget it. I've had it."" Well, that's a problem because one way or another, you have to get this guy moving because it's getting dark soon and dangerous. It took me several such incidents to figure out what I was supposed to do. At the beginning, it was a disaster. I tried harsh words and threats and they took me nowhere. That's what they had all their lives. And at some point I found out, when a kid like this gets into a fit, the best thing that you can possibly do is stay as close as possible to this kid, which is difficult, because what you really want to do is go away. But that's what he had all his life, people walking away from him. So what you have to do is stay close and try to reach in and pet his shoulder or give him a piece of chocolate. So I would say, ""Alex, I know that it's terribly difficult. Why don't you rest for a few minutes and then we'll go on."" ""Go away you maniac-psychopath. Why would you bring us to this goddamn place?"" And I would say, ""Relax, Alex. Here's a piece of chocolate."" And Alex would go, ""Arrrrggg!"" Because you have to understand that on these rides we are constantly hungry — and after the rides also. And who is this guy, Alex, to begin with? He's a 17-year-old. When he was eight, someone put him on a boat in Odessa and sent him, shipped him to Israel on his own. And he ended up in south Tel Aviv and did not have the good luck to be picked up by a [unclear] and roamed the streets and became a prominent gang member. And he spent the last 10 years of his life in two places only, the slums and the state prison, where he spent the last two years before he ended up sitting on this rock there. And so this kid was probably abused, abandoned, ignored, betrayed by almost every adult along the way. So, for such a kid, when an adult that he learns to respect stays close to him and doesn't walk away from him in any situation, irrespective of how he behaves, it's a tremendous healing experience. It's an act of unconditional acceptance, something that he never had. I want to say a few words about vision. When I started this program four years ago, I had this original plan of creating a team of winning underdogs. I had an image of Lance Armstrong in my mind. And it took me exactly two months of complete frustration to realize that this vision was misplaced, and that there was another vision supremely more important and more readily available. It all of a sudden dawned on me, in this project, that the purpose of these rides should actually be to expose the kids to one thing only: love. Love to the country, to the uphill and the downhill, to all the incredible creatures that surround us — the animals, the plants, the insects — love and respect to other fellow members in your team, in your biking team, and most importantly, love and respect to yourself, which is something that they badly miss. Together with the kids, I also went through a remarkable transformation. Now, I come from a cutthroat world of science and high technology. I used to think that reason and logic and relentless drive were the only ways to make things happen. And before I worked with the kids, anything that I did with them, or anything that I did with myself, was supposed to be perfect, ideal, optimal, but after working with them for some time, I discovered the great virtues of empathy and flexibility and being able to start with some vision, and if the vision doesn't work, well nothing happened. All you have to do is play with it, change it a little bit, and come up with something that does help, that does work. So right now, I feel more like these are my principles, and if you don't like them, I have others. (Laughter) (Applause) And one of these principles is focus. Before each ride we sit together with the kids, and we give them one word to think about during the ride. You have to focus their attention on something because so many things happen. So these are words like ""teamwork"" or ""endurance"" or even complicated concepts like ""resource allocation"" or ""perspective,"" a word that they don't understand. You know, perspective is one of these critically important life-coping strategies that mountain biking can really teach you. I tell kids when they struggle through some uphill and feel like they cannot take it anymore, it really helps to ignore the immediate obstacles and raise your head and look around and see how the vista around you grows. It literally propels you upwards. That's what perspective is all about. Or you can also look back in time and realize that you've already conquered steeper mountains before. And that's how they develop self-esteem. Now, let me give you an example of how it works. You stand with your bike at the beginning of February. It's very cold, and you're standing in one of these rainy days, and it's drizzling and cold and chilly, and you're standing in, let's say, Yokneam. And you look up at the sky through a hole in the clouds you see the monastery at the top of the Muhraka — that's where you're supposed to climb now — and you say, ""There's no way that I could possibly get there."" And yet, two hours later you find yourself standing on the roof of this monastery, smeared with mud, blood and sweat. And you look down at Yokneam; everything is so small and tiny. And you say, ""Hey, Alex. Look at this parking lot where we started. It's that big. I can't believe that I did it."" And that's the point when you start loving yourself. And so we talked about these special words that we teach them. And at the end of each ride, we sit together and share moments in which those special words of the day popped up and made a difference, and these discussions can be extremely inspiring. In one of them, one of the kids once said, ""When we were riding on this ridge overlooking the Dead Sea — and he's talking about this spot here — ""I was reminded of the day when I left my village in Ethiopia and went away together with my brother. We walked 120 kilometers until we reached Sudan. This was the first place where we got some water and supplies."" And he goes on saying, and everyone looks at him like a hero, probably for the first time in his life. And he says — because I also have volunteers riding with me, adults, who are sitting there listening to him — and he says, ""And this was just the beginning of our ordeal until we ended up in Israel. And only now,"" he says, ""I'm beginning to understand where I am, and I actually like it."" Now I remember, when he said it, I felt goosebumps on my body, because he said it overlooking the Moab Mountains here in the background. That's where Joshua descended and crossed the Jordan and led the people of Israel into the land of Canaan 3,000 years ago in this final leg of the journey from Africa. And so, perspective and context and history play key roles in the way I plan my rides with the kids. We visit Kibbutzim that were established by Holocaust survivors. We explore ruins of Palestinian villages, and we discuss how they became ruins. And we go through numerous remnants of Jewish settlements, Nabatic settlements, Canaanite settlements — three-, four, five-thousand years old. And through this tapestry, which is the history of this country, the kids acquire what is probably the most important value in education, and that is the understanding that life is complex, and there's no black and white. And by appreciating complexity, they become more tolerant, and tolerance leads to hope. I ride with these kids once a week, every Tuesday. Here's a picture I took last Tuesday — less than a week ago — and I ride with them tomorrow also. In every one of these rides I always end up standing in one of these incredible locations, taking in this incredible landscape around me, and I feel blessed and fortunate that I'm alive, and that I sense every fiber in my aching body. And I feel blessed and fortunate that 15 years ago I had the courage to resign my tenured position at NYU and return to my home country where I can do these incredible rides with this group of troubled kids coming from Ethiopia and Morocco and Russia. And I feel blessed and fortunate that every week, every Tuesday — and actually every Friday also — I can once again celebrate in the marrow of my bones the very essence of living in Israel on the edge. Thank you. (Applause)"	"在以色列騎登山越野自行車是我所鍾愛的活動與歸屬踩在單車上我才感覺自己與這美麗的以色列相連我才感覺與這個國家的歷史與聖法 相連結同時, 對我而言當我以單車攻頂後的神力灌頂才是滿足而且是在荒野之外的不知名處我覺得年輕無敵, 以及永恆就好像 我與偉大的傳統或是與自身之外的能量相連接待會兒 在最後的照片中會看到其他 同伴車友以異樣的眼神看著我這是一張他們的照片但我不能揭露他們的長相以及他們的真實姓名因為 我的車友們 都是少年受刑人行兇者所以都被囚禁於距離此地20分鐘的少年看護所中。在以色列 距離都是不遠的我每週一次與他們騎行過去四年來 不論晴雨的每週二如今, 他們已成為我人生的一重要部份 故事由來是從四年前開始這些少年受刑人被關起來的看護所就在我常經過的路途中那個地方環繞著流刺網電動門 與武裝守衛就在一趟單車旅程中我說服他們讓我進入看護所我去見了典獄長並告訴他我想在這樣的環境組織個單車社團基本上, 我就只是想帶這些孩子去四處逛逛我這樣說的: ""讓我們想個方式讓我能每週能帶10個孩子夏天騎單車看看這個國家""他只覺得好笑他告訴我 他覺得我是瘋子他繼續說:""這是監獄, 這些傢伙是暴力罪犯他們是該被關起來不是該放任四處遊蕩.""總之, 我們開始了對話並一件一件的克服了所有障礙我無法想像自已在紐澤西的州立監獄內提出相同的提案但這是以色列那典獄長真的讓它開始進行所以經過兩個月的準備我們真的四處遊蕩了 —我加上10個少年犯以及一個日後成為我好友的Ross他也是這計畫的夥伴 在剛開始的幾週 我極度愉快地帶領這10個孩子感受完全的自由感受像這些的充滿神奇的景點這些都是在以色列境內拍的包括不期而遇的各種生物各式大小顏色 形狀 與 型式等等儘管會有這樣的喜悅但開頭總是令人挫折的只要是些許的小小困難微微的上坡路段都會造成這些車友停車或甚至要放棄所以 我們遇到很多這樣的情況我發現 他們很不會處理挫折與困難並不是因為他們體力無法承受而就是因為這原因 才造成他們入獄而我 卻是越來越不耐煩因為我是在那裡不只是陪伴而已而是要繼續騎車 以及維持一個小隊我當時真的很不知所措 讓我給你們一個例子正當我們沿著岩石路徑下坡Alex 的前輪被夾在巨石縫中所以他翻落並受了點傷傷並沒有重的讓他無法跳起身來在單車上跳上跳下怒言相向他把安全帽扔向空中背包則又甩向其他方向再憤怒地跑到就近的樹邊折斷樹枝 丟擲石塊喊些我從未聽過的咒罵我站在那裡驚訝地看著這個情景完全的手足無措我習慣理性推算資料結構以及自動自發的學生我過去的經歷並沒有教導我該如何處理一個極度憤怒與暴力的青少年而且是在 不知名的野外請了解 這些情況都不是發生在一些方便的地點卻都是發生在 像Judean 沙漠之中距離 最近的公路有20公里之遙而沒有顯示在這些照片中的是零散在這些的騎士中有一些青少年癱坐在岩石上喊著: ""我才不要再騎下去了我受夠了.""所以 這就是難處了因為不論如何我們都得讓這車隊繼續移行因為天暗了只會更危險 經過好幾次我才學會處理這種狀況開始幾次真是慘不忍睹我以嚴厲的語言與威脅回應他們根本不鳥我這種怒罵方式 是他們一貫的生活常態終於我才發現當個孩子處於這種情況最好的方式就是儘量靠近這個孩子的身旁這個做比說難因為通常你只想 離得遠遠的而這也是他們一直所遇到的人們反應沒有人願意親近他們所以你要儘量接近他們試著 進入他們的內心及安撫他們肩膀或給他們個 巧克力我就學會這麼處理: ""Alex, 我知道這是非常困難的我們就休息個幾分鐘待會兒再繼續前進.""""你滾開 你這瘋子你幹麼帶我們到這鬼地方?""我就會說:""放輕鬆, Alex,來吃塊巧克力.""接著就會看到Alex ""啊姆~~""因為各位得了解進行越野單車時 肚子永遠是飢餓的結束後 也如此 那 Alex 是怎樣的人呢?他 17 歲當他 8 歲時被人用船從Odessa(烏克蘭)送來以色列孤零零一人最後抵達特拉維夫南邊他運氣不好沒碰上銜接的人流浪街頭更變成幫派的重要成員。他在過去的10年中只待過兩個地方 —貧民窟與州立監獄。跌坐在岩石上時他已服刑兩年了。所以這個孩子八成被他生命中的大部份的成人虐待、拋棄、忽視、及背叛。所以 對於這樣的孩子來說一個他所敬愛的成人 能在這種情況下繼續親近他沒有背離他也不在乎他剛剛所表現的這是個很棒的療傷體驗這種無條件的接受更是他從未體會過的。 我想對理想做些說明當我四年前開始這計畫時我當初的想法是要建立一個不被看好的車隊在我的想像中 這會是像Lance Armstrong 般的團隊。但是經過整整兩個月的極度失望我才明白這樣一廂情願的想法是錯的取而代之的是 另一個更重要 更可行的理想。忽然間，我應有的目的明朗了我們應該要給這些孩子的只是一樣東西: 愛。愛這個國家 愛這個陡坡也愛這個下坡也普及到所有身旁的生物包括 動物 植物與昆蟲愛與尊重車隊中的其他同伴而最重要的是對自己的愛與尊重。那是他們從不知道的 和孩子們一般我自己也經歷了非尋常的轉變我來自於一個競爭激烈的科技世界我總以為只有理性邏輯與自強不息才能達成目標與孩子們相處前我與他們所做的事或是我自己做的事我都以為必須是完美的理想的, 最佳化的但和他們相處一段時日後我才發現同理心以及彈性處世的重要性並能開始新的理想如果這值理想不成功，那也沒甚麼大礙只要繼續 略微調整一些便能產出有用的方式如今 這些就是我學到的處事原則若你們不贊同我還有其他的 (笑聲) (掌聲) 其中的一個原則就是專注在每趟騎車前我們都會與這些孩子們坐下我們會給他們一個字好利用騎車的時候想想你必須引起他們的專注力在一些事情上因為會有很多事發生像這些字: ""teamwork"" (團隊合作)或是 ""endurance"" (耐力)或甚至是複雜的概念像是 ""資源分配""或是 ""觀點"", 這些他們不了解的事在場的都了解,觀點 是一個相當重要的人生課題越野單車能教懂你這些我告訴孩子們當他們在上坡路段上苦苦掙扎感覺不能再承受時專注能讓你忘卻眼前的障礙幫助你抬起頭 四處看看看看四周的自然風景專注能成為你的動力那就是觀點不同 的差異或是也能回頭想想過去明白你所已經征服的旅程以及那些更陡的險路這就是他們發展出自知與自信 讓我舉個實際例子你站在單車旁 是二月初非常冷 又是一個雨天飄著細雨又冷又濕你就站在那 就當是""Yokneam""吧!你仰望天空雲層處看到 Muhraka 山頂上的寺廟也就是當前的目的地你會說: 要上那? 我是絕不可能辦到的但等到兩小時後自己就站在那寺廟的屋頂上灰頭土臉粘著血漬 與汗水向下望 Yokneam每樣東西 都變得那樣渺小你興奮的說: ""喂 Alex 看看那個我們出發的停車場那麼丁點我無法相信我辦到了！那一刻你就會開始自愛。 這些也是我們會用來教導他們的討論每次的旅程結束 我們會坐在一起分享心得討論當天的議題如何的激勵了他們這種討論會是相當 激勵人心的其中一個孩子 就曾說起""當我們騎在山嶺上遠眺死海"" —-他說的就是這裏 —-""它讓我想起了我離開衣索比亞村莊的那一天跟著我的哥哥我們走了120公里直到蘇丹哪時我們才第一次取得一些水和補給""他繼續說 而其他人把他當作英雄聽著這或許是他生平第一次吧因為也有些同行志工都是成人 坐在那兒聆聽着他他繼續說 ""這都只是考驗的開頭直到我們抵達以色列。但直到現在"", 他說""我才開始明白自己所處的地方而且我也真的喜歡這地方""當他說這些時我感到毛管直豎因為他就是在這Moab山頭上說的約書亞 (Joshua) 就是在這裏降臨越過約旦並帶領著以色列人民 到達迦南 (Canaan)。那是三千年前在從非洲遷徙的最後路段。 所以 觀點意涵 與 歷史是我計畫與孩子騎乘路線的重要依據。我們到過由猶太屠殺倖存者所建的基布茲 (Kibbutzim)我們到過巴勒斯坦村莊的殘垣並討論它們的歷史我們也到過猶太住居, Nabatic住居迦南 (Canaanite)住居 等等的遺址。它們都有3,4,5千年之久。經由這充塞著這個國家歷史的掛毯孩子們學習到教育中最重要的價值也就是明白人生是複雜的不是單純的黑白分明了解與擁抱複雜性讓他們變得更有容忍度而容忍能帶來希望 我每週與這些孩子騎一趟每週二這是一張 上週二的照片 還不到一周明天 又要和他們一起騎每一次的旅程我最後總是會站在一無法想像的位置享受四週美妙的風景我感覺受到庇祐與幸運因為我活著我能感受到在我疲累的身體內的每一種觸覺我感覺受到庇祐與幸運在15年前我有勇氣辭去紐約大學的教職工作回到我的祖國在這裡我可以與這些困擾的孩子們完成這些奇妙之旅他們來自衣索比亞摩洛哥 與 俄羅斯我感覺受到庇祐與幸運每週二實際上 也有每週五我能再次慶祝打從我的骨子裡活在以色列邊緣的本質 謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
