Talk	en	zh-tw
siddhartha_roy_science_in_service_to_the_public_good	"Fresh out of college, I went to work for a consulting firm. During orientation, the leaders dished out advice. Amongst them was one pithy counsel I will never forget. He told us, ""Be easy to manage."" Considering how naïve I really was at the time, I took his advice to heart. I told myself, ""Yes, I will be the ultimate team player. I will do everything I'm told. I will be easy to manage."" It wasn't until I arrived in graduate school and witnessed firsthand the criminal actions of scientists and engineers in the water crisis in Flint, Michigan that I realized how dangerous and yet surprisingly common this line of thinking really is. Make no mistake: the Flint water crisis is one of the most egregious environmental injustices of our time. For over 18 months, 100,000 residents, including thousands of young children, were exposed to contaminated drinking water with high levels of lead. Lead is a potent neurotoxin which causes cognitive and developmental disabilities and is especially harmful to growing fetuses and young children. We've known about its dangers since the Roman Empire. Amongst a whole host of health issues, 12 people died by contracting Legionnaires' disease. Flint's water infrastructure — the complex network of underground pipes — has been severely damaged. And while the water quality is slowly improving and the pipes are being replaced now, more than two years later, the water is still not safe to drink. So, people are still in shock. They ask themselves, ""How could this have happened?"" The short answer is: the crisis began when an emergency manager, appointed by Michigan's governor, decided to switch their water source to a local river to save money. But it continued for so long because scientists and engineers at government agencies in the state of Michigan and in the federal government did not follow federal regulations for treating the water right. What was more, they actively cheated on the law and orchestrated cover-ups. They ridiculed residents asking for help, while publicly insisting that the brown, smelly water coming out of the tap was safe to drink. The system at the local, state and federal levels completely failed to protect our most vulnerable, and an entire population was left to fend for itself. Now, amidst this injustice, Flint residents were rallying together. Amongst them were some amazing women of Flint — mothers concerned about their kids — who came together forming many grassroots coalitions, and these groups started protesting and demanding change. The group also reached out to outside scientists for help, and a few responded. Amongst them was a guy named Miguel Del Toral, a water expert at the US EPA — the Environmental Protection Agency — who actually wrote this scientific memo and sent it to the state of Michigan and the federal government to bring their attention to this problem. He was characterized a ""rogue employee,"" and silenced. In collaboration with Flint residents, our research team here at Tech, of students and scientists led by professor Marc Edwards, conducted citywide testing to prove that Flint's water was indeed contaminated, even toxic in some homes. We substantiated what Flint had been screaming for months, and put it on the Internet for the world to see. Now, when I was getting involved, when I said yes to this, I had no idea what I was getting into. But every second of this journey has been totally worth it. This was science in service to the public. This is what I came to graduate school for, and this is how I would rather spend my life. And so this coalition — this unlikely coalition of citizens, pastors, journalists and scientists — came together to uncover the truth using science, advocacy and activism. A local pediatrician figured out that the instances of childhood lead poisoning had indeed doubled in Flint during the crisis. And the state of Michigan was forced to acknowledge the problem and take steps to correct it. This group and many others got Flint's kids protected. A few months later, President Obama came in and declared a federal emergency, and now Flint is getting more than 600 million dollars in healthcare, nutrition, education and overhauling their water infrastructure. However, the arrogance and the callous disregard for public health shown by scientists and engineers at these government agencies is beyond belief. These unhealthy cultures that are festering in these groups, where the focus is on meeting regulations and checking boxes as opposed to protecting public health, is just appalling. Just consider this email that an EPA employee wrote, where she goes, ""I'm not so sure Flint is a community we want to go out on a limb for."" The dehumanization of an entire population could not be more obvious. Now, contrast that to the first canon of engineering, which, in my opinion, should be the first law of humanity: ""To hold paramount the health, safety and welfare of the public,"" above all else. This is the Hippocratic Oath we've rarely acknowledged, let alone embraced. And so when scientists and engineers, very much like medical doctors, screw up, people can get hurt — even die. If our professionals and even students fail to get that, society pays a huge price. Buried deep in history lies a character I deeply admire — an engineer named Peter Palchinsky. He lived in the time of the Soviet Union. And Palchinsky repeatedly got in trouble for his radical honesty and willingness to point out major flaws in the Soviets' mindless pursuit of rapid industrialization. Everyone was expected to follow orders coming from the top. Anyone asking questions or offering feedback was unwelcome. The Soviets had created the largest army of engineers the world had ever seen, and yet most of them were mere cogs in a gigantic machine heading for doom. Palchinsky, on the other hand, implored engineers to look at the economic, political and social consequences of their actions; in other words, be more public-focused. His fearless voice of reason was seen as a threat to the political establishment, and Joseph Stalin had him executed in 1929. Palchinsky's view on technocrats is very different from one that is still very popular, still very common — that of a dispassionate researcher working in his ivory tower lab, or a nerdy engineer working in his cubicle. Brilliant, no doubt, yet somehow cut off from the world, shows little emotion — kind of like Spock from ""Star Trek,"" you know? This guy. (Laughter) Let's try and do the Spock salute. I don't think I'll succeed ... See, I can't be Spock. Thank goodness I can't be Spock. (Laughter) I was reminded of this distinction because a recent article came out in a very reputed scientific journal, which kind of characterized our Flint work as driven by ""youthful idealism,"" and ""Hollywood's dramatic sensibilities."" It asks scientists to protect their research funding and institutions at all costs, no matter how just the cause. And if you think you have to get involved in something, even if it's an emergency, try finding an activist group or an NGO, and obtain the full support of the academic community — whatever that means — before you get involved. Not one mention of our moral and professional obligation of preventing harm to the public, or the fact that we have all this expertise, resources and, for some, even tenure to, you know, accomplish this task. I'm not saying every scientist should be an activist. There are real and sometimes very painful consequences of speaking up. But to denounce this idea, this possibility so completely so that you can protect research funding, simply screams of self-serving cowardice, and these are not the ideals we would want to pass to our students. And so you may think, ""OK, all this sounds great, but you'll never completely change organizational cultures, or imbibe mindsets in students and professionals to look at their work as a public good — science in service to the public."" Maybe so. But could a big reason for that be that we are not training our students right? Because if you look closely, our education system today is focused more on creating what ex-Yale professor Bill Deresiewicz calls ""excellent sheep"" — young people who are smart and ambitious, and yet somehow risk-averse, timid, directionless and, sometimes, full of themselves. Now, kids ... you know, we fell in love with science when we were kids, and yet we somehow spend most of our time during high school and college just jumping through hoops and doing things so that we can polish our résumé instead of sitting down and reflecting on what we want to do and who we want to be. And so, the markers of empathy in our college graduates have been dropping dramatically in the past two decades, while those of narcissism are on the rise. There is also a growing culture of disengagement between engineering students and the public. We are trained to build bridges and solve complex problems but not how to think or live or be a citizen of this world. My undergraduate years were explicit job preparation, and I cannot tell you how suffocating and painful it was at times. And so, some people think the solution to great engineers, to great scientists, is more technical training. Maybe so. But where are the discussions on ethical decision-making, or building character, or discerning right from wrong? Consider this project that I deeply love and admire. It's called, ""Heroic Imagination Project."" A brainchild of Dr. Phil Zimbardo, famous for the Stanford Prison Experiment, this program seeks to train school-going children around the world to look at themselves as heroes-in-waiting, or heroes-in-training. So, these young minds work over time to develop skills and virtues so that when the opportunity comes, no matter what that opportunity be, to stand up and do the right thing. In other words, anyone can be a hero. Think about that idea for a second. Why don't we teach science and engineering like that — where heroism and public service are seen as key values, because indeed, it's often heroism that is not only the antidote to public indifference, but also to systemic evil like we saw in Flint. And so, dream with me what a 21st-century scientist slash engineer could look like: individuals who are driven to master the sciences so that they can serve society, and are also aware of the tremendous power their knowledge and decisions have; folks who are developing their moral courage at all times, and who realize that conflict and controversy are not necessarily bad things if our ultimate loyalty is to the public and the planet. These are the people who will stand up like we did in Flint — not to be saviors or heroes in the media, but altruistic and fundamentally good actors that you and I can trust. Imagine fostering such a public-focused mindset in classes, on service trips and during activities during college or even high school, so that these young minds will hold onto those ideals when they actually enter the real world, whether that be consulting, academia, policy making — or even becoming the president of a country. Some of mankind's greatest challenges lie ahead of us; contaminated drinking water is just one example. We could definitely use more — nay, we desperately need more — compassionate upstanders and public-focused scientists and engineers who will strive to the do right thing, and not be easy to manage. Thank you. (Applause)"	我一從大學畢業，就到一間顧問公司做事。新人訓練期間，培訓員給了很多建議。其中一項很精簡，我永遠都不會忘記。他說：「當個好管的人。」想一想我當時有多天真，我把他的話深印心中。我對自己說：「是的，我要當一個終極合作者，他們說的我都做，我要當個好管的人。」直到我進入研究所，一切都變了，我親眼見證科學家與工程師聯手，犯下密西根州弗林特市的自來水汙染危機，使我明白這樣的思路有多危險卻又意外的常見。 一點都沒錯，弗林特市自來水汙染事件是我們這個時代極嚴重的環境不正義。超過 18 個月，十萬居民，包括數千孩童，接觸到受高鉛量汙染的飲用水。鉛是一種強度高的神經毒，會造成智能及發展障礙，對生長中的胎兒及幼兒特別有害。自羅馬帝國時代我們就知道其危險性。在一大串的健康問題中，十二人死於退伍軍人症。弗林特市的水基礎建設，即在地面下錯綜複雜的水管線，早就受到嚴重破壞。即使水質已慢慢變好，現在也換了管線，事件發生兩年以後，水依然不能安全飲用。 所以，大家還是很驚訝。他們問自己：「怎麼會發生這種事？」長話短說就是：危機始於一位緊急應變管理師，任命於密西根州州長，決定把水源換到一條當地河川以省錢。但這情況持續太久，因為受雇於政府機構的科學家及工程師，無論是密西根或是聯邦政府，都沒有遵守聯邦法規來處理水。更慘的是，他們還主動違法並集體包庇。他們嘲諷上門求助的居民，公開堅稱從水龍頭流出的褐色臭水是安全的飲用水。地方、州政府與聯邦系統，完全沒有保護最脆弱的人，使得整群人必須自立救濟。 在這樣的不公正下，弗林特市居民團結起來。其中有超棒的弗林特市婦女──擔憂孩子的母親──合作組成各式基層聯盟，開始抗議並要求改變。他們還向外面的科學家求助，並得到幾個回應。其中一位是叫米格的人，美國環保署的水專家，他實際寫下這段科學備忘錄，送給密西根州政府及聯邦政府，讓他們注意這個問題。他被歸類為「不聽話的員工」，並被要求閉上嘴巴。 與弗特林市居民合作，我們在維吉尼亞理工的研究團隊，包含學生及科學家，在愛德華教授的領導下，進行全市檢驗，證明弗特林市的水確實受到汙染，在某些住家甚至有毒。我們證實了弗特林市數月的呼喊，並放到網路上讓全世界的人都看到。 我參與的時候，我答應做這件事的時候，根本不知道自己會陷入什麼情況。但是一路走來每一秒都很值得。這就是科學為人民服務。這也是我為什麼要念研究所，也是我寧可過的生活。所以這樣的聯盟──這不尋常的聯盟，結合了公民、牧師、記者及科學家──一同以科學、宣傳及行動揭發真相。 一名當地小兒科醫師發現，孩童鉛中毒的案例在弗林特水危機期間整整多了一倍。密西根州政府被迫承認這個問題，並為了改正採取幾個步驟。這個團體和其他許多團體保護了弗林特市的小孩。 幾個月之後，歐巴馬總統介入並宣布此為聯邦緊急救援案件，現在弗林特市得到六億多美金，用來補助健保、營養、教育及徹底檢修水基礎設施。然而，這些政府單位的科學家及工程師對公共衛生表現出的傲慢與冷漠，令人無法置信。這種不健康的文化正嚴重腐化這些單位，他們只顧著符合法規，勾了該做的事項，而不是保護公共衛生，實在很可惡。就想一下這封環保署員工發的電郵，她這麼寫：「我不太確定弗林特這個社區值得我們冒險。」太明顯把整群人妖魔化！ 相較於工程倫理第一條，在我看應該也是人性倫理的第一條：「視大眾健康、安全及福祉為至高無上。」超越一切。我們連這樣的「醫師誓詞」都很少提了，更別說信奉了。所以科學家及工程師就像醫師一樣，如果把事情搞砸了，大眾會受到危害，甚至死亡。如果我們的專家甚至學生沒有了解這點，社會就要付出很大的代價。 我深深仰慕一位鮮為人知的古人──他是工程師，名叫彼得·帕爾欽思基。他活在蘇聯時代。帕爾欽思基常常惹禍上身，因為他的剛正不阿、並願意指出蘇聯一昧追求快速工業化的重大錯誤。大家都被期望要遵守從上面來的命令。問問題或提意見的人都不受歡迎。蘇聯組織了一支世界前所未見的工程師大軍，然而其中大部分的人都只是巨大機器中的小齒輪，朝著敗亡邁進。然而帕爾欽思基卻懇求工程師去看他們的行為會對經濟、政治及社會產生什麼後果；換句話說，要更關注大眾。他大無畏的理性聲音被視為政治機構的威脅，史達林於 1929 年處決了他。 帕爾欽思基對技術官僚的觀點跟現在仍然很盛行、仍然很常見的非常不一像──就是沒有熱情的研究人員，在自己的象牙塔實驗室裡工作，或是一個宅工程師窩在自己的辦公隔間裡。當然，他們都很聰明，但是似乎與世界隔絕，沒有什麼感情，有點像《星際爭霸戰》裡的史巴克，對吧？這傢伙。 （笑聲） 來試試史巴克式敬禮。我大概做不來......看吧？我不能當史巴克。謝天謝地我當不了史巴克。 （笑聲） 近期有篇文章提醒我這兩者的差異，這篇文章發表在一本很著名的科學期刊上，有一點把我們的弗林特工作歸類為受「青年人的理想主義」及「好萊塢的戲劇性感受」所驅使。它要求科學家要不惜一切保護他們的研究經費及機構，無論理由有多充分。就想一下如果你要參與某件事，即使是緊急事件，你要努力找行動組織或民間團體，還要獲得學界的全力支持，不管這是什麼意思──才能參與。沒有人提到我們的職業道德及倫理要避免對大眾造成傷害，或事實是我們的確有專門知識、資源，甚至還有終生職教授來完成這件任務，你知道的。我不是說每個科學家都應該當行動分子。大膽說真話有時候的確要付上相當痛苦的代價。然而全面譴責這個想法、這個可能性，只為了保護研究經費，只不過突顯出自私自利的懦弱，這也不是我們想傳承給學生的理想。 你可能會想：「是，這些聽起來都很棒，但是你永遠不能完全改變組織文化，或改變學生和教授的心態，讓他們視自己的工作為公益──科學服務大眾。」大概吧！但是會不會有很大的原因是我們沒有教好學生？因為如果你仔細觀察，今天的教育體系專注在生產前耶魯教授威廉·德雷西維茲所謂的「優秀的綿羊」──聰明有抱負的年輕人，卻不知怎的膽小怕事，沒有方向，有時候還很自以為是。 孩子……你知道我們在還是個孩子時愛上科學，卻不知為何在高中和大學，把大部分時間花在忙裡忙外百依百順，做很多事情讓履歷好看，而不是坐下來思考我們想做什麼，想成為什麼樣的人。所以，我們大學畢業生的同理心在過去二十年急遽下降，而自戀的情況卻節節高升。 還有一種文化也在高升，就是工學院學生與公眾脫離。我們受訓練要造橋鋪路，並解決複雜的問題，卻沒有受訓要如何思考、生活，或當個世界公民。我的大學生涯完全就是職前教育，我真的無法形容有時候這有多苦悶。所以，有人認為要成就偉大的工程師、科學家，就是要給予更多的技術訓練。或許吧！但是決策倫理在哪裡？高風亮節的情操在哪裡？分辨善惡又在哪裡？ 想一下我很喜愛也很欣賞的這個計畫，叫做「英雄的想像力」。它是菲利普·津巴多博士的創見，他以斯坦福監獄實驗著稱，這個計畫試圖訓練全世界學童視自己為英雄候選人，或是英雄受訓人。所以這些年輕人隨著時間發展技能和美德，所以在機會來臨時，無論是什麼機會，都能挺身做對的事。換句話說，每個人都能成為英雄。 稍微思考一下這個想法。為什麼我們不能用那種方式教理工科？把英雄主義及公眾服務視為關鍵價值，因為的確如此，英雄主義常常不僅是對公眾漠不關心的唯一解藥，也能對抗系統性的邪惡，就像我們在弗林特看到的一樣。 所以，跟我一起夢想，21 世紀科學家及工程師應該是這樣的：身為受驅策精通科學以服務社會的個體，並意識到他們的知識及決策握有極大的力量；他們隨時都在培養自己的道德勇氣，並了解衝突與爭論並不盡然都是壞事，只要我們最終是忠於大眾及地球。 這些人會挺身而出，就像我們在弗林特一樣，不是為了在媒體上當救世主或英雄，而是利他主義，是你我都能信任的好角色。想像一下在大學甚至高中課堂上、在社區服務、在活動裡培養這種大眾至上的心態，如此一來這些年輕的心會牢牢抓住這些理想，伴隨他們進入真實的世界，無論是顧問業、學界還是政界，甚至是成為一國的總統。 橫在我們面前的是人類極困難的挑戰；汙染的飲用水只是其中之一。我們一定可以使用更多──不對，我們亟需更多──充滿同情心而見義勇為的人，以及服務大眾的科學家及工程師，他們會努力做正確的事，而且不會很好管！ 謝謝！ （掌聲）
