Talk	en	zh-tw
siegfried_woldhek_shows_how_he_found_the_true_face_of_leonardo	"Good morning. Let's look for a minute at the greatest icon of all, Leonardo da Vinci. We're all familiar with his fantastic work — his drawings, his paintings, his inventions, his writings. But we do not know his face. Thousands of books have been written about him, but there's controversy, and it remains, about his looks. Even this well-known portrait is not accepted by many art historians. So, what do you think? Is this the face of Leonardo da Vinci or isn't it? Let's find out. Leonardo was a man that drew everything around him. He drew people, anatomy, plants, animals, landscapes, buildings, water, everything. But no faces? I find that hard to believe. His contemporaries made faces, like the ones you see here — en face or three-quarters. So, surely a passionate drawer like Leonardo must have made self-portraits from time to time. So let's try to find them. I think that if we were to scan all of his work and look for self-portraits, we would find his face looking at us. So I looked at all of his drawings, more than 700, and looked for male portraits. There are about 120, you see them here. Which ones of these could be self-portraits? Well, for that they have to be done as we just saw, en face or three-quarters. So we can eliminate all the profiles. It also has to be sufficiently detailed. So we can also eliminate the ones that are very vague or very stylized. And we know from his contemporaries that Leonardo was a very handsome, even beautiful man. So we can also eliminate the ugly ones or the caricatures. (Laughter) And look what happens — only three candidates remain that fit the bill. And here they are. Yes, indeed, the old man is there, as is this famous pen drawing of the Homo Vitruvianus. And lastly, the only portrait of a male that Leonardo painted, ""The Musician."" Before we go into these faces, I should explain why I have some right to talk about them. I've made more than 1,100 portraits myself for newspapers, over the course of 300 — 30 years, sorry, 30 years only. (Laughter) But there are 1,100, and very few artists have drawn so many faces. So I know a little about drawing and analyzing faces. OK, now let's look at these three portraits. And hold onto your seats, because if we zoom in on those faces, remark how they have the same broad forehead, the horizontal eyebrows, the long nose, the curved lips and the small, well-developed chin. I couldn't believe my eyes when I first saw that. There is no reason why these portraits should look alike. All we did was look for portraits that had the characteristics of a self-portrait, and look, they are very similar. Now, are they made in the right order? The young man should be made first. And as you see here from the years that they were created, it is indeed the case. They are made in the right order. What was the age of Leonardo at the time? Does that fit? Yes, it does. He was 33, 38 and 63 when these were made. So we have three pictures, potentially of the same person of the same age as Leonardo at the time. But how do we know it's him, and not someone else? Well, we need a reference. And here's the only picture of Leonardo that's widely accepted. It's a statue made by Verrocchio, of David, for which Leonardo posed as a boy of 15. And if we now compare the face of the statue, with the face of the musician, you see the very same features again. The statue is the reference, and it connects the identity of Leonardo to those three faces. Ladies and gentlemen, this story has not yet been published. It's only proper that you here at TED hear and see it first. The icon of icons finally has a face. Here he is: Leonardo da Vinci. (Applause)"	"早安.讓我們花幾分鐘的時間發現最偉大的人物—李奧納多達文西.我們都很熟悉他的精彩作品—他的素描, 油畫, 發明, 寫作.但是我們卻不知道他的長相.數以千計的書籍都描寫到他,但是有所爭論的,至今仍是他的長相.即使是這個為人所熟知的肖像仍不被許多藝術史學家所接受. 那麼你認為呢?這是李奧納多達文西的臉或不是呢??讓我們查證一下吧~李奧納多是個會畫他周遭的各種事物的人.他畫人們 體內構造, 植物, 動物, 風景, 建築, 水, 各式各樣東西.但是沒有臉孔嗎?我發現這難以相信.他那個時代的人會畫肖像, 就像這邊你看到的.正面或四分之三側面.所以像達文西這麼熱衷繪畫的畫家應該不時會有自畫像.就讓我們來發現吧~ 我想如果我們就來掃描他所有作品並且尋找自畫像 我會發現他的臉正注視著我們所以我看了他所有的畫作 超過七百件,並且尋找男性肖像.這邊你看到的有大概120件.哪些可能是自畫像呢?好的, 如各位所見, 他們是全臉或3/4側的作品.因此我們可以淘汰所有的側面.還是必須要有足夠的細節.所以我們可以淘汰掉很模糊或是過於公式化的.我們從他同時期的人中知道李奧納多是個好看英俊的人.因此我們可以淘汰一些醜陋或滑稽的.(笑聲) 看一下發生了什麼? 只有三個作品符合條件.就是它們.的確, 老人素描就在這裡面,如同這幅知名的鉛筆畫作"" 維特魯威人"".最後 李奧納多唯一所繪的一幅男性肖像,""音樂家"". 在我們進入這些臉孔之前,我應該解釋為什麼我有權談論他們.我本身畫了超過1,100幅畫像,為了報紙 畫了超過300— 喔,不!抱歉! 只有30年.(笑聲)但是這裡有1,100幅, 很少有藝術家畫過這麼多臉孔.所以我略懂關於繪畫與分析臉孔.好的, 讓我們看看這三張肖像.在位子上坐好了, 因為我們要推近到這些臉蛋,標示他們是怎麼有相同的寬額頭, 平的眉毛,長鼻子, 彎曲的嘴唇及小的發育良好的下巴. 當我第一眼看見時 我不敢相信我的眼睛.沒有道理這些肖像看起來超像.我們所做的就是從所有肖像中找出自畫像的特徵,看吧, 他們非常相像.現在, 他們是對的順序嗎?這個年輕人應該是第一個.就像你見到的 它們在這些年代被創造出來,的確如此.他們都在正確的順序.李奧納多這時候是幾歲? 有符合嗎?是的. 這些作品創作時他當時是33歲38歲以及63歲. 所以我們有三幅畫像, 很有可能是畫同一個人.跟李奧納多當時的年紀相當.但是我們怎麼知道這就是他?而不是其他人呢?是的, 我們需要參考資料.這是唯一一幅被普遍接受的達文西畫象.就是""韋羅基奧的大衛像"",以15歲時的李奧納多為模特兒.假如我們比較一下這個雕像的臉,與""音樂家""的臉, 你可以再次看到非常相像的特徵.這個雕像是個參考, 它連繫了李奧納多的識別與這三張臉. 各位先生女士, 這件事還沒有公諸於世.只有在座的各位在TED首先看到.這個指標中的指標性人物終於有了長相.這就是— 李奧納多 達文西.(鼓掌)"
