Talk	en	zh-tw
simon_sinek_how_great_leaders_inspire_action	"How do you explain when things don't go as we assume? Or better, how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions? For example: Why is Apple so innovative? Year after year, after year, they're more innovative than all their competition. And yet, they're just a computer company. They're just like everyone else. They have the same access to the same talent, the same agencies, the same consultants, the same media. Then why is it that they seem to have something different? Why is it that Martin Luther King led the Civil Rights Movement? He wasn't the only man who suffered in pre-civil rights America, and he certainly wasn't the only great orator of the day. Why him? And why is it that the Wright brothers were able to figure out controlled, powered man flight when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified, better funded — and they didn't achieve powered man flight, and the Wright brothers beat them to it. There's something else at play here. About three and a half years ago, I made a discovery. And this discovery profoundly changed my view on how I thought the world worked, and it even profoundly changed the way in which I operate in it. As it turns out, there's a pattern. As it turns out, all the great inspiring leaders and organizations in the world, whether it's Apple or Martin Luther King or the Wright brothers, they all think, act and communicate the exact same way. And it's the complete opposite to everyone else. All I did was codify it, and it's probably the world's simplest idea. I call it the golden circle. Why? How? What? This little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders are able to inspire where others aren't. Let me define the terms really quickly. Every single person, every single organization on the planet knows what they do, 100 percent. Some know how they do it, whether you call it your differentiated value proposition or your proprietary process or your USP. But very, very few people or organizations know why they do what they do. And by ""why"" I don't mean ""to make a profit."" That's a result. It's always a result. By ""why,"" I mean: What's your purpose? What's your cause? What's your belief? Why does your organization exist? Why do you get out of bed in the morning? And why should anyone care? As a result, the way we think, we act, the way we communicate is from the outside in, it's obvious. We go from the clearest thing to the fuzziest thing. But the inspired leaders and the inspired organizations — regardless of their size, regardless of their industry — all think, act and communicate from the inside out. Let me give you an example. I use Apple because they're easy to understand and everybody gets it. If Apple were like everyone else, a marketing message from them might sound like this: ""We make great computers. They're beautifully designed, simple to use and user friendly. Want to buy one?"" ""Meh."" That's how most of us communicate. That's how most marketing and sales are done, that's how we communicate interpersonally. We say what we do, we say how we're different or better and we expect some sort of a behavior, a purchase, a vote, something like that. Here's our new law firm: We have the best lawyers with the biggest clients, we always perform for our clients. Here's our new car: It gets great gas mileage, it has leather seats. Buy our car. But it's uninspiring. Here's how Apple actually communicates. ""Everything we do, we believe in challenging the status quo. We believe in thinking differently. The way we challenge the status quo is by making our products beautifully designed, simple to use and user friendly. We just happen to make great computers. Want to buy one?"" Totally different, right? You're ready to buy a computer from me. I just reversed the order of the information. What it proves to us is that people don't buy what you do; people buy why you do it. This explains why every single person in this room is perfectly comfortable buying a computer from Apple. But we're also perfectly comfortable buying an MP3 player from Apple, or a phone from Apple, or a DVR from Apple. As I said before, Apple's just a computer company. Nothing distinguishes them structurally from any of their competitors. Their competitors are equally qualified to make all of these products. In fact, they tried. A few years ago, Gateway came out with flat-screen TVs. They're eminently qualified to make flat-screen TVs. They've been making flat-screen monitors for years. Nobody bought one. Dell came out with MP3 players and PDAs, and they make great quality products, and they can make perfectly well-designed products — and nobody bought one. In fact, talking about it now, we can't even imagine buying an MP3 player from Dell. Why would you buy one from a computer company? But we do it every day. People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it. The goal is not to do business with everybody who needs what you have. The goal is to do business with people who believe what you believe. Here's the best part: None of what I'm telling you is my opinion. It's all grounded in the tenets of biology. Not psychology, biology. If you look at a cross-section of the human brain, from the top down, the human brain is actually broken into three major components that correlate perfectly with the golden circle. Our newest brain, our Homo sapien brain, our neocortex, corresponds with the ""what"" level. The neocortex is responsible for all of our rational and analytical thought and language. The middle two sections make up our limbic brains, and our limbic brains are responsible for all of our feelings, like trust and loyalty. It's also responsible for all human behavior, all decision-making, and it has no capacity for language. In other words, when we communicate from the outside in, yes, people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures. It just doesn't drive behavior. When we can communicate from the inside out, we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior, and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do. This is where gut decisions come from. Sometimes you can give somebody all the facts and figures, and they say, ""I know what all the facts and details say, but it just doesn't feel right."" Why would we use that verb, it doesn't ""feel"" right? Because the part of the brain that controls decision-making doesn't control language. The best we can muster up is, ""I don't know.  It just doesn't feel right."" Or sometimes you say you're leading with your heart or soul. I hate to break it to you, those aren't other body parts controlling your behavior. It's all happening here in your limbic brain, the part of the brain that controls decision-making and not language. But if you don't know why you do what you do, and people respond to why you do what you do, then how will you ever get people to vote for you, or buy something from you, or, more importantly, be loyal and want to be a part of what it is that you do. The goal is not just to sell to people who need what you have; the goal is to sell to people who believe what you believe. The goal is not just to hire people who need a job; it's to hire people who believe what you believe. I always say that, you know, if you hire people just because they can do a job, they'll work for your money, but if they believe what you believe, they'll work for you with blood and sweat and tears. Nowhere else is there a better example than with the Wright brothers. Most people don't know about Samuel Pierpont Langley. And back in the early 20th century, the pursuit of powered man flight was like the dot com of the day. Everybody was trying it. And Samuel Pierpont Langley had, what we assume, to be the recipe for success. Even now, you ask people, ""Why did your product or why did your company fail?"" and people always give you the same permutation of the same three things: under-capitalized, the wrong people, bad market conditions. It's always the same three things, so let's explore that. Samuel Pierpont Langley was given 50,000 dollars by the War Department to figure out this flying machine. Money was no problem. He held a seat at Harvard and worked at the Smithsonian and was extremely well-connected; he knew all the big minds of the day. He hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic. The New York Times followed him around everywhere, and everyone was rooting for Langley. Then how come we've never heard of Samuel Pierpont Langley? A few hundred miles away in Dayton Ohio, Orville and Wilbur Wright, they had none of what we consider to be the recipe for success. They had no money; they paid for their dream with the proceeds from their bicycle shop; not a single person on the Wright brothers' team had a college education, not even Orville or Wilbur; and The New York Times followed them around nowhere. The difference was, Orville and Wilbur were driven by a cause, by a purpose, by a belief. They believed that if they could figure out this flying machine, it'll change the course of the world. Samuel Pierpont Langley was different. He wanted to be rich, and he wanted to be famous. He was in pursuit of the result. He was in pursuit of the riches. And lo and behold, look what happened. The people who believed in the Wright brothers' dream worked with them with blood and sweat and tears. The others just worked for the paycheck. They tell stories of how every time the Wright brothers went out, they would have to take five sets of parts, because that's how many times they would crash before supper. And, eventually, on December 17th, 1903, the Wright brothers took flight, and no one was there to even experience it. We found out about it a few days later. And further proof that Langley was motivated by the wrong thing: The day the Wright brothers took flight, he quit. He could have said, ""That's an amazing discovery, guys, and I will improve upon your technology,"" but he didn't. He wasn't first, he didn't get rich, he didn't get famous, so he quit. People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it. If you talk about what you believe, you will attract those who believe what you believe. But why is it important to attract those who believe what you believe? Something called the law of diffusion of innovation, if you don't know the law, you know the terminology. The first 2.5% of our population are our innovators. The next 13.5% of our population are our early adopters. The next 34% are your early majority, your late majority and your laggards. The only reason these people buy touch-tone phones is because you can't buy rotary phones anymore. (Laughter) We all sit at various places at various times on this scale, but what the law of diffusion of innovation tells us is that if you want mass-market success or mass-market acceptance of an idea, you cannot have it until you achieve this tipping point between 15 and 18 percent market penetration, and then the system tips. I love asking businesses, ""What's your conversion on new business?"" They love to tell you, ""It's about 10 percent,"" proudly. Well, you can trip over 10% of the customers. We all have about 10% who just ""get it."" That's how we describe them, right? That's like that gut feeling, ""Oh, they just get it."" The problem is: How do you find the ones that get it before doing business versus the ones who don't get it? So it's this here, this little gap that you have to close, as Jeffrey Moore calls it, ""Crossing the Chasm"" — because, you see, the early majority will not try something until someone else has tried it first. And these guys, the innovators and the early adopters, they're comfortable making those gut decisions. They're more comfortable making those intuitive decisions that are driven by what they believe about the world and not just what product is available. These are the people who stood in line for six hours to buy an iPhone when they first came out, when you could have bought one off the shelf the next week. These are the people who spent 40,000 dollars on flat-screen TVs when they first came out, even though the technology was substandard. And, by the way, they didn't do it because the technology was so great; they did it for themselves. It's because they wanted to be first. People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe. In fact, people will do the things that prove what they believe. The reason that person bought the iPhone in the first six hours, stood in line for six hours, was because of what they believed about the world, and how they wanted everybody to see them: They were first. People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it. So let me give you a famous example, a famous failure and a famous success of the law of diffusion of innovation. First, the famous failure. It's a commercial example. As we said before, the recipe for success is money and the right people and the right market conditions. You should have success then. Look at TiVo. From the time TiVo came out about eight or nine years ago to this current day, they are the single highest-quality product on the market, hands down, there is no dispute. They were extremely well-funded. Market conditions were fantastic. I mean, we use TiVo as verb. I TiVo stuff on my piece-of-junk Time Warner DVR all the time. (Laughter) But TiVo's a commercial failure. They've never made money. And when they went IPO, their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted, and it's never traded above 10. In fact, I don't think it's even traded above six, except for a couple of little spikes. Because you see, when TiVo launched their product, they told us all what they had. They said, ""We have a product that pauses live TV, skips commercials, rewinds live TV and memorizes your viewing habits without you even asking."" And the cynical majority said, ""We don't believe you. We don't need it. We don't like it. You're scaring us."" What if they had said, ""If you're the kind of person who likes to have total control over every aspect of your life, boy, do we have a product for you. It pauses live TV, skips commercials, memorizes your viewing habits, etc., etc."" People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it, and what you do simply serves as the proof of what you believe. Now let me give you a successful example of the law of diffusion of innovation. In the summer of 1963, 250,000 people showed up on the mall in Washington to hear Dr. King speak. They sent out no invitations, and there was no website to check the date. How do you do that? Well, Dr. King wasn't the only man in America who was a great orator. He wasn't the only man in America who suffered in a pre-civil rights America. In fact, some of his ideas were bad. But he had a gift. He didn't go around telling people what needed to change in America. He went around and told people what he believed. ""I believe, I believe, I believe,"" he told people. And people who believed what he believed took his cause, and they made it their own, and they told people. And some of those people created structures to get the word out to even more people. And lo and behold, 250,000 people showed up on the right day at the right time to hear him speak. How many of them showed up for him? Zero. They showed up for themselves. It's what they believed about America that got them to travel in a bus for eight hours to stand in the sun in Washington in the middle of August. It's what they believed, and it wasn't about black versus white: 25% of the audience was white. Dr. King believed that there are two types of laws in this world: those that are made by a higher authority and those that are made by men. And not until all the laws that are made by men are consistent with the laws made by the higher authority will we live in a just world. It just so happened that the Civil Rights Movement was the perfect thing to help him bring his cause to life. We followed, not for him, but for ourselves. By the way, he gave the ""I have a dream"" speech, not the ""I have a plan"" speech. (Laughter) Listen to politicians now, with their comprehensive 12-point plans. They're not inspiring anybody. Because there are leaders and there are those who lead. Leaders hold a position of power or authority, but those who lead inspire us. Whether they're individuals or organizations, we follow those who lead, not because we have to, but because we want to. We follow those who lead, not for them, but for ourselves. And it's those who start with ""why"" that have the ability to inspire those around them or find others who inspire them. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"你會怎麼解釋當事情不如我們所想的一般時？或者更好的是，你如何解釋當其他人能夠完成似乎違反所有假設的事時？比如：為什麼蘋果電腦這麼地有創意？年復年他們比其他的競爭對手都要有創意然而，他們只是一個電腦公司就像其他電腦公司一樣他們對有同樣才華的人有相同的管道接觸同樣的廣告商、同樣的顧問、同樣的媒體那麼為什麼他們似乎有點與眾不同？為什麼是馬汀路德金恩領導黑人民權運動？他不是唯一一個在美國受到平等公民權不公平待遇的人而且他絕不是當時最偉大的演說家為什麼是他？而為什麼是華特兄弟能夠想到控制力量，操控飛機當正有其他團隊更有資格、更有資本然而他們並沒有完成飛機反而是華特兄弟打敗他們完成了這件事。這似乎有其他的因素在其中 大約三年半前我有一個發現而這個發現深深地改變我對世界運作方式的看法而它甚至深深改變我生活的方式因為它變成—有個模式而它引證了，所有偉大且具有啟發性的領袖以及世界上的機構不管是蘋果電腦，或馬汀路德金恩或華特兄弟他們都以同樣的方式思考、行動與溝通而這也完全與其他人相反我做的事就是解讀它而它或許是世界上最簡單的想法我稱它做黃金圈 為什麼？怎麼做？做什麼？這個小小的想法解釋了為什麼有些機構和有些領袖能夠激勵群眾而別人做不到讓我很快地定義這些詞在這個星球上的每個人，每個機構都知道他們在做什麼　－百分之百肯定有些知道如何做事這裡可以叫做是你不同的價值主張或者你的屬性過程或你的USP (賣點)但很少很少人或機構知道為什麼做他們正在做的事而〞為什麼〞不是指〞創造利潤“那是結果。它永遠是結果。〞為什麼〞指的是：你的目的是什麼？你的出發點是什麼？你的信念是什麼？為什麼你的機構存在？為什麼你早上要起床？而且為什麼其他人要在乎？好的，結果是我們所想、所為以及我們所溝通的方式都是由外而內的很明顯。我們從最清楚到最模糊不明但激勵人的領導者以及激勵人們的機構不管它們的規模，不管它們的產業都以由內而外的方式去思考、行動與溝通 讓我給你們舉個例子我使用蘋果電腦是因為它很容易明白，而所有人都明白它如果蘋果電腦就像其他的電腦給的行銷訊息很可能聽起來像我們製造最棒的電腦他們都有美好的設計、容易上手也迎合使用者的要求想買一台嗎？...呃，不要。這就是多數人溝通的方式這就是多數行銷的方式。 這是多數業務銷售的方式而這也是我們多數人與人相處時的溝通方式我們說我們做了什麼，我們說我們如何不同或我們如何比較好然後我們期待某種行為可能是購買行為、投票行為或這類的事這裡是我們新的法律公司我們有最好的律師和最大的客戶我們總是為和我們做生意的客戶著想這是我們的新車它有很好的油耗表現。它有皮革製的座椅。買我們的車吧。但這都不激勵人心 這裡有蘋果電腦實際上溝通的方式：我們所做的每件事我們相信都在挑戰現狀我們相信用不同的角度思考我們挑戰現狀的方式是使我們的產品有美好的設計容易使用而且迎合使用者。我們只是恰巧做了很棒的電腦。想要買一台嗎？完全不一樣，對吧？你準備要從我這裡買一台電腦了。我只要改變資訊的順序這個例子告訴我們人們不會買你做了什麼人們要買你為什麼做它人們不會買你做什麼；他們要買你的為什麼。 這解釋了為什麼在場的每個人都對買蘋果電腦感到很好但我們也同樣感覺很好當購買蘋果電腦 的MP3播放器，或蘋果電腦的手機或蘋果電腦的DVR但如同我前述所說，蘋果電腦只是一家電腦公司結構上沒有什麼使它們與其他的競爭者不同他們的競爭者都有同樣能力做這些產品事實上，他們試過幾年前，Gateway推出他們的平面電視他們很明顯夠資格製造平面電視他們已經做平面監視器好幾年了沒有人買戴爾電腦推出mp3播放器與PDA.他們的產品都有很好的品質而且他們也能完美地製造精美設計的產品然而沒有人買。事實上，現在我們說這些事，我們甚至無法想像從戴爾電腦買一台mp3播放器為什麼你會從一家電腦公司買一台mp3播放器？但我們每天都這麼做人們不買你做什麼；他們買你的為什麼目標不是與每個需要你有什麼的人在做生意目標是要與那些相信你所相信的人做生意這就是最美好的部份 我告訴你們的都不是我個人的意見這在生物學裡證實不是心理學，是生物學如果你去看人腦裡的切面，從上往下看你看到的人腦實際上是分成三個主要部份的這和黃金圈完美地相關我們最新的腦，或說我們人類的腦我們的大腦皮層對應的是〞什麼〞的層次大腦皮層負責我們所有的理性、分析的想法以及語言中間兩個部份組成我們腦的邊緣而我們邊緣的腦是負責所有的感情如信任與忠誠它也同時負責所有人類的行為所有的決策而它沒有語言的空間 換句話說，當我們從外而內地溝通時是的，人們可以了解很多複雜的資訊量像是特色、好處、事實與數字但這不能刺激行為當我們能由內而外溝通時我們就正對著我們的腦說話那控制行為的腦然後我們允許人們去分析它以我們可以說與做的可見事物這就是我們用膽識做決定的來源你們知道，有時候你們可以給人們所有的事實與數字然後他們說，〞我知道事實與細節是什麼，但就是感覺不對勁〞為什麼我們會用這個動詞，〝感覺〞不對勁？因為管控決策的腦並不管控語言而我們最多能整理出的是〝我不知道，就是覺得不對〞或者有時你說你隨心所欲或者你跟隨你靈魂的聲音嗯，我很不想對你說，那些都不是身體的其他部份在控制你的行為所有的發生都在你邊緣的腦裡是控制決策而不是語言的腦 但如果你不知道為什麼做你正在做的事而人們對為什麼你正在做的事有反應然後甚至是你如何贏得人們的選票或買你的東西或更重要的，忠實而且想成為你正在做的事的一份子再一次，目標不是僅僅將需要你所有賣給需要的人而已目標是要賣東西給那些相信你所相信的事的人目標不是只在雇那些需要工作的人而是要雇用那些相信你所相信的事的人我會一直這麼說，你知道。如果你雇用人僅是因為他們能做事，他們將會為了你的錢而做事但如果你雇用那些相信你所相信的人們他們將與你工作：用血汗與淚水。而沒有比這個萊特兄弟更好的例子了 多數人不認識Samuel Pierpont Langley.在20世紀初追尋人類飛翔就像今天的網路公司一樣每個人都在嘗試而Samuel Pierpont Langley曾經擁有，我們假設的成功的關鍵我的意思是，即使現在，你去問人們〝為什麼你的產品為或什麼你的公司失敗？〞而人們總會給你相類似的三個原因資金不足，不適合的人，市場情況不良總是這相同的三個原因，所以我們來研究一下Samuel Pierpont Langley從國防部得到5萬美金去研發這個飛行機器資金不是問題他有哈佛大學的學位在Smithsonian工作而且有很好的人脈他認識當時所有著名的知識份子他雇用最好的人才資金有管道而市場情況呈現一片榮景紐約時報跟著他到處跑而且每個人都為Langley加油那麼你怎麼會從沒聽過Samuel Pierpont Langley？ 幾百英哩遠在俄亥俄州的Dayton萊特兄弟他們沒有我們認為的成功關鍵他們沒有資金他們用他們腳踏車店裡的現金來支付他們的夢想沒有任何一個在萊特兄弟的團隊裡的人有大學學歷兄弟倆都沒有而他們也沒有紐約時報的報導不同的是萊特兄弟是有個目的去驅動他們的因為目的、因為相信他們相信如果他們能想出這架飛行機器這將改變世界的軌道Samuel Pierpont Langley 不同他想變得富有，而且他想成名他在追求結果他在追求財富所以你們看，看看發生了什麼這些相信萊特兄弟的夢想的人用血汗與淚水和他們一同努力工作的人另外那些人則只是為錢工作而他們述說的故事是每次萊特兄弟出門他們都會帶上五套零件因為這是他們會墜機的次數在他們回家吃飯前 於是，最後在1903年12月17日萊特兄弟起飛而在場甚至沒有其他人可以體驗它我們在幾天後發現這件事更進一步的證明Langley因為錯誤的動機在萊特兄弟起飛那天，離職了他可以說〝那真是很驚人的發現啊而我將在你們的技術上加以改良〞，但他沒有。他跑第一，但他沒有變有錢他沒有變有名，所以他離職 人們不會買你買什麼；他們買你的為什麼而如果你談的是你相信的事物你會吸引那些相信你所相信的人們但為什麼吸吲那些相信你所相信的人們很重要？有種東西叫創意的散播法則如果你不知道這個法則，你絕對知道它的術語在我們人口之中前2.5%的人是發明家接下來的13.5%是早期使用者再接下來的34％是早期的大多數晚期的大多數以及落後者這些人買觸控式手機的唯一原因是因為你不能再買到轉盤式的電話了 （笑） 在這個尺度上我們都坐在不同的位置，不同的時間上但創意的散播法則告訴我們的是如果你想要在大眾市場成功或者讓大眾市場接受一個想法你不能擁有它直到你到達了在15％到18％之間的市場占有率的引爆點然後系統就會一面倒到你這邊我喜歡問企業：在新事業上你們的轉換率是多少然後他們會很樂意並驕傲地告訴你：哦，大約10％嗯，你可以有10％的顧客我們都有約10％的顧客〝知道〞這是我們描述他們的方式，對吧。這就像是膽識，哦，他們就是知道。問題是，你如何找到這些知道的人在你和他們做生意之前以及那些不知道的人所以這就是這裡，一個小小的差距是你必須要填滿的如同Jeffrey Moore稱它為〞跨越分歧因為，你看，早期的多數人不會嘗試直到其他人已經先嘗試而這些人，這些發明家以及早期的採用者他們對做這些需要膽試的決定感到很自在他們對做這些直覺的決定感到更為自在也就是他們被他們自己對世界的相信所驅動而不僅只是可得的產品 這些是排隊排了六個小時買剛上市iPhone的人而其實可以在下個星期走進店裡從架上買一枝手機這些是花40，000美金當平版電視剛上市的人雖然科技還未臻完美而且，順便提一下，他們這麼做並不因為這項科技有多好他們這麼做是為了他們自己因為他們想當第一人們不買你做什麼；他們買你為什麼做。而且你做什麼就證明了你相信什麼事實上，人們會去做那些證明他們所相信的事為什麼人們買iPhone在最初的六個小時排隊排六個小時是因為他們所相信的世界以及他們想要每個人如此看他們他們是第一人們不買你做什麼；他們買你的為什麼 所以讓我說一個有名的例子一個有名的失敗以及有名的成功關於創意的散播法則首先，這個有名的失敗它是個商業的例子如同我們之前所說，一秒鐘前成功的要素是資金以及適當的人與對的市場狀況是的。那麼你就應該要成功。看看TiVo的例子當TiVo上市時，約8，9年前時至今日他們仍是市場上有高品質的產品毫無疑問的，沒有爭議他們有很充沛的資金市場的狀況好得不得了我的意思是，我們把TiVo當做動詞我總是TiVo東西在我時代華納的DVR 但是TiVo卻失敗了他們從不賺錢而當他們股票上市的時候股價約30到40美金然後一瀉千里，從沒在10美元以上交易事實上，我想它從沒在6美元以上交易除了幾次小漲幅因為你看，當TiVo推出他們的產品他們告訴我們他們有的是什麼他們說〞我們的產品可以暫停現場的電視節目跳過廣告，回播現場電視節目還有記錄你的收視習慣你連問都不必問然後，吹毛求疪的大眾說我們不相信我們不需要它，我們不喜歡它。你嚇到我們了。如果他們說，要是你是這樣的人：想要完全的掌控生活的各個層面那麼，我們有這麼一樣適合你的產品它可以暫停現場節目，跳過商業廣告記得你的收視習慣等等人們不買你做什麼，他們買你的為什麼而你做什麼僅僅是你相信什麼的證明 現在讓我給你們另一個成功的例子有關創意的散播法則在1963年夏天25,000人在華盛頓的一個購物中心集結準備聽金恩博士演說他們沒有寄出任何一張邀請函而當時也沒有網站去查看日期你會怎麼做金恩博士不是在美國唯一一個偉大的演說者他不是在美國唯一一個受到迫害的人在美國公民權普及前的時代事實上，他的想法有一些很糟但他有個天賦他沒有到處告訴人們在美國什麼需要被改變他到處告訴人們他所相信的我相信。我相信。我相信他這麼告訴人們而那些相信他所相信的人們接受了他的原因，而使這個原因也成為他們自己的並告訴其他人們而這些人之中的某些人創造了制度使這些言論散播給更多人於是25,000人出現在這個時間、這個地點去聽他的演講 有多少人為了他而出現零他們為了他們自己出現那是他們所相信的美國使他們踏上八個小時車程的旅行在八月中時站在華盛頓的陽光下那是他們所相信的，這不是關於黑人與白人25％的觀眾是白人金恩博士相信在這個世界上有兩種不同的法律那些由較高權威制定的法律以及那些由一般人所定的法律而一直到所有法律都由一般人所定與那些較高權威制定的法律一致時我們才會活在一個公平的世界這於是發動了公民運動而這對他而言也是最佳的幫助將他的理由帶入生命中我們追隨，不是為了他，而是為了我們自己而且，他的演說是〞我有一個夢想〞而不是〞我有一個計劃 （笑） 聽現在的政客們完整的12點計劃根本就不會啟發任何人因為有""領導人""與""領導的人""領導人持有權力或權威的位階但那些領導的人啟發我們不管是個人或者組織我們跟隨那些領導的人不是因為我們必須而是因為我們想要我們跟隨那些領導的人，不是為了他們而是為了我們自己而且是那些以〝為什麼〞開始的人擁有這個能力來啟發他們周遭的人或者找到那些啟發他們的人 非常感謝你們 （鼓掌）"
