Talk	en	zh-tw
sir_ken_robinson_bring_on_the_revolution	"I was here four years ago, and I remember, at the time, that the talks weren't put online. I think they were given to TEDsters in a box, a box set of DVDs, which they put on their shelves, where they are now. (Laughter) And actually, Chris called me a week after I'd given my talk, and said, ""We're going to start putting them online. Can we put yours online?"" And I said, ""Sure."" And four years later, it's been downloaded four million times. So I suppose you could multiply that by 20 or something to get the number of people who've seen it. And, as Chris says, there is a hunger for videos of me. (Laughter) (Applause) Don't you feel? (Laughter) So, this whole event has been an elaborate build-up to me doing another one for you, so here it is. (Laughter) Al Gore spoke at the TED conference I spoke at four years ago and talked about the climate crisis. And I referenced that at the end of my last talk. So I want to pick up from there because I only had 18 minutes, frankly. (Laughter) So, as I was saying — (Laughter) You see, he's right. I mean, there is a major climate crisis, obviously, and I think if people don't believe it, they should get out more. (Laughter) But I believe there is a second climate crisis, which is as severe, which has the same origins, and that we have to deal with with the same urgency. And you may say, by the way, ""Look, I'm good. I have one climate crisis, I don't really need the second one."" (Laughter) But this is a crisis of, not natural resources — though I believe that's true — but a crisis of human resources. I believe fundamentally, as many speakers have said during the past few days, that we make very poor use of our talents. Very many people go through their whole lives having no real sense of what their talents may be, or if they have any to speak of. I meet all kinds of people who don't think they're really good at anything. Actually, I kind of divide the world into two groups now. Jeremy Bentham, the great utilitarian philosopher, once spiked this argument. He said, ""There are two types of people in this world: those who divide the world into two types and those who do not."" (Laughter) Well, I do. (Laughter) I meet all kinds of people who don't enjoy what they do. They simply go through their lives getting on with it. They get no great pleasure from what they do. They endure it rather than enjoy it, and wait for the weekend. But I also meet people who love what they do and couldn't imagine doing anything else. If you said, ""Don't do this anymore,"" they'd wonder what you're talking about. It isn't what they do, it's who they are. They say, ""But this is me, you know. It would be foolish to abandon this, because it speaks to my most authentic self."" And it's not true of enough people. In fact, on the contrary, I think it's still true of a minority of people. And I think there are many possible explanations for it. And high among them is education, because education, in a way, dislocates very many people from their natural talents. And human resources are like natural resources; they're often buried deep. You have to go looking for them, they're not just lying around on the surface. You have to create the circumstances where they show themselves. And you might imagine education would be the way that happens, but too often, it's not. Every education system in the world is being reformed at the moment and it's not enough. Reform is no use anymore, because that's simply improving a broken model. What we need — and the word's been used many times in the past few days — is not evolution, but a revolution in education. This has to be transformed into something else. (Applause) One of the real challenges is to innovate fundamentally in education. Innovation is hard, because it means doing something that people don't find very easy, for the most part. It means challenging what we take for granted, things that we think are obvious. The great problem for reform or transformation is the tyranny of common sense. Things that people think, ""It can't be done differently, that's how it's done."" I came across a great quote recently from Abraham Lincoln, who I thought you'd be pleased to have quoted at this point. (Laughter) He said this in December 1862 to the second annual meeting of Congress. I ought to explain that I have no idea what was happening at the time. We don't teach American history in Britain. (Laughter) We suppress it. You know, this is our policy. (Laughter) No doubt, something fascinating was happening then, which the Americans among us will be aware of. But he said this: ""The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion."" I love that. Not rise to it, rise with it. ""As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country."" I love that word, ""disenthrall."" You know what it means? That there are ideas that all of us are enthralled to, which we simply take for granted as the natural order of things, the way things are. And many of our ideas have been formed, not to meet the circumstances of this century, but to cope with the circumstances of previous centuries. But our minds are still hypnotized by them, and we have to disenthrall ourselves of some of them. Now, doing this is easier said than done. It's very hard to know, by the way, what it is you take for granted. And the reason is that you take it for granted. (Laughter) Let me ask you something you may take for granted. How many of you here are over the age of 25? That's not what you take for granted, I'm sure you're familiar with that. Are there any people here under the age of 25? Great. Now, those over 25, could you put your hands up if you're wearing your wristwatch? Now that's a great deal of us, isn't it? Ask a room full of teenagers the same thing. Teenagers do not wear wristwatches. I don't mean they can't, they just often choose not to. And the reason is we were brought up in a pre-digital culture, those of us over 25. And so for us, if you want to know the time, you have to wear something to tell it. Kids now live in a world which is digitized, and the time, for them, is everywhere. They see no reason to do this. And by the way, you don't need either; it's just that you've always done it and you carry on doing it. My daughter never wears a watch, my daughter Kate, who's 20. She doesn't see the point. As she says, ""It's a single-function device."" (Laughter) ""Like, how lame is that?"" And I say, ""No, no, it tells the date as well."" (Laughter) ""It has multiple functions."" (Laughter) But, you see, there are things we're enthralled to in education. A couple of examples. One of them is the idea of linearity: that it starts here and you go through a track and if you do everything right, you will end up set for the rest of your life. Everybody who's spoken at TED has told us implicitly, or sometimes explicitly, a different story: that life is not linear; it's organic. We create our lives symbiotically as we explore our talents in relation to the circumstances they help to create for us. But, you know, we have become obsessed with this linear narrative. And probably the pinnacle for education is getting you to college. I think we are obsessed with getting people to college. Certain sorts of college. I don't mean you shouldn't go, but not everybody needs to go, or go now. Maybe they go later, not right away. And I was up in San Francisco a while ago doing a book signing. There was this guy buying a book, he was in his 30s. I said, ""What do you do?"" And he said, ""I'm a fireman."" I asked, ""How long have you been a fireman?"" ""Always. I've always been a fireman."" ""Well, when did you decide?"" He said, ""As a kid. Actually, it was a problem for me at school, because at school, everybody wanted to be a fireman."" (Laughter) He said, ""But I wanted to be a fireman."" And he said, ""When I got to the senior year of school, my teachers didn't take it seriously. This one teacher didn't take it seriously. He said I was throwing my life away if that's all I chose to do with it; that I should go to college, I should become a professional person, that I had great potential and I was wasting my talent to do that."" He said, ""It was humiliating. It was in front of the whole class and I felt dreadful. But it's what I wanted, and as soon as I left school, I applied to the fire service and I was accepted. You know, I was thinking about that guy recently, just a few minutes ago when you were speaking, about this teacher, because six months ago, I saved his life."" (Laughter) He said, ""He was in a car wreck, and I pulled him out, gave him CPR, and I saved his wife's life as well."" He said, ""I think he thinks better of me now."" (Laughter) (Applause) You know, to me, human communities depend upon a diversity of talent, not a singular conception of ability. And at the heart of our challenges — (Applause) At the heart of the challenge is to reconstitute our sense of ability and of intelligence. This linearity thing is a problem. When I arrived in L.A. about nine years ago, I came across a policy statement — very well-intentioned — which said, ""College begins in kindergarten."" No, it doesn't. (Laughter) It doesn't. If we had time, I could go into this, but we don't. (Laughter) Kindergarten begins in kindergarten. (Laughter) A friend of mine once said, ""A three year-old is not half a six year-old."" (Laughter) (Applause) They're three. But as we just heard in this last session, there's such competition now to get into kindergarten — to get to the right kindergarten — that people are being interviewed for it at three. Kids sitting in front of unimpressed panels, you know, with their resumes — (Laughter) Flicking through and saying, ""What, this is it?"" (Laughter) (Applause) ""You've been around for 36 months, and this is it?"" (Laughter) ""You've achieved nothing — commit. (Laughter) Spent the first six months breastfeeding, I can see."" (Laughter) See, it's outrageous as a conception. The other big issue is conformity. We have built our education systems on the model of fast food. This is something Jamie Oliver talked about the other day. There are two models of quality assurance in catering. One is fast food, where everything is standardized. The other is like Zagat and Michelin restaurants, where everything is not standardized, they're customized to local circumstances. And we have sold ourselves into a fast-food model of education, and it's impoverishing our spirit and our energies as much as fast food is depleting our physical bodies. (Applause) We have to recognize a couple of things here. One is that human talent is tremendously diverse. People have very different aptitudes. I worked out recently that I was given a guitar as a kid at about the same time that Eric Clapton got his first guitar. (Laughter) It worked out for Eric, that's all I'm saying. (Laughter) In a way — it did not for me. I could not get this thing to work no matter how often or how hard I blew into it. It just wouldn't work. (Laughter) But it's not only about that. It's about passion. Often, people are good at things they don't really care for. It's about passion, and what excites our spirit and our energy. And if you're doing the thing that you love to do, that you're good at, time takes a different course entirely. My wife's just finished writing a novel, and I think it's a great book, but she disappears for hours on end. You know this, if you're doing something you love, an hour feels like five minutes. If you're doing something that doesn't resonate with your spirit, five minutes feels like an hour. And the reason so many people are opting out of education is because it doesn't feed their spirit, it doesn't feed their energy or their passion. So I think we have to change metaphors. We have to go from what is essentially an industrial model of education, a manufacturing model, which is based on linearity and conformity and batching people. We have to move to a model that is based more on principles of agriculture. We have to recognize that human flourishing is not a mechanical process; it's an organic process. And you cannot predict the outcome of human development. All you can do, like a farmer, is create the conditions under which they will begin to flourish. So when we look at reforming education and transforming it, it isn't like cloning a system. There are great ones, like KIPP's; it's a great system. There are many great models. It's about customizing to your circumstances and personalizing education to the people you're actually teaching. And doing that, I think, is the answer to the future because it's not about scaling a new solution; it's about creating a movement in education in which people develop their own solutions, but with external support based on a personalized curriculum. Now in this room, there are people who represent extraordinary resources in business, in multimedia, in the Internet. These technologies, combined with the extraordinary talents of teachers, provide an opportunity to revolutionize education. And I urge you to get involved in it because it's vital, not just to ourselves, but to the future of our children. But we have to change from the industrial model to an agricultural model, where each school can be flourishing tomorrow. That's where children experience life. Or at home, if that's what they choose, to be educated with their families or friends. There's been a lot of talk about dreams over the course of these few days. And I wanted to just very quickly — I was very struck by Natalie Merchant's songs last night, recovering old poems. I wanted to read you a quick, very short poem from W. B. Yeats, who some of you may know. He wrote this to his love, Maud Gonne, and he was bewailing the fact that he couldn't really give her what he thought she wanted from him. And he says, ""I've got something else, but it may not be for you."" He says this: ""Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths, Enwrought with gold and silver light, The blue and the dim and the dark cloths Of night and light and the half-light, I would spread the cloths under your feet: But I, being poor, have only my dreams; I have spread my dreams under your feet; Tread softly because you tread on my dreams."" And every day, everywhere, our children spread their dreams beneath our feet. And we should tread softly. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我四年前也來過這裡演講我記得那個時候TED演講都還沒上線演講錄好後大概都裝在盒子裡，發送給TED觀眾可能是一盒DVD大家拿回家就放在架上，擺到現在都沒動過 [觀眾笑聲] 其實後來克里斯有打電話給我那時大概是演講過後一星期他說：「我們會開始把演講錄影放到網上」「可以把你的也放上去嗎？」我立刻就答應了 現在過了四年我剛有說，看過演講的有...應該說演講下載次數達到400萬我猜把這個數字乘上20左右大概就是看過演講的人數克里斯跟我說，有很多人渴望看到我的影片 [觀眾笑聲] [觀眾掌聲] 果然非常渴望 [觀眾笑聲] 所以一切就在因緣際會之下我又回到這裡演講，要開始囉 [觀眾笑聲] 高爾跟我一樣四年前在同個TED論壇發表演講他那次談氣候危機我上回有提到他的演講用來為我的演講作結所以我想從上回的結語說起畢竟我那時只有18分鐘的時間好，我演講最後提到... [觀眾笑聲] 的確，他說的沒錯也就是說，氣候面臨相當大的危機那些不相信的人，應該多到戶外走走[觀眾笑聲]但我認為還有另一個危機跟氣候危機同樣嚴重有同樣的起因而且同樣需要我們立即因應我所謂的危機...對了，各位可能會說「喂！可以了吧」「有一個氣候危機就夠了」「誰還想要另一個危機」但這個危機跟自然資源無關雖然我相信自然資源也有危機我要說的是人力資源的危機 基本上我的看法跟過去幾天其他講者說的一樣就是我們並沒有善用自己的才能很多人終其一生都不太清楚自己潛在的才能或不知道自己有沒有才能可言我碰過各式各樣的人覺得自己沒什麼長處 其實我覺得全世界大概分為兩種人功利主義哲學大師邊沁詮釋得很有意思他說：「全世界可分為兩種人」「把世界一分為二的人」「和不把世界一分為二的人」[觀眾笑聲]我就是會分的那種[觀眾笑聲] 我碰過各式各樣的人說自己不喜歡目前的工作他們過著單調的生活日復一日他們在工作上得不到快樂只是在忍受，而不是在享受等待著週末來臨但我也碰過一些人說自己熱愛現有的工作對工作死心塌地叫他們不要做，他們會一臉納悶因為重點不是工作本身，而是天性如此他們會說：「但這就是我啊」「我才不會笨到放棄」「因為這工作讓我找到真正的自己」對大部份人來說，並非如此我覺得正好相反熱愛工作的人絕對是少數我想有許多原因 可以用來解釋這件事一大原因出在教育因為教育可說是剝奪了許多人與生俱來的才能而且人力資源跟天然資源一樣往往「深藏不露」我們必須去挖掘不是光看表面就會發現我們必須營造良好的環境，幫助他們發展各位可能覺得只有教育可以做到這件事但往往並非如此世界各國的教育體制目前都處於改革的階段但光這樣是不夠的改革是沒有用的因為那只是改良舊有的制度我們需要的...其實這幾天一直都有提到...不是緩慢的教改是教育根本的革命教育一定要轉型完完全全的改變 [觀眾掌聲] 當前一大難題就是要徹底創新教育創新是很困難的因為創新所要做的事都相當的不容易創新是要去挑戰我們固有的思維那些我們視為理所當然的事改革的一大問題或是轉型是常識的宰制就像一般人常會覺得做事不按規矩來是會失敗的 最近讀到一句林肯的話，我覺得很有道理這時候想必各位很高興聽到林肯的話[觀眾笑聲]1862年的12月他向國會致詞時說了這句話我該先跟各位說明，我完全不知那年有什麼大事畢竟我們在英國是不學美國歷史的[觀眾笑聲]我們向來都加以打壓，政策就是這樣[觀眾笑聲]反正那年12月一定有發生什麼有趣的事在座的美國人想必知道 總之林肯說「那些屬於」「寧靜往日的教條」「已不足以因應今日的風雨」「情勢」「已然升高，愈發困難」「我們得順勢而起」說的真好不是加以抗衡，是順勢而起「由於我們面臨新的問題」「故得有新的思維」「新的作為」「我們得掙脫自身的枷鎖」「才能拯救我們的國家」 我很喜歡「掙脫枷鎖」這概念各位知道什麼意思嗎？我們被很多觀念的枷鎖綁住覺得這些觀念理應如此好像是天經地義、自然法則我們有很多觀念之所以形成，不是要符合當今態勢而是為了因應過去的狀況但我們仍然對這些觀念深信不疑而我們必須要掙脫這些枷鎖這事說來容易但要釐清何謂理所當然的事，實在很難正是因為理所當然，所以不會察覺 我來問些各位可能視為理所當然的事在場有多少人超過25歲？這跟「理所當然」扯不上關係啦我相信各位都清楚自己幾歲那在場不到25歲的人呢？很好，現在25歲以上的人如果戴著手錶的話，請把手舉起來看到有很多人舉手對吧？如果在場都是青少年，問一樣的問題結果會發現青少年不戴手錶並不是他們不會戴或不准戴他們只是往往選擇不戴因為各位也知道，我們成長過程中一切都還沒數位化...我指25歲以上的人對我們來說，想知道現在幾點一定要戴著手錶才行現在的孩子活在數位化的世界對他們來說，到處都看得到時間何必還戴手錶而且其實我們也不需要戴錶只是長期以來都有戴錶，習慣成自然我女兒從來不戴錶，她叫凱特，今年20歲她覺得戴錶很沒意義她說：「錶只有單一功能耶」[觀眾笑聲]「吼，這會不會太瞎了？」我跟她說：「不會呀，錶還會顯示日期耶」[觀眾笑聲]「應該是多功能才對」 就教育來說，我們也有許多枷鎖給各位幾個例子一個是線性思維從起點開始，沿著既定的道路只要一切都按部就班就能穩穩當當過完後半輩子TED請來的講者都用或間接或直接的方式，分享新奇的故事告訴我們生命並非直線，而是富有變化生命掌握在自己手中我們探索自己天賦的同時天賦也引領我們找到自己的一片天但我們一心相信線性思維的論述還有相信教育的最高成就就是上大學我覺得我們太執著上大學這件事還要特定幾所好大學不是說不該上大學，而是不用每個人都上大學也不用每個人都一畢業就上大學有些人可能想緩一緩，不想那麼急 我不久前在舊金山辦了場簽書會有個男的買了書，他大約30多歲我問他：「你是做什麼的？」他說：「我是消防員」我問：「那你從事這行多久了？」他說：「好久了，我一直都是消防員」我又問：「那你什麼時候決定當消防員的？」他說：「小時候就想了，但這在學校就成了問題」「因為每個同學都想當消防員」「但我真的想當消防員」「升上高年級的時候」「老師都不當一回事」「有個老師更是這樣」「他說我這樣只是浪費生命」「最好不要想當消防員」「說我該讀大學，成為專業人士」「說我很有潛力」「不要白白浪費資質」「那時我覺得自己好丟臉」「因為他在全班面前講我，讓人實在很難受」「但這是我的夢想，」「便申請當消防員，後來就錄取了」他接著說：「你知道嗎？我剛剛又想到那個老師」「剛剛你還在演講的時候，我正好想到他」「因為半年前」「我救了他一命」[觀眾笑聲]「他那時出了車禍」「是我把他從車中拖出來，幫他人工呼吸」「我還救了他太太一命」「他現在應該對我刮目相看了吧」 [觀眾笑聲] [觀眾掌聲] 對我來說社會靠的是多元的才能不是單一的能力我們當前最大難關[觀眾掌聲]最大的難關就是重塑我們對才能的看法還有對智能的看法線性思維是個大問題 我到洛杉磯的時候也就是大概九年前那時有個政策口號出發點很好「大學從幼稚園開始」才怪[觀眾笑聲]本來就不是如果有時間我可以細講，但時間很趕[觀眾笑聲]幼稚園從幼稚園開始才對[觀眾笑聲]我有個朋友曾說「一個三歲的孩子不等於半個六歲的孩子」[觀眾笑聲][觀眾掌聲]三歲就三歲 但前場演講也提到了現在進幼稚園非常競爭特別是進「好的」幼稚園三歲小孩就要口試坐在難以取悅的評審面前桌上放著小孩的履歷[觀眾笑聲]他們翻了一下說：「就這樣啊？」[觀眾笑聲][觀眾掌聲]「你活了36個月，就這點履歷？」[觀眾笑聲]「一點成就也沒有」「想必你前六個月在喝母奶，沒做什麼正事」[觀眾笑聲]聽起來很離譜對吧？但就有人這麼離譜 另一個大問題就是從眾我們的教育制度建立在速食文化上主廚奧立佛前兩天有談到這點外燴的品質保證分為兩種一種是速食東西都標準化另一種是米其林等級的餐廳東西都不是標準化而是依各地需求客製化我們的教育就是依循速食的模式正不斷消耗我們的精神和活力就像吃速食會弄壞身體一樣 [觀眾掌聲] 我想我們得認清幾件事首先，才能有千百種資質因人而異我最近才發現我小時候初次拿到吉他年紀跟克萊普頓拿到他第一把吉他差不多但不用說，只有他成了吉他之神[觀眾笑聲]吉他不是我興趣所在我就是彈不好練習再久、再努力也沒用就是沒辦法練好 但不只是技巧層面重要的是我缺乏熱忱許多人雖然很擅長某事，卻不太有興趣問題在於有沒有熱忱在於我們有沒有衝勁如果我們不但熱愛工作，工作起來又得心應手就會產生完全不同的時間感我太太剛寫完一本小說我覺得寫得很棒但她寫起小說來，常幾小時不見人影想必各位也有類似經驗，做自己愛做的事一小時感覺起來像五分鐘如果做的事並非心之所向五分鐘卻像一小時般漫長很多人之所以不願接受正規教育是因為教育無法滿足內心的志趣無法帶給他們活力或熱忱 所以我想我們得換個比喻我們必須脫離工業模式的教育或說生產模式脫離那種線性思維強調從眾和標準化的教育我們的教育必須轉型以務農的原則為基礎也就是瞭解一個人的成長並不是機械化的過程而是自然多元沒辦法預知發展的結果只能像農夫一樣打造良好的條件幫助幼苗成長茁壯 所以無論是教育改革或轉型並非把一套制度挪為己用有不少制度的理念很好，例如KIPP計畫這類計畫有很多，理念很棒重點是要視每個人的情況量身打造教育給學生個人化的學習經驗我認為如果做到這點未來才有希望因為這不是要找一個新的解決方案而是要推動教育上的運動讓每個人找到自己的解決方案同時結合外在資源與個人化的課程 現在這個會場內各位來自不同領域有的人是企業界大亨有的人專精於多媒體，有的人經營網路事業這些科技若跟老師的教學才能加以結合有機會帶來教育界的革命我希望各位都能參與其中因為這不只對我們意義重大對未來的孩子來說更是重要但我們得先把教育從工業模式轉型為農業模式讓每個學校都能蓬勃發展孩子在學校才能真正體驗生活選擇自學的孩子，則在家中與家人朋友一同體驗 最近很多講者都談到夢想這幾天我就聽到不少我只想快速提一下...我昨晚聽到莫森特的歌，深受感動重拾了古詩的韻味我想很快讀一首短詩作者是葉慈，各位或許知道這位詩人他把這首詩獻給心上人茉德岡葉慈一度悲嘆自己無法給她想要的東西他說：「我還有準備一份禮物，但可能也不是妳要的」 他娓娓道來這首詩「若我有天上的錦衣」「織著或金黃」「或銀白的光線」「摻雜湛藍、灰暗」「漆黑的綢緞」「象徵日夜與朝暮」「我會將其鋪在你腳下」「可我，一貧如洗」「只有夢想相伴」「於是我把夢想鋪在你腳下」「請輕輕的踏」「因我的夢就在你的腳下」而無論何時，無論何處孩子把他們的夢想鋪在我們腳下我們應該輕輕的踏 謝謝 [觀眾掌聲] 謝謝各位
