Talk	en	zh-tw
sirena_huang_dazzles_on_violin	"(Music) (Music ends) (Applause) (Applause ends) Hi, everyone. I'm Sirena. I'm 11 years old and from Connecticut. (Audience cheers) (Applause) Well, I'm not really sure why I'm here. (Laughter) I mean, what does this have to do with technology, entertainment and design? Well, I count my iPod, cellphone and computer as technology, but this has nothing to do with that. So I did a little research on it. Well, this is what I found. Of course, I hope I can memorize it. (Clears throat) The violin is made of a wood box and four metal strings. By pulling a string, it vibrates and produces a sound wave, which passes through a piece of wood called a bridge, and goes down to the wood box and gets amplified, but ... let me think. (Laughter) Placing your finger at different places on the fingerboard changes the string length, and that changes the frequency of the sound wave. (Sighs) Oh, my gosh! (Laughter) OK, this is sort of technology, but I can call it a 16th-century technology. But actually, the most fascinating thing that I found was that even the audio system or wave transmission nowadays are still based on the same principle of producing and projecting sound. Isn't that cool? (Laughter) (Applause) Design — I love its design. I remember when I was little, my mom asked me, ""Would you like to play the violin or the piano?"" I looked at that giant monster and said to myself — ""I am not going to lock myself on that bench the whole day!"" (Laughter) This is small and lightweight. I can play from standing, sitting or walking. And, you know what? The best of all is that if I don't want to practice, (Whispering) I can hide it. (Laughter) The violin is very beautiful. Some people relate it as the shape of a lady. But whether you like it or not, it's been so for more than 400 years, unlike modern stuff [that] easily looks dated. But I think it's very personal and unique that, although each violin looks pretty similar, no two violins sound the same — even from the same maker or based on the same model. Entertainment — I love the entertainment. But actually, the instrument itself isn't very entertaining. I mean, when I first got my violin and tried to play around on it, it was actually really bad, because it didn't sound the way I'd heard from other kids — it was so horrible and so scratchy. So, it wasn't entertaining at all. But besides, my brother found this very funny: Yuk! Yuk! Yuk! (Laughter) A few years later, I heard a joke about the greatest violinist, Jascha Heifetz. After Mr. Heifetz's concert, a lady came over and complimented him: ""Oh, Mr. Heifetz, your violin sounded so great tonight!"" And Mr. Heifetz was a very cool person, so he picked up his violin and said, ""Funny — I don't hear anything."" (Laughter) Now I realize that as the musician, we human beings, with our great mind, artistic heart and skill, can change this 16th-century technology and a legendary design to a wonderful entertainment. Now I know why I'm here. (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) At first, I thought I was just going to be here to perform, but unexpectedly, I learned and enjoyed much more. But ... although some of the talks were quite up there for me. (Laughter) Like the multi-dimension stuff. I mean, honestly, I'd be happy enough if I could actually get my two dimensions correct in school. (Laughter) But actually, the most impressive thing to me is that — well, actually, I would also like to say this for all children is to say thank you to all adults, for actually caring for us a lot, and to make our future world much better. Thank you. (Applause) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) (Applause ends) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause)"	音樂 （鼓掌） 嗨！大家好，我是塞麗娜。我11歲，來自康乃狄克洲。 （鼓掌） 其實我不太知道我為什麼要來這裡（笑聲）我是說，我不知道小提琴到底和科技，娛樂或設計有甚麼關係？好吧，我把我的iPod，手機和電腦叫做是科技可是這和我的小提琴又沒有關係 所以我做了一點小研究以下是我的發現♪♪當然 我希望我還記得內容 小提琴基本上是由一個木箱子以及四根弦所製成的當你拉了弦，弦就產生震動而製造了聲波聲音通過一片稱為琴馬的木板然後通到下面的木箱子而共鳴但是...讓我想一下（笑聲） 好。另一方面當你將手指按壓在琴指板上不同的位置時就改變了琴弦的長度也就改變了聲波的頻率我的天啊！（笑聲） 好了，這就是小提琴所謂的科技面但我要稱它為16世紀的(舊)科技事實上，最讓我著迷的是我發現整個小提琴發聲系統和現今的聲波傳導兩者基本上遵循著相同的原理來產生與反射聲音這不是太酷了嗎？（笑聲） （鼓掌） 設計面 - 我愛死了小提琴的設計了我記得還小的時候我媽問我你想要學小提琴還是鋼琴？我看了一眼那台巨大的怪物然後告訴我自己我才不要將我自己鎖死在那張鋼琴椅上一整天這把小提琴又小又輕我站著、坐著或走著都可以拉它♪而且你知道嗎？最好的是，如果我不想練習我還可以將它藏起來 （笑聲） 小提琴真的很漂亮有人將它的形狀聯想為女人的身型但無論你喜不喜歡它它也已經以那形狀存在超過400年不像那些現代的東西很容易就退流行了而且我覺得小提琴非常具有個別性與獨特性即使每把小提琴看起來都很像卻沒有任何兩把小提琴聲音是一樣的即便是同一個人製造或屬於同一個型號 娛樂 - 我喜歡娛樂但老實說，這個樂器本身並不是很讓人樂在其中我是說，當我第一次拿到我的小提琴並試著要彈奏時實際上是非常糟的因為完全不像我聽到其他小孩彈的那樣我拉出很恐怖又沙沙作響的聲音所以對我來說當時可一點都不娛樂喔除此之外，我弟弟倒是發現這樣很有趣丫！丫！丫！ （笑聲） 數年後我聽到一個笑話是關於最偉大的小提琴家，傑書瓦‧海菲茲在某次海菲茲先生的演奏會後有一位女士前來讚美他喔！海菲茲先生，今晚你的小提琴音色真是太棒了海菲茲先生是位非常酷的人所以他拿起他的小提琴然後說好奇怪喔，我沒有聽到任何聲音啊 （笑聲） 現在我才體認身為一個音樂家®身為人類，憑著偉大的心智♪藝術家的心與技巧可以讓這個16世紀的科技以及如此傳奇的設計變成一個美妙的娛樂喔，我現在知道我為什麼在這裡了♪ （音樂）♫ （鼓掌） 一開始我以為我只是要來這裡演奏但是沒料到的是，我學習並享受到的更多但是...雖然有些東西比我想的還要深奧（笑聲）比如說多相度（維度）的東西我是說，老實說，我已經夠滿足了如果我能搞定學校裡關於平面的課題 （笑聲） 實際上最讓我感動的是是....實際上是我也想要代表我們所有的小孩™對所有的大人說聲感謝感謝你們這麼照顧我們並讓我們未來的世界變的更好謝謝 （鼓掌） （音樂）♫ （鼓掌） （音樂）♫ （鼓掌）
