Talk	en	zh-tw
sitawa_wafula_why_i_speak_up_about_living_with_epilepsy	"I have a confession. I have been in an affair since I was 17 years old. I wish I could talk about butterflies in my stomach or maps I drew on the ground when I think about this affair, but I cannot. I wish I could talk about sweet words spoken or gifts that I received from this affair, but I cannot. All I can tell you about is the aftermath, about days I spent constantly asking: Why, why, why me? I remember how it all began. I was in my final year of high school, and my class had just won in sports, so we were singing and dancing and hugging each other. I went and took a shower. Then I went for dinner. And when I sat down to eat, my teeth started chattering, and so I couldn't put the spoon in my mouth. I rushed to the nurse's office, and because I couldn't talk, I just pointed at my mouth. She didn't know what was happening, so she told me to lie down, and it worked — after a few minutes, the chattering stopped. I was about to dash out, and she told me — no, she insisted — that I go up to the dormitories to sleep. Here I was in my final year of high school, just a few months from doing my end of high school exams and a few days from doing a set of exams we call here in Kenya ""mocks,"" which are somehow meant to gauge how prepared one is for the final exams. There is no way I was going to sleep and let a set of exams mock me. I went to class, sat down, took my Kenyan history notes, and there I was, down Kenyan coastal town, with the great Mekatilili wa Menza, the Giriama woman who led her people against British colonial rule. Then, without any notice, my left hand started jerking, and it was as if I was marking imaginary papers. In and out it went, and with every stroke, one by one, my classmates stopped concentrating on their reading and started looking at me. And I tried really hard to stop it, but I couldn't, because it had a life of its own. And then, when it was sure everybody was looking at us, in its final show and official introduction, I had my first full-blown seizure, which was the beginning of what has been a 15-year-long affair. Seizures are the trademark characteristic for most types of epilepsy, and every first-ever seizure needs to be assessed by a doctor to determine if one has epilepsy or if it's a symptom of something else. In my case, it was confirmed that I had epilepsy. I spent a large chunk of my time in hospital and at home, and only went back to do my final exams. I had seizures in between papers, but managed to get good enough grades to be admitted for an actuarial science degree at the University of Nairobi. (Applause) Unfortunately, I had to drop out in my second year. I didn't have good enough coping skills and a support community around me. I was lucky enough to get a job, but I was fired from that job when I had a seizure in the workplace. So I found myself in a space where I was constantly asking myself why this had to happen to me. I lived in denial for a long time, and the denial was maybe because of the things that had happened, dropping out of school and being fired from my job. Or maybe it was because of the things I had heard about epilepsy and about people living with epilepsy: that they would never live on their own; that they would never travel on their own or even get work; that they were outcasts, with a spirit in them that they needed to be delivered from. And so the more I thought about these things, the more my seizures became, and I spent days with my legs locked, my speech became blurred and on days on end, this is how I'd be. Two or three days after a seizure, my head and my hand would still be twitching. I felt lost, like I'd lost everything, and sometimes, even the will to live. (Sigh) I had so much frustration in me. And so I started writing, because the people around me didn't have answers to the questions that I had. And so I wrote my fears and my doubts. I wrote about my good days and my bad days and my really ugly days, and I shared them on a blog. And before long, I began to be seen and heard by people who had epilepsy and their families, and even those who did not have the diagnosis. And I moved from that girl who constantly asked why me to one who not only self-advocates, but does it for those who are yet to find their voices. (Applause) My seizures are greatly reduced, from two to three times a day, to sometimes two to three times in one year. I went on — (Applause) I went on to employ five people, when I began what was Kenya's first free mental health and epilepsy support line. And I travel — (Applause) And I travel to speak about my affair, all these things that I had been told people like me living with epilepsy could never be able to do. Every year, a population as big as 80 percent of Nairobi gets diagnosed with epilepsy across the globe. And they, like me, go through the emotions of stigma and exclusion. And so I have made it my life journey to keep these conversations going, and I keep confessing about my affair so that those people who do not have the diagnosis might know and might have a constant reminder that it is alright to engage with people like us, that as long as they pull down the walls of stigma and exclusion, that we, just like them, can be able to take anything life throws at us. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我要坦白一件事我正在談一段戀愛這段感情從我 17 歲持續到現在談論這段感情時我希望能談談我的緊張與不安或是之前我畫在地上的地圖但我不行我希望能聊自己說過的情話或從這段感情所收到的愛禮但我無法我能告訴你們的只有這段感情所帶來的的後遺症關於過去那段日子裡我不斷自問的疑問為什麼？為什麼？為什麼是我？ 我仍記得當初是怎麼開始的在我高中最後一年我們班贏了運動比賽大家一起唱歌跳舞並互相擁抱然後離開去沖澡再去吃晚餐但當我坐下開始用餐時我的牙齒開始咯咯地發出聲音湯匙放不進嘴巴我趕緊衝去護理室當下由於說不了話我只能指著自己的嘴護士不知道發生了什麼事所以她要我躺下這方法有效過了幾分鐘後我的牙齒停止打顫我本打算離去但她說：喔不是；是她堅持我必須回宿舍睡覺在高中的最後一年考完期末考的幾個月後和做完我們在肯亞稱之為""mocks"" 的模擬測驗幾天後它是用來衡量學生是否準備好期末考的模擬測驗但是怕考不好所以哪敢去睡覺我不能被這些考試擊倒 考試當天我坐在教室看著我準備的肯亞歷史筆記讀到關於肯亞沿岸城鎮及 ""Mekatilili wa Menza"" 女士的故事這位偉大的女性領導群眾對抗英國殖民政府然後，沒有任何徵兆我的左手開始抽搐抽搐的樣子讓我看起來像是在畫圖向裡向外不停地揮舞一筆一筆地在畫圖一樣我同學都沒辦法專心念書開始看著我我想盡辦法試圖停下它的動作但我辦不到因為我的手完全不聽我的指揮然後，當我確定大家都在注視我時它最後的演出正式上場就是我人生第一次的全身性癲癇發作也開始了我和它長達十五年的「不解之緣」 「抽搐」是癲癇症最常見的徵兆第一次抽搐發作後必須經過醫生的詳細檢查才能確定是否真的罹患了癲癇症或是其他症狀的徵兆而我則被診斷出患有癲癇我在醫院和家裡待了很長的一段時間只有在期末考時才去學校考試期間我的癲癇又發作了數次但我仍克服了並考上奈洛比大學的精算科學學系 （鼓掌） 不幸的是我必須在大二退學我沒有很好的調適方法背後也沒團體給我支援我很幸運能找到一個工作但因工作時癲癇發作被解雇了 所以我找了一個地方躲起來在那裏我不斷地問自己為什麼這種事會發生在我身上？很長一段時間我無法接受不能接受的原因也許是因為那些已經發生的事例如中途退學和被解雇或是那些以前耳聞關於癲癇的事和癲癇症患者的故事那些人一輩子無法獨自生活他們也無法獨自旅行或是去工作他們被拋棄為了這個他們無法擺脫的症狀 所以我越是去煩惱這些事我的癲癇就更常復發有一段時間裡我的雙腳被固定著我的口齒變得含糊不清接連數天都是如此每次癲癇發作後的兩三天內我的頭和手仍會抽筋我感到迷惘我覺得像失去了所有有時……甚至沒有活下去的意願 （啜泣） 我對自己深深感到挫折所以我開始寫作因為週遭的人們找不到我要的答案所以我開始寫下自己的恐懼和疑惑我寫下自己快樂的時光悲傷的和非常難過的日子我將這些分享在一個部落格上沒過多久我開始被同樣患有癲癇的人關注還有他們的家人和那些沒有被診斷出病因的人我從原本只會自怨自艾蛻變成一個不但懂得自我擁護且可為同病相憐的人發聲的支持者 （鼓掌） 我癲癇的症狀已減緩不少從每天發作兩三次到現在的每年二至三次 我接著── （鼓掌） 接著我從雇用五個人作為開始設立了肯亞第一個免費的心理健康和癲癇支持群組 然後我開始旅行── （鼓掌） 我到各地分享我的故事講述那些我曾經被告知身為癲癇患者所不能做的事 每年約有相當於奈洛比八成人口總數的人數在全世界罹患癲癇症這些人跟我一樣忍受著被排擠和汙名化所以我將持續投入這類講座和分享我的親身經歷定為我的人生歷程好讓那些無法被確診病因的人或許能夠了解並能不斷地得到提醒讓他們知道跟我們併肩而行是沒關係的直到這些汙辱和排斥的高牆被推倒我們跟他們都是相同的我們也一樣能克服生命中的難題 謝謝 （鼓掌）"
