Talk	en	zh-tw
sofia_jawed_wessel_the_lies_we_tell_pregnant_women	"We're going to share a lot of secrets today, you and I, and in doing so, I hope that we can lift some of the shame many of us feel about sex. How many here have ever been catcalled by a stranger? Lots of women. For me, the time I remember best is when that stranger was a student of mine. He came up to me after class that night and his words confirmed what I already knew: ""I am so sorry, professor. If I had known it was you, I would never have said those things."" (Laughter) I wasn't a person to him until I was his professor. This concept, called objectification, is the foundation of sexism, and we see it reinforced through every aspect of our lives. We see it in the government that refuses to punish men for raping women. We see it in advertisements. How many of you have seen an advertisement that uses a woman's breast to sell an entirely unrelated product? Or movie after movie after movie that portrays women as only love interests? These examples might seem inconsequential and harmless, but they're insidious, slowly building into a culture that refuses to see women as people. We see this in the school that sends home a 10-year-old girl because her clothes were a distraction to boys trying to learn, or the government that refuses to punish men for raping women over and over, or the woman who is killed because she asked a man to stop grinding on her on the dance floor. Media plays a large role in perpetuating the objectification of women. Let's consider the classic romantic comedy. We're typically introduced to two kinds of women in these movies, two kinds of desirable women, anyway. The first is the sexy bombshell. This is the unbelievably gorgeous woman with the perfect body. Our leading man has no trouble identifying her and even less trouble having sex with her. The second is our leading lady, the beautiful but demure woman our leading man falls in love with despite not noticing her at first or not liking her if he did. The first is the slut. She is to be consumed and forgotten. She is much too available. The second is desirable but modest, and therefore worthy of our leading man's future babies. Marriage material. We're actually told that women have two roles, but these two roles have a difficult time existing within the same woman. On the rare occasion that I share with a new acquaintance that I study sex, if they don't end the conversation right then, they're usually pretty intrigued. ""Oh. Tell me more."" So I do. ""I'm really interested in studying the sexual behaviors of pregnant and postpartum couples."" At this point I get a different kind of response. (Laughter) ""Oh. Huh. Do pregnant people even have sex? Have you thought about studying sexual desire or orgasms? That would be interesting, and sexy."" Tell me. What are the first words that come to mind when you picture a pregnant woman? I asked this question in a survey of over 500 adults, and most responded with ""belly"" or ""round"" and ""cute."" This didn't surprise me too much. What else do we label as cute? Babies. Puppies. Kittens. The elderly. Right? (Laughter) When we label an adult as cute, though, we take away a lot of their intelligence, their complexity. We reduce them to childlike qualities. I also asked heterosexual men to imagine a woman that they're partnered with is pregnant, and then asked women to imagine that they are pregnant, and then tell me the first words that come to mind when they imagine having sex. Most of the responses were negative. ""Gross."" ""Awkward."" ""Not sexy."" ""Odd."" ""Uncomfortable."" ""How?"" (Laughter) ""Not worth the trouble."" ""Not worth the risk."" That last one really stuck with me. We might think that because we divorce pregnant women and moms from sexuality, we are removing the constraints of sexual objectification. They experience less sexism. Right? Not exactly. What happens instead is a different kind of objectification. In my efforts to explain this to others, one conversation led to the Venus of Willendorf, a Paleolithic figurine scholars assumed was a goddess of love and beauty, hence the name Venus. This theory was later revised, though, when scholars noted the sculptor's obvious focus on the figurine's reproductive features: large breasts, considered ideal for nursing; a round, possibly pregnant belly; the remnants of red dye, alluding to menstruation or birth. They also assumed that she was meant to be held or placed lying down because her tiny feet don't allow her to be freestanding. She also had no face. For this reason, it was assumed that she was a representation of fertility and not a portrait of a person. She was an object. In the history of her interpretation, she went from object of ideal beauty and love to object of reproduction. I think this transition speaks more about the scholars who have interpreted her purpose than the actual purpose of the figurine herself. When a woman becomes pregnant, she leaves the realm of men's sexual desire and slides into her reproductive and child-rearing role. In doing so, she also becomes the property of the community, considered very important but only because she's pregnant. Right? I've taken to calling this the Willendorf effect, and once again we see it reinforced in many aspects of her life. Has anyone here ever been visibly pregnant? (Laughter) Yeah. Lots of you, right? So how many of you ever had a stranger touch your belly during pregnancy, maybe without even asking your permission first? Or told what you can and cannot eat by somebody who is not your doctor, your medical care provider? Or asked private questions about your birth plan? And then told why those choices are all wrong? Yeah, me too. Or had a server refuse to bring you a glass of wine? This one might give you pause, I know, but stay with me. This is a huge secret. It is actually safe to drink in moderation during pregnancy. Many of us don't know this because doctors don't trust pregnant women with this secret — (Laughter) especially if she's less educated or a woman of color. What this tells us is, this Willendorf effect, it's also classist and racist. It's present when the government reminds women with every new anti-choice bill that the contents of her uterus are not her own, or when an ob-gyn says, ""While it's safe to have sex during pregnancy, sometimes you never know. Better safe than sorry, right?"" She's denied basic privacy and bodily autonomy under the guise of ""be a good mother."" We don't trust her to make her own decisions. She's cute, remember? When we tell women that sexual pleasure — excuse me. When we tell women that sex isn't worth the risk during pregnancy, what we're telling her is that her sexual pleasure doesn't matter. So what we are telling her is that she in fact doesn't matter, even though the needs of her fetus are not at odds with her own needs. So medical providers, such as the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have the opportunity to educate about the safety of sex during pregnancy. So what do the experts say? ACOG actually has no public official statement about the safety of sex during pregnancy. Guidance from the Mayo Clinic is generally positive but presented with a caveat: ""Although most women can safely have sex throughout pregnancy, sometimes it's best to be cautious."" Some women don't want to have sex during pregnancy, and that's OK. Some women do want to have sex during pregnancy, and that's OK, too. What needs to stop is society telling women what they can and cannot do with their bodies. (Applause) Pregnant women are not faceless, identity-less vessels of reproduction who can't stand on their own two feet. But the truth is, the real secret is, we tell all women that their sexual pleasure doesn't matter. We refuse to even acknowledge that women who have sex with women or women who don't want children even exist. ""Oh, it's just a phase ... she just needs the right man to come along."" Every time a woman has sex simply because it feels good, it is revolutionary. She is revolutionary. She is pushing back against society's insistence that she exist simply for men's pleasure or for reproduction. A woman who prioritizes her sexual needs is scary, because a woman who prioritizes her sexual needs prioritizes herself. (Applause) That is a woman demanding that she be treated as an equal. That is a woman who insists that you make room for her at the table of power, and that is the most terrifying of all because we can't make room for her without some of us giving up the extra space we hold. (Applause) I have one last secret for you. I am the mother of two boys and we could use your help. Even though my boys hear me say regularly that it's important for men to recognize women as equals and they see their father modeling this, we need what happens in the world to reinforce what happens in our home. This is not a men's problem or a women's problem. This is everyone's problem, and we all play a role in dismantling systems of inequality. For starters, we have got to stop telling women what they can and cannot do with their bodies. (Applause) This includes not treating pregnant women like community property. If you don't know her, don't even ask to touch her belly. You wouldn't anybody else. Don't tell her what she can and cannot eat. Don't ask her private details about her medical decisions. This also includes understanding that even if you are personally against abortion, you can still fight for a woman's right to choose. When it comes to women's equality, the two need not oppose one another. If you're somebody who has sex with women, prioritize her pleasure. If you don't know how, ask. If you have children — (Laughter) have conversations about sex as early as possible, because kids don't look up s-e-x in the dictionary anymore. They look it up on the internet. And when you're having those conversations about sex, don't center them on reproduction only. People have sex for many reasons, some because they want a baby, but most of us have sex because it feels good. Admit it. And regardless of whether you have children or not, support comprehensive sex education that doesn't shame our teenagers. (Applause) Nothing positive comes from shaming teens for their sexual desires, behaviors, other than positive STD and pregnancy tests. Every single day, we are all given the opportunity to disrupt patterns of inequality. I think we can all agree that it's worth the trouble to do so. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天你們和我將分享很多秘密。這麼做的目的是，我希望可以消除一些我們對性的羞恥感。 在座各位，有多少人曾被陌生人吹口哨？很多女士。對我來說，我記得最清楚的是，那個陌生人是我的一個學生。那晚下課後，他來找我，他的話證實了我已知道的， 「非常抱歉，教授。如果早知道是您，我怎麼也不會說那些話。 」 （笑聲） 對他來說，如果我不是他的教授，他就沒把我是一個人。這就是所謂「人格物化」的概念，這是性別歧視的基礎。我們在生活的各個層面，看到它不斷的被強化，我們可從政府部門拒絕懲罰那些強姦婦女的男人看到。我們在廣告裡看到。有多少人曾經看過廣告中用女性的胸部來推廣毫不相干的產品？還有，一部接一部的電影裡，女性被刻畫成只是愛情目標？這些例子看似無關緊要，無傷大雅，但實際上他們的殺傷力很大，慢慢滲入成一種無視女性為人的文化。我們看見學校把 10 歲的女學生打發回家，因為她的衣著讓男生分心，不能專心讀書，還有那些政府拒絕懲罰強姦女性的男人，一次又一次，還有女性被殺就是因為在舞池，她要求某位男人不要毛手毛腳。 對女性的物化，媒體發揮著重要的作用。讓我們設想在一個經典浪漫喜劇中，在這些電影裡，總有兩種女性，兩種讓人想要追求的女生。第一種是非常性感的女生。非常美麗的女人，完美的身體曲線。我們的男主角能夠毫不費力的注意到她，並甚至很輕易就能和她發生關係。第二個是我們的女主角，美麗端莊的女生，最後被男主角愛上，雖然一開始可能並沒有注意到她，或是就算注意到她，也沒有立刻喜歡她。第一個女生是蕩婦。她在被利用後，就被遺忘了。她太隨手可得。第二個女生吸引人但是低調，因此值得成為男主角未來子女的母親。結婚的材料。我們實際上被告知，女性有兩個角色，但是這兩種角色很難並存於同一個女人。 在罕見的情況下，我會和剛認識的人分享我是做性研究的。如果這時他們不馬上中止谈话，他們通常都會很好奇。 「哦，說來聽聽。」 於是我就說了。 「我對懷孕中和產後夫妻的​​性行為的研究，非常感興趣。」這時我會得到不同的回應。 （笑聲） 「哦，哼。孕婦可以有性行為嗎？你有沒有想過研究性慾，或性高潮？那應該會更有意思，並且性感。 」 請告訴我，當你們想到孕婦的時候，進入你們腦海的第一個字是什麼？這個問題，我在一個調查中訪問了超過 500 個成年人，最多的回答是「肚子」或「圓形」，還有 「可愛」。這並沒有讓我很吃驚。還有什麼我們通常用可愛來形容？嬰兒、小狗、小貓。還有年長者。是嗎？ （笑聲） 當我們把成年人用可愛來形容時，我們剝奪了他們的智慧，以及他們複雜性。我們把他們降到了小孩子的水準。我也訪問過異性戀的男生，讓他們假想他們的另一半正在懷孕，然後問女生假想自己懷孕，然後告訴我當他們想像在做性行為時，首先想到的第一個字詞。大多數的反應都是負面的。「噁心」「尷尬」「不性感」「奇怪」「不舒服」「怎麽做？」 （笑聲） 「這麼麻煩不值得」「不值得冒險」 最後的一個詞讓我想了很久。我們可能認為因為我們把孕婦、母親和性分開，我們就去除了性物化的約束。她們經歷一些性別歧視。是嗎？並不盡然。其實結果是另外一種形式的物化，在我努力向別人解釋這個的時候，其中的一次談話就轉到維倫多爾夫的維納斯，這個舊石器時代的小雕像，學者們認為是愛和美麗的女神。因此命名她為維納斯。這個理論之後又被更正過，當學者們注意到雕刻家的重心明顯的放在雕像的生殖特徵上：豐滿的胸部被認為是理想的哺育工具，豐滿，可能已懷孕的腹部；紅赭染料的殘留，暗示月經或生育。學者們也假設她是應該被抬著，或是平放著的，因為她的小腳是不允許她能站著的。她也沒有臉。因為如此，她被認為是繁衍的象徵。並不是一個人的塑像。她是一個物品。貫穿在對她的解讀的歷史裡，她從一個理想的美和愛的物件，變成繁衍的物品。 我認為這種轉變，與其說是雕像的實際目的，不如說是，它告訴了我們那些研究她的學者的想法。當一個女人懷孕了，她不再是男性性需求的對象，隨後進入了生育和養育孩子的角色。這樣之後，她又成為了社區的共同財產。被認為非常重要，但只是因為她懷孕的緣故。是不是？我把這個稱為「維倫多夫效應」。再一次我們看見它在女性生活的許多方面被强化。 這裡有人曾經很明顯的懷孕嗎？ （笑聲） 是啊，很多，對嗎？有多少人在你懷孕時曾被陌生人碰過你的腹部？有時可能根本沒有事先徵求你的同意？或者有些人既不是醫生，也不是你的私人看護，卻來告訴你可以或不可以吃什麼？或者問你關於你準備怎麽生小孩的一些私密問題？然後再告訴你為什麼那些選擇都是錯誤的。是啊，我也經歷過。或者侍應生拒絕給你拿一杯酒？這個可能會讓你停頓一下，我知道，但是先別急。這是一個大秘密。其實在懷孕期間適度的飲酒是安全的。許多人不知道這個，是因為醫生信不過把這個秘密告訴孕婦。 （笑聲） 特別是那些受教育少的或是非白種人。 這就告訴我們，這個維倫多夫效應也是有階級歧視和種族歧視的。它現形於當政府用每一個新的反墮胎法案來提醒女性她們子宮裡的東西不是她自己的，或者當婦產科醫生說：「在懷孕期間的性行為是安全的，但有時候很難說。還是以防萬一不要冒險，對不對？」在「做一個好媽媽的」 的僞裝下，她被否認了基本的隱私和身體自主，我們信不過她能給自己做決定。她很可愛，記得嗎？讓我們告訴女性性愉悅──抱歉。 當我們告訴女性懷孕期間不值得冒險有性行為，其實我們告訴她的是她的性愉悅並不重要。因此我們想說的是她其實並不重要，即使她胎兒的需求和她的需求並不相悖。 所以醫護人員們，像美國婦產科醫學學會，有機會進行關於孕期性行爲安全的教育。所以專家是怎樣說的？美國婦產科醫學學會實際上沒有關於懷孕期間性行爲安全的公開聲明。馬約診所的引導方針一般上是正面的，但也提出了警示：「雖然大多數的女性在懷孕期間的性行為是安全的，有時最好還是要小心。 」 有些孕婦在懷孕期間根本不想有性行為，這沒關係。有些孕婦想要有性行為一樣也沒有關係。我們需要做的是社會不要再教導女性對自己的身體什麼可以做，什麼不可以做。 （掌聲） 懷孕的女性不是沒有臉、沒有人格的繁衍工具。也不是不能用自己的雙腳站起來。真相是，真正的秘密是，我們告訴所有的女性他們的性愉悅是無關緊要的。我們拒絕甚至承認女性和女性有性行為，或者有些女性不想要小孩，這些的存在。 「哦，這只是一個階段…… 她只是還沒找到一個合適的人。 」 每一次當女性有性行為，只是因為自己感覺好，那就是一次革命。她就是革命者。她敢於和社會的堅持抗爭，對抗那些認為她的存在只是取悅男性或繁衍的工具。一個女人視自己的性需求為優先是很可怕的，因為當她把自己的性需求放首位，就是把自己放首位。 （掌聲） 這是一個要求被平等對待的女性。這是一個堅持在權力的平臺上，你要給她位置的女性。最可怕的是，我們不可能給她位置，如果現有的一些人不願意讓出多的位置。 （掌聲） 我有最後一個秘密分享給你們。我是兩個男孩的母親，我們需要得到你們的幫助。雖然我的兒子經常聽我說，把女性視爲平等對男性很重要他們看到他們的父親也在這麽做，我們需要在外面發生的影響到我們的家。這不是男人或者女人的問題。這是每一個人的問題，我們在瓦解這個不平等的體系裡都起著一些的作用。首先，我們不要再教導女性怎樣對待自己的身體什麼可以做，什麼不可以做。 （掌聲） 這包括不要再把孕婦當成是社群的財產。如果你不認識她，就不要去碰她的肚子。你不會對其他人這樣。不要教導她，什麼她能吃或不能吃。不要問她一些醫療的私密的細節，這也包括就算你個人反對墮胎，你還是可以為女性的選擇權去抗爭。當談到女性平等時，兩性之間是不需要對立的。如果你要和女人發生性行爲，把她的愉悅放首位。如果你不知道怎麽做，儘管問。如果你有孩子── （笑聲） 儘早和他們開始關於性的交談，因爲孩子不會再去用字典來查「性」這個字了。他們會上網去查。當你們有關於性的談話時，不要只局限在繁衍的意義上。人因爲多種原因發生性行爲，有些因爲他們想要小孩，但大多數人是因爲感覺很好。承認吧。 不管你有沒有小孩，支持全面的性教育，讓我們的青少年不會覺得羞愧。 （掌聲） 讓青少年為他們的性欲望和性行爲感到羞愧，是沒有任何正面影響的，只會產生性病測試的陽性，和懷孕測試的陽性結果。 每一天，我們都有機會打破這個不平等的狀況。我想我們大家都贊同這是不管怎麼麻煩都值得的。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
