Talk	en	zh-tw
sophie_scott_why_we_laugh	"Hi. I'm going to talk  to you today about laughter, and I just want to start  by thinking about the first time I can ever remember noticing laughter. This is when I was a little girl. I would've been about six. And I came across my parents doing something unusual, where they were laughing. They were laughing very, very hard. They were lying on the floor laughing. They were screaming with laughter. I did not know what they were  laughing at, but I wanted in. I wanted to be part of that, and I kind of sat around at the edge going, ""Hoo hoo!"" (Laughter) Now, incidentally, what they were laughing at was a song which people used to sing, which was based around signs in toilets on trains telling you what you could and could not do in toilets on trains. And the thing you have to remember about the English is, of course, we do have an immensely sophisticated sense of humor. (Laughter) At the time, though, I didn't understand anything of that. I just cared about the laughter, and actually, as a neuroscientist, I've come to care about it again. And it is a really weird thing to do. What I'm going to do now is just play some examples of real human beings laughing, and I want you think about the sound people make and how odd that can be, and in fact how primitive laughter is as a sound. It's much more like an animal call than it is like speech. So here we've got some laughter for you. The first one is pretty joyful. (Audio: Laughing) Now this next guy, I need him to breathe. There's a point in there where I'm just, like, you've got to get some air in there, mate, because he just sounds like he's breathing out. (Audio: Laughing) This hasn't been edited; this is him. (Audio: Laughing) (Laughter) And finally we have —  this is a human female laughing. And laughter can take us to some pretty odd places in terms of making noises. (Audio: Laughing) She actually says, ""Oh my God, what is that?"" in French. We're all kind of with her. I have no idea. Now, to understand laughter, you have to look at a part of the body that psychologists and neuroscientists don't normally spend much time looking at, which is the ribcage, and it doesn't seem terribly exciting, but actually you're all using  your ribcage all the time. What you're all doing  at the moment with your ribcage, and don't stop doing it, is breathing. So you use the intercostal muscles, the muscles between your ribs, to bring air in and out of your lungs just by expanding and contracting your ribcage, and if I was to put a strap  around the outside of your chest called a breath belt, and just look  at that movement, you see a rather gentle sinusoidal movement, so that's breathing. You're all doing it. Don't stop. As soon as you start talking, you start using your breathing completely differently. So what I'm doing now is you see something much more like this. In talking, you use very fine movements of the ribcage to squeeze the air out — and in fact, we're the only animals that can do this. It's why we can talk at all. Now, both talking and breathing has a mortal enemy, and that enemy is laughter, because what happens when you laugh is those same muscles start to contract very regularly, and you get this very marked sort of zig-zagging, and that's just squeezing the air out of you. It literally is that basic a way of making a sound. You could be stamping on somebody, it's having the same effect. You're just squeezing air out, and each of those contractions — Ha! — gives you a sound. And as the contractions run together, you can get these spasms, and that's when you start getting these — (Wheezing) — things happening. I'm brilliant at this. (Laughter) Now, in terms of the science of laughter, there isn't very much, but it does turn out that pretty much everything we think we know about laughter is wrong. So it's not at all unusual, for example, to hear people to say humans are the only animals that laugh. Nietzsche thought that humans are the only animals that laugh. In fact, you find laughter throughout the mammals. It's been well-described and well-observed in primates, but you also see it in rats, and wherever you find it — humans, primates, rats — you find it associated with things like tickling. That's the same for humans. You find it associated with play, and all mammals play. And wherever you find it, it's associated with interactions. So Robert Provine, who has done a lot of work on this, has pointed out that you are 30 times  more likely to laugh if you are with somebody else than if you're on your own, and where you find most laughter is in social interactions like conversation. So if you ask human beings, ""When do you laugh?"" they'll talk about comedy and they'll talk about humor and they'll talk about jokes. If you look at when they laugh, they're laughing with their friends. And when we laugh with people, we're hardly ever actually laughing at jokes. You are laughing to show people that you understand them, that you agree with them, that you're part of the same group as them. You're laughing to show that you like them. You might even love them. You're doing all that at the same time as talking to them, and the laughter is doing a lot of that emotional work for you. Something that Robert Provine has pointed out, as you can see here, and the reason why we were laughing when we heard those funny laughs at the start, and why I was laughing when I found my parents laughing, is that it's an enormously behaviorally contagious effect. You can catch laughter from somebody else, and you are more likely to catch laughter off somebody else if you know them. So it's still modulated by this social context. You have to put humor to one side and think about the social  meaning of laughter because that's where its origins lie. Now, something I've got very interested in is different kinds of laughter, and we have some neurobiological evidence about how human beings vocalize that suggests there might be two kinds of laughs that we have. So it seems possible that the neurobiology for helpless, involuntary laughter, like my parents lying on the floor screaming about a silly song, might have a different basis to it than some of that more polite social laughter that you encounter, which isn't horrible laughter, but it's behavior somebody is doing as part of their communicative act to you, part of their interaction with you; they are choosing to do this. In our evolution, we have developed two different ways of vocalizing. Involuntary vocalizations are part of an older system than the more voluntary vocalizations like the speech I'm doing now. So we might imagine that laughter might actually have two different roots. So I've been looking at this in more detail. To do this, we've had to make recordings of people laughing, and we've had to do whatever it takes to make people laugh, and we got those same people to produce more posed, social laughter. So imagine your friend told a joke, and you're laughing because you like your friend, but not really because the joke's all that. So I'm going to play you  a couple of those. I want you to tell me if you think this laughter is real laughter, or if you think it's posed. So is this involuntary laughter or more voluntary laughter? (Audio: Laughing) What does that sound like to you? Audience: Posed. Sophie Scott: Posed? Posed. How about this one? (Audio: Laughing) (Laughter) I'm the best. (Laughter) (Applause) Not really. No, that was helpless laughter, and in fact, to record that, all they had to do was record me watching one of my friends listening to something I knew she wanted to laugh at, and I just started doing this. What you find is that people are good at telling the difference between real and posed laughter. They seem to be different things to us. Interestingly, you see something quite similar with chimpanzees. Chimpanzees laugh differently if they're being tickled than if they're playing with each other, and we might be seeing something like that here, involuntary laughter, tickling laughter, being different from social laughter. They're acoustically very different. The real laughs are longer. They're higher in pitch. When you start laughing hard, you start squeezing air out from your lungs under much higher pressures than you could ever produce voluntarily. For example, I could never pitch my voice that high to sing. Also, you start to get these sort of contractions and weird whistling sounds, all of which mean that real laughter is extremely easy, or feels extremely easy to spot. In contrast, posed laughter, we might think it sounds a bit fake. Actually, it's not, it's actually an important social cue. We use it a lot, we're choosing to laugh in a lot of situations, and it seems to be its own thing. So, for example, you find nasality in posed laughter, that kind of ""ha ha ha ha ha"" sound that you never get, you could not do, if you were laughing involuntarily. So they do seem to be genuinely these two different sorts of things. We took it into the scanner to see how brains respond when you hear laughter. And when you do this, this is a really boring experiment. We just played people real and posed laughs. We didn't tell them it was a study on laughter. We put other sounds in there  to distract them, and all they're doing is lying listening to sounds. We don't tell them to do anything. Nonetheless, when you hear real laughter and when you hear posed laughter, the brains are responding completely differently, significantly differently. What you see in the regions in blue, which lies in auditory cortex, are the brain areas that respond more to the real laughs, and what seems to be the case, when you hear somebody laughing involuntarily, you hear sounds you would never hear in any other context. It's very unambiguous, and it seems to be associated with greater auditory processing of these novel sounds. In contrast, when you hear somebody laughing in a posed way, what you see are these regions in pink, which are occupying brain areas associated with mentalizing, thinking about what somebody else is thinking. And I think what that means is, even if you're having your brain scanned, which is completely boring and not very interesting, when you hear somebody going, ""A ha ha ha ha ha,"" you're trying to work out why they're laughing. Laughter is always meaningful. You are always trying to understand it in context, even if, as far as you are concerned, at that point in time, it has not necessarily anything to do with you, you still want to know why those people are laughing. Now, we've had the opportunity to look  at how people hear real and posed laughter across the age range. So this is an online experiment we ran with the Royal Society, and here we just asked people two questions. First of all, they heard some laughs, and they had to say, how real  or posed do these laughs sound? The real laughs are shown in red and the posed laughs are shown in blue. What you see is there is a rapid onset. As you get older, you get better and better at spotting real laughter. So six-year-olds are at chance, they can't really hear the difference. By the time you are older, you get better, but interestingly, you do not hit peak performance in this dataset until you are in your late 30s and early 40s. You don't understand laughter fully by the time you hit puberty. You don't understand laughter fully by the time your brain has matured at the end of your teens. You're learning about laughter throughout your entire early adult life. If we turn the question around and now say not, what does the laughter sound like in terms of being real or posed, but we say, how much does this laughter make you want to laugh, how contagious is this laughter to you, we see a different profile. And here, the younger you are, the more you want to join in when you hear laughter. Remember me laughing with my parents when I had no idea what was going on. You really can see this. Now everybody, young and old, finds the real laughs more contagious than the posed laughs, but as you get older, it all becomes  less contagious to you. Now, either we're all just becoming really grumpy as we get older, or it may mean that as you understand laughter better, and you are getting better at doing that, you need more than just hearing people laugh to want to laugh. You need the social stuff there. So we've got a very interesting behavior about which a lot of our lay assumptions are incorrect, but I'm coming to see that actually there's even more to laughter than it's an important social emotion we should look at, because it turns out people are phenomenally nuanced in terms of how we use laughter. There's a really lovely set of studies coming out from Robert Levenson's lab in California, where he's doing a longitudinal study with couples. He gets married couples, men and women, into the lab, and he gives them stressful conversations to have while he wires them up to a polygraph so he can see them becoming stressed. So you've got the two of them in there, and he'll say to the husband, ""Tell me something that your wife does that irritates you."" And what you see is immediately — just run that one through your head briefly, you and your partner — you can imagine everybody gets a bit more stressed as soon as that starts. You can see physically, people become more stressed. What he finds is that the couples who manage that feeling of stress with laughter, positive emotions like laughter, not only immediately become less stressed, they can see them physically feeling better, they're dealing with this unpleasant situation better together, they are also the couples that report high levels of satisfaction in their relationship and they stay together for longer. So in fact, when you look at close relationships, laughter is a phenomenally useful index of how people are regulating their emotions together. We're not just emitting it at each other to show that we like each other, we're making ourselves feel better together. Now, I don't think this is going to be limited to romantic relationships. I think this is probably going to be a characteristic of close emotional relationships such as you might have with friends, which explains my next clip, which is of a YouTube video of some young men in the former East Germany on making a video to promote their heavy metal band, and it's extremely macho, and the mood is very serious, and I want you to notice what happens in terms of laughter when things go wrong and how quickly that happens, and how that changes the mood. He's cold. He's about to get wet. He's got swimming trunks on, got a towel. Ice. What might possibly happen? Video starts. Serious mood. And his friends are already laughing. They are already laughing, hard. He's not laughing yet. (Laughter) He's starting to go now. And now they're all off. (Laughter) They're on the floor. (Laughter) The thing I really like about that is it's all very serious until he jumps onto the ice, and as soon as he doesn't go through the ice, but also there isn't blood and bone everywhere, his friends start laughing. And imagine if that had played him out with him standing there going, ""No seriously, Heinrich, I think this is broken,"" we wouldn't enjoy watching that. That would be stressful. Or if he was running around with a visibly broken leg laughing, and his friends are going, ""Heinrich, I think we need to go to the hospital now,"" that also wouldn't be funny. The fact that the laughter works, it gets him from a painful, embarrassing, difficult situation, into a funny situation, into what we're  actually enjoying there, and I think that's  a really interesting use, and it's actually happening all the time. For example, I can remember something like this happening at my father's funeral. We weren't jumping around on the ice in our underpants. We're not Canadian. (Laughter) (Applause) These events are always difficult, I had a relative who was being a bit difficult, my mum was not in a good place, and I can remember finding myself just before the whole thing started telling this story about something that happened in a 1970s sitcom, and I just thought at the time, I don't know why I'm doing this, and what I realized I was doing was I was coming up with something from somewhere I could use to make her laugh together with me. It was a very basic reaction to find some reason we can do this. We can laugh together. We're going to get through this. We're going to be okay. And in fact, all of us are doing this all the time. You do it so often, you don't even notice it. Everybody underestimates how often they laugh, and you're doing something, when you laugh with people, that's actually letting you access a really ancient evolutionary system that mammals have evolved to make and maintain social bonds, and clearly to regulate emotions, to make ourselves feel better. It's not something specific to humans — it's a really ancient behavior which really helps us regulate how we feel and makes us feel better. In other words, when it comes to laughter, you and me, baby, ain't nothing  but mammals. (Laughter) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	大家好，我們今天來談笑聲，我想從回想我自己第一次注意到笑聲開始說起。那時我還是一個小女孩，大概六歲左右。我正好看見我的父母在做一件不太尋常的事，他們當時正在笑。他們笑得非常非常開心。他們笑倒在地板上。他們尖聲大笑。我不知道他們在笑什麼，但我想和他們一起笑。我想成為這個笑聲的一部分，我就坐在他們旁邊，叫著 「呵呵！」（笑聲）順帶一提，他們當時在笑的是當時流行的一首歌，這首歌把火車廁所的標示寫進詞裡，告訴你在火車廁所裡，什麼可以做，什麼不可以做。有件事你們一定要記得，當然就是我們英國人的確有著無限複雜的幽默感。（笑聲） 但是，我當時並不理解這些，我只是很在意笑聲，而且其實現在身為神經學家，我開始重新關注這個問題。笑真的是一件非常奇怪的事。我現在要放幾段真人在笑的例子，我想讓大家想想人類發出的聲音，這些聲音可以多麼奇怪，以及，笑聲是一種多麼原始的聲音。笑聲更像是動物的叫聲，而不像說話。現在來聽聽這幾段笑聲。第一段還挺好笑。 （音訊：笑聲） 下一段的傢伙得去喘口氣。有一段到了一個地步，我說老兄你真的需要吸氣，因爲他聽起來真像喘不過氣了。 （音訊：笑聲） 這没有被編輯過，就是他在笑。 （音訊：笑聲）（笑聲） 最後，我們有一段女人的笑聲。從發出聲音的角度來看，笑聲能讓我們聯想到奇怪的地方。（音訊：笑聲）她其實在用法語說：「我的天啊，這是什麼東西？」應該是這樣吧？我也不知道。 要理解笑聲，你必須去觀察身體的某部分，心理學家和神經學家通常不會花很多時間去觀察這部分，就是胸腔，聽起來沒什麼了不起喔？但事實上你一直在使用你的胸腔。你無時無刻都在使用你的胸腔，千萬不要停止使用它，因為你在呼吸。你使用肋間肌，也就是在你肋骨之間的肌肉來擴張及收縮你的胸腔，讓空氣進出你的肺，如果我把一條帶子繞在你的胸腔外部，叫它呼吸帶吧，然後看它的移動，你會看見緩和的正旋起伏律動，那就是呼吸。你們全都在做這件事。不要停止。一旦你開始說話，你的呼吸會變得完全不同。所以我現在做的就很像這樣。在說話的時候，你的胸腔進行細微的運動把空氣擠出去。事實上，我們是唯一可以這樣做的動物。這也就是為什麼我們能說話。 說話及呼吸有個致命的敵人，那個敵人就是笑，因為當你在笑的時候，同樣的那群肌肉會開始規律地收縮，你就會得到這樣非常顯著的鋸齒狀訊號，這只是把空氣擠出你的肺，也是發出聲音的基本原理。這套用到所有人身上都有一樣的效果。你只是把空氣擠出去，每一次的收縮「哈！」都讓你發出聲音。當這些收縮彼此相連的時候，就有這些痙攣，所以你就會有（喘氣聲）這樣的聲音。這個我超會。（笑聲） 要講笑的科學，這並沒有太大的意義。但是這告訴我們基本上我們對笑的認知都是錯的。所以舉個例子，我們一點也不意外有人說人類是唯一會笑的動物。尼采就認為人類是唯一會笑的動物。事實上，很多哺乳類動物都會笑。靈長類的這種現象已有很完整的觀察和紀錄，但是你也能在老鼠身上看到，不管你在哪裡看到──人類、靈長類、老鼠──都會發現這和搔癢這類的事件有關係。人類也一樣。你會發現這和玩樂有關，所有的哺乳類都會玩樂。不論你在哪裡看到，這都和互動有關。羅伯特．普范對這做過很多研究，他指出當你跟別人在一起的時候，你笑的機會比你獨自一人的時候多 30 倍，你聽到最多笑聲的地方，是在有社會互動的時候，像是對話。如果你問人類：「你什麼時候會笑？」他們會說到喜劇、會說到幽默、會說到笑話。當你觀察他們什麼時候笑，他們是與朋友一同歡笑。當我們與人同樂的時候，我們幾乎不是因為笑話而笑，你用笑來表達你了解他們，表示你同意他們，表示你是團體的一份子。你用笑來表示你喜歡他們。甚至是愛他們。你在和他們說話的同時也做出上述所有的事。笑幫助你表達這樣的情緒。羅伯特．普凡說過，如同你在此所見，我們在開頭聽到滑稽笑聲跟著笑的原因，還有我在聽到我父母笑而跟著笑的原因，是因為這是一種極具傳染性的行為。你會因別人笑而跟著笑，如果你認識笑的那個人，你跟著笑的機率更高。這依然受到社會脈絡的控制。你得把幽默感放一邊，然後去思考笑的社會意義，因為那是笑的根本來源。 我對各種不同的笑很有興趣，根據神經生物學關於人類如何發聲的證據，學者提出笑分成兩種。這意味著在神經生物學上，不由自主、無法控制的笑，就像我父母因為一首滑稽的歌笑倒在地上尖叫，可能和你所見到的社交禮儀上的笑有不同的根源，這種禮貌的笑並不可怕，而是他們對你表現社交的一部分，是和你互動的一部分；他們選擇這麼做。我們在演化過程中發展出兩種發聲方式。非自主的發聲屬於較古老系統，比自主性的發聲系統還老，我現在演講就是自主性發聲。我們可以想像笑有兩個不同的根源。 於是我深入研究。為了研究，我們得錄製人們的笑聲，我們也必須想盡辦法讓人們笑，我們也設法讓同一群人產生更做作、社交式的笑。想像你朋友說了一個笑話，然後你笑了，因為你喜歡你朋友，並不是因為笑話本身好笑。我要放幾段給你們聽。我希望你們告訴我你們覺得這是真的在笑，還是做做樣子。這是自然發笑還是刻意的笑？ （音訊：笑聲） 你們覺得聽起來如何？聽眾：做做樣子。蘇菲．史考特：做做樣子？沒錯。那這個呢？ （音訊：笑） （笑聲） 我最會笑了。 （笑聲）（掌聲） 開玩笑的。那是無法控制的笑。事實上要錄這段，他們只需要錄下我看我的朋友聽一段我知道她一定會笑的東西，我就笑成這樣了。 你會發現人們其實很能分辨真笑與假笑。兩種笑對我們來說是不同的。有趣的是，你在大猩猩身上也能觀察到類似現象。大猩猩在被搔癢時候和在玩的時候，笑的方式不一樣，在這裡我們也能看到類似情形，自然發笑、搔癢的笑，和社交的笑是不同的。聽起來就很不一樣。真正的笑持續較久，音調較高。你用力笑的時候，你會把空氣擠出你的肺，這比你故意做的任何動作產生的壓力都還要大。例如，我絕對無法用那麼高的音調來唱歌。你也會有類似這種收縮和奇怪的哨聲，這些都意味著真的笑很容易，或讓人覺得很容易分辨。 相反的，做作的笑，我們可能認為這聽起來有點假。其實並非如此。這種笑真的是很重要的社交線索。我們很常使用，我們在許多場合中選擇笑，而且這種笑聲似乎很獨特。舉個例子，你在做作的笑中發現鼻音，那種像「哈哈哈哈」的音，你永遠無法在非自主性的笑中聽到或發出這種聲音。這兩種不同的東西似乎都很真實。 我們以掃描器看腦部在我們聽到笑聲時的反應。做這個實驗真的是無聊到極點，我們就是播放人真笑與假笑的聲音。我們沒有告訴他們這是對笑聲的研究。我們同時還播放其他的聲音讓他們分心，他們要做的就是躺在那裡聽。我們不告訴他們要做什麼。然而，你聽到真笑與假笑的時候，腦部的反應迥然不同，顯著不同。你們看到這塊藍色的區域，位於聽覺皮質，是腦部對真笑有較多反應的地方，情況似乎是這樣，當你聽到非自主的笑時，你會聽到在其他情況下都不會聽到的聲音。這非常明確，這可能與要處理這些新聲音需要更大的聽覺處理歷程有關。相反的，聽到做作的笑聲時，你看到的是這塊粉紅色區域，位於大腦與心智化有關的區域，思索著別人在想什麼。我想這意味著，即使你正在掃描大腦，這是件極其無聊、沒什麼樂趣的事，當你聽到有人「呵呵呵呵」笑時，你仍然想搞懂他們為什麼笑。笑聲永遠都有意義。你總是想知道背後的情境是什麼，即使在那個當下，在你關心的範圍內，那個笑與你一點關係都沒有，你還是很想知道為什麼這些人在笑。 我們有機會看不同年齡層的人如何聽真笑與假笑。這是個網路實驗，我們與皇家學會合作，我們在實驗中只問大家兩個問題。第一，他們聽到一些笑聲，他們必須說出這些笑聲有多真或多假？真的笑聲以紅色顯示，假笑則以藍色顯示。你可以看見有一段快速開展期。隨著年齡增長，你辨識真笑的能力愈來愈好。所以六歲小孩幾乎聽不出差別。到你長大一點，你表現就好一點，但有意思的是，這組資料集顯示你要到 30 好幾 40 出頭才會達到顛峰。青春期開始時你對於笑聲不甚了解。青春期結束，你的大腦成熟後，對於笑聲還是不甚了解。你要花整段成年初期來學習笑聲。 如果我們把問題反過來問，我們不問這笑聲是真是假，但我們說，這段笑聲讓你有多想笑，這段笑聲對你多有傳染力，我們會看到不同的圖。這裡，你愈年輕，就愈想在聽到笑聲時加入笑的行列。記得我跟我父母一起大笑，卻完全搞不清楚發生什麼事嗎？你會發現測驗結果確實如此。每一個人，無論年紀大小，都會發現真的笑比假的笑更具傳染力，但是隨著年齡增長，笑聲對你愈來愈不具傳染力。要不就是我們真的愈老愈難搞，要不就是你愈來愈明白笑聲的含意，因為你對此愈來愈嫻熟，你不僅再聽人笑就笑，你還需要知道更多。你需要知道實際的社交情況。 所以我們看到非常有意思的行為現象，與我們外行人的臆測不謀而合，但是我開始瞭解到其實笑聲不僅是我們應該研究的重要社交情緒，因為事實證明大家運用笑聲的方式微妙得驚人。有一組非常棒的研究資料由拉文森在加州的實驗室發表，他在實驗室裡對夫婦做長期追蹤。他把已婚夫婦帶進實驗室，並提出讓他們緊張的話題，同時將他們接上波動描寫器，觀察他們變得多緊張。所以兩個人坐在那裡，然後他跟丈夫說：「告訴我你太太做什麼會惹你生氣。」你立刻就會看到──就在你腦海裡想像一下，你和你的另一半──你能想像到這個實驗一開始，每個人都會有點緊張。你能從生理現象看到大家都變更緊張了。他發現到能以笑帶過緊張情緒的夫婦，正面的情緒如笑聲，不但立刻變得不那麼緊張，他們在生理上感覺更好，他們更能一同面對這種不愉快的情況，他們也是在婚姻關係中有高滿意度的夫婦，所以他們的婚姻維持更久。所以事實上，如果你去看親密關係，會發現笑聲是很有用的指標，顯示人如何一起調整情緒。我們不但藉由互相抒發情緒來顯示我們喜歡彼此，我們還因此讓自己更自在。 我想這並不限於浪漫的關係。這也應該是項特質，存在於情緒親密的關係中，如你與朋友的關係，這也解釋了我的下一段影片，這段 YouTube 影片，是一些前東德的年輕人在製作他們重金屬樂團的宣傳短片，超男子氣概，氣氛超嚴肅，我要你們注意一下在情況有異時，笑聲的變化，注意一下這發生得多快，又如何改變氣氛。 他很冷。他快要下水了。他穿著泳褲，有條毛巾。冰。到底發生了什麼？影片開始。氣氛嚴肅。他的朋友已經開始笑了起來。他們已經笑得很大聲了。他還沒開始笑。（笑聲）他要笑了。現在他們都笑翻了。（笑聲）他們笑倒在地上。（笑聲） 我最喜歡的部分，是這原本非常嚴肅，直到他跳進冰裡，但是沒有真的掉進去，而且影片中沒有頭破血流，他的朋友就笑了起來。想像一下，如果他皮開肉綻站起來說：「說真的，亨利，我想這裡斷了。」我們就不會這麼喜歡看這個。這可能會很緊張。或是如果他明顯拖著斷腿邊到處跑還邊笑，而且他的朋友說：「亨利，我想我們現在得去趟醫院，」那就不會這麼好笑了。事實上笑在這裡起了作用，笑讓他避開痛苦、尷尬、困難的情況，變成有趣的局面，我們其實還挺喜歡的，我想這個用法真的很有意思，而且這其實還時時發生。 舉一個例子，我還記得類似的情況在我父親的葬禮上出現。我們沒有穿著內褲在冰上跳來跳去。我們不是加拿大人。（譯註：加拿大有新年冬泳傳統，本大會現場在加拿大。）（笑聲）（掌聲）這樣的場合總是難熬，我有個親戚變得有點難伺候，我媽媽的狀況也不好，我還記得就在葬禮開始前，我發現自己在說 1970 年代某個情境喜劇的劇情，那時候我還在想，我幹嘛在這時候做這個，我意識到我在做的是我想以此神來之舉，讓她跟我一起笑一笑。這是非常基本的反應，我們能一起笑，我們能共度難關。我們會沒事的。 事實上，我們時時都在做這件事。你很常做，你不曾注意而已。每個人都低估了自己有多常笑，你跟大家一起笑的時候其實是在做某件事，讓你進入非常古老的演化系統，哺乳動物以此進化建立及維持社會連繫，並明顯以此來調控情緒，讓我們感覺更好。這並非人類特有，這是非常古老的行為，能真正幫助我們調控我們的感覺，並讓我們感覺更好。 換句話說，說到笑，你和我寶貝，不過就是哺乳類罷了！（另類樂團諷刺歌詞）謝謝。（笑聲） 謝謝。（掌聲）
