Talk	en	zh-tw
srikumar_rao_plug_into_your_hard_wired_happiness	"I have a vision for each one of you, and the vision I have for you is that when you wake up in the morning, your blood is singing at the thought of being who you are and doing what you do; that as you go through the day, you can literally sink to your knees in gratitude at the tremendous good fortune that's been bestowed on you; that as you go through the day, you become radiantly alive several times. And if your life isn't like that, I'd like to humbly suggest that you're wasting your life. A life is too short to be wasted. So what I propose to do in the next 17 minutes — I've used up one minute already — is to give you a set of powerful tools which can get you started on being there. Is that of interest to you? Audience: Yes. Srikumar Rao: OK. This is a conference on happiness, but even if it wasn't a conference on happiness, would it be right if I said that in some way, shape, fashion or form, you're devoting your entire life to being happy? Everything you do — your job, family, children, relationships, whatever — is a quest for happiness. Correct? I'd like you to think about the following: What do you have to get in order to be happy? We're just going to spend a minute on this. What do you have to get in order to be happy? Anybody, quick? When I conduct this experiment, a bunch of stuff comes up: vast wealth, trophy spouse, good health, lots of travel, time, etc, etc, etc. Right now, if you were to think about it, you probably have a list of, ""Here's what I need to get in order to be happy."" I would like you to consider this: anything that you can get — let me repeat that — anything you can get, you can un-get. Is that correct? So, vast wealth can make you happy. Vast wealth can disappear tomorrow. A number of people in the financial sector have discovered this already. So whatever you get that can make you happy can go away. Where does that leave you? Not a very nice place, right? I have a different proposition to suggest to you. What I have to suggest to you is that there is nothing that you have to get, do or be in order to be happy. Let me repeat that: there is nothing that you have to get, do or be in order to be happy. In fact, happiness is your innate nature. It is hardwired into you. It is part of your DNA. You cannot not be happy. Now, all of you are very polite, and in some of the other forums I speak in, such as top business schools, they're not so polite. And invariably, somebody articulates what many of you are thinking, which is: ""If happiness is my innate nature, how come I am not experiencing it? How come I am experiencing my life sucks?"" (Laughter) And the answer to that is actually very simple. You have spent your entire life learning to be unhappy. Let me repeat that: you have spent your entire life learning to be unhappy. And the way we learn to be unhappy is by buying into a particular mental model. A mental model is a notion we have that this is the way the world works. All of us have mental models, we've got dozens of mental models. We've got mental models on how to find a job, how to get ahead at work, how to pick a restaurant to eat at, how to have a movie to go to ... dozens of them. The problem isn't that we have mental models. The problem is that we don't know that we have mental models. We think this is the way the world works. And the more we invest in a mental model, the more it appears that this, in fact, is the way the world works. But it isn't: it's just a mental model, and the mental model we have that we buy into so strongly is that we have to get something so we can do something so we can be something. Like, we have to get a great deal of money so we can travel to exotic places so we can be happy. We have to be in a relationship so we can have great sex so we can be happy. All of this is a variation of the if-then model. And the if-then model is: if this happens, then we will be happy. If I were to get a better job, if I were to get more money, if my boss would have a heart attack, if only I was married, if only my wife would leave me — (Laughter) if only I had children, if my children would grow up and go to college ... It doesn't matter what it is. The whole notion is if this happens, then I will be happy. And right now, the only thing that's different between the persons in this audience is what is the particular ""if"" that you are focusing on? And the only thing that's different between you now and where you were 10 years ago is what is the particular ""if"" that you were focusing on? Think about your life 10 years ago. Spend a minute doing that. Ten years ago, if you remember clearly, there were certain things you wanted. Is that correct? Odds are pretty good that many of those things you wanted 10 years ago you now have. Is that correct? Where has that left you? In exactly the same place, right? What we don't realize is the model itself is flawed. The if-then model — ""If this happens I will be happy"" — the model itself is flawed. But instead of recognizing that it is the model itself that's flawed, what we do is spend enormous amounts of time changing the ""if."" ""Oh, well, I thought if I became CEO it would help, but now I realize it's not that I want to become a CEO. I want to become the billionaire CEO, and then I will be happy."" You've got your own variation on that. But it's the model itself that's flawed, not what you put on the ""if"" side of the equation. I can demonstrate that to you. Can any of you recall a time when you were confronted with a scene of such spectacular beauty that it took you outside of yourself into a place of great serenity? Maybe a rainbow, a mountain range, a valley, the sea. And if you remember that — raise your hands if you could. Virtually all of you could, right? Have you ever wondered why that happened? The reason that happened is that somehow, for some reason, at that instant, you accepted the universe exactly as it was. You didn't say, ""That's a beautiful rainbow, but it's kind of off to the left, and if I could move it 200 yards to the right, it would be ever so much more beautiful."" (Laughter) You didn't say, ""That's a beautiful valley, but the tree in the foreground has too many crooked branches. So if you gave me a chainsaw and 20 minutes, I'd make it ever so much better."" Oh no, the rainbow off-center was just fine. The tree with its crooked branches was just fine. And the moment you accepted the universe just as it was, your habitual-wanting self dropped away, and the happiness which is your innate nature surfaced, and you felt it. And I know you felt it because now, even now after all those years, you can still remember it. The problem is that your life right now, with all of the problems that you have — more precisely, all of the problems that you think you have — is equally perfect. But you do not accept it. In fact, you're spending all your time striving with might and main to make it different. You are not accepting it. And when you're not accepting it, you're buying into the if-then model: if this happens, then I will be happy. And it's the model itself that is flawed. So let me show you how you can get out of that, or at least you can begin the steps towards getting out of that. I'd like to share with you that action. We all live our lives because we want to achieve something, correct? You know, we are here and we want to have something. Alex wants to have a successful conference. You know, many of you want to have great programs for your companies that are very successful. You want to progress, have more money, all of that, is that correct? Each of those is an outcome; you would like something to happen. Now, I'd like you to think about the following: actions are within your control, not entirely, but to a large extent. The outcome is completely out of your control. OK? Actions are within your control. The outcome is completely outside your control. Have any of you recognized that when you have a goal and you start to work towards it, some of the time you don't achieve your goal, and some of the time what you get is the exact opposite of what you wanted? Has that happened to any of you? Like there was a friend of mine who said, ""Gee, you know, I have not been paying a lot of attention to my wife, and this has to change."" So the next time we went on a business trip, he bought a very expensive dress for her. And this was his way of showing, you know, I care for you, and nice things would happen. And when he presented the gift to his wife, her immediate reaction was, ""After 20 years of marriage, you don't know my size?"" (Laughter) ""And furthermore, don't you know I never wear this kind of thing?"" And the next thing you know, he had a full-blown marital spat. Has that happened to any of you? You've taken action for a particular outcome and the outcome you got was the exact opposite of what you wanted? Happens all the time. Well, we live in a world where what we think of, what we invest in, is the outcome. We define our life in the following way: here I am, here is where I want to go, these are the steps I have to take in order to get from where I am to where I want to go, and if I succeed, life is wonderful. And if I don't, then I have failed, life is no good, life sucks. True? False? That is how we live. We invest in the outcome, and as I've just pointed out, the outcome is frequently different from what we would like, and sometimes the diametric opposite of what we would like. You invest in the outcome and you are guaranteed to have more than your share of frustration, angst and all the rest of the stuff that makes life suck. There is an alternative. And the alternative is that you do not invest in the outcome, you invest in the process. And the best way to describe that is a quote by John Wooden. I don't know how many of you are familiar with John Wooden. He's very well-known in the United States and certainly among basketball fans. He's the only person ever to make the basketball Hall of Fame both as a player and as a coach. And what he told his entering team — he led UCLA to an unprecedented number of victories and finals in the NCAA — and what he used to tell any new team is he never spoke about winning. He always said, ""When it's over and you look in the mirror, did you do the best that you were capable of? And if you did the best that you were capable of, the score doesn't matter. But I would suspect that if you did the best that you were capable of, you will find the score to your liking."" That is investing in a process. What we do is the exact opposite. We invest in the outcome. This is what I want — oh, I want it so desperately, because if I get it I will be happy. And you try with might and main, to do whatever you can, but you are always focusing on, ""This is the outcome."" Now, focusing on the outcome is fine. It gives you direction. Investing in the outcome means that you make the achievement of a particular outcome dependent for your well-being. And that is a surefire recipe for failure. What you can do is something else. You can invest in the process. That is, once you have determined, here is where I am, here is where I want to be, and that's fine, you focus on the outcome only to the extent that it gives you direction, and then you invest yourself completely in the process. You say, here are the steps you want to take, and you put everything into it. And if you succeed, wonderful. And if you don't succeed, still wonderful, because now you have a new starting point, and from that new starting point, you select another outcome and keep going. And when you do that, you will find that every day is a blast. Let me give you an example. And if you have children — raise your hands if you have children. Have you ever seen a small child learn to walk? What happens, and this happens typically between 11 and 13 months, is the child gets up and she sees everybody walking, she wants to walk, she gets up, she falls down, she starts crying and momma runs up and comforts her, kisses the place, makes it well. She tries again, falls down, mommy runs up again. After some time, mommy feels tired and no longer runs up and the child stops crying, and then she gets up, takes a step and doesn't fall down, and then she takes another, and a beautiful smile comes on her face. And very soon, generally within 24 hours, she's walking all over the place, upsetting your living room arrangements. And you know you've gone to a new stage of parenting. Right? Now, imagine what would happen if each time the child fell, she would say, ""Oh my God, I failed again. I'm never going to learn to walk."" And you have to get counseling for her to help her deal with feelings of inadequacy and not being able to achieve and fail yet again. How long do you think it would take her to learn to walk if you had to do that, if every three times she fell down, you had to get a counselor to counsel her and so on? Sounds funny, doesn't it? But that is exactly what we're doing. What the child is doing is focusing on the process. She's investing in the process, not in the outcome. What we do is the exact opposite. As we grow up, we lose the ability to invest in the process, we start investing in the outcome. By definition the outcome is outside of our control, and if that's where we spend all of our emotional energy, we are going to get drained as we do. But if, on the other hand, we said, ""Here is the outcome, I am going to invest in the process and give it every single bit I could,"" every day is a blast, and you're well on your way to achieving the vision that I outlined to you. The question that I get all the time, is people say, ""Professor Rao, but nothing makes me passionate."" So I say, ""OK, what would?"" And they invariably come up with, you know, here is a list of things. Here's my job and here's how much it pays, this is the kind of person my boss is, the kind of people my colleagues are, and here's how my customers are, here's how much I travel, here's how big my office is, how deep the carpeting is, how many windows I have — a bunch of parameters. And what I tell them is what I want to share with you, because all of that stuff — first of all, it doesn't exist. But second, even if it did and you were plugged into it, it would not take more than six months for you to be the same sorry, miserable self there as you are now, because passion exists inside you. It does not exist in the job. And if you don't find a way to ignite it within you right where you are, you are not going to find it outside. But if you do find a way to ignite it where you are, then you will find that the external world rearranges itself to accommodate the new person that you are becoming. And as you do that, you will find that miracles happen on a regular basis. Persons come up whom you're delighted to meet. New people enter your life. It's just a breeze, because all you do in your life is you take journeys. You came here to this conference; you went on a journey. You hang around the water cooler, talking about how terrible your place of work is; you went on a journey. You watch ""Desperate Housewives,"" you go on a journey. You go on a journey where 40-something women are having affairs with 19-something gardeners while the husbands are playing around with models. All you do is go on journeys. There's nothing wrong with that, but just ask yourself, ""Is this a journey I want to take? Does this take me to a place I want to spend time?"" And if you start doing that, you will find that your life changes. The kind of people you meet, the things you talk about, the movies you go to, the books you read — everything changes. And you begin all of that by focusing on the process. Invest in the process, not in the outcome. Thank you."	"我有一個願景要送給各位，我希望你們每一個人，當你清晨醒來時，一想到你是誰，你要做什麽，你就全身熱血沸騰起來。這一天中，毫不誇張地說，你甚至願意跪下感恩上天賜予你的無限幸福；這一天中，你時刻感到容光煥發，活力四射。如果你現在的生活不是這樣，請容我指出，你正在浪費你的生命。人生很短，切莫浪費光陰。 因此，在接下來的 17 分鐘內，——我已經用去了 1 分鐘——，我將提供一些能夠幫助你們實現這個願景的有效建議。大家有興趣嗎？ 觀眾：有。 斯瑞庫馬：好。 這是一個關於幸福的研討會，但即便這不是關於幸福的研討會，如果我說，在某種程度上，某種形式上，你終其一生都是為了幸福，對嗎？你做的每一件事、你的工作、家庭、孩子、人際關係、無論什麽，都是在追求幸福，對嗎？ 我想要各位思考一個問題：你必須要得到什麽才能獲得幸福？我們在這花一分鐘思考一下。你必須要擁有什麽才能獲得幸福？ 有人回答嗎？ 當我進行這個實驗的時候，出現了很多答案：萬貫家財，完美配偶，身體健康，環遊世界，大把時間，等等等等。那麼現在，如果讓你思考一下，你可能也會列出一個清單：“我得到便會幸福的東西。”但是我希望你能考慮一下：你能得到的任何東西——讓我重複一遍，你能得到的任何東西，你也都可能會失去，對嗎？萬貫家財可以讓你幸福，萬貫家財也可能一夜盡失，金融業的人們早就體會到了這一點。所以，那些可以讓你幸福的東西，也可能會離你而去。而你會剩下什麽？一個並不樂觀的處境，對吧？ 我有一個不同的建議要給各位，我要給各位的建議就是：你想要的任何東西，都不能使你幸福。讓我重複一遍：你想得到任何的東西都不會讓你變得幸福。事實上，幸福是你的本性。這是你與生俱來的，是你 DNA 中的一部份。你不可能不幸福。 各位現在表現的都很有禮貌，但在我參加過的其他研討會上，比如一些頂尖的商學院，他們並沒有那麼禮貌。每一次，都會有人問我一個你們每個人都想問的問題：“如果幸福是與生俱來的，那麼為何我感受不到？為何我還是覺得生活很糟糕呢？” （笑聲） 答案其實很簡單，因為你花了一生的時間，去學習如何不幸福。我再說一遍，你一生的時間都用來學習如何不幸福了。我們學習如何不幸福的方式是相信了一個特定的心理模式。 心理模式就是，我們自己認為，世界運轉的方式。我們每個人都有心理模式，我們也有很多心理模式。我們有如何找到工作的心理模式，有如何在工作中獲得成功，如何選擇餐廳，以及如何選擇要去看的電影的心理模式，等等。但問題不是我們擁有心理模式，問題是我們不知道我們有心理模式。我們認為這是世界運作的方式，我們越用這種心理模式思考，我們就越覺得這個世界就是這樣運作的。但其實並不是，這僅僅是一個心理模式。我們如此堅信的這個心理模式是：我們必須有所得，才能有所為，然後才能有所成。例如，我們必須要有很多錢，才能去異國旅遊，然後我們才能幸福。我們必須戀愛，才能有良好的性生活，然後我們才能幸福。 所有的這些都是“如果-然後”模式的各個形式。這個“如果-然後”模式就是：如果這個發生了，然後我們就會幸福。如果我有了更好的工作，如果我賺了更多的錢，如果我的老闆心臟病突發，如果我結婚了，如果我妻子離開我—— （笑聲） 如果我有了孩子，如果我的孩子長大了，上了大學，不管它是什麽，整個模式的概念是：如果這個發生了，然後我就會幸福。 此時此刻，你與身邊聽眾之間，唯一不同的地方就是，你們所關注的這個特定的“如果”是不一樣的。你與十年前的你之間唯一不一樣的地方也只是你所關注的這個特定的“如果”不同而已。回憶你十年前的生活，花一分鐘回想一下，十年前，如果你還記得清楚，一定有某些你想得到的東西，對嗎？可能性很大的是這些十年前你想要的東西，你現在基本都已經擁有了，對嗎？可是現在呢？你還是身處在完全相同的地方，對吧？ 我們沒有意識到的，就是，這個模式本身是有缺陷的。這個“如果-然後”模式——如果發生了，然後我就會幸福——這個模式本身是有缺陷的。但是，我們所做的是花大量的時間去改變這些“如果”，而不是認識到模式本身的缺陷。“嗯，我覺得我成為 CEO 就會幸福，但是現在我發現不是成為 CEO，而是成為億萬富翁 CEO，然後我才會幸福。”你們會有自己不同的衡量標準，但問題的根本，是因為這個模式本身的缺陷，而不是你在等式中，所代入的“如果”的內容。讓我來給你們解釋一下。 你們可以回憶起這樣一刻嗎？當你們面對一幕壯麗美景，它讓你忘記自我，變得無比平靜。可能是一道彩虹，一段山脈，一個村莊，一片海洋。如果你回想起了這一刻，可以的話請你們舉一下手，幾乎每個人都有過，對吧？你可曾想過，爲什麽會發生這樣的事情？它會發生的原因是，不知怎麼的，不知什麽原因，在那一瞬間，你接受了這個世界本來的樣貌。你不會說，“那是一道美麗的彩虹，但是它的位置有點偏左，如果我可以把它向右移動 200 碼，它會變得更美麗。” （笑聲） 你不會說，“那是一個漂亮的山谷，但是前景中的那棵樹有太多歪斜的樹枝了，如果你給我一個電鋸和 20 分鐘，我可以把它變得更美麗。” 當然不會，偏離中心的彩虹挺好的。有著歪斜樹枝的樹也挺好的。當你接受這個世界原本樣貌的那一刻，你習慣性需求的自我就會消失了，而你與生俱來的幸福感就會浮現出來，而且你能感受幸福的存在。我之所以知道你感覺到了幸福，是因為即使過了這麼多年，你依舊仍會記得這種感覺。 問題是你現在的生活，以及你生活中的所有難題——準確的說，是你認為你有的所有難題——其實同樣完美，只是你不能接受。事實上，你花了你所有的時間，竭盡全力讓它變得有所不同。你不能接受它。當你不能接受它的時候，你就會開始相信“如果-然後""的模式：如果這個發生了，然後我就會幸福。而這個模式本身卻有缺陷。 因此，讓我來告訴你如何擺脫這個心理模式，至少你可以邁出擺脫它的第一步。我願意與你分享這個行動。我們活著是因為我們想要實現一些夢想，對嗎？你知道，我們現在在這裡，都想要一些東西。亞歷克斯想要舉辦一個成功的研討會。你們很多人都想要為公司完成一些宏圖偉業。你想要進步，想有更多的錢，所有這些，對嗎？但這每一個都只是一個結果；你希望發生的事情。 現在，我希望你們想一下：行動都在你的控制範圍內，雖不完全是，但很大程度上是。但結局是你無法左右的，是吧？行動在你的掌控之中，而結局完全不可控。 你們發現沒有？當你有一個目標，並且你向著目標開始努力前進，有時，你僅僅是沒有實現目標，而有時，你得到的與預期恰恰相反。你們身上是不是都發生過這種事？ 我有一個朋友，他說：“天哪，你知道嗎，我已經很久沒有關心過我的妻子了，情況必須要有所改變。”所以下一次我們出差的時候，他就為他的妻子買了一件非常昂貴的裙子，這是他表達的方式，你看，我關心你，他以為會有好事發生。但是當他把禮物送給他妻子的時候，他妻子的第一反應是：“結婚20年，你竟然不知道我的尺碼？” （笑聲） “還有，難道你不知道我從來不穿這類衣服嗎？”接下來發生的事情你們應該都能預料到，他們大吵一架。你們身上發生過這種事嗎？為一個特定的結果採取行動，但是結果卻與預期背道而馳？這其實很常見。 我們生活在這樣一個世界裡，我們所想的、所投入的都是結果。我們是用以下的方式來定義生活的：我現在在這裡，這是我想去的地方，而這些是我從這裡到我想去的地方，所必須採取的步驟。如果我成功了，生活很精彩，如果我沒有，那我就失敗了，生活不好，生活糟透了。對吧？這就是我們生活的方式，我們投入了很多心力在結果上，正如我剛剛所說，結果通常不如人意，甚至背道而馳。你投入在結果上，你一定會有沮喪、焦慮以及所有可以讓你生活糟透了的東西。 其實我們還有另一個選擇，這個選擇就是不去投入結果，而是投入過程。引用約翰．伍登的一句名言來描述最為貼切。我不知道你們有多少人認識約翰．伍登，他在美國非常出名，尤其是在籃球迷中。他是唯一一位以運動員和教練雙重身份入選籃球名人堂的人。他對他的入圍團隊說過的話中——他曾帶領 UCLA 數度闖入 NCAA 的決賽並取得空前的勝利——他對任何新人團隊，都從未提及要獲勝的事情。他經常說：“當比賽結束，你對著鏡子中的自己捫心自問，你竭盡全力了嗎？如果你全力以赴了，分數就不重要。但當你全力以赴的時候，你會發現，分數通常也會讓你很滿意。”這就是投入的過程。 但是現在我們所做的恰恰相反，我們投入心力在結果上。這是我想要的——我那麼渴望得到它，因為如果我得到了它我就會幸福。你竭盡全力，費盡心機，但你只關注在“這就是我要的結果”。你可以關注結果，它可以為你指明方向。但投入心力在結果上，意味著，你在特定結果上獲得的成就決定了你的幸福。這絕對是個失敗的方法。 你能做的絕不是這些，你可以投入在過程中。那就是，一旦你做了決定，這是我在的地方，這是我想要去的地方，這就可以了。你在某種程度上關注結果僅僅是因為它可以指引你方向，然後你要全心投入到過程中。你會說，這些是你想要採取的步驟，你投入一切，如果你成功了，很好！如果你沒有成功，還是很棒啊！因為你現在有了一個新的起點，從這個新的起點出發，你選擇一個新的結果，繼續前行。當你這樣做的時候，你會發現每一天都是驚喜。 讓我來舉一個例子，如果你有孩子——如果你有孩子的話請舉手，各位見過初學走路的嬰兒嗎？這通常是在嬰兒11 至 13 個月大的時候，常常是這樣：孩子起床後，她看到每個人都在走路，她想要走路，她站起來，她摔倒，她開始哭，媽媽跑過去安慰她，親親受傷的地方，撫平孩子的情緒。她又開始嘗試，摔倒，媽媽再跑來。幾次之後，媽媽感覺疲憊了不再理會。這時孩子會停止大哭，站起來，邁出一步，沒有摔倒，接下來她又邁出另一步，然後燦爛地笑了起來。很快，通常是在 24 小時內，她就會到處走來走去，弄亂你井然有序的客廳。你開始意識到，你已經進入育兒的新階段了。對嗎？ 現在，想想如果孩子每次跌倒時都說，“天哪，我又摔倒了，我再也不學走路了。“這樣會發生什麽？你必須幫她心理輔導，幫她解決無力感、挫敗感和失望感。你覺得這樣的話，孩子需要多久才能學會走路？如果孩子每次跌到，你每次都得開導她、安慰她等等...？聽起來很可笑，不是嗎？但這恰恰是我們現在正在做的。孩子所做的就是投入過程，她投入在過程中，而不是結果。 我們所做的恰恰相反。隨著我們長大，我們逐漸失去投入過程的能力，我們開始投入結果。但顯而易見的是，結果都不如你意，如果我們將所有的情感能量花在這裡，遲早有一天我們會耗盡心力。 但是，另一方面，我們說，“這是結果，我要投入過程，並付出每一份努力，”每天就都是驚喜。而你正一步一步地邁向我為你勾勒的願景路上。 人們一直問我，“拉奧教授，可是沒有東西可以讓我產生激情。”然後我說，“好，那什麽會讓你產生激情呢？”答案每次都是，你知道的，一個清單。這是我要的工作，這是我要的工資，我要的老闆是這樣的人，我要的同事是那樣的人，我要的客戶是怎樣的人，我要多久旅行一次，我要辦公室有多大，我要地毯有多深，我要有多少扇窗戶——一大堆的因素。 我告訴他們的，也是我現在想與你分享的，因為所有的這些東西，首先，都不存在。其次，即使存在，你為之努力，最多 6 個月，你又會像現在這樣一樣的遺憾、痛苦。因為激情也是你與生俱來的，而不是在工作中。如果你不找到一個方式將心中的激情點燃，你無法從外界找到它。如果你找到一種方式將心中的激情點燃，你會發現一個全新的自己，生活中的一切也都隨之變得煥然一新。如果你這樣做了，你會發現奇跡常常發生。你樂意遇見的人會出現，你會認識新的人，這都很輕而易舉。因為你的生活已然成為一場旅途， 你來參加這次研討會，你在旅途中；你安裝水冷卻機，抱怨艱苦的工作環境時，你在旅途中；你看“絕望的主婦”時，你在旅途中，這個旅途是40多歲的主婦在丈夫與模特廝混的時候與 19 歲園丁出軌的旅途。你所要做的一切就是踏上旅途。這一切沒有任何問題，你只需要問自己：”這是我想要踏上的旅程嗎？這段旅程最終會帶我去到我想要去的地方嗎？“ 如果你開始這樣做，你會發現你的生活改變了，你遇見的人，你談論的事，你看的電影，你讀的書——每一件事都改變了。而這一切的改變，都是始於你開始關注過程。 投入到過程，而不是結果。 謝謝！"
