Talk	en	zh-tw
stacey_kramer_the_best_gift_i_ever_survived	"Imagine, if you will — a gift. I'd like for you to picture it in your mind. It's not too big — about the size of a golf ball. So envision what it looks like all wrapped up. But before I show you what's inside, I will tell you, it's going to do incredible things for you. It will bring all of your family together. You will feel loved and appreciated like never before and reconnect with friends and acquaintances you haven't heard from in years. Adoration and admiration will overwhelm you. It will recalibrate what's most important in your life. It will redefine your sense of spirituality and faith. You'll have a new understanding and trust in your body. You'll have unsurpassed vitality and energy. You'll expand your vocabulary, meet new people, and you'll have a healthier lifestyle. And get this — you'll have an eight-week vacation of doing absolutely nothing. You'll eat countless gourmet meals. Flowers will arrive by the truckload. People will say to you, ""You look great. Have you had any work done?"" And you'll have a lifetime supply of good drugs. You'll be challenged, inspired, motivated and humbled. Your life will have new meaning. Peace, health, serenity, happiness, nirvana. The price? $55,000, and that's an incredible deal. By now I know you're dying to know what it is and where you can get one. Does Amazon carry it? Does it have the Apple logo on it? Is there a waiting list? Not likely. This gift came to me about five months ago. It looked more like this when it was all wrapped up — not quite so pretty. And this, and then this. It was a rare gem — a brain tumor, hemangioblastoma — the gift that keeps on giving. And while I'm okay now, I wouldn't wish this gift for you. I'm not sure you'd want it. But I wouldn't change my experience. It profoundly altered my life in ways I didn't expect in all the ways I just shared with you. So the next time you're faced with something that's unexpected, unwanted and uncertain, consider that it just may be a gift. (Applause)"	想像一下，一個禮物我要你在你的腦海裏想像一下不是很大的禮物大概跟高爾夫球一樣大包裝起來大概長這樣。在我讓你看裏面是什麽以前我要先告訴你，這個禮物有什麽作用。它會讓你的家人團聚在一起。你會感受到愛和感激，像前所未有的感受你跟你經年未見的朋友會再度聯係。仰慕和愛慕的感覺會淹沒你。你會重新檢視生命中重要事情的順位。 你會再重新定義你對靈性和信仰的看法。你對你的身體也會有新的認識和信任。你會有無可匹配的生命力和能量。你將能夠擴展你的字彙認識新的人你的生活形態會更健康。得到了這個禮物你將會有八個禮拜的假期這期間完全不用做任何事。你會有吃不盡的美食你會收到好幾卡車的花人們會對你說“你看起來氣色很好，你有做什麽嗎？”你還會得到一輩子吃不完的好藥。 你會得到新挑戰、新的啓發也會得到新動機、變得更謙虛。你的生活將會有新的意義。平靜、健康安寧、快樂涅磐。這禮物的價格？5萬5千美金這真是一筆好買賣。 我想現在你一定很想知道這到底是什麽，在哪裏買得到。亞馬遜網站上買得到嗎？上面有蘋果牌的logo嗎？要排隊等貨嗎？不太可能。我大概是五個月前得到這個禮物的。包起來的話長得像這樣並不是很漂亮。再來是這樣再這樣這個稀有珍寶是個腦瘤成血管細胞瘤一個讓你不斷得到收穫的禮物。 我現在是沒事了但我不會希望你得到這個禮物。我也不確定你會不會想要。但是我不會希望一切重新來過。這件事徹底地改變了我的人生帶來了我剛跟你們講的那些改變這些都是我從未預料到的。 所以下次萬一你必須面對出乎意料的事是你不要或是不確定的你可以把它想成是一個禮物。 （掌聲）
