Talk	en	zh-tw
stefan_sagmeister_shares_happy_design	"About 15 years ago, I went to visit a friend in Hong Kong. And at the time I was very superstitious. So, upon landing — this was still at the old Hong Kong airport that's Kai Tak, when it was smack in the middle of the city — I thought, ""If I see something good, I'm going to have a great time here in my two weeks. And if I see something negative, I'm going to be miserable, indeed."" So the plane landed in between the buildings and got to a full stop in front of this little billboard. (Laughter) And I actually went to see some of the design companies in Hong Kong in my stay there. And it turned out that — I just went to see, you know, what they are doing in Hong Kong. But I actually walked away with a great job offer. And I flew back to Austria, packed my bags, and, another week later, I was again on my way to Hong Kong still superstitions and thinking, ""Well, if that 'Winner' billboard is still up, I'm going to have a good time working here. (Laughter) But if it's gone, it's going to be really miserable and stressful."" So it turned out that not only was the billboard still up but they had put this one right next to it. (Laughter) On the other hand, it also taught me where superstition gets me because I really had a terrible time in Hong Kong. (Laughter) However, I did have a number of real moments of happiness in my life — of, you know, I think what the conference brochure refers to as ""moments that take your breath away."" And since I'm a big list maker, I actually listed them all. (Laughter) Now, you don't have to go through the trouble of reading them and I won't read them for you. I know that it's incredibly boring to hear about other people's happinesses. (Laughter) What I did do, though is, I actually looked at them from a design standpoint and just eliminated all the ones that had nothing to do with design. And, very surprisingly, over half of them had, actually, something to do with design. So there are, of course, two different possibilities. There's one from a consumer's point of view — where I was happy while experiencing design. And I'll just give you one example. I had gotten my first Walkman. This is 1983. My brother had this great Yamaha motorcycle that he was willing to borrow to me freely. And The Police's ""Synchronicity"" cassette had just been released and there was no helmet law in my hometown of Bregenz. So you could drive up into the mountains freely blasting The Police on the new Sony Walkman. (Laughter) And I remember it as a true moment of happiness. You know, of course, they are related to this combination of at least two of them being, you know, design objects. And, you know, there's a scale of happiness when you talk about in design but the motorcycle incident would definitely be, you know, situated somewhere here — right in there between Delight and Bliss. Now, there is the other part, from a designer's standpoint — if you're happy while actually doing it. And one way to see how happy designers are when they're designing could be to look at the authors' photos on the back of their monographs? (Laughter) So, according to this, the Australians and the Japanese as well as the Mexicans are very happy. (Laughter) While, somewhat, the Spaniards ... and, I think, particularly, the Swiss (Laughter), don't seem to be doing all that well. (Laughter) Last November, a museum opened in Tokyo called The Mori Museum, in a skyscraper, up on the 56th floor. And their inaugural exhibit was called ""Happiness."" And I went, very eagerly, to see it, because — well, also, with an eye on this conference. And they interestingly sectioned the exhibit off into four different areas. Under ""Arcadia,"" they showed things like this, from the Edo period — a hundred ways to write ""happiness"" in different forms. Or they had this apple by Yoko Ono — that, of course, later on was, you know, made into the label for The Beatles. Under ""Nirvana"" they showed this Constable painting. And there was a little — an interesting theory about abstraction. This is a blue field — it's actually an Yves Klein painting. And the theory was that if you abstract an image, you really, you know open as much room for the un-representable — and, therefore, you know, are able to involve the viewer more. Then, under ""Desire,"" they showed these Shunsho paintings — also from the Edo period — ink on silk. And, lastly, under ""Harmony,"" they had this 13th-century mandala from Tibet. Now, what I took away from the exhibit was that maybe with the exception of the mandala most of the pieces in there were actually about the visualization of happiness and not about happiness. And I felt a little bit cheated, because the visualization — that's a really easy thing to do. And, you know, my studio — we've done it all the time. This is, you know, a book. A happy dog — and you take it out, it's an aggressive dog. It's a happy David Byrne and an angry David Byrne. Or a jazz poster with a happy face and a more aggressive face. You know, that's not a big deal to accomplish. It has gotten to the point where, you know, within advertising or within the movie industry, ""happy"" has gotten such a bad reputation that if you actually want to do something with the subject and still appear authentic, you almost would have to, you know, do it from a cynical point of view. This is, you know, the movie poster. Or we, a couple of weeks ago, designed a box set for The Talking Heads where the happiness visualized on the cover definitely has, very much, a dark side to it. Much, much more difficult is this, where the designs actually can evoke happiness — and I'm going to just show you three that actually did this for me. This is a campaign done by a young artist in New York, who calls himself ""True."" Everybody who has ridden the New York subway system will be familiar with these signs? True printed his own version of these signs. Met every Wednesday at a subway stop with 20 of his friends. They divided up the different subway lines and added their own version. (Laughter) So this is one. (Laughter) Now, the way this works in the system is that nobody ever looks at these signs. So you're (Laughter) you're really bored in the subway, and you kind of stare at something. And it takes you a while until it actually — you realize that this says something different than what it normally says. (Laughter) I mean, that's, at least, how it made me happy. (Laughter) Now, True is a real humanitarian. He didn't want any of his friends to be arrested, so he supplied everybody with this fake volunteer card. (Laughter) And also gave this fake letter from the MTA to everybody — sort of like pretending that it's an art project financed by The Metropolitan Transit Authority. (Laughter) Another New York project. This is at P.S. 1 — a sculpture that's basically a square room by James Turrell, that has a retractable ceiling. Opens up at dusk and dawn every day. You don't see the horizon. You're just in there, watching the incredible, subtle changes of color in the sky. And the room is truly something to be seen. People's demeanor changes when they go in there. And, for sure, I haven't looked at the sky in the same way after spending an hour in there. There are, of course, more than those three projects that I'm showing here. I would definitely say that observing Vik Muniz' ""Cloud"" a couple of years ago in Manhattan for sure made me happy, as well. But my last project is, again, from a young designer in New York. He's from Korea originally. And he took it upon himself to print 55,000 speech bubbles — empty speech bubbles stickers, large ones and small ones. And he goes around New York and just puts them, empty as they are, on posters. (Laughter) And other people go and fill them in. (Laughter) This one says, ""Please let me die in peace."" (Laughter) I think that was — the most surprising to myself was that the writing was actually so good. This is on a musician poster, that says: ""I am concerned that my CD will not sell more than 200,000 units and that, as a result, my recoupable advance from my label will be taken from me, after which, my contract will be cancelled, and I'll be back doing Journey covers on Bleecker Street."" (Laughter) I think the reason this works so well is because everybody involved wins. Jee gets to have his project; the public gets a sweeter environment; and different public gets a place to express itself; and the advertisers finally get somebody to look at their ads. (Laughter) Well, there was a question, of course, that was on my mind for a while: You know, can I do more of the things that I like doing in design and less of the ones that I don't like to be doing? Which brought me back to my list making — you know, just to see what I actually like about my job. You know, one is: just working without pressure. Then: working concentrated, without being frazzled. Or, as Nancy said before, like really immerse oneself into it. Try not to get stuck doing the same thing — or try not get stuck behind the computer all day. This is, you know, related to it: getting out of the studio. Then, of course, trying to, you know, work on things where the content is actually important for me. And being able to enjoy the end results. And then I found another list in one of my diaries that actually contained all the things that I thought I learned in my life so far. And, just about at that time, an Austrian magazine called and asked if we would want to do six spreads — design six spreads that work like dividing pages between the different chapters in the magazine? And the whole thing just fell together. So I just picked one of the things that I thought I learned — in this case, ""Everything I do always comes back to me"" — and we made these spreads right out of this. So it was: ""Everything I do always comes back to me."" A couple of weeks ago, a (Laughter) French company asked us to design five billboards for them. Again, we could supply the content for it. So I just picked another one. And this was two weeks ago. We flew to Arizona — the designer who works with me, and myself — and photographed this one. So it's: ""Trying to look good limits my life."" And then we did one more of these. This is, again, for a magazine, dividing pages. This is: ""Having"" — this is the same thing; it's just, you know, photographed from the side. This is from the front. Then it's: ""guts."" Again, it's the same thing — ""guts"" is just the same room, reworked. Then it's: ""always works out."" Then it's ""for,"" with the light on. (Laughter) And it's ""me."" Thank you so much. (Applause)"	"大概十五年前，我到香港探望一位朋友。那時候，我非常迷信。所以在著陸時 — 那時香港仍然是那個舊機場啟德機場，要在城市中不偏不倚 —我想: 如果我看到一些好景象，我將會在這兩周過得很愉快。而若果我看到一些負面的景象，我將過得很痛苦。 飛機在兩棟大廈之間著陸。它完全停在這塊廣告牌前。(笑)而我事實上在我逗留在香港期間我去參觀了幾間設計公司。而最終的結果是 —我只是去看看它們在香港正幹著些什麼。 但我最終得到一份很棒的工作。我飛回奧地利，收拾我的行李。在幾個星期後，我再次出發到香港去。仍然迷信並且想著: 嗯，好吧，如果那個「溫拿」的廣告牌仍在，我將會在這裡工作得很愉快。(笑)但如果它不在，這將會是很痛苦和壓力繁重。最終那個廣告牌不但仍在，而且他們還把這個放在旁邊。(雙喜)(笑)從另一方面來說，它教導我不再迷信因為在香港的日子糟透了。(笑) 但是，我的人生確實有幾件真正的開心時刻 —你知道，我想那是場刊所指的能令你屏息以待的時刻。因我是一位超級清單列舉者，我確實把它們全列舉出來。(笑)現在你不需要麻煩去把它讀出來，而我也不會為你而朗讀它們。我知道去聽別人的快樂將會是一件極其沉悶的事。(笑) 而我所做的是，我想從設計師的立場去看它，把那些無關設計的事情刪除。很意外的是，有超過一半是與設計有關。 當然這有兩個可能性。有一個是從顧客的觀點出發 —當我設計時我很高興。讓我給你一個例子吧。當我得到我第一部隨身聽。那是一九八三年。我哥哥有一台很好的山葉機車。他讓我任意借用。而警察合唱團專輯：Synchronicity 的錄音帶剛面世而我的故鄉Bregenz沒有配戴頭盔的法例。所以你可以一邊在山中駕駛一邊任意用你新的新力隨身聽轟炸警察合唱團的歌曲。(笑)我記得那是真的快樂時刻。你知道，當然，它是配合著至少兩種是設計產品。你知道，當你談及設計時，開心是有等級的但機車這件事件上，你知道，是介乎這裡 — 剛好在欣喜與極樂之間。 現在，有另一個部份，是從設計師的立場看 —如果你著實幹的時候很快樂。要了解設計師在設計時有多快樂的其中一個方法是看看他們在他們的專題著作後頁的照片?(笑)根據這樣，這些澳洲人和日本人還有墨西哥人都很快樂。(笑)至於，西班牙人和我想，尤其是瑞士人，(笑)他們過得不怎麼好。(笑) 上一個十一月，有一個博物館在東京開幕，名叫森之博物館它在一個摩天大樓的五十六樓。而它們的開幕展覽名為「快樂」。我去了。非常地期待著。 因為 —當然是著眼於這個會議。他們很有趣地把展覽館分為四個區域。在""阿爾卡笛亞區""，他們展出了從江戶時期的物品 —一百種不同方式寫出""快樂""。或小野洋子的蘋果 — 那當然，後來你知道的，它成為披頭四的商標。 在""涅槃展區""，他們展出這幅康斯塔伯的油畫。而這裡有些 — 有關於抽象的很有趣的理論。這是一片藍色的原野 — 其實是Yves Kline伊夫克萊因的畫。他的理論是如果你把一個映像抽象化，你知道你確實開啟了很大的不能被代表的空間 —所以你知道這更加能讓觀賞者參與其中。 而在""慾望""的展區中，他們展出這些春章的畫作 —也是江戶時期的作品 — 在絲綢上作畫。而最後，在和諧的展區中, 他們有來自十三世紀西藏的曼陀羅。 我在這個展覽的領悟是或許除了那個曼陀羅外大部份的展品都其實是有關快樂的形象而並不是有關快樂。我覺得有點兒被欺騙，因為它的形象化—是一件非常容易做到的事情。你知道在我的工作室 — 我們時常這樣做。這是，你知道，是一本書。有一隻很開心的狗 — 而你帶它出去。它是一隻好鬥的狗。這是開心的David Byrne 和憤怒的David Byrne。或一幅爵士樂的海報中一個開心的臉孔及一個好鬥的臉孔。你知道這不是一件太大的成就。 重點就是，你知道，在廣告中或電影世界中，快樂是有著一個很不好的名聲如果你確實想將它成為一個主題而又仍然看起來很可信的，你知道，你將差不多會從憤世嫉俗的觀點出發。這是，你知道，是一幅電影海報。我們在幾星期前為The Talking Heads 設計了一個盒裝封面上所形造的快樂其實有其陰暗面。 最最困難是那個設計其實能喚起快樂。我現在展示給你們三樣能令我快樂的事。這是一位紐約年輕的藝術家所作的企劃。他叫自己為True。所有曾經乘坐紐約地下鐵路系統的人都對這些標誌很熟悉?True 將他自己對這些標誌的版本列印出來。他約二十位朋友在每一個星期三聚集在地下鐵車站。他們分開乘坐不同路線然後把他們的版本加進去。(笑)這一個。(笑) 其實這能夠行得通是因為從來沒有人看這些標誌。你會(笑)你在地下鐵內實在非常沉悶，而你會好像凝望什麼。它要一段時間你才會 —發現它與平時所寫的不同。(笑)我的意思是，至少，這令我很開心。(笑) True 其實很真的很為人著想。他不想他任何一位朋友被捕。所以他給每一個人一張假的義工証件。(笑)他亦給每人一張假冒MTA的信函 —裝成為一項市區交通局資助的藝術計劃。(笑) 另一個紐約企劃。這是在P.S. 1 — 這個雕刻品基本上是一個正方形的房間它是James Turrell 的作品。它有一個可縮回的天花板。在每一天的晨曦和黃昏的時候開啟。你見不到地平線。你身置其中，看著一個天空在極妙又纖細的變化。而這間房間是真的值得去看。人們進入房間時他們的舉動有所變化。肯定的事，在那裡花了一個小時後我從未如此一樣看過那片天。 當然那裡有多過三個我想展示的企劃。我肯定的說在幾年前在曼哈頓觀看慕尼茲的""雲""後也令我非常開心。而最後一個企劃是，也是出自一位年輕的紐約藝術家。他原本來自韓國。他自己列印了五萬五千個說話泡泡 —空白的說話泡泡貼紙，有大有細。他走遍紐約把它們這樣空白的貼在海報上。(笑)而其他人去把它填寫。(笑) 這個寫:請讓我安靜的死去。(笑)我想這是 —最讓我驚訝的是那些都其實寫得不錯。這個在一個音樂家的海報上,它寫著:我擔心我的唱片不能賣多過二十萬張。而結果將會從我的商標拿去補償貸款。再者,我的合約將會被取消,我將會回去布立克街翻唱別人的歌。(笑) 我想它成功的原因是因為所有參與的人都贏。他得到他的企劃;大眾得到更美好的環境;不同的人得到他們表達自己的地方;而廣告商得到更多人看他們的廣告。(笑) 嗯,這裡當然有一個問題。它在我心中存在一段時間:你知道,我能否再多做一些我喜歡的設計而少一些做我不喜歡的呢?這帶我回到我的項目列舉中 —你知道, 只想看看我實在喜歡的工作。 你知道，其中一項是，沒有壓力地工作著。而且:很專注的工作,沒有疲憊。或者好像蘭茜之前所說,非常的沉醉個人之中。嘗試不要被相同的工作困著 —或嘗試不要整天卡在電腦後。這是,你知道,同上一個有關:離開你的工作室。當然嘗試為一件我覺得非常重要的事而工作著。而享受所得到的結果。 我之後在我的日記中發現了第二個列表,它包含所有我到現在這一生為止我所學到的東西。就在那個時候,有一本奧地利的雜誌致電給我問如果我們想做六幅跨頁 — 設計六幅可以在雜誌裡跨過不同章節的頁面嗎?而這整件事件在這融合起來。我選了一件我認為我學過的事 —在這裡是, 所有我做過的事回到我這裡來 —我們就用這個做那些跨頁。就這樣: 所有我做經常回到我這裡。 數周前,(笑)法國的一間公司要求我們為他們設計五幅大型廣告板。再次,我們可以提供內容。所以我選了另一個。這個是兩星期前,我們飛到亞利桑那州 — 一位與我工作的設計師及我自己 —拍攝了這個。這就是:嘗試去裝好看限制了我的人生。 而我們這一系列再做了多一次。這是,再次是為雜誌作跨頁。這次是:有著 —這是相同的東西 —只是從旁邊拍攝。這個是從正面。它是:勇氣再次, 相同的東西 — ""勇氣"" 在同一間房間, 重新修定。跟著是:總是解決問題跟著是""為"" , 這是打了燈的效果(笑)而這是「我」。 謝謝。(掌聲)"
