Talk	en	zh-tw
stefan_sagmeister_7_rules_for_making_more_happiness	"I spent the best part of last year working on a documentary about my own happiness — trying to see if I can actually train my mind in a particular way, like I can train my body, so I can end up with an improved feeling of overall well-being. Then this January, my mother died, and pursuing a film like that just seemed the last thing that was interesting to me. So in a very typical, silly designer fashion, after years worth of work, pretty much all I have to show for it are the titles for the film. (Music) They were still done when I was on sabbatical with my company in Indonesia. We can see the first part here was designed here by pigs. It was a little bit too funky, and we wanted a more feminine point of view and employed a duck who did it in a much more fitting way — fashion. My studio in Bali was only 10 minutes away from a monkey forest, and monkeys, of course, are supposed to be the happiest of all animals. So we trained them to be able to do three separate words, to lay out them properly. You can see, there still is a little bit of a legibility problem there. The serif is not really in place. So of course, what you don't do properly yourself is never deemed done really. So this is us climbing onto the trees and putting it up over the Sayan Valley in Indonesia. In that year, what I did do a lot was look at all sorts of surveys, looking at a lot of data on this subject. And it turns out that men and women report very, very similar levels of happiness. This is a very quick overview of all the studies that I looked at. That climate plays no role. That if you live in the best climate, in San Diego in the United States, or in the shittiest climate, in Buffalo, New York, you are going to be just as happy in either place. If you make more than 50,000 bucks a year in the U.S., any salary increase you're going to experience will have only a tiny, tiny influence on your overall well-being. Black people are just as happy as white people are. If you're old or young it doesn't really make a difference. If you're ugly or if you're really, really good-looking it makes no difference whatsoever. You will adapt to it and get used to it. If you have manageable health problems it doesn't really matter. Now this does matter. So now the woman on the right is actually much happier than the guy on the left — meaning that, if you have a lot of friends, and you have meaningful friendships, that does make a lot of difference. As well as being married — you are likely to be much happier than if you are single. A fellow TED speaker, Jonathan Haidt, came up with this beautiful little analogy between the conscious and the unconscious mind. He says that the conscious mind is this tiny rider on this giant elephant, the unconscious. And the rider thinks that he can tell the elephant what to do, but the elephant really has his own ideas. If I look at my own life, I'm born in 1962 in Austria. If I would have been born a hundred years earlier, the big decisions in my life would have been made for me — meaning I would have stayed in the town that I was born in; I would have very much likely entered the same profession that my dad did; and I would have very much likely married a woman that my mom had selected. I, of course, and all of us, are very much in charge of these big decisions in our lives. We live where we want to be — at least in the West. We become what we really are interested in. We choose our own profession, and we choose our own partners. And so it's quite surprising that many of us let our unconscious influence those decisions in ways that we are not quite aware of. If you look at the statistics and you see that the guy called George, when he decides on where he wants to live — is it Florida or North Dakota? — he goes and lives in Georgia. And if you look at a guy called Dennis, when he decides what to become — is it a lawyer, or does he want to become a doctor or a teacher? — best chance is that he wants to become a dentist. And if Paula decides should she marry Joe or Jack, somehow Paul sounds the most interesting. And so even if we make those very important decisions for very silly reasons, it remains statistically true that there are more Georges living in Georgia and there are more Dennises becoming dentists and there are more Paulas who are married to Paul than statistically viable. (Laughter) Now I, of course, thought, ""Well this is American data,"" and I thought, ""Well, those silly Americans. They get influenced by things that they're not aware of. This is just completely ridiculous."" Then, of course, I looked at my mom and my dad — (Laughter) Karolina and Karl, and grandmom and granddad, Josefine and Josef. So I am looking still for a Stephanie. I'll figure something out. If I make this whole thing a little bit more personal and see what makes me happy as a designer, the easiest answer, of course, is do more of the stuff that I like to do and much less of the stuff that I don't like to do — for which it would be helpful to know what it is that I actually do like to do. I'm a big list maker, so I came up with a list. One of them is to think without pressure. This is a project we're working on right now with a very healthy deadline. It's a book on culture, and, as you can see, culture is rapidly drifting around. Doing things like I'm doing right now — traveling to Cannes. The example I have here is a chair that came out of the year in Bali — clearly influenced by local manufacturing and culture, not being stuck behind a single computer screen all day long and be here and there. Quite consciously, design projects that need an incredible amount of various techniques, just basically to fight straightforward adaptation. Being close to the content — that's the content really is close to my heart. This is a bus, or vehicle, for a charity, for an NGO that wants to double the education budget in the United States — carefully designed, so, by two inches, it still clears highway overpasses. Having end results — things that come back from the printer well, like this little business card for an animation company called Sideshow on lenticular foils. Working on projects that actually have visible impacts, like a book for a deceased German artist whose widow came to us with the requirement to make her late husband famous. It just came out six months ago, and it's getting unbelievable traction right now in Germany. And I think that his widow is going to be very successful on her quest. And lately, to be involved in projects where I know about 50 percent of the project technique-wise and the other 50 percent would be new. So in this case, it's an outside projection for Singapore on these giant Times Square-like screens. And I of course knew stuff, as a designer, about typography, even though we worked with those animals not so successfully. But I didn't quite know all that much about movement or film. And from that point of view we turned it into a lovely project. But also because the content was very close. In this case, ""Keeping a Diary Supports Personal Development"" — I've been keeping a diary since I was 12. And I've found that it influenced my life and work in a very intriguing way. In this case also because it's part of one of the many sentiments that we build the whole series on — that all the sentiments originally had come out of the diary. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	我在過去一年大部分的時間都忙着拍攝一部有關我自己的快樂的紀錄片—我想試試看我是否可以用一個特定的方式來訓練我的心神,就像我可以訓練我的身體，最終得到整體福祉改善的感覺。然後今年1月，我的母親去世，追求這樣的一部電影似乎是對我是最沒有意思的事情。因此，在一個非常典型的，無聊的設計師方式，經過多年的工作，我可以展示的成果僅僅是電影的開幕標題。 (音樂) 我是在印尼公司給我的休假進修期間完成這個開幕標題。我們可以看出第一部分是由豬設計。有點過於時髦，我們想要一個更女性化的觀點因此請了鴨子做了一個更為恰當的方式。我在巴厘島的工作室離猴子森林只是10分鐘的路程。猴子，當然，應該是最幸福的所有動物。因此，我們訓練牠們能夠做到三個單獨的詞，將之妥善佈置。可以看到，還有一點點的易讀性問題存在。有襯線是沒有真正到位。當然，你自己做得不正確的事是從來沒有真正被視為完成。這是我們攀登上樹並把它放置在印尼的薩彥谷上。 在這一年，我做得最多的實際上是看了很多關於這方面的各種調查。事實證明男人和女人對幸福的報告有非常相似水平。這是我看了所有研究的一個非常簡單的概述。氣候不是一個問題。例如你住在最好氣候的地方像在美國的聖地牙哥,或在最壞氣候的紐約州水牛城，你在任何一地方都一樣高興。若你在美國一年賺超過 5萬美元，任何加薪對你整體福祉只有很微小的影響。黑人跟白人快樂水平一樣。不管你是老，少並沒有真正的差異。不管你是醜的，或你真的很帥都沒有任何差別。你會適應它和習慣它。你也許有可控制的健康問題,這也不重要。 但現在這個是重要的。在右邊的這個女人比在左邊的傢伙更幸福快樂—這意味著，如果你有很多朋友，和有有意義的友誼，這確實會有影響。結婚可能會比單身更加美滿快樂。 Jonathan Haidt, 一個TED演說者想出了這個對於意識和潛意識之間的美麗的小比喻。他說，有意識的頭腦像是一個小騎手坐在一頭巨象上—潛意識。小騎手以為他可以命令大象做什麼，但大象有牠自己的想法。如果我看我自己的生活日子，我在奧地利於1962年出生。如果我在一百年前已經誕生，我一生的重大決定會已經有所定斷 —我大多數會留在我出生的小鎮;我大多數會進入我爸爸一樣的行業;而且我大多數會娶一個我媽媽為我挑女人。當然, 現在我和我們所有人，對我們生活的重大決策都有很多自主權。我們生活在我們喜歡的地方 —至少在西方。我們幹我們感興趣的事。我們選擇自己的行業,我們選擇我們自己的夥伴。因此，相當驚人的是,我們很多人讓我們不太了解的的潛意識影響這些決定的方式。 如果你看看統計,看到那個叫喬治的傢伙,當他決定他想在哪裡生活 -是北達科他州或佛羅里達州？ —他居然去了格魯吉亞住。看看到那個叫丹尼斯的傢伙,當他決定要成為什麼 —是一名律師，還是一名醫生或是一名教師?—最大可能是他想成為一名牙醫。如果保娜決定她應嫁給喬或傑克，不知何故覺得保羅最有趣味的。因此,即使我們用非常愚蠢的原因作出這些非常重要的決定，統計仍然告訴我們—喬治亞州有很多喬治;有很多的依絲成為醫師;並且有很多保娜嫁給保羅的機會率比事實是較小的。(笑聲)現在我當是想嗯，這是美國的數據。那些糊塗的美國人。他們會被他們還沒有意識到的東西所影響。這簡直是完全荒謬。然後，當我看看我的媽媽和爸爸 —(笑聲)卡羅蓮娜和卡羅，我的阿嬤和爺爺，約瑟芬和約瑟夫。那我應該去找一個吏提芬妮。我會試找找看。 如果我讓這件事情有多點個人化來看看作為一個設計師,什麼會讓我高興，最簡單的答案當然是做更多我喜歡做的事，和做更少我不喜歡的事 —但有助於知道如何採取行動,我必須知道我喜歡做的事。我是一個實在的製造列表者，所以我想出了一個清單。其中一個是可以在沒有壓力下思索。這是一項我們正在努力的工程有一個很慷慨的期限。這是一本有關文化的書，你可以看到，文化是迅速左右漂流。像我現在做的事情—便是前往戛納。我這裡的例子是今年我在巴厘島製造的椅子,這顯然是受到當地製造業和文化影響，不被整天卡住在一台電腦屏幕背後並能夠在這裡和那裡。很自覺地設計一個需要令人難以置信的大量各種技術的工程，基本上是對抗直截了當的改編製作。 密切貼近內容—這就是我最關心。例如這是一輛公車，或車輛，是為一個非政府組的織慈善機構希望想在美國加雙倍教育預算—精心設計，它矮於公路立交橋兩英寸，所以它仍然能夠通過。例如有最終結果 - 東西從印刷公司回來製作得好，像這張動畫公司的小名片公司叫Sideshow (雜耍)印在透鏡狀金屬薄片紙。例如努力在實際上有明顯影響的工作項目，就像一本為已故德國藝術家的書其遺孀向我們要求讓她已故的丈夫聞名。它剛在半年前出版，現在在德國它獲得令人難以置信的反應。我認為，他遺孀的要求會非常成功。 而最近，我有機會參與的項目,有一半是我在技術上有熟悉的地方,而有一半對我是全新的。今次，是在新加坡,一個戶外投影器像在紐約時代廣場般的巨型屏幕畫面。作為一個設計師，我當然熟悉字體排版美術的東西，儘管我們與那些動物沒有那麼成功。但我並不太了解有關電影或動作的東西。而從這個角度，我們把它變成了一個可愛的工程。因為內容非有關注性。例如,我保持寫日記來支持個人發展。我從12歲一直在寫日記。而我發現它非常有趣地影響了我的生活和工作。在這種情況下，因為它的一部分, 其中的許多觀點，讓我建立了全系列的情緒-所有的思路本來出於日記。 謝謝你們。 (鼓掌)
