Talk	en	zh-tw
stefan_wolff_the_path_to_ending_ethnic_conflicts	"Today I want to talk to you about ethnic conflict and civil war. These are not normally the most cheerful of topics, nor do they generally generate the kind of good news that this conference is about. Yet, not only is there at least some good news to be told about fewer such conflicts now than two decades ago, but what is perhaps more important is that we also have come to a much better understanding of what can be done to further reduce the number of ethnic conflicts and civil wars and the suffering that they inflict. Three things stand out: leadership, diplomacy and institutional design. What I will focus on in my talk is why they matter, how they matter, and what we can all do to make sure that they continue to matter in the right ways, that is, how all of us can contribute to developing and honing the skills of local and global leaders to make peace and to make it last. But let's start at the beginning. Civil wars have made news headlines for many decades now, and ethnic conflicts in particular have been a near constant presence as a major international security threat. For nearly two decades now, the news has been bad and the images have been haunting. In Georgia, after years of stalemate, we saw a full-scale resurgence of violence in August, 2008. This quickly escalated into a five-day war between Russia and Georgia, leaving Georgia ever more divided. In Kenya, contested presidential elections in 2007 — we just heard about them — quickly led to high levels of inter-ethnic violence and the killing and displacement of thousands of people. In Sri Lanka, a decades-long civil war between the Tamil minority and the Sinhala majority led to a bloody climax in 2009, after perhaps as many as 100,000 people had been killed since 1983. In Kyrgyzstan, just over the last few weeks, unprecedented levels of violence occurred between ethnic Kyrgyz and ethnic Uzbeks. Hundreds have been killed, and more than 100,000 displaced, including many ethnic Uzbeks who fled to neighboring Uzbekistan. In the Middle East, conflict between Israelis and Palestinians continues unabated, and it becomes ever more difficult to see how, just how a possible, sustainable solution can be achieved. Darfur may have slipped from the news headlines, but the killing and displacement there continues as well, and the sheer human misery that it creates is very hard to fathom. And in Iraq, finally, violence is on the rise again, and the country has yet to form a government four months after its last parliamentary elections. But hang on, this talk is to be about the good news. So are these now the images of the past? Well, notwithstanding the gloomy pictures from the Middle East, Darfur, Iraq, elsewhere, there is a longer-term trend that does represent some good news. Over the past two decades, since the end of the Cold War, there has been an overall decline in the number of civil wars. Since the high in the early 1990s, with about 50 such civil wars ongoing, we now have 30 percent fewer such conflicts today. The number of people killed in civil wars also is much lower today than it was a decade ago or two. But this trend is less unambiguous. The highest level of deaths on the battlefield was recorded between 1998 and 2001, with about 80,000 soldiers, policemen and rebels killed every year. The lowest number of combatant casualties occurred in 2003, with just 20,000 killed. Despite the up and down since then, the overall trend — and this is the important bit — clearly points downward for the past two decades. The news about civilian casualties is also less bad than it used to be. From over 12,000 civilians deliberately killed in civil wars in 1997 and 1998, a decade later, this figure stands at 4,000. This is a decrease by two-thirds. This decline would be even more obvious if we factored in the genocide in Rwanda in 1994. But then 800,000 civilians were slaughtered in a matter of just a few months. This certainly is an accomplishment that must never be surpassed. What is also important is to note that these figures only tell part of the story. They exclude people that died as a consequence of civil war, from hunger or disease, for example. And they also do not properly account for civilian suffering more generally. Torture, rape and ethnic cleansing have become highly effective, if often non-lethal, weapons in civil war. To put it differently, for the civilians that suffer the consequences of ethnic conflict and civil war, there is no good war and there is no bad peace. Thus, even though every civilian killed, maimed, raped, or tortured is one too many, the fact that the number of civilian casualties is clearly lower today than it was a decade ago, is good news. So, we have fewer conflicts today in which fewer people get killed. And the big question, of course, is why? In some cases, there is a military victory of one side. This is a solution of sorts, but rarely is it one that comes without human costs or humanitarian consequences. The defeat of the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka is perhaps the most recent example of this, but we have seen similar so-called military solutions in the Balkans, in the South Caucasus and across most of Africa. At times, they are complimented by negotiated settlements, or at least cease-fire agreements, and peacekeepers are deployed. But hardly ever do they represent a resounding success — Bosnia and Herzegovina perhaps more so than Georgia. But for many parts of Africa, a colleague of mine once put it this way, ""The cease-fire on Tuesday night was reached just in time for the genocide to start on Wednesday morning."" But let's look at the good news again. If there's no solution on the battlefield, three factors can account for the prevention of ethnic conflict and civil war, or for sustainable peace afterwards: leadership, diplomacy and institutional design. Take the example of Northern Ireland. Despite centuries of animosity, decades of violence and thousands of people killed, 1998 saw the conclusion of an historic agreement. Its initial version was skillfully mediated by Senator George Mitchell. Crucially, for the long-term success of the peace process in Northern Ireland, he imposed very clear conditions for the participation and negotiations. Central among them, a commitment to exclusively peaceful means. Subsequent revisions of the agreement were facilitated by the British and Irish governments, who never wavered in their determination to bring peace and stability to Northern Ireland. The core institutions that were put in place in 1998 and their modifications in 2006 and 2008 were highly innovative and allowed all conflict parties to see their core concerns and demands addressed. The agreement combines a power-sharing arrangement in Northern Ireland with cross-border institutions that link Belfast and Dublin and thus recognizes the so-called Irish dimension of the conflict. And significantly, there's also a clear focus on both the rights of individuals and the rights of communities. The provisions in the agreement may be complex, but so is the underlying conflict. Perhaps most importantly, local leaders repeatedly rose to the challenge of compromise, not always fast and not always enthusiastically, but rise in the end they did. Who ever could have imagined Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness jointly governing Northern Ireland as First and Deputy First Minister? But then, is Northern Ireland a unique example, or does this kind of explanation only hold more generally in democratic and developed countries? By no means. The ending of Liberia's long-lasting civil war in 2003 illustrates the importance of leadership, diplomacy and institutional design as much as the successful prevention of a full-scale civil war in Macedonia in 2001, or the successful ending of the conflict in Aceh in Indonesia in 2005. In all three cases, local leaders were willing and able to make peace, the international community stood ready to help them negotiate and implement an agreement, and the institutions have lived up to the promise that they held on the day they were agreed. Focusing on leadership, diplomacy and institutional design also helps explain failures to achieve peace, or to make it last. The hopes that were vested in the Oslo Accords did not lead to an end of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Not all the issues that needed to be resolved were actually covered in the agreements. Rather, local leaders committed to revisiting them later on. Yet instead of grasping this opportunity, local and international leaders soon disengaged and became distracted by the second Intifada, the events of 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The comprehensive peace agreement for Sudan signed in 2005 turned out to be less comprehensive than envisaged, and its provisions may yet bear the seeds of a full-scale return to war between north and south. Changes and shortcomings in leadership, more off than on international diplomacy and institutional failures account for this in almost equal measure. Unresolved boundary issues, squabbles over oil revenues, the ongoing conflict in Darfur, escalating tribal violence in the south and generally weak state capacity across all of Sudan complete a very depressing picture of the state of affairs in Africa's largest country. A final example: Kosovo. The failure to achieve a negotiated solution for Kosovo and the violence, tension and de facto partition that resulted from it have their reasons in many, many different factors. Central among them are three. First, the intransigence of local leaders to settle for nothing less than their maximum demands. Second, an international diplomatic effort that was hampered from the beginning by Western support for Kosovo's independence. And third, a lack of imagination when it came to designing institutions that could have addressed the concerns of Serbs and Albanians alike. By the same token — and here we have some good news again — the very fact that there is a high-level, well-resourced international presence in Kosovo and the Balkans region more generally and the fact that local leaders on both sides have showed relative restraint, explains why things have not been worse over the past two years since 2008. So even in situations where outcomes are less than optimal, local leaders and international leaders have a choice, and they can make a difference for the better. A cold war is not as good as a cold peace, but a cold peace is still better than a hot war. Good news is also about learning the right lesson. So what then distinguishes the Israeli/Palestinian conflict from that in Northern Ireland, or the civil war in Sudan from that in Liberia? Both successes and failures teach us several critically important things that we need to bear in mind if we want the good news to continue. First, leadership. In the same way in which ethnic conflict and civil war are not natural but man-made disasters, their prevention and settlement does not happen automatically either. Leadership needs to be capable, determined and visionary in its commitment to peace. Leaders need to connect to each other and to their followers, and they need to bring them along on what is an often arduous journey into a peaceful future. Second, diplomacy. Diplomacy needs to be well resourced, sustained, and apply the right mix of incentives and pressures on leaders and followers. It needs to help them reach an equitable compromise, and it needs to ensure that a broad coalition of local, regional and international supporters help them implement their agreement. Third, institutional design. Institutional design requires a keen focus on issues, innovative thinking and flexible and well-funded implementation. Conflict parties need to move away from maximum demands and towards a compromise that recognizes each other's needs. And they need to think about the substance of their agreement much more than about the labels they want to attach to them. Conflict parties also need to be prepared to return to the negotiation table if the agreement implementation stalls. For me personally, the most critical lesson of all is this: Local commitment to peace is all-important, but it is often not enough to prevent or end violence. Yet, no amount of diplomacy or institutional design can make up for local failures and the consequences that they have. Therefore, we must invest in developing leaders, leaders that have the skills, vision and determination to make peace. Leaders, in other words, that people will trust and that they will want to follow even if that means making hard choices. A final thought: Ending civil wars is a process that is fraught with dangers, frustrations and setbacks. It often takes a generation to accomplish, but it also requires us, today's generation, to take responsibility and to learn the right lessons about leadership, diplomacy and institutional design, so that the child soldiers of today can become the children of tomorrow. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天向各位演講的內容是「種族衝突以及內戰」一般說來，這種主題不會振奮人心通常也不會傳達令人欣慰的好消息這就是今天研討會的議題然而，我們至少還有一些好消息：比起二十年前的情況這類衝突已經日趨減少也許更重要的是現在我們已經更加瞭解必須採取什麼方法才能減少種族衝突與內戰以及隨之而來的苦難其中包括三個顯著的因素：領導能力、外交手腕以及憲政設計今天的演講，我會著重在：這三者為什麼重要、有多重要以及我們能夠作些什麼以確保這三個重要的因素繼續發揮正面的影響力也就是，我們全人類如何貢獻心力以培養、琢磨當地與國際領袖締結休戰並長久維護和平的技巧現在，我們先回到原點 幾十年來內戰一直是新聞標題的常客特別是種族衝突已經是持續不斷的重大國際安全威脅過去二十年來壞消息不斷境況也令人憂心在喬治亞，經過多年的對峙於 2008 年八月再度爆發全面的暴力衝突迅速惡化為俄羅斯與喬治亞之間的五日戰爭導致喬治亞更為分崩離析在肯亞，2007 年備受爭議的總統選舉——我們才剛聼到這件事的演講——立刻轉變為嚴重的種族之間的暴力衝突成千上萬的人遭受殺害、流離失所在斯里蘭卡少數族群泰米爾人與多數族群僧伽羅人之間數十年漫長的內戰於 2009 年演變為恐怖的血腥衝突在此之前，自 1983 年以來已經有將近十萬人死於內戰在吉爾吉斯，僅在前幾個星期之中吉爾吉斯族人與烏茲別克族人之間爆發了史無前例的暴力衝突數百人遭到殺害超過十萬人無家可歸其中包括許多逃到鄰國烏茲別克的烏茲別克族人在中東地區以色列人與巴勒斯坦人之間的衝突持續不斷而我們愈來愈難以預見該如何達成可以令兩方接受、長久維持的和平方案達佛地區也許沒有出現在新聞標題上但是當地的殺戮與人民的流離失所從未間斷該地所製造的人間悲劇遠超過你我的想像在伊拉克終於再度面臨暴力衝突而伊拉克於四個月前進行的國會選舉直到目前仍無法籌組政府 但是，我的演講帶來的是好消息所以剛提到的都是過去的境況了嗎？雖然我們看到了悲慘灰暗的現狀存在於中東、達佛伊拉克、以及其他地區。以長期的趨勢來看我們確實有好消息自從冷戰結束以來的二十年間內戰的數量呈現下降的趨勢從 1990 年代早期的高峰期大約有 50 場內戰而至今天，這種衝突的數量減少了百分之三十今日在內戰之中遭到殺害的人數也遠低於十年前或二十年前的數字但是，這個趨勢並不明顯戰場上最多的死亡人數紀錄於 1998 年到 2001 年之間大約是每年八萬名軍人、警察、叛軍死於戰場最低的戰鬥人員死亡人數紀錄於 2003 年只有兩萬人死亡雖然數字上下起伏不定總體的趨勢——也是最重要的關鍵——明顯下降過去二十年來 有關平民死亡的新聞與往昔比較亦相對減輕在 1997 年與 1998 年間超過一萬兩千位平民遭到蓄意屠殺十年之後遭到殺害的平民降低為四千人數字減少了三分之二如果我們列入 1994 年盧安達的種族屠殺下降的趨勢就更為明顯那時在短短的幾個月之內就有八十萬平民遭到屠殺這是我們後人永遠不可超越的殘暴罪行我們也應該同樣謹記這些數字只代表著冰山的一角這些數字沒有列入因為內戰造成的飢荒、疾病種種惡果之下死亡的人數這些數字也無法真實地反映遭受各種苦難的平民百姓酷刑、強暴、種族淨化已經成為內戰之中極為有效令人生不如死的非致命性武器換句話說對於遭受種族衝突、內戰苦果的平民百姓來說戰爭永遠是邪惡的和平永遠是良善任何一位平民遭到殺害、傷殘、強暴、酷刑都不能輕視然而平民死亡的數字比起十年前已經明顯降低這項事實確實是好消息 今日的衝突數量減少遭受殺害的人數下降我們當然要問一個核心問題：「為什麼減少？」某些案例之中是一方獲得了軍事勝利這是一種解決方法但是這種解決方法很少是在沒有人員傷亡或是沒有人道代價之下達成的斯里蘭卡的塔米爾之虎的戰敗我想是最近的一個血腥例子但是我們也在巴爾幹半島、南高加索以及非洲的大部分區域見過類似的所謂的血腥「軍事手段」在其他的情況之中衝突者因為談判解決而接受讚揚或是至少達成停火協議接受和平部隊派駐但是這些情況並不表示成功獲得的和平波士尼亞與黑塞哥維那與喬治亞相比，更接近此種狀況但對於非洲的多數區域我的同事曾經如此形容：「星期二晚上的停火協議及時阻止了星期三早上正要開始的種族屠殺」 我們回頭再看看好的消息如果戰場之上無法獲得解決方案有三個因素可以阻止種族衝突與內戰或取得日後足以令人接受的和平領導能力、外交手腕以及憲政設計以北愛爾蘭為例即使有著橫跨幾個世紀的仇恨數十年的暴力衝突數千人遭受殺害仍於 1998 年達成了歷史性的協議喬治．米切爾參議員十分有技巧地中介了雙方最初的協議版本讓北愛爾蘭的和平進程能夠長久維持的關鍵是他為了雙方參與和談判加上了十分明確的條件在這些條件之中最重要的是只能使用和平手段的承諾隨後的修訂協議因為英國與愛爾蘭政府從未動搖的和平決心迅速帶來了北愛爾蘭的和平與穩定 於 1998 年起草的核心憲法以及 2006 與 2008 年對憲法的修訂具有十足創新的精神並讓所有互相衝突的黨派見到他們所關注的核心問題、需求獲得處理此份協議結合了北愛爾蘭分享權力的安排與超越國境的憲法連接了貝爾法斯特與都柏林以此承認了所謂的愛爾蘭地區的衝突顯而易見這份憲法同時明確地保障了個人的權利與當地社群的權利也許這份協議的條款非常複雜但是在它背後的衝突也是同樣複雜最重要的是當地領袖不斷地回應對於妥協讓步的反對意見不見得每次都迅速反應也不見得每次都充滿熱情但是最終證明他們締造了和平又有誰想像得到依安．佩斯利與馬丁．麥吉尼斯以首相與副首相的身份攜手共同領導北愛爾蘭政府 然而，北愛爾蘭究竟是個特例？還是這種解釋一般只能套用在民主與已發展國家上？絕非如此2003 年所結束利比亞漫長的內戰描繪了領導能力、外交手腕以及憲法設計的重要性這三個因素也成功阻止了2001 年馬其頓即將爆發的全面內戰以及成功結束了2005 年發生於印尼亞齊地區的衝突在這三個案例之中當地領袖皆願意、亦有能力締造和平國際社會也準備好協助他們談判與制定協議憲法制度則實踐了自從點頭同意那天開始各方黨派所許下的承諾 注重領導能力、外交手腕與憲法設計也解釋了無法得到和平或是和平無法長久維持的原因人們對於奧斯陸協定所賦予的希望並沒有終結以色列人與巴勒斯坦人的衝突雙方需要解決的問題並沒有全部達成協議結果，當地領袖承諾稍後重審協議他們並沒有抓住和平的機會當地與國際領袖不久之後即分崩離析並且因為隨後的第二次巴勒斯坦大起義、9/11 事件阿富汗與伊拉克的戰爭而分心 蘇丹於 2005 年所簽署詳盡的和平協議最後證明它不如預期而且它的條款很可能埋下南北之間再次引發全面戰爭的種子領袖的更迭與缺乏領導能力以及國際外交無效的憲政三者同時導致了失敗的結局尚未解決的國界問題、原油收益的爭議達佛正在進行的衝突都加劇了南蘇丹的部落暴力衝突也削弱了蘇丹對於全國的控制能力這些都為非洲最大的國家未來的前景繪製了一幅令人沮喪的畫像 最後一個例子：科索沃科索沃談判以失敗收場當地的暴力衝突、緊張情勢以及所導致的實質分裂都牽涉到眾多不同的因素其中最關鍵的因素有三：第一，各個當地領袖貪求自己的最高利益而不願妥協讓步第二，國際外交所做的努力從一開始就因為西方國家支持科索沃獨立而遭到莫大的阻礙第三，制定足以同時保障塞爾維亞人與阿爾巴尼亞的憲法之時缺乏對於未來的想像力同樣地——我們在此也有些好消息從 2008 開始至今兩年科索沃目前已有高階層、資源充足的國際勢力介入調停而且巴爾幹地區已經普遍地展現出雙方的當地領袖擁有相當的自制力讓事態不再繼續惡化 所以，即使是情勢不甚樂觀的局面當地領袖與國際領袖仍有抉擇的空間他們擁有能力打造更好的未來冷戰不會比冷和平來的更好但是冷和平總比戰爭爆發好得多好消息也包括學習正確的教訓是什麼原因造成以色列人／巴勒斯坦人的衝突與北愛爾蘭不同的結局？導致蘇丹內戰與賴比瑞亞不同的結果？成功與失敗都會給予我們必須謹記在心的教訓如果我們希望好消息持續下去。第一，領導能力無論是種族衝突還是內戰都不是天災而是人禍阻止與解決紛爭不會如同天災結束一般水到渠成領導者必須有能力擁有決心與願景致力於締造和平領導者之間必須合作團結彼此的追隨者以帶領他們踏上艱鉅的旅程一起走向和平的未來 第二，外交手腕外交必須擁有充足的資源持續不斷努力以及施加於領袖與追隨者之上恰到好處的誘因與壓力外交必須協助他們達成彼此公平的妥協讓步也必須確保當地、區域與國際支持者之間廣大的聯盟以協助他們制定協議 第三，憲政設計憲政設計需要對於問題的敏銳專注創新的思考以及具有彈性與資金充足的實施方法衝突的黨派必須從彼此的最高利益之下各讓一步以達成承認彼此需求的妥協結果而且他們必須思考協議的實質意義而不是他們想加諸其上的膚淺標籤衝突的黨派也必須在協議實行停滯不前的時候作好回到談判桌旁的準備 以我個人的意見從這些例子得到最重要的教訓是：當地是否致力於和平至為重要光是這樣還不夠為了阻止或終結暴力衝突再多的外交手段再多的憲法設計都不足以彌補當地的失敗和其後果所以，我們必須協助具有潛力的領導者以及擁有能力、願景、決心的領導者以創造和平領導者，換句話說就是人民願意信任願意追隨的人即使意味著他必須做出艱難的抉擇 最後的想法：終結內戰是一個充滿危險、挫敗與逆境的過程經常需要一整個世代的時間才能達成也需要我們今日的世代負起責任學習正確的教訓瞭解領導能力、外交手腕以及憲政設計讓今日戰火摧殘之下的兒童兵成為明日享有安祥和平的孩子 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
