Talk	en	zh-tw
stefan_sagmeister_on_what_he_has_learned	"I was here about four years ago, talking about the relationship of design and happiness. At the very end of it, I showed a list under that title. I learned very few things in addition since (Laughter) — but made a whole number of them into projects since. These are inflatable monkeys in every city in Scotland: ""Everybody always thinks they are right."" They were combined in the media. ""Drugs are fun in the beginning but become a drag later on."" We're doing changing media. This is a projection that can see the viewer as the viewer walks by. You can't help but actually ripping that spider web apart. All of these things are pieces of graphic design. We do them for our clients. They are commissioned. I would never have the money to actually pay for the installment or pay for all the billboards or the production of these, so there's always a client attached to them. These are 65,000 coat hangers in a street that's lined with fashion stores. ""Worrying solves nothing."" ""Money does not make me happy"" appeared first as double-page spreads in a magazine. The printer lost the file, didn't tell us. When the magazine — actually, when I got the subscription — it was 12 following pages. It said, ""Money does does make me happy."" And a friend of mine in Austria felt so sorry for me that he talked the largest casino owner in Linz into letting us wrap his building. So this is the big pedestrian zone in Linz. It just says ""Money,"" and if you look down the side street, it says, ""does not make me happy."" We had a show that just came down last week in New York. We steamed up the windows permanently, and every hour we had a different designer come in and write these things that they've learned into the steam in the window. Everybody participated — Milton Glaser, Massimo Vignelli. Singapore was quite in discussion. This is a little spot that we filmed there that's to be displayed on the large JumboTrons in Singapore. And, of course, it's one that's dear to my heart, because all of these sentiments — some banal, some a bit more profound — all originally had come out of my diary. And I do go often into the diary and check if I wanted to change something about the situation. If it's — see it for a long enough time, I actually do something about it. And the very last one is a billboard. This is our roof in New York, the roof of the studio. This is newsprint plus stencils that lie on the newsprint. We let that lie around in the sun. As you all know, newsprint yellows significantly in the sun. After a week, we took the stencils and the leaves off, shipped the newsprints to Lisbon to a very sunny spot, so on day one the billboard said, ""Complaining is silly. Either act or forget."" Three days later it faded, and a week later, no more complaining anywhere. (Laughter) Thank you so much. (Applause)"	我上次來這裡大約是四年前講題是設計與幸福的關係演講最後，我放了這張投影片(目前人生教給我的事) 後來就沒學到什麼(笑聲)但我把許多經驗都化成作品 (人人都覺得自己是對的)這些充氣猴子遍佈蘇格蘭的城市「人人 都 覺得 自己 是 對的」這些猴子都上了報「禁藥 很好玩 因為新鮮 但 要膩 不用多久」(不真誠有害無益) 我們想玩一些新花樣這個投影機有感應功能能感應前面經過的人一有人走過，蜘蛛網非破不可這些都是平面設計的一部分我們按客戶的需求替他們量身打造我無法負擔這些裝置的實際費用廣告板或設計本身都很昂貴所以客戶是金主這是6萬5千支衣架，排在路上(瞎操心) 沿路全都是名牌店 (只是)「瞎操心只是白費心」「錢 並 不能 讓 我 快樂」一開始打算作跨頁雜誌標語印刷商弄丟檔案，也沒告訴我們等出版社把雜誌寄給我時標語被拆成12頁印成「錢 真的 真的 讓我 變得 快樂」我奧地利的朋友替我抱不平說服林茨市的賭場大亨♪讓我們把賭場外牆包起來這面是寬闊的行人區這面牆寫著「錢」 但轉個彎另一面是「並不能讓我快樂」(賽格梅斯 目前人生教給我的事) 這是我們的秀，上週剛在紐約落幕我們霧化玻璃窗每小時會有不同設計師在霧面玻璃寫下所學的東西名家盡出，包括米爾頓.格拉塞®馬西莫.維納利新加坡也很熱門我們到一個小村莊攝影影片會在巨幅電子廣告板上播送 (勤寫)當然我非常喜歡這段影片 (日記)因為所有的感想有的老套，有的深刻都源自於我的日記(有助) (個人) (發展)我常寫日記反省自己是否該做些改變時間一久我會真的著手改變 (勤寫日記有助個人發展)最後這張被作成廣告看板(別抱怨 要嘛行動 要嘛算了) 這是紐約工作室的屋頂這是報紙 還有印刷模板攤在陽光下當然，報紙很快就會被烤黃1週後才移往別處運到里斯本一個陽光充足的地方第一天廣告板上寫著「別抱怨 要嘛行動 要嘛算了」3天後字跡褪色，1週後再也沒有抱怨了(笑聲)感謝各位(掌聲)
