Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_hawking_asks_big_questions_about_the_universe	There is nothing bigger or older than the universe. The questions I would like to talk about are: one, where did we come from? How did the universe come into being? Are we alone in the universe? Is there alien life out there? What is the future of the human race? Up until the 1920s, everyone thought the universe was essentially static and unchanging in time. Then it was discovered that the universe was expanding. Distant galaxies were moving away from us. This meant they must have been closer together in the past. If we extrapolate back, we find we must have all been on top of each other about 15 billion years ago. This was the Big Bang, the beginning of the universe. But was there anything before the Big Bang? If not, what created the universe? Why did the universe emerge from the Big Bang the way it did? We used to think that the theory of the universe could be divided into two parts. First, there were the laws like Maxwell's equations and general relativity that determined the evolution of the universe, given its state over all of space at one time. And second, there was no question of the initial state of the universe. We have made good progress on the first part, and now have the knowledge of the laws of evolution in all but the most extreme conditions. But until recently, we have had little idea about the initial conditions for the universe. However, this division into laws of evolution and initial conditions depends on time and space being separate and distinct. Under extreme conditions, general relativity and quantum theory allow time to behave like another dimension of space. This removes the distinction between time and space, and means the laws of evolution can also determine the initial state. The universe can spontaneously create itself out of nothing. Moreover, we can calculate a probability that the universe was created in different states. These predictions are in excellent agreement with observations by the WMAP satellite of the cosmic microwave background, which is an imprint of the very early universe. We think we have solved the mystery of creation. Maybe we should patent the universe and charge everyone royalties for their existence. I now turn to the second big question: are we alone, or is there other life in the universe? We believe that life arose spontaneously on the Earth, so it must be possible for life to appear on other suitable planets, of which there seem to be a large number in the galaxy. But we don't know how life first appeared. We have two pieces of observational evidence on the probability of life appearing. The first is that we have fossils of algae from 3.5 billion years ago. The Earth was formed 4.6 billion years ago and was probably too hot for about the first half billion years. So life appeared on Earth within half a billion years of it being possible, which is short compared to the 10-billion-year lifetime of a planet of Earth type. This suggests that the probability of life appearing is reasonably high. If it was very low, one would have expected it to take most of the ten billion years available. On the other hand, we don't seem to have been visited by aliens. I am discounting the reports of UFOs. Why would they appear only to cranks and weirdos? If there is a government conspiracy to suppress the reports and keep for itself the scientific knowledge the aliens bring, it seems to have been a singularly ineffective policy so far. Furthermore, despite an extensive search by the SETI project, we haven't heard any alien television quiz shows. This probably indicates that there are no alien civilizations at our stage of development within a radius of a few hundred light years. Issuing an insurance policy against abduction by aliens seems a pretty safe bet. This brings me to the last of the big questions: the future of the human race. If we are the only intelligent beings in the galaxy, we should make sure we survive and continue. But we are entering an increasingly dangerous period of our history. Our population and our use of the finite resources of planet Earth are growing exponentially, along with our technical ability to change the environment for good or ill. But our genetic code still carries the selfish and aggressive instincts that were of survival advantage in the past. It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years, let alone the next thousand or million. Our only chance of long-term survival is not to remain inward-looking on planet Earth, but to spread out into space. The answers to these big questions show that we have made remarkable progress in the last hundred years. But if we want to continue beyond the next hundred years, our future is in space. That is why I am in favor of manned — or should I say,  personned — space flight. All of my life I have sought to understand the universe and find answers to these questions. I have been very lucky that my disability has not been a serious handicap. Indeed, it has probably given me more time than most people to pursue the quest for knowledge. The ultimate goal is a complete theory of the universe, and we are making good progress. Thank you for listening. Chris Anderson: Professor, if you had to guess either way, do you now believe that it is more likely than not that we are alone in the Milky Way, as a civilization of our level of intelligence or higher? This answer took seven minutes, and really gave me an insight into the incredible act of generosity this whole talk was for TED. Stephen Hawking: I think it quite likely that we are the only civilization within several hundred light years; otherwise we would have heard radio waves. The alternative is that civilizations don't last very long, but destroy themselves. CA: Professor Hawking, thank you for that answer. We will take it as a salutary warning, I think, for the rest of our conference this week. Professor, we really thank you for the extraordinary effort you made to share your questions with us today. Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)	沒有一個東西比宇宙更大或更老。我想討論的問題是，第一、我們從哪裡來？這個宇宙如何產生？我們在宇宙中是孤單的嗎？宇宙有沒有任何的外星生物？人類的未來是什麼？ 直到一九二零年代，人們認為宇宙本質上是固定的，不會隨著時間改變。之後，人們發現宇宙是一直在膨脹的。遠方的銀河正在漸漸地遠離我們。這個行星比宇宙剛形成時更靠近，如果我們更近從以宇宙的起源來看，在一百五十億年前，大爆炸是宇宙的開始， 但在大爆炸之前，是否有宇宙呢？如果沒有，那到底是什麼創造了宇宙？為什麼宇宙是經由大爆炸而形成呢？我們以前認為相關理論有兩部分，第一是麥斯威爾的理論到相對論決定宇宙的演化在太空中一個特定時間點內決定宇宙的狀態。第二是沒有任何關於宇宙起源的疑問。 我們在第一部份有一些進展，在宇宙演化的部分多了一些知識，但是，近來在第二個宇宙起源的發現沒有很多進展。然而，這些關於宇宙演化的理論是依據時間與空間是分開並獨立的假設。但在極端的條件下，相對論的變化以及量子理論時，已經讓時間變成另一個影響太空的變量。這個想法解除了原先時間與空間是分開獨立的假設，這也使得宇宙演化的研究直接會影響到宇宙起源的探索。宇宙可能會從完全沒有的狀態自發地產生。 此外，我們可以計算宇宙創造的的不同狀態的或然率。這些預測可以由Wmap衛星佐證，這些觀察數據可以取得宇宙早期形成的微波。我們認為我們已經解決的宇宙發生的秘密。或許我們應該開始去尋找太空是否有多樣的生物存在。 現在轉到第二個問題，我們是唯一在宇宙中的唯一生物嗎？我們相信地球是自然地產生生物。所以，也有可能在其他適合生存的行星上也會有生物，而且這種星球在銀河裡應該很多。 但我們還不知道生命剛剛形成的形式。我們有兩個可觀察的證據可以參考。第一是地球在三十五億年前的化石。在四十六億年前的地球，前五億年或許還因為太熱不適合生物生存。所以在地球剛開始的五億年沒有生物生存的可能，但到了地球產生的十億年時可能有基本形式的生命開始，當時生物存在的機率相對地高。如果存在機率非常低，那也大概會在後來的十億年發展出生物， 另一方面，我們似乎沒有資訊顯示外星人來訪，我手上沒有什麼飛碟資料，為什麼他們只出現在特定人士面前？如果政府為保密而壓制這些外星人資訊，使得科學家沒有機會研究外星人相關知識，目前對我似乎也不會是個有效的政策。再者，雖然有很多廣泛或相關的專案或研究，我們也沒有在電視的秀中看到任何訊息。在我們現有的研究發展下，我們在宇宙用無線電波在光年距離做宇宙測試的現象，這似乎顯示我們並沒有任何外星人的文明，我想對於要確認是否有外星人存在，我們的研究將是一個安全的背書。 這帶我們進入最後一個大問題，人類的未來，如果我們是銀河裡唯一高智慧生物，我們應該確認是否能永續生存，但我們正進入一個正在逐漸危險的人類歷史時期，我們的人口與我們使用這個地球行星的資源，是快速的成長以及我們高速的科技發展已經大量改變這個地球的生態，但我們的基因解碼研究已經使我們有積極的進展，使我們未來可以比過去生存的更好我們在未來一百年，或未來幾百萬年，都將很難避免未來的災難。 我們的唯一長期生存的機會，並不是去在地球重建另一個行星，而是去擴散到太空去。回答這些問題的答案是，顯現我們過去幾百年的努力的輝煌成就。我們要再用未來幾百年把力氣用在太空研究上，這是為什麼我會傾向研究人類的太空飛行。 我用我的一生去研究瞭解這個宇宙與替這些問題找答案，很幸運，我的缺陷並沒會成為一個嚴重的殘障。事實上，或許使我可以有更多時間與找到更多人來去追求我想要的知識這個最終目標在宇宙的理論正在進行好的發展。謝謝您的聆聽！ Chris Anderson: 教授如果你願意做個猜測的話，我想請問你相信在銀河裡面我們是否是唯一最高而有文明的高智商動物？這個答案需要七分鐘，這整個TED的演講真的讓我大開眼界。 Stephen Hawking: 我認為很可能我們是在幾百光年內我們是唯一的文明，否則我們應該會聽到無線電波，其他的文明沒有維持很久但可能自我毀滅過。Chris Anderson:教授，謝謝您的答案，我們會把你的意見當作我們在地球的的警訊。也謝謝您把你思考的問題分享給我們。真的非常感謝您。(掌聲)
