Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_coleman_the_moral_dangers_of_non_lethal_weapons	"What I want to talk to you about today is some of the problems that the military of the Western world — Australia, United States, the UK and so on — face in some of the deployments that they're dealing with in the modern world at this time. If you think about the sorts of things we've sent Australian military personnel to in recent years, we've got obvious things like Iraq and Afghanistan, but you've also got things like East Timor and the Solomon Islands, and so on. And a lot of these deployments that we're sending military personnel to these days aren't traditional wars. In fact, a lot of the jobs we're asking military personnel to do in those situations are ones that, in their own countries — Australia, the US and so on — would actually be done by police officers. So there's a bunch of problems that come up for military personnel in these situations, because they're doing things they haven't really been trained for. And they're doing things that those who do them in their own countries are trained very differently for and equipped very differently for. Now, there's a bunch of reasons why we send military personnel, rather than police, to do these jobs. If Australia had to send 1,000 people tomorrow to West Papua, for example, we don't have 1,000 police officers hanging around that could go tomorrow, and we do have 1,000 soldiers that could go. So when we have to send someone, we send the military — they're there, they're available, and heck, they're used to going off and doing these things and living by themselves and not having all this extra support. So they are able to do it in that sense. But they aren't trained the same way police officers are, and they're certainly not equipped the way police officers are, so this has raised a bunch of problems for them when dealing with these issues. One particular thing that's come up that I am especially interested in, is the question of whether, when we're sending military personnel to do these sorts of jobs, we ought to be equipping them differently; and in particular, whether we ought to be giving them access to some of the nonlethal weapons that police have. Since they're doing some of the same jobs, maybe they should have some of those things. And there's a range of places you'd think those things would be really useful. For example, when you've got military checkpoints. If people are approaching these checkpoints and the military personnel are unsure if this person's hostile or not, say this person approaching here, and they say, ""Is this a suicide bomber or not? Is something hidden under their clothes? What's going to happen?"" They don't know if the person is hostile or not. If the person doesn't follow directions, they may end up shooting them, and then find out afterwards either, yes, we shot the right person, or, no, this was just an innocent person who didn't understand what was going on. So if they had nonlethal weapons, then they would say, ""We can use them in that sort of situation. If we shoot someone who wasn't hostile, at least we haven't killed them."" Another situation: this photo is from one of the missions in the Balkans in the late 1990s. This situation is a little bit different, where maybe they know someone is hostile; they've got someone shooting at them or doing something else that's clearly hostile, throwing rocks, whatever. But if they respond, there's a range of other people around who are innocent people, who might also get hurt. It'd be collateral damage that the military often doesn't want to talk about. So again, they'd say, ""With access to nonlethal weapons, if we've got someone we know is hostile, we can do something to deal with them, and know that if we hit anyone else, at least we're not going to kill them."" Another suggestion has been, since we're putting so many robots in the field, we can see the time coming where they're actually going to send robots out in the field that are autonomous. They'll make their own decisions about who to shoot and who not to shoot, without a human in the loop. So the suggestion is, if we're going to send robots out and allow them to do this, maybe it would be a good idea if they were armed with nonlethal weapons, so if the robot makes a bad decision and shoots the wrong person, again, they haven't actually killed them. Now, there's a whole range of different sorts of nonlethal weapons, some of which are available now, some of which they're developing. You've got traditional things like pepper spray, OC spray up at the top there, or Tasers over here. The one on the top right here is actually a dazzling laser, intended to just blind the person momentarily and disorient them. You've got nonlethal shotgun rounds that contain rubber pellets instead of the traditional metal ones. And this one in the middle here, the large truck, is called the Active Denial System, something the US military is working on at the moment. It's essentially a big microwave transmitter. It's sort of your classic idea of a heat ray. It goes out to a really long distance, compared to any of these other sorts of things. Anybody who is hit with this feels a sudden burst of heat, and just wants to get out of the way. It is a lot more sophisticated than a microwave oven, but it basically is boiling the water molecules in the very surface level of your skin. So you feel this massive heat, and you go, ""I want to get out of the way."" And they think this will be really useful in places where we need to clear a crowd out of a particular area, if the crowd is being hostile. If we need to keep people away from a particular place, we can do that with these sorts of things. So there's a whole range of different nonlethal weapons we could give military personnel, and there's a whole range of situations where they're looking at them and saying, ""These things would be really useful."" But as I said, the military and the police are very different. (Laughter) Yes, you don't have to look very hard at this to recognize that they might be very different. In particular, the attitude to the use of force and the way they're trained to use force is especially different. The police — and knowing because I've actually helped to train police — police, particularly in Western jurisdictions at least, are trained to De-escalate force, to try and avoid using force wherever possible, and to use lethal force only as an absolute last resort. Military personnel are being trained for war. So they're trained that, as soon as things go bad, their first response is lethal force. The moment the fecal matter hits the rotating turbine — (Laughter) you can start shooting at people. So their attitudes to the use of lethal force are very different, and I think it's fairly obvious that their attitude to the use of nonlethal weapons would also be very different from what it is with the police. And since we've already had so many problems with police use of nonlethal weapons in various ways, I thought it would be a good idea to look at some of those things and relate it to the military context. I was very surprised when I started to do this to see that, in fact, even the people who advocated the use of nonlethal weapons by the military hadn't actually done that. They generally seemed to think, ""Why would we care what's happened with the police? We're looking at something different,"" and didn't seem to recognize they were looking at pretty much the same stuff. So I started to investigate some of those issues, and have a look at the way police use nonlethal weapons when they're introduced, and some of the problems that might arise out of those sorts of things when they actually do introduce them. And of course, being Australian, I started looking at stuff in Australia, knowing from my own experience of various times when nonlethal weapons have been introduced in Australia. One of the things I particularly looked at was the use of OC spray — oleoresin capsicum spray, pepper spray — by Australian police, and seeing what had happened when that had been introduced, and those sorts of issues. And one study that I found, a particularly interesting one, was in Queensland, because they had a trial period for the use of pepper spray before they actually introduced it more broadly. And I went and had a look at some of the figures here. Now, when they introduced OC spray in Queensland, they were really explicit. The police minister's and a heap of public statements were made about it. They were saying, ""This is explicitly intended to give police an option between shouting and shooting. This is something they can use instead of a firearm in situations where they would have previously had to shoot someone."" So I looked at all of the police shooting figures. And you can't actually find them very easily for individual Australian states; I could only find these. This is from an Australian Institute of Criminology report. You can see, in the fine print at the top: ""Police shooting deaths"" means not just people shot by police, but people who have shot themselves in the presence of police. But these are the figures across the entire country, and the red arrow represents the point where Queensland said, ""Yes, this is where we're going to give all police officers across the entire state access to OC spray."" So you can see there were six deaths sort of leading up to it, every year for a number of years. There was a spike a few years before, but that wasn't actually Queensland. Anyone know where that was? Wasn't Port Arthur, no. Victoria? Yes, correct. That spike was all Victoria. (Laughter) So it wasn't that Queensland had a particular problem with deaths from police shootings and so on. So, six shootings across the whole country, fairly consistently over the years before. The next two years were the years they studied — 2001, 2002. Anyone want to take a stab at the number of times, given how they've introduced this, the number of times police in Queensland used OC spray in that period? Hundreds? One? Three? A thousand is getting better. Explicitly introduced as an alternative to the use of lethal force — an alternative between shouting and shooting. I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that if Queensland police didn't have OC spray, they wouldn't have shot 2,226 people in those two years. (Laughter) In fact, if you have a look at the studies they were looking at, the material they were collecting and examining, you can see the suspects were only armed in about 15 percent of cases where OC spray was used. It was routinely being used in this period, and, of course, still is routinely used — because there were no complaints about it, not within the context of this study, anyway — it was routinely being used to deal with people who were violent, who were potentially violent, and also quite frequently used to deal with people who were simply passively noncompliant. This person is not doing anything violent, but they just won't do what we want them to. They're not obeying the directions we're giving them, so we'll give them a shot of the OC spray — that'll speed them up. Everything will work out better that way. This was something explicitly introduced to be an alternative to firearms, but it's being routinely used to deal with a whole range of other sorts of problems. Now one of the particular issues that comes up with military use of nonlethal weapons — and people actually say, ""There might be some problems"" — there's a couple of particular problems that get focused on. One of those problems is: nonlethal weapons may be used indiscriminately. One of the fundamental principles of military use of force is that you have to be discriminate; you have to be careful about who you're shooting at. So one of the problems suggested with nonlethal weapons is that they might be used indiscriminately — that you would use them against a whole range of people, because you don't have to worry so much anymore. And in fact, one particular instance where I think that actually happens was the Dubrovka Theater siege in Moscow in 2002, which probably a lot of you, unlike most of my students at ADFA, are old enough to remember. So, Chechens had come in and taken control of the theater. They were holding something like 700 people hostage. They'd released a bunch of people, but they still had about 700 people hostage. And the Russian military police special forces, ""Spetsnaz,"" came in and stormed the theater. The way they did it was to pump the whole thing full of anesthetic gas. And it turned out that lots of the hostages died as a result of inhaling the gas. It was used indiscriminately. They pumped the whole theater full of the gas. And it's no surprise that people died, because you don't know how much gas each person is going to inhale, what position they'll fall in when they become unconscious, and so on. There were, in fact, only a couple of people who got shot in this episode. So when they had a look at it afterward, there were only a couple of people who'd apparently been shot, by the hostage takers or by the police forces trying to deal with the situation. Virtually everybody that got killed got killed from inhaling the gas. The final toll of hostages is a little unclear, but it's certainly a few more than that, because other people died over the next few days. So this was one problem they talked about, that it might be used indiscriminately. A second problem people sometimes talk about with military use of nonlethal weapons — and it's actually why, in the chemical weapons convention, it's very clear that you can't use riot-control agents as weapons of warfare — is that it's seen that sometimes nonlethal weapons might be used not as an alternative to lethal force, but as a lethal force multiplier: that you use nonlethal weapons first, so your lethal weapons will actually be more effective. The people you'll be shooting at won't be able to get out of the way. They won't be aware of what's happening, and you can kill them better. And that's exactly what happened here. The hostage takers who had been rendered unconscious by the gas were not taken into custody; they were simply shot in the head. So this nonlethal weapon was being used in this case as a lethal force multiplier, to make killing more effective in this particular situation. Another problem I want to quickly mention is that there's a whole heap of problems with the way people are actually taught to use nonlethal weapons, and get trained about them and then tested and so on. Because they're tested in nice, safe environments, and are taught to use them in nice, safe environments — like this, where you can see exactly what's going on. The person spraying the OC spray is wearing a rubber glove to make sure they don't get contaminated, and so on. But they're never used like that. They're used out in the real world, like in Texas, like this: [""Police Taser Great-Grandmother During Traffic Stop""] I confess, this particular case was one that piqued my interest in this. It happened while I was working as a research fellow at the US Naval Academy. News reports started coming up about this situation, where this woman was arguing with a police officer. She wasn't violent. In fact, he was probably six inches taller than me, and she was about this tall. And eventually she said to him, ""Well, I'm going to get back in my car."" And he says, ""If you get back in your car, I'm going to tase you."" And she says, ""Oh, go ahead. Tase me."" And so he does. And it's all captured by the video camera running in the front of the police car. So, she's 72. And it's seen that this is the most appropriate way of dealing with her. And there are other examples of the same sorts of things, where you think, ""Is this really an appropriate way to use nonlethal weapons?"" ""Police Chief Fires Taser into 14 year old Girl's Head."" ""She was running away. What else was I suppose to do?"" (Laughter) Or Florida: ""Police Taser 6-year-old Boy at Elementary School."" And they clearly learned a lot from it, because in the same district: ""Police Review Policy After Children Shocked: 2nd Child Shocked by Taser Stun Gun Within Weeks."" Same police district. Another child within weeks of Tasering the six-year-old boy. Just in case you think it's only going to happen in the United States, it happened in Canada as well: [""Mounties Zap 11-year-old Boy""] And a colleague sent me this one from London: [""Arrested Man, 82, Shot with Taser""] But my personal favorite, I have to confess, does come from the US: ""Officers Taser 86-year-old Disabled Woman in her Bed."" (Laughter) I checked the reports on this one. I looked at it. I was really surprised. Apparently, she took up a more threatening position in her bed. (Laughter) I kid you not, that's exactly what it said: ""She took up a more threatening position in her bed."" OK. But I'd remind you — I'm talking about military uses of nonlethal weapons, so why is this relevant? Because police are actually more restrained in the use of force than the military are. They're trained to be more restrained in the use of force than the military are. They're trained to think more, to try and De-escalate. So if you have these problems with police officers with nonlethal weapons, what on earth would make you think it's going to be better with military personnel? The last thing that I would like to say: When I'm talking to the police about what a perfect nonlethal weapon would look like, they almost inevitably say the same thing. They say, ""It's got to be something that's nasty enough that people don't want to be hit with this weapon. So if you threaten to use it, people are going to comply with it. But it's also going to be something that doesn't leave any lasting effects."" In other words, your perfect nonlethal weapon is something that's perfect for abuse. What would these guys have done if they'd had access to Tasers, or to a manned, portable version of the Active Denial System — a small heat ray that you can use on people and not worry about. So I think yes, there may be ways that nonlethal weapons will be great in these situations, but there's also a whole heap of problems that need to be considered as well. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	"今天我將跟各位探討的是西方世界的軍隊諸如澳大利亞,美國,英國等等在調遣部署時所面臨的一些問題.在調遣部署時所面臨的一些問題.如果你試想一下 —近幾年我們派給澳大利亞軍隊的任務；如伊拉克和阿富汗還有东帝汶 【位于东南亚】 —和所罗门群岛 ，等等， 很多諸如此類的軍事任務—很多諸如此類的軍事任務—並不是我們所熟悉的傳統戰爭。事實上，很多這些我們讓士兵做的事情事實上，很多這些我們讓士兵做的事情在像澳大利亞和美國這樣的國家都是由警察包辦的。所以，當士兵從事此類任務時 —會遇到很多問題。因為他們對這樣的任務並沒有受過良好的訓練，另外，真正從事此類任務的 —警務人員接受的是完全不同的培訓，警務人員接受的是完全不同的培訓，就連他們的裝備也截然不同。 當然這裡有很多原因為什麼 —我們會派遣士兵 —而不是警察去做這些事情。假如澳大利亞要在一夜之間調動一千個人 —去西巴布亚。我們沒有一千名警務人員在那明天就可以馬上走人。但我們的確有一千名士兵隨時都能走。所以，當我們要調動人時，我們會派這些士兵去，因為他們就在那隨時準備待命。在某種意義上 —這些士兵的確也能勝任此類任務他們習慣了在沒有後勤的情況下，去這去哪，做這做那的。他們習慣了在沒有後勤的情況下，去這去哪，做這做那的。但是問題就在於他們所受的訓練與警務人員的不同，當然他們的裝備也不一樣。 所以，士兵在處理這類事務時會遇到很多麻煩。所以，士兵在處理這類事務時會遇到很多麻煩。一個特別讓我感興趣的問題是，一個特別讓我感興趣的問題是，當我們派遣這些士兵去做這些任務時，我們應不應該讓他們攜帶不同的裝備我們應不應該讓他們攜帶不同的裝備確切的說，我們應不應該讓士兵們配備警務人員所使用的非殺傷性武器。既然這些士兵們也在做和警察他們做的一樣的事情，他們也應該裝備的一樣。 當然，你會想在很多地方，這些非殺傷性武器還是挺管用的。比如說，軍事關卡。如果有人靠近這些關卡，並且，士兵們不知道此人是不是會具有危險性。他們會想""這是不是人肉炸彈？”“他們是不是藏了一些東西在他們的衣服裡面?到底會發生什麽?”你不知道這人是不是心懷鬼胎如果這人不聽從士兵們的指示士兵很可能就會開槍射擊等事情過後，他們才能知道“好啊！我們殺對人了。”“不！我們殺了無辜的老百姓。““不！我們殺了無辜的老百姓。“但是，如果士兵們有非殺傷性武器他們會想，”在這些情況下，我們可以用這個。””至少，當我們搞錯人的時候，我們不會殺了他們。“ 還有一個例子。這張照片是拍自1990年末，巴爾幹半島的一次任務。這次任務和上一個有所不同。這次，士兵們知道誰是敵人有人很明顯的對士兵們表現出敵意，如開槍，扔石頭什麼的。但是，如果士兵在這個時候回擊的話，很可能會連類一大群無辜的老百姓。軍事人員一般都不喜歡談論像這樣的附帶損害所以，他們會想，“如果有非殺傷性武器的話，然後我們知道誰是敵意的，至少我們不會束手無策，就算是傷及了無辜至少我們不會殺死這些老百姓。 還有一個建議是，現在越來越多的機器人被使用在不同的任務中我們也能預想到在不久的將來，完全自動化的機器人會被派遣到戰場上。他們會在沒有人類控制的情況下，自我決定要向誰射擊。所以，一個建議是，如果我們真的要派遣機器人去執行這些任務，給機器人裝備非殺傷性武器可能是更明智之舉，給機器人裝備非殺傷性武器可能是更明智之舉這樣的話，就算機器人做錯了決定，射錯了人至少他們不會殺了他們。 現在有不同種類，各種各樣的非殺傷性武器，其中一些現在已經在使用了，還有一些正在研製當中。所以，我們有傳統的非殺傷武器如胡椒喷雾剂O.C.噴霧在這上面或者泰瑟枪（電擊槍）在這。在右上角是一把刺眼的鐳射槍。這種鐳射槍可以讓敵人暫時失明，從而使他們失去方向感。我們還有裝有橡膠子彈的非殺傷性霰弹猎枪，我們還有裝有橡膠子彈的非殺傷性霰弹獵槍，用來取代傳統的金屬制的子彈。還有，在這個圖像中間的這輛大卡車其實是美軍現在正在使用的，主动压制系统。其實是美軍現在正在使用的，主动压制系统。 它在本質上其實是一個大的微波傳導器。它就是所謂的熱射線。比起其它的東西（輻射）熱射線能夠延伸到更遠的距離。被（熱射線）擊中的人會感到瞬間的灼熱感，使得他（她）都想躲開。當然，它比一個微波爐要來的複雜，但是，它其實就是在煮你皮膚表面的水分子。但是，它其實就是在煮你皮膚表面的水分子。所以，你會感到極度的熱量然後你會想，“我想離開這裡！”所以，他們（軍事人員）想，這東西可能在像驅趕人群的這樣的場合中會很管用。如果人群懷有敵意，然後，我們想讓這群人遠離某些地方我們就可以使用像這樣的東西（主动压制系统）。 所以，有很多不同種類的非殺傷性武器我們可以提供給軍事人員。另外，在很多種不同的形勢下，他們會認為非殺傷性武器會很管用。但是，我認為士兵和警察是截然不同的。（笑）當然，就算你不那麼仔細的觀察你也會發現他們可能有所不同。更確切的說，他們對使用武力的態度和他們對使用武力所接受的訓練是非常不一樣的。 警察們 —我了解他們，因為我曾經訓練過他們 —警察，尤其是在西方體制下的警察所接受的訓練是如何緩解衝突，他們試圖盡量避免使用武力，他們試圖盡量避免使用武力，只有在逼不得已的情況下他們才會使用致命武器。士兵是為了戰爭而訓練的，，所以一旦形勢惡化了，他們的第一反應就是使用致命武器。在大難臨頭之際士兵們就可以開始掃射群眾。所以他們對使用武力的態度是十分不同的，所以他們對使用武力的態度是十分不同的。想當然地，他們對使用非殺傷性武器的態度也會和警察的不同。 我認為觀察這類事情並試圖將它與戰爭聯繫起來會是個不錯的主意。因為就連警察在使用非殺傷性武器時也遇到了種種問題。我當時覺得很奇怪，當我開始做這件事的時候我驚奇的發現就連那些支持推廣非殺傷性武器的軍事人員也都還沒開始做這件事。他們通常認為，“我們為什麼要去關注在警察身上發生了什麽？警察和士兵可不同。""但是他們好像並沒有發現，事實上他們（警察和士兵）所遇到的是一類問題。 所以，我就開始研究並調查這類事情。所以，我就開始研究並調查這類事情。非殺傷性武器剛被採用時，警察是如何使用它的。並且，他們在使用過程中遇到了那些問題。並且，他們在使用過程中遇到了那些問題。並且，他們在使用過程中遇到了那些問題。，理所當然的，作為一位澳大利亞人我對在不同時間（澳）引進非殺傷性武器的事情比較楚，我對在不同時間（澳）引進非殺傷性武器的事情比較楚，所以我首先調查了澳大利亞 我當時特別關注的事情之一就是O.C.噴霧器是如何被警察所使用，O.C.噴霧器是如何被警察所使用，諸如，辣椒红色素喷雾、胡椒喷雾,、。另外還有，當O.C 噴霧器被採用時所發生的事情，和諸如此類的事宜。我覺得有這麼 一個在昆士蘭的研究我覺得有這麼 一個在昆士蘭的研究特別有意思。因為他們在全面推廣胡椒喷雾前有一段適用期。然我就看了看數據。當初他們在昆士蘭引進 O.C 噴霧時目標很明確.他們並且在這方面做了很多的公共聲明.他們說,""這是一個很明確的指示我們想要給警務人在警告和開槍之間多增加一種選擇.在這些之前需要開槍的情況中,警察可以使用O.C噴霧,而不是槍. 雖然， 像這種警察開槍數據在澳大利亞各個州很難找到我還是找到並調查了這些統計數據。我只找到了這些數據。這是來自於，澳大利亚犯罪学学院的报告就如你們在這上面所看到的“警察開槍所導致的死亡” 不只包括被警察開搶射死的人還包括了那些在警察面前開搶射殺自己的人。這是全國性的數據正如崑山頓，這個紅色箭頭表示的正如崑山頓，這個紅色箭頭表示的，“這裡就是那些在全國需要給警務人員配備O.C噴霧的地區”“這裡就是那些在全國需要給警務人員配備O.C噴霧的地區”所以在這裡你可以看見六個死亡組合，從低到高，數據包括了數年。在前幾年，這裡有一個忽漲，但是這裡不是昆士兰州。誰知道這是哪裡？ 不， 不是 阿瑟港維多利亞？ 對了。這裡的猛增多來源於維多利亞。所以，不是只有昆士兰州有這些問題，問題像警察射殺所導致的死亡之類的。在全國有六個射殺事件。在前幾年，這個數字相當的穩定 所以，當他們引進了O.C 噴霧以後的那兩年裡 ， 2001 和 2002 年裡。所以，當他們引進了O.C 噴霧以後的那兩年裡 ， 2001 和 2002 年裡。他們研究了在昆士兰州，警察使用噴霧器的數量。有沒有人想要猜一猜這個數字？一百？ 一， 三。一千更接近了。這是一個很明確的意圖，除了使用致命武器外另外一個選擇 —在警告和開槍之間,多增加一種選擇.我現在想說得再明白點（爬高枝）如果昆士兰州的警察沒有使用噴霧劑的話，他們不可能在這兩年裡，射殺了2226 個人。他們不可能在這兩年裡，射殺了2226 個人。事實上，如果你看一看他們調查結果。他們所收集的資料和審查，他們調查結果。他們所收集的資料和審查，你會發現在警察使用噴霧器的事件中，只有百分之15是的嫌疑犯攜帶了武器。 在那個時期，O.C噴霧器是被常規的使用的，當然，現在也是 —這是應為，沒有對這類事件有任何的投訴至少在這個調查中沒有 —噴霧器在面對這類人被常規的使用，比如說暴力的人，或者具有暴力傾向的人另外，噴霧器也會被拿來對付那些只是不喜歡順從警察命令的那些人。這些人沒有做任何具有暴力傾向的事，但是，他們只是不想去做別人讓他們做的事，他們沒有服從警察的命令，所以警察就對他們使用了O.C噴霧器。這樣可以迅速解決問題。這就是他們所說的，“在使用手槍以外，有另外一個選擇，但是，O.C 噴霧器在很多的領域中和其他的問題中但是，O.C 噴霧器在很多的領域中和其他的問題中被過度使用了。 現在，我們來說說，軍事人員在使用非殺傷性武器所遇到的問題現在，我們來說說，軍事人員在使用非殺傷性武器所遇到的問題人們說， “可能會有一些問題”其中有些問題被特別關注了。其中一個問題就是非殺傷性武器被不加以區分地使用了。軍事人員在使用武力時所要依循的原則之一就是要懂得辨別。當你要開槍時要非常小心所以， 由於， 你不需要太擔心使用非殺傷性武器其中一個使用非殺傷性武器的問題就是它們被隨意地使用在一批人身上。就是它們被隨意地使用在一批人身上。 事實上，我覺得有一個例子，一個已經發生了的例子可以說明問題。那就是在2002年，俄羅斯大劇院人質事件。不像我的一些年輕的學生們，大部分在座的老一輩應該還能記得。一些車臣份子闖進了劇院，並且控制了全場。他們挾持了將近700多名人質。雖然他們釋放了其中一些人，但是他們還是有將近700名人質。然後，俄羅斯特總部隊，雪域特戰隊，偷襲並橫掃了劇院。他們先是將整個劇院灌入麻醉氣體。結果發現很多人質由於吸入了這些氣體而死亡。這就是一個任意濫用武器的例子。不難想像，有人會因為這而喪身。 他們把這個劇院灌滿了麻醉氣體。你不知道每個人會吸入多少氣體，你不知道每個人會吸入多少氣體，當他們失去意識時，會以什麼姿勢倒地，等等。當他們失去意識時，會以什麼姿勢倒地，等等。事實上，整個事件只有兩個人被開槍射擊事實上，整個事件只有兩個人被開槍射擊所以，當他們回顧發現，只有兩個人是明顯地被挾持者或特總部隊開槍射擊而亡。只有兩個人是明顯地被挾持者或特總部隊開槍射擊而亡。只有兩個人是明顯地被挾持者或特總部隊開槍射擊而亡。只有兩個人是明顯地被挾持者或特總部隊開槍射擊而亡。幾乎所有喪生的人都是由於吸入了這種麻醉氣體。最後喪生的人質總數還是有點不清楚但肯定是比當場死亡人數要多，因為有些人在過後幾天身亡。這就是其中一個我們所說的濫用非致命性武器的問題。 第二個人們時常談到的在使用非殺傷性武器時的問題，第二個人們時常談到的在使用非殺傷性武器時的問題，這也是化學武器公約裡所談到的，很明顯的，不應把軍用化學武器用於戰爭這個問題就在於這些非殺傷性武器不是用於替代殺傷性武器的而是用來輔助殺傷性武器的 —你可以先使用非殺傷性武器然後你再使用殺傷性武器時就會變得更有效。被你射擊的人將無法躲開。被你射擊的人將無法躲開。你可以更輕鬆的殺死他們，因為他們不知道發生了什麼。然而事實上，那正是所發生的事那些由於吸入氣體而昏迷的挾持人質者沒有被逮捕，而是被直接爆了頭。所以，在這場事件中，非殺傷性武器被用來輔助殺傷性武器，從而可以更有效率的殺戮。從而可以更有效率的殺戮。 我還想簡單的提一下另一個問題，那就是，人所接受的非殺傷性武器的培訓方法那就是，人所接受的非殺傷性武器的培訓方法那就是，人所接受的非殺傷性武器的培訓方法有堆積如山的問題。因為他們是在一個良好及安全的環境下接受訓練同樣，他們也是在這樣的環境下接受考核。就像這裡，你可以確切地看到發生了什麼。這裡在使用O.C噴霧器的人戴着塑膠手套以確保他們不會被污染但是在現實中，這些殺傷性武器 不是被這樣使用的，就像在德克萨斯州，“警察對老奶奶使用電擊槍”我承認， 這一事件激起了我的興趣。這件事情發生的時候，我是美國海軍學院的一名研究員那時，新聞開始播報這件事一個老奶奶和警務人員發生了爭執她並不暴力這個警察比我高六英寸，而老奶奶有差不多怎麼高最後她對警察說“我現在要回到我的車上了。”然後他說，“如果你回到你的車上，我就會使用電擊槍.""然後她說， “好啊，來呀，電我啊。” 然後他就照做了。這一切被攝像頭記錄了下來。這一切被攝像頭記錄了下來。所以，她是72歲這看來是對付她最適當的方法。 還有其它類似的例子，這些例子讓你質疑，“這真的是使用非殺傷武器最適合的方法嗎？”“警察局長朝14歲女孩的頭部使用電擊槍。”“她逃跑了，我別無選擇”（笑聲）或者， 佛罗里达“警察在小學對六歲男孩使用電擊槍。”他們肯定從中吸取了教訓。因為這兩件事發生在同一個社區“孩子被電擊，警察重新修訂政策；在一星期內，兩名孩童被電擊槍擊中。”又同一個社區,在六歲男童被電擊後的幾個禮拜裡，有另一個孩童被電了。 你可能覺得這事只會發生在美國但是，這種事也在加拿大發生了。我的一個同事從倫敦發給了我這個， “被捕82歲男人被電擊”我的一個同事從倫敦發給了我這個， “被捕82歲男人被電擊”但是我必須承認，我最喜歡的還是來自於美國的；“警員電擊了一個躺在床上的86歲殘疾女性。”我查了查關於這事件的報導。我看了以後大吃一驚。很明顯的，她躺在床上時更具有危險性。（笑聲）我沒開玩笑，這真的“她躺在床上時更具有危險性。”好的。 但是我想要提醒你我今天的主題，我想要說的是軍事人員（士兵）在使用非殺傷性武器時的問題所以，這有什麼關聯嗎？因為警察在使用武力時比士兵受到更多的約束，因為警察在使用武力時比士兵受到更多的約束，所以，在訓練時，他們也被教導要更謹慎地使用武力。他們會顧慮的跟多，盡量大事化小，小事化了。如果你覺得就連警察在使用非殺傷性武器時都會遇到問題，那麼，到底什麼會讓你覺得軍事人員會被警察做的要好呢？ 最後我想說的是，當我和警員談起什麼是完美的非殺傷性武器時當我和警員談起什麼是完美的非殺傷性武器時他們必然會說同樣的話：“嗯，它必需要是足夠噁心，使人們不想被它所傷。““嗯，它必需要是足夠噁心，使人們不想被它所傷。""""當你威脅別人說要用它時，人人往往會投降。”“但它還不能留下任何後遺症。”“但它還不能留下任何後遺症。”換句話說，完美的非殺傷性武器就是非常適用於虐待人的。換句話說，完美的非殺傷性武器就是非常適用於虐待人的。想像一下，當這些人擁有點擊槍或者一個可以操控的，便携版的主动拒止系统當這些人擁有電擊槍或者一個便携版的主动拒止系统（主动拒止系统-能讓你使用毫米波電磁的非殺傷技術，而你卻不需要擔心後果）（主动拒止系统-能讓你使用毫米波電磁的非殺傷技術，而你卻不需要擔心後果）（主动拒止系统-能讓你使用毫米波電磁的非殺傷技術，而你卻不需要擔心後果）他們會做出什麼呢。 所以我覺得，非殺傷性武器是在一些情況下會有很大效果，所以我覺得，非殺傷性武器是在一些情況下會有很大效果，但不能不考慮它所帶來的堆積如山的問題。但不能不考慮它所帶來的堆積如山的問題。 非常感謝。 (鼓掌)"
