Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_ritz_a_teacher_growing_green_in_the_south_bronx	"Good afternoon. I am not a farmer. (Laughter) I'm not. I'm a parent, I'm a resident and I'm a teacher. And this is my world. And along the way I've started noticing — I'm on my third generation of kids — that they're getting bigger. They're getting sicker. In addition to these complexities, I just learned that 70 percent of the kids that I see who are labeled learning disabled would not have been had they had proper prenatal nutrition. The realities of my community are simple. They look like this. Kids should not have to grow up and look at things like this. And as jobs continue to leave my community, and energy continues to come in, be exported in, it's no wonder that really some people refer to the South Bronx as a desert. But I'm the oldest sixth grader you'll ever meet, so I get up every day with this tremendous amount of enthusiasm that I'm hoping to share with you all today. And with that note, I come to you with this belief that kids should not have to leave their communities to live, learn and earn in a better one. So I'm here to tell you a story about me and this wall that I met outside, which I'm now bringing inside. And it starts with three people. The crazy teacher — that's me on the left, I dress up pretty, thank you, my wife, I love you for getting a good suit — my passionate borough president and a guy named George Irwin from Green Living Technologies who helped me with my class and helped me get involved with this patented technology. But it all starts with seeds in classrooms, in my place, which looks like this. And I'm here today hoping that my reach will exceed my grasp. And that's really what this is all about. And it starts with incredible kids like this, who come early and stay late. All of my kids are either IEP or ELL learners, most come with a lot of handicaps, most are homeless and many are in foster care. Almost all of my kids live below poverty. But with those seeds, from day one, we are growing in my classroom, and this is what it looks like in my classroom. And you see how attentive these kids are to these seeds. And then you notice that those seeds become farms across the Bronx that look like this. But again, I am not a farmer. I'm a teacher. And I don't like weeding, and I don't like back-breaking labor. So I wanted to figure out how I could get this kind of success into something small, like this, and bring it into my classroom so that handicapped kids could do it, kids who didn't want to be outside could do it, and everyone could have access. So I called George Irwin, and what do you know? He came to my class and we built an indoor edible wall. And what we do is we partner it with authentic learning experiences, private-based learning. And lo and behold, we gave birth to the first edible wall in New York City. So if you're hungry, get up and eat. You can do it right now. My kids play cow all the time. Okay? But we were just getting started, the kids loved the technology, so we called up George and we said, ""We gotta learn more!"" Now, Mayor Bloomberg, thank you very much, we no longer need work permits, which comes with slices and bonded contractors — we're available for you — We decided to go to Boston. And my kids, from the poorest congressional district in America, became the first to install a green wall, designed by a computer, with real-live learning tools, 21 stories up — if you're going to go visit it, it's on top of the John Hancock building. But closer to home, we started installing these walls in schools that look like this with lighting like that, real LED stuff, 21st-century technology. And what do you know? We made 21st century money, and that was groundbreaking. Wow! This is my harvest, people. And what do you do with this food? You cook it! And those are my heirloom students making heirloom sauce, with plastic forks, and we get it into the cafeteria, and we grow stuff and we feed our teachers. And that is the youngest nationally certified workforce in America with our Bronx Borough President. And what'd we do then? Well, I met nice people like you, and they invited us to the Hamptons. So I call this ""from South Bronx to Southampton."" And we started putting in roofs that look like this, and we came in from destitute neighborhoods to start building landscape like this, wow! People noticed. And so we got invited back this past summer, and we actually moved into the Hamptons, payed 3,500 dollars a week for a house, and we learned how to surf. And when you can do stuff like this — These are my kids putting in this technology, and when you can build a roof that looks like that on a house that looks like that with sedum that looks like this, this is the new green graffiti. So, you may wonder what does a wall like this really do for kids, besides changing landscapes and mindsets? Okay, I'm going to tell you what it does. It gets me to meet incredible contractors like this, Jim Ellenberger from Ellenberger Services. And this is where it becomes true triple bottom line. Because Jim realized that these kids, my future farmers, really had the skills he needed to build affordable housing for New Yorkers, right in their own neighborhood. And this is what my kids are doing, making living wage. Now, if you're like me, you live in a building, there are seven guys out of work looking to manage a million dollars. I don't have it. But if you need a toilet fixed or, you know, some shelving, I gotta wait six months for an appointment with someone who drives a much nicer car than me. That's the beauty of this economy. But my kids are now licensed and bonded in trade. And that's my first student to open up, the first in his family to have a bank account. This immigrant student is the first one in his family to use an ATM. And this is the true triple bottom line, because we can take neighborhoods that were abandoned and destitute and turn them into something like this with interiors like this. Wow! People noticed. And notice they did. So CNN called, and we were delighted to have them come to our farmer's market. And then when Rockefeller Center said, NBC, could you put this thing up on the walls? We were delighted. But this, I show you, when kids from the poorest congressional district in America can build a 30-foot by 15-foot wall, design it, plant it and install it in the heart of New York City, that's a true ""sí se puede"" moment. Really scholastic, if you ask me. But this is not a Getty image. That's a picture I took of my Bronx Borough President, addressing my kids in his house, not the jailhouse, making them feel a part of it. That's our State Senator Gustavo Rivera and Bob Bieder, coming to my classroom to make my kids feel important. And when the Bronx Borough President shows up and the State Senator comes to our class, believe you me, the Bronx can change attitudes now. We are poised, ready, willing and able to export our talent and diversity in ways we've never even imagined. And when the local senator gets on the scale in public and says he's got to lose weight, so do I! And I tell you what, I'm doing it and so are the kids. Okay? And then celebrities started. Produce Pete can't believe what we grow. Lorna Sass came and donated books. Okay? We're feeding seniors. And when we realized that we were growing for food justice in the South Bronx, so did the international community. And my kids in the South Bronx were repped in the first international green roof conference. And that's just great. Except what about locally? Well, we met this woman, Avis Richards, with the Ground Up Campaign. Unbelievable! Through her, my kids, the most disenfranchised and marginalized, were able to roll out 100 gardens to New York City public schools. That's triple bottom line! Okay? A year ago today, I was invited to the New York Academy of Medicine. I thought this concept of designing a strong and healthy New York made sense, especially when the resources were free. So thank you all and I love them. They introduced me to the New York City Strategic Alliance for Health, again, free resources, don't waste them. And what do you know? Six months later, my school and my kids were awarded the first ever high school award of excellence for creating a healthy school environment. The greenest class in New York City. But more importantly is my kids learned to get, they learned to give. And we took the money that we made from our farmer's market, and started buying gifts for the homeless and for needy around the world. So we started giving back. And that's when I realized that the greening of America starts first with the pockets, then with the heart and then with the mind. So we were onto something, and we're still onto something. And thank God Trinity Wall Street noticed, because they gave us the birth of Green Bronx Machine. We're 3,000 strong right now. And what does it really do? It teaches kids to re-vision their communities, so when they grow up in places like this, they can imagine it like this. And my kids, trained and certified — Ma, you get the tax abatement. Thank you, Mayor Bloomberg — can take communities that look like this and convert them into things that look like that, and that to me, people, is another true ""sí se puede"" moment. Now, how does it start? It starts in schools. No more little Knicks and little Nets. Group by broccoli, group by your favorite vegetable, something you can aspire to. Okay? And these are my future farmers of America, growing up in Brook Park on 141st Street, the most migrant community in America. When tenacious little ones learn how to garden like this, it's no wonder we get fruit like that. And I love it! And so do they. And we're building teepees in neighborhoods that were burning down. And that's a true ""sí se puede"" moment. And again, Brook Park feeds hundreds of people without a food stamp or a fingerprint. The poorest congressional district in America, the most migratory community in America, we can do this. Bissel Gardens is cranking out food in epic proportions, moving kids into an economy they never imagined. Now, somewhere over the rainbow, my friends, is the South Bronx of America. And we're doing it. How does it start? Well, look at Jose's attention to detail. Thank God Omar knows that carrots come from the ground, and not aisle 9 at the supermarket or through a bullet-proof window or through a piece of styrofoam. And when Henry knows that green is good, so do I. And when you expand their palates, you expand their vocabulary. And most importantly, when you put big kids together with little kids, you get the big fat white guy out of the middle, which is cool, and you create this kind of accountability amongst peers, which is incredible. God, I'm going to run out of time, so I've gotta keep it moving. But this is my weekly paycheck for kids; that's our green graffiti. This is what we're doing. And behold the glory and bounty that is Bronx County. Nothing thrills me more than to see kids pollinating plants instead of each other. I gotta tell you, I'm a protective parent. But those kids are the kids who are now putting pumpkin patches on top of trains. We're also designing coin ponds for the rich and affluent. We're also becoming children of the corn, creating farms in the middle of Fordham Road for awareness and window bottles out of garbage. Now I don't expect every kid to be a farmer, but I expect you to read about it, write about it, blog about it, offer outstanding customer service. I expect them to be engaged, and man, are they! So that's my incredible classroom, that's the food. Where does it go? Zero miles to plate, right down into the cafeteria. Or more importantly, to local shelters, where most of our kids are getting one to two meals a day. And we're stepping it up. No Air Jordans were ever ruined on my farm. And in his day, a million dollar gardens and incredible installations. Let me tell you something, people. This is a beautiful moment. Black field, brown field, toxic waste field, battlefield — we're proving in the Bronx that you can grow anywhere, on cement. And we take orders for flowers. I'm putting the bake sale to shame. We take orders now. I'm booking for the spring. And these were all grown from seeds. We're learning everything. And again, when you can take kids from backgrounds as diverse as this to do something as special as this, we're really creating a moment. Now, you may ask about these kids. Forty percent attendance to 93 percent attendance. All start overage and under-credit. They are now, my first cohort is all in college, earning a living wage. The rest are scheduled to graduate this June. Happy kids, happy families, happy colleagues. Amazed people. The glory and bounty that is Bronx County. Let's talk about mint. Where is my mint? I grow seven kinds of mint in my class. Mojitos, anybody? I'll be at Telepan later. But, understand this is my intellectual Viagra. Ladies and gentlemen, I gotta move quick, but understand this: The borough that gave us baggy pants and funky fresh beats is becoming home to the organic ones. My green [unclear] 25,000 pounds of vegetables, I'm growing organic citizens, engaged kids. So help us go from this to this. Self-sustaining entities, 18 months return on investment, plus we're paying people living wage and health benefits, while feeding people for pennies on the dollar. Martin Luther King said that people need to be uplifted with dignity. So here in New York, I urge you, my fellow Americans, to help us make America great again. It's simple. Share your passion. It's real easy. Go see these two videos, please. One got us invited to the White House, one's a recent incarnation. And most importantly, get the biggest bully out of schools. This has got to go tomorrow. People, you can all do that. Keep kids out of stores that look like this. Make them a healthy plate, especially if you can pick it off the wall in your own classroom — delicioso! Model good behavior. Get them to a green cart. Big kids love strawberries and bananas. Teach them entrepreneurship. Thank God for GrowNYC. Let them cook. Great lunch today, let them do culinary things. But most importantly, just love them. Nothing works like unconditional love. So, my good friend Kermit said it's not easy being green. It's not. I come from a place where kids can buy 35 flavors of blunt wrap at any day of the moment, where ice cream freezers are filled with slushy malt liquor. Okay? My dear friend Majora Carter once told me, we have everything to gain and nothing to lose. So here, and at a time when we've gone from the audacity to hope to hope for some audacity, I urge you to do something. I urge you to do something. Right now, we're all tadpoles, but I urge you to become a big frog and take that big, green leap. I don't care if you're on the left, on the right, up the middle, wherever. Join me. Use — I've got a lot of energy. Help me use it. We can do something here. And along the way, please take time to smell the flowers, especially if you and your students grew them. I'm Steve Ritz, this is Green Bronx Machine. I've got to say thank you to my wife and family, for my kids, thank you for coming every day, and for my colleagues, believing and supporting me. We are growing our way into a new economy. Thank you, God bless you and enjoy the day. I'm Steve Ritz. Sí se puede! (Applause)"	午安我並不是位農夫。 （笑聲） 我不是！ 我是父親，我是居民，我是老師。這是我的世界一路走來，我注意到 ...我已經教到了第三代小朋友了他們越來越大個兒身體狀態卻越來越差在此以外我才搞清楚，我教的這些有學習障礙的小朋友其中百分之七十受累於母親產前營養不良 我住的社區，很單純，就像這個圖片顯現出來的小朋友不該在這樣的荒廢環境中成長我社區中的工作機會不斷減少來自他區的能源卻一直在這兒累積難怪有人要說南布朗士是沙漠我可是你會遇到的最老的六年級生我每天早上充滿熱誠起床我也希望你們能感受這股熱誠所以，我要各位分享我的信念小朋友不該被迫離開原生社區到其他社區去生活，學習，工作 我今天在這裡就是要和各位分享有關我把戶外見到的這堵綠牆，搬到室內的故事一切始於我們三個瘋狂老師 - 我，最左邊的那個我穿的蠻體面；謝謝你，老婆，你買的帥西裝讓我好愛你充滿熱誠的本區區長還有來自綠生活科技公司的喬治，厄文是他幫我這一班的小朋友也幫我認識了這項專利科技我們的故事從把種子帶進教室開始我的教室看起來這個樣我今天在這兒，希望能拓展我的影響到其他地方這就是本次演講的目的 這一切都始於這些了不起的小朋友他們早早進教室，卻很晚才回家我教的小朋友不是需要個別教育，就是需要學基礎英文大部分都有些學習障礙大部分不是無家可歸，還有很多來自寄養家庭他們幾乎都是赤貧但是有了這些種子，從第一天開始，我們就在教室裡一起成長這張照片，是我們教室的現在的樣子你可以看到小朋友對這些種子有多專注你們可以看到這些種子竟然散佈到整個布朗士區 別搞錯，我不務農，我是老師我也不喜歡除草 不喜歡辛苦的勞力所以我想找法子把室外的成功也引進到室內來像這綠架子一樣 小小的這樣我就可以把它移到室內，讓行動不便的小朋友也可以動手不想到室外的小朋友也也可以動手每個人都可以動手我就打電話給喬治厄文 想不到吧他就來了，我們一起做了一個室內可食用牆我們把綠色植物架與真正的學習經驗結合這是客製化學習大家請看，我們創造出紐約市的第一個可食用牆 你要是餓了，離開你的座位，走到牆邊就開始吃你們現在就可以吃，我班上的小朋友隨時都是牛有意思吧？但我們才開始呢小朋友們為這科技瘋狂所以，我又打電話給喬治，告訴他「我們還要多學些」彭博市長，託你的福，我們可不需要工作許可那些各式各樣的雜牌包工，他們需要 — 我們隨時為你服務 我們決定去波士頓我們這群來自全美最貧窮國會選區的小朋友是第一個利用真實生活學習技巧，在21樓的高樓上建構了一個由電腦設計的綠牆的人假如你想去看一下這堵牆位於約翰漢考克大樓21樓但我們也在離家（紐約）不遠處許多學校利用這種光源，建了好多綠牆這可是21世紀的科技，真正的LED光源知道嗎！我們可真的賺到了21世紀的錢！而這一切都由我們打頭陣開始的。跩吧！ 各位，這是我的收穫。你把這些蔬菜怎麼辦？煮了吃！這是我的傳統學生在煮傳統醬汁用的是塑膠叉子，這是為學校餐廳準備的我們自種，也自足，老師們吃的是我們的蔬菜這是我們這群全國認證最年輕的工作者和我們布朗士區的區長 我們的下一步是什麼？我碰到了像各位一樣的善心人士邀請我們到和普頓區（紐約長島的富人區）我把這個稱為：從南布朗士到南漢普頓（貧民窟到富人區）在那兒，我們把當地的屋頂轉化成這樣而我們是來自貧民窟的小子可以營建出這樣的景觀。哇！人們見識到了所以今夏他們又邀請我們回去這次我們真正搬進了漢普頓每個月3500美元房租，我們還學會了衝浪你只要可以坐這些事 -這是我的孩子們使用這科技把屋頂變成這樣這種房子的屋頂用這種景天屬植物這是最新的綠塗鴉牆 所以，你以為這樣的綠牆除了改變景觀及心態，還能影響孩子什麼？好，我現在就要和各位分享這些綠牆讓我有機會認識他們艾倫伯服務公司的吉姆 - 一個包工公司這就是三重底線（譯註：社會，經濟，環境）的實現因為吉姆知道這些孩子，我這些未來農夫孩子真的擁有他需要的技能，幫他營造紐約人在本地就找的到的平價住屋這就是我的小朋友的成就，工作養活自己 假設你住在像我住的地方，有七個失業的人要找那種管理百萬資產的人我可沒有這種人才，但你要找人修馬桶或是搭幾個架子，卻得等上6個月，才找得到一個開比我的還要好的車子的人來做這正是現在經濟狀況的現實但我的小朋友們，有雜工執照，有完工保證這是我第一個在銀行開戶的學生，他也是他家族裡的第一個這個移民家庭子弟是他家裡第一個使用銀行自動櫃員機的這才是真正的三重底線因為我們能把頹廢，貧窮的社區轉化成這樣，有這樣的內在環境 哇！人們注意到了，真的注意到了。CNN要作我們的專訪，我們很高興請他們參觀我們的農夫市場還有洛克斐勒中心要求他們的房客，國家廣播電台也弄幾道這種綠牆，我們可高興了這就是，容我向各位展示，當來自全國最窮的眾議員選區的年輕人有能力設計，種植，並建構一個30尺高15尺寬的綠牆放在紐約市的中心這是最真實的「我們可以做到」時分！就我來說，這是真實學術成就 這並不是一個富人演講的形象這是我照的一張相，布朗士區區長在區議會而非監獄，對我的孩子們演說讓他們覺得被社會接納這是紐約州參議員葛司塔沃 里尉拉以及鲍伯 彼得參訪我們的教室，讓孩子們覺得受重視當區長，州參議員來訪展現他們對我們的信心布朗士能改變基本態度我們有信心，準備好了，有意願，也有能力用我們從未想像的方式輸出我們的才能以及多元當州參議員公開站上磅秤說他該減重了，我也一樣你們知道嗎，除我之外，孩子們也都在減重 看吧！然後這些名人都來了匹特農產 對我們的產品讚不絕口隆納撒司送我們種植專書還有，我們也供應給老人中心國際社會也注意到了，我們在南布朗士做到了食物正義我的孩子們受邀參與第一屆全球綠屋頂大會這真是棒極了 但我們當地的反應又如何？我們遇到了來自「由下而上」運動的艾維司 李查女士真是不可置信，透過李查女士我們這群最沒人看好，最邊緣化的孩子在紐約市的公立學校間，整理出100個花園這就是「三重底線」，是吧？ 一年前的今天，紐約的醫藥學院邀我演說我提了這個把紐約設計成一個更強更健康社區的概念應該可行，特別是有這麼多免費資源可運用所以由於他們的協助，我愛死他們了讓我和紐約市健康策略聯盟搭上線再說一次，免費資源，別白費了知道嗎？僅僅六個月我們學校，我的孩子們得到了第一屆建構健康學校環境的高中組最優獎我們是全紐約市最「綠」的一班更重要的，孩子們學到了，除了受他們也學到了「給」我們把我們得自農夫市場的收入拿來買禮物送給無家可歸的遊民以及全世界需要協助的人們所以我們開始回饋社會我學到了，綠化美國始於資金，然後及於心意最後成就於意念 所以我們發掘了一項寶藏感謝老天，華爾街也注意到了由於他們贊助，我們成立了「綠布朗士機構」現在有3千多個成員我們做了些什麼？我們教學生，重新想像他們的社區就算他們成長於不好的社區，他們依然可想像可以如何改變社區孩子們，有了訓練，及認證還有稅的優惠，謝謝你 彭博市長孩子們可以轉變他們生長的社區對我來說，這是另一個「我們可以做到」時分 現在談這一切的開端，一切自學校開始不再只是小小的刻痕，小網子用芥蘭，用你喜歡的蔬菜分組任何你喜歡的都成然後這群美國未來的農人成長於141街上的布洛克公園美國最多移民的社區當這些堅韌的小傢伙們學到如何園栽自然我們就可以有豐盛的收穫我愛死這一切了。他們也一樣！我們在受火肆虐的災區搭了無數小小帳棚這是個貨真價實的「我們可以做到」時分再強調一次，布洛克公園供給幾百人的蔬食沒有用到食物券，或是輸入勞工全美最貧窮的國會眾議員選區全美最多移民的社區 - 我們可以做到！比塞農園生產非常大量的蔬菜讓孩子們進到從未想像過的經濟環境中 朋友們，看，彩虹的另一端正是美國的南布朗士，我們正自立自強一切從何而來？看看荷西多麼專注細節感謝老天，歐馬現在知道紅蘿蔔生長於土地而不是長在超市的第九道邊也不是在防彈玻璃窗的另一端，或是保力龍板上亨利學到了「綠」的好處，我也學到了。你拓展他們的味蕾，你也擴展了他們的字彙最重要的，把大朋友和小小朋友混在同一組就像照片中間的白種胖大個兒和一旁的小人兒一起，酷呀！在同儕間建立起當責，負責的態度，這簡直是不得了 老天，我時間不夠了，該向下走了這些都是我和我的學生們每週的收穫，我們的綠色塗鴉牆我們做的就是這些看看現在布朗士區的富裕與榮耀我最開心看到小朋友為植物傳種，而不是製造未成年媽媽我得說，我非常保護我的孩子這些孩子現在可是會在火車頂上種南瓜我們也為有錢人設計許願池塘我們也學會種玉蜀黍在復旦路中建構出小小農地以昭顯綠社區利用垃圾變出窗邊的植物瓶 我並不期望他們每個人都成為農人但我相信你會讀到，撰寫，在部落格上宣傳他們的出眾客服我完全期望他們全力以赴。他們也的的確確做到。這是我們超棒的教室，這是食物。它們都被送到學校的餐廳，完全沒有運輸問題更重要的，它們被送到本地的各式庇護所給那些每天有一二餐食物的孩子們我們還在擴大中任何的援助（大號的明星球鞋）在我的農場都不會被浪費今天，我們有價值百萬的農場，各式不得了的設備 各位，容我這麼說這是個美麗時刻不管是黑色土地，棕色土地，有毒的土地，或是戰場 -我們在布朗士區證明了，什麼都可以種，連水泥地都可以我們接受花的訂單，我們不再賣烘焙食品我們現在接受預定，現在收單，來春交貨這些都來自種子，我們所有的過程都學了再強調一次，把這些來自這麼不同背景的孩子們聚集一起，做這麼特殊的事情我們創造美好的一刻 現在，你可以問有關這些孩子們的細節他們的的出席率從百分之四十，成長到百分之九十三超齡以及上課不足他們現在呢？我的第一批同夥們，現在就學於大學，自給自足其他人將於今年6月畢業他們，他們的家庭，他們的共事者，全都開心他們讓人驚艷。這是布朗士的豐盛與榮耀 現在講薄荷，在哪兒呢？我們班上種7種不同薄荷有沒有人想要摩喜多薄荷？我待會兒要送到苔拉潘（紐約市高級餐廳）去這是我智慧層面的威爾剛女士先生們，我得加速。但請了解！以往的布朗士區，以寬鬆的褲子，古怪而有特色音樂的而著名現在變成了有機作物之家我的綠農莊生產2萬5千磅蔬菜我也生產有機市民，讓這些孩子們有事做請幫我們從這到...這自給自足的組織，投資18個月就回本我們還付工作人員足夠自足的薪水，還有福利同時還能以極低成本養活許多人 馬丁金恩說要以尊嚴來提振人民所以，我的美國同胞們，請在這兒 - 紐約幫我們讓美國重歸偉大很簡單，只要分享你的熱情真的很簡單，請抽空看這兩段影片第一部讓我們成為白宮的座上客，另一部則為我們的近況 最重要的，把這些危害我們孩子的東西(垃圾食物)趕出校園這些東西明天就得趕出去你們可以做到的別讓孩子們接觸這樣的店讓他們吃健康食物特別是讓他們直接從你教室的牆上摘取 - 超好吃！塑造好行為，讓他們接觸綠色蔬菜大孩子們喜歡草莓及香蕉教他們如何如何自己做生意。謝謝「成長紐約市」（非營利組織）教他們烹飪，既吃到好吃的東西，也學會作精緻烹煮最重要的，就是愛他們沒有比無條件的愛更棒的東西了 我的好友 - 科密青蛙 - 曾說，綠不容易的確不容易！在我的社區，孩子們任何時候都可以買到35種不同口味的大麻而冰櫃裡放滿了冰沙麥酒我的好朋友馬左拉 卡特曾說過我們已一無所有，只要做就有收穫所以，在這裡，在一個不再是「有勇氣期待」的時代而是個「期望有些勇氣」的時代我呼籲你們，幫幫忙我呼籲你們，幫幫忙 現在，我們都是蝌蚪我呼籲你們都變成大大的綠青蛙，做出綠色一躍不管你坐在左邊，右邊，或是中間和我一起來，幫我發揮我很多很多的精力，幫我發揮我們會有成就的也許，過程中，我們也可以停下腳步，聞聞鮮花特別是那些你和你學生種的鮮花 我是史帝夫 芮茲，這是綠布朗士機構我要對我的太太，家人，以及我的孩子們道謝謝謝你們每天都來，也謝謝我的同事們謝謝你們的信任與支持我們找到一條成長的路，一路走向新經濟謝謝大家，神祝福你們也祝你們今天愉快，我是史帝夫 芮茲 我們可以做到 （掌聲）
