Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_petranek_your_kids_might_live_on_mars_here_s_how_they_ll_survive	"Strap yourselves in, we're going to Mars. Not just a few astronauts — thousands of people are going to colonize Mars. And I am telling you that they're going to do this soon. Some of you will end up working on projects on Mars, and I guarantee that some of your children will end up living there. That probably sounds preposterous, so I'm going to share with you how and when that will happen. But first I want to discuss the obvious question: Why the heck should we do this? 12 years ago, I gave a TED talk on 10 ways the world could end suddenly. We are incredibly vulnerable to the whims of our own galaxy. A single, large asteroid could take us out forever. To survive we have to reach beyond the home planet. Think what a tragedy it would be if all that humans have accomplished were suddenly obliterated. And there's another reason we should go: exploration is in our DNA. Two million years ago humans evolved in Africa and then slowly but surely spread out across the entire planet by reaching into the wilderness that was beyond their horizons. This stuff is inside us. And they prospered doing that. Some of the greatest advances in civilization and technology came because we explored. Yes, we could do a lot of good with the money it will take to establish a thriving colony on Mars. And yes we should all be taking far better care of our own home planet. And yes, I worry we could screw up Mars the way we've screwed up Earth. But think for a moment, what we had when John F. Kennedy told us we would put a human on the moon. He excited an entire generation to dream. Think how inspired we will be to see a landing on Mars. Perhaps then we will look back at Earth and see that that is one people instead of many and perhaps then we will look back at Earth, as we struggle to survive on Mars, and realize how precious the home planet is. So let me tell you about the extraordinary adventure we're about to undertake. But first, a few fascinating facts about where we're going. This picture actually represents the true size of Mars compared to Earth. Mars is not our sister planet. It's far less than half the size of the Earth, and yet despite the fact that it's smaller, the surface area of Mars that you can stand on is equivalent to the surface area of the Earth that you can stand on, because the Earth is mostly covered by water. The atmosphere on Mars is really thin — 100 times thinner than on Earth — and it's not breathable, it's 96 percent carbon dioxide. It's really cold there. The average temperature is minus 81 degrees, although there is quite a range of temperature. A day on Mars is about as long as a day on Earth, plus about 39 minutes. Seasons and years on Mars are twice as long as they are on Earth. And for anybody who wants to strap on some wings and go flying one day, Mars has a lot less gravity than on Earth, and it's the kind of place where you can jump over your car instead of walk around it. Now, as you can see, Mars isn't exactly Earth-like, but it's by far the most livable other place in our entire solar system. Here's the problem. Mars is a long way away, a thousand times farther away from us than our own moon. The Moon is 250,000 miles away and it took Apollo astronauts three days to get there. Mars is 250 million miles away and it will take us eight months to get there — 240 days. And that's only if we launch on a very specific day, at a very specific time, once every two years, when Mars and the Earth are aligned just so, so the distance that the rocket would have to travel will be the shortest. 240 days is a long time to spend trapped with your colleagues in a tin can. And meanwhile, our track record of getting to Mars is lousy. We and the Russians, the Europeans, the Japanese, the Chinese and the Indians, have actually sent 44 rockets there, and the vast majority of them have either missed or crashed. Only about a third of the missions to Mars have been successful. And we don't at the moment have a rocket big enough to get there anyway. We once had that rocket, the Saturn V. A couple of Saturn Vs would have gotten us there. It was the most magnificent machine ever built by humans, and it was the rocket that took us to the Moon. But the last Saturn V was used in 1973 to launch the Skylab space station, and we decided to do something called the shuttle instead of continuing on to Mars after we landed on the Moon. The biggest rocket we have now is only half big enough to get us anything to Mars. So getting to Mars is not going to be easy and that brings up a really interesting question ... how soon will the first humans actually land here? Now, some pundits think if we got there by 2050, that'd be a pretty good achievement. These days, NASA seems to be saying that it can get humans to Mars by 2040. Maybe they can. I believe that they can get human beings into Mars orbit by 2035. But frankly, I don't think they're going to bother in 2035 to send a rocket to Mars, because we will already be there. We're going to land on Mars in 2027. And the reason is this man is determined to make that happen. His name is Elon Musk, he's the CEO of Tesla Motors and SpaceX. Now, he actually told me that we would land on Mars by 2025, but Elon Musk is more optimistic than I am — and that's going a ways — so I'm giving him a couple of years of slack. Still ... you've got to ask yourself, can this guy really do this by 2025 or 2027? Well, let's put a decade with Elon Musk into a little perspective. Where was this 10 years ago? That's the Tesla electric automobile. In 2005, a lot of people in the automobile industry were saying, we would not have a decent electric car for 50 years. And where was that? That is SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket, lifting six tons of supplies to the International Space Station. 10 years ago, SpaceX had not launched anything, or fired a rocket to anywhere. So I think it's a pretty good bet that the person who is revolutionizing the automobile industry in less than 10 years and the person who created an entire rocket company in less than 10 years will get us to Mars by 2027. Now, you need to know this: governments and robots no longer control this game. Private companies are leaping into space and they will be happy to take you to Mars. And that raises a really big question. Can we actually live there? Now, NASA may not be able to get us there until 2040, or we may get there a long time before NASA, but NASA has taken a huge responsibility in figuring out how we can live on Mars. Let's look at the problem this way. Here's what you need to live on Earth: food, water, shelter and clothing. And here's what you need to live on Mars: all of the above, plus oxygen. So let's look at the most important thing on this list first. Water is the basis of all life as we know it, and it's far too heavy for us to carry water from the Earth to Mars to live, so we have to find water if our life is going to succeed on Mars. And if you look at Mars, it looks really dry, it looks like the entire planet is a desert. But it turns out that it's not. The soil alone on Mars contains up to 60 percent water. And a number of orbiters that we still have flying around Mars have shown us — and by the way, that's a real photograph — that lots of craters on Mars have a sheet of water ice in them. It's not a bad place to start a colony. Now, here's a view of a little dig the Phoenix Lander did in 2008, showing that just below the surface of the soil is ice — that white stuff is ice. In the second picture, which is four days later than the first picture, you can see that some of it is evaporating. Orbiters also tell us that there are huge amounts of underground water on Mars as well as glaciers. In fact, if only the water ice at the poles on Mars melted, most of the planet would be under 30 feet of water. So there's plenty of water there, but most of it's ice, most of it's underground, it takes a lot of energy to get it and a lot of human labor. This is a device cooked up at the University of Washington back in 1998. It's basically a low-tech dehumidifier. And it turns out the Mars atmosphere is often 100 percent humid. So this device can extract all the water that humans will need simply from the atmosphere on Mars. Next we have to worry about what we will breathe. Frankly, I was really shocked to find out that NASA has this problem worked out. This is a scientist at MIT named Michael Hecht. And he's developed this machine, Moxie. I love this thing. It's a reverse fuel cell, essentially, that sucks in the Martian atmosphere and pumps out oxygen. And you have to remember that CO2 — carbon dioxide, which is 96 percent of Mars' atmosphere — CO2 is basically 78 percent oxygen. Now, the next big rover that NASA sends to Mars in 2020 is going to have one of these devices aboard, and it will be able to produce enough oxygen to keep one person alive indefinitely. But the secret to this — and that's just for testing — the secret to this is that this thing was designed from the get-go to be scalable by a factor of 100. Next, what will we eat? Well, we'll use hydroponics to grow food, but we're not going to be able to grow more than 15 to 20 percent of our food there, at least not until water is running on the surface of Mars and we actually have the probability and the capability of planting crops. In the meantime, most of our food will arrive from Earth, and it will be dried. And then we need some shelter. At first we can use inflatable, pressurized buildings as well as the landers themselves. But this really only works during the daytime. There is too much solar radiation and too much radiation from cosmic rays. So we really have to go underground. Now, it turns out that the soil on Mars, by and large, is perfect for making bricks. And NASA has figured this one out, too. They're going to throw some polymer plastic into the bricks, shove them in a microwave oven, and then you will be able to build buildings with really thick walls. Or we may choose to live underground in caves or in lava tubes, of which there are plenty. And finally there's clothing. On Earth we have miles of atmosphere piled up on us, which creates 15 pounds of pressure on our bodies at all times, and we're constantly pushing out against that. On Mars there's hardly any atmospheric pressure. So Dava Newman, a scientist at MIT, has created this sleek space suit. It will keep us together, block radiation and keep us warm. So let's think about this for a minute. Food, shelter, clothing, water, oxygen ... we can do this. We really can. But it's still a little complicated and a little difficult. So that leads to the next big — really big step — in living the good life on Mars. And that's terraforming the planet: making it more like Earth, reengineering an entire planet. That sounds like a lot of hubris, but the truth is that the technology to do everything I'm about to tell you already exists. First we've got to warm it up. Mars is incredibly cold because it has a very thin atmosphere. The answer lies here, at the south pole and at the north pole of Mars, both of which are covered with an incredible amount of frozen carbon dioxide — dry ice. If we heat it up, it sublimes directly into the atmosphere and thickens the atmosphere the same way it does on Earth. And as we know, CO2 is an incredibly potent greenhouse gas. Now, my favorite way of doing this is to erect a very, very large solar sail and focus it — it essentially serves as a mirror — and focus it on the south pole of Mars at first. As the planet spins, it will heat up all that dry ice, sublime it, and it will go into the atmosphere. It actually won't take long for the temperature on Mars to start rising, probably less than 20 years. Right now, on a perfect day at the equator, in the middle of summer on Mars, temperatures can actually reach 70 degrees, but then they go down to minus 100 at night. (Laughter) What we're shooting for is a runaway greenhouse effect: enough temperature rise to see a lot of that ice on Mars — especially the ice in the ground — melt. Then we get some real magic. As the atmosphere gets thicker, everything gets better. We get more protection from radiation, more atmosphere makes us warmer, makes the planet warmer, so we get running water and that makes crops possible. Then more water vapor goes into the air, forming yet another potent greenhouse gas. It will rain and it will snow on Mars. And a thicker atmosphere will create enough pressure so that we can throw away those space suits. We only need about five pounds of pressure to survive. Eventually, Mars will be made to feel a lot like British Columbia. We'll still be left with the complicated problem of making the atmosphere breathable, and frankly that could take 1,000 years to accomplish. But humans are amazingly smart and incredibly adaptable. There is no telling what our future technology will be able to accomplish and no telling what we can do with our own bodies. In biology right now, we are on the very verge of being able to control our own genetics, what the genes in our own bodies are doing, and certainly, eventually, our own evolution. We could end up with a species of human being on Earth that is slightly different from the species of human beings on Mars. But what would you do there? How would you live? It's going to be the same as it is on Earth. Somebody's going to start a restaurant, somebody's going to build an iron foundry. Someone will make documentary movies of Mars and sell them on Earth. Some idiot will start a reality TV show. (Laughter) There will be software companies, there will be hotels, there will be bars. This much is certain: it will be the most disruptive event in our lifetimes, and I think it will be the most inspiring. Ask any 10-year-old girl if she wants to go to Mars. Children who are now in elementary school are going to choose to live there. Remember when we landed humans on the Moon? When that happened, people looked at each other and said, ""If we can do this, we can do anything."" What are they going to think when we actually form a colony on Mars? Most importantly, it will make us a spacefaring species. And that means humans will survive no matter what happens on Earth. We will never be the last of our kind. Thank you. (Applause)"	繫好安全帶,我們要去火星。 不只是幾個太空人－而是數以千計的人們要殖民火星。我想告訴你，這件事就快發生了。你們其中的一些人最終將在火星上工作，而且我敢肯定你們的孩子最終也會在那裡生活。 這可能聽起來有些荒謬，所以，我將和各位分享這會發生在何時，和如何發生。但首先我想討論一個顯而易見的問題：我們為何要這麼做？ 12 年前，我做過一場 TED 演說，是關於10 種世界突然毀滅的情況。在銀河系中的任何無意義的小事面前，我們都是難以想像的脆弱。僅一顆大隕石就能將我們滅亡。為了生存，我們不能只侷限在地球。想想這是怎樣的悲劇，如果人類所有的成就被瞬間摧毀。 而另一個理由：就是我們基因裡的冒險精神。兩百萬年前人類從非洲崛起，然後緩慢但穩定地遍佈整個星球，通過探索茫茫無際的未知曠野。這是人類的本能。並且藉此繁榮。文明與科技的飛躍發展，也基於我們的探索 。 沒錯，用於創建和繁榮火星殖民地的資金的確可以用來做很多其他事情。而且，我們確實應該更好的照顧地球。並且，我也擔心我們會把火星弄得和地球一樣糟。 但是想想看，當約翰·甘迺迪宣布，我們將把人類送上月球的時刻。他點燃了整整一代人的夢想。想像當我們親眼目睹登陸火星會多鼓舞人心。或許之後，我們回頭看地球，看到的是一個人而不是很多人，或許之後，當我們在火星上艱困生存的時候，再回頭看地球，才會了解到地球的珍貴。 現在，我來告訴你這場即將開始的非凡冒險。但首先，先說說本次目的地的奇特之處。這張照片顯示出火星對比地球的真實大小。火星不是我們的姐妹星球。她連地球的一半都不到，然而，儘管它的實際體積較小，但火星上可站立的地表面積等同於地球上的可站立地表面積，因為地球大部分表面是被水覆蓋著。 火星的大氣層非常稀薄 －比地球稀薄上百倍 －而且96%是二氧化碳，所以無法呼吸。 那裏非常冷。平均溫度在華氏負81度，日夜溫差很大。 火星上的一天相當於地球上的一天，再加上約39分鐘。火星上的一季和一年的長度大約是地球的兩倍。 對於想要插上翅膀在天空飛翔的人們而言，火星比地球重力更小，在這裡，你可以跳過車輛而不用繞過它。 如你所見，火星並不像地球，但卻是目前為止，太陽系中另一個最適合人類居住的地方。 那麼問題來了，火星好遠，比我們到月球的距離還要遠上千倍。月球離地球有25萬英里，而阿波羅太空人花了3天才到。火星離地球有2.5億英里，需要8個月才能到達 －就是240天。而且還必需在特定的日子，特定的時間出發，每兩年才有一次的機會，當火星和地球對齊時，火箭航行距離最短。和同事一起被困在鐵皮罐裡240天是相當漫長的。 並且，我們前往火星的記錄也很糟。我們（美國）和俄羅斯，歐洲，日本，以及中國和印度，事實上，已發射了44枚火箭，但絕大部分不是沒射中就是撞毀。只有三分之一成功到達。 而且我們目前還沒有夠大的火箭飛到那裡。我們曾經有那樣的火箭，土星五號。把幾枚土星五號捆在一起就能把我們送達。那是人類建造過的最大機器，也是帶我們去月球的火箭。1973年，最後一枚土星五號被發射到天空實驗室空間站，在登陸月球之後，我們決定使用太空梭來執行後續的火星之旅。我們現有的最大火箭，只有前往火星所需火箭的一半大小。 因此前行的路並不容易，這就產生了問題...人類最快何時能首次登陸火星？ 現在，一些專家認為如果2050年能去，就已經相當不錯了。 但最近，NASA（美國航天航空局）似乎認為2040年就能送人類上火星。也許他們可以。我相信他們能在2035年將人類送入火星軌道。但坦率地說，我不認為他們到2035年還擔心發射火箭到火星的事，因為我們已經在那裡了。 我們將於2027年登陸火星。這是因為有人下決心要實現它。他叫伊隆·馬斯克，特斯拉汽車和SpaceX公司的CEO。現在，他肯定的告訴我，我們將在2025年登陸火星，伊隆·馬斯克比我更樂觀－這是他的方式 －所以我多給出幾年的彈性時間。但是......或許你會懷疑，這傢伙真的能在2025年或兩年後做到嗎？ 好吧，讓我們來看伊隆·馬斯克十年內能做些什麼。如果在10年前？提到特斯拉電動汽車－在2005年，很多汽車業內人士都說，我們在50年內不會有像樣的電動汽車。 那麼還有呢？那是SpaceX公司的獵鷹9號火箭，運送6噸補給品到國際空間站。可在10年前，SpaceX公司沒有發射過任何火箭。所以，我認為這值得一賭，他只用不到10年時間就革新了整個汽車工業。並在10年內裡創建了整個火箭研製公司，是可能在2027年把我們送去火星的。 現在，你要知道：政府和機器人不再控制壟斷這領域，私人公司湧入其中。他們很樂意帶你去火星。 這就產生了關鍵性問題。我們真的可以在那裡生活嗎？在2040年之前，NASA可能無法送我們去那裡，或者我們在NASA之前就做到了，但NASA肩負了確保人類在火星上生存的巨大責任。 換個方式來看這個難題。這是你在地球上生活的必需品：食品、水、住所和衣物。而在火星上的必需品是上述所有，加上氧氣。 因此，我們先來看清單中最重要部分。如眾所知，水是所有生命的基礎，要把水從地球運到火星是不實際的，所以，要在火星上生存就必須找到水。但你來看火星，它看起來非常乾旱，整顆星球就像一個沙漠。但事實證明，並非如此。火星土壤含水量可高達60％。從許多繞火星飛行的人造衛星所獲得的資料－順便說一下，這是張真實的照片－火星上很多火山口都覆蓋一層冰水物質。在這是建立殖民地就不錯。 這張2008年拍攝的照片展示鳳凰號登陸器的挖掘實景，可以看到土壤表層下是冰。那白色的物體就是冰。在第二張照片裡，是上張照片的四天後所拍攝的，你可以看到，有一部分冰蒸發了。 人造衛星也告訴我們火星上有大量地下水以及冰川。實際上，如果僅僅火星兩極的冰蓋融化，星球的大部分將淹沒在30英尺的水之下。所以，火星水源充足，但大部分是冰，大部分也儲存於地表之下，需要大量的能源和人力去開採。 這是華盛頓大學所發明的設備早在1998年。這基本上就是個低技術的除濕機。而事實證明，火星大氣層常處於100％的濕度。所以這個設備可以簡單的從大氣層提取人類所需的水。 接下來要考慮如何呼吸的問題。坦率地說，發現這已被NASA解決的，時候我非常震驚。MIT（麻省理工學院）的科學家，邁克爾。赫克特。他研製的這台稱為莫可西機器，我相當喜歡它。它實質上是一個反向燃料電池，吸入火星大氣然後排出氧氣。而且你要記住，CO2 -二氧化碳佔了火星大氣層的96%－但CO2中的78％就是氧氣。 NASA計劃在2020年發送到火星的大型登陸車上將安裝這樣的裝置，並且它能製造滿足一個人一生所需的氧氣量。這還有一個秘密 -當然這還在測試階段 -這組機器的設計初衷就是要能擴大100倍。 好吧，我們吃什麼呢？我們將用水培法來種植糧食，但我們只打算種植出不超過我們所需食物量的15％到20％，除非水已經在火星的表面上流淌成河，並且我們真的能種植農作物並確保成功率。在這之前，我們大部分的食物會從地球運送，是脫水乾燥食物。 而且，我們需要住所。首先，我們住在充氣加壓式建築物以及登陸器本身。但是，這只在白天才能住。太陽輻射以及宇宙射太多。所以，我們需要住在地下。 目前已證實，火星大部分的土壤，非常適合製造磚塊。NASA也已得出這樣的結論。他們會在磚塊中加入高分子塑料，放在微波爐中擠壓，然後就可以造出厚重磚牆的建築物。或者，我們可以選擇住在地下，洞穴或熔岩管，這樣的地方火星上有很多。 最後還有衣服。在地球上，幾英里厚的大氣層堆積在我們之上，我們身體一直承受著15磅的壓力，所以我們身體在不停的抵抗。火星上幾乎沒有任何大氣壓力。所以達瓦·紐曼，這位MIT的科學家，設計了這件光滑太空服。它將我們連在一起，阻擋輻射並保持溫暖。 到此，我們回顧一下。食品，住房，衣服，水，氧氣...我們都能辦到。全部都能。但實際操作難免複雜困難。 所以接下來的問題 -是非常關鍵的 -如果要在火星上生活得好。就要改造整顆星球：讓它地球化，改造整顆星球， 這聽起來非常的狂妄，但事實上，我們已具備所需的科技。 首先，我們得把溫度提高。火星太冷，因為它的大氣層非常稀薄。解決方法就在火星的兩極，都覆蓋著大量的固態二氧化碳 -乾冰。如果我們把它加熱一下，它直接氣化到大氣層，用在地球上同樣的方式來加厚大氣層。 而我們知道，CO2是一種強效溫室氣體。目前，我最喜歡的加熱方式是豎立巨大太陽帆，然後聚焦－它實際上就是一面大鏡子 -然後先面向火星的南極。隨著火星自轉時，太陽帆會加熱氣化所有的乾冰，然後進入大氣層。這其實並不需要很長時間，火星地表溫度開始上升，整個過程不用20年。 在此之後，火星的夏季中期的晴天，赤道的溫度，可居然達到70度，但夜間還是會降到零下100度。 （笑聲） 我們在專注在溫室效應試驗：溫度上升，火星上的冰 -特別是地表冰層會融化。接下來，見證奇蹟的時刻到了。 當大氣層變厚，一切會變得更好。更多保護讓我們遠離輻射，加厚的大氣層讓整個星球變暖，我們有了流動的水，就可能實現農耕。然後更多的水蒸汽進入空氣中，形成另一種強效溫室氣體。火星上就會下雨下雪。更厚的大氣層將創造足夠的壓力，我們就能脫掉太空服。我們只需大約5磅的大氣壓就能生存。最終，火星感覺很像英屬哥倫比亞。 我們還有一些複雜的問題，大氣轉變成適合人類呼吸的，坦率地說，可能需要上千年來完成。但是，人類的智慧和適應性都是超群的。 現在不能保證未來不會有技術能實現也不能保證我們的身體會進化成什麼樣。現在的生物學，我們即將做到能控制我們的每一個基因，在身體裡的作用，當然，最終，控制自身的進化。最終在地球上的人類和火星上人類即使略有不同。 你會在火星上做什麼呢？你將如何生活？和在地球上一樣。有人要開餐廳，有人要建鑄鐵廠，有人拍火星紀錄片，賣給地球上的人。一些白痴開始做一檔電視真人秀節目。 （笑聲） 這裡將會有軟件公司，也會有酒店酒吧。 有一點是肯定的：這將是我們有生之年最爆炸性的事件，這也是最鼓舞人心的。 問一個10歲女孩願意去火星嗎現在讀國小的孩子將選擇是否住在那裡。 回想當我們在月球登陸時發生了什麼？人們對視，說：「如果這我們也能做到，那我們無所不能。」當我們成功建造火星殖民地時大家會怎麼看？ 最重要的是，我們會成為在宇宙中穿梭的物種。這意味著不管地球遭遇什麼，人類都將存活下去。我們不會滅亡。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
