Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_palumbi_following_the_mercury_trail	"It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean. And it can be a very complicated thing, what human health is. And bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task, but what I'm going to try to say is that even in that complexity, there's some simple themes that I think, if we understand, we can really move forward. And those simple themes aren't really themes about the complex science of what's going on, but things that we all pretty well know. And I'm going to start with this one: If momma ain't happy, ain't nobody happy. We know that, right? We've experienced that. And if we just take that and we build from there, then we can go to the next step, which is that if the ocean ain't happy, ain't nobody happy. That's the theme of my talk. And we're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways. This is a shot of Cannery Row in 1932. Cannery Row, at the time, had the biggest industrial canning operation on the west coast. We piled enormous amounts of pollution into the air and into the water. Rolf Bolin, who was a professor at the Hopkin's Marine Station where I work, wrote in the 1940s that ""The fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay were so bad they turned lead-based paints black."" People working in these canneries could barely stay there all day because of the smell, but you know what they came out saying? They say, ""You know what you smell? You smell money."" That pollution was money to that community, and those people dealt with the pollution and absorbed it into their skin and into their bodies because they needed the money. We made the ocean unhappy; we made people very unhappy, and we made them unhealthy. The connection between ocean health and human health is actually based upon another couple simple adages, and I want to call that ""pinch a minnow, hurt a whale."" The pyramid of ocean life ... Now, when an ecologist looks at the ocean — I have to tell you — we look at the ocean in a very different way, and we see different things than when a regular person looks at the ocean because when an ecologist looks at the ocean, we see all those interconnections. We see the base of the food chain, the plankton, the small things, and we see how those animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid, and on so up this diagram. And that flow, that flow of life, from the very base up to the very top, is the flow that ecologists see. And that's what we're trying to preserve when we say, ""Save the ocean. Heal the ocean."" It's that pyramid. Now why does that matter for human health? Because when we jam things in the bottom of that pyramid that shouldn't be there, some very frightening things happen. Pollutants, some pollutants have been created by us: molecules like PCBs that can't be broken down by our bodies. And they go in the base of that pyramid, and they drift up; they're passed up that way, on to predators and on to the top predators, and in so doing, they accumulate. Now, to bring that home, I thought I'd invent a little game. We don't really have to play it; we can just think about it here. It's the Styrofoam and chocolate game. Imagine that when we got on this boat, we were all given two Styrofoam peanuts. Can't do much with them: Put them in your pocket. Suppose the rules are: every time you offer somebody a drink, you give them the drink, and you give them your Styrofoam peanuts too. What'll happen is that the Styrofoam peanuts will start moving through our society here, and they will accumulate in the drunkest, stingiest people. (Laughter) There's no mechanism in this game for them to go anywhere but into a bigger and bigger pile of indigestible Styrofoam peanuts. And that's exactly what happens with PDBs in this food pyramid: They accumulate into the top of it. Now suppose, instead of Styrofoam peanuts, we take these lovely little chocolates that we get and we had those instead. Well, some of us would be eating those chocolates instead of passing them around, and instead of accumulating, they will just pass into our group here and not accumulate in any one group because they're absorbed by us. And that's the difference between a PCB and, say, something natural like an omega-3, something we want out of the marine food chain. PCBs accumulate. We have great examples of that, unfortunately. PCBs accumulate in dolphins in Sarasota Bay, in Texas, in North Carolina. They get into the food chain. The dolphins eat the fish that have PCBs from the plankton, and those PCBs, being fat-soluble, accumulate in these dolphins. Now, a dolphin, mother dolphin, any dolphin — there's only one way that a PCB can get out of a dolphin. And what's that? In mother's milk. Here's a diagram of the PCB load of dolphins in Sarasota Bay. Adult males: a huge load. Juveniles: a huge load. Females after their first calf is already weaned: a lower load. Those females, they're not trying to. Those females are passing the PCBs in the fat of their own mother's milk into their offspring, and their offspring don't survive. The death rate in these dolphins, for the first calf born of every female dolphin, is 60 to 80 percent. These mothers pump their first offspring full of this pollutant, and most of them die. Now, the mother then can go and reproduce, but what a terrible price to pay for the accumulation of this pollutant in these animals — the death of the first-born calf. There's another top predator in the ocean, it turns out. That top predator, of course, is us. And we also are eating meat that comes from some of these same places. This is whale meat that I photographed in a grocery store in Tokyo — or is it? In fact, what we did a few years ago was learn how to smuggle a molecular biology lab into Tokyo and use it to genetically test the DNA out of whale meat samples and identify what they really were. And some of those whale meat samples were whale meat. Some of them were illegal whale meat, by the way. That's another story. But some of them were not whale meat at all. Even though they were labeled whale meat, they were dolphin meat. Some of them were dolphin liver. Some of them were dolphin blubber. And those dolphin parts had a huge load of PCBs, dioxins and heavy metals. And that huge load was passing into the people that ate this meat. It turns out that a lot of dolphins are being sold as meat in the whale meat market around the world. That's a tragedy for those populations, but it's also a tragedy for the people eating them because they don't know that that's toxic meat. We had these data a few years ago. I remember sitting at my desk being about the only person in the world who knew that whale meat being sold in these markets was really dolphin meat, and it was toxic. It had two-to-three-to-400 times the toxic loads ever allowed by the EPA. And I remember there sitting at my desk thinking, ""Well, I know this. This is a great scientific discovery,"" but it was so awful. And for the very first time in my scientific career, I broke scientific protocol, which is that you take the data and publish them in scientific journals and then begin to talk about them. We sent a very polite letter to the Minister of Health in Japan and simply pointed out that this is an intolerable situation, not for us, but for the people of Japan because mothers who may be breastfeeding, who may have young children, would be buying something that they thought was healthy, but it was really toxic. That led to a whole series of other campaigns in Japan, and I'm really proud to say that at this point, it's very difficult to buy anything in Japan that's labeled incorrectly, even though they're still selling whale meat, which I believe they shouldn't. But at least it's labeled correctly, and you're no longer going to be buying toxic dolphin meat instead. It isn't just there that this happens, but in a natural diet of some communities in the Canadian arctic and in the United States and in the European arctic, a natural diet of seals and whales leads to an accumulation of PCBs that have gathered up from all parts of the world and ended up in these women. These women have toxic breast milk. They cannot feed their offspring, their children, their breast milk because of the accumulation of these toxins in their food chain, in their part of the world's ocean pyramid. That means their immune systems are compromised. It means that their children's development can be compromised. And the world's attention on this over the last decade has reduced the problem for these women, not by changing the pyramid, but by changing what they particularly eat out of it. We've taken them out of their natural pyramid in order to solve this problem. That's a good thing for this particular acute problem, but it does nothing to solve the pyramid problem. There's other ways of breaking the pyramid. The pyramid, if we jam things in the bottom, can get backed up like a sewer line that's clogged. And if we jam nutrients, sewage, fertilizer in the base of that food pyramid, it can back up all through it. We end up with things we've heard about before: red tides, for example, which are blooms of toxic algae floating through the oceans causing neurological damage. We can also see blooms of bacteria, blooms of viruses in the ocean. These are two shots of a red tide coming on shore here and a bacteria in the genus vibrio, which includes the genus that has cholera in it. How many people have seen a ""beach closed"" sign? Why does that happen? It happens because we have jammed so much into the base of the natural ocean pyramid that these bacteria clog it up and overfill onto our beaches. Often what jams us up is sewage. Now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national park where you had a big sign at the front saying, ""Closed because human sewage is so far over this park that you can't use it""? Not very often. We wouldn't tolerate that. We wouldn't tolerate our parks being swamped by human sewage, but beaches are closed a lot in our country. They're closed more and more and more all around the world for the same reason, and I believe we shouldn't tolerate that either. It's not just a question of cleanliness; it's also a question of how those organisms then turn into human disease. These vibrios, these bacteria, can actually infect people. They can go into your skin and create skin infections. This is a graph from NOAA's ocean and human health initiative, showing the rise of the infections by vibrio in people over the last few years. Surfers, for example, know this incredibly. And if you can see on some surfing sites, in fact, not only do you see what the waves are like or what the weather's like, but on some surf rider sites, you see a little flashing poo alert. That means that the beach might have great waves, but it's a dangerous place for surfers to be because they can carry with them, even after a great day of surfing, this legacy of an infection that might take a very long time to solve. Some of these infections are actually carrying antibiotic resistance genes now, and that makes them even more difficult. These same infections create harmful algal blooms. Those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals. This is just a simple list of some of the types of poisons that come out of these harmful algal blooms: shellfish poisoning,fish ciguatera, diarrheic shellfish poisoning — you don't want to know about that — neurotoxic shellfish poisoning, paralytic shellfish poisoning. These are things that are getting into our food chain because of these blooms. Rita Calwell very famously traced a very interesting story of cholera into human communities, brought there, not by a normal human vector, but by a marine vector, this copepod. Copepods are small crustaceans. They're a tiny fraction of an inch long, and they can carry on their little legs some of the cholera bacteria that then leads to human disease. That has sparked cholera epidemics in ports along the world and has led to increased concentration on trying to make sure shipping doesn't move these vectors of cholera around the world. So what do you do? We have major problems in disrupted ecosystem flow that the pyramid may not be working so well, that the flow from the base up into it is being blocked and clogged. What do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow? Well, there's a bunch of things you could do. You could call Joe the Plumber, for example. And he could come in and fix the flow. But in fact, if you look around the world, not only are there hope spots for where we may be able to fix problems, there have been places where problems have been fixed, where people have come to grips with these issues and begun to turn them around. Monterey is one of those. I started out showing how much we had distressed the Monterey Bay ecosystem with pollution and the canning industry and all of the attendant problems. In 1932, that's the picture. In 2009, the picture is dramatically different. The canneries are gone. The pollution has abated. But there's a greater sense here that what the individual communities need is working ecosystems. They need a functioning pyramid from the base all the way to the top. And that pyramid in Monterey, right now, because of the efforts of a lot of different people, is functioning better than it's ever functioned for the last 150 years. It didn't happen accidentally. It happened because many people put their time and effort and their pioneering spirit into this. On the left there, Julia Platt, the mayor of my little hometown in Pacific Grove. At 74 years old, became mayor because something had to be done to protect the ocean. In 1931, she produced California's first community-based marine protected area, right next to the biggest polluting cannery, because Julia knew that when the canneries eventually were gone, the ocean needed a place to grow from, that the ocean needed a place to spark a seed, and she wanted to provide that seed. Other people, like David Packard and Julie Packard, who were instrumental in producing the Monterey Bay aquarium to lock into people's notion that the ocean and the health of the ocean ecosystem were just as important to the economy of this area as eating the ecosystem would be. That change in thinking has led to a dramatic shift, not only in the fortunes of Monterey Bay, but other places around the world. Well, I want to leave you with the thought that what we're really trying to do here is protect this ocean pyramid, and that ocean pyramid connects to our own pyramid of life. It's an ocean planet, and we think of ourselves as a terrestrial species, but the pyramid of life in the ocean and our own lives on land are intricately connected. And it's only through having the ocean being healthy that we can remain healthy ourselves. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	海洋很複雜，人類的健康也很複雜，把這二者放在一起，就更複雜了。但我要說的是，即便這麼複雜，我認為一定有簡單的方法，可以讓我們深入瞭解。這些簡單的方法並不是指那些複雜難懂的科學方法，而是我們已經熟知的事情。我想先從這件事講起：如果媽媽不高興，大家都別想高興。我們都知道，對吧？小時候都有這種經驗。如果我們以此為依據，按照經驗法則，我們可以推論，也就是如果海洋不高興，大家都別想高興。這就是我要講的，我們正在以許多不同的方式惹惱海洋。 這是1932年罐頭工廠市街的照片，那時的罐頭工廠市街是整個西岸最繁榮的罐頭工業地區。我們把大量的污染物排放到空氣裡、排放到海裡。羅夫．波林教授，是我在霍布金斯海洋研究站的同事，他在1940年代時寫道：「漂浮在海灣入口處的垃圾，發出的臭味，惡臭難當，含鉛油漆都變成黑色的了。」在罐頭工廠工作的人，也因為惡臭而無法待上一整天。但你知道他們後來說什麼嗎？他們說：「你知道這是什麼味道嗎？這是錢的味道。」污染對於當地人而言，代表著錢。這些人和污染生活在一起，把污染物吸收到皮膚裡、吸收到身體裡，因為他們要賺錢。我們讓海洋不高興，也讓我們自己很不高興，還讓人類變得不健康。 人類健康與海洋健康之間的關聯性，其實可以用幾句簡單的諺語來解釋，最貼切的是：「抓了小魚，害死鯨魚。」海洋生態的食物鏈...當生態學家觀察海洋時，我必須說，我們是以非常不同的角度來觀察海洋，我們看到的東西和一般人不同。當生態學家觀察海洋時，我們看到的是生物之間的互動，我們看的是食物鏈的最下層，浮游生物和其他小生物，我們知道這些小生物是食物鏈中層生物的食物，然後就這樣一直堆疊上去。這種食物鏈，從最底層到最高層，就是我們生態學家所重視的。所以當我們說：「拯救海洋，復育海洋」時，我們其實是要保育這個食物鏈。 那這個和人類的健康有什麼關係？當我們把垃圾丟進海洋干擾食物鏈最底層的生物時，可怕的事情就會發生。有些污染源是人類所創造出來的，像是多氯聯苯，人類的身體無法吸收，於是多氯聯苯就進到了海洋食物鏈的最底層，然後來到食物鏈的中層、上層，最後到達頂端，多氯聯苯不斷地累積。 為了讓你們記住，我發明了一個小遊戲，我們不一定要玩，可以只用想的就好，我叫它「保麗龍與巧克力」。想像一下我們坐在船上，我們手上有二顆保麗龍花生，沒什麼用，但還是放進口袋裡。遊戲規則是：每次你請別人喝酒，除了給他們酒之外，也要給他們保麗龍花生。接下來，保麗龍花生就會在人群裡流通，最後，最小氣而且喝醉酒的人拿到最多。(笑聲)這個遊戲的設計，會讓不能食用的保麗龍花生，愈堆愈高。就像在海洋食物鏈裡的多氯聯苯一樣，全都堆在食物鏈的頂端。 現在想像一下，我們不用保麗龍花生了，我們用巧克力來取代保麗龍花生。嗯，有些人會把巧克力吃掉，而不會給別人，也不會囤積在某人身上，巧克力在人群裡流通後，不會堆積在人群裡，因為被我們吃掉了。這和多氯聯苯不同，有些天然的東西，像是omega-3(多元不飽和脂肪酸)，是我們想從海洋食物鏈裡攝取的， 但多氯聯苯卻會累積起來。很不幸的，有太多這種例子，多氯聯苯累積在薩拉索塔灣、德州、北卡羅萊納州的海豚身上，累積在食物鏈裡。海豚吃魚，魚吃含有多氯聯苯的浮游生物，而這些脂溶性的多氯聯苯就累積在海豚身體裡。海豚，不管是母海豚還是任何海豚，只有一種方法可以讓多氯聯苯離開海豚的身體，是什麼方法？透過母海豚的乳汁。這裡有一張薩拉索塔海灣海豚體內的多氯聯苯含量圖，成年公海豚，含量很高；少年海豚，含量很高；生過一胎且斷奶的母海豚，含量較低。這些母海豚並非刻意這麼做，他們透過自己乳汁裡所含的脂肪，將多氯聯苯傳給了下一代，這些新生兒無法存活。這些海豚的死亡率，也就是母海豚第一胎的死亡率，高達百分之60到80。母海豚將全部的污染物傳給了第一個寶寶，而大部分都死了。當然，母海豚可以再生，但是這代價何其高啊！就因為污染物囤積在這些動物體內，第一胎就都死了。 在海洋食物鏈裡，當然還有最頂端的掠食者，也就是人類，我們當然也吃來自剛才所提到的地點的魚肉。這是我在東京雜貨店裡所拍攝到的鯨魚肉，還是別的肉？我們從幾年前開始，就偷偷把分子生物實驗室帶進東京，然後對這些鯨魚肉進行DNA測試，以瞭解到底這是什麼肉。有些鯨魚肉的樣本確實是鯨魚肉，只不過有些是非法捕撈的鯨魚肉，這是另一回事；但有些則完全不是鯨魚肉，雖然貼上了鯨魚肉的標籤，但實際上卻是海豚肉。有些是海豚肝臟，有些是海豚脂肪，這些海豚肉及內臟都含有高量的多氯聯苯、戴奧辛和重金屬，只要吃了海豚肉，就會吸收到這些高量毒物。我們發現，很多海豚都被送到世界各地的市場上當鯨魚肉販賣。海豚已經夠可憐了，但是吃下海豚肉的人更可憐，因為他們不知道自己吃了有毒的肉。 我們從幾年前開始掌握了這些數據，我記得我坐在書桌前，覺得世界上只有我一個人知道，在這些魚市裡所販賣的鯨魚肉，其實是海豚肉，而且還有毒，毒物的含量是環保署所允許的二倍、三倍、甚至高達四百倍。我還記得，我坐在書桌前想著：「嗯，我知道這件事，這可是了不起的科學發現哪！」但這糟透了！這是我從事科學生涯以來，首次違反科學協議，協議要求我們在把資料公布於科學期刊之前，不得對外談論資料內容。我們寄了一封措辭委婉的信給日本的厚生省大臣，信中開門見山的指出這種情況令人無法容忍，不是為了我們，而是為了日本的國民。因為母親會哺乳，她們有小孩要養，她們會買到自己以為是有益的食物，事實上卻是有毒的。這件事在日本引起了軒然大波，我可以很驕傲地說，現在在日本已經很難買到標示不正確的食物了，雖然他們還在賣鯨魚肉，我個人並不贊同，但至少標示是正確的了，你再也不會買到有毒的海豚肉了。 這種事不只發生在日本，有些地方的天然食材也發生相同狀況，像是在加拿大、美國和歐洲的極地圈附近，那裡的人們長期食用海豹和鯨魚，導致體內囤積多氯聯苯，這些多氯聯苯是海洋動物從世界各地吸收來的，最後留在這些女性的體內。她們的乳汁有毒，所以不能為嬰兒或小孩哺乳，因為這些毒物囤積在食物鏈中，囤積在當地海洋的食物鏈中。這表示她們的免疫系統已經投降了，她們的小孩未來的成長發展也將受影響，而我們過去十年對這個問題的關注，減輕了這些女性所受的折磨，我們無法改變食物鏈，但我們可以讓她們改變吃進身體的食物。要她們不要再涉入這天然的食物鏈裡，以改善這個問題。這個問題是改善了，但是整個食物鏈的問題並沒有改善， 還有其他方式在破壞這個食物鏈。如果我們阻塞了食物鏈的底層，就像下水道阻塞一樣，會一路回堵上來；但如果我們把養份、肥料等，澆入食物鏈的底層，一樣也會滋養整個食物鏈。最後，我們可能會看到歷史重演，像是紅潮這類的事情，那時有毒的海藻大量繁殖，漂浮在海洋上，導致人類神經系統受損。我們也有可能讓海裡的細菌或病毒大量繁殖，這裡有二張照片，都是紅潮上岸的照片，這裡面有一種弧菌，帶有霍亂弧菌。有誰看過「海灘關閉」的牌子？為什麼要關閉？因為我們丟了太多垃圾到海洋食物鏈的底層，這些細菌大量繁殖，回堵到了我們的海灘上，大部分都是污染物。 有誰曾去到州立公園或是國家公園，看到門口豎了一個牌子：「由於垃圾過量，充斥園區，目前關閉中」？沒有吧？我們不可能容忍這種事情發生，我們不可能容忍垃圾堆滿整個公園，但是我們國家裡的海灘卻經常關閉耶...世界各地的海灘也因為同樣的原因，愈來愈常關閉，我認為我們不應該再容忍，這不只是清潔的問題，這同時也是海洋生物轉變為人類疾病的問題。這些弧菌、細菌，都會讓人生病，他們會鑽進你的皮膚裡，讓你得皮膚病。 這張圖是來自國家海洋暨大氣總署(NOAA)所提議的海洋與人類健康法案，顯示人類過去幾年，受弧菌感染的案例有上升的趨勢。舉例來說，衝浪的人就很瞭解這個狀況。如果你上一些衝浪網站，你不只會看到海浪或天氣的訊息，有些衝浪網站還會出現一些閃亮的警示燈號，表示海灘可能有大浪，警告衝浪的人要小心，病菌會吸附在人體上，在享受一天很棒地的衝浪後，所得到的細菌感染，可能得花上很長時間醫治。有些病菌還對抗生素產生抗體，這些細菌就更難醫治了。 這些病菌會讓有毒海藻大量繁殖，同時會產生其他化學物質。這裡有一張清單，說明這些有毒的海藻所會產生的毒性：貝毒、甲藻魚毒、痢疾性貝毒—你不會想知道這種毒的—神經性貝毒、痲痺性貝毒，這些毒物都因為海藻大量繁殖，而進到我們的食物鏈中。麗塔．卡維爾成功地追蹤到一個關於人類感染到霍亂的有趣故事，他們不是被人類互相傳染，而是被海洋裡的橈腳類動物所傳染。橈腳類動物是很小的甲殼類動物，小到只有幾分之一英吋而已，霍亂弧菌會附著在他們細小的足肢上，因此傳染給人類。霍亂疫情會因此爆發開來，沿著港口傳出去，這迫使世人注意，不要讓船運業成為媒介，把霍亂病菌傳播到全世界。 那麼我們該怎麼做？我們的整個生態體系已瀕臨瓦解，食物鏈的運作不像以往順暢，從底層往上都阻塞了，我們該怎麼處理這種問題？嗯，可以做的事情有很多，舉例來說，你可以叫水管工來修，然後水管工人就會來幫你修理。但是實際上，如果我們看看全世界，有些地方是有機會可以修復的，我們也有能力修復，有些地方的問題已經成功的解決了，那些人已經集眾人之力，試圖扭轉這個劣勢。蒙特利就是其中之一。 我一開始有提到，蒙特利灣的生態系統已經被打亂，因為罐頭工業產生大量污染，出現許多問題。這是1932年當地的照片，2009年已經有劇烈改變。罐頭工廠已經遷走，污染物也消失了，但最重要的是，當地居民已經瞭解，健全生態體系的重要性。他們需要的是一個從下到上都運作良好的食物鏈，而目前在蒙特利的食物鏈，在眾人的努力下，已達到過去150年來從未有過的最佳狀態。 這不是憑空發生的，這是眾人花費了時間與精力，憑著先驅的精神建立起來的。照片左邊的那位，是我家鄉小鎮葛洛芙洋的鎮長，茱莉亞．普拉特，她在74歲高齡當選鎮長，因為她認為必須為保護海洋盡一份心力。1931年，她創設了加州第一個社區型的海洋保護區，就設在污染最嚴重的罐頭工廠隔壁，因為茱莉亞知道，在罐頭工廠遷走之後，海洋會需要一個地方來復育，海洋會需要一個地方來灑下第一顆種子，而她要當那第一顆種子。 其他人像大衛．派克及茱莉．派克，他們幫忙籌建了蒙特利灣海洋世界，讓人們瞭解，海洋及海洋生態的健康，和當地的經濟發展一樣重要，但經濟發展卻傷害了這個生態體系。想法的改變促成了劇烈的轉變，不只改變了蒙特利灣的命運，也改變了世界上其他地方的命運， 嗯，我希望讓你們知道，我們正嘗試在做的事，是保護海洋的食物鏈，而海洋的食物鏈，是與人類的食物鏈緊密相連的。我們活在一個海洋星球，我們自認為是陸生物種，但是海洋食物鏈和我們這種陸生物種的生命，卻是盤根錯結地交織在一起，只有海洋健康，我們才能保有健康。 謝謝！ (掌聲)
