Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_lawler_tours_microsoft_virtual_earth	What I want to talk to you about today is virtual worlds, digital globes, the 3-D Web, the Metaverse. What does this all mean for us? What it means is the Web is going to become an exciting place again. It's going to become super exciting as we transform to this highly immersive and interactive world. With graphics, computing power, low latencies, these types of applications and possibilities are going to stream rich data into your lives. So the Virtual Earth initiative, and other types of these initiatives, are all about extending our current search metaphor. When you think about it, we're so constrained by browsing the Web, remembering URLs, saving favorites. As we move to search, we rely on the relevance rankings, the Web matching, the index crawling. But we want to use our brain! We want to navigate, explore, discover information. In order to do that, we have to put you as a user back in the driver's seat. We need cooperation between you and the computing network and the computer. So what better way to put you back in the driver's seat than to put you in the real world that you interact in every day? Why not leverage the learnings that you've been learning your entire life? So Virtual Earth is about starting off creating the first digital representation, comprehensive, of the entire world. What we want to do is mix in all types of data. Tag it. Attribute it. Metadata. Get the community to add local depth, global perspective, local knowledge. So when you think about this problem, what an enormous undertaking. Where do you begin? Well, we collect data from satellites, from airplanes, from ground vehicles, from people. This process is an engineering problem, a mechanical problem, a logistical problem, an operational problem. Here is an example of our aerial camera. This is panchromatic. It's actually four color cones. In addition, it's multi-spectral. We collect four gigabits per second of data, if you can imagine that kind of data stream coming down. That's equivalent to a constellation of 12 satellites at highest res capacity. We fly these airplanes at 5,000 feet in the air. You can see the camera on the front. We collect multiple viewpoints, vantage points, angles, textures. We bring all that data back in. We sit here — you know, think about the ground vehicles, the human scale — what do you see in person? We need to capture that up close to establish that what it's like-type experience. I bet many of you have seen the Apple commercials, kind of poking at the PC for their brilliance and simplicity. So a little unknown secret is — did you see the one with the guy, he's got the Web cam? The poor PC guy. They're duct taping his head. They're just wrapping it on him. Well, a little unknown secret is his brother actually works on the Virtual Earth team. (Laughter). So they've got a little bit of a sibling rivalry thing going on here. But let me tell you — it doesn't affect his day job. We think a lot of good can come from this technology. This was after Katrina. We were the first commercial fleet of airplanes to be cleared into the disaster impact zone. We flew the area. We imaged it. We sent in people. We took pictures of interiors, disaster areas. We helped with the first responders, the search and rescue. Often the first time anyone saw what happened to their house was on Virtual Earth. We made it all freely available on the Web, just to — it was obviously our chance of helping out with the cause. When we think about how all this comes together, it's all about software, algorithms and math. You know, we capture this imagery but to build the 3-D models we need to do geo-positioning. We need to do geo-registering of the images. We have to bundle adjust them. Find tie points. Extract geometry from the images. This process is a very calculated process. In fact, it was always done manual. Hollywood would spend millions of dollars to do a small urban corridor for a movie because they'd have to do it manually. They'd drive the streets with lasers called LIDAR. They'd collected information with photos. They'd manually build each building. We do this all through software, algorithms and math — a highly automated pipeline creating these cities. We took a decimal point off what it cost to build these cities, and that's how we're going to be able to scale this out and make this reality a dream. We think about the user interface. What does it mean to look at it from multiple perspectives? An ortho-view, a nadir-view. How do you keep the precision of the fidelity of the imagery while maintaining the fluidity of the model? I'll wrap up by showing you the — this is a brand-new peek I haven't really shown into the lab area of Virtual Earth. What we're doing is — people like this a lot, this bird's eye imagery we work with. It's this high resolution data. But what we've found is they like the fluidity of the 3-D model. A child can navigate with an Xbox controller or a game controller. So here what we're trying to do is we bring the picture and project it into the 3-D model space. You can see all types of resolution. From here, I can slowly pan the image over. I can get the next image. I can blend and transition. By doing this I don't lose the original detail. In fact, I might be recording history. The freshness, the capacity. I can turn this image. I can look at it from multiple viewpoints and angles. What we're trying to do is build a virtual world. We hope that we can make computing a user model you're familiar with, and really derive insights from you, from all different directions. I thank you very much for your time. (Applause)	"今天我想要跟大家介紹虛擬世界,也有人稱為數位地球,三維網路或是網路虛擬世界.虛擬世界到底會對我們有甚麼影響?它代表的意義是網路將將再度成為讓人心動的空間.當我們化身進入這個以圖像,高計算能力和低延遲所構成的深入及高互動數位世界一切都會變成超high的這類型的應用及潛在發展將把豐富的資料源源不斷的帶入人類的生活世界所以,虛擬地球及其他這種類型的倡議都和擴展我們目前資料搜尋方法有關. 回想一下,我們目前在流覽網路時所受的限制吧.我們必須記住網址,保存到""我的最愛"".當開始進行搜索,我們必須依賴相關性排名,網路匹配和索引檢索等方式找資料.¥但我們希望用我們的大腦來找資料!我們希望穿梭在網路世界中,自主的探索和發現資訊.為了達成這個目的,我們必須把使用者放在主導搜尋方向的位置上.我們需要在人與網路和電腦之間建立一個合作空間. 就把使用者放在主導搜尋方向的位置上而言, 有什麼方法會比把人放在每天都在互動的真實世界裏還要好呢?♫為什麼不直接利用你過去生活中學過的知識呢?所以,一開始虛擬地球就是要第一個將整個地球以數位方式,深入且全面性的呈現出來我們將混合所有類型的資料.給它做上標記,加上屬性和元資料. 接觸網路社群並加上本地內容— 也就是以全球的視野整合在地的知識.那麼,當你體會到要解決這個問題須要進行許多工作. 你會由哪兒著手做呢?我們通過衛星,飛機從地面車輛及人群中收集資料整個過程涉及工程.機械,邏輯問題和如何營運等問題. 用圖片中空照攝影機當作例子.這是一個全色相機, 它具有四個彩色錐體.另外, 它是多光譜的.我們每秒種可以採集到4GB的資料,如何想像這樣傳輸下來的資料流有多大,那相當於12個衛星組成的星座以最高解析度所拍攝的資料量.我們駕駛這些飛機到5000英尺的高空;你可以看到放置在前端的攝影機. 我們在不同的視點,有利位置, 角度, 結構收集資料. 然後把資料帶回來. 所以現在我們可以坐在這兒親眼觀看 地面車輛和人的比例.你親眼看到了甚麼? 我們需要近距離捕捉影像來建立更逼真的體驗.我想你們大多數人都看過Apple商業展廣告吧,它以嘲笑PC電腦的方式凸顯自己產品的的簡潔和光輝.♪那麼, 有一個不為人知秘密是 —你有沒有看到一個帶著網路攝影機的傢伙?那個可憐的PC傢伙, 他們把管子直接用膠帶黏在他頭上, 他們把他包裝成那樣兒.但, 鮮為人知的秘密是,他的哥哥其實在虛擬地球研發團隊工作.(笑聲) 所以那裏呈現一些兄弟之間相互抗衡的情形.但我告訴你 — 這沒有影響他每天的工作. 我們認為這個科技可以帶來很多的好處.這是在Katrina颶風之後. 我們當時是進入災區的第一個商業飛機團隊我們飛到那個區域,拍下照片, 傳送給大家.我們深入災區拍攝圖片. 我們幫助緊急救生, 搜索和營救等團隊.許多災區的民眾是藉由虛擬地球的影像首次看到他們房屋當時的情況.我們經由網路把這些影像免費提供給所有人, 因為這顯然是我們可以為災區人們提供幫助的機會.♫ 當我們思考如何將這些資料組合在一起.面對的全是關於電腦軟體, 演算法和數學問題.我們已經擷取圖像了,但是為了構建三維模型,我們還需要做地理定位. 我們需要在圖片上作地理標記.我們必須收集調整他們. 找到聯結點.♪在圖像中萃取出幾何關係. .整個過程需要許多計算的程序實際上,這些計算在過去是用人工自己去計算的¼好萊塢為了它的電影必須花數百萬美金去將一個小市區走廊圖像數位化這是因為他們必須用人工逐步計算.他們在車輛上裝置雷射掃描探測儀(lLIDAR)到街道掃描.他們收集圖片資訊; 他們以人工處理每個大樓的數位化.而我們則將這些工作交給電腦軟體, 演算法和數學處理.所以我們是用一個自動化的生產管道來建造這些城市.所以我們建造這些虛擬城市的費用只要十分之一這就是我們為什麼能把規模做大,並且將現實轉化成虛擬. 我們也考慮到使用者介面.採用多視角意味著什麼?一個鳥瞰視角, 一個垂直俯視. 你要如何在必須保持圖像的精度的同時 也保持模型的流暢性?最後我想展示給各位看的是 —這是個全新的俯視圖 我還沒有放入虛擬地球的實驗室區域.我們要做的是 — 人們喜歡這個我們現在要處理的鳥瞰圖是高解析度的資料.你們可以看到他們在運作時仍能維持三維模型的流暢度.孩子們可以使用Xbox或遊戲機去探索. 這裏,我們正嘗試將圖片映射到三維模型空間中.你可以用不同的解析度觀看. 從這裏,我可以慢慢平移圖像.我可以看到下一張圖片,我可以混合及轉換做這些操作時,我不會損失任何細節. 實際上,我有可能在記錄歷史.新奇,能力. 我可以轉動這個圖像.由多視點和多角度來觀查看這圖. 我們企圖打造一個虛擬世界.我們希望用一個一般人熟悉的使用者模型.就可以從你的角度,從所有不同的方向流覽.謝謝大家花這麼多時間聽講.掌聲"
