Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_petranek_counts_down_to_armageddon	"The advances that have taken place in astronomy, cosmology and biology, in the last 10 years, are really extraordinary — to the point where we know more about our universe and how it works than many of you might imagine. But there was something else that I've noticed as those changes were taking place, as people were starting to find out that hmm ... yeah, there really is a black hole at the center of every galaxy. The science writers and editors — I shouldn't say science writers, I should say people who write about science — and editors would sit down over a couple of beers, after a hard day of work, and start talking about some of these incredible perceptions about how the universe works. And they would inevitably end up in what I thought was a very bizarre place, which is ways the world could end very suddenly. And that's what I want to talk about today. (Laughter) Ah, you laugh, you fools. (Laughter) (Voice: Can we finish up a little early?) (Laughter) Yeah, we need the time! Stephen Petranek: At first, it all seemed a little fantastical to me, but after challenging a lot of these ideas, I began to take a lot of them seriously. And then September 11 happened, and I thought, ah, God, I can't go to the TED conference and talk about how the world is going to end. Nobody wants to hear that. Not after this! And that got me into a discussion with some other people, other scientists, about maybe some other subjects, and one of the guys I talked to, who was a neuroscientist, said, ""You know, I think there are a lot of solutions to the problems you brought up,"" and reminds me of Michael's talk yesterday and his mother saying you can't have a solution if you don't have a problem. So, we went out looking for solutions to ways that the world might end tomorrow, and lo and behold, we found them. Which leads me to a videotape of a President Bush press conference from a couple of weeks ago. Can we run that, Andrew? President George W. Bush: Whatever it costs to defend our security, and whatever it costs to defend our freedom, we must pay it. SP: I agree with the president. He wants two trillion dollars to protect us from terrorists next year, a two-trillion-dollar federal budget, which will land us back into deficit spending real fast. But terrorists aren't the only threat we face. There are really serious calamities staring us in the eye that we're in the same kind of denial about that we were about terrorism, and what could've happened on September 11. I would propose, therefore, that if we took 10 billion dollars from that 2.13 trillion dollar budget — which is two one hundredths of that budget — and we doled out a billion dollars to each one of these problems I'm going to talk to you about, the vast majority could be solved, and the rest we could deal with. So, I hope you find this both fascinating — I'm fascinated by this kind of stuff, I gotta admit — to me these are Richard's cockroaches. But I also hope, because I think the people in this room can literally change the world, I hope you take some of this stuff away with you, and when you have an opportunity to be influential, that you try to get some heavy-duty money spent on some of these ideas. So let's start. Number 10: we lose the will to survive. We live in an incredible age of modern medicine. We are all much healthier than we were 20 years ago. People around the world are getting better medicine — but mentally, we're falling apart. The World Health Organization now estimates that one out of five people on the planet is clinically depressed. And the World Health Organization also says that depression is the biggest epidemic that humankind has ever faced. Soon, genetic breakthroughs and even better medicine are going to allow us to think of 100 as a normal lifespan. A female child born tomorrow, on average — median — will live to age 83. Our life longevity is going up almost a year for every year that passes. Now the problem with all of this, getting older, is that people over 65 are the most likely people to commit suicide. So, what are the solutions? We don't really have mental health insurance in this country, and it's — (Applause) — it's really a crime. Something like 98 percent of all people with depression, and I mean really severe depression — I have a friend with stunningly severe depression — this is a curable disease, with present medicine and present technology. But it is often a combination of talk therapy and pills. Pills alone don't do it, especially in clinically depressed people. You ought to be able to go to a psychiatrist or a psychologist, and put down your 10-dollar copay, and get treated, just like you do when you got a cut on your arm. It's ridiculous. Secondly, drug companies are not going to develop really sophisticated psychoactive drugs. We know that most mental illnesses have a biological component that can be dealt with. And we know just an amazing amount more about the brain now than we did 10 years ago. We need a pump-push from the federal government, through NIH and National Science — NSF — and places like that to start helping the drug companies develop some advanced psychoactive drugs. Moving on. Number nine — don't laugh — aliens invade Earth. Ten years ago, you couldn't have found an astronomer — well, very few astronomers — in the world who would've told you that there are any planets anywhere outside our solar system. 1995, we found three. The count now is up to 80 — we're finding about two or three a month. All of the ones we've found, by the way, are in this little, teeny, tiny corner where we live, in the Milky Way. There must be millions of planets in the Milky Way, and as Carl Sagan insisted for many years, and was laughed at for it, there must be billions and billions in the universe. In a few years, NASA is going to launch four or five telescopes out to Jupiter, where there's less dust, and start looking for Earth-like planets, which we cannot see with present technology, nor detect. It's becoming obvious that the chance that life does not exist elsewhere in the universe, and probably fairly close to us, is a fairly remote idea. And the chance that some of it isn't more intelligent than ours is also a remote idea. Remember, we've only been an advanced civilization — an industrial civilization, if you would — for 200 years. Although every time I go to Pompeii, I'm amazed that they had the equivalent of a McDonald's on every street corner, too. So, I don't know how much civilization really has progressed since AD 79, but there's a great likelihood. I really believe this, and I don't believe in aliens, and I don't believe there are any aliens on the Earth or anything like that. But there's a likelihood that we will confront a civilization that is more intelligent than our own. Now, what will happen? What if they come to, you know, suck up our oceans for the hydrogen? And swat us away like flies, the way we swat away flies when we go into the rainforest and start logging it. We can look at our own history. The late physicist Gerard O'Neill said, ""Advanced Western civilization has had a destructive effect on all primitive civilizations it has come in contact with, even in those cases where every attempt was made to protect and guard the primitive civilization."" If the aliens come visiting, we're the primitive civilization. So, what are the solutions to this? (Laughter) Thank God you can all read! It may seem ridiculous, but we have a really lousy history of anticipating things like this and actually being prepared for them. How much energy and money does it take to actually have a plan to negotiate with an advanced species? Secondly — and you're going to hear more from me about this — we have to become an outward-looking, space-faring nation. We have got to develop the idea that the Earth doesn't last forever, our sun doesn't last forever. If we want humanity to last forever, we have to colonize the Milky Way. And that is not something that is beyond comprehension at this point. (Applause) It'll also help us a lot, if we meet an advanced civilization along the way, if we're trying to be an advanced civilization. Number eight — (Voice: Steve, that's what I'm doing after TED.) (Laughter) (Applause) SP: You've got it! You've got the job. Number eight: the ecosystem collapses. Last July, in Science, the journal Science, 19 oceanographers published a very, very unusual article. It wasn't really a research report; it was a screed. They said, we've been looking at the oceans for a long time now, and we want to tell you they're not in trouble, they're near collapse. Many other ecosystems on Earth are in real, real danger. We're living in a time of mass extinctions that exceeds the fossil record by a factor of 10,000. We have lost 25 percent of the unique species in Hawaii in the last 20 years. California is expected to lose 25 percent of its species in the next 40 years. Somewhere in the Amazon forest is the marginal tree. You cut down that tree, the rain forest collapses as an ecosystem. There's really a tree like that out there. That's really what it comes to. And when that ecosystem collapses, it could take a major ecosystem with it, like our atmosphere. So, what do we do about this? What are the solutions? There is some modeling of ecosystems going on now. The problem with ecosystems is that we understand them so poorly, that we don't know they're really in trouble until it's almost too late. We need to know earlier that they're getting in trouble, and we need to be able to pump possible solutions into models. And with the kind of computing power we have now, there is, as I say, some of this going on, but it needs money. National Science Foundation needs to say — you know, almost all the money that's spent on science in this country comes from the federal government, one way or another. And they get to prioritize, you know? There are people at the National Science Foundation who get to say, this is the most important thing. This is one of the things they ought to be thinking more about. Secondly, we need to create huge biodiversity reserves on the planet, and start moving them around. There's been an experiment for the last four or five years on the Georges Bank, or the Grand Banks off of Newfoundland. It's a no-take fishing zone. They can't fish there for a radius of 200 miles. And an amazing thing has happened: almost all the fish have come back, and they're reproducing like crazy. We're going to have to start doing this around the globe. We're going to have to have no-take zones. We're going to have to say, no more logging in the Amazon for 20 years. Let it recover, before we start logging again. (Applause) Number seven: particle accelerator mishap. You all remember Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber? One of the things he raved about was that a particle accelerator experiment could go haywire and set off a chain reaction that would destroy the world. A lot of very sober-minded physicists, believe it or not, have had exactly the same thought. This spring — there's a collider at Brookhaven, on Long Island — this spring, it's going to have an experiment in which it creates black holes. They are expecting to create little, tiny black holes. They expect them to evaporate. (Laughter) I hope they're right. (Laughter) Other collider experiments — there's one that's going to take place next summer at CERN — have the possibility of creating something called strangelets, which are kind of like antimatter. Whenever they hit other matter, they destroy it and obliterate it. Most physicists say that the accelerators we have now are not really powerful enough to create black holes and strangelets that we need to worry about, and they're probably right. But, all around the world, in Japan, in Canada, there's talk about this, of reviving this in the United States. We shut one down that was going to be big. But there's talk of building very big accelerators. What can we do about this? What are the solutions? We've got the fox watching the henhouse here. We need to — we need the advice of particle physicists to talk about particle physics and what should be done in particle physics, but we need some outside thinking and watchdogging of what's going on with these experiments. Secondly, we have a natural laboratory surrounding the Earth. We have an electromagnetic field around the Earth, and it's constantly bombarded by high-energy particles, like protons. And in my opinion, we don't spend enough time looking at that natural laboratory and figuring out first what's safe to do on Earth. Number six: biotech disaster. It's one of my favorite ones, because we've done several stories on Bt corn. Bt corn is a corn that creates its own pesticide to kill a corn borer. You may of heard of it — heard it called StarLink, especially when all those taco shells were taken out of the supermarkets about a year and a half ago. This stuff was supposed to only be feed for animals in the United States, and it got into the human food supply, and somebody should've figured out that it would get in the human food supply very easily. But the thing that's alarming is a couple of months ago, in Mexico, where Bt corn and all genetically altered corn is totally illegal, they found Bt corn genes in wild corn plants. Now, corn originated, we think, in Mexico. This is the genetic biodiversity storehouse of corn. This brings back a skepticism that has gone away recently, that superweeds and superpests could spread around the world, from biotechnology, that literally could destroy the world's food supply in very short order. So, what do we do about that? We treat biotechnology with the same scrutiny we apply to nuclear power plants. It's that simple. This is an amazingly unregulated field. When the StarLink disaster happened, there was a battle between the EPA and the FDA over who really had authority, and over what parts of this, and they didn't get it straightened out for months. That's kind of crazy. Number five, one of my favorites: reversal of the Earth's magnetic field. Believe it or not, this happens every few hundred thousand years, and has happened many times in our history. North Pole goes to the South, South Pole goes to the North, and vice versa. But what happens, as this occurs, is that we lose our magnetic field around the Earth over the period of about 100 years, and that means that all these cosmic rays and particles that are to come streaming at us from the sun, that this field protects us from, are — well, basically, we're gonna fry. (Laughter) (Voice: Steve, I have some additional hats downstairs.) SP: So, what can we do about this? Oh, by the way, we're overdue. It's been 780,000 years since this happened. So, it should have happened about 480,000 years ago. Oh, and here's one other thing. Scientists think now our magnetic field may be diminished by about five percent. So, maybe we're in the throes of it. One of the problems of trying to figure out how healthy the Earth is, is that we have — you know, we don't have good weather data from 60 years ago, much less data on things like the ozone layer. So, there's a fairly simple solution to this. There's going to be a lot of cheap rocketry that's going to come online in about six or seven years that gets us into the low atmosphere very cheaply. You know, we can make ozone from car tailpipes. It's not hard: it's just three oxygen atoms. If you brought the entire ozone layer down to the surface of the Earth, it would be the thickness of two pennies, at 14 pounds per square inch. You don't need that much up there. We need to learn how to repair and replenish the Earth's ozone layer. (Applause) Number four: giant solar flares. Solar flares are enormous magnetic outbursts from the Sun that bombard the Earth with high-speed subatomic particles. So far, our atmosphere has done, and our magnetic field has done pretty well protecting us from this. Occasionally, we get a flare from the Sun that causes havoc with communications and so forth, and electricity. But the alarming thing is that astronomers recently have been studying stars that are similar to our Sun, and they've found that a number of them, when they're about the age of our Sun, brighten by a factor of as much as 20. Doesn't last for very long. And they think these are super-flares, millions of times more powerful than any flares we've had from our Sun so far. Obviously, we don't want one of those. (Laughter) There's a flip side to it. In studying stars like our Sun, we've found that they go through periods of diminishment, when their total amount of energy that's expelled from them goes down by maybe one percent. One percent doesn't sound like a lot, but it would cause one hell of an ice age here. So, what can we do about this? (Laughter) Start terraforming Mars. This is one of my favorite subjects. I wrote a story about this in Life magazine in 1993. This is rocket science, but it's not hard rocket science. Everything that we need to make an atmosphere on Mars, and to make a livable planet on Mars, is probably there. And you just, literally, have to send little nuclear factories up there that gobble up the iron oxide on the surface of Mars and spit out the oxygen. The problem is it takes 300 years to terraform Mars, minimum. Really more like 500 years to do it right. There's no reason why we shouldn't start now. (Laughter) Number three — isn't this stuff cool? (Laughter) A new global epidemic. People have been at war with germs ever since there have been people, and from time to time, the germs sure get the upper hand. In 1918, we had a flu epidemic in the United States that killed 20 million people. That was back when the population was around 100 million people. The bubonic plague in Europe, in the Middle Ages, killed one out of four Europeans. AIDS is coming back. Ebola seems to be rearing its head with much too much frequency, and old diseases like cholera are becoming resistant to antibiotics. We've all learned what — the kind of panic that can occur when an old disease rears its head, like anthrax. The worst possibility is that a very simple germ, like staph, for which we have one antibiotic that still works, mutates. And we know staph can do amazing things. A staph cell can be next to a muscle cell in your body and borrow genes from it when antibiotics come, and change and mutate. The danger is that some germ like staph will be — will mutate into something that's really virulent, very contagious, and will sweep through populations before we can do anything about it. That's happened before. About 12,000 years ago, there was a massive wave of mammal extinctions in the Americas, and that is thought to have been a virulent disease. So, what can we do about it? It is nuts. We give antibiotics — (Applause) — every cow, every lamb, every chicken, they get antibiotics every day, all. You know, you go to a restaurant, you eat fish, I got news for you, it's all farmed. You know, you gotta ask when you go to a restaurant if it's a wild fish, cause they're not going to tell you. We're giving away the code. This is like being at war and giving somebody your secret code. We're telling the germs out there how to fight us. We gotta fix that. We gotta outlaw that right away. Secondly, our public health system, as we saw with anthrax, is a real disaster. We have a real, major outbreak of disease in the United States, we are not prepared to cope with it. Now, there is money in the federal budget, next year, to build up the public health service. But I don't think to any extent that it really needs to be done. Number two — my favorite — we meet a rogue black hole. You know, 10 years ago, or 15 years ago, really, you walk into an astronomy convention, and you say, ""You know, there's probably a black hole at the center of every galaxy,"" and they're going to hoot you off the stage. And now, if you went into one of those conventions and you said, ""Well, I don't think black holes are out there,"" they'd hoot you off the stage. Our comprehension of the way the universe works is really — has just gained unbelievably in recent years. We think that there are about 10 million dead stars in the Milky Way alone, our galaxy. And these stars have compressed down to maybe something like 12, 15 miles wide, and they are black holes. And they are gobbling up everything around them, including light, which is why we can't see them. Most of them should be in orbit around something. But galaxies are very violent places, and things can be spun out of orbit. And also, space is incredibly vast. So even if you flung a million of these things out of orbit, the chances that one would actually hit us is fairly remote. But it only has to get close, about a billion miles away, one of these things. About a billion miles away, here's what happens to Earth's orbit: it becomes elliptical instead of circular. And for three months out of the year, the surface temperatures go up to 150 to 180. For three months out of the year, they go to 50 below zero. That won't work too well. What can we do about this? And this is my scariest. (Laughter) I don't have a good answer for this one. Again, we gotta think about being a colonizing race. And finally, number one: biggest danger to life as we know it, I think, a really big asteroid heads for Earth. The important thing to remember here — this is not a question of if, this is a question of when, and how big. In 1908, just a 200-foot piece of a comet exploded over Siberia and flattened forests for maybe 100 miles. It had the effect of about 1,000 Hiroshima bombs. Astronomers estimate that little asteroids like that come about every hundred years. In 1989, a large asteroid passed 400,000 miles away from Earth. Nothing to worry about, right? It passed directly through Earth's orbit. We were in that that spot six hours earlier. A small asteroid, say a half mile wide, would touch off firestorms followed by severe global cooling from the debris kicked up — Carl Sagan's nuclear winter thing. An asteroid five miles wide causes major extinctions. We think the one that got the dinosaurs was about five miles wide. Where are they? There's something called the Kuiper belt, which — some people think Pluto's not a planet, that's where Pluto is, it's in the Kuiper belt. There's also something a little farther out, called the Oort cloud. There are about 100,000 balls of ice and rock — comets, really — out there, that are 50 miles in diameter or more, and they regularly take a little spin, in towards the Sun and pass reasonably close to us. Of more concern, I think, is the asteroids that exist between Mars and Jupiter. The folks at the Sloan Digital Sky Survey told us last fall — they're making the first map of the universe, three-dimensional map of the universe — that there are probably 700,000 asteroids between Mars and Jupiter that are a half a mile big or bigger. So you say, yeah, well, what are really the chances of this happening? Andrew, can you put that chart up? This is a chart that Dr. Clark Chapman at the Southwest Research Institute presented to Congress a few years ago. You'll notice that the chance of an asteroid-slash-comet impact killing you is about one in 20,000, according to the work they've done. Now look at the one right below that. Passenger aircraft crash, one in 20,000. We spend an awful lot of money trying to be sure that we don't die in airplane accidents, and we're not spending hardly anything on this. And yet, this is completely preventable. We finally have, just in the last year, the technology to stop this cold. Could we have the solutions? NASA's spending three million dollars a year, three million bucks — that is like pocket change — to search for asteroids. Because we can actually figure out every asteroid that's out there, and if it might hit Earth, and when it might hit Earth. And they're trying to do that. But it's going to take them 10 years, at spending three million dollars a year, and even then, they claim they'll only have about 80 percent of them catalogued. Comets are a tougher act. We don't really have the technology to predict comet trajectories, or when one with our name on it might arrive. But we would have lots of time, if we see it coming. We really need a dedicated observatory. You'll notice that a lot of comets are named after people you never heard of, amateur astronomers? That's because nobody's looking for them, except amateurs. We need a dedicated observatory that looks for comets. Part two of the solutions: we need to figure out how to blow up an asteroid, or alter its trajectory. Now, a year ago, we did an amazing thing. We sent a probe out to this asteroid belt, called NEAR, Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous. And these guys orbited a 30 — or no, about a 22-mile long asteroid called Eros. And then, of course, you know, they pulled one of those sneaky NASA things, where they had extra batteries and extra gas aboard and everything, and then, at the last minute, they landed. When the mission was over, they actually landed on the thing. We have landed a rocket ship on an asteroid. It's not a big deal. Now, the trouble with just sending a bomb out for this thing is that you don't have anything to push against in space, because there's no air. A nuclear explosion is just as hot, but we don't really have anything big enough to melt a 22-mile long asteroid, or vaporize it, would be more like it. But we can learn to land on these asteroids that have our name on them and put something like a small ion propulsion motor on it, which would gently, slowly, after a period of time, push it into a different trajectory, which, if we've done our math right, would keep it from hitting Earth. This is just a matter of finding 'em, going there, and doing something about it. I know your head is spinning from all this stuff. Yikes! So many big threats! The thing, I think, to remember, is September 11. We don't want to get caught flat-footed again. We know about this stuff. Science has the power to predict the future in many cases now. Knowledge is power. The worst thing we can do is say, jeez, I got enough to worry about without worrying about an asteroid. (Laughter) That's a mistake that could literally cost us our future. Thank you."	在過去的十年中，我們在天文學宇宙學與生物學中所取得的進展著實令人驚奇——我們對於宇宙本身及其運轉方式的瞭解程度可能已經遠遠超出各位的想像。但除此之外我還注意到正當萬物悄然變遷之時，正如人們開始發現的那樣恩......不錯，在每一個星系中央真的都有一個黑洞。科普作家和編輯們——我不應該叫他們『科普作家』，而應該叫『那些以科學為寫作題材的人』——在一天的辛苦工作結束後，他們和編輯們會一同坐下飲著啤酒，然後便開始討論這些難以置信的關於宇宙如何運行的理論。 而這談話將不可避免地以一個我認為相當詭異的話題來結束，那即是：世界瞬間滅亡的數種方式。而那正是我今天要談論的話題。（笑）哈，你們笑吧，這些笨蛋。（笑） 台下觀眾：我們能早些結束嗎？ （笑）是啊，我們要把握好時間！起初我覺得這個問題有點空穴來風，但當思索了很多這方面的問題之後，我開始嚴肅地看待這些問題。隨後就發生了911事件，然後我就想，噢，天呐，我可不能到TED去談論世界將如何滅亡。因為沒有人想聽那個話題。在911之後沒有人還想聽！因此我與一些其他的人，其他的科學家就一些其他的話題展開了討論，而這其中參與討論的一人是一位神經學家，他說，你知道嗎，我認為你提出的問題有很多的解決辦法，這使我想起麥克（Michael）昨天的演講他的母親對他說：如果你提不出問題，就不會有一個與之相應的解決方案。因此我們出發去尋找能拯救世界的方法。喏，你們看，我們找到了。那就是一卷紀錄了布希總統幾個星期之前舉行的一場記者招待會的錄影帶。Andrew 能播放一下那錄影帶嗎？ 布希總統：『無論保衛國家安全的代價多麼高昂，無論捍衛自由的代價多麼高昂，我們都必須支付。』 我同意總統所說的話。明年他打算將兩兆美元的經費來於對抗恐怖分子，而兩兆美元的聯邦財政預算會使我們很快陷入財政赤字，— 但恐怖分子不是我們面臨的唯一威脅。還有一些危險藏在暗處，我們還未能對其察覺，就像當時我們不曾預測恐怖主義在9月11號降臨一樣。 我敢說，如果我們從那2.13萬億美元的財政預算中，拿出100億美元——也就是預算總額的1%或者2%——來分作十份分別派給我將要談論的十個問題，那麼大部份的問題便可迎刃而解了，而剩下的我們也可以著手處理。因此我希望你們能看到這樣做的好處——我得承認我被這些想法給迷住了——對我來說他們就是——理查的螳螂(Richard's cockroaches)。 但我也同時希望——因為我認為在座的各位確實能改變世界——我希望你們能夠參與，而且在你們成為有影響力的公眾人物之後，能努力募集資金來解決這些問題。 那麼我們就開始吧。問題10：我們對生存失去了信心。我們活在一個現代醫學的神話時代；我們比起20年前的自己要健康多了。人們能獲得更好的藥物——但我們的精神世界卻支離破碎。世界衛生組織(WHO)估計世界上每五個人之中就有一個得了臨床所稱的憂鬱症。世界衛生組織(WHO)還說憂鬱是人類有史以來，所面臨的疫情最大的傳染病。 很快地，在基因學方面取得的突破，和更好的藥物會讓我們覺得活到100歲也不是問題。未來女性的平均年齡——或者取其中值——將達到83歲。每一年我們的壽命都會延長一歲。但隨之產生的問題是65歲以上的人群的自殺傾向最高。 該如何解決呢？美國還沒有針對『心理健康』的保險，而這——（掌聲）——這真是一個罪過。98%的人患有憂鬱症——我指的是那些患有嚴重憂鬱症的人——我有一位朋友就有非常嚴重的憂鬱症——而當今的醫藥和技術是可以治療憂鬱症的。但通常其治療方案是心理輔導與藥物的結合。光吃藥是沒用的，尤其對那些患有臨床憂鬱的人來說。你還得去看精神科專家——或者心理醫生——一次的治療得花去你10美元大洋，跟手臂割傷的治療費用差不多。這也太荒謬了。 其次，製藥公司還無法製造出真正有效的精神藥物而我們知道大多數的精神疾病都有一些可以被控制的生物成份。而我們現在對大腦的瞭解也比10年前深入很多。我們需要聯邦政府、國家衛生研究所(NIH)國家科學基金會(NSF)或者其它相關機構的鼎力協助，從而幫助製藥公司開發一些先進的精神類藥物。 好下一話題。問題9——不要笑——外星人入侵地球。10年前，你還找不到1位天文學家——恩，或者只有極少的天文學家——會告訴你在太陽系之外的任何地方都有行星存在。1995年我們發現了三個，而現在已經多達80個。也就是一個月發現兩到三個。順便說一句，我們所發現的這些行星，都位於我們身處的這個狹小空間之內，都未脫離銀河系。銀河系中有肯定有上百萬顆星星，而正如卡爾•薩根(Carl Sagan)堅持數年，也被嘲笑數年的說法一樣，宇宙中一定有不計其數顆行星。幾年之內NASA會發射四到五個天文望遠鏡至木星上，木星上的塵埃較少，因此對類地行星的搜尋將在那裡展開，而僅憑目前技術我們還不能實現類似的觀測。現在看來，宇宙中只有地球上存有生物的觀點與地球附近就有能孕育生命的星球的觀點都是不切實際的想法。再者，想像一些其他星球的生命都不如我們智能也同樣不切實際。 要知道，我們的先進文化——一種工業文化，如果你稍微想一想——也僅有200年歷史而已。縱使每次我去龐貝(Pompeii)都會為那里每個街角所開設的與麥當勞不相上下的店感到震驚。因此我并不認為我們的文明自公元79年之後進步了多少，但同時也很有可能——我對此確信無疑，我不相信外星人理論，而——我也不相信在地球上有外星人或類似的物種存在。但有可能我們在未來會遇上一個比我們的文明更加先進的物種。 那麼那個時候會發生什麽呢？如果他們來吸乾我們的海洋以獲取氫氣呢？如果它們像拍蒼蠅似地驅趕我們，就像我們在熱帶雨林中伐木時那樣驅趕蒼蠅?我們可看看自己的歷史——已故物理學家傑勒德•奧尼爾(Gerard O'Neill)曾說，『先進的西方文明對它所牽涉到的一切原始文明都有摧毀作用，就算有時人們盡了全力去捍衛原始文化，也無濟於事。』而如果外星人造訪地球，我們就是那原始的文明。 那麼這個問題怎麼解決呢？（笑）感謝上帝各位都識字啊！這看起來或許荒謬，但在過去我們在這個領域的預測和實質準備工作上都相當不足。制定一個與先進物種交涉的計劃需要耗費多少精力和財力呢？ 這第二點，是我將著重闡述的——我們的國家必須放眼地球之外，拓取外太空。我們必須進一步強化地球不會永存的觀點，強化太陽不會永存的觀點——如果我們希望人類永存則必須殖民銀河系。而那現在不是什麽不可想像的事情。（掌聲）這麼做對我們也大有好處，如果在開拓的過程中我們遇上了另一隻先進物種，如果我們試圖成為一隻先進的物種。問題8—— 台下觀眾：史蒂夫(Steve), 那就是我在聽完演說后要成為的。（笑聲&掌聲） 你已經領悟了！你會的。 問題8：生態系統的崩潰。去年七月，『科學』，我指『科學』週刊中，19位海洋學家發表了一篇非常，非常特殊的文章——它并不是一份研究報告，而是一篇長篇大論。科學家在文中說道，我們研究海洋已經很長一段時間了，此時我們想告訴你們，海洋面臨的不是麻煩，而是瀕臨崩潰。地球上很多其它的生態系統正處於危險之中。我們生活在一個物種大量滅絕的時代，其速度和遠古時期相比快了1萬倍。在過去的20年，夏威夷(Hawaii)有25%的珍稀物種滅絕，預計加州也將在未來40年內損失25%的物種。在亞馬遜(Amazon)森林某處有一種樹，只剩下最後一棵。你將它伐倒，熱帶雨林的生態系統就從此崩潰。在某個地方的確有這麼一棵樹。真的就這麼一棵。而當那個生態系統崩潰后，它會拖累一個主要的生態系統，譬如說我們的大氣生態系統。那麼我們如何應對呢？ 現在已經有一些模擬生態系統，發生在生態系統上的問題可歸結為我們對其瞭解太少以至於我們不知道他們已經陷入困境，而知道的時候往往已經太晚了。我們需要早一些知道它們出現了問題，然後我們需要在生態模型上試驗解決之道。而這可以藉助強大的電算能力——如我所言，現在的確有這樣的技術，但它還是需要投資。我們需要國家科學基金會(NSF)來拍板——你們知道的，對科學事業的投資幾乎全部都來自聯邦政府各種名目的管道。而資金投注是有其優先順序的，各位知道吧？我們需要有國家科學基金會(NSF)的人站出來說這就是當前最重要的事。說這就是他們應該重點考慮的事項之一。 其次，我們需要在地球上建立大型自然保護區，以保護生物多樣性并於此將影響逐步擴散。在過去的4、5年，在喬治斯河岸(Georges Bank)——或者是紐芬蘭(Newfoundland)的大淺灘(Grand Banks)劃分了『非捕魚區』。區域周圍200英里半徑之內不許捕魚。然後一件神奇的事情發生了——幾乎所有的魚兒都回來了並以驚人的速度繁殖。我們將在全球範圍內推廣這一做法。我們必須要設立『非捕魚區』。我們必須呼籲，在未來的20年，禁止在亞馬遜(Amazon)森林砍伐。在伐木之前請先讓森林得以恢復。（掌聲） 問題7：粒子加速器事故。你們都記得泰德•卡欽斯基(Ted Kaczynski)，那個郵包炸彈恐怖分子吧？他狂熱的事情之一便是一個粒子加速的實驗在失去控制後能產生一系列反應，最終摧毀地球。有很多頭腦清醒的物理學家，不管你信不信，都有過類似的想法。這個春天，在布魯克海文(Brookhaven),在長島上(Long Island)有一台對撞機——這個春天它將被啟用來做一項模擬黑洞的實驗。科學家們希望憑此來製造一些小小的黑洞。他們還希望他們能自行消失。（笑）我希望他們是正確的。（笑） 另一個對撞實驗——下個夏天在歐洲核子研究中心（CERN）將有一實驗——有可能製造出一種叫做『奇異微子』的東西，這東西有點像反物質，任何時候它們一旦與其他物質相撞便會與其同歸於盡，不留痕跡。大多數物理學家都說我們現在擁有的加速區還沒強大到能製造出令人恐慌的黑洞和『奇異微子』或許他們是對的。但——從世界範圍來看，在日本、加拿大——都在談論相關的事情——都在談要在美國重振這一事業。我們扼殺了未來的大加速器。卻被煽動製造非常大的加速器對此我們能做些什麽呢？解決方法呢？ 我們的雞舍周圍蹲滿了虎視眈眈的狐狸。我們需要——我們需要來自粒子物理學家的建議，需要他們對此進行討論來確定到底在粒子物理學中什麽是我們應該做的。但我們同樣需要一些圈外的想法，需要外界來督查這些實驗將產生的影響。 其次，我們有一個自然的實驗室環繞在地球周圍。在地球周圍有一個天然電磁場它被高能量粒子——如質子——持續地轟炸。而我們並沒有——在我看來——我們沒有花足夠多的時間來研究那個天然實驗室並確定什麽實驗在地球上進行是安全的。 問題6：生物技術帶來的災難。這是我最喜歡的話題之一，因為我們有很多關於轉基因玉米(BT corn)的故事.BT 玉米可以自產殺蟲劑來消滅入侵的害蟲。你可能聽說過——星聯(Starlink)玉米,尤其是一年半前當所有這些玉米糠皮被超市下架的時候。這物質在美國規定只能用來飼養動物，而現在它進入了人類的食物，而且有人應該很快就能發現這種玉米成份很容易成為人類的食物。但真正發出警告的是幾個月前，在墨西哥，在那裡BT玉米和所有轉基因玉米都被法律禁止生產，而在那裡有人在野生玉米植株中發現了BT玉米的基因。現在看來，玉米應該是起源于墨西哥。墨西哥是玉米的基因庫。而這又喚起了一個近來才淡去的懷疑論，即：生物科技將使超級雜草與超級害蟲遍及全世界，而那絕對會給全球食物供應帶來滅頂之災以迅雷不及掩耳之勢。 那麼我們又能對此做些什麽呢？我們必須用對待核電站的審慎態度來對待生物科技。道理就那麼簡單。現在生物科技領域無法無天。星聯(Starlink)事件發生后，環境保護局(EPA)與食品及藥物管理局(FDA)之間就誰有權利接管、應該接管哪個部份發生了爭執，爭了幾個月也還是沒有結果——真是不可理喻。 問題5，又是我最喜歡的話題之一：地球磁場顛倒。不論你是否相信，這確實每隔數十萬年就發生一次，在過去它已經發生了幾次——北極換到了南極，南極換到了北極，或者反之。當這發生時，我們就會有大約100年的時間處於失去磁場的狀態，而那就意味著所有太陽產生的宇宙射線和粒子流都朝我們奔湧而來，這就是失去地球磁場保護的下場——基本上，我們將被炸焦。（笑） 台下觀眾：史蒂夫(Steve)我在樓下還有些帽子。 那麼我們能對此做些什麽呢？噢，順便說一句，磁場倒置正在延遲——距上次發生發生至今已經有78萬年了而——本來48萬年前就應該發生一次的。噢，還有另一件事——科學家認為現在地球磁場可能已經削弱了5%。所以我們可能要『忍痛割愛』了。為地球測評健康水平所面臨的困難之一就是，我們缺乏來自60年前的完好的天氣資料，至於臭氧層的資料就更加少了。 那麼對此，有一個很簡單的解決辦法。在6、7年內，網上將有很多廉價的火箭學資源，那可使我們進入低層大氣，而花費甚微。你們可知道，汽車尾氣管可以製造臭氧。那并不難——也就是三個氧原子嘛。如果你把整個臭氧層搬到地球表面上來，那將會有2美分厚，每平方英寸有14磅重。你可不需要有那麼多臭氧蕩在那兒。我們需要研究如何修復、填充地球的臭氧層。（掌聲） 問題4：太陽大閃焰。太陽閃焰是太陽拋射出的強磁場該磁場以高速次原子粒子流的形式轟炸地球。一直以來我們的大氣層——與地球磁場一并——保護著我們免受其害。偶爾地，會有一股來自太陽的閃焰闖進地球對我們的通訊、電力等產生強烈干擾。但令人擔憂的是天文學家近來研究發現與太陽類似的恒星中有一些，當它們處於太陽現在的年紀時，比原來亮了20倍，且這個狀態持續不了多久。於是天文學家推測那是超級閃焰，它要比太陽之前所產生的任何閃焰的威力都要強數百萬倍。 很顯然我們並不希望碰上。（笑）但另一方面——在研究與太陽相似的恒星的過程中，我們發現它們經歷了一些衰退期，這時它們釋放的能量比起之前而言會下降1%。1%的能量聽起來并不多，但它足以成就一個冰河時代。那麼我們能做些什麽呢？ （笑）將火星改造成地球。這是我最喜歡的課題之一，1993年我在『生命(Life)』雜誌中發表了一個故事。這就是火箭科學，但並不難理解。因為我們需要在火星上製造的大氣和其他使火星適宜生存的一切資源，都可能已經在火星上了。而你需要做的，實際上只是發送一些核能工廠到火星上將氧化鐵吞進爾後吐出氧氣。困難就在於要改造火星至少也得需要300年。或許要改造好可能需要更久，諸如500年。因此我們沒有理由還不開始行動。（笑） 問題3——這難道不是很酷嗎？（笑）——一種新的全球流行病。打人類存在時起我們就一直在和病菌做鬥爭，而有時病毒還占了上風。1918年美國的一場流感奪走了2000萬人的生命。而當時的總人口也不過1億而已。中世紀一場黑死病(bubonic plague)使1/4的歐洲人喪命。愛滋病毒捲土重來；依波拉(Ebola)病毒也開始翹首昂姿這些病發作的頻率非常高，而諸如霍亂(cholera)這樣的『老相識』也開始變得抗藥了。我們都領教過老疾病再次發作的時候所引發的恐慌，譬如炭疽熱(anthrax)再次發作的時候。 最壞的情況就是連一些很簡單的病菌，譬如葡萄球菌(staph),——現在還剩有一種抗生素對其奏效——都發生了變異。而我們知道葡萄球菌(staph)會做出一些驚人之事。一個葡萄球菌細胞會寄居在一個肌細胞旁邊，爾後藉助肌細胞的基因，在抗生素來時，葡萄球菌便會發生變異。這其中危險就在於一些諸如葡萄球菌的病菌會——會變異成一些非常致命的、傳染性極強的病菌，爾後在我們措手不及的時候大肆掃蕩人群。之間也發生過此事。大約1萬兩千年前，美國發生過一次大規模的哺乳動物滅絕，而那被認為就是一場惡性疾病造成的。那麼我們對此能做些什麽呢？ 這真難辦。我們餵家禽抗生素——（掌聲）——每一隻牛、羊、雞，它們每天都要吃抗生素，所有的——你可知道，當去到餐廳吃魚的時候，我告訴你，它是飼養的。然後你得問餐廳那魚是否是野生的，而他們當然不會告訴你。我們正在洩露天機——就好像正在打仗，然後我們把密碼給洩露了一樣。我們根本是在教病菌該如何對付我們。我們必須要將這種狀況改過來，必要要明文禁止那種行為才行。 其次，我們的公共衛生體系，在我看來與炭疽熱(anthrax)一樣，也是場災難。現在的美國就有一場非常大的疾病爆發，而我們還未準備對策。聯邦預算中有一筆錢是打算用來建設明年的公共健康服務的。但我實在看不出這樣做的必要性。 問題2——我最喜歡的——我們遇上了一個淘氣的小黑洞。你可知道，10年前——或者15年前——當你在天文學大會上說『你們知道嗎，在銀河系中央很可能有一個黑洞，』的時候你就會被炮轟下臺。而現在如果你在大會上說，『我認為黑洞並不存在』，他們才會將你轟下臺。我們對於宇宙運行方式的理解，真的——在近幾年有了不可思議的進展。 我們認為，僅在銀河系中就有大約一千萬顆死亡的恒星。而這些恒星已經被壓縮成12或者15英里直徑的『大餅』，他們就是黑洞。而且他們正在吞噬周遭的一切，包括光，因此我們也不能觀測到它們（黑洞）。大多數黑洞都應該在一些軌道上圍繞它物運行。但星系是很不穩定的，其中天體會脫離其軌道。但同時，太空極其廣大。因此就算有一百萬個類似物種被甩出軌道，砸中地球的概率也是微乎其微的。但是——一旦類此物質靠近地球，哪怕在十億英里開外。在離地球十億英里遠時，地球運行軌跡將變化為——它將從圓形變為橢圓。然後每年中有三個月，地表溫度將上升至華氏150至180（約合65至82攝氏度——譯者注）而有三個月地表溫度又會降至-50度(約合-45攝氏度——譯者注)那樣可不大好。我們對此又能做些什麽呢？而這正是我最怕的——（笑）對此我沒有想到一個好的解決方案。同樣的，我們得好好考慮一下殖民外太空。 最後，問題1——在我看來它是我們所知的對生命最大的威脅，那就是：一個非常大的小行星直奔地球而來。在這裡需要記住的是——這不是會不會發生的問題，而是什麽時候發生，行星會有多大的問題。1908年，一片——僅僅是一片200英尺的彗星碎片——在西伯利亞(Siberia)上空爆炸，夷平的森林直徑達100英里。它的威力與1000顆炸廣島(Hiroshima)的原子彈等同。天文學家預測小行星每隔幾百年就造訪地球一次，1989年一顆大行星與我們相隔40萬英里擦肩而過。 沒什麽好擔心的對吧？那顆行星徑直掠過地球軌道，恰是6小時前地球所處的位置。一顆小行星，譬如一顆直徑半英里的小行星，都會引發火災風暴隨後便是殘骸引發的全球性氣溫惡降——正是卡爾•薩根（Carl Sagan）道出的『核冬天』——（核冬天：核武器爆炸引起的全球性氣溫下降——譯者注）一顆直徑5英里的小行星會帶來滅頂之災——我們認為那顆讓恐龍滅絕的行星正是5英尺大。這些小行星從哪裡來?有一個地方叫做凱伯帶(Kuiper belt)（Kuiper belt：數十億顆在海王星軌道之外繞行的小型冰體構成的碟形帶——譯者注）這也是——有人認為冥王星不是一顆行星，冥王星所處的區域，正是凱伯帶(Kuiper belt)。在遠一些的地方還有一個叫做奧特星雲(Oort cloud)的東西。星雲中有大約10萬顆冰球和石球——也就是彗星——它們直徑有50英里長，甚至更長，而它們定期會朝太陽奔去爾後適度地偏向地球，從其旁邊掠過。更值得關注的，我認為，是存於火星與木星之間的小行星。去年秋季SDSS的工作人員告訴我們——（SDSS:位於新墨西哥州阿帕奇山顶天文台一個以2.5米口径望遠鏡『掃描』外太空的項目——譯者注）他們正在製作第一張宇宙地圖——宇宙三維地圖他們告訴我們在火星與木星之間有70萬顆小行星其直徑達半英里或者更長。然後你們會說，好吧，那麼究竟小行星撞擊地球的概率是多少呢？安德魯(Andrew)，能放一下那張圖表嗎？ 這張圖表是西南研究學院(Southwestern Research Institute)的克拉克 •查普曼(Clark Chapman)博士幾年前給國會展示的一張圖。你會注意到被小行星長尾彗星砸中身亡的概率是1/20000，這是他們研究出來的。那麼再看看正下方的這個。客機發生空難的概率，也是1/20000.我們投入那麼多資金來避免飛機事故造成的人員傷亡，卻未曾真正在小行星撞擊地球這個課題上投入很多。而這是完全可以避免的。最終，去年我們才有了結束這個冷門的技術。我們的解決辦法呢？ NASA每年花三百萬美元在這個研究課題上——三百萬美元——那只是一些小錢——對於搜尋小行星來說。因為其實我們可以給每一顆太空中的小行星定位，我們可以算出它是否有可能撞擊地球，以及撞擊的時間。現在NASA已經開始試圖研究這個了。但如果每年只花3百萬美元的話，這工作得做十年，甚至10年后他們都只能公佈80%的編制行星名錄。彗星可是堅定不移。我們還不具備能預測彗星軌道的技術，也不能算出我們命名的彗星造訪地球的具體時間。但如果我們知道它正朝我們奔來，我們就有機會脫險。我們需要一個專門用來觀測彗星的天文臺。你會注意很多彗星都是無名人氏給其命名的——都是業餘天文學愛好者干的？那是因為除了他們沒人在做這事兒了。我們需要一個專門的天文臺來觀測彗星。 解決方案的第二部份——我們需研究出如何炸掉小行星，或者是改變它的軌道。一年前，我們有一驚人之舉。我們向小行星帶發送了一個探測器，它名字叫做NEAR，展開后便是『近地小行星集結號(Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous)』。這些探測器繞著一顆直徑長達30——哦不，應該是22英里的小行星厄裡斯(Eris)旋轉。然後當然啦，你們知道的，它們履行了一個NASA暗中賦予的任務——在它們還有多餘電量、多餘燃料和一切條件具備的前提下——然後在最後罐頭它們著陸了——當任務結束時它們扎扎實實地落在一顆小行星上。我們已經把一艘火箭著陸在一顆小行星上了。這沒什麽大不了的。那麼向小行星發射炮彈的困難呢，就在於太空中沒有推進器，因為太空中沒有空氣。行使核爆炸也是熱門話題，但我們的能量還不足以融化一顆22英里直徑的小行星。使其氣化也不現實，我比較傾向于這樣說。 但我們可以試著讓攜有名字標記的裝置著陸在這些小行星上，然後再給其綁定一些諸如小的離子推進馬達之類的東西，這樣通過一段時間，這些推進馬達便可以輕微地、慢慢地將小行星推進另一個軌道，而只要我們計算正確，就可以阻止小行星撞擊地球。這問題歸結起來就是去發現小行星，爾後到達它所在的地方并對其採取一定措施。我知道大家的腦袋都被這些東西給搞昏了。唉呀！這麼多的威脅呀！ 我覺得需要記住的是911事件。我們可不想再坐以待斃。我們很清楚這一點。現在的科學已經具備在一些領域預測未來的能力。知識就是力量。最糟糕莫過於我們高呼哎呀，我擔心的都夠多啦但還未想過小行星問題。這個盲點真的會斷送我們的未來啊。謝謝。
