Talk	en	zh-tw
steve_ramirez_and_xu_liu_a_mouse_a_laser_beam_a_manipulated_memory	"Steve Ramirez: My first year of grad school, I found myself in my bedroom eating lots of Ben & Jerry's watching some trashy TV and maybe, maybe listening to Taylor Swift. I had just gone through a breakup. (Laughter) So for the longest time, all I would do is recall the memory of this person over and over again, wishing that I could get rid of that gut-wrenching, visceral ""blah"" feeling. Now, as it turns out, I'm a neuroscientist, so I knew that the memory of that person and the awful, emotional undertones that color in that memory, are largely mediated by separate brain systems. And so I thought, what if we could go into the brain and edit out that nauseating feeling but while keeping the memory of that person intact? Then I realized, maybe that's a little bit lofty for now. So what if we could start off by going into the brain and just finding a single memory to begin with? Could we jump-start that memory back to life, maybe even play with the contents of that memory? All that said, there is one person in the entire world right now that I really hope is not watching this talk. (Laughter) So there is a catch. There is a catch. These ideas probably remind you of ""Total Recall,"" ""Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,"" or of ""Inception."" But the movie stars that we work with are the celebrities of the lab. Xu Liu: Test mice. (Laughter) As neuroscientists, we work in the lab with mice trying to understand how memory works. And today, we hope to convince you that now we are actually able to activate a memory in the brain at the speed of light. To do this, there's only two simple steps to follow. First, you find and label a memory in the brain, and then you activate it with a switch. As simple as that. (Laughter) SR: Are you convinced? So, turns out finding a memory in the brain isn't all that easy. XL: Indeed. This is way more difficult than, let's say, finding a needle in a haystack, because at least, you know, the needle is still something you can physically put your fingers on. But memory is not. And also, there's way more cells in your brain than the number of straws in a typical haystack. So yeah, this task does seem to be daunting. But luckily, we got help from the brain itself. It turned out that all we need to do is basically to let the brain form a memory, and then the brain will tell us which cells are involved in that particular memory. SR: So what was going on in my brain while I was recalling the memory of an ex? If you were to just completely ignore human ethics for a second and slice up my brain right now, you would see that there was an amazing number of brain regions that were active while recalling that memory. Now one brain region that would be robustly active in particular is called the hippocampus, which for decades has been implicated in processing the kinds of memories that we hold near and dear, which also makes it an ideal target to go into and to try and find and maybe reactivate a memory. XL: When you zoom in into the hippocampus, of course you will see lots of cells, but we are able to find which cells are involved in a particular memory, because whenever a cell is active, like when it's forming a memory, it will also leave a footprint that will later allow us to know these cells are recently active. SR: So the same way that building lights at night let you know that somebody's probably working there at any given moment, in a very real sense, there are biological sensors within a cell that are turned on only when that cell was just working. They're sort of biological windows that light up to let us know that that cell was just active. XL: So we clipped part of this sensor, and attached that to a switch to control the cells, and we packed this switch into an engineered virus and injected that into the brain of the mice. So whenever a memory is being formed, any active cells for that memory will also have this switch installed. SR: So here is what the hippocampus looks like after forming a fear memory, for example. The sea of blue that you see here are densely packed brain cells, but the green brain cells, the green brain cells are the ones that are holding on to a specific fear memory. So you are looking at the crystallization of the fleeting formation of fear. You're actually looking at the cross-section of a memory right now. XL: Now, for the switch we have been talking about, ideally, the switch has to act really fast. It shouldn't take minutes or hours to work. It should act at the speed of the brain, in milliseconds. SR: So what do you think, Xu? Could we use, let's say, pharmacological drugs to activate or inactivate brain cells? XL: Nah. Drugs are pretty messy. They spread everywhere. And also it takes them forever to act on cells. So it will not allow us to control a memory in real time. So Steve, how about let's zap the brain with electricity? SR: So electricity is pretty fast, but we probably wouldn't be able to target it to just the specific cells that hold onto a memory, and we'd probably fry the brain. XL: Oh. That's true. So it looks like, hmm, indeed we need to find a better way to impact the brain at the speed of light. SR: So it just so happens that light travels at the speed of light. So maybe we could activate or inactive memories by just using light — XL: That's pretty fast. SR: — and because normally brain cells don't respond to pulses of light, so those that would respond to pulses of light are those that contain a light-sensitive switch. Now to do that, first we need to trick brain cells to respond to laser beams. XL: Yep. You heard it right. We are trying to shoot lasers into the brain. (Laughter) SR: And the technique that lets us do that is optogenetics. Optogenetics gave us this light switch that we can use to turn brain cells on or off, and the name of that switch is channelrhodopsin, seen here as these green dots attached to this brain cell. You can think of channelrhodopsin as a sort of light-sensitive switch that can be artificially installed in brain cells so that now we can use that switch to activate or inactivate the brain cell simply by clicking it, and in this case we click it on with pulses of light. XL: So we attach this light-sensitive switch of channelrhodopsin to the sensor we've been talking about and inject this into the brain. So whenever a memory is being formed, any active cell for that particular memory will also have this light-sensitive switch installed in it so that we can control these cells by the flipping of a laser just like this one you see. SR: So let's put all of this to the test now. What we can do is we can take our mice and then we can put them in a box that looks exactly like this box here, and then we can give them a very mild foot shock so that they form a fear memory of this box. They learn that something bad happened here. Now with our system, the cells that are active in the hippocampus in the making of this memory, only those cells will now contain channelrhodopsin. XL: When you are as small as a mouse, it feels as if the whole world is trying to get you. So your best response of defense is trying to be undetected. Whenever a mouse is in fear, it will show this very typical behavior by staying at one corner of the box, trying to not move any part of its body, and this posture is called freezing. So if a mouse remembers that something bad happened in this box, and when we put them back into the same box, it will basically show freezing because it doesn't want to be detected by any potential threats in this box. SR: So you can think of freezing as, you're walking down the street minding your own business, and then out of nowhere you almost run into an ex-girlfriend or ex-boyfriend, and now those terrifying two seconds where you start thinking, ""What do I do? Do I say hi? Do I shake their hand? Do I turn around and run away? Do I sit here and pretend like I don't exist?"" Those kinds of fleeting thoughts that physically incapacitate you, that temporarily give you that deer-in-headlights look. XL: However, if you put the mouse in a completely different new box, like the next one, it will not be afraid of this box because there's no reason that it will be afraid of this new environment. But what if we put the mouse in this new box but at the same time, we activate the fear memory using lasers just like we did before? Are we going to bring back the fear memory for the first box into this completely new environment? SR: All right, and here's the million-dollar experiment. Now to bring back to life the memory of that day, I remember that the Red Sox had just won, it was a green spring day, perfect for going up and down the river and then maybe going to the North End to get some cannolis, #justsaying. Now Xu and I, on the other hand, were in a completely windowless black room not making any ocular movement that even remotely resembles an eye blink because our eyes were fixed onto a computer screen. We were looking at this mouse here trying to activate a memory for the first time using our technique. XL: And this is what we saw. When we first put the mouse into this box, it's exploring, sniffing around, walking around, minding its own business, because actually by nature, mice are pretty curious animals. They want to know, what's going on in this new box? It's interesting. But the moment we turned on the laser, like you see now, all of a sudden the mouse entered this freezing mode. It stayed here and tried not to move any part of its body. Clearly it's freezing. So indeed, it looks like we are able to bring back the fear memory for the first box in this completely new environment. While watching this, Steve and I are as shocked as the mouse itself. (Laughter) So after the experiment, the two of us just left the room without saying anything. After a kind of long, awkward period of time, Steve broke the silence. SR: ""Did that just work?"" XL: ""Yes,"" I said. ""Indeed it worked!"" We're really excited about this. And then we published our findings in the journal Nature. Ever since the publication of our work, we've been receiving numerous comments from all over the Internet. Maybe we can take a look at some of those. [""OMGGGGG FINALLY... so much more to come, virtual reality, neural manipulation, visual dream emulation... neural coding, 'writing and re-writing of memories', mental illnesses. Ahhh the future is awesome""] SR: So the first thing that you'll notice is that people have really strong opinions about this kind of work. Now I happen to completely agree with the optimism of this first quote, because on a scale of zero to Morgan Freeman's voice, it happens to be one of the most evocative accolades that I've heard come our way. (Laughter) But as you'll see, it's not the only opinion that's out there. [""This scares the hell out of me... What if they could do that easily in humans in a couple of years?! OH MY GOD WE'RE DOOMED""] XL: Indeed, if we take a look at the second one, I think we can all agree that it's, meh, probably not as positive. But this also reminds us that, although we are still working with mice, it's probably a good idea to start thinking and discussing about the possible ethical ramifications of memory control. SR: Now, in the spirit of the third quote, we want to tell you about a recent project that we've been working on in lab that we've called Project Inception. [""They should make a movie about this. Where they plant ideas into peoples minds, so they can control them for their own personal gain. We'll call it: Inception.""] So we reasoned that now that we can reactivate a memory, what if we do so but then begin to tinker with that memory? Could we possibly even turn it into a false memory? XL: So all memory is sophisticated and dynamic, but if just for simplicity, let's imagine memory as a movie clip. So far what we've told you is basically we can control this ""play"" button of the clip so that we can play this video clip any time, anywhere. But is there a possibility that we can actually get inside the brain and edit this movie clip so that we can make it different from the original? Yes we can. Turned out that all we need to do is basically reactivate a memory using lasers just like we did before, but at the same time, if we present new information and allow this new information to incorporate into this old memory, this will change the memory. It's sort of like making a remix tape. SR: So how do we do this? Rather than finding a fear memory in the brain, we can start by taking our animals, and let's say we put them in a blue box like this blue box here and we find the brain cells that represent that blue box and we trick them to respond to pulses of light exactly like we had said before. Now the next day, we can take our animals and place them in a red box that they've never experienced before. We can shoot light into the brain to reactivate the memory of the blue box. So what would happen here if, while the animal is recalling the memory of the blue box, we gave it a couple of mild foot shocks? So here we're trying to artificially make an association between the memory of the blue box and the foot shocks themselves. We're just trying to connect the two. So to test if we had done so, we can take our animals once again and place them back in the blue box. Again, we had just reactivated the memory of the blue box while the animal got a couple of mild foot shocks, and now the animal suddenly freezes. It's as though it's recalling being mildly shocked in this environment even though that never actually happened. So it formed a false memory, because it's falsely fearing an environment where, technically speaking, nothing bad actually happened to it. XL: So, so far we are only talking about this light-controlled ""on"" switch. In fact, we also have a light-controlled ""off"" switch, and it's very easy to imagine that by installing this light-controlled ""off"" switch, we can also turn off a memory, any time, anywhere. So everything we've been talking about today is based on this philosophically charged principle of neuroscience that the mind, with its seemingly mysterious properties, is actually made of physical stuff that we can tinker with. SR: And for me personally, I see a world where we can reactivate any kind of memory that we'd like. I also see a world where we can erase unwanted memories. Now, I even see a world where editing memories is something of a reality, because we're living in a time where it's possible to pluck questions from the tree of science fiction and to ground them in experimental reality. XL: Nowadays, people in the lab and people in other groups all over the world are using similar methods to activate or edit memories, whether that's old or new, positive or negative, all sorts of memories so that we can understand how memory works. SR: For example, one group in our lab was able to find the brain cells that make up a fear memory and converted them into a pleasurable memory, just like that. That's exactly what I mean about editing these kinds of processes. Now one dude in lab was even able to reactivate memories of female mice in male mice, which rumor has it is a pleasurable experience. XL: Indeed, we are living in a very exciting moment where science doesn't have any arbitrary speed limits but is only bound by our own imagination. SR: And finally, what do we make of all this? How do we push this technology forward? These are the questions that should not remain just inside the lab, and so one goal of today's talk was to bring everybody up to speed with the kind of stuff that's possible in modern neuroscience, but now, just as importantly, to actively engage everybody in this conversation. So let's think together as a team about what this all means and where we can and should go from here, because Xu and I think we all have some really big decisions ahead of us. Thank you. XL: Thank you. (Applause)"	斯蒂夫：我讀研究所第一年的時候我發現我會在臥室裡大吃冰淇淋看些沒營養的電視節目而且也許，也許還會聽聽泰勒絲的歌那時我剛失戀（笑聲）大部分的時間裡我唯一做的事就是再三回憶與她的美好過往希望可以擺脫那種撕心裂肺的痛楚希望可以擺脫那種撕心裂肺的痛楚 後來我成為一名神經學家所以我清楚關於那人的回憶和其中隱含的糟糕又情緒化的部分受大腦中不同系統的影響很大所以我想，要是我們能夠進入腦部刪除那些難受的情緒同時又保留關於那人的完整記憶，不是很好嗎？後來我明瞭，也許這對現今而言是有點遙不可及要是我們可以從進入大腦裡先找到一段記憶作為開始呢？我們能再啟動那段記憶讓它起死回生、甚至玩弄那段記憶的內容嗎？ 即便如此，我仍強烈希望她現在沒有看這個演講即便如此，我仍強烈希望她現在沒有看這個演講 （笑聲） 還有一個問題，棘手的問題這些想法可能會讓你聯想到《攔截記憶碼》《王牌冤家》或者《全面啟動》但是和我們共事的電影明星可是實驗室的名人啊 劉旭：實驗鼠 （笑聲） 作為神經學家，我們在實驗室用老鼠做實驗為了了解記憶是如何運作的今天，我希望說服你們我們現在能以光速啟動大腦裡的記憶我們現在能以光速啟動大腦裡的記憶要做到這點，只需兩個簡單的步驟首先，在大腦裡找到一段記憶並將其標記然後，用開關啟動它就這麼簡單（笑聲） 斯蒂夫：你們被說服了嗎？其實，要在大腦裡找到一段記憶沒那麼容易 劉旭：的確，這可是比在乾草堆裡找針難多了劉旭：的確，這可是比在乾草堆裡找針難多了因為至少，你還能用手抓住那根針因為至少，你還能用手抓住那根針但記憶卻不行而且腦細胞的數量遠勝於乾草堆裡稻草的數量所以說，這個工作看來真令人卻步但幸運的是，大腦給了我們幫助事實證明，我們需要做的只是讓大腦形成一段記憶然後大腦就會告訴我們哪些細胞和那段記憶有關 斯蒂夫：當回憶前任女友的時候我的大腦是什麼狀況呢？假設你們現在暫且完全無視道德倫常把我的大腦切片你們會發現當我回憶她的時候大腦的活躍區域數量之驚人有一個極其活躍的大腦區域叫做海馬體數十年來它一直被視為處理跟我們所珍視的與親愛的記憶相關的器官它也成為我們試圖尋找、甚至重新啟動某一段記憶的理想目標 劉旭：當把海馬體放大你肯定會看到很多細胞但我們可以找到與某段記憶相關的細胞但我們可以找到與某段記憶相關的細胞因為，當一個細胞呈現活躍的狀態例如一段記憶形成時它也會留下一道印記，好讓我們知道這些細胞最近是活躍的 斯蒂夫：同樣地，晚上大樓有燈亮著時你會知道當時應該有人還在那兒工作確切地說，生物傳感器當一個細胞在工作的時候就會開啟它們有點像一個亮著的生物窗讓我們知道這個細胞是活躍的 劉旭：於是我們剪下部分的傳感器把它粘在細胞的開關上來控制細胞然後把這個開關塞進一個工程病毒裡再注入老鼠的大腦所以，每當一段記憶形成時任何相關的活躍細胞都會安裝上這個開關 斯蒂夫：比如說，這就是海馬體形成一段恐懼記憶後的樣子你看到的藍色部份就是密集的腦細胞而這些綠色的腦細胞呢綠色細胞就是與那段特定的恐懼記憶緊密連結的細胞你們看到的，就是那結晶體瞬間形成的恐懼結晶體此刻你們看到的其實是一段記憶的橫截面 劉旭：現在，談談我們剛才提到的開關理想狀態下，它必須運作得非常快幾分鐘或幾小時都太久了它應以大腦的速度運作，以毫秒為單位 斯蒂夫：你怎麼看呢，阿旭？我們能不能用像是... 藥用藥來啟動或靜止腦細胞？ 劉旭：算了吧，用藥太麻煩了，搞得到處都是而且要對腦細胞起作用也太久了我們不可能透過藥來及時控制記憶斯蒂夫，我們電擊大腦怎麼樣？ 斯蒂夫：電的速度也挺快的但是我們不太可能只擊中那些正好與某段記憶密切相關的細胞而且我們還可能把大腦給電糊了 劉旭：那倒是啊！嗯，那看來我們的確需要更好的方法以光速來影響大腦 斯蒂夫：恰巧，光是以光速行進的若我們要啟動或靜止記憶光也許可以派上用場 劉旭：它的確很快 斯蒂夫：而且，正常情況下腦細胞對光脈衝沒反應所以，那些對光脈衝有反應的細胞就是安裝了光感開關的細胞要做到這個，我們先要哄騙腦細胞讓它們對雷射光有反應 劉旭：對，你們沒聽錯我們要把雷射光射入大腦（笑聲） 斯蒂夫：光基因技術使之成為可能我們可以使用光基因技術的光開關來啟動或靜止腦細胞這個開關的名字就叫「通道視紫紅質」（譯註︰又稱「光敏感通道」）就是這些附在這個細胞上的綠點你們可以把通道視紫紅質視為一種光感開關它可以以人工的方式安裝在腦細胞上所以我們可以透過簡單地按下開關來啟動或靜止腦細胞這裡呢，我們用光脈衝來開啟它劉旭：於是我們把通道視紫紅質光感開關粘到剛才提到的傳感器上然後將其注入大腦所以，每當一段記憶形成時所有與那段記憶相關的活躍細胞都會被安裝上這個光感開關以便我們透過輕擊雷射開關來控制這些細胞，就像你們看到的這樣 斯蒂夫：現在讓我們對這些進行測試我們能做的就是把老鼠放進這樣的一個盒子裡輕微地電擊牠們的足部牠們對這個盒子便形成恐懼記憶牠們記得在這裡發生過不好的事現在，透過我們的系統這些在海馬體內活躍的細胞正形成記憶只有那些細胞才含有通道視紫紅質 劉旭：如果你像老鼠一樣小你會覺得全世界都想抓住你所以你最好的防禦反應就是盡量不被發現當老鼠恐懼的時候就會表現出這種典型的行為縮在盒子角落，一動也不動縮在盒子角落，一動也不動這個姿勢叫做「行為凍結」所以如果老鼠記得在這個盒子裡發生過不好的事當我們把牠們放回同一個盒子裡時就會表現出「行為凍結」因為牠不想被盒子裡任何對牠構成威脅的物體發現 斯蒂夫：你們可以把「行為凍結」看作當你自顧自的走在街上突如其來你差點撞見前女友或前男友在那恐怖的兩秒間隔裡你會想︰「我該怎麼辦？要問好嗎？要跟他們握手嗎？我該轉身跑掉嗎？我該待在原地假裝我不存在嗎？」那些閃念就會讓你的行為木訥會讓你當下看起來不知所措一臉茫然 然而，如果你把這隻老鼠放到一個全然不同的新盒子裡，比如這個牠就不會害怕這個盒子因為牠沒理由害怕這個新環境 但是，若我們把這隻老鼠放到新盒子裡而且同時用雷射啟動牠的恐懼記憶呢？就像剛才那樣我們能把第一個盒子裡的恐懼記憶帶到這個新環境嗎？ 斯蒂夫：好，這就是那個寶貴的實驗現在，把那天的記憶復甦吧我記得紅襪隊剛贏了比賽一個綠意盎然的春日正適合去溯溪也許再去北城買些奶酪卷，隨便說說而已而阿旭和我呢則在一個無窗的黑暗房間裡目不轉睛連眨眼都沒有因為我們的目光都聚焦在電腦螢幕上我們正盯著這隻老鼠首次試著用我們的技術去啟動牠的記憶 劉旭：然後我們就看到了這個當我們第一次把老鼠放進盒子裡牠在熟悉環境、四處嗅嗅、到處走動專注著自己的事因為天性使然老鼠的好奇心很強牠們想知道這個新盒子裡是怎樣的很有趣但是當我們開啟雷射時，就像你看到的這隻老鼠突然就進入了「行為凍結」模式牠待在原處試著不移動身體很明顯是「行為凍結」看起來，我們的確可以喚回在第一個盒子裡的恐懼記憶並帶到這個全新的環境 看到這個情況，斯蒂夫和我像老鼠一樣震驚（笑聲）實驗結束後，我們兩人離開了實驗室什麼也沒說 一段又長又尷尬的時間之後斯蒂夫打破了沉默 斯蒂夫：「剛才那個起作用了？」 劉旭：我說「對，起作用了！」我們對此非常興奮後來我們把我們的發現發表在《自然》科學期刊上自從發表之後我們得到了無數來自網際網路的評論我們得到了無數來自網際網路的評論也許我們可以看看其中幾篇 「天啊！終於！隨之而來的東西太多了，虛擬現實、神經操縱、夢幻仿真......神經編碼、記憶編輯、心理障礙治療，未來太美好了！」 斯蒂夫：首先你會注意到人們對此類發現懷有強烈的看法而我剛好對第一個評論的樂觀抱持完全贊同態度因為，從零開始到摩根·弗里曼說的話恰巧成了最引人共鳴的讚揚而且我已經聽到了（笑聲）但是，看法也不盡然是剛才那種 「這太嚇人了吧，要是他們幾年之後輕易在人身上實驗的話......我們完了！」 劉旭：的確，如果我們仔細看第二個評論我想我們不得不同意那個看法儘管不太正面但這同時也提醒我們雖然我們仍用老鼠做實驗但這可能是一個好主意開始去思考與商討關於記憶控制可能衍生的倫理道德上的影響關於記憶控制可能衍生的倫理道德上的影響 斯蒂夫：現在，借助第三個評論我們想告訴大家我們最近的一個實驗計畫我們稱之為《植入記憶》計畫「他們應該據此拍一部電影：他們把思想植入人腦，然後控制那些人去實現他們的目的。稱之為《植入記憶》」所以，我們推斷，現在我們可以啟動一段記憶要是啟動之後我們對那段記憶動手腳呢？我們能把它轉變為虛假記憶嗎？ 劉旭：所有記憶都是精密複雜且有活力的而為了簡單說明我們把記憶想像成一個電影片段目前為止我們告訴大家的都是我們能控制電影片段的「播放鍵」所以我們可以隨時隨地播放這段影像但是，有沒有可能我們可以進入大腦裡然後編輯這個電影片段以致讓它和原版不同是的，我們可以做到其實我們要做的只是就如先前用雷射去重新啟動一段記憶但同時，如果我們把新訊息呈現出來然後把新訊息與舊記憶合併就會改變那段記憶這有點像製作混音磁帶 斯蒂夫：那我們該怎麼做呢？與其在大腦裡尋找一段恐懼記憶我們可以開始把動物放進這樣一個藍色盒子裡然後找到代表這個藍盒子的腦細胞讓它們對光脈衝產生反應正如我們剛才說的那樣次日，我們就取出動物把牠們放進一個從未待過的紅盒子裡把雷射光射進牠們的大腦重新啟動在藍盒子裡的記憶接下來會發生什麼呢？如果當這個動物正回想在藍盒子裡的記憶時我們輕微地電擊牠的足部現在我們嘗試以人為的方式建立在藍盒子記憶與足部電擊之間的關聯只是讓兩者聯結起來為了檢測我們是否成功我們再次取出動物並放回到藍盒子裡我們再次啟動那段藍盒子記憶並同時輕微電擊牠的足部這次牠突然僵住了彷彿喚回在這個環境曾被電擊的記憶儘管那從未發生牠產生了一段虛假的記憶因為牠毫無根據地對這個環境感到恐懼在那個環境裡，技術上說來並沒不好的遭遇 劉旭：所以目前為止，我們只在談光控制開關上的「開」鍵其實我們也有「關」鍵而且很容易想像透過安裝這個由光控制的「關」鍵我們同樣能隨時隨地關閉一段記憶 今天我們說的一切都是基於下面這個神經科學的哲學原則：雖然記憶看起來神秘難解其實是由可修補的實體物質所組成 斯蒂夫：對我個人而言我看到了一個世界，一個我們能重新啟動所有我們想啟動的記憶的世界我們也能刪除所有不想要的記憶如今，我甚至看到編輯記憶都可能成真因為，在我們生活的時代我們能把科幻小說裡的疑問搬到現實生活中進行檢驗 劉旭：現今，全世界無論是從事科研的人或其他研究的人都在運用類似的方法啟動或編輯記憶不管方法是新或舊、正面或負面各種的記憶，藉此我們能了解記憶運作的方式 斯蒂夫：比如說，我們實驗室有一個團隊曾找到組成恐懼記憶的細胞然後把它轉化成了快樂記憶，就像那樣這樣的程序就是我所說的編輯記憶我們實驗室有位老兄甚至能重新啟動雄鼠的大腦裡一段有關雌鼠的記憶據說那可是相當愉快的經驗啊 劉旭：的確，我們生長在一個令人非常振奮的時代科學不受任何的限制唯獨被我們的想像力所局限 斯蒂夫：最後我們能得到什麼？我們如何把這個技術深化？這些問題不該只留給實驗室這些問題不該只留給實驗室而且，今天演講的其中一個目的就是為了讓大家知道，現代神經科學編輯記憶是有可能的但現在，同等重要的是讓每個人都參與其中共同討論所以，讓我們像團隊一樣思考：這些意味著什麼、我們能做什麼、應何去何從因為阿旭和我認為有些重大決定等著我們所有人去做 謝謝謝謝 （掌聲）
