Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_levitt_analyzes_crack_economics	"You'll be happy to know that I'll be talking not about my own tragedy, but other people's tragedy. It's a lot easier to be lighthearted about other people's tragedy than your own, and I want to keep it in the spirit of the conference. So, if you believe the media accounts, being a drug dealer in the height of the crack cocaine epidemic was a very glamorous life, in the words of Virginia Postrel. There was money, there was drugs, guns, women, you know, you name it — jewelry, bling-bling — it had it all. What I'm going to tell you today is that, in fact, based on 10 years of research, a unique opportunity to go inside a gang — to see the actual books, the financial records of the gang — that the answer turns out not to be that being in the gang was a glamorous life. But I think, more realistically, that being in a gang — selling drugs for a gang — is perhaps the worst job in all of America. And that's what I'd like to convince you of today. So there are three things I want to do. First, I want to explain how and why crack cocaine had such a profound influence on inner-city gangs. Secondly, I want to tell you how somebody like me came to be able to see the inner workings of a gang — an interesting story, I think. And then third, I want to tell you, in a very superficial way, about some of the things we found when we actually got to look at the financial records, the books, of the gang. So before I do that, just one warning, which is that this presentation has been rated 'R' by the Motion Picture Association of America. It contains adult themes, adult language. Given who is up on the stage, you'll be delighted to know that, in fact, there'll be no nudity — (Laughter) Unexpected wardrobe malfunctions aside. (Laughter) So let me start by talking about crack cocaine, and how it transformed the gang. To do that, you have to actually go back to a time before crack cocaine, in the early '80s, and look at it from the perspective of a gang leader. Being a gang leader in the inner city wasn't such a bad deal in the mid-'80s — the early '80s, let me say. Now, you had a lot of power, and you got to beat people up — you got a lot of prestige, a lot of respect. But the thing is, there was no money in it. The gang had no way to make money. You couldn't charge dues to the people in the gang, because the people in the gang didn't have any money. You couldn't really make any money selling marijuana — marijuana's too cheap, it turns out. You can't get rich selling marijuana. You couldn't sell cocaine; cocaine's a great product — powdered cocaine — but you've got to know rich white people. And most of the inner-city gang members didn't know any rich white people, so couldn't sell to that market. You couldn't really do petty crime, either. Turns out, petty crime's a terrible way to make a living. As a result, as a gang leader, you had, you know, power — it's a pretty good life — but the thing was, in the end, you were living at home with your mother. And so it wasn't really a career. There were limits to how powerful and important you could be if you had to live at home with your mother. Then along comes crack cocaine. And in the words of Malcolm Gladwell, crack cocaine was the extra-chunky version of tomato sauce for the inner city. (Laughter) Because crack cocaine was an unbelievable innovation. I don't have time to talk about it today, but if you think about it, I would say that in the last 25 years, of every invention or innovation that's occurred in this country, the biggest one in terms of impact on the well-being of people who live in the inner city, was crack cocaine. And for the worse — not for the better, but for the worse. It had a huge impact on life. So what was it about crack cocaine? It was a brilliant way of getting the brain high. Because you could smoke crack cocaine — you can't smoke powdered cocaine — and smoking is a much more efficient mechanism of delivering a high than snorting it. And it turned out there was this audience that didn't know it wanted crack cocaine, but when it came, it really did. And it was a perfect drug; you could buy the cocaine that went into it for a dollar, sell it for five dollars. Highly addictive — the high was very short. So for fifteen minutes, you get this great high, and then when you come down, all you want to do is get high again. It created a wonderful market. And for the people who were there running the gang, it was a great way, seemingly, to make a lot of money. At least for the people on the top. So this is where we enter the picture. Not really me — I'm really a bit player in all this. My co-author, Sudhir Venkatesh, is the main character. He was a math major in college who had a good heart, and decided he wanted to get a sociology PhD, came to the University of Chicago. Now, the three months before he came to Chicago, he had spent following the Grateful Dead. And in his own words, he ""looked like a freak."" He's a South Asian — very dark-skinned South Asian. Big man, and he had hair, in his words, ""down to his ass."" Defied all kinds of boundaries: Was he black or white? Was he man or woman? He was really a curious sight to be seen. So he showed up at the University of Chicago, and the famous sociologist William Julius Wilson was doing a book that involved surveying people all across Chicago. He took one look at Sudhir, who was going to go do some surveys for him, and decided he knew exactly the place to send him, which was to one of the toughest, most notorious housing projects not just in Chicago, but in the entire United States. So Sudhir, the suburban boy who had never really been in the inner city, dutifully took his clipboard and walked down to this housing project, gets to the first building. The first building? Well, there's nobody there. But he hears some voices up in the stairwell, so he climbs up the stairwell, comes around the corner, and finds a group of young African-American men playing dice. This is about 1990, peak of the crack epidemic. This is a very dangerous job, being in a gang. You don't like to be surprised. You don't like to be surprised by people who come around the corner. And the mantra was: shoot first; ask questions later. Now, Sudhir was lucky — he was such a freak, and that clipboard probably saved his life, because they figured no other rival gang member would be coming up to shoot at them with a clipboard. (Laughter) So his greeting was not particularly warm, but they did say, well, OK — let's hear your questions on your survey. So — I kid you not — the first question on the survey that he was sent to ask was: ""How do you feel about being poor and Black in America?"" (Laughter) Makes you wonder about academics. (Laughter) So the choice of answers were: [A) Very Good B) Good C) Bad D) Very Bad] (Laughter) What Sudhir found out is, in fact, that the real answer was the following: [A) Very Good B) Good C) Bad D) Very Bad E) Fuck you] (Laughter) The survey was not, in the end, going to be what got Sudhir off the hook. He was held hostage overnight in the stairwell. There was a lot of gunfire, there were a lot of philosophical discussions he had with the gang members. By morning, the gang leader arrived, checked out Sudhir, decided he was no threat, and they let him go home. So Sudhir went home, took a shower, took a nap. And you and I, probably, faced with the situation, would think, ""I guess I'm going to write my dissertation on The Grateful Dead, I've been following them for the last three months."" (Laughter) Sudhir, on the other hand, got right back, walked down to the housing project, went up to the second floor, and said: ""Hey, guys, I had so much fun hanging out with you last night, I wonder if I could do it again tonight."" And that was the beginning of what turned out to be a beautiful relationship that involved Sudhir living in the housing project on and off for 10 years, hanging out in crack houses, going to jail with the gang members, having the windows shot out of his car, having the police break into his apartment and steal his computer disks — you name it. But ultimately, the story has a happy ending for Sudhir, who became one of the most respected sociologists in the country. And especially for me, as I sat in my office with my Excel spreadsheet open, waiting for Sudhir to come and deliver to me the latest load of data that he would get from the gang. (Laughter) It was one of the most unequal co-authoring relationships ever — (Laughter) But I was glad to be the beneficiary of it. So what did we find? What did we find in the gang? Well, let me say one thing: We really got access to everybody in the gang. We got an inside look at the gang, from the very bottom up to the very top. They trusted Sudhir, in ways that really no academic has ever — or really anybody, any outsider — has ever earned the trust of these gangs, to the point where they actually opened up what was most interesting for me — their books, the financial records they kept. They made them available to us, and we not only could study them, but we could ask them questions about what was in them. So if I have to kind of summarize very quickly in the short time I have what the bottom line of what I take away from the gang is, it's that, if I had to draw a parallel between the gang and any other organization, it would be that the gang is just like McDonald's, in a lot of different respects — the restaurant McDonald's. So first, in one way, which isn't maybe the most interesting way, but it's a good way to start — is in the way it's organized, the hierarchy of the gang, the way it looks. So here's what the org chart of the gang looks like. I don't know if you know much about org charts, but if you were to assign a stripped-down and simplified McDonald's org chart, this is exactly what it would look like. It's amazing, but the top level of the gang, they actually call themselves the ""Board of Directors."" (Laughter) And Sudhir says it's not like these guys had a very sophisticated view of what happened in American corporate life, but they had seen movies like ""Wall Street,"" and they had learned a little bit about what it was like to be in the real world. Now, below that board of directors, you've got essentially what are regional VPs — people who control, say, the South Side of Chicago, or the West Side of Chicago. Sudhir got to know very well the guy who had the unfortunate assignment of trying to take the Iowa franchise, which, it turned out, for this black gang, was not one of the more brilliant financial endeavors they undertook. (Laughter) But the thing that really makes the gang seem like McDonald's is its franchisees. The guys who are running the local gangs — the four-square-block by four-square-block areas — they're just like the guys, in some sense, who are running the McDonald's. They are the entrepreneurs. They get the exclusive property rights to control the drug-selling. They get the name of the gang behind them, for merchandising and marketing. And they're the ones who basically make the profit or lose a profit, depending on how good they are at running the business. Now, the group I really want you to think about, though, are the ones at the bottom — the foot soldiers. These are the teenagers, typically, who'd be standing out on the street corner, selling the drugs. Extremely dangerous work. And important to note is that almost all of the weight, all of the people in this organization are at the bottom — just like McDonald's. So in some sense, the foot soldiers are a lot like the people who are taking your order at McDonald's, and it's not just by chance that they're like them. In fact, in these neighborhoods, they'd be the same people. So the same kids who are working in the gang were actually, at the very same time, typically working part-time at a place like McDonald's. Which already foreshadows the main result that I've talked about, about what a crappy job it was, being in the gang. Because obviously, if being in the gang were such a wonderful, lucrative job, why in the world would these guys moonlight at McDonald's? So what do the wages look like? You might be surprised. But based on being able to talk to them and to see their records, this is what it looks like in terms of the wages. The hourly wage the foot soldiers were earning was $3.50 an hour. It was below the minimum wage. And this is well-documented. It's easy to see by the patterns of consumption they have. It really is not fiction — it's fact. There was very little money in the gang, especially at the bottom. Now if you managed to rise up, say, and be that local leader, the guy who's the equivalent of the McDonald's franchisee, you'd be making 100,000 dollars a year. And that, in some ways, was the best job you could hope to get if you were growing up in one of these neighborhoods as a young black male. If you managed to rise to the very top, 200,000 or 400,000 dollars a year is what you'd hope to make. Truly, you would be a great success story. And one of the sad parts of this is that, indeed, among the many other ramifications of crack cocaine is that the most talented individuals in these communities — this is what they were striving for. They weren't trying to make it in legitimate ways, because there were no legitimate channels out. This was the best way out. And it actually was the right choice, probably, to try to make it out this way. You look at this, the relationship to McDonald's breaks down here. The money looks about the same. Why is it such a bad job? Well, the reason it's such a bad job is that there's somebody shooting at you a lot of the time. So, with shooting at you, what are the death rates? We found, in our gang — and admittedly, this was not really a standard situation; this was a time of intense violence, of a lot of gang wars, as this gang actually became quite successful. But there were costs. And so the death rate — not to mention the rate of being arrested, sent to prison, being wounded — the death rate in our sample was seven percent per person per year. You're in the gang for four years, you expect to die with about a 25 percent likelihood. That is about as high as you can get. So for comparison's purposes, let's think about some other walk of life you may expect might be extremely risky. Let's say that you were a murderer and you were convicted of murder, and you're sent to death row. It turns out, the death rates on death row from all causes, including execution: two percent a year. (Laughter) So it's a lot safer being on death row than it is selling drugs out on the street. That gives you some pause, for those of you who believe that a death penalty's going to have an enormous deterrent effect on crime. To give you a sense of just how bad the inner city was during crack — and I'm not really focusing on the negatives, but really, there's another story to tell you there — if you look at the death rates just of random, young black males growing up in the inner city in the United States, the death rates during crack were about one percent. That's extremely high. And this is violent death — it's unbelievable, in some sense. To put it into perspective: if you compare this to the soldiers in Iraq, for instance, right now fighting the war: 0.5 percent. So in some very literal way, the young black men who were growing up in this country were living in a war zone, very much in the sense that the soldiers over in Iraq are fighting in a war. So why in the world, you might ask, would anybody be willing to stand out on a street corner selling drugs for $3.50 an hour, with a 25 percent chance of dying over the next four years? Why would they do that? And I think there are a couple answers. I think the first one is that they got fooled by history. It used to be the gang was a rite of passage; that the young people controlled the gang; that as you got older, you dropped out of the gang. So what happened was, the people who happened to be in the right place at the right time — the people who happened to be leading the gang in the mid-to-late-'80s — became very, very wealthy. And so the logical thing to think was that they are going to age out of the gang like everybody else has, and the next generation is going to take over and get the wealth. There are striking similarities, I think, to the Internet boom. The first set of people in Silicon Valley got very, very rich. And then all of my friends said, ""Maybe I should go do that, too."" And they were willing to work very cheap for stock options that never came. In some sense, that's what happened, exactly, to the set of people we were looking at. They were willing to start at the bottom, just like, say, a first-year lawyer at a law firm is willing to start at the bottom, work 80-hour weeks for not that much money, because they think they're going to make partner. But the rules changed, and they never got to make partner. Indeed, the same people who were running all of the major gangs in the late 1980s are still running the major gangs in Chicago today. They never passed on any of the wealth, So everybody got stuck at that $3.50-an-hour job, and it turned out to be a disaster. The other thing the gang was very good at was marketing and trickery. And so for instance, one thing the gang would do is — the gang leaders would have big entourages, and they'd drive fancy cars and have fancy jewelry. So what Sudhir eventually realized as he hung out with them more, is that, really, they didn't own those cars — they just leased them, because they couldn't afford to own the fancy cars. And they didn't really have gold jewelry, they had gold-plated jewelry. It goes back to, you know, the real-real versus the fake-real. And really, they did all sorts of things to trick the young people into thinking what a great deal the gang was going to be. So for instance, they would give a 14-year-old kid a whole roll of bills to hold. That 14-year-old kid would say to his friends, ""Hey, look at all the money I got in the gang."" It wasn't his money — until he spent it, and then he was in debt to the gang, and was sort of an indentured servant for a while. So I have a couple minutes. Let me do one last thing I hadn't thought I'd have time to do, which is to talk about what we learned more generally about economics, from the study of the gang. So, economists tend to talk in technical words. Often, our theories fail quite miserably when we over the data, but what's kind of interesting is that in this setting, it turned out that some of the economic theories that worked not so well in the real economy worked very well in the drug economy, in some sense, because it's unfettered capitalism. Here's an economic principle. This is one of the basic ideas in labor economics, called a ""compensating differential."" It's the idea that the increment to wages that a worker requires to leave him indifferent between performing two tasks, one which is more unpleasant than the other. Compensating differential — it's why we think garbagemen might be paid more than people who work in parks. The words of one of the members of the gang, I think, make this clear. So it turns out — I'm sort of getting ahead of myself — it turns out, in the gang, when there's a war going on, they actually pay the foot soldiers twice as much money. It's exactly this concept. Because they're not willing to be at risk. And the words of a gang member capture it quite nicely, he says: ""Would you stand around here when all this shit ..."" — the shooting — ""... if all this shit's going on? No, right? So if I gonna be asked to put my life on the line, then front me the cash, man."" I think the gang member says it much more articulately than the economist, about what's going on. (Laughter) Here's another one. Economists talk about game theory, that every two-person game has a Nash equilibrium. Here's the translation you get from the gang member. They're talking about the decision of why they don't go shoot — One thing that turns out to be a great business tactic in the gang: if you go and just shoot guns in the air in the other gang's territory — people are afraid to go buy drugs there, they're going to come into your neighborhood. Here's what he says about why they don't do that: ""If we start shooting around there, the other gang's territory, nobody, I mean, you dig it, nobody gonna step on their turf. But we gotta be careful, 'cause they can shoot around here too and then we all fucked."" (Laughter) So that's the same concept. Then again, sometimes economists get it wrong. One thing we observed in the data is that it looked like — the gang leader always got paid. No matter how bad it was economically, he always got himself paid. We had some theories related to cash flow, and lack of access to capital markets, and things like that. Then we asked the gang member, ""Why is it you always get paid and your workers don't always get paid?"" His response is, ""You got all these niggers below you who want your job, you dig? If you start taking losses, they see you as weak and shit."" And I thought about it and said, ""CEOs often pay themselves million-dollar bonuses, even when companies are losing a lot of money. And it never would really occur to an economist that this idea of 'weak and shit' could really be important."" (Laughter) Maybe ""weak and shit"" is an important hypothesis that needs more analysis. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	各位應該會很高興，我今天不講我自己的悲劇只會講別人的悲劇講別人的慘事比講你自己的輕鬆多了況且我希望今天的演講氣氛輕鬆愉快 好，如果你相信媒體所言認為在快克古柯鹼盛行的高峰期，當個毒販是相當光鮮亮麗的工作—套用作家帕斯楚的話有錢花、有毒吸、坐擁槍枝和女人只要你想得到：珠寶、金光閃閃的首飾，應有盡有 但我今天要告訴各位，事實上，根據十年的研究在一次深入幫派的難得機會中親眼見到幫派的帳冊，看到他們的財務紀錄後我們發現，幫派生活一點都不光鮮亮麗更實際一點，我認為當個幫派弟兄為幫派販毒，可能是全美國最糟糕的工作這就是我今天想要說服各位的 因此我要做三件事情首先，我要解釋快克古柯鹼如何、以及為何對貧民區幫派造成這麼深遠的影響第二，我想告訴各位，像我這種人如何能夠一探幫派的內部運作我覺得這是個很有趣的故事第三，我想以非常淺顯易懂的方法告訴各位我們從幫派的財務紀錄，從他們的帳冊中發現了什麼 但在開始之前，我要先警告各位本演講經美國電影協會列為限制級內容涉及成人議題及成人語言不過看到眼前這位仁兄，各位應該會很高興得知本演講不會出現裸露畫面除了（笑聲）意外穿幫事件以外（笑聲） 首先來談談快克古柯鹼，以及它如何改變了幫派生態但我們得先回顧快克古柯鹼盛行以前的情形回到80年代初期，以幫派老大的角度來思考在80年代中期在貧民區當個幫派老大沒什麼不好有些人甚至會說在80年代初期也不錯 你握有權勢，可以揍人名聲響亮，又受人敬重但你沒什麼賺頭，明白嗎？以前的幫派沒有賺錢的管道他們沒法跟幫派成員收會費因為大家都是窮光蛋賣大麻也賺不了多少錢因為大麻太便宜了沒辦法靠賣大麻致富你也不能賣古柯鹼你知道，古柯鹼是好貨，我說的是粉狀古柯鹼但是你得認識有錢的白人而貧民區幫派弟兄怎麼會認識這種人所以他們沒有市場通路你也不能偷拐搶騙靠小奸小惡謀生太辛苦了 因此身為一個幫派老大，你有權有勢生活過得還不錯問題是，到頭來你還是得跟媽媽住所以這不太能算是一個事業怎麼說呢你的權勢和地位似乎有個底限畢竟你還住在家裡靠媽媽養 後來，快克古柯鹼出現了套用葛拉威爾剛剛所說的，快克古柯鹼對貧民區居民而言，就是特大顆粒的蕃茄醬（笑聲）快克古柯鹼是個不可思議的創新我沒有時間就此深談但想想，過去二十五年來美國出現的所有發明或創新對貧民區居民福祉影響最深遠的就是快克古柯鹼但是我指的是負面影響，沒有提升，反而降低了福祉它對生活影響甚鉅 快克古柯鹼究竟有什麼魅力？它能讓大腦興奮因為快克古柯檢可以用口吸入，粉狀古柯鹼沒辦法藉由口腔吸食，更能享受快感比用鼻子吸食粉狀古柯鹼還有效所以一群從未吸食過快克古柯鹼的人在吸過之後紛紛上癮它是非常棒的毒品，你可以用一美元買進，以五美元售出具有高度成癮性—快感非常短暫你享受了十五分鐘的快感藥效退去後，又渴求更多快感 這造就了非常完美的市場需求對於掌管幫派的人而言這似乎是個生財致富的好方法至少對位居上位的幫派大老是如此 此時我們研究人員出場了其實不是我本人，我只是幕後黑手這個研究的共同作者蘇西耶凡卡德希才是主角他大學主修數學，心地善良想要攻讀社會學博士因此前來就讀芝加哥大學他在抵達芝加哥的前三個月都在追隨搖滾樂團「死之華」他自稱外表「活像個怪胎」南亞裔，皮膚黝黑身材高壯，一頭長髮「及屁」他顛覆了各種界限：他是黑人還是白人？男人還是女人真的是個非常醒目的人物 於是他出現在芝加哥大學當時著名的社會學家威爾森正在撰寫一本書，需要訪查芝加哥各地的居民他看著來幫忙研究的蘇西耶知道應該派這個學生去哪兒他要派他去最恐怖、最惡名昭彰的國宅而且訪查範圍不僅限於芝加哥，還遍及全美 來自郊區的蘇西耶，壓根兒沒去過貧民區仍盡責地帶著寫字夾板，走到國宅區來到第一棟樓前情形如何？嗯，没半個人影但他聽到樓梯間傳來聲響，於是爬上樓梯走到轉角處看見一群年輕黑人在玩骰子 這是1990年的事了，正逢快克古柯鹼高峰期為幫派做事非常危險，因此你不喜歡出其不意不喜歡有人出其不意出現在轉角處你的座右銘是：先開槍再說但蘇西耶很走運他像個書呆子手上的夾板可能救了他一條小命，因為幫派弟兄想沒有仇家會拿個寫字板來槍殺我們(笑聲) 所以即便他沒有受到熱烈歡迎，對方倒說嗯，好吧，把你的問題說來聽聽我没跟各位說笑，他手上的問卷上第一道題目是：「在美國當個窮黑人的感覺如何？」（笑聲）真想不透學術界的人腦袋裡裝什麼，對不對？(笑聲) 題目的選項為: 1.非常好 2.好 3.不好 4.非常不好蘇西耶發現，實際受訪者回答如下：(5. 幹！) (笑聲)但這個問卷並沒有讓蘇西耶就此脫身他被押做人質，整晚關在樓梯間晚上槍聲四起他和弟兄也聊了許多哲學議題次日早上，幫派老大來了打量了蘇西耶一番認定他不具威脅性，決定讓他回家所以蘇西耶回到家，沖了澡，睡一覺 換做你我，在這種情況下可能會決定嗯，我想我的博士論文還是寫「死之華」好了畢竟我已經研究他們三個月了(笑聲) 但蘇西耶很快就又回去了—他再度來到國宅前爬上階梯，走到二樓說：「嘿，大夥兒」「我昨晚跟大家玩得挺愉快的」「今天晚上還可以跟你們玩嗎」這是一段動人情誼的開端蘇西耶前後在國宅內住了十年期間出入古柯鹼交易場所、和幫派弟兄蹲過苦牢車窗被槍射得滿天飛警察闖進家門沒收電腦硬碟什麼衰事都遇過但蘇西耶的故事有個美滿的結局他成了美國最受敬重的社會學家之一我更是享盡好處，只要坐在辦公室裡開著Excel的表格等著蘇西耶跟我報到，乖乖奉上最新的...幫派資料那真是最不平等的共同作者關係之一（笑聲）但我很慶幸我是獲益的一方 我們有什麼發現？從幫派身上知道什麼？讓我說件事我們真的接觸了幫派裡的每個成員得以從上到下裡裡外外一探幫派究竟他們信賴蘇西耶，學術界從沒有其他人辦到過任何人、任何圈外人，從未有人贏得過這些幫派這等信賴他們甚至對他開誠佈公，公開我認為最有趣的東西：幫派的帳冊，他們的財務紀錄也讓我們有機會過目我們不但能夠研究帳冊，還能提問 因此，如果要我扼要說明我從這個幫派身上學到的要點就是，如果將幫派比擬為任何組織那會是麥當勞在很多方面，幫派與麥當勞餐廳有相似之處 首先，這也許不是最有趣的面向但很適合做開頭—兩者的組織方式類似幫派的階層制度形似麥當勞這是幫派的組織架構圖不知道是否有人熟悉組織架構圖但如果你要畫一個簡單版的麥當勞企業組織架構圖就長得像這樣這相當驚人，但幫派的高層還真的自稱為「董事會」（笑聲） 蘇西耶說，這不是說這些人很懂美國企業運作模式云云但他們看過《華爾街》這類的電影對於現實社會的運作方式略知一二而在董事會下面，有地區副總裁比如說，負責芝加哥南部的、或管西部的副總裁 蘇西耶甚至熟識一個可憐的傢伙被分到負責愛荷華的分支（笑聲）結果發現，這支黑人幫派在愛荷華實在賺不到什麼錢（笑聲） 但幫派近似麥當勞之處，正是各地的加盟處這些人負責經營地區幫派也就是長寬各四個街區大小的地盤他們就像經營麥當勞的人都是企業家擁有專屬產權，可以控制毒品交易打著幫派的名號，方便推銷和行銷而幫派的盈虧，基本上都看他們的表現端看事業經營狀況好壞 但我希望各位思考的，是這些位於階層最底端的小囉嘍這些小囉嘍基本上都是青少年站在街角賣毒品這是極其危險的工作要注意的是，幫派幾乎所有重心、所有人都屬於組織最底層對，就像麥當勞一樣所以就某方面而言，幫派裡的小囉嘍就像在麥當勞負責幫你點餐的店員當然，這並非偶然事實上，在這些社區裡，他們可能正是同一批人在幫派裡當小囉嘍的孩子其實同一時間也在兼差也在麥當勞這種地方打工這呼應了我先前所說的混幫派實在是超爛的工作因為，如果混幫派那麼美好、這麼好賺這些人幹嘛吃飽沒事去麥當勞兼差？ 他們薪水多少？各位可能會嚇一跳根據實際上的訪談和帳冊紀錄他們領的薪水大概這樣這些小囉嘍的時薪是三塊半美元低於基本薪資，對吧？這都是有根據的這些數據從他們的支出紀錄很容易得出這不是瞎掰，是切確的事實幫派賺不了多少錢，尤其最底層的小囉嘍 如果你有機會升等，成為地區負責人同等於麥當勞分店長你的年薪是十萬美金就某方面而言，這就是你夢想中最好的工作了身為年輕黑人男性，從小在貧民區長大，這大概是最好的工作了若你得以升到最高層每年大概可以賺二十到四十萬美金沒錯，你得以功成名就 而快克古柯鹼造成的悲劇之一，除了其他數不盡的後果以外就是，貧民區裡最有才華的孩子只懷有這樣的夢想他們追尋成功的方法並不合法因為根本就沒有合法的途徑這就是最好的出路了事實上，他們藉由這種方式出頭天，也許是正確的選擇看看這個 我們頗析幫派與麥當勞的關連各階層的薪水看起來差不多為什麼這是個爛工作？嗯，這工作之所以爛，是因為有人常常會對你開槍那，這種槍擊事件的死亡率是多少我們所研究的這個幫派，當然這不能適用於所有幫派的情況當時暴力事件頻仍，有許多幫派械鬥這支幫派後來勢力壯大，但也付出了代價因此死亡率—先不算被逮補的機率也不算坐牢、受傷率，光是如此，樣本裡的死亡率就高達每年每人百分之七若在幫派混個四年，你可以預期死亡率有百分之二十五這是很高的比例 做個比較，我們拿其他行業為例其他高風險的行業像是殺人犯你被判謀殺罪，關進死刑犯監獄結果，死刑犯監獄的死亡率列入所有死因，包括處決，是一年百分之二（笑聲）所以當個死刑犯比在街頭販毒還要安全 這讓人不禁思考，讓各位重新思考死刑對犯罪真的有極大的嚇阻作用嗎讓各位了解快克古柯鹼盛行時，貧民區的情況多糟糕我沒有刻意只報憂不報喜但這邊另一個故事要跟各位分享看看死亡率任何一個在美國貧民區成長的年輕黑人男性在快克古柯鹼盛行時，死亡率大約是百分之一這是非常高的比率而且是死於暴力事件—這令人難以置信 換個角度，如果和伊拉克的美軍死亡率相比較舉例而言，目前在那打仗的美軍死亡率是：百分之零點五所以說這些在美國長大的年輕黑人男性是活在戰區裡，一點也不為過他們就像在伊拉克打仗的士兵 你可能會問，天底下有誰會願意在街角販毒，只為了賺那微薄的時薪三塊半？而且在未來四年內，死亡率還高達百分之二十五？他們為什麼要這麼做？我認為有幾個答案 第一，他們被過去的歷史騙了以前加入幫派是成長過程的一部份年輕人掌握幫派，而你年紀稍長以後就會退出幫派但後來某些人在對的時機，身處對的地方那些在八十年代中後期擔任幫派老大的人個個發了大財所以當時大家自然會推想：「那麼下一代..」「既然現在的老大都會像其他人一樣退休」「之後就換下一代掌權，接管這些財富」 我認為，這和網路熱潮相當類似，對吧首批進矽谷的電子新貴紛紛致富然後所有人都想：「也許我也該做這行」他們願意削價競爭，只為了永遠不會得到的股票選擇權就某方面而言，同樣的事情也發生在我們的研究對象身上，他們願意從基層做起就像律師事務所的律師甫執業的小律師之所以願意從基層做起每天工作八小時，賺取不甚多的薪資是因為他們認為自己有天可以成為合夥人但後來遊戲規則改變，他們永遠當不上合夥人 沒錯，在八十年代末期掌管各大幫派的人正是現在掌管芝加哥大幫派的同一批人他們從未將任何財富傳承下去因此每個人都被時薪三塊半的工作套牢，悲慘至極 此外，幫派非常、非常擅長行銷和詐騙例如，幫派會做這種事你知道，幫派老大的排場都很大開名車，佩戴高級珠寶蘇西耶和他們相處久了之後發現其實，這些車根本不是老大的是租來的，因為他們買不起名車他們也沒有金飾，那些是鍍金的一切都是真真假假真真 說實在，他們這麼做是為了欺騙青少年讓青少年以為混幫派是多麼了不起的事情舉例而言，他們會給十四歲的孩子一大疊鈔票拿在手上十四歲的小孩會覺得：「哇賽...」你知道，他會向朋友誇耀「看！我在幫派裡得到這麼多錢」但那筆錢不是他的，等到他花掉那些錢之後他就欠幫派債了，之後就算是簽了契約的奴隸看來我還有一些時間 我們講最後一件事我没想到我們有時間談談我們從幫派身上學到了什麼經濟學經濟學家老愛用術語經濟學理論一牽扯到統計數據，就玩完了但有趣的是，在這個情境下有些不怎麼樣的經濟學理論放在毒品經濟學裡面卻非常適切這可說是因為毒品交易是不受約束的資本主義這是個經濟學原則是勞動經濟學的基礎，叫做「補償性工資差異」基本上就是說，你要調高勞工多少薪資他才會心甘情願離開現有的工作崗位去從事另一個較辛苦的工作這就是所謂的補償性工資差異這就是為什麼我們認為垃圾工人的薪水比公園清道夫高一點，對吧？ 因此，套用一個幫派弟兄的話，這理論就清楚明白了我們發現—我好像把後面的話先講出來了我們發現，在幫派裡，如果有械鬥發生小囉嘍的薪水是平常的兩倍這是相同的概念因為沒人要冒險有個幫派弟兄掌握了其中的精髓他說「如果這邊鳥事一堆，你還會不閃嗎？」鳥事指的是槍戰「一定閃的呀，對吧？」「所以如果要我冒著小命待在這裡拼命，那就把錢拿來」基本上，我覺得這位弟兄把這個概念解釋得比任何經濟學家都要清楚（笑聲） 再舉一個例子經濟學家提出賽局理論也就是，所有兩人對峙的賽局都會形成自然的平衡用幫派弟兄的話翻譯一下弟兄們談到為什麼他們不會亂開槍開槍搗亂是幫派裡最佳商業策略如果你對空開槍，只要去別幫的地盤上對空鳴槍大家就不敢去他們那裡買毒品所有人都會到你的地盤上買 但這位弟兄解釋為什麼他們不來這套他說：「如果我們在那裡（別幫的地盤上）開槍，沒半個人」「你瞭嗎，没半個人敢踏上他們的地盤」「但我們皮得繃緊一點」「因為他們也會來我們的地盤上開槍，我們就死定了」（笑聲）這是完全相同的概念但有時候，經濟學家也會搞錯我們從研究資料中得到一個發現，這近似於..幫派老大總是有薪水可領，對吧不管經濟狀況多糟，他都會確保自己有錢領 我們也有一些有關現金流動的理論缺乏資本市場通路云云但我們問幫派弟兄：「嗯，為什麼你總是有薪水可拿，手下卻没這種命？」他回答：「手下那些黑鬼都在覬覦你的地位，瞭嗎？」「如果你開始自負盈虧，他們就會覺得你整個弱掉」我思索了一會兒「總裁常給自己上百萬的紅利」「即便公司面臨重大虧損，仍有紅利可拿」但經濟學家從沒想過這可能和「整個弱掉」的概念有重大關連也許「整個弱掉」也許「整個弱掉」這樣的假說值得深入探討 謝謝大家
