Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_johnson_how_play_leads_to_great_inventions	"(Music) Roughly 43,000 years ago, a young cave bear died in the rolling hills on the northwest border of modern day Slovenia. A thousand years later, a mammoth died in southern Germany. A few centuries after that, a griffon vulture also died in the same vicinity. And we know almost nothing about how these animals met their deaths, but these different creatures dispersed across both time and space did share one remarkable fate. After their deaths, a bone from each of their skeletons was crafted by human hands into a flute. Think about that for a second. Imagine you're a caveman, 40,000 years ago. You've mastered fire. You've built simple tools for hunting. You've learned how to craft garments from animal skins to keep yourself warm in the winter. What would you choose to invent next? It seems preposterous that you would invent the flute, a tool that created useless vibrations in air molecules. But that is exactly what our ancestors did. Now this turns out to be surprisingly common in the history of innovation. Sometimes people invent things because they want to stay alive or feed their children or conquer the village next door. But just as often, new ideas come into the world simply because they're fun. And here's the really strange thing: many of those playful but seemingly frivolous inventions ended up sparking momentous transformations in science, in politics and society. Take what may be the most important invention of modern times: programmable computers. Now, the standard story is that computers descend from military technology, since many of the early computers were designed specifically to crack wartime codes or calculate rocket trajectories. But in fact, the origins of the modern computer are much more playful, even musical, than you might imagine. The idea behind the flute, of just pushing air through tubes to make a sound, was eventually modified to create the first organ more than 2,000 years ago. Someone came up with the brilliant idea of triggering sounds by pressing small levers with our fingers, inventing the first musical keyboard. Now, keyboards evolved from organs to clavichords to harpsichords to the piano, until the middle of the 19th century, when a bunch of inventors finally hit on the idea of using a keyboard to trigger not sounds but letters. In fact, the very first typewriter was originally called ""the writing harpsichord."" Flutes and music led to even more powerful breakthroughs. About a thousand years ago, at the height of the Islamic Renaissance, three brothers in Baghdad designed a device that was an automated organ. They called it ""the instrument that plays itself."" Now, the instrument was basically a giant music box. The organ could be trained to play various songs by using instructions encoded by placing pins on a rotating cylinder. And if you wanted the machine to play a different song, you just swapped a new cylinder in with a different code on it. This instrument was the first of its kind. It was programmable. Now, conceptually, this was a massive leap forward. The whole idea of hardware and software becomes thinkable for the first time with this invention. And that incredibly powerful concept didn't come to us as an instrument of war or of conquest, or necessity at all. It came from the strange delight of watching a machine play music. In fact, the idea of programmable machines was exclusively kept alive by music for about 700 years. In the 1700s, music-making machines became the playthings of the Parisian elite. Showmen used the same coded cylinders to control the physical movements of what were called automata, an early kind of robot. One of the most famous of those robots was, you guessed it, an automated flute player designed by a brilliant French inventor named Jacques de Vaucanson. And as de Vaucanson was designing his robot musician, he had another idea. If you could program a machine to make pleasing sounds, why not program it to weave delightful patterns of color out of cloth? Instead of using the pins of the cylinder to represent musical notes, they would represent threads with different colors. If you wanted a new pattern for your fabric, you just programmed a new cylinder. This was the first programmable loom. Now, the cylinders were too expensive and time-consuming to make, but a half century later, another French inventor named Jacquard hit upon the brilliant idea of using paper-punched cards instead of metal cylinders. Paper turned out to be much cheaper and more flexible as a way of programming the device. That punch card system inspired Victorian inventor Charles Babbage to create his analytical engine, the first true programmable computer ever designed. And punch cards were used by computer programmers as late as the 1970s. So ask yourself this question: what really made the modern computer possible? Yes, the military involvement is an important part of the story, but inventing a computer also required other building blocks: music boxes, toy robot flute players, harpsichord keyboards, colorful patterns woven into fabric, and that's just a small part of the story. There's a long list of world-changing ideas and technologies that came out of play: public museums, rubber, probability theory, the insurance business and many more. Necessity isn't always the mother of invention. The playful state of mind is fundamentally exploratory, seeking out new possibilities in the world around us. And that seeking is why so many experiences that started with simple delight and amusement eventually led us to profound breakthroughs. Now, I think this has implications for how we teach kids in school and how we encourage innovation in our workspaces, but thinking about play and delight this way also helps us detect what's coming next. Think about it: if you were sitting there in 1750 trying to figure out the big changes coming to society in the 19th, the 20th centuries, automated machines, computers, artificial intelligence, a programmable flute entertaining the Parisian elite would have been as powerful a clue as anything else at the time. It seemed like an amusement at best, not useful in any serious way, but it turned out to be the beginning of a tech revolution that would change the world. You'll find the future wherever people are having the most fun."	（音樂）約在四萬三千年以前一隻年輕的洞熊死於現今斯洛文尼亞西北邊界的山巒中一千年後，一頭長毛象死於德國的南部幾個世紀過後，一隻禿鷹也在附近死去我們對這些動物的死亡原因幾乎一無所知但這些不同的生物跨越時空和不同地點卻有著同樣不同凡響的命運在牠們死後，身上的骨頭經由人類的手製成一隻笛子想像自己是四萬年前的山頂洞人很會用火也會製造些簡單的狩獵工具也知道如何用動物皮毛製成衣服在冬天時保持溫暖接下來你會想發明什麽？發明笛子聽起來很荒謬只是一種讓空氣分子震盪的無用工具但這就是我們祖先曾經做的事在人類的發明史中出乎意料是相當常見的人們發明的原因不外乎是為了要求生存或者餵飽孩子或是攻占隔壁村莊但很多時候世界上的一些新發明僅僅出自於好玩而真正奇怪的是很多用於玩樂看似沒用的發明最後卻能在科學、政治和社會上產生重大的轉變舉一個當今世代最重要的發明可編程電腦一般來說電腦一開始沿用軍方科技早期許多電腦都是專門設計在戰爭時用來破解密碼或計算火箭運輸軌道但事實上，現代電腦的始祖起源是因為有趣的活動非常具有音樂性的跟你想的不一樣笛子的發明僅是透過管子推動空氣來產生聲音而已改良加工之後成為兩千多年前的第一個風琴有人想出了一個能製造出聲音的好主意藉由我們的手指按壓琴鍵來產生聲音發明了第一個琴鍵到現在，琴鍵發展到風琴從翼琴進步衍生到大鍵琴到今日的鋼琴直到十九世紀中期一群發明家終於想到使用鍵盤敲打出文字而非彈出聲音事實上，第一台打字機原名則是「寫字大鍵琴」笛子加上音樂給生活帶來了更多的轉變大約一千年以前在伊斯蘭復興運動的高峰期間在巴格達的三兄弟設計了一個即為自動風琴他們稱它做「會自己演奏的樂器」現在看來，那個樂器基本上就是一個大型音樂盒樂器能自己奏出許多不同樂曲，藉由編碼在圓筒上的點轉動圓筒，金屬片撥動而產生音樂如果你想換一首曲子只需要換上一個新的編碼過的圓筒就行了這樂器第一個被發明出來可以編碼的從概念上來說，這是一個非常大的進步這個發明裡面軟硬體結合的想法讓人覺得有很大的想像空間這個不可思議的想像空間不是為了戰爭或征服而發明也不是什麼生活必需品僅是來自於欣賞音樂盒播放音樂時的美妙樂趣事實上，可編碼機器的概念存在於音樂世界中已經有七百多年在十八世紀，能奏出音樂的機器成了巴黎貴族們的收藏玩物雜耍藝人使用相同的編碼圓筒去控制「Automata」機器人的各種動作就是機器人最早的雛形這些機器人中最著名的各位猜到了嗎?是一個能演奏笛子的機器人由一位傑出的法國發明家Jacques de Vaucanson所設計發明的自動發音長笛當在設計他的機器人音樂家時他萌生了另外一個想法如果可以透過編碼讓機器產生令人愉悅的音樂為什麽不能透過編碼讓它在衣服上編織出色彩斑斕的圖案呢?原本圓筒上面代表的音符在圓筒上的點能否試試用不同顏色的線來代替如果想編織一塊新的樣式只需要換上新編碼的圓筒第一台自動織布機就此產生但當時這種圓筒相當昂貴，製造過程也很耗時但半個世紀之後另一個名叫 Jacquard 的法國發明家想到了一個用紙做的「打孔卡」的絕佳點子來代替金屬圓筒紙張的多種用途加上便宜的價格在編程設備的發展史中幫助很大打孔卡系統啟發了維多利亞時期的發明家 Charles Babbage發明了他的第一台分析機器引擎史上第一台電腦史無前例的發明直到二十世紀1970年代末這些打孔卡仍被電腦程式人員廣泛使用所以，試想一下究竟是什麽造就了現代電腦?沒錯，軍方的介入的確是一個重要因素但發明一台電腦還需要其他組件音樂箱玩具笛子演奏機器人大鍵琴的鍵盤彩色圖案編織布這都是故事的一小部分還有一堆能改變世界的想法和科技都來自於娛樂公眾博物館、橡膠球機率理論、保險業務許許多多需要並不總是發明之母腦中愛玩的性格才是探索的基礎在周圍的世界裏，探索那些新的可能而這種單純探索娛樂的動機正是許多實驗的開端最終引領我們成就更大的突破我認為，這裡面有含有我們要如何在學校教育孩子如何在我們的工作場所鼓勵創新的含意而就在我們這樣尋找娛樂和開心的路上也幫助了我們預測未來會發生的事想象一下穿越時空回到1750年十九世紀、二十世紀當時的社會試想了解當時即將來臨的改變那些自動機器、電腦人工智能自動演奏的笛子為了娛樂巴黎上等社會的就是一個非常強而有力的線索證明發明看起來也許只適用於娛樂沒有什麽正經的用途但最後確成為改變世界科技革命的開端娛樂帶給人們未來的發展無限可能
