Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_pinker_on_language_and_thought	"This is a picture of Maurice Druon, the Honorary Perpetual Secretary of L'Academie francaise, the French Academy. He is splendidly attired in his 68,000-dollar uniform, befitting the role of the French Academy as legislating the correct usage in French and perpetuating the language. The French Academy has two main tasks: it compiles a dictionary of official French. They're now working on their ninth edition, which they began in 1930, and they've reached the letter P. They also legislate on correct usage, such as the proper term for what the French call ""email,"" which ought to be ""courriel."" The World Wide Web, the French are told, ought to be referred to as ""la toile d'araignee mondiale"" — the Global Spider Web — recommendations that the French gaily ignore. Now, this is one model of how language comes to be: namely, it's legislated by an academy. But anyone who looks at language realizes that this is a rather silly conceit, that language, rather, emerges from human minds interacting from one another. And this is visible in the unstoppable change in language — the fact that by the time the Academy finishes their dictionary, it will already be well out of date. We see it in the constant appearance of slang and jargon, of the historical change in languages, in divergence of dialects and the formation of new languages. So language is not so much a creator or shaper of human nature, so much as a window onto human nature. In a book that I'm currently working on, I hope to use language to shed light on a number of aspects of human nature, including the cognitive machinery with which humans conceptualize the world and the relationship types that govern human interaction. And I'm going to say a few words about each one this morning. Let me start off with a technical problem in language that I've worried about for quite some time — and indulge me in my passion for verbs and how they're used. The problem is, which verbs go in which constructions? The verb is the chassis of the sentence. It's the framework onto which the other parts are bolted. Let me give you a quick reminder of something that you've long forgotten. An intransitive verb, such as ""dine,"" for example, can't take a direct object. You have to say, ""Sam dined,"" not, ""Sam dined the pizza."" A transitive verb mandates that there has to be an object there: ""Sam devoured the pizza."" You can't just say, ""Sam devoured."" There are dozens or scores of verbs of this type, each of which shapes its sentence. So, a problem in explaining how children learn language, a problem in teaching language to adults so that they don't make grammatical errors, and a problem in programming computers to use language is which verbs go in which constructions. For example, the dative construction in English. You can say, ""Give a muffin to a mouse,"" the prepositional dative. Or, ""Give a mouse a muffin,"" the double-object dative. ""Promise anything to her,"" ""Promise her anything,"" and so on. Hundreds of verbs can go both ways. So a tempting generalization for a child, for an adult, for a computer is that any verb that can appear in the construction, ""subject-verb-thing-to-a-recipient"" can also be expressed as ""subject-verb-recipient-thing."" A handy thing to have, because language is infinite, and you can't just parrot back the sentences that you've heard. You've got to extract generalizations so you can produce and understand new sentences. This would be an example of how to do that. Unfortunately, there appear to be idiosyncratic exceptions. You can say, ""Biff drove the car to Chicago,"" but not, ""Biff drove Chicago the car."" You can say, ""Sal gave Jason a headache,"" but it's a bit odd to say, ""Sal gave a headache to Jason."" The solution is that these constructions, despite initial appearance, are not synonymous, that when you crank up the microscope on human cognition, you see that there's a subtle difference in meaning between them. So, ""give the X to the Y,"" that construction corresponds to the thought ""cause X to go to Y."" Whereas ""give the Y the X"" corresponds to the thought ""cause Y to have X."" Now, many events can be subject to either construal, kind of like the classic figure-ground reversal illusions, in which you can either pay attention to the particular object, in which case the space around it recedes from attention, or you can see the faces in the empty space, in which case the object recedes out of consciousness. How are these construals reflected in language? Well, in both cases, the thing that is construed as being affected is expressed as the direct object, the noun after the verb. So, when you think of the event as causing the muffin to go somewhere — where you're doing something to the muffin — you say, ""Give the muffin to the mouse."" When you construe it as ""cause the mouse to have something,"" you're doing something to the mouse, and therefore you express it as, ""Give the mouse the muffin."" So which verbs go in which construction — the problem with which I began — depends on whether the verb specifies a kind of motion or a kind of possession change. To give something involves both causing something to go and causing someone to have. To drive the car only causes something to go, because Chicago's not the kind of thing that can possess something. Only humans can possess things. And to give someone a headache causes them to have the headache, but it's not as if you're taking the headache out of your head and causing it to go to the other person, and implanting it in them. You may just be loud or obnoxious, or some other way causing them to have the headache. So, that's an example of the kind of thing that I do in my day job. So why should anyone care? Well, there are a number of interesting conclusions, I think, from this and many similar kinds of analyses of hundreds of English verbs. First, there's a level of fine-grained conceptual structure, which we automatically and unconsciously compute every time we produce or utter a sentence, that governs our use of language. You can think of this as the language of thought, or ""mentalese."" It seems to be based on a fixed set of concepts, which govern dozens of constructions and thousands of verbs — not only in English, but in all other languages — fundamental concepts such as space, time, causation and human intention, such as, what is the means and what is the ends? These are reminiscent of the kinds of categories that Immanuel Kant argued are the basic framework for human thought, and it's interesting that our unconscious use of language seems to reflect these Kantian categories. Doesn't care about perceptual qualities, such as color, texture, weight and speed, which virtually never differentiate the use of verbs in different constructions. An additional twist is that all of the constructions in English are used not only literally, but in a quasi-metaphorical way. For example, this construction, the dative, is used not only to transfer things, but also for the metaphorical transfer of ideas, as when we say, ""She told a story to me"" or ""told me a story,"" ""Max taught Spanish to the students"" or ""taught the students Spanish."" It's exactly the same construction, but no muffins, no mice, nothing moving at all. It evokes the container metaphor of communication, in which we conceive of ideas as objects, sentences as containers, and communication as a kind of sending. As when we say we ""gather"" our ideas, to ""put"" them ""into"" words, and if our words aren't ""empty"" or ""hollow,"" we might get these ideas ""across"" to a listener, who can ""unpack"" our words to ""extract"" their ""content."" And indeed, this kind of verbiage is not the exception, but the rule. It's very hard to find any example of abstract language that is not based on some concrete metaphor. For example, you can use the verb ""go"" and the prepositions ""to"" and ""from"" in a literal, spatial sense. ""The messenger went from Paris to Istanbul."" You can also say, ""Biff went from sick to well."" He needn't go anywhere. He could have been in bed the whole time, but it's as if his health is a point in state space that you conceptualize as moving. Or, ""The meeting went from three to four,"" in which we conceive of time as stretched along a line. Likewise, we use ""force"" to indicate not only physical force, as in, ""Rose forced the door to open,"" but also interpersonal force, as in, ""Rose forced Sadie to go,"" not necessarily by manhandling her, but by issuing a threat. Or, ""Rose forced herself to go,"" as if there were two entities inside Rose's head, engaged in a tug of a war. Second conclusion is that the ability to conceive of a given event in two different ways, such as ""cause something to go to someone"" and ""causing someone to have something,"" I think is a fundamental feature of human thought, and it's the basis for much human argumentation, in which people don't differ so much on the facts as on how they ought to be construed. Just to give you a few examples: ""ending a pregnancy"" versus ""killing a fetus;"" ""a ball of cells"" versus ""an unborn child;"" ""invading Iraq"" versus ""liberating Iraq;"" ""redistributing wealth"" versus ""confiscating earnings."" And I think the biggest picture of all would take seriously the fact that so much of our verbiage about abstract events is based on a concrete metaphor and see human intelligence itself as consisting of a repertoire of concepts — such as objects, space, time, causation and intention — which are useful in a social, knowledge-intensive species, whose evolution you can well imagine, and a process of metaphorical abstraction that allows us to bleach these concepts of their original conceptual content — space, time and force — and apply them to new abstract domains, therefore allowing a species that evolved to deal with rocks and tools and animals, to conceptualize mathematics, physics, law and other abstract domains. Well, I said I'd talk about two windows on human nature — the cognitive machinery with which we conceptualize the world, and now I'm going to say a few words about the relationship types that govern human social interaction, again, as reflected in language. And I'll start out with a puzzle, the puzzle of indirect speech acts. Now, I'm sure most of you have seen the movie ""Fargo."" And you might remember the scene in which the kidnapper is pulled over by a police officer, is asked to show his driver's license and holds his wallet out with a 50-dollar bill extending at a slight angle out of the wallet. And he says, ""I was just thinking that maybe we could take care of it here in Fargo,"" which everyone, including the audience, interprets as a veiled bribe. This kind of indirect speech is rampant in language. For example, in polite requests, if someone says, ""If you could pass the guacamole, that would be awesome,"" we know exactly what he means, even though that's a rather bizarre concept being expressed. (Laughter) ""Would you like to come up and see my etchings?"" I think most people understand the intent behind that. And likewise, if someone says, ""Nice store you've got there. It would be a real shame if something happened to it"" — (Laughter) — we understand that as a veiled threat, rather than a musing of hypothetical possibilities. So the puzzle is, why are bribes, polite requests, solicitations and threats so often veiled? No one's fooled. Both parties know exactly what the speaker means, and the speaker knows the listener knows that the speaker knows that the listener knows, etc., etc. So what's going on? I think the key idea is that language is a way of negotiating relationships, and human relationships fall into a number of types. There's an influential taxonomy by the anthropologist Alan Fiske, in which relationships can be categorized, more or less, into communality, which works on the principle ""what's mine is thine, what's thine is mine,"" the kind of mindset that operates within a family, for example; dominance, whose principle is ""don't mess with me;"" reciprocity, ""you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours;"" and sexuality, in the immortal words of Cole Porter, ""Let's do it."" Now, relationship types can be negotiated. Even though there are default situations in which one of these mindsets can be applied, they can be stretched and extended. For example, communality applies most naturally within family or friends, but it can be used to try to transfer the mentality of sharing to groups that ordinarily would not be disposed to exercise it. For example, in brotherhoods, fraternal organizations, sororities, locutions like ""the family of man,"" you try to get people who are not related to use the relationship type that would ordinarily be appropriate to close kin. Now, mismatches — when one person assumes one relationship type, and another assumes a different one — can be awkward. If you went over and you helped yourself to a shrimp off your boss' plate, for example, that would be an awkward situation. Or if a dinner guest after the meal pulled out his wallet and offered to pay you for the meal, that would be rather awkward as well. In less blatant cases, there's still a kind of negotiation that often goes on. In the workplace, for example, there's often a tension over whether an employee can socialize with the boss, or refer to him or her on a first-name basis. If two friends have a reciprocal transaction, like selling a car, it's well known that this can be a source of tension or awkwardness. In dating, the transition from friendship to sex can lead to, notoriously, various forms of awkwardness, and as can sex in the workplace, in which we call the conflict between a dominant and a sexual relationship ""sexual harassment."" Well, what does this have to do with language? Well, language, as a social interaction, has to satisfy two conditions. You have to convey the actual content — here we get back to the container metaphor. You want to express the bribe, the command, the promise, the solicitation and so on, but you also have to negotiate and maintain the kind of relationship you have with the other person. The solution, I think, is that we use language at two levels: the literal form signals the safest relationship with the listener, whereas the implicated content — the reading between the lines that we count on the listener to perform — allows the listener to derive the interpretation which is most relevant in context, which possibly initiates a changed relationship. The simplest example of this is in the polite request. If you express your request as a conditional — ""if you could open the window, that would be great"" — even though the content is an imperative, the fact that you're not using the imperative voice means that you're not acting as if you're in a relationship of dominance, where you could presuppose the compliance of the other person. On the other hand, you want the damn guacamole. By expressing it as an if-then statement, you can get the message across without appearing to boss another person around. And in a more subtle way, I think, this works for all of the veiled speech acts involving plausible deniability: the bribes, threats, propositions, solicitations and so on. One way of thinking about it is to imagine what it would be like if language — where it could only be used literally. And you can think of it in terms of a game-theoretic payoff matrix. Put yourself in the position of the kidnapper wanting to bribe the officer. There's a high stakes in the two possibilities of having a dishonest officer or an honest officer. If you don't bribe the officer, then you will get a traffic ticket — or, as is the case of ""Fargo,"" worse — whether the honest officer is honest or dishonest. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. In that case, the consequences are rather severe. On the other hand, if you extend the bribe, if the officer is dishonest, you get a huge payoff of going free. If the officer is honest, you get a huge penalty of being arrested for bribery. So this is a rather fraught situation. On the other hand, with indirect language, if you issue a veiled bribe, then the dishonest officer could interpret it as a bribe, in which case you get the payoff of going free. The honest officer can't hold you to it as being a bribe, and therefore, you get the nuisance of the traffic ticket. So you get the best of both worlds. And a similar analysis, I think, can apply to the potential awkwardness of a sexual solicitation, and other cases where plausible deniability is an asset. I think this affirms something that's long been known by diplomats — namely, that the vagueness of language, far from being a bug or an imperfection, actually might be a feature of language, one that we use to our advantage in social interactions. So to sum up: language is a collective human creation, reflecting human nature, how we conceptualize reality, how we relate to one another. And then by analyzing the various quirks and complexities of language, I think we can get a window onto what makes us tick. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"這是莫理斯圖翁他是法蘭西學院的榮譽終身院士他身穿價值六萬八千美元的華麗院士服與他在法蘭西學院的職責十分相稱他的工作是負責規範法文的正確用法並確保法文永垂不朽法蘭西學術院肩負兩項使命：編纂官方版的法文字典—現在正在編第九版他們從1930年就開始了，現在編到字母P這些人也規範語言的正確用法例如，""email""的準確叫法應該是""courriel""而網際網路 ""World Wide Web""應該要稱為""la toile d'araignee mondiale""—全球蜘蛛網種種法國人興高采烈地忽略的建議 好，這是語言演化的模式之一也就是由學術研究院規範語言但研究語言的人都會知道這是個有點愚蠢的妄想我們都知道，語言源自於人與人之間的互動我們看到，語言不斷在改變等到法蘭西學院編完他們的字典這本字典早就過時了 我們也看到新的俚語和行話不斷出現語言歷經歷史演變方言產生分歧新的語言形成因此，不能說語言創造或塑造了人性語言反倒是個窗口，讓我們得以一窺人性在我正在撰寫的這本書中我希望藉由語言來闡述人性的某些面向包括認知機制也就是人類理解世界的機制還有掌管人際互動的各種關係今天早上，我會針對這幾項逐一簡述 首先，我要談談語言裡的一個技術性問題這個問題困擾我許久了也請各位容我分享我對動詞和動詞用法的熱情這個問題就是，什麼動詞用在什麼句構裡？動詞是一個句子的基礎讓其他詞類可以建構於其上 讓我很快地提醒各位一件大家早就忘記的事不及物動詞，像是用餐 (dine) 這個字後面不能接直接受詞你要說 ""山姆用餐了""，不能說 ""山姆用餐披薩""而及物動詞的規則是後面一定要接受詞""山姆吞下了 (devour) 披薩""，不能說 ""山姆吞下了""還有很多像這樣的動詞每個動詞都塑造了句子的樣貌所以，該如何解釋兒童習得語言的方法該如何教成人學語言，讓他們不會犯文法錯誤該怎麼設計程式，讓電腦使用語言問題都出在於：什麼動詞用在什麼句構裡？ 以英文的授與句型為例你可以用介詞授與： ""把小蛋糕給老鼠""或使用雙受詞授與： ""給老鼠小蛋糕""""把任何承諾給她""、 ""給她任何承諾"" 等等有上百個動詞在兩種句法裡都行得通於是小孩很容易以此類推大人和電腦也是認為任何動詞只要能放在""主詞+動詞+事物+to 受格"" 這種句構裡就也能出現在: ""主詞+動詞+受格+事物"" 這種句子裡這樣的推斷很方便因為語言無窮盡你沒辦法重述所聽到的每句話所以你得歸納出一些規則好讓你可以造出並理解新的句子剛剛的用法就是一例 不幸地，有許多不尋常的例外你可以說""貝夫開車到芝加哥""但不能說""貝夫開芝加哥到車""你可以說""薩爾讓傑森很頭痛""但說成""薩爾把頭痛給了傑森"" 就有點奇怪了答案就是，這些句構雖然句面上相近卻不盡相同如果你把顯微鏡倍數調高一點用力觀察人類認知，就會發現這些句子在意義上有些微的差距所以，""把X給Y""這個句構反映了""使X移動到Y那兒去""，而 ""給YX""反映了 ""讓Y有了X"" 好，很多事件都可以解讀為其中一種概念這有點像是圖與地的錯覺測驗你可以將注意力放在某一樣物體上面這時候，你就會忽略旁邊的背景你也可以只注意背景中的臉孔這時候，畫面中的物體就會受到忽略這樣的解構怎麼反映在語言上面呢？嗯，在這兩種情況下，被認為受到影響的事物以直接受詞的形式出現也就是動詞後面的名詞所以如果你認為這個動作使得小蛋糕移動到某處去也就是你對小蛋糕做動作的地方—你會說 ""把小蛋糕給老鼠""如果你解讀成 ""使得老鼠獲得了某物""你對老鼠做了動作那麼，你就會說 ""給老鼠小蛋糕"" 所以，什麼動詞用在什麼句構裡—我開頭提到的這個問題取決於該動詞是否點明了一種運動還是代表著所有權的轉換授與某物包括使得某物移動以及使得某人獲得某物開車只造成某物移動因為芝加哥沒辦法擁有某物只有人類可以擁有事物而""讓某人頭痛""使得他們頭很痛但你不能把你的頭痛從腦袋裡取出來使它移動到別人那兒然後想辦法讓別人頭痛你只能大聲喧鬧或討人厭或用其他方法使別人頭痛所以這個例子就說明了我每天在做的工作 為什麼有人要在乎這種事？嗯，我認為有很多有趣的結論可以從這種還有許多類似的分析中得出從分析上百個英文動詞中得出首先，有種非常微妙的認知結構是我們自動或下意識地在運用的影響我們造出或說出每個支配我們語言使用的句子你可以把它想成思想的語言，或心理語言 它似乎建構於一種固有的概念之上這樣的概念支配了十幾種句構和上千個動詞的用法不只在英文裡，在其他語言裡也有這種基本的概念，例如，空間時間、因果關係和動機像是，哪個是手段，哪個是目的？這與""範疇""有異曲同工之妙康德認為這些範疇組成了人類思想的基本架構有趣的是，我們下意識中所使用的語言似乎反映了康德所提出的範疇我們的語言不在乎感觀的特徵像是顏色、質地、重量和速度這些幾乎都不會影響不同句構中動詞的用法 此外，英文裡所有的句構都不只具有字面的意義還帶有一些隱喻的意味比如說，這個授與句型不只能用來轉讓事物還能用來移轉想法像我們說: ""她講故事給我聽""或 ""她跟我講故事""""馬克斯教授西班牙文給學生""或""教學生西班牙文""這些都是相同的句構但句子裡沒有小蛋糕，也沒有老鼠。沒有東西移動這就引發了溝通裡的""容器隱喻""我們將想法視為物體把句子當成容器而溝通是一種傳送方式就像我們說，將想法""收集""起來，""放進""文字裡而如果我們的話語不至於""空洞""或""空泛""我們就可以將想法""傳達""給聽者聽者可以""拆解""我們的話語，""擷取""其中的""內容"" 這些用語不是例外，而是規則很難從抽象的語言中找到任何不是建立於具體的譬喻之上的例子舉例而言，你可以用""去"" (go) 這個動詞搭配介系詞""到""(to) 和""從"" (from)表達空間概念""信差從巴黎去到伊斯坦堡""你也可以說 ""貝夫從生病到康復""他不用去哪裡，他可能一直都躺在床上但他的健康就像狀態空間裡的一個點而你想像這個點會移動或者， ""會議從三點開到四點""我們想像時間綿延於一條線上同樣地，我們利用""force"" (用力、強迫)指的不只是身體的力量像是 ""羅絲用力把門打開""也可以指涉人際上的力量像是 ""羅絲強迫珊蒂離開""—不一定要親自動手可以利用威脅利誘或是 ""羅絲強迫自己離開""彷彿羅絲腦袋裡有兩個個體正在進行一場拔河戰 我得出的另一個結論是，解構的能力將一件事情解讀成兩種意義的能力像是 ""使得某物移動到某人那兒去""以及""使得某人擁有某物""是人類思想最基本的特質也是人們許多爭論的來源與其說大家對事實爭論不下不如說他們對事實的解讀方法有不同見解給各位幾個例子：""結束妊娠期"" 和 ""殺死胎兒""""一團細胞"" 和 ""未出世的孩子""""入侵伊拉克"" 和 ""解放伊拉克""""重新分配財富"" 和 ""沒收所得""而我認為，若採取最宏觀的角度你會認真地看待一個事實那就是，我們描述抽象事件的用語大多建立於具體的譬喻之上你會將人類的智能本身視為涵蓋了一系列的概念—諸如目的、空間、時間、因果關係和意圖—對於需要大量社交和知識的物種非常有用這個物種的演化各位都很熟悉而人類智能還包含抽象隱喻的過程讓我們抽離這些概念裡面原有的內涵—空間、時間和力量—然後用在新的抽象領域上所以一個已經進化到學會使用石器、工具和禽獸的物種也能了解數學、物理、法律和其他抽象的領域 嗯，我說我會講到人性的兩扇窗口：剛剛提到我們解構這個世界的認知機制現在我要講的是不同類型的人際關係它們掌控了人類的社交互動以及這些關係如何反映在語言上面我首先要講個謎題：間接語言行為的謎題相信很多人都看過《冰血暴》這部電影你可能記得在其中一幕裡警察攔下綁匪的車請他出示駕照而綁匪舉起皮夾裡頭露出一張五十美元的鈔票以微妙的角度若隱若現著他說：""我在想""""也許我們可以就地解決""每個人，包括電影觀眾都會將這句話解讀為隱含的賄賂這種不直接的表達方法在語言裡隨處可見舉例來說，在禮貌性的請求中如果有人說 ""如果你能遞給我鱷梨沙拉醬""""那就太棒了""我們都知道他要表達什麼意思雖然他表達的概念實在有點詭異 （笑聲） ""妳想來我家欣賞我的蝕刻畫嗎？""我想大部份的人都知道這句話背後的動機是什麼同樣地，如果有人說""你的店真不賴，如果發生什麼不幸，那真是太可惜了""（笑聲）我們也都了解這背後隱含的是個恐嚇而不是真的在思考這個假設的可能性所以這個謎題是，為什麼賄賂、有禮的請求、誘惑和恐嚇都常被隱藏起來？沒有人會信以為真—雙方都了解講者的意思為何講者也知道聽者知道講者知道聽者知道...以此類推究竟是怎麼一回事？ 我認為關鍵在於語言讓我們可以協商彼此的關係為何而人際關係有好幾種類型人類學家費斯克提出了一種有名的分類法他說，人與人間的關係或多或少可以分成幾種模式團體關係，其原則是""我的就是你的，你的就是我的""—這種關係常見於家人之間統治關係，最高指導原則是""別惹我""互惠關係：""你幫我抓背，我就幫你抓背""性慾關係，套句柯爾波特的名言：""咱們做吧"" 這些關係模式是可以經過協商的即使在某些既定的情況下適用上述其中一種關係模式但仍有延伸擴大的空間舉例來說，團體關係最常出現在家人或朋友關係中但也可以用來試圖將分享的心態轉移到平常不這麼運作的群體例如，兄弟會、兄弟組織姊妹會中，""兄弟一家親""這種慣用語就是想要讓一群非親非故的人使用這種平常只適用於近親的關係模式 但差異出現時—一個人以為是某種關係模式另一個人以為是另一種模式—就糗大了如果你伸筷自行取用你老闆盤裡的蝦子這個情況可能就尷尬了或是來家裡用餐的客人在飯後取出錢包要付你餐費那也相當難堪在比較不明顯的情境裡也常進行著關係模式的協商舉例來說，在工作場合上常常有個兩難：究竟員工能不能跟老闆聊天或是直呼他或她的大名如果兩個朋友要進行一項互惠交易，像是賣車大家都知道這可能造成兩難或窘境兩人約會想要從友情發展到性關係可能造成各種的窘境，這眾所皆知辦公室裡的性關係亦然我們稱這種發生在統治關係與性慾關係間的衝突為""性騷擾"" 那，這些和語言有什麼關係？嗯，語言，就像社交需要符合兩種條件你必須表達實質內容—這邊我們要回到容器隱喻你想要傳達賄賂、命令、承諾誘惑等等意含但你必須要協商同時維持你和對方之間的關係我想，解決方法就是我們用的語言要有兩個層次：字面上的意思表達了你和聽者最安全的關係而你暗指的內容—我們希望對方聽到的弦外之音—讓聽者解讀出在情境裡最切題的意義這可能會造成關係的改變 最簡單的例子就是有禮的請求如果你以假設句傳達你的請求""如果你能開個窗就太好了""雖然這句話的內容是命令句但是你没有使用命令語氣表示你並沒有表現得好像你們處於統治關係你沒有假設對方一定會屈從另一方面，你想要那該死的鱷梨沙拉醬用""如果...就""的假設句你不但可以傳達語意也不會顯得頤指氣使 更微妙一點，我認為這可以適用於所有隱含的言語行為包括合理的推諉：賄賂、恐嚇、提議誘惑等等我們可以這麼思考：想像一下如果我們只能使用語言字面的意思，會是什麼情況你可以用賽局理論裡的收益矩陣來分析設想，如果你是想要賄賂警察的綁匪你面臨很高的風險因為有兩種可能：你可能會遇到好警察或壞警察如果你不賄賂警察你就得吃上罰單或者像在《冰血暴》裡，就更慘了—不論電影裡那個好警察究竟是好是壞：綁匪無論如何都得放手一博那麼後果就相當嚴重了另一方面，如果你行賄遇上壞警察你得到的收益很高—逍遙法外但遇上好警察，面臨的刑罰很重你將被依賄賂罪逮捕所以這是個相當棘手的情況 但如果使用間接語言你使用隱含的賄賂那麼壞警察可以將之解讀為賄賂你就得以逍遙法外了而好警察也不能因此將你定罪所以你頂多拿到一張罰單兩全其美我認為，類似的分析也適用於求歡可能會遇到的尷尬問題還有其他亟需合理推諉的情境我想這印證了外交家老早就知道的事實—也就是說，語言的含糊曖昧並不是語言的缺陷或不完美而可能是語言的一種特色有利於我們的社交互動 做個總結：語言是人類創造的總和反映了人性—我們如何理解現實我們如何與他人產生連結而藉由分析語言的稀奇古怪與錯綜複雜我相信我們可以一窺人類的思想謝謝各位 （掌聲）"
