Talk	en	zh-tw
steve_truglia_a_leap_from_the_edge_of_space	"I'm extremely excited to be given the opportunity to come and speak to you today about what I consider to be the biggest stunt on Earth. Or perhaps not quite on Earth. A parachute jump from the very edge of space. More about that a bit later on. What I'd like to do first is take you through a very brief helicopter ride of stunts and the stunts industry in the movies and in television, and show you how technology has started to interface with the physical skills of the stunt performer in a way that makes the stunts bigger and actually makes them safer than they've ever been before. I've been a professional stunt man for 13 years. I'm a stunt coordinator. And as well as perform stunts I often design them. During that time, health and safety has become everything about my job. It's critical now that when a car crash happens it isn't just the stunt person we make safe, it's the crew. We can't be killing camera men. We can't be killing stunt men. We can't be killing anybody or hurting anybody on set, or any passerby. So, safety is everything. But it wasn't always that way. In the old days of the silent movies — Harold Lloyd here, hanging famously from the clock hands — a lot of these guys did their own stunts. They were quite remarkable. They had no safety, no real technology. What safety they had was very scant. This is the first stunt woman, Rosie Venger, an amazing woman. You can see from the slide, very very strong. She really paved the way at a time when nobody was doing stunts, let alone women. My favorite and a real hero of mine is Yakima Canutt. Yakima Canutt really formed the stunt fight. He worked with John Wayne and most of those old punch-ups you see in the Westerns. Yakima was either there or he stunt coordinated. This is a screen capture from ""Stagecoach,"" where Yakima Canutt is doing one of the most dangerous stunts I've ever seen. There is no safety, no back support, no pads, no crash mats, no sand pits in the ground. That's one of the most dangerous horse stunts, certainly. Talking of dangerous stunts and bringing things slightly up to date, some of the most dangerous stunts we do as stunt people are fire stunts. We couldn't do them without technology. These are particularly dangerous because there is no mask on my face. They were done for a photo shoot. One for the Sun newspaper, one for FHM magazine. Highly dangerous, but also you'll notice it doesn't look as though I'm wearing anything underneath the suit. The fire suits of old, the bulky suits, the thick woolen suits, have been replaced with modern materials like Nomex or, more recently, Carbonex — fantastic materials that enable us as stunt professionals to burn for longer, look more spectacular, and in pure safety. Here's a bit more. There's a guy with a flame thrower there, giving me what for. One of the things that a stuntman often does, and you'll see it every time in the big movies, is be blown through the air. Well, we used to use trampettes. In the old days, that's all they had. And that's a ramp. Spring off the thing and fly through the air, and hopefully you make it look good. Now we've got technology. This thing is called an air ram. It's a frightening piece of equipment for the novice stunt performer, because it will break your legs very, very quickly if you land on it wrong. Having said that, it works with compressed nitrogen. And that's in the up position. When you step on it, either by remote control or with the pressure of your foot, it will fire you, depending on the gas pressure, anything from five feet to 30 feet. I could, quite literally, fire myself into the gallery. Which I'm sure you wouldn't want. Not today. Car stunts are another area where technology and engineering advances have made life easier for us, and safer. We can do bigger car stunts than ever before now. Being run over is never easy. That's an old-fashioned, hard, gritty, physical stunt. But we have padding, and fantastic shock-absorbing things like Sorbothane — the materials that help us, when we're hit like this, not to hurt ourselves too much. The picture in the bottom right-hand corner there is of some crash test dummy work that I was doing. Showing how stunts work in different areas, really. And testing breakaway signpost pillars. A company makes a Lattix pillar, which is a network, a lattice-type pillar that collapses when it's hit. The car on the left drove into the steel pillar. And you can't see it from there, but the engine was in the driver's lap. They did it by remote control. I drove the other one at 60 miles an hour, exactly the same speed, and clearly walked away from it. Rolling a car over is another area where we use technology. We used to have to drive up a ramp, and we still do sometimes. But now we have a compressed nitrogen cannon. You can just see, underneath the car, there is a black rod on the floor by the wheel of the other car. That's the piston that was fired out of the floor. We can flip lorries, coaches, buses, anything over with a nitrogen cannon with enough power. (Laughs) It's a great job, really. (Laughter) It's such fun! You should hear some of the phone conversations that I have with people on my Bluetooth in the shop. ""Well, we can flip the bus over, we can have it burst into flames, and how about someone, you know, big explosion."" And people are looking like this ... (Laughs) I sort of forget how bizarre some of those conversations are. The next thing that I'd like to show you is something that Dunlop asked me to do earlier this year with our Channel Five's ""Fifth Gear Show."" A loop-the-loop, biggest in the world. Only one person had ever done it before. Now, the stuntman solution to this in the old days would be, ""Let's hit this as fast as possible. 60 miles an hour. Let's just go for it. Foot flat to the floor."" Well, you'd die if you did that. We went to Cambridge University, the other university, and spoke to a Doctor of Mechanical Engineering there, a physicist who taught us that it had to be 37 miles an hour. Even then, I caught seven G and lost a bit of consciousness on the way in. That's a long way to fall, if you get it wrong. That was just about right. So again, science helps us, and with the engineering too — the modifications to the car and the wheel. High falls, they're old fashioned stunts. What's interesting about high falls is that although we use airbags, and some airbags are quite advanced, they're designed so you don't slip off the side like you used to, if you land a bit wrong. So, they're a much safer proposition. Just basically though, it is a basic piece of equipment. It's a bouncy castle with slats in the side to allow the air to escape. That's all it is, a bouncy castle. That's the only reason we do it. See, it's all fun, this job. What's interesting is we still use cardboard boxes. They used to use cardboard boxes years ago and we still use them. And that's interesting because they are almost retrospective. They're great for catching you, up to certain heights. And on the other side of the fence, that physical art, the physical performance of the stuntman, has interfaced with the very highest technology in I.T. and in software. Not the cardboard box, but the green screen. This is a shot of ""Terminator,"" the movie. Two stunt guys doing what I consider to be a rather benign stunt. It's 30 feet. It's water. It's very simple. With the green screen we can put any background in the world on it, moving or still, and I can assure you, nowadays you can't see the joint. This is a parachutist with another parachutist doing exactly the same thing. Completely in the safety of a studio, and yet with the green screen we can have some moving image that a skydiver took, and put in the sky moving and the clouds whizzing by. Decelerator rigs and wires, we use them a lot. We fly people on wires, like this. This guy is not skydiving. He's being flown like a kite, or moved around like a kite. And this is a Guinness World Record attempt. They asked me to open their 50th anniversary show in 2004. And again, technology meant that I could do the fastest abseil over 100 meters, and stop within a couple of feet of the ground without melting the rope with the friction, because of the alloys I used in the descender device. And that's Centre Point in London. We brought Oxford Street and Tottenham Court Road to a standstill. Helicopter stunts are always fun, hanging out of them, whatever. And aerial stunts. No aerial stunt would be the same without skydiving. Which brings us quite nicely to why I'm really here today: Project Space Jump. In 1960, Joseph Kittenger of the United States Air Force did the most spectacular thing. He did a jump from 100,000 feet, 102,000 to be precise, and he did it to test high altitude systems for military pilots in the new range of aircraft that were going up to 80,000 feet or so. And I'd just like to show you a little footage of what he did back then. And just how brave he was in 1960, bear in mind. Project Excelsior, it was called. There were three jumps. They first dropped some dummies. So that's the balloon, big gas balloon. It's that shape because the helium has to expand. My balloon will expand to 500 times and look like a big pumpkin when it's at the top. These are the dummies being dropped from 100,000 feet, and there is the camera that's strapped to them. You can clearly see the curvature of the Earth at that kind of altitude. And I'm planning to go from 120,000 feet, which is about 22 miles. You're in a near vacuum in that environment, which is in minus 50 degrees. So it's an extremely hostile place to be. This is Joe Kittenger himself. Bear in mind, ladies and gents, this was 1960. He didn't know if he would live or die. This is an extremely brave man. I spoke with him on the phone a few months ago. He's a very humble and wonderful human being. He sent me an email, saying, ""If you get this thing off the ground I wish you all the best."" And he signed it, ""Happy landings,"" which I thought was quite lovely. He's in his 80s and he lives in Florida. He's a tremendous guy. This is him in a pressure suit. Now one of the challenges of going up to altitude is when you get to 30,000 feet — it's great, isn't it? — When you get to 30,000 feet you can really only use oxygen. Above 30,000 feet up to nearly 50,000 feet, you need pressure breathing, which is where you're wearing a G suit. This is him in his old rock-and-roll jeans there, pushing him in, those turned up jeans. You need a pressure suit. You need a pressure breathing system with a G suit that squeezes you, that helps you to breathe in and helps you to exhale. Above 50,000 feet you need a space suit, a pressure suit. Certainly at 100,000 feet no aircraft will fly. Not even a jet engine. It needs to be rocket-powered or one of these things, a great big gas balloon. It took me a while; it took me years to find the right balloon team to build the balloon that would do this job. I've found that team in America now. And it's made of polyethylene, so it's very thin. We will have two balloons for each of my test jumps, and two balloons for the main jump, because they notoriously tear on takeoff. They're just so, so delicate. This is the step off. He's written on that thing, ""The highest step in the world."" And what must that feel like? I'm excited and I'm scared, both at the same time in equal measures. And this is the camera that he had on him as he tumbled before his drogue chute opened to stabilize him. A drogue chute is just a smaller chute which helps to keep your face down. You can just see them there, popping open. Those are the drogue chutes. He had three of them. I did quite a lot of research. And you'll see in a second there, he comes back down to the floor. Now just to give you some perspective of this balloon, the little black dots are people. It's hundreds of feet high. It's enormous. That's in New Mexico. That's the U.S. Air Force Museum. And they've made a dummy of him. That's exactly what it looked like. My gondola will be more simple than that. It's a three sided box, basically. So I've had to do quite a lot of training. This is Morocco last year in the Atlas mountains, training in preparation for some high altitude jumps. This is what the view is going to be like at 90,000 feet for me. Now you may think this is just a thrill-seeking trip, a pleasure ride, just the world's biggest stunt. Well there's a little bit more to it than that. Trying to find a space suit to do this has led me to an area of technology that I never really expected when I set about doing this. I contacted a company in the States who make suits for NASA. That's a current suit. This was me last year with their chief engineer. That suit would cost me about a million and a half dollars. And it weighs 300 pounds and you can't skydive in it. So I've been stuck. For the past 15 years I've been trying to find a space suit that would do this job, or someone that will make one. Something revolutionary happened a little while ago, at the same facility. That's the prototype of the parachute. I've now had them custom make one, the only one of its kind in the world. And that's the only suit of its kind in the world. It was made by a Russian that's designed most of the suits of the past 18 years for the Soviets. He left the company because he saw, as some other people in the space suit industry, an emerging market for space suits for space tourists. You know if you are in an aircraft at 30,000 feet and the cabin depressurizes, you can have oxygen. If you're at 100,000 feet you die. In six seconds you've lost consciousness. In 10 seconds you're dead. Your blood tries to boil. It's called vaporization. The body swells up. It's awful. And so we expect — it's not much fun. We expect, and others expect, that perhaps the FAA, the CAA might say, ""You need to put someone in a suit that's not inflated, that's connected to the aircraft."" Then they're comfortable, they have good vision, like this great big visor. And then if the cabin depressurizes while the aircraft is coming back down, in whatever emergency measures, everyone is okay. I would like to bring Costa on, if he's here, to show you the only one of its kind in the world. I was going to wear it, but I thought I'd get Costa to do it, my lovely assistant. Thank you. He's very hot. Thank you, Costa. This is the communication headset you'll see on lots of space suits. It's a two-layer suit. NASA suits have got 13 layers. This is a very lightweight suit. It weighs about 15 pounds. It's next to nothing. Especially designed for me. It's a working prototype. I will use it for all the jumps. Would you just give us a little twirl, please, Costa? Thank you very much. And it doesn't look far different when it's inflated, as you can see from the picture down there. I've even skydived in it in a wind tunnel, which means that I can practice everything I need to practice, in safety, before I ever jump out of anything. Thanks very much, Costa. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, that's just about it from me. The status of my mission at the moment is it still needs a major sponsor. I'm confident that we'll find one. I think it's a great challenge. And I hope that you will agree with me, it is the greatest stunt on Earth. Thank you very much for your time. (Applause)"	"我很高興能有這樣一個機會來到這裡與大家分享一個特技，我認為地球上最大的特技或許，不能算是在地球上。從天際進行降落傘表演稍後將會詳細介紹。 首先我想帶你簡短的瞭解一系列的特技和在電視電影中的特技。幷向你展示技術是如何影響特技演員身體技術的。並在某種程度上讓特技更宏偉和如何讓特技演員在表演中處於空前的安全中。 我已經是一位有13年資歷的特技表演者。我作為一名特技指導不僅表演特技，我還會時常設計一項特技。在設計時，安全是我工作中的重中之重。在進行汽車衝撞中這十分重要。我們不僅要保證我的特技表演員的安全還有全體工作人員。我們不能讓拍攝師死去，特技演員死去。我們不能讓任何人被置於危險中，不能讓任何人受傷。你可以看出，安全是一切的一切。但是一切並不盡然。 以前在老的無聲電影中，許多表演者進行了他們自己獨特的特技，真的很了不起，比如哈儸德·勞埃爾在大鐘指針上懸掛的那幕。他們沒有安全保障，沒有現代的科技。他們的安全保障是微乎其微的。屏幕上的是第一位嘗試特技的女性，羅西·維爾戈，一個令人稱奇的女性。從幻燈片中你可以看出她十分強壯。她真的是完成了一項壯舉因為在那個年代沒人想去做特技，跟別說是女性了。 亞基馬·坎納特，一位真正的英雄，也是我最喜歡的特技演員。亞基馬·坎納特確實促成了武打特技。約翰·威恩與他合作拍攝了許多老的西方武打鏡頭，他要麼是特技演員要麼就是特技顧問。這是從電影“關山飛渡”中截取的一幕，亞基馬·坎納特正在進行一次最為危險的特技表演。當時是沒有安全措施，沒有腰墊，沒有墊子，沒有緩衝墊，地上也沒有沙坑。這真的是最危險的加入了馬的特技，真的。 把時間放到現代，來談談現在的危險特技，我做過的一件最危險的特技就是加入了火的特技。我們在沒有技術支持下無法完成這樣的特技。這些特技尤其的危險因為我們的臉上沒有戴面具。這些是爲了照片而做的（不是電視電影）。一組是接的太陽報的單，一組是接的男人幫的單。真的十分危險，但是你肯定會注意到我並不像是在衣服下穿了什麽東西。那些老式的厚重的毛料防火衣，已經被诺梅克斯（化學材料）或最新的碳纖維給取代了。這些神奇的材料幫助特技演員在表演中燒的更久，也看起來更壯觀，當然在完全安全的情況下。這還有一些照片。這兒有人拿著噴火器，正在想我噴火。（笑） 被炸飛到空中是特技演員常做的特技，也是你每次在看大片時肯定會看到的景象。（語氣詞）我們過去使用的是蹦床。過去，特技演員也只能用這個。那就中只是個斜面。把東西彈，在半空中飛。希望你可以把它美化一下。 我們現在有了新的科技。這玩意叫做空氣沖車。對新手來說這是一件非常恐怖的裝備。因為只要你用不正確的方法踩了上去它就會在一瞬間弄斷你的腳。儘管很危險，這傢伙的工作原理是壓縮氮氣這是個啟動裝置。當你把腳放在上面時，你可以用遠程遙控，或踩它一下，它都可以用壓縮的氣壓把你沖飛，任何東西，從5到30碼。打個比方，它是可以把我沖到那個走廊那的。我肯定你們不想讓我這麼做。今天也是不行的。 汽車特技就是另一個特技領域了，科技和工程的進步讓我們的特技表演更容易、安全。讓我們可以做曾經無法想像的大工程。被車子碾過去可不輕鬆。那是個老式，困難需要堅韌精神的身體特技。但是現在我們有了保護墊，和奇妙的衝力吸收裝置比如Sorbothane（減震器的名字）當我們被撞時，這些工具真的幫了我們不少，就像這樣，不會受到太大的傷害。 右下角的那幅圖是我曾做的用到假人的衝撞實驗。測試如何在不同的衝撞中進行特技。測試對指示牌的衝撞。這是有一家公司做的lattix的柱子，網狀結構的當受到撞擊是就會倒。左邊的車撞到的則是鐵柱子。汽車引擎已經在駕駛位上了，你在這是可不清楚的。當然我們是用遙控操作的。我以60英里的速度駕駛另一輛車，和另一輛車是一樣的速度，然後精確的避開了另一輛車。 錯車特技是另一個我們使用了科技的領域。我們以前需要開上一個斜坡。現在有時也這樣。現在我們有了氮氣壓縮炮的裝置。你可以看到在車得底下，靠著另一輛車的輪子有一個黑色的棒狀物在地上。那是從裝置中打出來的活塞。運用到氮氣壓縮炮我們可以把卡車、旅遊大巴、公交車任何一種車。 這真的是一件大工程。我們樂在其中！（笑聲）你真該聽聽我和別人在商店里用藍牙的對話。“行，我們可以把巴士弄飛起來，我們可以把它炸掉，接下來，再來一次大爆炸，如何？”其他人就這樣看著我...（笑聲）我自己都忘了我的這段對話對他人來說是多麼的奇怪。 下一個我想向你們展示的是在今年年初，鄧祿普邀請我與第五頻道Fifth gear節目一起完成的世界上最大的大轉輪。在我們之前也只有一個人做過這個特技。以前特技演員在這個特技的方法將是，“速度越快越好，60英里每小時好就那麼去做。踩住油門。”但是，這要你那樣做，不出意外會丟了性命。 我們去了劍橋大學和其他幾所大學，在哪裡，我們拜了一位工程學博士，他告訴我們汽車的速度要在37英里每小時。儘管那樣，我也承受了7倍的重力，在駕駛時，出現了輕微失去意識的癥狀。如果你做錯了，那將會是一個漫長的降落。只能正確。又一次，科技幫助了我們，當然還有工程學。車子和車輪的調整全靠它了。 高空墜落，一項老式的特技。高空墜落中科技有幫到了我們什麽？儘管我們還是使用的充氣囊，但是現在的充氣囊要先進一些，它們是專門設計過的，假如你著地有些問題你也不會像以前那樣滑下去。現在的氣囊是有更高的安全性的。很基礎的想法，也是一件很基礎的工具。就是一個大氣墊在裏面有一個百葉板能讓空氣穿過，并起到減速的作用。這就是一個氣墊的全部這是我們做它的唯一原因。而且這工作也很好玩。有一件挺有趣的事是我們還在使用硬紙箱。以前人們常用，我們也用。這事十分有趣在於硬紙箱基本是重複利用的。它們可以很好的接住你，當你從一定高度降落時。 另一方面，特技演員的身體藝術和表演在極大的程度上被I.T.和軟件技術影響著。不是硬紙箱，而是綠色的屏幕。這是電影終結者中的一幕。兩個特技演員正在做一項對我而言不那麼危險的特技。這只有30碼，有水，很簡單。但是有了那個綠色的屏幕，我們就可以把背景換為世界上任后一個地方。靜止的或動態的，我可以想你保障，如今是沒有人可以看出合成的痕跡來的。這有兩個羅傘者在做跟剛剛那副圖片中一樣的過程。在完全安全的工作室中在綠屏的幫助下，我們就可以擁有一位真正的跳傘者所拍的動態影響，並且做出白雲飄過的動態的天空。 減速器和纜線我們常用的道具。像這樣，我們可以把一個用纜線飛起來。這位演員並沒在做跳傘而是在像一個風箏一樣飛，或者說是像一個風箏一樣移動。 這是一吉尼斯紀錄的嘗試。他們邀請我為這次2004年的50周年紀念活動剪綵做的表演。再一次，科技讓我做到了以最快的速度下降100米，並在離地面幾碼的地方停下來，爾繩子卻在摩擦力下沒有融合，全都靠在下滑裝置中的合金。那是在倫敦的中心。牛津路和托特納姆法院路上的行人都被我的表演吸引了。 有直升機假如的特技總是很有趣，懸在直升機外面，無論怎樣都很有趣。然後是空中特技。沒有任何空中特技能像跳傘一樣。很好的銜接到了我今天來這的真正原因。太空跳傘計劃。 在1960年來美國空軍的自約瑟夫·肯泰格做出的一項壯舉。他從10000碼的高度更準確來說10200碼的高度跳落。他做這個是爲了測試在80000碼或以上飛行的新一代飛機中給軍事飛行員用的高緯系統。我想先向你們展示一小段影片關於他當時做了什麽。并幫助你們記住他在1960年的那次跳傘中是多麼的勇敢。 這被稱為Excelsior計劃。計劃中包括三跳，第一跳是假人實驗。好，這就是那個大氣球。它呈那個形狀是因為氦氣的膨脹。我的氣球將膨脹500倍，在升到很高時會看起來像一個南瓜。這就是那些從10000碼高度降下的假人。這是與他們綁在一起的相機記錄的影響。在那樣一個高度，你可以清楚的看到地球的弧形。然後我準備到12000碼這樣的一個高度。大概就22英里。你在是處在真空環境而且氣溫也在零下50攝氏度。可以想像這將是一個極度危險的環境。 這是他本人。先生們，女士們記住這是1960啊。他不知道自己是否能活著回來，他真是一個勇敢的人。我在幾個月前跟他通了一次電話。他是一位謙遜的人。他給我發來了封email寫道“如果你要實行這個計劃的話，我祝你成功”並在在後寫上了“降落愉快。”我認為十分友愛的表達。他現在已經80歲了，住在佛羅里達。他真是個了不起的人。這是他在沖壓力衣。 目前上升到12000碼這樣一個高度的一個挑戰是當你到了30000碼時，聽起來很帥吧？當你到了30000嗎你就只能用氧氣瓶了。當到了30000到50000碼時你就需要加壓呼吸了，這是你為何要穿上重力服。這是他穿著他的老式搖滾牛仔褲，看這，捲起的牛仔褲。你是需要一套壓力裝置的，需要一個壓力呼吸裝置一套重力服會撐你，這樣會幫助你吸氣，幫助你吐氣。 當你升到了50000碼以上你就需要一套太空服，一套壓力服。到了10000碼時，是沒有任何飛行工具能到達那樣一個高度，甚至是噴氣飛機。他必須要有火箭的動力，或和它類似的，一個巨大的氫氣球。我費了好幾年才找到了合適的氣球製作團隊去做一個合適這次計劃的大氣球。這個團隊是我在美國找到的。氣球將由聚乙烯製成，所以會很薄。我們每次試驗跳傘都將用兩個氣球，並在主要的那次跳傘時使用兩個氣球，因為在降落時它們壞掉了。他們實在實在是它精細的。 這是跳下時的一幕，他正在寫“這是世界上最高的跳臺。”那會是怎麼的感受？肯定會又興奮又害怕吧，兩種同樣程度的感受。然後這是在他跳下時他身上的鏡頭。在他的減速傘打開去平穩他的下降之前，一個小的用來幫助他臉部朝下的減速傘打開了。你可以看到它們砰的一下打開了。這是減速傘，他裝備了三個。我可是做了不少研究。你可以看到，他在一瞬間就回到了地面。 現在給你們看看這個氣球的願景像。黑色的小點就是人。它很巨大，有幾百碼之高。這是在新墨西哥州。這是美國空軍博物館。它們做了一個他的假人，真像。我的吊艙將會更簡單，基本上是一個三面的箱子。 所以我要做許多的訓練，這是去年在摩洛哥的阿特斯山脈，為高空跳傘做一些準備。這將會是我在90000碼看到了景色。也許你現在會認為這僅僅是一個尋求刺激，有趣的旅程，僅僅是世界上最大的特技表演。但是他的意義比這要更多一些。 爲了去找的合適的太空服去完成跳傘把我引向了科技的領域我從來沒有想過我會去做那樣的事。我聯繫了一家在美國的公司為NASA(美國國家航天局)做宇航服的公司這就是現在的主流宇航服。這是去年我和他們的主工程師的合影。這樣一件宇航服將花掉我150萬美金。但是它重300磅你是不可能穿著它跳傘的。就這樣我被卡住了。在過去的15年中我一直在找一件可以完成我的需求的宇航服，或專家誰可以做一件。 建在不久前，同一個工廠里突破性的進展發生了。這是那件宇航服的原型。我已經訂做了一件。這是這個世上唯一一種宇航服，也是這個世界上唯一的一件。一位為蘇聯設計了18年宇航服設計了它。他離開了他曾經的公司因為他，和其他一些在宇航服行業中人士一樣，看到了一為太空遊客做宇航服的新興市場。 大家很清楚在飛行在30000碼高度的飛機中艙內減壓的感覺，您仍能呼吸氧氣。但是在10000碼時你就死了。6秒中內你會死去意識，10秒中就會死亡。你的血液將沸騰，并氣化。你的身體會漲起來，這非常可怕。就如我們所感受的那樣—這一點也不有趣。我們希望，其他人希望也許FAA和CAA也會說""我們需要把人放在不那麼腫大的宇航服里并可以和航天器連接還有他們要舒服要有一個好的視野，就像一個巨大的面罩。假若艙內減壓了或者航天器在下降，不論在那種緊急情況，每個人都不會有人。” 我想讓卡斯特上來向你們展示世界上獨一無二的宇航服。我本想穿上它。但是我又想到了卡斯特，我可愛的助手，來做這件事。謝謝你謝謝你，他現在很熱，非常謝謝你卡斯特。這個事用於通信的頭盔，你在很多宇航服中都會看到。這是一件兩層的宇航服，NASA的那件有13層。它十分輕便，只有15磅重。機乎沒什麼重量。專門為我設計的。 這個是原型。我將會用它進行所有的跳傘。卡斯特，你不介意轉一圈然大家看看？十分感謝你。它跟它充氣后差不了多少。你在相片中可以看到充氣后的樣子。 我甚至可以穿著它在風穴中進行跳傘。這意味這在我跳傘前，我可以在安全的情況下所有必要的訓練，（掌聲） 女士們先生們，這就是我想展示的一切。在我計劃的現階段仍然需要一位贊助人我相信我會找到一位。這將是一次巨大的挑戰。希望你們認同這是地球最大型的特技。非常感謝大家聽我的演講。（掌声）"
