Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_wise_chimps_have_feelings_and_thoughts_they_should_also_have_rights	"I'd like to have you look at this pencil. It's a thing. It's a legal thing. And so are books you might have or the cars you own. They're all legal things. The great apes that you'll see behind me, they too are legal things. Now, I can do that to a legal thing. I can do whatever I want to my book or my car. These great apes, you'll see. The photographs are taken by a man named James Mollison who wrote a book called ""James & Other Apes."" And he tells in his book how every single one them, almost every one of them, is an orphan who saw his mother and father die before his eyes. They're legal things. So for centuries, there's been a great legal wall that separates legal things from legal persons. On one hand, legal things are invisible to judges. They don't count in law. They don't have any legal rights. They don't have the capacity for legal rights. They are the slaves. On the other side of that legal wall are the legal persons. Legal persons are very visible to judges. They count in law. They may have many rights. They have the capacity for an infinite number of rights. And they're the masters. Right now, all nonhuman animals are legal things. All human beings are legal persons. But being human and being a legal person has never been, and is not today, synonymous with a legal person. Humans and legal persons are not synonymous. On the one side, there have been many human beings over the centuries who have been legal things. Slaves were legal things. Women, children, were sometimes legal things. Indeed, a great deal of civil rights struggle over the last centuries has been to punch a hole through that wall and begin to feed these human things through the wall and have them become legal persons. But alas, that hole has closed up. Now, on the other side are legal persons, but they've never only been limited to human beings. There are, for example, there are many legal persons who are not even alive. In the United States, we're aware of the fact that corporations are legal persons. In pre-independence India, a court held that a Hindu idol was a legal person, that a mosque was a legal person. In 2000, the Indian Supreme Court held that the holy books of the Sikh religion was a legal person, and in 2012, just recently, there was a treaty between the indigenous peoples of New Zealand and the crown, in which it was agreed that a river was a legal person who owned its own riverbed. Now, I read Peter Singer's book in 1980, when I had a full head of lush, brown hair, and indeed I was moved by it, because I had become a lawyer because I wanted to speak for the voiceless, defend the defenseless, and I'd never realized how voiceless and defenseless the trillions, billions of nonhuman animals are. And I began to work as an animal protection lawyer. And by 1985, I realized that I was trying to accomplish something that was literally impossible, the reason being that all of my clients, all the animals whose interests I was trying to defend, were legal things; they were invisible. It was not going to work, so I decided that the only thing that was going to work was they had, at least some of them, had to also be moved through a hole that we could open up again in that wall and begin feeding the appropriate nonhuman animals through that hole onto the other side of being legal persons. Now, at that time, there was very little known about or spoken about truly animal rights, about the idea of having legal personhood or legal rights for a nonhuman animal, and I knew it was going to take a long time. And so, in 1985, I figured that it would take about 30 years before we'd be able to even begin a strategic litigation, long-term campaign, in order to be able to punch another hole through that wall. It turned out that I was pessimistic, that it only took 28. So what we had to do in order to begin was not only to write law review articles and teach classes, write books, but we had to then begin to get down to the nuts and bolts of how you litigate that kind of case. So one of the first things we needed to do was figure out what a cause of action was, a legal cause of action. And a legal cause of action is a vehicle that lawyers use to put their arguments in front of courts. It turns out there's a very interesting case that had occurred almost 250 years ago in London called Somerset vs. Stewart, whereby a black slave had used the legal system and had moved from a legal thing to a legal person. I was so interested in it that I eventually wrote an entire book about it. James Somerset was an eight-year-old boy when he was kidnapped from West Africa. He survived the Middle Passage, and he was sold to a Scottish businessman named Charles Stewart in Virginia. Now, 20 years later, Stewart brought James Somerset to London, and after he got there, James decided he was going to escape. And so one of the first things he did was to get himself baptized, because he wanted to get a set of godparents, because to an 18th-century slave, they knew that one of the major responsibilities of godfathers was to help you escape. And so in the fall of 1771, James Somerset had a confrontation with Charles Stewart. We don't know exactly what happened, but then James dropped out of sight. An enraged Charles Stewart then hired slave catchers to canvass the city of London, find him, bring him not back to Charles Stewart, but to a ship, the Ann and Mary, that was floating in London Harbour, and he was chained to the deck, and the ship was to set sail for Jamaica where James was to be sold in the slave markets and be doomed to the three to five years of life that a slave had harvesting sugar cane in Jamaica. Well now James' godparents swung into action. They approached the most powerful judge, Lord Mansfield, who was chief judge of the court of King's Bench, and they demanded that he issue a common law writ of habeus corpus on behalf of James Somerset. Now, the common law is the kind of law that English-speaking judges can make when they're not cabined in by statutes or constitutions, and a writ of habeus corpus is called the Great Writ, capital G, capital W, and it's meant to protect any of us who are detained against our will. A writ of habeus corpus is issued. The detainer is required to bring the detainee in and give a legally sufficient reason for depriving him of his bodily liberty. Well, Lord Mansfield had to make a decision right off the bat, because if James Somerset was a legal thing, he was not eligible for a writ of habeus corpus, only if he could be a legal person. So Lord Mansfield decided that he would assume, without deciding, that James Somerset was indeed a legal person, and he issued the writ of habeus corpus, and James's body was brought in by the captain of the ship. There were a series of hearings over the next six months. On June 22, 1772, Lord Mansfield said that slavery was so odious, and he used the word ""odious,"" that the common law would not support it, and he ordered James free. At that moment, James Somerset underwent a legal transubstantiation. The free man who walked out of the courtroom looked exactly like the slave who had walked in, but as far as the law was concerned, they had nothing whatsoever in common. The next thing we did is that the Nonhuman Rights Project, which I founded, then began to look at what kind of values and principles do we want to put before the judges? What values and principles did they imbibe with their mother's milk, were they taught in law school, do they use every day, do they believe with all their hearts — and we chose liberty and equality. Now, liberty right is the kind of right to which you're entitled because of how you're put together, and a fundamental liberty right protects a fundamental interest. And the supreme interest in the common law are the rights to autonomy and self-determination. So they are so powerful that in a common law country, if you go to a hospital and you refuse life-saving medical treatment, a judge will not order it forced upon you, because they will respect your self-determination and your autonomy. Now, an equality right is the kind of right to which you're entitled because you resemble someone else in a relevant way, and there's the rub, relevant way. So if you are that, then because they have the right, you're like them, you're entitled to the right. Now, courts and legislatures draw lines all the time. Some are included, some are excluded. But you have to, at the bare minimum you must — that line has to be a reasonable means to a legitimate end. The Nonhuman Rights Project argues that drawing a line in order to enslave an autonomous and self-determining being like you're seeing behind me, that that's a violation of equality. We then searched through 80 jurisdictions, it took us seven years, to find the jurisdiction where we wanted to begin filing our first suit. We chose the state of New York. Then we decided upon who our plaintiffs are going to be. We decided upon chimpanzees, not just because Jane Goodall was on our board of directors, but because they, Jane and others, have studied chimpanzees intensively for decades. We know the extraordinary cognitive capabilities that they have, and they also resemble the kind that human beings have. And so we chose chimpanzees, and we began to then canvass the world to find the experts in chimpanzee cognition. We found them in Japan, Sweden, Germany, Scotland, England and the United States, and amongst them, they wrote 100 pages of affidavits in which they set out more than 40 ways in which their complex cognitive capability, either individually or together, all added up to autonomy and self-determination. Now, these included, for example, that they were conscious. But they're also conscious that they're conscious. They know they have a mind. They know that others have minds. They know they're individuals, and that they can live. They understand that they lived yesterday and they will live tomorrow. They engage in mental time travel. They remember what happened yesterday. They can anticipate tomorrow, which is why it's so terrible to imprison a chimpanzee, especially alone. It's the thing that we do to our worst criminals, and we do that to chimpanzees without even thinking about it. They have some kind of moral capacity. When they play economic games with human beings, they'll spontaneously make fair offers, even when they're not required to do so. They are numerate. They understand numbers. They can do some simple math. They can engage in language — or to stay out of the language wars, they're involved in intentional and referential communication in which they pay attention to the attitudes of those with whom they are speaking. They have culture. They have a material culture, a social culture. They have a symbolic culture. Scientists in the Taï Forests in the Ivory Coast found chimpanzees who were using these rocks to smash open the incredibly hard hulls of nuts. It takes a long time to learn how to do that, and they excavated the area and they found that this material culture, this way of doing it, these rocks, had passed down for at least 4,300 years through 225 chimpanzee generations. So now we needed to find our chimpanzee. Our chimpanzee, first we found two of them in the state of New York. Both of them would die before we could even get our suits filed. Then we found Tommy. Tommy is a chimpanzee. You see him behind me. Tommy was a chimpanzee. We found him in that cage. We found him in a small room that was filled with cages in a larger warehouse structure on a used trailer lot in central New York. We found Kiko, who is partially deaf. Kiko was in the back of a cement storefront in western Massachusetts. And we found Hercules and Leo. They're two young male chimpanzees who are being used for biomedical, anatomical research at Stony Brook. We found them. And so on the last week of December 2013, the Nonhuman Rights Project filed three suits all across the state of New York using the same common law writ of habeus corpus argument that had been used with James Somerset, and we demanded that the judges issue these common law writs of habeus corpus. We wanted the chimpanzees out, and we wanted them brought to Save the Chimps, a tremendous chimpanzee sanctuary in South Florida which involves an artificial lake with 12 or 13 islands — there are two or three acres where two dozen chimpanzees live on each of them. And these chimpanzees would then live the life of a chimpanzee, with other chimpanzees in an environment that was as close to Africa as possible. Now, all these cases are still going on. We have not yet run into our Lord Mansfield. We shall. We shall. This is a long-term strategic litigation campaign. We shall. And to quote Winston Churchill, the way we view our cases is that they're not the end, they're not even the beginning of the end, but they are perhaps the end of the beginning. Thank you. (Applause)"	請大家看看這支鉛筆 －它是「法律上的物品」；你們擁有的書本和汽車也一樣，它們全都是「法律上的物品」。你們即將在我背後屏幕上所看到漂亮的黑猩猩，牠們也是法律上的物品； 此時此刻我可以對法律上的物品做這種事，我可以隨意對我的書、車子做任何事。你們在螢幕上所看到這些漂亮的黑猩猩，照片是寫出「詹姆士以及其他黑猩猩」的詹姆士．莫里森所拍下來的，他在書中講訴牠們之中的每單隻、幾乎每一隻，都是看著爸爸、媽媽在眼前死去的孤兒，牠們是法律上的物品！ 好幾個世紀以來一直有道法律高牆區隔開「法律上的物品」和「法律上的常人」，牆的一邊 －「法律上的物品」對法官來說就像空氣一樣，它們在法律裡不算數，它們不具有任何法律所賦予權利、沒有資格得到該權利 － 牠們是奴隸！牆的另一邊是「法律上的常人」，「法律上的常人」對法官來說是具體的、在法律裡是算數的；他們可能擁有多項權利、有取得無數權利的能力，而且他們是主子！此時此刻全部的非人類動物都是法律上的物品、所有人類都是「法人」； 不過成為常人而且是法人，從來不曾是、在今天也不是與法人有相同涵義的，人類不等同法人！高牆的一邊長達好幾個世紀以來有許多人類一向都是法律上的物品，奴隸是法律上的物品、女人、孩童有時候也是法律上的物品。確確實實長達過去好幾個世紀以來大量的民權抗爭已經在這道高牆上打穿了一個洞，而且開始把這些人送過高牆去，把他們變成了法人。 唉呀！不過那個洞已被關上了，牆的另一邊是法人，但是他們從來不是只侷限於人類，例如有許多法人甚至不是活著的東西。在美國我們都清楚公司是法人的事實；在獨立前的印度有個法庭認定一尊印度神像是法人、一間清真寺是法人，在 2000 年時印度最高法院裁定錫克教的聖典是法人；而就在最近的 2012 年紐西蘭原住民和君權政府之間的公約認可了一條河流是法人，它擁有著自己的河床。 我在 1980 年時拜讀過「彼得．辛格」的著作，當時我有著滿頭茂盛的棕髮，而深深被這本書感動，因為我成為律師就是為了來替弱勢者出聲、為無力辯護的人來辯護；而我從來不知道有多如牛毛的非人類動物是沒有聲音的、無力辯護的，於是我開始當護守動物權利的律師。到了 1985 年我意識到自己正嘗試在做某種根本不可能成功的事，理由就是我的所有客戶 －所有我正在捍衛其權利的動物都是法律上的物品、被當成空氣一般！這根本行不通的，因此我做出決定唯一的方法是牠們必須 － 至少有些動物 －也得一樣穿過我們在法律高牆上再度打開的孔洞，開始將合適的非人類動物送過這孔洞去到身為法人的另一邊去。 在那時候後有關實切動物的權力所知不多、談論也少，有關於讓非人類動物擁有法人身分或是法律上之權力的概念，因此我知道這條路很漫長。所以在 1985 年時我以為會花上三十年的時間，我們才會有辦法幾乎發起一樁策略性訴訟、長期抗爭，為了能夠在法律的高牆上打穿另一個洞，結果證明我太悲觀了 －這只花了 28 年。 為了要開始我們必須做的不只是寫寫法律評論文章、開課或出書而已，而且我們得接著開始認真專注於要如何提起爭訟的具體細節。 因此首要之事裡面有一件便是釐清事由 －法律上的訴訟事由，訴訟事由是律師在法官面前用來表達論點的方法。 結果有個非常值得玩味的案子，發生在約 250 年前的倫敦，被稱做「桑莫塞特與史都華爭訟」，藉此一位黑人奴隸利用了司法的體制從法律上的東西轉變成為法人！我對該案件深感興趣，我最終還為此寫了一整本書。 詹姆斯．桑默塞特在西非遭到綁架時年僅八歲，他熬過了「中央航線」，以及在維吉尼亞州被賣給一名蘇格蘭商人查爾斯．史都華。20 年後查爾斯帶著詹姆斯去到倫敦，到倫敦後詹姆斯便決定要脫逃。所以他所做的第一件事便是受洗，目的是為了得到一對教父、母；對一個十八世紀的奴隸來說他們知道教父的一個重責大任就是幫助你脫逃。 而在 1771 年的秋天，詹姆斯和查爾斯起了衝突，我們也不知道到底是發生了什麼事，不過後來詹姆斯消失不見了。盛怒的查爾斯隨後雇用了獵奴人查訪倫敦市，找出他、帶他回泊留在倫敦港的「安與瑪莉號」船上而非帶回給查爾斯；而且他被鏈鎖在甲板上，該船預定要航向牙買加，在那裡詹姆斯即將在奴隸市場被賣掉，他被註定了奴隸在牙買加會有的日子三到五年裡不停收割甘蔗。不錯，當下詹姆斯的教父、母迅速有所行動，找上了最權威的法官 －「曼斯菲爾德」大法官，其為「王座法庭」的首席法官。他們代表詹姆士要求他簽發人身保護令普通法傳票。 普通法是當未被法令或是憲法所納入英語系國家的法官可以制訂法條的法律；而人身保護令傳票叫做「大令狀」，旨在保護我們誰違反自身意願遭受拘禁的任何人。一旦人身保護令傳票被簽發，拘禁人受命帶來受拘禁者到庭上並且給出剝奪其身體自由在法律上的充分理由。 好了，曼斯菲爾德大法官必須即刻做出決定，因為詹姆士是「法律上的物品」他不合乎於人身保護令傳票的用途，除非他可以是個法人。所以曼斯菲爾德大法官決定 －他將會假定而不是裁定詹姆斯確實是個法人，他簽發了人身保護令傳票，詹姆士人就被該船船長帶來法庭上。 接下來六個月內有一連串的聽證會。1772 年 6 月 22 日曼斯菲爾德大法官直言奴隸制度是如此醜惡，他用了「醜惡」這個字眼，這下普通法不會再助長它的，他發出釋放詹姆士的命令。在那一刻詹姆斯經歷了法律上的轉形，走出法庭這個自由的男人看起來和走進法庭的奴隸完全相像，不過就法律層面而言他倆已經沒有任何相同之處了。 我所成立的 「非人類權利專案」所做的下一件事情是接著開始著眼於我們想放在法官面前的是什麼樣的價值觀和原則，哪些價值觀和原則對他們來說再自然不過？在法學院裡有上過？每天都會用到？他們打從心底相信？而我們選中「自由」和「平等」。 如今自由之權是那種因為你的外觀所被賦予的權利，而基本的自由權保護基本的利益。普通法至高的利益是自主和自決的權力。所以這兩種權利非常強大，在普通法國家要是你進了醫院而拒絕了保命的醫療救治，法官不會下令使其強加於你身上，因為他們會尊重你的自決和自主權。 平等權是那種因為你很某人在有關方面看起來很相像而你所被賦予的權利，這裡有一個關卡 － 相關方面；所以要是你是那樣，然後因為他們有權利、你和他們相像，你就被賦予了該權力。如今法院和立法機構不時劃分出界限，有些人被包含在內、有些人排除在外。但是在最低限度你一定要、你得要 －那條線對合法性的目標來說得要是合理的方式，「非人類權利專案」據理說明：畫出一條線 就為了宰制像你所看到在我背後螢幕上有自主和自決力的生物，那是違背了平等權。 然後我們找遍80個司法管轄區，花費了七年的時間，找出我們要提出第一個訴案的司法管轄地，我們選擇了紐約。然後我們選定了誰將會是原告 － 黑猩猩，不僅因為「珍．古德」當時是我們董事會的成員，更是因為珍和其他人已經扎實地研究黑猩猩幾十年了。我們已經知道黑猩猩具有驚人的認知能力、他們的身體構造也和人類相像，所以我們選擇了黑猩猩；之後我們開始到世界處探問，要找出黑猩猩認知研究的專家，我們在日本、瑞典、德國、蘇格蘭、英格蘭和美國找到這些人，這些人之中寫了 100 頁的書面證詞，裡面列出了40多種研究方法，其中他們錯綜複雜的認知力單獨也好、共同也罷，全都提升了自主和自決力。 舉例來說現在這些納進來的這些非人類動物是有意識的，而且他們也能意識到自己是有意識的；他們知道自己有心智、他們知道其他黑猩猩有心智；他們知道自己是個體、而且能夠過日子；他們知道自己昨天活著，而且明天還會活着；他們進行心靈的時光之旅，他們記得昨天發生過的事情、他們能夠預測明天。這是為什麼關住一隻黑猩猩，尤其是單獨一隻有多麼駭人；這是我們對罪大惡極的人犯所作之事，而我們對黑猩猩們做這檔事連想都沒有想過這點！ 牠們具有某種良知本能，牠們和人類進行經濟活動時，牠們會自動地做出對等的提案，儘管沒人要求牠們這麼做。牠們會算數的 － 牠們瞭解數字、他們能做一些簡單的數學運算；牠們可以進行或是避免語言的爭戰；他們投入於本意的以及指射性的溝通，在溝通中會留意牠們正在講話之對象的態度；他們有文化 －有實物的文化、社會的文化、還有象徵含意的文化。科學家在象牙海岸的塔伊國家森林發現正在用石頭敲開果殼異常堅硬之核果的黑猩猩，這花了很長的一段時間來學如何做到，他們挖掘了該地區而發現這個實物文化，這樣子做事的方法，這些石頭已經傳承下來至少 4,300 年，經歷了 225 代的黑猩猩。 所以我們需要找出我們的黑猩猩原告，首先我們在紐約找到兩隻，兩隻都會在我們第一次提交訴訟之前就死掉；後來我們找到了「湯米」，湯米是一隻黑猩猩，大家看牠就在我背後的螢幕上，湯米當初是一隻黑猩猩，我們在籠子裏找到了牠，我們在一個塞滿籠子的小房間裡發現他的，就在紐約中央曾經用來當拖車場的一間大型倉儲建物裡。我們還找到了「濟科」，他有一邊的耳朵聾掉了。濟科當時在麻省西部一排水泥鄰街店舖的後方；我們找到了「赫裘里斯」和「李奧」。他們是兩隻年輕的雄性黑猩猩，他們正在石溪大學接受生物醫學、解剖學的研究，我們發現了牠倆。 然後在 2013 年 12 月的最後一週，「非人類權利專案」在全紐約提交了三起訴訟，利用一樣曾經用在詹姆士．桑莫塞特案子的一般法人身保護令傳票，我們要求法官簽發普通法人身保護令傳票。我們想要救出這些黑猩猩，想讓牠們被送去「拯救黑猩猩」，那是一個在南佛羅里達州極棒的黑猩猩庇護地，包括了一個有著 12、3 個小島的人工湖，小島面積為二到三畝，每個小島上住著二十四隻的黑猩猩。這些黑猩猩將會過上黑猩猩的生活，與其他的黑猩猩在一個盡可能接近西非的環境， 至今所有的案件仍在審理中，我們尚未巧遇到我們的曼斯菲爾德大法官，我們應該會碰到的，這是一場長期戰略性的訴訟戰役，我們應該會碰上的啦。引用「溫斯頓．邱吉爾」的說法 ，我們看待自己訴案的方式 －它們並非是個結束，甚至不是結束的開端，不過它們也許是一個開端的結束。 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
