Talk	en	zh-tw
steve_keil_a_manifesto_for_play_for_bulgaria_and_beyond	"I'm here today to start a revolution. Now before you get up in arms, or you break into song, or you pick a favorite color, I want to define what I mean by revolution. By revolution, I mean a drastic and far-reaching change in the way we think and behave — the way we think and the way we behave. Now why, Steve, why do we need a revolution? We need a revolution because things aren't working; they're just not working. And that makes me really sad because I'm sick and tired of things not working. You know, I'm sick and tired of us not living up to our potential. I'm sick and tired of us being last. And we are last place in so many things — for example, social factors. We're last place in Europe in innovation. There we are right at the end, right at the bottom, last place as a culture that doesn't value innovation. We're last place in health care, and that's important for a sense of well-being. And there we are, not just last in the E.U., we're last in Europe, at the very bottom. And worst of all, it just came out three weeks ago, many of you have seen it, The Economist. We're the saddest place on Earth, relative to GDP per capita — the saddest place on Earth. That's social. Let's look at education. Where do we rank three weeks ago in another report by the OECD? Last in reading, math and science. Last. Business: The lowest perception in the E.U. that entrepreneurs provide benefits to society. Why as a result, what happens? The lowest percentage of entrepreneurs starting businesses. And this is despite the fact that everybody knows that small business is the engine of economies. We hire the most people; we create the most taxes. So if our engine's broken, guess what? Last in Europe GDP per capita. Last. So it's no surprise, guys, that 62 percent of Bulgarians are not optimistic about the future. We're unhappy, we have bad education, and we have the worst businesses. And these are facts, guys. This isn't story tale; it's not make-believe. It's not. It's not a conspiracy I have got against Bulgaria. These are facts. So I think it should be really, really clear that our system is broken. The way we think, the way we behave, our operating system of behaving is broken. We need a drastic change in the way we think and behave to transform Bulgaria for the better, for ourselves, for our friends, for our family and for our future. How did this happen? Let's be positive now. We're going to get positive. How did this happen? I think we're last because — and this is going to be drastic to some of you — because we are handicapping ourselves. We're holding ourselves back because we don't value play. I said ""play,"" all right. In case some of you forgot what play is, this is what play looks like. Babies play, kids play, adults play. We don't value play. In fact, we devalue play. And we devalue it in three areas. Let's go back to the same three areas. Social: 45 years of what? Of communism — of valuing the society and the state over the individual and squashing, inadvertently, creativity, individual self-expression and innovation. And instead, what do we value? Because it's shown the way we apply, generate and use knowledge is affected by our social and institutional context, which told us what in communism? To be serious. To be really, really serious. It did. (Applause) Be serious. I can't tell you how many times I've been scolded in the park for letting my kids play on the ground. Heaven forbid they play in the dirt, the kal, or even worse, lokvi, water — that will kill them. I have been told by babas and dyados that we shouldn't let our kids play so much because life is serious and we need to train them for the seriousness of life. We have a serious meme running through. It's a social gene running through us. It's a serious gene. It's 45 years of it that's created what I call the ""baba factor."" (Laughter) (Applause) And here's how it works. Step one: woman says, ""I want to have a baby. Iskam baby."" Step two: we get the baby. Woohoo! But then what happens in step three? I want to go back to work because I need to further my career or I just want to go have coffees. I'm going to give bebko to baba. But we need to remember that baba's been infected by the serious meme for 45 years. So what happens? She passes that virus on to baby, and it takes a really, really, really long time — as the redwood trees — for that serious meme to get out of our operating system. What happens then? It goes into education where we have an antiquated education system that has little changed for 100 years, that values rote learning, memorization and standardization, and devalues self-expression, self-exploration, questioning, creativity and play. It's a crap system. True story: I went looking for a school for my kid. We went to this prestigious little school and they say they're going to study math 10 times a week and science eight times a week and reading five times a day and all this stuff. And we said, ""Well what about play and recess?"" And they said, ""Ha. There won't be a single moment in the schedule."" (Laughter) And we said, ""He's five."" What a crime. What a crime. And it's a crime that our education system is so serious because education is serious that we're creating mindless, robotic workers to put bolts in pre-drilled holes. But I'm sorry, the problems of today are not the problems of the Industrial Revolution. We need adaptability, the ability to learn how to be creative and innovative. We don't need mechanized workers. But no, now our meme goes into work where we don't value play. We create robotic workers that we treat like assets, to lever and just throw away. What are qualities of a Bulgarian work? Autocratic — do what I say because I'm the chef. I'm the boss and I know better than you. Untrusting — you're obviously a criminal, so I'm going to install cameras. (Laughter) Controlling — you're obviously an idiot, so I'm going to make a zillion little processes for you to follow so you don't step out of the box. So they're restrictive — don't use your mobile phone, don't use your laptop, don't search the Internet, don't be on I.M. That's somehow unprofessional and bad. And at the end of the day, it's unfulfilling because you're controlled, you're restricted, you're not valued and you're not having any fun. In social, in education and in our business, don't value play. And that's why we're last, because we don't value play. And you can say, ""That's ridiculous, Steve. What a dumb idea. It can't be because of play. Just play, that's a stupid thing."" We have the serious meme in us. Well I'm going to say no. And I will prove it to you in the next part of the speech — that play is the catalyst, it is the revolution, that we can use to transform Bulgaria for the better. Play: our brains are hardwired for play. Evolution has selected, over millions and billions of years, for play in animals and in humans. And you know what? Evolution does a really, really good job of deselecting traits that aren't advantageous to us and selecting traits for competitive advantage. Nature isn't stupid, and it selected for play. Throughout the animal kingdom, for example: ants. Ants play. Maybe you didn't know that. But when they're playing, they're learning the social order and dynamics of things. Rats play, but what you might not have known is that rats that play more have bigger brains and they learn tasks better, skills. Kittens play. We all know kittens play. But what you may not know is that kittens deprived of play are unable to interact socially. They can still hunt, but they can't be social. Bears play. But what you may not know is that bears that play more survive longer. It's not the bears that learn how to fish better. It's the ones that play more. And a final really interesting study — it's been shown, a correlation between play and brain size. The more you play, the bigger the brains there are. Dolphins, pretty big brains, play a lot. But who do you think with the biggest brains are the biggest players? Yours truly: humans. Kids play, we play — of every nationality, of every race, of every color, of every religion. It's a universal thing — we play. And it's not just kids, it's adults too. Really cool term: neoteny — the retention of play and juvenile traits in adults. And who are the biggest neotenists? Humans. We play sports. We do it for fun, or as Olympians, or as professionals. We play musical instruments. We dance, we kiss, we sing, we just goof around. We're designed by nature to play from birth to old age. We're designed to do that continuously — to play and play a lot and not stop playing. It is a huge benefit. Just like there's benefits to animals, there's benefits to humans. For example, it's been shown to stimulate neural growth in the amygdala, in the area where it controls emotions. It's been shown to promote pre-frontal cortex development where a lot of cognition is happening. As a result, what happens? We develop more emotional maturity if we play more. We develop better decision-making ability if we play more. These guys are facts. It's not fiction, it's not story tales, it's not make-believe; it's cold, hard science. These are the benefits to play. It is a genetic birthright that we have, like walking or speaking or seeing. And if we handicap ourselves with play, we handicap ourselves as if we would with any other birthright that we have. We hold ourselves back. Little exercise just for a second: close your eyes and try to imagine a world without play. Imagine a world without theater, without the arts, without song, without dancing, without soccer, without football, without laughter. What does this world look like? It's pretty bleak. It's pretty glum. Now imagine your workplace. Is it fun? Is it playful? Or maybe the workplace of your friends — here we're forward thinking. Is it fun? Is it playful? Or is it crap? Is it autocratic, controlling, restrictive and untrusting and unfulfilling? We have this concept that the opposite of play is work. We even feel guilty if we're seen playing at work. ""Oh, my colleagues see me laughing. I must not have enough work,"" or, ""Oh, I've got to hide because my boss might see me. He's going to think I'm not working hard."" But I have news for you: our thinking is backwards. The opposite of play is not work. The opposite of play is depression. It's depression. In fact, play improves our work. Just like there's benefits for humans and animals, there's benefits for play at work. For example, it stimulates creativity. It increases our openness to change. It improves our ability to learn. It provides a sense of purpose and mastery — two key motivational things that increase productivity, through play. So before you start thinking of play as just not serious, play doesn't mean frivolous. You know, the professional athlete that loves skiing, he's serious about it, but he loves it. He's having fun, he's in the groove, he's in the flow. A doctor might be serious, but laughter's still a great medicine. Our thinking is backwards. We shouldn't be feeling guilty. We should be celebrating play. Quick example from the corporate world. FedEx, easy motto: people, service, profit. If you treat your people like people, if you treat them great, they're happier, they're fulfilled, they have a sense of mastery and purpose. What happens? They give better service — not worse, but better. And when customers call for service and they're dealing with happy people that can make decisions and are fulfilled, how do the customers feel? They feel great. And what do great customers do, great-feeling customers? They buy more of your service and they tell more of their friends, which leads to more profit. People, service, profit. Play increases productivity, not decreases. And you're going to say, ""Gee, that can work for FedEx out there in the United States, but it can't work in Bulgaria. No way. We're different."" It does work in Bulgaria, you guys. Two reasons. One, play is universal. There's nothing weird about Bulgarians that we can't play, besides the serious meme that we have to kick out. Two, I've tried it. I've tried at Sciant. When I got there, we had zero happy customers. Not one customer would refer us. I asked them all. We had marginal profit — I did. We had marginal profits, and we had unhappy stakeholders. Through some basic change, change like improving transparency, change like promoting self-direction and collaboration, encouraging collaboration, not autocracy, the things like having a results-focus. I don't care when you get in in the morning. I don't care when you leave. I care that your customer and your team is happy and you're organized with that. Why do I care if you get in at nine o'clock? Basically promoting fun. Through promoting fun and a great environment, we were able to transform Sciant and, in just three short years — sounds like a long time, but change is slow — every customer, from zero to every customer referring us, above average profits for the industry and happy stakeholders. And you can say, ""Well how do you know they're happy?"" Well we did win, every year that we entered, one of the rankings for best employer for small business. Independent analysis from anonymous employees on their surveys. It does, and it can, work in Bulgaria. There's nothing holding us back, except our own mentality about play. So some steps that we can take — to finish up — how to make this revolution through play. First of all, you have to believe me. If you don't believe me, well just go home and think about it some more or something. Second of all, if you don't have the feeling of play in you, you need to rediscover play. Whatever it was that as a kid you used to enjoy, that you enjoyed only six months ago, but now that you've got that promotion you can't enjoy, because you feel like you have to be serious, rediscover it. I don't care if it's mountain biking or reading a book or playing a game. Rediscover that because you're the leaders, the innovation leaders, the thought leaders. You're the ones that have to go back to the office or talk to your friends and ignite the fire of change in the play revolution. You guys have to, and if you're not feeling it, your colleagues, your employees, aren't going to feel it. You've got to go back and say, ""Hey, I'm going to trust you."" Weird concept: I hired you; I should trust you. I'm going to let you make decisions. I'm going to empower you, and I'm going to delegate to the lowest level, rather than the top. I'm going to encourage constructive criticism. I'm going to let you challenge authority. Because it's by challenging the way things are always done is that we are able to break out of the rut that we're in and create innovative solutions to problems of today. We're not always right as leaders. We're going to eradicate fear. Fear is the enemy of play. And we're going to do things like eliminate restrictions. You know what, let them use their mobile phone for personal calls — heaven forbid. Let them be on the Internet. Let them be on instant messengers. Let them take long lunches. Lunch is like the recess for work. It's when you go out in the world and you recharge your brain, you meet your friends, you have a beer, you have some food, you talk, you get some synergy of ideas that maybe you wouldn't have had before. Let them do it. Give them some freedom, and in general, let them play. Let them have fun at the workplace. We spend so much of our lives at the workplace, and it's supposed to be, what, a miserable grind, so that 20 years from now, we wake up and say, ""Is this it? Is that all there was?"" Unacceptable. Nepriemliv. (Laughter) So in summary, we need a drastic change in the way we think and behave, but we don't need a workers' revolution. We don't need a workers' revolution. What we need is a players' uprising. What we need is a players' uprising. What we need is a players' uprising. Seriously, we need to band together. Today is the start of the uprising. But what you need to do is fan the flames of the revolution. You need to go and share your ideas and your success stories of what worked about reinvigorating our lives, our schools, and our work with play; about how play promotes a sense of promise and self-fulfillment; of how play promotes innovation and productivity, and, ultimately, how play creates meaning. Because we can't do it alone. We have to do it together, and together, if we do this and share these ideas on play, we can transform Bulgaria for the better. Thank you. (Applause)"	我今天在這裡是為了開啟一場革命在你們拿起武器開始高歌或者挑選你最愛的顏色旗幟之前我想先定義我所謂的「革命」是什麼意思我所說的「革命」指的是一場激烈且影響長遠的改變針對於我們思考和行為模式的改變我們的思考和行為模式那麼，史帝夫，為什麼我們需要一場革命？我們需要這場革命因為既有的現狀不佳，真的行不通而這點讓我很感傷因為我已經受夠並厭倦了那些行不通的事物我已經受夠了我們不發揮潛力我受夠了我們吊車尾 而且我們在許多方面都是最後一名舉例來說，在社會層面上講創新，我們是歐洲最後一名我們就正好排在最後一個，墊底的那個而這項最後一名代表我們的文化不重視創新我們在醫療衛生方面是最後一名而這點對於幸福感影響很大而且我們不只是歐盟裡的最後一名我們在全歐洲更是敬陪末座還有，最糟的是也許你們很多人看過了 三個禮拜前的經濟學人指出我們是地球上最悲傷的地方以人均國內生產毛額來看我們是世界上最悲傷的地方以上都是社會層面 現在來看看教育方面我們三個禮拜前 在OECD（經合組織）所發佈的報告中，排名又是如何？在閱讀、數學和科學部分，都是最後一名商業方面我們是歐盟中對於「企業家對社會有益」這概念認同最低的所以結果是什麼？就是擁有最低比率的創業者即使每個人都知道小型企業才是驅動經濟的核心我們雇用最多的人工 我們交出最高的稅金所以當我們的經濟引擎故障時 猜猜會發生什麼事？我們就落到全歐人均國民生產毛額的最後一名吊車尾所以 62%的保加利亞人對未來不樂觀 一點也不奇怪我們不快樂 我們的教育不佳連我們的商業也是最糟糕的 各位啊 以上都是事實啊不是童話故事 不是幻想不是這也不是針對保加利亞的陰謀論 這些都是事實所以我認為很明顯的我們的整個系統故障了我們的思考方式，行為舉止我們的作業系統掛了我們需要針對我們思考和行為的模式做出重大改變讓保加利亞轉型 變得更好這也同時是為了我們自己、我們的朋友們為了我們的家人和我們的未來但到底為什麼會這樣？我們現在來用正面態度 我們要變得正向樂觀 但到底怎麼會這樣？我想我們是最後一名是因為對你們某些人來講 這個理由一定難以置信因為我們正在「殘害」自己我們侷限了自己因為我們不重視「玩樂」！沒錯，我說的就是「玩樂」 怕你們有人已經忘了玩樂是什麼樣 這就是玩樂嬰兒的玩樂 孩童的玩樂成年人的玩樂我們不重視玩樂事實上 我們藐視玩樂而且我們在三個方面貶低玩樂我們回到先前的那三個層面社會層面 45年的什麼？共產主義將社會與國家置於個人之上而且不經意地扼殺了創意、自我表達和創新相反地 我們重視什麼？已有研究指出我們應用、生產與使用知識的方式受到我們的社會及制度環境所影響而共產主義的社會制度告訴我們什麼？要嚴肅非常 非常嚴肅真的！(掌聲)要嚴肅我不知道自己在公園被痛罵了多少次只因為我讓孩子在地上玩耍更別提讓他們在泥土中玩耍了或更嚴重的 水裡啊 人們覺得那會害死小孩阿公阿嬤告誡我不應該讓小孩那麼常玩耍因為人生是很嚴肅的而我們必須訓練孩子為人生的嚴肅提前做準備 有一個嚴重的病毒正在我們之間散播著那是我們共有的社會基因一個「嚴肅」基因已經存在45年了那造就了我所謂的「阿嬤因子」(笑聲)(掌聲)而「阿嬤因子」是這樣運作的步驟一 女人說：「我想要寶寶，一個可愛的寶寶。」步驟二 我們生了寶寶 歐耶！但是在步驟三會發生什麼事？我想要回到工作崗位上因為我必須發展我的事業 或是就想去喝杯咖啡我要把嬰兒交給阿嬤但我們必須記得一件事阿嬤已經被那個嚴重病毒感染45年了那會怎樣？她會把病毒傳染給嬰兒而這需要真的、真的、真的很長一段時間 像紅衫木一樣才能將嚴重的病毒從我們的作業系統裡清除 然後怎樣？那病毒會進入教育系統 我們那過時的教育系統在過去100年中沒什麼改變的系統重視死背的系統重視強記和標準化並且貶抑自我表達、自我探索否定提問、創意以及玩樂這是一個爛透了的系統我來說一個真實故事：我幫我小孩物色學校來到一間頗富盛名的小學校他們說這裡的學生每週讀10次數學8次科學一天5次閱讀等等的然後我們問：「那麼玩耍和休息呢？」他們回答：「哈，課表裡完全沒有這些東西。」(笑聲)然後我們說：「他才五歲欸！」罪過 好個罪過而且同樣罪過的是我們的教育系統這麼嚴肅 因為教育是如此地嚴肅死板以致於我們正創造出不會思考的機器工人來將螺絲釘裝放到鑽好的洞裡但很抱歉 現今的問題不再是工業革命時代的問題了我們需要適應能力變得有創意又會創新的能力我們不需要機械化的工人然而不幸的 病毒也傳染到了職場 讓我們不重視玩樂我們創造了機器工人 把他們如資產般對待利用他們 再棄如敝屣 一份典型的保加利亞工作有什麼樣的特質？專制造我的話去做 因為我是領導我是老闆 所以我懂得比你多不信任：你很顯然是個罪犯 所以我要裝攝影機(笑聲)控制你很顯然是個白痴 所以我要設計好幾萬兆個細微的步驟讓你遵守 你才不會自做主張所以職場總是限制重重：不准用手機不准用筆電，不准上網不准用即時通那樣很不專業又惡劣而且工作一整天之後 你根本沒有任何成就感因為你被控制住了 限制了 你不被重視而且你得不到絲毫樂趣在社會、教育及商業層面上我們不重視玩樂那正是為什麼我們排名最後因為我們不重視玩樂 你可能會說：「一派胡言，史帝夫。好個蠢想法。怎麼可能是因為玩樂的關係！只不過是玩樂 那麼件蠢事。」我們身體內有著嚴重的病毒嗯 我要說「你錯了」而且我將會在演說的下一段向你證明這點證明玩樂是催化劑 它就是一場革命我們可以用來使保加利亞更好的革命玩樂我們的大腦是為了玩樂而連結在一起演化透過數百萬、數十億年的時間為動物及人類的玩樂性格挑選適者生存而且你知道嗎？演化機制非常擅於淘汰對我們無用的特質並保留具競爭優勢的特質大自然的挑選可不隨便 而它 為玩樂而篩選舉例而言 整個動物界裡螞蟻 螞蟻會玩樂也許你不曉得這點但當牠們玩樂時牠們也在學習社會規範和事物的動態老鼠會玩樂 但你可能不曉得的是較常玩樂的老鼠腦子也比較大而且牠們學起任務比較快學技能也快貓咪會玩樂 我們都知道但你可能不知道被禁止玩樂的貓咪是無法在社群中互動的牠們仍然可以獵食 但無法社交熊也玩耍但你可能不知道較常玩樂的熊 存活得久並非那些懂得獵魚的熊反而是那些較常玩樂的熊比較長命 而最後有一則有趣的研究發現玩樂和大腦容量之間存在某種關聯你玩樂越多 大腦容量就越大有著相當大的腦容量的海豚 經常在玩耍但你認為誰擁有最大的腦容量 還是最重要的人物？正是閣下 人類小孩玩耍 我們玩耍所有國籍、種族所有膚色、宗教信仰這是一個普世現象：我們玩樂不只小孩玩樂 大人也玩樂 這是一個非常酷的詞彙：幼態延續成年人保有少年時期的玩樂傾向而誰是最重要的「幼態延續者」？人類 我們玩體育競技我們為了趣味去做 或者像奧林匹亞選手們 為職業去做我們玩樂器我們跳舞 我們親吻 我們唱歌我們消磨時間我們都被大自然設計成自幼年至老年都會玩樂我們被設計去不停地玩耍 而且玩得很兇不停地玩樂好處多多就像對那些動物有益一樣這對人類也是有益的例如，研究指出玩樂能刺激杏仁核的神經生長也就是控制情緒的部位研究指出玩樂也會促進前額葉皮質的發展也就是處理許多認知的部位所以怎麼樣？如果我們多玩一點 我們就會發展出更高的情緒成熟度我們會發展出更佳的決策能力如果我們玩耍多一點 這些都是事實這不是虛構的 不是童話故事 不是幻想這些都是嚴謹的科學研究玩樂是有益處的那是存在我們基因裡的基本權利就像是走路、說話和視覺而假如我們限制自己的玩樂我們就是在自殘就像我們殘害自己的其他基本權利那樣我們侷限自己我們來做個小練習將你的眼睛閉起來然後試著想像一個沒有玩樂的世界想像一個沒有戲劇、藝術的世界沒有歌曲、沒有舞蹈沒有足球、沒有美式橄欖球沒有笑聲這樣的世界看起來是什麼樣子？相當荒涼相當陰鬱 現在 想想你的工作場所有趣嗎？好玩嗎？或是想像你朋友的工作場所 現在是自由想像時間有趣嗎？好玩嗎？還是說很糟糕？專制、滿佈控制？限制重重、不信任，又沒有成就感嗎？我們都抱持一個觀念認為玩樂的相反是工作我們甚至會因為在工作上玩樂而感到罪惡「啊 我的同事看到我在笑 我一定是工作量太少了」或是「啊 我要躲起來 因為老闆可能會看到我覺得我工作不夠認真。」但我有個新觀念給你們：我們的思維是倒退的 玩樂的相反不是工作玩樂的相反是陰鬱消沈事實上玩樂可以改善我們的工作正如同它對人類及動物有益玩樂對工作也是有益的舉例而言，它會激發創意它會增加我們對改變的接受程度它會強化我們的學習能力它會帶來一種朝目標邁進和掌握大局的感覺這兩項重要的激勵感受會透過玩樂來刺激生產力所以在你開始以為玩樂是「不認真」之前玩樂並非輕佻你也知道 那些喜歡滑雪的職業運動員他們對滑雪很認真 但也很熱愛樂在其中 逍遙自在 徹底融入醫生可能很嚴肅但笑聲仍然永遠是一帖良方我們的觀念是倒退的我們不應該為此感到愧疚我們應該要慶祝玩樂 一個商場上的簡單例子：聯邦快遞有句簡單的座右銘：人、服務、利潤如果你善待你的人 如果你對他們很好他們比較開心 他們得到成就感 他們有朝目標邁進和掌握情況的感覺所以呢？他們提供更佳的服務不是更糟 而是更佳而當顧客來電尋求服務時他們面對的是能做主張又有成就感的快樂員工顧客感受如何？棒透了而開心、愉悅的顧客又會做什麼？他們更愛你的服務 並且分享給他們更多的朋友這樣會帶來更高的收益人、服務、利潤玩樂增加生產力 而非降低 但你會說「嗯 那適用於美國的聯邦快遞但是不能用於保加利亞」「不可能 我們不一樣」各位 這的確可以適用於保加利亞 有兩個理由第一 玩樂是普世價值我們保加利亞人並沒有任何怪異之處使我們不能玩樂除了那個我們必須剔除的嚴重病毒之外第二 我已經在Sciant（一家保加利亞軟體研發公司）試過了當我初次到達那裡 我們沒有任何一位快樂的顧客沒有一位顧客會推薦我們我每個顧客都問了喔我們利潤微薄－我真的問了！我們只有微薄的利潤而我們的股東也不開心透過一些基本的改變改善透明度之類的推動自我領導之類的改變以及合作、鼓勵合作而非專制體系我還推動「結果導向」我不在乎你幾點上班 不在乎你幾點走我只要你的顧客和團隊是滿意的而且你辦事有條不紊我為什麼要在乎你九點才上班？基本上 就是在推廣「玩樂」文化透過建構一個好玩的絕佳環境我們才讓公司煥然一新的而且在短短三年內聽起來似乎很久 但改變總是緩慢的從一開始的零到每個客戶都在推薦我們超越產業平均的利潤以及快樂的股東們然後你會說：「你怎麼知道他們很開心？」在每一個我們參與的年度裡 我們都獲得小型企業最佳雇主的名次來自不計名員工的獨立分析調查顯示這的確是適用於保加利亞的沒有任何東西可以侷限我們除了我們自己對玩樂的態度 所以有一些我們可以採取的行動 準備結尾了我們要如何透過玩樂來達成這項革命？首先 你必須相信我假如你不相信我我們就只能回家 然後再思考看看再來 如果你心中沒有那種「玩樂感」你必須重新找回它不管是你在孩童時期享受的東西或你在六個月前都還覺得享受但升遷後卻無法再享受的東西因為你覺得你必須很嚴肅重新找回它吧我不管那是騎越野單車 讀一本書 或是玩個遊戲重新找回它因為你們是領導者創新的領導者 意見領袖你們要回到辦公室裡跟你們朋友聊聊然後重燃玩樂革命的那把改革之火你們必須這麼做 而假如你們不這樣想你們的同事、員工也都不會這樣想你們回去後應該說：「嗨 我要相信你」這真是奇怪的想法 我雇用了你 我就該信任你我要讓你做決策 我要賦予你權力而且我要把權力下放到最底層 而非在最上層我要鼓勵具建設性的批評我要讓你挑戰權威因為唯有透過挑戰現有的做事方式我們才能夠脫離窠臼來為今日的問題提出創新的解決方案 我們身為領導者也不一定總是對的我們要除去恐懼恐懼是玩樂的敵人而且我們要採取類似剔除限制的行動我告訴你 讓員工使用手機打私人電話 — 希望這不會發生讓他們上網讓他們用即時通訊軟體讓他們加長午休時間午餐就像是工作時的休息那是你們走出外界為大腦充電的時間 你和朋友相遇你喝啤酒 吃點東西 聊聊天你的思想得以受到刺激產生一些以前不可能出現的想法讓他們去做吧 給他們一些自由空間總之 讓他們玩樂 讓他們在工作場所獲得樂趣我們花這麼大一部分的生命在工作場所難道就該是一場痛苦的煎熬嗎？然後在二十年後 你驚醒 說：「就這樣而已嗎？全部就這樣而已嗎？」完全無法接受 無法(笑聲) 所以 總結以上我們需要對我們思考和行動的方式做出巨大改變但我們不需要一場工人革命我們不需要一場工人革命我們需要的是一場「玩家」的起義我們需要的是一場「玩家」的起義我們需要的是一場「玩家」的起義說真的 我們要團結在一起今天就是起義的開始你們該做的是鼓動革命之火你們要去分享你們的想法和成功故事關於玩樂如何成功為我們的生活和學校以及工作注入活水關於玩樂如何帶來踏實感和自我實現關於玩樂如何促進創新和提高生產力而且最重要的是 玩樂如何創造意義因為我們不能單打獨鬥 我們必須團結合作如果我們能團結一致 散播這些關於玩樂的觀念我們就可以讓保加利亞變得更好 謝謝！ (掌聲)
