Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_pinker_chalks_it_up_to_the_blank_slate	"A year ago, I spoke to you about a book that I was just in the process of completing, that has come out in the interim, and I would like to talk to you today about some of the controversies that that book inspired. The book is called ""The Blank Slate,"" based on the popular idea that the human mind is a blank slate, and that all of its structure comes from socialization, culture, parenting, experience. The ""blank slate"" was an influential idea in the 20th century. Here are a few quotes indicating that: ""Man has no nature,"" from the historian Jose Ortega y Gasset; ""Man has no instincts,"" from the anthropologist Ashley Montagu; ""The human brain is capable of a full range of behaviors and predisposed to none,"" from the late scientist Stephen Jay Gould. There are a number of reasons to doubt that the human mind is a blank slate, and some of them just come from common sense. As many people have told me over the years, anyone who's had more than one child knows that kids come into the world with certain temperaments and talents; it doesn't all come from the outside. Oh, and anyone who has both a child and a house pet has surely noticed that the child, exposed to speech, will acquire a human language, whereas the house pet won't, presumably because of some innate different between them. And anyone who's ever been in a heterosexual relationship knows that the minds of men and the minds of women are not indistinguishable. There are also, I think, increasing results from the scientific study of humans that, indeed, we're not born blank slates. One of them, from anthropology, is the study of human universals. If you've ever taken anthropology, you know that it's a — kind of an occupational pleasure of anthropologists to show how exotic other cultures can be, and that there are places out there where, supposedly, everything is the opposite to the way it is here. But if you instead look at what is common to the world's cultures, you find that there is an enormously rich set of behaviors and emotions and ways of construing the world that can be found in all of the world's 6,000-odd cultures. The anthropologist Donald Brown has tried to list them all, and they range from aesthetics, affection and age statuses all the way down to weaning, weapons, weather, attempts to control, the color white and a worldview. Also, genetics and neuroscience are increasingly showing that the brain is intricately structured. This is a recent study by the neurobiologist Paul Thompson and his colleagues in which they — using MRI — measured the distribution of gray matter — that is, the outer layer of the cortex — in a large sample of pairs of people. They coded correlations in the thickness of gray matter in different parts of the brain using a false color scheme, in which no difference is coded as purple, and any color other than purple indicates a statistically significant correlation. Well, this is what happens when you pair people up at random. By definition, two people picked at random can't have correlations in the distribution of gray matter in the cortex. This is what happens in people who share half of their DNA — fraternal twins. And as you can see, large amounts of the brain are not purple, showing that if one person has a thicker bit of cortex in that region, so does his fraternal twin. And here's what happens if you get a pair of people who share all their DNA — namely, clones or identical twins. And you can see huge areas of cortex where there are massive correlations in the distribution of gray matter. Now, these aren't just differences in anatomy, like the shape of your ear lobes, but they have consequences in thought and behavior that are well illustrated in this famous cartoon by Charles Addams: ""Separated at birth, the Mallifert twins meet accidentally."" As you can see, there are two inventors with identical contraptions in their lap, meeting in the waiting room of a patent attorney. Now, the cartoon is not such an exaggeration, because studies of identical twins who were separated at birth and then tested in adulthood show that they have astonishing similarities. And this happens in every pair of identical twins separated at birth ever studied — but much less so with fraternal twins separated at birth. My favorite example is a pair of twins, one of whom was brought up as a Catholic in a Nazi family in Germany, the other brought up in a Jewish family in Trinidad. When they walked into the lab in Minnesota, they were wearing identical navy blue shirts with epaulettes; both of them liked to dip buttered toast in coffee, both of them kept rubber bands around their wrists, both of them flushed the toilet before using it as well as after, and both of them liked to surprise people by sneezing in crowded elevators to watch them jump. Now — the story might seem to good to be true, but when you administer batteries of psychological tests, you get the same results — namely, identical twins separated at birth show quite astonishing similarities. Now, given both the common sense and scientific data calling the doctrine of the blank slate into question, why should it have been such an appealing notion? Well, there are a number of political reasons why people have found it congenial. The foremost is that if we're blank slates, then, by definition, we are equal, because zero equals zero equals zero. But if something is written on the slate, then some people could have more of it than others, and according to this line of thinking, that would justify discrimination and inequality. Another political fear of human nature is that if we are blank slates, we can perfect mankind — the age-old dream of the perfectibility of our species through social engineering. Whereas, if we're born with certain instincts, then perhaps some of them might condemn us to selfishness, prejudice and violence. Well, in the book, I argue that these are, in fact, non sequiturs. And just to make a long story short: first of all, the concept of fairness is not the same as the concept of sameness. And so when Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence, ""We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,"" he did not mean ""We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are clones."" Rather, that all men are equal in terms of their rights, and that every person ought to be treated as an individual, and not prejudged by the statistics of particular groups that they may belong to. Also, even if we were born with certain ignoble motives, they don't automatically lead to ignoble behavior. That is because the human mind is a complex system with many parts, and some of them can inhibit others. For example, there's excellent reason to believe that virtually all humans are born with a moral sense, and that we have cognitive abilities that allow us to profit from the lessons of history. So even if people did have impulses towards selfishness or greed, that's not the only thing in the skull, and there are other parts of the mind that can counteract them. In the book, I go over controversies such as this one, and a number of other hot buttons, hot zones, Chernobyls, third rails, and so on — including the arts, cloning, crime, free will, education, evolution, gender differences, God, homosexuality, infanticide, inequality, Marxism, morality, Nazism, parenting, politics, race, rape, religion, resource depletion, social engineering, technological risk and war. And needless to say, there were certain risks in taking on these subjects. When I wrote a first draft of the book, I circulated it to a number of colleagues for comments, and here are some of the reactions that I got: ""Better get a security camera for your house."" ""Don't expect to get any more awards, job offers or positions in scholarly societies."" ""Tell your publisher not to list your hometown in your author bio."" ""Do you have tenure?"" (Laughter) Well, the book came out in October, and nothing terrible has happened. I — I like — There was indeed reason to be nervous, and there were moments in which I did feel nervous, knowing the history of what has happened to people who've taken controversial stands or discovered disquieting findings in the behavioral sciences. There are many cases, some of which I talk about in the book, of people who have been slandered, called Nazis, physically assaulted, threatened with criminal prosecution for stumbling across or arguing about controversial findings. And you never know when you're going to come across one of these booby traps. My favorite example is a pair of psychologists who did research on left-handers, and published some data showing that left-handers are, on average, more susceptible to disease, more prone to accidents and have a shorter lifespan. It's not clear, by the way, since then, whether that is an accurate generalization, but the data at the time seemed to support that. Well, pretty soon they were barraged with enraged letters, death threats, ban on the topic in a number of scientific journals, coming from irate left-handers and their advocates, and they were literally afraid to open their mail because of the venom and vituperation that they had inadvertently inspired. Well, the night is young, but the book has been out for half a year, and nothing terrible has happened. None of the dire professional consequences has taken place — I haven't been exiled from the city of Cambridge. But what I wanted to talk about are two of these hot buttons that have aroused the strongest response in the 80-odd reviews that The Blank Slate has received. I'll just put that list up for a few seconds, and see if you can guess which two — I would estimate that probably two of these topics inspired probably 90 percent of the reaction in the various reviews and radio interviews. It's not violence and war, it's not race, it's not gender, it's not Marxism, it's not Nazism. They are: the arts and parenting. (Laughter) So let me tell you what aroused such irate responses, and I'll let you decide if whether they — the claims are really that outrageous. Let me start with the arts. I note that among the long list of human universals that I presented a few slides ago are art. There is no society ever discovered in the remotest corner of the world that has not had something that we would consider the arts. Visual arts — decoration of surfaces and bodies — appears to be a human universal. The telling of stories, music, dance, poetry — found in all cultures, and many of the motifs and themes that give us pleasure in the arts can be found in all human societies: a preference for symmetrical forms, the use of repetition and variation, even things as specific as the fact that in poetry all over the world, you have lines that are very close to three seconds long, separated by pauses. Now, on the other hand, in the second half of the 20th century, the arts are frequently said to be in decline. And I have a collection, probably 10 or 15 headlines, from highbrow magazines deploring the fact that the arts are in decline in our time. I'll give you a couple of representative quotes: ""We can assert with some confidence that our own period is one of decline, that the standards of culture are lower than they were 50 years ago, and that the evidences of this decline are visible in every department of human activity."" That's a quote from T. S. Eliot, a little more than 50 years ago. And a more recent one: ""The possibility of sustaining high culture in our time is becoming increasing problematical. Serious book stores are losing their franchise, nonprofit theaters are surviving primarily by commercializing their repertory, symphony orchestras are diluting their programs, public television is increasing its dependence on reruns of British sitcoms, classical radio stations are dwindling, museums are resorting to blockbuster shows, dance is dying."" That's from Robert Brustein, the famous drama critic and director, in The New Republic about five years ago. Well, in fact, the arts are not in decline. I don't think this will as a surprise to anyone in this room, but by any standard they have never been flourishing to a greater extent. There are, of course, entirely new art forms and new media, many of which you've heard over these few days. By any economic standard, the demand for art of all forms is skyrocketing, as you can tell from the price of opera tickets, by the number of books sold, by the number of books published, the number of musical titles released, the number of new albums and so on. The only grain of truth to this complaint that the arts are in decline come from three spheres. One of them is in elite art since the 1930s — say, the kinds of works performed by major symphony orchestras, where most of the repertory is before 1930, or the works shown in major galleries and prestigious museums. In literary criticism and analysis, probably 40 or 50 years ago, literary critics were a kind of cultural hero; now they're kind of a national joke. And the humanities and arts programs in the universities, which by many measures, indeed are in decline. Students are staying away in droves, universities are disinvesting in the arts and humanities. Well, here's a diagnosis. They didn't ask me, but by their own admission, they need all the help that they can get. And I would like to suggest that it's not a coincidence that this supposed decline in the elite arts and criticism occurred in the same point in history in which there was a widespread denial of human nature. A famous quotation can be found — if you look on the web, you can find it in literally scores of English core syllabuses — ""In or about December 1910, human nature changed."" A paraphrase of a quote by Virginia Woolf, and there's some debate as to what she actually meant by that. But it's very clear, looking at these syllabuses, that — it's used now as a way of saying that all forms of appreciation of art that were in place for centuries, or millennia, in the 20th century were discarded. The beauty and pleasure in art — probably a human universal — were — began to be considered saccharine, or kitsch, or commercial. Barnett Newman had a famous quote that ""the impulse of modern art is the desire to destroy beauty"" — which was considered bourgeois or tacky. And here's just one example. I mean, this is perhaps a representative example of the visual depiction of the female form in the 15th century; here is a representative example of the depiction of the female form in the 20th century. And, as you can see, there — something has changed in the way the elite arts appeal to the senses. Indeed, in movements of modernism and post-modernism, there was visual art without beauty, literature without narrative and plot, poetry without meter and rhyme, architecture and planning without ornament, human scale, green space and natural light, music without melody and rhythm, and criticism without clarity, attention to aesthetics and insight into the human condition. (Laughter) Let me give just you an example to back up that last statement. But here, there — one of the most famous literary English scholars of our time is the Berkeley professor, Judith Butler. And here is an example of one of her analyses: ""The move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure, and marked a shift from the form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects ..."" Well, you get the idea. By the way, this is one sentence — you can actually parse it. Well, the argument in ""The Blank Slate"" was that elite art and criticism in the 20th century, although not the arts in general, have disdained beauty, pleasure, clarity, insight and style. People are staying away from elite art and criticism. What a puzzle — I wonder why. Well, this turned out to be probably the most controversial claim in the book. Someone asked me whether I stuck it in in order to deflect ire from discussions of gender and Nazism and race and so on. I won't comment on that. But it certainly inspired an energetic reaction from many university professors. Well, the other hot button is parenting. And the starting point is the — for that discussion was the fact that we have all been subject to the advice of the parenting industrial complex. Now, here is — here is a representative quote from a besieged mother: ""I'm overwhelmed with parenting advice. I'm supposed to do lots of physical activity with my kids so I can instill in them a physical fitness habit so they'll grow up to be healthy adults. And I'm supposed to do all kinds of intellectual play so they'll grow up smart. And there are all kinds of play — clay for finger dexterity, word games for reading success, large motor play, small motor play. I feel like I could devote my life to figuring out what to play with my kids."" I think anyone who's recently been a parent can sympathize with this mother. Well, here's some sobering facts about parenting. Most studies of parenting on which this advice is based are useless. They're useless because they don't control for heritability. They measure some correlation between what the parents do, how the children turn out and assume a causal relation: that the parenting shaped the child. Parents who talk a lot to their kids have kids who grow up to be articulate, parents who spank their kids have kids who grow up to be violent and so on. And very few of them control for the possibility that parents pass on genes for — that increase the chances a child will be articulate or violent and so on. Until the studies are redone with adoptive children, who provide an environment but not genes to their kids, we have no way of knowing whether these conclusions are valid. The genetically controlled studies have some sobering results. Remember the Mallifert twins: separated at birth, then they meet in the patent office — remarkably similar. Well, what would have happened if the Mallifert twins had grown up together? You might think, well, then they'd be even more similar, because not only would they share their genes, but they would also share their environment. That would make them super-similar, right? Wrong. Identical twins, or any siblings, who are separated at birth are no less similar than if they had grown up together. Everything that happens to you in a given home over all of those years appears to leave no permanent stamp on your personality or intellect. A complementary finding, from a completely different methodology, is that adopted siblings reared together — the mirror image of identical twins reared apart, they share their parents, their home, their neighborhood, don't share their genes — end up not similar at all. OK — two different bodies of research with a similar finding. What it suggests is that children are shaped not by their parents over the long run, but in part — only in part — by their genes, in part by their culture — the culture of the country at large and the children's own culture, namely their peer group — as we heard from Jill Sobule earlier today, that's what kids care about — and, to a very large extent, larger than most people are prepared to acknowledge, by chance: chance events in the wiring of the brain in utero; chance events as you live your life. So let me conclude with just a remark to bring it back to the theme of choices. I think that the sciences of human nature — behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology, neuroscience, cognitive science — are going to, increasingly in the years to come, upset various dogmas, careers and deeply-held political belief systems. And that presents us with a choice. The choice is whether certain facts about humans, or topics, are to be considered taboos, forbidden knowledge, where we shouldn't go there because no good can come from it, or whether we should explore them honestly. I have my own answer to that question, which comes from a great artist of the 19th century, Anton Chekhov, who said, ""Man will become better when you show him what he is like."" And I think that the argument can't be put any more eloquently than that. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"一年前（意指2002），我跟你們提過一本書一本我即將完成的書該書在這期間已經出版，而我今天想向你們談談這本書所引發的一些議題。這本書叫做《心靈白板論》（The Blank Slate）心靈白板論奠基在常識的觀點上認為人類的心靈就像一塊白板而心靈的所有結構都來自社會化、文化、父母的教育、經驗。在二十世紀裡，""心靈白板論""是具影響力的觀點。以下有些引言表示了那樣的觀點：歷史學家Jose Ortega y Gasset說""人無天性""人類學家Ashley Montagu說""人無本能""前陣子才過世的科學家Stephen Jay Gould說""人腦雖然能夠實踐各種行為，但卻沒有任何先天傾向"" 存在著一些理由懷疑心靈白板論亦即懷疑人類心靈是否像一塊白板而其中有些理由正是來自常識。如同許多人在這幾年裡告訴我的一樣，任何擁有一個小孩以上的人都知道來到這個世界的小孩天生具有某些性格與天賦；這些性格或天賦不是來自外在。喔，任何擁有一個小孩與一隻寵物的人一定已經注意到，受到語言刺激的小孩將會習得人類的語言，但是寵物卻不能，也許這是因為小孩與寵物之間某個先天的差異。任何曾跟異性談過戀愛的人都知道男人與女人的心理是有差別的。我認為，從對人類的科學研究裡也有越來越多的研究成果這些成果顯示我們的心靈並不是先天就像一塊白板。其中一個來自人類學的成果是在研究人類共有的性質。如果你曾上過人類學的課，你會知道顯現其他文化可能多麼獨特是人類學家特有的樂趣。譬如說，去指出可能有一個地方，那裡的每件事情都跟這裡的相反。但是，換個角度看如果你去檢視世界各地文化的共通性，從全世界超過六千多種的文化中你會發現許多共通的行為與情緒，以及各種分析世界的方式。人類學家Donald Brown曾試圖將它們全部列出來，範圍從美學、屬性、年齡層一直列到斷奶、武器、氣候嘗試控制、白色以及世界觀。 另外，遺傳學與神經科學越來越多證據顯示大腦有相當複雜的結構。以下是神經生物學家Paul Thompson與他的同事最近的研究他們使用MRI（核磁共振顯影器）測量以兩人為一組的許多人測量這些人的大腦灰質－亦即腦皮層的外層－的分布。他們採取一種人為的色彩編碼方式來對位在大腦不同位置的灰質對這些灰質彼此之間的關連做編碼沒有任何差異的被編碼為紫色，除了紫色之外的顏色顯示有統計上顯著的關連。嗯，這是當我們隨機配對任何兩個人的結果。根據定義，被隨機挑出的兩個人不可能在腦皮層的灰質分布上有任何關聯。以下是具有一半相同基因（DNA）的兩個人－異卵雙胞胎－的實驗結果。如同你可以看到的，大腦的絕大部分都不是紫色的，這顯示如果其中一個人在那個區塊的腦皮層比較厚則他的異卵雙胞胎也會是這樣。如果你有一組人是具有相同基因的－亦即複製人或同卵雙胞胎－這裡是他們的結果。而且你可以看到腦皮質的絕大部分在灰質的分布上有顯著的關連性。 現在，這不只是在解剖上的差異，像是你耳垂的形狀，它們會在思想與行為上有重要的影響這可以用Charles Addams著名的漫畫來說明：""出生時分離，Mallifert雙胞胎意外相遇。""如同你可以看到的，有兩個發明家在專利律師事務所的等候室裡相遇，膝上的盤子裡有著一模一樣的東西。現在，這幅漫畫並沒有很誇張，因為對出生就分離的雙胞胎的研究顯示當他們在成年時受測試他們彼此間會有驚人的相似性。而且對每一組從出生就分離的同卵雙胞胎來說這就是研究的結果但是對出生就分離的異卵雙胞胎來說，結果沒那麼驚人。我偏好的例子是一對雙胞胎其中一個在德國被納粹家庭收養養育成一名天主教徒的，另一個則是在特立尼達島被猶太家庭收養。當他們走進在明尼蘇達的實驗室時，他們穿著都有肩章且一模一樣的藍色海軍襯衫，他們都喜歡把奶油麵包浸到咖啡裡，他們的手腕上都帶著橡皮筋，他們在上廁所的前後都會各沖一次水，而且他們都喜歡在擁擠的電梯裡，透過打噴嚏來嚇人一跳。現在－這個故事可能看起來不像是真的，但是當你進行一系列的心理學實驗你會得到一樣的結果－亦即出生就分離的同卵雙胞胎顯現相當驚人的相似性。 現在，就常識與科學證據兩者都質疑了心靈白板論，為什麼心靈白板論會有這樣的吸引力呢？嗯，有一些政治的理由來解釋為什麼人們會喜歡心靈白板論。第一個理由是：如果我們的心靈像一塊白板，根據定義，我們就是平等的，因為０等於０等於０等於０。但是，如果白板上已經有寫上東西了，有些人會比其他人還擁有更多東西，而且根據這樣的思路，這將為歧視與不平等提供理據。 另一個政治理由是害怕人性如果我們的心靈像一塊白板，我們可以透過社會化的過程讓人類變得完美－這是人類完善性的古老夢想。如果我們天生就有某些天賦，或許其中有些人會宣告我們有罪說我們是自私的、偏見的與暴力的。嗯，在書裡，我論證這些說法事實上都是不牢靠的。讓我長話短說：首先，公平的概念不同於等同的概念。所以當Thomas Jafferson在《獨立宣言》裡寫道：""我們認為這些真理是不證自明的，所有的人生而平等""他並不是意指，“所有的人都是相同的”這些真理是不證自明的。而是說，所有的人是在權利上平等，而且每個人應該被當作是一個個體，而且不會受到他們所屬的特定團體的統計資料而有所偏私。另外，就算我們天生具有某些不好的性格，這些性格不會自動地導致不好的行為。那是因為人類的心靈是一個具有許多部分的複雜系統，而且其中的一些可以限制其他的部份。舉例來說，我們有很好的理由去相信事實上所有的人天生就有道德感而且我們具有從歷史中學到教訓的認知能力。所以，就算人們確實有自私或貪婪的傾向，那不會是在頭顱裡唯一的東西，而且心靈的其他部份可以反制那些不好的部份。 在書裡，我檢視了像這樣的一個爭議，以及一堆其他的敏感議題，像是車諾比事件、政治家不敢討論的議題等等，包含藝術、複製人、犯罪、自由意志、教育、演化、性別差異、上帝、同性戀、殺嬰罪、不平等、馬克思主義、道德、納粹主義、養育子女、政治、種族、宗教、資源枯竭、社會工程、科技風險與戰爭。不用說，在討論這些議題時，有某些風險存在。當我寫出那本書的初稿時，我把初稿拿給我的一些同事看，希望他們提供建議，以下是一些我在當時得到的回應：""最好在你家裝設安全監控設置""""不要期望會得到任何獎項、工作機會或是學術社群中的重要位置。""""告訴你的出版社，不要在作者簡介裡提供你的住址。""""你拿到終身職了嗎？""（笑聲） 那本書在十月時出版，而且沒有發生任何可怕的事。我－我喜歡－確實有需要顧慮的理由，而且有些時候我確實感到緊張，因為我知道歷史上那些在行為科學中採取有爭議的立場或是有著讓人顧慮的發現的人會有什麼下場。有許多人的例子，我在書裡討論了其中的一些例子這些人被毀謗，被稱為納粹黨，他們被攻擊、被威脅要提起訴訟只是因為他們越界或是討論了那些有爭議的發現。你絕不會知道你何時會踏入那些邪惡陷阱中的一個。我偏好的一個例子是兩個心理學家對左撇子的研究，他們發表了一些證據顯示左撇子平均來說，比較容易患病、容易遭逢意外，以及壽命比較短。順道一提，從那之後，我們不清楚那是否是一個正確的普遍宣稱，不過在當時，那些資料似乎支持他們的說法。嗯，很快的，他們受到猛烈的批評接到表達憤怒的信件、死亡的威脅、許多科學期刊都禁止該議題的討論、這些都來自被激怒的左撇子以及他們的支持者，因為這些他們不慎引起的怨恨與責罵他們真的害怕拆開他們的郵件。 嗯，現在可能還有點言之過早，但是我的書已經出版半年，沒有任何可怕的事發生。沒有可怕的工作危機發生－我還沒被逐出劍橋市。但是我想在此談論的是在《心靈白板論》收到的八十幾份評論中引起最激烈反應的兩個敏感議題。我將停留幾秒在這頁列出所有議題的畫面看看你們是否可以猜到是哪兩個－我估計那兩個議題可能在各種評論中與電台訪問中引發百分之九十的反動。並不是暴力與戰爭，也不是種族、也不是性別、不是馬克思主義、不是納粹主義。它們是：藝術與養育子女。（笑聲）所以，讓我告訴你引起這樣憤怒回應的東西是什麼而且我將讓你決定這些言論是否真的那麼讓人憤怒。 讓我先從藝術開始。我注意到，在一長串人類共通點的列表裡我投影片的前幾張其中一項是藝術。就算是在世界上最偏遠的角落在那裡發現到的社會裡，都有藝術的存在。視覺藝術－外表與物體上的裝飾－看起來像是人類共通的地方。講故事、音樂、舞蹈、詩歌－在所有的文化中被發現，而且藝術中提供我們許多娛樂的中心思想與主題可以在所有人類社會中被發現：偏好對稱的形式、旋律上重複與變奏的使用、甚至是像這樣的具體事實在世界各地的詩歌裡，都有非常接近三秒鐘長的詩句用停頓號來分隔。現在，另一方面，在二十世紀的下半葉，藝術通常被說是在衰退中。從品質比較高的雜誌裡，我收集了大約十或十五個標題都在哀嘆著藝術在我們的時代中衰退。我將提供你們幾個具代表性的引文：""我們可以自信的斷言，我們的時代是衰退的時代，當前文化的標準比五十年前還低落，而且這個衰退的證據在每個人類活動的層面都看得到。""這個引文是引自五十年前T.S. Eliot的一段話。比較近代的一個引文是：""在我們的時代裡，維持高度文化的可能性已經越來越成問題。重要的書店漸漸喪失經營權，非營利的劇院要透過商業化他們的表演節目來繼續生存，交響樂團削減他們的節目，公共電視台逐漸地依賴英國喜劇的重播，古典樂台漸漸減少了，博物館訴諸聳動的展覽，舞蹈正在死去。""這是引自著名的戲劇評論家與導演Robert Brustein在大約五年前寫在《新理想國》的一段話。 但是，事實上，藝術並沒有在衰退。我不認為這個房間裡有任何人會感到驚訝，但是無論用什麼標準來評斷，藝術也從未大規模的興盛。當然，有完全新穎的藝術形式以及新的媒體，其中有許多是在這短短幾天裡你已經聽到的。根據任何經濟學的標準來看，對各式各樣藝術形式的要求不斷上漲，如同你可以從歌劇的票價上看到的，從書籍的銷售量，從已出版的書籍量，已發行的音樂專輯數量，新專輯的發行數量等等。針對""藝術正在衰退中""的抱怨唯一一點的真理來自三個範圍。其中一個是自1930年代的精緻藝術例如，一流交響樂團演奏的那種作品，他們大部分的曲目都是來自1930年之前，或是一流畫廊與博物館中展示的作品。在文學批評與分析裡，大約在40或50年前，文學評論家有點像是文化英雄；現在他們比較像一個全國的笑柄。還有在大學裡的人文與藝術課程用許多的標準來看確實是在衰退。在藝術與人文學的領域裡，流失了大批的學生大學也不願意贊助資金。 然而，對上述情況，這裡有一個診斷。儘管他們沒問我，但是他們承認他們需要所有能獲得的幫助。我想要提醒大家的是在精緻藝術與文學批評裡發生的衰退與歷史上出現對人性的全盤否定發生在同樣的時間點上而這不會是個巧合。如果你上網搜尋，你可以在許多英語核心課程的授課大綱裡找到一段著名的引文""大約在1910年十二月左右，人性改變了。""這段話是引自Virginia Wolff，儘管有爭議在討論她究竟在那段話裡表達了什麼。不過，意思表達的很清楚，看看這些授課大綱，現在它被用來做為藝術賞析的所有形式的談論方式這些藝術已經存在幾個世紀，或是幾千年但卻在二十世紀裡被拋棄。藝術裡的美與樂－或許這是人類的通性－開始被認為是包裹著糖衣、或是庸俗的、或是商業化的。Barnett Newman有一段著名的引文：當代藝術的動力是去摧毀美的欲望，美被視為庸俗或俗不可耐。這只是一個例子。我是說，這或許是一個具代表性的例子代表十五世紀對女性的想像描繪；這裡有一個二十世紀對女性描繪的代表性例子。如同你可以看到的－在精緻藝術中，訴諸感官的方式上已經有了顯著的改變。 確實，在現代主義與後現代主義的運動中，有著無美感的視覺藝術、有著不含敘述與情節的文學作品、有著沒有節拍與押韻的詩歌、不具裝飾、人類觀點、綠色空間、自然光的建築與城市規畫、沒有旋律與押韻的音樂、以及不具清晰性、不注意美學對人類處境毫無洞見的文學批評。（笑聲）讓我提供你們一個例子來支持最後一段話。這裡－當代著名學者之一英文文學學者Berkeley大學教授Judith Butler這裡是一個她對文學分析的例子：""從結構主義者將資本理解為以相對一致的方式建構社會關係過渡到一種霸權觀點該觀點認為權力關係會受限於重複、收斂與再表述這樣的過渡將暫時性的問題帶進結構的思索中並且標記著一個轉變，從Althusserian理論該理論認為結構整體性是理論上的事物...""嗯，你知道這有多晦澀了。順道一提，這是一句話而已－你可以實際上去分析這句話。嗯，在《心靈白板論》裡的論證認為二十世紀的精緻藝術與文學批評鄙視美、樂、清晰、洞見與風格，但是一般而言藝術不鄙視那些特徵。人們遠離精緻藝術與文學批評。多麼奇怪啊－我想知道為什麼？嗯，這被證明是本書中可能最具爭議的言論。有人問我，是不是為了轉移討論性別與納粹主義、種族等等議題可能引起的怒火而把藝術的議題插進來。就這一點，我沒什麼評論可說。不過，上述的言論確實引起許多大學教授激烈的反應。 嗯，另一個敏感議題是養育子女。討論的出發點是源自一個事實亦即我們都受限於該如何教養子女的建議。現在，這裡是一段具代表性的話引自一位深受困擾的母親：""我被養育子女的建議所淹沒。我應該跟子女有許多肢體上的活動所以我可以灌輸他們一個讓身體健康的習慣使得他們都成長為一個健康的成人。我也應該跟子女玩許多智力遊戲使得他們聰明的長大。還有各式各樣的活動－為了讓手指靈活的黏土遊戲、幫助閱讀的文字遊戲、大型運動遊戲、小型運動遊戲。我覺得我可以窮盡一生來搞清楚要跟子女玩什麼遊戲。""我認為任何最近剛成為父母的人可以跟這位母親感同身受。 嗯，關於養育子女，這裡有一些重要的事實。這個建議所立基的大多數養育子女研究是無用的。這些研究是無用的，因為它們沒有控制遺傳性。他們測量父母的行為與子女的行為之間的關聯性並且假設有一個因果關係：養育子女的方式形塑子女的行為。對子女說很多話的父母其子女長大後會能言善道，掌摑子女的父母，其子女長大後會有暴力的傾向等等。這些研究中，只有少數注意到父母將基因遺傳給子女的可能性具有能言善道基因的小孩或是暴力傾向基因的小孩長大後口才好的機率或是殘暴的機率是否會增加。直到這些研究在被收養兒童上重新操作之前，亦即提供環境給子女但卻不提供基因給子女的情況，否則我們不會知道那些結論是不是有效的。 基因控制的研究已經有一些重要的結果。還記得Mallifert雙胞胎吧：出生即分離，在專利事務所相遇－驚人的相似。嗯，如果Mallifert雙胞胎是一起長大，這將會發生什麼事呢？你們可能會想，嗯，他們彼此甚至會更相似，因為他們不僅有一樣的基因，他們還有一樣的環境。這會讓他們無敵相似，不是嗎？錯了。出生就分離的同卵雙胞胎、或出生即分離的兄弟姊妹，就算他們有一樣的生長環境，他們也不會更相似。在那些歲月裡，你在某個家庭裡發生的每一件事似乎不會在你的個性或智力上，遺留下任何永久的痕跡。使用一個完全不同的方法論所得來的補充性發現是被收養的兄弟姊妹，即使一起被扶養長大同卵雙胞胎被分開來扶養他們有一樣的父母、家庭、鄰居、但沒有一樣的基因－結果他們一點都不相似。好吧－兩個不同的研究途徑卻有相似的發現。 這暗示著小孩子並不是被父母長期的教養來型塑的，而是部分－只有部分－被基因型塑，部分由所處國家的文化該國家的文化，總體來說而且小孩子自己的文化，亦即同儕－如同我們先前從Jill Sobule的演講聽到的，同儕才是小孩子關心的－而且，很大的一部分，超過大多數人準備承認的程度部分由偶然性型塑：在子宮中大腦迴路的偶發事件；在你們人生中發生的偶發事件。 所以，讓我只用一個評論來下個結論帶我們回到選擇的主題上。我認為，人性的科學－行為遺傳學、演化心理學、神經科學、認知科學－在即將到來的幾年裡將會顛覆各種教條，顛覆歷程與深植人心的政治信念體系。而且那將提供我們一個選擇。選擇是：某些關於人類的事實或主題，是否該被視為禁忌、被視為被禁止的知識，我們不應該繼續探索那個知識領域因為我們不會從中獲益，或是選擇：我們是否應該真正去探索那些知識領域。對於那個問題我有自己的答案，這個答案來自十九世紀偉大的藝術家Anton Chekhov，他說：""當你向一個人展示他是什麼樣的人時，他將會變得更好。""我認為這個論證不可能用更好的方式來呈現了。非常感謝各位的聆聽。（鼓掌）"
