Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_schwaitzberg_a_universal_translator_for_surgeons	"So I want to talk to you about two things tonight. Number one: Teaching surgery and doing surgery is really hard. And second, that language is one of the most profound things that separate us all over the world. And in my little corner of the world, these two things are actually related, and I want to tell you how tonight. Now, nobody wants an operation. Who here has had surgery? Did you want it? Keep your hands up if you wanted an operation. Nobody wants an operation. In particular, nobody wants an operation with tools like these through large incisions that cause a lot of pain, that cause a lot of time out of work or out of school, that leave a big scar. But if you have to have an operation, what you really want is a minimally invasive operation. That's what I want to talk to you about tonight — how doing and teaching this type of surgery led us on a search for a better universal translator. Now, this type of surgery is hard, and it starts by putting people to sleep, putting carbon dioxide in their abdomen, blowing them up like a balloon, sticking one of these sharp pointy things into their abdomen — it's dangerous stuff — and taking instruments and watching it on a TV screen. So let's see what it looks like. So this is gallbladder surgery. We perform a million of these a year in the United States alone. This is the real thing. There's no blood. And you can see how focused the surgeons are, how much concentration it takes. You can see it in their faces. It's hard to teach, and it's not all that easy to learn. We do about five million of these in the United States and maybe 20 million of these worldwide. All right, you've all heard the term: ""He's a born surgeon."" Let me tell you, surgeons are not born. Surgeons are not made either. There are no little tanks where we're making surgeons. Surgeons are trained one step at a time. It starts with a foundation, basic skills. We build on that and we take people, hopefully, to the operating room where they learn to be an assistant. Then we teach them to be a surgeon in training. And when they do all of that for about five years, they get the coveted board certification. If you need surgery, you want to be operated on by a board-certified surgeon. You get your board certificate, and you can go out into practice. And eventually, if you're lucky, you achieve mastery. Now that foundation is so important that a number of us from the largest general surgery society in the United States, SAGES, started in the late 1990s a training program that would assure that every surgeon who practices minimally invasive surgery would have a strong foundation of knowledge and skills necessary to go on and do procedures. Now the science behind this is so potent that it became required by the American Board of Surgery in order for a young surgeon to become board certified. It's not a lecture, it's not a course, it's all of that plus a high-stakes assessment. It's hard. Now just this past year, one of our partners, the American College of Surgeons, teamed up with us to make an announcement that all surgeons should be FLS (Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery)-certified before they do minimally invasive surgery. And are we talking about just people here in the U.S. and Canada? No, we just said all surgeons. So to lift this education and training worldwide is a very large task, something I'm very personally excited about as we travel around the world. SAGES does surgery all over the world, teaching and educating surgeons. So we have a problem, and one of the problems is distance. We can't travel everywhere. We need to make the world a smaller place. And I think that we can develop some tools to do so. And one of the tools I like personally is using video. So I was inspired by a friend. This is Allan Okrainec from Toronto. And he proved that you could actually teach people to do surgery using video conferencing. So here's Allan teaching an English-speaking surgeon in Africa these basic fundamental skills necessary to do minimally invasive surgery. Very inspiring. But for this examination, which is really hard, we have a problem. Even people who say they speak English, only 14 percent pass. Because for them it's not a surgery test, it's an English test. Let me bring it to you locally. I work at the Cambridge Hospital. It's the primary Harvard Medical School teaching facility. We have more than 100 translators covering 63 languages, and we spend millions of dollars just in our little hospital. It's a big labor-intensive effort. If you think about the worldwide burden of trying to talk to your patients — not just teaching surgeons, just trying to talk to your patients — there aren't enough translators in the world. We need to employ technology to assist us in this quest. At our hospital we see everybody from Harvard professors to people who just got here last week. And you have no idea how hard it is to talk to somebody or take care of somebody you can't talk to. And there isn't always a translator available. So we need tools. We need a universal translator. One of the things that I want to leave you with as you think about this talk is that this talk is not just about us preaching to the world. It's really about setting up a dialogue. We have a lot to learn. Here in the United States we spend more money per person for outcomes that are not better than many countries in the world. Maybe we have something to learn as well. So I'm passionate about teaching these FLS skills all over the world. This past year I've been in Latin America, I've been in China, talking about the fundamentals of laparoscopic surgery. And everywhere I go the barrier is: ""We want this, but we need it in our language."" So here's what we think we want to do: Imagine giving a lecture and being able to talk to people in their own native language simultaneously. I want to talk to the people in Asia, Latin America, Africa, Europe seamlessly, accurately and in a cost-effective fashion using technology. And it has to be bi-directional. They have to be able to teach us something as well. It's a big task. So we looked for a universal translator; I thought there would be one out there. Your webpage has translation, your cellphone has translation, but nothing that's good enough to teach surgery. Because we need a lexicon. What is a lexicon? A lexicon is a body of words that describes a domain. I need to have a health care lexicon. And in that I need a surgery lexicon. That's a tall order. We have to work at it. So let me show you what we're doing. This is research — can't buy it. We're working with the folks at IBM Research from the Accessibility Center to string together technologies to work towards the universal translator. It starts with a framework system where when the surgeon delivers the lecture using a framework of captioning technology, we then add another technology to do video conferencing. But we don't have the words yet, so we add a third technology. And now we've got the words, and we can apply the special sauce: the translation. We get the words up in a window and then apply the magic. We work with a fourth technology. And we currently have access to eleven language pairs. More to come as we think about trying to make the world a smaller place. And I'd like to show you our prototype of stringing all of these technologies that don't necessarily always talk to each other to become something useful. Narrator: Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery. Module five: manual skills practice. Students may display captions in their native language. Steven Schwaitzberg: If you're in Latin America, you click the ""I want it in Spanish"" button and out it comes in real time in Spanish. But if you happen to be sitting in Beijing at the same time, by using technology in a constructive fashion, you could get it in Mandarin or you could get it in Russian — on and on and on, simultaneously without the use of human translators. But that's the lectures. If you remember what I told you about FLS at the beginning, it's knowledge and skills. The difference in an operation between doing something successfully and not may be moving your hand this much. So we're going to take it one step further; we've brought my friend Allan back. Allan Okrainec: Today we're going to practice suturing. This is how you hold the needle. Grab the needle at the tip. It's important to be accurate. Aim for the black dots. Orient your loop this way. Now go ahead and cut. Very good Oscar. I'll see you next week. SS: So that's what we're working on in our quest for the universal translator. We want it to be bi-directional. We have a need to learn as well as to teach. I can think of a million uses for a tool like this. As we think about intersecting technologies — everybody has a cell phone with a camera — we could use this everywhere, whether it be health care, patient care, engineering, law, conferencing, translating videos. This is a ubiquitous tool. In order to break down our barriers, we have to learn to talk to people, to demand that people work on translation. We need it for our everyday life, in order to make the world a smaller place. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	今晚，我想跟大家談兩件事。首先，教授外科手術、進行外科手術真的很困難。其次，語言是其中一樣最根深柢固的東西將世界上不同的人分隔。而對於在世界上細小一角的我，上述兩件事其實息息相關，而今晚，我想跟大家道出理由。 好了，沒有人是想做手術的。在座各位，誰又曾經動過手術？是你想的嗎？想做手術的，把手舉定。無人想做手術。尤其是，無人想自己做的手術會用上這樣的工具，手術時開個大切口，會帶來極大痛楚，要請假缺課缺勤好一段時間，或是會留下大疤痕。但如果你必須要做手術的話，你真正想要的是個微創手術。這就是今晚我想跟你說的話題 —如何進行並教授這一類型的手術，怎樣引領我們搜尋更好的通用翻譯器。 好了，這類型的手術很艱難，開始時先把病人麻醉入睡，將二氧化碳打進病人的腹部，將他們像氣球一樣吹漲，將這些尖銳的東西，用其中一樣貼住腹部 —那是危險物品 —接駁手術儀器並在電視螢幕上監察。那不如一齊看看，看起來會是怎樣。這是個膽囊手術。單是在美國，我們每年會做成上百萬次。這是實際手術時的情況。見不到血的。而你可以見到外科醫生多麼的專注，需要多大的集中力。從他們的面部表情，可見一斑。要好好教授很難，而且也不都是那麼容易學習的事。在美國，我們做了其中約五百萬宗手術，全球就大概有二千萬宗。 好了，你們幾乎全都聽過這句說話：「他是天生華佗。」讓我告訴你，外科醫生並非天生的。外科醫生也不是製造出來的。我們沒有小孵化槽可以將外科醫生製造出來。外科醫生是一步一步訓練出來的。是由一個基礎開始，即是基本技巧。我們建基其上，並帶領學生，充滿期待地走進手術室，在這兒他們學習如何成為手術助理。之後我們會指導他們成為實習外科醫生。而當大約五年之後他們把所有這些做完，他們會得到夢寐以求的資格認證。若你需要做手術，你會想由一位已獲取資格認證的外科醫生操刀。你拿到資格認證後，就能出外執業。而到最後，若你夠幸運的話，你就能成為精湛的名醫師。 基礎是何其重要，使得我們一部分來自美國最大的普通外科醫生協會 —美國胃腸道與內視鏡手術協會(SAGES) 的成員，在 90 年代末，開始了一個培訓計劃，確保每位外科醫生，在進行微創手術之前，都會有穩固的知識和技術基礎，以便能夠遵從並執行手術程序。背後的科學理念顯而易見，因此現在美國外科醫學委員會 (ABS) 要求年輕的外科醫生都要參與培訓計劃才能得到資格認證。這不是個講課，不是個課程，而是上述兩者，加上嚴謹的評核。換言之，難。在剛過去的一年，我們其中一個夥伴機構，美國外科醫師學院 (ACS)，與我們攜手，一起宣布：所有外科醫生都要先得到 FLS (腹腔鏡手術基礎) 證書才能進行微創手術。 我們是否只是說在美國這裏和加拿大的人？不，我們是說「所有外科醫生」。所以，要將這項教育和培訓推至全球，工程浩大，雖然個人而言，我對我們能環遊世界各地感到很興奮。SAGES 在世界各地進行外科手術，教導並培訓外科醫生。所以我們有個問題，而問題之一就是距離。我們總不能遊遍世界每一個角落。我們需要讓世界變得更小。而我想，我們可以開發一些工具達到這個目的。而我個人喜歡的工具之一，就是運用影片。 我受到一位朋友啟發。他是來自多倫多的 Allan Okrainec 。而他就證明了透過視像會議，你其實可以教授別人怎樣進行外科手術。這就是 Allan 教授一位身處非洲、會說英語的外科醫生，傳授這些基本的基礎技巧以進行微創手術。很有啟發性。但對於考試，這個真的很難的考試，我們有個問題。即使別人說他們會說英語，僅百分之 14 及格。因為對他們而言，那不是個外科測試，而是英語測試。 讓我帶你看看本地實況。我在劍橋醫院 (Cambridge Hospital) 工作。那是哈佛醫學院 (Harvard Medical School) 的主要教學大樓。我們有超過 100 位翻譯員，涵蓋 63 種語言，而光是我們一所小醫院，就花上數以百萬元。翻譯真是個龐大又費人力的功夫。若你想想要推至全球，與病人溝通 —不單是教授外科醫生，而是嘗試與病人溝通 —世界上根本就沒有足夠翻譯員。這項艱鉅的任務，需要引進科技作援手。在我們的醫院裏，見到的人，由哈佛教授到上星期才剛抵埗的留學生都有。而你無法想像，和一個語言不通的人交流或是照顧一個語言不通的人，有多麼困難。而且翻譯員不是隨傳隨到的。 所以我們需要工具。我們需要一部通用翻譯器。當你細味今次演講時，我想贈你一言：今次演講，不是說，我們要怎樣向世界傳道授業。我們真正希望的，是能夠創立對話。我們仍有許多需要學習的地方。我們在美國，投放的個人醫療費用比其他國家多，得出來的醫療成效，卻不比世界上其他國家理想。也許，我們也有需要學習的地方。 因此，我對在全球教授這些 FLS 技巧，充滿期待。過去的一年，我走訪過拉丁美洲，走訪過中國，講解腹腔鏡手術的基礎。而所到各處，我見到當地人都遇上一道障礙：「我們想向外取經，但我們更需要能聽得懂。」而這就是我們希望能夠做到的事：想像一下，在一堂講課中，能夠以當地人的母語與他們即時溝通。比方說，我想跟身處亞洲、拉丁美洲、非洲、歐洲的人都能準確無誤地傳情達意，並且透過科技，節省高昂的成本。而且溝通必須要雙向的。他們要同時能夠向我們賜教。 這項任務，殊不簡單。於是我們開始尋找一部通用翻譯器；我想坊間應該有售。你可以找到在線翻譯，你的手機也有翻譯功能，但這些都不夠好，都不足以教授外科手術。因為我們需要詞庫。甚麼是詞庫？詞庫就是一個特定領域中，用作描述的一體系字詞。我需要一個醫療衛生的詞庫。當中，需要一個外術手術的詞庫。這個要求甚高。我們需要動手實幹。 讓我為大家展示一下我們迄今初步得出的成果。這是自家研究 — 坊間買不到的。我們與 IBM 可及性中心 (Accessibility Center) 的研究人員合作，將一系列的科技串連起來，建構一部通用翻譯器。這部翻譯器由一個框架系統開始，當外科醫生講解授課時，使用一個帶有顯示字幕技術的框架，然後我們讓這個框架同時具備視像會議系統的科技。但是字幕未有文字，於是我們加入第三種科技。現在字幕已打出文字，接著就壓軸出場：文字翻譯。我們將字幕放到獨立的視窗，並施展這個法術。我們套用第四種科技。目前，我們有十一對語言組可供使用。應該陸續有來，好讓世界變得更小。現在，我想為大家展示一下成品的雛型，將這些本來未必太相配的科技串連起來，變成一樣有用的產品。 旁白：腹腔鏡手術基礎 (FLS)。單元五：實作技巧實習。學生可以選擇顯示自己母語的字幕。 Steven Schwaitzberg: 若你身處拉丁美洲，當你按一下「西班牙語字幕」的按鈕，就會即時顯示西班牙語的翻譯。但若果你這時身處北京活用科技，你可以選用國語，又或選用俄語 —如此類推，持續不斷，不經人手即時翻譯。但那只是講課。 如果你還記得一開始我說過的 FLS，那是知識和技巧的結合。一個手術成功與否，可能差別只在於你的手是否移動了分毫距離。所以我們更上一層樓；我把我的朋友 Allan 又叫回來了。 Allan Okrainec: 今日，我們將會練習一下縫合傷口。首先，將針這樣用手握着。手握針的尖端。最重要是準確。瞄準黑點。將線這樣繞一個圈。現在將線剪斷。做得很好，Oscar。下星期再見。 SS: 這就是我們現在努力邁向一部通用翻譯器的現況。我們希望是雙向的。我們教授的同時，也需要學習。這樣的一件工具，我能想到百萬多個用途。當我們想到將不同科技互相融合 —現在每人都有一部配備相機的手機 —我們能夠將這項技術到處應用，不論是醫療衛生、病人護理、工程、法律、會議、影片翻譯。這是個無處不在的工具。 為了消除障礙，我們要學習與人們溝通，為此，也要求人們為翻譯而努力。這項技術，會在我們的日常生活發揮作用，好讓世界的距離變得更小。多謝各位。 (掌聲)
