Talk	en	zh-tw
stewart_brand_on_the_long_now	"Welcome to 10,000 feet. Let me explain why we are here and why some of you have a pine cone close to you. Once upon a time, I did a book called ""How Buildings Learn."" Today's event you might call ""How Mountains Teach."" A little background: For 10 years I've been trying to figure out how to hack civilization so that we can get long-term thinking to be automatic and common instead of difficult and rare — or in some cases, non-existent. It would be helpful if humanity got into the habit of thinking of the now not just as next week or next quarter, but you know, next 10,000 years and the last 10,000 years — basically civilization's story so far. So we have the Long Now Foundation in San Francisco. It's an incubator for about a dozen projects, all having to do with continuity over the long term. Our core project is a rather ambitious folly — I suppose, a mythic undertaking: to build a 10,000-year clock that can really keep good time for that long a period. And the design problems of a project like that are just absolutely delicious. Go to the clock. And what we have here is something many of you saw here three years ago. It's the first working prototype of the clock. It's about nine feet high. Designed by Danny Hillis and Alexander Rose. It's presently in London, and is ticking away very deliberately at the science museum there. So the design problem for today is going to be, how do you house an eventual monumental clock like this so it can really tick, save time beautifully for 100 centuries? Well, this was the first solution. Alexander Rose came up with this idea of a spiraloid tower with continuous sloping ramps. And it looked like a way to go, until you start thinking about, what does deep time do to a building? Well, this is what deep time does to a building. This is the Parthenon. It's only 2,450 years old, and look what happened to it. Here's a beautiful project. They really knew it'd last forever, because they'd build it out of absolutely huge stones. And now it's a pathetic ruin and no one even knows what it was used for. That's what happens to buildings. They're vulnerable. Even the most durable and intactable buildings, like the pyramids of Giza, are in bad shape when you look up close. They've been looted inside and out. And they're built to protect things but they don't protect things. So we got to thinking, if you can't put things safely in a building, where can you safely put them? We thought, OK, underground. How about underground with a view? Underground in a place that's really solid. So the obvious answer was, we need a mountain. You don't want just any mountain. You need absolutely the right mountain if you're going to have a clock for 10,000 years. So here's an image of the long view of the search problem. And we got to thinking for various reasons it ought to be a desert mountain, so we got looking in the dry areas of the Southwest. We looked at mesas in New Mexico. We were looking at dead volcanoes in Arizona. Then Roger Kennedy, who was the director of the National Parks Service, led us to Eastern Nevada, to America's newest and oldest national park, which is called Great Basin National Park. It's right on the eastern border of Nevada. It's the highest range in the state — over 13,000 feet. And you'll notice that on the left, on the left, on the west, it's very steep, and on the right it's gentle. This place is remote. It's over 200 miles from any major city. It's nowhere near any Interstate or railroad. And it's — the only thing that goes by is what's called America's loneliest highway, U.S. 50. Now, inside the yellow line here, on the right is — that's all national park. Inside the green line is national forest. And then over to the left is Bureau of Land Management land and some private land. Now, as it happened, that two-mile-long strip right in the middle, this vertical, was available because it was private land. And thanks to Jay Walker who was here and Mitch Kapor who was here, who started the process, Long Now was able to get that two-mile-long strip of land. And now let's look at the grand truth of what's there. We're in Pole Canyon, looking west up the western escarpment of Mount Washington, which is 11,600 feet on top. Those white cliffs are a dense Cambrian limestone. That's a 2,000-foot thick formation, and it might be a beautiful place to hide a clock. It would be a pilgrimage to get to it; it would be a serious hike to get up to where the clock is. So last June, the Long Now board, some staff and some donors and advisors, made a two-week expedition to the mountain to explore it and investigate, one, if it's the right mountain, and two, if it's the right mountain, how it might actually work for us. Now Danny Hillis sort of framed the problem. He has a theory of how the overall clock experience should work. It's what he calls the seven stages of a mythic adventure. It starts with the image. The image is a picture you have in your mind of the goal at the end of the journey. In this case it might well be an image of the clock. Then there's the point of embarkation, that is, the point of transition from ordinary life to being a pilgrim on a quest. Then — this is a nice image of it, there's the labyrinth. The labyrinth is a concept, it's like a twilight zone, it's a place where it's difficult, where you get disoriented, maybe you get scared — but you have to go through it if you're going to get to some kind of deep reintegration. Then there should always be in sight the draw — a kind of a beacon that draws you on through the labyrinth to finish the process of getting there. Now Brian Eno, who's been in the thick of the Long Now process, spent two years making a C.D. called ""January 7003,"" and it's ""Bell Studies for the Clock of the Long Now."" Based on — parts of it are based on an algorithm that Danny Hillis developed, so that a peal of 10 bells makes a different peal every day for 10,000 years. The Hillis algorithm. 10 factorial gives you that number. And in fact, pretty soon we'll hear the sound. January 7003. There it is. OK, back to Danny's list. Number five of the seven is the payoff. This is it. The climax. The goal. The main thing that you're trying to get to. And then Danny says a really great journey will have a secret payoff. Something you didn't expect that caps what you did expect. Then there's the return. You've got to have a gradual return to the ordinary world, so you have time to assimilate what you've learned. And then, how about a memento? Number seven. At the end of it there's something physical, a kind of reward that you take away. It might be a piece of a core drill of the mountain. Something that's just yours. How do you study a mountain for the kinds of things we're talking about? This is not a normal building project. What do you look for? What are the elements that will most affect your ideas and decisions? Start with borders. If you look on the left side of the cliffs here, that's national park. That's sacrosanct — you can't do anything with that. To the right of it is national forest. There's possibilities. The borders are important. Other elements were mines, weather, approaches and elevation. And especially trees. Look at those things up on top there. It turns out that Mount Washington is covered with bristlecone pines. They're the world's oldest living thing. People think they're just the size of shrubs, but that's not actually true. There are trees on that mountain that are 5,000 years old and still living. The wood is so solid it's like stone, and it lasts for a long time. So when you do tree ring studies of trunks that are on the mountain, some of them go back 10,000 years. The stone itself is absolutely beautiful, sculpted by millennia of very tough winters up there. We had tree ring analysts from the University of Arizona join us on the expedition. Now, if you guys have a pine cone handy, now's a good time to put it in your hand and feel it, especially on the end. That's interesting. You'll find out why it's called a bristlecone pine. A little sensory experience. Here's Danny Hillis in the midst of a bristlecone pine forest on Long Now land. I should say that the age of bristlecones was discovered, led by a theory. Edmund Schulman in the 1950s had been studying trees under great stress at Timberline, and came to the realization that he put in an article in Science magazine called, ""Longevity under Adversity in Conifers."" And then, based on that principle, he started looking around at the various trees at Timberline, and realized that the bristlecone pines — he found some in the White Mountains that were over 4,000 years old. Longevity under adversity is a pretty interesting design principle in its own right. OK, onto the mines. The first asking price for the property when we looked at it in 1998 was one billion dollars for 180 acres and a couple of mines. Because the owner said, ""There's one billion dollars of beryllium in that mountain."" And we said, ""Wow, that's great. Listen, we'll counter. How about zero? (Laughter) And we're a non-profit foundation, you can give us the property and take a hell of a tax deduction. (Laughter) All you have to do is prove to the government it's worth a billion dollars."" Well, a few years went by and there was some kind of back and forth, and by and by, thanks to Mitch and Jay, we were able to buy the whole property for 140,000 dollars. This is one of the mines. It doesn't have any beryllium in it. It's called the Pole Adit. And it does have tungsten, a little bit of tungsten, left over, that's the kind of mine it was. But it goes a mile-and-a-half in a straight line, due east into the range, into very interesting territory — except that, as you'll see when we go inside in a minute, we were hoping for limestone but in there is just shale. And shale is not quite completely competent rock. Competent rock is rock that will hold itself up without any shoring. The shale would like some shoring, and so parts of it are caved in in there. That's Ben Roberts from — he's the bat specialist from the National Park. But there are many wonders back in there, like this weird fungus on some of the collapsed timbers. OK, here's another mine that's up on top of the property, and it dates back to 1870. That's what the property was originally built around — it was a set of mining claims. It was a very productive silver mine. In fact, it was the highest-operating mine in Nevada, and it ran year round. You can imagine what it was like in the winter at 10,000 feet. You may recognize a couple of the miners there. There's Jeff Bezos on the right and Paul Saville on the left looking for galena, which is the lead-silver thing. They didn't find any. They both kept their day jobs. Here's the last mine. It's called the Bonanza Adit. It's down in a canyon. And Alexander Rose on the left there worked with a bunch of people from the National Park to survey the whole mine. It's a mile deep. And they also found four species of bats in there. Now, almost all those mines, by the way, meet underneath the mountain. They don't quite, but it's something to think about. They don't quite meet. Let's go to weather. Mountains specialize in interesting weather. Way more interesting than Monterey even today. And so one Tuesday morning last June, there we were. Woke up in the morning — the mountain was covered with snow. That was a great time to go up and visit our weather station which again, thanks to Mitch Kapor, we're building up there. And it's a pretty interesting scene. This is, on the left there, the joyful lady is Pat Irwin, who's the regional head of the National Forest Service, and they gave us the temporary use permit to be there. We want a temporary use permit for the clock, eventually — 10,000-year temporary use permit. (Laughter) The weather station's pretty interesting. Kurt Bollacker and Alexander Rose designed a radically wireless station. It runs on solar, and it sends a signal with that antenna and bounces it off of micrometeorite trails in the atmosphere to a place in Bozeman, Montana, where the data is taken down and then sent through landlines to San Francisco, where we put the data in real time up on our website. And there you see a week of weather at 9,400 feet on Mount Washington. Let's go to approaches. As it happens, there are no trails anywhere on Mount Washington, just a few old mining roads like this, so you have to bushwhack everywhere. But there's no bears, and there's no poison oak, and there's basically no people because this place has been empty for a long time. You can hike for days and not encounter anybody. Well, here's a potential approach. You need to come up the Lincoln Canyon. It's this beautiful world all of its own, surrounded by cliffs, and it's an easy hike to stroll up the canyon bottom, until you get to this barrier, and it actually presents a problem. So you can scratch Lincoln Canyon as an approach. Another possible approach is right up the western front of the mountain. You can see why we sometimes call it Long Mountain. And from where you're standing at 6,000 feet in the valley, it's an easy hike up to the mature pinyon and juniper forest through that knoll at the front at 7,600 feet. And you can carry right on up through meadows and steepening forest to the high base of the cliffs at 10,500 feet, where there's a bit of a problem. Now, Jeff Bezos advised us when he left at the end of the expedition, ""Make the clock inaccessible. The harder it is to get to, the more people will value it."" And check — those are 600-foot vertical walls there. So Alexander Rose wanted to explore this route, and he started over here on the left from his pickup truck at 8,900 feet and headed up the mountain. Now, as you gain elevation your IQ goes down — (Laughter) but your emotional affect goes up, which is great for having a mythic experience, whether you want to or not. In fact, Danny Hillis can estimate altitude by how much math he can't do in his head. (Laughter) Now, I happened to be on the radio with Alexander when he got to this point at the base of the cliffs, and he said, quote, ""There's a hidden notch. I think I can get up a ways."" Now, he's a rock climber, but you know, he's our executive director. I don't want him killed. I know he's going to love cliffs. I'm saying, ""Be careful, be careful, be careful."" Then he starts going up, and the next thing I hear is, ""I'm half-way up. It's like climbing stairs. I'm going up 60 degrees. It's a secret passage. It's like something from Tolkien."" And I'm going, ""Careful, careful. Please be careful."" And then, of course, the next thing I hear is, ""I've made it to the top. You can see all of creation from up here."" And he dashed across the top of the mountains. In fact, there he is. That's Alexander Rose. First ascent of the western face to Mount Washington, and a solo ascent at that. This discovery changed everything about our sense of these cliffs and what to do with them. We realized that we had to name this thing that Alexander discovered. How about Zander's Crevice? No. (Laughter) So we finally decided on Alexander's Siq. Zander's Siq is named after — some of you have been to Petra, there's this wonderful slot canyon that leads into Petra called the Siq, and so this is the Siq. And it really is hidden. I can't find it in this image, and I'm not sure you can. Only when you get fresh snow can you see just along the rim there, and that brings it out. Now, Danny and I were up at this same area one day, and Danny looked over to the right and noticed something halfway up the cliffs, which is a kind of a porch or a cliff shelf with bristlecones on it, and supposed that people going up to the clock inside the mountain could come out onto that shelf and look down at the view. And the people toiling up the mountain could see them, these tiny little people up there, incredibly halfway up the cliff. How did they get there? Do I have to do that? And so that maybe becomes part of the draw and part of the labyrinth. You can get another angle on Danny's porch by going around to the south and looking north at the whole formation there. And you need to know that Danny's clock is to be kept accurate by a ray of sunshine, that perfect noon hitting it every sunny day, and the pulse of heat from that sets off a solar trigger which resets the clock to make it perfectly accurate. So even with the slowing of the rotation of the earth and so on, the clock will keep perfectly good time. So here we're looking from the south, look north. This is all Forest Service land. If you go up on top of those cliffs, that's some of the Long Now land in those trees. And if you go up there and look back, then you'll get a sense of what the view starts to be like from the top of the mountain. That's the long view. That's 80 miles to the horizon. And that's also timberline and those bristlecones really are shrubs. That's a different place to be. It's 11,400 feet and it's exquisite. Now, if you go over to the right from this image to looking at the edge of the cliffs, it's 600 foot, just about a yard to the left of Kurt Bollacker's foot, there is a 600-foot drop. He's ambling on over to Zander's Siq. That's what it looks like looking down it. We should probably put in a rail or something. Over on the eastern side it's gentle, as you can see. And that's not snow — that's what the white limestone looks like. You also see there a bighorn sheep. Their herd was reintroduced from Wyoming. And they're doing pretty well, but they've got a bit of trouble. This is Danny Hillis, and he's figuring out a design problem. he's trying to determine if where he is on a bit of Long Now land would appear from down in the valley to be the actual peak of the mountain. because the real peak is hidden around the corner. This is what in the infantry we used to call the military crest. And as it turned out the answer is, yes, that is from down below in the valley it does look like the peak, and that might be conjured with. We gradually realized we have three serious design domains to work on with this. One is the experience of the mountain. Another is the experience in the mountain. And the third is the experience from the mountain, which is really dominated by the view shed of the spring valley there behind Danny, and if you look off to the right, out there, 15 miles across to the Schell Creek range. In the front, there are 10 ranches strung right along the base of the mountains using the water from the mountains. In fact, there are artesian wells where water springs right into the air. One of the ranches is called the Kirkeby Ranch, and I'll take you there for a minute. It's a very nice ranch. Alfalfa and cattle, run by Paul and Ronnie Brenham, and it's pretty idyllic. It's also hard work. And most of these ranches are having trouble keeping going. This is their view to the west of the Schell Creek range. And if you go out to that line of trees at the far end, you'll see what the valley used to look like. This is Rocky Mountain junipers that have been there for thousands of years. And a scheme emerged that Long Now is looking to see if it might be possible to buy up the whole valley, because those 10 ranches with their 17,000 acres dominate a 500 square mile valley with their grazing allotments and so on, and there's a possibility that you could get the whole thing for five million dollars and gradually restore it to its wild condition, and somewhere in the process turn it back over to the National Park, and it would double the size of Great Basin National Park. That would be swell. OK, let's take one more look at the mountain itself. The clock experience should be profound, but from the outside it should be invisible. Now, at the base of the high cliffs there's this natural cave. It's only about 12 feet deep, but what if it were deepened from inside? You excavated from somewhere, came up from inside and deepened it. And then you could have an entrance which was very rough and narrow as you first went in, that gradually becomes more refined and then actually quite exquisite. And this stone takes a perfect polish. You'd have a polished set of passages and chambers in there eventually leading to the 10,000 year clock. And it's not a mine. This would be a nuanced evocation of the basic structure of the mountain, and you would be appreciating it as much from inside as you do from outside. This is architecture not made by building, but by what you very carefully take away. So that's what the mountain taught us. Most of the amazingness of the clock we can borrow from the amazingness of the mountain. All we have to do is highlight its spectacular features and blend in with them. It's not a clock in a mountain — it's a mountain clock. Now, the Tewa Indians in the Southwest have a saying for what you need to do when you want to think long term about anything. They say, ""pin peya obe"" — welcome to the mountain. Thank you. (Applause)"	"歡迎來到一萬英尺高的地方讓我解釋一下我們為什麼會在這兒還有為什麼有些人手邊有松果我曾經寫過一本書，叫做 "" 建築物如何學習.""今天的演說則可以叫做 ""山脈如何教導我們""先介紹一點故事背景 : 過去十年來，我一直都在想辦法要如何應付現代文明，好讓""長程思考""可以變得普及且自然，而不是像現在一樣鮮為人知且難以實現或在某些情況下，根本是不存在的如果人類可以習慣性地把當下想到不只是下週、下一季，而是下一個一萬年，及之後的幾個一萬年也就是迄今人類文明演進歷史 所以我們在舊金山有永續基金會這基金會孕育、推動許多計劃每個計劃都和永續有關我們的核心計劃是蠻天馬行空的我想是有如登天般的艱鉅任務：建造萬年鐘真的可以走一萬年的時鐘而這個計畫在設計上的問題就更有趣了看一下這個時鐘有些人在三年前已經看過了這是我們做的第一個可以運行的萬年鐘原型差不多有2.7公尺高這是由丹尼希利斯和亞歷山大蘿絲設計，目前置於倫敦在科學博物館裡安靜地滴答走著 所以現在設計上主要的難題是要怎樣安置一個像這樣不朽的鐘讓它可以安穩，精準地運行100個世紀之久這是第一個方案亞歷山大蘿絲想出這個方法造一個由數個斜坡形成螺旋狀的塔這想法看起來似乎可行，但思考以後建築物在時間的摧殘之下會有什麼結果呢?這是一個例子這是巴森農神殿，它才經過2450年而已就變成這樣子這是個超棒的構思，他們知道這些石頭可以經過時間的考驗因為他們完全是用巨大的石塊所建的可惜現在看起來像是廢墟一般，沒有人知道這當初的用途為何建築物就是如此的脆弱即使是最持久，堅固的建築物也是如此像吉薩金字塔，如果你靠近看，已經殘破不堪了從裡到外都被劫空了本來吉薩金字塔的功能 - ""保護東西""- 已經失去了 所以我們要想，如果一個建築物都不能保護東西哪裡可以呢? 後來我們想到，不如埋到地面下裝一個可以透視的窗口埋在一個非常堅實的地表之下所以最好的答案，我們需要一座山不是隨便的一座山而要合適的山只有那樣才能存放萬年鐘於是，我們又遇到了搜尋合適地點的問題基於多方面的考量，我們認為必須是沙漠地帶的山所以我們找到了美國西南地區新墨西哥州的臺地現在看到的是亞利桑那州的死火山 然後這個國家公園的負責人羅傑‧甘迺迪帶我們到內華達東部全美國最年輕也最古老的國家公園－大盆地國家公園這個國家公園正好坐落在內華達州的東側的邊境上是整個州最高的地方，將近快4000公尺高你會發現山的西側非常陡峭東側則比較平緩這個地方非常偏遠，離任何一個周邊的大城市都有三百多公里旁邊也沒任何州際公路或是鐵路唯一有經過的道路是US 50, 全美最淒涼的公路 在這黃線右邊的是國家公園在綠線裡的是國家森林區左邊是國土管理局所有地及一些私有地剛好在這中間有個二英里的長條縱向地帶是我們可以使用的，因為不是國有地感謝傑·沃克和米奇·凱普那時在那邊的幫忙我們才有可能購買到這二英里的地讓我們看看裡面有什麼吧 我們現在在Pole峽谷，西眺華盛頓山脈的西側懸崖，有3500多公尺之高那些白色懸崖是由寒武紀石灰岩構成的有600公尺厚應該會是藏鐘的好地點只有像是朝聖的登山客才會來到這種地方發現到萬年鐘所以去年6月永續的董事會成員，職員、贊助者以及一些顧問花了兩週在那考察其一，想去調查看看這是不是合適的山其二，如果是的話，那該要如何的規劃 丹尼希利斯從另一個角度切入這個難題他有一套關於這個時鐘該怎麼運行的理論他把它稱之為神秘的冒險，總共有7個階段第一個是圖像，就是你腦海中浮現的畫面也就是在旅途終點你希望看到的目標在這個例子裡，就是一個鐘的圖像再來就是啟程，這是一個轉折點從一般的生活蛻變到一個朝聖的旅程然後，這是一張不錯的圖像，這裡有一個迷宮這迷宮是個概念，有點像是一個幽暗地帶是一個複雜，會讓人在裡面迷路的地方走進去一開始或許會害怕，但是得必須撐過去如此才能抵達類似深層融合地帶然後視線之內應該要有一個像燈塔的東西來引領你走過這個迷宮來到達目的地 音樂人布萊恩·伊諾，他全程參與了這個永續計畫花了兩年的時間製作一張專輯，『7003的一月以及"" 關於萬年鐘的貝爾研究.""其中一部份是根據丹尼希利斯的演算方法製成的所以10個鐘一組的編鐘可以一萬年每天都發出不同的鐘聲希利斯的演算方法, 透過10的階乘可以給你這個數字實際上，我們馬上就可以聽到聲音7003的一月，就是這個聲音 我們回來到希利斯的7個階段第5個階段是修成正果的時候，就是這個高潮的時刻終於到達了你的努力的目標後來希利斯說了，一個每一個偉大的旅程都會有一個外人不得而知的收穫一個你意想不到的收穫再下來的階段就是-回歸你漸漸地必須從旅途回到一般的生活這樣才有時間慢慢體會這中間學到了些什麼最後，第七個-留念再最後會有一些實質上的回饋那種你可以帶走的回饋或許是一個開山的鑽頭或是一些你可以擁有的東西要怎麼用剛剛我們講的東西來研究一座山脈呢?這並不是一般的建築策劃目標是什麼?會有什麼因素來改變你的想法和決定呢? 我們從山沿開始看起，如果你這峭壁的左側是國家公園，沒法動的右邊是國家森林區是有可能，但在邊界上要很小心其他的因素還有-礦井、天氣、進去的難度和攀登的高度還有特別是- 樹，我們看看上面後來我們發現在華盛頓山脈覆蓋了一層針毬松這是全世界最老的生物大家會認會不就根一般的灌木大小一樣嗎? 但是這不對上面有些針毬松活了超過5000年，而且還活著樹木跟石頭一樣硬，而且可以活很久所以當你去上去研究樹輪年代時你會發現有些甚至活了超過一萬年這""石頭""本身也非常漂亮經過了幾千年的風霜的雕塑我們有來自亞歷桑那大學的樹輪專家加入我們的探勘隊 現在，如果你們手邊有松球現在正是時候可以放在手上，去感受它，特別是在尾端的地方非常有趣地你會非現在為什麼它們叫針毬松，可以感覺的到這張是在針毬松樹林裡的丹尼希利斯在永續基金會的領地上。我剛剛應該講，這個針毬松的年齡的算法是有一個理論的艾德瑪舒曼在1950年代研究在樹帶界線上的樹木(這些樹木承受比較大的壓力)然後把他的研究成果發表在雜誌裡叫做"" 困境造就的長壽針葉樹""然後，根據這個理論，他開始觀察其他也在樹帶界線上的的樹木然後才發現在懷特山脈的針毬松已經有4000多年的歷史了困境造就的長壽本身也是很有趣的理論 好，再來是礦井我們1998年第一次看的時候，要價是十億元可以買180英畝及裡面的一些礦井因為賣方說"" 山裡面有值十億元的鈹""然後我們說""哇！太棒了。聽著，我們覺的不妥，可以免費給我們嗎? (笑聲） 我們是非營利的組織，你可以給我們這塊地然後又可以拿來減稅 (笑聲） 你唯一要做的事就是像政府證明這山的確有價值十億元” 後來，我們討價還價了幾年後也謝謝米奇和傑我們終於用了14萬美金買了那塊地這是其中一個礦井，裡面根本沒有鈹叫做Pole Adit，但是有鎢礦一些殘留的鎢礦，之前含有的礦就是這種但是這些鎢礦在直線一英里的深處一直延伸到東邊一個非常奇特的地方你們馬上會看到我們本來想說會看到石灰岩，但是在裡面的卻是頁岩頁岩並不是很堅硬的岩石堅硬的岩石不用任何支撐物就可以穩定在那頁岩是要支撐物的所以頁岩的某些部份是陷在山壁裡面的 這是這個國家公園的蝙蝠專家－班羅伯茲除此之外裡面還有很多奇景，像這些奇怪的真菌就直接長在這些倒下的樹木上這是另一個礦井，在山頭上可追朔到1870年這就一開始在這土地開發礦山的原因當時有非常豐富的銀礦事實上，這是當時內華達州開採最盛的礦山全年無休你可以想像當時在一萬英尺高採礦的情景你們或許會認出一些礦工站在右邊的是傑夫貝佐斯，左邊的是保羅薩維爾，他們正在找方鉛礦但是沒有找到他們本身都有早上的工作，這是最後一個礦井 叫作- 豐收平坑，就在峽谷底站在左邊的亞歷山大羅斯，和一些來自這國家公園的人一起探勘這整個礦井，有一英里深他們還在裡面找到了四種不同種類的蝙蝠幾乎所有的礦井在山的下面都是互通的並不是很相通，但是滿值的思考的並不是很相通再來是-天氣，山上的天氣特別有趣甚至比現在的蒙特雷有趣 所以在去年六月的一個星期二　，我們在那一早起來，整坐山蓋滿了雪那是去我們的氣候站非常好的時間再一次感謝米奇·凱普，我們能在那建立氣象站這是一幅不錯的景像站在左邊非常開懐的女士- 帕特歐文他是這國家森林服務區的區域主管她給了我們在那的短期的使用權但最終我們要可以放置萬年鐘的許可一萬年的”短期”使用權 (笑聲) 這個氣象站非常有趣庫爾特伯拉克和亞歷山大羅斯設計了一個全新的無線氣象站它是由太陽供電，然後再由這個天線發射訊號出去撞到大氣層裡的微流星體再反射回來到蒙大拿州的波茲曼接收資料再透過線路送到舊金山我們可以同步的把資料上傳到網站上在這你可以看到9400英尺高的華盛頓山脈上一周的天氣接下來聊- 進去的途境剛開始華盛頓山脈並沒有任何一個路徑只有一些以前採礦的路所以必須在叢林中開路但這並沒有熊、有毒的橡樹這裡基本上也沒有半個人，因為這地方已經空了很久了你可以登好幾天的山也不會遇到人 這裡是一個有可能的路徑必須先來到林肯峽谷這裡本身就是一個超漂亮的小天地，四周被峭壁環繞著可以很輕鬆走到峽谷底直接來到了這個地方，就會有個難題所以基本上可以放棄林肯峽谷這個途徑另一個有可能的途徑是從西側的山邊山去你可以理解我們為什麼有時候又叫它長山脈從你站在6000英里高山谷上可以輕鬆地通過那7600英尺高的小圓丘徒步到矮松和檜柏林地帶再繼續往上走通過草原地帶陡峭的森林，直到這個10500英尺懸崖的平台這裡又有問題了 傑夫貝佐斯在探勘結束時建議我們""讓萬年鐘無法到達”""越難到達的地方才會有人珍惜它""看，這是600英尺高的牆壁亞歷山大羅斯想要試探這個路徑然後他從左邊這開始開他的小貨車在8900英尺他開始往山上開你會發現，隨著海拔的升高，你的智商跟著降低 (笑聲) 但你的情緒也會隨之高漲這對神秘之旅的經驗算是很棒的無論你想不想要事實上，丹尼希利斯可以透過他能不能算數學來估計海拔高度 (笑聲) 那時候我剛好有和亞歷山大透過話機對到話當他到達了這懸崖的基部，他說 -這裡有個隱型的切口，我想我可以想法子過去他是一個攀登者，但你們知道，他也是我們的執行總監我知道他很熱愛攀登，但我才不想讓他因此喪命所以我說"" 小心一點，要小心耶！""然後他就開始往上爬，接下來我聽到的是"" 我已經爬到一半了！跟爬樓梯一樣，我現在是60度往上爬,這裡有個秘密通道，跟托爾金的小說講的一樣”我還是叫他"" 小心、小心、請你小心一點呀！""當然，之後我再聽到的是""我到終於到山頂了，你可以看到所有的造化的萬物啊!""然後他在整個山頂狂奔了一陣子 這個就是他，亞歷山大羅斯第一個從西側爬上華盛頓山脈的人並且是獨立完成的這個發現讓我們對這整個山脈有了不同的想法以及如何處置它我們發現我們必須命名亞歷山大發現到的東西山大的裂縫? 不 (笑聲) 我們最後決定命名為　""亞歷山大之狹縫""山大的隙縫的來由是 —如果你們有到過佩特拉那裡有個非常漂亮的狹縫山谷，引領到佩特拉叫做”狹縫”這真的是隱藏的，我無法在這照片上找到我也不認為你可以看的到只有當剛下完雪的時候，在沿著縫的邊上會浮現出來 有一天，我和丹尼爬山了同一個地方丹尼看了右手邊發現在半山腰有個東西有點像是一個突出來的平台，上面還有針毬松設想看看，假如有人要去找藏在山裡的萬年鐘可以從這個小平台走出來往下看那些跋山涉水的登山客可以從下面看到他們納悶著竟然會有人爬到半山腰上了會想著 ""他們怎麼辦到的?"",""我要這麼做嗎?""這或許會變成萬年鐘吸引力的一部份或迷宮的一部份你可以從另一個角度看丹尼發現的小平台經由繞過南側向北眺望整個山景必須要了解，萬年鐘要要維持非常精準藉由日照、正午的曝曬再把產出出來的熱能啟動一個太陽能開關這個裝置就能重新效正時間，讓萬年鐘的時間非常準確從所即便地球的自轉變慢了或有其他之類的是發生萬年鐘總是會維持正確的時間 這是坐南朝北的照片這些全是森林管理區的領地，如果你爬到這懸崖上你會看到在那樹林裡有我們(永續基金會)的領地如果從上面往回看，你會有一種完全不同的感覺好似從最高的山頂看下去，一切都顯得渺小了這整個長距離的視野，到最後面的地平線有80英尺前面的剛好也是樹帶界線，這些針毬松確是是灌木那裡是完全不一樣的地方，高11400英尺，非常優美如果從這照片的右邊看下去這有600英尺高，就在庫爾特伯拉克左邊一碼之遠處剛好垂直高度600英尺，他正漫步向""山大的狹縫”走過去這是從上往下眺望的樣子我們應該做些圍欄之類的東西東側相較之下確比較平緩，仔細看那些並不是雪，白色的石灰岩長的就是這樣子你也可以看到這隻大角羊這一批是從懷俄明州引進來的牠們過的其實還不錯，但是有遇到一點點的問題 這是丹尼希利斯，他正在想一個設計上的問題他在想他站的地方(永續)是不是從山谷下看，會很像真的頂峰因為真的頂峰在角落被埋住了這就是我們在步兵說的""軍事山脊""而結果的確是希利斯想的就是從山谷下看會很像真的頂峰那只是錯覺而已我們後來慢慢發現有三個設計上的範疇要考慮第一個是對山的體驗第二個是在山裡面的體驗第三個是從山上看的體驗第三點主要由山谷下可看到的視野決定看，就在在丹尼的後面如果你往右邊看，最遠端15英里遠處就是謝爾河山脈 比較前面的地方呢，在山下有10個連在一塊的牧場利用山上的泉水實際上，在那你還可以看到自流井，水自動從井裡噴出其中一個牧場叫做 Kirkeby牧場我馬上秀給你看那是個非常漂亮的牧場紫花苜蓿和牛群，這是由保羅和羅尼布萊嫩經營的很有田園風光之美，同時間他們也花很多精力在上面大部份這些牧場都經營不太下去這是從他們牧場這往謝爾河山脈的西側看過去如果你走到最前面的樹林你會發現山谷以前的樣貌這個是洛基山脈的檜木，已經在這裡有千年之久了 後來 永續基金會在想是否可以想看看是否有可能買下這整個山谷因為那10個牧場以及他們17000英畝的地含蓋了500平方英里的山谷以及其他牧場的草地等等也的確有可能買下這整片土地用五百萬買了，然後再慢慢的讓它回復到大自然的樣貌在這中間可以把他變成國家公園藉此，大盆地國家公園就會有兩倍大，那就太棒了 好，我們最再看一下這整坐山這整個萬年鐘的經驗應該是很深奧的但從外面應該看不出來在懸崖的下方有一個天然的洞穴只有三點多公尺深，但如果在裡面再挖深呢?你從外面開始開鑿，挖到裡面後再從裡面往深處鑿之後就會有個入口一開始進去會很窄和困難但會越來越平順，甚至變得很精美這塊石頭可以是算是非常有品味的一開始會一條非常精美的通道和小洞穴最終引領到萬年鐘 這不是礦山，而只是一個山脈的基本結構被喚起而已你不管從裡面或外面都會被這作山給震懾住這並不是一般樓房的建築而是你仔細體會才能得到的這是大山教我們的智慧萬年鐘最驚人的地方就是我們可以得到這份驚奇只要點綴出它驚奇之處，再與之相融這並不是鐘在山裡面，而是-""萬年鐘""山特瓦族印第安人有句名言當你把每件事都以看遠方的態度來思考時他們說 : pin peya obe ，歡迎來到山裡 謝謝 (掌聲)"
