Talk	en	zh-tw
stuart_brown_says_play_is_more_than_fun_it_s_vital	"So, here we go: a flyby of play. It's got to be serious if the New York Times puts a cover story of their February 17th Sunday magazine about play. At the bottom of this, it says, ""It's deeper than gender. Seriously, but dangerously fun. And a sandbox for new ideas about evolution."" Not bad, except if you look at that cover, what's missing? You see any adults? Well, lets go back to the 15th century. This is a courtyard in Europe, and a mixture of 124 different kinds of play. All ages, solo play, body play, games, taunting. And there it is. And I think this is a typical picture of what it was like in a courtyard then. I think we may have lost something in our culture. So I'm gonna take you through what I think is a remarkable sequence. North of Churchill, Manitoba, in October and November, there's no ice on Hudson Bay. And this polar bear that you see, this 1200-pound male, he's wild and fairly hungry. And Norbert Rosing, a German photographer, is there on scene, making a series of photos of these huskies, who are tethered. And from out of stage left comes this wild, male polar bear, with a predatory gaze. Any of you who've been to Africa or had a junkyard dog come after you, there is a fixed kind of predatory gaze that you know you're in trouble. But on the other side of that predatory gaze is a female husky in a play bow, wagging her tail. And something very unusual happens. That fixed behavior — which is rigid and stereotyped and ends up with a meal — changes. And this polar bear stands over the husky, no claws extended, no fangs taking a look. And they begin an incredible ballet. A play ballet. This is in nature: it overrides a carnivorous nature and what otherwise would have been a short fight to the death. And if you'll begin to look closely at the husky that's bearing her throat to the polar bear, and look a little more closely, they're in an altered state. They're in a state of play. And it's that state that allows these two creatures to explore the possible. They are beginning to do something that neither would have done without the play signals. And it is a marvelous example of how a differential in power can be overridden by a process of nature that's within all of us. Now how did I get involved in this? John mentioned that I've done some work with murderers, and I have. The Texas Tower murderer opened my eyes, in retrospect, when we studied his tragic mass murder, to the importance of play, in that that individual, by deep study, was found to have severe play deprivation. Charles Whitman was his name. And our committee, which consisted of a lot of hard scientists, did feel at the end of that study that the absence of play and a progressive suppression of developmentally normal play led him to be more vulnerable to the tragedy that he perpetrated. And that finding has stood the test of time — unfortunately even into more recent times, at Virginia Tech. And other studies of populations at risk sensitized me to the importance of play, but I didn't really understand what it was. And it was many years in taking play histories of individuals before I really began to recognize that I didn't really have a full understanding of it. And I don't think any of us has a full understanding of it, by any means. But there are ways of looking at it that I think can give you — give us all a taxonomy, a way of thinking about it. And this image is, for humans, the beginning point of play. When that mother and infant lock eyes, and the infant's old enough to have a social smile, what happens — spontaneously — is the eruption of joy on the part of the mother. And she begins to babble and coo and smile, and so does the baby. If we've got them wired up with an electroencephalogram, the right brain of each of them becomes attuned, so that the joyful emergence of this earliest of play scenes and the physiology of that is something we're beginning to get a handle on. And I'd like you to think that every bit of more complex play builds on this base for us humans. And so now I'm going to take you through sort of a way of looking at play, but it's never just singularly one thing. We're going to look at body play, which is a spontaneous desire to get ourselves out of gravity. This is a mountain goat. If you're having a bad day, try this: jump up and down, wiggle around — you're going to feel better. And you may feel like this character, who is also just doing it for its own sake. It doesn't have a particular purpose, and that's what's great about play. If its purpose is more important than the act of doing it, it's probably not play. And there's a whole other type of play, which is object play. And this Japanese macaque has made a snowball, and he or she's going to roll down a hill. And — they don't throw it at each other, but this is a fundamental part of being playful. The human hand, in manipulation of objects, is the hand in search of a brain; the brain is in search of a hand; and play is the medium by which those two are linked in the best way. JPL we heard this morning — JPL is an incredible place. They have located two consultants, Frank Wilson and Nate Johnson, who are — Frank Wilson is a neurologist, Nate Johnson is a mechanic. He taught mechanics in a high school in Long Beach, and found that his students were no longer able to solve problems. And he tried to figure out why. And he came to the conclusion, quite on his own, that the students who could no longer solve problems, such as fixing cars, hadn't worked with their hands. Frank Wilson had written a book called ""The Hand."" They got together — JPL hired them. Now JPL, NASA and Boeing, before they will hire a research and development problem solver — even if they're summa cum laude from Harvard or Cal Tech — if they haven't fixed cars, haven't done stuff with their hands early in life, played with their hands, they can't problem-solve as well. So play is practical, and it's very important. Now one of the things about play is that it is born by curiosity and exploration. (Laughter) But it has to be safe exploration. This happens to be OK — he's an anatomically interested little boy and that's his mom. Other situations wouldn't be quite so good. But curiosity, exploration, are part of the play scene. If you want to belong, you need social play. And social play is part of what we're about here today, and is a byproduct of the play scene. Rough and tumble play. These lionesses, seen from a distance, looked like they were fighting. But if you look closely, they're kind of like the polar bear and husky: no claws, flat fur, soft eyes, open mouth with no fangs, balletic movements, curvilinear movements — all specific to play. And rough-and-tumble play is a great learning medium for all of us. Preschool kids, for example, should be allowed to dive, hit, whistle, scream, be chaotic, and develop through that a lot of emotional regulation and a lot of the other social byproducts — cognitive, emotional and physical — that come as a part of rough and tumble play. Spectator play, ritual play — we're involved in some of that. Those of you who are from Boston know that this was the moment — rare — where the Red Sox won the World Series. But take a look at the face and the body language of everybody in this fuzzy picture, and you can get a sense that they're all at play. Imaginative play. I love this picture because my daughter, who's now almost 40, is in this picture, but it reminds me of her storytelling and her imagination, her ability to spin yarns at this age — preschool. A really important part of being a player is imaginative solo play. And I love this one, because it's also what we're about. We all have an internal narrative that's our own inner story. The unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story. I'm telling you a story today about play. Well, this bushman, I think, is talking about the fish that got away that was that long, but it's a fundamental part of the play scene. So what does play do for the brain? Well, a lot. We don't know a whole lot about what it does for the human brain, because funding has not been exactly heavy for research on play. I walked into the Carnegie asking for a grant. They'd given me a large grant when I was an academician for the study of felony drunken drivers, and I thought I had a pretty good track record, and by the time I had spent half an hour talking about play, it was obvious that they were not — did not feel that play was serious. I think that — that's a few years back — I think that wave is past, and the play wave is cresting, because there is some good science. Nothing lights up the brain like play. Three-dimensional play fires up the cerebellum, puts a lot of impulses into the frontal lobe — the executive portion — helps contextual memory be developed, and — and, and, and. So it's — for me, its been an extremely nourishing scholarly adventure to look at the neuroscience that's associated with play, and to bring together people who in their individual disciplines hadn't really thought of it that way. And that's part of what the National Institute for Play is all about. And this is one of the ways you can study play — is to get a 256-lead electroencephalogram. I'm sorry I don't have a playful-looking subject, but it allows mobility, which has limited the actual study of play. And we've got a mother-infant play scenario that we're hoping to complete underway at the moment. The reason I put this here is also to queue up my thoughts about objectifying what play does. The animal world has objectified it. In the animal world, if you take rats, who are hardwired to play at a certain period of their juvenile years and you suppress play — they squeak, they wrestle, they pin each other, that's part of their play. If you stop that behavior on one group that you're experimenting with, and you allow it in another group that you're experimenting with, and then you present those rats with a cat odor-saturated collar, they're hardwired to flee and hide. Pretty smart — they don't want to get killed by a cat. So what happens? They both hide out. The non-players never come out — they die. The players slowly explore the environment, and begin again to test things out. That says to me, at least in rats — and I think they have the same neurotransmitters that we do and a similar cortical architecture — that play may be pretty important for our survival. And, and, and — there are a lot more animal studies that I could talk about. Now, this is a consequence of play deprivation. (Laughter) This took a long time — I had to get Homer down and put him through the fMRI and the SPECT and multiple EEGs, but as a couch potato, his brain has shrunk. And we do know that in domestic animals and others, when they're play deprived, they don't — and rats also — they don't develop a brain that is normal. Now, the program says that the opposite of play is not work, it's depression. And I think if you think about life without play — no humor, no flirtation, no movies, no games, no fantasy and, and, and. Try and imagine a culture or a life, adult or otherwise without play. And the thing that's so unique about our species is that we're really designed to play through our whole lifetime. And we all have capacity to play signal. Nobody misses that dog I took a picture of on a Carmel beach a couple of weeks ago. What's going to follow from that behavior is play. And you can trust it. The basis of human trust is established through play signals. And we begin to lose those signals, culturally and otherwise, as adults. That's a shame. I think we've got a lot of learning to do. Now, Jane Goodall has here a play face along with one of her favorite chimps. So part of the signaling system of play has to do with vocal, facial, body, gestural. You know, you can tell — and I think when we're getting into collective play, its really important for groups to gain a sense of safety through their own sharing of play signals. You may not know this word, but it should be your biological first name and last name. Because neoteny means the retention of immature qualities into adulthood. And we are, by physical anthropologists, by many, many studies, the most neotenous, the most youthful, the most flexible, the most plastic of all creatures. And therefore, the most playful. And this gives us a leg up on adaptability. Now, there is a way of looking at play that I also want to emphasize here, which is the play history. Your own personal play history is unique, and often is not something we think about particularly. This is a book written by a consummate player by the name of Kevin Carroll. Kevin Carroll came from extremely deprived circumstances: alcoholic mother, absent father, inner-city Philadelphia, black, had to take care of a younger brother. Found that when he looked at a playground out of a window into which he had been confined, he felt something different. And so he followed up on it. And his life — the transformation of his life from deprivation and what one would expect — potentially prison or death — he become a linguist, a trainer for the 76ers and now is a motivational speaker. And he gives play as a transformative force over his entire life. Now there's another play history that I think is a work in progress. Those of you who remember Al Gore, during the first term and then during his successful but unelected run for the presidency, may remember him as being kind of wooden and not entirely his own person, at least in public. And looking at his history, which is common in the press, it seems to me, at least — looking at it from a shrink's point of view — that a lot of his life was programmed. Summers were hard, hard work, in the heat of Tennessee summers. He had the expectations of his senatorial father and Washington, D.C. And although I think he certainly had the capacity for play — because I do know something about that — he wasn't as empowered, I think, as he now is by paying attention to what is his own passion and his own inner drive, which I think has its basis in all of us in our play history. So what I would encourage on an individual level to do, is to explore backwards as far as you can go to the most clear, joyful, playful image that you have, whether it's with a toy, on a birthday or on a vacation. And begin to build to build from the emotion of that into how that connects with your life now. And you'll find, you may change jobs — which has happened to a number people when I've had them do this — in order to be more empowered through their play. Or you'll be able to enrich your life by prioritizing it and paying attention to it. Most of us work with groups, and I put this up because the d.school, the design school at Stanford, thanks to David Kelley and a lot of others who have been visionary about its establishment, has allowed a group of us to get together and create a course called ""From Play to Innovation."" And you'll see this course is to investigate the human state of play, which is kind of like the polar bear-husky state and its importance to creative thinking: ""to explore play behavior, its development and its biological basis; to apply those principles, through design thinking, to promote innovation in the corporate world; and the students will work with real-world partners on design projects with widespread application."" This is our maiden voyage in this. We're about two and a half, three months into it, and it's really been fun. There is our star pupil, this labrador, who taught a lot of us what a state of play is, and an extremely aged and decrepit professor in charge there. And Brendan Boyle, Rich Crandall — and on the far right is, I think, a person who will be in cahoots with George Smoot for a Nobel Prize — Stuart Thompson, in neuroscience. So we've had Brendan, who's from IDEO, and the rest of us sitting aside and watching these students as they put play principles into practice in the classroom. And one of their projects was to see what makes meetings boring, and to try and do something about it. So what will follow is a student-made film about just that. Narrator: Flow is the mental state of apparition in which the person is fully immersed in what he or she is doing. Characterized by a feeling of energized focus, full involvement and success in the process of the activity. An important key insight that we learned about meetings is that people pack them in one after another, disruptive to the day. Attendees at meetings don't know when they'll get back to the task that they left at their desk. But it doesn't have to be that way. (Music) Some sage and repeatedly furry monks at this place called the d.school designed a meeting that you can literally step out of when it's over. Take the meeting off, and have peace of mind that you can come back to me. Because when you need it again, the meeting is literally hanging in your closet. The Wearable Meeting. Because when you put it on, you immediately get everything you need to have a fun and productive and useful meeting. But when you take it off — that's when the real action happens. (Music) (Laughter) (Applause) Stuart Brown: So I would encourage you all to engage not in the work-play differential — where you set aside time to play — but where your life becomes infused minute by minute, hour by hour, with body, object, social, fantasy, transformational kinds of play. And I think you'll have a better and more empowered life. Thank You. (Applause) John Hockenberry: So it sounds to me like what you're saying is that there may be some temptation on the part of people to look at your work and go — I think I've heard this, in my kind of pop psychological understanding of play, that somehow, the way animals and humans deal with play, is that it's some sort of rehearsal for adult activity. Your work seems to suggest that that is powerfully wrong. SB: Yeah, I don't think that's accurate, and I think probably because animals have taught us that. If you stop a cat from playing — which you can do, and we've all seen how cats bat around stuff — they're just as good predators as they would be if they hadn't played. And if you imagine a kid pretending to be King Kong, or a race car driver, or a fireman, they don't all become race car drivers or firemen, you know. So there's a disconnect between preparation for the future — which is what most people are comfortable in thinking about play as — and thinking of it as a separate biological entity. And this is where my chasing animals for four, five years really changed my perspective from a clinician to what I am now, which is that play has a biological place, just like sleep and dreams do. And if you look at sleep and dreams biologically, animals sleep and dream, and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memory and that are a very important part of sleep and dreams. The next step of evolution in mammals and creatures with divinely superfluous neurons will be to play. And the fact that the polar bear and husky or magpie and a bear or you and I and our dogs can crossover and have that experience sets play aside as something separate. And its hugely important in learning and crafting the brain. So it's not just something you do in your spare time. JH: How do you keep — and I know you're part of the scientific research community, and you have to justify your existence with grants and proposals like everyone else — how do you prevent — and some of the data that you've produced, the good science that you're talking about you've produced, is hot to handle. How do you prevent either the media's interpretation of your work or the scientific community's interpretation of the implications of your work, kind of like the Mozart metaphor, where, ""Oh, MRIs show that play enhances your intelligence. Well, let's round these kids up, put them in pens and make them play for months at a time; they'll all be geniuses and go to Harvard."" How do you prevent people from taking that sort of action on the data that you're developing? SB: Well, I think the only way I know to do it is to have accumulated the advisers that I have who go from practitioners — who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever — a state of play. So people know that it's there. And then you get an fMRI specialist, and you get Frank Wilson, and you get other kinds of hard scientists, including neuroendocrinologists. And you get them into a group together focused on play, and it's pretty hard not to take it seriously. Unfortunately, that hasn't been done sufficiently for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Mental Health or anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously. I mean you don't hear about anything that's like cancer or heart disease associated with play. And yet I see it as something that's just as basic for survival — long term — as learning some of the basic things about public health. JH: Stuart Brown, thank you very much. (Applause)"	我們來談談玩這件事。 如果紐約時報在二月17日的週刊上，以封面故事來報導玩這件事，那一定是很嚴肅的事。封面底部寫上：「比性別更深奧，玩得認真又危險！沙堆是產生演化論新點子的好地點！」還不錯吧？但看看那封面，少了什麼？有看到大人嗎？ 我們來看看15世紀，這是那時歐洲的一個庭院，這張畫裡包含了124種不同的遊戲，各種年齡的人都有，有一個人玩的遊戲，也有肢體遊戲，各種遊戲都有，我認為這張畫代表了當時典型的庭院生活。我們似乎在文化裡遺漏了什麼， 所以我要告訴各位，這樣會有什麼後果。在10月或11月時，丘契爾北部的曼尼托巴，沿著哈德遜灣是看不到結冰景象的，但你卻看到這隻北極熊，一隻550公斤重的公熊，在野外飢餓地覓食。一位德國的攝影師諾伯特．羅星剛好在那裡，他正在為拴在那裡的一群哈士奇犬拍照，接著在左側他就看到了那隻野地裡的公北極熊，正對他投以掠食者的眼神。你們如果有人去過非洲，或是在垃圾場遇過狗在追你，你就會知道看到那種掠食者的眼神時，你的麻煩就大了！但在另一邊，有隻母哈士奇正在玩耍，搖著她的尾巴，這時竟發生了一件很不尋常的事，原先已經定型為掠食的行為，應該是要飽餐一頓的，沒想到竟然改變了！這隻北極熊竟然站在這隻哈士奇旁邊，沒伸出利爪，也沒露出尖牙，二隻動物竟不可思議地玩了起來， 就是在玩！這很不自然：這種行為違反了肉食動物的本性，北極熊本來可以輕鬆地就將哈士奇咬死才對。如果你看仔細一點，你會看到哈士奇靠北極熊很近，再仔細看下去，你會發現他們的關係改變了，他們竟然在一起玩！這二隻動物正在探索彼此關係可能的發展，如果不是在玩耍，這二隻動物根本不可能這樣相處在一起。這真的是一個神奇的例子，讓我們見識到凶猛的北極熊，竟能被你我心中都有的天性所馴服。 我為什麼會來研究這個呢？約翰剛才提到我曾參與某些謀殺案的調查，沒錯，德州大學校園槍擊案真是讓我大開眼界，回想起來，當我們研究兇手所犯下的滔天大罪，我們發現了玩耍的重要性，因為我們深入研究後，發現兇手曾被嚴重地剝奪玩耍的權利。兇手叫做查爾斯．惠特曼。在我們的委員會裡，有許多實力堅強的科學家，他們在研究過後都覺得，兇手缺乏玩耍的經驗，成長過程中正常的玩耍也被壓抑，導致他的心靈脆弱，並犯下如此滔天大罪。這個結論絕對禁得起時間的考驗，因為不久前在維吉尼亞科技大學裡也發生了同樣的悲劇。 而其他關於人口危機的研究，也讓我聯想到玩耍的重要性，但我卻不瞭解其真正內涵，甚至在我研究了人類的玩耍歷史多年之後，我才真正體認到我對於玩耍沒有一個全面性的瞭解。我認為沒有人完全瞭解玩耍這件事，但我卻認為，我們可以從不同角度來看待玩耍這件事，先從分類開始。 這張圖對人類來說，可說是玩耍的開始，當母親與嬰兒四目相對，當嬰兒大到足以發展出社交性質的微笑時，母親便不由自主地感受到極大的喜悅，開始學嬰兒發出聲音，對嬰兒微笑，嬰兒也報以相同回應。如果我們為他們測量腦波，會發現他們的右腦很活躍，因此，這種最早的玩耍印象所帶來的喜悅，以及對人身體的影響，就是我們所要研究的對象。 我希望各位能瞭解，每一次提高玩耍的難度，就是在為我們的人格奠下基礎。現在我要讓各位看看玩耍的各個種類，但每個種類絕對不是只有單一面向而已。 我們先來看肢體遊體，這是我們人類想要對抗地心引力的一種不由自主的渴望。這是一隻山羊。如果你今天過得不是很好，試試這個：跳上跳下，扭動一下，你就會覺得好過一點。你或許會覺得自己像這隻山羊，它做這些動作都只是為了自己，沒有什麼特別的目的，這就是玩耍最棒的一點。如果做這件事的目的比這件事本身還要重要，那就算不上是玩耍。 還有另一種型態的玩耍，就是玩玩具。這隻日本彌猴捏了一個雪球，她打算把雪球滾下山坡，他們不會互相丟雪球，但這樣就是最基本的玩耍了。人類的手在操縱物品時，手在尋求大腦的協助，大腦也在指揮手的運作，而玩耍則是將此二者做最佳的連結。 我們早上聽到的噴射推進實驗室(JPL)是一個很棒的地方，他們有二位顧問，法蘭克．威爾森和內特．強森，法蘭克是一位神經學家，內特則是一位機械專家，他在長灘的某所高中教授機械學，但他發現，他的學生沒有能力解答問題，他想知道為什麼，最後他靠自己找到了答案，他發現那些無法解答問題的學生，就連修車這種小事，也都從來沒有親自動手做過。法蘭克曾寫了一本叫做《手》的書，他們二人發現彼此志同道合，因此JPL就僱用了他們現在，JPL、美國太空總署(NASA)和波音公司，在他們僱用研發人員之前，不管求職者是否為哈佛或加州理工學院的高材生，如果求職者沒有修過車，或沒有在他們年輕時親手做過些什麼，也沒用雙手玩過些什麼遊戲，就會被視為無法勝任。玩耍是很實際的，也很重要。 玩耍是由好奇心與探索所組成的。(笑聲)前提當然得是安全的探索才行。這還好，他只是個對解剖學很感興趣的小男孩，那是他媽媽。其他情況就沒有那麼好了。好奇心、探索只是玩耍的一部分而已，如果你還想要有歸屬感，你還得參與社交性質的遊戲，這類社交遊戲就有點像是我們今天聚在這裡一樣，是遊戲的副產品。 粗魯打鬧的遊戲。看看這些獅子，從遠處看你會以為他們在打架，但你靠近一點看，就會發現他們有點像是北極熊和哈士奇玩耍一般，沒有銳利的爪子、毛皮柔順、眼神溫馴、嘴巴張開卻不露出尖牙，彼此如跳舞般互動，全都顯示出他們在玩耍。這類粗魯打鬧的遊戲是我們成長學習的最佳媒介，例如學齡前的兒童，應該要讓他們衝撞、打鬧、尖叫、亂搞，他們才能藉此發展出一些控制情緒的方法，也才能學到一些社交互動技巧，包含認知、情感及身體上的技巧，這些都能從粗魯的打鬧中學習而得。 從旁觀看或是儀式性質的遊戲—我們也參與過這些活動，從波士頓來的人就會知道這件事，雖然不常發生—那是紅襪隊贏得世界盃的一刻。看看那些群眾的臉孔和他們的肢體動作，雖然照片有點模糊，但你還是感覺得到他們在玩。 想像式的玩耍。我很喜歡這張照片，因為我的女兒也在照片裡，她現在快40歲了，但只要看到這張照片，就會讓我想到她說的故事和她的想像力，她在學齡前就已經有能力虛構故事了。要成為一個遊戲高手，就要能運用想像力獨自玩耍。 我很喜歡這個，因為這是關於我們自己的遊戲，我們在內心裡都有自己的故事，人類大腦裡負責理解的區塊掌管的大部分都是故事。我來說一個有關玩耍的故事，有個山裡來的人，正在對大家說他差點就釣到一條那麼長的魚，這就是玩耍的最基本元素。 那麼玩耍對我們的大腦有什麼好處？嗯，有很多好處。 但我們對玩耍為大腦帶來的好處所知並不多，因為還沒有足夠的經費投入這方面的研究。當我走進卡內基請求給予經費時，如果我以研究酒罪駕車的學者名義申請經費的話，將會得到許多補助，因為我以往的名聲不錯。但如果我花上一個半小時對他們解說玩耍的重要性，很顯然一毛也拿不到，因為他們不覺得玩有什麼重要。那是好幾年前的狀況，我認為這種想法已經過時了，現在玩耍才是最熱門的議題，因為有些不錯的科學研究已經證實了這件事。 玩耍對腦部的刺激是其他活動所比不上的，三度空間的玩耍可以刺激小腦活動，也會對前額葉產生許多刺激，也就是腦部負責解決問題的區塊，可以幫助我們發展情境記憶，還有...還有... 對我來說，這是一趟很有價值的學術之旅，讓我接觸到有關玩耍方面的神經科學，也讓人們瞭解玩耍這件事和他們從小的觀念不同。這就是國家玩耍中心成立的部分宗旨，這裡有許多研究玩耍的方法，其中之一是用256條導線測量腦波。很抱歉沒能給各位一個更好玩的講題，但我可以調整，就來講講我們的實地研究吧。我們先前看過母親逗弄嬰孩的圖片，我們現在就來解釋剩餘的部分。 這麼做的原因是要整理我的思緒，好讓我能以更具體的方式來解釋玩耍這件事。動物間的互動很具體，在動物世界裡，如果你把一隻老鼠從幼年時期起就讓它玩耍一段時間，讓他們吱吱亂叫、互相摔角、壓倒對方，這些都算玩耍，然後就禁止他們再玩，選擇一組實驗組禁止他們玩耍，讓另一組實驗組繼續玩，接著，把一個充滿貓氣味的項圈拿到這些老鼠面前，他們的天性就是會逃跑躲起來，很聰明，因為他們可不想被貓吃掉。接下來呢？二組老鼠都躲起來了，但被禁止玩耍的老鼠卻都不再出來，他們全都死了。繼續玩耍的老鼠則小心地探索環境，然後又開始嚐試探索週邊的事物。這件事讓我瞭解到，至少老鼠們—我認為老鼠和人類的神經傳導系統類似，也有類似的皮質層組織，因此我推論玩耍對人類的生存極為重要。 還有...我還可以舉出許多其他的動物實驗， 這是剝奪玩耍權利的後果。(笑聲)我花了很多時間，我得把荷姆放下來，讓他做核磁共振、斷面成像、腦波圖等檢驗，但他成天窩在沙發上都不動，腦子已經萎縮了。就被馴養的動物來說，我們已經知道當他們的玩耍權利被剝奪之後，他們的腦部就不會正常發展，老鼠也是這樣。 這個研究告訴我們，玩耍的相反不是工作，而是壓抑。如果各位想像一下沒有玩樂的生活，沒有幽默的笑話、沒有輕鬆的調情、沒有電影、沒有遊戲、沒有幻想這一類的，試著想像有一種生活或文化，不管大人小孩，都不能玩耍。我們人類之所以會是這麼獨特的物種，是因為我們生來就是被設計成要玩耍的，而且要玩一輩子， 我們全都有玩耍的能量。沒人會懷念我幾個星期前在卡梅爾海灘上為那隻狗所照的相片，大家只知道接下來就是要玩，這無庸置疑。人類信任的本質其實是建立在玩耍之上，但我們長大後卻漸漸遺忘，不管是在文化或是其他方面，這真令人慚愧。我想我們得重新學習才行。 珍．古德博士正在和她最喜愛的黑猩猩做鬼臉，玩耍的信號是透過聲音、表情、肢體、動作等來表達。你應該可以分辨，當我們加入某個群體遊戲時，重要的是要讓群體感受到安全感，要透過大家彼此分享玩耍的信號才能獲得安全感。 你可能不瞭解早熟的意義，但這卻是你生物學上的名字，因為早熟就表示過早進入成人期，但卻還保留了一些不成熟的元素。許多人類學家都這麼說，也有許多研究證實，人類是最早熟的物種，也是所有生物裡最年輕、最有彈性和最有可塑性的生物。當然，也是最會玩的生物，這讓我們更具適應性。 我在此還想強調玩耍的另一個面向，就是玩耍的歷史。每一個人自己的玩耍過程都不相同，而且通常也不是我們所能想像得到的。 這本書是由一個實踐型的玩家所寫的，作者叫做凱文．卡羅。凱文自小就生活在極端壓抑的環境裡：母親酗酒，父不詳，住在費城的貧民窟裡，他是黑人，還得照顧弟弟。有天當他被關在家中，他從窗戶看到外面有個遊樂場，他突然發現有些事情開始改變，他決定去追求他的人生。他的人生隨之改變，原本備受壓抑，而且大家都以為他長大後會進監獄或是死掉，但他卻成了一個語言學家、費城七六人隊的訓練師，還擔任激勵人心的演講者。他認為玩耍這件事，是促成他人生改變的原動力。 我還想講另一個人的玩耍歷史，我覺得他目前也還在玩，大家一定都還記得高爾(美國前副總統)，在他第一任的任期結束後，又成功連任，但後來競選總統卻失利，大家可能會覺得他有些呆板，但那不是他真實的個性，但在公開場合他確實留給大家這種印象。看看他的過去，在媒體眼中平淡無奇，而在我這個心理醫生的眼裡看來，他人生的大部分都是被安排好的。夏天要辛苦工作，要在田納西的烈陽下工作，他的參議員父親及華盛頓的某些人都對他有所期望，雖然我認為他絕對有能力玩耍，因為我知道他的一些底細，但他沒有被允許玩耍，我認為，於是他現在將全心投入在他的理想上，任憑內心的動力驅使他前進，我認為這就是我們每個人會玩耍的最基本要素。 我會鼓勵每一個人回想，儘可能地往前回想，想想你曾擁有過最清晰、最快樂、最好玩的景象，不管是玩玩具、參加生日派對或是去渡假的記憶都好，開始回想那時你的心情，想想那種心情與你現在的生活有何關係。你會發現，或許你該換個工作，很多人在應我的要求這麼做之後，都換了工作，他們希望能藉由玩耍來增強自己的力量。或是將自己的生活排定優先順序，才能更專注在生活上。 大部份的人都和別人一起工作，我提到這個是因為在史丹佛的設計學院裡，就讓我們這一群人開設了一堂叫做「從玩耍到創新」的課程，這可得感謝大衛．凱利和其他許多有遠見的人創設了這門課。這門課是要去研究人類玩耍的狀態，就像是北極熊和哈士奇玩耍的狀態一樣，對人類創造性的思考極為重要。我們想要探索玩耍的行為、玩耍的發展過程及其背後的生物需求，再把這些原理透過設計師的思考，在企業裡發揮出創新的理念。修這門課的學生會和現實世界裡的企業夥伴一起合作，一起參與設計，廣泛地運用自身所學。 這是我們的初次嚐試，這門課已經進行了二個半月，或是三個月了，真的很好玩，這隻拉不拉多犬是我們的明星學員，它讓我們瞭解了許多玩耍的意義，而整個課程則是由一位老得不能再老的教授主持。這是布蘭登．波爾、理奇．克蘭道爾，最右邊的則是史都特．湯普森，我認為他會和喬治．史慕特一起得到神經科學的諾貝爾獎。我們請來了來自IDEO的布蘭登，其他人則坐在旁邊看這些學生，看他們如何將玩耍的原理應用在課堂上。其中有一項作業，是要他們研究讓會議變得無趣的因素是什麼，看他們能有什麼解決之道。接下來就是學生們為解決此一問題，自行拍攝的影片。 旁白：會議流程是會議的精神狀態，人們會完全沈浸在自己正在做的事情當中，每一個人的個性則取決於其在會議當中所投入的專注力、參與程度與會議的成功與否。 關於會議，我們有一個重要的發現，人們總是不斷在開會，將一天的行程搞得支離破碎。參與會議的人並不知道他們什麼時候才能回座位處理未完的公事，但會議並不一定非得要這麼糟。 (音樂) 在座有些賢者及僧侶都認為我們的設計學院設計出了一種會議，讓你可以隨時中途離席，只要把會議脫下，你就可以獲得心靈的平靜，又可以回到自己的身份，但當你覺得需要再參加時，那會議還會在原地等你回來， 我們稱之為「可穿脫式會議」。只要把會議穿上，你就可以立刻參與會議，享受有趣又有效率的會議；但當你脫掉會議，就是你該採取行動的時候了。 (音樂) (笑聲)(鼓掌) 史都特．布朗：我想要鼓勵各位，不要去管工作與玩耍的差別，也不要特別安排時間去玩耍，而是應該為你生活中的每一分鐘、每一個小時都安排肢體遊戲、玩玩具、社交遊戲、幻想遊戲與各種不同的遊戲。我認為，你的生活將會更多彩多姿，謝謝各位！ (掌聲) 約翰．哈肯貝瑞：我聽了你的演講之後，會覺得很想去看看你的工作，還想...我聽到你說，以大眾心理學家的角度來看玩耍這件事，會以為人類與動物之所以會玩耍，都是為長大之後的活動做準備。但你的研究顯示這種推論完全錯誤。 史都特：對，我不覺得這種理論是正確的，我認為或許我們可以從動物身上學習到這一點。如果你不讓貓咪玩耍，你確實可以這麼做，但我們都看過貓咪怎麼追打玩具，就算他們不玩耍，他們還是很棒的掠食者。現在想像一個孩子，想像他假裝自己是大金剛，或是一個賽車手，或是消防員，但他們長大後不會全都成為賽車手或消防員。所以用為未來做準備來解釋玩耍是有所不足的，雖然大部分的人都認為這個理論說得通，還把人類視為不同於一般物種。 我觀察動物已經有四、五年了，讓我從一個臨床醫生轉變為現在的我，我發現玩耍有其生理上的需求，就像人類必須睡覺和做夢一樣。以生理學上的角度來看睡眠和做夢這二件事，動物也會睡覺，也會做夢，這二件事可以讓他們演練平常會做的事，也可以幫助記憶，這是睡眠與做夢的重要功能。 針對哺乳類動物和擁有超多神經的生物，我們的下一步就是要研究玩耍的功能。就像我們看到的北極熊和哈士奇犬，或是喜鵲和大熊，或是我們人類和狗兒，我們都曾有過互動玩耍的經驗，而在那一刻，我們放棄扮演各自的角色。玩耍對學習及刺激大腦有著重要的影響力，所以不是只有空閒的時間才能玩耍。 約翰：你如何保持...你是科學研究的學者，像其他人一樣，你得爭取研究經費，為自己的研究辯護，你怎麼防止...你的研究成果和你在此所談論到的科學數據，都是很熱門的題材，你要如何防止媒體或是其他科學研究的學者，將你的研究成果錯誤解讀成為像是莫札特現象，他們會說：「核磁共振顯示...玩耍會增進你的智商。我們把這群小孩集中起來，給他們紙筆，讓他們玩上好幾個月，他們就會變成天才，全都可以上哈佛。」你要怎麼防止人們錯誤解讀你的研究成果，而採取這一類的行動？ 史都特：嗯，我認為唯一的解法，就是告訴他們我所獲得的忠告，這些忠告大部分是來自醫生們，他們認為只有透過即興式的玩耍或玩樂而產生的創造，才稱之為玩耍。大家要先瞭解玩耍的定義，才能詢問核磁共振的專家，像是法蘭克．威爾森，或是其他專業領域的科學家，包含神經內分泌學者。把這些學者集合起來研究玩耍這件事，大家都很認真地研究， 但是國家科學基金會和國家心理健康研究院都不是做得很好，因為大家都沒有很認真、嚴肅地看待這件事。各位一定沒有聽過玩耍和癌症或是心臟病有什麼關聯吧？但我卻認為，以長遠來看，玩耍是我們生存的基本要件，就像我們在公衛領域上所學到的其他生存條件一樣。 約翰：史都特，謝謝你的演講！ (掌聲)
