Talk	en	zh-tw
sue_klebold_my_son_was_a_columbine_shooter_this_is_my_story	"The last time I heard my son's voice was when he walked out the front door on his way to school. He called out one word in the darkness: ""Bye."" It was April 20, 1999. Later that morning, at Columbine High School, my son Dylan and his friend Eric killed 12 students and a teacher and wounded more than 20 others before taking their own lives. Thirteen innocent people were killed, leaving their loved ones in a state of grief and trauma. Others sustained injuries, some resulting in disfigurement and permanent disability. But the enormity of the tragedy can't be measured only by the number of deaths and injuries that took place. There's no way to quantify the psychological damage of those who were in the school, or who took part in rescue or cleanup efforts. There's no way to assess the magnitude of a tragedy like Columbine, especially when it can be a blueprint for other shooters who go on to commit atrocities of their own. Columbine was a tidal wave, and when the crash ended, it would take years for the community and for society to comprehend its impact. It has taken me years to try to accept my son's legacy. The cruel behavior that defined the end of his life showed me that he was a completely different person from the one I knew. Afterwards people asked, ""How could you not know? What kind of a mother were you?"" I still ask myself those same questions. Before the shootings, I thought of myself as a good mom. Helping my children become caring, healthy, responsible adults was the most important role of my life. But the tragedy convinced me that I failed as a parent, and it's partially this sense of failure that brings me here today. Aside from his father, I was the one person who knew and loved Dylan the most. If anyone could have known what was happening, it should have been me, right? But I didn't know. Today, I'm here to share the experience of what it's like to be the mother of someone who kills and hurts. For years after the tragedy, I combed through memories, trying to figure out exactly where I failed as a parent. But there are no simple answers. I can't give you any solutions. All I can do is share what I have learned. When I talk to people who didn't know me before the shootings, I have three challenges to meet. First, when I walk into a room like this, I never know if someone there has experienced loss because of what my son did. I feel a need to acknowledge the suffering caused by a member of my family who isn't here to do it for himself. So first, with all of my heart, I'm sorry if my son has caused you pain. The second challenge I have is that I must ask for understanding and even compassion when I talk about my son's death as a suicide. Two years before he died, he wrote on a piece of paper in a notebook that he was cutting himself. He said that he was in agony and wanted to get a gun so he could end his life. I didn't know about any of this until months after his death. When I talk about his death as a suicide, I'm not trying to downplay the viciousness he showed at the end of his life. I'm trying to understand how his suicidal thinking led to murder. After a lot of reading and talking with experts, I have come to believe that his involvement in the shootings was rooted not in his desire to kill but in his desire to die. The third challenge I have when I talk about my son's murder-suicide is that I'm talking about mental health — excuse me — is that I'm talking about mental health, or brain health, as I prefer to call it, because it's more concrete. And in the same breath, I'm talking about violence. The last thing I want to do is to contribute to the misunderstanding that already exists around mental illness. Only a very small percent of those who have a mental illness are violent toward other people, but of those who die by suicide, it's estimated that about 75 to maybe more than 90 percent have a diagnosable mental health condition of some kind. As you all know very well, our mental health care system is not equipped to help everyone, and not everyone with destructive thoughts fits the criteria for a specific diagnosis. Many who have ongoing feelings of fear or anger or hopelessness are never assessed or treated. Too often, they get our attention only if they reach a behavioral crisis. If estimates are correct that about one to two percent of all suicides involves the murder of another person, when suicide rates rise, as they are rising for some populations, the murder-suicide rates will rise as well. I wanted to understand what was going on in Dylan's mind prior to his death, so I looked for answers from other survivors of suicide loss. I did research and volunteered to help with fund-raising events, and whenever I could, I talked with those who had survived their own suicidal crisis or attempt. One of the most helpful conversations I had was with a coworker who overheard me talking to someone else in my office cubicle. She heard me say that Dylan could not have loved me if he could do something as horrible as he did. Later, when she found me alone, she apologized for overhearing that conversation, but told me that I was wrong. She said that when she was a young, single mother with three small children, she became severely depressed and was hospitalized to keep her safe. At the time, she was certain that her children would be better off if she died, so she had made a plan to end her life. She assured me that a mother's love was the strongest bond on Earth, and that she loved her children more than anything in the world, but because of her illness, she was sure that they would be better off without her. What she said and what I've learned from others is that we do not make the so-called decision or choice to die by suicide in the same way that we choose what car to drive or where to go on a Saturday night. When someone is in an extremely suicidal state, they are in a stage four medical health emergency. Their thinking is impaired and they've lost access to tools of self-governance. Even though they can make a plan and act with logic, their sense of truth is distorted by a filter of pain through which they interpret their reality. Some people can be very good at hiding this state, and they often have good reasons for doing that. Many of us have suicidal thoughts at some point, but persistent, ongoing thoughts of suicide and devising a means to die are symptoms of pathology, and like many illnesses, the condition has to be recognized and treated before a life is lost. But my son's death was not purely a suicide. It involved mass murder. I wanted to know how his suicidal thinking became homicidal. But research is sparse and there are no simple answers. Yes, he probably had ongoing depression. He had a personality that was perfectionistic and self-reliant, and that made him less likely to seek help from others. He had experienced triggering events at the school that left him feeling debased and humiliated and mad. And he had a complicated friendship with a boy who shared his feelings of rage and alienation, and who was seriously disturbed, controlling and homicidal. And on top of this period in his life of extreme vulnerability and fragility, Dylan found access to guns even though we'd never owned any in our home. It was appallingly easy for a 17-year-old boy to buy guns, both legally and illegally, without my permission or knowledge. And somehow, 17 years and many school shootings later, it's still appallingly easy. What Dylan did that day broke my heart, and as trauma so often does, it took a toll on my body and on my mind. Two years after the shootings, I got breast cancer, and two years after that, I began to have mental health problems. On top of the constant, perpetual grief I was terrified that I would run into a family member of someone Dylan had killed, or be accosted by the press or by an angry citizen. I was afraid to turn on the news, afraid to hear myself being called a terrible parent or a disgusting person. I started having panic attacks. The first bout started four years after the shootings, when I was getting ready for the depositions and would have to meet the victims' families face to face. The second round started six years after the shootings, when I was preparing to speak publicly about murder-suicide for the first time at a conference. Both episodes lasted several weeks. The attacks happened everywhere: in the hardware store, in my office, or even while reading a book in bed. My mind would suddenly lock into this spinning cycle of terror and no matter how I hard I tried to calm myself down or reason my way out of it, I couldn't do it. It felt as if my brain was trying to kill me, and then, being afraid of being afraid consumed all of my thoughts. That's when I learned firsthand what it feels like to have a malfunctioning mind, and that's when I truly became a brain health advocate. With therapy and medication and self-care, life eventually returned to whatever could be thought of as normal under the circumstances. When I looked back on all that had happened, I could see that my son's spiral into dysfunction probably occurred over a period of about two years, plenty of time to get him help, if only someone had known that he needed help and known what to do. Every time someone asks me, ""How could you not have known?"", it feels like a punch in the gut. It carries accusation and taps into my feelings of guilt that no matter how much therapy I've had I will never fully eradicate. But here's something I've learned: if love were enough to stop someone who is suicidal from hurting themselves, suicides would hardly ever happen. But love is not enough, and suicide is prevalent. It's the second leading cause of death for people age 10 to 34, and 15 percent of American youth report having made a suicide plan in the last year. I've learned that no matter how much we want to believe we can, we cannot know or control everything our loved ones think and feel, and the stubborn belief that we are somehow different, that someone we love would never think of hurting themselves or someone else, can cause us to miss what's hidden in plain sight. And if worst case scenarios do come to pass, we'll have to learn to forgive ourselves for not knowing or for not asking the right questions or not finding the right treatment. We should always assume that someone we love may be suffering, regardless of what they say or how they act. We should listen with our whole being, without judgments, and without offering solutions. I know that I will live with this tragedy, with these multiple tragedies, for the rest of my life. I know that in the minds of many, what I lost can't compare to what the other families lost. I know my struggle doesn't make theirs any easier. I know there are even some who think I don't have the right to any pain, but only to a life of permanent penance. In the end what I know comes down to this: the tragic fact is that even the most vigilant and responsible of us may not be able to help, but for love's sake, we must never stop trying to know the unknowable. Thank you. (Applause)"	我最後一次聽到兒子的聲音，是他走出大門準備去學校的時候。他在黑暗中大喊了一個字：「掰！」 那天是 1999 年四月二十日。後來那天早上在科倫拜高中，我的兒子迪倫和他的朋友艾瑞克在自殺之前，殺害了十二名學生及一名老師並傷了超過二十個人。十三位無辜的人被殺，留給他們摯愛的人悲慟與創傷。其他受傷的人，有的毀容或終身殘疾。但這滔天巨難，無法僅用傷亡的數字來衡量。我們無法量化當時在校的人，或參與搶救及善後的人所受到的心理傷害。我們無法評估像科倫拜這種慘劇的嚴重性，特別是它之後成為其他槍手起而效尤的藍圖。科倫拜的事件就像一股浪潮，在巨大的衝擊過後，被影響的社區及社會要花好多年才能理解這波衝擊的影響。 我花了好多年去試著接受兒子遺留下來的慘劇。他在結束生命前所做的殘酷行為，讓我了解這不是我所認識的他。在那之後有人問：「你怎麼可能不知道？你是什麼樣的母親？」我至今仍問自己同樣的問題。 在槍擊案之前，我以為自己是好媽媽。協助我的孩子成為有愛心、健康、負責任的大人，是我生命中最重要的角色。但是這場悲劇讓我認為自己是一位失敗的母親，而這種失敗的感覺也是我今天站在這裡的部分原因。除了他父親之外，我是最瞭解最愛迪倫的人。如果有人能事先知道會發生什麼，那個人應該是我，對吧？但是我不知道。今天，我在這裡分享身為兇手的母親是什麼樣的感覺。慘案過後的這些年，我細細整理記憶，試著搞清楚我哪裡做錯了，導致我成為失敗的母親。但是這個問題卻沒有一個簡單的答案。我不能給你任何解答。我能做的就是分享我所學到的事情。 當我對槍案發生前不認識我的人演講時，我面對三個挑戰。第一，當我走進像這樣的演講廳，我不知道在座是否有人因為我兒的所作所為，而經歷喪親之痛。我覺得我有必要接受這種因為我的家人而造成的痛苦，即使他現在不能親自做這件事。所以首先，若是我的兒子造成你的痛苦，我全心全意的在此致歉。 我的第二項挑戰，是當我要說我兒子是自殺死的，我必須請求大家的諒解甚至同情。他過世前兩年，他在筆記本的紙上寫著他在割自己。他說他很苦惱而且想要找把槍了結自己。我一直到他死後幾個月才知道這件事情。當我說他的死因是自殺時，我不是在試著淡化他在自我了結時顯示的殘酷。我是在嘗試瞭解他的自殺念頭怎麼變成謀殺。在讀了很多文章並跟專家交談後，我開始相信他參與這場槍擊案的原因不是因為他想殺人，而是他渴望著死去。 我談到兒子的「殺人後自盡」所面臨的第三個挑戰，是我在談心理健康──抱歉──是我在談心理健康，我比較喜歡稱它為腦部健康，因為這樣說起來更具體。然而緊接著，我又在談暴力。我最不想做的，就是對精神疾病已有的成見再添上一筆成見。只有極少比例的精神疾病患者對別人有暴力傾向，但是那些自殺的人，估計有 75%，甚至超過 90%患有可被診斷出的精神問題。你們都很清楚，我們的精神健康照護系統無法幫助每一個人，而且不是每一個具破壞性思想的人都符合特定診療標準。很多持續感覺恐懼或生氣或無望的人，從未經歷評估或治療。常見的狀況是，我們在他們出現行為危機時才會注意到他們。如果估計是正確的，約有百分之一或二的自殺事件中會涉及謀殺另外一個人。現在某些族群中，當自殺率升高時，殺人後自盡的比率也跟著升高。 我想了解迪倫死前腦中到底在想什麼，所以我從自殺倖存者中尋找答案。我做研究，也去當募款活動志工，我一有機會，就會跟自殺未遂的人交談。 其中一場極有幫助的交談，是我的一位同事在我的辦公室隔間無意中聽見我跟別人的談話。她聽到我說迪倫並不愛我，因為他做了這麼可怕的事。之後，當她發現沒人在我旁邊時，她跟我道歉說她偷聽到那場對話，然後跟我說我錯了。她說她以前曾是年輕的單親媽媽，並且有三個小孩，她變得嚴重抑鬱，且為了生命安全而住院。那個時候，她很確信如果她死了，她的小孩會過得更好，所以她計畫要了結生命。她跟我保證母愛是世上最強的聯繫，她愛她的孩子超過世上任何東西，但是因為她的病，她確信沒有她他們會過得更好。 從她所說及我從其他人身上學到的，是我們對所謂自殺的決定或選擇，跟我們選擇要開什麼車或星期六晚上要去哪裡玩不一樣。當某人處在極度想自殺的狀態，他們就屬於美國檢傷分類的「緊急」情況。他們的思考受損，並失去自我管理能力。就算他們能制定計畫並且依照邏輯行動，他們對真相的感受會被痛苦扭曲，並用痛苦的眼光看待現實。有些人很會隱藏這種狀態，而且他們通常都有很好的理由這麼做。很多人都曾經有過自殺的念頭，但是持續不斷的自殺念頭，並且策劃死亡方法是一種病徵。這就像許多疾病一樣，我們必須在失去另一條生命前，認出並治療這種狀況。 但是我兒子的死並非單純的自殺。它還牽涉了屠殺。我想知道他的自殺念頭怎麼變成濫殺的念頭。但是這方面的研究很少，也沒有簡單的答案。是的，他大概有持續性的憂鬱症。他有完美主義及獨立自主的個性，而這些使他不太可能尋求別人的幫助。他在學校經歷數個導火線事件，讓他感到被貶低、受辱及憤怒。而且他和另一個男生有複雜的友誼關係，這個同學會和他訴說他感受到的憤怒及疏離感，且這個同學受人厭有控制慾並有殺人的傾向。在這段他處於極度脆弱狀態的期間，迪倫有機會取得槍枝，即使我們家從來沒有這種東西。很顯然的，一位 17 歲男孩非常容易購買槍枝，無論合法或不合法，都不需要我的同意或確認。17 年過去了，這期間又發生過許多起校園槍擊案，購買槍枝仍然是件容易的事。 迪倫那天所做的事讓我心碎，就像經歷創傷常常有的後果，它使我身心俱疲。槍案二年後，我得了乳癌，再兩年之後，我開始出現精神問題。除了源源不絕的悲痛，我還非常害怕會碰到被害人的家屬，或是媒體或忿怒的老百姓來搭話。我害怕打開新聞，好怕聽到我被人叫成可怕的母親或可憎的人。 我開始出現恐慌發作。第一次發作是在槍案後第四年發生，當時我準備要作證並與被害人的家屬面對面的相見。第二次發作是在槍擊案後第六年，當時我準備要在研討會上公開演說有關於殺人後自盡的事情。兩次發作都持續幾個星期。恐慌在任何地方都有可能發作：在五金器材行、辦公室、甚至在床上閱讀都會。我的心會突然陷入一陣陣的恐懼，無論我多努力嘗試安撫自己或說服自己脫離恐懼，我就是做不到。這個感覺就像是我的腦子要把我殺掉，然後，對恐懼的恐懼吞噬了我所有的思考。那是我第一次感受到有一個無法正常運作的頭腦是什麼樣的感覺，這也是促使我成為腦部健康倡導者的時刻。透過治療、藥物及自我護理，生活終於回到在當時的情況下能夠稱為正常的狀態。 我回頭看過去發生的一切，我可以看到我的兒子在大概兩年的時間內急遽失能。要是有人知道他需要幫助，也知道怎麼幫忙他，兩年其實是一段足夠的時間。 每次有人問我，「你怎麼可能不知道？」我就像肚子被狠狠的揍了一拳。這句話帶著指控，狠狠的刺進我的罪惡感。而無論我去做多少治療，也無法完全抹去這個罪惡感。但是我學到一點：如果愛足以讓某人打消自殺念頭，不去傷害別人，自殺就不容易發生了。但是有愛還不夠，而自殺也很普遍。自殺是 10 歲到 34 歲的人第二大死因。而 15% 的美國青少年表示在過去一年曾有自殺計畫。我學到無論我們多想相信我們做得到，我們其實不知道或不能控制所愛之人的思想及感覺，而我們執著地相信自己跟別人不同，我們所愛的人絕不會想傷害自己或別人。這會讓我們看不見隱藏在光天化日下的事實。如果最壞的情況真的發生了，我們必須學習原諒自己不知道，或沒有問到對的問題，或沒有找到適合的治療方式。我們應該假設某位所愛的人可能正處在痛苦中，不論他們說什麼或表現出什麼。我們應該用心聽，但不要論斷，也不要給予解決方法。 我知道我會帶著這個悲劇活下去，帶著這些悲劇渡過餘生。我知道在許多人心中，我失去的無法跟其它家庭失去的比較。我知道我的掙扎也不能讓他們好過一點。我知道有人甚至認為我根本沒有痛苦的權利，只有無窮無盡的懺悔。 最後我所認知到的是：不幸的事實是，我們就算再警覺再負責，也有可能幫不上忙。但是為了愛的緣故，我們絕不可停止嘗試去了解現實背後的未知情形。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
