Talk	en	zh-tw
sugata_mitra_the_child_driven_education	"Well, that's kind of an obvious statement up there. I started with that sentence about 12 years ago, and I started in the context of developing countries, but you're sitting here from every corner of the world. So if you think of a map of your country, I think you'll realize that for every country on Earth, you could draw little circles to say, ""These are places where good teachers won't go."" On top of that, those are the places from where trouble comes. So we have an ironic problem — good teachers don't want to go to just those places where they're needed the most. I started in 1999 to try and address this problem with an experiment, which was a very simple experiment in New Delhi. I basically embedded a computer into a wall of a slum in New Delhi. The children barely went to school, they didn't know any English — they'd never seen a computer before, and they didn't know what the internet was. I connected high speed internet to it — it's about three feet off the ground — turned it on and left it there. After this, we noticed a couple of interesting things, which you'll see. But I repeated this all over India and then through a large part of the world and noticed that children will learn to do what they want to learn to do. This is the first experiment that we did — eight year-old boy on your right teaching his student, a six year-old girl, and he was teaching her how to browse. This boy here in the middle of central India — this is in a Rajasthan village, where the children recorded their own music and then played it back to each other and in the process, they've enjoyed themselves thoroughly. They did all of this in four hours after seeing the computer for the first time. In another South Indian village, these boys here had assembled a video camera and were trying to take the photograph of a bumble bee. They downloaded it from Disney.com, or one of these websites, 14 days after putting the computer in their village. So at the end of it, we concluded that groups of children can learn to use computers and the internet on their own, irrespective of who or where they were. At that point, I became a little more ambitious and decided to see what else could children do with a computer. We started off with an experiment in Hyderabad, India, where I gave a group of children — they spoke English with a very strong Telugu accent. I gave them a computer with a speech-to-text interface, which you now get free with Windows, and asked them to speak into it. So when they spoke into it, the computer typed out gibberish, so they said, ""Well, it doesn't understand anything of what we are saying."" So I said, ""Yeah, I'll leave it here for two months. Make yourself understood to the computer."" So the children said, ""How do we do that."" And I said, ""I don't know, actually."" (Laughter) And I left. (Laughter) Two months later — and this is now documented in the Information Technology for International Development journal — that accents had changed and were remarkably close to the neutral British accent in which I had trained the speech-to-text synthesizer. In other words, they were all speaking like James Tooley. (Laughter) So they could do that on their own. After that, I started to experiment with various other things that they might learn to do on their own. I got an interesting phone call once from Columbo, from the late Arthur C. Clarke, who said, ""I want to see what's going on."" And he couldn't travel, so I went over there. He said two interesting things, ""A teacher that can be replaced by a machine should be."" (Laughter) The second thing he said was that, ""If children have interest, then education happens."" And I was doing that in the field, so every time I would watch it and think of him. (Video) Arthur C. Clarke: And they can definitely help people, because children quickly learn to navigate the web and find things which interest them. And when you've got interest, then you have education. Sugata Mitra: I took the experiment to South Africa. This is a 15 year-old boy. (Video) Boy: ... just mention, I play games like animals, and I listen to music. SM: And I asked him, ""Do you send emails?"" And he said, ""Yes, and they hop across the ocean."" This is in Cambodia, rural Cambodia — a fairly silly arithmetic game, which no child would play inside the classroom or at home. They would, you know, throw it back at you. They'd say, ""This is very boring."" If you leave it on the pavement and if all the adults go away, then they will show off with each other about what they can do. This is what these children are doing. They are trying to multiply, I think. And all over India, at the end of about two years, children were beginning to Google their homework. As a result, the teachers reported tremendous improvements in their English — (Laughter) rapid improvement and all sorts of things. They said, ""They have become really deep thinkers and so on and so forth. (Laughter) And indeed they had. I mean, if there's stuff on Google, why would you need to stuff it into your head? So at the end of the next four years, I decided that groups of children can navigate the internet to achieve educational objectives on their own. At that time, a large amount of money had come into Newcastle University to improve schooling in India. So Newcastle gave me a call. I said, ""I'll do it from Delhi."" They said, ""There's no way you're going to handle a million pounds-worth of University money sitting in Delhi."" So in 2006, I bought myself a heavy overcoat and moved to Newcastle. I wanted to test the limits of the system. The first experiment I did out of Newcastle was actually done in India. And I set myself and impossible target: can Tamil speaking 12-year-old children in a South Indian village teach themselves biotechnology in English on their own? And I thought, I'll test them, they'll get a zero — I'll give the materials, I'll come back and test them — they get another zero, I'll go back and say, ""Yes, we need teachers for certain things."" I called in 26 children. They all came in there, and I told them that there's some really difficult stuff on this computer. I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't understand anything. It's all in English, and I'm going. (Laughter) So I left them with it. I came back after two months, and the 26 children marched in looking very, very quiet. I said, ""Well, did you look at any of the stuff?"" They said, ""Yes, we did."" ""Did you understand anything?"" ""No, nothing."" So I said, ""Well, how long did you practice on it before you decided you understood nothing?"" They said, ""We look at it every day."" So I said, ""For two months, you were looking at stuff you didn't understand?"" So a 12 year-old girl raises her hand and says, literally, ""Apart from the fact that improper replication of the DNA molecule causes genetic disease, we've understood nothing else."" (Laughter) (Applause) (Laughter) It took me three years to publish that. It's just been published in the British Journal of Educational Technology. One of the referees who refereed the paper said, ""It's too good to be true,"" which was not very nice. Well, one of the girls had taught herself to become the teacher. And then that's her over there. Remember, they don't study English. I edited out the last bit when I asked, ""Where is the neuron?"" and she says, ""The neuron? The neuron,"" and then she looked and did this. Whatever the expression, it was not very nice. So their scores had gone up from zero to 30 percent, which is an educational impossibility under the circumstances. But 30 percent is not a pass. So I found that they had a friend, a local accountant, a young girl, and they played football with her. I asked that girl, ""Would you teach them enough biotechnology to pass?"" And she said, ""How would I do that? I don't know the subject."" I said, ""No, use the method of the grandmother."" She said, ""What's that?"" I said, ""Well, what you've got to do is stand behind them and admire them all the time. Just say to them, 'That's cool. That's fantastic. What is that? Can you do that again? Can you show me some more?'"" She did that for two months. The scores went up to 50, which is what the posh schools of New Delhi, with a trained biotechnology teacher were getting. So I came back to Newcastle with these results and decided that there was something happening here that definitely was getting very serious. So, having experimented in all sorts of remote places, I came to the most remote place that I could think of. (Laughter) Approximately 5,000 miles from Delhi is the little town of Gateshead. In Gateshead, I took 32 children and I started to fine-tune the method. I made them into groups of four. I said, ""You make your own groups of four. Each group of four can use one computer and not four computers."" Remember, from the Hole in the Wall. ""You can exchange groups. You can walk across to another group, if you don't like your group, etc. You can go to another group, peer over their shoulders, see what they're doing, come back to you own group and claim it as your own work."" And I explained to them that, you know, a lot of scientific research is done using that method. (Laughter) (Applause) The children enthusiastically got after me and said, ""Now, what do you want us to do?"" I gave them six GCSE questions. The first group — the best one — solved everything in 20 minutes. The worst, in 45. They used everything that they knew — news groups, Google, Wikipedia, Ask Jeeves, etc. The teachers said, ""Is this deep learning?"" I said, ""Well, let's try it. I'll come back after two months. We'll give them a paper test — no computers, no talking to each other, etc."" The average score when I'd done it with the computers and the groups was 76 percent. When I did the experiment, when I did the test, after two months, the score was 76 percent. There was photographic recall inside the children, I suspect because they're discussing with each other. A single child in front of a single computer will not do that. I have further results, which are almost unbelievable, of scores which go up with time. Because their teachers say that after the session is over, the children continue to Google further. Here in Britain, I put out a call for British grandmothers, after my Kuppam experiment. Well, you know, they're very vigorous people, British grandmothers. 200 of them volunteered immediately. (Laughter) The deal was that they would give me one hour of broadband time, sitting in their homes, one day in a week. So they did that, and over the last two years, over 600 hours of instruction has happened over Skype, using what my students call the granny cloud. The granny cloud sits over there. I can beam them to whichever school I want to. (Video) Teacher: You can't catch me. You say it. You can't catch me. Children: You can't catch me. Teacher: I'm the gingerbread man. Children: I'm the gingerbread man. Teacher: Well done. Very good ... SM: Back at Gateshead, a 10-year-old girl gets into the heart of Hinduism in 15 minutes. You know, stuff which I don't know anything about. Two children watch a TEDTalk. They wanted to be footballers before. After watching eight TEDTalks, he wants to become Leonardo da Vinci. (Laughter) (Applause) It's pretty simple stuff. This is what I'm building now — they're called SOLEs: Self Organized Learning Environments. The furniture is designed so that children can sit in front of big, powerful screens, big broadband connections, but in groups. If they want, they can call the granny cloud. This is a SOLE in Newcastle. The mediator is from Pune, India. So how far can we go? One last little bit and I'll stop. I went to Turin in May. I sent all the teachers away from my group of 10 year-old students. I speak only English, they speak only Italian, so we had no way to communicate. I started writing English questions on the blackboard. The children looked at it and said, ""What?"" I said, ""Well, do it."" They typed it into Google, translated it into Italian, went back into Italian Google. Fifteen minutes later — next question: where is Calcutta? This one, they took only 10 minutes. I tried a really hard one then. Who was Pythagoras, and what did he do? There was silence for a while, then they said, ""You've spelled it wrong. It's Pitagora."" And then, in 20 minutes, the right-angled triangles began to appear on the screens. This sent shivers up my spine. These are 10 year-olds. Text: In another 30 minutes they would reach the Theory of Relativity. And then? (Laughter) (Applause) SM: So you know what's happened? I think we've just stumbled across a self-organizing system. A self-organizing system is one where a structure appears without explicit intervention from the outside. Self-organizing systems also always show emergence, which is that the system starts to do things, which it was never designed for. Which is why you react the way you do, because it looks impossible. I think I can make a guess now — education is self-organizing system, where learning is an emergent phenomenon. It'll take a few years to prove it, experimentally, but I'm going to try. But in the meanwhile, there is a method available. One billion children, we need 100 million mediators — there are many more than that on the planet — 10 million SOLEs, 180 billion dollars and 10 years. We could change everything. Thanks. (Applause)"	"上面的這些話，是大家都知道的12年前，我從這句話開始，從開發中國家的環境開始但是在座的各位，是從全世界各地來的你們如果想像一下自己國家的地圖你會發現對每一個國家而言，你都可以畫出些小圈圈，說:""這些是好老師不願意去的地方""而且這些都是出現問題的地方這是個有點諷刺意味的問題好老師不願意去那些最需要他們的地方 我從1999年開始針對這個問題做實驗這是個在新德里的很簡單的實驗我基本上把一部電腦嵌進一座位於新德里貧民窟的圍牆裡面那裡的孩子幾乎不上學。也完全不懂英文他們從沒有看過電腦也不知道網際網路是什麼我給這部電腦連上高速網路 - 電腦嵌在約一公尺高的牆面上把電腦打開，然後就留在那裡之後我們注意到幾件有趣的事情，等一下你們也會看到但我在全印度重複做這件事也到世界的很多地方做同樣的實驗我注意到孩子們會學著做他們自己想學的東西 這是我們做的第一個實驗 -右手邊的八歲男孩正在教他的學生 - 一個六歲的小女孩他在教她如何上網這個孩子是在印度中部的這裡是一個拉加斯坦村落在這裡，孩子們錄自己的音樂然後放給彼此聽在這過程中他們完全陶醉其中在第一次接觸電腦之後的4小時之內，他們完成這些作品在另一個南印度村落這些男孩子自己組了一個錄影機然後試著替一隻大黃蜂拍照他們從迪士尼或類似的網站下載程式這是把電腦放在這裡14天之後完成的。最後我們的結論是：孩子們可以自己學會用電腦和網際網路不論他們是誰或住在哪裡 這時候，我開始有大一點的野心決定去看看孩子可以用電腦做哪些其他的事我們從印度海得拉巴的實驗開始在那裡，我給一群孩子—他們講的英文有很重的泰盧固口音我給他們一部電腦附上語音辨識的介面現在，在Windows上就有免費的語音輸入我要他們對電腦說話當他們對電腦說話時電腦顯示的是亂七八糟的字他們說：""電腦完全聽不懂我們說的話""我說：""對阿，我把電腦留在這裡兩個月，你們要讓電腦聽懂你們說的話""孩子說：""這怎麼辦得到?""我說""我也不知道""(笑聲)我就走了(笑聲)兩個月之後這個實驗紀錄在資訊技術促進國際發展雜誌上口音改掉了改成非常接近中性英式英語的口音這就是我設的語音輸入合成器的口音換句話說，他們講得像英國教育家詹姆士托利一樣(笑聲)所以，證明他們可以自己學會之後，我開始實驗各種不同的知識看看他們是不是可以自己學會 我接到一通從可倫波打來的電話是已故的亞瑟·克拉克爵士打來的他說：""我想聽聽你在做什麼""因為他不能長途旅行，所以我就去找他他說了兩件有趣的事：""如果機器可以取代老師的話，就應該取代""(笑聲)他說的第二件事是：""當孩子們有興趣教育就會出現""我就是在外面做這樣的教育所以每次我看到這些，我就想起他 (影像)亞瑟·克拉克說：""這些絕對可以幫助人因為孩子們很快就學會搜尋然後到裡面找有趣的東西。當有了興趣，教育就自然產生"" 我把這個實驗帶到南非去這是個15歲的男孩 (影像)男孩說: ...我玩遊戲像動物遊戲我也聽音樂 SM:我問他，""你會用電子郵件嗎?""他說，""會啊，電子郵件一路跳過海洋""這是在柬埔寨柬埔寨的郊區這是個很呆的算術遊戲孩子在教室或在家裡都不願意玩他們會丟回給你說：""這很無聊""如果你把這遊戲放在走道上當大人都走開了他們就會彼此炫耀他們會答的題目這就是孩子們正在做的..據我所知，他們正試著做乘法全印度在兩年之後孩子們開始上網找家庭作業的答案結果，老師說他們的英文進步神速(笑聲)在每一個方面都進步神速老師說:""他們變成深度的思想家""之類的(笑聲)實際上也是真的我是說，如果在谷歌搜尋引擎上有答案幹麻還要把答案東西塞在腦子裡?所以四年之後我下了結論：成群的孩子可以一起上網搜尋以這樣的自我學習，達成教育的目標。 當時，有很多經費給纽卡斯爾大學來改進印度的教學所以纽卡斯爾大學就打電話給我。我說：""我在新德里這裡執行""他們說:""你不可能坐在新德里來管理價值一百萬英鎊的學校經費""所以，2006年我買了一件很厚重的大衣搬到紐卡素去工作我要試試看這個系統的極限在哪裡我到紐卡素做的第一個實驗，發生在印度我給自己一個不可能的目標:講泰米語的住在印度南部村落的12歲孩子們可能用英文自學生物科技嗎?我想：""我給他們測驗，他們會得0分，然後我給們素材，再回來測一次，他們會再得0分然後我就回去說：""在某些領域，還是需要老師教才行"" 我找了26個學生他們都進到教室裡，我對他們說在電腦裡，有個很難的東西你們如果不懂，我也不會很驚訝全部是英文的。而且，我要走了。(笑聲)我就讓他們自己弄清楚兩個月之後，我回來那26個學生進來時，看起來非常安靜我說:""你們讀過那篇文章了嗎?""他們說:""讀了""""你們學到什麼?"" ""什麼也沒學到""我說，""你們學習了多久之後，才確定你們什麼都沒學到?""他們說:""我們每天都在看""我說:""你們每天看這個搞不懂的東西，足足兩個月嗎?""一個12歲的女孩舉手說：她這麼說""除了知道DNA分子不正常的複製會造成基因上的疾病之外我們沒有學到任何其他東西"" (笑聲) (掌聲) (笑聲) 我花了三年才出版這篇論文這論文剛剛在英國教育技術期刊上刊出其中一位評審寫：""好得令人難以置信""這評語其實不太好其中一個女孩子，自學成為大家的老師畫面上的就是她大家記得，他們不懂英文我剪掉最後的一小段。當時我問：""神經元在哪裡?""她說，""神經元?神經元?""然後她看著我，做這個動作不管表情如何，都不太好看。 他們的分數也從0分，提升到30分在這種環境下，已經是教育不可能做到的了!但是30分不及格後來，我發現他們有個朋友是當地的會計師，一個年輕女生他們和她一起玩足球我邀請那個女生，""妳教他們生物科技讓他們通過考試，好嗎?""她說:""我怎麼會?我對這個學門不了解啊!""我說:""不必了解。只要用奶奶的方法就好了""她說：""那是什麼方法?""我說:""妳只要站在後面一直讚美他們跟他們說:好棒啊，好厲害喔那是什麼呢?你可以再做一次嗎?再多給我看幾招，好嗎?""她就這樣做了2個月分數提昇到50分這分數是在新德里的高級學校有專業生物科技老師教導的學生的分數 所以我回到紐卡素帶著這些結果我確定這些現象是很嚴肅的所以，在對偏遠地去做了這麼多實驗之後我到了全世界最偏遠的地方(笑聲)距離德里5000英哩遠就是英國小鎮蓋茨黑德在蓋茨黑德，我找了32個學生開始微調我用過的方法我讓他們成為4人一組我說：""你們自己組成4人一組每4個人一組可以用1部電腦，而不是4部""這是從""牆上的洞""來的經驗""你可以換組你可以到別的組去如果你不喜歡自己這一組的話你可以去別組，偷看，看他們在幹什麼回來之後跟你的組員說，這是你自己的想法""我跟他們解釋說，很多科學研究，都是用這種方法做出來的 (笑聲) (掌聲) 那些孩子很急切的追著我問說:""你要我們做什麼?""我給他們6個英國中等教育普通證明考試(GCSE)的題目第一組，最好的那組在20分鐘之內解完所有題目最差的也在45分鐘之內解完題目他們用了所有資源新聞、谷歌搜尋、維基百科AskJeeves(各種問題的解答網站)等老師說:""這樣有深度學習嗎?""我說:""試試看囉2個月後我再回來我們給他們紙上的測驗 —不能用電腦、也不能互相交談等等，看結果如何""用小組討論和電腦時，平均分數是76分2個月之後，我再回來做測驗，分數是76分這些孩子像拍照一樣，記得所有學過的東西。我猜想，這是因為他們彼此討論，所以記得。因為，單獨一個孩子坐在電腦前是不可能記得所有東西的。我還有進一步的結果幾乎是難以置信的結果就是考試分數繼續往上提升因為老師說，他們課程結束之後這些孩子繼續在網路上找答案 在英國，我送出一個需求號召英國奶奶們經過我的實驗之後，喔，大家都知道英國奶奶是很有活力的一群馬上有200位自願者(笑聲)奶奶們給我一個小時的寬頻上網時間坐在自己家裡每週只要一天即可他們就照做過去兩年之間有超過600小時的教導在Skype上進行用的技術，被我的學生稱為""雲端奶奶""雲端奶奶坐在那裡我可以把她們發射到任何一所學校去 (錄影)老師: ""你抓不到我你們說一遍你抓不到我"" 孩子:""你抓不到我"" 老師:""我是薑餅人"" 孩子:""我是薑餅人"" 老師:""很棒很棒!!"" SM:""回到蓋茨黑德，一位10歲的女孩在15分鐘之內學會印度教的精隨這是我完全不懂的東西兩個孩子在看TED網路視訊他們以前想當足球明星在看了8場TED的演講之後他要當達文西 (笑聲) (掌聲) 這其實都很簡單 這是我現在正在做的叫做SOLE：自我組織的學習環境這些家具的設計讓一群小朋友可以圍坐在很強大的電腦螢幕前可以寬頻上網，但是要一群小朋友才行如果他們想的話，可以呼叫雲端奶奶這是在紐卡素的SOLE畫面上的管理員來自印度 我們可以做到什麼程度呢? 再一點點我就結束了。我5月去了義大利的都靈我把老師支開，讓我單獨和一群10歲孩子在一起我只會講英文，他們只會講義大利文我們不能溝通我在黑板上寫英文題目孩子們看著我，說:""什麼啦?""我說：""解題阿""他們把問題輸入谷歌搜尋引擎，翻譯成義大利文回到義大利文的谷歌搜尋引擎15分鐘之後下一個問題：加爾各答在哪裡?這個只花了10分鐘就答對了我又試了一題很難的畢達格拉斯是誰? 他做過什麼事情?剛開始，一度沉默然後他們說：""你寫錯了啦!""""應該是畢達哥拉斯啦""然後在20分鐘之內直角三角形的圖像，出現在螢幕上這讓我脊椎發麻他們才10 歲文字: 再過30分鐘，他們可能查到相對論。然後呢? (笑聲) (掌聲) SM: 到底發生了什麼事呢?我想，我們正歪歪倒倒的走過了一個自我組織的系統自我組織的系統是一個在沒有外界干擾的時候出現的完整架構。自我組織的系統同時也顯示出一種演進，這演進，就是系統開始用前所未有的方式來完成它的工作。這就是你你有這些反應背後的原因因為乍看之下，這些演進是不可能的。我想我可以猜測：教育是個自我組織的系統在教育系統裡，學習是一個漸進的現象得花好幾年去實驗改進，但是我會繼續嘗試。在此同時，有個可行的方法10億個孩子，我們需要1億個協助者我們有的比需要的還要多1 千萬組SOLE1千8百萬美金和10年的時間我們可以改變一切 謝謝 (掌聲)"
