Talk	en	zh-tw
sugata_mitra_shows_how_kids_teach_themselves	"I have a tough job to do. You know, when I looked at the profile of the audience here, with their connotations and design, in all its forms, and with so much and so many people working on collaborative and networks, and so on, that I wanted to tell you, I wanted to build an argument for primary education in a very specific context. In order to do that in 20 minutes, I have to bring out four ideas — it's like four pieces of a puzzle. And if I succeed in doing that, maybe you would go back with the thought that you could build on, and perhaps help me do my work. The first piece of the puzzle is remoteness and the quality of education. Now, by remoteness, I mean two or three different kinds of things. Of course, remoteness in its normal sense, which means that as you go further and further away from an urban center, you get to remoter areas. What happens to education? The second, or a different kind of remoteness is that within the large metropolitan areas all over the world, you have pockets, like slums, or shantytowns, or poorer areas, which are socially and economically remote from the rest of the city, so it's us and them. What happens to education in that context? So keep both of those ideas of remoteness. We made a guess. The guess was that schools in remote areas do not have good enough teachers. If they do have, they cannot retain those teachers. They do not have good enough infrastructure. And if they had some infrastructure, they have difficulty maintaining it. But I wanted to check if this is true. So what I did last year was we hired a car, looked up on Google, found a route into northern India from New Delhi which, you know, which did not cross any big cities or any big metropolitan centers. Drove out about 300 kilometers, and wherever we found a school, administered a set of standard tests, and then took those test results and plotted them on a graph. The graph was interesting, although you need to consider it carefully. I mean, this is a very small sample; you should not generalize from it. But it was quite obvious, quite clear, that for this particular route that I had taken, the remoter the school was, the worse its results seemed to be. That seemed a little damning, and I tried to correlate it with things like infrastructure, or with the availability of electricity, and things like that. To my surprise, it did not correlate. It did not correlate with the size of classrooms. It did not correlate with the quality of the infrastructure. It did not correlate with the poverty levels. It did not correlate. But what happened was that when I administered a questionnaire to each of these schools, with one single question for the teachers — which was, ""Would you like to move to an urban, metropolitan area?"" — 69 percent of them said yes. And as you can see from that, they say yes just a little bit out of Delhi, and they say no when you hit the rich suburbs of Delhi — because, you know, those are relatively better off areas — and then from 200 kilometers out of Delhi, the answer is consistently yes. I would imagine that a teacher who comes or walks into class every day thinking that, I wish I was in some other school, probably has a deep impact on what happens to the results. So it looked as though teacher motivation and teacher migration was a powerfully correlated thing with what was happening in primary schools, as opposed to whether the children have enough to eat, and whether they are packed tightly into classrooms and that sort of thing. It appears that way. When you take education and technology, then I find in the literature that, you know, things like websites, collaborative environments — you've been listening to all that in the morning — it's always piloted first in the best schools, the best urban schools, and, according to me, biases the result. The literature — one part of it, the scientific literature — consistently blames ET as being over-hyped and under-performing. The teachers always say, well, it's fine, but it's too expensive for what it does. Because it's being piloted in a school where the students are already getting, let's say, 80 percent of whatever they could do. You put in this new super-duper technology, and now they get 83 percent. So the principal looks at it and says, 3 percent for 300,000 dollars? Forget it. If you took the same technology and piloted it into one of those remote schools, where the score was 30 percent, and, let's say, took that up to 40 percent — that will be a completely different thing. So the relative change that ET, Educational Technology, would make, would be far greater at the bottom of the pyramid than at the top, but we seem to be doing it the other way about. So I came to this conclusion that ET should reach the underprivileged first, not the other way about. And finally came the question of, how do you tackle teacher perception? Whenever you go to a teacher and show them some technology, the teacher's first reaction is, you cannot replace a teacher with a machine — it's impossible. I don't know why it's impossible, but, even for a moment, if you did assume that it's impossible — I have a quotation from Sir Arthur C. Clarke, the science fiction writer whom I met in Colombo, and he said something which completely solves this problem. He said a teacher than can be replaced by a machine, should be. So, you know, it puts the teacher into a tough bind, you have to think. Anyway, so I'm proposing that an alternative primary education, whatever alternative you want, is required where schools don't exist, where schools are not good enough, where teachers are not available or where teachers are not good enough, for whatever reason. If you happen to live in a part of the world where none of this applies, then you don't need an alternative education. So far I haven't come across such an area, except for one case. I won't name the area, but somewhere in the world people said, we don't have this problem, because we have perfect teachers and perfect schools. There are such areas, but — anyway, I'd never heard that anywhere else. I'm going to talk about children and self-organization, and a set of experiments which sort of led to this idea of what might an alternative education be like. They're called the hole-in-the-wall experiments. I'll have to really rush through this. They're a set of experiments. The first one was done in New Delhi in 1999. And what we did over there was pretty much simple. I had an office in those days which bordered a slum, an urban slum, so there was a dividing wall between our office and the urban slum. They cut a hole inside that wall — which is how it has got the name hole-in-the-wall — and put a pretty powerful PC into that hole, sort of embedded into the wall so that its monitor was sticking out at the other end, a touchpad similarly embedded into the wall, put it on high-speed Internet, put the Internet Explorer there, put it on Altavista.com — in those days — and just left it there. And this is what we saw. So that was my office in IIT. Here's the hole-in-the-wall. About eight hours later, we found this kid. To the right is this eight-year-old child who — and to his left is a six-year-old girl, who is not very tall. And what he was doing was, he was teaching her to browse. So it sort of raised more questions than it answered. Is this real? Does the language matter, because he's not supposed to know English? Will the computer last, or will they break it and steal it — and did anyone teach them? The last question is what everybody said, but you know, I mean, they must have poked their head over the wall and asked the people in your office, can you show me how to do it, and then somebody taught him. So I took the experiment out of Delhi and repeated it, this time in a city called Shivpuri in the center of India, where I was assured that nobody had ever taught anybody anything. (Laughter) So it was a warm day, and the hole in the wall was on that decrepit old building. This is the first kid who came there; he later on turned out to be a 13-year-old school dropout. He came there and he started to fiddle around with the touchpad. Very quickly, he noticed that when he moves his finger on the touchpad something moves on the screen — and later on he told me, ""I have never seen a television where you can do something."" So he figured that out. It took him over two minutes to figure out that he was doing things to the television. And then, as he was doing that, he made an accidental click by hitting the touchpad — you'll see him do that. He did that, and the Internet Explorer changed page. Eight minutes later, he looked from his hand to the screen, and he was browsing: he was going back and forth. When that happened, he started calling all the neighborhood children, like, children would come and see what's happening over here. And by the evening of that day, 70 children were all browsing. So eight minutes and an embedded computer seemed to be all that we needed there. So we thought that this is what was happening: that children in groups can self-instruct themselves to use a computer and the Internet. But under what circumstances? At this time there was a — the main question was about English. People said, you know, you really ought to have this in Indian languages. So I said, have what, shall I translate the Internet into some Indian language? That's not possible. So, it has to be the other way about. But let's see, how do the children tackle the English language? I took the experiment out to northeastern India, to a village called Madantusi, where, for some reason, there was no English teacher, so the children had not learned English at all. And I built a similar hole-in-the-wall. One big difference in the villages, as opposed to the urban slums: there were more girls than boys who came to the kiosk. In the urban slums, the girls tend to stay away. I left the computer there with lots of CDs — I didn't have any Internet — and came back three months later. So when I came back there, I found these two kids, eight- and 12-year-olds, who were playing a game on the computer. And as soon as they saw me they said, ""We need a faster processor and a better mouse."" (Laughter) I was real surprised. You know, how on earth did they know all this? And they said, ""Well, we've picked it up from the CDs."" So I said, ""But how did you understand what's going on over there?"" So they said, ""Well, you've left this machine which talks only in English, so we had to learn English."" So then I measured, and they were using 200 English words with each other — mispronounced, but correct usage — words like exit, stop, find, save, that kind of thing, not only to do with the computer but in their day-to-day conversations. So, Madantusi seemed to show that language is not a barrier; in fact they may be able to teach themselves the language if they really wanted to. Finally, I got some funding to try this experiment out to see if these results are replicable, if they happen everywhere else. India is a good place to do such an experiment in, because we have all the ethnic diversities, all the — you know, the genetic diversity, all the racial diversities, and also all the socio-economic diversities. So, I could actually choose samples to cover a cross section that would cover practically the whole world. So I did this for almost five years, and this experiment really took us all the way across the length and breadth of India. This is the Himalayas. Up in the north, very cold. I also had to check or invent an engineering design which would survive outdoors, and I was using regular, normal PCs, so I needed different climates, for which India is also great, because we have very cold, very hot, and so on. This is the desert to the west. Near the Pakistan border. And you see here a little clip of — one of these villages — the first thing that these children did was to find a website to teach themselves the English alphabet. Then to central India — very warm, moist, fishing villages, where humidity is a very big killer of electronics. So we had to solve all the problems we had without air conditioning and with very poor power, so most of the solutions that came out used little blasts of air put at the right places to keep the machines running. I want to just cut this short. We did this over and over again. This sequence is also nice. This is a small child, a six-year-old, telling his eldest sister what to do. And this happens very often with these computers, that the younger children are found teaching the older ones. What did we find? We found that six- to 13-year-olds can self-instruct in a connected environment, irrespective of anything that we could measure. So if they have access to the computer, they will teach themselves, including intelligence. I couldn't find a single correlation with anything, but it had to be in groups. And that may be of great, you know, interest to this group, because all of you are talking about groups. So here was the power of what a group of children can do, if you lift the adult intervention. Just a quick idea of the measurements. We took standard statistical techniques, so I'm going to not talk about that. But we got a clean learning curve, almost exactly the same as what you would get in a school. I'll leave it at that, because, I mean, it sort of says it all, doesn't it? What could they learn to do? Basic Windows functions, browsing, painting, chatting and email, games and educational material, music downloads, playing video. In short, what all of us do. And over 300 children will become computer literate and be able to do all of these things in six months with one computer. So, how do they do that? If you calculated the actual time of access, it would work out to minutes per day, so that's not how it's happening. What you have, actually, is there is one child operating the computer. And surrounding him are usually three other children, who are advising him on what they should do. If you test them, all four will get the same scores in whatever you ask them. Around these four are usually a group of about 16 children, who are also advising, usually wrongly, about everything that's going on on the computer. And all of them also will clear a test given on that subject. So they are learning as much by watching as they learn by doing. It seems counter-intuitive to adult learning, but remember, eight-year-olds live in a society where most of the time they are told, don't do this, you know, don't touch the whiskey bottle. So what does the eight-year-old do? He observes very carefully how a whiskey bottle should be touched. And if you tested him, he would answer every question correctly on that topic. So, they seem to be able to acquire very quickly. So what was the conclusion over the six years of work? It was that primary education can happen on its own, or parts of it can happen on its own. It does not have to be imposed from the top downwards. It could perhaps be a self-organizing system, so that was the second bit that I wanted to tell you, that children can self-organize and attain an educational objective. The third piece was on values, and again, to put it very briefly, I conducted a test over 500 children spread across all over India, and asked them — I gave them about 68 different values-oriented questions and simply asked them their opinions. We got all sorts of opinions. Yes, no or I don't know. I simply took those questions where I got 50 percent yeses and 50 percent noes — so I was able to get a collection of 16 such statements. These were areas where the children were clearly confused, because half said yes and half said no. A typical example being, ""Sometimes it is necessary to tell lies."" They don't have a way to determine which way to answer this question; perhaps none of us do. So I leave you with this third question. Can technology alter the acquisition of values? Finally, self-organizing systems, about which, again, I won't say too much because you've been hearing all about it. Natural systems are all self-organizing: galaxies, molecules, cells, organisms, societies — except for the debate about an intelligent designer. But at this point in time, as far as science goes, it's self-organization. But other examples are traffic jams, stock market, society and disaster recovery, terrorism and insurgency. And you know about the Internet-based self-organizing systems. So here are my four sentences then. Remoteness affects the quality of education. Educational technology should be introduced into remote areas first, and other areas later. Values are acquired; doctrine and dogma are imposed — the two opposing mechanisms. And learning is most likely a self-organizing system. If you put all the four together, then it gives — according to me — it gives us a goal, a vision, for educational technology. An educational technology and pedagogy that is digital, automatic, fault-tolerant, minimally invasive, connected and self-organized. As educationists, we have never asked for technology; we keep borrowing it. PowerPoint is supposed to be considered a great educational technology, but it was not meant for education, it was meant for making boardroom presentations. We borrowed it. Video conferencing. The personal computer itself. I think it's time that the educationists made their own specs, and I have such a set of specs. This is a brief look at that. And such a set of specs should produce the technology to address remoteness, values and violence. So I thought I'd give it a name — why don't we call it ""outdoctrination."" And could this be a goal for educational technology in the future? So I want to leave that as a thought with you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我眼前有個難題當我看到現場觀眾的背景資料有著各式各樣的樣式及涵義加上許多人已經有著我想要向大家分享的協作及人際網路等工作經驗我想要提出一項小學教育的論述明確地來說在20分鐘內說清楚來龍去脈, 我必須提出四個構想就像是四片拼圖如果我能成功的把這四個構想說清楚也許能讓你們回去慢慢想能夠如何在我的計畫基礎上再發揚光大 第一片拼圖是偏遠性及受教育的品質當我說偏遠性, 有二到三種不同的意思當然, 通常當人們說偏遠性, 他們指的是離起點越來越遠從市中心到偏遠的地方那對教育來說又怎麼樣呢?第二種不同的偏遠性是在世界上各個大型都會區內有某些區塊, 如貧民窟, 陋巷或是比較窮的社區與都會區內其他地方在社會及經濟方面有差距(偏遠性), 變成我們與他們兩個群體這樣來說教育又會是怎麼樣的背景下呢?於是我們從這兩種偏遠性的概念出發 我們做了一個假設:偏遠區域的學校裡師資不夠好如果有良好師資, 學校無法長久留住這些人它們的基礎建設不夠好就算具備部份基礎建設它們也無法輕易維持正常運行狀態但是我想要驗證這個假設是否正確. 所以去年我們雇了一輛車, 査了Google找了一條從新德里到北印度的小路這條路途中並不會經過任何大城市或任何大型都會區. 大概300公里的路程中只要找到學校, 我們就會主持一項制式的測驗然後把成績結果畫成圖表這份圖表很有趣, 雖然需要仔細推敲因為樣本數太少了, 不應該一概而論但是結果很明顯也很清楚這條我們走過的路途中越偏遠的學校, 測驗成績越糟這結果似乎有點令人沮喪我試著找出與之有相關性的事物, 如基礎設施或是供電能力等等 我很驚訝的發現, 這些都沒有相關性成績與班級大小無關與基礎設施品質無關與貧窮程度沒有關聯. 就是無關但後來我發了一份問卷給這些學校, 問老師們一件事:你是否想要搬到城市或都會區?如你所見的69%的老師答了是他們說想搬到德里邊緣, 離德里不遠的地方但是他們並不想搬到德里的富人區因為這些富人區的居民都比較富裕除此之外, 離德里200公里以外之後的老師一致性地回答是我想一個老師每天來學校都在想:真希望我現在在其他學校任職這情況也許對前面說的測驗結果有著重大的影響所以看起來教師的動機及教師的遷徙與小學教育現況有著強烈的相關性相反的, 孩子們是否有東西吃及教室內人數多寡等等的, 看起來與測驗結果並無相關 說到教育與科技, 我發現到像是網站, 協作環境啦等新理念你們從上午就一直在聽的東西一直都是在最好的學校先行測試, 城市裡的最好學校然後在我看來, 導致了偏見有份文獻...一部份科技文獻一貫地批評教育科技(ET)成效被誇大了而且一直達不到要求教師們永遠都說, 這很好, 但是太貴了因為試行的學校中,裡面的學生早就已經體驗過這些科技這樣說好了,也許現在他們能做到80%加上最新最好的科技, 現在他們能得到約83%效益所以校長就會說3%就需要30萬元? 算了吧如果把同樣的科技拿到偏遠的學校裡做測試假設原本測驗成績是30%, 用了科技之後成績達到40%那這又是另外一種狀況了所以教育科技(ET)能夠帶來的相對效益在金字塔底層效益會比金字塔頂端要來的大得多但是我們現在做法似乎背道而馳 所以我的結論就是ET應該要先用在下層社會,而非上層社會最後問題來了, 如何改變教師的看法只要你去找教師並且告訴他某種科技他的第一個反應是你不能用一台機器取代一位老師—這是不可能的我不懂為何那是不可能的, 但是, 就算是一下子也好假設那是有可能的—我在科羅拉多預見的科幻小說作家Arthur C. Clarke爵士說過一句話他說的話能完全解決這個問題他說,如果一位教師能被機器所取代,那就應該那樣做所以, 老師就很難當了, 你必須思考不管怎麼樣, 我認為一份特殊的小學教育不管如何另類, 應該是那所學校原本沒有的應該在學校排名不夠好, 教師不夠多或是不管什麼原因, 師資不夠好的學校裡實施如果你正好住在一個上述種種都不存在的地方那你就不需要特殊教育到目前為止, 除了一處以外, 我還沒找到那樣的地方,但我不會說是哪裡但是世界上總會有人說, 我們沒有這樣的問題因為我們有完美的教師與完美的學校有這樣完美的地方, 但是在此之外, 就再也沒聽過了 我現在要說說小孩與自我組織能力還有一系列實驗顯現了特殊的教育或許會成什麼樣子這組實驗稱為""牆上的洞""我必須加快速度了. 這是一組實驗第一項是1999年在新德里執行的這個實驗其實蠻簡單的當時我在市中心貧民窟附近有一個緊鄰貧民窟的辦公室在我們辦公室與貧民窟中間有一道分隔牆在那道牆上鑽了一個洞所以實驗名為牆上的洞然後我們放了一台性能強大的PC在洞裡, 有點嵌入牆裡的感覺所以電腦螢幕在另一端會突出來一個觸摸屏同樣類似的嵌入牆裡接上高速網路, 加上Internet Explorer連到Altavista.com—當時—然後就擺著不管它 這是我們觀察到的所以這就是我的IT辦公室. 就是牆上的洞計畫大約八小時後我們發現一個小孩右邊這個八歲小孩他左邊是一個六歲身材矮小的女孩他正在教這個女孩如何用瀏覽器這個發現讓我們產生了更多的問題這是真的嗎? 語言是否是一個變因?因為他不應該認得英文電腦是否能撐得住, 或是會不會被弄壞或被偷走還有有人教他們嗎?每個人都會問最後的那個問題那些小孩一定把頭伸過牆這邊來並且問了你們辦公室的人可不可以教我怎麼用, 然後有人教了他們 所以我把同樣的實驗帶出德里去這一次到了印度中央一個城市叫做Chifpuri在這個地方我可以確認沒有人會教任何人任何事(笑聲)在一個溫暖的一天, ""牆上的洞""裝在一座老舊的房屋上. 這是第一個到那裡的小孩後來我們得知他是一個13歲的輟學生他開始玩弄那個觸摸屏很快的他發現當他再觸摸屏上移動手指螢幕上的東西會動後來他告訴我""我從沒見過可以自己動的電視機""還可以做事情他自己就摸索出來了, 花了他兩分鐘他就發現他做什麼這台電視機上面就怎麼動然後當他這樣玩時, 他不小心點了觸摸屏一下—等會兒你會看到像這樣, 然後Internet Explorer就換頁面了八分鐘之後, 他眼睛從看著他的手到看著螢幕而且他正在瀏覽頁面:來來回回的就在這個時候, 他開始呼喚鄰居小朋友過來就像小孩會圍過來看這裡在幹什麼到了當天傍晚, 總共有70個小孩在上網所以看起來就只需要八分鐘及一台嵌入牆裡的電腦 我們以為這就是這樣了團體裡的小孩可以教育彼此如何用電腦及如何上網. 但是需要在什麼樣的情況下呢?這個時候有一個關於英語的疑問有人說, 這個實驗真的應該要用印度語我就說了, 哪種, 是要我把整個網路都翻譯成某種印度語言?那是不可能的所以應該是另一種做法但是, 我們想想, 這些小孩怎麼掌握英文呢?我把實驗帶到印度東北部一個叫做Madantusi的村落在那裡, 並沒有英文老師所以小孩一點都沒學過英文然後我佈置了一個類似的牆上的洞在村落與在城市貧民窟一個很大的不同來的小孩里, 女生比男生多在程式貧民窟我在電腦旁留了很多CD—那裡沒有任何網路三個月後再回去看當我回去那裡時, 我發現這兩個小孩8歲跟12歲, 正在電腦上玩一個遊戲而且當他們見到我時就說我們需要更快的處理器跟更好的滑鼠(笑聲)我非常驚訝他們到底怎麼知道這些東西的?然而他們說, 我們是從CD上學到這些東西的我說, 你們怎麼研究出那裡在做什麼?他們說, 你留了這台機器只會講英文, 所以我們必須學英文後來我量了一下,他們可以用200個英文字相互溝通—發音不正確, 但是用法正確—像是:退出, 停止, 尋找, 儲存, 那樣的字不僅是在與電腦有關時, 更在他們日常生活對話中所以Madantusi似乎體現出語言不是一個障礙事實上, 他們還能自我學習這種語言如果他們想要的話 最終我有些經費來測試這個實驗看看這樣的結果是否可複製, 在其他地方是否也會是一樣的印度是一個很好的地方來做這種實驗因為我們很多樣化有多樣化的種族還有各式各樣的社會經濟多樣化群體所以我能夠選取跨群體的樣本基本上能夠涵括全世界五年之後, 這個實驗帶領我們在印度走透透這是喜馬拉雅, 在北邊, 非常冷我還得確定或是發明某些裝置讓普通PC能夠抵擋得住戶外環境,印度更是有著各種不同的氣候我們有著極寒冷的地方也有酷熱的地方這是西邊的沙漠, 靠近巴基斯坦邊境你可以看到, 在某個村莊這些小孩首先做的就是找到一個網頁來教他們自己學英文字母 到了印度中部—很溫暖, 潮濕的漁村這裡的濕度對電子設備損害很大所以我們必須解決問題空調與電力都是很缺乏的所以大多是以少量的風力散熱來讓電腦持續運作我想先跳過這些, 因為我們一直重複著這實驗這一段很有趣. 這個小孩六歲教他姊姊怎麼用這樣的情況經常發生年紀小的小孩教年紀大的小孩 實驗結果告訴我們什麼? 在一個設計好的環境內6歲到13歲的小孩可以自我學習我們能衡量的因素對結果都沒有影響所以只要他們能接觸電腦, 他們就能學習我找不到任何變因是與結果有關聯的, 但我想應該跟""團體""有關而且它們對在座的各位來說相當重要因為你們都在討論團體這裡顯示如果排除成人的介入一群小孩聚在一起能夠迸出何種火花 讓我快速說一下衡量標準我們用了標準的統計方法, 所以我不會贅述但是我們得到了一個完美的學習曲線幾乎就像是你在學校裡會經歷的一樣我就不再多說因為我想, 大家都可以了解了, 對嗎?他們可以學到什麼?基本的Windows功能, 瀏覽, 小畫家, 即時通及email玩小遊戲及教學課程, 下載音樂及看影片簡而言之, 我們平常用電腦做的事情這樣一來300個小孩都能成為電腦高手都能在6個月內用一部電腦做上述的所有的事情 他們到底怎麼做到的?如果你去算他們使用電腦的時間結果是每天平均才幾分鐘所以不是使用時間的問題實際上是一個小孩操作電腦然後通常會有3個其他的小孩圍在旁邊指噵這個小孩怎麼操作如果給他們考個試, 四個人都會回答相同的答案這四個人身旁又通常會圍繞著16個小孩他們也會插嘴下指導棋通常跟電腦相關的指導棋都是錯的而且他們每個人也都能通過跟PC相關的考試所以他們看著學也通過實際操作來學看起來與成人下意識學習的方式相反但是請記得, 八歲小孩通常都被教育這個不能做, 那個不能做不要碰威士忌的瓶子所以八歲小孩子做些什麼呢?仔細觀察該如何碰威士忌酒瓶而且如果你問他他能夠正確回答這個話題相關的問題所以他們似乎能快速吸收 那這超過六年來的實驗工作的結果為何?就是初級教育可以很自然發生或是部分能很自然自主發生不需要上而下的推動也許就是一個自己組織起來的系統第二件事我想告訴大家的是小孩能夠自行組織並且達到教育目標 第三件事與價值有關, 同樣的, 我必須簡述我在分布在印度各地超過500個小孩身上做了測試問他們—我給了他們約68種不同價值取向的問題, 並問他們他們的想法我們得到了不同的看法. 是, 否或我不知道我把其中50%答案是是的, 還有50%答案為否的挑出來有16個這些就是很明顯小孩感到困惑的說法因為一半說是一半說否其中典型的是, 有時候說謊是必要的他們不知道如何回答這樣的問題也許我們也都不知道那我問你們這第三個問題科技是否能改變價值觀的形成?最後, 自行組織的系統我一樣不用多說因為你們早就聽過了自然界的系統都是自行組織的銀河, 分子, 細胞 生物, 社群等等都是自行組織的, 除非還要討論關於一個有智慧的造物主的辯論但是今時今日, 科學上來說都是自行組織的但是有其他的例子如塞車, 股市, 社會及災難重建, 恐怖主義及攻擊還有你知道的網上的自行組織的系統 我總結為四句話偏遠性影響教育的品質教育科技必須率先被引進偏遠地區然後再到其他區域價值觀是自然形成的, 教義跟信條是後天強加的這兩個是相對的而教育應該是自行組織的系統對我來說總結四項結果給了我們一個教育科技的一個目標及遠景一個數位化的自動的教育方式能夠容忍出錯, 簡易, 能相互聯絡的, 自行組織的身為教育工作者, 我們不需要爭取科技 我們只需要借PowerPoint應該是一個偉大的教育科技但是它不是為了教育存在的, 它最初是被用來做董事會報告的我們借用了. 視訊會議. PC也是一樣我想應該是教育工作者自己開發的時候了我有一套. 剛剛已經簡略帶大家看了一遍這一套標準應該催生科技來把偏遠性, 價值觀及暴力考慮進去所以我想我應該替它命名—不如叫它""非教條""吧而且如果這會是未來的教育科技我想要與各位分享 謝謝 掌聲"
