Talk	en	zh-tw
sugata_mitra_build_a_school_in_the_cloud	"What is going to be the future of learning? I do have a plan, but in order for me to tell you what that plan is, I need to tell you a little story, which kind of sets the stage. I tried to look at where did the kind of learning we do in schools, where did it come from? And you can look far back into the past, but if you look at present-day schooling the way it is, it's quite easy to figure out where it came from. It came from about 300 years ago, and it came from the last and the biggest of the empires on this planet. [""The British Empire""] Imagine trying to run the show, trying to run the entire planet, without computers, without telephones, with data handwritten on pieces of paper, and traveling by ships. But the Victorians actually did it. What they did was amazing. They created a global computer made up of people. It's still with us today. It's called the bureaucratic administrative machine. In order to have that machine running, you need lots and lots of people. They made another machine to produce those people: the school. The schools would produce the people who would then become parts of the bureaucratic administrative machine. They must be identical to each other. They must know three things: They must have good handwriting, because the data is handwritten; they must be able to read; and they must be able to do multiplication, division, addition and subtraction in their head. They must be so identical that you could pick one up from New Zealand and ship them to Canada and he would be instantly functional. The Victorians were great engineers. They engineered a system that was so robust that it's still with us today, continuously producing identical people for a machine that no longer exists. The empire is gone, so what are we doing with that design that produces these identical people, and what are we going to do next if we ever are going to do anything else with it? [""Schools as we know them are obsolete""] So that's a pretty strong comment there. I said schools as we know them now, they're obsolete. I'm not saying they're broken. It's quite fashionable to say that the education system's broken. It's not broken. It's wonderfully constructed. It's just that we don't need it anymore. It's outdated. What are the kind of jobs that we have today? Well, the clerks are the computers. They're there in thousands in every office. And you have people who guide those computers to do their clerical jobs. Those people don't need to be able to write beautifully by hand. They don't need to be able to multiply numbers in their heads. They do need to be able to read. In fact, they need to be able to read discerningly. Well, that's today, but we don't even know what the jobs of the future are going to look like. We know that people will work from wherever they want, whenever they want, in whatever way they want. How is present-day schooling going to prepare them for that world? Well, I bumped into this whole thing completely by accident. I used to teach people how to write computer programs in New Delhi, 14 years ago. And right next to where I used to work, there was a slum. And I used to think, how on Earth are those kids ever going to learn to write computer programs? Or should they not? At the same time, we also had lots of parents, rich people, who had computers, and who used to tell me, ""You know, my son, I think he's gifted, because he does wonderful things with computers. And my daughter — oh, surely she is extra-intelligent."" And so on. So I suddenly figured that, how come all the rich people are having these extraordinarily gifted children? (Laughter) What did the poor do wrong? I made a hole in the boundary wall of the slum next to my office, and stuck a computer inside it just to see what would happen if I gave a computer to children who never would have one, didn't know any English, didn't know what the Internet was. The children came running in. It was three feet off the ground, and they said, ""What is this?"" And I said, ""Yeah, it's, I don't know."" (Laughter) They said, ""Why have you put it there?"" I said, ""Just like that."" And they said, ""Can we touch it?""I said, ""If you wish to."" And I went away. About eight hours later, we found them browsing and teaching each other how to browse. So I said, ""Well that's impossible, because — How is it possible? They don't know anything."" My colleagues said, ""No, it's a simple solution. One of your students must have been passing by, showed them how to use the mouse."" So I said, ""Yeah, that's possible."" So I repeated the experiment. I went 300 miles out of Delhi into a really remote village where the chances of a passing software development engineer was very little. (Laughter) I repeated the experiment there. There was no place to stay, so I stuck my computer in, I went away, came back after a couple of months, found kids playing games on it. When they saw me, they said, ""We want a faster processor and a better mouse."" (Laughter) So I said, ""How on Earth do you know all this?"" And they said something very interesting to me. In an irritated voice, they said, ""You've given us a machine that works only in English, so we had to teach ourselves English in order to use it."" (Laughter) That's the first time, as a teacher, that I had heard the word ""teach ourselves"" said so casually. Here's a short glimpse from those years. That's the first day at the Hole in the Wall. On your right is an eight-year-old. To his left is his student. She's six. And he's teaching her how to browse. Then onto other parts of the country, I repeated this over and over again, getting exactly the same results that we were. [""Hole in the wall film - 1999""] An eight-year-old telling his elder sister what to do. And finally a girl explaining in Marathi what it is, and said, ""There's a processor inside."" So I started publishing. I published everywhere. I wrote down and measured everything, and I said, in nine months, a group of children left alone with a computer in any language will reach the same standard as an office secretary in the West. I'd seen it happen over and over and over again. But I was curious to know, what else would they do if they could do this much? I started experimenting with other subjects, among them, for example, pronunciation. There's one community of children in southern India whose English pronunciation is really bad, and they needed good pronunciation because that would improve their jobs. I gave them a speech-to-text engine in a computer, and I said, ""Keep talking into it until it types what you say."" (Laughter) They did that, and watch a little bit of this. Computer: Nice to meet you.Child: Nice to meet you. Sugata Mitra: The reason I ended with the face of this young lady over there is because I suspect many of you know her. She has now joined a call center in Hyderabad and may have tortured you about your credit card bills in a very clear English accent. So then people said, well, how far will it go? Where does it stop? I decided I would destroy my own argument by creating an absurd proposition. I made a hypothesis, a ridiculous hypothesis. Tamil is a south Indian language, and I said, can Tamil-speaking children in a south Indian village learn the biotechnology of DNA replication in English from a streetside computer? And I said, I'll measure them. They'll get a zero. I'll spend a couple of months, I'll leave it for a couple of months, I'll go back, they'll get another zero. I'll go back to the lab and say, we need teachers. I found a village. It was called Kallikuppam in southern India. I put in Hole in the Wall computers there, downloaded all kinds of stuff from the Internet about DNA replication, most of which I didn't understand. The children came rushing, said, ""What's all this?"" So I said, ""It's very topical, very important. But it's all in English."" So they said, ""How can we understand such big English words and diagrams and chemistry?"" So by now, I had developed a new pedagogical method, so I applied that. I said, ""I haven't the foggiest idea."" (Laughter) ""And anyway, I am going away."" (Laughter) So I left them for a couple of months. They'd got a zero. I gave them a test. I came back after two months and the children trooped in and said, ""We've understood nothing."" So I said, ""Well, what did I expect?"" So I said, ""Okay, but how long did it take you before you decided that you can't understand anything?"" So they said, ""We haven't given up. We look at it every single day."" So I said, ""What? You don't understand these screens and you keep staring at it for two months? What for?"" So a little girl who you see just now, she raised her hand, and she says to me in broken Tamil and English, she said, ""Well, apart from the fact that improper replication of the DNA molecule causes disease, we haven't understood anything else."" (Laughter) (Applause) So I tested them. I got an educational impossibility, zero to 30 percent in two months in the tropical heat with a computer under the tree in a language they didn't know doing something that's a decade ahead of their time. Absurd. But I had to follow the Victorian norm. Thirty percent is a fail. How do I get them to pass? I have to get them 20 more marks. I couldn't find a teacher. What I did find was a friend that they had, a 22-year-old girl who was an accountant and she played with them all the time. So I asked this girl, ""Can you help them?"" So she says, ""Absolutely not. I didn't have science in school. I have no idea what they're doing under that tree all day long. I can't help you."" I said, ""I'll tell you what. Use the method of the grandmother."" So she says, ""What's that?"" I said, ""Stand behind them. Whenever they do anything, you just say, 'Well, wow, I mean, how did you do that? What's the next page? Gosh, when I was your age, I could have never done that.' You know what grannies do."" So she did that for two more months. The scores jumped to 50 percent. Kallikuppam had caught up with my control school in New Delhi, a rich private school with a trained biotechnology teacher. When I saw that graph I knew there is a way to level the playing field. Here's Kallikuppam. (Children speaking) Neurons ... communication. I got the camera angle wrong. That one is just amateur stuff, but what she was saying, as you could make out, was about neurons, with her hands were like that, and she was saying neurons communicate. At 12. So what are jobs going to be like? Well, we know what they're like today. What's learning going to be like? We know what it's like today, children pouring over with their mobile phones on the one hand and then reluctantly going to school to pick up their books with their other hand. What will it be tomorrow? Could it be that we don't need to go to school at all? Could it be that, at the point in time when you need to know something, you can find out in two minutes? Could it be — a devastating question, a question that was framed for me by Nicholas Negroponte — could it be that we are heading towards or maybe in a future where knowing is obsolete? But that's terrible. We are homo sapiens. Knowing, that's what distinguishes us from the apes. But look at it this way. It took nature 100 million years to make the ape stand up and become Homo sapiens. It took us only 10,000 to make knowing obsolete. What an achievement that is. But we have to integrate that into our own future. Encouragement seems to be the key. If you look at Kuppam, if you look at all of the experiments that I did, it was simply saying, ""Wow,"" saluting learning. There is evidence from neuroscience. The reptilian part of our brain, which sits in the center of our brain, when it's threatened, it shuts down everything else, it shuts down the prefrontal cortex, the parts which learn, it shuts all of that down. Punishment and examinations are seen as threats. We take our children, we make them shut their brains down, and then we say, ""Perform."" Why did they create a system like that? Because it was needed. There was an age in the Age of Empires when you needed those people who can survive under threat. When you're standing in a trench all alone, if you could have survived, you're okay, you've passed. If you didn't, you failed. But the Age of Empires is gone. What happens to creativity in our age? We need to shift that balance back from threat to pleasure. I came back to England looking for British grandmothers. I put out notices in papers saying, if you are a British grandmother, if you have broadband and a web camera, can you give me one hour of your time per week for free? I got 200 in the first two weeks. I know more British grandmothers than anyone in the universe. (Laughter) They're called the Granny Cloud. The Granny Cloud sits on the Internet. If there's a child in trouble, we beam a Gran. She goes on over Skype and she sorts things out. I've seen them do it from a village called Diggles in northwestern England, deep inside a village in Tamil Nadu, India, 6,000 miles away. She does it with only one age-old gesture. ""Shhh."" Okay? Watch this. Grandmother: You can't catch me. You say it. You can't catch me. Children: You can't catch me. Grandmother: I'm the Gingerbread Man.Children: I'm the Gingerbread Man. Grandmother: Well done! Very good. SM: So what's happening here? I think what we need to look at is we need to look at learning as the product of educational self-organization. If you allow the educational process to self-organize, then learning emerges. It's not about making learning happen. It's about letting it happen. The teacher sets the process in motion and then she stands back in awe and watches as learning happens. I think that's what all this is pointing at. But how will we know? How will we come to know? Well, I intend to build these Self-Organized Learning Environments. They are basically broadband, collaboration and encouragement put together. I've tried this in many, many schools. It's been tried all over the world, and teachers sort of stand back and say, ""It just happens by itself?"" And I said, ""Yeah, it happens by itself.""""How did you know that?"" I said, ""You won't believe the children who told me and where they're from."" Here's a SOLE in action. (Children talking) This one is in England. He maintains law and order, because remember, there's no teacher around. Girl: The total number of electrons is not equal to the total number of protons — SM: Australia Girl: — giving it a net positive or negative electrical charge. The net charge on an ion is equal to the number of protons in the ion minus the number of electrons. SM: A decade ahead of her time. So SOLEs, I think we need a curriculum of big questions. You already heard about that. You know what that means. There was a time when Stone Age men and women used to sit and look up at the sky and say, ""What are those twinkling lights?"" They built the first curriculum, but we've lost sight of those wondrous questions. We've brought it down to the tangent of an angle. But that's not sexy enough. The way you would put it to a nine-year-old is to say, ""If a meteorite was coming to hit the Earth, how would you figure out if it was going to or not?"" And if he says, ""Well, what? how?"" you say, ""There's a magic word. It's called the tangent of an angle,"" and leave him alone. He'll figure it out. So here are a couple of images from SOLEs. I've tried incredible, incredible questions — ""When did the world begin? How will it end?"" — to nine-year-olds. This one is about what happens to the air we breathe. This is done by children without the help of any teacher. The teacher only raises the question, and then stands back and admires the answer. So what's my wish? My wish is that we design the future of learning. We don't want to be spare parts for a great human computer, do we? So we need to design a future for learning. And I've got to — hang on, I've got to get this wording exactly right, because, you know, it's very important. My wish is to help design a future of learning by supporting children all over the world to tap into their wonder and their ability to work together. Help me build this school. It will be called the School in the Cloud. It will be a school where children go on these intellectual adventures driven by the big questions which their mediators put in. The way I want to do this is to build a facility where I can study this. It's a facility which is practically unmanned. There's only one granny who manages health and safety. The rest of it's from the cloud. The lights are turned on and off by the cloud, etc., etc., everything's done from the cloud. But I want you for another purpose. You can do Self-Organized Learning Environments at home, in the school, outside of school, in clubs. It's very easy to do. There's a great document produced by TED which tells you how to do it. If you would please, please do it across all five continents and send me the data, then I'll put it all together, move it into the School of Clouds, and create the future of learning. That's my wish. And just one last thing. I'll take you to the top of the Himalayas. At 12,000 feet, where the air is thin, I once built two Hole in the Wall computers, and the children flocked there. And there was this little girl who was following me around. And I said to her, ""You know, I want to give a computer to everybody, every child. I don't know, what should I do?"" And I was trying to take a picture of her quietly. She suddenly raised her hand like this, and said to me, ""Get on with it."" (Laughter) (Applause) I think it was good advice. I'll follow her advice. I'll stop talking. Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. Wow. (Applause)"	未來的學習是怎樣的？ 我的確有一個計劃，但是爲了告訴你這個計劃是怎樣的，我需要先講一個小故事，來給大家一個背景。 我曾經嘗試著尋找我們今天在學校裡的教育方式，它究竟是從哪裡來的？這個問題的答案當然可以追溯到很久以前，但是只要你看看今天學校教育的方式，你能很容易弄清它來自哪裡。它來自大約300年前，而且它來自地球上最後且最大的帝國(大不列顛帝國)。想像一下，在沒有電腦、沒有電話的時代要管理整個世界卻僅僅依靠在紙上寫字，和在船上航行。但是維多利亞女王時代的人們做到了。他們做了一件不可思議的事。他們建造了一台環球電腦，完全由人組成的。甚至今天還在我們身邊這台機器叫做官僚體系爲了讓這台機器運行需要大量的人他們建造了另一台機器來生產這些人 ：學校。學校生產出的人，就是這台官僚機器的零件。他們必須是完全標準的、可替換的。他們必須知道三件事：他們必須會寫字，因為數據是手寫的；他們必須會認字；他們必須會心算加減乘除。他們必須是完完全全一樣的人如果你從他們中任挑一個從紐西蘭運到加拿大，他馬上就可以工作。維多利亞時代是偉大工程師的時代他們製作的系統是如此強大，以致我們今天仍在使用，持續地生產同樣的人，即便那個控制全球的機器已經不存在了。不列顛帝國已經滅亡了，我們該拿這個製造一模一樣人的機器怎麼辦，我們下一步該做什麽，如果我們真的需要做些什麽的話？ “我們所知的學校已經過時了” 我知道這是一個令人難以接受的觀點。但是，我只說我們現在所知的學校過時了。我沒有說學校的教育壞掉了。現在很流行說我們的教育體系壞掉了。它沒有壞掉。它簡直構建地太完美了。只是我們不再需要它了，它過時了。我們今天的工作都是怎樣的？電腦就是我們的職員，每個辦公室就有幾千部，然後我們有操縱電腦的人，讓電腦去做各種計算他們不需要會寫漂亮的字，他們不需要會心算乘法，他們甚至不需要會認字，實際上，他們只要會區分不同的字符就足夠了。 而這只是我們現在的工作，但我們根本不知道未來的工作會變得怎樣。我們知道人們可以在任何地方上班，任何時間上班，用任何方式上班。可是，我們現在的學校要怎樣讓學生對未來的工作做好準備? 其實我初次思考這個問題完全是湊巧，14年前，我曾經在新德里教學生寫電腦程式。而緊靠著我工作的地方就有一個貧民窟，我曾經想，要究竟怎樣那些貧民窟的孩子才能學會寫電腦程式？或者他們就不該學？同時，我們有很多有錢的家長，有錢能買幾台電腦放在家的，時不時告訴我：“我那個兒子啊，真是天才啊，他用電腦做了很多很多了不起的事還有我女兒—哦，我肯定她智商超群。”就像這樣一直講下去。所以我突然就想，爲什麽這些天賦過人的孩子都生在有錢人的家裡？（笑）窮人們做錯了什麽？我在我的辦公室靠貧民窟的牆上挖了一個洞，然後把一台電腦放進洞裡。我想知道的是，如果我把一台電腦給一個不懂英語，不知道網際網路，且從沒有碰過電腦的孩子，會發生甚麼事。 孩子們跑了過來，指著離地三英寸的那台電腦問我：“這是什麽？” 然後我說：“這個嘛，它是......我也不知道。”（笑） 他們說：“爲什麽你把它放在那裡？” 我說：“就是放在這裡。” 他們說：“我們可以碰它嗎？”我說：“如果你們想的碰的話。” 然後我就走開了。大概八小時以後，我們回到那裡，發現那些孩子在互相教對方怎麼上網。我說：“這是不可能的，因為，這怎麼可能？他們什麽都不知道。” 我的同事說：“不是這樣的，事情很簡單你的一個學生肯定有從這裡路過，告訴了他們怎麼用滑鼠。” 我說：“沒錯，這很有可能。” 所以我重複了這個實驗。我來到離德里300英里遠的地方，在一個真正的窮鄉僻壤，在那裡有一個軟體開發工程師路過的機率，很小很小（笑）我在那裡做了同樣的實驗，那裡沒有地方可以長住，所以我把電腦嵌到牆裡，就離開了，並在幾個月以後才回來，並發現孩子們在用電腦玩遊戲， 當他們看見我，他們說，“我們想要一個更快的處理器和更好的滑鼠。” （笑） 所以我說：“你們到底是怎麼知道這些的？” 他們的回答很有趣，他們用一種惱怒的口吻說“你給了我們一台只能顯示英文的機器，所以我們不得不先自學英語再來用它。”這是我作為一個老師第一次聽到“自學”這個詞被說得這樣輕鬆。 這有一段來自那些時候的影片剪輯，這是牆裡有洞的第一天，右邊是一個八歲的孩子，他的左邊是他的學生。她只有六歲。而小男孩在教小女孩怎麼上網。接著我在印度的其它地方，不斷地重複這個實驗，得到完全一樣的結果。“電影：牆裡有洞-1999”一個八歲的小男孩在教他的姐姐要怎麼做，最後一個女孩用馬拉地語解釋了它是什麽，她說：“裡面有一個處理器。” 然後我開始發表我的發現。我在各處發表論文。我衡量並寫下所有事情。然後我說，在九個月內給任何一群孩子一台任意語言的電腦他們可以做到如同西方辦公室職員的水準。我已經看到這樣的事一而再再而三地發生。 但是我還是好奇，他們還能達到什麽樣的程度，既然他們已經可以做這麼多的話？我開始嘗試其它主題，其中包括，舉個例子，發音印度南邊有一個社區，孩子們的英語發音真的很差，而且他們需要好的發音因為那可以帶來更好的工作。我給他們的電腦上安裝了一個自動語音識別的軟體，然後我說：“跟它說話直到它能把你說的打在螢幕上。”（笑）他們成功了，來看一段短片， 電腦：很高興認識你。孩子：很高興認識你。 我讓這個短片結束在這位年輕女士的臉上，是因為我懷疑你們之中的許多人認識她。她現在在海德巴拉一個呼叫中心工作她可能因為你的信用卡帳單折磨過你。用很標準的英語。 然後人們會說，那麼，他們的程度可以到哪?終點在哪裡？我決定我要否定我自己的觀點，透過建立一個荒唐的理論。我做了一個假設，一個荒謬的假設。泰米爾是印度南部的一種語言，而我說，南印度村莊說泰米爾語的孩子可以通過一台街頭電腦學會用英語寫的生物DNA複製理論嗎？然後我說，我會考他們，他們會得零分，我會再花幾個月的時間，把電腦留在那裡幾個月，然後再回去，他們還是會得零分我會回到我的實驗室然後說，我們需要老師。我找到了一個村莊。它叫做卡裡庫潘，位於印度南部。我在牆裡裝了一台電腦用網路下載了所有有關DNA複製的資料，其中大部份我自己也不瞭解。 孩子們跑過來，說 “這是什麽？” 然後我說：“它很專業，非常重要。但是它的內容都是英語的” 然後他們說：“我們怎麼能理解這麼多的英文單字圖表和化學？” 到那個時候，我已經創建了我的新教育學理論所以我回答他們：“我也不知道。”（笑）“而且反正我也要走了。”（笑） 然後我離開了他們幾個月。我測試了他們。他們確實得了零分兩個月後我又回去了，孩子們聚在一起說：“我們什麽也不懂。” 然後我說：“好吧，我能期望什麽？”所以我說：“好的，但是你們用了多少時間才決定不再看了？” 他們說：“我們還沒有放棄。我們每天都有看。” 然後我說：“什麽？你們不知道這個螢幕上說了什麽，但是你們盯著它看了兩個月？爲了什麽？” 一個小女孩，你剛才看見的那個，舉起手來，然後用半泰米爾半英語說道 :“除了不正常的DNA分子會導致疾病的事實外，我們還沒有理解任何別的東西。” （笑）（鼓掌） 然後我測試了他們，我得到了一個教育學的奇蹟，從零分到三十分在兩個月時間內，在一個炎熱的熱帶村莊，透過一台樹下的電腦和一種他們不認識的語言做了一件超越他們時代整整十年的事情。不可思議。但是我還是要遵循維多利亞時代的標準30分是不及格。怎樣才能讓他們通過？我還要讓他們再得二十分我找不到一個能教他們的老師。我找到的是一個他們的朋友，一個22歲的女孩，是一個會計，她總跟那些孩子玩在一起。 所以我問這個女孩：“你能幫幫他們嗎？” 她說：“絕對不可能。我沒學過科學。我不知道他們整天在那棵樹下幹什麼。我幫不了你。” 我說：“這麼說吧。用你奶奶的辦法。” 她說：“那是什麽？” 我說：“站在他們後面，不管他們做了什麽，妳只要說'哇，太棒了，你們怎麼做到的？下一頁說了什麽？天哪，我跟你們一樣大的時候，我絕不可能會做這個。’你知道奶奶們怎麼說的。” 所以她這樣做了兩個月孩子們的分數提高到50，卡裡庫潘趕上了我在新德裡的對比學校，一個有專業生物老師的有錢私立學校。當我看到那張圖表的時候我就知道有辦法提高他們的成績。 這就是卡裡庫潘。 (孩子在說話）神經.....交流。 我沒設好鏡頭角度。這個方面我是很業餘的，但是她所說的，正如你們聽見的一樣，是關於神經，她的手像這樣而她在說的是神經交流。在12歲的時候 那麼未來的工作是怎樣的？我們知道它們今天是怎樣的，未來的學習是怎樣的？我們知道今天的學習是怎樣的，他們一手拿著手機然後不情願地來到學校用另一隻手拿起課本。 明天會變得怎樣？會變得我們都不需要去學校了嗎？會變得，在你需要知道一些事情的時候你能在兩分鐘內找到答案？會變成——一個顛覆性的話題，一個最初由Nicholas Negroponte（“一個孩子一臺電腦”機構的創始人）所提出的問題？我們會不會在走向一個知識代表過時的未來？但是這很糟糕。我們是智人。知識，是我們和猿猴最大的區別。但換個角度看看。猿猴用了一億年的時間，才能用雙腳站立起來，並成為智人。我們才用了1萬年就讓知識過時了。這是怎樣的成就啊！但是我們還要把它融入到我們自己的未來當中， 鼓勵看起來就是那個秘訣。如果你看看卡裡庫潘，如果你看看我做的所有實驗，它們都在說一件事：“太棒了” 激勵了學習。 神經科學有事實證明，大腦的類爬蟲部份，位於大腦的中間，當它受到威脅的時候，它會把一切東西都關掉，它會關掉額前額葉皮層，我們負責學習的部份，它會把這個都關掉。懲罰和考試被當做是威脅。我們叫我們的孩子出來，我們讓他們關掉大腦，然後我們說：“表現吧！”爲什麽我們要建立一個這樣的體系？因為它在過去是被需要的。在帝國時代，我們需要那些能在威脅裡生存的人，當你站在戰壕裡的時候，如果你活下來了，你就過關了。如果你沒有，你就不合格。但是帝國時代已經遠去了。我們這個時代的創造力呢？我們需要把平衡從威脅移到樂趣。 我來到英國尋找老奶奶們，我發傳單和登廣告說，如果你是英國奶奶，如果你有寬頻網路和網絡攝影機，你可以每個星期免費給我一小時嗎？在前兩週有200個老奶奶報名。全宇宙沒有人比我認識更多的英國老奶奶了。她們被稱作奶奶雲，奶奶雲位於網際網路上，如果有一個孩子有問題，我們就叫一個老奶奶過來。她來到Skype上把孩子的問題解決掉。我曾經在一個叫地格斯的小鎮看她們做過，這個小鎮在英格蘭西北部和印度在內陸的塔姆里拿都村莊，相隔6000英里。她只用了一個很老的手勢，“噓”好嗎？ 看這個。 奶奶：你抓不住我。換你說。你抓不住我。 孩子：你抓不住我。 奶奶：我是薑餅人。孩子：我是薑餅人。 奶奶：太棒了！很好。 到底這是怎麼回事？我覺得我們應該看看這個，我們應該把學習當做是自我組織教育的產物。如果你允許教育過程自我組織，學習就發生了。不是要迫使它發生，而是讓它自己發生。教師讓這個過程運轉起來，然後恭敬地站在後面，觀察學習過程的發生。我認為這就是所有一切實驗的指向。 但是我們怎麼知道？我們將來怎麼知道？我願意創造這些自我組織的學習環境（SOLE）。它們基本上是寬頻、合作和激勵的共同體。我曾經在很多的學校裡實驗， 在全世界實驗，而老師們站在一旁說：“它（學習）就這樣自己發生了？” 然後我說：“是的，它就自己發生了。”“你是怎麼知道的？” 我說：“你不會相信那些告訴我這個道理的孩子們，以及他們來自哪裡。” 這裡有一個 SOLE 的例子。 （孩子們在說話） 這個是在英格蘭。這個孩子維持討論的秩序，因為記著，那裡沒有老師在附近。 女孩：電子總數不等於質子總數—話外音：澳大利亞女孩：給負電荷的一個凈正電荷。離子的凈電荷等於離子中質子的數量減去電子的數量。 比她的時代超前了十年。 所以對於SOLE，我想我們需要關於難題的課程。你們已經聽說過了。你們知道那意味著什麽，在石器時代男人和女人曾經坐在一起看著天空說：“那些閃爍的亮光是什麽？”他們建立了最早的課程，但是我們失去了這些由好奇引發的問題。我們將這問題簡化成切線角，但這樣的問題不夠誘人。你應該對一個九歲的孩子說，“如果有一顆隕石朝著地球飛來，你怎麼知道它會不會撞上地球？”如果他說：“什麽？怎麼知道呢？”你說：“有一個很神奇的詞，叫做切線角。”然後就丟下他不管。他會自己去搞明白的。 這裡還有一些 SOLE 的圖片，我曾經試過非常不可思議的問題—“宇宙是什麽時候開始的？將會怎麼結束？”用這問題去問九歲的小孩。這個是關於我們呼吸的空氣的問題，這個是孩子們不經由老師協助而自己得到的結果。老師僅僅是提出問題，然後站在後面誇獎孩子們的回答。 所以我的願望是什麼？我的願望就是我們來設計未來的學習。我們不想成為巨大人類電腦的一部份，不是嗎？所以我們要設計一個適合學習的未來，而且我要 — 等等這句話我必須說得很精確，因為，你們知道，這很重要我的希望就是透過支持全世界的孩子們，去啓發他們的好奇心和協同工作的能力，來幫助設計未來的學習，來幫助我建立這個學校，它將被稱作雲端的學校 (School in the Cloud)。它將是一個孩子們深入智力探險的學校，被老師們提出的難題激勵著。我想做這件事情的方式，是建立一個我可以研究（未來學校）的。這是一個沒有實體的機構，只有一個老奶奶，管理健康和安全，剩下的所有東西都來自雲端。雲可以開啟和關閉光亮。還有很多、很多，所有事情都可以由雲端來達成。 但是我還想讓你們做另一件事。你們可以在家裡、在學校、在學校外、在社團中創建自我組織學習環境。這很簡單。有一個很棒的 TED檔案會告訴你怎麼做。如果你們可以的話，拜託，拜託你們跨越五大洲來做這件事，然後發給我你們的數據，然後我會把數據放在一起，轉移到雲端的學校，建立學習的未來。這就是我的心願。 還有最後一點，我將帶著你去喜馬拉雅的最頂端，12,000 英寸高的地方，那裡空氣很稀薄我曾經做了兩台洞裡的電腦，孩子們聚在那裡，有一個小女孩跟著我， 我對她說：“你知道，我想要給每個人，每個孩子一台電腦，我不知道，我該怎麼辦？”我試著照下她靜靜的樣子， 她突然像這樣舉起手，然後說“只要去做。” （笑）（掌聲） 我想這是個很好的建議。我將遵循她的建議。我的演講到此為止。謝謝！非常感謝！（掌聲）謝謝！謝謝！（掌聲）非常感謝！哇（掌聲）
