Talk	en	zh-tw
suki_kim_this_is_what_it_s_like_to_go_undercover_in_north_korea	"In 2011, during the final six months of Kim Jong-Il's life, I lived undercover in North Korea. I was born and raised in South Korea, their enemy. I live in America, their other enemy. Since 2002, I had visited North Korea a few times. And I had come to realize that to write about it with any meaning, or to understand the place beyond the regime's propaganda, the only option was total immersion. So I posed as a teacher and a missionary at an all-male university in Pyongyang. The Pyongyang University of Science and Technology was founded by Evangelical Christians who cooperate with the regime to educate the sons of the North Korean elite, without proselytizing, which is a capital crime there. The students were 270 young men, expected to be the future leaders of the most isolated and brutal dictatorship in existence. When I arrived, they became my students. 2011 was a special year, marking the 100th anniversary of the birth of North Korea's original Great Leader, Kim Il-Sung. To celebrate the occasion, the regime shut down all universities, and sent students off to the fields to build the DPRK's much-heralded ideal as the world's most powerful and prosperous nation. My students were the only ones spared from that fate. North Korea is a gulag posing as a nation. Everything there is about the Great Leader. Every book, every newspaper article, every song, every TV program — there is just one subject. The flowers are named after him, the mountains are carved with his slogans. Every citizen wears the badge of the Great Leader at all times. Even their calendar system begins with the birth of Kim Il-Sung. The school was a heavily guarded prison, posing as a campus. Teachers could only leave on group outings accompanied by an official minder. Even then, our trips were limited to sanctioned national monuments celebrating the Great Leader. The students were not allowed to leave the campus, or communicate with their parents. Their days were meticulously mapped out, and any free time they had was devoted to honoring their Great Leader. Lesson plans had to meet the approval of North Korean staff, every class was recorded and reported on, every room was bugged, and every conversation, overheard. Every blank space was covered with the  portraits of Kim Il-Sung and Kim Jong-Il, like everywhere else in North Korea. We were never allowed to discuss the outside world. As students of science and technology, many of them were computer majors but they did not know the existence of the Internet. They had never heard of Mark Zuckerberg or Steve Jobs. Facebook, Twitter — none of those things would have meant a thing. And I could not tell them. I went there looking for truth. But where do you even start when an entire nation's ideology, my students' day-to-day realities, and even my own position at the universities, were all built on lies? I started with a game. We played ""Truth and Lie."" A volunteer would write a sentence on the chalkboard, and the other students had to guess whether it was a truth or a lie. Once a student wrote, ""I visited China last year on vacation,"" and everyone shouted, ""Lie!"" They all knew this wasn't possible. Virtually no North Korean is allowed to leave the country. Even traveling within their own country requires a travel pass. I had hoped that this game would reveal some truth about my students, because they lie so often and so easily, whether about the mythical accomplishments of their Great Leader, or the strange claim that they cloned a rabbit as fifth graders. The difference between truth and lies seemed at times hazy to them. It took me a while to understand the different types of lies; they lie to shield their system from the world, or they were taught lies, and were just regurgitating them. Or, at moments, they lied out of habit. But if all they have ever known were lies, how could we expect them to be otherwise? Next, I tried to teach them essay writing. But that turned out to be nearly impossible. Essays are about coming up with one's own thesis, and making an evidence-based argument to prove it. These students, however, were simply told what to think, and they obeyed. In their world, critical thinking was not allowed. I also gave them the weekly assignment of writing a personal letter, to anybody. It took a long time, but eventually some of them began to write to their mothers, their friends, their girlfriends. Although those were just homework, and would never reach their intended recipients, my students slowly began to reveal their true feelings in them. They wrote that they were fed up with the sameness of everything. They were worried about their future. In those letters, they rarely ever mentioned their Great Leader. I was spending all of my time with these young men. We all ate meals together, played basketball together. I often called them gentlemen, which made them giggle. They blushed at the mention of girls. And I came to adore them. And watching them open up even in the tiniest of ways, was deeply moving. But something also felt wrong. During those months of living in their world, I often wondered if the truth would, in fact, improve their lives. I wanted so much to tell them the truth, of their country and of the outside world, where Arab youth were turning their rotten regime inside out, using the power of social media, where everyone except them was connected through the world wide web, which wasn't worldwide after all. But for them, the truth was dangerous. By encouraging them to run after it, I was putting them at risk — of persecution, of heartbreak. When you're not allowed to express anything in the open, you become good at reading what is unspoken. In one of their personal letters to me, a student wrote that he understood why I always called them gentlemen. It was because I was wishing them to be gentle in life, he said. On my last day in December of 2011, the day Kim Jong-Il's death was announced, their world shattered. I had to leave without a proper goodbye. But I think they knew how sad I was for them. Once, toward the end of my stay, a student said to me, ""Professor, we never think of you as being different from us. Our circumstances are different, but you're the same as us. We want you to know that we truly think of you as being the same."" Today, if I could respond to my students with a letter of my own, which is of course impossible, I would tell them this: ""My dear gentlemen, It's been a bit over three years since I last saw you. And now, you must be 22 — maybe even as old as 23. At our final class, I asked you if there was anything you wanted. The only wish you expressed, the only thing you ever asked of me in all those months we spent together, was for me to speak to you in Korean. Just once. I was there to teach you English; you knew it wasn't allowed. But I understood then, you wanted to share that bond of our mother tongue. I called you my gentlemen, but I don't know if being gentle in Kim Jong-Un's merciless North Korea is a good thing. I don't want you to lead a revolution — let some other young person do it. The rest of the world might casually encourage or even expect some sort of North Korean Spring, but I don't want you to do anything risky, because I know in your world, someone is always watching. I don't want to imagine what might happen to you. If my attempts to reach you have inspired something new in you, I would rather you forget me. Become soldiers of your Great Leader, and live long, safe lives. You once asked me if I thought your city of Pyongyang was beautiful, and I could not answer truthfully then. But I know why you asked. I know that it was important for you to hear that I, your teacher, the one who has seen the world that you are forbidden from, declare your city as the most beautiful. I know hearing that would make your lives there a bit more bearable, but no, I don't find your capital beautiful. Not because it's monotone and concrete, but because of what it symbolizes: a monster that feeds off the rest of the country, where citizens are soldiers and slaves. All I see there is darkness. But it's your home, so I cannot hate it. And I hope instead that you, my lovely young gentlemen, will one day help make it beautiful. Thank you. (Applause)"	在 2011 年，金正日人生最後的六個月，我秘密生活在北韓。 我在它的敵對國家南韓出生長大，在它另一個敵對國家美國居住。 從 2002 年起，我數次訪問北韓。我意識到，如果想要寫關於北韓的有意義的書，或是超越政權的政治宣傳，唯一的方式就是將自己完全融入。因此我以教師和傳教士的身份在平壤一所男子大學工作。 平壤科學技術大學由福音派基督徒建立，他與當權者合作辦學教育北韓精英家庭的孩子，他們沒有誘勸他們改宗，這被認為是嚴重的罪行。學生們是 270 位年輕男子，他們被期待成為未來領袖，領導這個世界上最孤立且殘忍的獨裁政權。我在那裡，他們成為我的學生。 2011 是個特殊的年份，是朝鮮偉大領袖金日成的百年生日。為了慶祝這個盛會，政府關閉了所有的大學，把學生們遣散到各個工地去樹立北韓這個世界上最強盛繁榮的國家最偉大的救世主的形象。我的學生們是唯一一群免於辛苦勞動的人。 北韓是以國家形態呈現的共產主義古拉格集中營。在那裡的一切都有關於偉大領袖。每本書、每篇報刊文章、每首歌、每個電視節目——只有一個主題。花朵以他的名字命名，山上篆刻著他的口號。每個居民無時無刻不佩戴領袖像章，甚至他們的日曆系統都要以金日成的生日作為開始。 學校是重兵嚴守的監獄以校園的形式出現。老師們只有在集體外出活動時才能離開，並且有一位官方人員隨行。即使這樣，我們的遊覽也僅限於遊覽國家紀念碑，慶祝偉大領袖。學生們不允許離開校園，或是與他們的父母接觸。他們的日程都被精心安排，那些僅有的自由活動時間也都用在敬仰偉大領袖上。課程安排必須經過北韓官員的批准，每堂課都有被記錄、再彙報，每個房間都裝了竊聽器，每個對話，都會被聽見。所有空置的空間都會被金日成和金正日的畫像佔據，就像北韓的其他地方。 我們不允許討論外部的世界。科學技術大學的學生，大部份主修電腦科學，但他們不知道網際網路的存在。他們從未聽過馬克．祖克柏 (臉書創辦人)或是史蒂夫．喬布斯 (蘋果創辦人)。臉書、推特——這些對他們來說什麼意義也沒有。我也不能告訴他們。 我去那裡尋找真相，然而，你甚至不知道要如何開始，因為整個國家的意識形態，我學生們每日生活，甚至我在大學的職位都建築在謊言之上？ 我從一個遊戲開始。我們玩「真實與謊言」。一個學生在黑板上寫了一句話另一個學生要去猜這是實話還是謊言。當一個學生寫道：「去年假期我訪問了中國。」所有人大聲說：「謊言！」他們知道這是不可能的。事實上，沒有人被允許離開這個國家。即使在國家內部旅行也需要一個旅行證件。 我希望這個遊戲能夠揭露關於學生們的一些真相，因為他們說謊太頻繁，太容易，關於領袖神話讚美的言論，或是奇怪地宣稱他們在小學五年級就已經無性繁殖了兔子。對他們來說，真實與謊言界限太模糊。我花了些時間來了解不同類型的謊言；他們說謊為了將他們的國家系統獨立於整個世界，或許他們受到的教育是假話，他們只是在重複這些假話。或者，有些時候，他們習慣性地說謊。但是，如果他們接受的資訊都是假的，我們怎麼能夠期待他們說些別的呢？ 隨後，我試著教他們寫作，但這完全是不可能的。寫作意味著寫他們自己的文章，用以事實為基礎的論據去證明它。然而這些學生簡單地被告知要去想些什麼，他們尊崇。在他們的世界，批判性思維是不被允許的。 我佈置了一項作業，寫一封信給任何人。過了一些時間，最後他們中的一些人開始寫給他們的母親、朋友、女友。儘管這些只是家庭作業，這些信永遠不會送到對方手中，學生們慢慢地開始展現他們的真實情感。他們寫道，他們受夠了千篇一律。他們擔心自己的未來。在那些信中，他們很少提到偉大領袖。 我把所有時間都用在和這些年輕男生相處。我們一起吃飯，一起打籃球。我常常稱呼他們紳士，這讓他們感到有趣。他們提到女孩子的時候會害羞，我開始喜歡他們。看著他們敞開心扉即使只是一點點，都非常感動。 但有些事情感覺不對，在那幾個月裡生活在他們的世界，我時常想，真相會不會提升他們的生活。我太想告訴他們真相了，關於他們的國家和外部的世界，阿拉伯年輕人把腐朽的政權鬧得翻天覆地，靠社群媒體的力量，除了他們，世界上每個人都能夠通過網路連接彼此，終究不是全世界都能這樣。但對於他們來說，真相是危險的。如果鼓勵他們追求真理，就是把他們置於危險之中——或是遭到迫害，或是心碎。 當你不被允許在公開場合表達想法，你會開始擅長讀出那些沒有說出口的事。在他們給我的個人信件，一个學生寫到，他理解為什麼我一直稱呼他們紳士，因為我祝願他們人生平和安逸。 我在北韓的最後一天2011 年的 12 月，那天政府公佈了金正日的死訊，他們的世界粉碎了。我必須要離開，甚至無法說再見。但我想，他們知道我有多麼悲傷。 在我快要離開的時候，一個學生告訴我，「教授，我們從未覺得你和我們是不同的。我們的處境不同，但你和我們是一樣的。我想讓你知道，我們真的認為你和我們是一樣的。」 今時今日，如果我能親自回覆一封信給我的學生們，當然這是不可能的，我會告訴他們：「我親愛的紳士們，距我離開你們已經三年多了，現在，你們應該已經 22 歲了——也許 23 歲了。在最後一堂課上，我問你們你們想要什麼。你們表達的唯一願望，你們提出的唯一要求在我們共同度過的那些時光，是我能用韓語和你們對話。只有一次也好。我是去那裡教你們英語的；你們知道這是不被允許的，但我理解，你們想要與我分享我們共同的母語。我稱呼你們為紳士，但我不知道在金正恩殘酷統治下的北韓平和溫順是不是一件好事。我不希望你們引領一場革命——讓其他的年輕人去做吧。即使全世界都鼓勵甚至期待某種「北韓之春」的革命運動，但我不希望你們冒險，因為我知道在你們的世界，總有人在監視。我不想想像你們會遭遇什麼。如果我對你們講授的知識激發了你們心中新的想法，我寧願你們忘記我。成為你們偉大領袖的戰士，過著平穩安逸的人生。你們曾經問我我認為你們的首都平壤漂亮嗎，我無法回答你們真相。但我知道為什麼你們這樣問，我知道這對你們來說很重要，聽到你們的老師我這個看過你們被禁止踏足外面世界的人，告訴你們平壤是最漂亮的。我知道聽到這樣的評價會讓你們的人生更好受一些，但是不，我不認為你們的首都漂亮。不是因為它單調的混凝土建築，而是因為它的象徵意義：一個吞噬其國民的怪物，把人民當做士兵和奴隸。我看到的是黑暗。但這是你們的家，因此我不能憎恨它。我希望你們，我可愛年輕的紳士們，會讓它變得更加美麗。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
