Talk	en	zh-tw
sunitha_krishnan_tedindia	"I'm talking to you about the worst form of human rights violation, the third-largest organized crime, a $10 billion industry. I'm talking to you about modern-day slavery. I'd like to tell you the story of these three children, Pranitha, Shaheen and Anjali. Pranitha's mother was a woman in prostitution, a prostituted person. She got infected with HIV, and towards the end of her life, when she was in the final stages of AIDS, she could not prostitute, so she sold four-year-old Pranitha to a broker. By the time we got the information, we reached there, Pranitha was already raped by three men. Shaheen's background I don't even know. We found her in a railway track, raped by many, many men, I don't know many. But the indications of that on her body was that her intestine was outside her body. And when we took her to the hospital she needed 32 stitches to put back her intestine into her body. We still don't know who her parents are, who she is. All that we know that hundreds of men had used her brutally. Anjali's father, a drunkard, sold his child for pornography. You're seeing here images of three years, four-year-olds, and five-year-old children who have been trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation. In this country, and across the globe, hundreds and thousands of children, as young as three, as young as four, are sold into sexual slavery. But that's not the only purpose that human beings are sold for. They are sold in the name of adoption. They are sold in the name of organ trade. They are sold in the name of forced labor, camel jockeying, anything, everything. I work on the issue of commercial sexual exploitation. And I tell you stories from there. My own journey to work with these children started as a teenager. I was 15 when I was gang-raped by eight men. I don't remember the rape part of it so much as much as the anger part of it. Yes, there were eight men who defiled me, raped me, but that didn't go into my consciousness. I never felt like a victim, then or now. But what lingered from then till now — I am 40 today — is this huge outrageous anger. Two years, I was ostracized, I was stigmatized, I was isolated, because I was a victim. And that's what we do to all traffic survivors. We, as a society, we have PhDs in victimizing a victim. Right from the age of 15, when I started looking around me, I started seeing hundreds and thousands of women and children who are left in sexual slavery-like practices, but have absolutely no respite, because we don't allow them to come in. Where does their journey begin? Most of them come from very optionless families, not just poor. You have even the middle class sometimes getting trafficked. I had this I.S. officer's daughter, who is 14 years old, studying in ninth standard, who was raped chatting with one individual, and ran away from home because she wanted to become a heroine, who was trafficked. I have hundreds and thousands of stories of very very well-to-do families, and children from well-to-do families, who are getting trafficked. These people are deceived, forced. 99.9 percent of them resist being inducted into prostitution. Some pay the price for it. They're killed; we don't even hear about them. They are voiceless, [unclear], nameless people. But the rest, who succumb into it, go through everyday torture. Because the men who come to them are not men who want to make you your girlfriends, or who want to have a family with you. These are men who buy you for an hour, for a day, and use you, throw you. Each of the girls that I have rescued — I have rescued more than 3,200 girls — each of them tell me one story in common ... (Applause) one story about one man, at least, putting chili powder in her vagina, one man taking a cigarette and burning her, one man whipping her. We are living among those men: they're our brothers, fathers, uncles, cousins, all around us. And we are silent about them. We think it is easy money. We think it is shortcut. We think the person likes to do what she's doing. But the extra bonuses that she gets is various infections, sexually transmitted infections, HIV, AIDS, syphilis, gonorrhea, you name it, substance abuse, drugs, everything under the sun. And one day she gives up on you and me, because we have no options for her. And therefore she starts normalizing this exploitation. She believes, ""Yes, this is it, this is what my destiny is about."" And this is normal, to get raped by 100 men a day. And it's abnormal to live in a shelter. It's abnormal to get rehabilitated. It's in that context that I work. It's in that context that I rescue children. I've rescued children as young as three years, and I've rescued women as old as 40 years. When I rescued them, one of the biggest challenges I had was where do I begin. Because I had lots of them who were already HIV infected. One third of the people I rescue are HIV positive. And therefore my challenge was to understand how can I get out the power from this pain. And for me, I was my greatest experience. Understanding my own self, understanding my own pain, my own isolation, was my greatest teacher. Because what we did with these girls is to understand their potential. You see a girl here who is trained as a welder. She works for a very big company, a workshop in Hyderabad, making furnitures. She earns around 12,000 rupees. She is an illiterate girl, trained, skilled as a welder. Why welding and why not computers? We felt, one of the things that these girls had is immense amount of courage. They did not have any pardas inside their body, hijabs inside themselves; they've crossed the barrier of it. And therefore they could fight in a male-dominated world, very easily, and not feel very shy about it. We have trained girls as carpenters, as masons, as security guards, as cab drivers. And each one of them are excelling in their chosen field, gaining confidence, restoring dignity, and building hopes in their own lives. These girls are also working in big construction companies like Ram-ki construction, as masons, full-time masons. What has been my challenge? My challenge has not been the traffickers who beat me up. I've been beaten up more than 14 times in my life. I can't hear from my right ear. I've lost a staff of mine who was murdered while on a rescue. My biggest challenge is society. It's you and me. My biggest challenge is your blocks to accept these victims as our own. A very supportive friend of mine, a well-wisher of mine, used to give me every month, 2,000 rupees for vegetables. When her mother fell sick she said, ""Sunitha, you have so much of contacts. Can you get somebody in my house to work, so that she can look after my mother?"" And there is a long pause. And then she says, ""Not one of our girls."" It's very fashionable to talk about human trafficking, in this fantastic A-C hall. It's very nice for discussion, discourse, making films and everything. But it is not nice to bring them to our homes. It's not nice to give them employment in our factories, our companies. It's not nice for our children to study with their children. There it ends. That's my biggest challenge. If I'm here today, I'm here not only as Sunitha Krishnan. I'm here as a voice of the victims and survivors of human trafficking. They need your compassion. They need your empathy. They need, much more than anything else, your acceptance. Many times when I talk to people, I keep telling them one thing: don't tell me hundred ways how you cannot respond to this problem. Can you ply your mind for that one way that you can respond to the problem? And that's what I'm here for, asking for your support, demanding for your support, requesting for your support. Can you break your culture of silence? Can you speak to at least two persons about this story? Tell them this story. Convince them to tell the story to another two persons. I'm not asking you all to become Mahatma Gandhis or Martin Luther Kings, or Medha Patkars, or something like that. I'm asking you, in your limited world, can you open your minds? Can you open your hearts? Can you just encompass these people too? Because they are also a part of us. They are also part of this world. I'm asking you, for these children, whose faces you see, they're no more. They died of AIDS last year. I'm asking you to help them, accept as human beings — not as philanthropy, not as charity, but as human beings who deserve all our support. I'm asking you this because no child, no human being, deserves what these children have gone through. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我要和大家談的是最極端的侵犯人權的故事。是世界第三大犯罪組織型態，與產值達100億美金的產業。我說的就是現代社會裡的性交易。 我想和大家分享這三個孩童的故事。普拉妮莎，夏伊和安吉莉。普拉妮莎的母親是賣淫的是一個妓女。她感染了HIV到了她生命將結束時，也到了愛滋病的末期，她無法也無力再賣淫，於是她把四歲的普拉妮莎賣給一個掮客，當我們得知消息趕過去時，普拉妮莎已被三個男人強暴。 而我對夏伊的背景甚至一無所知。我們在鐵路軌道上發現她，被太多太多的男人強暴，多少我不清楚但她身上的傷痕腸子外露的跡象是令人心碎的證據。當我們帶她到醫院的時候為了把腸子放回去，醫生縫了32針。我們迄今仍不知道她的父母是誰，或她是誰。我們只知道數以百計的男人殘忍無情的凌虐她。 安吉莉的父親是個酒鬼，為了色情書刊把他的孩子賣了。這裡所看到的是一些僅僅三、四、五歲的孩童他們被販賣做性交易在印度，和世界各地數以千計的兒童有的甚至只有三、四歲成了性人口販賣的祭品。但這並不只是人口販賣的唯一目的，有的以收養名義進行。有的以器官販賣進行，有的以強迫勞動的名義進行甚至駱駝騎師等等，任何理由。 我的工作是針對商業性剝削故事從這裡說起我這工作心路歷程的起源是在我還是青少年時當時我十五歲被八個男人輪暴我只記得當時心中憤怒的情緒多餘當時輪暴的情景的確，我被八個男人侵害輪暴但那些事並沒有進入我的潛意識中我從來不覺得我是受害者，無論當時或現在。但從那時一直裊繞在我心中的情緒－我現在四十歲了是無比強烈的憤怒 有兩年的時間，我被排擠，詆毀與人群隔離只因為我是受害者而這正是我們對待所有性交易倖存者的態度我們這個社會甚至有加害於受害者的專業人士從十五歲那年開始當我環顧四周我看見了數以千計的婦女與兒童成為性奴隸的犧牲品卻沒有任何生存的空間因為我們不接納這些人 她們的生命歷程從哪裡開始？大多數來自各式各樣的家庭背景不僅只是貧窮家庭甚至有中產階級的孩子被誘拐的這是一個資訊安全管理師的女兒，當時正值十四歲，就讀九年級，在和別人聊天時被強暴了因為想成為女英雄，於是離家出走，而被拐賣了。有太多的家世顯赫的個人故事包含富人子弟家庭的孩子也逃不了被販賣的厄運。 這些人被誘騙強迫百分之九十九點九都是被迫逼去賣淫有些付出極大代價有的被殺害，從此不見蹤影，這些人是無聲無名的受害者而那些屈於現實的孩子每天經歷虐待折磨只因為這些男人並不是想要妳成他們自己的女朋友或者想和妳成家立業，這些男人是用錢買妳一個小時，或者一天的時間濫用妳，然後丟棄妳。 每一個我救過的女孩－現在我已拯救了超過3200個－每一個都向我述說相同的故事。。。。（掌聲）起碼每個故事都和一個男人有關，把辣椒粉放進她的陰道有的男人用香菸燙她有的鞭打她這些男人就在我們當中：有些我們的兄弟，父親舅舅，親戚們，就在我們的身邊，而我們卻保持緘默。 我們認為這錢好賺是條捷徑我們認為這女孩樂意接受這麼做。但這女孩得到的，卻是各種感染與性病，包含HIV, 愛滋病，梅毒，及各種病，還有毒品與藥物濫用，當有一天她對這世界放棄了希望因為她沒有任何選擇，於是她開始接受這樣的剝削是正常的，她相信＂是的，就是這樣，這就是我命中注定的人生＂一天被一百個男人輪暴是正常的，住在庇護所是不對的要康復是不正常的。 這就是我工作的內容與環境，我救的這些孩子來自於這樣的環境我拯救過三歲的孩童，也拯救過四十歲的婦女，當我去救她們時，對我最大的挑戰是我不知從何開始，因為這樣的受害者太多了，多數已感染了HIV病毒，我所救過的有三分之一都是HIV帶原者因此我的挑戰是，去理解我該如何從這樣的狀態與痛苦跳脫出來對我而言，我自身的經驗讓我了解我自己了解我自己的傷痛我自己的被隔離感這些經驗是我最好的老師。面對這些女孩們，我們所做的就是去發掘她們的潛力。 你看到這女孩接受培訓成為焊接師她在一個大型企業工作，那是一個在海德拉巴專門製造傢俱的工廠。每個月收入大約一萬兩千元盧比她不識字，經過培訓成為技術純熟的焊接師，為何是焊接而不是電腦？我們認為，這些女孩所擁有的是無可限量的勇氣她們沒有過多的顧慮或者自我束縛她們已經跨越了那道屏障因此她們可以在男性主導的世界中很容易、也很自然的找到自己的定位。 我們訓練一些女孩成為木匠師傅或是石匠師或是保全、計程車司機每個人都在自己的領域裡表現優異。變得有自信、找回自我尊嚴。並為她們自己的生命建立希望。這些女孩也在大型建築公司裡工作，例如Ram-Ki建築公司裡擔任全職的工作。 我的挑戰是什麼?我的挑戰不在於來自曾經虐待過我的性奴隸販子，我這生已被打過超過14次，我右耳已聽不見，我的一位員工在救援過程中被謀殺了我最大的挑戰是這個社會是你和我。最大的挑戰是你阻擋了接納這些受害者的管道不承認她們是我們的一分子 我的一位好朋友她非常支持我經常每個月給我2000盧比買菜當她母親生病時，她和我說：蘇妮莎，妳認識這麼多人可以找個人來幫我工作並可以照顧我母親嗎?然後停頓了很久她接著說：""不要是這些女孩"" 在這麼舒適有空調的空間裡談論性奴隸問題是個挺時尚的事，無論是透過研討、對談或者拍成影片等等，但把她們帶回家就不妥當了，給她們工作機會，在企業裡工作就不妥當了，讓她們和我們的孩子一起念書就不妥當了，這事就這樣結束。這是我最大的挑戰。 我今天站在這裡，不只是因為我是蘇妮莎克什娜而是作為性奴隸受害者發聲的代表，她們需要你們的同理心她們需要你們的關懷。她們需要太多太多，更需要你們的接納。 很多時候我和朋友談一直告訴他們一件事：別告訴我數百個你不能解決這問題的藉口能不能就敞開心胸尋找到那一個可以解決問題的方法？這是為何我在這裡。大聲呼籲妳們的支持要求妳們的支持，懇求妳們的支持。你們可以打破長久以來的沉默麼？妳們可以至少告訴一兩個人這樣的故事麼?告訴他們，說服他們去告訴另外兩個人。 我不是要求大家成為甘地或馬丁路德金，或梅哈帕卡，或類似的人，我只希望，你們能在自己的空間裡打開心扉嗎?能不能就接納這些人？因為她們也是我們的一份子，也是世界的一份子，我請求你們，為了這些孩子，看看這些臉龐，他們已經不在這世界上了，他們去年已死於愛滋病。我請求你們幫助她們，接納她們擁有人的尊嚴，不僅是以仁愛慈善的立場，她們值得得到應有的人道關懷與尊重。我希望大家這麼做，是因為沒有任何一個孩子，或人類是應該承受她們所經歷的遭遇。謝謝（掌聲）"
