Talk	en	zh-tw
sunni_brown	"So I just want to tell you my story. I spend a lot of time teaching adults how to use visual language and doodling in the workplace. And naturally, I encounter a lot of resistance, because it's considered to be anti-intellectual and counter to serious learning. But I have a problem with that belief, because I know that doodling has a profound impact on the way that we can process information and the way that we can solve problems. So I was curious about why there was a disconnect between the way our society perceives doodling and the way that the reality is. So I discovered some very interesting things. For example, there's no such thing as a flattering definition of a doodle. In the 17th century, a doodle was a simpleton or a fool — as in Yankee Doodle. In the 18th century, it became a verb, and it meant to swindle or ridicule or to make fun of someone. In the 19th century, it was a corrupt politician. And today, we have what is perhaps our most offensive definition, at least to me, which is the following: To doodle officially means to dawdle, to dilly dally, to monkey around, to make meaningless marks, to do something of little value, substance or import, and — my personal favorite — to do nothing. No wonder people are averse to doodling at work. Doing nothing at work is akin to masturbating at work; it's totally inappropriate. (Laughter) Additionally, I've heard horror stories from people whose teachers scolded them, of course, for doodling in classrooms. And they have bosses who scold them for doodling in the boardroom. There is a powerful cultural norm against doodling in settings in which we are supposed to learn something. And unfortunately, the press tends to reinforce this norm when they're reporting on a doodling scene — of an important person at a confirmation hearing and the like — they typically use words like ""discovered"" or ""caught"" or ""found out,"" as if there's some sort of criminal act being committed. And additionally, there is a psychological aversion to doodling — thank you, Freud. In the 1930s, Freud told us all that you could analyze people's psyches based on their doodles. This is not accurate, but it did happen to Tony Blair at the Davos Forum in 2005, when his doodles were, of course, ""discovered"" and he was labeled the following things. Now it turned out to be Bill Gates' doodle. (Laughter) And Bill, if you're here, nobody thinks you're megalomaniacal. But that does contribute to people not wanting to share their doodles. And here is the real deal. Here's what I believe. I think that our culture is so intensely focused on verbal information that we're almost blinded to the value of doodling. And I'm not comfortable with that. And so because of that belief that I think needs to be burst, I'm here to send us all hurtling back to the truth. And here's the truth: doodling is an incredibly powerful tool, and it is a tool that we need to remember and to re-learn. So here's a new definition for doodling. And I hope there's someone in here from The Oxford English Dictionary, because I want to talk to you later. Here's the real definition: Doodling is really to make spontaneous marks to help yourself think. That is why millions of people doodle. Here's another interesting truth about the doodle: People who doodle when they're exposed to verbal information retain more of that information than their non-doodling counterparts. We think doodling is something you do when you lose focus, but in reality, it is a preemptive measure to stop you from losing focus. Additionally, it has a profound effect on creative problem-solving and deep information processing. There are four ways that learners intake information so that they can make decisions. They are visual, auditory, reading and writing and kinesthetic. Now in order for us to really chew on information and do something with it, we have to engage at least two of those modalities, or we have to engage one of those modalities coupled with an emotional experience. The incredible contribution of the doodle is that it engages all four learning modalities simultaneously with the possibility of an emotional experience. That is a pretty solid contribution for a behavior equated with doing nothing. This is so nerdy, but this made me cry when I discovered this. So they did anthropological research into the unfolding of artistic activity in children, and they found that, across space and time, all children exhibit the same evolution in visual logic as they grow. In other words, they have a shared and growing complexity in visual language that happens in a predictable order. And I think that is incredible. I think that means doodling is native to us and we simply are denying ourselves that instinct. And finally, a lot a people aren't privy to this, but the doodle is a precursor to some of our greatest cultural assets. This is but one: this is Frank Gehry the architect's precursor to the Guggenheim in Abu Dhabi. So here is my point: Under no circumstances should doodling be eradicated from a classroom or a boardroom or even the war room. On the contrary, doodling should be leveraged in precisely those situations where information density is very high and the need for processing that information is very high. And I will go you one further. Because doodling is so universally accessible and it is not intimidating as an art form, it can be leveraged as a portal through which we move people into higher levels of visual literacy. My friends, the doodle has never been the nemesis of intellectual thought. In reality, it is one of its greatest allies. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想要跟你們講一個故事我大部分的時間在教導成人如何使用視覺語言還有在工作的地方塗鴉。所以，很自然的我遇到很多反對的聲音，因為塗鴉被認為是一種不智慧的表現且對於學習有反效果。但是，我認為那種講法是錯誤的。因為，我知道塗鴉可以對我們的資訊處理方式還有解決問題的方式，有著重大的影響。 所以我很好奇為什麼，社會對塗鴉的認知，與事實有著差異。我找到了些有趣的事情。舉例來說：塗鴉這個字沒有個正向的意義。在十七世紀，塗鴉指的是一個簡單的人或傻瓜－就像Yankee Doodle一樣。在十八世紀，doodle成了一個動詞，這動詞的意思指，去嘲笑別人或欺騙別人。十九世紀，被解釋為貪污的政客。而今天的解釋，可能是最冒犯人的解釋，至少對我而言是如此。塗鴉正式解釋為：混日子，拖拖拉拉，耍猴戲，畫沒有意意的圖案，做沒有價值的事情，還有我最喜歡的解釋－什麼也不作。這樣就清楚地瞭解為什麼人們對在工作時塗鴉這樣的不喜。工作時不做事就好比似一隻米蟲一樣；是不對的事情。 （笑聲） 我還聽過糟糕的故事呢。有些人因為在課堂上塗鴉被老師責罵。也有老闆責罵員工在開會時塗鴉。文化上認為塗鴉是種不好的行為。因為在課堂上，或在會議裡，我們應該學習。很可惜的，媒體一直強調塗鴉是不好的行為。他們一直反面地報導塗鴉－像是一個重要的人在開會中塗鴉，而且他們通常用「發現」或是「逮到」好比似塗鴉是個犯罪行為一般。 再者呢，塗鴉可以從心裡學來解釋－這要謝謝佛洛伊德。在三十年代，佛洛伊德提出一個人的心態可以藉由塗鴉，而分析出來。這不太正確，但提卻發生在布萊爾（英國首相）身上，在2005達沃斯論談上布萊爾的塗鴉被「發現」了，人們也給他貼上了這些標簽。不過，現在我們瞭解這其實上是蓋茲的塗鴉。（笑聲）比爾，如果你在這的話，沒人會認為你是自大狂的。這種的負面影響，造成了人們不喜歡分享塗鴉。 我認為我找到了問題所在。我們的文化，太注重於語言溝通，以至於我們忽略圖像溝通的價值。這讓我覺得不太愉快。所以我認為那種想法應該被戳破。我今天要跟大家講塗鴉的事實。事實上呢：塗鴉是種神妙的工具是種我們需要記住和重新學習的工具。 這是塗鴉的新解釋。我希望在場有牛津英文辭典的代表，因為我們等等需要好好的談談。塗鴉的新解釋：塗鴉指自主的畫可以幫助思考的圖案。這就是為什麼千萬人都在塗鴉。還有呢：當人們在接收語言資訊時塗鴉，可以保留較多的資訊，相較沒有塗鴉的人。我們認為塗鴉會讓人分心，但事實上呢，塗鴉是種先發制人的方法，讓人不會分心。再來呢，它在創意解決問題，和深層面資訊分析上，有特別的功效。 學習者的決定基於在，四種接收資訊的方法上。視覺，聽覺，讀寫和動手作。如果我們想要真正的瞭解資訊，並且運用資訊，我們得至少使用兩種接收資訊的方法。或者是這其中的一種，混合我們情緒的經驗。而塗鴉最大的好處是，在塗鴉的同時我們自然而然的使用四種學習方式，再加上可能的情緒經驗。對於一個被定義為什麼都不做的動作，這是很重要的貢獻。 聽起來很書呆，但當我發現這個事實的時候我感動了半天。所以，他們做了一個人類學研究有關於小孩的藝術活動，學者發現，在不同的時間與地區，當小孩成長時，所有的小孩都展現一樣的，視覺邏輯。這就是說，小孩們複雜的圖像語言成長於同樣的步調。這成長是可以被預測的。我個人認為這是很奇妙的。塗鴉可能是我們的天性。但我們卻完全否認這個本能。最後，很多人都不知道這件事，不過，塗鴉是個前導將導引我們的文化各上一層。這裡有一個例子塗鴉是法蘭克‧蓋瑞在阿不達比的古根漢博物館的前導。 我的重點是：在任何情況下，塗鴉都不該在教室或會議室被禁止。甚至戰略室也不能。嚴格來講，塗鴉就是要在資訊複雜的情況下使用。這種情況需要有效率的處理資訊。最後再一點，因為塗鴉是任何地方都可以做的，而且塗鴉不是模仿藝術，它可以作為一個，將人們移到圖像文學更高層次的通道。各位，塗鴉從來不是智慧思考的天敵。相反地，塗鴉是你最好的朋友。 謝謝大家。（拍手）
