Talk	en	zh-tw
suzanne_lee_grow_your_own_clothes	"So as a fashion designer, I've always tended to think of materials something like this, or this, or maybe this. But then I met a biologist, and now I think of materials like this — green tea, sugar, a few microbes and a little time. I'm essentially using a kombucha recipe, which is a symbiotic mix of bacteria, yeasts and other micro-organisms, which spin cellulose in a fermentation process. Over time, these tiny threads form in the liquid into layers and produce a mat on the surface. So we start by brewing the tea. I brew up to about 30 liters of tea at a time, and then while it's still hot, add a couple of kilos of sugar. We stir this in until it's completely dissolved and then pour it into a growth bath. We need to check that the temperature has cooled to below 30 degrees C. And then we're ready to add the living organism. And along with that, some acetic acid. And once you get this process going, you can actually recycle your previous fermented liquid. We need to maintain an optimum temperature for the growth. And I use a heat mat to sit the bath on and a thermostat to regulate it. And actually, in hot weather, I can just grow it outside. So this is my mini fabric farm. After about three days, the bubbles will appear on the surface of the liquid. So this is telling us that the fermentation is in full swing. And the bacteria are feeding on the sugar nutrients in the liquid. So they're spinning these tiny nano fibers of pure cellulose. And they're sticking together, forming layers and giving us a sheet on the surface. After about two to three weeks, we're looking at something which is about an inch in thickness. So the bath on the left is after five days, and on the right, after 10. And this is a static culture. You don't have to do anything to it; you just literally watch it grow. It doesn't need light. And when it's ready to harvest, you take it out of the bath and you wash it in cold, soapy water. At this point, it's really heavy. It's over 90 percent water, so we need to let that evaporate. So I spread it out onto a wooden sheet. Again, you can do that outside and just let it dry in the air. And as it's drying, it's compressing, so what you're left with, depending on the recipe, is something that's either like a really light-weight, transparent paper, or something which is much more like a flexible vegetable leather. And then you can either cut that out and sew it conventionally, or you can use the wet material to form it around a three-dimensional shape. And as it evaporates, it will knit itself together, forming seams. So the color in this jacket is coming purely from green tea. I guess it also looks a little bit like human skin, which intrigues me. Since it's organic, I'm really keen to try and minimize the addition of any chemicals. I can make it change color without using dye by a process of iron oxidation. Using fruit and vegetable staining, create organic patterning. And using indigo, make it anti-microbial. And in fact, cotton would take up to 18 dips in indigo to achieve a color this dark. And because of the super-absorbency of this kind of cellulose, it just takes one, and a really short one at that. What I can't yet do is make it water-resistant. So if I was to walk outside in the rain wearing this dress today, I would immediately start to absorb huge amounts of water. The dress would get really heavy, and eventually the seams would probably fall apart — leaving me feeling rather naked. Possibly a good performance piece, but definitely not ideal for everyday wear. What I'm looking for is a way to give the material the qualities that I need. So what I want to do is say to a future bug, ""Spin me a thread. Align it in this direction. Make it hydrophobic. And while you're at it, just form it around this 3D shape."" Bacterial cellulose is actually already being used for wound healing, and possibly in the future for biocompatible blood vessels, possibly even replacement bone tissue. But with synthetic biology, we can actually imagine engineering this bacterium to produce something that gives us the quality, quantity and shape of material that we desire. Obviously, as a designer, that's really exciting because then I start to think, wow, we could actually imagine growing consumable products. What excites me about using microbes is their efficiency. So we only grow what we need. There's no waste. And in fact, we could make it from a waste stream — so for example, a waste sugar stream from a food processing plant. Finally, at the end of use, we could biodegrade it naturally along with your vegetable peelings. What I'm not suggesting is that microbial cellulose is going to be a replacement for cotton, leather or other textile materials. But I do think it could be quite a smart and sustainable addition to our increasingly precious natural resources. Ultimately, maybe it won't even be fashion where we see these microbes have their impact. We could, for example, imagine growing a lamp, a chair, a car or maybe even a house. So I guess what my question to you is: in the future, what would you choose to grow? Thank you very much. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Suzanne, just a curiosity, what you're wearing is not random. (Suzanne Lee: No.) This is one of the jackets you grew? SL: Yes, it is. It's probably — part of the project's still in process because this one is actually biodegrading in front of your eyes. (Laughter) It's absorbing my sweat, and it's feeding on it. BG: Okay, so we'll let you go and save it, and rescue it. Suzanne Lee. (SL: Thank you.) (Applause)"	身為時裝設計師我想的材料總是像這樣或這樣又或許是這樣但後來我遇見一位生物學家現在我想的材料是這樣綠茶 糖些許微生物跟一點時間基本上 我是用一種紅茶菌配方這是一種共生混合物其中有細菌 酵母和其它微生物他們會製造纖維素於發酵過程中隨著時間的經過 這些細絲會在液體中形成層次並在表面產生一塊墊子 我們從煮茶開始我每次要煮30公升的茶然後在茶還熱時 加入幾公斤糖我們將糖攪拌到完全溶解然後將它倒入一個生長池我們需要確認溫度已經降到攝氏30度以下然後我們就可以加入這些活生物同時加入一些醋酸一旦你讓這個步驟開始運作你其實可以回收再利用你先前發酵的液體我們需要維持一個生長最佳溫度於是在生長池下放了發熱墊並用恆溫器控制溫度天氣熱時 其實我可以在戶外培養它這是我的迷你布料農場 經過大概三天泡泡會出現在液體表面這告訴我們它正在全力發酵細菌正在食用液體中糖的養分他們在製造這些細小的奈米纖維成份是純纖維素它們會黏在一起 形成層次並在表面出現一張薄片經過約二至三個禮拜我們會看到約一英吋厚的東西左邊的池子是經過5天的右邊是經過10天的這是一個靜態的培養你不需要為它做任何事你只要看著它生長它不需要光線 可以採收時 你就把它從池中取出用冷肥皂水清洗這時 它是非常重的超過百分之90是水份我們需要讓水份蒸發所以我將它攤開在木片上同樣地 這你能在戶外做讓它在空氣中乾燥在乾燥時 它會緊縮結果全看你用的配方結果可能是非常輕的透明紙張或是有彈性的植物皮革接著你可以裁剪它然後用一般的方法縫紉它或使用濕材料繞著一個立體的形狀塑形當它在蒸發的時候它自己會接合在一起並形成接縫 這件夾克的顏色完全來自綠茶我猜它看起來有點像人皮而這使我覺得有趣因為它是有機的我非常想試著將化學添加物減到最少我不用染料就能改變它的顏色用的是一道氧化鐵的程序使用水果和蔬菜著色來製造出有機圖樣使用靛藍染料來使它抗菌事實上 棉花要靛藍染料中浸泡到18次才能有這麼深的顏色因為這種纖維素的超級吸收力它只需要浸泡一次 而且時間還很短 我還不能使它抗水所以 如果我今天要行走在雨中而且還穿著這件衣服我會馬上開始吸收大量的水這件衣服會變得非常重最後接縫可能會散開讓我變得相當赤裸這衣服可能是不錯的表演服但絕不適合每天穿我在尋找方法來給這材料我需要的特性所以我想對未來的細菌說吐一條絲給我按這個方向排列讓它具有疏水性同時繞著這個立體的形狀塑形 細菌纖維素已被應用在愈合傷口上或許未來在具生物相容性的血管上甚至可能在替代骨頭組織上但使用合成生物學我們其實能想象設計細菌來製造一些有品質有份量 而且形狀是我們想要的東西身為設計師 這當然非常令人興奮因為我接著就會開始想 哇我們其實能想象生長消費性產品 使用微生物最讓我興奮的是它們的效率我們只需要生長我們所需的不會形成浪費我們其實能利用廢棄物來做這件事舉例來說廢棄的糖水能從食物處理工廠取得最後用完後 我們能讓它自然生物降解跟你那些蔬菜皮一樣我不是在說微生物纖維素講會取代棉花 皮革或其它紡織品材料但我認為它是相當聰明且永續的新材料對我們日趨珍貴的自然資源來說 它或許最終不會在時尚界讓我們看見這些微生物的影響力我們能夠想象 例如是生長一座臺燈 一張椅子一輛車 或甚至一棟房子所以我想問你們未來你們會選擇去生長什麼謝謝大家 (掌聲)布諾•吉商尼: 蘇珊 讓我很快問個問題你今天的衣服不是隨便搭的 (蘇珊•李: 沒錯)這件是你生長的夾克嗎? 蘇珊•李: 是的 沒錯這大概是一個進行中的企劃的部分因為這件其實正在你們面前進行生物降解(笑聲)它正在吸收我的汗 而且正在吃它 布諾•吉商尼: 好吧 你快去維護並拯救它謝謝你 蘇珊•李 (蘇珊•李: 謝謝.) (掌聲)
