Talk	en	zh-tw
suzanne_barakat_islamophobia_killed_my_brother_let_s_end_the_hate	"Last year, three of my family members were gruesomely murdered in a hate crime. It goes without saying that it's really difficult for me to be here today, but my brother Deah, his wife Yusor, and her sister Razan don't give me much of a choice. I'm hopeful that by the end of this talk you will make a choice, and join me in standing up against hate. It's December 27, 2014: the morning of my brother's wedding day. He asks me to come over and comb his hair in preparation for his wedding photo shoot. A 23-year-old, six-foot-three basketball, particularly Steph Curry, fanatic — (Laughter) An American kid in dental school ready to take on the world. When Deah and Yusor have their first dance, I see the love in his eyes, her reciprocated joy, and my emotions begin to overwhelm me. I move to the back of the hall and burst into tears. And the second the song finishes playing, he beelines towards me, buries me into his arms and rocks me back and forth. Even in that moment, when everything was so distracting, he was attuned to me. He cups my face and says, ""Suzanne, I am who I am because of you. Thank you for everything. I love you."" About a month later, I'm back home in North Carolina for a short visit, and on the last evening, I run upstairs to Deah's room, eager to find out how he's feeling being a newly married man. With a big boyish smile he says, ""I'm so happy. I love her. She's an amazing girl."" And she is. At just 21, she'd recently been accepted to join Deah at UNC dental school. She shared his love for basketball, and at her urging, they started their honeymoon off attending their favorite team of the NBA, the LA Lakers. I mean, check out that form. (Laughter) I'll never forget that moment sitting there with him — how free he was in his happiness. My littler brother, a basketball-obsessed kid, had become and transformed into an accomplished young man. He was at the top of his dental school class, and alongside Yusor and Razan, was involved in local and international community service projects dedicated to the homeless and refugees, including a dental relief trip they were planning for Syrian refugees in Turkey. Razan, at just 19, used her creativity as an architectural engineering student to serve those around her, making care packages for the local homeless, among other projects. That is who they were. Standing there that night, I take a deep breath and look at Deah and tell him, ""I have never been more proud of you than I am in this moment."" He pulls me into his tall frame, hugs me goodnight, and I leave the next morning without waking him to go back to San Francisco. That is the last time I ever hug him. Ten days later, I'm on call at San Francisco General Hospital when I receive a barrage of vague text messages expressing condolences. Confused, I call my father, who calmly intones, ""There's been a shooting in Deah's neighborhood in Chapel Hill. It's on lock-down. That's all we know."" I hang up and quickly Google, ""shooting in Chapel Hill."" One hit comes up. Quote: ""Three people were shot in the back of the head and confirmed dead on the scene."" Something in me just knows. I fling out of my chair and faint onto the gritty hospital floor, wailing. I take the first red-eye out of San Francisco, numb and disoriented. I walk into my childhood home and faint into my parents' arms, sobbing. I then run up to Deah's room as I did so many times before, just looking for him, only to find a void that will never be filled. Investigation and autopsy reports eventually revealed the sequence of events. Deah had just gotten off the bus from class, Razan was visiting for dinner, already at home with Yusor. As they began to eat, they heard a knock on the door. When Deah opened it, their neighbor proceeded to fire multiple shots at him. According to 911 calls, the girls were heard screaming. The man turned towards the kitchen and fired a single shot into Yusor's hip, immobilizing her. He then approached her from behind, pressed the barrel of his gun against her head, and with a single bullet, lacerated her midbrain. He then turned towards Razan, who was screaming for her life, and, execution-style, with a single bullet to the back of the head, killed her. On his way out, he shot Deah one last time — a bullet in the mouth — for a total of eight bullets: two lodged in the head, two in his chest and the rest in his extremities. Deah, Yusor and Razan were executed in a place that was meant to be safe: their home. For months, this man had been harassing them: knocking on their door, brandishing his gun on a couple of occasions. His Facebook was cluttered with anti-religion posts. Yusor felt particularly threatened by him. As she was moving in, he told Yusor and her mom that he didn't like the way they looked. In response, Yusor's mom told her to be kind to her neighbor, that as he got to know them, he'd see them for who they were. I guess we've all become so numb to the hatred that we couldn't have ever imagined it turning into fatal violence. The man who murdered my brother turned himself in to the police shortly after the murders, saying he killed three kids, execution-style, over a parking dispute. The police issued a premature public statement that morning, echoing his claims without bothering to question it or further investigate. It turns out there was no parking dispute. There was no argument. No violation. But the damage was already done. In a 24-hour media cycle, the words ""parking dispute"" had already become the go-to sound bite. I sit on my brother's bed and remember his words, the words he gave me so freely and with so much love, ""I am who I am because of you."" That's what it takes for me to climb through my crippling grief and speak out. I cannot let my family's deaths be diminished to a segment that is barely discussed on local news. They were murdered by their neighbor because of their faith, because of a piece of cloth they chose to don on their heads, because they were visibly Muslim. Some of the rage I felt at the time was that if roles were reversed, and an Arab, Muslim or Muslim-appearing person had killed three white American college students execution-style, in their home, what would we have called it? A terrorist attack. When white men commit acts of violence in the US, they're lone wolves, mentally ill or driven by a parking dispute. I know that I have to give my family voice, and I do the only thing I know how: I send a Facebook message to everyone I know in media. A couple of hours later, in the midst of a chaotic house overflowing with friends and family, our neighbor Neal comes over, sits down next to my parents and asks, ""What can I do?"" Neal had over two decades of experience in journalism, but he makes it clear that he's not there in his capacity as journalist, but as a neighbor who wants to help. I ask him what he thinks we should do, given the bombardment of local media interview requests. He offers to set up a press conference at a local community center. Even now I don't have the words to thank him. ""Just tell me when, and I'll have all the news channels present,"" he said. He did for us what we could not do for ourselves in a moment of devastation. I delivered the press statement, still wearing scrubs from the previous night. And in under 24 hours from the murders, I'm on CNN being interviewed by Anderson Cooper. The following day, major newspapers — including the New York Times, Chicago Tribune — published stories about Deah, Yusor and Razan, allowing us to reclaim the narrative and call attention the mainstreaming of anti-Muslim hatred. These days, it feels like Islamophobia is a socially acceptable form of bigotry. We just have to put up with it and smile. The nasty stares, the palpable fear when boarding a plane, the random pat downs at airports that happen 99 percent of the time. It doesn't stop there. We have politicians reaping political and financial gains off our backs. Here in the US, we have presidential candidates like Donald Trump, casually calling to register American Muslims, and ban Muslim immigrants and refugees from entering this country. It is no coincidence that hate crimes rise in parallel with election cycles. Just a couple months ago, Khalid Jabara, a Lebanese-American Christian, was murdered in Oklahoma by his neighbor — a man who called him a ""filthy Arab."" This man was previously jailed for a mere 8 months, after attempting run over Khalid's mother with his car. Chances are you haven't heard Khalid's story, because it didn't make it to national news. The least we can do is call it what it is: a hate crime. The least we can do is talk about it, because violence and hatred doesn't just happen in a vacuum. Not long after coming back to work, I'm the senior on rounds in the hospital, when one of my patients looks over at my colleague, gestures around her face and says, ""San Bernardino,"" referencing a recent terrorist attack. Here I am having just lost three family members to Islamophobia, having been a vocal advocate within my program on how to deal with such microaggressions, and yet — silence. I was disheartened. Humiliated. Days later rounding on the same patient, she looks at me and says, ""Your people are killing people in Los Angeles."" I look around expectantly. Again: silence. I realize that yet again, I have to speak up for myself. I sit on her bed and gently ask her, ""Have I ever done anything but treat you with respect and kindness? Have I done anything but give you compassionate care?"" She looks down and realizes what she said was wrong, and in front of the entire team, she apologizes and says, ""I should know better. I'm Mexican-American. I receive this kind of treatment all the time."" Many of us experience microaggressions on a daily basis. Odds are you may have experienced it, whether for your race, gender, sexuality or religious beliefs. We've all been in situations where we've witnessed something wrong and didn't speak up. Maybe we weren't equipped with the tools to respond in the moment. Maybe we weren't even aware of our own implicit biases. We can all agree that bigotry is unacceptable, but when we see it, we're silent, because it makes us uncomfortable. But stepping right into that discomfort means you are also stepping into the ally zone. There may be over three million Muslims in America. That's still just one percent of the total population. Martin Luther King once said, ""In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends."" So what made my neighbor Neal's allyship so profound? A couple of things. He was there as a neighbor who cared, but he was also bringing in his professional expertise and resources when the moment called for it. Others have done the same. Larycia Hawkins drew on her platform as the first tenured African-American professor at Wheaton College to wear a hijab in solidarity with Muslim women who face discrimination every day. As a result, she lost her job. Within a month, she joined the faculty at the University of Virginia, where she now works on pluralism, race, faith and culture. Reddit cofounder, Alexis Ohanian, demonstrated that not all active allyship needs to be so serious. He stepped up to support a 15-year-old Muslim girl's mission to introduce a hijab emoji. (Laughter) It's a simple gesture, but it has a significant subconscious impact on normalizing and humanizing Muslims, including the community as a part of an ""us"" instead of an ""other."" The editor in chief of Women's Running magazine just put the first hijabi to ever be on the cover of a US fitness magazine. These are all very different examples of people who drew upon their platforms and resources in academia, tech and media, to actively express their allyship. What resources and expertise do you bring to the table? Are you willing to step into your discomfort and speak up when you witness hateful bigotry? Will you be Neal? Many neighbors appeared in this story. And you, in your respective communities, all have a Muslim neighbor, colleague or friend your child plays with at school. Reach out to them. Let them know you stand with them in solidarity. It may feel really small, but I promise you it makes a difference. Nothing will ever bring back Deah, Yusor and Razan. But when we raise our collective voices, that is when we stop the hate. Thank you. (Applause)"	去年，我的三個家庭成員在一場仇恨犯罪中被殺害了。當然，今天我站在這裡對我來說是非常困難的。但是我的弟弟，迪亞，和他的妻子，雨瑟，和她的姊姊，拉贊沒有給我太多的選擇。我希望當這場演講結束後，你會做出決定和我一起打擊仇恨。 2014年12月17號，我弟弟婚禮那天的早上，他叫我幫他梳頭髮，好為他的婚紗照做準備。一個23歲的，一米九高，斯蒂芬·庫里的瘋狂粉絲－ （笑聲） 一個準備好進軍世界，在牙醫學院學習的美國學生。當迪亞和雨瑟跳第一次舞的時候，我看到他眼中的愛，她回應給他的歡樂，我的情緒開始湧了上來。我走到了走廊的後面忍不住開始大哭起來。當歌放完後，他立刻徑直走向我，把我抱在他懷裡，然後輕輕的搖動我。即使那個時候，當所有的事情都那麼讓人分心，他還是對我如此細心。 他捧起了我的臉然後說：“蘇珊，我會有今天的的成就都是因為你。謝謝妳。我愛你。“ 大約一個月後，我短暫的回到北卡羅萊納的家裡。在最後的那個晚上，我跑上迪亞的房間，心急的想知道他對婚後有什麼感覺。他臉上掛著大男孩的微笑，說：“我好開心。我愛她。她是一名非常優秀的女孩。“她的確是。僅僅21歲，她被迪亞所在的北卡羅萊納牙醫學院錄取了。她和他一樣愛籃球。她說服了他在他們蜜月時一起去觀看他們最喜歡的NBA藍球隊，洛杉磯湖人。不是我說，你看看這個。 （笑聲） 我永遠也不會忘記和他坐在一起的時候，他沈浸在幸福裡所帶來的自由。我的弟弟，一個狂熱的籃球粉絲，已經轉變成了一個頗有成就的男人了。他在他班中名列前茅。他還和雨瑟和拉贊一起，一起參與了本地和國際性的為難民和無家可歸的人社區服務項目。其中包括了一個去到土耳其幫助敘利亞難民的牙醫救濟之旅。 拉贊，在僅僅十九歲，運用了他作為一名建築工程學的學生的創意去為她身邊的人服務：為當地無家可歸的人做急救包，和其他項目。這就是他們。 那天晚上，我站在迪亞面前，我深呼吸了一下，然後看著他告訴他：“我從來沒像現在這樣為你感到如此驕傲。“他把我一把抱進他懷裡，抱著我說了晚安。我第二天早上沒有吵醒他，回去了舊金山。那是我最後一次抱他。 十天後的，當我在舊金山總醫院待命時，我接到了一堆表達著哀悼和慰問的意義模糊的信息。我帶著疑問打給了我父親。他冷靜的告訴我：“在迪亞家的附近，教堂山，有一起槍擊案。“現在被封鎖了。我們只知道這麼多。“我掛斷了電話後馬上用谷歌搜索”教堂山槍擊事件“。我看到了一個熱搜。上面說：“現場有三個人被射中後腦勺，在現場已確認死亡。“我好像突然就想明白了。 我眩暈的從椅子上摔倒在醫院冰冷的地板上，哭號著。我低落得不能自已的坐上了第一個出三藩市的過夜班機。我走進了我童年的家，然後無力的倒在我父母的手臂中，大哭著。我跟著跑上迪亞的房間，就像我之前那樣， 尋找他在哪。但我只找到一個再也不會被填滿的房間。調查報告和驗屍報告最終揭示了整件事情的發生過程。迪亞剛從上課回來的巴士上下來，拉贊來參加他們的晚餐，和雨瑟一起在家。正當他們開始吃飯時，他們聽到了敲門聲。迪亞打開門時，他們的鄰居對他開了好幾槍。根據警察的通話紀錄，女孩們被聽到正在尖叫。那個男人轉向了廚房，然後對雨瑟的臀部開了一槍，使她不能移動。然後他從她的後面接近她，用槍管頂住她的頭，然後用一顆子彈，撕裂了她的中腦。他又轉向正在用盡全身力氣尖叫的拉贊，用行刑的方式，一顆子彈打中後腦，奪走了她生命。在他出去的路上，他又對迪亞開了最後一槍，在嘴裡。他總共用了八發子彈：兩發留在頭部， 兩發在他的胸部，剩下的在他的四肢中。迪亞和雨瑟和拉贊在家－一個對他們來說最安全的地方－被殺害了。好幾個月以來，這個男人一直在騷擾他們：敲他們的門，在各種情況下揮舞著他的槍。他的臉書充滿了反宗教的貼文。雨瑟對他感到特別的威脅感。當她搬入時，這個男人告訴雨瑟和她的媽媽，他不喜歡她們的樣子作為回答，雨瑟的媽媽要善良的對待鄰居。當他認識他們之後，他會更深入的了解他們的為人。 我猜是因為我們對仇恨已經麻木了，所以我們從來沒有想過仇恨會變成致命的暴力。那個殺害了我弟弟的男人在事情發生不久後去警察局自首了。他說他因為停車的爭論，以行刑的方式，殺害了三個小孩。警察在那個早上發布了一份比預期早的公開聲明，重複他所聲稱的。他們並沒有做更多的提問或調查，最後才發現並沒有任何因為停車而發起的爭執。並沒有發生任何爭吵，沒有任何違規行為。但是造成的傷害已經無法逆轉了。 在24小时的媒体传播裡，“停車引發的爭執”已經成為絕對的關鍵詞了。我坐在我弟弟的床上，想起他說過的話。他對我說過的話是那麼的自由而且充滿愛，“我會有今天的成就都是因為你。”就是這句話幫助了我度過了難以承受的悲傷和站出來發言。我不能讓我家人的死亡被忽視成一個連本地新聞都極少談起的小事。他們是因為他們信仰而被鄰居殺害， 因為一塊他們套在頭上的一塊部，因為人們認出他們是穆斯林。我當時感到的怒氣是和以下假如角色調換了之後的情況是相似的：三個美國白人大學生在家內被一位阿拉伯人，穆斯林，或者看似穆斯林的人以殘忍的行刑的手法殺害了。我們會怎麼形容這種事情？一次恐怖襲擊。當白人在美國事實暴力行為時，他們是孤狼，患有精神疾病，或者是停車爭執而導致的。我知道我必須幫我的家人發表他們的想法。 我唯一知道如何去做的事是：我給所有我知道在媒體業工作的朋友發了一條臉書信息。幾個小時後，在因為充滿了朋友和家人而混亂的家裡，我們的鄰居，尼奧來了。他坐在我父母的旁邊，問：“我能做些什麼？”尼奧有超過二十年做記者的經驗，但是他清楚的告訴我們他今天並不能運用他作為記者的權利，但是可以以鄰居的身分幫助我們。因為所有本地媒體都轟炸般的想要訪問我們，所以我問他我們下一步應該怎麼做。他提出建議我們在本地的社區中心舉行一次媒體發布會。 就算直到現在，我還是不知道如何去感謝他。“你只要告訴我時間，我會保證所有的本地新聞頻道都到場。”，他說。他在我們的黑暗時刻，幫我們做了我們做不到的事。我穿著昨晚的衣服，發表了媒體聲明。在謀殺案發生的24小時內，我被有線電視新聞網（CNN）的安德森·库珀採訪了。第二天，所有的主流報刊－包括紐約時報，芝加哥論壇報－都發表了關於迪亞和雨瑟和拉贊的故事。 這使得我們可以重新講述事情經過，和引起大家對反穆斯林仇恨的注意。現在，伊斯蘭恐懼症好像已經成為了一件能被社會接受的偏見，而我們能做的就只有微笑和忍受。那些讓人討厭的注視； 當我們登機時，人們明顯的恐懼感；和我們在機場，百分之九十九會被搜身檢查的經歷。而且不僅僅有這些事情。有政治家從我們身上收割利益。在美國國內，我們有像唐納·川普的總統候選人，隨意呼喚要登記美國籍穆斯林和禁止穆斯林移民和難民進入美國。 當仇恨犯罪比例隨著大選進行而上升，這並不是巧合。在幾個月前，一個黎巴嫩裔美國基督徒，哈立德·傑巴郎在俄克拉荷馬州被他的鄰居殺害了。他的鄰居稱它為“骯髒的阿拉伯人“。這個男人曾經因為嘗試開車去撞哈立德的母親而進監獄。但是時間僅僅只有八個月。你很有可能沒聽過哈立德的故事，因為並沒有任何國家級的報刊報導了這件事。我們至少可以把它稱之為：仇恨犯罪。 我們至少可以談起它，因為暴力和仇恨不會平白無故地發生。在我回到工作不久後，我是醫院裡的高級醫生，我其中一個病人看著我的同事，在她身邊做手勢，然後說：“聖貝納迪諾。“代表了最近的一起恐怖襲擊。那時的我，剛因為伊斯蘭恐懼症失去三名家庭成員，和作為在一個關於如何處理微侵略的活躍成員，但是我只聽到－沈默。 這使我徹底的灰心和感到備受屈辱。幾天後我在對著同一個病人，她看著我然後說：“你的同類正在洛杉磯殺害人們。“我充滿期待的看著周圍，可是還是，沈默。我重新意識到，我要敢於為自己說話。我坐在她床上溫柔的問她：“我除了尊敬的和寬容的對待你，我還有做過什麼其他的事嗎？我除了為你悉心治療，我還有做過其他事嗎？“她的眼神往下看了然後意識到她所說過的是錯誤的。她在所有的成員面前，對我道歉了， 然後說：“我應該了解你。我是一個墨西哥裔的美國人。我經常被這麼對待。“我們很多人每天都會受到這樣的微侵略。很有可能你也曾經有過這樣的經歷，不管是因為你的種族，性別，性取向，或者宗教信仰。我們都試過當我們看到類似的事情時，我們都保持了沈默。可能我們當時不具備回應的能力。可能我們都沒有意識到我們潛意識中的抱有的偏見。我們都同意偏見是不能接受的，但當我們看到的時候 我們都保持沈默，因為我們感到不舒服。但是當你踏進這樣的不舒適中時，意味著你也成為支持他們的一員。在美國有超過三百萬的穆斯林。這只是美國人口的百分之一。馬丁路德金曾經說過：“到最後， 我們不會記得敵人的言語，而是我們朋友的沈默。“所以是什麼導致了我鄰居和我的關係如此深刻？有好幾個原因。他在我們需要時，是一個關心我們的鄰居，也給我們帶來了專業的建議和資源。其他人也做了類似的事情。拉瑞莎·霍金在她的個人信息上有這麼一條：作為第一個惠頓學院的被冠名終身教授的非裔美國人，她和其他每天遭受歧視的穆斯林女性一起團結的戴上了伊斯蘭頭巾。結局是，她失去了她的工作。在一個月內， 她成為了維吉尼亞大學的一員，她在那裡從事於多元主義，種族，信仰，和文化有關的工作。Reddit的一位共同創辦人，亞歷克西斯·瓦尼安並不是所有的互相幫助關係都要那麼嚴肅。 他站出來幫助了一位十五歲穆斯林女孩去 創建了一個希賈布伊斯蘭頭巾的emoji。（笑聲）這是一個很簡單的事情，但是它潛意識的深刻的影響了我們，正常化了和人性化了穆斯林，把他們當成我們的一員而不是其他人。跑步女性雜誌（Women‘s Running）的主編輯成為了全美第一個用戴希賈布的女性作為雜誌封面的健身雜誌。這是一群不同的人運用了各自的平台和資源， 在學科，科技，和媒體界活躍的表達了他們的盟友的意願。你又可以帶來怎麼樣的資源和專業知識呢？你願意踏入你的不適， 當你在看到可恨的偏見時發聲嗎？你會成為尼奧嗎？許多鄰居都出現在這個故事裡。在你們各自的社區裡，都有一位穆斯林的鄰居，同事，或者你小孩在學校的朋友。向他們伸出我們的雙手。讓他們知道你是站在他們那邊的。 你可能會感覺到這樣的作用微弱，但是我保證你這一定會改變不少事情。沒有什麼可以把迪亞，雨瑟，和拉贊帶回來了。 但當我們團結在一起， 我們可以阻止仇恨。謝謝。（鼓掌）
