Talk	en	zh-tw
swami_dayananda_saraswati	"A human child is born, and for quite a long time is a consumer. It cannot be consciously a contributor. It is helpless. It doesn't know how to survive, even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive. It needs the help of mother, or a foster mother, to survive. It can't afford to doubt the person who tends the child. It has to totally surrender, as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist. It has to totally surrender. That implies a lot of trust. That implies the trusted person won't violate the trust. As the child grows, it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust. It doesn't know even the word ""violation."" Therefore, it has to blame itself, a wordless blame, which is more difficult to really resolve — the wordless self-blame. As the child grows to become an adult: so far, it has been a consumer, but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute, to be a contributor. One cannot contribute unless one feels secure, one feels big, one feels: I have enough. To be compassionate is not a joke. It's not that simple. One has to discover a certain bigness in oneself. That bigness should be centered on oneself, not in terms of money, not in terms of power you wield, not in terms of any status that you can command in the society, but it should be centered on oneself. The self: you are self-aware. On that self, it should be centered — a bigness, a wholeness. Otherwise, compassion is just a word and a dream. You can be compassionate occasionally, more moved by empathy than by compassion. Thank God we are empathetic. When somebody's in pain, we pick up the pain. In a Wimbledon final match, these two guys fight it out. Each one has got two games. It can be anybody's game. What they have sweated so far has no meaning. One person wins. The tennis etiquette is, both the players have to come to the net and shake hands. The winner boxes the air and kisses the ground, throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for it. (Laughter) And this guy has to come to the net. When he comes to the net, you see, his whole face changes. It looks as though he's wishing that he didn't win. Why? Empathy. That's human heart. No human heart is denied of that empathy. No religion can demolish that by indoctrination. No culture, no nation and nationalism — nothing can touch it because it is empathy. And that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people, you do something that makes a difference in somebody's life — even words, even time. Compassion is not defined in one form. There's no Indian compassion. There's no American compassion. It transcends nation, the gender, the age. Why? Because it is there in everybody. It's experienced by people occasionally. Then this occasional compassion, we are not talking about — it will never remain occasional. By mandate, you cannot make a person compassionate. You can't say, ""Please love me."" Love is something you discover. It's not an action, but in the English language, it is also an action. I will come to it later. So one has got to discover a certain wholeness. I am going to cite the possibility of being whole, which is within our experience, everybody's experience. In spite of a very tragic life, one is happy in moments which are very few and far between. And the one who is happy, even for a slapstick joke, accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself. That means the whole universe, known things and unknown things. All of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself. The subject — ""me"" — and the object — the scheme of things — fuse into oneness, an experience nobody can say, ""I am denied of,"" an experience common to all and sundry. That experience confirms that, in spite of all your limitations — all your wants, desires, unfulfilled, and the credit cards and layoffs and, finally, baldness — you can be happy. But the extension of the logic is that you don't need to fulfill your desire to be happy. You are the very happiness, the wholeness that you want to be. There's no choice in this: that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you, cannot be minus you. It has got to be you. You cannot be a part of wholeness and still be whole. Your moment of happiness reveals that reality, that realization, that recognition: ""Maybe I am the whole. Maybe the swami is right. Maybe the swami is right."" You start your new life. Then everything becomes meaningful. I have no more reason to blame myself. If one has to blame oneself, one has a million reasons plus many. But if I say, in spite of my body being limited — if it is black it is not white, if it is white it is not black: body is limited any which way you look at it. Limited. Your knowledge is limited, health is limited, and power is therefore limited, and the cheerfulness is going to be limited. Compassion is going to be limited. Everything is going to be limitless. You cannot command compassion unless you become limitless, and nobody can become limitless, either you are or you are not. Period. And there is no way of your being not limitless too. Your own experience reveals, in spite of all limitations, you are the whole. And the wholeness is the reality of you when you relate to the world. It is love first. When you relate to the world, the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is, what we say, love. And itself becomes compassion if the object that you relate to evokes that emotion. Then that again transforms into giving, into sharing. You express yourself because you have compassion. To discover compassion, you need to be compassionate. To discover the capacity to give and share, you need to be giving and sharing. There is no shortcut: it is like swimming by swimming. You learn swimming by swimming. You cannot learn swimming on a foam mattress and enter into water. (Laughter) You learn swimming by swimming. You learn cycling by cycling. You learn cooking by cooking, having some sympathetic people around you to eat what you cook. (Laughter) And, therefore, what I say, you have to fake it and make it. (Laughter) You need to. My predecessor meant that. You have to act it out. You have to act compassionately. There is no verb for compassion, but you have an adverb for compassion. That's interesting to me. You act compassionately. But then, how to act compassionately if you don't have compassion? That is where you fake. You fake it and make it. This is the mantra of the United States of America. (Laughter) You fake it and make it. You act compassionately as though you have compassion: grind your teeth, take all the support system. If you know how to pray, pray. Ask for compassion. Let me act compassionately. Do it. You'll discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion, and slowly, perhaps if you get the right teaching, you'll discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself, which is oneness, wholeness, and that's what you are. With these words, thank you very much. (Applause)"	一個小孩降生了在一段非常長的時期里他是個消耗社會資源的人他不可能自覺地成為一名奉獻社會的人他是很無助的他甚至不清楚怎樣去生存下來儘管生存的本能是與生俱來的他需要一位母親，或者是一位祖母的撫養才能生存下來毋庸置疑，孩子需要專人來照料但是長輩的照料終究會結束就好比人被麻醉了一樣 麻醉的效果終究會褪去這其中蘊含著深深的依賴这其中蕴含着被孩子依賴的人不会辜负这深深的信赖當小孩逐渐长大他開始發現自己依賴的人辜負了這份依賴他甚至不知道“依賴”這個詞語因此 他開始責怪自己無以言表的責怪是無濟於事的 責怪之後依然是無以言表的自責 當孩子長大成人，直到現在，他依然是一個消耗者然而每一個人的成長過程會賜予他（或者她）貢獻社會的能力讓他（或者她）成為一個奉獻社會的人一個人不會奉獻社會除非他感到沒有憂慮他感到自己足夠強大他感到 我有這個實力 成為寬宏之人不是開玩笑的它并沒有那麼簡單一個人必須發現自己確有把握的強人之處這點強人之處應該在自己身上集中體現出來而不是通過錢財體現也不是通過你掌控的權利體現也不是通過在社會里命令他人的任何地位而它應該是集中體現在自己身上的優秀品質這個自己，是個清醒的自己在那個自己身上 優秀品質應該集中體現 體現一個強大的自己 一個健全的自己否則 寬宏之心僅僅是一個詞彙和一個夢想而已 你可以做到偶爾的寬宏大量更多地是由於感情觸動所致相比真正的寬宏大量感謝上帝讓我們人類是懂得憐憫的當有人承受痛苦，我們一起分擔痛苦 在溫布爾頓網球公開賽上 決賽上這兩名運動員奮力比賽他兩人每人都贏了兩局比賽誰都可能成為贏家他們的揮汗如雨是毫無意義的一個人贏得了比賽比賽的規矩是兩名球員都必須來到網前並且握手勝者向上振臂示意而且親吻地板拋起他的運動衫好像有人在等著接到（笑聲）而他必須來到網前當他來到網前你可以看見 他整個臉的表情都變了看起來好像他贏了一場他不該贏的比賽爲什麽 憐憫之心 這是人類的共性富有人情的人都並不能拒絕這種憐憫之心任何種族也不能通過教化破壞它任何文化 國家 民族也不能破壞它任何事物都不能修改它因為它是憐憫之心而憐憫他人的能力是你同他人深入交流的窗口是你可以影響他人生活的能力寬宏之心超越言語 超越時間 寬宏之心沒有特定的形式不存在印度人的寬宏之心不存在美國人的寬宏之心它超越了國家 超越了等級 超越了年齡爲什麽 因為它深深地埋藏在所有人的心中它偶然通過人們的行動體現出來 但是這只是偶然的寬宏之舉不是我們談論的真正的寬宏大量真正的寬宏大量絕非偶然你不能通過賦予委任的方式使得一個人寬宏大量你不能說 “請愛我”愛是你要去找尋的東西愛不是一種舉動但是在英語里 它也是一個動作我一會兒再解釋這點 因此人必須有完整的人格我要講述一下擁有完整人格的潛力這潛力蘊含在我們的經歷中 每個人的經歷中儘管存在悲慘的生活有的人只在很少的時間感到幸福而只要這個人感到幸福哪怕是因為一個鬧劇也是自己接受自我 找尋自我的過程 那意味著整個宇宙已知事物和未知事物全部都可以被接納因為你找到的自身人格的完整這個主題 我自己和這些客觀事物 找尋事物的方法溶為一體擁有人生經歷的人不會說 我不同意經歷都是一個整體 經歷證實了這點 儘管你所有的局限你所有的需求 渴望 未完成的事情 信用卡還有你被解雇而 最終 不幸的人你可以很幸福但是邏輯的含義是你不必完成你全部的慾望去獲得幸福你確實很幸福 你這個整體 使你感到幸福 這別無選擇這只是證實了現實整個世界不會因你而變不會丟棄你你必須做你自己你不能夠做整體的一部分同時又是整體你幸福的時刻反映了現實實現 酬勞或許我就是全部或許swami是對的 或許swami是對的 你應該開始你全新的生活每件事都充滿了意義我沒有任何理由去責備我自己如果一個人要去責備自己 他可以有一百萬個理由但是如果我說 儘管我的身體是受限的如果是黑皮膚 就不能是白皮膚 如果是白皮膚 就不能是黑皮膚不論你從哪方面看身體都是有不足的 是有限制的 你的知識有限 健康有限力量因此也有限而高興也會有限寬宏大量會有限所有事物都有限制你不能命令寬宏大量除非你變得寬宏大量 要不沒人會變得寬宏大量這取決于你自己 這段講完了而你可以自己努力不那麼受限制 你自己的經歷反映出 儘管有很多限制 你還是一個整體而整體就是你的現實性當你和世界有聯繫時首先是愛當你和世界有聯繫時整體的活力的表現就是我們所說的愛而它自己會成為寬宏之舉如果你接觸到的事物使你觸發了那種情感然後情感通過給予和分享傳遞你表達自己因為你有憐憫之心 要找到寬宏之心 你需要寬宏大量一些要找到給予和分享的能力你需要善於給予和分享沒有捷徑 就像通過練習游泳來學習游泳你通過練習游泳來學習游泳你不能在一個泡沫床墊上然後到水中學習游泳（笑聲）你通過練習游泳學習游泳 你通過練習騎車來學習騎車你通過做飯來學習廚藝然後周圍同情你的人就品嘗你做的飯（笑聲） 那麼 因此 正如我說你必須假裝去做（笑聲）你需要這麼做我之前的話是這個意思你必須實現它你必須做事有寬宏之心 沒有寬宏的動詞但是你可以寬宏地做事這很有趣你寬宏地處事但是如果你沒有寬宏之心怎麼做寬宏之事那就需要你假裝了你假裝然後做出來 這是美利堅合眾國的頌歌（笑聲） 你假裝然後做出來你憐憫處事就像你有寬宏之心一樣咬緊牙關和你所有的支援一起如果你知道怎麼祈禱 那就祈禱吧找尋寬宏之心讓我處事寬宏大量吧行動吧你會找到寬宏之心而且也會慢慢的相對的寬宏大量慢慢的 或許你接受了正確的指引你會發現寬宏之心是活力的源泉是你現實自身的活力源泉 是獨一無二 完整的這就是你自己 就講到這裡 非常感謝（掌聲）
