Talk	en	zh-tw
tali_sharot_the_optimism_bias	"I'm going to talk to you about optimism — or more precisely, the optimism bias. It's a cognitive illusion that we've been studying in my lab for the past few years, and 80 percent of us have it. It's our tendency to overestimate our likelihood of experiencing good events in our lives and underestimate our likelihood of experiencing bad events. So we underestimate our likelihood of suffering from cancer, being in a car accident. We overestimate our longevity, our career prospects. In short, we're more optimistic than realistic, but we are oblivious to the fact. Take marriage for example. In the Western world, divorce rates are about 40 percent. That means that out of five married couples, two will end up splitting their assets. But when you ask newlyweds about their own likelihood of divorce, they estimate it at zero percent. And even divorce lawyers, who should really know better, hugely underestimate their own likelihood of divorce. So it turns out that optimists are not less likely to divorce, but they are more likely to remarry. In the words of Samuel Johnson, ""Remarriage is the triumph of hope over experience."" (Laughter) So if we're married, we're more likely to have kids. And we all think our kids will be especially talented. This, by the way, is my two-year-old nephew, Guy. And I just want to make it absolutely clear that he's a really bad example of the optimism bias, because he is in fact uniquely talented. (Laughter) And I'm not alone. Out of four British people, three said that they were optimistic about the future of their own families. That's 75 percent. But only 30 percent said that they thought families in general are doing better than a few generations ago. And this is a really important point, because we're optimistic about ourselves, we're optimistic about our kids, we're optimistic about our families, but we're not so optimistic about the guy sitting next to us, and we're somewhat pessimistic about the fate of our fellow citizens and the fate of our country. But private optimism about our own personal future remains persistent. And it doesn't mean that we think things will magically turn out okay, but rather that we have the unique ability to make it so. Now I'm a scientist, I do experiments. So to show you what I mean, I'm going to do an experiment here with you. So I'm going to give you a list of abilities and characteristics, and I want you to think for each of these abilities where you stand relative to the rest of the population. The first one is getting along well with others. Who here believes they're at the bottom 25 percent? Okay, that's about 10 people out of 1,500. Who believes they're at the top 25 percent? That's most of us here. Okay, now do the same for your driving ability. How interesting are you? How attractive are you? How honest are you? And finally, how modest are you? So most of us put ourselves above average on most of these abilities. Now this is statistically impossible. We can't all be better than everyone else. (Laughter) But if we believe we're better than the other guy, well that means that we're more likely to get that promotion, to remain married, because we're more social, more interesting. And it's a global phenomenon. The optimism bias has been observed in many different countries — in Western cultures, in non-Western cultures, in females and males, in kids, in the elderly. It's quite widespread. But the question is, is it good for us? So some people say no. Some people say the secret to happiness is low expectations. I think the logic goes something like this: If we don't expect greatness, if we don't expect to find love and be healthy and successful, well we're not going to be disappointed when these things don't happen. And if we're not disappointed when good things don't happen, and we're pleasantly surprised when they do, we will be happy. So it's a very good theory, but it turns out to be wrong for three reasons. Number one: Whatever happens, whether you succeed or you fail, people with high expectations always feel better. Because how we feel when we get dumped or win employee of the month depends on how we interpret that event. The psychologists Margaret Marshall and John Brown studied students with high and low expectations. And they found that when people with high expectations succeed, they attribute that success to their own traits. ""I'm a genius, therefore I got an A, therefore I'll get an A again and again in the future."" When they failed, it wasn't because they were dumb, but because the exam just happened to be unfair. Next time they will do better. People with low expectations do the opposite. So when they failed it was because they were dumb, and when they succeeded it was because the exam just happened to be really easy. Next time reality would catch up with them. So they felt worse. Number two: Regardless of the outcome, the pure act of anticipation makes us happy. The behavioral economist George Lowenstein asked students in his university to imagine getting a passionate kiss from a celebrity, any celebrity. Then he said, ""How much are you willing to pay to get a kiss from a celebrity if the kiss was delivered immediately, in three hours, in 24 hours, in three days, in one year, in 10 years? He found that the students were willing to pay the most not to get a kiss immediately, but to get a kiss in three days. They were willing to pay extra in order to wait. Now they weren't willing to wait a year or 10 years; no one wants an aging celebrity. But three days seemed to be the optimum amount. So why is that? Well if you get the kiss now, it's over and done with. But if you get the kiss in three days, well that's three days of jittery anticipation, the thrill of the wait. The students wanted that time to imagine where is it going to happen, how is it going to happen. Anticipation made them happy. This is, by the way, why people prefer Friday to Sunday. It's a really curious fact, because Friday is a day of work and Sunday is a day of pleasure, so you'd assume that people will prefer Sunday, but they don't. It's not because they really, really like being in the office and they can't stand strolling in the park or having a lazy brunch. We know that, because when you ask people about their ultimate favorite day of the week, surprise, surprise, Saturday comes in at first, then Friday, then Sunday. People prefer Friday because Friday brings with it the anticipation of the weekend ahead, all the plans that you have. On Sunday, the only thing you can look forward to is the work week. So optimists are people who expect more kisses in their future, more strolls in the park. And that anticipation enhances their wellbeing. In fact, without the optimism bias, we would all be slightly depressed. People with mild depression, they don't have a bias when they look into the future. They're actually more realistic than healthy individuals. But individuals with severe depression, they have a pessimistic bias. So they tend to expect the future to be worse than it ends up being. So optimism changes subjective reality. The way we expect the world to be changes the way we see it. But it also changes objective reality. It acts as a self-fulfilling prophecy. And that is the third reason why lowering your expectations will not make you happy. Controlled experiments have shown that optimism is not only related to success, it leads to success. Optimism leads to success in academia and sports and politics. And maybe the most surprising benefit of optimism is health. If we expect the future to be bright, stress and anxiety are reduced. So all in all, optimism has lots of benefits. But the question that was really confusing to me was, how do we maintain optimism in the face of reality? As an neuroscientist, this was especially confusing, because according to all the theories out there, when your expectations are not met, you should alter them. But this is not what we find. We asked people to come into our lab in order to try and figure out what was going on. We asked them to estimate their likelihood of experiencing different terrible events in their lives. So, for example, what is your likelihood of suffering from cancer? And then we told them the average likelihood of someone like them to suffer these misfortunes. So cancer, for example, is about 30 percent. And then we asked them again, ""How likely are you to suffer from cancer?"" What we wanted to know was whether people will take the information that we gave them to change their beliefs. And indeed they did — but mostly when the information we gave them was better than what they expected. So for example, if someone said, ""My likelihood of suffering from cancer is about 50 percent,"" and we said, ""Hey, good news. The average likelihood is only 30 percent,"" the next time around they would say, ""Well maybe my likelihood is about 35 percent."" So they learned quickly and efficiently. But if someone started off saying, ""My average likelihood of suffering from cancer is about 10 percent,"" and we said, ""Hey, bad news. The average likelihood is about 30 percent,"" the next time around they would say, ""Yep. Still think it's about 11 percent."" (Laughter) So it's not that they didn't learn at all — they did — but much, much less than when we gave them positive information about the future. And it's not that they didn't remember the numbers that we gave them; everyone remembers that the average likelihood of cancer is about 30 percent and the average likelihood of divorce is about 40 percent. But they didn't think that those numbers were related to them. What this means is that warning signs such as these may only have limited impact. Yes, smoking kills, but mostly it kills the other guy. What I wanted to know was what was going on inside the human brain that prevented us from taking these warning signs personally. But at the same time, when we hear that the housing market is hopeful, we think, ""Oh, my house is definitely going to double in price."" To try and figure that out, I asked the participants in the experiment to lie in a brain imaging scanner. It looks like this. And using a method called functional MRI, we were able to identify regions in the brain that were responding to positive information. One of these regions is called the left inferior frontal gyrus. So if someone said, ""My likelihood of suffering from cancer is 50 percent,"" and we said, ""Hey, good news. Average likelihood is 30 percent,"" the left inferior frontal gyrus would respond fiercely. And it didn't matter if you're an extreme optimist, a mild optimist or slightly pessimistic, everyone's left inferior frontal gyrus was functioning perfectly well, whether you're Barack Obama or Woody Allen. On the other side of the brain, the right inferior frontal gyrus was responding to bad news. And here's the thing: it wasn't doing a very good job. The more optimistic you were, the less likely this region was to respond to unexpected negative information. And if your brain is failing at integrating bad news about the future, you will constantly leave your rose-tinted spectacles on. So we wanted to know, could we change this? Could we alter people's optimism bias by interfering with the brain activity in these regions? And there's a way for us to do that. This is my collaborator Ryota Kanai. And what he's doing is he's passing a small magnetic pulse through the skull of the participant in our study into their inferior frontal gyrus. And by doing that, he's interfering with the activity of this brain region for about half an hour. After that everything goes back to normal, I assure you. (Laughter) So let's see what happens. First of all, I'm going to show you the average amount of bias that we see. So if I was to test all of you now, this is the amount that you would learn more from good news relative to bad news. Now we interfere with the region that we found to integrate negative information in this task, and the optimism bias grew even larger. We made people more biased in the way that they process information. Then we interfered with the brain region that we found to integrate good news in this task, and the optimism bias disappeared. We were quite amazed by these results because we were able to eliminate a deep-rooted bias in humans. And at this point we stopped and we asked ourselves, would we want to shatter the optimism illusion into tiny little bits? If we could do that, would we want to take people's optimism bias away? Well I've already told you about all of the benefits of the optimism bias, which probably makes you want to hold onto it for dear life. But there are, of course, pitfalls, and it would be really foolish of us to ignore them. Take for example this email I recieved from a firefighter here in California. He says, ""Fatality investigations for firefighters often include 'We didn't think the fire was going to do that,' even when all of the available information was there to make safe decisions."" This captain is going to use our findings on the optimism bias to try to explain to the firefighters why they think the way they do, to make them acutely aware of this very optimistic bias in humans. So unrealistic optimism can lead to risky behavior, to financial collapse, to faulty planning. The British government, for example, has acknowledged that the optimism bias can make individuals more likely to underestimate the costs and durations of projects. So they have adjusted the 2012 Olympic budget for the optimism bias. My friend who's getting married in a few weeks has done the same for his wedding budget. And by the way, when I asked him about his own likelihood of divorce, he said he was quite sure it was zero percent. So what we would really like to do, is we would like to protect ourselves from the dangers of optimism, but at the same time remain hopeful, benefiting from the many fruits of optimism. And I believe there's a way for us to do that. The key here really is knowledge. We're not born with an innate understanding of our biases. These have to be identified by scientific investigation. But the good news is that becoming aware of the optimism bias does not shatter the illusion. It's like visual illusions, in which understanding them does not make them go away. And this is good because it means we should be able to strike a balance, to come up with plans and rules to protect ourselves from unrealistic optimism, but at the same time remain hopeful. I think this cartoon portrays it nicely. Because if you're one of these pessimistic penguins up there who just does not believe they can fly, you certainly never will. Because to make any kind of progress, we need to be able to imagine a different reality, and then we need to believe that that reality is possible. But if you are an extreme optimistic penguin who just jumps down blindly hoping for the best, you might find yourself in a bit of a mess when you hit the ground. But if you're an optimistic penguin who believes they can fly, but then adjusts a parachute to your back just in case things don't work out exactly as you had planned, you will soar like an eagle, even if you're just a penguin. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想和你們談談樂觀主義—或者更準確的說，樂觀偏見。這是個認知錯覺過去數年來一直在我的實驗室裏研究著，我們之中有80%都得過。 我們容易高估可能是因為生活中所經歷的都是好事卻低估了可能也會經歷到壞事所以我們低估了可能也會患有癌症可能也會出車禍我們高估了壽命、職涯前景簡言之，我們是樂觀多於實際但是我們都忽略了一個事實 就拿婚姻來說離婚率在西方世界大約是40%也就是說五對已婚夫妻中有兩對會玩完了然後分財產但是當你問新婚夫妻他們本身的離婚可能性時他們都說百分之百的不可能甚至連離婚律師，他才更應該真正的了解，也是大大地低估了他們自己離婚的可能性。所以結論就是樂觀者不是不可能離婚而是較可能再婚塞謬耳‧約翰曾說過，“再婚是希望對經歷的勝利。” (觀眾大笑) 所以如果我們結了婚，就比較可能有小孩。而且都會認為我們的小孩特別聰明。這一位，順便一提，是我的兩歲外甥，蓋。我想說的只是他真的是樂觀偏見的壞榜樣因為他真的是絕頂聰明。 (觀眾大笑) 而且不是只有我這麼認為四個英國人中，有三個會說他們對於自己家人的前途都相當樂觀這樣的比例有75%但只有30%的人說他們認為一般說來家人做得比前幾代要好 這真的是很重要的一點，因為我們對自己樂觀，我們對孩子樂觀，對我們的家人樂觀，但是對坐在我們旁邊的人卻不是那麼樂觀，反而有些悲觀對我們的市民同胞的命運及國家的命運。但是對於我們個人前途的私人樂觀仍然持續。這並不是說我們認為事情會奇蹟般的變好，而是我們有獨特的能力使它變好 現在，我是個科學家，我做實驗。所以為了告訴你們我的本意，我在這裏要和你們一起做個實驗。我打算列出一張能力和特性的清單，我要你們想想看這些每個能力你所佔據的位置，與其它人相比 第一個是和他人相處得很好在座各位有誰相信自己是最底部的25%？好吧，那大概是1,500人中的10個有誰相信自己是最頂端的25%?這裏大部份人都相信。好。 同樣的事也發生在你的駕駛能力上你這個人有多有趣?你有多少吸引力?你有多誠實?最後，你有多謙虛? 所以大部份的人把自己放在水平之上對這些能力來說這是完全不可能的我們不可能次次比別人好(觀眾大笑)但是如果我們相信自己比他人好就是說我們容易高升、容易維持婚姻因為我們較社會化、較有趣 這是個全球化的現象樂觀偏見已經被注意到了在許多不同的國家裏在西方文化裏、在非西方文化裏在女性與男性之間在小孩和年長者之間分佈甚廣 但問題是，對我們而言好嗎?有些人說不好有些人說幸福的秘訣就是期望不高我想邏輯是這樣的：如果我們的期盼不高，如果我們不期盼找到愛、身體健康和事業成功，嗯，當這些事都沒發生時，我們就不會失望。而且，就算好事沒發生時，我們也不會失望如果發生了好事，就算給我們一個大驚喜我們會很快樂。 所以這是個相當好的推論，但是有三個理由讓它變成錯的。第一：不論發生什麼事，不管你成功還是失敗，期待高的人通常都會自我感覺較好。因為，我們被人拋棄或當上明星店員的感覺如何，完全看我們怎麼解釋那件事而定 心裡學家Margraret Marshall 及 John Brown研究期盼高及期盼低的學生。他發現期待高的人成功時，他們將成功歸功於自己的人格特質。’“我是個天才，所以我得個A，所以以後我也會一再得A。”當他們失敗時，不是因為他們笨。而是因為這個考試剛巧不公平，下一次他們會考得更好。期盼低的人剛好相反。所以當他們失敗時他們就是笨，而當他們成功時，是因為考試剛巧真的太簡單，下一次就會露出馬腳了。所以他們覺得很糟。 第二：不管結果，單純的期待行為使我們快樂，行為經濟學家George Lowenstein在大學裏問學生得到名人的熱吻的印象，任何名人他說：“你願付多少錢得到名人的吻如果吻馬上就來，3小時內，24小時內，3天內1年內，10年內？他發現學生最願意付的是不要馬上就能得到的吻而是3天內能得到的吻，也有人願意支付額外費用來等待一個吻但他們不願意一等就等個1年或10年的；因為沒人會要個上了年紀的名人，但是三天似乎是最佳的天數 為什麼會這樣?嗯。如果你現在馬上就被親一下，那一切就沒事了但是如果你三天內才被親那就有三天緊張的預期，等待的快感學生要那個時間來想像即將要發生什麼事，究竟是怎麼發生的。期待使他們快樂。 這也就是，順道一提的，為何人們比週日還喜歡週五。這真是讓人難以理解的事實，因為週五是個工作天而週日是個歡樂天，所以可以假設人們較喜歡星期天，但不是。不是因為他們真的、真的愛呆在辦公室也不是因為他們不能忍受在公園裏散步或是不想吃個慵懶的早午餐我們知道，因為當你問人一週中最喜歡哪一天驚訝吧，驚訝吧，週六是首選，之後是週五，再來才是週日，人們喜歡週五因為週五為週末帶來期待，期待所有的計劃但在週日，唯一能企望到的就是整週的工作。 所以樂觀者就是期待未來能有更多吻的人在公園裏更多的散步所以期待提高了他們的幸福感事實上，沒有了樂觀偏見我們都會有一點點沮喪輕度憂鬱症患者，當他們展望未來時完全沒有偏見實際上，他們比健康的人更現實但是重度憂鬱症患者他們有悲觀的偏見所以往往盼望前途比死亡結束時要差 所以樂觀改變了主觀的現實我們期盼世界變成我們眼見的方式但是也改變了客觀存在它表現得像個自我實現的預言第三個理由為什麼降低期待不會使你感到快樂對照實驗顯示樂觀不只和成功有關，樂觀導向成功樂觀在學術界及運動界和政治界導向成功樂觀最令人驚喜的好處就是健康如果我們期盼前途是光明的壓力及焦慮會降低 所以總而言之，樂觀有很多好處但是真正困擾我的問題是我們如何在現實面前保持樂觀?身為一個神經科學家，感到特別的困擾，因為根據那裏所有的理論期待未達時，就應該改變他們但這不是我們所發現的我們要求人們來到實驗室為的是嘗試而且弄清楚倒底是怎麼一回事 我們要求他們評估自己經歷生活中不同的恐怖事件的可能性例如，得癌症的可能性為何?之後我們告訴他們像他們這樣的人遭受這些不幸的平均可能性所以癌症，舉例來說，大約30%之後我們再問他們一次，“得癌症的可能性有多大？” 我們想知道的是人們是否會採信我們給的消息來改變他們的看法。他們真的會但大部份是在我們給他們的消息比他們期待的消息還要好的時候所以舉例來說如果某人說，“我得癌症的可能性大概是50%，”我們會說，“嘿，好消息。平均可能性只有30%，”下一次大概他們就會說，“嗯，我的可能性大約是35%，”所以他們學得很快也很有效率但是如果有人開始說“我得癌的一般可能性大約是10%，”我們就會說“嗨，壞消息。一般得病的可能性是30%到了下一次大概他們會說是，我仍然認為大約是11% (全場觀眾大笑) 所以不是他們完全不知道—他們知道—但是比我們告訴他們的有關未來的正面信息要少很多也不是他們不記得我們給他們的數字每個人都記得癌症的平均可能性大約是30%而離婚的平均可能性大約是40%但是他們不認為這些數字跟他們有關 這表示像這樣的警告跡象影響也有限是的，吸煙殺人，但是大部份是殺了別人 我想知道的是人類腦中倒底發生了什麼事才會讓我們以為這些警告跡象不是衝著我們來的但是同時當我們聽到房市很有希望的時候我們就會想，“喔，我的房子絕對漲了兩倍試著找出來我要求實驗室裏的參與者躺在腦成像掃描儀裏看起來就像這樣而且用一種叫做核磁共振的儀器我們可以辨認出腦中的哪些部位回應了正面信息 其中一個部份被稱為左前下腦回所以如果某人說，“我得癌的可能性是50%”我們會說，“嘿，好消息。”一般的可能性是30%”左前下腦回將強烈的回應就算你是個極端樂觀主義者，溫和的樂觀主義者，或是輕度的悲觀者 ，那都不重要每個人的左前下腦回都運作得很好不管你是歐巴馬或是伍迪艾倫 在腦的另一邊右前下腦回只對壞消息有所回應事情來了: 它做得不是很好你愈是樂觀這個部份就不太可能對意想不到的負面消息做出回應如果你的大腦無法整合與未來有關的壞消息你就會一直保持樂觀 所以我們想知道，我們能改變嗎?我們能不能透過干擾這些部份的腦活動來改變人們的樂觀偏見?有一個方法 這是我的合作人Ryota Kanai他正在做的就是把小型電磁脈衝透過參加研究者的頭骨傳送到他們的額下回這樣做他的這些大腦區域活動就會被干擾大約半小時我向你保證，之後每件事都回到正常 (觀眾大笑) 所以讓我們看看發生了什麼事首先，我要給你們看的是我們所見的偏見的平均量所以如果現在我要試試你們所有的人這就是你們相對於壞消息來說 聽到了更多好消息現在我們來干擾一下我們找到的這個 整合負面消息的腦部區域樂觀主義的偏見就會愈來愈大我們使得人們在處理消息的方面更加偏激所以我們干擾腦區域我們找到的這個 整合負面消息的腦部區域而樂觀偏見就消失了我們對這些結果相當震驚因為我們可以消除人類根深蒂固的偏見 在這一點上我們停了下來而且問自己是不是要把樂觀的幻想粉碎成一小片一小片?如果可以這樣做，我們會不會是想取走人們的樂觀偏見?我已經告訴你樂觀偏見的所有好處你可能會想在寶貴的生活裏繼續保有但是當然有圈套而我們真是蠢到忽略了他們 舉個例子來說，我從一位加州的消防隊員收到這封電子郵件他說，“消防隊員的死亡調查通常包括“我們不認為火勢會像這樣即使所有現有的消息都是安全的這位船長想使用我們在樂觀偏見上的研究結果試著向消防隊員解釋為什麼他們會認為他們做事的方法會使得他們敏銳地意識到人類的樂觀偏見 所以不切實際的樂觀會導致危險的行為導致金融崩潰，導致計劃錯誤舉例來說，英國政府確認樂觀偏見使得人們更有可能低估了計劃的成本及持續期間所以他們調整了2012年奧林匹克的預算就是因為樂觀偏見 我有一個將在幾星期內結婚的朋友也對結婚預算做了同樣的事順便一提的是，當我問他自己離婚的可能性時他說他很確定是百分之零(完全不可能) 所以我們真正想做的是我們要保護自己免除樂觀危險但同時保持深具希望從樂觀的許多成果中獲益我相信一定有條路讓我們這樣做真正的關鍵是知識我們不是生來就了解偏見這些必需要透過科學調查來釐清但是好消息是知道了樂觀偏見並未粉碎幻想它就像是視覺上的錯覺了解它們而非叫他們走這是很好的因為意思是我們應該能夠找到折衷辦法想出計劃和規則保護我們自己遠離不切實際的樂觀但同時保持深具希望 我認為這個卡通畫面很不錯因為如果你是站在那邊的悲觀企鵝的一員就是不相信自己會飛當然就永遠也不會飛因為任何的進展都需要想像一個不同的現實之後我們必需相信那個現實是可能的但如果你是個極端樂觀的企鵝只是盲目的往下跳希望成為最好的當撞到地面的時候，你會發現有點麻煩但如果你是個樂觀的企鵝相信自己可以飛但之後又調整背後的降落傘萬一事情不完全按照你的計劃走你也可能像隻鷹一樣的翱翔即使你只是隻企鵝 謝謝你 (觀眾鼓掌)
