Talk	en	zh-tw
tan_le_my_immigration_story	"How can I speak in 10 minutes about the bonds of women over three generations, about how the astonishing strength of those bonds took hold in the life of a four-year-old girl huddled with her young sister, her mother and her grandmother for five days and nights in a small boat in the China Sea more than 30 years ago. Bonds that took hold in the life of that small girl and never let go — that small girl now living in San Francisco and speaking to you today. This is not a finished story. It is a jigsaw puzzle still being put together. Let me tell you about some of the pieces. Imagine the first piece: a man burning his life's work. He is a poet, a playwright, a man whose whole life had been balanced on the single hope of his country's unity and freedom. Imagine him as the communists enter Saigon — confronting the fact that his life had been a complete waste. Words, for so long his friends, now mocked him. He retreated into silence. He died broken by history. He is my grandfather. I never knew him in real life. But our lives are much more than our memories. My grandmother never let me forget his life. My duty was not to allow it to have been in vain, and my lesson was to learn that, yes, history tried to crush us, but we endured. The next piece of the jigsaw is of a boat in the early dawn slipping silently out to sea. My mother, Mai, was 18 when her father died — already in an arranged marriage, already with two small girls. For her, life had distilled itself into one task: the escape of her family and a new life in Australia. It was inconceivable to her that she would not succeed. So after a four-year saga that defies fiction, a boat slipped out to sea disguised as a fishing vessel. All the adults knew the risks. The greatest fear was of pirates, rape and death. Like most adults on the boat, my mother carried a small bottle of poison. If we were captured, first my sister and I, then she and my grandmother would drink. My first memories are from the boat — the steady beat of the engine, the bow dipping into each wave, the vast and empty horizon. I don't remember the pirates who came many times, but were bluffed by the bravado of the men on our boat, or the engine dying and failing to start for six hours. But I do remember the lights on the oil rig off the Malaysian coast and the young man who collapsed and died, the journey's end too much for him, and the first apple I tasted, given to me by the men on the rig. No apple has ever tasted the same. After three months in a refugee camp, we landed in Melbourne. And the next piece of the jigsaw is about four women across three generations shaping a new life together. We settled in Footscray, a working-class suburb whose demographic is layers of immigrants. Unlike the settled middle-class suburbs, whose existence I was oblivious of, there was no sense of entitlement in Footscray. The smells from shop doors were from the rest of the world. And the snippets of halting English were exchanged between people who had one thing in common: They were starting again. My mother worked on farms, then on a car assembly line, working six days, double shifts. Somehow, she found time to study English and gain IT qualifications. We were poor. All the dollars were allocated and extra tuition in English and mathematics was budgeted for regardless of what missed out, which was usually new clothes; they were always secondhand. Two pairs of stockings for school, each to hide the holes in the other. A school uniform down to the ankles, because it had to last for six years. And there were rare but searing chants of ""slit-eye"" and the occasional graffiti: ""Asian, go home."" Go home to where? Something stiffened inside me. There was a gathering of resolve and a quiet voice saying, ""I will bypass you."" My mother, my sister and I slept in the same bed. My mother was exhausted each night, but we told one another about our day and listened to the movements of my grandmother around the house. My mother suffered from nightmares, all about the boat. And my job was to stay awake until her nightmares came so I could wake her. She opened a computer store, then studied to be a beautician and opened another business. And the women came with their stories about men who could not make the transition, angry and inflexible, and troubled children caught between two worlds. Grants and sponsors were sought. Centers were established. I lived in parallel worlds. In one, I was the classic Asian student, relentless in the demands that I made on myself. In the other, I was enmeshed in lives that were precarious, tragically scarred by violence, drug abuse and isolation. But so many over the years were helped. And for that work, when I was a final-year law student, I was chosen as the Young Australian of the Year. And I was catapulted from one piece of the jigsaw to another, and their edges didn't fit. Tan Le, anonymous Footscray resident, was now Tan Le, refugee and social activist, invited to speak in venues she had never heard of and into homes whose existence she could never have imagined. I didn't know the protocols. I didn't know how to use the cutlery. I didn't know how to talk about wine. I didn't know how to talk about anything. I wanted to retreat to the routines and comfort of life in an unsung suburb — a grandmother, a mother and two daughters ending each day as they had for almost 20 years, telling one another the story of their day and falling asleep, the three of us still in the same bed. I told my mother I couldn't do it. She reminded me that I was now the same age she had been when we boarded the boat. ""No"" had never been an option. ""Just do it,"" she said, ""and don't be what you're not."" So I spoke out on youth unemployment and education and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised. And the more candidly I spoke, the more I was asked to speak. I met people from all walks of life, so many of them doing the thing they loved, living on the frontiers of possibility. And even though I finished my degree, I realized I could not settle into a career in law. There had to be another piece of the jigsaw. And I realized, at the same time, that it is OK to be an outsider, a recent arrival, new on the scene — and not just OK, but something to be thankful for, perhaps a gift from the boat. Because being an insider can so easily mean collapsing the horizons, can so easily mean accepting the presumptions of your province. I have stepped outside my comfort zone enough now to know that, yes, the world does fall apart, but not in the way that you fear. Possibilities that would not have been allowed were outrageously encouraged. There was an energy there, an implacable optimism, a strange mixture of humility and daring. So I followed my hunches. I gathered around me a small team of people for whom the label ""It can't be done"" was an irresistible challenge. For a year, we were penniless. At the end of each day, I made a huge pot of soup which we all shared. We worked well into each night. Most of our ideas were crazy, but a few were brilliant, and we broke through. I made the decision to move to the US after only one trip. My hunches again. Three months later, I had relocated, and the adventure has continued. Before I close, though, let me tell you about my grandmother. She grew up at a time when Confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the person who mattered. Life hadn't changed for centuries. Her father died soon after she was born. Her mother raised her alone. At 17, she became the second wife of a mandarin whose mother beat her. With no support from her husband, she caused a sensation by taking him to court and prosecuting her own case, and a far greater sensation when she won. (Laughter) (Applause) ""It can't be done"" was shown to be wrong. I was taking a shower in a hotel room in Sydney the moment she died, 600 miles away, in Melbourne. I looked through the shower screen and saw her standing on the other side. I knew she had come to say goodbye. My mother phoned minutes later. A few days later, we went to a Buddhist temple in Footscray and sat around her casket. We told her stories and assured her that we were still with her. At midnight, the monk came and told us he had to close the casket. My mother asked us to feel her hand. She asked the monk, ""Why is it that her hand is so warm and the rest of her is so cold?"" ""Because you have been holding it since this morning,"" he said. ""You have not let it go."" If there is a sinew in our family, it runs through the women. Given who we were and how life had shaped us, we can now see that the men that might have come into our lives would have thwarted us. Defeat would have come too easily. Now I would like to have my own children, and I wonder about the boat. Who could ever wish it on their own? Yet I am afraid of privilege, of ease, of entitlement. Can I give them a bow in their lives, dipping bravely into each wave, the unperturbed and steady beat of the engine, the vast horizon that guarantees nothing? I don't know. But if I could give it and still see them safely through, I would. (Applause) Trevor Neilson: And also, Tan's mother is here today, in the fourth or fifth row. (Applause)"	我該如何在十分鐘內說完聯結三個世代的女人的故事還有他們身上緊密關係是如何在生命裡展現力量又是如何影響一位四歲的女孩三十年前她和妹妹還有母親和祖母在一艘在中國海的小船上擠了五天五夜那樣的緊密關係影響了這位小女孩直到現在那位小女孩現在住在舊金山現在在這裡和各位說話這個故事尚未結束這組拼圖還沒拼完讓我告訴各位其中幾段故事 想像第一片拼圖一個男人燒毀了他畢生的作品他是位詩人，一位劇作家他畢生都只為了一個希望就是他的國家的統一和自由想像他以共產黨員的身分進入西貢卻面對到一個事實那就是他的生命至今完全沒有意義。文字，曾是他的朋友，現在卻嘲笑他。他退縮並選擇沉默。他因為歷史的打擊而過世。他是我的祖父我有生之年從未見過他但我們的生活不是只有回憶我的祖母不讓我忘記我祖父的事我的責任是不讓祖父的生命白白逝去我要學習的是沒錯，歷史迫害了我們但我們活下來了 另一塊拼圖是在一個凌晨在一艘靜靜漂在海上的小船上我的母親，Mai，當時十八歲她的父親過世時她已經結婚有兩個小女兒對她來說，生命擁有一個任務：帶著家人逃難在澳洲展開新的生活這對當時的她而言是不可思議的她可能不會成功經過四年，和小說裡的冒險情節不同的是，有一艘船出海偽裝成一艘漁船所有的大人都知道這有風險其中最大的恐懼是海盜強暴和死亡。跟大部分在船上的大人一樣我的母親帶著一小瓶的毒藥如果我們被抓住，先是讓我妹妹和我喝毒藥然後她和我的祖母再喝。 我最初的回憶是從那船上開始的陣陣的引擎轉動聲船頭拍打著每一波海浪寬廣無盡的海平面我不記得那些來了很多次的海盜但我們被船上那些虛張聲勢的男人們給嚇唬住，或是因為引擎故障而停滯了六個小時而被嚇唬住但我記得在馬來西亞的海岸上鑽油機的燈光，還有一個年輕人倒下死去這個旅程最終對他的負擔太大;以及我所嚐到的第一顆蘋果，是在鑽塔上的工人們給我的。在那之後，沒有任何一個蘋果吃起來像當時一樣。 在難民營三個月後我們抵達了墨爾本。下一塊拼圖是關於四位跨越了三個世代的女人共同建立一個新的生活我們定居在Footscray一個勞工居住的郊區這裡的居民是外來移民和那些安定的中產階級們所住的郊區不同，我忘了我是哪裡的居民在Footscray感受不到應得的權力商店裡的味道都是從世界的其他角落來的。而那些片段的，不流利的英文在人群間交談著這些人有一個共通點，他們都在此展開新生活。 我的母親在農場工作，然後在汽車的組裝生產線一星期工作六天，輪兩班不知怎麼辦到的，但她還是找到時間學習英文然後考取了IT證照。我們當時窮困花錢都得斤斤計較學英語和數學的額外學費我們總是把它排進預算裡，無論這意味著我們需要犧牲的，通常指的是用來買新衣服的錢；我們的衣服總是二手的，有兩雙上學穿的絲襪，因為要一雙要遮住另一雙破洞。學校制服長到腳踝，因為一穿要穿六年有時候會有火燒過後縫補的痕跡偶爾有塗鴉寫著「亞洲人，滾回家」但回家要回去哪？有件事堅定的在我的心裡凝聚了決心還有一個微小的聲音說「我會度過這一切的」 我的母親，我妹妹和我睡在同一張床上我的母親每天晚上都精疲力盡，但我們會告訴彼此我們每天的生活，然後聽著我祖母在房子裡移動的聲音。我的母親飽受噩夢的困擾全來自於那船的事我的工作就是在她做噩夢時保持清醒這樣我可以叫醒她。她開了一間電腦商店然後學習成為美容師開始經營其他的生意女人們會談論他們的故事有關男人們無法轉型，會生氣而且無法溝通，並且讓孩子們卡在兩個世界中間。 有了贈款和贊助商生意中心建立起來我住在平行的世界裡一方面，我是典型的亞洲學生堅韌的對自我要求。另一方面，我捲入在不穩定的生活裡悲劇式的在暴力、藥物濫用和隔閡中被驚嚇。但多數的狀況在多年之後都有改善。當我是法學院的應屆畢業生時，我因為這個改善的工作，我被選為年度澳洲傑出青年。我一舉從從其中一片拼圖升到了另一片但這拼圖的邊緣不合 Tan Le，一位默默無聞的Footscray居民現在，Tan Le, 是一個難民也是社會運動人士受邀到她從沒聽過的發言場所和到一般家庭，那裡頭的生活方式她無法想像。我不懂外交禮節我不知道如何使用餐具我也不知道如何聊紅酒我不知道如何開啟話題我想回到那個默默無聞的郊區過著正常安逸的生活一位祖母、一位母親和兩個女兒這二十年來每天用相同的方式結束每一天告訴彼此各自的生活然後睡去我們三個仍睡在同一張床上我告訴我的母親，我無法再忍受了她提醒我，我那時的年紀就跟當時我們登上船時的她一樣大拒絕從來就不是一個選項「只要做就是了」，她說著，「然後別去當你不不想成為的人」 所以我替青年失業和教育還有忽略弱勢和剝奪公民權的議題發聲我越是坦率我越有機會發言我見過來自各行各業的人大部分的人都在從事自己所鐘愛的工作或是在相關的領域裡過生活即便我完成了學業我意識到我無法在法律界的工作被滿足我的心裡需要有另一塊的拼圖在此同時，我也意識到當一個局外人是好的身為新居民新來的人不只是還好而已而是一個值得感恩的事也許這是來自那艘船的禮物因為做為一個局內人是很容易感受視野上的衝擊是很容易接受自己預設好的情況而我已經離開我的舒適區夠久所以了解，是的，世界的確分崩離析但不是像我們害怕的那樣 原先不被允許的那些可能性被大肆鼓勵了這當中有力量一種終極的樂觀是謙卑和大膽的特異組合所以我跟著我的直覺我從身旁的人找起，組成一個小團隊對他們而言「無法做到」這件事是種無法抗拒的挑戰有一年的時間，我們身無分文每天晚上，我煮了一大鍋的湯我們全部一起分享每天晚上，我們盡情工作我們大部分的想法都很瘋狂但少部分是很出色的然後我們得到突破我做了決定，搬家到美國在只有經過一次的旅行後我的直覺又來了在我搬家後的三個月冒險持續 在我結束前讓我告訴各位我祖母的事她生長在一個社會以儒家思想為規範的年代誰有權勢就是地方的父母官幾個世紀以來，生活並沒有改變她的父親在她出生後不久便去世了她的母親獨立撫養她當她十七歲時，成為一位有權勢的人的第二任妻子她的婆婆會毆打她在沒有她的丈夫的支持下她將她丈夫告上法庭而引起轟動並自訴了她的問題當她勝訴時獲得更大的迴響(笑聲)(掌聲)「無法做到」看來是錯的 當我我在雪梨下榻在飯店房間梳洗時她過世了離墨爾本有六百哩遠我看著淋浴間的玻璃看到她站在另一邊我知道她是過來說聲再見的我的母親幾分鐘之後打了電話過來幾天過後我們到Footscray的佛教寺院去坐在她的靈柩旁我們告訴她故事確保她知道我們仍然陪伴著她半夜時，師父過來了告訴我們他必須封棺了我的母親要我們摸摸她的手她問了師父「為什麼她的手如此溫暖，而她的身體卻如此冰冷？」師父回答「因為你們從今天早上就一直握到現在」「你們還沒放下」 如果我們的家庭有支柱的話支柱都是女人們我們是誰，生命又是如何塑造我們的我們現在知道男人也許走進過我們的生命對我們造成挫折失敗來的很容易現在我會希望擁有自己的孩子我會思考關於船的事誰會希望自己一個人？雖然我害怕特權輕鬆以及應有的權利我是否能與他們一支弓，讓他們能勇敢面對生命中每一個的波浪，給他們穩定不受干擾的生活支持嗎那寬廣的海平面不能保證任何事我不知道但如果能給然後讓他們一切平安我願意這麼做 (掌聲) Trevor Neilson: Tan的母親今天也有來就坐在第四或第五排 (掌聲)
