Talk	en	zh-tw
tania_simoncelli_should_you_be_able_to_patent_a_human_gene	"It was an afternoon in the fall of 2005. I was working at the ACLU as the organization's science advisor. I really, really loved my job, but I was having one of those days where I was feeling just a little bit discouraged. So I wandered down the hallway to my colleague Chris Hansen's office. Chris had been at the ACLU for more than 30 years, so he had deep institutional knowledge and insights. I explained to Chris that I was feeling a little bit stuck. I had been investigating a number of issues at the intersection of science and civil liberties — super interesting. But I wanted the ACLU to engage these issues in a much bigger way, in a way that could really make a difference. So Chris cut right to the chase, and he says, ""Well, of all the issues you've been looking at, what are the top five?"" ""Well, there's genetic discrimination, and reproductive technologies, and biobanking, and ... oh, there's this really cool issue, functional MRI and using it for lie detection, and ... oh, and of course, there's gene patents."" ""Gene patents?"" ""Yes, you know, patents on human genes."" ""No! You're telling me that the US government has been issuing patents on part of the human body? That can't be right."" I went back to my office and sent Chris three articles. And 20 minutes later, he came bursting in my office. ""Oh my god! You're right! Who can we sue?"" (Laughter) Now Chris is a really brilliant lawyer, but he knew almost nothing about patent law and certainly nothing about genetics. I knew something about genetics, but I wasn't even a lawyer, let alone a patent lawyer. So clearly we had a lot to learn before we could file a lawsuit. First, we needed to understand exactly what was patented when someone patented a gene. Gene patents typically contain dozens of claims, but the most controversial of these are to so-called ""isolated DNA"" — namely, a piece of DNA that has been removed from a cell. Gene patent proponents say, ""See? We didn't patent the gene in your body, we patented an isolated gene."" And that's true, but the problem is that any use of the gene requires that it be isolated. And the patents weren't just to a particular gene that they isolated, but on every possible version of that gene. So what does that mean? That means that you can't give your gene to your doctor and ask him or her to look at it, say, to see if it has any mutations, without permission of the patent holder. It also means that the patent holder has the right to stop anyone from using that gene in research or clinical testing. Allowing patent holders, often private companies, to lock up stretches of the human genome was harming patients. Consider Abigail, a 10-year-old with long QT syndrome, a serious heart condition that, if left untreated, can result in sudden death. The company that obtained a patent on two genes associated with this condition developed a test to diagnose the syndrome. But then they went bankrupt and they never offered it. So another lab tried to offer the test, but the company that held the patents threatened to sue the lab for patent infringement. So as a result, for 2 years, no test was available. During that time, Abigail died of undiagnosed long QT. Gene patents clearly were a problem and were harming patients. But was there a way we could challenge them? Turns out that the Supreme Court has made clear through a long line of cases, that certain things are not patent eligible. You can't patent products of nature — the air, the water, minerals, elements of the periodic table. And you can't patent laws of nature — the law of gravity, E = mc2. These things are just too fundamental and must remain free to all and reserved exclusively to none. It seemed to us that DNA, the most fundamental structure of life, that codes for the production of all of our proteins, is both a product of nature and a law of nature, regardless of whether it's in our bodies or sitting in the bottom of a test tube. As we delved into this issue, we traveled all over the country to speak with many different experts — scientists, medical professionals, lawyers, patent lawyers. Most of them agreed that we were right as a matter of policy, and, at least in theory, as a matter of law. All of them thought our chances of winning a gene-patent challenge were about zero. Why is that? Well, the patent office had been issuing these patents for more than 20 years. There were literally thousands of patents on human genes. The patent bar was deeply entrenched in the status quo, the biotech industry had grown up around this practice, and legislation to ban gene patents had been introduced year after year in Congress, and had gone absolutely nowhere. So the bottom line: courts just weren't going to be willing to overturn these patents. Now, neither Chris nor I were the type to shy away from a challenge, and hearing, ""Being right just isn't enough,"" seemed all the more reason to take on this fight. So we set out to build our case. Now, patent cases tend to be: Company A sues Company B over some really narrow, obscure technical issue. We weren't really interested in that kind of case, and we thought this case was much bigger than that. This was about scientific freedom, medical progress, the rights of patients. So we decided we were going to develop a case that was not like your typical patent case — more like a civil rights case. We set out to identify a gene-patent holder that was vigorously enforcing its patents and then to organize a broad coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could tell the court about all the ways that these patents were harming patients and innovation. We found the prime candidate to sue in Myriad Genetics, a company that's based in Salt Lake City, Utah. Myriad held patents on two genes, the BRCA1 and the BRCA2 genes. Women with certain mutations along these genes are considered to be at a significantly increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. Myriad had used its patents to maintain a complete monopoly on BRCA testing in the United States. It had forced multiple labs that were offering BRCA testing to stop. It charged a lot of money for its test — over 3,000 dollars. It had stopped sharing its clinical data with the international scientific community. And perhaps worst of all, for a period of several years, Myriad refused to update its test to include additional mutations that had been identified by a team of researchers in France. It has been estimated that during that period, for several years, as many as 12 percent of women undergoing testing received the wrong answer — a negative test result that should have been positive. This is Kathleen Maxian. Kathleen's sister Eileen developed breast cancer at age 40 and she was tested by Myriad. The test was negative. The family was relieved. That meant that Eileen's cancer most likely didn't run in the family, and that other members of her family didn't need to be tested. But two years later, Kathleen was diagnosed with advanced-stage ovarian cancer. It turned out that Kathleen's sister was among the 12 percent who received a false-negative test result. Had Eileen received the proper result, Kathleen would have then been tested, and her ovarian cancer could have been prevented. Once we settled on Myriad, we then had to form a coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could illuminate these problems. We ended up with 20 highly committed plaintiffs: genetic counselors, geneticists who had received cease and desist letters, advocacy organizations, four major scientific organizations that collectively represented more than 150,000 scientists and medical professionals, and individual women who either couldn't afford Myriad's test, or who wanted to obtain a second opinion but could not, as a result of the patents. One of the major challenges we had in preparing the case was figuring out how best to communicate the science. So in order to argue that what Myriad did was not an invention, and that isolated BRCA genes were products of nature, we had to explain a couple of basic concepts, like: What's a gene? What's DNA? How is DNA isolated, and why isn't that an invention? We spent hours and hours with our plaintiffs and experts, trying to come up with ways of explaining these concepts simply yet accurately. And we ended up relying heavily on the use of metaphors, like gold. So isolating DNA — it's like extracting gold from a mountain or taking it out of a stream bed. You might be able to patent the process for mining the gold, but you can't patent the gold itself. It might've taken a lot of hard work and effort to dig the gold out of the mountain; you still can't patent it, it's still gold. And the gold, once it's extracted, can clearly be used for all sorts of things that it couldn't be used for when it was in the mountain; you can make jewelry out of it for example — still can't patent the gold, it's still gold. So now it's 2009, and we're ready to file our case. We filed in federal court in the Southern District of New York, and the case was randomly assigned to Judge Robert Sweet. In March 2010, Judge Sweet issued his opinion — 152 pages — and a complete victory for our side. In reading the opinion, we could not get over how eloquently he described the science in the case. I mean, our brief — it was pretty good, but not this good. How did he develop such a deep understanding of this issue in such a short time? We just could not comprehend how this had happened. So it turned out, Judge Sweet's clerk working for him at the time, was not just a lawyer — he was a scientist. He was not just a scientist — he had a PhD in molecular biology. (Laughter) What an incredible stroke of luck! Myriad then appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. And here things got really interesting. First, in a pivotal moment of this case, the US government switched sides. So in the district court the government submitted a brief on Myriad's side. But now in direct opposition to its own patent office, the US government files a brief that states that is has reconsidered this issue in light of the district court's opinion, and has concluded that isolated DNA is not patent eligible. This was a really big deal, totally unexpected. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit hears all patent cases, and it has a reputation for being very, very pro-patent. So even with this remarkable development, we expected to lose. And we did. Sort of. Ends up split decision, 2 to 1. But the two judges who ruled against us, did so for completely different reasons. The first one, Judge Lourie, made up his own novel, biological theory — totally wrong. (Laughter) He decided Myriad had created a new chemical — made absolutely no sense. Myriad didn't even argue this, so it came out of the blue. The other, Judge Moore, said she basically agreed with us that isolated DNA is a product of nature. But she's like, ""I don't want to shake up the biotech industry."" The third, Judge Bryson, agreed with us. So now we sought review by the Supreme Court. And when you petition the Supreme Court, you have to present a question that you want the Court to answer. Usually these questions take the form of a super-long paragraph, like a whole page long with lots and lots of clauses, ""wherein this"" and ""therefore that."" We submitted perhaps the shortest question presented ever. Four words: Are human genes patentable? Now when Chris first asked me what I thought of these words, I said, ""Well, I don't know. I think you have to say, 'Is isolated DNA patentable?'"" ""Nope. I want the justices to have the very same reaction that I had when you brought this issue to me seven years ago."" Well, I certainly couldn't argue with that. The Supreme Court only hears about one percent of the cases that it receives, and it agreed to hear ours. The day of the oral argument arrives, and it was really, really exciting — long line of people outside, people had been standing in line since 2:30 in the morning to try to get into the courthouse. Two breast cancer organizations, Breast Cancer Action and FORCE, had organized a demonstration on the courthouse steps. Chris and I sat quietly in the hallway, moments before he was to walk in and argue the most important case of his career. I was clearly more nervous than he was. But any remaining panic subsided as I walked into the courtroom and looked around at a sea of friendly faces: our individual women clients who had shared their deeply personal stories, the geneticists who had taken huge chunks of time out of their busy careers to dedicate themselves to this fight and representatives from a diverse array of medical, patient advocacy, environmental and religious organizations, who had submitted friend of the court briefs in the case. Also in the room were three leaders of the Human Genome Project, including the co-discoverer of DNA himself, James Watson, who had submitted a brief to the court, where he referred to gene patenting as ""lunacy."" (Laughter) The diversity of the communities represented in this room and the contributions each had made to make this day a reality spoke volumes to what was at stake. The argument itself was riveting. Chris argued brilliantly. But for me, the most thrilling aspect was watching the Supreme Court justices grapple with isolated DNA, through a series of colorful analogies and feisty exchanges, very much the same way as our legal team had done for the past seven years. Justice Kagan likened isolating DNA to extracting a medicinal plant from the Amazon. Justice Roberts distinguished it from carving a baseball bat from a tree. And in one of my absolutely favorite moments, Justice Sotomayor proclaimed isolated DNA to be ""just nature sitting there."" (Laughter) We felt pretty confident leaving the courtroom that day, but I could never have anticipated the outcome: nine to zero. ""A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature, and not patent-eligible merely because it has been isolated. And furthermore, Myriad did not create anything."" Within 24 hours of the decision, five labs had announced that they would begin to offer testing for the BRCA genes. Some of them promised to offer the tests at a lower price than Myriad's. Some promised to provide a more comprehensive test than the one Myriad was offering. But of course the decision goes far beyond Myriad. It ends a 25-year practice of allowing patents on human genes in the United States. It clears a significant barrier to biomedical discovery and innovation. And it helps to ensure that patients like Abigail, Kathleen and Eileen have access to the tests that they need. A few weeks after the court issued its decision, I received a small package in the mail. It was from Bob Cook-Deegan, a professor at Duke University and one the very first people Chris and I went to visit when we started to consider whether to bring this case. I opened it up to find a small stuffed animal. (Laughter) We took a big risk in taking this case. Part of what gave us the courage to take that risk was knowing that we were doing the right thing. The process took nearly eight years from the start to finish, with many twists and turns along the way. A little luck certainly helped, but it was the communities that we bridged, the alliances that we created, that made pigs fly. Thank you. (Applause)"	"2005年秋天的一個下午，我在 ACLU（美國公民自由聯盟）擔任該組織的科學顧問，我真的很熱愛我的工作，但那些日子的某一天，我感覺有一點提不起勁， 我意興闌珊地經過走廊來到我同事 Chris Hansen 的辦公室。Chris Hansen 在 ACLU 工作三十幾年了，他對制度有相當深刻的認識和洞察。 我向 Chris 解釋，我最近感覺到有點束手無策。我當時在調查處在科學和公民自由十字路口的一系列問題—這超級有意思。但我希望 ACLU 能夠用更廣泛的方式來處理這些問題，一個真正能做出改變的方式。 所以，Chris直接切入重點，他說，“ 那好，就你目前觀察的問題中，排前五名的是那些？” “嗯，這裡面有遺傳歧視、生殖技術及生物樣本庫，還有...哦，還有一個很酷的爭議，功能性 MRI（核磁共振），以及用它來測謊，還有……哦，當然，還有"" 基因專利 "" “ 基因專利？” “ 是的，你知道的，人類基因專利 ” “ 不可能！你是在跟我說，美國政府已經對人體的部位授予專利？這不對吧！ ” 我回到我的辦公室，給 Chris 發了三篇文章。20分鐘後，他衝進來我的辦公室。“ 天哪！你是對的！我們可以告誰？ ” （笑聲） Chris 是一名傑出的律師，但是他幾乎完全不懂專利法，而且肯定不懂遺傳學。我懂一點遺傳學，但我連律師都不是，更別說是個專利律師了。所以很顯然的，在打官司之前，我們需要學很多東西。 首先，我們需要先搞懂當有人為基因申請專利時，究竟是什麼被授予了專利。基因專利基本上內含了很多權利，但是最有爭議的是所謂的“ 離體DNA（亦稱：單離DNA） ”—顧名思義，就是從細胞中分離出來的 DNA 片段。 基因專利的支持者聲稱，"" 你看？ 我們不是對你身體中的基因申請專利，我們是對離體基因申請專利。 ”這是事實，但問題是，任何基因上的運用，都需要把基因分離出來。故獲取專利的部分，並非他們分離出來的特定基因，而是那個基因的每個可能版本。 所以這意味著什麼？ 這意味著，你不能把你的基因給你的醫生，請他或她幫你檢查，像是，檢查是否有變異，在沒有專利持有者的同意下。也就是說，專利持有者有權利阻止任何人使用該基因從事研究或臨床試驗。允許專利持有者通常是私人企業，他們閉鎖住開發人類基因組的行為會傷害到患者的權利。 想一下，Abigail，一位10歲患有長QT綜合症的小女生，長QT綜合症是一種嚴重的心臟疾病，如果不治療，可能會引發猝死。有個公司握有兩個與這種疾病相關基因的專利，他們開發了一種診斷此病症的化驗方式。但之後他們倒閉了，而他們從未提供此項服務。於是另一個實驗室嘗試提供這項化驗，但是持有這項專利的公司告發那個實驗室專利侵權。所以，結果是，兩年內，沒有人提供化驗服務。這段期間，Abigail 因未診斷出長 QT 綜合症而去世。 基因專利顯然是個問題，並且損害患者的權利。但是我們有沒有方法可以挑戰他們呢？ 其實，最高法院透過一系列的判例，已經清楚地表明，有些東西是不能申請專利的。你不能對自然界中的物質申請專利—像是，空氣、水、礦物、元素週期表裡的物質。你也不能對自然法則申請專利—像是萬有引力公式 E=mc2。這些東西太基本了，必須對所有人保持免費，且不能被任何人獨自佔有。 DNA 對我們而言，像是生命最本質的結構，它對我們所有的蛋白質產物編碼，既是自然界的物質，也是自然的法則，無論它是在我們的體內，或是沉在一根試管底部。 我們不斷深入這個問題，我們飛到全國各地，和許多不同的專家談話—科學家、醫療專家、律師、專利律師。絕大多數都同意，在政策層面我們是正確的，並且在法律層面，至少在理論上是正確的。但他們全都認為我們挑戰基因專利贏的機率幾乎是零。 為什麼呢？好吧，因為專利局核發這些專利已經超過 20 年了，的確已經有數千個人類基因專利。專利的測驗評量已行之有年，生物科技產業在這個機制下蓬勃發展，立法禁止基因專利的提案每年都會在國會被提出來審議，但已經不知道被丟到哪裡去了。所以底線是：法院就是沒有意願去推翻這些專利。 現在，無論是 Chris 或我都不是那種臨陣脫逃的人，而且聽到“正確又能何哉”，更激起我們奮戰的理由。所以，我們打算建立我們的訴訟方式， 現在，專利訴訟法案通常是：A公司告B公司，總是在一些非常狹隘、晦澀的技術問題上打轉，我們對這類的問題真的不感興趣，而且我們認為這個案件要比那些重大得多。這個案件關乎科學自由、醫療進步、病患權利。所以，所以我們決定我們要做的，和你通常看到的專利官司不同—它更像是公民權利的官司。 我們打算去找一位強硬推行它的專利的這樣一個基因專利持有者，然後組織一個原告和專家的大聯盟，去告訴法院這些專利損害病人並阻礙創新的種種劣跡。 我們發現 Myriad Genetics可以作為我們要告發的主要目標，這是一家總部設在猶他州鹽湖城的公司，Myriad 這家公司持有兩個基因專利，分別是 BRCA1 和 BRCA2 基因，攜帶有這兩個基因某些變種的女性，罹患乳腺癌和卵巢癌的風險會顯著升高。Myriad 利用這項專利來維持在美國境內 BRCA 檢測市場的完全壟斷地位。它迫使多個提供 BRCA 測試的實驗室停止這項服務。它收取相當昂貴的檢測費用—超過3,000美金。它已經停止與國際科學界共享它的臨床數據。以及可能最糟糕的，曾經有幾年，Myriad 公司拒絕在他們的檢測中更新已被法國一個研究團隊鑑別出來的其他變種數據， 據估計，在此期間，有數年，將近12％的婦女進行的測試得到了錯誤檢測結果—原本陽性反應卻被檢測成陰性反應（假陰性）。 這位是 Kathleen Maxian，Kathleen 的姊姊在40歲時得到乳腺癌，她是找 Myriad 檢測的。測試結果是呈現陰性，家人如釋重負，這說明艾琳的癌症很可能不會在家族中重現。其他的家族成員也不需要再接受檢驗。但，二年後，Kathleen 被診斷出卵巢癌末期，原來卡瑟琳的姐姐就是那12%得到了假陰性結果的病人之一。Eileen 如果得到正確的結果，Kathleen 就會去做化驗，那她的卵巢癌就可以被提早預防， 我們確定目標為 Myriad 後，我們需要組建一個能夠陳述這些問題的原告和專家團。我們找到了 20 位非常積極的原告：遺傳學顧問、曾經收到停止和終止信函的遺傳學家、理念相同的組織、四個主要科學組織，集中起來代表了超過 15 萬名科學工作者和醫療專家，及幾位無力負擔 Myriad 檢測的各別女性，或者因為此專利的關係，想要獲得其它醫學意見，但無法取得的人。 我們準備訴訟時其中一個最大挑戰是要找出如何用最佳的方式來闡述科學。所以為了辯明 Myriad 所為並不是發明，分離出來的 BRCA 基因是自然的產物，我們得舉例解釋這些基本概念，像是：基因是什麼？DNA 是什麼？DNA要如何被分離？為什這個東西不是發明？ 我們和原告和專家團花了很多時間，嘗試地想出一些簡單又精確的方法來解釋這些概念。最後我們相當倚賴用比喻的方式，像是黃金， 所以分離 DNA—像是從山裡挖出黃金，或是從河床裡掏出黃金。你或許可以為採集黃金的流程申請專利，但你不能把黃金本身申請專利。從山裡面開採黃金也許需要花很大的功夫及心力；但你仍舊不能把黃金申請專利，黃金還是黃金。而黃金，一旦被萃取出來，顯然可以被用於各種它埋在山中時不能實現的用途；例如，你可以把它製成珠寶飾品—但仍然不能把黃金申請專利，它仍然是黃金。 2009年，我們準備遞交我們的案件，我們遞交到紐約南區的聯邦法院，案件被隨機指派到一位 Robert Sweet 法官，2010年3月Sweet法官發表他的看法—152頁—對我們這邊完全有利， 在閱讀他的看法時，我們搞不懂，他在描述科學時怎麼那麼頭頭是道，我的意思是，我們的聲明—已經相當不錯，但沒他的好，他是如何在這樣的短時間內建立出對這此議題這麼深厚的認知？我們真的無法理解這是怎麼發生的。原來，當時 Sweet 法官底下的書記員不僅是位律師—也是位科學家，且不僅是科學家，他還有分子生物學的博士學位， （笑聲） 真是太幸運了！ Myriad 隨後上訴到美國聯邦巡迴上訴法院。然後事情就變得非常有意思了。 首先，本案中的一個關鍵時刻，美國政府倒戈了， 在地方法院上，政府遞交了一份簡述支持 Myriad。但是這回美國政府直接反對它自己的專利局，美國政府發了一個簡短的聲明，他們基於地區法庭的判決，已重新考慮了問題，並總結出"" 離體DNA ""不具備專利適格性，這簡直是大逆轉，完全意想不到。 聯邦巡迴上訴法院聽審過所有的專利官司，它傾向專利的看法非常出名。所以即使有這個卓越的發展，我們仍預測應該會敗訴。而我們真的敗訴了，在某種程度上啦．．．最後，非一致性判定，兩票對一票但那兩個做出不利於我們判定的法官，卻持完全不同的理由，第一位 Lourie 法官，編造了他自己的新生物理論—完全是胡說八道。 （笑聲） 他判定 Myriad 創造了一個新的化學成份—完全不合理。Myriad 本身甚至不曾如此聲稱，完全意想不到。另一位法官，Moore，她說，她完全同意離體 DNA 屬於自然界的產物。但她說，"" 我並不想要撼動生物科技界 ""第三位 Bryson 法官，認同我們。 所以，我們上訴到最高法院，當你上訴到最高法院時，你需要提出一個你希望法院回應的問題。通常，這些問題都是落落長的問句，像是一整頁很多很多子句、“是否就在”、“因此那樣”的問題，我們提交了可能是有史以來最短的問題。四個詞：Are human genes patentable?（人類基因可以專利化嗎？） 當 Chris 第一次問我對這幾個字的想法時，我說，"" 我不知道 ，我認為你應該要說，’離體DNA是可以專利化的嗎？’　"" ""不，我希望大法官的反應能和我在七年前你問我這個問題時一模一樣。 ” 好吧，我當然不能反駁。 最高法院只受理大約 1%它所收到的案件，而法院同意要聽審我們的。口頭辯論的那天到來，這真的是相當刺激—外面排了很多人，有人凌晨兩點半就來排隊，就為了要擠進法庭。兩個乳腺癌組織，乳腺癌行動組織和 FORCE，在法庭台階上組織了抗議行動， Chris 和我靜靜地坐在走廊上，在他步入法庭並為他職業生涯中最重要的案件辯護之前，我很明顯地比他還緊張，但所以有的恐懼就在我步入法庭時消失殆盡，環顧四週都是孰悉的面孔：我們的各別女性客戶，在庭上訴說著切身的故事，還有在百忙之中抽出大量時間奉獻在這場戰役的遺傳學家，還有來自許多不同領域的代表：醫療、患者救助、環保和宗教組織，本案中向法院遞交陳情書的朋友。 同在法庭內的還有三位人類基因組計劃的領導者，包括DNA的共同發現者本人，James Watson，他也遞交了陳情書，他指出把基因專利是""瘋子行為”。 （笑聲） 法庭中出席群體的廣度，以及他們每一位為實現這一天而做出的貢獻讓我們的聲勢壯大了許多。 辯論主體非常的精彩。Chris 辯論地相當出色，但對我而言，最激烈的戰況是，看著最高法院的大法官為離體DNA激烈爭論，透過一系列精彩的比喻及精力充沛的交叉辯論，就和我們法律團隊過去七年所做過的演練如出一轍。Kagan 法官把離體DNA比喻成從亞馬遜森林中提取醫療植物。Roberts 法官把它比喻作把樹木雕成棒球棒。而絕對是我最喜歡的一個瞬間是，Sotomayor法官宣布離體DNA ""就是自然存在那裡"" （笑聲） 我們那天離開法院時感覺相當有信心，但令我意想不到的結局竟是：九比零。 ""一段自然形成的DNA片段是自然界的產物，並不能因為它被分離出體外就可以授予專利。另外，Myriad 並沒有創造任何東西。 ” 判決後 24 小時內，五個實驗室宣布他們將開始提供 BRCA 基因的檢驗服務。他們有些承諾檢驗的價格會比 Myriad 的還低。有些承諾將提供更全面的檢測，比 Myriad 提供的更多。 不過這個判決遠遠不止影響了 Myriad，它還終結了美國境內 25 年來允許授予人類基因專利的行為。它為生物醫療的發現和創新掃除了一個重要的障礙。它也有助於保證像 Abigail,、Kathleen 和 Eileen 這樣的患者能夠獲得她們需要的檢測。 最高法院宣判判決幾週後，我在信箱收到了一個郵件小包，是一位杜克大學教授Bob Cook-Deegan 寄來的，他是我和 Chris 開始考慮是否要接下此案時第一個拜訪的人，我把它打開，發現裡面是一個小小的毛絨動物。 （笑聲） 我們冒了很大的風險接下這個案件，而給予我們勇氣面對風險的部分原因是我們知道我們在做對的事情。從開始到結束，整個過程將近八年，這一路走來相當的曲折。當然有一點運氣的幫忙，但，是我們搭建的社群、是我們創造的聯盟，讓不可能變成可能。 謝謝。（掌聲）"
