Talk	en	zh-tw
tasos_frantzolas_everything_you_hear_on_film_is_a_lie	"I want to start by doing an experiment. I'm going to play three videos of a rainy day. But I've replaced the audio of one of the videos, and instead of the sound of rain, I've added the sound of bacon frying. So I want you think carefully which one the clip with the bacon is. (Rain falls) (Rain falls) (Rain falls) All right. Actually, I lied. They're all bacon. (Bacon sizzles) (Applause) My point here isn't really to make you hungry every time you see a rainy scene, but it's to show that our brains are conditioned to embrace the lies. We're not looking for accuracy. So on the subject of deception, I wanted to quote one of my favorite authors. In ""The Decay of Lying,"" Oscar Wilde establishes the idea that all bad art comes from copying nature and being realistic; and all great art comes from lying and deceiving, and telling beautiful, untrue things. So when you're watching a movie and a phone rings, it's not actually ringing. It's been added later in postproduction in a studio. All of the sounds you hear are fake. Everything, apart from the dialogue, is fake. When you watch a movie and you see a bird flapping its wings — (Wings flap) They haven't really recorded the bird. It sounds a lot more realistic if you record a sheet or shaking kitchen gloves. (Flaps) The burning of a cigarette up close — (Cigarette burns) It actually sounds a lot more authentic if you take a small Saran Wrap ball and release it. (A Saran Warp ball being released) Punches? (Punch) Oops, let me play that again. (Punch) That's often done by sticking a knife in vegetables, usually cabbage. (Cabbage stabbed with a knife) The next one — it's breaking bones. (Bones break) Well, no one was really harmed. It's actually ... breaking celery or frozen lettuce. (Breaking frozen lettuce or celery) (Laughter) Making the right sounds is not always as easy as a trip to the supermarket and going to the vegetable section. But it's often a lot more complicated than that. So let's reverse-engineer together the creation of a sound effect. One of my favorite stories comes from Frank Serafine. He's a contributor to our library, and a great sound designer for ""Tron"" and ""Star Trek"" and others. He was part of the Paramount team that won the Oscar for best sound for ""The Hunt for Red October."" In this Cold War classic, in the '90s, they were asked to produce the sound of the propeller of the submarine. So they had a small problem: they couldn't really find a submarine in West Hollywood. So basically, what they did is, they went to a friend's swimming pool, and Frank performed a cannonball, or bomba. They placed an underwater mic and an overhead mic outside the swimming pool. So here's what the underwater mic sounds like. (Underwater plunge) Adding the overhead mic, it sounded a bit like this: (Water splashes) So now they took the sound and pitched it one octave down, sort of like slowing down a record. (Water splashes at lower octave) And then they removed a lot of the high frequencies. (Water splashes) And pitched it down another octave. (Water splashes at lower octave) And then they added a little bit of the splash from the overhead microphone. (Water splashes) And by looping and repeating that sound, they got this: (Propeller churns) So, creativity and technology put together in order to create the illusion that we're inside the submarine. But once you've created your sounds and you've synced them to the image, you want those sounds to live in the world of the story. And one the best ways to do that is to add reverb. So this is the first audio tool I want to talk about. Reverberation, or reverb, is the persistence of the sound after the original sound has ended. So it's sort of like the — all the reflections from the materials, the objects and the walls around the sound. Take, for example, the sound of a gunshot. The original sound is less than half a second long. (Gunshot) By adding reverb, we can make it sound like it was recorded inside a bathroom. (Gunshot reverbs in bathroom) Or like it was recorded inside a chapel or a church. (Gunshot reverbs church) Or in a canyon. (Gunshot reverbs in canyon) So reverb gives us a lot of information about the space between the listener and the original sound source. If the sound is the taste, then reverb is sort of like the smell of the sound. But reverb can do a lot more. Listening to a sound with a lot less reverberation than the on-screen action is going to immediately signify to us that we're listening to a commentator, to an objective narrator that's not participating in the on-screen action. Also, emotionally intimate moments in cinema are often heard with zero reverb, because that's how it would sound if someone was speaking inside our ear. On the completely other side, adding a lot of reverb to a voice is going to make us think that we're listening to a flashback, or perhaps that we're inside the head of a character or that we're listening to the voice of God. Or, even more powerful in film, Morgan Freeman. (Laughter) So — (Applause) But what are some other tools or hacks that sound designers use? Well, here's a really big one. It's silence. A few moments of silence is going to make us pay attention. And in the Western world, we're not really used to verbal silences. They're considered awkward or rude. So silence preceding verbal communication can create a lot of tension. But imagine a really big Hollywood movie, where it's full of explosions and automatic guns. Loud stops being loud anymore, after a while. So in a yin-yang way, silence needs loudness and loudness needs silence for either of them to have any effect. But what does silence mean? Well, it depends how it's used in each film. Silence can place us inside the head of a character or provoke thought. We often relate silences with ... contemplation, meditation, being deep in thought. But apart from having one meaning, silence becomes a blank canvas upon which the viewer is invited to the paint their own thoughts. But I want to make it clear: there is no such thing as silence. And I know this sounds like the most pretentious TED Talk statement ever. But even if you were to enter a room with zero reverberation and zero external sounds, you would still be able to hear the pumping of your own blood. And in cinema, traditionally, there was never a silent moment because of the sound of the projector. And even in today's Dolby world, there's not really any moment of silence if you listen around you. There's always some sort of noise. Now, since there's no such thing as silence, what do filmmakers and sound designers use? Well, as a synonym, they often use ambiences. Ambiences are the unique background sounds that are specific to each location. Each location has a unique sound, and each room has a unique sound, which is called room tone. So here's a recording of a market in Morocco. (Voices, music) And here's a recording of Times Square in New York. (Traffic sounds, car horns, voices) Room tone is the addition of all the noises inside the room: the ventilation, the heating, the fridge. Here's a recording of my apartment in Brooklyn. (You can hear the ventilation, the boiler, the fridge and street traffic) Ambiences work in a most primal way. They can speak directly to our brain subconsciously. So, birds chirping outside your window may indicate normality, perhaps because, as a species, we've been used to that sound every morning for millions of years. (Birds chirp) On the other hand, industrial sounds have been introduced to us a little more recently. Even though I really like them personally — they've been used by one of my heroes, David Lynch, and his sound designer, Alan Splet — industrial sounds often carry negative connotations. (Machine noises) Now, sound effects can tap into our emotional memory. Occasionally, they can be so significant that they become a character in a movie. The sound of thunder may indicate divine intervention or anger. (Thunder) Church bells can remind us of the passing of time, or perhaps our own mortality. (Bells ring) And breaking of glass can indicate the end of a relationship or a friendship. (Glass breaks) Scientists believe that dissonant sounds, for example, brass or wind instruments played very loud, may remind us of animal howls in nature and therefore create a sense of irritation or fear. (Brass and wind instruments play) So now we've spoken about on-screen sounds. But occasionally, the source of a sound cannot be seen. That's what we call offscreen sounds, or ""acousmatic."" Acousmatic sounds — well, the term ""acousmatic"" comes from Pythagoras in ancient Greece, who used to teach behind a veil or curtain for years, not revealing himself to his disciples. I think the mathematician and philosopher thought that, in that way, his students might focus more on the voice, and his words and its meaning, rather than the visual of him speaking. So sort of like the Wizard of Oz, or ""1984's"" Big Brother, separating the voice from its source, separating cause and effect sort of creates a sense of ubiquity or panopticism, and therefore, authority. There's a strong tradition of acousmatic sound. Nuns in monasteries in Rome and Venice used to sing in rooms up in galleries close to the ceiling, creating the illusion that we're listening to angels up in the sky. Richard Wagner famously created the hidden orchestra that was placed in a pit between the stage and the audience. And one of my heroes, Aphex Twin, famously hid in dark corners of clubs. I think what all these masters knew is that by hiding the source, you create a sense of mystery. This has been seen in cinema over and over, with Hitchcock, and Ridley Scott in ""Alien."" Hearing a sound without knowing its source is going to create some sort of tension. Also, it can minimize certain visual restrictions that directors have and can show something that wasn't there during filming. And if all this sounds a little theoretical, I wanted to play a little video. (Toy squeaks) (Typewriter) (Drums) (Ping-pong) (Knives being sharpened) (Record scratches) (Saw cuts) (Woman screams) What I'm sort of trying to demonstrate with these tools is that sound is a language. It can trick us by transporting us geographically; it can change the mood; it can set the pace; it can make us laugh or it can make us scared. On a personal level, I fell in love with that language a few years ago, and somehow managed to make it into some sort of profession. And I think with our work through the sound library, we're trying to kind of expand the vocabulary of that language. And in that way, we want to offer the right tools to sound designers, filmmakers, and video game and app designers, to keep telling even better stories and creating even more beautiful lies. So thanks for listening. (Applause)"	我想做一個實驗作為開端[塔索斯· 繁柔拉斯]我現在要播放三個下雨的短片但我把其中一個短片中下雨的聲音我把它換成煎培根的聲音所以請你們認真思考到底哪個短片是煎培根的聲音 （下雨聲） （下雨聲） （下雨聲） 好了事實上，我說謊了它們全是煎培根的聲音 （煎培根的聲音） （掌聲） 我的重點不是要你每當下雨的時候感到飢餓而是證明我們的大腦在一些條件下會接受謊言我們不是在追尋準確性 所以在欺騙的主題中我想引用我最喜歡的作者奧斯卡·王爾德在《謊言的衰頹》中建立了這個觀點那就是所有差勁的藝術都來自抄襲大自然和接近現實所有好的藝術都來自謊言和矇騙以此來述說美好，但是虛假的事情所以當你們看電影時電話響了但其實並不是真的在響其實是工作室後製做出來的你聽到的所有聲音都是虛假的除了人物對話其他的都是虛假的當你們在看電影時看到一隻鳥在拍打翅膀 （拍打翅膀的聲音） 他們並沒有真的為鳥錄音它的聲音更像抖動床單的聲音或是搖晃廚房的手套 （搖晃的聲音） 近距離看香菸燃燒的聲音 （香菸燃燒） 聽起來比較像你把一個小的保鮮膜球然後放開來 （把保鮮膜球弄開） 搥打呢？ （搥打聲） 噢，我再放一次 （搥打聲） 通常是用一把刀刺入蔬菜通常是用高麗菜 （一把刀刺入高麗菜中） 下一個是骨頭斷掉的聲音 （骨折的聲音） 沒有人真的受傷了事實上是把芹菜或是冷凍的生菜折斷的聲音 （把冷凍的生菜或芹菜弄斷） （笑聲） 製作適合的聲音並不像去一趟超市去蔬菜區一樣簡單通常是比那個更加複雜因此，讓我們一起來將音效的製作反向操作 我最喜歡的一個故事來自法蘭克·沙瑞菲尼他是我們聲音庫的贊助者他是《創：光速戰記》 和《星際迷航》等電影的聲效設計師他是派拉蒙圑隊的一個成員因《獵殺紅色十月》這部電影獲得奧斯卡獎在這部 1990 年代敍說冷戰時代精典電影裏他們被要求製作出潛艇螺旋槳的聲音他們有一個小問題就是他們在西好萊塢找不到一艘潛水艇所以基本上，他們做的就是去一個朋友家的游泳池法蘭克發射了一個砲彈或炸彈他們放置了一個水底麥克風泳池外再用一個高架麥克風所以這就是水底麥克風錄到的聲音 （掉入水池中） 加入高架麥克風的聲音效果聽起來有點像這個 （水花四濺聲） 所以他們把聲音調低八度像是把唱片的聲音調慢 （低八度下的水花四濺聲）然後他們把很多高音頻拿掉 （水花四濺聲）然後再往下調低八度 （調低八度的水花四濺聲）然後他們從高架麥克風錄到的聲音擷取一點點的水濺聲 （水濺聲）然後重覆那個聲音他們得到這個 （螺旋槳轉動） 因此，把創造力和科技放在一起創造了我們在濳艇裡的錯覺 一旦你創作出你的聲音和影像同步後你要讓那些聲音在故事裡栩栩如生做這件事最好的方法是加一點殘響效果這是我要談的第一個音頻的工具殘響或混響是把聲音在原聲結束後再做聲音的遲續所以這就像是所有環繞在聲音周圍的原材料物體和牆的反射 舉一個例子來說，槍擊的聲音原始的聲音不到半秒長 （槍響聲）加上殘響後我們可以做出好像在浴室裡錄到的聲音 （槍響在房裡迴盪的聲音）或是像是在禮拜堂或教堂裡錄製的聲音 （槍響迴盪在教堂） 或是在峽谷 （槍響迴盪在峽谷） 這個殘響給了我們很多關於聽者和聲音來源之間的空間資訊把聲音當成是口味來說殘響就像是聲音聞起來的味道 殘響可以做更多的事聽到一個不能配合螢幕上的動作，沒有殘響的聲音比較容易讓我們立刻覺得我們聽到的是評論員没有參與到螢幕動作的旁白再者，在電影中情感動人的當下通常聽不到任何殘響因為你應該感覺好像有人在你耳朵裡說話一般 在完全相反的情況下在聲音裡加入很多殘響會使人想到我們正在聽的是聲音的倒敘或是正在聽演員腦袋裡的聲音還是我們正在聽上帝的聲音或甚至在電影更強而有力的是摩根·費里曼 （笑聲） 因此 （鼓掌） 還有什麼其它工具或是方式是音效師所使用的呢？這裡有一個很重要的就是無聲幾秒的無聲使我們專心注意在西方世界裡我們不太習慣在講話時靜默下來人們會覺得是很怪或是無禮的行為因此， 無聲在一個正在進行的口頭交談中可以製造出很多張力想像一下在一部好萊塢的大片中有很多爆破和自動槍械吵雜聲音在一段時間後就不覺得的吵雜了就像陰陽安靜需要聲響，聲響需要安靜才能得到其中的效果 無聲在電影裡是什麼意思呢？這就取決於每一部電影如何使用它無聲可以使我們像是在角色的腦子裡一樣或是激起一些想法我們通常把無聲想成與沉思冥想陷入沈思有關但是除了有某種意義無聲變成了一塊空白的畫布讓觀看的人把自己的想法畫上去 我要說清楚的是没有一個東西是無聲的我知道這個陳敍聽起像是TED 演講裡最自負的如果你進到一個没有任何殘聲的房間裡没有任何外部的聲音你仍然可以聽到自己血液流動的聲音傳統的電影裡從來没有無聲的時刻因為投影機會發出聲音甚至是在今日的杜比音響世界如果你聽你的四周没有任何一個時刻是無聲的總是會有某種聲音 現在， 既然說没有真正的無聲電影製作者和音效設計師用什麼呢？他們經常使用環境音聲作為代替環境音聲就是每個地點獨特的背景聲音每個地點都有特殊的聲音每個空間也有特殊的聲音這叫做室內環境音這是一個在摩洛哥的市場錄音 （聲音，音樂） 這是在紐約時代廣場的錄音 （交通聲，車子喇叭聲， 聲音） 室內環境音是一個房間內所有的雜音通風系統，暖氣，冰箱這是我在布魯克林區公寓的錄音聲 （你可以聽到通風管聲音，煮沸聲，冰箱聲和街道的聲音） 環境音聲用最原始的方法起著作用它們可以直接與我們的潛意識講話所以，鳥在你的窗戶外面叫也許可以代表常態或許是因為，我們作為一個物種百萬年來，我們已經太習慣每天早上聽到那個聲音 （鳥叫聲）在另一方面，我們在近期已經聽過很多工業的聲音雖然我個人來說是很喜歡工業聲音我的英雄之一 ，大衛·林區和他的音效師艾林·斯普萊特曾使用過工業聲音時常有著負面的意涵 （機器聲） 音效可以進入我們的情感記憶之中偶爾來說，它們可以是很重要的可以變成一個電影的特徵打雷聲可以是指神的干預或是憤怒 （打雷聲） 教堂鐘響聲可以提醒我們時間的消逝或者是我們自己的死亡 （鐘響聲） 玻璃破掉的聲音可以表示是一段愛情或友誼的結束 （玻璃破碎聲） 科學家相信不合諧的聲音例如，銅管樂器或管樂器吹奏出非常大的聲音讓我們想到在大自然中動物的叫聲因此可以創造出一種令人害怕的氛圍 （銅管及管樂器演奏聲） 我們現在已經說了在螢幕上的聲音但是偶爾這個聲音的源頭會被藏起來我們稱之為螢幕外的聲音或是「幻覺的聲音」幻覺的音效「幻覺」這個詞是來自於古代希臘的畢逹哥拉斯他在紗或是簾子後面教學多年没有現身在門徒面前我想數學家和哲學家認為採用那種方法他的學生可以比較專注在聲音和他的話語和意義上而不是在他說話的視覺樣子上有點像是《綠野仙踪》或是《一九八四》裡的 「老大哥」把聲音和它的來源分開把原因和結果分開像是在製迼一種無處不在或是全景敞視感覺產生某種意義的權威感 幻覺聲效由來已久羅馬和威尼斯修道院的修女過去經常在靠近天花板走廊旁的房間內唱歌製造出一種我們正在聆聽天空上的天使歌唱的幻象理查德·華格納創造出隱藏樂團他們被安排在一個在舞台和觀眾之間的小區塊裡我的英雄之一：艾夫斯·特文，以躲藏在酒吧黑暗的角落而聞名 我認為這些大師都知道借用隱藏聲音的來源你可以創造一個神秘的場景這種手段你可以在電影院一遍又一遍的看到希區柯克和雷德利·斯科特在《外星人》中也用到在聽到聲音的同時，不知道它的源頭可以產生一種的緊迫感並且，它也可以盡量減少導演在視覺上的限制同時，它也可以表達一些電影錄製時沒有的東西如果這些聽上去有些理論化我想播放一段影片 （玩具的吱吱聲） （打字） （敲鼓） （玩乒乓球） （磨刀） （倒碟） （鋸子聲） （女人尖叫） 我嘗試用這些工具想表達的是聲音是一種語言它可以通過轉移我們的地理位置欺騙我們它可以改變心情它可以設置步調它可以讓我們大笑或者感到害怕 對於我個人而言我在幾年前愛上了這種語言我不知怎地讓它成為我的專業我認為，通過我們使用聲音庫的工作我們試圖擴張這種語言的詞彙並且在這種方法下我們希望提供合適的工具給音效設計師電影製作人以及視頻遊戲和應用程式製作人讓他們講述更加完好的故事並且創造更加美麗的謊言 謝謝大家的聆聽 （鼓掌）
