Talk	en	zh-tw
tasso_azevedo_hopeful_lessons_from_the_battle_to_save_rainforests	"When the Portuguese arrived in Latin America about 500 years ago, they obviously found this amazing tropical forest. And among all this biodiversity that they had never seen before, they found one species that caught their attention very quickly. This species, when you cut the bark, you find a very dark red resin that was very good to paint and dye fabric to make clothes. The indigenous people called this species pau brasil, and that's the reason why this land became ""land of Brasil,"" and later on, Brazil. That's the only country in the world that has the name of a tree. So you can imagine that it's very cool to be a forester in Brazil, among other reasons. Forest products are all around us. Apart from all those products, the forest is very important for climate regulation. In Brazil, almost 70 percent of the evaporation that makes rain actually comes from the forest. Just the Amazon pumps to the atmosphere 20 billion tons of water every day. This is more than what the Amazon River, which is the largest river in the world, puts in the sea per day, which is 17 billion tons. If we had to boil water to get the same effect as evapotranspiration, we would need six months of the entire power generation capacity of the world. So it's a hell of a service for all of us. We have in the world about four billion hectares of forests. This is more or less China, U.S., Canada and Brazil all together, in terms of size, to have an idea. Three quarters of that is in the temperate zone, and just one quarter is in the tropics, but this one quarter, one billion hectares, holds most of the biodiversity, and very importantly, 50 percent of the living biomass, the carbon. Now, we used to have six billion hectares of forest — 50 percent more than what we have — 2,000 years ago. We've actually lost two billion hectares in the last 2,000 years. But in the last 100 years, we lost half of that. That was when we shifted from deforestation of temperate forests to deforestation of tropical forests. So think of this: In 100 years, we lost the same amount of forest in the tropics that we lost in 2,000 years in temperate forests. That's the speed of the destruction that we are having. Now, Brazil is an important piece of this puzzle. We have the second largest forest in the world, just after Russia. It means 12 percent of all the world's forests are in Brazil, most of that in the Amazon. It's the largest piece of forest we have. It's a very big, large area. You can see that you could fit many of the European countries there. We still have 80 percent of the forest cover. That's the good news. But we lost 15 percent in just 30 years. So if you go with that speed, very soon, we will loose this powerful pump that we have in the Amazon that regulates our climate. Deforestation was growing fast and accelerating at the end of the '90s and the beginning of the 2000s. (Chainsaw sound) (Sound of falling tree) Twenty-seven thousand square kilometers in one year. This is 2.7 million hectares. It's almost like half of Costa Rica every year. So at this moment — this is 2003, 2004 — I happened to be coming to work in the government. And together with other teammates in the National Forest Department, we were assigned a task to join a team and find out the causes of deforestation, and make a plan to combat that at a national level, involving the local governments, the civil society, business, local communities, in an effort that could tackle those causes. So we came up with this plan with 144 actions in different areas. Now I will go through all of them one by one — no, just giving some examples of what we had done in the next few years. So the first thing, we set up a system with the national space agency that could actually see where deforestation is happening, almost in real time. So now in Brazil,  we have this system, DETER, where every month, or every two months, we get information on where deforestation is happening so we can actually act when it's happening. And all the information is fully transparent so others can replicate that in independent systems. This allows us, among other things, to apprehend 1.4 million cubic meters of logs that were illegally taken. Part of that we saw and sell, and all the revenue becomes a fund that now funds conservation projects of local communities as an endowment fund. This also allows us to make a big operation to seize corruption and illegal activities that ended up having 700 people in prison, including a lot of public servants. Then we made the connection that areas that have been doing illegal deforestation should not get any kind of credit or finance. So we cut this through the bank system and then linked this to the end users. So supermarkets, the slaughterhouses, and so on that buy products from illegal clear-cut areas, they also can be liable for the deforestation. So making all these connections to help to push the problem down. And also we work a lot on land tenure issues. It's very important for conflicts. Fifty million hectares of protected areas were created, which is an area the size of Spain. And of those, eight million were indigenous lands. Now we start to see results. So in the last 10 years, deforestation came down in Brazil 75 percent. (Applause) So if we compare it with the average deforestation that we had in the last decade, we saved 8.7 million hectares, which is the size of Austria. But more importantly, it avoided the emission of three billion tons of CO2 in the atmosphere. This is by far the largest contribution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, until today, as a positive action. One may think that when you do these kinds of actions to decrease, to push down deforestation, you will have an economic impact because you will not have economic activity or something like that. But it's interesting to know that it's quite the opposite. In fact, in the period when we have the deepest decline of deforestation, the economy grew, on average, double from the previous decade, when deforestation was actually going up. So it's a good lesson for us. Maybe this is completely disconnected, as we just learned by having deforestation come down. Now this is all good news, and it's quite an achievement, and we obviously should be very proud about that. But it's not even close to sufficient. In fact, if you think about the deforestation in the Amazon in 2013, that was over half a million hectares, which means that every minute, an area the size of two soccer fields is being cut in the Amazon last year, just last year. If we sum up the deforestation we have in the other biomes in Brazil, we are talking about still the largest deforestation rate in the world. It's more or less like we are forest heroes, but still deforestation champions. So we can't be satisfied, not even close to satisfied. So the next step, I think, is to fight to have zero loss of forest cover in Brazil and to have that as a goal for 2020. That's our next step. Now I've always been interested in the relationship between climate change and forests. First, because 15 percent of greenhouse gas emissions come from deforestation, so it's a big part of the problem. But also, forests can be a big part of the solution since that's the best way we know to sink, capture and store carbon. Now, there is another relationship of climate and forests that really stuck me in 2008 and made me change my career from forests to working with climate change. I went to visit Canada, in British Columbia, together with the chiefs of the forest services of other countries that we have a kind of alliance of them, like Canada, Russia, India, China, U.S. And when we were there we learned about this pine beetle that is literally eating the forests in Canada. What we see here, those brown trees, these are really dead trees. They are standing dead trees because of the larvae of the beetle. What happens is that this beetle is controlled by the cold weather in the winter. For many years now, they don't have the sufficient cold weather to actually control the population of this beetle. And it became a disease that is really killing billions of trees. So I came back with this notion that the forest is actually one of the earliest and most affected victims of climate change. So I was thinking, if I succeed in working with all my colleagues to actually help to stop deforestation, maybe we will lose the battle later on for climate change by floods, heat, fires and so on. So I decided to leave the forest service and start to work directly on climate change, find a way to think and understand the challenge, and go from there. Now, the challenge of climate change is pretty straightforward. The goal is very clear. We want to limit the increase of the average temperature of the planet to two degrees. There are several reasons for that. I will not get into that now. But in order to get to this limit of two degrees, which is possible for us to survive, the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, defines that we have a budget of emissions of 1,000 billion tons of CO2 from now until the end of the century. So if we divide this by the number of years, what we have is an average budget of 11 billion tons of CO2 per year. Now what is one ton of CO2? It's more or less what one small car, running 20 kilometers a day, will emit in one year. Or it's one flight, one way, from São Paulo to Johannesburg or to London, one way. Two ways, two tons. So 11 billion tons is twice that. Now the emissions today are 50 billion tons, and it's growing. It's growing and maybe it will be 61 by 2020. Now we need to go down to 10 by 2050. And while this happens, the population will grow from seven to nine billion people, the economy will grow from 60 trillion dollars in 2010 to 200 trillion dollars. And so what we need to do is to be much more efficient in a way that we can go from seven tons of carbon per capita per person, per year, into something like one. You have to choose. You take the airplane or you have a car. So the question is, can we make it? And that's the exactly the same question I got when I was developing a plan to combat deforestation. It's such a big problem, so complex. Can we really do it? I think so. Think of this: Deforestation means 60 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions in Brazil in the last decade. Now it's a little bit less than 30 percent. In the world, 60 percent is energy. So if we can tackle directly the energy, the same way we could tackle deforestation, maybe we can have a chance. So there are five things that I think we should do. First, we need to disconnect development from carbon emissions. We don't need to clear-cut all the forests to actually get more jobs and agriculture and have more economy. That's what we proved when we decreased deforestation and the economy continued to grow. Same thing could happen in the energy sector. Second, we have to move the incentives to the right place. Today, 500 billion dollars a year goes into subsidies for fossil fuels. Why don't we put a price on carbon and transfer this to the renewable energy? Third, we need to measure and make it transparent where, when and who is emitting greenhouse gases so we can have actions specifically for each one of those opportunities. Fourth, we need to leapfrog the routes of development, which means, you don't need to go to the landline telephone before you get to the mobile phones. Same way we don't need to go to fossil fuels to the one billion people who don't have access to energy before we get to the clean energy. And fifth and last, we need to share responsibility between governments, business and civil society. There is work to do for everybody, and we need to have everybody on board. So to finalize, I think the future is not like a fate that you have to just go as business as usual goes. We need to have the courage to actually change the route, invest in something new, think that we can actually change the route. I think we are doing this with deforestation in Brazil, and I hope we can do it also with climate change in the world. Thank you. (Applause)"	當葡萄牙人 500 年前到達美洲大陸時，很顯然，他們發現了這神奇的熱帶雨林。他們從未經歷的生物多樣性中，有一種植物很快的引起了他們的注意力。當你切開它的樹皮，會得到一種暗紅色的樹脂它是製作布料染色劑的上佳原料。土著叫它“巴西木”，這也是為何這個國家成為“巴西之地”，也就是後來的“巴西”。“巴西”成為了世界上唯一以樹為名的國家。你可以想像，在巴西，做一個護林員是很酷的，這只是眾多原因中的一個。 林產品在我們周圍隨處可見。除了這些產品，森林對氣候調節起到非常重要作用。在巴西，構成雨的70%的水蒸氣實際上來自於森林。僅亞馬遜雨林每天就向大氣蒸發 200 億噸水。這比亞馬遜河，世界上最大的河，每天注入大海的水 170 億噸還要多，如果我們需要通過燒水來達到同樣的蒸發量，我們需要六個月的全球發電總量。所以森林對我們來說立下汗馬功勞。 全世界大概有四十億公頃森林。這大概是中國、美國、加拿大和巴西的總和，面積上的話，基本是這麼個概念。其中四分之三是在溫帶，僅僅四分之一在熱帶。但就是這四分之一，十億公頃，擁有最豐富的生物多樣性，非常重要的是，其中包括了構成活生物質 50％ 的碳。我們曾有 60 億公頃的森林，比我們現在多 50％ ﹣ 在 2000 年以前。在過去的 2000 年裡，我們總共失去了 20 億公頃。但是在最近的 100 年裡，我們失去了其中的一半。與此同時當我們把森林砍伐從溫帶轉向為熱帶。 大家想一想：在 100 年裡，我們失去的熱帶森林和我們在 2000 年裡失去的溫帶森林一樣多。這就是我們破壞的速度。 現在，巴西是解決這個問題關鍵的一環。我們有僅次於俄羅斯的第二大森林覆蓋率，這意味著全世界 12％ 的森林在巴西，這些絕大部分在亞馬遜。這是非常大的一塊森林，非常廣闊的範圍。你可以把很多歐洲國家放到這裡面。我們仍有 80％ 的森林覆蓋率。這是好消息。但是我們在 30 年裡失去了 15％。按照個速度，用不了不久，我們就會失去亞馬遜這個氣候調節的天然泵。 從 90 年代末，2000 年初，森林破壞的速度很快而且在加速（鋸子聲）（樹倒下的聲音）每年 27000 平方公里，也就是 270 萬公頃。相當於每年失去半個哥斯大黎加這麼大的森林。 在這個時候 ﹣ 這是 2003，2004 ﹣我碰巧在政府就職。和其他國家林業部的隊友，我們被分配到一個小組去探究森林破壞的原因，並且制定一個全國性戰略改革計劃，在當地政，民間組織，商業團體，地方社區的共同努力解決這些問題。 我們在不同層面上提出了144條方案。現在我逐一講解 ﹣開玩笑，只是舉例說說我們接下來幾年的一些舉措。首先，我們和國家航天局共同建立了一個系統，可以監測到哪裡的森林正在破壞，幾乎是即時的。現在在巴西，我們有 DETER 系統，每個月，或者每兩個月，我們得到森林破壞情況的數據從而在破壞發生時做出反應。這些信息全部是公開透明的所以其他人可以複製到其他獨立系統。這讓我們得以扣押通過非法途徑採伐的 140 萬立方米木料。其中的一部分我們鋸開售賣，全部收入歸入一個基金，用於資助當地保護項目。這使得我們有更大的行動力，來緝獲腐敗和違法行為，直接導致 700 人入獄，甚至包括不少公職人員。接下來，通過連帶關係我們使非法開採的地區無法得到信貸和財政資助，通過銀行系統，把它與終端用戶相連。超市，屠宰場，等等。只要向保護區購買林產品，他們也會被追責。所以連帶追責對問題的改善起到了一定效果。同時我們在土地使用權的問題上採取了很多工作。這對解決爭端意義重大。我們創造了 5000 萬公頃的保護用地，大約是一個西班牙的面積。其中 800 萬公頃是土著土地。 我們看到一些成效。過去的十年裡，巴西的森林退化減低了 75％。 （掌聲） 如果把平均退化率的數值進行比較跟過去十年的話，我們拯救了 870 萬公頃的森林，相當於奧地利的面積。更重要的是，這減少了大氣中30 億噸二氧化碳排放量。這是至今為止對於溫室氣體減排起到積極效應的一個最重要的舉措。有人擔憂，當我們採取這些減少和遏制採伐的措施時，經濟會受到影響。因為你將無法開展一些經濟活動。但有趣的是，事實恰恰相反。事實上，在森林破壞最迅速的那段時期，經濟增長平均達到了過去十年的一倍。這給我們上了一課。或許它們毫無關聯，恰巧發生在採伐量下降的時期。 目前全都是好消息，大成就，我們顯然應該為此感到驕傲。但是這遠不夠。事實上，當你想想亞馬遜2013 年的砍伐量，超過 50 萬公頃，這意味著每一分鐘，就有兩片足球場大小的森林遭到破壞，去年，就在去年。如果把巴西其他生態群落的砍伐量相加我們得到的依舊是全世界最大的森林破壞率。這大概是說，我們既是森林的守護神，同時又是森林的劊子手。所以我們不敢自滿，遠不能自滿。所以下一步，我認為，是爭取在2020年，目標達到巴西境內森林零砍伐。這是我們下一步計劃。 現在我著迷於這種氣候改變與森林間的關係。首先，因為 15％ 的溫室氣體排放來源於森林砍伐，所以這是問題的一個重要部分。但同時，森林也是解決方案的一個重要部分，正因我們所知的最有效解決方案就是沉積，捕捉，儲存碳。現在，氣候和森林有了另一關係在 2008 年引起我深思，並因此讓我的職業跑道從森林轉向為氣候變化。我去訪問了加拿大，在英屬哥倫比亞，同其他同盟國的林業部門長官，比如加拿大，俄羅斯，印度，中國，美國。在那我們認識了啃噬森林的松樹甲蟲。我們在這看到的，這些棕黃色的，都是枯死的樹。就因為這些甲蟲幼蟲。事實是這些甲蟲受冬季寒冷的天氣控制。但在多年裡，我們都沒有夠多的寒冬來控制甲蟲的數量。然而這衍生為一種病害，數億植株遭到滅頂之災。所以回來以後我產生了一個概念：森林事實上是氣候改變的最初受害者之一。 我想，即使我能與同僚們成功地抑制森林退化，或許今後我們也將在氣候改變的PK中，也將成為洪水，炎熱，烈火等其他災害的手下敗將。所以我決定離開林業局直接致力於氣候改變的工作，找到一種方式來思考和理解所面臨的挑戰，並從此出發。 現在，氣候改變的挑戰非常明瞭。目標也很明確。我們希望全球平均氣溫的升高控制在 2℃ 之內。這有很多原因，我現在先不詳談。但為了爭取這 2℃ 的限制 ﹣也就為我們贏得了生存空間，IPCC ﹣ 政府間氣候變化專門委員會，限定說到本世紀末，二氧化碳排放量配額在 10000 億噸。分配到每年，我們可以平均排放 110 億的二氧化碳。那麼一噸的二氧化碳有多少呢？大概是一輛小車每天跑 20 千米，一年的排放量。或者是一趟航班，從聖保羅到約翰內斯堡，或者倫敦，單程的排放量。往返，兩噸。所以說 110 億是我們當下年排放量的兩倍， 我們當今的排放量 500 億噸，還在持續增長。可能在 2020 年達到 610 億噸。我們需要在 2050 年前把它降低到 100 億。與此同時，全球人口將從現在的 70 億增長到 90 億，經濟將從 2010 年的 60 兆增長到 200 兆。所以我們需要更有效率地把人均二氧化碳排放量從 7 噸降低到每人、每年差不多 1 噸。我們必須做出選擇。你是搭乘飛機呢，還是擁有汽車。 問題是，我們做的到嗎？這也是當我制定反森林破壞計劃時碰到的一個同樣的問題。問題如此龐大，如此複雜。我們可以做到嗎？我認為可以。試想：森林退化造成了過去十年裡巴西 60％ 的溫室氣體排放。這個數字現在不到 30％。而當今，60％ 多的排放源自能源。如果我們直接從能源入手，以同樣方式對付森林破壞的方式，我們可能會有希望。 所以我們可以做的有五點：首先，我們應該把發展和二氧化碳的聯繫斷開。我們並不需要通過砍伐森林來創造工作，農業或者商業利益。我們在降低森林砍伐率的同時就已經證明了經濟可以持續增長。能源方面也是如此。第二，我們必須把激勵給正確的地方。今天，一年有 5 千億元被用於對化石燃料的補貼。為什麼不在碳上漲價，貼補給可再生能源？第三，我們需要監測並發布誰在哪裡，什麼時間，排放了溫室氣體，我們得以有針對性地對每一次行為作出反應。第四，我們需要跳躍式發展前進，這意味著，我們不必在得到手機前一定先裝個固定電話。同樣，尚未使用能源的10億人口也不需要先經過化石燃料才能享用清潔能源。第五點，也是最後一點，我們需要和不同的政府，商業，民政組織分擔責任。每個人都肩負使命，我們需要大家攜手前行。 最後，我相信未來並非一場宿命，一場商業世界你不得不遵循的宿命。我們需要勇氣打破常規，擁抱新的理念，我們需要認識到我們有能力改變常規。解決巴西森林退化的問題，我們已經做到了。我希望，應對全球氣候變化的挑戰，我們也能辦到。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
