Talk	en	zh-tw
tavi_gevinson_a_teen_just_trying_to_figure_it_out	"Four years ago today, exactly, actually, I started a fashion blog called Style Rookie. Last September of 2011, I started an online magazine for teenage girls called Rookiemag.com. My name's Tavi Gevinson, and the title of my talk is ""Still Figuring It Out,"" and the MS Paint quality of my slides was a total creative decision in keeping with today's theme, and has nothing to do with my inability to use PowerPoint. (Laughter) So I edit this site for teenage girls. I'm a feminist. I am kind of a pop culture nerd, and I think a lot about what makes a strong female character, and, you know, movies and TV shows, these things have influence. My own website. So I think the question of what makes a strong female character often goes misinterpreted, and instead we get these two-dimensional superwomen who maybe have one quality that's played up a lot, like a Catwoman type, or she plays her sexuality up a lot, and it's seen as power. But they're not strong characters who happen to be female. They're completely flat, and they're basically cardboard characters. The problem with this is that then people expect women to be that easy to understand, and women are mad at themselves for not being that simple, when, in actuality, women are complicated, women are multifaceted — not because women are crazy, but because people are crazy, and women happen to be people. (Laughter) So the flaws are the key. I'm not the first person to say this. What makes a strong female character is a character who has weaknesses, who has flaws, who is maybe not immediately likable, but eventually relatable. I don't like to acknowledge a problem without also acknowledging those who work to fix it, so just wanted to acknowledge shows like ""Mad Men,"" movies like ""Bridesmaids,"" whose female characters or protagonists are complex, multifaceted. Lena Dunham, who's on here, her show on HBO that premiers next month, ""Girls,"" she said she wanted to start it because she felt that every woman she knew was just a bundle of contradictions, and that feels accurate for all people, but you don't see women represented like that as much. Congrats, guys. (Laughs) But I don't feel that — I still feel that there are some types of women who are not represented that way, and one group that we'll focus on today are teens, because I think teenagers are especially contradictory and still figuring it out, and in the '90s there was ""Freaks and Geeks"" and ""My So-Called Life,"" and their characters, Lindsay Weir and Angela Chase, I mean, the whole premise of the shows were just them trying to figure themselves out, basically, but those shows only lasted a season each, and I haven't really seen anything like that on TV since. So this is a scientific diagram of my brain — (Laughter) — around the time when I was, when I started watching those TV shows. I was ending middle school, starting high school — I'm a sophomore now — and I was trying to reconcile all of these differences that you're told you can't be when you're growing up as a girl. You can't be smart and pretty. You can't be a feminist who's also interested in fashion. You can't care about clothes if it's not for the sake of what other people, usually men, will think of you. So I was trying to figure all that out, and I felt a little confused, and I said so on my blog, and I said that I wanted to start a website for teenage girls that was not this kind of one-dimensional strong character empowerment thing because I think one thing that can be very alienating about a misconception of feminism is that girls then think that to be a feminist, they have to live up to being perfectly consistent in your beliefs, never being insecure, never having doubts, having all of the answers. And this is not true, and, actually, reconciling all the contradictions I was feeling became easier once I understood that feminism was not a rulebook but a discussion, a conversation, a process, and this is a spread from a zine that I made last year when I — I mean, I think I've let myself go a bit on the illustration front since. But, yeah. So I said on my blog that I wanted to start this publication for teenage girls and ask people to submit their writing, their photography, whatever, to be a member of our staff. I got about 3,000 emails. My editorial director and I went through them and put together a staff of people, and we launched last September. And this is an excerpt from my first editor's letter, where I say that Rookie, we don't have all the answers, we're still figuring it out too, but the point is not to give girls the answers, and not even give them permission to find the answers themselves, but hopefully inspire them to understand that they can give themselves that permission, they can ask their own questions, find their own answers, all of that, and Rookie, I think we've been trying to make it a nice place for all of that to be figured out. So I'm not saying, ""Be like us,"" and ""We're perfect role models,"" because we're not, but we just want to help represent girls in a way that shows those different dimensions. I mean, we have articles called ""On Taking Yourself Seriously: How to Not Care What People Think of You,"" but we also have articles like, oops — I'm figuring it out! Ha ha. (Laughter) If you use that, you can get away with anything. We also have articles called ""How to Look Like You Weren't Just Crying in Less than Five Minutes."" So all of that being said, I still really appreciate those characters in movies and articles like that on our site, that aren't just about being totally powerful, maybe finding your acceptance with yourself and self-esteem and your flaws and how you accept those. So what I you to take away from my talk, the lesson of all of this, is to just be Stevie Nicks. Like, that's all you have to do. (Laughter) Because my favorite thing about her, other than, like, everything, is that she is very — has always been unapologetically present on stage, and unapologetic about her flaws and about reconciling all of her contradictory feelings and she makes you listen to them and think about them, and yeah, so please be Stevie Nicks. Thank you. (Applause)"	"事實上，就確切在四年前今天，我開設了一個叫做 Style Rookie 的部落格。在2011年的9月，我開辦一份線上雜誌為青少女服務的Rookiemag.com。我是 Tavi Gevinson，我的演講主題是“Still Figuring It Out”在投影片上看到的我的小畫家塗鴉全然是靈機一動的決定，也跟今天主題密切相關這跟我不懂怎麼用簡報完全沒有關係。(大笑) 我為了這個青少女服務的網站作編輯。我是個女性主義者。我是一個流行文化的宅宅， 我常在想是什麼能塑做一個堅強女性的角色，當然，如你所知，像一些電影和電視節目，這些東西都有影響力。那我自己的網站我想了一個問題，是什麼可以塑做一個堅強的女性的角色，那一直被誤解的相反，我們看到的這些缺乏深度的女超人這些人將自己的特質發揮淋漓盡致，例如貓女類型的，她很會操弄自己性感的一面，這看來像是一種力量。但對女性來說，這並不是一個強而有力的特徵。這種形象非常單薄而且基本上都是紙板型的人物這產生的問題就是人們會期待女性像這些角色一樣容易理解而女人也開始為自己感到發瘋因為她們做不到像角色那樣簡單現實中，女性是複雜的女性是多面的-不因為女性全是瘋狂的，而是人類本來就是瘋狂的，女性剛好又是人類而已(大笑) 所以這些缺陷就變成是關鍵。我並非第一個人提起這點。什麼可以塑造一個堅強女性角色是一個有弱點、有缺陷的角色，或許她不會第一眼就很討喜但最終會是讓人認同的 我不喜歡提出一個問題卻同時不想誰去解決它所以我想提出節目像“廣告狂人”（Mad Men）電影像是“伴娘我最大”（Bridesmaids）裏頭的女性角色或是主角的角色都是複雜，多面的。Lena Dunham，也上面這個人，她在HBO的節目下個月會首播，叫做""女生們""她說她會想要開始這個節目，因為她知道到她所認識的每個女性都是矛盾的集結體而這對所有人來說是準確的但你不能看到女性比這個還有更多的了恭喜你們，男士們（現場大笑) 但我不認同，我仍然認為還是有些女性是不能夠就這樣被描述呈現，而今日我們會集中講青少年人因為我想青少年是特別矛盾的而且還在摸索時期在九零年代時有""怪胎們""和""我所謂的生活""中的這些角色，Lindsay Weir和Angela Chase，我指，這類節目會假設就是這些角色試圖認清自己是誰，但是這兩齣節目都只撐了一季，而我之後就沒再看過有任何類似的節目出現了 所以在我的大腦裡出現這個很科學化的圖像(大笑)大約那個時候我還是，當我開始看那些電視節目時，我正要從中學畢業、開始高中生涯我現在是大二生了而我曾試著去妥協所有這些差異，妳一直被告誡不能做的從妳長成一個少女妳不能夠漂亮又聰明。妳不能是個很愛時尚的女性主義者。妳不能關注衣服打扮，如果它對其他人沒好處通常還會讓男人想著妳。 所以我試著要把這些弄懂而我曾感到有一點點迷糊然後我在我的部落格上寫了我說我想要創建一個專為了青少女服務的網站這不是一種偏面的要充權，要增強女性性格的東西因為我認為需要轉移有關女性主義的誤解，就是女孩們會認為當一個女性主義者，她們就必須要絕對地堅守自己的信仰永不缺乏安全感，永遠沒有疑惑，擁有所有問題的答案，然而這是錯誤的，而且事實上，在理解我所感覺到的矛盾的過程中一切簡單多了，當我懂了女性主義不是一本規則手冊，而是一場討論一種對話、一個過程而這是在我去年做的一本雜誌中的傳單當我，我指，我覺得我的繪畫功力有進步許多了但是，對 所以我在我的部落格上說我想要開始這份出版物專為年少女打造，並邀請人們供稿繳交各種寫作、攝影，什麼都好就能成我們的一份子我收到了大約三千封電子郵件我的總編和我看過了所有的信後集結了一組人馬然後我們在去年九月發行這是我們第一封編輯信的片段裡頭我說：菜鳥們，我們沒有所有的答案，我們一樣仍在找尋答案，但重點是不要給女孩們任何答案，就不要容許她們自己找尋答案，反而重點是要懷抱希望地激勵她們去理解她們可以給自己許可她們能自己提問，並找到自己的答案以上種種，菜鳥們，我想我們一直在嘗試讓這一切發生提供一個好地方讓這一切有可能出現 我不是在說：「要像我們一樣」或是「我們就是完美典範」，因為我們不是我們只是想要幫忙呈現女孩們用一種表現出各種不同面向的方式我們有的文章取名為「認真看待妳自己：如何不在意別人的看法」但我們也有文章像是哎啊，讓我想想哈 哈（大笑）善用這招，你可以成功避免任何的尷尬我們也有文章像是「如何讓妳看來不曾哭過」 所以儘管以上所說，我仍然十分讚賞那些出現在電影裡的角色和我們網站上的文章，在說的不只是要如何當一個全然有力的人而是找到能接受自己的方法能有自信心，接受自己的缺點。 我希望你們能從我演講中得到總結以上的，就是學習Steve Nicks吧可以說這是你唯一要做的事 （大笑）因為我喜歡她的像是，她最與眾不同之處的是，她是非常的，也一直都是不卑不亢地站在台上並不為了她的缺陷而感到抱歉也能夠協調內心所有的矛盾感受而且她會讓你聽進去，讓你去思考沒錯，所以，試圖作Stevie Nicks吧。謝謝。 (鼓掌)"
