Talk	en	zh-tw
temple_grandin_the_world_needs_all_kinds_of_minds	"I think I'll start out and just talk a little bit about what exactly autism is. Autism is a very big continuum that goes from very severe — the child remains nonverbal — all the way up to brilliant scientists and engineers. And I actually feel at home here, because there's a lot of autism genetics here. (Laughter) You wouldn't have any — (Applause) It's a continuum of traits. When does a nerd turn into Asperger, which is just mild autism? I mean, Einstein and Mozart and Tesla would all be probably diagnosed as autistic spectrum today. And one of the things that is really going to concern me is getting these kids to be the ones that are going to invent the next energy things that Bill Gates talked about this morning. OK, now, if you want to understand autism: animals. I want to talk to you now about different ways of thinking. You have to get away from verbal language. I think in pictures. I don't think in language. Now, the thing about the autistic mind is it attends to details. This is a test where you either have to pick out the big letters or the little letters, and the autistic mind picks out the little letters more quickly. And the thing is, the normal brain ignores the details. Well, if you're building a bridge, details are pretty important because it'll fall down if you ignore the details. And one of my big concerns with a lot of policy things today is things are getting too abstract. People are getting away from doing hands-on stuff. I'm really concerned that a lot of the schools have taken out the hands-on classes, because art, and classes like that — those are the classes where I excelled. In my work with cattle, I noticed a lot of little things that most people don't notice would make the cattle balk. For example, this flag waving right in front of the veterinary facility. This feed yard was going to tear down their whole veterinary facility; all they needed to do was move the flag. Rapid movement, contrast. In the early '70s when I started, I got right down in the chutes to see what cattle were seeing. People thought that was crazy. A coat on a fence would make them balk, shadows would make them balk, a hose on the floor — people weren't noticing these things. A chain hanging down ... And that's shown very, very nicely in the movie. In fact, I loved the movie, how they duplicated all my projects. That's the geek side. My drawings got to star in the movie, too. And, actually, it's called ""Temple Grandin,"" not ""Thinking in Pictures."" So what is thinking in pictures? It's literally movies in your head. My mind works like Google for images. When I was a young kid, I didn't know my thinking was different. I thought everybody thought in pictures. Then when I did my book, ""Thinking in Pictures,"" I started interviewing people about how they think. And I was shocked to find out that my thinking was quite different. Like if I say, ""Think about a church steeple,"" most people get this sort of generalized generic one. Now, maybe that's not true in this room, but it's going to be true in a lot of different places. I see only specific pictures. They flash up into my memory, just like Google for pictures. And in the movie, they've got a great scene in there, where the word ""shoe"" is said, and a whole bunch of '50s and '60s shoes pop into my imagination. OK, there's my childhood church; that's specific. There's some more, Fort Collins. OK, how about famous ones? And they just kind of come up, kind of like this. Just really quickly, like Google for pictures. And they come up one at a time, and then I think, ""OK, well, maybe we can have it snow, or we can have a thunderstorm,"" and I can hold it there and turn them into videos. Now, visual thinking was a tremendous asset in my work designing cattle-handling facilities. And I've worked really hard on improving how cattle are treated at the slaughter plant. I'm not going to go into any gucky slaughter slides. I've got that stuff up on YouTube, if you want to look at it. (Laughter) But one of the things that I was able to do in my design work is I could test-run a piece of equipment in my mind, just like a virtual reality computer system. And this is an aerial view of a recreation of one of my projects that was used in the movie. That was like just so super cool. And there were a lot of, kind of, Asperger types and autism types working out there on the movie set, too. (Laughter) But one of the things that really worries me is: Where's the younger version of those kids going today? They're not ending up in Silicon Valley, where they belong. (Laughter) (Applause) One of the things I learned very early on because I wasn't that social, is I had to sell my work, and not myself. And the way I sold livestock jobs is I showed off my drawings, I showed off pictures of things. Another thing that helped me as a little kid is, boy, in the '50s, you were taught manners. You were taught you can't pull the merchandise off the shelves in the store and throw it around. When kids get to be in third or fourth grade, you might see that this kid's going to be a visual thinker, drawing in perspective. Now, I want to emphasize that not every autistic kid is going to be a visual thinker. Now, I had this brain scan done several years ago, and I used to joke around about having a gigantic Internet trunk line going deep into my visual cortex. This is tensor imaging. And my great big Internet trunk line is twice as big as the control's. The red lines there are me, and the blue lines are the sex and age-matched control. And there I got a gigantic one, and the control over there, the blue one, has got a really small one. And some of the research now is showing that people on the spectrum actually think with the primary visual cortex. Now, the thing is, the visual thinker is just one kind of mind. You see, the autistic mind tends to be a specialist mind — good at one thing, bad at something else. And where I was bad was algebra. And I was never allowed to take geometry or trig. Gigantic mistake. I'm finding a lot of kids who need to skip algebra, go right to geometry and trig. Now, another kind of mind is the pattern thinker. More abstract. These are your engineers, your computer programmers. This is pattern thinking. That praying mantis is made from a single sheet of paper — no scotch tape, no cuts. And there in the background is the pattern for folding it. Here are the types of thinking: photo-realistic visual thinkers, like me; pattern thinkers, music and math minds. Some of these oftentimes have problems with reading. You also will see these kind of problems with kids that are dyslexic. You'll see these different kinds of minds. And then there's a verbal mind, they know every fact about everything. Now, another thing is the sensory issues. I was really concerned about having to wear this gadget on my face. And I came in half an hour beforehand so I could have it put on and kind of get used to it, and they got it bent so it's not hitting my chin. But sensory is an issue. Some kids are bothered by fluorescent lights; others have problems with sound sensitivity. You know, it's going to be variable. Now, visual thinking gave me a whole lot of insight into the animal mind. Because think about it: an animal is a sensory-based thinker, not verbal — thinks in pictures, thinks in sounds, thinks in smells. Think about how much information there is on the local fire hydrant. He knows who's been there — (Laughter) When they were there. Are they friend or foe? Is there anybody he can go mate with? There's a ton of information on that fire hydrant. It's all very detailed information. And looking at these kind of details gave me a lot of insight into animals. Now, the animal mind, and also my mind, puts sensory-based information into categories. Man on a horse, and a man on the ground — that is viewed as two totally different things. You could have a horse that's been abused by a rider. They'll be absolutely fine with the veterinarian and with the horseshoer, but you can't ride him. You have another horse, where maybe the horseshoer beat him up, and he'll be terrible for anything on the ground with the veterinarian, but a person can ride him. Cattle are the same way. Man on a horse, a man on foot — they're two different things. You see, it's a different picture. See, I want you to think about just how specific this is. Now, this ability to put information into categories, I find a lot of people are not very good at this. When I'm out troubleshooting equipment or problems with something in a plant, they don't seem to be able to figure out: ""Do I have a training-people issue? Or do I have something wrong with the equipment?"" In other words, categorize equipment problem from a people problem. I find a lot of people have difficulty doing that. Now, let's say I figure out it's an equipment problem. Is it a minor problem, with something simple I can fix? Or is the whole design of the system wrong? People have a hard time figuring that out. Let's just look at something like, you know, solving problems with making airlines safer. Yeah, I'm a million-mile flier. I do lots and lots of flying, and if I was at the FAA, what would I be doing a lot of direct observation of? It would be their airplane tails. You know, five fatal wrecks in the last 20 years, the tail either came off, or steering stuff inside the tail broke in some way. It's tails, pure and simple. And when the pilots walk around the plane, guess what? They can't see that stuff inside the tail. Now as I think about that, I'm pulling up all of that specific information. It's specific. See, my thinking's bottom-up. I take all the little pieces and I put the pieces together like a puzzle. Now, here is a horse that was deathly afraid of black cowboy hats. He'd been abused by somebody with a black cowboy hat. White cowboy hats, that was absolutely fine. Now, the thing is, the world is going to need all of the different kinds of minds to work together. We've got to work on developing all these different kinds of minds. And one of the things that is driving me really crazy as I travel around and I do autism meetings, is I'm seeing a lot of smart, geeky, nerdy kids, and they just aren't very social, and nobody's working on developing their interest in something like science. And this brings up the whole thing of my science teacher. My science teacher is shown absolutely beautifully in the movie. I was a goofball student when I was in high school. I just didn't care at all about studying, until I had Mr. Carlock's science class. He was now Dr. Carlock in the movie. And he got me challenged to figure out an optical illusion room. This brings up the whole thing of you've got to show kids interesting stuff. You know, one of the things that I think maybe TED ought to do is tell all the schools about all the great lectures that are on TED, and there's all kinds of great stuff on the Internet to get these kids turned on. Because I'm seeing a lot of these geeky, nerdy kids, and the teachers out in the Midwest and other parts of the country when you get away from these tech areas, they don't know what to do with these kids. And they're not going down the right path. The thing is, you can make a mind to be more of a thinking and cognitive mind, or your mind can be wired to be more social. And what some of the research now has shown in autism is there may by extra wiring back here in the really brilliant mind, and we lose a few social circuits here. It's kind of a trade-off between thinking and social. And then you can get to the point where it's so severe, you're going to have a person that's going to be non-verbal. In the normal human mind, language covers up the visual thinking we share with animals. This is the work of Dr. Bruce Miller. He studied Alzheimer's patients that had frontal temporal lobe dementia. And the dementia ate out the language parts of the brain. And then this artwork came out of somebody who used to install stereos in cars. Now, Van Gogh doesn't know anything about physics, but I think it's very interesting that there was some work done to show that this eddy pattern in this painting followed a statistical model of turbulence, which brings up the whole interesting idea of maybe some of this mathematical patterns is in our own head. And the Wolfram stuff — I was taking notes and writing down all the search words I could use, because I think that's going to go on in my autism lectures. We've got to show these kids interesting stuff. And they've taken out the auto-shop class and the drafting class and the art class. I mean, art was my best subject in school. We've got to think about all these different kinds of minds, and we've got to absolutely work with these kind of minds, because we absolutely are going to need these kinds of people in the future. And let's talk about jobs. OK, my science teacher got me studying, because I was a goofball that didn't want to study. But you know what? I was getting work experience. I'm seeing too many of these smart kids who haven't learned basic things, like how to be on time — I was taught that when I was eight years old. How to have table manners at granny's Sunday party. I was taught that when I was very, very young. And when I was 13, I had a job at a dressmaker's shop sewing clothes. I did internships in college, I was building things, and I also had to learn how to do assignments. You know, all I wanted to do was draw pictures of horses when I was little. My mother said, ""Well let's do a picture of something else."" They've got to learn how to do something else. Let's say the kid is fixated on Legos. Let's get him working on building different things. The thing about the autistic mind is it tends to be fixated. Like if the kid loves race cars, let's use race cars for math. Let's figure out how long it takes a race car to go a certain distance. In other words, use that fixation in order to motivate that kid, that's one of the things we need to do. I really get fed up when the teachers, especially when you get away from this part of the country, they don't know what to do with these smart kids. It just drives me crazy. What can visual thinkers do when they grow up? They can do graphic design, all kinds of stuff with computers, photography, industrial design. The pattern thinkers — they're the ones that are going to be your mathematicians, your software engineers, your computer programmers, all of those kinds of jobs. And then you've got the word minds; they make great journalists, and they also make really, really good stage actors. Because the thing about being autistic is, I had to learn social skills like being in a play. You just kind of ... you just have to learn it. And we need to be working with these students. And this brings up mentors. You know, my science teacher was not an accredited teacher. He was a NASA space scientist. Some states now are getting it to where, if you have a degree in biology or in chemistry, you can come into the school and teach biology or chemistry. We need to be doing that. Because what I'm observing is, the good teachers, for a lot of these kids, are out in the community colleges. But we need to be getting some of these good teachers into the high schools. Another thing that can be very, very, very successful is: there's a lot of people that may have retired from working in the software industry, and they can teach your kid. And it doesn't matter if what they teach them is old, because what you're doing is you're lighting the spark. You're getting that kid turned on. And you get him turned on, then you'll learn all the new stuff. Mentors are just essential. I cannot emphasize enough what my science teacher did for me. And we've got to mentor them, hire them. And if you bring them in for internships in your companies, the thing about the autism, Asperger-y kind of mind, you've got to give them a specific task. Don't just say, ""Design new software."" You've got to tell them something more specific: ""We're designing software for a phone and it has to do some specific thing, and it can only use so much memory."" That's the kind of specificity you need. Well, that's the end of my talk. And I just want to thank everybody for coming. It was great to be here. (Applause) (Applause ends) Oh — you have a question for me? OK. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you so much for that. You know, you once wrote — I like this quote: ""If by some magic, autism had been eradicated from the face of the Earth, then men would still be socializing in front of a wood fire at the entrance to a cave."" (Laughter) Temple Grandin: Because who do you think made the first stone spear? It was the Asperger guy, and if you were to get rid of all the autism genetics, there'd be no more Silicon Valley, and the energy crisis would not be solved. (Applause) CA: I want to ask you a couple other questions, and if any of these feel inappropriate, it's OK just to say, ""Next question."" But if there is someone here who has an autistic child, or knows an autistic child and feels kind of cut off from them, what advice would you give them? TG: Well, first of all, we've got to look at age. If you have a two, three or four-year-old, no speech, no social interaction, I can't emphasize enough: Don't wait. You need at least 20 hours a week of one-to-one teaching. The thing is, autism comes in different degrees. About half of the people on the spectrum are not going to learn to talk, and they won't be working in Silicon Valley. That would not be a reasonable thing for them to do. But then you get these smart, geeky kids with a touch of autism, and that's where you've got to get them turned on with doing interesting things. I got social interaction through shared interests — I rode horses with other kids, I made model rockets with other kids, did electronics lab with other kids. And in the '60s, it was gluing mirrors onto a rubber membrane on a speaker to make a light show. That was, like, we considered that super cool. (Laughter) CA: Is it unrealistic for them to hope or think that that child loves them, as some might, as most, wish? TG: Well, I tell you, that child will be loyal, and if your house is burning down, they're going to get you out of it. CA: Wow. So most people, if you ask them what they're most passionate about, they'd say things like, ""My kids"" or ""My lover."" What are you most passionate about? TG: I'm passionate about that the things I do are going to make the world a better place. When I have a mother of an autistic child say, ""My kid went to college because of your book or one of your lectures,"" that makes me happy. You know, the slaughter plants I worked with in the '80s; they were absolutely awful. I developed a really simple scoring system for slaughter plants, where you just measure outcomes: How many cattle fell down? How many got poked with the prodder? How many cattle are mooing their heads off? And it's very, very simple. You directly observe a few simple things. It's worked really well. I get satisfaction out of seeing stuff that makes real change in the real world. We need a lot more of that, and a lot less abstract stuff. CA: Totally. (Applause) CA: When we were talking on the phone, one of the things you said that really astonished me was that one thing you were passionate about was server farms. Tell me about that. TG: Well, the reason why I got really excited when I read about that, it contains knowledge. It's libraries. And to me, knowledge is something that is extremely valuable. So, maybe over 10 years ago now, our library got flooded. This is before the Internet got really big. And I was really upset about all the books being wrecked, because it was knowledge being destroyed. And server farms, or data centers, are great libraries of knowledge. CA: Temple, can I just say, it's an absolute delight to have you at TED. Thank you so much. TG: Well, thank you so much. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想我會以簡單談談自閉症是什麼做為開場自閉症是非常大的範疇從非常嚴重　小朋友不會說話到天才的科學家及工程師事實上我覺得這裡像家一樣因為在這有許多有自閉症基因的各位不會有任何....鼓掌 這是連續的特徵一個書呆子何時變成亞斯柏格　這只是中等自閉症愛因斯坦　莫札特和特斯拉在今日都有可能被診斷為自閉症者現在我真正擔心的一件事是如何培育這些負責打造未來的孩子們這問題比爾蓋茲今早有談到 現在若你想了解自閉症 動物我要跟各位談談不同的思考模式你必須忘記文字語言我是以圖像為思考我不以語言為思考自閉兒的腦是專注於細節這是一個你必須選擇大字母或小字母的測試而自閉症的腦子選出小字母比較快 正常的腦子忽略細節若你要建造一座橋 細節是很重要的若你忽視細節　橋會垮掉我最大的疑慮是現今的多數的政策使事物變得太抽象人們漸漸遠離親手實作我真的很擔心許多學校取消了動手實作的課程因為藝術及這類課程是我表現最好的課程 當我研究牛時我注意到許多大部分人不注意的小事那些會讓牛畏懼　比如像獸醫中心前方飄揚的旗幟這會讓牠們想把整座獸醫中心拆除人們只需要遷移旗杆快速的遷移在70年代早期我剛開始時 　我親自去陡槽觀察牛隻看到什麼別人認為我很瘋狂　大衣掛在圍籬上會使牛群畏懼陰影會讓他們畏怯 地上的水管也是人們不去注意這些事這些都是連鎖反應電影裡都是美化的 事實上我很喜愛電影劇情中他們複製所有我的研究專案的方式　那是我怪咖的一面我的手繪圖也在電影裡客串一角這電影叫做「天寶葛蘭汀」不是「圖像思考」 所以 什麼是圖像思考　按照字面的意思是你腦中的電影我腦子的運作就像是Google搜尋圖片當我還小時　我不知道我的思考和別人不同我以為每個人都是以圖像來思考後來當我寫「圖像思考」時我開始訪談一些人看他們如何思考我很訝異的發現我的思考方式是非常不同的　就像我說的「想像一下教堂的尖頂」大部分的人得到的是一般普通的尖頂或許對現場的各位不是如此但在許多不同地方卻是如此我只看得到特定的圖像它們由我記憶中跳出 就像Google搜尋到的圖片在電影中 有一幕很棒的場景當「鞋」這一字被說出時 一大堆50及60年代的鞋子就跳入我腦海中 這是我小時候的教堂很明確 還有更多　像科林斯堡那些有名氣的又如何呢它們會出現 有點像這樣只是非常快速 像Google搜尋圖片它們一次出現一張然後我會想 　或許我們可以有點雪或是來場暴風雨我們可以定格然後轉為影片 圖像思考在我設計牛隻管理中心時是巨大的資產我非常努力的在研究改良牛隻在屠宰廠的待遇我不會介紹任何噁心屠宰的幻燈片若各位想看的話我把那些都放在Youtube上了在我的設計工作中我可以在腦海中直接測試看它是否可行就像一台虛擬實境的電腦系統這是一幅娛樂中心的鳥瞰圖在電影中有提到　它是我進行的其中一項計畫這是非常酷的有許多亞斯柏格症的人和自閉症的人也在電影場景中工作笑聲其中有件事讓我很擔心的是今日的孩子們將被帶往何處他們不會被帶到矽谷　矽谷才是他們的地方笑聲鼓掌 我不是很社會化　所以我在很早期學到的一件事就是我必須販賣我的作品　而不是我本身我想獲得和家畜有關的工作用的方式是展現我的繪稿　我用繪畫的說明另一個對我有幫助的是　當我還小時在50年代　你被教導要有禮貌你被教導不能在商店裡隨便拿貨加上的商品又隨處亂放 當小朋友在三或四年級時你可以發現這小孩將成為一位圖像思考者以透視法來作圖　我要強調並非所有的自閉症兒都是圖像思考者我許多年前做過腦部掃描我以前常開玩笑說我有這條很粗的網路幹線深入我的視覺皮層這是張量造影我的巨大的網路幹線比控制組的大兩倍紅線是我的藍線是性別及年齡和我相符的控制組我有這條巨大的幹線對照組的是藍色線很細 目前有些研究顯示自閉症的人　以視覺皮層為主要的的思考重點是 視覺思只是其中一種思考方式自閉症通常擁有比較特別的心智往往在某一方面很好　但在其他方面很糟我的代數很糟　我無法選擇幾何學或三角函數的課程這是很嚴重的錯誤　我發現許多孩童需要跳過代數直接學幾何或是三角函數 另外一種思考方式是模式思考者更抽象 就像是工程師電腦程式師這是模式思考　那隻祈禱的螳螂是由單一的一張紙做出來的沒膠帶 沒裁剪後面就是折疊的圖案思考的種類如下：圖像寫實視覺思考 像我就是模式思考者 音樂家及數學家的心智這類的人常有閱讀上的問題你也會發現有朗讀問題的孩童也會有這方面的特徵你將發現這些不同種類的心智還有口語的心智　 他們知道所有事情的理論 另一個議題是感知問題我對必須戴這裝備很憂慮我在開場前半小時就到場將設備安裝好　並且習慣它為了不要碰到我的下巴 他們還把它折彎了感知是個問題 　有些孩童會被日光燈干擾有些則有聲音敏感的問題各類型的問題都有 視覺思考讓我了解很多動物的想法想想看 動物是一種以感知為基礎的思考者不是以文字　而是以圖像以聲音來思考 以氣味來思考想想看　路邊的消防栓上有多少的資訊牠知道誰去過那裡 知道何時去那裡是友是敵 有誰可以當伴的嗎消防栓有數以萬計的訊息全都是非常細節的資訊觀察這種細節讓我更深入了解動物 動物的思考與我的思考都是將感官的訊息歸類處理人騎在馬上和站在地上視為完全不同的事物一匹被騎士虐待過的馬獸醫檢查過沒問題也可以釘馬蹄鐵　但你就是不能騎牠另一匹馬　也許馬夫打過牠牠將永遠對地上的事物感到恐懼即使獸醫也不例外　但人們可以騎牠牛隻也不例外騎在馬上的人與站在地上的人　被視為兩件絕然不同的事你看這是不同的圖片各位想想看　這是多麼具體的細節 這種將資訊歸類的能力我發覺許多人並不擅長這種能力當我去察看問題設備或農場東西有問題時他們似乎是無法發覺問題所在 「我有人力訓練的問題嗎？」或是「我的設備有問題嗎？」換句話說 將問題歸類於設備或是人力的問題我發現很多人不會這麼做這樣說吧！這是設備問題一個小的，簡單的我就可以處理的問題？還是這是整個系統的錯誤設計？人們很難分辨 讓我們來看看這個如何解決問題讓飛機更安全是的 我是個飛行常客我常在飛行我若是任職FFA我會把觀察重點放在哪裡呢？飛機的機尾過去20年間有5次嚴重的失事不是機尾脫落就是機尾內導向的零件故障形式不一就是機尾 簡單明瞭當駕駛員檢查時 他們就是看不出來機尾的問題現在當我思考那問題時我提出所有確切的資訊很明確的　所以 我的思考是從細節到全體我將所有的小片段放在一起就像拼圖一樣 這是一隻非常害怕黑色牛仔帽的馬牠曾被戴黑色牛仔帽的人虐待過白色牛仔帽則完全沒問題這世界將需要各種型態心智的人一起合作我們必須合力開發所有類型的心智有件讓我真的很受不了的事就是當我四處旅行 參加自閉症會議時我遇到很多聰明 怪咖 書呆的孩童他們只是不太懂社交而沒有人對他們的興趣進行開發像在科學方面 這讓我想到我的科學老師我的科學老師在電影中被描述的非常美好當我中學時　我曾是個傻瓜呆的學生我對學習完全不關心直到我上了卡拉克老師的科學課就電影裡的卡拉克博士他把我帶到一個充滿視覺虛幻的房間由此可知　大家必需展現有趣的事物引起孩子們的興趣有一件事我覺得TED應該要做就是告訴所有的學校關於TED上面所有優秀的演講以及網路上有各種好東西吸引這些孩童因為我遇到許多怪咖書呆的孩童中西部及國內其他地方的老師當遠離科技區域時他們就不知道該如何對待這些孩童他們並沒走在對的道路上 重點是你可以讓心智成為屬於思考及認知的心智或是變得更社會化現今有些自閉症的研究指出在天才的腦中有許多額外的連結而我們只是缺少一些社交的連線或許兩者是彼此消長到達某種極端程度時人就會變得無法言語了在普通的人腦中語言的區域覆蓋了視覺區域　後者我們和動物一樣 這是布魯斯米勒博士的作品他研究有老人失智患者中的額顳葉症呆患者失智症侵蝕腦中語言部份這藝術作品由一位安裝汽車音響的人所做的梵谷對物理全然不解但是我認為非常有趣的是這幅畫裡這些漩渦狀的圖案遵循了亂流的統計模型這引發了一整個有趣的想法或許有些數學的模式是在我們自己的腦中 而我記錄的Wolfram東西及我寫下我能使用所有搜尋的字因為我認為將會用在我自閉症的教學上我們必須展現給有趣的事物給孩子們可惜的是學校竟然取消了工藝課程繪畫課及藝術課藝術曾是我在學校時表現最好的科目 我們必需考慮到有這麼多不同類型的心智而且我們必需與他們一起解決問題因為我們的未來正需要這一類的人讓我們來談談工作我的科學老師讓我學習因為我是個不想學習的傻瓜呆但是各位知道嗎 我獲得工作經驗我正看到太多這類聰明的小孩沒有學習到基礎的事物例如如何守時我8歲時就被教導要守時以及如何在祖母的周日派對上有餐桌禮節我在很小很小的時候就被這樣教導當我13歲時 我在成衣廠工作負責賣衣服我在大學裡實習製做物品我也必須學習完成分配的任務 當我小的時候 我只想要畫馬的圖母親就說「讓我們來畫點別的東西」他們必須學習如何做其他事物例如一個小孩專注在樂高上我們要讓他蓋點不同的東西自閉症的思緒是傾向於專注若一個小孩喜愛賽車讓我們運用賽車來教數學讓我們來算算一輛賽車行駛一段距離要多久換句話說 運用專注力來激勵這些孩子們　這是我們需要做的事我真覺得很不妥　當那些老師們尤其是遠離國家發展核心的偏遠區域那裡的老師不知如何對待這些聰明的小孩這會令我抓狂 一個視覺思考的人　長大後能做些什麼他們可以從事圖像設計 或跟電腦有關的所有事攝影及工業設計模式思考者 他們將可以成為各位的數學老師　電腦軟體設計師以及電腦程式設計師　所有這類的工作文字的思考者 他們可成為很優秀的記者他們也可以成為很好的舞台演員因為　身為自閉症者我必須學習社交技巧如同身處於一齣劇中你就是必須學習它 我們必須與這些學生合作這就講到了導師的問題我的科學老師不是一位有認證的老師他曾是一位NASA太空科學家目前有些州採取的方式是若你有生物或化學的學位你可以到學校教生物或化學我們需要如此我觀察到的是對這些孩童有益的老師都是在社區大學裡我們的高中需要引進這些好老師 另一件可以非常非常成功的事是有許多人可能從軟體業退休他們可以教這些小孩若他們教授的是很老舊的事物也沒關係因為你所作的是點燃火花你啟發孩子們你開啟他們的視野　他們將學習所有的新事物導師是至關重要的我無法用足夠的形容來說明我的科學老師對我的影響我們必須引導他們 雇用他們 若你的公司雇用他們實習關於自閉症 亞斯博格類的思考者你必需給他們一項特定的任務　別只說「設計個新軟體」你必須告訴他們更明確的東西「好吧！我們正要設計一套電話軟體它必須有一些特定的功能而且它只能使用這麼多的記憶體」你的指令必需明確 好了 這是我演講的尾聲了我要感謝各位的蒞臨非常榮幸能來到此 鼓掌 你有問題要問我 好的鼓掌 克利斯安得森：謝謝你的演說你曾寫到 我很喜歡這段話「若因為某些奇蹟使得自閉症不存在在這世間那人類還是會在洞穴口進行社會化 天寶葛蘭汀：你認為是誰做了第一把石茅？就是亞斯博格患者 若去除所有自閉症遺傳矽谷就不存在了而且能源危機也無法解決鼓掌 克利斯安得森：所以我想問你其他問題若你覺得不適當只要說「下個問題」若現場有人有自閉症的小孩或認識一個自閉症的小孩覺得有些無法跟他們溝通你會給他們什麼建議？ 天寶葛蘭汀：首先 你必須看年齡若你認識一個2 3或4歲的小孩不會說話 不會互動我一直強調不能等　你每週需要至少20小時的一對一教學重點是自閉症是有不同程度的在自閉症的範疇裡大約有一半的人將學不會說話 他們將無法在矽谷工作這對他們來說並不是合理的事 但你也有聰明怪咖的小孩他們有些自閉你必須喚起他們的興趣讓他們做有趣的事這就是我藉由共同興趣而獲得社會化的互動我跟其他小孩一起騎馬 我跟其他小孩一起做火箭模型做電子實驗室在60年代那是將鏡子黏在橡膠膜揚聲器做出一個燈光秀那時我們認為那是超級酷的 克利斯安得森：對他們而言希望或是認為自閉症孩子愛他們是不切實際的 少數可能 大多數則盼望 天寶葛蘭汀：我告訴你 自閉小孩是很忠誠的若你的房子發生火災 他們會衝進去救你出來 克利斯安得森：哇 若你問大多數人他們最有熱情在什麼事物上 他們會說「我的小孩」或是「我的戀人」那你最有熱情在什麼事物上 天寶葛蘭汀：我最有熱情的事物是讓世界變得更美好當我遇到有自閉症小孩的母親說「我的小孩因為你的書　或是你教授的一堂課而進了大學」我會很快樂 我合作過的屠宰廠在80年代曾是相當的差勁我針對屠宰廠開發一套非常簡單只衡量結果的計分系統 幾隻牛跌倒幾隻牛被尖物戳幾隻牛被屠宰前哀叫系統非常非常簡單你直接觀察幾項簡單的事物系統運作的很良好 在現實社會中看到員工真正的改變讓我很滿足我們需要更多這類的事物少點抽象事物鼓掌 克利斯安得森：當我們通電話時你所說的一件事　很令我震撼就是你說你對伺服器農場很有熱情 談一談這個吧 天寶葛蘭汀：最主要的原因是當我聽到它儲存知識我就很興奮 它是圖書館對我而言　知識是極端的具有價值　約10年前我們的圖書館淹水這是在網路變得很普及前我很氣所有的書因此毀了因為那是知識被摧毀而伺服器農場或資訊中心是很好的知識圖書館 克利斯安得森： 天寶 真的很高興能邀你來TED 天寶葛蘭汀：謝謝你 謝謝各位鼓掌
