Talk	en	zh-tw
terry_moore_how_to_tie_your_shoes	"I'm used to thinking of the TED audience as a wonderful collection of some of the most effective, intelligent, intellectual, savvy, worldly and innovative people in the world. And I think that's true. However, I also have reason to believe that many, if not most, of you are actually tying your shoes incorrectly. (Laughter) Now I know that seems ludicrous. I know that seems ludicrous. And believe me, I lived the same sad life until about three years ago. And what happened to me was I bought, what was for me, a very expensive pair of shoes. But those shoes came with round nylon laces, and I couldn't keep them tied. So I went back to the store and said to the owner, ""I love the shoes, but I hate the laces."" He took a look and said, ""Oh, you're tying them wrong."" Now up until that moment, I would have thought that, by age 50, one of the life skills that I had really nailed was tying my shoes. (Laughter) But not so — let me demonstrate. This is the way that most of us were taught to tie our shoes. Now as it turns out — thank you. (Applause) Wait, there's more. As it turns out — (Laughter) there's a strong form and a weak form of this knot, and we were taught the weak form. And here's how to tell. If you pull the strands at the base of the knot, you will see that the bow will orient itself down the long axis of the shoe. That's the weak form of the knot. But not to worry. If we start over and simply go the other direction around the bow, we get this, the strong form of the knot. And if you pull the cords under the knot, you will see that the bow orients itself along the transverse axis of the shoe. This is a stronger knot. It will come untied less often. It will let you down less, and not only that, it looks better. We're going to do this one more time. (Applause) Start as usual — (Applause) go the other way around the loop. This is a little hard for children, but I think you can handle it. Pull the knot. There it is: the strong form of the shoe knot. Now, in keeping with today's theme, I'd like to point out — something you already know — that sometimes a small advantage someplace in life can yield tremendous results someplace else. (Laughter) Live long and prosper. (Applause)"	我總認為TED有一群很棒的聽眾，令人印象深刻、有才智、有知識、有常識、充滿人生經驗並懂得創新。我認為的確如此。但我也有理由相信你們之中有許多人其實鞋帶都綁錯了。 (笑聲) 我知道這好像很好笑。我知道這好像很荒唐。但相信我，我原本也過著同樣可悲的生活，至少三年前是。當時我買了雙對我來說很貴的鞋。那雙鞋有圓尼龍鞋帶，而我卻無法綁好它。於是我回店裡對老闆說:「我愛這雙鞋，但我恨這鞋帶。」他看完後說：「噢！你綁錯了。」在那之前，我一直認為活到了50歲我一定會的生活技能就是綁鞋帶。其實不然 — 讓我示範一下。 這樣是我們多數人綁鞋帶的方式。結果 — 謝謝。等等，還有。結果，這種結有分強跟弱兩種，而我們學的是弱的結。你可以這樣判斷。如果你拉結下方的鞋帶，你會看到蝴蝶結轉動，向下與鞋子的長軸對齊。這是弱的結。 但不用擔心。如果我們重綁，然後簡單地從另外一個方向繞過蝴蝶結，這樣就好了，強的結。如果你拉結下方的鞋帶，你會看到蝴蝶結轉動與鞋子的橫向軸對齊。這是強的結。它比較不易鬆脫。它也比較不會讓你失望。不單如此，它也比較好看。 我們再來做一次。(掌聲)跟平常一樣開始，走另一邊繞過蝴蝶結。這對兒童有點困難，但我認為你們可以應付的。拉這個結。就這樣：強的結。 現在，為了呼應今天的主題，我想說， 這你們或許早就知道了，有時候，生命中的一個小優點也能在其他地方產生極大的影響。 生生不息，繁榮昌盛。(源自星際爭霸戰) (掌聲)
