Talk	en	zh-tw
the_lxd_in_the_internet_age_dance_evolves	"(Music) (Applause) I'm Jon M. Chu. And I'm not a dancer, I'm not a choreographer — I'm actually a filmmaker, a storyteller. I directed a movie two years ago called ""Step Up 2: The Streets."" Anybody? Anybody? Yeah! During that movie I got to meet a ton of hip-hop dancers — amazing, the best in the world — and they brought me into a society, the sort of underground street culture that blew my mind. I mean, this is literally human beings with super-human strength and abilities. They could fly in the air. They could bend their elbow all the way back. They could spin on their heads for 80 times in a row. I'd never seen anything like that. When I was growing up, my heroes were people like Fred Astaire, Gene Kelly, Michael Jackson. I grew up in a musical family. (Laughter) And those guys, those were like, ultimate heroes. Being a shy, little, skinny Asian kid growing up in the Silicon Valley with low self-esteem, those guys made me believe in something bigger. Those guys made me want to, like, ""I'm going to do that moonwalk at that bar mitzvah tonight for that girl."" (Applause) And it seems like those dance heroes have disappeared, sort of relegated to the background of pop stars and music videos. But after seeing what I've seen, the truth is, they have not disappeared at all. They're here, getting better and better every day. And dance has progressed. It is insane what dance is right now. Dance has never had a better friend than technology. Online videos and social networking ... dancers have created a whole global laboratory online for dance, where kids in Japan are taking moves from a YouTube video created in Detroit, building on it within days and releasing a new video, while teenagers in California are taking the Japanese video and remixing it with a Philly flair to create a whole new dance style in itself. And this is happening every day. And from these bedrooms and living rooms and garages, with cheap webcams, lies the world's great dancers of tomorrow. Our Fred Astaires, our Gene Kellys our Michael Jacksons are right at our fingertips, and may not have that opportunity, except for us. So, we created the LXD, sort of a — the Legion of Extraordinary Dancers, a justice league of dancers that believe that dance can have a transformative effect on the world. A living, breathing comic book series, but unlike Spiderman and Iron Man, these guys can actually do it. And we're going to show you some today. So, let me introduce to you, some of our heroes right now. We got Madd Chadd, Lil' C, Kid David and J Smooth. Please be excited, have fun, yell, scream. Ladies and gentlemen: The LXD. (Applause) (Video): Madd Chadd: When people first see me, I get a lot of different reactions actually. Sometimes you would think that maybe kids would enjoy it, but sometimes they get a little freaked out. And, I don't know, I kind of get a kick out of that a little bit. (Music) (Applause) J Smooth: When I'm in the zone — I'm dancing and free styling it — I actually visually kind of picture lines, and moving them. I think of like, Transformers, like how panels open and then they fold, they fold in, and then you close that panel. And then another thing opens, you close that. (Music) (Applause) Kid David: It's kind of like, honestly a lot of times I don't really know what's going on when I'm dancing. Because at that point it's just really like, it's my body and the music. It's not really a conscious decision, ""I'm going to do this next, I'm going to do this."" It's kind of like this other level where you can't make choices anymore, and it's just your body reacting to certain sounds in the music. I got my name just because I was so young. I was young when I started. I was younger than a lot of the people I was dancing with. So, it was always like, they called me Kid David, because I was the kid. (Music) (Applause) L'il C: I tell them to create a ball, and then you just use that ball of energy. And instead of throwing it out, people would think that's a krump move, that's a krump move. That's not a krump move. You're going to throw it out, you throw it out, and you hold it. And you let it go, and then right when you see the tail, you grab it by the tail, then you bring it back in. And you just got this piece of energy and you just, you're manipulating it. You know, you create power, then you tame it. (Music) (Applause) (Music) (Applause)"	(音樂) (掌聲) 我叫朱浩偉，我不是舞者我也不是舞編， 我其實是一個拍電影的、講故事的兩年前我執導了一部電影舞力全開你們誰看過嗎？很好！拍電影的過程中，我認識了一大批嘻哈舞者世界上最神奇，最棒的他們把我帶到了另一個社會， 有點像地下社會街舞文化讓我大吃一驚我意識到這是一群活生生的的人他們有著超常的韌性和能耐他們可以在空中飛，可以把他們的手臂倒彎過來他們能頭頂著地上轉80多次是我以前從來沒有見識過的 我長大的時候，我的偶像是Fred Astaire, Gene Kelly, Michael Jackson.我長在音樂之家(笑聲)而這些傢伙，他們就是終級英雄作爲一個在硅谷長大的瘦小的亞洲孩子有點自卑，這些傢伙讓我相信，我們也可以成就大事這些傢伙讓我想要在成人儀式上爲女孩子們跳月球漫步 (掌聲) 這些舞蹈英雄好像會消失一樣他們常常被當成明星、MV的背景但是當我親眼目睹後覺得他們一點也沒有消失他們在這裡， 變得越來越好舞蹈也有了新進展今天的舞蹈真是令人不可思議的舞蹈沒有比科技更好的朋友了 線上影片，社交網路舞者們創造了一個全球舞蹈的線上研究室日本的孩子們從YouTube上一段在底特律影片上學會新的舞蹈動作然後在那基礎上添加新動作，再發佈一段新影片而加州的青少年則將日本的影片融合Philly特色形成一種全新的舞蹈風格這每天都在發生 從臥室到客廳到車庫用便宜的視訊培養了明日世界偉大的舞者我們的Fred Astaires, 我們的 Gene Kellys我們的Michael Jacksons就在我們的指尖除了我們之外，他們也許沒有這個機會 所以我們建立了The LXD意思是：卓越舞團由一群相信舞蹈可以改變世界的優秀舞者組成他們創造著活生生的動畫系列唯一跟蜘蛛人、鋼鐵人不同的是這些傢伙可以真的辦到我們今天帶來了一些表演，讓我向你們介紹我們中的幾位英雄向各位介紹Madd ChaddLil' C, Kid David, 以及 J Smooth大家嗨起來、大叫吧各位先生女士，The LXD (掌聲) Madd Chadd: 當人們第一次看見我每個人的反應都很不一樣有時候你想，孩子們會喜歡這東西但有時候他們倒是嚇倒了我不知道， 我覺得挺逗的 (音樂) 當我跳舞，我想讓大家質疑我的動作是否真實－Madd Chadd J Smooth: 當我表演的時候， 我邊跳邊自由創作我事實上在想象一些圖片線條， 然後移動它們我想到變形金剛像它們那樣打開折疊模塊它們折疊起來， 然後你關起那一塊然後另一塊打開然後你關起來 (音樂) 重點是細節，我的每一動作都有目的－J Smooth Kid David: 老實說，當我跳舞的時候很多時候，我真的不知道到底發生什麼事因爲那一刻，音樂和我成為一體不是種有意識的決定“我接下來做這個、然後做那個”很像在另一個層面你不再做選擇你的身體對著不同聲音和音樂做出反應我有這綽號，是因爲我很小的時候就開始學舞了，年紀比我一起跳舞的夥伴小很多所以他們都叫我小孩大衛，因爲我就是個小孩 (音樂) 重點不是結果，而是過程－Kid David Lil C: 我告訴他們，做個球然後你就用球帶來的力量你把它扔出去， 人們會覺得那是個Krump舞步，這不是一個krump舞步， 你要把球扔出去扔出去之後握住然後你讓它出去， 而當你看見它的尾巴你抓住它的尾巴，然後把它拉回來你就把握了這股力量然後控制著它創造了一股力量，然後馴服它 (音樂) 我想展現的是重量、能量、空間、與時間的平衡－Lil C (音樂) (掌聲)
