Talk	en	zh-tw
the_jill_and_julia_show	"♫ Jill Sobule: At a conference in Monterey by the big, big jellyfish tank, ♫ ♫ I first saw you and I got so shy. ♫ ♫ You see, I was a little paranoid 'cause I might have been high. ♫ ♫ And I hadn't done that in ages and I won't do that again. ♫ ♫ But that's another story. ♫ ♫ Loved you forever and I've been a big fan, ♫ ♫ the one-woman shows, I even rented ""Pat."" ♫ ♫ I got enough nerve to come up to you, ♫ ♫ but little did I know one year later we'd be doing this show. ♫ ♫ I sing. Julia Sweeney: I tell stories. Together: The Jill and Julia Show. ♫ ♫ Sobule: Sometimes it works. Sweeney: Sometimes it doesn't. ♫ ♫ Together: The Jill and Julia Show. ♫ ♫ Sweeney: At a conference in Monterey next to the big, big jellyfish tank, ♫ ♫ I first saw you and I wasn't so shy. ♫ I made a beeline for you and told you what a huge fan I was ever since I was writing that pilot for Fox, and Wendy and I wanted you to do the theme song. And then the pilot didn't go and I was so sad, but I kept remaining a fan of yours. And then when I went through that big, horrible breakup with Carl and I couldn't get off the couch, I listened to your song, ♫ ""Now That I Don't Have You,"" ♫ over and over and over and over again. And I can't believe you're here and that I'm meeting you here at TED. And also, I can't believe that we're eating sushi in front of the fish tank, which, personally, I think is really inappropriate. (Laughter) (Applause) And little did I know that one year later ... ♫ we'd be doing this show. ♫ ♫ Sobule: I sing. Sweeney: I tell stories. Together: The Jill and Julia Show. ♫ Sobule: Hey, they asked us back! Sweeney: Can you stand it?! ♫ Together: The Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia Show. ♫ ♫ Sobule: Why are all our heroes so imperfect? ♫ ♫ Why do they always bring me down? ♫ ♫ Why are all our heroes so imperfect? ♫ ♫ Statue in the park has lost his crown. ♫ ♫ William Faulkner, drunk and depressed. ♫ Sweeney: Mmm. ♫ Dorothy Parker, mean, drunk and depressed. ♫ Sweeney: I know. ♫ And that guy, ""Seven Years in Tibet,"" turned out to be a Nazi. ♫ Sweeney: Yeah. ♫ Founding fathers all had slaves. ♫ Sweeney: I know. ♫ The explorers slaughtered the braves. ♫ Sweeney: Horribly. ♫ Sobule: The Old Testament God can be so petty. ♫ Sweeney: Don't get me started on that. (Laughter) ♫ Sobule: Paul McCartney, jealous of John, even more so now that he's gone. ♫ ♫ Dylan was so mean to Donovan in that movie. ♫ ♫ Pablo Picasso, cruel to his wives. ♫ Sweeney: Horrible. ♫ Sobule: My favorite poets took their own lives. ♫ ♫ Orson Welles peaked at twenty-five, below before our eyes. ♫ ♫ And he sold bad wine. ♫ ♫ Together: Why are all our heroes so imperfect? Yeah ♫ ♫ Why do they always bring me down? ♫ ♫ Sobule: Heard Babe Ruth was full of malice. ♫ Sweeney: Oh. ♫ Lewis Carroll I'm sure did Alice. ♫ Sweeney: What?! ♫ Plato in the cave with those very young boys. ♫ Sweeney: Ooh... ♫ Sobule: Hillary supported the war. ♫ ♫ Sweeney: Even Thomas Friedman supported the war. ♫ (Laughter) ♫ Sobule: Colin Powell turned out to be ... Together: ... such a pussy. ♫ (Laughter) (Applause) ♫ Sobule: William Faulkner, drunk and depressed, ♫ ♫ Tennessee Williams, drunk and depressed. ♫ Sweeney: Yeah. ♫ Sobule: Take it, Julia. ♫ Sweeney: Okay. Oprah was never necessarily a big hero of mine. I mean, I watch Oprah mostly when I'm home in Spokane visiting my mother. And to my mother, Oprah is a greater moral authority than the Pope, which is actually saying something because she's a devout Catholic. Anyway, I like Oprah — I like her girlfriendy-ness, I like her weight issues, I like how she's transformed talk television, I like how she's brought reading back to America — but there was something that happened the last two weeks that was ... I call it the Soon-Yi moment: it is the moment when I cannot continue supporting someone. And that was that she did two entire shows promoting that movie ""The Secret."" Do you guys know about that movie ""The Secret""? It makes ""What the Bleep Do We Know"" seem like a doctoral dissertation from Harvard on quantum mechanics — that's how bad it is. It makes ""The DaVinci Code"" seem like ""War and Peace."" That movie is so horrible. It promotes such awful pseudoscience. And the basic idea is that there's this law of attraction, and your thoughts have this vibrating energy that goes out into the universe and then you attract good things to happen to you. On a scientific basis, it's more than just ""Power of Positive Thinking"" — it has a horrible, horrible dark side. Like if you get ill, it's because you've just been thinking negative thoughts. Yeah, stuff like that was in the movie and she's promoting it. And all I'm saying is that I really wish that Murray Gell-Mann would go on Oprah and just explain to her that the law of attraction is, in fact, not a law. So that's what I have to say. (Laughter) (Applause) ♫ Sobule: I sing. Sweeney: I tell stories. Together: The Jill and Julia Show. ♫ ♫ Sobule: Sometimes it works. Sweeney: Sometimes it doesn't. ♫ ♫ Together: The Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia Show. ♫ (Applause)"	"♫在蒙特利的一場會議裡，在一個大大的水母魚缸旁♫ ♫我見到了妳，但我非常害羞♫ ♫妳知道嗎，當時我有些偏執，因為我可能已經""興奮""過頭了♫(藥物作用) ♫我已經好多年沒有""興奮""了，而我以後也不會這麼做了♫ ♫不過那是另一回事♫ ♫一直都很欣賞妳，一直都是妳的超級粉絲♫ ♫看了妳的個人秀，甚至還租了妳主演的電影""派蒂""(Pat)♫ ♫我鼓起很大的勇氣走向妳♫ ♫但我幾乎沒有想到一年後我們會在這裡一起表演♫ ♫我唱歌 朱莉亞史溫妮:我說故事　合:潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ ♫索布爾:有時默契十足。 史溫妮:有時混亂十足♫ ♫合：潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ ♫在蒙特利的一場會議裡，在一個大大個水母魚缸旁♫ ♫我見到了妳，但我不怎麼害羞♫ 我往妳的方向直衝，要告訴你我是妳的大粉絲從溫蒂和我開始幫福克斯電視(Fox)寫首集電視劇本時我就希望妳能來唱主題曲但後來電視劇沒能上演，我很難過不過我依舊是妳的粉絲後來，我和卡爾經歷了痛苦的分手我就一直賴在沙發上，聽妳的歌那首♫""失去了你""♫聽了一遍又一遍不敢相信妳會在這，竟然能在TED和妳相見我也不敢置信我們居然吃起壽司而且就在魚缸前我認為這非常的不適當(笑聲)(掌聲) 我真的沒有想到一年後 ♫我們會在這裡一起表演♫ ♫索布爾:我唱歌。 朱莉亞史溫妮:我說故事。 合:潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ 索布爾: 嘿，他們邀我們再次表演。 史溫妮:你們受的了嗎? ♫合:潔兒與茱莉亞，潔兒與茱莉亞，潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ ♫索布爾:為什麼我們所有的英雄都這麼不完美?♫ ♫為什麼他們總是讓我失望♫ ♫為什麼我們所有的英雄都這麼不完美♫ ♫公園裡的雕像失去了王冠♫ ♫威廉福克納(William Faulkner，諾貝爾文學獎) 酗酒又墮落♫ ♫多羅西帕克(Dorothy Parker) 也是刻薄、酗酒、墮落♫ ♫而""火線大逃亡""的故事主角則是個納粹♫ ♫建國之父們也都有過奴隸♫ ♫探險家們殘殺了印第安勇士 (史溫妮:) 非常殘暴♫ ♫(索布爾:) 舊約聖經裡的上帝可以很小氣♫ (史溫妮:) 別再提了 ♫(索布爾:) 保羅麥卡尼(Paul McCartney)一直都忌妒約翰(John)，現在約翰離開了，反而更忌妒♫ ♫在那部電影狄倫(Dylan)對唐娜文(Donavan)非常刻薄♫ ♫畢卡索(Pablo Picasso)對自己太太們也是冷酷無情 (史溫妮:) 非常糟糕 ♫ (索布爾:) 我最喜愛的詩人都選擇結束自己生命 ♫奧森威爾斯(Orson Welles)二十五歲時就達到演藝事業巔峰，但也在我們見證下逐漸發胖♫ ♫還有他賣很劣等的酒♫ ♫(合:)為什麼我們所有的英雄都這麼不完美?♫ ♫為什麼他們總是讓我失望♫ ♫(索布爾:)聽說貝比魯斯(Babe Ruth)非常壞心 ♫ ♫我很確定路易斯卡羅(Lewis Carrol)一定睡過愛麗絲(Alice)♫ ♫柏拉圖(Plato)和一群年輕男孩在洞穴裡 (史溫妮:) 喔嗚...♫ ♫(索布爾:)希拉蕊曾支持戰爭♫ ♫(史溫妮:)湯瑪斯佛里曼也曾支持戰爭♫ ♫科林鮑爾(Colin Powell)則是個 (合) 超級懦夫♫ ♫威廉福克納(William Faulkner) 酗酒又墮落♫ ♫田納西威廉斯(Tennessee Williams) 酗酒又墮落♫ 索布爾: 該妳了朱莉亞 史溫妮: 好。對我來說歐普拉並不算是個大英雄我是說，當我回斯波坎探望我母親時，我幾乎都會收看歐普拉秀而對我母親來說歐普拉是個比教宗還更有道德權威的人物這點很特別，因為她是個虔誠的天主教徒總之，我很喜歡歐普拉，喜歡她那種像女孩般的友善我喜歡她面對體重問題的態度我喜歡她對脫口秀的改變我喜歡她把閱讀習慣重新帶回美國但過去兩個禮拜發生了一件事這件事我稱為""順宜""(Soon-Yi) 瞬間在這一瞬間我不能再繼續支持某人就是她有整整兩場秀都是在宣傳電影""秘密"" (The Secret)你們知道這部電影""秘密""嗎?這部電影讓""我們他X的懂什麼""看起來像是個博士論文像是個哈佛大學的量子力學博士論文 這部電影就是這麼糟它讓電影""達文西密碼""看起來像是小說""戰爭與和平""這部電影太差勁了，它所推崇的是糟糕的偽科學它的基本概念是有一種""吸引力法則""而你的思維都有這種活躍的能量散發到整個宇宙你會吸引好的事情到你身上從科學角度來看，這不僅是""正面思考的力量""它有著極為恐怖的黑暗面。 就像是如果你生病了是因為你一直有負面的想法沒錯，這部電影都是這些玩意，而歐普拉卻是在幫它宣傳我想說的是，我真的希望默理蓋爾曼(Murray Gell-Mann，諾貝爾物理得獎家)能夠上歐普拉秀跟她解釋""吸引力法則""其實根本不存在我要說的就是這些了(笑聲) (掌聲) ♫(索布爾:)我唱歌 (朱莉亞史溫妮:)我說故事　(合:)潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ ♫(索布爾:)有時默契十足 (史溫妮:)有時混亂十足♫ ♫(合) 潔兒與茱莉亞秀，潔兒與茱莉亞秀，潔兒與茱莉亞秀♫ (掌聲)"
