Talk	en	zh-tw
theo_jansen_creates_new_creatures	I would like to tell you about a project which I started about 16 years ago. It's about making new forms of life. And these are made of this kind of tube — electricity tube, we call it in Holland. And we can start a film about that, and we can see a little bit backwards in time. (Video) Narrator: Eventually, these beasts are going to live in herds on the beaches. Theo Jansen is working hard on this evolution. Theo Jansen: I want to put these forms of life on the beaches. And they should survive over there, on their own, in the future. Learning to live on their own — and it'll take couple of more years to let them walk on their own. Narrator: The mechanical beasts will not get their energy from food, but from the wind. The wind will move feathers on their back, which will drive their feet. The beast walks sideways on the wet sand of the beach, with its nose pointed into the wind. As soon as it walks into either the rolling surf or the dry sand, it stops, and walks in the opposite direction. Evolution has generated many species. (Music) This is the Animaris Currens Ventosa. (Music) (Laughter) (Applause) TJ: This is a herd, and it is built according to genetic codes. And it is a sort of race, and each and every animal is different, and the winning codes will multiply. This is the wave, going from left to right. You can see this one. Yes, and now it goes from left to right. This is a new generation, a new family, which is able to store the wind. So, the wings pump up air in lemonade bottles, which are on top of that. And they can use that energy in case the wind falls away, and the tide is coming up, and there is still a little bit of energy to reach the dunes and save their lives, because they are drowned very easily. (Laughter) I could show you this animal. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) So, the proportion of the tubes in this animal is very important for the walking. There are 11 numbers, which I call The 11 Holy Numbers. These are the distances of the tubes which make it walk that way. In fact, it's a new invention of the wheel. It works the same as a wheel. The axis of a wheel stays on the same level, and this hip is staying on the same level as well. In fact, this is better than a wheel, because when you try to drive your bicycle on the beach, you will notice it's very hard to do. And the feet just step over the sand, and the wheel has to touch every piece of the ground in-between. So 5,000 years after the invention of the wheel, we have a new wheel. I will show you, in the next video — can you start it, please? — that very heavy loads can be moved. There's a guy pushing there, behind, but it can also walk on the wind very well. It's 3.2 tons. This is working on the stored wind in the bottles. It has a feeler, where it can feel obstacles and turn around. You see, it's going the other way. Can I have the feeler here? OK. Good. So, they have to survive all the dangers of the beach, and one of the big dangers is the sea. This is the sea. And it must feel the water of the sea. And this is the water feeler, and what's very important is this tube. It sucks in air normally, but when it swallows water, it feels the resistance of it. So, imagine that the animal is walking towards the sea. As soon as it touches the water — you should hear a sound of running air. (Sound of running air) Yes! So if it doesn't feel, it will be drowned, OK? Here we have the brain of the animal. In fact, it is a step counter, and it counts the steps. It's a binary step counter. So as soon it has been to the sea, it changes the pattern of zeroes and ones here. And it always knows where it is on the beach. So it's very simple brain. It says, well, there's the sea, there are dunes, and I'm here. So it's a sort of imagination of the simple world of the beach animal. Thank you. One of the biggest enemies are the storms. This is a part of the nose of the Animaris Percipiere. When the nose of the animal is fixed, the whole animal is fixed. So when the storm is coming up, it drives a pin into the ground. (Laughter) Audience member: Wow! The nose is fixed, the whole animal is fixed. The wind may turn, but the animal will always turn its nose into the wind. Now, another couple of years, and these animals will survive on their own. I still have to help them a lot. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. (Applause)	我想跟大家分享一個創作16 年前我開始進行創造新生命型態的相關創作這些生物的原料是這種管子在荷蘭我們叫它電流管我們開始播放這個創作的影片讓大家看一看過去的狀況 影片解說: 最後，這些怪獸將群居在海灘上泰奧‧揚森對這個生物的進化付出極大的努力 我希望這些新生命被放在海灘上後能存活下來希望未來能獨自生存學習獨自生活不過還需要幾年的時間研究如何讓他們自行走動 影片解說: 這些機械怪獸不是從食物中得到能量，而是利用風風會吹動它們背上的羽毛，帶動他們的腳這隻怪獸在溼溼的海灘上橫著走鼻子朝著風的方向只要走到不平的路面或是乾的沙子上就會停止移動然後向反方向走 演化產生了許多新的物種這個作品是 Animaris Currens Ventosa(掌聲) 這是一個根據遺傳密碼打造出來的族群它也算是一個物種，而且每個怪獸都是獨一無二的最後優勢的個體將繁衍下去 看這隻怪獸，波動從左傳到右而現在是從...沒錯，從左到右這是新的一代，一個新的家族它們可以儲存風當風把空氣打入檸檬汁的瓶子裡就在怪獸的頂部它們可以利用這個能量，萬一風停了或漲潮了，還有一點能量可以使用讓它們能走到沙丘避難，因為它們很容易淹死(笑聲) 我可以展示一下這隻怪獸(掌聲) 謝謝為了能流暢的走動，管子的精確比例是很重要的總共有 11 個數字，我稱為 11 個神聖數字這些使它們能流暢運作的數字代表了管子之間的距離事實上，這是一種新發明的輪子作用的機制跟輪子一樣輪軸必須維持在水平線上還有這些關節也必須保持水平其實，這比輪子還要好用，因為你會發現在海灘上騎腳踏車是很困難的事情怪獸的腳可以跨過沙子上方但輪子必須輾過需要經過的每一吋地因此在發明輪子的 5000 年後我們創造出新的輪子，下一段影片會展示可以麻煩你播放影片嗎?這個龐然大物只要有人在後面推就可以移動但是它也可以利用風靈活走動它有 3.2 噸重 這隻只利用瓶子裡儲存的風來驅動它還有感應器，可以感應路上的阻礙然後轉彎你看這隻怪獸，它往另一個方向走了 可以幫我把感應器拿過來嗎?很好因為他們必須避開海邊的各種危險而海就是最大的危險之一。假設這是海它必須能夠感應到海水這是水的感應器這根管子的重要性就在於，平常它是吸入空氣的然而要是管子中灌入了水，它會感應到對水的排斥現在想像怪獸向海水走去只要一碰到水，你可以聽到類似空氣流動的聲音成功了！如果他沒辦法感應到，就會淹死，是吧？ 現在拿上來的是怪獸的大腦其實這是一個計步器，它會計算步數使用 2 進位的計步器只要它碰到海就會改變 0 和 1 的排序怪獸就會知道自己在海灘的相對位置，這是個簡單的大腦大腦告訴它，那裡是海，那邊有沙丘，我在這邊它幫生活在海邊的怪獸描繪出一個簡單的世界謝謝 另一個生存的最大敵人就是暴風雨這是 Animaris Percipiere 鼻子的一部分一旦怪獸鼻子動不了，整隻怪獸就會固定不動暴風雨來臨時它會把釘子打到土裡。(笑聲)鼻子固定住了，整隻怪獸就固定在地上了風向會改變，但是怪獸會跟著風向變換鼻子方向再過幾年，這些怪獸就能獨自生活現在它們還需要我的多方協助 非常感謝各位先生女士(掌聲)
