Talk	en	zh-tw
thomas_suarez_a_12_year_old_app_developer	"I've always had a fascination for computers and technology, and I made a few apps for the iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad. I'd like to share a couple with you today. My first app was a unique fortune teller called ""Earth Fortune"" that would display different colors of Earth depending on what your fortune was. My favorite and most successful app is ""Bustin Jieber,"" which is — (Laughter) which is a Justin Bieber whack-a-mole. (Laughter) I created it because a lot of people at school disliked Justin Bieber a little bit, so I decided to make the app. So I went to work programming it, and I released it just before the holidays in 2010. A lot of people ask me, how did I make these? A lot of times it's because the person who asked the question wants to make an app also. A lot of kids these days like to play games, but now they want to make them, and it's difficult, because not many kids know where to go to find out how to make a program. I mean, for soccer, you could go to a soccer team. For violin, you could get lessons for a violin. But what if you want to make an app? And the kid's parents might have done some of these things when they were young, but not many parents have written apps. (Laughter) Where do you go to find out how to make an app? Well, this is how I approached it, this is what I did. First of all, I've been programming in multiple other programming languages to get the basics down, such as Python, C, Java, etc. And then Apple released the iPhone, and with it, the iPhone software development kit, and the software development kit is a suite of tools for creating and programming an iPhone app. This opened up a whole new world of possibilities for me, and after playing with the software development kit a little bit, I made a couple of apps, I made some test apps. One of them happened to be ""Earth Fortune,"" and I was ready to put ""Earth Fortune"" on the App Store, and so I persuaded my parents to pay the 99 dollar fee to be able to put my apps on the App Store. They agreed, and now I have apps on the App Store. I've gotten a lot of interest and encouragement from my family, friends, teachers and even people at the Apple Store, and that's been a huge help to me. I've gotten a lot of inspiration from Steve Jobs, and I've started an app club at school, and a teacher at my school is kindly sponsoring my app club. Any student at my school can come and learn how to design an app. This is so I can share my experiences with others. There's these programs called the iPad Pilot Program, and some districts have them. I'm fortunate enough to be part of one. A big challenge is, how should the iPads be used, and what apps should we put on the iPads? So we're getting feedback from teachers at the school to see what kind of apps they'd like. When we design the app and we sell it, it will be free to local districts; and other districts that we sell to — all the money from that will go into the local ed foundations. These days, students usually know a little bit more than teachers with the technology. (Laughter) So — (Laughter) Sorry. (Laughter) So this is a resource to teachers, and educators should recognize this resource and make good use of it. (Laughter) I'd like to finish up by saying what I'd like to do in the future. First of all, I'd like to create more apps, more games. I'm working with a third party company to make an app. I'd like to get into Android programming and development, and I'd like to continue my app club, and find other ways for students to share knowledge with others. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我從小就對電腦和科技深深著迷並為 iPhone, iPod Touch 和 iPad設計了一些 App 應用程式今天要分享幾個例子我的第一個發明是個算命 App，叫做""看天吃飯""螢幕上，地球不同的顏色變化代表著不同的運勢而令我最得意的發明叫做""小 假斯汀""它是一款惡搞小賈斯汀的打地鼠遊戲因為學校裡很多同學都不喜歡小賈斯汀所以我才決定要做這個 App於是我開始寫程式並趕在 2010 年暑假前發表很多人都會問我怎麼發明這些 App？通常，會問這類問題的人多半也想嘗試看看現代小孩子都很愛玩遊戲但他們更想自己做遊戲只是很難因為沒有管道孩子們不知道去哪裡學寫程式大家都知道想學足球可以加入足球隊想學小提琴可以參加小提琴班但如果是要學做 App 呢？父母小時候可能踢過足球拉過小提琴多少可以教孩子一點但有多少父母小時候寫過 App 呢？（笑聲）那到底要上哪學做 App 呢？接下來我要分享我的親身經驗首先，我已經熟用多種程式語言奠定基本功像是 Python、C、Java 等程式語不久，蘋果推出 iPhoneiPhone 軟體開發工具也隨之問世這是一款專門製作 iPhone App 的工具讓我可以天馬行空、激發無限可能一番摸索之後我做了一些 App，並做了測試其中一個叫 ""看天吃飯""因為我很想把它放上 App 商店我就說服了爸媽幫我繳 99 元的註冊費 （美金）我的 App 就這樣上市了我的父母、朋友和老师給了我很多靈感和鼓勵甚至連那些 Apple Store 用戶都給我莫大的幫助Steve Jobs 也給了我很多靈感我在學校成立了 App 研究社很有幸得到老師的大力贊助只要是學校的學生都可以來學做 App這就是我與他人分享經驗的方式目前，美國的某些地區正實行一個以 iPad 代替實體課本的實驗計畫我很有幸是其中一員期間所面臨的最大挑戰是如何妥善利用 iPad以及哪些 App 適合 iPad所以，我們會徵詢老師的意見看他們偏好哪些 App設計好的 App 售出之後付費地區就可免費使用而其收入則捐給當地的教育機構這年頭，學生的科技新知往往比老師發達一點（笑聲）如此看來（笑聲）不好意思（笑聲）所以，這就是老師的資源教育工作者應該意識到這點並善加利用它最後，我想說說未來的計劃第一，我想做更多 App更多遊戲與第三方公司合作開發 App學寫 Android 系統的程式還有繼續經營我的 App 社團繼續想辦法分享新知讓校園知識更普及謝謝 （掌聲）"
