Talk	en	zh-tw
thomas_goetz_it_s_time_to_redesign_medical_data	"I'm going to be talking to you about how we can tap a really underutilized resource in health care, which is the patient, or, as I like to use the scientific term, people. Because we are all patients, we are all people. Even doctors are patients at some point. So I want to talk about that as an opportunity that we really have failed to engage with very well in this country and, in fact, worldwide. If you want to get at the big part — I mean from a public health level, where my training is — you're looking at behavioral issues. You're looking at things where people are actually given information, and they're not following through with it. It's a problem that manifests itself in diabetes, obesity, many forms of heart disease, even some forms of cancer — when you think of smoking. Those are all behaviors where people know what they're supposed to do. They know what they're supposed to be doing, but they're not doing it. Now behavior change is something that is a long-standing problem in medicine. It goes all the way back to Aristotle. And doctors hate it, right? I mean, they complain about it all the time. We talk about it in terms of engagement, or non-compliance. When people don't take their pills, when people don't follow doctors' orders — these are behavior problems. But for as much as clinical medicine agonizes over behavior change, there's not a lot of work done in terms of trying to fix that problem. So the crux of it comes down to this notion of decision-making — giving information to people in a form that doesn't just educate them or inform them, but actually leads them to make better decisions, better choices in their lives. One part of medicine, though, has faced the problem of behavior change pretty well, and that's dentistry. Dentistry might seem — and I think it is — many dentists would have to acknowledge it's somewhat of a mundane backwater of medicine. Not a lot of cool, sexy stuff happening in dentistry. But they have really taken this problem of behavior change and solved it. It's the one great preventive health success we have in our health care system. People brush and floss their teeth. They don't do it as much as they should, but they do it. So I'm going to talk about one experiment that a few dentists in Connecticut cooked up about 30 years ago. So this is an old experiment, but it's a really good one, because it was very simple, so it's an easy story to tell. So these Connecticut dentists decided that they wanted to get people to brush their teeth and floss their teeth more often, and they were going to use one variable: they wanted to scare them. They wanted to tell them how bad it would be if they didn't brush and floss their teeth. They had a big patient population. They divided them up into two groups. They had a low-fear population, where they basically gave them a 13-minute presentation, all based in science, but told them that, if you didn't brush and floss your teeth, you could get gum disease. If you get gum disease, you will lose your teeth, but you'll get dentures, and it won't be that bad. So that was the low-fear group. The high-fear group, they laid it on really thick. They showed bloody gums. They showed puss oozing out from between their teeth. They told them that their teeth were going to fall out. They said that they could have infections that would spread from their jaws to other parts of their bodies, and ultimately, yes, they would lose their teeth. They would get dentures, and if you got dentures, you weren't going to be able to eat corn-on-the-cob, you weren't going to be able to eat apples, you weren't going to be able to eat steak. You'll eat mush for the rest of your life. So go brush and floss your teeth. That was the message. That was the experiment. Now they measured one other variable. They wanted to capture one other variable, which was the patients' sense of efficacy. This was the notion of whether the patients felt that they actually would go ahead and brush and floss their teeth. So they asked them at the beginning, ""Do you think you'll actually be able to stick with this program?"" And the people who said, ""Yeah, yeah. I'm pretty good about that,"" they were characterized as high efficacy, and the people who said, ""Eh, I never get around to brushing and flossing as much as I should,"" they were characterized as low efficacy. So the upshot was this. The upshot of this experiment was that fear was not really a primary driver of the behavior at all. The people who brushed and flossed their teeth were not necessarily the people who were really scared about what would happen — it's the people who simply felt that they had the capacity to change their behavior. So fear showed up as not really the driver. It was the sense of efficacy. So I want to isolate this, because it was a great observation — 30 years ago, right, 30 years ago — and it's one that's laid fallow in research. It was a notion that really came out of Albert Bandura's work, who studied whether people could get a sense of empowerment. The notion of efficacy basically boils down to one — that if somebody believes that they have the capacity to change their behavior. In health care terms, you could characterize this as whether or not somebody feels that they see a path towards better health, that they can actually see their way towards getting better health, and that's a very important notion. It's an amazing notion. We don't really know how to manipulate it, though, that well. Except, maybe we do. So fear doesn't work, right? Fear doesn't work. And this is a great example of how we haven't learned that lesson at all. This is a campaign from the American Diabetes Association. This is still the way we're communicating messages about health. I mean, I showed my three-year-old this slide last night, and he's like, ""Papa, why is an ambulance in these people's homes?"" And I had to explain, ""They're trying to scare people."" And I don't know if it works. Now here's what does work: personalized information works. Again, Bandura recognized this years ago, decades ago. When you give people specific information about their health, where they stand, and where they want to get to, where they might get to, that path, that notion of a path — that tends to work for behavior change. So let me just spool it out a little bit. So you start with personalized data, personalized information that comes from an individual, and then you need to connect it to their lives. You need to connect it to their lives, hopefully not in a fear-based way, but one that they understand. Okay, I know where I sit. I know where I'm situated. And that doesn't just work for me in terms of abstract numbers — this overload of health information that we're inundated with. But it actually hits home. It's not just hitting us in our heads; it's hitting us in our hearts. There's an emotional connection to information because it's from us. That information then needs to be connected to choices, needs to be connected to a range of options, directions that we might go to — trade-offs, benefits. Finally, we need to be presented with a clear point of action. We need to connect the information always with the action, and then that action feeds back into different information, and it creates, of course, a feedback loop. Now this is a very well-observed and well-established notion for behavior change. But the problem is that things — in the upper-right corner there — personalized data, it's been pretty hard to come by. It's a difficult and expensive commodity, until now. So I'm going to give you an example, a very simple example of how this works. So we've all seen these. These are the ""your speed limit"" signs. You've seen them all around, especially these days as radars are cheaper. And here's how they work in the feedback loop. So you start with the personalized data where the speed limit on the road that you are at that point is 25, and, of course, you're going faster than that. We always are. We're always going above the speed limit. The choice in this case is pretty simple. We either keep going fast, or we slow down. We should probably slow down, and that point of action is probably now. We should take our foot off the pedal right now, and generally we do. These things are shown to be pretty effective in terms of getting people to slow down. They reduce speeds by about five to 10 percent. They last for about five miles, in which case we put our foot back on the pedal. But it works, and it even has some health repercussions. Your blood pressure might drop a little bit. Maybe there's fewer accidents, so there's public health benefits. But by and large, this is a feedback loop that's so nifty and too rare. Because in health care, most health care, the data is very removed from the action. It's very difficult to line things up so neatly. But we have an opportunity. So I want to talk about, I want to shift now to think about how we deliver health information in this country, how we actually get information. This is a pharmaceutical ad. Actually, it's a spoof. It's not a real pharmaceutical ad. Nobody's had the brilliant idea of calling their drug Havidol quite yet. But it looks completely right. So it's exactly the way we get health information and pharmaceutical information, and it just sounds perfect. And then we turn the page of the magazine, and we see this — now this is the page the FDA requires pharmaceutical companies to put into their ads, or to follow their ads, and to me, this is one of the most  cynical exercises in medicine. Because we know. Who among us would actually say that people read this? And who among us would actually say that people who do try to read this actually get anything out of it? This is a bankrupt effort at communicating health information. There is no good faith in this. So this is a different approach. This is an approach that has been developed by a couple researchers at Dartmouth Medical School, Lisa Schwartz and Steven Woloshin. And they created this thing called the ""drug facts box."" They took inspiration from, of all things, Cap'n Crunch. They went to the nutritional information box and saw that what works for cereal, works for our food, actually helps people understand what's in their food. God forbid we should use that same standard that we make Cap'n Crunch live by and bring it to drug companies. So let me just walk through this quickly. It says very clearly what the drug is for, specifically who it is good for, so you can start to personalize your understanding of whether the information is relevant to you or whether the drug is relevant to you. You can understand exactly what the benefits are. It isn't this kind of vague promise that it's going to work no matter what, but you get the statistics for how effective it is. And finally, you understand what those choices are. You can start to unpack the choices involved because of the side effects. Every time you take a drug, you're walking into a possible side effect. So it spells those out in very clean terms, and that works. So I love this. I love that drug facts box. And so I was thinking about, what's an opportunity that I could have to help people understand information? What's another latent body of information that's out there that people are really not putting to use? And so I came up with this: lab test results. Blood test results are this great source of information. They're packed with information. They're just not for us. They're not for people. They're not for patients. They go right to doctors. And God forbid — I think many doctors, if you really asked them, they don't really understand all this stuff either. This is the worst presented information. You ask Tufte, and he would say, ""Yes, this is the absolute worst presentation of information possible."" What we did at Wired was we went, and I got our graphic design department to re-imagine these lab reports. So that's what I want to walk you through. So this is the general blood work before, and this is the after, this is what we came up with. The after takes what was four pages — that previous slide was actually the first of four pages of data that's just the general blood work. It goes on and on and on, all these values, all these numbers you don't know. This is our one-page summary. We use the notion of color. It's an amazing notion that color could be used. So on the top-level you have your overall results, the things that might jump out at you from the fine print. Then you can drill down and understand how actually we put your level in context, and we use color to illustrate exactly where your value falls. In this case, this patient is slightly at risk of diabetes because of their glucose level. Likewise, you can go over your lipids and, again, understand what your overall cholesterol level is and then break down into the HDL and the LDL if you so choose. But again, always using color and personalized proximity to that information. All those other values, all those pages and pages of values that are full of nothing, we summarize. We tell you that you're okay, you're normal. But you don't have to wade through it. You don't have to go through the junk. And then we do two other very important things that kind of help fill in this feedback loop: we help people understand in a little more detail what these values are and what they might indicate. And then we go a further step — we tell them what they can do. We give them some insight into what choices they can make, what actions they can take. So that's our general blood work test. Then we went to CRP test. In this case, it's a sin of omission. They have this huge amount of space, and they don't use it for anything, so we do. Now the CRP test is often done following a cholesterol test, or in conjunction with a cholesterol test. So we take the bold step of putting the cholesterol information on the same page, which is the way the doctor is going to evaluate it. So we thought the patient might actually want to know the context as well. It's a protein that shows up when your blood vessels might be inflamed, which might be a risk for heart disease. What you're actually measuring is spelled out in clean language. Then we use the information that's already in the lab report. We use the person's age and their gender to start to fill in the personalized risks. So we start to use the data we have to run a very simple calculation that's on all sorts of online calculators to get a sense of what the actual risk is. The last one I'll show you is a PSA test. Here's the before, and here's the after. Now a lot of our effort on this one — as many of you probably know, a PSA test is a very controversial test. It's used to test for prostate cancer, but there are all sorts of reasons why your prostate might be enlarged. And so we spent a good deal of our time indicating that. We again personalized the risks. So this patient is in their 50s, so we can actually give them a very precise estimate of what their risk for prostate cancer is. In this case it's about 25 percent, based on that. And then again, the follow-up actions. So our cost for this was less than 10,000 dollars, all right. That's what Wired magazine spent on this. Why is Wired magazine doing this? (Laughter) Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp, the two largest lab testing companies — last year, they made profits of over 700 million dollars and over 500 million dollars respectively. Now this is not a problem of resources; this is a problem of incentives. We need to recognize that the target of this information should not be the doctor, should not be the insurance company. It should be the patient. It's the person who actually, in the end, is going to be having to change their lives and then start adopting new behaviors. This is information that is incredibly powerful. It's an incredibly powerful catalyst to change. But we're not using it. It's just sitting there. It's being lost. So I want to just offer four questions that every patient should ask, because I don't actually expect people to start developing these lab test reports. But you can create your own feedback loop. Anybody can create their feedback loop by asking these simple questions: Can I have my results? And the only acceptable answer is — (Audience: Yes.) — yes. What does this mean? Help me understand what the data is. What are my options? What choices are now on the table? And then, what's next? How do I integrate this information into the longer course of my life? So I want to wind up by just showing that people have the capacity to understand this information. This is not beyond the grasp of ordinary people. You do not need to have the education level of people in this room. Ordinary people are capable of understanding this information, if we only go to the effort of presenting it to them in a form that they can engage with. And engagement is essential here, because it's not just giving them information; it's giving them an opportunity to act. That's what engagement is. It's different from compliance. It works totally different from the way we talk about behavior in medicine today. And this information is out there. I've been talking today about latent information, all this information that exists in the system that we're not putting to use. But there are all sorts of other bodies of information that are coming online, and we need to recognize the capacity of this information to engage people, to help people and to change the course of their lives. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我來和大家聊一聊我們如何解決一個醫保方面一直沒有被利用到的資源問題，這個問題就是病人，或者按照科學術語——人。因為我們都是病人，但我們也都是普通人。在某種程度上，醫生也是病人。我想藉此機會說明我們其實在密切關心我們的國家，甚至整個世界方面做得並不好。如果你想從大的方面來看——從公眾健康的層面來看，我將要討論的是一個行為學問題，你會發現人們得到的信息並非全部都能理解。這個問題在糖尿病，肥胖症和很多其他的疾病上都得到了證實，當考慮到吸煙問題，在某些癌症上也存在這樣的問題。對於這些疾病的預防，人們都知道應該怎樣去做才有好處。儘管他們知道應該怎麼做，但他們並沒有那麼做。 這樣一來，行為變化就成了醫學上一個長期存在的問題。這就回到了亞里士多德的行為學觀點：人的行為總是一再重復的。顯然醫生很討厭這種行為，對嗎？因為醫生們總是抱怨。我們可以從約定和不服從的方面來看，如果人們不吃藥，不遵醫囑。這些都是行為問題。和臨床醫學一樣，醫生們對於行為的改變的問題都很頭痛，但是在試圖解決這個問題上，人們並沒有做什麼努力。因此解決這個問題的關鍵落到了做決定的方法上——應該以某種方式給人們提供信息，這種方式不僅僅是教育或者告知他們，而實際上是引導他們在生活中做出更好的決定和選擇。 其中行為改變的問題在體現最明顯到的一個醫學分支便是牙科。我認為，當然很多牙醫自己也承認，牙科學在某種程度上是醫學的一個普遍的死角。那些又酷又帥的醫生並非無緣無故的混在牙科。他們確實把行為變化做爲一個問題來研究並解決這些問題。這在我們的醫保體系中的確是個很好的健康預防的成功案例。人們都刷牙並且用牙線剔牙。他們並沒有按照所需要的那麼多次來刷牙，但是他們確實刷牙了。 接下來我想和大家分享一個實驗，這是一個30年前在美國康州做的實驗。看起來這的確是個老試驗了，但他確實很能說明問題。因為它很簡單，也很容易說明。這些康州牙醫的目的是讓人們更頻繁的刷牙並且使用牙線清理牙齒。他們需要用一個變量來分析這個實驗。他們想要嚇唬人們。他們想要告訴人們如果不刷牙和不用牙線洗牙將會有多麼糟糕。他們有很多病人可以參與這個實驗。實驗人員將這些病人分成兩組。一組是低恐慌人群，實驗員給這組人看了一段13分鐘的講解，都是基於科學的，但是只告訴他們，如果不刷牙不用牙線洗牙，那麽可能會的牙周病，如果得了牙周病，就會失去牙齒，但是還可以戴假牙，情況就沒那麼可怕。這就是低恐慌人群實驗。下面是高恐慌人群組，實驗人員在這一組下了猛料。他們給這一組看了血淋淋的牙齦，看了牙縫參差不齊的口腔，告訴被實驗者的牙齒即將脫落，告訴他們可能會得傳染病而且病菌可能從他們的嘴巴擴散到身體的其他部位，最總，他們將會失去牙齒。雖然也可以戴假牙，但是帶假牙就不能再吃烤甜玉米，不能吃蘋果，不能吃牛排；下半輩子將只能吃濃粥度日。所以趕緊去刷牙去剔牙線吧。情況就是這樣，實驗就是這麽進行的。 接著他們測試了另一個變量。他們想要得到的變量是病人們自己的主觀能動性。這是一種意識，就是病人們是否意識到他們實際上願意去刷牙並剔牙縫。所以實驗的開始醫生就會問病人們：「你們確定可以堅持到底嗎？」如果有人回答：「沒問題，我可以做到」，他們就屬於能夠發揮主觀能動性的一組，如果有人回答：「額，我們從來沒考慮過要刷那麼多次牙並且剔牙線」，那麽，他們就屬於缺乏主觀能動性的一組。由此得到的結論是這樣的。實驗表明恐懼並非行為的主要動機。按要求刷牙和剔牙的人並不一定是對不刷牙肯可能帶來的後果感到恐懼的人——而僅僅是認為自己有能力來改變自己行為的人。因此說明恐懼並不能成為改變行為的動機，而這個動機應該是人們自己的主觀能動性。 我特別拿出這個例子來看，是因為這的確是個很棒的觀察結果，沒錯，是30年前的結論，也是一直深藏在研究界中的結論。這個想法來源於Albert Bandura的著作，該著作研究的是人們是否有行動力。能動性的概念基本上歸結爲人們是否相信他們有改變自己行為的能力。在醫療方面，我們可以概括爲人們是否意識到獲得健康的途徑，也就是說人們可以實實在在的看到自己正在朝著越來越健康的方向發展。這的確是很重要的一個觀點。也是一個驚人的觀點。我們也不知道如何很好的運用這個觀點，除非我們嘗試者去做。 所以恐懼看起來並不起作用。這也是個很好的例子，說明我們根本還沒意識到這個層面。下面是美國糖尿病協會的一張運動。也是目前醫療健康方面仍舊使用的一種信息交流方式。可以來看這張圖，我昨天晚上給三歲的孩子看了這張幻燈片，然後他說：「爸爸，為什麼救護車會在人們的家裡呢？」我只能解釋：「這是在嚇唬人們而已。」其實我也不知道這樣是否有用。 那麽怎樣才能有用呢？答案就是給人們提供個性化的參考數據。同樣，Bandura在幾十年前就認識到了整個方法。當給人們提供一些具體的信息，可以使關於他們健康的，關於目前所處情況的，和他們想要得到的以及可能得到的健康狀況的信息。也就是通過這種途徑給人們展示個性化的信息概念，將會在行為改變上起作用。接著，我會把整個概念更加清晰化。當開始從每個個體得到個人化的數據和信息後，接著需要做的是將這些數據和信息跟每個人的生活聯繫起來。沒錯，需要和每個人的生活聯繫起來才行，當然不能以一種令人感到恐慌的方式，而是一種人們可以理解的方式聯繫起來。這樣一來，人們就可以知道自己所處的情況和所面臨的問題。而那些以抽象的數字存在的信息對我們來說就根本沒用了，雖然這種我們本來就不懂的健康信息總是像洪水一樣向我們撲來，但是這些信息的確反映的是根源。這些信息不僅在思維上影響我們，也在心理上給我們警示。這就是所謂的在情緒上和客觀信息達到了相通，也正是因為這些信息來源於我們自己。接著這些信息需要和選擇聯繫起來，需要和各種各樣的選項聯繫起來，並且引導我們的行動——也許要權衡各種利益。最後，我們需要看到一個清晰的行動方向。一直伴隨我們的應該是把信息和行動聯繫起來，接著行動再反饋成不同的信息，當然，這樣最終就形成了一個反饋環。 這樣就形成了一套便於觀察和建立的方法，專門用於行為改變。但問題是，圖中右上角的個人數據總是難以獲得的。到目前為止，個人數據還是一種非常難以取得並且昂貴的商品。那麽我就來展示一個非常簡單的例子，說明一下這項工作是如何進行的。我們都看過這個圖，限速標誌。這是大家在任何地方都能看到的，特別是在雷達越來越便宜的今天。下面我們可以看一下在反饋環中如何實現這項任務。一開始你的個人數據是這樣的，當你到這個限速牌的時候你的車速是32，而限速牌上的標識是25，顯然，你超速了。我們總是超速。在這個例子中選擇是非常簡單的。我們要麽繼續超速，要麼減速。我們可能應該減速，那麽就馬上行動。我們應該立刻把腳從油門上鬆開。我們通常就是這麼做的，從讓人們減速這件事來看，這幅圖顯示的閉環方案非常有用。這個方法使人們減速了百分之五到百分之十。並且保持大約五英哩，然後才把腳踩回油門上。但這的確起作用了，甚至還帶來了一些健康的效應。血壓可能也降低了一些吧。可能也減少了事故，因此的確給公眾健康帶來了益處。 但是大體上，這是一個很漂亮也很罕見的反饋環。因為在醫療保健中，或者說大多數醫保中，數據是和行動分開來的。這就很難把各項事物分得如此清晰。但是我們是有這樣的機會的。那麽接下來我就要轉而談談在這個國家我們是如何傳達這些健康信息的，以及我們如何能得到這些信息。我們來看一個藥的廣告。其實這是個欺詐廣告，而非真的藥品廣告。到目前為止還沒有什麼好辦法能做到Havidol真的宣稱能做到的那樣。（Havidol號稱是目前唯一一種能治療由於社會關注度缺乏而造成的焦慮症的藥）但是這廣告看起來好極了。這也正是得到我們的健康信息和藥物信息的方法，而這看上去的確很好。接著我們翻到雜誌的這一頁，我们可以看到這樣的情況。沒錯，這就是食品及藥物管理局要求製藥公司放在廣告裡或者寫在廣告後面的說明。在我看來，這是對醫藥體系的一種諷刺。因為我們都知道這些。而在座的各位誰會去真的閱讀這些說明呢？或者在座的各位有誰試圖去讀這些說明並且從中獲益呢?這些信息在獲得醫療信息上簡直就是徒勞。所以根本沒人信這玩意。 接下來是另一種不同的辦法。是達特茅斯醫學院的一些專家們想出來的辦法。Lisa Schwartz和Steven Woloshin教授研究出來的辦法。他們把這種辦法稱之為藥物成分表。他們主要是從脆谷樂得到的靈感。他們看到脆谷樂盒子上的營養信息說明欄，現實了各類食品的成分以及我們吃的食物的成分，這些信息幫人們知道了自己吃的東西里都有些什麽。天曉得我們也可以把脆谷樂的方法和標準帶到藥品公司來。我們來很快看一下這是如何實現的。在藥物成份表中，很清楚地表明某種藥是用來治療什麽病的，它的好處在哪裡，這樣你就可以根據自己的理解標註這些信息是否和你有關，或者說這種藥是否和你的健康狀況有關。這樣你就能清楚的知道藥的益處到底在哪裡。就不像從前那樣含糊的給你保證無論如何肯定對你的健康有好處，而是你自己根據這些清晰的數據來決定到底有什麼好處。最後，你就會明白怎麽選擇自己需要的藥品。你可以還可以根據副作用的情況來選擇你需要的藥品。當然無論吃什麼藥，都是可能會產生副作用的。但是你可以清晰的看到這些副作用是什麼，這樣就很有幫助。 我很喜歡藥物成份表的這一點。接著我開始思考，怎樣可以讓我幫助大家理解這些信息呢？有什麼其他潛在的信息人們可能沒有意識到呢？由此我得到了這個：實驗測試結果。血液檢測報告就是這類當中最重要的信息。血液測試報告的信息量很大。但這種報告不是給我們的，不是給普通人的，也不是給病人的。只有醫生可以看懂。而天知道，我覺得你要是真去問，恐怕很多醫生也不一定能懂這些測試數據。如果你去問Tufte，他肯定會說，這是給人們看的最差的信息設計了。（Edward Tufte，美國著名的數據學家，以信息設計著稱。） 在Wired做的就是讓我們的圖形設計部門重新設計這些實驗報告。（Wired是美國一家著重於科技如何影響文化、經濟和政治的雜誌。）這也是我想讓在座各位看到的。這是之前看到的那張血液檢測報告，而這張是經過我們重新設計的檢查報告。後者其實一共有四頁－幻燈片只顯示了概括的血液分析信息。來來回回都是這些你不懂的測試值和數字。而這就是我們的一頁彙總。我們用顔色加以區分。其實能用顔色特征加以區分是很棒的。在最上面一欄是你的總體檢查結果，這些要點可能很吸引你。然後你可以詳細往下看，弄明白我們是如何把你的情況寫在報告裡的，通過顔色來表明你的測試結果是什麼。在這個測試報告中，根據葡萄糖含量可以看到這個病人只有輕微的糖尿病。 同樣，你可以看到你的油脂含量，然後知道你的總體膽固醇情況，進而可以分解來看高密度膽固醇和低密度膽固醇程度。無論如何，都會用顔色標出個人臨近的檢測信息。所有其他的數值，所有那些整頁整頁沒用的數值，我們都會概括起來給予總結。最終會告訴你情況不錯，你很正常。你不用費力就把這些都看完了。除此之外，我們還會做兩件很重要的事情，也就是之前那個反饋環所缺少的部分。我們讓人們來明白一些更多的細節，也就是這些數值是什麼和他們有什麼涵義。更進一步，我們告訴人們能做什麼。我們會給大家進一步看看有什麼選擇，可以採取什麼樣的行動。這就是一份基本的血液測試報告。 我們再來看一份C反應蛋白測試。上面這張報告簡直就是巨大的疏漏。紙張下面這麼大一張空白居然什麽也沒有，既然他們不利用，那我們來利用這一片空白地。目前C反應蛋白測試通常都緊跟著膽固醇測試後面做，或者和膽固醇測試一並進行。因此我們大膽的把膽固醇測試結果和C反應蛋白測試結果放在同一頁上，這樣一來，醫生也方便評估。當然，病人也想知道這些內容實際上都是些什麽.這是一種蛋白質，當你的血管有炎症的時候，它就會被測試出來，這也是可能得心臟疾病的一種反映。這樣一來病人們正在做的一些測試是什麼就可以容易的講清楚了。接著我們可以用一些實驗室報告中已經有的信息。我們可以用人們的年齡和性別信息來幫他們弄清楚個人患病的風險。我們把這些已有的數據在各種各樣的網上計算器上做一個簡單的計算，就可以得到實際的風險到底有多少。 最後要給大家看的是前列腺特異性抗原測試。這是我們修改之前的，這是修改之後的。我們在這一項測試報告上花了很大功夫——可能很多人都知道，前列腺特異性抗原測試是一項頗有爭議的測試。它是用來做前列腺癌症的測試，但是實際上有各種各樣的原因可能導致前列腺放大。因此我們花了很多時間來向患者指出這一點。同樣我們會給出個人的患病風險。根據這位病人50多歲，我們可以精確估計出他患前列腺癌的機率。根據測試結果，這個案例大約是25%的機率。接著還是跟蹤的情況。 我們在跟蹤病人這方面的花費不到10000美金。這也正是在線雜志花錢做的事兒。為什麼在線雜誌要做這些呢？（笑聲）Quest Diagnostics和LabCorp是兩個最大的實驗室測試公司。去年，它們分別掙了超過7億和5億美金。這麽看來資源根本不是問題，問題在於動機。我們需要意識到這些信息的目標不是醫生，也不是保險公司，而是病人，實際上目標應該是人，是讓人們能夠改變他們的生活並且開始適應新的行為方式。 這些信息有很強大的力量來敦促人們改變自己的行為。然而這些信息一直在那兒，只是我們沒用而已。漸漸的可能這些信息也就丟了。因此我提出四個問題，這些問題每個病人都應該要問，因為實際上我並沒有期待人們真的開始像這樣來做實驗測試報告。但是你可以創建屬於自己的反饋環。任何人可以通過問以下幾個簡單的問題來獲得自己的反饋環：我能拿回我的測試結果嗎？這個問題只可能有一個答案，那就是——（觀眾：可以）——是的。這項測試是什麼意思？幫我弄清楚這些數據是什麼意思吧。我有什麼選擇嗎？表格上有什麼我能做的嗎？接著下面這一項呢？我能做什麼呢？我怎樣可以在我以後的生活中利用這些信息呢？ 最後結束之前我想告訴大家，每個人都有能力來理解這些信息。這並非超出普通人可理解的範圍。不需要像今天在座各位的教育程度，普通人就可以理解這些信息，只要我們盡力去表達這些信息，當然要用一種人們可以做到的方式。讓人們參與進來至關重要，因為這不僅僅是提供一些信息，更重要的是給他們機會行動。這就是參與行動，這和簡單的承諾是不同的。這和在當今醫學上我們做討論的行為是完全不同的。這些信息就是這樣。 我今天談到了潛在的信息，就是存在於我們的系統中但是並沒有被用起來的信息。還有各種各樣網上即將會有的大量的信息。我們需要認識到這些信息的力量是可以吸引人們參與進來，幫助人們，並且改變大家的生活道路。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
