Talk	en	zh-tw
thomas_insel_toward_a_new_understanding_of_mental_illness	"So let's start with some good news, and the good news has to do with what do we know based on biomedical research that actually has changed the outcomes for many very serious diseases? Let's start with leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, ALL, the most common cancer of children. When I was a student, the mortality rate was about 95 percent. Today, some 25, 30 years later, we're talking about a mortality rate that's reduced by 85 percent. Six thousand children each year who would have previously died of this disease are cured. If you want the really big numbers, look at these numbers for heart disease. Heart disease used to be the biggest killer, particularly for men in their 40s. Today, we've seen a 63-percent reduction in mortality from heart disease — remarkably, 1.1 million deaths averted every year. AIDS, incredibly, has just been named, in the past month, a chronic disease, meaning that a 20-year-old who becomes infected with HIV is expected not to live weeks, months, or a couple of years, as we said only a decade ago, but is thought to live decades, probably to die in his '60s or '70s from other causes altogether. These are just remarkable, remarkable changes in the outlook for some of the biggest killers. And one in particular that you probably wouldn't know about, stroke, which has been, along with heart disease, one of the biggest killers in this country, is a disease in which now we know that if you can get people into the emergency room within three hours of the onset, some 30 percent of them will be able to leave the hospital without any disability whatsoever. Remarkable stories, good-news stories, all of which boil down to understanding something about the diseases that has allowed us to detect early and intervene early. Early detection, early intervention, that's the story for these successes. Unfortunately, the news is not all good. Let's talk about one other story which has to do with suicide. Now this is, of course, not a disease, per se. It's a condition, or it's a situation that leads to mortality. What you may not realize is just how prevalent it is. There are 38,000 suicides each year in the United States. That means one about every 15 minutes. Third most common cause of death amongst people between the ages of 15 and 25. It's kind of an extraordinary story when you realize that this is twice as common as homicide and actually more common as a source of death than traffic fatalities in this country. Now, when we talk about suicide, there is also a medical contribution here, because 90 percent of suicides are related to a mental illness: depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, anorexia, borderline personality. There's a long list of disorders that contribute, and as I mentioned before, often early in life. But it's not just the mortality from these disorders. It's also morbidity. If you look at disability, as measured by the World Health Organization with something they call the Disability Adjusted Life Years, it's kind of a metric that nobody would think of except an economist, except it's one way of trying to capture what is lost in terms of disability from medical causes, and as you can see, virtually 30 percent of all disability from all medical causes can be attributed to mental disorders, neuropsychiatric syndromes. You're probably thinking that doesn't make any sense. I mean, cancer seems far more serious. Heart disease seems far more serious. But you can see actually they are further down this list, and that's because we're talking here about disability. What drives the disability for these disorders like schizophrenia and bipolar and depression? Why are they number one here? Well, there are probably three reasons. One is that they're highly prevalent. About one in five people will suffer from one of these disorders in the course of their lifetime. A second, of course, is that, for some people, these become truly disabling, and it's about four to five percent, perhaps one in 20. But what really drives these numbers, this high morbidity, and to some extent the high mortality, is the fact that these start very early in life. Fifty percent will have onset by age 14, 75 percent by age 24, a picture that is very different than what one would see if you're talking about cancer or heart disease, diabetes, hypertension — most of the major illnesses that we think about as being sources of morbidity and mortality. These are, indeed, the chronic disorders of young people. Now, I started by telling you that there were some good-news stories. This is obviously not one of them. This is the part of it that is perhaps most difficult, and in a sense this is a kind of confession for me. My job is to actually make sure that we make progress on all of these disorders. I work for the federal government. Actually, I work for you. You pay my salary. And maybe at this point, when you know what I do, or maybe what I've failed to do, you'll think that I probably ought to be fired, and I could certainly understand that. But what I want to suggest, and the reason I'm here is to tell you that I think we're about to be in a very different world as we think about these illnesses. What I've been talking to you about so far is mental disorders, diseases of the mind. That's actually becoming a rather unpopular term these days, and people feel that, for whatever reason, it's politically better to use the term behavioral disorders and to talk about these as disorders of behavior. Fair enough. They are disorders of behavior, and they are disorders of the mind. But what I want to suggest to you is that both of those terms, which have been in play for a century or more, are actually now impediments to progress, that what we need conceptually to make progress here is to rethink these disorders as brain disorders. Now, for some of you, you're going to say, ""Oh my goodness, here we go again. We're going to hear about a biochemical imbalance or we're going to hear about drugs or we're going to hear about some very simplistic notion that will take our subjective experience and turn it into molecules, or maybe into some sort of very flat, unidimensional understanding of what it is to have depression or schizophrenia. When we talk about the brain, it is anything but unidimensional or simplistic or reductionistic. It depends, of course, on what scale or what scope you want to think about, but this is an organ of surreal complexity, and we are just beginning to understand how to even study it, whether you're thinking about the 100 billion neurons that are in the cortex or the 100 trillion synapses that make up all the connections. We have just begun to try to figure out how do we take this very complex machine that does extraordinary kinds of information processing and use our own minds to understand this very complex brain that supports our own minds. It's actually a kind of cruel trick of evolution that we simply don't have a brain that seems to be wired well enough to understand itself. In a sense, it actually makes you feel that when you're in the safe zone of studying behavior or cognition, something you can observe, that in a way feels more simplistic and reductionistic than trying to engage this very complex, mysterious organ that we're beginning to try to understand. Now, already in the case of the brain disorders that I've been talking to you about, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, while we don't have an in-depth understanding of how they are abnormally processed or what the brain is doing in these illnesses, we have been able to already identify some of the connectional differences, or some of the ways in which the circuitry is different for people who have these disorders. We call this the human connectome, and you can think about the connectome sort of as the wiring diagram of the brain. You'll hear more about this in a few minutes. The important piece here is that as you begin to look at people who have these disorders, the one in five of us who struggle in some way, you find that there's a lot of variation in the way that the brain is wired, but there are some predictable patterns, and those patterns are risk factors for developing one of these disorders. It's a little different than the way we think about brain disorders like Huntington's or Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease where you have a bombed-out part of your cortex. Here we're talking about traffic jams, or sometimes detours, or sometimes problems with just the way that things are connected and the way that the brain functions. You could, if you want, compare this to, on the one hand, a myocardial infarction, a heart attack, where you have dead tissue in the heart, versus an arrhythmia, where the organ simply isn't functioning because of the communication problems within it. Either one would kill you; in only one of them will you find a major lesion. As we think about this, probably it's better to actually go a little deeper into one particular disorder, and that would be schizophrenia, because I think that's a good case for helping to understand why thinking of this as a brain disorder matters. These are scans from Judy Rapoport and her colleagues at the National Institute of Mental Health in which they studied children with very early onset schizophrenia, and you can see already in the top there's areas that are red or orange, yellow, are places where there's less gray matter, and as they followed them over five years, comparing them to age match controls, you can see that, particularly in areas like the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex or the superior temporal gyrus, there's a profound loss of gray matter. And it's important, if you try to model this, you can think about normal development as a loss of cortical mass, loss of cortical gray matter, and what's happening in schizophrenia is that you overshoot that mark, and at some point, when you overshoot, you cross a threshold, and it's that threshold where we say, this is a person who has this disease, because they have the behavioral symptoms of hallucinations and delusions. That's something we can observe. But look at this closely and you can see that actually they've crossed a different threshold. They've crossed a brain threshold much earlier, that perhaps not at age 22 or 20, but even by age 15 or 16 you can begin to see the trajectory for development is quite different at the level of the brain, not at the level of behavior. Why does this matter? Well first because, for brain disorders, behavior is the last thing to change. We know that for Alzheimer's, for Parkinson's, for Huntington's. There are changes in the brain a decade or more before you see the first signs of a behavioral change. The tools that we have now allow us to detect these brain changes much earlier, long before the symptoms emerge. But most important, go back to where we started. The good-news stories in medicine are early detection, early intervention. If we waited until the heart attack, we would be sacrificing 1.1 million lives every year in this country to heart disease. That is precisely what we do today when we decide that everybody with one of these brain disorders, brain circuit disorders, has a behavioral disorder. We wait until the behavior becomes manifest. That's not early detection. That's not early intervention. Now to be clear, we're not quite ready to do this. We don't have all the facts. We don't actually even know what the tools will be, nor what to precisely look for in every case to be able to get there before the behavior emerges as different. But this tells us how we need to think about it, and where we need to go. Are we going to be there soon? I think that this is something that will happen over the course of the next few years, but I'd like to finish with a quote about trying to predict how this will happen by somebody who's thought a lot about changes in concepts and changes in technology. ""We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next 10."" — Bill Gates. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	讓我們用一些好消息來開始這些好消息是我們基於在生物醫學研究裏一些確實改變了許多嚴重疾病的成果所得的資訊有關 我們從白血病談起急性淋巴性白血病，簡稱ALL最常見的兒童癌症在我學生時期其死亡率約為 95％25，30年後的今天其死亡率已下降 85％每年有6000名過去將死於這種疾病的兒童獲得治癒如果你想看到更顯著的進展請看這些心臟病統計數據心臟病曾經是健康的頭號殺手尤其對40多歲的男性而言今天，我們發現心臟病死亡率已下降 63％每年死亡人數減少110萬，一個值得注意的數字上個月，愛滋病，難以置信的被歸類為慢性疾病意味著遭受愛滋病毒感染的一個20歲年輕人將不僅存活幾星期，幾個月或幾年如我們十年前所預期的而有機會存活數十年或許在60或70歲死於其他成因這是相當驚人的改善對一些致命疾病的前景而言尤其是其中一種你或許不知道－中風它通常伴隨心臟病是我國死亡率最高的疾病之一現在我們知道，以這種疾病來說如果能及時將病患者送入急診室在發病三小時內約 30％的 病患者能平安出院沒有任何後遺症 令人驚嘆的故事人類的福音這一切的結果是瞭解某些關於疾病的資訊，使我們能早期發現、早期處理早期發現、早期處理這是人類對抗疾病的勝利史 不幸的是，並非全都是好消息我們談談另一個故事和自殺有關這個，當然，本身並非疾病而是導致死亡的條件或情況你或許不知道這種情形多麼普遍美國每年有38,000人自殺意味著大約每15分鐘一位它是15至25歲年齡層中第三大死亡原因這是令人震驚的故事，當你瞭解因此死亡的人數為謀殺的兩倍事實上，以我國來說這是比交通事故更常見的死因現在，當我們談到自殺醫學上對這方面的研究亦有貢獻因為 90％ 的自殺是與精神疾病有關憂鬱症、躁鬱症、精神分裂症厭食症、邊緣型人格許多精神疾病與此有關如我之前提過的這些疾病往往發生於人生早期 但自殺不僅與這些疾病的死亡率有關也與其發病率有關如果觀察致殘程度根據世界衛生組織以所謂的「傷殘調整生命年」所做的衡量沒人想到它會成為一種度量單位除了經濟學家它是一種估算健康壽命損失的方法藉由醫學因素導致的失能如各位所見在所有醫學因素導致的失能中，約30％歸因於精神障礙精神症狀 你或許認為這並不合理我的意思是，癌症似乎更加嚴重心臟病似乎更加嚴重但各位可以看見事實上它們位於這張列表下方因為我們所討論的是失能導致這些疾病產生失能情況的原因是什麽？例如精神分裂症、躁鬱症和憂鬱症？為何它們在這張列表中獨占鰲頭？ 有三個可能原因第一，這些疾病非常普遍大約五分之一的人將罹患其中一種在人生過程中第二，當然，對某些人來說這會造成真正的失能比例約為4％～5％，或許20人中即有1人但真正造成這些數據、這種高罹患率以某種程度來說亦是高死亡率的原因是在於這些疾病發生於人生早期50％ 病患將在14歲前發病75％ 病患將在24歲前發病這是截然不同的情形相較於癌症或心臟病糖尿病、高血壓等大多數主要疾病即我們一般認為的罹病和死亡原因這確實是屬於年輕人的慢性病 現在，我以一些好消息作開場白顯然這並非其中之一這或許是其中最難以啟齒的部分以某種意義來說，這算是我的告解我的工作是確保在這所有疾病上取得進展我為聯邦政府工作事實上是為你們工作，你們付我薪水或許以這點來說，當你們知道我所做的事或我無法做到的事之後你們會認為我應該被解僱我當然明白這一點但我想提出的建議和我來在這裡的原因是告訴你們，我認為我們應該以截然不同的觀點看待這些疾病 到目前為止我一直使用精神障礙這個詞彙精神方面的疾病事實上，現今這已成為一個相當不受歡迎詞彙人們認為－無論出於何種原因原則上最好使用行為障礙這個詞彙稱這些疾病為行為障礙確實，它們屬於行為障礙亦屬於精神障礙但我想提出的建議是這兩個詞彙使用超過一世紀的詞彙事實上阻礙了進展我們必須在觀念上取得的進展是將這些疾病歸類為腦部障礙 現在，有些人會說「天哪，又來了」「我們將聽到關於生化失衡」「或關於藥物的知識」「或聽到一些過度簡化的觀念」「將我們的主觀經驗」「轉變成分子層面的理解，或某種」「單純而簡要的概念」「說明它與憂鬱症或精神分裂症的關係」 當我們談到大腦時，絕非單純、簡要或可簡化的概念當然，這取決於你打算以何種層面或範圍思考但大腦是一個相當複雜的器官我們才剛開始瞭解如何去研究它，無論你考量的是皮層中上百億個神經元或上千億個連接神經元的突觸我們才剛開始試著瞭解如何研究這個複雜至極的機器它能進行驚人的訊息處理程序用我們本身的大腦理解這個掌控人類心智、複雜至極的大腦這可說是演化的殘酷把戲我們並未擁有聰明到足以理解它本身的大腦以某種程度來說，它確實使你感到當你處於學習行為或認知的安全區域時你可觀察到某些東西以某種較為單純和直接的方式感受而非試著參與這個複雜而神秘至極的器官運作我們正開始試著瞭解它 現在，以腦部障礙為例如演講中提及的憂鬱症、強迫症創傷後壓力症候群我們尚無法深入瞭解其運作的異常之處或大腦和這些疾病的關係我們已能確定一些連接上的差異，或某些通訊線路上的差異對罹患這些疾病的人來說我們稱之為人類連接組你可以將連接組想成類似大腦接線圖你將在幾分鐘內聽見更多相關敘述其中一個重要關鍵是，當你開始觀察罹患這些疾病的人，我們當中的五分之一以某種程度來說正與其抗爭你將發現其中存在許多變化以大腦接線方式而言但其中存在一些可預測的模式，這些模式對這些疾病的發展來說是危險因素這與我們對腦部障礙的認知稍有不同例如亨丁頓氏症帕金森氏症或阿爾海默症其原因在於大腦皮層某部分受到損害我們所談論的是線路阻塞，有時是繞道而行有時問題僅在於線路連接方式及大腦運作方式如果有興趣，你可以將它與心肌梗塞、心臟病發作比較其原因在於心臟組織壞死想比與心律不整，器官無法正常運作因為其中存在通訊問題兩者均足以致命但你僅能在其中一種當中發現主要病變 當我們思考這一點時，或許最好稍微深入探討某種特定疾病，即精神分裂症因為我認為這是很好的例子有助於理解為何可將其視為一種腦部障礙這是 Judy Rapoport 和她同事所做的掃描圖來自美國國家心理衛生研究院他們研究罹患早發性精神分裂症的兒童你可以看見上方圖片中已出現紅色、橙色或黃色區域這是灰質較少的地方他們追蹤這些兒童五年將他們與同齡的控制組比較你可以看見尤其在這些區域當中，例如前額葉皮質或顳葉顳上回，存在嚴重的灰質喪失情況這十分重要，如果你試著將其模式化你可將正常發展視為皮質喪失、灰質喪失的過程精神分裂症的情況則是超越這個標度在某個時刻，當超越這個標度時相當於跨越一個門檻，而這個門檻即是我們對這些精神分裂症患者的定義因為他們開始出現行為症狀例如幻覺和妄想這是我們可觀察到的部分但仔細觀察這張圖，你可以看見事實上他們跨越了另一道門檻他們在相當早期即跨越大腦的門檻也許不是在22或20歲而是在15或16歲，你可以開始看見其發展軌跡截然不同以大腦層面而言，而非行為層面 為何這十分重要？好，主要原因是對腦部障礙來說行為是最後發生改變的部分我們知道阿茲海默症帕金森氏症、亨丁頓症皆是如此大腦發生變化十年或更長時間後才能看見行為改變的最初跡象目前的工具可使我們早期檢測這些腦部的變化，遠早於症狀的出現但最重要的是，回到演講開頭部分醫學上的福音是早期發現、早期處理如果等到心臟病發作我國每年將因心臟病損失110萬人的生命這正是我們目前的處境當我們確定每位擁有其中一種腦部障礙大腦線路異常的病患都將發生行為障礙時卻等到行為發生變化才著手處理這並非早期發現、早期處理 坦白說，我們尚未準備好進行這件事我們還不明白所有事實事實上我們甚至不知道可使用什麼工具或如何精確檢測所有病例在行為發生改變前先行處理但這讓我們明白思索這一點的必要性及需要努力的方向 我們是否很快就能達成目標？我認為將會有所進展在未來幾年內，但我想引用一句話作結語試著預測未來發展的情形這句話來自某位對觀念和科技變化擁有精闢見解的人 「我們總是高估」「未來兩年將發生的變化，低估」「未來十年將發生的變化」－比爾‧蓋茲 十分感謝（掌聲）
