Talk	en	zh-tw
thomas_hellum_the_world_s_most_boring_television_and_why_it_s_hilariously_addictive	"Thank you. I have only got 18 minutes to explain something  that lasts for hours and days, so I'd better get started. Let's start with a clip from Al Jazeera's Listening Post. Richard Gizbert: Norway is a country that  gets relatively little media coverage. Even the elections this past week passed without much drama. And that's the Norwegian media in a nutshell: not much drama. A few years back, Norway's public TV channel NRK decided to broadcast live coverage of a seven-hour train ride — seven hours of simple footage, a train rolling down the tracks. Norwegians, more than a million of them according to the ratings, loved it. A new kind of reality TV show was born, and it goes against all the rules of TV engagement. There is no story line, no script, no drama, no climax, and it's called Slow TV. For the past two months, Norwegians have been watching  a cruise ship's journey up the coast, and there's a lot of fog on that coast. Executives at Norway's National Broadcasting Service are now considering broadcasting a night of knitting nationwide. On the surface, it sounds boring, because it is, but something about this TV experiment has gripped Norwegians. So we sent the Listening Post's Marcela Pizarro to Oslo to find out what it is, but first a warning: Viewers may find some of the images in the following report disappointing. (Laughter) Thomas Hellum: And then follows an eight-minute story on Al Jazeera about some strange TV programs in little Norway. Al Jazeera. CNN. How did we get there? We have to go back to 2009, when one of my colleagues got a great idea. Where do you get your ideas? In the lunchroom. So he said, why don't we make a radio program marking the day of the German invasion of Norway in 1940. We tell the story at the exact time during the night. Wow. Brilliant idea, except this was just a couple of weeks before the invasion day. So we sat in our lunchroom and discussed what other stories can you tell as they evolve? What other things take a really long time? So one of us came up with a train. The Bergen Railway had its  100-year anniversary that year It goes from western Norway to eastern Norway, and it takes exactly the same time as it did 40 years ago, over seven hours. (Laughter) So we caught our commissioning editors  in Oslo, and we said, we want to make a documentary about the Bergen Railway, and we want to make it in full length, and the answer was, ""Yes, but how long will the program be?"" ""Oh,"" we said, ""full length."" ""Yes, but we mean the program."" And back and forth. Luckily for us, they met us with laughter, very, very good laughter, so one bright day in September, we started a program that we thought should be seven hours and four minutes. Actually, it turned out to be seven hours and 14 minutes due to a signal failure at the last station. We had four cameras, three of them pointing out to the beautiful nature. Some talking to the guests, some information. (Video) Train announcement:  We will arrive at Haugastøl Station. TH: And that's about it, but of course, also the 160 tunnels gave us the opportunity to do some archives. Narrator [in Norwegian]: Then a bit of flirting while the food is digested. The last downhill stretch before we reach our destination. We pass Mjølfjell Station. Then a new tunnel. (Laughter) TH: And now we thought, yes, we have a brilliant program. It will fit for the 2,000 train spotters in Norway. We brought it on air in November 2009. But no, this was far more attractive. This is the five biggest TV channels in Norway on a normal Friday, and if you look at NRK2 over here, look what happened when they put on the Bergen Railway show: 1.2 million Norwegians watched part of this program. (Applause) And another funny thing: When the host on our main channel, after they have got news for you, she said, ""And on our second channel, the train has now nearly reached Myrdal station."" Thousands of people just jumped on the train on our second channel like this. (Laughter) This was also a huge success in terms of social media. It was so nice to see all the thousands of Facebook and Twitter users discussing the same view, talking to each other as if they were on the same train together. And especially, I like this one. It's a 76-year-old man. He's watched all the program, and at the end station, he rises up to pick up what he thinks is his luggage, and his head hit the curtain rod, and he realized he is in his own living room. (Applause) So that's strong and living TV. Four hundred and thirty-six minute by minute on a Friday night, and during that first night, the first Twitter message came: Why be a chicken? Why stop at 436 when you can expand that to 8,040, minute by minute, and do the iconic journey in Norway, the coastal ship journey Hurtigruten from Bergen to Kirkenes, almost 3,000 kilometers, covering most of our coast. It has 120-year-old, very interesting history, and literally takes part in life and death along the coast. So just a week after the Bergen Railway, we called the Hurtigruten company and we started planning for our next show. We wanted to do something different. The Bergen Railway was a recorded program. So when we sat in our editing room, we watched this picture — it's all Ål Station — we saw this journalist. We had called him, we had spoken to him, and when we left the station, he took this picture of us and he waved to the camera, and we thought, what if more people knew that we were on board that train? Would more people show up? What would it look like? So we decided our next project, it should be live. We wanted this picture of us on the fjord and on the screen at the same time. So this is not the first time NRK had been on board a ship. This is back in 1964, when the technical managers have suits and ties and NRK rolled all its equipment on board a ship, and 200 meters out of the shore, transmitting the signal back, and in the machine room, they talked to the machine guy, and on the deck, they have splendid entertainment. So being on a ship,  it's not the first time. But five and a half days in a row, and live, we wanted some help. And we asked our viewers out there, what do you want to see? What do you want us to film? How do you want this to look? Do you want us to make a website? What do you want on it? And we got some answers from you out there, and it helped us a very lot to build the program. So in June 2011, 23 of us went on board the Hurtigruten coastal ship and we set off. (Music) I have some really strong memories from that week, and it's all about people. This guy, for instance, he's head of research at the University in Tromsø (Laughter) And I will show you a piece of cloth, this one. It's the other strong memory. It belongs to a guy called Erik Hansen. And it's people like those two who took a firm grip of our program, and together with thousands of others along the route, they made the program what it became. They made all the stories. This is Karl. He's in the ninth grade. It says, ""I will be a little late for school tomorrow."" He was supposed to be in the school at 8 a.m. He came at 9 a.m., and he didn't get a note from his teacher, because the teacher had watched the program. (Laughter) How did we do this? Yes, we took a conference room on board the Hurtigruten. We turned it into a complete TV control room. We made it all work, of course, and then we took along 11 cameras. This is one of them. This is my sketch from February, and when you give this sketch to professional people in the Norwegian broadcasting company NRK, you get some cool stuff back. And with some very creative solutions. (Video) Narrator [in Norwegian]:  Run it up and down. This is Norway's most important drill right now. It regulates the height of a bow camera in NRK's live production, one of 11 that capture great shots from the MS Nord-Norge. Eight wires keep the camera stable. Cameraman: I work  on different camera solutions. They're just tools used in a different context. TH: Another camera is this one. It's normally used for sports. It made it possible for us to take close-up pictures of people 100 kilomteres away, like this one. (Laughter) People called us and asked, how is this man doing? He's doing fine. Everything went well. We also could take pictures of people waving at us, people along the route, thousands of them, and they all had a phone in their hand. And when you take a picture of them, and they get the message, ""Now we are on TV, dad,"" they start waving back. This was waving TV  for five and a half days, and people get so extremely happy when they can send a warm message to their loved ones. It was also a great success on social media. On the last day, we met Her Majesty the Queen of Norway, and Twitter couldn't quite handle it. And we also, on the web, during this week we streamed more than 100 years of video to 148 nations, and the websites are still there and they will be forever, actually, because Hurtigruten was selected to be part of the Norwegian UNESCO list of documents, and it's also in the Guinness Book of Records as the longest documentary ever. (Applause) Thank you. But it's a long program, so some watched part of it, like the Prime Minister. Some watched a little bit more. It says, ""I haven't used my bed for five days."" And he's 82 years old, and he hardly slept. He kept watching because something might happen, though it probably won't. (Laughter) This is the number of viewers along the route. You can see the famous Trollfjord and a day after, all-time high for NRK2. If you see the four biggest channels in Norway during June 2011, they will look like this, and as a TV producer, it's a pleasure to put Hurtigruten on top of it. It looks like this: 3.2 million Norwegians watched part of this program, and we are only five million here. Even the passengers on board the Hurtigruten coastal ship — (Laughter) — they chose to watched the telly instead of turning 90 degrees and watching out the window. So we were allowed to be  part of people's living room with this strange TV program, with music, nature, people. And Slow TV was now a buzzword, and we started looking for other things we could make Slow TV about. So we could either take something long and make it a topic, like with the railway and the Hurtigruten, or we could take a topic and make it long. This is the last project. It's the peep show. It's 14 hours of birdwatching on a TV screen, actually 87 days on the web. We have made 18 hours of live salmon fishing. It actually took three hours before we got the first fish, and that's quite slow. We have made 12 hours of boat ride into the beautiful Telemark Canal, and we have made another train ride with the northern railway, and because this we couldn't do live, we did it in four seasons just to give the viewer another experience on the way. So our next project got us some attention outside Norway. This is from the Colbert Report on Comedy Central. (Video) Stephen Colbert: I've got my eye on a wildly popular program from Norway called ""National Firewood Night,"" which consisted of mostly people in parkas chatting and chopping in the woods, and then eight hours of a fire  burning in a fireplace. (Laughter) It destroyed the other  top Norwegian shows, like ""So You Think You Can Watch Paint Dry"" and ""The Amazing Glacier Race."" And get this, almost 20 percent of the Norwegian population tuned in, 20 percent. TH: So, when wood fire and wood chopping can be that interesting, why not knitting? So on our next project, we used more than eight hours to go live from a sheep to a sweater, and Jimmy Kimmel in the ABC show, he liked that. (Music) (Video) Jimmy Kimmel: Even the people on the show are falling asleep, and after all that, the knitters actually failed to break the world record. They did not succeed, but remember the old Norwegian saying, it's not whether you win or lose that counts. In fact, nothing counts,  and death is coming for us all. (Laughter) TH: Exactly. So why does this stand out? This is so completely different to other TV programming. We take the viewer on a journey that happens right now in real time, and the viewer gets the feeling of actually being there, actually being on the train, on the boat, and knitting together with others, and the reason I think why they're doing that is because we don't edit the timeline. It's important that we don't edit the timeline, and it's also important that what we make Slow TV about is something that we all can relate to, that the viewer can relate to, and that somehow has  a root in our culture. This is a picture from last summer when we traveled the coast again for seven weeks. And of course this is a lot of planning, this is a lot of logistics. So this is the working plan for 150 people last summer, but more important is what you don't plan. You don't plan what's going to happen. You have to just take your cameras with you. It's like a sports event. You rig them and you see what's happening. So this is actually the whole running order for Hurtigruten, 134 hours, just written on one page. We didn't know anything more when we left Bergen. So you have to let the viewers make the stories themselves, and I'll give you an example of that. This is from last summer, and as a TV producer, it's a nice picture, but now you can cut to the next one. But this is Slow TV, so you have to keep this picture until  it really starts hurting your stomach, and then you keep it a little bit longer, and when you keep it that long, I'm sure some of you now have noticed the cow. Some of you have seen the flag. Some of you start wondering, is the farmer at home? Has he left? Is he watching the cow? And where is that cow going? So my point is, the longer you keep a picture like this, and we kept it for 10 minutes, you start making the stories in your own head. That's Slow TV. So we think that Slow TV is one nice way of telling a TV story, and we think that we can continue doing it, not too often, once or twice a year, so we keep the feeling of an event, and we also think that the good Slow TV idea, that's the idea when people say, ""Oh no, you can't put that on TV."" When people smile, it might be a very good slow idea, so after all, life is best when it's a bit strange. Thank you. (Applause)"	謝謝。我只有18分鐘的時間，來說幾小時、幾天內發生的事，所以我最好趕快開始。首先我們來看一段影片來自半島電視台的報導。 Richard Gizbert：挪威這個國家較少受到媒體關注，甚至在上禮拜舉行的選舉也是平和落幕。挪威媒體所做的報導一言以蔽之：平淡無奇。幾年前，挪威的公共電視頻道，NRK，決定即時轉播一趟7小時的火車之旅，7小時，一刀未剪，就一輛火車在軌道上奔馳著。根據收視率，這節目100多萬挪威人都愛看。於是新品種的實境秀誕生了，這打破了所有電視節目的規則。它完全沒有故事性，沒有台詞，沒有劇情，沒有高潮迭起，而這被稱為「慢活秀」。過去兩個月，挪威民眾已收看了一趟遊艇海岸之旅，岸邊雲霧朦朧。挪威國家電視台高層正考慮下次要播放全國編織之夜。表面上，這聽起來很無趣，因為它的確無聊。但這場電視實驗，又有些什麼抓住了挪威觀眾的心。我們派記者瑪塞拉·皮薩蘿，到奧斯陸去了解這到底是怎麼回事。事前警告：觀眾對接下來的報導可能會感覺非常失望。〔觀眾笑〕 Thomas Hellum：接下來是半島新聞的八分鐘報導，是關於來自小小挪威的一個怪怪的電視節目。半島新聞，CNN，為什麼大家都有興趣？那就必須回溯到2009年，我的一位同事想到了很棒的點子，在哪想出來的？在午休區。他就說：「我們何不做一檔廣播節目，選在1940年德國入侵挪威的那個日期，我們在一模一樣的時間重現歷史當晚的故事，哇，很棒的點子，只是離入侵紀念日只剩幾個禮拜的時間了，我們坐在午休區討論還有其他什麼故事可以展開？還有什麼事要花很長的時間？ 有個人就想到火車，卑爾根鐵道，在那年要慶祝一百週年，它連接了東西部的挪威，而車程所費時間和40年前完全一樣，7個多小時。〔觀眾笑〕然後我們就找到奧斯陸的委製編審，說：「我們想做一部有關卑爾根鐵道的紀錄片，而且要全程紀錄。」他回答說：「好，那節目要多長？」「喔，」我們說：「全程。」「對，但我是說節目長度。」就這樣來來回回...... 幸好，他們明白後大笑，他們真的大笑很久。於是在九月晴朗的一天，我們開始錄節目，預計長度是7個小時又4分鐘。實際花了7個小時又14分鐘，因為在終點站的信號傳輸有點問題。我們架了四部攝影機，三機拍攝外頭美麗的自然風景，加點乘客的訪談，也有些資訊：〔影片〕「我們即將抵達豪加斯托站。」Thomas Hellum：就這樣，沒了。但是當然，160個隧道讓我們有時間給觀眾一些背景知識。〔挪威語〕「飯後來點曖昧調情有助消化。這是抵達終點站前最後一段下坡。剛經過的是米歐菲爾站。接下來要經過一段新的隧道。」〔觀眾笑〕然後我們覺得，好啦，節目製作完成。它可以吸引約2000名的挪威鐵道迷。節目在2009年11月播出。但我們錯了，節目出人意料的紅。這是挪威前五大頻道在一個普通的星期五的數據，你可以看到NRK2在這裡，注意當卑爾根鐵道秀播出的時候，看看發生了什麼：1百20萬的挪威觀眾收看了這個節目。〔鼓掌〕另外有趣的是：NRK本台的主播，為觀眾播報完優質的新聞之後，她說：「此刻本台NRK2頻道的火車正要抵達米爾道站。」很多人立刻轉向了我們的第二頻道，就像這樣。〔觀眾笑〕這對於社群媒體也是個很大的成功。這真的很棒，看到成千上萬的臉書及推特用戶看著一樣的風景，彼此聊著，好像他們都一塊兒在火車上。特別是，我喜歡這個，一位76歲的老翁，他從頭到尾收看，到了終點的時候，他起身要拿自己的行李，然後他頭撞到了窗簾桿，才發現自己坐在自家客廳。〔鼓掌〕 所以，這節目真是栩栩如生。星期五的436分鐘，一分一秒地過去，而就在首播當晚第一則推特留言說：「幹嘛那麼怕，幹嘛停在436分鐘？你們可以延長到8040分鐘，一分不差，展現挪威的代表性旅程，海達路登的的海岸航行，從卑爾根到科根尼斯，大約3000公里，幾乎是完整的海岸線，它已經有120年非常有趣的歷史，它見證了海岸沿線的生與死。所以，卑爾根鐵道節目剛播出一個禮拜，我們就致電給海德路登公司，計畫要拍攝下一次的節目。 我們想來點不一樣的。卑爾根鐵道是錄影播出的節目。我們坐在剪接室，看著這個畫面，這是停靠在阿爾站，我們看到這位記者，當時我們有叫住他，和他說上話，當火車要離站的時候他拍了一張我們的照片，向我們的鏡頭揮揮手，讓我們想到，如果讓更多人知道我們要搭那輛火車呢？會不會有更多人過來？那個畫面會如何？因此我們決定，下一個節目應該要現場直播。我們希望我們在峽灣的畫面和這樣的場景同步播出， 話說，這不是NRK第一次登船採訪。上次是1964年，當時技術經理還穿西裝打領帶，NRK把所有的機器設備搬上船，在距離岸邊200公尺的海上傳回影像訊號，他們在機房和機師交談，甲板上，有很棒的表演...所以說，登船不是第一次，但要拍攝五天半，連續拍攝，我們需要一些幫助。我們問觀眾，你們想看到什麼？你們希望我們拍些什麼？你們想要這是什麼樣的？你們想要我們架個網站嗎？網站上要放些什麼？然後我們就從你們那收集很多答案，對於節目企劃有很大的幫助。所以在2011年6月，我們一行23人搭上了海德路登的海岸航線，揚帆出發。〔音樂〕 那個星期給我很深的回憶，都跟人有關，例如說這位，他是特羅姆瑟大學的研究主持人，〔笑聲〕我要給大家看一小塊布，這件。這也是另一個深刻回憶。它來自一位名叫艾瑞克．漢森的人，就是有像他們兩位這樣的人，讓節目很有效果，路上遇到很多很多像他們這樣的人們，他們成就了這個節目。有他們才有故事。這是卡爾，他九年級。他寫道：「明天上學我會晚點到。」他早上八點要到校，他九點才到，但沒有被老師處罰，因為老師有看這個節目。〔笑聲〕 我們怎麼做的？是的，我們選了間會議室，在海德路登的船上，我們把它改造成了一間電視演播室，我們搞定了一切，當然，然後我們帶上11部攝影機，這是其中之一，這是我二月畫的，你把這圖交給專業人士，也就是挪威公共電視的人(NRK)，他們就搞出一些很酷的東西，一些很有創意的解決辦法。 〔影片〕挪威語：控制往上或往下，這是目前全挪威最重要的一把電鑽，電鑽是用來調節船外攝影機的高低，用於NRK即時轉播的節目。北挪威號上共配置了11台攝影機，其中一台來拍攝壯麗的景觀。船外攝影機需要八條鋼索固定，攝影師：我有各種拍攝工具，適用於不同環境。 Thomas Hellum：另一台攝影機是這個。通常是拍運動賽事，它可以用來拍人物的特寫，即使那人遠在100公里之外，譬如這位。〔觀眾笑〕很多人打電話來問我們，那個人後來怎麼樣了？他很好，一切順利。我們也能拍到人們向我們揮手的畫面，在沿路上，成千上萬的人，他們都有帶手機，所以當他們被拍到的時候，他們會收到消息：「爸，我們上電視了。」他們就揮手回應。這就是「揮手秀」，揮了五天半，人們都好高興，他們可以傳遞一些有溫度的訊息，傳達給所愛的人。 這在社群媒體上也是一大成功。最後一天，我們見到了挪威皇后陛下，推特，頓時快掛了，同時，在線上，當週我們的串流影片長度超過了100年，在148個國家播出，網站現在也還在，它們會一直被保留，因為海德路登已入選挪威的UNESCO文化保育清單。這也上了金氏世界紀錄，是世界上最長的紀錄片。〔鼓掌〕謝謝大家。 但節目真的很長，很長。所以有些人只看了一部分，例如首相先生，有些人看得比較多。他說：「我已經五天沒在我的床上睡覺了。」他82歲了，竟然不眠不休。他目不轉睛，生怕錯過什麼，雖然也沒發生什麼啦。〔笑聲〕這是整趟航程的收看人數，你可以看到最著名的精靈峽灣，以及播出結束後一天內NRK2的收視率創了新高。我們來看挪威其他四大頻道在2011年6月的收視，線圖看起來像這樣，而身為節目製作人，能把海德路登的數字加上去感覺很棒，現在它看起來就像這樣。3百20萬名挪威觀眾都看了一部分的節目，我們也就五百萬人口。甚至在船上的乘客也都在看...〔笑聲〕他們寧可看電視畫面，也不願90度轉身直接看看窗外。 因此我們成為了人們客廳的一部分，這樣古怪的節目，伴隨著音樂、大自然和人。「慢活秀」已成為當紅流行語。我們開始尋找其他題材，繼續製作「慢活秀」。所以要不就選擇很花時間的事情，讓它成為話題，如同鐵道和海德路登之行，或者我們選個題材，把它拍得很長。這是上一個計畫，是個窺秀，這是在電視上播出長達14小時的賞鳥節目。其實，在網路上播了87天。我們也做過18小時的釣鮭魚現場直播，花了三小時，才釣到第一隻魚，真的很久。我們做了12小時的節目，坐小船探訪美麗的泰勒馬克運河。我們也再度搭了火車，北方列車，因為這沒辦法即時轉播，我們就拍了四季，讓觀眾可以體驗沿途不同季節的景緻。 我們後來的節目吸引了挪威以外的地方的注意。這是喜劇頻道的荷博報告， 〔影片〕主持人荷博：我聽說在挪威大紅的節目叫做「國家劈柴之夜」。節目內容就是人們在野地一邊聊天一邊砍柴，然後就圍著壁爐燒了八小時的柴。這節目打敗了其他節目，例如：「你以為你能眼睜睜看著油漆乾」以及「冰川奇緣」。聽好了，有將近20%的收視率，20%耶。 Thomas Hellum：所以說，連燒柴和劈柴都這麼有趣，何不來打毛線？故我們下一個計畫，我們花費超過8個小時，現場直播，從一隻綿羊到一件毛衣，吉米．金莫在他ABC的節目上也提到，他很喜歡。 〔音樂〕 〔影片〕吉米．金莫：連節目中的人自己都睡著了啊。可惜打毛線的人沒能成功打破世界紀錄。他們失敗了，但記得這句挪威的諺語：輸贏成敗轉頭空。說實話，四大皆空，人終歸一死啊。〔笑聲〕 Thomas Hellum：沒錯。所以為何我們成功？我們的節目和其他節目大相逕庭。我們帶領觀眾一起經歷真實正在發生的事，觀眾身歷其境，搭上了火車、在船上、一群人一起打毛線，我覺得他們這麼做的原因，是因為我們保留原汁原味，即時同步非常重要，這就是我們製作「慢活秀」的重點。那是種我們都能參與，觀眾都能共鳴，而這或許是人類文化的根源。這是去年夏天的照片，我們再次做了7個禮拜的海岸航行，當然，這要計畫很多事情，很多後勤支援的準備，瞧瞧，這是去年夏天150個人員的工作計畫。不過更重要的，是計畫以外的事。你無法預測會發生什麼事，你只能提著攝影機，有點像運動賽事，你操縱攝影機捕捉當下，所以，這是整個節目的進行梗概，海德路登，134小時，只寫了一頁，我們離開卑爾根的時候根本不知道後面會發生什麼， 你只能順其自然，讓觀眾們自己說故事，我舉個例子來說，這是去年夏天，身為一個電視製作人，畫面很棒，但我們現在該切入下個畫面了。但在「慢活秀」，你必須盯著這畫面，直到你胃都痛了，再撐久一點，當你撐很久以後，我相信你們有看到那頭牛，有人會看到那面旗子，有人開始幻想，農場主人在不在家呢？他走了嗎？你在看牛嗎？那頭牛想去哪？我意思是說，你看得越久，看個十分鐘，你開始在腦海裡演出小劇場，這就是「慢活秀」。 所以我們認為，慢活秀是種很好的說故事的方式，我們覺得我們可以一直做下去，不要太頻繁，一年一次或兩次，讓我們可以參與一個活動，而我們也認為好的慢活秀點子，是當人們說：「喔不，這沒法在電視上播吧...」當人們會心一笑，這可能就是個很棒的主意，因為畢竟，美好的生活都有點奇特。 謝謝。 〔鼓掌〕
