Talk	en	zh-tw
thulasiraj_ravilla_how_low_cost_eye_care_can_be_world_class	Good morning. I've come here to share with you an experiment of how to get rid of one form of human suffering. It really is a story of Dr. Venkataswamy. His mission and his message is about the Aravind Eye Care System. I think first it's important for us to recognize what it is to be blind. (Music) Woman: Everywhere I went looking for work, they said no, what use do we have for a blind woman? I couldn't thread a needle or see the lice in my hair. If an ant fell into my rice, I couldn't see that either. Thulasiraj Ravilla: Becoming blind is a big part of it, but I think it also deprives the person of their livelihood, their dignity, their independence, and their status in the family. So she is just one amongst the millions who are blind. And the irony is that they don't need to be. A simple, well-proven surgery can restore sight to millions, and something even simpler, a pair of glasses, can make millions more see. If we add to that the many of us here now who are more productive because they have a pair of glasses, then almost one in five Indians will require eye care, a staggering 200 million people. Today, we're reaching not even 10 percent of them. So this is the context in which Aravind came into existence about 30 years back as a post-retirement project of Dr. V. He started this with no money. He had to mortgage all his life savings to make a bank loan. And over time, we have grown into a network of five hospitals, predominately in the state of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, and then we added several, what we call Vision Centers as a hub-and-spoke model. And then more recently we started managing hospitals in other parts of the country and also setting up hospitals in other parts of the world as well. The last three decades, we have done about three-and-a-half million surgeries, a vast majority of them for the poor people. Now, each year we perform about 300,000 surgeries. A typical day at Aravind, we would do about a thousand surgeries, maybe see about 6,000 patients, send out teams into the villages to examine, bring back patients, lots of telemedicine consultations, and, on top of that, do a lot of training, both for doctors and technicians who will become the future staff of Aravind. And then doing this day-in and day-out, and doing it well, requires a lot of inspiration and a lot of hard work. And I think this was possible thanks to the building blocks put in place by Dr. V., a value system, an efficient delivery process, and fostering the culture of innovation. (Music) Dr. V: I used to sit with the ordinary village man because I am from a village, and suddenly you turn around and seem to be in contact with his inner being, you seem to be one with him. Here is a soul which has got all the simplicity of confidence. Doctor, whatever you say, I accept it. An implicit faith in you and then you respond to it. Here is an old lady who has got so much faith in me, I must do my best for her. When we grow in spiritual consciousness, we identify ourselves with all that is in the world, so there is no exploitation. It is ourselves we are helping. It is ourselves we are healing. (Applause) This helped us build a very ethical and very highly patient-centric organization and systems that support it. But on a practical level, you also have to deliver services efficiently, and, odd as it may seem, the inspiration came from McDonald's. Dr. V: See, McDonald's' concept is simple. They feel they can train people all over the world, irrespective of different religions, cultures, all those things, to produce a product in the same way and deliver it in the same manner in hundreds of places. Larry Brilliant: He kept talking about McDonalds and hamburgers, and none of it made any sense to us. He wanted to create a franchise, a mechanism of delivery of eye care with the efficiency of McDonald's. Dr. V: Supposing I'm able to produce eye care, techniques, methods, all in the same way, and make it available in every corner of the world. The problem of blindness is gone. TR: If you think about it, I think the eyeball is the same, as American or African, the problem is the same, the treatment is the same. And yet, why should there be so much variation in quality and in service, and that was the fundamental principle that we followed when we designed the delivery systems. And, of course, the challenge was that it's a huge problem, we are talking of millions of people, very little resource to deal with it, and then lots of logistics and affordability issues. And then so, one had to constantly innovate. And one of the early innovations, which still continues, is to create ownership in the community to the problem, and then engage with them as a partner, and here is one such event. Here a community camp just organized by the community themselves, where they find a place, organize volunteers, and then we'll do our part. You know, check their vision, and then you have doctors who you find out what the problem is and then determine what further testing should be done, and then those tests are done by technicians who check for glasses, or check for glaucoma. And then, with all these results, the doctor makes a final diagnosis, and then prescribes a line of treatment, and if they need a pair of glasses, they are available right there at the camp site, usually under a tree. But they get glasses in the frames of their choice, and that's very important because I think glasses, in addition to helping people see, is also a fashion statement, and they're willing to pay for it. So they get it in about 20 minutes and those who require surgery, are counseled, and then there are buses waiting, which will transport them to the base hospital. And if it was not for this kind of logistics and support, many people like this would probably never get services, and certainly not when they most need it. They receive surgery the following day, and then they will stay for a day or two, and then they are put back on the buses to be taken back to where they came from, and where their families will be waiting to take them back home. (Applause) And this happens several thousand times each year. It may sound impressive that we're seeing lots of patients, very efficient process, but we looked at, are we solving the problem? We did a study, a scientifically designed process, and then, to our dismay, we found this was only reaching seven percent of those in need, and we're not adequately addressing more, bigger problems. So we had to do something different, so we set up what we call primary eye care centers, vision centers. These are truly paperless offices with completely electronic medical records and so on. They receive comprehensive eye exams. We kind of changed the simple digital camera into a retinal camera, and then every patient gets their teleconsultation with a doctor. The effect of this has been that, within the first year, we really had a 40 percent penetration in the market that it served, which is over 50,000 people. And the second year went up to 75 percent. So I think we have a process by which we can really penetrate into the market and reach everyone who needs it, and in this process of using technology, make sure that most don't need to come to the base hospital. And how much will they pay for this? We fixed the pricing, taking into account what they would save in bus fare in coming to a city, so they pay about 20 rupees, and that's good for three consultations. (Applause) The other challenge was, how do you give high-tech or more advanced treatment and care? We designed a van with a VSAT, which sends out images of patients to the base hospital where it is diagnosed, and then as the patient is waiting, the report goes back to the patient, it gets printed out, the patient gets it, and then gets a consultation about what they should be doing — I mean, go see a doctor or come back after six months, and then this happens as a way of bridging the technology competence. So the impact of all this has been essentially one of growing the market, because it focused on the non-customer, and then by reaching the unreached, we're able to significantly grow the market. The other aspect is how do you deal with this efficiently when you have very few ophthalmologists? So what is in this video is a surgeon operating, and then you see on the other side, another patient is getting ready. So, as they finish the surgery, they just swing the microscope over, the tables are placed so that their distance is just right, and then we need to do this, because, by doing this kind of process, we're able to more than quadruple the productivity of the surgeon. And then to support the surgeon, we require a certain workforce. And then we focused on village girls that we recruited, and then they really are the backbone of the organization. They do almost all of the skill-based routine tasks. They do one thing at a time. They do it extremely well. With the result we have very high productivity, very high quality at very, very low cost. So, putting all this together, what really happened was the productivity of our staff was significantly higher than anyone else. (Applause) This is a very busy table, but what this really is conveying is that, when it comes to quality, we have put in very good quality-assurance systems. As a result, our complications are significantly lower than what has been reported in the United Kingdom, and you don't see those kind of numbers very often. (Applause) So the final part of the puzzle is, how do you make all this work financially, especially when the people can't pay for it? So what we did was, we gave away a lot of it for free, and then those who pay, I mean, they paid local market rates, nothing more, and often much less. And we were helped by the market inefficiency. I think that has been a big savior, even now. And, of course, one needs the mindset to be wanting to give away what you have as a surplus. The result has been, over the years, the expenditure has increased with volumes. The revenues increase at a higher level, giving us a healthy margin while you're treating a large number of people for free. I think in absolute terms, last year we earned about 20-odd million dollars, spent about 13 million, with over a 40 percent EBITA. (Applause) But this really requires going beyond what we do, or what we have done, if you really want to achieve solving this problem of blindness. And what we did was a couple of very counter-intuitive things. We created competition for ourselves, and then we made eye care affordable by making low-cost consumables. We proactively and systematically promoted these practices to many hospitals in India, many in our own backyards and then in other parts of the world as well. The impact of this has been that these hospitals, in the second year after our consultation, are double their output and then achieve financial recovery as well. The other part was how do you address this increase in cost of technology? There was a time when we failed to negotiate the [intra-ocular lens] prices to be at affordable levels, so we set up a manufacturing unit. And then, over time, we were able to bring down the cost significantly to about two percent of what it used to be when we started out. Today, we believe we have about seven percent of the global market, and they're used in about 120-odd countries. To conclude, I mean, what we do, does it have a broader relevance, or is it just India or developing countries? So to address this, we studied UK versus Aravind. What it shows is that we do roughly about 60 percent of the volume of what the UK does, near a half-million surgeries as a whole country. And we do about 300,000. And then we train about 50 ophthalmologists against the 70 trained by them, comparable quality, both in training and in patient care. So we're really comparing apples to apples. We looked at cost. (Laughter) (Applause) So, I think it is simple to say just because the U.K. isn't India the difference is happening. I think there is more to it. I mean, I think one has to look at other aspects as well. Maybe there is — the solution to the cost could be in productivity, maybe in efficiency, in the clinical process, or in how much they pay for the lenses or consumables, or regulations, their defensive practice. So, I think decoding this can probably bring answers to most developed countries including the U.S., and maybe Obama's ratings can go up again. (Laughter) Another insight, which, again, I want to leave with you, in conditions where the problem is very large, which cuts across all economic strata, where we have a good solution, I think the process I described, you know, productivity, quality, patient-centered care, can give an answer, and there are many which fit this paradigm. You take dentistry, hearing aid, maternity and so on. There are many where this paradigm can now play, but I think probably one of the most challenging things is on the softer side. Now, how do you create compassion? Now, how do you make people own the problem, want to do something about it? There are a bit harder issues. And I'm sure people in this crowd can probably find the solutions to these. So I want to end my talk leaving this thought and challenge to you. Dr. V: When you grow in spiritual consciousness, we identify with all that is in the world so there is no exploitation. It is ourselves we are helping. It is ourselves we are healing. TR: Thank you very much. (Applause)	各位早安我來這想跟各位分享一個實驗成果如何擺脫一部分的眾生苦難這實際上是一位醫生文卡塔斯瓦米的故事.他要傳達的使命訊息，是這個亞拉文眼科治療系統.首先我認為大家要先了解失明代表了什麼. (背景音樂) 婦人:所以我去求職的地方,他們都回答不要我.不過是一個看不見的女人,我們有什麼用?我不能在針頭上穿線或是看見我頭髮裡有蝨子如果有螞蟻掉到我的飯裡,我也不知道 圖拉斯兒賈-朗維拉:失明是很大條的事情但我覺得這奪走了人原有的生活、尊嚴、自立能力，還有在家庭中的地位她只是數百萬位盲人中的其中一位諷刺的是他們本來不需要失明的 一個簡單,可信賴的手術就能幫這數百萬人恢復視力還有更簡單的,一副眼鏡就能幫數百萬人看得更清楚如果我們算上在座的各位其中因為戴了眼鏡而能更有產值將近五位印度人中就有一位需要眼科治療驚人的2億人口中直到今日,我們只能幫不到其中的百分之十 而這就是亞拉文所存在的環境大約是30年前文醫生退休後展開的計畫他一無分文的開始這個工作他得抵押所有他的畢生積蓄來拿到銀行貸款然後慢慢的我們已經成長到5間醫院的一個體系以泰米爾納德和旁迪切里為主然後我們增加了幾個我們稱作視力中心的地方作為轉診的集散中心點然後最近我們開始代管醫院在印度其他地區也在世界上不同的角落設立醫院 這近30年我們已經完成350萬人次的手術絕大多數都是替窮人做的現在 我們每年執行約30萬次手術亞拉文中心一天能做約1000次手術約看診6000人次派出團隊到鄉村看診然後帶回病人許多次的遠距醫療評估然後更重要的是完成許多的訓練給亞拉文中心未來的員工 醫生或是技術人員 而且我們每天不停地做然後做得很好這需要許多的創意還有大量的苦功而我認為能做到這些要歸功於一些重要的根基由文醫生所建立起來的一個價值體系,一個高效率的配送程序還有鼓勵創新的養成文化 (音樂) 文醫生:我常跟鄉村老百姓在一起,因為我同樣來自鄉村而當你環顧四周,突然間你跟他的內心有所共鳴好像你跟他合為一體有一個完全信任你的靈魂醫生,無論你怎麼說我都接受對你無瑕的信任然後你有所回應這裡有一個老婦人對我有這麼大的信心,我一定要給她最好的當你增長靈智的時候我們認同世上所有事物所以不存在剝削,我們所幫助的正是自己我們所醫治的也是自己 (掌聲) 這讓我們建立了一個非常有原則而且高度以病人為核心的組織還有支持這樣的各種機制但是在實務上,你還必須有效率地提供服務而乍看之下很奇特,這樣的靈感來自於麥當勞 文醫生:麥當勞的概念是很簡單的他們覺得他們能訓練世界上所有的人無論是不同的宗教,文化,各種不同的差異用同樣的方式來製造同樣的產品並且用同樣的態度提供服務在數百個不同的地方 賴瑞-布里安特:他不斷的提到麥當勞與漢堡而那些我們一點都不懂他想要創造一種加盟一個提供眼科醫療的機制有如麥當勞的運作效率 文醫生:如果我能生產眼科醫療技術方法,都是用同樣的方式同時能提供給世界上不同角落失明的問題就沒了 圖拉斯兒賈-朗維拉:想一下,人的眼球都是一樣的美國人的或是非洲人的問題都是一樣的,治療方法也是一樣的所以那為何有有這麼多不同的服務方式與醫療品質呢這個就是我們在追求的根本主軸當我們在規劃配送系統的時候當然,考驗的是這確實是很大的問題我們在考慮的是數百萬人而只有一點點資源來完成目標還有許多物流,定價問題要考慮 也就是因為如此,我們必須不斷的創新而其中一個初期的創新,仍然沿用的就是設立社區裡的針對問題的所有權然後對待他們如同夥伴這邊就有一個例子有一個社區營地剛成立由這個社區自己組的他們自己找場地,組織義工然後我們來做我們的事情,也就是 檢查他們的視力然後你讓醫生去發現問題是什麼然後決定那些進一步的檢查該去處理然後由技術人員去做這些檢查有的是檢查眼鏡有的是檢查青光眼 然後根據這些檢查結果醫生做出最後的診斷然後列出治療的處方如果需要一副眼鏡,在營地現場就有提供通常是在樹下還有他們自己選好鏡框這點非常重要 因為我認為眼鏡除了幫助人看見同時也是一種品味的表示,而他們願意為此付費這樣他們在20分鐘左右拿到眼鏡那些需要手術的則給予建議然後有巴士在那等著會載他們去基地醫院 如果不是使用這樣的物流跟協助許多人可能根本無法得到服務尤其是在他們最需要的時候他們在隔天接受手術然後他們會住院一兩天然後送他們上巴士帶他們回到他們來的地方那裏他們的家人會在那等著接他們回家 (掌聲) 這樣的方式每年發生數千次乍聽之下會覺得很驚人 我們看了這麼多的病人非常有效率的程序但是我們仔細看.我們解決問題了嗎?我們做過一個研究,一個科學規劃過的程序但是讓我們失望的是我們發現這樣只接觸到百分之七的有需要的人我們並沒有針對到更大的問題 所以我們必須做些不同的事情因此我們設立了稱作初級眼科治療中心,視力中心那是完全無紙化中心完全使用電子醫療紀錄等等他們能記錄複雜的眼科檢查我們可說是把簡單的數位相機改成眼底攝影相機然後每個病人透過遠端看診面對醫生 這樣的效果是,在第一年我們就拿下市場上百分之四十的比例也就是超過了五萬人第二年就達到了百分之七十五所以我覺得我們有一個系統真的能滲透進入市場並且服務到每一個需要的人在這個使用科技的過程找出大多數人不需要去基地醫院 究竟他們需要付多少錢呢?我們固定收費,並且以他們能省到的往來城市的巴士開銷為準因此他們付大約15元台幣,而且包含三次看診. (掌聲) 另一個挑戰則是,如何提供高科技或是更先進的醫療與照護?我們設計了一個裝有碟型衛星天線的箱型車能夠發送病人的影像給基地醫院在那邊完成診斷然後當病人在等待的時候,報告就能傳送回給病人列印出來,病人就拿到了然後他們會從諮詢中知道他們該做什麼我的意思是,去看個醫生或是六個月後再過來這樣的建議所以這樣的方式連結科技的能力 這些影響是其中一個原因帶動市場的成長因為我們專注在非付費客戶上然後接觸到原本接觸不到的人我們能夠明顯的成長整個市場 另一方面就是你如何有效率的對應事情當你只有很少的眼科專科醫師的時候?這影片裡是一個外科醫生手術的畫面你會看到另一邊另一個病人已經準備好所以 當他們完成手術時他們直接把顯微鏡換過去手術台擺放的正好距離是剛好的我們需要這樣做,因為這樣的流程我們能提高外科醫生四倍以上的產能 為了能協助外科醫生我們需要一群人協助然後我們專門招募鄉村女孩他們是整個組織的骨幹他們執行幾乎所有需要技巧的例行工作他們一次做一件事情,他們做的相當的好這樣的結果我們得到了非常高的產能非常好的醫療品質同時成本非常的低所以整個來說,真正的結果是我們的員工的生產力遠高於其他任何人 (掌聲) 這是一個非常忙碌的檯子但是實際上傳遞的就醫療品質來說,我們放入了一個非常好的品質管理系統因此我們這手術的併發症是相當的低的比在英國手術的併發症報告還低而你不容易看到這樣的數據 (掌聲) 這個謎題的最後一部份是該如何讓這樣的工作收支平衡尤其是當這些人無法付錢的時候我們所做的其實是我們提供許多免費服務然後那些付錢的人,我指的是,他們以當地市價支付不會比較高,而且通常是便宜很多然後我們得到市場低效的幫助我想即使至今都是超級省錢王當然我們需要保持樂於付出的心態我們所擁有的只是額外的 多年來這樣的成果是開銷與客流量一同增加收益增加到更高的比例給了我們很棒的利差當你免費治療大量的人的時候我指的是絕對的價值去年我們賺了約2千萬美金花了1千3百萬美金,這樣大約是百分之40的淨利加上孳息 (掌聲) 要做到這樣需要我們超越極限或是挑戰我們自己如果你真的想解決失明這種問題我們所做的不過是一些違反直覺的事我們給自己帶來競爭然後我們讓眼科治療平價化透過製作低成本的消費品我們自發的有系統的在印度的許多醫院推廣這些實務經驗在我們自家後院然後也在世界上不同的角落這樣的效果是這那些醫院在我們輔導的第二年就提高產能兩倍然後同樣財務上回收了那些投資 另一部分則是你如何面對技術設備成本的增加曾有一次我們沒辦法讓人工水晶體的價格談到可以接受的低所以我們成立製造部門然後沒多久我們就開始把成本降得更低比一開始我們的成本還低百分之二今天我們相信我們佔了全球市場的百分之七然後在120多個國家中使用 總結來說,我們所做的究竟有更廣的影響或僅只在印度或是一些開發中國家?為了解答這個問題我們研究了英國跟亞拉文的差別顯示出來我們所做大約是百分之六十的全英國所做的量英國全境作了將近50萬次手術而我們做大約30萬次然後我們有大約50位眼科專科醫生英國則有70位眼科專科醫生差不多相等的醫療品質就訓練跟病人照護上來比所以可以說我們是差不多的我們來看看成本(笑聲) (掌聲) 我想簡單的說只因為英國不是印度 所以我們做到了我看不只是這樣我認為你該去看其他面或許像是達成這樣低成本的方案是可以複製的在效率上在臨床流程上或是在病人買的眼鏡或是其他東西的價格上或是法規,他們的防衛方式所以我認為把這些徹底學會了或許能讓許多已開發國家包含美國,還有讓美國總統歐巴馬的支持度再提升一次 (笑聲) 另一個心得我想帶給你們的是當這問題考驗著非常多人的時候包含了從窮人到有錢人我們找到了很棒的解答我認為我描述的流程你們看到的產能,品質,以病人為核心的照護已經提出了解答而且還有許多符合這樣的類型你可以拿牙科,助聽器,育兒等等來看許多都能運用這個典範而我認為應該是其中最難的是在內心深處 如今你怎要找到熱情?如今你要如何讓人扛起這個問題讓他們覺得,這是他們想要做的東西?那是比較難的部分我相信TED的各位應該找的到這問題的解答 在結束演說的同時,我用這段話,勉勵各位 V醫生:當你增長靈智的時候我們認同世上所有事物所以不存在剝削,我們所幫助的正是自己我們所醫治的也是自己 圖拉斯兒賈 朗維拉:非常感謝 (掌聲)
