Talk	en	zh-tw
tim_brown_urges_designers_to_think_big	"I'd like to talk a little bit this morning about what happens if we move from design to design thinking. Now this rather old photo up there is actually the first project I was ever hired to do, something like 25 years ago. It's a woodworking machine, or at least a piece of one, and my task was to make this thing a little bit more modern, a little bit easier to use. I thought, at the time, I did a pretty good job. Unfortunately, not very long afterwards the company went out of business. This is the second project that I did. It's a fax machine. I put an attractive shell around some new technology. Again, 18 months later, the product was obsolete. And now, of course, the whole technology is obsolete. Now, I'm a fairly slow learner, but eventually it occurred to me that maybe what passed for design wasn't all that important — making things more attractive, making them a bit easier to use, making them more marketable. By focusing on a design, maybe just a single product, I was being incremental and not having much of an impact. But I think this small view of design is a relatively recent phenomenon, and in fact really emerged in the latter half of the 20th century as design became a tool of consumerism. So when we talk about design today, and particularly when we read about it in the popular press, we're often talking about products like these. Amusing? Yes. Desirable? Maybe. Important? Not so very. But this wasn't always the way. And I'd like to suggest that if we take a different view of design, and focus less on the object and more on design thinking as an approach, that we actually might see the result in a bigger impact. Now this gentleman, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, designed many great things in his career in the 19th century, including the Clifton suspension bridge in Bristol and the Thames tunnel at Rotherhithe. Both great designs and actually very innovative too. His greatest creation runs actually right through here in Oxford. It's called the Great Western Railway. And as a kid I grew up very close to here, and one of my favorite things to do was to cycle along by the side of the railway waiting for the great big express trains to roar past. You can see it represented here in J.M.W. Turner's painting, ""Rain, Steam and Speed"". Now, what Brunel said that he wanted to achieve for his passengers was the experience of floating across the countryside. Now, this was back in the 19th century. And to do that meant creating the flattest gradients that had ever yet been made, which meant building long viaducts across river valleys — this is actually the viaduct across the Thames at Maidenhead — and long tunnels such as the one at Box, in Wiltshire. But he didn't stop there. He didn't stop with just trying to design the best railway journey. He imagined an integrated transportation system in which it would be possible for a passenger to embark on a train in London and disembark from a ship in New York. One journey from London to New York. This is the S.S. Great Western that he built to take care of the second half of that journey. Now, Brunel was working 100 years before the emergence of the design profession, but I think he was using design thinking to solve problems and to create world-changing innovations. Now, design thinking begins with what Roger Martin, the business school professor at the University of Toronto, calls integrative thinking. And that's the ability to exploit opposing ideas and opposing constraints to create new solutions. In the case of design, that means balancing desirability, what humans need, with technical feasibility, and economic viability. With innovations like the Great Western, we can stretch that balance to the absolute limit. So somehow, we went from this to this. Systems thinkers who were reinventing the world, to a priesthood of folks in black turtlenecks and designer glasses working on small things. As our industrial society matured, so design became a profession and it focused on an ever smaller canvas until it came to stand for aesthetics, image and fashion. Now I'm not trying to throw stones here. I'm a fully paid-up member of that priesthood, and somewhere in here I have my designer glasses. There we go. But I do think that perhaps design is getting big again. And that's happening through the application of design thinking to new kinds of problems — to global warming, to education, healthcare, security, clean water, whatever. And as we see this reemergence of design thinking and we see it beginning to tackle new kinds of problems, there are some basic ideas that I think we can observe that are useful. And I'd like to talk about some of those just for the next few minutes. The first of those is that design is human-centered. It may integrate technology and economics, but it starts with what humans need, or might need. What makes life easier, more enjoyable? What makes technology useful and usable? But that is more than simply good ergonomics, putting the buttons in the right place. It's often about understanding culture and context before we even know where to start to have ideas. So when a team was working on a new vision screening program in India, they wanted to understand what the aspirations and motivations were of these school children to understand how they might play a role in screening their parents. Conversion Sound has developed a high quality, ultra-low-cost digital hearing aid for the developing world. Now, in the West we rely on highly trained technicians to fit these hearing aids. In places like India, those technicians simply don't exist. So it took a team working in India with patients and community health workers to understand how a PDA and an application on a PDA might replace those technicians in a fitting and diagnostic service. Instead of starting with technology, the team started with people and culture. So if human need is the place to start, then design thinking rapidly moves on to learning by making. Instead of thinking about what to build, building in order to think. Now, prototypes speed up the process of innovation, because it is only when we put our ideas out into the world that we really start to understand their strengths and weaknesses. And the faster we do that, the faster our ideas evolve. Now, much has been said and written about the Aravind Eye Institute in Madurai, India. They do an incredible job of serving very poor patients by taking the revenues from those who can afford to pay to cross-subsidize those who cannot. Now, they are very efficient, but they are also very innovative. When I visited them a few years ago, what really impressed me was their willingness to prototype their ideas very early. This is the manufacturing facility for one of their biggest cost breakthroughs. They make their own intraocular lenses. These are the lenses that replace those that are damaged by cataracts. And I think it's partly their prototyping mentality that really allowed them to achieve the breakthrough. Because they brought the cost down from $200 a pair, down to just $4 a pair. Partly they did this by instead of building a fancy new factory, they used the basement of one of their hospitals. And instead of installing the large-scale machines used by western producers, they used low-cost CAD/CAM prototyping technology. They are now the biggest manufacturer of these lenses in the developing world and have recently moved into a custom factory. So if human need is the place to start, and prototyping, a vehicle for progress, then there are also some questions to ask about the destination. Instead of seeing its primary objective as consumption, design thinking is beginning to explore the potential of participation — the shift from a passive relationship between consumer and producer to the active engagement of everyone in experiences that are meaningful, productive and profitable. So I'd like to take the idea that Rory Sutherland talked about, this notion that intangible things are worth perhaps more than physical things, and take that a little bit further and say that I think the design of participatory systems, in which many more forms of value beyond simply cash are both created and measured, is going to be the major theme, not only for design, but also for our economy as we go forward. So William Beveridge, when he wrote the first of his famous reports in 1942, created what became Britain's welfare state in which he hoped that every citizen would be an active participant in their own social well-being. By the time he wrote his third report, he confessed that he had failed and instead had created a society of welfare consumers. Hilary Cottam, Charlie Leadbeater, and Hugo Manassei of Participle have taken this idea of participation, and in their manifesto entitled Beveridge 4.0, they are suggesting a framework for reinventing the welfare state. So in one of their projects called Southwark Circle, they worked with residents in Southwark, South London and a small team of designers to develop a new membership organization to help the elderly with household tasks. Designs were refined and developed with 150 older people and their families before the service was launched earlier this year. We can take this idea of participation perhaps to its logical conclusion and say that design may have its greatest impact when it's taken out of the hands of designers and put into the hands of everyone. Nurses and practitioners at U.S. healthcare system Kaiser Permanente study the topic of improving the patient experience, and particularly focused on the way that they exchange knowledge and change shift. Through a program of observational research, brainstorming new solutions and rapid prototyping, they've developed a completely new way to change shift. They went from retreating to the nurse's station to discuss the various states and needs of patients, to developing a system that happened on the ward in front of patients, using a simple software tool. By doing this they brought the time that they were away from patients down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes, on average. They increased patient confidence and nurse happiness. When you multiply that by all the nurses in all the wards in 40 hospitals in the system, it resulted, actually, in a pretty big impact. And this is just one of thousands of opportunities in healthcare alone. So these are just some of the kind of basic ideas around design thinking and some of the new kinds of projects that they're being applied to. But I'd like to go back to Brunel here, and suggest a connection that might explain why this is happening now, and maybe why design thinking is a useful tool. And that connection is change. In times of change we need new alternatives, new ideas. Now, Brunel worked at the height of the Industrial Revolution, when all of life and our economy was being reinvented. Now the industrial systems of Brunel's time have run their course, and indeed they are part of the problem today. But, again, we are in the midst of massive change. And that change is forcing us to question quite fundamental aspects of our society — how we keep ourselves healthy, how we govern ourselves, how we educate ourselves, how we keep ourselves secure. And in these times of change, we need these new choices because our existing solutions are simply becoming obsolete. So why design thinking? Because it gives us a new way of tackling problems. Instead of defaulting to our normal convergent approach where we make the best choice out of available alternatives, it encourages us to take a divergent approach, to explore new alternatives, new solutions, new ideas that have not existed before. But before we go through that process of divergence, there is actually quite an important first step. And that is, what is the question that we're trying to answer? What's the design brief? Now Brunel may have asked a question like this, ""How do I take a train from London to New York?"" But what are the kinds of questions that we might ask today? So these are some that we've been asked to think about recently. And one in particular, is one that we're working on with the Acumen Fund, in a project that's been funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. How might we improve access to safe drinking water for the world's poorest people, and at the same time stimulate innovation amongst local water providers? So instead of having a bunch of American designers come up with new ideas that may or may not have been appropriate, we took a sort of more open, collaborative and participative approach. We teamed designers and investment experts up with 11 water organizations across India. And through workshops they developed innovative new products, services, and business models. We hosted a competition and then funded five of those organizations to develop their ideas. So they developed and iterated these ideas. And then IDEO and Acumen spent several weeks working with them to help design new social marketing campaigns, community outreach strategies, business models, new water vessels for storing water and carts for delivering water. Some of those ideas are just getting launched into the market. And the same process is just getting underway with NGOs in East Africa. So for me, this project shows kind of how far we can go from some of those sort of small things that I was working on at the beginning of my career. That by focusing on the needs of humans and by using prototypes to move ideas along quickly, by getting the process out of the hands of designers, and by getting the active participation of the community, we can tackle bigger and more interesting questions. And just like Brunel, by focusing on systems, we can have a bigger impact. So that's one thing that we've been working on. I'm actually really quite interested, and perhaps more interested to know what this community thinks we could work on. What kinds of questions do we think design thinking could be used to tackle? And if you've got any ideas then feel free, you can post them to Twitter. There is a hash tag there that you can use, #CBDQ. And the list looked something like this a little while ago. And of course you can search to find the questions that you're interested in by using the same hash code. So I'd like to believe that design thinking actually can make a difference, that it can help create new ideas and new innovations, beyond the latest High Street products. To do that I think we have to take a more expansive view of design, more like Brunel, less a domain of a professional priesthood. And the first step is to start asking the right questions. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我今天早上要談的是關於如果我們把設計升級到設計思考，會是怎樣的情形。這裡有一張舊的照片這是我被雇用時進行的第一個專案。大約是 25 年前的事了。這是一台木作的機器，至少一部分是。我的工作是讓這個東西更現代化一些，更容易使用。我當時以為我已經做的不錯了。不幸的是，不久之後這家公司倒了。 這是我做的第二個專案。一台傳真機。除了一些新技術外，我也為它設計了漂亮的外殼。再一次，18 個月後這個產品又過時了。當然，到現在這台傳真機的所有技術都已經過時了。我算是學習速度比較慢的人。但終究我還是認為也許過去的設計經驗並不全然重要 —讓東西更吸引人，讓它們更好用，讓它們更好賣。只聚焦在設計本身，可能只是單一產品，我當時使用漸進式的思考模式並沒有產生太大的影響。 但我認為這種小格局的設計是一種相對新的現象，而事實上這種現象真正的呈現是在 20 世紀後半時期當設計變成消費主義的工具。現在當我們談到設計，特別是當我們在媒體上讀到常常指的像是這樣的產品。賞心悅目？是的。想要買嗎？可能吧。很重要嗎？不見得。 但也不是永遠都這樣。所以我要建議用一種不同的方式來看設計，而不要太聚焦在物件本身以更多的設計思考為途徑我們就會看到影響更深遠的結果。這位男士，Isambar Kingdom Brunel，他在 19 世紀設計過許多偉大的東西，其中包括了布里斯托的 Clifton 吊橋以及 Rotherhithe 的 Thames 隧道。這兩個偉大的設計也都非常的創新。他最偉大的創作其實就在牛津這裡。它叫做 Great Western Railway 我從小長大的地方很靠近這裡。我最喜歡做的事之一就是沿著鐵軌來回走等待偉大的快速列車呼嘯而過。在這幅 J.M.W. Turner 的畫作裡面可以看到，「雨、蒸汽和速度」。Brunel 說他希望為乘客打造一種漂浮在鄉間田野的體驗。 這是回溯到 19 世紀。這意味著要打造出有史以來最平坦的坡度，也代表要跨越河谷建構長距離的高架橋 —這就是 Maidenhead 橫跨 Thames 的高架橋 —還有像是這個在 Wiltshire 的 Box 的長距離隧道。但他並沒有就此喊停。他並不是在設計最好的鐵路旅程後就此打住。他想像了一個整體的運輸系統能夠讓旅客從倫敦搭乘火車然後搭船到紐約。一趟從倫敦到紐約的旅程。這是他建造的 S.S. Great Western 船隻負責旅程中的後半段。 至今 Brunel 已經是 100 年前的人但已經展現出設計的專業。但我認為他是使用設計思考來解決問題並隨著世界的變化進行創新。現在設計思考開始變成 Roger Martin，他是多倫多大學的商學院教授，所說的整合式思考。這是一種開發對立理念的能力一種脫離束縛創造出新的解決方案的方法。對設計來說，這代表了把人類的需求與技術的可行性和經濟的發展力予以平衡。用 Great Western 的創新模式，我們可以將平衡延展到絕對的界限。 因此，我們從這升級到這。從獨立創造世界的系統思考者，到穿戴黑色高圓套領衣服和造型眼鏡的偉大設計師們而且做的是一些雞毛蒜皮的事。隨著我們工業社會漸趨成熟，設計也變成一種職業而且聚焦在很小的範圍之中直到它符合所謂的美學、形象和時尚。我這並不是在潑冷水。我也是所謂偉大設計師中的一員。我好像也有一支這種造型眼鏡。在這裡。但是我認為也許設計又漸漸成為重要的一環。這發生在設計思考的應用過程中新的問題 —全球暖化、教育議題、保健、安全性、淨水資源等等。 我們看到設計思考重新嶄露頭角也看到它開始抓到新的問題，這裡有一些有用的基本想法我想在接下來的幾分鐘談談這些想法。第一個想法就是以人為中心。設計可以整合科技和經濟，但始終以人的需要或可能的需求為起點。怎樣讓生活更輕鬆、更有趣？怎樣讓科技變得更有用、更好用？這不僅僅是人類工程學，將按鈕放在正確的位置而已。它通常需要了解文化和連帶關係在我們開始有任何想法之前。 因此當團隊在印度進行一個新的視力檢查計劃時，就必須了解這些學童希望達到何種目的以及他們的動機以了解他們在看父母親時，可能如何扮演自己的角色。Conversion Sound 開發了一種高品質，低成本的數位助聽器供開發中國家使用。在西方文明世界我們靠的是高度訓練的技術人員協助配戴這些助聽器。類似像印度這種地方並沒有所謂的技術人員所以小組成員必須在印度與病患和社區健康工作人員合作以了解 PDA以及 PDA 上的應用程式如何取代這些技師進行配戴和診斷的服務。 傳統的方式是從技術著手，我們的小組則以人和文化為起點。因此如果人的需求是一切的起點，設計思考便成為一種學習的過程而不是僅限於製造。不是去想說要製造什麼，而是為了思考而製造。製作原型可以加速創新的過程。因為它只是把想法表現出來用來真正開始了解它的優勢和劣勢。原型製作的越快，想法發展的就越快。 最近有許多文章提到位於印度馬都賴的 Aravind 眼科醫院。這家醫院在服務貧困病患的工作上的成效卓越他們向可負擔的病人收貴來補貼無法負擔費用的病患。他們不但非常有效率，也非常創新。幾年前我拜訪他們時，真正另我印象深刻的是他們很願意及早將想法原型化。 這是一個製造設備他們最大的成本突破之一。他們製造自己的眼內透鏡。這些透鏡取代了因為白內障而損壞的眼睛一。我認為部分是因為他們的原型讓他們有這樣的突破。因為他們從一對美金 200 元的成本降到一對 4 美元。部分的原因是因為他們並不是建造絢麗的新工廠，而是使用其中一家醫院的地下室。他們不像西方的作法安裝大型機器，而是使用低成本的 CAD/CAM 原型製作技術。他們現在已經是開發中國家中最大的透鏡製造商最近也搬到屬於自己的工廠。 所以如果人的需求是一切的起點，而原型又是演變的媒介，我們就要問一些關於目標的問題。設計思考並不是要看到主要的客觀意見，而是要開始探索分享的潛力。這種在消費者和製造者之間的被動關係移轉到每個人主動的參與有意義、有效率和有利潤的體驗。 所以我想引用 Rory Sutherland 所說的概念，這個概念就是無形的東西可能比有形的東西還有價值，再延伸這個觀念我認為在參與系統的設計中，有很多不同形式的價值在裡面而不只是用金錢來建立與衡量，這在將來會成為主流現象，而不只是設計而已，也伴隨了經濟的發展。 William Beveridge 在 1942 年寫下他的第一份有名的報告時，就致使英國成為福利之國報告裡指出他希望每個公民都可以主動參與屬於他們的社會福利制度。在他寫第三份報告時，他坦承他失敗了他創造的是一個福利消費者的社會。 Hillary Cottam、Charlie Ledbetter、和 Participle 的 Hugo Manassei把這個參與系統的想法，套用在他們的 Beveridge 4.0 宣言中，他們提倡一種架構來改造福利國家。在他們的其中一個 Southwark Circle 專案中他們和倫敦南部 Southwark 的居民合作加上一小組的設計師來發展新的會員組織協助年長者從事家務。這個計畫不斷地改進和發展囊括了 150 位老人及其家庭這個服務已經在今年初正式啟動。 我們可以把這種共同參與的想法歸納成一個有邏輯的結論而且可以說設計可以達到最大的影響力前提是要把設計從設計師的手中交到每個人的手上。美國保健系統的護士和參與者Kaiser Permanente研究如何改善病患經驗的主題。而且特別注重在他們交換知識的方式以及輪班的方式。透過觀察研究、腦力激盪新的解決方案，以及快速製作原型的一系列程序，他們發展出一套全新的輪班方式。 他們從撤除護士站開始討論各種狀況和病患的需求，來發展出一套病房事務的系統只使用一個簡單的軟體工具。藉此他們把離開病患的時間從平均 40 分鐘降到平均 12 分鐘。他們提升了病患的信心和護士的幸福感。把所有的護士的幸福感加乘並擴及系統內 40 家醫院的所有病房，便造成了巨大的影響。 而這只是在保健系統機會裡面的千分之一而已。這些只是一些關於設計思考的基本想法以及一些他們正在應用的新專案。現在我要回到 Brunel 這裡，並提議一個可能解釋發生原因的連結，以及為什麼設計思考是一個有用的工具。這個連結就是「改變」。我們需要改變新的選擇，新的想法。 Brunel 是在工業革命的高度工作當我們的生活和經濟被重新改造之時。雖然現在看 Brunel 的的工業系統是有些過時，而且說實話也造成現今一些問題。但是，我們正處在巨大變革的洪流中。而這樣的變革迫使我們去質疑而且是社會非常基本的角度 —我們要如何保持健康、如何自我管理、如何自我教育、如何保護自身安全。在這個變動的時代，我們需要新的選擇因為既有的解決方案只會慢慢被淘汰。 那為什麼要有設計思考呢？因為它提供我們追蹤問題的新方法。不再是預設的單一方法而是在眾多的選項中挑選出最好的，它鼓勵我們去嘗試不同的方法，來探索新的可能性、新的解決方案、以及前所未有的新想法。但是在我們採用不同的流程時，有一個很重要的第一步。第一步就是：我們要回答的問題是什麼？設計的概要是什麼？Brunel 可能會問這樣的問題：「我要如何從倫敦搭火車到紐約呢？」但是如今我們會問什麼樣的問題呢？ 這些就是我們最近被要求思考的一些事情。其中一個特別的案例就是跟 Acumen 基金合作的一個專案，這是一個由 Bill 和 Melinda Gates 基金會發起的專案。我們要如何為世界上最窮困的人改善安全飲用水的品質，並同時刺激當地水供應商的創新？ 因此我們並不雇用一堆的美國設計師來想出一些可能恰當或不恰當的新點子，我們採用一種更開放、更需要協同作業和參與的方式。我們聚集了一個由設計師和投資專家以及印度境內 11 個水資源組織組成的小組。透過研討會的進行來發展有創意的產品、服務和商業模式。 我們舉辦了一個競賽然後提供資金給五個組織來發展他們的點子。他們發展並重製這些點子。接著 IDEO 和 Acumen 花了數個星期跟他們一起工作來協助設計新的社會行銷活動、社區擴大服務策略、商業模式、新的儲水容器以及運送水的推車等。其中某些的點子已經開始出現在市場上。而同樣的流程也在東非的非政府組織 (NGO) 發生。 因此對我而言，這個專案展現了我們可以達到這樣的境界即使是其中有一些是如此的不起眼而在我的職業生涯的一開始就已經在做了。聚焦在人類的需求上並使用原型的方法來快速推動新的想法，讓這些流程離開設計師的手並透過群體的主動參與，我們就能抓住更大、更有趣的問題。就像 Brunel 一樣，聚焦在系統上，我們可以造成極大的影響力。這也是我們正在努力做的。 我其實很想要知道這個社群認為我們可以做到什麼地步。我們想的是什麼樣的問題設計思考可以如何應用？如果你有任何想法歡迎把它們 PO 到 Twitter 上。你們可以用 hash tag #CBDQ 標籤來搜尋。這個清單看起來好像有點過時。當然你也可以搜尋你有興趣的問題只要使用相同的 hash 碼標籤即可。 我堅信設計思考可以讓世界變得不同，它可以幫助啟發新的想法，和新的創新，而不只是熱門商品而已。因此我想我們必須把設計的眼光放遠一些，學習 Brunel，不要只把範圍侷限在專業領域而已。而第一步就是從問正確的問題開始。非常感謝。(鼓掌)
