Talk	en	zh-tw
tim_berners_lee_a_magna_carta_for_the_web	TED is 30. The world wide web is celebrating this month its 25th anniversary. So I've got a question for you. Let's talk about the journey, mainly about the future. Let's talk about the state. Let's talk about what sort of a web we want. So 25 years ago, then, I was working at CERN. I got permission in the end after about a year to basically do it as a side project. I wrote the code. I was I suppose the first user. There was a lot of concern that people didn't want to pick it up because it would be too complicated. A lot of persuasion, a lot of wonderful collaboration with other people, and bit by bit, it worked. It took off. It was pretty cool. And in fact, a few years later in 2000, five percent of the world population were using the world wide web. In 2007, seven years later, 17 percent. In 2008, we formed the World Wide Web Foundation partly to look at that and worry about that figure. And now here we are in 2014, and 40 percent of the world are using the world wide web, and counting. Obviously it's increasing. I want you to think about both sides of that. Okay, obviously to anybody here at TED, the first question you ask is, what can we do to get the other 60 percent on board as quickly as possible? Lots of important things. Obviously it's going to be around mobile. But also, I want you to think about the 40 percent, because if you're sitting there yourself sort of with a web-enabled life, you don't remember things anymore, you just look them up, then you may feel that it's been a success and we can all sit back. But in fact, yeah, it's been a success, there's lots of things, Khan Academy for crying out loud, there's Wikipedia, there's a huge number of free e-books that you can read online, lots of wonderful things for education, things in many areas. Online commerce has in some cases completely turned upside down the way commerce works altogether, made types of commerce available which weren't available at all before. Commerce has been almost universally affected. Government, not universally affected, but very affected, and on a good day, lots of open data, lots of e-government, so lots of things which are visible happening on the web. Also, lots of things which are less visible. The healthcare, late at night when they're worried about what sort of cancer somebody they care about might have, when they just talk across the Internet to somebody who they care about very much in another country. Those sorts of things are not, they're not out there, and in fact they've acquired a certain amount of privacy. So we cannot assume that part of the web, part of the deal with the web, is when I use the web, it's just a transparent, neutral medium. I can talk to you over it without worrying about what we in fact now know is happening, without worrying about the fact that not only will surveillance be happening but it'll be done by people who may abuse the data. So in fact, something we realized, we can't just use the web, we have to worry about what the underlying infrastructure of the whole thing, is it in fact of a quality that we need? We revel in the fact that we have this wonderful free speech. We can tweet, and oh, lots and lots of people can see our tweets, except when they can't, except when actually Twitter is blocked from their country, or in some way the way we try to express ourselves has put some information about the state of ourselves, the state of the country we live in, which isn't available to anybody else. So we must protest and make sure that censorship is cut down, that the web is opened up where there is censorship. We love the fact that the web is open. It allows us to talk. Anybody can talk to anybody. It doesn't matter who we are. And then we join these big social networking companies which are in fact effectively built as silos, so that it's much easier to talk to somebody in the same social network than it is to talk to somebody in a different one, so in fact we're sometimes limiting ourselves. And we also have, if you've read the book about the filter bubble, the filter bubble phenomenon is that we love to use machines which help us find stuff we like. So we love it when we're bathed in what things we like to click on, and so the machine automatically feeds us the stuff that we like and we end up with this rose-colored spectacles view of the world called a filter bubble. So here are some of the things which maybe threaten the social web we have. What sort of web do you want? I want one which is not fragmented into lots of pieces, as some countries have been suggesting they should do in reaction to recent surveillance. I want a web which has got, for example, is a really good basis for democracy. I want a web where I can use healthcare with privacy and where there's a lot of health data, clinical data is available to scientists to do research. I want a web where the other 60 percent get on board as fast as possible. I want a web which is such a powerful basis for innovation that when something nasty happens, some disaster strikes, that we can respond by building stuff to respond to it very quickly. So this is just some of the things that I want, from a big list, obviously it's longer. You have your list. I want us to use this 25th anniversary to think about what sort of a web we want. You can go to webat25.org and find some links. There are lots of sites where people have started to put together a Magna Carta, a bill of rights for the web. How about we do that? How about we decide, these are, in a way, becoming fundamental rights, the right to communicate with whom I want. What would be on your list for that Magna Carta? Let's crowdsource a Magna Carta for the web. Let's do that this year. Let's use the energy from the 25th anniversary to crowdsource a Magna Carta to the web. (Applause) Thank you. And do me a favor, will you? Fight for it for me. Okay? Thanks. (Applause)	TED 三十歲了。全球資訊網這個月將迎來它第二十五個週年紀念。所以我有個問題給你們。讓我們談談這段旅程，主要是關於未來的。讓我們談談讓我們談談我們想要怎樣的網路。 二十五年前，那時我在歐洲核子研究組織工作。大約一年之後我被允許做這個編外的項目。我撰寫了代碼。我想自己是第一個用戶。當時很擔心人們不想用它，因為太過複雜。我不斷地說服別人，和別人進行精彩的合作，一點一點地就成功了。項目成功了。這事超酷的。事實上，多年之後在 2000 年，世界上百分之五的人在使用全球資訊網。七年之後的 2007 年，有 17％ 的人使用，2008 年，我們成立了全球資訊網基金會，一部份原因是為了關注和擔憂那個數字。現在到了 2014 年，世界上 40％ 的人都在使用全球資訊網，數著數著，這個數字明顯地增長中。 我想讓你們想想這事的兩面性。好吧，顯然對 TED 的各位來說，第一個問題是，我們可以如何讓剩下的 60％ 也加入進來？越快越好？很多重要的事情。顯然這要靠行動電話。不過，我也想讓你們能想想這 40％，因為如果你正過著一種網路化的生活，你就不用記事了，你只要查找它們就行，你可能會感到這是個成功，我們都可以省力了。然而事實上，對，這是個成功，有許多事，可汗學院啦，天哪，還有維基百科，有大量免費的電子書籍，你可以上網閱讀，很多精彩的教育資源，好多領域的事。電子商務從某種程度上說，完全顛覆了商業運行的方式。讓各種過去完全不可能實現的商業變得可行。商業幾乎被全方位影響了。政府沒有被全面影響，卻也受了不小影響，好處是多了大量開源數據，許多電子政府，所以在網上出現了很多看得見的事。 還有很多事情沒有那麼清楚。像是醫療保健，深夜時分，當他們擔心自己關心的人可能患了哪種癌症，當他們通過網際網路與身處另一個國家的親友交談。這些事情並不包含其中，事實上這些事需要一定程度的隱私。所以我們不能假設認為這部份的網路，這部份網路的使用，當我用網路的時候，這僅僅是一個透明的、中立的媒介。我可以和你們聊天，不用去擔心我們事實上知道的正在發生的事情。不去擔心實際上不僅僅會有網路監控，還會有濫用數據的人。所以事實上，我們意識到有些事情我們不能只使用網路，我們必須擔心整個事件下面的結構，這是否確實是我們需要的水準？我們欣喜與擁有美好的自由言論。我們能夠寫推特，許多許多人可以看見我們的推文，除非他們無法做到，除非推特被他們的國家禁止了，或者我們表達自我的方式洩露了我們的狀態資訊，我們生活的國家的狀態，這些資訊不被任何其它的人所獲取。所以我們必須抗議，並確保媒體審查制度被廢除，讓存在審查制度的地方的網路被公開。 我們熱愛網路公開。那能讓我們交談。任何人都能和任何人交談。不管彼此是誰。接著我們加入到那些大型的社交網路公司中，這些公司的實際上被建成倉儲式。因此和同一個社交網路裡的人交談，相對於和不同網路的人交談，前者要容易得多。所以說，實際上我們有時候限制了我們自己。還有一點，如果你看過有關「過濾氣泡」的書籍，濾泡現象指的是：我們喜歡使用機器來幫助我們找到所愛之物。所以當我們泡在自己點擊出的事物裡時，我們樂在其中，然後機器自動給我們送上我們喜愛的東西，最後我們透過玫瑰色的眼鏡來看這個世界。這就叫做一個濾泡。所以這有一些東西也許會威脅到我們所有的社交網路。 你想要什麼樣的網路？我想要一個沒有分裂成無數碎片的網路，就像有些國家一直在建議，要對網路監視做出應激反應。我想要一個網路，舉例來說，一個真正有良好的民主基礎的網路。我想要一個網路，我可以用於有隱私的醫療，並且有很多醫療數據，診所數據可供科學家做研究。我想要一個網路讓其它的 60％ 人口也儘快地參與進來。我想要一個網路，是創新的有力基礎，當糟糕的事情發生時，一些災難來臨時，我們能夠非常快地造出東西，做出反應， 所以，這些只是我想要的一些東西，我這份清單很大，顯然要更長些。你有自己的清單。我想我們來利用二十五週年來思考我們想要什麼樣的網路。你可以登陸 webat25.org找到一些鏈接。在很多網站上，人們已經開始撰寫一份大憲章，一份網路權利公約。我們一起來做好嗎？讓我們來決定，從某方面來說，這些正在成為基本權利，選擇我想和誰交流的權利。在這份大憲章上，你想列出怎樣的清單？讓我們眾包出一份網路大憲章。讓我們在今年就做。讓我們利用二十五週年慶的能量眾包出一份網路大憲章。（掌聲） 謝謝你們。幫助我吧，可以嗎？為我而戰。好嗎？謝謝。 （掌聲）
