Talk	en	zh-tw
todd_kuiken_a_prosthetic_arm_that_feels	"So today, I would like to talk with you about bionics, which is the popular term for the science of replacing part of a living organism with a mechatronic device, or a robot. It is essentially the stuff of life meets machine. And specifically, I'd like to talk with you about how bionics is evolving for people with arm amputations. This is our motivation. Arm amputation causes a huge disability. I mean, the functional impairment is clear. Our hands are amazing instruments. And when you lose one, far less both, it's a lot harder to do the things we physically need to do. There's also a huge emotional impact. And actually, I spend as much of my time in clinic dealing with the emotional adjustment of patients as with the physical disability. And finally, there's a profound social impact. We talk with our hands. We greet with our hands. And we interact with the physical world with our hands. And when they're missing, it's a barrier. Arm amputation is usually caused by trauma, with things like industrial accidents, motor vehicle collisions or, very poignantly, war. There are also some children who are born without arms, called congenital limb deficiency. Unfortunately, we don't do great with upper-limb prosthetics. There are two general types. They're called body-powered prostheses, which were invented just after the Civil War, refined in World War I and World War II. Here you see a patent for an arm in 1912. It's not a lot different than the one you see on my patient. They work by harnessing shoulder power. So when you squish your shoulders, they pull on a bicycle cable. And that bicycle cable can open or close a hand or a hook or bend an elbow. And we still use them commonly, because they're very robust and relatively simple devices. The state of the art is what we call myoelectric prostheses. These are motorized devices that are controlled by little electrical signals from your muscle. Every time you contract a muscle, it emits a little electricity that you can record with antennae or electrodes and use that to operate the motorized prosthesis. They work pretty well for people who have just lost their hand, because your hand muscles are still there. You squeeze your hand, these muscles contract. You open it, these muscles contract. So it's intuitive, and it works pretty well. Well how about with higher levels of amputation? Now you've lost your arm above the elbow. You're missing not only these muscles, but your hand and your elbow too. What do you do? Well our patients have to use very code-y systems of using just their arm muscles to operate robotic limbs. We have robotic limbs. There are several available on the market, and here you see a few. They contain just a hand that will open and close, a wrist rotator and an elbow. There's no other functions. If they did, how would we tell them what to do? We built our own arm at the Rehab Institute of Chicago where we've added some wrist flexion and shoulder joints to get up to six motors, or six degrees of freedom. And we've had the opportunity to work with some very advanced arms that were funded by the U.S. military, using these prototypes, that had up to 10 different degrees of freedom including movable hands. But at the end of the day, how do we tell these robotic arms what to do? How do we control them? Well we need a neural interface, a way to connect to our nervous system or our thought processes so that it's intuitive, it's natural, like for you and I. Well the body works by starting a motor command in your brain, going down your spinal cord, out the nerves and to your periphery. And your sensation's the exact opposite. You touch yourself, there's a stimulus that comes up those very same nerves back up to your brain. When you lose your arm, that nervous system still works. Those nerves can put out command signals. And if I tap the nerve ending on a World War II vet, he'll still feel his missing hand. So you might say, let's go to the brain and put something in the brain to record signals, or in the end of the peripheral nerve and record them there. And these are very exciting research areas, but it's really, really hard. You have to put in hundreds of microscopic wires to record from little tiny individual neurons — ordinary fibers that put out tiny signals that are microvolts. And it's just too hard to use now and for my patients today. So we developed a different approach. We're using a biological amplifier to amplify these nerve signals — muscles. Muscles will amplify the nerve signals about a thousand-fold, so that we can record them from on top of the skin, like you saw earlier. So our approach is something we call targeted reinnervation. Imagine, with somebody who's lost their whole arm, we still have four major nerves that go down your arm. And we take the nerve away from your chest muscle and let these nerves grow into it. Now you think, ""Close hand,"" and a little section of your chest contracts. You think, ""Bend elbow,"" a different section contracts. And we can use electrodes or antennae to pick that up and tell the arm to move. That's the idea. So this is the first man that we tried it on. His name is Jesse Sullivan. He's just a saint of a man — 54-year-old lineman who touched the wrong wire and had both of his arms burnt so badly they had to be amputated at the shoulder. Jesse came to us at the RIC to be fit with these state-of-the-art devices, and here you see them. I'm still using that old technology with a bicycle cable on his right side. And he picks which joint he wants to move with those chin switches. On the left side he's got a modern motorized prosthesis with those three joints, and he operates little pads in his shoulder that he touches to make the arm go. And Jesse's a good crane operator, and he did okay by our standards. He also required a revision surgery on his chest. And that gave us the opportunity to do targeted reinnervation. So my colleague, Dr. Greg Dumanian, did the surgery. First, we cut away the nerve to his own muscle, then we took the arm nerves and just kind of had them shift down onto his chest and closed him up. And after about three months, the nerves grew in a little bit and we could get a twitch. And after six months, the nerves grew in well, and you could see strong contractions. And this is what it looks like. This is what happens when Jesse thinks open and close his hand, or bend or straighten your elbow. You can see the movements on his chest, and those little hash marks are where we put our antennae, or electrodes. And I challenge anybody in the room to make their chest go like this. His brain is thinking about his arm. He has not learned how to do this with the chest. There is not a learning process. That's why it's intuitive. So here's Jesse in our first little test with him. On the left-hand side, you see his original prosthesis, and he's using those switches to move little blocks from one box to the other. He's had that arm for about 20 months, so he's pretty good with it. On the right side, two months after we fit him with his targeted reinnervation prosthesis — which, by the way, is the same physical arm, just programmed a little different — you can see that he's much faster and much smoother as he moves these little blocks. And we're only able to use three of the signals at this time. Then we had one of those little surprises in science. So we're all motivated to get motor commands to drive robotic arms. And after a few months, you touch Jesse on his chest, and he felt his missing hand. His hand sensation grew into his chest again probably because we had also taken away a lot of fat, so the skin was right down to the muscle and deinnervated, if you would, his skin. So you touch Jesse here, he feels his thumb; you touch it here, he feels his pinky. He feels light touch down to one gram of force. He feels hot, cold, sharp, dull, all in his missing hand, or both his hand and his chest, but he can attend to either. So this is really exciting for us, because now we have a portal, a portal, or a way to potentially give back sensation, so that he might feel what he touches with his prosthetic hand. Imagine sensors in the hand coming up and pressing on this new hand skin. So it was very exciting. We've also gone on with what was initially our primary population of people with above-the-elbow amputations. And here we deinnervate, or cut the nerve away, just from little segments of muscle and leave others alone that give us our up-down signals and two others that will give us a hand open and close signal. This was one of our first patients, Chris. You see him with his original device on the left there after eight months of use, and on the right, it is two months. He's about four or five times as fast with this simple little performance metric. All right. So one of the best parts of my job is working with really great patients who are also our research collaborators. And we're fortunate today to have Amanda Kitts come and join us. Please welcome Amanda Kitts. (Applause) So Amanda, would you please tell us how you lost your arm? Amanda Kitts: Sure. In 2006, I had a car accident. And I was driving home from work, and a truck was coming the opposite direction, came over into my lane, ran over the top of my car and his axle tore my arm off. Todd Kuiken: Okay, so after your amputation, you healed up. And you've got one of these conventional arms. Can you tell us how it worked? AK: Well, it was a little difficult, because all I had to work with was a bicep and a tricep. So for the simple little things like picking something up, I would have to bend my elbow, and then I would have to cocontract to get it to change modes. When I did that, I had to use my bicep to get the hand to close, use my tricep to get it to open, cocontract again to get the elbow to work again. TK: So it was a little slow? AK: A little slow, and it was just hard to work. You had to concentrate a whole lot. TK: Okay, so I think about nine months later that you had the targeted reinnervation surgery, took six more months to have all the reinnervation. Then we fit her with a prosthesis. And how did that work for you? AK: It works good. I was able to use my elbow and my hand simultaneously. I could work them just by my thoughts. So I didn't have to do any of the cocontracting and all that. TK: A little faster? AK: A little faster. And much more easy, much more natural. TK: Okay, this was my goal. For 20 years, my goal was to let somebody [be] able to use their elbow and hand in an intuitive way and at the same time. And we now have over 50 patients around the world who have had this surgery, including over a dozen of our wounded warriors in the U.S. armed services. The success rate of the nerve transfers is very high. It's like 96 percent. Because we're putting a big fat nerve onto a little piece of muscle. And it provides intuitive control. Our functional testing, those little tests, all show that they're a lot quicker and a lot easier. And the most important thing is our patients have appreciated it. So that was all very exciting. But we want to do better. There's a lot of information in those nerve signals, and we wanted to get more. You can move each finger. You can move your thumb, your wrist. Can we get more out of it? So we did some experiments where we saturated our poor patients with zillions of electrodes and then had them try to do two dozen different tasks — from wiggling a finger to moving a whole arm to reaching for something — and recorded this data. And then we used some algorithms that are a lot like speech recognition algorithms, called pattern recognition. See. (Laughter) And here you can see, on Jesse's chest, when he just tried to do three different things, you can see three different patterns. But I can't put in an electrode and say, ""Go there."" So we collaborated with our colleagues in University of New Brunswick, came up with this algorithm control, which Amanda can now demonstrate. AK: So I have the elbow that goes up and down. I have the wrist rotation that goes — and it can go all the way around. And I have the wrist flexion and extension. And I also have the hand closed and open. TK: Thank you, Amanda. Now this is a research arm, but it's made out of commercial components from here down and a few that I've borrowed from around the world. It's about seven pounds, which is probably about what my arm would weigh if I lost it right here. Obviously, that's heavy for Amanda. And in fact, it feels even heavier, because it's not glued on the same. She's carrying all the weight through harnesses. So the exciting part isn't so much the mechatronics, but the control. So we've developed a small microcomputer that is blinking somewhere behind her back and is operating this all by the way she trains it to use her individual muscle signals. So Amanda, when you first started using this arm, how long did it take to use it? AK: It took just about probably three to four hours to get it to train. I had to hook it up to a computer, so I couldn't just train it anywhere. So if it stopped working, I just had to take it off. So now it's able to train with just this little piece on the back. I can wear it around. If it stops working for some reason, I can retrain it. Takes about a minute. TK: So we're really excited, because now we're getting to a clinically practical device. And that's where our goal is — to have something clinically pragmatic to wear. We've also had Amanda able to use some of our more advanced arms that I showed you earlier. Here's Amanda using an arm made by DEKA Research Corporation. And I believe Dean Kamen presented it at TED a few years ago. So Amanda, you can see, has really good control. It's all the pattern recognition. And it now has a hand that can do different grasps. What we do is have the patient go all the way open and think, ""What hand grasp pattern do I want?"" It goes into that mode, and then you can do up to five or six different hand grasps with this hand. Amanda, how many were you able to do with the DEKA arm? AK: I was able to get four. I had the key grip, I had a chuck grip, I had a power grasp and I had a fine pinch. But my favorite one was just when the hand was open, because I work with kids, and so all the time you're clapping and singing, so I was able to do that again, which was really good. TK: That hand's not so good for clapping. AK: Can't clap with this one. TK: All right. So that's exciting on where we may go with the better mechatronics, if we make them good enough to put out on the market and use in a field trial. I want you to watch closely. (Video) Claudia: Oooooh! TK: That's Claudia, and that was the first time she got to feel sensation through her prosthetic. She had a little sensor at the end of her prosthesis that then she rubbed over different surfaces, and she could feel different textures of sandpaper, different grits, ribbon cable, as it pushed on her reinnervated hand skin. She said that when she just ran it across the table, it felt like her finger was rocking. So that's an exciting laboratory experiment on how to give back, potentially, some skin sensation. But here's another video that shows some of our challenges. This is Jesse, and he's squeezing a foam toy. And the harder he squeezes — you see a little black thing in the middle that's pushing on his skin proportional to how hard he squeezes. But look at all the electrodes around it. I've got a real estate problem. You're supposed to put a bunch of these things on there, but our little motor's making all kinds of noise right next to my electrodes. So we're really challenged on what we're doing there. The future is bright. We're excited about where we are and a lot of things we want to do. So for example, one is to get rid of my real estate problem and get better signals. We want to develop these little tiny capsules about the size of a piece of risotto that we can put into the muscles and telemeter out the EMG signals, so that it's not worrying about electrode contact. And we can have the real estate open to try more sensation feedback. We want to build a better arm. This arm — they're always made for the 50th percentile male — which means they're too big for five-eighths of the world. So rather than a super strong or super fast arm, we're making an arm that is — we're starting with, the 25th percentile female — that will have a hand that wraps around, opens all the way, two degrees of freedom in the wrist and an elbow. So it'll be the smallest and lightest and the smartest arm ever made. Once we can do it that small, it's a lot easier making them bigger. So those are just some of our goals. And we really appreciate you all being here today. I'd like to tell you a little bit about the dark side, with yesterday's theme. So Amanda came jet-lagged, she's using the arm, and everything goes wrong. There was a computer spook, a broken wire, a converter that sparked. We took out a whole circuit in the hotel and just about put on the fire alarm. And none of those problems could I have dealt with, but I have a really bright research team. And thankfully Dr. Annie Simon was with us and worked really hard yesterday to fix it. That's science. And fortunately, it worked today. So thank you very much. (Applause)"	今天我想和你們談談生物工學這個流行的專有名詞意指藉機電裝置或機器人來取代生物體部份機能的學問本質上就是生命和機器結合的東西我要特別跟你們談談生物工學對使用義肢的人如何地進展 這是我們的動力來源手臂截肢會造成極度不便在功能上的損傷是很明顯的我們的雙手是驚人的工具我們不要說失去雙臂，光是失去一隻手臂在生理上執行事情就困難許多了在心理方面的影響也非常巨大事實上，我在診所處理病人情緒調節的時間和他們身體功能障礙的時間一樣多最後，還有廣大的社會衝擊我們說話時以手為輔我們用手打招呼我們用手摸索物質世界沒有手就會產生障礙手臂截肢通常由創傷所導致例如工業意外機車衝撞或殘酷的戰爭也有些小孩是生來殘缺的稱做先天性肢體缺失 可惜我們在上肢義肢方面沒有做得很好有兩種主要類型一種是身體動力型義肢發明於南北戰爭過後不久又在第一次和二次世界大戰時經改良你現在看到的是1912年的一項義肢專利和我病人身上的義肢沒有太大差別它們運用肩膀力量來帶動義肢所以當你擠壓肩膀時，就會帶動腳踏車鋼索而鋼索就會將手鉤打開、關上或使手肘彎曲這種義肢仍然相當普遍因為它們算是非常穩健相對來說也較為簡便的裝置 第二種較為先進的技術則是我們所謂的肌電義肢這些機動裝置會偵測你肌肉所產生的微小電子訊號每當你收縮一條肌肉它會釋放一些電信號供接收天線或電極記錄再用來操作機動義肢對只失去手部的人來說使用起來很方便因為你的手部肌肉還在你握緊手，這些肌肉就會收縮你把手打開，這些肌肉也會收縮所以它是直覺性的，效果很棒 那假如截肢範圍更大呢？假設手肘以上的部份都被截掉了你不但失去了這些肌肉連你的手和手肘都沒了該怎麼辦？我們的患者必須使用非常編碼的系統單純使用他們的手臂肌肉來操作機械手臂我們有機械手臂市面上都買得到，這裡也看得到一些包含一隻會開合的手一個旋腕關節及手肘沒有其他功能要是有的話，我們要如何操作呢？ 我們在芝加哥復健機構裡建造自己的假肢並增加一些橈側屈腕肌和肩膀關節以達到六個馬達, 或是說六個自由度我們也研究一些很先進的假肢美國軍方贊助的這些原型有高達10種不同的自由度包括可移動式手臂但最終難題還是要如何操作這些機械手臂呢？要如何控制它們呢？我們需要一個神經介面來連接我們的神經系統或思考過程讓它很直覺、很自然像你、我一樣 我們身體先由腦部下行動作指令經由你的脊隨傳遞訊息到神經末梢你的感官觸動則完全相反當你觸碰自己，會產生刺激透過相同的神經傳送訊息回腦部就算你失去手臂，那個神經系統仍運作那些神經可以發出指令信號假如我在一位二戰老兵殘肢上輕輕拍打神經末梢他還是可以感覺到失去的那隻手這時候你可能會說我們何不在大腦裡放個東西來紀錄信號或放到末梢神經去紀錄這些研究領域是非常令人興奮的但也相當相當艱鉅你必須置入成百上千個微纜線來記錄微小單一神經元 - 普通纖維所發出的微弱信號也就是微伏特這對我的患者和使用上實在是太困難了 因此我們研發出不同的方法我們使用生物放大器 - 肌肉來放大這些神經信號肌肉會放大神經信號大概一千倍我們在皮膚表面上能讀取得到就像你剛才看到的我們的方法就是所謂的標靶神經移植術想像一個人失去整個手臂但還有四條主要神經連接手臂我們將那些胸肌神經拉出然後把手臂神經轉移到病患的胸肌所以你在腦袋裡想“握拳”，胸肌就會收縮你想“彎手肘”胸肌的另一區塊也會收縮我們可以利用電極或天線接收信號讓手臂動起來大概就是這樣 這是我們首先測試的對象他叫傑西 沙利文是個非常好的人這位54歲的架線工因誤觸電線導致雙臂嚴重灼傷在雙肩部位截肢傑西來到芝加哥復健醫院裝上這些圖上看到的先進裝置我仍用舊技術在他右肩裝腳踏車纜線讓他決定下巴開關要動哪個關節左邊裝的是先進的肌電義肢連接三個關節他操作肩膀上的小墊子藉由碰觸讓手臂動起來傑西是個不錯的起重機操作員依我們標準來說他表現還不錯 他在胸肌還需進行再次手術這給了我們機會進行標靶神經移植術於是我的同事葛瑞格杜曼年執行了這項手術首先，我們將連接肌肉的神經切掉接著我們將他的手臂神經轉移到胸肌部位最後再縫合好大約三個月後那些神經長出來了一點開始抽動再六個月後，神經再生狀況良好你可以看出很明顯的肌肉收縮反應看起來大概像這樣當傑西想著把手打開和關閉或手肘彎曲或伸直你可以看到胸肌上的收縮動作而且這些小記號就是我們放天線或電極的地方我相信這裡沒有人的胸肌可以像他一樣這樣動吧！他的腦袋想著他的手臂他並沒有刻意去學要怎麼動胸肌中間沒有任何學習過程這樣才算是所謂的直覺性 這個是我們和傑西作的第一個小實驗在左手邊，你可以看到他原本的義肢他需要那些開關將小積木從一個盒子裡搬到另一個盒子他在操作那義肢已有20年的經驗，相當熟練在右邊呢是幫他裝上標靶神經移植術義肢的兩個月後對了，而且是裝在同一隻手臂上但設計上稍微不同大家可以看到他的速度快了許多移動這些小積木手感也更順而且我們同時只能用到三個信號 接著出乎意料之外當我們都在等待運動指令的出現來操作義肢時幾個月後當你觸摸傑西的胸肌他竟然感覺到他失去的手他手的知覺竟長回到他的胸肌裡去可能因為我們也抽掉很多脂肪所以皮膚下面就是肌肉皮膚神經也被抽掉了所以當你摸傑西這裡，他會感覺到他的拇指摸這裡，他會感覺到他的小指輕微的碰觸微小到一克的力道都有感覺甚至是冷、熱、尖、鈍通通在他失去的手上感受到了或在手和胸肌上同時感受到他兩者都能兼顧這實在是令我們精神為之一振因為我們開創了先機或者說，開發了恢復知覺的潛力他才能用義肢重拾觸覺想像手中的傳感器傳遞到這新的手皮膚部位所以這相當振奮人心 我們也繼續向我們的原始實驗對象也就是手肘以上截肢的族群我們從肌肉的一小塊裡將神經移除，或切除然後把其他的保留這讓我們有上下信號和其他兩個讓手開關的信號這是我們第一個病患，克里斯你看到他在左邊的是使用了八個月的原本裝置右邊的新裝置，則使用了兩個月這個小效能指標讓他速度快了約四、五倍 很好我工作最精彩的部份就是能和很棒的病患合作他們也是我們的研究夥伴我們今天很幸運能邀請艾曼達基茨來加入我們請歡迎艾曼達基茨 （掌聲） 艾曼達，能否請您分享您如何失去手臂的？ 艾曼達：好的。我在2006年出了車禍當時下班開車回家路上迎面而來一台卡車衝到我的車道上我的車就被輾過去，手臂被他的車輪扯斷 陶德 奎肯：好，那您截肢後就復原了關於您使用過傳統的義肢能否告訴我們您是如何操作的呢？ 艾：恩，過程有點困難因為我只能用二頭肌和三頭肌去控制義肢所以光是撿東西的這些簡單小動作我就要先把我的手肘彎曲再共同收縮以切換模式當時我必須使用二頭肌來讓手收合然後使用三頭肌來張手再共同收縮才能讓手肘恢復運作 陶：這樣過程有點遲緩吧？ 艾：滿遲緩的，而且操作困難你必須很專心才行 陶：好，那大概九個月後您進行標靶神經移植手術花了六個月時間完成所有神經移植術然後我們幫他配上義肢配完以後感覺如何？ 艾：很棒我可以同時使用手肘和手而且可以用想的去使喚它們所以完全不需要再共同收縮了 陶：比較快？ 艾：比較快了，而且簡單多，又自然多了 陶：好的，那就是我的目的二十年來，我的目標就是讓病人能很直覺性的同時使用手肘和手我們現在有超過五十位遍及全球的病患接受這手術包括至少十二名美國國軍的受傷戰士神經移植的成功機率相當高高達96%因為我們要把很大塊的神經放在一小塊肌肉上這樣就給了病人直覺性的支配權我們的功能測試，這些小測試全都顯示它的速度和簡易操作而且最重要的是我們的病患用得很開心 這一切都非常振奮人心但我們還不滿足那些神經信號還有很多資訊我們想要取得更多你可以移動每個手指，可以動拇指、手腕我們可以再更進一步嗎？因此我們進行了些實驗我們將上萬個電極裝在我們倒楣的病患上然後請他們完成二十四項任務從擺動手指到動整隻手臂再到伸手拿東西然後把這資料紀錄下來接著，我們利用一些演算法很像語音辨識系統叫做圖案辨識看吧 (笑聲) 你可以看到，傑西的胸肌上當他試著做三件不同的事你可以看到三種不同圖案但我無法將一個電極放上去然後叫它“去那裡”因此我們和新柏倫瑞克大學的同事合作想出了這個演算控制現在艾曼達可以示範給我們看 艾：我有可以舉起和放下的手肘我有可以轉動的手腕可以轉一圈我有可以彎曲的手腕還有可以開關的手 陶：謝謝，艾曼達這是個還在試驗的手臂但從這裡以下是由商業組件作成的還有一些從各地借來的重量約3.175公斤大概跟我的手臂一樣重如果從這裡算的話很明顯的，對艾曼達來說很重事實上，她在感覺上會更重因為接合方式不同她是籍以索帶支撐這些重量 所以最精彩的部份並不是機電整合而是支配能力因此我們研發了一個微型電腦在她的背後運作操作這隻手完全由她去訓練的運用她的個別肌肉信號那麼艾曼達，當妳第一次使用這隻手臂花多久時間學會？ 艾：大概三到四小時來訓練它我必須連上電腦所以不能在任何地方訓練所以假如它壞了，我就必須取下來現在只要用背上的小東西就可以訓練我可以到處走就算壞了，我還是可以重新訓練它大概花一分鐘而已吧 陶：所以我們非常興奮因為我們現在做到一個臨床上可行的裝置這就是我們的目標讓它在臨床上可行我們也讓艾曼達能夠使用一些剛才提到的先進手臂這是艾曼達在操作DEKA研發公司的手臂相信迪恩卡門幾年前在TED介紹過給大家那麼你可以看出艾曼達操作得很棒這都是圖案辨識現在還有可以做不同緊握動作的手我們讓病患腦力激盪想“我要什麼樣的緊握模式？”它就會進入那模式就可以用這隻手做高達五、六種手握動作艾曼達，你操作DEKA手時，能做幾種？ 艾：我能做四種我可以握手，彎手指可以緊握還可以用手指捏東西但我最喜歡的部份是手可以打開因為我工作要跟小孩玩所以常要拍手唱歌我可以再度拍手了，感覺很棒 陶：那隻手就不是很能拍手了 艾：這隻不能 陶：太好了，這對朝向更好的機電來說是非常令人興奮的我們只需要把手建造得好到可以開放到市場上賣，並拿去做研究試驗我想請大家仔細看 嗚！ 那是克拉蒂雅那是她第一次從義肢上感受到知覺在義肢尾端有小感應器她在和不同表面摩擦時還能辨別不同的質感在她重新植入神經後的手部肌膚上感受到沙紙、不同砂石和彩虹排線她說用義肢在桌子上摸過去她感覺得到手指在震動那就是非常令人振奮的實驗幫助我們研究如何讓病人的義肢有知覺 不過這是另一段影片，顯示過程的一些挑戰這是傑西，他在捏一個海綿玩具捏越緊的時候，在中間會看到一個黑色小東西以同等他施壓的力量推向他的皮膚但看周圍所有的電極出現了房地產的問題我們應該要把一堆東西放在上面但我們的小肌電卻在電極旁邊發出各種噪音這方面是個重大挑戰 未來充滿光明我們對於現在的進展很興奮，要做的事情還很多例如搞定我的房地產問題得到更好的信號我們想研發一些小膠囊小到像一粒米一樣然後放進肌肉裡再將肌電信號傳遞出來這樣才沒有電極連接的問題我們也可以讓房地產保持開放來測試更多知覺反應我們想建造更好的義肢這個義肢，都是為第50百分位數的男性而打造的這樣表示它們對其他5/8的人都太大了因此，與其作一個超級堅固或快速的義肢我們要做這種義肢先由第25百分位數的女性開始可以做手握動作又可以完全張開在手腕及手肘有兩個自由度這樣就會是最小、最輕又最先進的義肢了只要可以在這麼小的義肢上達成做大一點的就簡單多了 這些是我們的一些目標我們真的很感謝大家的聆聽有鑑於昨天的主題我想分享一個我們這行業之苦艾曼達還在調時差她想用這隻手臂但都被搞亂了電腦出問題有個線斷了有個轉換器壞了我們把飯店裡的電力線路都弄壞了差點就觸發了火警警報器要是沒有一個很聰明的研究團隊我根本不可能解決那些問題還好安妮賽門博士昨天在我們身邊非常努力幫我們把它修好這就是科學還好義肢今天沒有出問題 所以我要非常感謝大家 （掌聲）
