Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_uglow_an_internet_without_screens_might_look_like_this	I'd like to start by asking you all to go to your happy place, please. Yes, your happy place, I know you've got one even if it's fake. (Laughter) OK, so, comfortable? Good. Now I'd like to you to mentally answer the following questions. Is there any strip lighting in your happy place? Any plastic tables? Polyester flooring? Mobile phones? No? I think we all know that our happy place is meant to be somewhere natural, outdoors — on a beach, fireside. We'll be reading or eating or knitting. And we're surrounded by natural light and organic elements. Natural things make us happy. And happiness is a great motivator; we strive for happiness. Perhaps that's why we're always redesigning everything, in the hopes that our solutions might feel more natural. So let's start there — with the idea that good design should feel natural. Your phone is not very natural. And you probably think you're addicted to your phone, but you're really not. We're not addicted to devices, we're addicted to the information that flows through them. I wonder how long you would be happy in your happy place without any information from the outside world. I'm interested in how we access that information, how we experience it. We're moving from a time of static information, held in books and libraries and bus stops, through a period of digital information, towards a period of fluid information, where your children will expect to be able to access anything, anywhere at any time, from quantum physics to medieval viticulture, from gender theory to tomorrow's weather, just like switching on a lightbulb — Imagine that. Humans also like simple tools. Your phone is not a very simple tool. A fork is a simple tool. (Laughter) And we don't like them made of plastic, in the same way I don't really like my phone very much — it's not how I want to experience information. I think there are better solutions than a world mediated by screens. I don't hate screens, but I don't feel — and I don't think any of us feel that good about how much time we spend slouched over them. Fortunately, the big tech companies seem to agree. They're actually heavily invested in touch and speech and gesture, and also in senses — things that can turn dumb objects, like cups, and imbue them with the magic of the Internet, potentially turning this digital cloud into something we might touch and move. The parents in crisis over screen time need physical digital toys teaching their kids to read, as well as family-safe app stores. And I think, actually, that's already really happening. Reality is richer than screens. For example, I love books. For me they are time machines — atoms and molecules bound in space, from the moment of their creation to the moment of my experience. But frankly, the content's identical on my phone. So what makes this a richer experience than a screen? I mean, scientifically. We need screens, of course. I'm going to show film, I need the enormous screen. But there's more than you can do with these magic boxes. Your phone is not the Internet's door bitch. (Laughter) We can build things — physical things, using physics and pixels, that can integrate the Internet into the world around us. And I'm going to show you a few examples of those. A while ago, I got to work with a design agency, Berg, on an exploration of what the Internet without screens might actually look like. And they showed us a range ways that light can work with simple senses and physical objects to really bring the Internet to life, to make it tangible. Like this wonderfully mechanical YouTube player. And this was an inspiration to me. Next I worked with the Japanese agency, AQ, on a research project into mental health. We wanted to create an object that could capture the subjective data around mood swings that's so essential to diagnosis. This object captures your touch, so you might press it very hard if you're angry, or stroke it if you're calm. It's like a digital emoji stick. And then you might revisit those moments later, and add context to them online. Most of all, we wanted to create an intimate, beautiful thing that could live in your pocket and be loved. The binoculars are actually a birthday present for the Sydney Opera House's 40th anniversary. Our friends at Tellart in Boston brought over a pair of street binoculars, the kind you might find on the Empire State Building, and they fitted them with 360-degree views of other iconic world heritage sights — (Laughter) using Street View. And then we stuck them under the steps. So, they became this very physical, simple reappropriation, or like a portal to these other icons. So you might see Versailles or Shackleton's Hut. Basically, it's virtual reality circa 1955. (Laughter) In our office we use hacky sacks to exchange URLs. This is incredibly simple, it's like your Opal card. You basically put a website on the little chip in here, and then you do this and ... bosh! — the website appears on your phone. It's about 10 cents. Treehugger is a project that we're working on with Grumpy Sailor and Finch, here in Sydney. And I'm very excited about what might happen when you pull the phones apart and you put the bits into trees, and that my children might have an opportunity to visit an enchanted forest guided by a magic wand, where they could talk to digital fairies and ask them questions, and be asked questions in return. As you can see, we're at the cardboard stage with this one. (Laughter) But I'm very excited by the possibility of getting kids back outside without screens, but with all the powerful magic of the Internet at their fingertips. And we hope to have something like this working by the end of the year. So let's recap. Humans like natural solutions. Humans love information. Humans need simple tools. These principles should underpin how we design for the future, not just for the Internet. You may feel uncomfortable about the age of information that we're moving into. You may feel challenged, rather than simply excited. Guess what? Me too. It's a really extraordinary period of human history. We are the people that actually build our world, there are no artificial intelligences... yet. (Laughter) It's us — designers, architects, artists, engineers. And if we challenge ourselves, I think that actually we can have a happy place filled with the information we love that feels as natural and as simple as switching on lightbulb. And although it may seem inevitable, that what the public wants is watches and websites and widgets, maybe we could give a bit of thought to cork and light and hacky sacks. Thank you very much. (Applause)	"首先我想先邀請各位想像一個你會感覺到幸福的地方是的,你幸福的地方我知道你們都有一個幸福的地方 即使那是假的(笑聲) 好的，那麼，舒服嗎?很好 現在，我要你們在心裡面回答一下接下來的問題在你幸福的地方有沒有條狀霓虹燈?有塑膠桌子嗎?有聚酯塑膠地板嗎?手機呢?沒有吧?我想我們都知道我們幸福的地方它必定就是某個自然、戶外海灘、火爐旁的地方我們在讀書、用餐、編織手工的地方而且我們被自然光跟有機元素所包圍自然的事物使我們感到幸福而且幸福有很大的驅動力，驅使我們奮力爭取幸福的事這也是為什麼我們總是重新設計每樣東西並寄望我們的產品可以令人感到更自然好，讓我們從這裡開始吧——""一個理想的設計應該使人感覺自然"" 你的手機非常不自然你的身體以為你對手機上癮但實際上並不是我們並不會對設備上癮我們對它流經的資訊上癮我在想你會待在你幸福的地方多久一個沒有任何資訊的世外桃源我對我們如何取得資訊、如何體驗資訊感到興趣我們正在經歷從一個靜態有限的資訊例如,一本書,圖書館裡,公車站牌旁...轉化到一個數位資訊的時代前往一個資訊流的時代一個你的孩子在任何時間地點都期待能獲取資訊的地方從量子物理到中世紀的葡萄栽培從性別理論到明天的天氣就像是，打開電燈一樣的簡單想像一下 人類也喜歡簡單的工具你的手機並不是簡單的工具叉子才是 (笑聲) 而且我們不喜歡塑膠做的叉子同樣的,我真的並不喜歡我的手機這並不是我想體驗資訊的方式 我認為有比大量透過螢幕來獲取資訊更好的解決方式我不討厭螢幕,但我感覺不到...而且我不認為,我們其中任何一個人會感覺浪費時間在那上面是好的很幸運地，,大型科技公司看起來也同意他們實際上已經投入大量的資金在觸控、語音、手勢、還有感官的事物上像是把無生命的杯子把它們轉變成充滿網路的魔力樣子有潛力可以扭轉數位雲端資訊進入某種我們能觸摸到、可以移動的東西上 父母正在煩惱小孩看螢幕時間太長需要實體的數位玩具來教他們孩子閱讀還有家庭安全等級的APP軟體商店我認為實際上已經真的發生 實體感受比螢幕豐富舉例,我喜歡書對我而言,書像是時間機器....原子和分子綁定在空間中從他們創造的那一霎那到我體會到的那一瞬間但,坦白說那些內容正在我手機裡那有甚麼可以讓這些體驗比螢幕更豐富呢?我的意思是....科學理論上當然我們還是需要螢幕我要展示一些影片,我需要大螢幕但在這些魔法盒裡,你有更多的事可以做你的手機不是網路的看門狗 (笑聲) 我們可以創造...實體事物利用實體與像素可以聚集網路在我們身旁的世界我要向你們展示一些例子 前一陣子，我跟Berg設計公司一起工作探索一個沒有螢幕的網路世界會是怎樣而他們向我們展示了很多種方式燈具可以跟簡單的概念與實體物品做結合讓網路帶入生活中,讓網路可以觸摸到像是這個漂亮的機械式YouTube 播放機它讓我耳目一新 接下來，我跟日本的AQ設計公司在一個有關心理健康的研究專案上合作我們想設計出一種東西它可以捕抓到人體在心情上起伏變化的資訊這對診斷很有必要這個物體抓的到你的觸覺你生氣時可能會用力壓它或冷靜時輕撫它它像是數位的表情貼紙之後你可以再檢視自己的情緒變化然後在線上加一些內容我們大部分人都想要製造一個平易近人、美麗的事物它可以放進你的口袋並被你喜愛著 這個雙筒望遠鏡其實是在一個生日中誕生就在雪梨歌劇院的40周年紀念日我們在波斯頓特拉爾的朋友買了一對街道雙筒望遠鏡你可能可以在帝國洲際大廈找到他們把它裝備成可以360度全角度觀看像是在看世界遺跡那樣 (笑聲) 使用街道景象觀看然後我們把它塞進台階下所以，他們變成非常實質的、簡單重現的或者像個大門入口或其它影像等...所以，你可能會看到凡爾賽宮或沙克爾頓的小屋。基本上,它實境模擬了1955年代 (笑聲) 在辦公室我們用小沙包交換網址這很簡單,就像你的捷運卡基本上你只要在裡面放進一個網站然後你這樣做....然後""蹦!""....網站就會在你手機裡出現它大約10分錢 擁抱樹人是一個我們正在進行的專案與在雪梨的Grumpy Sailor和 Finch 一起合作我非常興奮即將發生的事當你把手機拿開,然後把鑰匙放進樹裡那我的孩子就有機會藉由一隻魔法棒的導覽來參觀魔法森林在那裏,他們可以跟數位精靈談話並問他們問題然後也會被問問題回來就你看到的我們還在剛開始的階段 (笑聲) 但我對把孩子送回沒有螢幕的世界的這種可能性是非常興奮的就在他們的手指間創造出網路的魔法力量我們希望在今年底可以完成類似這種夢想的事情 讓我重述一下人類喜歡自然的方式人類熱愛資訊人類需要簡單的工具這些原則必須鞏固在我們如何設計未來而不是只有網路你也許會對我們正在經歷的資訊爆炸年代感到不適你也許感到挑戰而不是單純的興奮猜猜看?我也是在人類的歷史中這是非常奇特的 我們就是建立我們世界的人一個......還沒有人工智慧的世界 (笑聲) 就是我們,設計師、建築師、藝術家、工程師如果我們向自己挑戰我認為我們真的可以有一個幸福的地方一個充滿我們喜歡的資訊的地方那種感受就像是打開電燈一樣的簡單雖然有些東西看起來是無法避免的像是大眾喜歡的手錶、網站、小玩意...等只要我們放進一點點設計的心思在軟木塞、電燈、小沙包裡面 非常謝謝你們 (掌聲)"
