Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_wujec_demos_the_13th_century_astrolabe	"As technology progresses, and as it advances, many of us assume that these advances make us more intelligent, make us smarter and more connected to the world. And what I'd like to argue is that that's not necessarily the case, as progress is simply a word for change, and with change you gain something, but you also lose something. And to really illustrate this point, what I'd like to do is to show you how technology has dealt with a very simple, a very common, an everyday question. And that question is this. What time is it? What time is it? If you glance at your iPhone, it's so simple to tell the time. But, I'd like to ask you, how would you tell the time if you didn't have an iPhone? How would you tell the time, say, 600 years ago? How would you do it? Well, the way you would do it is by using a device that's called an astrolabe. So, an astrolabe is relatively unknown in today's world. But, at the time, in the 13th century, it was the gadget of the day. It was the world's first popular computer. And it was a device that, in fact, is a model of the sky. So, the different parts of the astrolabe, in this particular type, the rete corresponds to the positions of the stars. The plate corresponds to a coordinate system. And the mater has some scales and puts it all together. If you were an educated child, you would know how to not only use the astrolabe, you would also know how to make an astrolabe. And we know this because the first treatise on the astrolabe, the first technical manual in the English language, was written by Geoffrey Chaucer. Yes, that Geoffrey Chaucer, in 1391, to his little Lewis, his 11-year-old son. And in this book, little Lewis would know the big idea. And the central idea that makes this computer work is this thing called stereographic projection. And basically, the concept is, how do you represent the three-dimensional image of the night sky that surrounds us onto a flat, portable, two-dimensional surface. The idea is actually relatively simple. Imagine that that Earth is at the center of the universe, and surrounding it is the sky projected onto a sphere. Each point on the surface of the sphere is mapped through the bottom pole, onto a flat surface, where it is then recorded. So the North Star corresponds to the center of the device. The ecliptic, which is the path of the sun, moon, and planets correspond to an offset circle. The bright stars correspond to little daggers on the rete. And the altitude corresponds to the plate system. Now, the real genius of the astrolabe is not just the projection. The real genius is that it brings together two coordinate systems so they fit perfectly. There is the position of the sun, moon and planets on the movable rete. And then there is their location on the sky as seen from a certain latitude on the back plate. Okay? So how would you use this device? Well, let me first back up for a moment. This is an astrolabe. Pretty impressive, isn't it? And so, this astrolabe is on loan from us from the Oxford School of — Museum of History. And you can see the different components. This is the mater, the scales on the back. This is the rete. Okay. Do you see that? That's the movable part of the sky. And in the back you can see a spider web pattern. And that spider web pattern corresponds to the local coordinates in the sky. This is a rule device. And on the back are some other devices, measuring tools and scales, to be able to make some calculations. Okay? You know, I've always wanted one of these. For my thesis I actually built one of these out of paper. And this one, this is a replica from a 15th-century device. And it's worth probably about three MacBook Pros. But a real one would cost about as much as my house, and the house next to it, and actually every house on the block, on both sides of the street, maybe a school thrown in, and some — you know, a church. They are just incredibly expensive. But let me show you how to work this device. So let's go to step one. First thing that you do is you select a star in the night sky, if you're telling time at night. So, tonight, if it's clear you'll be able to see the summer triangle. And there is a bright star called Deneb. So let's select Deneb. Second, is you measure the altitude of Deneb. So, step two, I hold the device up, and then I sight its altitude there so I can see it clearly now. And then I measure its altitude. So, it's about 26 degrees. You can't see it from over there. Step three is identify the star on the front of the device. Deneb is there. I can tell. Step four is I then move the rete, move the sky, so the altitude of the star corresponds to the scale on the back. Okay, so when that happens everything lines up. I have here a model of the sky that corresponds to the real sky. Okay? So, it is, in a sense, holding a model of the universe in my hands. And then finally, I take a rule, and move the rule to a date line which then tells me the time here. Right. So, that's how the device is used. (Laughter) So, I know what you're thinking: ""That's a lot of work, isn't it? Isn't it a ton of work to be able to tell the time?"" as you glance at your iPod to just check out the time. But there is a difference between the two, because with your iPod you can tell — or your iPhone, you can tell exactly what the time is, with precision. The way little Lewis would tell the time is by a picture of the sky. He would know where things would fit in the sky. He would not only know what time it was, he would also know where the sun would rise, and how it would move across the sky. He would know what time the sun would rise, and what time it would set. And he would know that for essentially every celestial object in the heavens. So, in computer graphics and computer user interface design, there is a term called affordances. So, affordances are the qualities of an object that allow us to perform an action with it. And what the astrolabe does is it allows us, it affords us, to connect to the night sky, to look up into the night sky and be much more — to see the visible and the invisible together. So, that's just one use. Incredible, there is probably 350, 400 uses. In fact, there is a text, and that has over a thousand uses of this first computer. On the back there is scales and measurements for terrestrial navigation. You can survey with it. The city of Baghdad was surveyed with it. It can be used for calculating mathematical equations of all different types. And it would take a full university course to illustrate it. Astrolabes have an incredible history. They are over 2,000 years old. The concept of stereographic projection originated in 330 B.C. And the astrolabes come in many different sizes and shapes and forms. There is portable ones. There is large display ones. And I think what is common to all astrolabes is that they are beautiful works of art. There is a quality of craftsmanship and precision that is just astonishing and remarkable. Astrolabes, like every technology, do evolve over time. So, the earliest retes, for example, were very simple and primitive. And advancing retes became cultural emblems. This is one from Oxford. And I find this one really extraordinary because the rete pattern is completely symmetrical, and it accurately maps a completely asymmetrical, or random sky. How cool is that? This is just amazing. So, would little Lewis have an astrolabe? Probably not one made of brass. He would have one made out of wood, or paper. And the vast majority of this first computer was a portable device that you could keep in the back of your pocket. So, what does the astrolabe inspire? Well, I think the first thing is that it reminds us just how resourceful people were, our forebears were, years and years ago. It's just an incredible device. Every technology advances. Every technology is transformed and moved by others. And what we gain with a new technology, of course, is precision and accuracy. But what we lose, I think, is an accurate — a felt sense of the sky, a sense of context. Knowing the sky, knowing your relationship with the sky, is the center of the real answer to knowing what time it is. So, it's — I think astrolabes are just remarkable devices. And so, what can you learn from these devices? Well, primarily that there is a subtle knowledge that we can connect with the world. And astrolabes return us to this subtle sense of how things all fit together, and also how we connect to the world. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	隨著科技發展以及科技進步許多人認為這些進展讓我們更有智慧也讓我們更聰明、更貼近世界。而我想要說明這不一定是事實即使進步帶來改變這些改變使你獲得某些事物但同時你也失去了某些事物 為了闡述這個論點，我要做的是向你們介紹，科技如何處理一個簡單、平凡、大家每天在問的問題。而這問題就是現在幾點？現在是什麼時候？你只要看看iPhone，就能馬上知道時間不過我想請問，如果你沒有手機又該怎麼知道時間呢？好比，在600年前，你要怎麼知道時間?你會怎麼做？ 你要做的是，利用某種儀器那就是星盤。雖然現代許多人都不知道星盤了不過在13世紀那個時代星盤是確認時間的儀器可說是最初普及於世的電腦而這個儀器，事實上就是天空的模型。這一型的星盤上的零件有：以網環(Rete)和天空中群星的位置相對照整個盤面(plate)對應出一個天空座標體系母盤(mater)上則添加刻度，組合三者即為星盤。 若在13世紀，小時候有受教育你不只會學到如何使用星盤也會學到如何製作星盤。我們是從第一篇星盤專論知道這點的它是第一篇以英語寫成的說明書作者是Geoffrey Chaucer沒錯,這是Geoffrey Chaucer在1391年寫給他11歲的兒子小路易斯的書小路易斯能從這本書裡學到星盤的知識 以及推動星盤這部電腦運作的核心原理此原理稱為球極平面投影。其基本概念在於該如何把立體的、環繞著我們的夜空投射到平坦、可攜式的二維平面上。原理其實很簡單請想像地球位於宇宙中心將環繞地球球體的天空投射到球面上球面上的每一點再以極軸為準對應到平面上，並加以記錄。 因此北極星就對應到儀器的中心點太陽通過的黃道、月球和其他行星也各自對應到一個圓環上網環上尖尖的星標則標誌那些明亮的星星高度則可從盤面系統推得。不過，星盤的巧妙可不只有投影的應用它真正的巧妙之處在於將兩個座標系統結合完美疊合在一起太陽、月亮和行星的位置標在可轉動的網環上所以它們在天空中的位置能根據不同緯度反應在盤面上，懂嗎？ 所以這儀器要怎麼用呢？讓我稍微退回前面這是個星盤，很正點吧？這星盤是借來的從牛津大學歷史博物館借來的。你可以看到這些不同的零件這是母盤，表面有刻度這是網環，看到了嗎？轉動它能呈現不同時間的天空。而底部你可以看到蜘蛛網紋般的圖案這蜘蛛網紋圖案與天空座標系統對應用這個來控制，後面呢則有其他設計，像是測量工具、刻度等，用來計算 我一直都想要一個星盤為了論文，我特地看書，做出了一個而這個，是個複製品複製於15世紀的裝置價值大約等同三台Macbook Pro電腦。真的星盤價值比我的整棟房子和隔壁的、再隔壁，整個街區的價值還高甚至還要加上對街、和一所學校、幾間教堂是真的很貴。 我向各位展示星盤怎麼使用。第一步要先選一顆星星晚上的話就是夜空中選一顆今晚如果晴朗，可以看到夏季大三角(summer triangle)這顆很明亮的叫天鵝座(Deneb)，我們就選它。第二步，要測量天鵝座的高度所以，把星盤拿高目測高度這樣就能清楚看到。然後我測量高度。約是26度，你們坐太遠可能看不到第三步，從星盤正面找到這顆星天鵝座在這，找到了。第四步，轉動網環就像轉動天空，如此一來星星的高度就與背後的刻度對應。一旦完成這些步驟設定就完成了。我手中就握著星空的模型與真正的天空完全對應所以，某方面來說我手上握的是宇宙的模型。最後，用尺規移到時間線的地方就能指出現在時間。所以，星盤就是這樣用的。(笑聲) 你們一定在想「這樣太麻煩了，只是想知道時間就得搞這麼久？」因為你們iPod拿起來就知道時間了。但兩者的差別很大：用你的iPod或是iPhone，你能知道時間而且還是很精確的時間。小路易斯看時間用的是星空的圖。他會知道星空的樣貌因此除了知道時間以外他還能得知太陽從哪邊升起、太陽會如何移動、太陽會幾點升起、幾點落下。他會知道天空上的每個物體。 所以，在電腦繪圖、或電腦使用者介面領域裏有個叫功能可見性的概念。功能可見性是指一個物體讓我們能使用的各個特性。星盤能讓我們使用的特性就是與天空的連結當我們抬頭看夜空時能看見有形、無形的所有東西。這只是其中一個功能。很難想象，但還有其他350、400個功能。事實上，有文獻指出，這第一台電腦(星盤)有超過千種用途 因為它後面有刻度、測量器能用來做地球上的定位。或作土地丈量，巴格達城就被量過。它可以用來計算各種數學公式要示範使用方式，得用上整學期的時間。星盤有個很不可思議的歷史長達兩千年的歷史。平射投影的概念起源於西元前330年。 當時星盤有各種的尺寸、形狀、大小有可攜式的、有展示用的我想所有星盤的共通點是他們有如藝術般的美麗製作星盤所需的手藝、精確度都令人讚嘆，非常了不起 和每個科技一樣，星盤也會演化。像是一開始的網環，非常簡陋後來的網環可說是文化象徵這個是牛津的。我覺得這個極為特別，因為它的網環圖案是完全對稱的但它卻可以對照出完全不相稱的天空超酷的吧？真令人驚艷 所以小路易斯能有自己的星盤嗎？可能不會是銅製的，也許是木製的、或紙製的，當時這首部電腦是可攜式的可以放進口袋。星盤能帶給我們什麼啟發？我想第一就是它提醒了我們，前人資源有多豐富我們的祖先多年前就設計出來了驚人的設計。 凡是科技都會進步科技都是相互影響、轉變的現今科技為我們帶來的當然就是精準度。但我們因此失去的，我想就是對於天空的認識這些背後正確的知識。認識天空，認識我們與天空的關連才是「現在幾點？」這問題真正的答案。 所以，我認為星盤真的是非凡的設計。那麼，我們能從學到什麼呢？最基本的，就是能認識我們與世界接軌的微妙關係。星盤帶我們了解到最初那種天地事物如何連繫的微妙含義以及我們與世界相連的感覺。謝謝各位(掌聲)
