Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_shannon_s_magnetic_sculpture	This is a sculpture I made, which is a way of, kind of, freeing a form into an object that has different degrees of freedom. So, it can balance on a point. This is a bronze ball, an aluminum arm here, and then this wooden disk. And the wooden disk was really thought about as something that you'd want to hold on to, and that would glide easily through your hands. The aluminum is because it's very light. The bronze is nice hard, durable material that could roll on the ground. Inside of the bronze ball there's a lead weight that is free-swinging on an axle that's on two bearings that pass in between, across it, like this, that counterbalance this weight. So it allows it to roll. And the sphere has that balance property that it always sort of stays still and looks the same from every direction. But if you put something on top of it, it disbalances it. And so it would tip over. But in this case because the interior is free-swinging in relation to the sphere, it can stand up on one point. And then there was a second level to this object, which is that it — I wanted it to convey some proportions that I was interested in, which is the diameter of the Moon and the diameter of the Earth in proportion to each other. I was exploring, really early on, wanting to make things float in the air. And I thought up a lot of ideas. This is sculpture that I made that — it's magnetically levitated. The thing is, is that it's slightly dangerous. Normally it's sort of cordoned off when it's in a museum. But it's uh — let's see if I can manipulate it a little bit without, um — oops. So this is just floating, floating on a permanent magnetic field, which stabilizes it in all directions. Except there is a slight tether here, which keeps it from going over the top of its field. It's sort of surfing on a magnetic field at the crest of a wave. And that's what supports the object and keeps it stable. I think we could roll the tape, admin. I have a sort of a collection of videos that I took of different installations, which I could narrate. This is a sculpture of the Sun and the Earth, in proportion. Representing that eight and a half minutes that it takes light and gravity to connect the two. So here is the Earth. It's a little less than a millimeter that was turned of solid bronze. And here is a similar sculpture. That's the Sun at that end. And then in a series of 55 balls, it reduces, proportionately — each ball and the spaces between them reduce proportionately, until they get down to this little Earth. This is in a sculpture park in Taejon. This one is about the Moon and then the distance to the Earth, in proportion also. This is a little stone ball, floating. As you can see the little tether, that it's also magnetically levitated. And then this is the first part of — this is 109 spheres, since the Sun is 109 times the diameter of the Earth. And so this is the size of the Sun. And then each of these little spheres is the size of the Earth in proportion to the Sun. It's made up of 16 concentric shells. Each one has 92 spheres. This is in the courtyard of a twelfth-century alchemist. I was thinking that the Sun is kind of the ultimate alchemist. (Laughter) So this, again, is on the subject — a slice from the equator of the Earth. And then the Moon in the center, and it's floating. And this is in France. This is in Sapporo. It's balancing on a shaft and a ball, right at the center of gravity, or just slightly above the center of gravity, which means that the lower half of the object is just a little bit more weighty. So you can see it rotating here. It weighs about a ton or over a ton. It's made of stainless steel, quite thick. But it's being balanced like that in equilibrium. It's susceptible to motion by the air currents. This is another species of work that I do. These are these arrays. These spheres are all suspended, but they have magnets horizontally in them that make them all like compasses. So all the red sides, for example, face one direction: south. And the blue side, the compliment, faces the other way. So as you turn around you're seeing different colors. This is based on the structure of a diamond. It was a diamond cell structure was the point of departure. And then there were kind of large spaces in the hollows between the atoms. And so I placed one more element of each one of them. These were white spheres. Then I had video projectors that were projecting intermittently onto the spheres. So they would catch parts of the images, and make sort of three-dimensional color volumes, as you walk through it, through the object. This is something I did of a tactile communication system. It was the idea of isolating the tactile component of sculpture, and then putting it into a communication system. This is an idea of moving a sculpture, a ball, that would be directed around the room by a computer. This is a clock I designed. It has Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion Map edited here. It turns once per day in synchrony with the Earth. And then, this is like projects that are harder to build. (Laughter) This has a diamond-bottomed lake. So it's a floating island with water, fresh water, that can fly from place to place. This would be grown, I suppose, with nanotechnology in the future sometime. In the course of doing my work I sort of have a broad range of interests. And some of it is just the idea of creating media — media as a sculpture, something that would keep the sculpture fresh and ever-changing, by just creating the media that the sculpture is made of. And I had a lot of — always interested in the concept of a crystal ball. And the idea that you could see things inside of a crystal ball and predict the future — or a television set, where it's sort of like a magic box where anything can appear. I had thought about, a long time ago, in the late '60s — when I was just starting out, I was under the influence of thinking about Buckminster Fuller's grand project for an electric globe across from the United Nations — and other things that were happening, the space program at that time, and Whole Earth Catalog, things like that. I was thinking about mass produced spherical television sets that could be linked to orbiting camera satellites. So if we could roll the next film here. This has evolved over the years in a lot of different iterations. But this the current version of it, is a flying airship that is about 35 meters in diameter, about 110 feet in diameter. The whole surface of it is covered with 60 million diodes, red, blue, and green, that allow you to have a high-resolution picture, visible in daylight. I came with a plan. I brought it to Paul MacCready's company AeroVironment to do a feasibility study, and they analyzed it, and came up with a lot of innovative ideas about how to propel it. So we have a physical plan of how to make this actually happen. This is the control room inside of the ship. The idea of this air genie is, it's something that can just transform and become anything. It's like a traveling show. It has speakers on it. And it has cameras over the surface of it. So it can see its environment, and then it can mimic its environment and disappear. Here the legs are retracting. The cabin is open or closed, as you like. It weighs about 20 tons. It has on-board generators. It can generate about a million kilowatts, in order to be bright enough to be visible in daylight. The idea of it is to make a kind of a traveling show. It really would be dedicated to the arts and to interacting. There would be on board a crew of artists, musicians, that would allow the thing to become actually kind of a conscious object that would respond to the moment, and to interact as an entity that was aware, that could communicate. It's completely silent and nonpolluting. It has electric motors with a novel propulsion system. It could be interacted with large crowds in different ways. Primarily I would be interested in how it would interact with, say, going to a college campus, and then being used as a way of talking about the earth sciences, the world, the situation of the globe. The default image on the object would probably be a high-resolution Earth image. But then one could interact with that and show plate tectonics or global warming issues, or migrations — all of the things that we're concerned with today. And then at night the idea is that it would be used as kind of a rave situation, where the people could cut loose, and the music and the lights, and everything. So it could land in a park, for example. Or this could represent a college green. And then it would have a corresponding website that would show the itinerary of this. And so interacting with the same kind of imagery. It would also be able to be an open code, so people could interact with it. It would be forum for people's ideas about what they would like to see on a giant screen of this type. So that's pretty much it. Okay. Thank you. (Applause)	這是我做的一個雕塑，算是將一個具有不同程度自由的物體從一種形態解放的一種方式吧。因此，它能在一點上達到平衡。這是個銅球，這個是鋁製手臂，還有這個木制盤子。這個木盤子是為了讓你可以抓住什麼而設計的，這樣你可以容易地徒手轉動它。用鋁是因為它很輕。銅是因為它夠硬、耐用，它可以在地上滾動。銅球的內部有個鉛塊，繞著一個軸心作自由擺動，軸心就在兩個軸承之間移動， 像這個樣子，就抵消了這個重量。這樣球就可以滾動。這樣球就可以保持平衡，這個它可以總是保持不動，從各種角度看都一樣。但當你在頂部放個東西，就打破了這種平衡。它就會翻過來。這時，因為它的內部是可以自由擺動的，它也可以站穩。這個模型的第二個層面就是 —我想加入一些我有興趣的比例，我把月亮直徑和地球直徑按比例運用到其中。 早期我探究的是，讓物體浮在空中。我想出了很多點子。這是我做的一個模型 —這是磁浮的。這個東西，有點點危險。一般情況下，在博物館裏都是放在封閉的展櫃中。但是，唔 — 我們來看看我能否來操縱它，就一點點 — 哦 —只是懸浮著，懸浮在永久磁場中，在任何方向都是穩定的。除了這裏有一小條繩繫在這裡，確保它不會偏離磁場。這就好像在磁場上衝浪。支援著物體保持穩定。 管理人員，我想我們可以播放影片了。我這裏有幾個不同的模型的錄影，我可以給大家講解。這個是太陽和地球的模型，按照真實比例做的。光和重力把他們連接起來要八分半鐘的時間。這個是地球。比一毫米少一點點，是銅制的。 這是個類似的雕塑。末端是太陽。然後是一系列的55個球，每個球都按一定比例縮小，每個球和其之間的距離也按比例縮小，直到最後這個小小的地球。這在韓國大田的一座雕塑公園中展出。 這個關於月亮的。然後這是到地球的距離，也是按比例的。這是個小石球，懸浮著。你可以看見這個小鎖鏈，也是磁浮的。 這個是第一部分 —這是109個圓球，因為太陽比地球的直徑大109倍。這是太陽的大小。剩下的每一個球都是同太陽的大小成比例的地球。這由16個同心殼組成。每個有92個球。這是在一個12世紀的煉金術士的庭院。我覺得太陽好似個終極煉金術士。 好，回到這個話題上來 —這個代表地球的赤道。月亮在中心。懸浮著。這是在法國。 這時在日本札幌。這在一根箭杆和一個圓球上保持著平衡，就在重心處，或者說，重心上方一點點，這意味著物體下半部比上半部重一點點。你可以看到它在這裏旋轉。它大概重一噸，或者比一噸多點。它是不銹鋼做的，很厚。但是它在一點上很平衡。它會隨著氣流而運動。 這是我做的另一組作品。這些是箭頭。這些箭頭都是懸掛著的。它們都具有水平的磁性，這樣它們就像指南針一樣。所有的紅色端，比如，都指向一個方向：南方。所有的藍色方向，相反地，指向另一個方向。你四周轉轉就會看到不同的顏色。 這個是建立在鑽石結構的基礎上。以鑽石晶體結構作為出發點。在原子之間的空隙，存在很大的空間。所以我在它們之間多放了一個元素。這些白色的圓球。然後我用投影機間歇性地投影到圓球上。這樣就有了部分影像，也就形成了看似立體的彩色圓柱，就像你穿過這個物體的時候。 這是我為觸感溝通系統所做的。這個想法是分離出模型的觸感部分，然後將其運用到通信系統中。這個關於移動雕塑的想法，移動球體，是用電腦來發出指令，移動房間內的雕塑。 這是我設計的時鐘。用巴克敏斯特•富勒(Buckminster Fuller)的多面體圖做背景。每天轉動一次，與地球同步。 這是個很難製作的工程。（笑聲）這是個有著鑽石為底的湖。上面懸浮著一個島，有水，淡水，可以從一個地方飛到另一個地方。等將來有了奈米技術，我想這個計畫還會再擴展。 工作讓我擁有廣泛的興趣。其中一些僅僅是創造媒介的想法 —作為雕塑的媒介，只需要改變組成雕塑的媒介，就可以改變雕塑本身，使之鮮活，千變萬化。我對於 —水晶球的概念特別感興趣。還有那個你能通過觀察水晶球的內部來預測未來的意念 —或者是電視機，電視機也算是一個魔術盒，任何東西都能夠出現。我想過，很久以前，在60年代後期，我剛剛起步的時候，我受到巴克敏斯特•富勒(Buckminster Fuller)的影響，他那個橫跨聯合國的電子球大計劃 —還有其他當時正在發生的事情，那個時候的太空計畫，和全球概覽(Whole Earth Catalog)，一類的事情。我也想到過大量生產的球形電視機可以和軌道衛星相機相連。 所以我們可以看下一個片子。這是經過數年的演變，多次不同的疊加。但這是最近的模型，一個直徑大概有35米的的飛船，也就是110英尺直徑的飛船。它的整個表面覆蓋著六千萬個二極體，紅色的、藍色的和綠色的，讓你有高解析度的畫面，白天也看得見。 我想出了一個計劃。我把它帶到了 Paul MacCready的公司 AeroVironment做可行性的研究，他們分析了這個飛船，想出了很多如何推進它的創新的點子。現在我們有了一個讓它實現的計畫。這是飛船內部的控制室。這個在天空飛的天才的點子，就是能夠轉變成其他任何東西。就像是巡迴演出的節目。它有麥克風。它的表面有鏡頭。所以它可以看見它所處的環境，然後能夠模仿它的環境從而變為消失。它的支撐架可以收起來。船艙可以隨你喜好開或關。它大概重20噸。它有自己的發電機。能夠發出大約1百萬千瓦的電力，足夠亮得讓你在白天也能看得見。這個點子是做個好像旅遊的節目。它真的可以用於藝術和互動。船員可以是藝術家們、音樂家們。這樣飛船就實際上成為了能夠回應思想的物體，並作為一個團體跟外界互動交流。這幾乎沒有噪音也不污染環境。它具有電動馬達和新型推進系統。可以用不同的方式同大眾交流。 我主要的感興趣的是，它如何交流，比如說，進入大學校區，或用於研究地球科學，世界的局勢。物體上的默認圖片大概是高品質的地球圖片。但是它可以通過互動，顯示板塊構造或者溫室效應，或者遷徙 —關於我們現在所關心的所有問題。 晚上的時候，它用來做銳舞派對，人們可以放鬆下來，聽聽音樂，欣賞燈光，做任何事。比如說，它在一個公園著陸。或者可以代表大學城。它還有個聯絡的網站說明它的行程。還有同樣類型的圖片隨之互動。它還能夠有開放代碼，這樣人們也可以與之交流。它會成為人們想法的論壇，討論人們希望在這個巨大的螢幕上看到什麼。大概就是這樣子吧。好了。謝謝大家。（鼓掌）
