Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_wujec_on_3_ways_the_brain_creates_meaning	"Last year at TED we aimed to try to clarify the overwhelming complexity and richness that we experience at the conference in a project called Big Viz. And the Big Viz is a collection of 650 sketches that were made by two visual artists. David Sibbet from The Grove, and Kevin Richards, from Autodesk, made 650 sketches that strive to capture the essence of each presenter's ideas. And the consensus was: it really worked. These sketches brought to life the key ideas, the portraits, the magic moments that we all experienced last year. This year we were thinking, ""Why does it work?"" What is it about animation, graphics, illustrations, that create meaning? And this is an important question to ask and answer because the more we understand how the brain creates meaning, the better we can communicate, and, I also think, the better we can think and collaborate together. So this year we're going to visualize how the brain visualizes. Cognitive psychologists now tell us that the brain doesn't actually see the world as it is, but instead, creates a series of mental models through a collection of ""Ah-ha moments,"" or moments of discovery, through various processes. The processing, of course, begins with the eyes. Light enters, hits the back of the retina, and is circulated, most of which is streamed to the very back of the brain, at the primary visual cortex. And primary visual cortex sees just simple geometry, just the simplest of shapes. But it also acts like a kind of relay station that re-radiates and redirects information to many other parts of the brain. As many as 30 other parts that selectively make more sense, create more meaning through the kind of ""Ah-ha"" experiences. We're only going to talk about three of them. So the first one is called the ventral stream. It's on this side of the brain. And this is the part of the brain that will recognize what something is. It's the ""what"" detector. Look at a hand. Look at a remote control. Chair. Book. So that's the part of the brain that is activated when you give a word to something. A second part of the brain is called the dorsal stream. And what it does is locates the object in physical body space. So if you look around the stage here you'll create a kind of mental map of the stage. And if you closed your eyes you'd be able to mentally navigate it. You'd be activating the dorsal stream if you did that. The third part that I'd like to talk about is the limbic system. And this is deep inside of the brain. It's very old, evolutionarily. And it's the part that feels. It's the kind of gut center, where you see an image and you go, ""Oh! I have a strong or emotional reaction to whatever I'm seeing."" So the combination of these processing centers help us make meaning in very different ways. So what can we learn about this? How can we apply this insight? Well, again, the schematic view is that the eye visually interrogates what we look at. The brain processes this in parallel, the figments of information asking a whole bunch of questions to create a unified mental model. So, for example, when you look at this image a good graphic invites the eye to dart around, to selectively create a visual logic. So the act of engaging, and looking at the image creates the meaning. It's the selective logic. Now we've augmented this and spatialized this information. Many of you may remember the magic wall that we built in conjunction with Perceptive Pixel where we quite literally create an infinite wall. And so we can compare and contrast the big ideas. So the act of engaging and creating interactive imagery enriches meaning. It activates a different part of the brain. And then the limbic system is activated when we see motion, when we see color, and there are primary shapes and pattern detectors that we've heard about before. So the point of this is what? We make meaning by seeing, by an act of visual interrogation. The lessons for us are three-fold. First, use images to clarify what we're trying to communicate. Secondly make those images interactive so that we engage much more fully. And the third is to augment memory by creating a visual persistence. These are techniques that can be used to be — that can be applied in a wide range of problem solving. So the low-tech version looks like this. And, by the way, this is the way in which we develop and formulate strategy within Autodesk, in some of our organizations and some of our divisions. What we literally do is have the teams draw out the entire strategic plan on one giant wall. And it's very powerful because everyone gets to see everything else. There's always a room, always a place to be able to make sense of all of the components in the strategic plan. This is a time-lapse view of it. You can ask the question, ""Who's the boss?"" You'll be able to figure that out. (Laughter) So the act of collectively and collaboratively building the image transforms the collaboration. No Powerpoint is used in two days. But instead the entire team creates a shared mental model that they can all agree on and move forward on. And this can be enhanced and augmented with some emerging digital technology. And this is our great unveiling for today. And this is an emerging set of technologies that use large-screen displays with intelligent calculation in the background to make the invisible visible. Here what we can do is look at sustainability, quite literally. So a team can actually look at all the key components that heat the structure and make choices and then see the end result that is visualized on this screen. So making images meaningful has three components. The first again, is making ideas clear by visualizing them. Secondly, making them interactive. And then thirdly, making them persistent. And I believe that these three principles can be applied to solving some of the very tough problems that we face in the world today. Thanks so much. (Applause)"	"去年在TED 我們主要試著去釐清在研討會中我們所獲得的那麼龐雜,豐富的資訊這個計畫就叫做Big Viz而Big Viz 收集了650件草圖這些全是由二位藝術家所完成The Grove的大衛西貝特以及Autodesk的凱文理查所完成的650件草圖，設法掌握到每位演講者想法的本質而大家一致認為，真的成功了這些草圖生動地呈現出關鍵的想法我們去年所接觸到的人物以及我們所渡過的動人的時刻 今年我們則在思考: 這為什麼會成功？究竟是動畫圖像?還是插畫?創造了意義?這會是一個重要的問題要回答的因為我們愈了解大腦是如何創造意義的我們就愈能有效溝通而我也認為, 也就愈能思考與合作得更好因此今年我們要看看大腦如何呈現視覺 認知心理學家告訴我們大腦並不是真的看見這個世界的樣子而是創造一連串的心智模式透過許多頓悟、發現的瞬間所組成或透過各式各樣的過程 這些過程，當然是從眼睛開始的光線進到視網膜後面，然後被傳遞大部分會進到大腦的最後面進到主要視覺皮質區而主要視覺皮質只會看見簡單的幾何圖形屬於最簡單的形狀但它也像是個轉運站在運作重新發射和重新定向訊號到大腦的其他部分大腦的其他三十幾個部分則選擇性地產生更多知覺透過頓悟的經驗創造出意義我們現在只要談其中的三個 首先是腹側流它位在大腦的側邊是大腦辨識東西的部位它是一個""這是什麼""偵測器看一下手，看一看遙控器、椅子、書所以這是大腦活躍的部分能說出物體的正確名稱 大腦的第二個部份叫做背側流而它主要幫物體定位在實體空間中所以當你看看舞台四周你就會創造一個舞台的心智地圖如果閉上眼睛，你也能夠用心智走動這是你正在活用你的背側流 第三個我想要講的部分是邊緣系統位於大腦的深層部位，在進化上它是非常古老的屬於感覺的部分它算是一種直覺中心，你看見了影像會覺得: 喔! 對於這個東西我有種強烈、情緒性的感受 所以結合這些程序中心幫助我們用不同方式產生意義所以我們從這學到什麼? 可以怎麼用這些洞察?再一次的，用草圖表示眼睛會問我們在看什麼大腦則同步處理這些虛構的訊息藉由提出一連串的問題創造出統一的心智模式 舉個例子，當你看著這個影像一個好圖會讓你的眼睛停留在四周而選擇性地創造了視覺邏輯所以透過行動及影像觀看創造了意義這是選擇性邏輯現在我們已經詳細說明這個資訊你們很多人應該還記得我們所建造的神奇之牆連結了感知像素這我們確實是創造了一個無限之牆因此我們可以比較並對照這個大想法透過參與行動與建立交互影像能夠豐富意義它讓大腦的不同部位活躍起來邊緣系統的活躍在我們看見動作、看見顏色的時候那裡有主要形狀及圖樣的偵測器這我們其實已經知道的 所以到底重點是什麼?我們透過視覺診斷來製造意義這堂課對我們有三個面向首先，用影像來釐清我們設法要傳達的東西第二，讓這些影像有互動因此我們能夠更投入第三，藉由讓視覺持續來強化記憶這些技術可以用來應用在廣泛的問題解決 而低階的版本看起來就像這樣另外，這就是我們Autodesk用來發展與規劃的策略在我們的一些組織和部門我們真正做的只是讓團隊在一個巨大的牆上畫出整個策略計畫這相當的強而有力，因為每個人都能看到別人的那兒總是會有空間、總有位子能夠讓所有的組件在這個策略計畫中都產生意義 這是一個時間快轉的景像你可以提出這樣的問題: 到底誰是老闆？而你將可以看得出來所以共同合作的行動建立起影像進而形成協同運作這二天，沒有使用簡報軟體取而代之的是，整個團隊創造了共享的心智模式他們所有人都能認同及前進 這能夠強化、擴大一些發展中的數位科技這就是今天的揭示這是一個新興的科技組合使用大型螢幕展示並有智慧型電腦在背後讓看不見的東西視覺化這裡我們能做的是持續看著一個團隊能夠真正看到所有的組成結構的關鍵並做出決定，在這個螢幕上看見最後成果 讓影像產生意義有三個部分第一，藉由視覺化讓想法清楚呈現第二，讓它們互動第三，讓他們持續我相信這三個原則能夠應用在解決我們所面對的艱難問題上。謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
