Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_rielly_delivers_a_comic_send_up_of_ted2006	"I just want to say, over the last few years I've been — had the opportunity to do this closing conference. And I've had some incredible warm-up acts. About eight years ago, Billy Graham opened for me. And I thought that there was — (Laughter) I thought that there was absolutely no way in hell to top that. But I just wanted to say — and I mean this without irony — I think I can speak for everybody in the audience when I say that I wish to God that you were the President of the United States. (Applause) OK, this is the title of my talk today. (Laughter) I just want to give you a quick overview. First of all, please remember I'm completely politically correct, and I mean everything with great affection. If any of you have sensitive stomachs or are feeling queasy, now is the time to check your Blackberry. (Laughter) Just to review, this is my TEDTalk. We're going to do some jokes, some gags, some little skits — and then we're going to talk about the L1 point. (Laughter) So, one of the questions I ask myself is, was this the most distressing TED ever? Let's try and sum things up, shall we? Images of limb regeneration and faces filled with smallpox: 21 percent of the conference. (Laughter) Mentions of polar bears drowning: four percent. Images of the earth being wiped out by flood or bird flu: 64 percent. (Laughter) And David Pogue singing show tunes. (Applause) Because this is the most distressing TED ever, I've been working with Neil Gershenfeld on next year's TED Bag. And if the — if the conference is anywhere near this distressing, then we're going to have a scream bag next year. (Laughter) It's going to be a cradle-to-cradle scream bag, of course. (Laughter) So you're going to be able to go like this. (Laughter) Bring it over here and open it up. Aaaah! (Laughter) Meanwhile, back at TED University, this wonderful woman is teaching you how to chop Sun Chips. (Laughter) So Robert Wright — I don't know, I felt like if there was anyone that Helen needed to give antidepressants to, it might have been him. I want to deliberately interfere with his dopamine levels. (Laughter) He was talking about morality. Economy class morality is, we want to bomb you back to the Stone Age. Business class morality is, don't bomb Japan — they built my car. And first-class morality is, don't bomb Mexico — they clean my house. (Laughter) Yes, it is politically incorrect. All right, now I want to do a little bit of a thing for you ... (Laughter) All right, now these are the wha — I'd say, [mumble, mumble — mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble] — ahh! (Laughter) So I wanted to show you guys — I wanted to talk about a revolutionary new computer interface that lets you work with images just as easily as you — as a completely natural user interface. (Laughter) And you can — you can use really natural hand gestures to like, go like this. (Applause) Now we had a Harvard professor here — she was from Harvard, I just wanted to mention and — and she was actually a professor from Harvard. And she was talking about seven-dimensional, inverted universes. With, you know, of course, there's the gravity brain. There's the weak brain. And then there's my weak brain, which is too — too — absolutely too weak to understand what the fuck she was talking about. (Laughter) Now — (Laughter) one of the things that is very important to me is to try and figure out what on Earth am I here for. And that's why I went out and I picked up a best-selling business book. You know, it basically uses as its central premise Greek mythology. And it's by a guy named Pastor Rick Warren, and it's called ""The Porpoise Driven Life."" (Laughter) And Rick is as a pagan god, which I thought was kind of appropriate, in a certain way. And now we're going to have kind of a little more visualization about Rick Warren. OK. (Laughter) All right. Now, red is Rick Warren, and green is Daniel Dennett, OK? (Laughter) The scales here are religiosity from zero percent, or atheist, to 100 percent, Bible literally true. And then this is books sold — the logarithmic scale. (Laughter) 30,000, 300,000, three million, 30 million, 300 million. OK, now they're duking it out. Now they're duking it out. (Laughter) And Rick Warren's kind of pulling ahead, kind of pulling ahead. Yup, and his installed base is getting a little bigger. (Laughter) But Darwin's dangerous idea is coming back. It's coming back. Let me turn the trails on, so you can see that a little bit better. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, one of the things that's very important is, Nicholas Negroponte talked to us about one lap dance per — I'm sorry — (Laughter) about One Laptop Per Child. Now let's talk about some of the characteristics that are important for this revolutionary device. I'll tell you a little bit about the design parameters, and then I'll show it to you in person. First of all, it needs to be small. It needs to be flat, so it's transportable. Lightweight. Portable. Uses very, very little power. Very, very high resolution. Has to be visible in bright daylight. Will work anywhere. And broadly applicable across many platforms. Now, we've actually done some research — Neil Gershenfeld and the Fab Labs went out into the market. They did some research; we came back; and we think we have the perfect prototype of what the students in the field are actually asking for. And here it is, the $100 computer. (Laughter) OK, OK, OK, OK — excellent, excellent. Now, I bought this device from Clifford Stoll for about 900 bucks. And he and his team of junior-high school students were doing real science. So we're trying to check and trying to douse here, and see who uses marijuana. (Laughter) See who uses marijuana. Are we going to be able to find any marijuana, Jim Young? Only if we open enough locker doors. (Laughter) OK, now smallpox is an extremely distressing illness. We had Dr. Larry Brilliant talking about how we eradicated smallpox. I wanted to show you the stages of smallpox. We start. This is day one. (Laughter) Day two. Day three, she gets a massively big pox on her shoulder. Day three. Day four. (Laughter) Day five and day six. (Laughter) Now the good news is, because I'm a trained medical professional, I know that even though she'll be scarred for life, she's going to make a full recovery. (Laughter) Now the good news about Architects for Humanity is they're really kind of the most amazing group. They've been sponsoring a design competition to come up with innovative medical housing solutions, clinic solutions, in Africa, and they've had a design competition. Now the wonderful thing is, Larry Brilliant was just appointed the head of the Google Foundation, and so he decided that he would support — he would support Cameron's work. And the way he decided to support that work was by shipping over 50,000 shipping containers of Google snacks. (Laughter) So I want to show you some prototypes. The U.N. — you know, they took 20 years just to add a flap to a tent, but I think we have some more exciting things. This is a home made entirely out of Fruit Roll-Ups. (Laughter) (Applause) And those roll-up cookies coated with white chocolate. And the really wonderful thing about this is, when you're done, well — you can eat it. But the thing that I'm really, really excited about is this incredible granola house. (Laughter) And the granola house has a special Sun Chip roof to collect water and recycle it. And it's — well, on this side it has regular Sour Patch Kids and Gummy Bears to let in the light. (Laughter) But on this side, it has sugary Gummy Bears, to diffuse the light more slightly. And we — we wanted just to show you what this might look like in situ. (Laughter) (Applause) So, Einstein — Einstein, tell me — what's your favorite song? No, I said what's your favorite song? No, I said what's your favorite song? ""Free Bird."" (Laughter) (Applause) OK, so, Einstein, what's your favorite singing group? Could you say that again? What's your favorite singing group? OK, one more time — I'm just going to give you a little help. Your favorite singing group — it's Diana Ross and the — Audience: Supremes! Tom Reilly: Exactly. (Applause) Could we have the sound up on the laptop, please? (Laughter) ""Free Bird"" kind of reminds me that if you — if you listen to ""Free Bird"" backwards, this is what you might hear. Computer: Satan. Satan. Satan. Satan. Satan. Satan. Satan. TR: Now it's a little hard to hear the whole message, so I wanted to — (Laughter) so I wanted to help you a little bit. Computer: My sweet Satan. Dan Dennett worships Satan. Buy ""The Purpose-Driven Life,"" or Satan will take your soul. (Laughter) TR: So, we've talked a lot about global warming, but, you know, as Jill said, it sounds kind of nice — good weather in the wintertime, and New York City. And as Jay Walker pointed out, that is just not scary enough. So Al, I actually think I'm rather good at branding. So I've tried to figure out a good design process to come up with a new term to replace ""global warming."" So we started with Babel Fish. We put in global warming. And then we decided that we'd change it from English to Dutch — into ""Het globale Verwarmen."" From Dutch to [Korean], into ""Hordahordaneecheewa."" (Laughter) [Korean] to Portuguese: Aquecer-se Global. Then Portuguese to Pig Latin. (Laughter) Aquecer-se ucked-fay. And then finally back into the English, which is, we're totally fucked. (Laughter) (Applause) Now I don't know about you, but Michael Shermer talked about the willingness for human beings — evolutionarily, they're designed to see patterns in things. For example, in cheese sandwiches. Now can you look at that carefully and see if you see the Virgin Mary? I tried to make it a little bit clearer. (Laughter) Is it the Virgin Mary? Or is it Mena Trott? So, I talked to Josh Prince-Ramus about the convention center and the conferences. It's getting awfully big. It's getting just a little bit too big. It's bursting at the seams here a little bit. So we tried to come up with a program — how we could remake this structure to better accommodate TED. So first of all we decided — (Laughter) that we needed about one-third bookstore, one-third Google cafe, about 20 percent registration, 80 percent luxury hotel, about five percent for restrooms. And then of course, we wanted to have the simulcast lounge, the lobby and the Steinbeck forum. Now let me show you how that literally translated into the design program. So first, one of the problems with Monterey is that if there is global warming and Greenland melts as you say, the ocean level is going to rise 20 feet and flood the hell out of the convention center. So we're going to build this new building on stilts. So we build this building on stilts, then up here — (Laughter) is where we're going to put the new Steinbeck auditorium. (Laughter) And the wonderful thing about the new bookstore is, it's going to be shaped in a spiral that's organized by the Dewey Decimal System. (Laughter) Then we're going to make an escalator that helps you get up there. And finally, we're going to put the Marriott Hotel and the Portola Plaza on the top. (Applause) Now I don't know about you, but sometimes I have these images in my head of separated at birth. I don't know about you, but when I see Aubrey de Grey, I immediately go to Gandalf the Grey. (Laughter) OK. Now, we've heard, of course, that we're all soldiers here. So what I'd really, really like you to do now is, pick up your white piece of paper. Does everybody have their white piece of paper? And I want you to get out a pen, and I want you to write a terrorist note. (Laughter) If we put up the ELMO for a moment — if we put up the ELMO, then we'll get, you know, I'll give you a model that you can work from, OK? (Laughter) And then I want you to fold that note into a paper airplane. And once you've folded it into a paper airplane, I want you to take some anthrax — (Laughter) and I want you to put that in the paper airplane. And then I want you to throw it on Jim Young. (Laughter) Luckily, I was the recipient of the TED Prize this year. And I wanted to see — I want to dedicate this film to my father, Homer. OK. Now this film isn't really hard enough, so I wanted to make it a little bit harder. So I'm going to try and do this while reciting pi. (Laughter) 3.1415, 2657, 753, 8567, 24972 — — 85871, 25871, 3928, 5657, 2592, 5624. (Applause) Can we cue the music please? (Applause) Now I wanted to use this talk to talk about global warming a little bit. Back in 1968, you can see that the mountain range of Brokeback Mountain was covered in 151 inches of snow pack. Parenthetically, over there on the slopes, I did want to show you that black men ski. (Laughter) But over the years, 10 years later, the snow packs eroded, and, if you notice, the trees have started turning yellow. The water level of the lake has started drying up. A few years later, there's no snow left at all. And all the trees have turned brown. This year, unfortunately the lakebed's turned into an absolute cracked dry bed. And I fear, if we do nothing for our planet, in 20 years, it's going to look like this. (Laughter) Mr. Vice President, I wish I knew how to quit you. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我只是想說，在過去的幾年中，我—一直都有機會來做這個大會的閉幕。我已經做好一些很好的暖身。大約八年前，Billy Graham(葛理翰牧師)幫我開了個頭。我認為— (笑聲) 我認為絕對不可能絕不可能超越那個了♫但我只想說—且我沒有帶任何諷刺的意思—我想我可以代表在場的每一位觀眾當我說我向上帝許願你是美國的總統。 (掌聲) 好的，這是我今天演講的主題。 猛然吞下死亡 (笑聲) 我只想給你們一個快速簡短的概要。首先，請記住我所敘述的完全沒有冒犯之意，且我所說的一切都是肺腑之言。如果你們有人覺得反胃的話，那就正是看你們黑莓機的時候。 (笑聲) 這是我TED演講的備忘小抄。我們將會講一些笑話，開一些玩笑。一些幽默諷刺短劇－然後我們會談一談L1的要點。 (笑聲) 我問我自己一個問題，這是不是有史以來最令人痛苦的TED大會？我們一起來總結一下好不好？殘肢再造和長滿天花的臉：佔大會的21% (笑聲) 說到北極熊溺死：佔4%。地球毀於大洪水或禽流感的影像的比例：佔64%。 (笑聲) 和David Pogue的現場演唱。 (掌聲) 因為這是有史以來最令人痛苦的一次TED大會，我和Neil Gershenfeld已經開始著手明年TED的手提包。如果明年的大會與今年的痛苦程度相當的話，那我們明年將會弄一個尖叫提包。 (笑聲) 當然，這將會是一個環保的尖叫提包。 (笑聲) 你們可以這樣做。 (笑聲) 把它帶到這裡來然後打開。啊!!!!!! (笑聲) 同時，回來看TED大學，這位美麗的女士正在教你如何切洋芋片。 (笑聲)關於Robert Wright－我不知道， 我覺得如果Helen有要給誰抗憂鬱藥物的話，那應該是他。我想故意干擾他的多巴胺程度。 (笑聲) 他在會上談論道德。經濟艙乘客的道德觀是，我們想要把你們炸回石器時代。商務艙的道德觀是，不要轟炸日本—他們幫我們製造車子。而頭等艙的道德觀點是，不要轟炸墨西哥—他們幫我們打掃房子。 (笑聲) 是的，這的確是很冒犯的。好的，現在我想讓大家看點東西… (笑聲) 好的，這些東西是－我想說，嗚啦，嗚啦，嗚啦，嗚啦，嗚啦，嗚啦，嗚啦—-啊!!!! (笑聲) 我想秀給你們看的－我想談一談一種有關革命性的新型電腦介面這可以讓你非常容易處理圖像－就像一種完全自然的用戶介面。 (笑聲) 而且你能夠－你可以用很自然的手勢就像，就像這樣做。 (掌聲) 現在，我們這裡有一個哈佛大學的教授，她來自哈佛，我需要強調一下－她真的是一個哈佛大學的教授。她談論的是有關七次元的，反轉的宇宙。你知道的，當然擁有很好的頭腦。也有那種不好的頭腦。還有因為我這個不好的頭腦，它實在是太—太—太弱了以致於無法了解她到底在說什麼。 (笑聲) 現在， (笑聲) 有件事情對我來說很重要就是釐清我究竟為什麼在這裡。所以，我就出去晃一晃並發現了一本暢銷的商業書籍。你知道嗎，它基本上是將希臘神話作為核心前提。作者是個叫做Pastor Rick Warren的人，書名叫做｢被海豚駕馭的生活｣ (笑聲) 而且Rick就像一個異教徒的上帝，從某方面看，我覺得這種說法比較恰當。現在，我們將看到一些更進一步來把Rick Warren視覺化。好了。 (笑聲) 好。現在，紅色代表的是Rick Warren，而綠色代表的是Daniel Dennett，好嗎? (笑聲) 橫向坐標軸是信仰程度，從0%，或稱無神論者，到100%，也就是相信聖經絕對正確的。而縱座標是書的銷售量。 (笑聲) 三萬、三十萬、三百萬、三千萬、三億。好的，他們正激烈的交鋒。現在他們正在激烈的交鋒。 (笑聲) Rick Warren領先了一些，領先了一些。是的，他所佔的面積擴大了一些。 (笑聲) 但是達爾文可怕的想法回來了。它回來了。讓我把軌跡叫出來，好讓你們看得更清楚。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 現在，有一件很重要的事情是，Nicholas Negroponte談到每人大腿舞對不起－ (註: laptop(筆電)與lap dance(大腿舞)發音相似。) 是每個孩子擁有一台筆記型電腦。現在我們來談談它的一些特徵對於這革命性的設備來說非常重要的特徵。我會告訴大家一些有關設計的因素，然後我會親自為大家展示成品。首先，它應該要很小。它應該是扁平的，以便於運輸。重量輕巧。便於攜帶。非常非常低的耗能。解析度非常非常高。在強烈的日光下清晰可見。可以在任何地點工作。且能夠適用於多種平台。 現在，我們實際上已經做過一些調查－Neil Gershenfeld以及Fab實驗室實際做了市場調查。他們做了一些研究，回來之後，我們認為找到了完美的原型那正是那些偏遠地區的學生們真正想要的。就是這個，百元的電腦。 (笑聲) 好的，好的，好的，好的—太棒了，太棒了。現在，我從Clifford Stoll那裡花了約900元買了這個設備。他和他的國中學生所組成的團隊正在做真正的科學實驗。所以我們想在這裡測試一下，看看誰有吸大麻。 (笑聲) 看看誰有吸大麻。Jim Young，我們能找到大麻嗎?只要我們置物櫃開的夠多的話就可以。 (笑聲) 好的，天花是一種令人痛苦無比的疾病。我們將會讓Larry Brilliant博士跟我們講如何消除天花。我想為大家展示一下長天花的過程。開始了。 這是第一天。 (笑聲) 第二天。第三天，她的肩膀上長了一個非常大的膿泡。第三天。第四天。 (笑聲) 第五天。第六天。 (笑聲) 有好消息是，由於我是個經過訓練的醫學專家，我知道雖然她將一生帶著疤痕生活，但是她會痊癒的。 (笑聲) 這裡有個關於人道建築師的好消息，他們真的是最讓人驚嘆的團隊。他們贊助了一個設計比賽以尋找創新的醫療場所的解決方案，診所的解決方案，在非洲。所以他們舉辦了一場設計比賽。讓人驚嘆的事是，Larry Brilliant剛剛被指派被指派為Google基金會的主席。所以他決定他將會支持—他將會支持Cameron的工作。他支持的方式是是藉由運送超過五萬箱的Google點心。 (笑聲) 我想給大家看一些原型。聯合國—你們知道的，他們花了20年才將帳篷加上罩子。但我想我們有一些讓人更興奮的東西。這是一個完全用水果捲糖做成的房子。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 而這些捲糖、裹著白巧克力。這房子更棒的地方，就是在你完成後－你可以吃了它。但其實最讓我感到興奮的是這個令人難以置信的穀片屋。 (笑聲) 穀片屋上有特別的洋芋片作為屋頂用以收集和再利用水資源。而這－嗯，在這面它有排列整齊的酸甜軟糖和小熊軟糖使光線進入。 (笑聲) 但在這一面，則有著撒上糖粉的小熊軟糖，將光線漫射得更柔和。而我們－我們只是想要讓你們知道它在原位上看起來可能如何。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 那麼、Einstein－Einstein，告訴我－你最喜歡哪首歌？不、我說，你最喜歡哪首歌？不、我說，你最喜歡哪首歌？""自由的鳥"" (笑聲) (掌聲) 好，那、Einstein，你最喜歡哪個歌唱團體？你可以再說一次嗎？你最喜歡哪個歌唱團體？好，再來一次－我會給你一點提示。你最喜歡的歌唱團體－是Diana Ross & the－ 觀眾：Supremes！ Tom Reilly：完全正確。 (掌聲) 我們可以把筆電聲音放大聲一些嗎？ (笑聲) ""自由的鳥""讓我想起假如你們－假如你們倒著聽""自由的鳥""，這可能是你們會聽到的。 電腦：撒旦。撒旦。撒旦。撒旦。撒旦。撒旦。撒旦。Tom Reilly:目前為止要聽出完整的訊息是有一點難，所以我想－ (笑聲) 所以我想給你們一些幫助。 電腦：我親愛的撒旦。Dan Dennett崇拜撒旦。買一本“標竿人生”，否則撒旦將帶走你的靈魂。 (笑聲) Tom Reilly: 所以，關於全球暖化，我們已經談了很多，但你們知道、就像Jill說過，這聽起來是種不錯的－好天氣在冬天和紐約市。而且正如Jay Walker所指，這並不足以令人毛骨悚然。所以，高爾先生，我真的認為我很擅長作宣傳。我曾經試圖找出一個好的設計流程來想出一個新的名詞代替""全球暖化""。 所以我從Babel Fish著手。我們鍵入全球暖化。然後我們選定要將它從英文翻成荷蘭語－變成“Het globale Verwarmen”從荷蘭語翻成中文(其實是韓文)，變成“Hordahordaneecheewa” (笑聲) 中文翻成葡萄牙文：Aquecer-se Global然後葡萄牙文翻成兒童黑話。 (笑聲) Aquecer-se ucked-fay.而最後翻回英文則是，我們玩完了。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 現在我並不知道你們怎麼想，但Michael Shermer 說過關於人類的期望－由於進化，人們被設計為為了看見事情規律。例如，起司三明治。現在你們可以仔細的看並看看你們是否可以看見聖母瑪利亞？我試著讓它更清楚些。 (笑聲) 這是聖母瑪利亞嗎？或者這是Mena Trott？ 所以，我和Josh Prince-Romus談到會議中心和大會。它變得非常的大。它變的簡直有一點太大。大到似乎有點要擠爆這裡。所以我試圖找出一個方案－我們如何翻新這個架構讓它更適合TED。首先我們決定－ (笑聲) 我們需要大約三分之一的書店，三分之一的Google咖啡館，約百分之二十的接待中心、百分之八十的豪華酒店，百分之五左右的廁所。接下來，當然，我們想要有聯播休息室、大廳和Steinbeck論壇會議中心。 現在讓我呈現讓你們知道直接轉成設計方案是什麼樣子。首先，對於蒙特里的其中一個問題就是假如那裡發生全球暖化而格陵蘭島冰川如你們所說的融化了，海平面將會上升20英呎且淹沒會議中心。所以我們將在腳柱上建造這個新的建築物。我們在腳柱上建造這個新的建築物，然後上面這裡－ (笑聲) 就是我們將會放上新Steinbeck會議中心的地方。 (笑聲) 而關於這書店很棒的地方是，它將被塑造為一條以杜威十進分類法編排的螺旋線。 (笑聲) 然後我們會設置手扶梯幫助你們上去那裡。而最後，我們將放上萬豪酒店和Portola披薩店在上面。 (掌聲) 現在我不知道你們怎麼想，但有時候我的腦海裡總會有這些一產生就分裂的影像。我並不知道你們怎麼想，但當我看見Aubrey de Grey我會馬上想到Gandalf the Grey。 (笑聲) 好。現在，我們都聽過，當然。我們在場都是士兵。所以我真的、真的想要你們現在做的是，拿出你的一張白紙。每個人都有自己的白紙嗎？然後我想要你們拿出一支筆。然後我想要你們寫下恐嚇信。 (笑聲) 假如我們容忍ELMO一段時間－假如我們容忍ELMO，然後我們會得到，你知道我會給你們示範讓你們可以照做，可以吧？ (笑聲) 接下來我想要你們將這個摺成紙飛機。而且一旦你已經摺成紙飛機，我希望你們可以去拿一些炭疽菌－ (笑聲) 而且我希望你們將炭疽菌放進紙飛機。然後我想要你們將紙飛機丟向Jim Young。 (笑聲) 幸運的是，我是今年TED Prize的得獎者。而我想看到－我想將這部影片獻給我父親Homer。好。 現在這個影片並不是真的夠有難度。所以我想讓它更難一些。我要試試看邊這麼做邊背圓周率。 (笑聲) 3.1415,2657,753,8567,24972－－85871,25871,3928,5657,2592,5624。 (掌聲) 我們可以下音樂嗎？ (掌聲) 現在我想講一些關於全球暖化的部分。在1968年，你可以看見斷背山山脈覆蓋著151英吋的積雪。順道一提，在這斜坡的這個地方，我並不想讓你們知道有一個黑人在滑雪。 (笑聲) 但過了幾年，十年後，積雪消融，而假如你有注意到，樹已經開始變得枯黃。湖的水位也開始下降。幾年後，雪融的絲毫不剩。所有的樹也都轉變成褐色。在今年，很不幸的是湖床已完全乾裂。假如我們繼續對我們的地球置之不理，我擔心在二十年內，它看起來將會如此。 (笑聲) 副總統先生，我希望我知道如何戒掉你。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 非常感謝大家。 (掌聲)"
