Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_hulme_what_can_we_learn_from_shortcuts	"When we're designing new products, services or businesses, the only time you'll know if they're any good, if the designs are good, is to see how they're used in the real world, in context. I'm reminded of that every time I walk past Highbury Fields in north London. It's absolutely beautiful. There's a big open green space. There's Georgian buildings around the side. But then there's this mud trap that cuts across the middle. People clearly don't want to walk all the way around the edge. Instead, they want to take the shortcut, and that shortcut is self-reinforcing. Now, this shortcut is called a desire path, and it's often the path of least resistance. I find them fascinating, because they're often the point where design and user experience diverge. Now at this point, I should apologize, because you guys are going to start seeing these everywhere. But today, I'm going to pick three I find interesting and share what actually it reminds me about launching new products and services. The first is in the capital city of Brazil — Brasilia. And it reminds me that sometimes, you have to just focus on designing for a real need at low friction. Now, Brasilia is fascinating. It was designed by Niemeyer in the '50s. It was the golden age of flying, so he laid it out like a plane, as you can see there. Slightly worryingly, he put most of the important government buildings in the cockpit. But if you zoom in, in the very center of Brasilia, just where the point is there, you see it's littered with desire paths. They're absolutely everywhere. Now, they thought that they had future-proofed this design. They thought in the future we wouldn't need to walk anywhere — we'd be able to drive — so there was little need for walkways or pavements. But as you can see, there's a real need. These are very dangerous desire paths. If we just pick one, in the middle, you can see it crosses 15 lanes of traffic. It won't surprise you guys that Brasilia has five times the pedestrian accident rate of your average US city. People are resourceful. They'll always find the low-friction route to save money, save time. Not all these desire paths are dangerous, I was reminded flying here when I was in Heathrow. Many of us get frustrated when we're confronted with the obligatory walk through duty-free. It was amazing to me how many people refused to take the long, meandering path to the left, and just cut through to the right, cut through the desire path. The question that's interesting is: What do designers think when they see our behavior here? Do they think we're stupid? Do they think we're lazy? Or do they accept that this is the only truth? This is their product. We're effectively co-designing their product. So our job is to design for real needs at low friction, because if you don't, the customer will, anyway. The second desire path I wanted to share is at the University of California. And it reminds me that sometimes the best way to come up with a great design is just to launch it. Now, university campuses are fantastic for spotting desire paths. I think it's because students are always late and they're pretty smart. So they're dashing to lectures. They'll always find the shortcut. And the designers here knew that. So they built the buildings and then they waited a few months for the paths to form. They then paved them. (Laughter) Incredibly smart approach. In fact, often, just launching the straw man of a service can teach you what people really want. For example, Ayr Muir in Boston knew he wanted to open a restaurant. But where should it be? What should the menu be? He launched a service, in this case a food truck, and he changed the location each day. He'd write a different menu on the side in a whiteboard marker to figure out what people wanted. He now has a chain of restaurants. So it can be incredibly efficient to launch something to spot the desire paths. The third and final desire path I wanted to share with you is the UNIH. It reminds me that the world's in flux, and we have to respond to those changes. So as you'll guess, this is a hospital. I've marked for you on the left the Oncology Department. The patients would usually stay in the hotels down on the bottom right. This was a patient-centered organization, so they laid on cars for their patients. But what they realized when they started offering chemotherapy is the patients rarely wanted to get in cars. They were too nauseous, so they'd walk back to their hotels. This desire path that you see diagonally, formed. The patients even called it ""The Chemo Trail."" Now, when the hospital saw this originally, they tried to lay turf back over it, ignore it. But after a while, they realized it was an important need they were meeting for their patients, so they paved it. And I think our job is often to pave these emerging desire paths. If we look back at the one in North London again, that desire path hasn't always been there. The reason it sprung up is people were traveling to the mighty Arsenal Football Club stadium on game days, from the Underground station you see on the bottom right. So you see the desire path. If we just wind the clock back a few years, when the stadium was being constructed, there is no desire path. So our job is to watch for these desire paths emerging, and, where appropriate, pave them, as someone did here. Someone installed a barrier, people started walking across and round the bottom as you see, and they paved it. (Laughter) But I think this is a wonderful reminder as well, that, actually, the world is in flux. It's constantly changing, because if you look at the top of this image, there's another desire path forming. So these three desire paths remind me we need to design for real human needs. I think empathy for what your customers want is probably the biggest leading indicator of business success. Design for real needs and design them in low friction, because if you don't offer them in low friction, someone else will, often the customer. Secondly, often the best way to learn what people really want is to launch your service. The answer is rarely inside the building. Get out there and see what people really want. And finally, in part because of technology, the world is incredibly flux at the moment. It's changing constantly. These desire paths are going to spring up faster than ever. Our job is to pick the appropriate ones and pave over them. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	當我們設計新產品、服務或事業的時候，判斷它們有無可取之處、設計優不優的時機點，只有實際被人用過後原原本本地才能見真章。 我回想起每回我走過北倫敦的「海布里綠蔭」的時候，它誠然優美－有著一大片開放的翠綠空間，喬治亞式建築坐落於其外圍；不過有一條黃土路從中間切過，大家顯然並不想繞其外緣而行，他們反而想要抄捷徑－該捷徑是沒人鋪設越來越顯眼的。 這條捷徑就叫做「鍾意路線」，通常它是最不強人所難的通道；我發現它們有意思極了，因為它們經常是設計和使用者經驗各唱各的調。 說到這點上我應該致歉，因為你們大夥將到處看到這些情形；今天我將挑出三條覺得有意思的與你們作分享，它們提醒我有關推出新產品和服務的事。第一條在巴西的首都－巴西利亞，它讓我記起來有時候【為真實生活而設計】應該專注於不礙事的設計以符合真正的需求。巴西利亞非常引人入勝，是由奧斯卡．尼邁耶在五零年代設計的，當時是飛航的黃金年代，如同你所見他把它展列成飛機般，有點叫人頭疼地他把大多數重要的公家單位建築物放在駕駛艙的位置。如果近看巴西利亞市中心－就是圖中標註的位置，你會看到它雜亂分佈著鍾意路線，它們必然地無所不在！ 當時他們以為這設計經得住時間的考驗。他們認為在未來我們將不需要步行前往任何地方－我們都將會能開著車子，所以對人行步道的需求不大。但是如同你可以看到的－那裡有著假不了的需求；這些是非常危險的鍾意路線，如果我們只挑中間這一條來看就好，你可以看到它穿越了15 條小馬路。你們將不會吃驚－巴西利亞是美國城市平均行人交通意外的五倍之多；人們是善於應變的－總是能找到省時省錢的便捷路線。 這些鍾意路線不全都是危險的，我回想起當我要飛來這裡在英國的希斯羅機場時，很多人對必須從免稅店區穿過的道路設計很不滿。讓我大開眼界的是有多少人排斥走左邊漫長、彎來繞去的通路，而逕自從右邊橫切－穿越鍾意路線。 有趣的問題是：「設計師怎麼看待我們的行為呢？」他們認為我們傻嗎？認為我們懶惰嗎？又或他們接受【顧客永遠對！】這唯一的真理嗎？這是他們的作品，我們有效地共同設計出他們的作品，所以我們的工作是為真正的需求在不太礙事下做出設計，因為如果你不做－顧客還是會自己做。 第二條我想分享的鍾意路線就在加州大學裡，它讓我回想起有時候要想出最了不起的設計點子，最佳方法就是先推出再說。【邊做邊學】用大學校園來揪出鍾意路線是再好不過的了，因為學生們總是遲到又相當聰明，所以他們快速移動趕上課堂。他們總是會找出捷徑，這裡的設計師們知道這檔事，所以他們搭建出建築物，等待幾個月讓路徑成形，然後才鋪設路徑。（笑聲）聰明到不行的方法！說真格的十之八九光是開放嚐鲜版的服務，就可教會你民眾真心想要什麼。 比方說：波士頓的艾爾．繆尹清楚自己想開間餐館，但是餐館應該開在那兒呢？菜單應該有些什麼東西呢？他先推出快餐車，每天更換試賣地點。在車身外的白板寫上煥然一新的菜單，來找出人們喜歡的菜式。他現在擁有連鎖餐館了！因此先做了再說可以異常有效地揪出鍾意路線。 第三也是最後我想分享與你們的路徑是美國國家衛生研究院，【保持靈敏度】它讓我記起來世界是不停轉變的，我們必須對這些變動有所應對。就如同你們所猜想的這是間醫院，我為你們標記出左邊的腫瘤部，病患們通常會待在右下角的旅館裡；這是個病人導向的機構，所以他們提供車子載送病人。不過在開始提供化療後，才明白病患們鮮少想要上車－他們太反胃了，以致於寧願步行回下榻處。你所見的這條鍾意路線對角斜切地成形了，病患們甚至稱它為「化療之路」；一開始醫院注意到小徑，試著把草坪鋪回去、忽視它；但是過了沒多久，他們意識到病人真的需要走這條小徑，於是鋪上了水泥。 我想我們的工作經常就是去鋪設這些浮現出來的鍾意路線！要是我們再回過頭來看北倫敦的這條徑道，鍾意路線並不是一直在那兒的，它驟然浮現的原因是因為在足球比賽日球迷會湧到兵工廠足球俱樂部看球，他們從地圖右下角的地鐵站出來，所以你才會看到這條鍾意路線。如果時光倒流幾年，當體育場還在興建中時，那邊是沒有鍾意路線的。 所以我們的工作就是看緊這些逐漸浮現的鍾意路線，何處恰當就鋪設出來；如同某人在這裡所做的事－有人安裝了路障，要過去的人或繞過或鑽過。後來就鋪了水泥。 （笑聲） 實際上這個世界是一變再變的－它不間斷地改變；我認為這是個好到不行的提醒，如果你看到這張圖的最上方，另一條鍾意路線在形成中。 這三條鍾意路線提醒我：我們要為真正的民眾需要作設計！我認為對你顧客想要的東西感同身受可能是事業成功最顯著的導引指標，為真正的需求設計，把它們設計得不礙事。因為若你不提供易用、不礙事的設計，某天會有人做到－往往是顧客！ 其次－挖掘用戶真正需求的最好方式就是推出你的服務！答案不是關起門就有的，走出去看清楚大家真的想要什麼。 最後－由於科技的不斷發展，世界在此刻是令人難以置信地一變再變，它不間斷地改變，鍾意路線會比以往更快的驟然冒出。我們的任務是挑選恰當的一條在上面修出路來。 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
