Talk	en	zh-tw
topher_white_what_can_save_the_rainforest_your_used_cell_phone	(Rainforest noises) In the summer of 2011, as a tourist, I visited the rainforests of Borneo for the very first time, and as you might imagine, it was the overwhelming sounds of the forest that struck me the most. There's this constant cacophony of noise. Some things actually do stick out. For example, this here is a big bird, a rhinoceros hornbill. This buzzing is a cicada. This is a family of gibbons. It's actually singing to each other over a great distance. The place where this was recorded was in fact a gibbon reserve, which is why you can hear so many of them, but in fact the most important noise that  was coming out of the forest that time was one that I didn't notice, and in fact nobody there had actually noticed it. So, as I said, this was a gibbon reserve. They spend most of their time rehabilitating gibbons, but they also have to spend a lot of their time protecting their area from illegal logging that takes place on the side. And so if we take the sound of the forest and we actually turn down the gibbons, the insects, and the rest, in the background, the entire time, in recordings you heard, was the sound of a chainsaw at great distance. They had three full-time guards who were posted around this sanctuary whose job was in fact to guard against illegal logging, and one day, we went walking, again as tourists, out into the forest, and within five minutes' walk, we stumbled upon somebody who was just sawing a tree down, five minutes' walk, a few hundred meters from the ranger station. They hadn't been able to hear the chainsaws, because as you heard, the forest is very, very loud. It struck me as quite unacceptable that in this modern time, just a few hundred meters away  from a ranger station in a sanctuary, that in fact nobody could hear it when someone who has a chainsaw gets fired up. It sounds impossible, but in fact, it was quite true. So how do we stop illegal logging? It's really tempting, as an engineer, always to come up with a high-tech, super-crazy high-tech solution, but in fact, you're in the rainforest. It has to be simple, it has to be scalable, and so what we also noticed while were there was that everything we needed was already there. We could build a system that would allow us to stop this using what's already there. Who was there? What was  already in the forest? Well, we had people. We had this group there that was  dedicated, three full-time guards, that was dedicated to go and stop it, but they just needed to know what was happening out in the forest. The real surprise, this is the big one, was that there was connectivity out in the forest. There was cell phone service way out in the middle of nowhere. We're talking hundreds of kilometers from the nearest road, there's certainly no electricity, but they had very good cell phone service, these people in the towns were on Facebook all the time, they're surfing the web on their phones, and this sort of got me thinking that in fact it would be possible to use the sounds of the forest, pick up the sounds  of chainsaws programmatically, because people can't hear them, and send an alert. But you have to have a device to go up in the trees. So if we can use some device to listen to the sounds of the forest, connect to the cell phone network that's there, and send an alert to people on the ground, perhaps we could have a solution to this issue for them. But let's take a moment to talk about saving the rainforest, because it's something that we've definitely all heard about forever. People in my generation have heard about saving the rainforest since we were kids, and it seems that the message has never changed: We've got to save the rainforest, it's super urgent, this many football fields have been destroyed yesterday. and yet here we are today, about half of the rainforest remains, and we have potentially more urgent  problems like climate change. But in fact, this is the little-known fact that I didn't realize at the time: Deforestation accounts  for more greenhouse gas than all of the world's planes, trains, cars, trucks and ships combined. It's the second highest contributor to climate change. Also, according to Interpol, as much as 90 percent of the logging that takes place in the rainforest is illegal logging, like the illegal logging that we saw. So if we can help people in the forest enforce the rules that are there, then in fact we could eat heavily into this 17 percent and potentially have a major impact in the short term. It might just be the cheapest, fastest way to fight climate change. And so here's the system that we imagine. It looks super high tech. The moment a sound of a chainsaw is heard in the forest, the device picks up the sound of the chainsaw, it sends an alert through the standard GSM network that's already there to a ranger in the field who can in fact show up in real time and stop the logging. It's no more about going out and finding a tree that's been cut. It's not about seeing  a tree from a satellite in an area that's been clear cut, it's about real-time intervention. So I said it was the cheapest and fastest way to do it, but in fact, actually, as you saw, they weren't able to do it, so it may not be so cheap and fast. But if the devices in the trees were actually cell phones, it could be pretty cheap. Cell phones are thrown away by the hundreds of millions every year, hundreds of millions in the U.S. alone, not counting the rest of the world, which of course we should do, but in fact, cell phones are great. They're full of sensors. They can listen to the sounds of the forest. We do have to protect them. We have to put them in this box that you see here, and we do have to power them. Powering them is one of the greater engineering challenges that we had to deal with, because powering a cell phone under a tree canopy, any sort of solar power under a tree canopy, was an as-yet-unsolved problem, and that's this unique solar panel design that you see here, which in fact is built also from recycled byproducts of an industrial process. These are strips that are cut down. So this is me putting it all together in my parents' garage, actually. Thanks very much to them for allowing me to do that. As you can see, this is a device up in a tree. What you can see from here, perhaps, is that they are pretty well obscured up in the tree canopy at a distance. That's important, because although they are able to hear chainsaw noises up to a kilometer in the distance, allowing them to cover about three square kilometers, if someone were to take them, it would make the area unprotected. So does it actually work? Well, to test it, we took it back to Indonesia, not the same place, but another place, to another gibbon reserve that was threatened daily by illegal logging. On the very second day, it picked up illegal chainsaw noises. We were able to get a real-time alert. I got an email on my phone. Actually, we had just climbed the tree. Everyone had just gotten back down. All these guys are smoking cigarettes, and then I get an email, and they all quiet down, and in fact you can hear the chainsaw really, really faint in the background, but no one had noticed it  until that moment. And so then we took off to actually stop these loggers. I was pretty nervous. This is the moment where we've actually arrived close to where the loggers are. This is the moment where you can see where I'm actually regretting perhaps the entire endeavor. I'm not really sure what's on the other side of this hill. That guy's much braver than I am. But he went, so I had to go, walking up, and in fact, he made it over the hill, and interrupted the loggers in the act. For them, it was such a surprise — they had never, ever been interrupted before — that it was such an impressive event for them, that we've heard from our partners they have not been back since. They were, in fact, great guys. They showed us how the entire operation works, and what they really convinced us on the spot was that if you can show up in real time and stop people, it's enough of a deterrent they won't come back. So — Thank you. (Applause) Word of this spread, possibly because we told a lot of people, and in fact, then some really amazing stuff started to happen. People from around the world started to send us emails, phone calls. What we saw was that people throughout Asia, people throughout Africa, people throughout South America, they told us that they could use it too, and what's most important, what we'd found that we thought might be exceptional, in the forest there was pretty good cell phone service. That was not exceptional, we were told, and that particularly is on the periphery of the forests that are most under threat. And then something  really amazing happened, which was that people started sending us their own old cell phones. So in fact what we have now is a system where we can use people on the ground, people who are already there, who can both improve and use the existing connectivity, and we're using old cell phones that are being sent to us by people from around the world that want their phones to be doing  something else in their afterlife, so to speak. And if the rest of the device can be completely recycled, then we believe it's an entirely upcycled device. So again, this didn't come because of any sort of high-tech solution. It just came from using what's already there, and I'm thoroughly convinced that if it's not phones, that there's always going to be enough there that you can build similar solutions that can be very effective in new contexts. Thank you very much. (Applause)	（雨林的聲音） 2011年夏天，我以旅行者的身份，第一次拜訪婆羅洲的雨林。你也許猜想到，我印象最深刻的，是鋪天蓋地的雨林之聲。有一個持續不斷的雜音。有一些聲音確實與眾不同。例如，這有一隻大鳥，是一隻犀鳥這是蟬的鳴叫聲；這是一個長臂猿家族，牠正向遠處的家人歌唱。 據記載，這地方是一個長臂猿的保護區，因此可以聽到那麼多猿聲，但那時森林中最重要的聲音卻是我當時沒注意的聲音，事實上那裡沒有人真的注意到那個聲音。 如我所說，這是長臂猿保護區。他們花了大部份時間復育長臂猿，也花了大量時間保護長臂猿的生長區域不受邊境非法盜木所影響。如果我們收集森林的聲音，調降長臂猿、昆蟲以及其他動物的聲音，你可以在整段時間聽到背景中來自遠處的電鋸聲。當地有三位全職警衛戍守這個避護所，面對面抵抗非法伐木。而某天，我們再次以旅者的身份走入雨林，5分鐘後，我們看見了有人剛剛把一顆樹鋸下來。就在5分鐘路程內，離警衛駐點數百公尺之外。他們從未聽到電鋸聲，因為如你所聽，森林聲音非常、非常大。 這令我十分不解，在現代，僅離警衛駐點數百公尺，竟然無人聽到有人在使用電鋸。這聽來不可思議，但事實上，這是十分真確的。 那麼，我們如何停止非法伐木？這真令人技癢，工程師總想要高科技，想出超瘋狂高科技解決方案，但事實上，你身處雨林，這個方法必須簡單、易操作，而我們注意到我們所需的都已經在那裡了。我們可以構架一個系統，就地取材阻止盜伐。 誰在那？森林裡有什麼？我們有人手，我們有3位全職警衛，其職責就是阻止盜木，而他們需要的是知道森林裡發生了什麼事。令人驚訝，超乎預期的是，森林裡有網路連結訊號！手機服務訊號在雨林中無所不在，我們談的是距道路數百公里之遙，當然沒有電力，但卻有很好的手機訊號，城鎮中的人們總是掛在Facebook，用他們的手機瀏覽網路，而這讓我想到也許可以利用森林裡的聲音，用程序擷取電鋸的音頻，因為人們無法聽到，並送出警示。但必須把某個設備放在樹上；如果我們可以運用某些設備來聽取森林的聲音，連結到手機的網絡，將警示傳送給地面上的人們；或許，我們可以為他們找到解決方案。但我們先來談談拯救雨林，因為那是我們聽聞已久的事情。與我同輩的人都聽過拯救雨林，從我們還是孩子的時候，而這似乎未曾改變，我們要拯救雨林，這超級迫切，如此多足球場般大的雨林昨日已被摧毀。而今，仍有半數的雨林存在著，我們已有潛在更迫切的問題，例如氣候變遷。 但，有一些少為人知的事實我當時並不知道[13%運輸；17%伐木]伐木造成的溫室氣體比全世界的飛機、火車、汽車、卡車、船運加總還要多，是造成氣候變遷的第二大起因。同時，根據國際刑警組織，雨林區的伐木有高達90%都是違法的，就像我們所看到的盜伐。若我們能幫助雨林的人們執行當地的法律，我們可以減少高達17%的溫室氣體，並可在短期產生重大影響。這也許是擊退氣候變遷最便宜、最快速的方法。 這是我們構想的系統，看起來像超高端科技。當電鋸的聲音在森林中被聽到，這個設備擷取電鋸的聲音，透過現有的標準GSM網絡發出警示給當地的警衛，他們就可以即時出現，阻止砍伐。這不需要走到外面，才發現樹木被砍了。也不必看區域衛星圖看有沒有樹被砍倒，這是即時的干預。 如我所說，這是最便宜、最快速的方法，但事實上，如你所見，他們無法做到，所以它也許不是那麼便宜、快速。但如果樹上的設備是手機的話，那可以是非常便宜的。每年有數以億計的手機被丟棄，僅在美國就有上億部，這還沒算到世界其他地區，當然我們應該算到；但事實上，手機是很棒的！手機充滿感測器可以聽取森林的聲音；我們需要保護手機，我們需要把手機放在盒子裡，如你在此所見。我們需要替手機充電， 替手機充電一項重大工程挑戰，我們必須面對，因為在樹蔭下替手機充電，任何在樹蔭下的太陽能，都尚未做到；而這就是獨一無二的太陽能面板設計，這是由工廠製程中回收的副產品所組成的，這些是剩下的腳料。 這是我，正將所有東西組裝在一起，在我父母的車庫中，非常感謝他們允許我這麼作。如你所見，這套設備在樹上的樣子。如你所見，樹上的這些設備，從遠方看起來很不顯眼。那很重要，雖然它們可以聽到遠至一公里之外的電鋸聲，範圍可覆蓋約3平方公里，但如果有人把它拿走，這個區域就不受保護了。 這真的行得通嗎？嗯，來試試看，我們帶著它回到印尼，不是同個地方，而是另一個地方，去到另一個長臂猿保護區，天天被盜伐威脅的保護區。就在第二天，它擷取到非法的電鋸聲，我們能夠得到一個即時的警示，我在手機上收到郵件。事實上，我們剛爬完樹，大家才剛回到地面，大夥正在抽煙，然後我收到郵件，他們都安靜下來，事實上你可以聽到電鋸聲，在背景聲中非常非常模糊的聲音，但直到警示響起時大家才注意到。接著，我們動身前去阻止伐木者；我十分緊張，那時我們到達伐木人附近，這時我也許之前的所有努力開始感到後悔，這時我也許對之前所有的努力開始感到後悔，我不確定山坡另一邊的狀況。那位老兄比我勇敢得多，但他去了，所以我必須去，他登上山坡，中斷伐木者的行動。對他們而言，這非常令人驚訝—-他們之前從來沒有被中斷過—-這對他們來說相當印象深刻，後來夥伴們告訴我們，自此之後他們再也沒來。他們真的是很棒的人！他們展示這個運作是可行的，他們當場使我們相信：如果你可以即時出現、阻止伐木者，那會有很足夠的嚇阻作用讓他們不再回來。 所以謝謝 (掌聲) 這件事情廣泛流傳了，也許是因為我們跟很多人說過了，而事實上，後來有些令人驚喜的東西開始發生。世界各地的人們開始寄郵件和手機給我們，我們看到來自亞洲、非洲、南美洲的人們，他們告訴我們，他們也可以運用這個方法；而最重要的是，我們之前發現了不起的是雨林的手機服務相當不錯，人們告訴我們，那不是了不起，特別是在森林的邊陲地帶、最深受威脅的地區。接著真正令人驚喜的東西發生了，人們開始寄給我們舊手機；我們現在擁有一個系統，我們可以運用普羅大眾、四周的居民，他們可以同時改善、使用現有的網絡，並且我們利用世界各地人們寄過來的舊手機，並且我們利用世界各地人們寄過來的舊手機，他們希望舊手機可以在丟棄後發揮功效，或許可以這麼說。假若剩餘的手機也可以完全作回收，我們相信那會是全然升級改造的手機。 再次重申，這個項目的成功不是因為任何高科技解決方案，這僅是就地取材，而我完全相信如果不是用手機，當地總會有足夠的東西可以建構相似的解決方案，在新的環境中起到很好的作用。 謝謝！ (掌聲)
