Talk	en	zh-tw
toys_from_the_future	"Zach Kaplan: Keith and I lead a research team. We investigate materials and technologies that have unexpected properties. Over the last three years, we found over 200 of these things, and so we looked back into our library and selected six we thought would be most surprising for TED. Of these six, the first one that we're going to talk about is in the black envelope you're holding. It comes from a company in Japan called GelTech. Now go ahead and open it up. Keith Schacht: Now be sure and take the two pieces apart. What's unexpected about this is that it's soft, but it's also a strong magnet. Zach and I have always been fascinated observing unexpected things like this. We spent a long time thinking about why this is, and it's just recently that we realized: it's when we see something unexpected, it changes our understanding of the way things work. As you're seeing this gel magnet for the first time, if you assume that all magnets had to be hard, then seeing this surprised you and it changed your understanding of the way magnets could work. ZK: Now, it's important to understand what the unexpected properties are. But to really think about the implications of what this makes possible, we found that it helps to think about how it could be applied in the world. So, a first idea is to use it on cabinet doors. If you line the sides of the cabinets using the gel material — if a cabinet slams shut it wouldn't make a loud noise, and in addition the magnets would draw the cabinets closed. Imagine taking the same material, but putting it on the bottom of a sneaker. You know, this way you could go to the container store and buy one of those metal sheets that they hang on the back of your door, in your closet, and you could literally stick your shoes up instead of using a shelf. For me, I really love this idea. (Laughter) If you come to my apartment and see my closet, I'm sure you'd figure out why: it's a mess. KS: Seeing the unexpected properties and then seeing a couple of applications — it helps you see why this is significant, what the potential is. But we've found that the way we present our ideas it makes a big difference. ZK: It was like six months ago that Keith and I were out in L.A., and we were at Starbucks having coffee with Roman Coppola. He works on mostly music videos and commercials with his company, The Directors Bureau. As we were talking, Roman told us that he's kind of an inventor on the side. And we were showing him the same gel magnet that you're holding in your hand — and you know, we shared the same ideas. And you could see it in his face: Roman starts to get really excited and he whips out this manila folder; he opens it up and Keith and I look in, and he starts showing us concepts that he's been working on. These things just get him really excited. And so we're looking at these concepts, and we were just like, whoa, this guy's good. Because the way that he presented the concept — his approach was totally different than ours. He sold it to you as if it was for sale right now. When we were going in the car back to the airport, we were thinking: why was this so powerful? And as we thought about it more, we realized that it let you fill in all the details about the experience, just as if you saw it on TV. So, for TED we decided to take our favorite idea for the gel magnet and work with Roman and his team at the Directors Bureau to create a commercial for a product from the future. Narrator: Do you have a need for speed? Inventables Water Adventures dares you to launch yourself on a magnetically-levitating board down a waterslide so fast, so tall, that when you hit the bottom, it uses brakes to stop. Aqua Rocket: coming this summer. KS: Now, we showed the concept to a few people before this, and they asked us, when's it coming out? So I just wanted to let you know, it's not actually coming out, just the concept is. ZK: So now, when we dream up these concepts, it's important for us to make sure that they work from a technical standpoint. So I just want to quickly explain how this would work. This is the magnetically-levitating board that they mentioned in the commercial. The gel that you're holding would be lining the bottom of the board. Now this is important for two reasons. One: the soft properties of the magnet that make it so that, if it were to hit the rider in the head, it wouldn't injure him. In addition, you can see from the diagram on the right, the underpart of the slide would be an electromagnet. So this would actually repel the rider a little bit as you're going down. The force of the water rushing down, in addition to that repulsion force, would make this slide go faster than any slide on the market. It's because of this that you need the magnetic braking system. When you get to the very bottom of the slide — (Laughter) — the rider passes through an aluminum tube. And I'm going to kick it to Keith to explain why that's important from a technical standpoint. KS: So I'm sure all you engineers know that even though aluminum is a metal, it's not a magnetic material. But something unexpected happens when you drop a magnet down an aluminum tube. So we set up a quick experiment here to show that to you. (Laughter) Now, you see the magnet fell really slowly. Now, I'm not going to get into the physics of it, but all you need to know is that the faster the magnet's falling, the greater the stopping force. ZK: Now, our next technology is actually a 10-foot pole, and I have it right here in my pocket. (Laughter) There're a few different versions of it. (Laughter) KS: Some of them automatically unroll like this one. They can be made to automatically roll up, or they can be made stable, like Zach's, to hold any position in between. ZK: As we were talking to the vendor — to try to learn about how you could apply these, or how they're being applied currently — he was telling us that, in the military they use this one so soldiers can keep it on their chests — very concealed — and then, when they're out on the field, erect it as an antenna to clearly send signals back to the base. In our brainstorms, we came up with the idea you could use it for a soccer goal: so at the end of the game, you just roll up the goal and put it in your gym bag. (Laughter) KS: Now, the interesting thing about this is, you don't have to be an engineer to appreciate why a 10-foot pole that can fit in your pocket is so interesting. (Laughter) So we decided to go out onto the streets of Chicago and ask a few people on the streets what they thought you could do with this. Man: I clean my ceiling fans with that and I get the spider webs off my house — I do it that way. Woman: I'd make my very own walking stick. Woman: I would create a ladder to use to get up on top of the tree. Woman: An olive server. Man: Some type of extension pole — like what the painters use. Woman: I would make a spear that, when you went deep sea diving, you could catch the fish really fast, and then roll it back up, and you could swim easier ... Yeah. (Laughter) ZK: Now, for our next technology we're going to do a little demonstration, and so we need a volunteer from the audience. You sir, come on up. (Laughter) Come on up. Tell everybody your name. Steve Jurvetson: Steve. ZK: It's Steve. All right Steve, now, follow me. We need you to stand right in front of the TED sign. Right there. That's great. And hold onto this. Good luck to you. (Laughter) KS: No, not yet. (Laughter) ZK: I'd just like to let you all know that this presentation has been brought to you by Target. KS: Little bit — that's perfect, just perfect. Now, Zach, we're going to demonstrate a water gun fight from the future. (Laughter) So here, come on up to the front. All right, so now if you'll see here — no, no, it's OK. So, describe to the audience the temperature of your shirt. Go ahead. SJ: It's cold. KS: Now the reason it's cold is that's it's not actually water loaded into these squirt guns — it's a dry liquid developed by 3M. It's perfectly clear, it's odorless, it's colorless. It's so safe you could drink this stuff. (Laughter) And the reason it feels cold is because it evaporates 25 times faster than water. (Laughter) All right, well thanks for coming up. (Laughter) ZK: Wait, wait, Steven — before you go we filled this with the dry liquid so during the break you can shoot your friends. SJ: Excellent, thank you. KS: Thanks for coming up. Let's give him a big round of applause. (Applause) So what's the significance of this dry liquid? Early versions of the fluid were actually used on a Cray Supercomputer. Now, the unexpected thing about this is that Zach could stand up on stage and drench a perfectly innocent member of the audience without any concern that we'd damage the electronics, that we'd get him wet, that we'd hurt the books or the computers. It works because it's non-conductive. So you can see here, you can immerse a whole circuit board in this and it wouldn't cause any damage. You can circulate it to draw the heat away. But today it's most widely used in office buildings — in the sprinkler system — as a fire-suppression fluid. Again, it's perfectly safe for people. It puts out the fires, doesn't hurt anything. But our favorite idea for this was using it in a basketball game. So during halftime, it could rain down on the players, cool everyone down, and in a matter of minutes it would dry. Wouldn't hurt the court. ZK: Our next technology comes to us from a company in Japan called Sekisui Chemical. One of their R&D engineers was working on a way to make plastic stiffer. While he was doing this, he noticed an unexpected thing. We have a video to show you. KS: So you see there, it didn't bounce back. Now, this was an unintended side effect of some experiments they were doing. It's technically called, ""shape-retaining property."" Now, think about your interactions with aluminum foil. Shape-retaining is common in metal: you bend a piece of aluminum foil, and it holds its place. Contrast that with a plastic garbage can — and you can push in the sides and it always bounces back. ZK: For example, you could make a watch that wraps around your wrist, but doesn't use a buckle. Taking it a little further, if you wove those strips together — kind of like a little basket — you could make a shape-retaining sheet, and then you could embed it in a cloth: so you could make a picnic sheet that wraps around the table, so that way on a windy day it wouldn't blow away. For our next technology, it's hard to observe the unexpected property by itself, because it's an ink. So, we've prepared a video to show it applied to paper. KS: As this paper is bending, the resistance of the ink changes. So with simple electronics, you can detect how much the page is being bent. Now, to think about the potential for this, think of all the places ink is supplied: on business cards, on the back of cereal boxes, board games. Any place you use ink, you could change the way you interact with it. ZK: So my favorite idea for this is to apply the ink to a book. This could totally change the way that you interface with paper. You see the dark line on the side and the top. As you turn the pages of the book, the book can actually detect what page you're on, based on the curvature of the pages. In addition, if you were to fold in one of the corners, then you could program the book to actually email you the text on the page for your notes. KS: For our last technology, we worked again with Roman and his team at the Directors Bureau to develop a commercial from the future to explain how it works. Old Milk Carton: Oh yeah, it smells good. Who are you? New Milk Carton: I'm New Milk. OMC: I used to smell like you. Narrator: Fresh Watch, from Inventables Dairy Farms. Packaging that changes color when your milk's gone off. Don't let milk spoil your morning. ZK: Now, this technology was developed by these two guys: Professor Ken Suslick and Neil Rakow, of the University of Illinois. KS: Now the way it works: there's a matrix of color dyes. And these dyes change color in response to odors. So the smell of vanilla, that might change the four on the left to brown and the one on the right to yellow. This matrix can produce thousands of different color combinations to represent thousands of different smells. But like in the milk commercial, if you know what odor you want to detect, then they can formulate a specific dye to detect just that odor. ZK: Right. It was that that started a conversation with Professor Suslick and myself, and he was explaining to me the things that this is making possible, beyond just detecting spoiled food. It's really where the significance of it lies. His company actually did a survey of firemen all across the country to try to learn, how are they currently testing the air when they respond to an emergency scene? And he kind of comically explained that time after time, what the firemen would say is: they would rush to the scene of the crime; they would look around; if there were no dead policemen, it was OK to go. (Laughter) I mean, this is a true story. They're using policemen as canaries. (Laughter) But more seriously, they determined that you could develop a device that can smell better than the humans, and say if it's safe for the firemen. In addition, he's spun off a company from the University called ChemSensing, where they're working on medical equipment. So, a patient can come in and actually blow into their device. By detecting the odor of particular bacteria, or viruses, or even lung cancer, the dots will change and they can use software to analyze the results. This can radically improve the way that doctors diagnose patients. Currently, they're using a method of trial and error, but this could tell you precisely what disease you have. KS: So that was the six we had for you today, but I hope you're starting to see why we find these things so fascinating. Because every one of these six changed our understanding of what was possible in the world. Prior to seeing this, we would have assumed: a 10-foot pole couldn't fit in your pocket; something as inexpensive as ink couldn't sense the way paper is being bent; every one of these things — and we're constantly trying to find more. ZK: This is something that Keith and I really enjoy doing. I'm sure it's obvious to you now, but it was actually yesterday that I was reminded of why. I was having a conversation with Steve Jurvetson, over downstairs by the escalators, and he was telling me that when Chris sent out that little box, one of the items in it was the hydrophobic sand — the sand that doesn't get wet. He said that he was playing with it with his son. And you know, his son was mesmerized, because he would dunk it in the water, he would take it out and it was bone dry. A few weeks later, he said that his son was playing with a lock of his mother's hair, and he noticed that there were some drops of water on the hair. And he took the thing and he looked up to Steve and he said, ""Look, hydrophobic string."" (Laughter) I mean, after hearing that story — that really summed it up for me. Thank you very much. KS: Thank you. (Applause)"	"Zach Kaplan：Keith和我帶領著一個研究團隊。我們研究材料與技術，它們有著令人意外的特性。在過去三年中，我們已經發現了超過200項這類東西，於是我們從我們的資料中找出六項我們認為能夠帶給TED的朋友們最多驚喜。在這六項之中，首先我們所要談的東西就是你們手中黑色信封裡裝的東西。它來自於日本一家叫做 GelTech 的公司。現在請打開來看看。 Keith Schacht：現在請將那兩個東西分開來。令人訝異的地方是，它很軟，但卻具有強力的磁性。Zach 和我總是沈醉於觀察這類型令人訝異的東西。我們想了很久為何會這樣，最近我們終於想通了：因為當我們看見令人訝異的東西時，它改變了我們對事情的認知。當你第一眼看見這種膠狀磁鐵時，如果你認為所有的磁鐵都是硬的，那麼當你看到這個時，它會讓你驚訝，然後它就會改變你對於磁鐵的認知。 ZK：知道令人驚訝的特性有哪些是很重要的。但是當仔細思考是什麼讓它具有這些特性時，我們發現它可以讓我們想到如何將它運用在生活中。第一個想法是用在櫥子的門上。如果你將櫥子的門內襯裝上這種膠狀物質，當你用力將櫥子關上時，它就不會發出太大的聲音，而且磁鐵會將櫥子的門吸過去然後關閉。想像一下把同樣的材料用在運動鞋的鞋底。你可以到賣容器的商店那種掛在衣櫃門後的金屬片然後你就可以把你的鞋子吸在上面而不用鞋架。對我來說，我很喜歡這個點子。(笑聲)如果你來我的公寓看看我的櫃子，你就會知道為什麼了。那是一團亂啊。 KS：看看這些令人訝異的特性，再看看一些應用方式，這會幫助你知道為什麼這很重要，讓你知道潛力在哪裡。但我們發現我們表達創意的方法會讓結果有很大的不同。 ZK：就像六個月前 Keith 和我在洛杉磯時,我們和 Roman Coppola 在星巴克喝咖啡。他在 The Directors Bureau 這家公司工作，主要負責音樂影片與廣告製作。正如我們正在談論的內容，Roman 告訴我們他在那方面是一種發明家。當時我們也把和你們手中相同的膠狀磁鐵秀給他看，我們分享了同樣的創意。你可以看到他的臉上的表情。Roman 開始興奮起來，於是他抽出這個卷宗夾。他把它打開，Keith 和我朝裡面看，他開始把他正在進行中的概念秀給我們看。這讓他很興奮。當我們看著這些概念，我們想著，哇啊，這傢伙真棒。因為他用來展示概念的方法和我們完全不一樣。他的手法就像是這東西已經準備要賣出了一樣。當我們坐車要回機場的路上，我們想著，為什麼這個會那麼具有威力？我們想了又想才明白它讓你擁有完整的體驗，就像是在電視上看見它一般。所以為了TED的朋友們，我們決定帶來我們對於膠狀磁鐵最喜歡的點子，並且和 Roman 及他在the Directors Bureau 公司中的團隊一起為這個案子打造了屬於未來的廣告。 (影片)：你喜歡追求速度感嗎?你是否有勇氣參加 Inventables 公司的水上歷險活動,在滑水道上，乘坐著磁力浮板滑下，既快速又有高度，當你快到底部時，它會煞車停下。水火箭! 即將在這個夏天推出。 KS：在這之前，我們把這個概念給一些人看，他們問我們，這個什麼時候會推出啊?所以我想要讓大家知道，這並不是真的會推出，這只是一些概念而已。 ZK：所以當我們想出這些概念時，有件很重要的事，就是必須確認這些從技術角度上是做得到的事情。所以我想快速說明一下要怎麼辦到。這就是在廣告中所提到的磁力浮板。你們所拿得膠狀磁鐵會被作在板子底部的內襯中。有兩個很重要的原因。首先，由於磁鐵柔軟的特性，即使騎乘者撞到頭也不會受傷。另外，從右邊的圖你可以看到，在滑水道下方會是電磁鐵。這樣在你往下滑的時候，會將你往上抬起來一點。水流往下沖的力量，加上往上抬起的力量，會讓這個滑水道比市面上其他滑水道更快。也因此你會需要一個磁力煞車系統。當你到達滑水道的下方時 —(笑聲)— 騎乘者會通過一段鋁管。接下來我讓 Keith 來說明為什麼從技術角度上來說這很重要。 KS：我相信在座的工程師都知道，雖然鋁是金屬，但它不是磁性金屬。但是，當你將磁鐵掉落經過鋁管時，令人驚訝的事情卻發生了。於是我們設計了一個小實驗來秀給各位看。(笑聲)你可以看見磁鐵掉落的速度很慢。我不會從物理的角度來說明這件事，你們只要知道，磁鐵掉落的速度越快，讓它停止的力量就會越大。 ZK：我們的下一個技術，是根長十英呎的竿子，我的口袋裡正好有一個。(笑聲)它有許多不同的版本。(笑聲)KS：有些會像這個一樣自動展開。它們可以作成會自動收起，也可以作成固定形狀的，就像 Zach 拿的那個，可以自動收放。 ZK：目前，當我們和供應商談到，你要怎麼去運用這個東西，或是它們目前被運用在哪方面時，他告訴我們，軍隊裡有使用這個，這樣士兵們可以把它隱密的放在口袋裡，在戰場上的時候，可以將它展開變成天線，將清楚的訊號傳回基地。在我們內部討論時，我們想到你可以把它用在足球球門，這樣在比賽結束時，你可以把它收起來，放進你的運動袋裡。(笑聲) KS: 有趣的地方是，你不需要像工程師一樣去了解為什麼一個長十英呎的竿子可以塞進你的口袋裡。(笑聲)之後我們決定前往芝加哥的街上，問問路上的人們他們會怎麼使用這個東西。 (影片)：用來清理天花板上的電扇，還有用來把屋裡的蜘蛛網弄掉。我想作成隨身的拐杖。我會作用來爬樹的梯子。摘橄欖的工具。像那種刷油漆用的延伸竿子。我想作成長矛，當你深海潛水時，你可以快速抓到魚，然後把它收回來，這樣你可以游得更輕鬆。(笑聲) ZK：現在，我們要替下一個技術作個小示範，我們需要一位自願的聽眾。就是你，先生，請上來這邊。(笑聲)來吧。告訴大家你的名字。 Steve Jurvetson：Steve。 ZK：這位是 Steve。好的 Steve，請跟我過來。請你站在這個 TED 標記前面。就是這邊。很好。請拿著這個。祝你好運。(笑聲) KS：等等，還沒。(笑聲) ZK：我想告訴各位，這個介紹內容是由 Target 公司所提供。 KS：再過來一點 — 很棒，剛剛好。現在，Zach，我們將要展示未來的水槍大戰。(笑聲)好了，站到前面來吧。好的，你可以看見這邊 — 沒關係，沒關係。請告訴大家你的衣服上的溫度。請說。 SJ：好冷喔。 KS：會冷的原因，是因為水槍裡並不是真正的水。這是 3M 公司開發的乾式液體。它很乾淨，沒有味道，也沒有顏色。它很安全，你甚至可以把它喝下去。(笑聲)它會讓你覺得冷是因為它蒸發的速度比水快25倍。(笑聲)好的，謝謝你上來。(笑聲) ZK：等等，Steve — 在你走之前，我們已經把這個裝滿乾式液體，等等休息時間你可以拿來射你的朋友。SJ：太好了，謝謝。 KS：謝謝你上來。我們給他熱烈的掌聲。(掌聲) 那麼，這種乾式液體有什麼重要的呢?早期 Cray 超級電腦就是使用這種液體來冷卻。現在，令人驚訝的是，Zach 可以站在台上，把所有聽眾都給淋濕而不需要擔心當我們把電器弄濕的時候會壞掉，就像是我們把書或電腦搞掛一般。因為這些東西是非導體。所以你可以看見，當你把一整塊電路板浸泡在裡面時，它完全不會受到任何損害。可以把它通電，用它把熱給帶走。這目前最常被使用辦公大廈中 —在灑水系統中擔任用來滅火的液體。再提一次，它對人體絕對安全。它可以滅火，不會傷害到任何東西。但是我們最喜歡的點子是，把它用在籃球比賽中。在中場休息時，它可以把所有球員淋濕，讓大家感到清涼，幾分鐘後就會自動乾掉。對球場完全沒有影響。 ZK：我們下一個技術來自於一個日本公司，名叫 Sekisui Chemical。他們的一位研發工程師，正在研究一種塑膠強化劑。在他的研究過程中，他發現了一個令人訝異的事。我們有一段影片。 KS：你可以看見這邊，它不會彈回來。這是實驗中意外發現的附加成果。這項技術稱為 ""定型特性""。想想你在使用鋁箔的樣子。對金屬來說，保持改變的形狀很正常。當你把鋁箔的一角彎起來，它會固定在那邊。相對來說，就像是塑膠垃圾桶，你可以把一邊按下去然後它總會彈回來。 ZK：舉例來說，你可以作成一個手錶，戴手手腕上，不需要任何固定釦。再進一步來看，如果你把它這些編織條狀在一起，像是在編織一個小籃子一樣，你就可以作成一張可以定型的布，你可以把它嵌入布料中，這樣你就可以用在野餐桌上，邊緣包著餐桌的角落，這樣就算風很大，也不會被吹走。我們的下一個技術，單獨觀察的時候不容易看出它令人訝異的特性，因為它是一種墨水。所以我們準備了一段影片來展示它用在紙上的狀況。 KS：當這張紙彎曲時，這種墨水的電阻會改變。利用簡單的電子器材，你可以偵測紙張被彎曲的程度。想想這個的潛力，試想能沾上這種墨水的物品。在名片上，在麥片包裝盒後面，紙上遊戲。任何用到墨水的地方，你可以改變和它互動的方式。 ZK：我最喜歡的點子是把它用在書上。這會完全改變你使用紙張的方式。你可以看見紙張邊緣和上面的黑線。當你翻頁時，這本書會藉由紙上的電流改變，來偵測你所翻的是哪一頁。另外，如果你把某一頁角落折起來時，你可以利用程式命令這本書把這一頁的內容 e-mail 給你當作筆記用。 KS：關於我們最後一項技術，我們再次和 Roman和他在 the Directors Bureau 的團隊一起製作未來的廣告，來說明它是怎麼運作的。 (影片)：喔耶，這聞起來真棒。你是誰?我是新鮮的牛奶。我本來和你的味道一樣。新鮮守護者，由 Inventables 牛奶牧場提供。當你的牛奶過期時，包裝會自動改變顏色。不要讓牛奶毀了你的早晨。 ZK：這項科技由這兩位所發明 —伊利諾州 大學的 Ken Suslick 教授和 Neil Rakow 教授。 KS：它運作的方式是：有一個各種顏色染料組成的矩陣。這些染料的顏色會隨著味道而改變。所以香草的味道會讓左邊四個變成棕色，右邊那個變成黃色，於是這個矩陣會產生上千種顏色搭配，來代表上千種不同的味道。但廣告中的牛奶，如果你知道你偵測到的味道，那麼他們就可以設計一個特別的染料來偵測這種味道。 ZK：是的。我和 Suslick 教授聊了一下，他向我解釋這些將是可能的。偵測這些壞掉的食物，就是這個最重要的用處。他的公司針對全國的消防員進行了一項調查，當他們抵達緊急案件現場時，他們怎麼去偵測空氣狀況?然後他有點開玩笑的說，這些消防員常說的是，他們衝進犯罪現場，然後看看四周，如果沒有死掉的警察，那就是安全的。(笑聲)我是指，這是真實故事。他們把警察當成了偵測器。(笑聲)更重要的是，他們確定可以發展出一種比人類更能偵測味道的儀器，這樣可以讓消防員更加安全。另外，他離開了大學成立了一家叫做 ChemSensing 的公司，這家公司製作醫療器材，當病患進來以後，只要對著儀器吹氣。藉由偵測不同細菌或病菌的味道，或甚至是肺癌，點數會改變，於是他們可以藉由軟體來分析結果。這可以讓醫生診斷病患的方式完全大幅進步。目前他們所使用的是嘗試錯誤的方式，但這可以精確的診斷出你所生的病。 KS：以上是今天我們所要告訴大家的六樣東西，希望大家了解為何這些會東西如此迷人。因為這六樣東西，改變了我們對於這個世界上什麼事可能的想法。在看見這些之前，我們可能認為長十英呎的竿子不可能放進你的口袋裡。便宜的油墨不可能用來偵測紙張是否是彎曲的。這每一樣東西，以及我們持續努力去找尋的其他更多東西。 ZK：這是 Keith 和我所喜歡去做的事情。我想這對大家來說已經很明顯了，但事實上昨天我被提醒了為何這是明顯的。當時我和Steve Jurvetson 在樓下的電扶梯聊天，他告訴我，Chris 送給他一個小盒子，裡面有其中一樣東西是不會吸水的沙子 —那沙子不會變濕。他說他和兒子一起玩這個沙子。你知道嗎, 他的兒子迷上了這東西，因為他把沙子浸入水裡，然後拿出來，沙子還是完全乾的。幾周之後，他說，他的兒子在玩他媽媽的一搓頭髮，他發現有幾滴水珠在頭髮上。他看著那東西，然後抬頭看著 Steve，他說，""看，是不會吸水的頭髮。""(笑聲)聽完這個故事，今天的內容就到這結束了。非常感謝各位。 KS：謝謝大家。(掌聲)"
