Talk	en	zh-tw
tristram_wyatt_the_smelly_mystery_of_the_human_pheromone	"""Pheromone"" is a very powerful word. It conjures up sex, abandon, loss of control, and you can see, it's very important as a word. But it's only 50 years old. It was invented in 1959. Now, if you put that word into the web, as you may have done, you'll come up with millions of hits, and almost all of those sites are trying to sell you something to make you irresistible for 10 dollars or more. Now, this is a very attractive idea, and the molecules they mention sound really science-y. They've got lots of syllables. It's things like androstenol, androstenone or androstadienone. It gets better and better, and when you combine that with white lab coats, you must imagine that there is fantastic science behind this. But sadly, these are fraudulent claims supported by dodgy science. The problem is that, although there are many good scientists working on what they think are human pheromones, and they're publishing in respectable journals, at the basis of this, despite very sophisticated experiments, there really is no good science behind it, because it's based on a problem, which is nobody has systematically gone through all the odors that humans produce — and there are thousands of molecules that we give off. We're mammals. We produce a lot of smell. Nobody has gone through systematically to work out which molecules really are pheromones. They've just plucked a few, and all these experiments are based on those, but there's no good evidence at all. Now, that's not to say that smell is not important to people. It is, and some people are real enthusiasts, and one of these was Napoleon. And famously, you may remember that out on the campaign trail for war, he wrote to his lover, Empress Josephine, saying, ""Don't wash. I'm coming home."" (Laughter) So he didn't want to lose any of her richness in the days before he'd get home, and it is still, you'll find websites that offer this as a major quirk. At the same time, though, we spend about as much money taking the smells off us as putting them back on in perfumes, and perfumes are a multi-billion-dollar business. So what I want to do in the rest of this talk is tell you about what pheromones really are, tell you why I think we would expect humans to have pheromones, tell you about some of the confusions in pheromones, and then finally, I want to end with a promising avenue which shows us the way we ought to be going. So the ancient Greeks knew that dogs sent invisible signals between each other. A female dog in heat sent an invisible signal to male dogs for miles around, and it wasn't a sound, it was a smell. You could take the smell from the female dog, and the dogs would chase the cloth. But the problem for everybody who could see this effect was that you couldn't identify the molecules. You couldn't demonstrate it was chemical. The reason for that, of course, is that each of these animals produces tiny quantities, and in the case of the dog, males dogs can smell it, but we can't smell it. And it was only in 1959 that a German team, after spending 20 years in search of these molecules, discovered, identified, the first pheromone, and this was the sex pheromone of a silk moth. Now, this was an inspired choice  by Adolf Butenandt and his team, because he needed half a million moths to get enough material to do the chemical analysis. But he created the model for how you should go about pheromone analysis. He basically went through systematically, showing that only the molecule in question was the one that stimulated the males, not all the others. He analyzed it very carefully. He synthesized the molecule, and then tried the synthesized molecule on the males and got them to respond and showed it was, indeed, that molecule. That's closing the circle. That's the thing which has never been done with humans: nothing systematic, no real demonstration. With that new concept, we needed a new word, and that was the word ""pheromone,"" and it's basically transferred excitement, transferred between individuals, and since 1959, pheromones have been found right the way across the animal kingdom, in male animals, in female animals. It works just as well underwater for goldfish and lobsters. And almost every mammal you can think of has had a pheromone identified, and of course, an enormous number of insects. So we know that pheromones exist right the way across the animal kingdom. What about humans? Well, the first thing, of course, is that we're mammals, and mammals are smelly. As any dog owner can tell you, we smell, they smell. But the real reason we might think that humans have pheromones is the change that occurs as we grow up. The smell of a room of teenagers is quite different from the smell of a room of small children. What's changed? And of course, it's puberty. Along with the pubic hair and the hair in the armpits, new glands start to secrete in those places, and that's what's making the change in smell. If we were any other kind of mammal, or any other kind of animal, we would say, ""That must be something to do with pheromones,"" and we'd start looking properly. But there are some problems, and this is why, I think, people have not looked for pheromones so effectively in humans. There are, indeed, problems. And the first of these is perhaps surprising. It's all about culture. Now moths don't learn a lot about what is good to smell, but humans do, and up to the age of about four, any smell, no matter how rancid, is simply interesting. And I understand that the major role of parents is to stop kids putting their fingers in poo, because it's always something nice to smell. But gradually we learn what's not good, and one of the things we learn at the same time as what is not good is what is good. Now, the cheese behind me is a British, if not an English, delicacy. It's ripe blue Stilton. Liking it is incomprehensible to people from other countries. Every culture has its own special food and national delicacy. If you were to come from Iceland, your national dish is deep rotted shark. Now, all of these things are acquired tastes, but they form almost a badge of identity. You're part of the in-group. The second thing is the sense of smell. Each of us has a unique odor world, in the sense that what we smell, we each smell a completely different world. Now, smell was the hardest of the senses to crack, and the Nobel Prize awarded to Richard Axel and Linda Buck was only awarded in 2004 for their discovery of how smell works. It's really hard, but in essence, nerves from the brain go up into the nose and on these nerves exposed in the nose to the outside air are receptors, and odor molecules coming in on a sniff interact with these receptors, and if they bond, they send the nerve a signal which goes back into the brain. We don't just have one kind of receptor. If you're a human, you have about 400 different kinds of receptors, and the brain knows what you're smelling because of the combination of receptors and nerve cells that they trigger, sending messages up to the brain in a combinatorial fashion. But it's a bit more complicated, because each of those 400 comes in various variants, and depending which variant you have, you might smell coriander, or cilantro, that herb, either as something delicious and savory or something like soap. So we each have an individual world of smell, and that complicates anything when we're studying smell. Well, we really ought to talk about armpits, and I have to say that I do have particularly good ones. Now, I'm not going to share them with you, but this is the place that most people have looked for pheromones. There is one good reason, which is, the great apes have armpits as their unique characteristic. The other primates have scent glands in other parts of the body. The great apes have these armpits full of secretory glands producing smells all the time, enormous numbers of molecules. When they're secreted from the glands, the molecules are odorless. They have no smell at all, and it's only the wonderful bacteria growing on the rainforest of hair that actually produces the smells that we know and love. And so incidentally, if you want to reduce the amount of smell, clear-cutting your armpits is a very effective way of reducing the habitat for bacteria, and you'll find they remain less smelly for much longer. But although we've focused on armpits, I think it's partly because they're the least embarrassing place to go and ask people for samples. There is actually another reason why we might not be looking for a universal sex pheromone there, and that's because 20 percent of the world's population doesn't have smelly armpits like me. And these are people from China, Japan, Korea, and other parts of northeast Asia. They simply don't secrete those odorless precursors that the bacteria love to use to produce the smells that in an ethnocentric way we always thought of as characteristic of armpits. So it doesn't apply to 20 percent of the world. So what should we be doing in our search for human pheromones? I'm fairly convinced that we do have them. We're mammals, like everybody else who's a mammal, and we probably do have them. But what I think we should do is go right back to the beginning, and basically look all over the body. No matter how embarrassing, we need to search and go for the first time where no one else has dared tread. It's going to be difficult, it's going to be embarrassing, but we need to look. We also need to go back to the ideas that Butenandt used when he was studying the silk moth. We need to go back and look systematically at all the molecules that are being produced, and work out which ones are really involved. It isn't good enough simply to pluck a couple and say, ""They'll do."" We have to actually demonstrate that they really have the effects we claim. There is one team that I'm actually very impressed by. They're in France, and their previous success was identifying the rabbit mammary pheromone. They've turned their attention now to human babies and mothers. So this is a baby having a drink of milk from its mother's breast. Her nipple is completely hidden by the baby's head, but what you'll notice is a white droplet with an arrow pointing to it, and that's the secretion from the areolar glands. Now, we all have them, men and women, and these are the little bumps around the nipple, and if you're a lactating woman, these start to secrete. It's a very interesting secretion. What Benoist Schaal and his team developed was a simple test to investigate what the effect of this secretion might be, in effect, a simple bioassay. So this is a sleeping baby, and under its nose, we've put a clean glass rod. The baby remains sleeping, showing no interest at all. But if we go to any mother who is secreting from the areolar glands, so it's not about recognition, it can be from any mother, if we take the secretion and now put it under the baby's nose, we get a very different reaction. It's a connoisseur's reaction of delight, and it opens its mouth and sticks out its tongue and starts to suck. Now, since this is from any mother, it could really be a pheromone. It's not about individual recognition. Any mother will do. Now, why is this important, apart from being simply very interesting? It's because women vary in the number of areolar glands that they have, and there is a correlation between the ease with which babies start to suckle and the number of areolar glands she has. It appears that the more secretions she's got, the more likely the baby is to suckle quickly. If you're a mammal, the most dangerous time in life is the first few hours after birth. You have to get that first drink of milk, and if you don't get it, you won't survive. You'll be dead. Since many babies actually find it difficult to take that first meal, because they're not getting the right stimulus, if we could identify what that molecule was, and the French team are being very cautious, but if we could identify the molecule, synthesize it, it would then mean premature babies would be more likely to suckle, and every baby would have a better chance of survival. So what I want to argue is this is one example of where a systematic, really scientific approach can actually bring you a real understanding of pheromones. There could be all sorts of medical interventions. There could be all sorts of things that humans are doing with pheromones that we simply don't know at the moment. What we need to remember is pheromones are not just about sex. They're about all sorts of things to do with a mammal's life. So do go forward and do search for more. There's lots to find. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"""費洛蒙“是一種非常強大的物質，它激起性慾、使人失控、放任，因此，我們可以看出，它是多麼重要的一種物質。不過，“費洛蒙”在1959年才被發現，距今只有50歲。如果你在網上搜索這個名字，可能你們已經搜索過了，你就會發現，出現的結果有好幾百萬條，而幾乎所有網站都嘗試跟你推銷一些僅需約十元美金或以上、讓你無法抗拒的東西。這個想法的確很吸引人，而且他們口中那些分子聽起來好像真有那麼一回事。這些分子名稱的音節很多，譬如雄甾烯醇、雄甾烯醇或者雄烯二酮。反正你越往下看，分子的名字就越複雜。而當你將廣告裏的純白實驗袍與之結合時，你必會想像這背後一定蘊藏著非常了不起的科技。但很遺憾，這一切只是由偽科學撐腰的詐騙式宣傳。 問題就在於，即使有很多傑出科學家在研究他們所認為的人類費洛蒙，即使他們在具權威性的期刊中出版有關論文，即使研究過程中涉及到非常複雜的實驗，人類費洛蒙的研究背後始終沒有正規科學得以支持，因為它是建基於另一個問題，那就是，至今未曾有人有系統地研究過人類產生的所有氣味，而我們所放出的這些氣味分子達至數以千計。我們是哺乳類，所以產生許多氣味。沒有人有系統地研究從而找出哪些分子是真正的費洛蒙。他們只是挑出幾個樣品，然後就以這幾個樣品為中心做實驗，根本沒有什麼確鑿的證據。 不過，這並不是代表氣味對人不重要。它的確舉足輕重，有些人甚至對其非常癡迷，拿破崙就是其中一員。你也許會記得，當拿破崙踏上征途時，他給愛人女皇約瑟芬寫過一句著名的情話，他說：“別洗澡，我很快回家了。”(笑）所以他連愛人在他回家以前的氣味都不想失去。現在還有網站把這佳話看作一大奇事。不過同時，我們也花了一樣多的金錢把身上的氣味除掉再以香水代替，因此香水這門生意可創造了數十億美元產業。 接下來，我想講解一下費洛蒙究竟是什麼，解釋為甚麼我覺得人類會有費洛蒙，並說說一些有關費洛蒙的疑惑，最後，我會介紹一下接下來我們應該走的科研之路。 古希臘人知道狗隻之間會互相傳遞隱形信號。一隻發情的母狗會向幾英里範圍的公狗傳達一種隱形信號，這種信號不是聲音，是氣味。如果你沾一沾那隻母狗的氣味，其他公狗就會追著沾有那氣味的布塊走。但對所有能明白這個現象的人來說，問題就在於他們不能找出這些分子。你不能證明這是化學反應，原因當然是這群動物裏，每一種動物所產生的分子量都極少，而在狗的情況中，公狗能嗅到，但人類不能。一個德國研究團隊花了整整20年尋找這類分子，最後於1959年才發現並確定第一種費洛蒙，那就是蚕蛾的性費洛蒙。選擇蚕蛾沒有特別原因，那只是因為阿道夫·布特南特和他的團隊需要多達50萬飛蛾才足夠完成其化學分析。不過他創造了一套研究費洛蒙的模式供後世參照。他系統地排除無關的分子，展示出只有懷疑是費洛蒙的分子才會對雄性飛蛾造成影響。他非常小心地研究，把分子合成，然後把合成分子測試在雄性飛蛾上，最後得出結果顯示一直研究的分子的確是費洛蒙分子，由此解決一道難題。可是以人體為對象的這種研究卻一直匱乏，它們不是欠缺系統就是紙上談兵。 飛蛾研究的成功帶來了新的概念，新的名稱也由此誕生，那就是“費洛蒙”了。費洛蒙在個體與個體之間互相傳遞，為個體帶來興奮。自1959年以來，研究人員已在動物王國中，從雄性及雌性動物身上發現多種費洛蒙。費洛蒙對水底動物也同樣適用，例如金魚和龍蝦，而你能想到的每種哺乳類動物都有自己確定的費洛蒙，當然，受費洛蒙影響的，還少不了無數昆蟲。 所以我們知道費洛蒙在動物王國裏廣泛存在。那麼人類世界呢？首先，很明顯的，我們屬哺乳類，而哺乳類動物都有體味。任何一位養狗的朋友都可以告訴你人類有體味，狗也有體味。 但我們推測人類有費洛蒙的真正原因是我們成長所帶來的改變。一屋青少年的氣味跟一屋幼童的氣味是遠遠不同的。是什麼改變了呢？當然是青春期啦。伴隨著陰毛和腋毛的生長，這些部位的腺體開始分泌，氣味也隨之改變。如果我們是其他哺乳類動物或單純是其他動物，我們可能會說：“這一定是費洛蒙的問題。”於是，我們便會開始認真研究。 但是，至今還沒有人像研究動物那樣有效率地在人類身上找出費洛蒙，我覺得背後有幾個原因，而它們就是問題所在。首先，這個原因可能會令人驚訝，那就是文化。飛蛾不會知道什麼好聞，但人知道。四歲以前，所有氣味，不管有多糟糕，都是有趣的。我知道家長的主要職責是制止小孩把手指插進糞便裏，因為糞便實在太“好聞”了。但漸漸的，我們學懂了什麼是不好聞，而從學習什麼不好聞，我們也學懂什麼是好聞的。 我身後的不是英國就是英格蘭的標誌食品，它是成熟的藍紋斯蒂爾頓奶酪（以酸辣、濃烈味道著稱），對它的偏愛其他國家的人可能不明白。每一種文化都有自己的獨特食物和代表國家的著名菜餚。如果你是冰島人，發酵鯊魚肉就是冰島國菜。這一切都是培養來的味覺，但這些味覺卻差不多等同身份證一樣，顯示你是群體的一部分。 第二個原因就是嗅覺。每個人都對不同氣味有不同反應，即便聞的是同一件物件，聞到的氣味可以不盡相同。嗅覺是幾個感官裏面最難理解的，在2004年，氣味如何運作的原理才被發現，理查德·阿克塞爾和琳達·巴克更因這項成就榮獲諾貝爾獎。這個研究真的很難，不過本質上，大腦神經延伸至鼻子裡，這些神經暴露在空氣中，成為感受器。當氣味分子隨著吸氣帶進鼻子裏，分子會和這些感受器接觸，一旦鍵合， 神經就會接受到一個訊息，並將其傳達至大腦中。我們的感受器不止一種，人類大約有400多種不同感受器，當感受器和受刺激的神經細胞組合，並由這個組合傳遞信息至大腦，大腦便會知道你聞到了什麼。乍聽下去好像很簡單，但是這四百多種感受器中，各自有不同變化，而你的感受器組合，可能令你覺得芫荽聞起來會使人齒頰留香或相反，像濃烈的廉價香水般讓人難受。因此，因人而異的氣味世界令研究變得複雜許多。 我們真的得談談腋窩，不瞞你說，我對自己的腋窩挺滿意的，不過我不打算展示出來。腋窩是最多人嘗試尋找費洛蒙的身體部位。背後的原因很充分，那就是，腋窩是人科（包括人類和猩猩等）獨有特徵。其他靈長目動物的分泌腺長在身體的其他部位，而人科動物的腋窩就長滿分泌腺，這些分泌腺產生無數分子，令腋窩每時每刻都散發著氣味。當腺體排出這些分子時，它們其實是沒有氣味的，體味的“罪魁禍首”是在茂盛的腋毛中不斷增加繁衍的細菌，有了這些細菌，我們熟悉並喜愛的體味就出現了。所以順便說一下，如果想減少體味，把腋毛完全除掉是減少細菌溫床的最好方法，這樣你就會發現，腋窩不但比以前少了異味，改善的情況還可以保持更久。比起其他身體部位，從腋窩收集研究樣品最不讓人尷尬，這也是我們集中研究腋下的部分原因。我們不在這個部位尋找人類通用的性費洛蒙，其實也有另一個原因。那是因為全球有百分之二十人口並沒有像我味道那麼濃的腋窩，這百分之二十的人口裏有中國人、日本人、韓國人還有一部分東北亞人。他們根本不會分泌這些無味的前導體吸引細菌從而產生氣味，由此他們的腋窩跟我們常先入為主的腋窩特徵有所出入，因此腋窩的研究並不能涉及全部人類。 那麼，我們該怎麼尋找人類費洛蒙呢？我本人是挺相信費洛蒙存在於人類身上的，因為我們是哺乳類跟其他哺乳類動物一樣，我們很可能有費洛蒙。但我們該怎麼找到它呢？我覺得我們應該重回原點，不管搜尋過程有多讓人難為情，都得在身體上從頭到尾仔細找一遍。我們要走在前人不敢走的路上。研究會是艱難重重，會是讓人尷尬窘迫，但是我們還是得走下去。我們要參考布特南特研究蚕蛾時用的方法，我們也要重新有系統地研究所產生的所有分子並找出哪一些是真的跟費洛蒙拉上關係的。隨便抽出幾種分子就說“這些應該算吧。”是遠遠不足夠的。我們必須驗證這些分子真有我們所說的效果。 我非常佩服一個來自法國的研究團隊，他們曾成功發現兔子的乳腺費洛蒙，現在，他們已經把目標轉移到人類母嬰。 這是一幅嬰兒吸吮母乳的照片。這位母親的乳頭完全被嬰兒的頭遮擋住，但是我們還是會看見箭頭指著的一滴白色液體，那是乳暈腺的分泌。不論男女，我們每人都有乳暈腺它們就是乳頭周圍一粒一粒的小突點。乳暈腺在女性哺乳期時開始分泌，產生令我們為之著迷的分泌物。法國研究團隊貝諾亞·莎爾和他的共事想出一項簡單的測試來驗證這種分泌物的效果，事實上，這項測試不過是簡單的生物測定。圖中所示的是一個熟睡嬰兒，研究人員把一個乾淨的滴管拿到他鼻子下，嬰兒會繼續沉睡，對滴管沒有顯示任何興趣；但是如果我們跟任何哺乳期母親拿取乳暈腺的分泌物，要注意，跟任何母親拿分泌物是因為我們得排除嬰兒認得自己母親氣味的機會，現在如果我們把分泌物送到嬰兒的鼻下，我們得到與別不同的反應。嬰兒好像看到至寶一樣開心，他張開嘴巴，把舌頭伸出，然後開始吸吮。因為這種分泌物可以來自任何一個母親，它很可能就是費洛蒙。讓嬰兒做出這種反應的，不是個體，而是全體哺乳期女性。 這個結論除了是挺有趣之外，為甚麼也同樣重要呢？因為每個女人所擁有的乳暈腺都不同，而乳暈腺的數量又關係到寶寶是否在短時間內願意吸第一口奶。從實驗所見，如果乳暈腺分泌越多，寶寶喝奶的速度就越快。一個哺乳類動物剛出生的頭幾個小時是最有生命危險的，你必須把奶喝下，不然就存活不了，也就會死亡。對很多嬰兒來說吸取第一口奶非常困難，因為他們沒有得到適當的刺激。如果我們能找到能刺激嬰兒喝奶的分子，那個法國團隊對這項研究是非常慎重小心的，如果我們能找到這種分子，並將其合成，那就意味著早產嬰兒有較大機會自行吸奶，整體上嬰兒也有較大的存活機會。所以我想說的是，透過系統、科學的方法讓我們真正認識費洛蒙，這就是一個很好的例子。費洛蒙可能對醫療有各種影響，人類很多活動可能都牽涉到費洛蒙，我們只是對其一無所知而已。我們要記住的是費洛蒙不但關係到性，它跟哺乳類動物的生命緊密相連。去探索更多關於費洛蒙的知識吧，它的世界有待我們發掘。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
