Talk	en	zh-tw
tristan_harris_how_better_tech_could_protect_us_from_distraction	"What does it mean to spend our time well? I spend a lot of my time thinking about how to spend my time. Probably too much — I probably obsess over it. My friends think I do. But I feel like I kind of have to, because these days, it feels like little bits of my time kind of slip away from me, and when that happens, it feels like parts of my life are slipping away. Specifically, it feels like little bits of my time get slipped away to various things like this, like technology — I check things. I'll give you an example. If this email shows up — how many of you have gotten an email like this, right? I've been tagged in a photo. When this appears, I can't help but click on it right now. Right? Because, like, what if it's a bad photo? So I have to click it right now. But I'm not just going to click ""See photo,"" what I'm actually going to do is spend the next 20 minutes. (Laughter) But the worst part is that I know this is what's going to happen, and even knowing that's what's going to happen doesn't stop me from doing it again the next time. Or I find myself in a situation like this, where I check my email and I pull down to refresh, But the thing is that 60 seconds later, I'll pull down to refresh again. Why am I doing this? This doesn't make any sense. But I'll give you a hint why this is happening. What do you think makes more money in the United States than movies, game parks and baseball combined? Slot machines. How can slot machines make all this money when we play with such small amounts of money? We play with coins. How is this possible? Well, the thing is ... my phone is a slot machine. Every time I check my phone, I'm playing the slot machine to see, what am I going to get? What am I going to get? Every time I check my email, I'm playing the slot machine, saying, ""What am I going to get?"" Every time I scroll a news feed, I'm playing the slot machine to see, what am I going to get next? And the thing is that, again, knowing exactly how this works — and I'm a designer, I know exactly how the psychology of this works, I know exactly what's going on — but it doesn't leave me with any choice, I still just get sucked into it. So what are we going to do? Because it leaves us with this all-or-nothing relationship with technology, right? You're either on, and you're connected and distracted all the time, or you're off, but then you're wondering, am I missing something important? In other words, you're either distracted or you have fear of missing out. Right? So we need to restore choice. We want to have a relationship with technology that gives us back choice about how we spend time with it, and we're going to need help from designers, because knowing this stuff doesn't help. We're going to need design help. So what would that look like? So let's take an example that we all face: chat — text messaging. So let's say there's two people. Nancy's on the left and she's working on a document, and John's on the right. And John suddenly remembers, ""I need to ask Nancy for that document before I forget."" So when he sends her that message, it blows away her attention. That's what we're doing all the time, bulldozing each other's attention, left and right. And there's serious cost to this, because every time we interrupt each other, it takes us about 23 minutes, on average, to refocus our attention. We actually cycle through two different projects before we come back to the original thing we were doing. This is Gloria Mark's research combined with Microsoft research, that showed this. And her research also shows that it actually trains bad habits. The more interruptions we get externally, it's conditioning and training us to interrupt ourselves. We actually self-interrupt every three-and-a-half minutes. This is crazy. So how do we fix this? Because Nancy and John are in this all-or-nothing relationship. Nancy might want to disconnect, but then she'd be worried: What if I'm missing something important? Design can fix this problem. Let's say you have Nancy again on the left, John on the right. And John remembers, ""I need to send Nancy that document."" Except this time, Nancy can mark that she's focused. Let's say she drags a slider and says, ""I want to be focused for 30 minutes,"" so — bam — she's focused. Now when John wants to message her, he can get the thought off of his mind — because he has a need, he has this thought, and he needs to dump it out before he forgets. Except this time, it holds the messages so that Nancy can still focus, but John can get the thought off of his mind. But this only works if one last thing is true, which is that Nancy needs to know that if something is truly important, John can still interrupt. But instead of having constant accidental or mindless interruptions, we're now only creating conscious interruptions, So we're doing two things here. We're creating a new choice for both Nancy and John, But there's a second, subtle thing we're doing here, too. And it's that we're changing the question we're answering. Instead of the goal of chat being: ""Let's design it so it's easy to send a message"" — that's the goal of chat, it should be really easy to send a message to someone — we change the goal to something deeper and a human value, which is: ""Let's create the highest possible quality communication in a relationship between two people. So we upgraded the goal. Now, do designers actually care about this? Do we want to have conversations about what these deeper human goals are? Well, I'll tell you one story. A little over a year ago, I got to help organize a meeting between some of technology's leading designers and Thich Nhat Hanh. Thich Nhat Hanh is an international spokesperson for mindfulness meditation. And it was the most amazing meeting. You have to imagine — picture a room — on one side of the room, you have a bunch of tech geeks; on the other side of the room, you have a bunch of long brown robes, shaved heads, Buddhist monks. And the questions were about the deepest human values, like what does the future of technology look like when you're designing for the deepest questions and the deepest human values? And our conversation centered on listening more deeply to what those values might be. He joked in our conversation that what if, instead of a spell check, you had a compassion check, meaning, you might highlight a word that might be accidentally abrasive — perceived as abrasive by someone else. So does this kind of conversation happen in the real world, not just in these design meetings? Well, the answer is yes, and one of my favorites is Couchsurfing. If you didn't know, Couchsurfing is a website that matches people who are looking for a place to stay with a free couch, from someone who's trying to offer it. So, great service — what would their design goal be? What are you designing for if you work at Couchsurfing? Well, you would think it's to match guests with hosts. Right? That's a pretty good goal. But that would kind of be like our goal with messaging before, where we're just trying to deliver a message. So what's the deeper, human goal? Well, they set their goal as the need to create lasting, positive experiences and relationships between people who've never met before. And the most amazing thing about this was in 2007, they introduced a way to measure this, which is incredible. I'll tell you how it works. For every design goal you have, you have to have a corresponding measurement to know how you're doing — a way of measuring success. So what they do is, let's say you take two people who meet up, and they take the number of days those two people spent together, and then they estimate how many hours were in those days — how many hours did those two people spend together? And then after they spend that time together, they ask both of them: How positive was your experience? Did you have a good experience with this person that you met? And they subtract from those positive hours the amount of time people spent on the website, because that's a cost to people's lives. Why should we value that as success? And what you were left with is something they refer to as ""net orchestrated conviviality,"" or, really, just a net ""Good Times"" created. The net hours that would have never existed, had Couchsurfing not existed. Can you imagine how inspiring it would be to come to work every day and measure your success in the actual net new contribution of hours in people's lives that are positive, that would have never existed if you didn't do what you were about to do at work today? Can you imagine a whole world that worked this way? Can you imagine a social network that — let's say you care about cooking, and it measured its success in terms of cooking nights organized and the cooking articles that you were glad you read, and subtracted from that the articles you weren't glad you read or the time you spent scrolling that you didn't like? Imagine a professional social network that, instead of measuring its success in terms of connections created or messages sent, instead measured its success in terms of the job offers that people got that they were excited to get. And subtracted the amount of time people spent on the website. Or imagine dating services, like maybe Tinder or something, where instead of measuring the number of swipes left and right people did, which is how they measure success today, instead measured the deep, romantic, fulfilling connections people created. Whatever that was for them, by the way. But can you imagine a whole world that worked this way, that was helping you spend your time well? Now to do this you also need a new system, because you're probably thinking, today's Internet economy — today's economy in general — is measured in time spent. The more users you have, the more usage you have, the more time people spend, that's how we measure success. But we've solved this problem before. We solved it with organic, when we said we need to value things a different way. We said this is a different kind of food. So we can't compare it just based on price; this is a different category of food. We solved it with Leed Certification, where we said this is a different kind of building that stood for different values of environmental sustainability. What if we had something like that for technology? What if we had something whose entire purpose and goal was to help create net new positive contributions to human life? And what if we could value it a different way, so it would actually work? Imagine you gave this different premium shelf space on app stores. Imagine you had web browsers that helped route you to these kinds of design products. Can you imagine how exciting it would be to live and create that world? We can create this world today. Company leaders, all you have to do — only you can prioritize a new metric, which is your metric for net positive contribution to human life. And have an honest conversation about that. Maybe you're not doing so well to start with, but let's start that conversation. Designers, you can redefine success; you can redefine design. Arguably, you have more power than many people in your organization to create the choices that all of us live by. Maybe like in medicine, where we have a Hippocratic oath to recognize the responsibility and this higher value that we have to treat patients. What if designers had something like that, in terms of this new kind of design? And users, for all of us — we can demand technology that works this way. Now it may seem hard, but McDonald's didn't have salads until the consumer demand was there. Walmart didn't have organic food until the consumer demand was there. We have to demand this new kind of technology. And we can do that. And doing that would amount to shifting from a world that's driven and run entirely on time spent, to world that's driven by time well spent. I want to live in this world, and I want this conversation to happen. Let's start that conversation now. Thank you. (Applause)"	"利用好自己的时间意味着什么？我花了很多时间思考怎样合理度日 也许思考太多了—我可能痴迷于这个问题至少我的朋友是这么认为但我必须得这么做，因为这些天 我觉得时间从我的身边溜走当这发生的时候，好像我生命的一部分溜走了准确的说，感觉我那些流逝的时间是被杂七杂八的事情用掉了比如科技——在我不时查看东西时举个例子如果这封邮件出现了你们中的很多人收到过类似的邮件，对吧？我被标记在了一张照片上当它出现时我不由自主地点开它因为担心它可能是一张不好照片所以我不得不立即查看它 但我将不仅仅点击“查看照片” 接下来我会在这件事上花费20分钟（笑声）但最糟糕的事情是我明明知道接下来发生什么甚至即使我知道接来下会发生什么我下次依然会这么做再举个例子我检查邮件并下拉刷新可60秒之后我将会再次下拉刷新 我为什么要那么做？这毫无意义下面我来解释为什么会这样你认为在美国做什么会比电影、野生保护区和棒球三者加起来还赚钱？答案是老虎机老虎机是怎么赚到那么多钱的通常我们用很少的钱去玩或者说我们只是用硬币去玩这怎么可能？好吧，事实是我的手机就像台老虎机每次我查看我的手机我都像在玩老虎机并想着我将得到什么？我将得到什么？每次我检查邮件我都像在玩老虎机并想着比如说，“我将会得知什么呢？每次我滚动新闻我都像在玩老虎机想着接着我能看到什么？实际上我非常清楚这是怎么发生的，因为我是个设计师我非常清楚这些行为下的心理学我非常清楚发生了什么 但我毫无选择我仍旧深陷于此接下来我们该怎么办？因为它没有什么折中的选择在当今的科技下，对吧？ 你要么选择使用它那么你就会一直被它所打扰，无法专心或者你干脆不使用它但是你就会想我是不是错过了什么重要的事？换句话说，你要么被它弄得无法专心， 要么你自己会担心，唯恐错过了什么对吧？所以我们需要一个可以不再这样的办法我们可以用科技来解决这个问题从而让我们重新选择度过时光的方式我们将需要设计师的帮助因为光知道这些理论并没有什么用 我们需要从设计上入手那么这一切将会变成什么样呢？我举个我们都会遇到的例子聊天——发短信假设这里有两个人左边的是南希，她在处理文件右边的是约翰这时约翰突然想起在我把那个文件的事情忘了之前，我点去问问南希 所以当他问南希这件事时，南希的注意力被打断了这是我们一直做的事情，强行打断彼此的注意力不论何时何地这种做法也带来了严重的代价因为每次我们互相打断都会花费我们大概23分钟去重新集中注意力事实上 在我们回到原本要做的事情之前我们在两件不同的事情上循环这是一份整合了格洛瑞亚.马克和微软的调查的报告报告证实了这一点并且她的研究还表明这还会让我们养成坏习惯我们被外界打扰的越多 我们越被训练去如何去打扰自己实际上每3.5分钟我们就自扰一次这太疯狂了我们该怎么挽救？因为南希和约翰之间并没有什么中间选择南希也许不愿被打扰 但她会担心我错过了重要的事情怎么办？设计可以解决这个问题在此假设南希在左侧约翰在右侧约翰记着“我得发给南希这份文件”然而这次南希可以说 她正在专心工作她一边拖动着滑块一边说我想集中精力30分钟所以—-她聚精会神起来现在约翰想要传递给她信息他可以放弃这个想法即使他需要这么做，他有这个想法而且他需要在忘记之前实现它但这次不行 南希拒绝接受信息，所以她可以继续保持专注约翰可以忘记这个想法但是唯有满足一个条件，这个设想才能成立就是南希需要知道这件事是否真的重要约翰还是可以来打扰 但不是无心的打扰我们采用有意识的打扰手段为此我们需要做两件事我们为南希和约翰创造了一个新的选择但是我们在这里添加了一个小条件同时我们也正在改变我们回答的问题而不是将对话作为目标“让我们重新设计，使其易于传递信息”这是对话的目的它应该使得发送信息变得非常容易—我们深化了交谈的目的，并融入了人的价值就是：在人与人之间 提供最高质量的交流所以我们提高了目标当今的设计者是否真的关心这些？我们是否要讨论这些更深层的人类目标？我要给你们讲个故事大概一年前，我要去协助组织一场会议那是由一些顶尖的科技设计者和一行禅师参加的会议一行禅师是冥想修行的国际发言人那是一次非常精彩的会议你可以想象有一个房间一边是一群科技奇才另一边是一群穿着棕色长袍，剃了光头的僧人话题是关于人类深层价值的问题比如未来的科技会是什么样子当你的设计涉及到了深刻的问题以及人类深层的价值时？并且我们的话题着重于深入地倾听那些价值可能是什么他在对话中开玩笑说假如, 除了拼写检查你做了一个同情心检查 意思是，你在聊天时，在无意中造成了伤害—这种伤害可能被他人感觉到了那么这种对话会在现实中发生吗，不仅仅只发生在我们刚才假设的情况中？答案是肯定的我最喜欢的一个是“沙发客”“沙发客”是个网站 可以给旅游时寻找房屋的人提供帮助那些愿意帮助的人会提供免费住宿的沙发非常棒的服务—他们的设计目标是什么？如果你在沙发客工作，你会如何设计？你可能会认为是匹配房主和客人对吧?这是一个很好的目标 但这很像我们以前发信息的目标我们只是想去传递信息那么更深层的人类目标是什么？这个目标就是需要在从未见过的人之间创造持久的，积极的经历和关系关于这点，在2007年发生了一个非常有趣的事他们引入了一种衡量这件事的方式这很不可思议我将告诉你它如何运作对于每个设计目标你都要有一个相应的衡量方法从而知道你做的怎么样—这是一种衡量成功的方式那么做法是假设你选取了两个刚见面的人估计了他们在一起的天数然后算了下在那些天他们用了多少个小时—即两个人在一起待了有多少个小时？在这之后问他们你觉得这段经历有多好？你和你遇见的人有没有读过好的时光？然后把在网上花费的时间从那些美好的时光中减去因为网上的时间算是一种对于生命的损失那么为什么我们更倾向这种方法？我们把剩下的部分称为""被网络精心安排的快乐"" 或者说是网络带来的“美妙时光”。如果沙发客的网站不存在，那么这些网络美妙时光也不会存在你能够想象它有多么鼓舞人心通过计算人们现实生活中的快乐小时数去衡量你的成功与否如果你没有每天专心致志地工作你就无法达到这种成功你可以想象如果全世界都按这个模式运行吗？你可以想象一个社交网络—假如你喜欢烹饪，通过根据烹饪的时间加上你阅读喜爱的烹饪文章的时间扣除你不喜欢读的文章或者你翻看你不喜欢的文章时花费的时间来衡量成功与否想象一个专业的社交网络不是根据它建立的联系或者是发送信息来衡量成功但是根据人们是否能得到理想的工作并减去人们在网上花费的时间来衡量成功再比如说 约会服务比如Tinder之类的当下他们通过衡量人们使用软件的次数去评估是否成功 然而能让约会的人之间创造的深层的，浪漫的的关系或者别的什么，可能是更好的评估方法你可以想象整个世界都这样运转吗那会让你更好的分配时间但是为了实现这个，你需要一个新系统因为你可能在想今天的网络经济—普遍意义上的经济—是以花费的时间来衡量你有越多的用户你的产品就会被使用的越多 人们花费的时间就越多这就是当下我们如何衡量成功但是我们之前已经解决了这个问题当我们说要用另一种方法去评估的时候我用这个不施化肥的食物举例子这是另一种食物我们不能通过价格去比较这是另外一个种类的食物当我们说这是另外一种建筑时 我们通过出示“领先的能源和环境设计证书”去证明这代表了另外一种价值，即环境的可持续发展如果把这个思想应用到科技领域会怎样？如果我们把目标设定为 为人类做出新的有益的贡献这一切又会怎样？如果我们用另一种方式去评估这一切又会怎样？设想在苹果应用商城里， 我们专门为这种产品设立一个类别设想有一个网站 专门提供这类产品你能想象建立一个这样的世界有多令人激动吗？我们现在就可以建立这样的世界公司领袖，你们需要做的就是只有你们可以发起建立一个新的系统一个对人类有益的网络贡献系统并诚实的与他人谈论这个 或许你刚开始会做的不太好但是开始这种对话是有必要的设计者，你可以重新定义成功；你可以重新定义设计可以说，你比其他人在公司里有更大的能力去做这个可以影响我们生活质量的选择或许就像医疗行业当给病人治病的时候我们用希波克拉底誓言去明确医疗业的责任和最高价值观 就新的设计来说如果设计者也有类似的“誓言”， 那又会怎样？我们，这些使用者们我们可以要求科技领域也采用这个做法现在这可能很难去做直到客户要求沙拉，麦当劳才开始卖沙拉直到客户要求有机食物，沃尔玛才开始提供有机产品我们需要要求这个新型科技我们可以做到通过这样做可以使这个完全通过消耗时间 来运转的世界向一个更有效的消耗时间的世界转变我想活在这样的世界 我也想开始这个转变 那么让我们现在就开始行动吧谢谢(掌声）"
