Talk	en	zh-tw
trita_parsi_iran_and_israel_peace_is_possible	"""Iran is Israel's best friend, and we do not intend to change our position in relation to Tehran."" Believe it or not, this is a quote from an Israeli prime minister, but it's not Ben-Gurion or Golda Meir from the era of the Shah. It's actually from Yitzhak Rabin. The year is 1987. Ayatollah Khomeini is still alive, and much like Ahmadinejad today, he's using the worst rhetoric against Israel. Yet, Rabin referred to Iran as a geostrategic friend. Today, when we hear the threats of war and the high rhetoric, we're oftentimes led to believe that this is yet another one of those unsolvable Middle Eastern conflicts with roots as old as the region itself. Nothing could be further from the truth, and I hope today to show you why that is. The relations between the Iranian and the Jewish people throughout history has actually been quite positive, starting in 539 B.C., when King Cyrus the Great of Persia liberated the Jewish people from their Babylonian captivity. A third of the Jewish population stayed in Babylonia. They're today's Iraqi Jews. A third migrated to Persia. They're today's Iranian Jews, still 25,000 of them living in Iran, making them the largest Jewish community in the Middle East outside of Israel itself. And a third returned to historic Palestine, did the second rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem, financed, incidentally, by Persian tax money. But even in modern times, relations have been close at times. Rabin's statement was a reflection of decades of security and intelligence collaboration between the two, which in turn was born out of perception of common threats. Both states feared the Soviet Union and strong Arab states such as Egypt and Iraq. And, in addition, the Israeli doctrine of the periphery, the idea that Israel's security was best achieved by creating alliances with the non-Arab states in the periphery of the region in order to balance the Arab states in its vicinity. Now, from the Shah's perspective, though, he wanted to keep this as secret as possible, so when Yitzhak Rabin, for instance, traveled to Iran in the '70s, he usually wore a wig so that no one would recognize him. The Iranians built a special tarmac at the airport in Tehran, far away from the central terminal, so that no one would notice the large number of Israeli planes shuttling between Tel Aviv and Tehran. Now, did all of this end with the Islamic revolution in 1979? In spite of the very clear anti-Israeli ideology of the new regime, the geopolitical logic for their collaboration lived on, because they still had common threats. And when Iraq invaded Iran in 1980, Israel feared an Iraqi victory and actively helped Iran by selling it arms and providing it with spare parts for Iran's American weaponry at a moment when Iran was very vulnerable because of an American arms embargo that Israel was more than happy to violate. In fact, back in the 1980s, it was Israel that lobbied Washington to talk to Iran, to sell arms to Iran, and not pay attention to Iran's anti-Israeli ideology. And this, of course, climaxed in the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s. But with the end of the Cold War came also the end of the Israeli-Iranian cold peace. Suddenly, the two common threats that had pushed them closer together throughout decades, more or less evaporated. The Soviet Union collapsed, Iraq was defeated, and a new environment was created in the region in which both of them felt more secure, but they were also now left unchecked. Without Iraq balancing Iran, Iran could now become a threat, some in Israel argued. In fact, the current dynamic that you see between Iran and Israel has its roots more so in the geopolitical reconfiguration of the region after the Cold War than in the events of 1979, because at this point, Iran and Israel emerge as two of the most powerful states in the region, and rather than viewing each other as potential security partners, they increasingly came to view each other as rivals and competitors. So Israel, who in the 1980s lobbied for and improved U.S.-Iran relations now feared a U.S.-Iran rapprochement, thinking that it would come at Israel's security interests' expense, and instead sought to put Iran in increased isolation. Ironically, this was happening at a time when Iran was more interested in peacemaking with Washington than to see to Israel's destruction. Iran had put itself in isolation because of its radicalism, and after having helped the United States indirectly in the war against Iraq in 1991, the Iranians were hoping that they would be rewarded by being included in the post-war security architecture of the region. But Washington chose to ignore Iran's outreach, as it would a decade later in Afghanistan, and instead moved to intensify Iran's isolation, and it is at this point, around 1993, '94, that Iran begins to translate its anti-Israeli ideology into operational policy. The Iranians believed that whatever they did, even if they moderated their policies, the U.S. would continue to seek Iran's isolation, and the only way Iran could compel Washington to change its position was by imposing a cost on the U.S. if it didn't. The easiest target was the peace process, and now the Iranian ideological bark was to be accompanied by a nonconventional bite, and Iran began supporting extensively Palestinian Islamist groups that it previously had shunned. In some ways, this sounds paradoxical, but according to Martin Indyk of the Clinton administration, the Iranians had not gotten it entirely wrong, because the more peace there would be between Israel and Palestine, the U.S. believed, the more Iran would get isolated. The more Iran got isolated, the more peace there would be. So according to Indyk, and these are his words, the Iranians had an interest to do us in on the peace process in order to defeat our policy of containment. To defeat our policy of containment, not about ideology. But throughout even the worst times of their entanglement, all sides have reached out to each other. Netanyahu, when he got elected in 1996, reached out to the Iranians to see if there were any ways that the doctrine of the periphery could be resurrected. Tehran was not interested. A few years later, the Iranians sent a comprehensive negotiation proposal to the Bush administration, a proposal that revealed that there was some potential of getting Iran and Israel back on terms again. The Bush administration did not even respond. All sides have never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity. But this is not an ancient conflict. This is not even an ideological conflict. The ebbs and flows of hostility have not shifted with ideological zeal, but rather with changes in the geopolitical landscape. When Iran and Israel's security imperatives dictated collaboration, they did so in spite of lethal ideological opposition to each other. When Iran's ideological impulses collided with its strategic interests, the strategic interests always prevailed. This is good news, because it means that neither war nor enmity is a foregone conclusion. But some want war. Some believe or say that it's 1938, Iran is Germany, and Ahmadinejad is Hitler. If we accept this to be true, that indeed it is 1938, Iran is Germany, Ahmadinejad is Hitler, then the question we have to ask ourself is, who wishes to play the role of Neville Chamberlain? Who will risk peace? This is an analogy that is deliberately aimed at eliminating diplomacy, and when you eliminate diplomacy, you make war inevitable. In an ideological conflict, there can be no truce, no draw, no compromise, only victory or defeat. But rather than making war inevitable by viewing this as ideological, we would be wise to seek ways to make peace possible. Iran and Israel's conflict is a new phenomenon, only a few decades old in a history of 2,500 years, and precisely because its roots are geopolitical, it means that solutions can be found, compromises can be struck, however difficult it yet may be. After all, it was Yitzhak Rabin himself who said, ""You don't make peace with your friends. You make it with your enemies."" Thank you. (Applause)"	「伊朗是以色列最好的朋友，我們並不打算因德黑蘭而改變態度。」 你們相信嗎這句話出自一位以色列的總理但並不是本-古里安或戈尔迪·梅厄在伊朗沙王治國時期的那些總理而是伊札克·拉賓西元1987年伊朗最高領袖何梅尼還在世而他就像現任總統艾馬丹加一樣針對以色列發表很糟的言論但拉賓還是將伊朗稱為地理上的戰略夥伴 今天當我們聽到那些戰爭威脅以及情緒激昂的言論時我們常常因此相信這又是另一個中東地區難解的衝突就像當地的宗教淵源一樣古老但是這並不是對的 我希望今天能告訴你們為何並非如此伊朗人和猶太人的關係從歷史上來看其實一直很正面西元前539年波斯國王賽羅斯將猶太人民從巴別塔中釋放出來三分之一的猶太人定居在巴比隆尼亞他們就是今天的伊拉克猶太人另外三分之一移民到波斯他們是今天的伊朗猶太人有2萬5千人還住在伊朗 是現今中東除了以色列以外最大的猶太社群最後三分之一回到歷史淵遠的巴勒斯坦二次重建耶路撒冷聖殿順帶一提，他們用的是波斯人的納稅錢但即使在今天他們的關係曾經緊密過拉賓的言論重新讓我們反思過去幾十年這兩個國家的國安協防和情報合作其實是源於感到共同的威脅兩個國家都害怕蘇聯以及強大的阿拉伯國家如埃及和伊拉克而且以色列的國土安全是主張以色列的國家安全可以通過與周圍的非阿拉伯國家結盟得到保障才能在這特殊地帶與阿拉伯國家的勢力抗衡但從伊朗沙王的角度來看卻希望越少人知道這件事越好所以舉例來說，當拉賓 他在70年代到伊朗時通常會戴頂假髮這樣就沒有人認得出他來伊朗還鋪了一道特殊的飛機跑道在德黑蘭機場，離中央航廈很遠這樣就沒人會注意到在特拉維夫和德黑蘭之間往來的以色列班機這些互動難道在1979年的伊斯蘭革命後就結束了嗎?即使新政權的反以意識很強烈地緣政治上應有的合作關係依然存在因為他們仍擁有相同的威脅當伊拉克在1980入侵伊朗以色列為阻止伊拉克勝利還主動幫助伊朗販售武器給伊朗 及提供伊朗美軍武器的零件在伊朗軍力不足因為美國軍武禁運時以色列樂得置美國於不顧其實在80年代是以色列遊說華府與伊朗溝通賣軍武給伊朗不要在意伊朗的反以情結而當然，這是秘密行動隨著80年代的伊朗門事件達到高峰不過隨著冷戰結束以色列與伊朗之間表面的和平也結束了兩國之間的共同威脅曾經迫使他們互助幾十年的威脅就這樣消失了蘇聯解體伊拉克戰敗新的秩序在這裡重新建立他們都更有安全感同時也更不受控制沒有伊拉克制衡伊朗伊朗就可能成為以色列的威脅有些以色列人這麼認為其實目前伊朗和以色列間關係的變動 是源自冷戰後地理戰略上的重新佈局而不是1979年發生的一連串事件在那時伊朗和以色列一躍成為中東地區最強大的兩個國家他們不將對方視為國土安全上可能的合作夥伴反倒漸漸視對方為敵人和競爭對象所以當以色列在80年代遊說並改善美國和伊朗的關係後開始擔心美伊之間的友好認為這將影響以色列的國土安全利益試著要置伊朗於逐漸孤立的境地諷刺的是，那時後的伊朗剛好更希望與華府和平共處而不是想要搞垮以色列伊朗因為激進主義使自己處於孤立狀態伊朗曾間接地幫助過美國在1991年美國和伊拉克的戰爭中伊朗人希望他們能因為幫忙而被納入戰後該地區安全框架中但是華府選擇忽略伊朗的示好就像十年後對阿富汗那樣就此更顯得伊朗的孤立無援就在此時約1993，1994年時伊朗開始將反以的意識形態 成為國家方針政策的一部分伊朗人相信不論他們做什麼即使改變政策美國還是會繼續孤立他們伊朗唯一能迫使華府改變立場的方式就是讓美國為此付出代價如果華府還沒有付出代價最好的著手處就是和平進程現在，伊朗意識形態的狂吠不守成規地大咬了美國一口 伊朗開始大規模援助巴勒斯坦的伊斯蘭教徒而不像之前那樣躲避他們就某方面來說，這聽起來很矛盾但是柯林頓執政時期的駐以大使英迪克認為伊朗這樣做並不無道理因為以色列和巴勒斯坦之間的關係越和平美國相信伊朗會越孤立伊朗越孤立，中東情勢就會越和平 所以根據英迪克，他是這樣說的伊朗想要破壞我們的和平計畫為了打擊我們的遏制政策是為了打擊我們的遏制政策而非意識形態即使在他們互相角力的最糟情勢三方都嘗試向對方示好內塔尼亞胡在1996年當選以色列總理時曾試圖與伊朗溝通看有沒有可能重建過去守護領土的協議德黑蘭對此毫無興趣幾年後，伊朗向布希政府送上全面的談判提議裡面提到 伊朗和以色列再度和解的可能但是布希政府根本不回應三方都有意地錯過談判機會但是這不是長久以來的衝突甚至不是意識形態的衝突敵對關係沒有隨意識形態的狂熱而消長而是地理上的政治版圖當伊朗和以色列的最高國安教條是合作他們就合作過即使在意識形態上水火不容 當伊朗的意識本能 與戰略利益衝突他們永遠以戰略上的利益為主這是一件好事這意味著戰爭或敵意並不是必然的結局但是有些人想要戰爭有些人相信或是表示現在就是1938年伊朗是德國而總統艾瑪加就是希特勒如果我們接受這個假設現在的確是1938年，伊朗是德國艾瑪加是希特勒那麼我們需要自問的是誰要來當張伯倫容忍納粹行徑?誰會拿和平冒險?這是一個比喻，是有意地在摧毀外交關係當外交手段行不通時戰爭將無可避免地來臨如果遇到意識形態上的衝突那就不可能有停戰沒有平手，也沒有妥協只有勝利或戰敗但與其將戰爭視為意識形態上的衝突無法避免我們應該明智地尋找一個途徑使和平成為可能伊以衝突是一個新的現象在兩千五百年的歷史長河裡不過有幾十年的歷史而且由於它地理上的政治關係這意味著一定找得到解決的辦法妥協是可以達成的即使可能相當困難畢竟拉賓是這麼說的：「人們不必和朋友維持和平關係，而要跟敵人維持和平相處。」謝謝大家（掌聲）（掌聲）
