Talk	en	zh-tw
tyrone_hayes_penelope_jagessar_chaffer_the_toxic_baby	"Penelope Jagessar Chaffer: I was going to ask if there's a doctor in the house. No, I'm just joking. It's interesting, because it was six years ago when I was pregnant with my first child that I discovered that the most commonly used preservative in baby care products mimics estrogen when it gets into the human body. Now it's very easy actually to get a chemical compound from products into the human body through the skin. And these preservatives had been found in breast cancer tumors. That was the start of my journey to make this film, ""Toxic Baby."" And it doesn't take much time to discover some really astonishing statistics with this issue. One is that you and I all have between 30 to 50,000 chemicals in our bodies that our grandparents didn't have. And many of these chemicals are now linked to the skyrocketing incidents of chronic childhood disease that we're seeing across industrialized nations. I'll show you some statistics. So for example, in the United Kingdom, the incidence of childhood leukemia has risen by 20 percent just in a generation. Very similar statistic for childhood cancer in the U.S. In Canada, we're now looking at one in 10 Canadian children with asthma. That's a four-fold increase. Again, similar story around the world. In the United States, probably the most astonishing statistic is a 600 percent increase in autism and autistic spectrum disorders and other learning disabilities. Again, we're seeing that trend across Europe, across North America. And in Europe, there's certain parts of Europe, where we're seeing a four-fold increase in certain genital birth defects. Interestingly, one of those birth defects has seen a 200 percent increase in the U.S. So a real skyrocketing of chronic childhood disease that includes other things like obesity and juvenile diabetes, premature puberty. So it's interesting for me, when I'm looking for someone who can really talk to me and talk to an audience about these things, that probably one of the most important people in the world who can discuss toxicity in babies is expert in frogs. (Laughter) Tyrone Hayes: It was a surprise to me as well that I would be talking about pesticides, that I'd be talking about public health, because, in fact, I never thought I would do anything useful. (Laughter) Frogs. In fact, my involvement in the whole pesticide issue was sort of a surprise as well when I was approached by the largest chemical company in the world and they asked me if I would evaluate how atrazine affected amphibians, or my frogs. It turns out, atrazine is the largest selling product for the largest chemical company in the world. It's the number one contaminant of groundwater, drinking water, rain water. In 2003, after my studies, it was banned in the European Union, but in that same year, the United States EPA re-registered the compound. We were a bit surprised when we found out that when we exposed frogs to very low levels of atrazine — 0.1 parts per billion — that it produced animals that look like this. These are the dissected gonads of an animal that has two testes, two ovaries, another large testis, more ovaries, which is not normal ... (Laughter) even for amphibians. In some cases, another species like the North American Leopard Frog showed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes. And you can see these large, yolked-up eggs bursting through the surface of this male's testes. Now my wife tells me, and I'm sure Penelope can as well, that there's nothing more painful than childbirth — which that I'll never experience, I can't really argue that — but I would guess that a dozen chicken eggs in my testicle would probably be somewhere in the top five. (Laughter) In recent studies that we've published, we've shown that some of these animals when they're exposed to atrazine, some of the males grow up and completely become females. So these are actually two brothers consummating a relationship. And not only do these genetic males mate with other males, they actually have the capacity to lay eggs even though they're genetic males. What we proposed, and what we've now generated support for, is that what atrazine is doing is wreaking havoc causing a hormone imbalance. Normally the testes should make testosterone, the male hormone. But what atrazine does is it turns on an enzyme, the machinery if you will, aromatase, that converts testosterone into estrogen. And as a result, these exposed males lose their testosterone, they're chemically castrated, and they're subsequently feminized because now they're making the female hormone. Now this is what brought me to the human-related issues. Because it turns out that the number one cancer in women, breast cancer, is regulated by estrogen and by this enzyme aromatase. So when you develop a cancerous cell in your breast, aromatase converts androgens into estrogens, and that estrogen turns on or promotes the growth of that cancer so that it turns into a tumor and spreads. In fact, this aromatase is so important in breast cancer that the latest treatment for breast cancer is a chemical called letrozole, which blocks aromatase, blocks estrogen, so that if you developed a mutated cell, it doesn't grow into a tumor. Now what's interesting is, of course, that we're still using 80 million pounds of atrazine, the number one contaminant in drinking water, that does the opposite — turns on aromatase, increases estrogen and promotes tumors in rats and is associated with tumors, breast cancer, in humans. What's interesting is, in fact, the same company that sold us 80 million pounds of atrazine, the breast cancer promoter, now sells us the blocker — the exact same company. And so I find it interesting that instead of treating this disease by preventing exposure to the chemicals that promote it, we simply respond by putting more chemicals into the environment. PJC: So speaking of estrogen, one of the other compounds that Tyrone talks about in the film is something called bisphenol A, BPA, which has been in the news recently. It's a plasticizer. It's a compound that's found in polycarbonate plastic, which is what baby bottles are made out of. And what's interesting about BPA is that it's such a potent estrogen that it was actually once considered for use as a synthetic estrogen in hormone placement therapy. And there have been many, many, many studies that have shown that BPA leaches from babies' bottles into the formula, into the milk, and therefore into the babies. So we're dosing our babies, our newborns, our infants, with a synthetic estrogen. Now two weeks ago or so, the European Union passed a law banning the use of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups. And for those of you who are not parents, sippy cups are those little plastic things that your child graduates to after using bottles. But just two weeks before that, the U.S. Senate refused to even debate the banning of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups. So it really makes you realize the onus on parents to have to look at this and regulate this and police this in their own lives and how astonishing that is. (Video) PJC: With many plastic baby bottles now proven to leak the chemical bisphenol A, it really shows how sometimes it is only a parent's awareness that stands between chemicals and our children. The baby bottle scenario proves that we can prevent unnecessary exposure. However, if we parents are unaware, we are leaving our children to fend for themselves. TH: And what Penelope says here is even more true. For those of you who don't know, we're in the middle of the sixth mass extinction. Scientists agree now. We are losing species from the Earth faster than the dinosaurs disappeared, and leading that loss are amphibians. 80 percent of all amphibians are threatened and in come decline. And I believe, many scientists believe that pesticides are an important part of that decline. In part, amphibians are good indicators and more sensitive because they don't have protection from contaminants in the water — no eggshells, no membranes and no placenta. In fact, our invention — by ""our"" I mean we mammals — one of our big inventions was the placenta. But we also start out as aquatic organisms. But it turns out that this ancient structure that separates us from other animals, the placenta, cannot evolve or adapt fast enough because of the rate that we're generating new chemicals that it's never seen before. The evidence of that is that studies in rats, again with atrazine, show that the hormone imbalance atrazine generates causes abortion. Because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones. Of those rats that don't abort, atrazine causes prostate disease in the pups so the sons are born with an old man's disease. Of those that don't abort, atrazine causes impaired mammary, or breast, development in the exposed daughters in utero, so that their breast don't develop properly. And as a result, when those rats grow up, their pups experience retarded growth and development because they can't make enough milk to nourish their pups. So the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazine that its grandmother was exposed to. And given the life of many of these chemicals, generations, years, dozens of years, that means that we right now are affecting the health of our grandchildren's grandchildren by things that we're putting into the environment today. And this is not just philosophical, it's already known, that chemicals like diethylstilbestrol and estrogen, PCBs, DDT cross the placenta and effectively determine the likelihood of developing breast cancer and obesity and diabetes already when the baby's in the womb. In addition to that, after the baby's born, our other unique invention as mammals is that we nourish our offspring after they're born. We already know that chemicals like DDT and DES and atrazine can also pass over into milk, again, affecting our babies even after their born. PJC: So when Tyrone tells me that the placenta is an ancient organ, I'm thinking, how do I demonstrate that? How do you show that? And it's interesting when you make a film like this, because you're stuck trying to visualize science that there's no visualization for. And I have to take a little bit of artistic license. (Video) (Ringing) Old man: Placenta control. What is it? Oh what? (Snoring) (Honk) Puffuffuff, what? Perflourooctanoic acid. Blimey. Never heard of it. PJC: And neither had I actually before I started making this film. And so when you realize that chemicals can pass the placenta and go into your unborn child, it made me start to think, what would my fetus say to me? What would our unborn children say to us when they have an exposure that's happening everyday, day after day? (Music) (Video) Child: Today, I had some octyphenols, some artificial musks and some bisphenol A. Help me. PJC: It's a very profound notion to know that we as women are at the vanguard of this. This is our issue, because we collect these compounds our entire life and then we end up dumping it and dumping them into our unborn children. We are in effect polluting our children. And this was something that was really brought home to me a year ago when I found out I was pregnant and the first scan revealed that my baby had a birth defect associated with exposure to estrogenic chemicals in the womb and the second scan revealed no heartbeat. So my child's death, my baby's death, really brought home the resonance of what I was trying to make in this film. And it's sometimes a weird place when the communicator becomes part of the story, which is not what you originally intend. And so when Tyrone talks about the fetus being trapped in a contaminated environment, this is my contaminated environment. This is my toxic baby. And that's something that's just profound and sad, but astonishing because so many of us don't actually know this. TH: One of this things that's exciting and appropriate for me to be here at TEDWomen is that, well, I think it was summed up best last night at dinner when someone said, ""Turn to the man at your table and tell them, 'When the revolution starts, we've got your back.'"" The truth is, women, you've had our back on this issue for a very long time, starting with Rachel Carson's ""Silent Spring"" to Theo Colborn's ""Our Stolen Future"" to Sandra Steingraber's books ""Living Downstream"" and ""Having Faith."" And perhaps it's the connection to our next generation — like my wife and my beautiful daughter here about 13 years ago — perhaps it's that connection that makes women activists in this particular area. But for the men here, I want to say it's not just women and children that are at risk. And the frogs that are exposed to atrazine, the testes are full of holes and spaces, because the hormone imbalance, instead of allowing sperm to be generated, such as in the testis here, the testicular tubules end up empty and fertility goes down by as much as 50 percent. It's not just my work in amphibians, but similar work has been shown in fish in Europe, holes in the testes and absence of sperm in reptiles in a group from South America and in rats, an absence of sperm in the testicular tubules as well. And of course, we don't do these experiments in humans, but just by coincidence, my colleague has shown that men who have low sperm count, low semen quality have significantly more atrazine in their urine. These are just men who live in an agricultural community. Men who actually work in agriculture have much higher levels of atrazine. And the men who actually apply atrazine have even more atrazine in their urine, up to levels that are 24,000 times what we know to be active are present in the urine of these men. Of course, most of them, 90 percent are Mexican, Mexican-American. And it's not just atrazine they're exposed to. They're exposed to chemicals like chloropicrin, which was originally used as a nerve gas. And many of these workers have life expectancies of only 50. It shouldn't come to any surprise that the things that happen in wildlife are also a warning to us, just like Rachel Carson and others have warned. As evident in this slide from Lake Nabugabo in Uganda, the agricultural runoff from this crop, which goes into these buckets, is the sole source of drinking, cooking and bathing water for this village. Now if I told the men in this village that the frogs have pour immune function and eggs developing in their testes, the connection between environmental health and public health would be clear. You would not drink water that you knew was having this kind of impact on the wildlife that lived in it. The problem is, in my village, Oakland, in most of our villages, we don't see that connection. We turn on the faucet, the water comes out, we assume it's safe, and we assume that we are masters of our environment, rather than being part of it. PJC: So it doesn't take much to realize that actually this is an environmental issue. And I kept thinking over and over again this question. We know so much about global warming and climate change, and yet, we have no concept of what I've been calling internal environmentalism. We know what we're putting out there, we have a sense of those repercussions, but we are so ignorant of this sense of what happens when we put things, or things are put into our bodies. And it's my feeling and it's my urging being here to know that, as we women move forward as the communicators of this, but also as the ones who carry that burden of carrying the children, bearing the children, we hold most of the buying power in the household, is that it's going to be us moving forward to carry the work of Tyrone and other scientists around the world. And my urging is that when we think about environmental issues that we remember that it's not just about melting glaciers and ice caps, but it's also about our children as well. Thank you. (Applause)"	"事前我就在詢問是否會有醫生在場。當然，這只是開玩笑的。我來告訴大家這一切是如何開始的。六年前，當我懷了第一個寶寶時，我發現嬰兒護理產品中最常使用的防腐劑進入人類身體後，會成為一種類似雌激素的物質。事實上，產品中的各種化學物質，很容易經由皮膚進入人體。而乳癌腫瘤中也發現了這些防腐劑。 於是我開始探索這個議題，拍攝了電影""中毒的寶寶""，沒多久時間，我發現了關於這方面，驚人的統計資料。其中之一是，不論是你們或我有大約3萬到5萬種的化學物質在身體裡面，這些化學物質是我們祖父母輩沒有的。其中很多化學物質，則和越來越多的慢性孩童疾病，脫不了關係。這在工業化國家已經是個顯見的事實。我現在秀一些統計數據給大家看，舉例來說，在英國，兒童白血病的案例，僅僅一個世代，已經增加了百分之二十，美國兒童癌症也呈現相似的統計數據。在加拿大，十分之一的兒童有氣喘症，比起上個世代，增加了四倍。 同樣的，類似的情形也發生在世界上其他地方。在美國，則出現了可能是最驚人的數據，患有自閉症，自閉症系列障礙以及學習障礙的兒童，增加了百分之六百。當然，相同的趨勢也出現在整個歐洲，北美洲。在歐洲，某些地區，患有某種生殖器先天缺陷的兒童，增加了四倍。值得關注的是，其中一種先天性缺陷，在美國增加了百分之兩百。數量急劇上升的慢性兒童疾病還包含了其它像是肥胖，少年糖尿病，青春期早熟。 而非常有趣的是，當我試著要找到適合的人，可以對我和大眾談論這個主題，發現了世界上一個很重要，可以討論有毒物對嬰兒影響的人竟然是 研究青蛙的專家。 (笑聲) 我也很驚訝我要談論農藥，談論大眾健康。因為我沒想過，我在做的事會對大家有幫助。(笑聲)青蛙事實上，我也很訝異，我會參與農藥的研究。當時世界上最大的化學公司，要求我評估草脫淨農藥ATRAZINE對兩棲類動物或青蛙有什麼影響。ATRAZINE是世界上最大化學公司所出售最暢銷的化學產品。結果顯示，它是地下水，飲用水和雨水最大的污染源。2003年，歐盟開始禁止使用草脫淨農藥ATRAZINE。但是同一年，美國環境保護局卻重新註冊這個產品。 實驗結果非常的驚人，我們發現，即使青蛙暴露在非常低濃度(0.1ppb)的農藥中，仍然會發生突變。這是青蛙的性腺解剖，有兩個睾丸，兩個卵巢，另一大睾丸，和許多個卵巢，當然，這一點都不正常.....即使是兩棲類。其他類似的實驗，像是北美跳蛙，當公青蛙暴露在農藥中，睾丸會排卵。你們可以看到這些大卵，充滿擠壓整個睾丸表面。我的老婆告訴我，我想潘尼洛普也會說同樣的話，沒有任何的痛，比的上生小孩的痛。因為我永遠沒辦法體驗這件事，所以也無法爭辯，但是我想如果有許多雞蛋在我的睾丸內也許可以排的上 痛苦指數前五名。 最近公佈新的研究中顯示，我們將動物暴露在農藥ATRAZINE中，某些種類雄性長大之後，會完全變成雌性。現在你們看到的這兩隻青蛙其實是親兄弟，這些雄性雌化的青蛙不只可以和其他雄蛙交配，他們事實上也可以產卵，即使他們的基因是雄性。因此我們認為，且已經獲得證實，因為ATRAZINE的破壞造成動物體內荷爾蒙不平衡。正常狀況下，睪丸應該會產生睪丸酮一種男性荷爾蒙。但是草脫淨農藥會活化某種酵素，以化學反應機構來解釋，也就是某種芳香酶，將睪丸酮轉變為雌激素，結果造成了這些雄性動物無法產生睪丸酮，被化學閹割了，最終，雄性雌化，因為他們只有雌性荷爾蒙。 現在我們回到人類的議題上，因為事實證明女性的最主要的癌症威脅－乳癌就是受到雌激素和這種芳香酶的影響，所以當你有一個癌症細胞在乳房形成，芳香酶將男性荷爾蒙轉變為雌激素，雌激素助長了癌細胞的成長最終變成腫瘤並擴散。事實上，這種芳香酶對乳癌的形成很關鍵。在最新的乳癌治療法中，有一種化學藥物-Letrozole，用來抑制芳香酶和雌激素，讓人體突變的細胞，不會增長成腫瘤。 但是，值得注意的是，我們每年仍然使用高達八千萬磅的草脫淨農藥ATRAZINE，汙染了我們的飲用水，帶來很多問題，干擾動物荷爾蒙分泌，刺激老鼠體內腫瘤形成，也和人類乳癌的發生息息相關。而有趣的是，事實上，銷售八千萬磅農藥ATRAZINE造成乳癌患者增加的公司，同時也賣抑制腫瘤生長的藥物。這真的很矛盾，我們對付疾病的方式，應該是減少暴露在致病的化學品中，而不是糊塗的讓更多的化學品污染環境。 說到雌激素，有另一種化學物質酚甲烷，簡稱BPA也就是最近新聞媒體中提及的塑化劑。它是聚碳酸酯塑膠中的某種化學物質，也是嬰兒奶瓶中含有的成分。值得注意的是，BPA具有雌激素的作用，因此曾經考慮用它作為合成雌激素以補充荷爾蒙。很多很多的研究報告中證實，嬰兒奶瓶中的BPA會滲透到奶粉，牛奶中，接著進入嬰兒體內。這就像我們讓新生兒服用合成雌激素。 大約兩星期前，歐盟通過法律，禁止在嬰兒奶瓶和幼兒學習杯使用BPA。向不是父母親的人說明，所謂的幼兒學習杯是一種塑膠容器，嬰兒戒奶瓶之後的替代水壺。但是就在兩週前，美國參議院甚至拒絕就是否禁用BPA在嬰兒奶瓶和水壺中，進行辯論。所以大家必須了解，這個驚人的真相。且身為父母親有責任在日常生活中去關注，去掌控，去監督這件事。 許許多多的嬰兒奶瓶，已經證實會滲透出BPA，有時真的只能靠父母親的自覺，保護我們的寶寶免於接觸有害化學物質。從嬰兒奶瓶的例子可證明，我們可以防止寶寶暴露於不必要的風險中。然而，如果父母親過於疏忽，就是放任我們的孩子獨力對抗化學物質。 潘尼洛普所說的非常正確。大部分人可能不知道，科學家認為人類正處於第六次物種毀滅期。地球上現在物種消失的速度比恐龍滅亡還快。而其中最主要的就是兩棲類，80%的兩棲動物生存受到威脅，數量大幅下降。科學家們相信，農藥的濫用是主要禍首之一。某種程度而言，兩棲類對環境很敏感，是很好的指標性生物因為兩棲類的卵沒有蛋殼和膜可以保護它在水中免受汙染物影響。當然也沒有胎盤。事實上，哺乳動物最重要的演化構造之一，就是胎盤。我們的生命同樣開始於液態， 不過胎盤提供了我們不同於其他動物的安全環境。但是這個古老的構造，現在卻無法提供足夠的防護。因為我們製造了太多新的化學產品，是以前從未出現過。再一次用老鼠和農藥的實驗來說明，農藥引發的荷爾蒙不平衡會導致流產。因為懷孕就是靠荷爾蒙維持妊娠。 未流產生下的公鼠，也會受到農藥影響，幼獸一出生就患有前列腺疾病，這種病一般是出現在較年長的公獸。未流產生下的母鼠，胚胎時期，在子宮內受到農藥的影響，導致乳房或乳腺發育不完全。這些老鼠長大之後，因為無法提供幼鼠足夠的母乳和營養，導致他們的幼鼠智力發展受損。 這些下層幼鼠因為他們的祖父母輩接觸了農藥ATRAZINE，他們間接成為受害者。這些有害的化學成分就這樣年復一年，代代相傳。這意味著，我們現在加諸於環境的各種汙染會影響到我們的孫子、孫子的孫子。 這不是哲學概念，這是我們已經知道的事實。某些化學成分像是二乙烯二苯乙烯雌酚、雌激素多氯聯苯(PCBs)、雙對氯苯基三氯乙烷(DDT)透過胎盤讓寶寶還在子宮內時，就被影響，有可能羅患乳癌、肥胖或是糖尿病。除此之外，當嬰兒出生後，我們哺乳類得天獨的演化，在於我們能哺育下一代。而這些已知的有害化學物質，像是DDT、DES和 ATRAZINE在寶寶出生之後可以經由乳汁再一次傷害他們。 當Tyrone博士告訴我，胎盤是一個古老的器官我就在想我該如何說明？如何呈現這個概念？製作電影有意思的地方在於你要試圖將抽像的科學概念影像化。因此我必須搭配一些藝術手法。 (電話聲)胎盤控制中心什麼？什麼？(鼾聲)(喇叭)氟...氟...什麼?全.....氟...辛酸銨。哎呀，沒有聽過。我也沒有聽過。直到拍電影才知道那是甚麼。所以當了解化學物質可以穿過胎盤，接觸到我們未出生的胎兒我開始思索我的胎兒會對我說些甚麼？當胎兒們日復一日暴露在化學物質中他們想對外面的世界說甚麼？ (音樂) 今天我吃了一些辛基酚，一些人造麝香，還有一些雙酚A。救救我! 身為女人知道自己處於這個議題的前線，這具有深刻的意義。這是我們的問題，因為我們一輩子收集累積的化學物質最後傾倒在我們未出生的胎兒身上。我們實際上在污染我們的孩子。一年前發生在我身上的事，讓我更加如此確信。當時我懷孕了，第一次的掃描檢查就發現，我的寶寶有先天性缺陷。這和我子宮中含有雌激素化學物質有關。第二次掃描時，胎兒已經沒有心跳， 我的孩子死了，我的寶寶死了。就像呼應了我當時正在拍攝的影片。事情有時候很弔詭，說故事的人變成了故事的一部份，只能說世事難料。所以當Tyrone博士談到胎兒被困在受汙染的環境中，這就是我受汙染的子宮，這就是我中毒的寶寶。發生這種事情當然既深刻又悲痛，但令人驚訝的是，大多數人並不瞭解我們面對的問題。 對我而言，來到TEDWomen理由，我用一句振奮且適合的話來描述，就是昨天晚餐，有人說到：「告訴和你同桌的人，當革命開始時，我們會保護你們。」事實上，女人們，我們已經長時間在這個議題上支持你們，從瑞秋．卡森Rachel Carson《寂靜的春天》開始，到柯爾朋Theo Colborn《失竊的未來》，史坦葛蘿柏Sandra Steingrabe的著作《住在河下游》和《信仰》這也許持續到我們的下一代，就像我的妻子和美麗的女兒，這是13年前的照片。也許這些連結，可以讓更多關注這議題的女性，投身到這個特殊的領域。 但是我想要提醒男人，並不是只有女人和孩子承受風險。受到草脫劑農藥ATRAZINE汙染的青蛙，因為荷爾蒙失調，睪丸上布滿了破洞和空隙因此無法產生精子。就像這個睪丸，輸精管的末端是空的。生殖能力只剩下百分之五十。這樣的結果不單出現在兩棲類研究中，歐洲魚類的實驗也有類似結果，南非爬蟲類，也出現了睪丸上有破洞和缺少精子的現象，老鼠的研究上，也有輸精管缺乏精子情形。當然，我們沒有在人體上做實驗，但是很湊巧的有報告指出，尿液中農藥含量較高的男人，精液中精子的數目相對較少。 而這些男人，剛好住在農村社區。從事農耕的男人，尿液中有比較高的農藥殘餘。而實際噴灑草脫劑ATRAZINE的人，尿液中農藥的濃度，比起一般人，更高達24,000倍。當然，他們百分之九十是墨西哥人或是墨裔美國人。除了草脫劑農藥之外，他們還接觸到其他化學物質，像是原本作為神經毒氣的三氯硝基甲烷。大多數這些工人只能活到50歲。 所以發生在野生動物身上的事，對人類也同樣是警訊，就像瑞秋．卡森以及其他環保先驅所告誡的一樣。這張投影片是烏干達納布甘布湖灌溉農作物的水流經土壤進入湖中，而這個湖泊是村落居民飲用、烹飪和洗澡的唯一水源。如果我告訴當地居民青蛙免疫系統被破壞，睪丸中形成卵細胞，環境和大眾健康之間的關係，就非常清楚。當你知道生活在其中的野生動物受到影響你就不會喝受汙染的水。但問題是，在我居住的村子，奧克蘭或是其他大部分的地區，人們不知道環境和健康的關係。我們打開水龍頭，水流出來，我們以為這是安全的，我們理所當然的認為人類是生態環境的主人，沒有察覺我們其實是其中一份子。 不難理解，這實際上是與環境息息相關的問題。我不斷在思考這件事情。我們已經知道地球暖化和氣候變遷，但是我們仍然對自己身體內的變化沒有概念。我們知道人類對環境的破壞，也查覺到大自然的反撲，但是仍然忽略了，我們加諸環境的污染物，最終還是回到自己體內。 這是我的深刻體會，也是我的積極呼籲，當女人進一步開始傳遞這樣的訊息，我們也同時負擔了養育孩子的責任，我們擁有選購家庭用品的決定權，這也是我們為什們要更進一步，去分擔Tyrone博士和世界上其他科學家的擔子。我迫切的希望，當我們思索環保議題，必須記得這不僅是冰河或冰帽融化的問題，這也和我們的孩子息息相關。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)"
