Talk	en	zh-tw
ueli_gegenschatz_extreme_wingsuit_jumping	"I started with paragliding. Paragliding is taking off from mountains with a paraglider, with the possibility to fly cross-country, distance, just with the use of thermals to soar. Also different aerobatic maneuvers are possible with a paraglider. From there I started with skydiving. In this picture you can see there is a four-way skydive, four people flying together, and on the left hand side it's the camera flier with the camera mounted to his helmet so he can film the whole jump, for the film itself and also for the judging. From regular, relative skydiving I went on to freeflying. Freeflying is more the three-dimensional skydiving. You can see the skydiver with the red suit, he's in a stand-up position. The one with the yellow-green suit, he's flying head-down. And that's me in the background, carving around the whole formation in freefall also, with the helmet cam to film this jump. From freeflying I went on to skysurfing. Skysurfing is skydiving with a board on the feet. You can imagine with this big surface of a skysurfing board, there is a lot of force, a lot of power. Of course I can use this power for example for nice spinning — we call it ""helicopter moves."" From there I went on to wingsuit flying. Wingsuit flying is a suit, that I can make fly, just only with my body. If I put some tension on my body, tension on my suit, I can make it fly. And as you see the fall rate is much much slower because of the bigger surface. With a proper body position I'm able to really move forward to gain quite some distance. This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro. You can see the Copacabana on the left-hand side. From there with all the skills and knowledge from paragliding and all the different disciplines in skydiving, I went on to BASE jumping. BASE jumping is skydiving from fixed objects, like buildings, antennae, bridges and earth — meaning mountains, cliffs. It's for sure — for me — it's the ultimate feeling of being in free fall, with all the visual references. So my goal soon was to discover new places that nobody had jumped before. So in summer 2000 I was the first to BASE jump the Eiger North Face in Switzerland. Two years after this, I was the first to BASE jump from Matterhorn, a very famous mountain that probably everybody knows in here. 2005 I did a BASE jump from the Eiger, from the Monk and from the Jungfrau, three very famous mountains in Switzerland. The special thing on these three jumps were, I hiked them all and climbed them all in only one day. In 2008 I jumped the Eiffel Tower in Paris. (Laughter) So with all this knowledge, I also wanted to get into stunts. So with some friends we started to do different tricks, like for example this jump here, I jumped from a paraglider. Or here — everybody was freezing, pretty much, except me, because it was very cold in Austria where we did this filming. Everybody sitting in a basket, and I was on top of the balloon, ready to slide down with my skysurf board. Or this jump, from a moving truck on the highway. (Laughter) Extreme sports on top level like this is only possible if you practice step by step, if you really work hard on your skills and on your knowledge. Of course you need to be in physical, very good, condition, so I'm training a lot. You need to have the best possible equipment. And probably the most important is you have to work on your mental skills, mental preparation. And all this to come as close as possible to the human dream of being able to fly. So for 2009, I'm training hard for my two new projects. The first one, I want to set a world record in flying from a cliff with my wingsuit. And I want to set a new record, with the longest distance ever flown. For my second project, I have a sensational idea of a jump that never has been done before. So now, on the following movie you will see that I'm much better in flying a wingsuit than speaking in English. Enjoy, and thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause) June Cohen: I have some questions. I think we all might have some questions. Question one: so does that actually feel the way the flying dream does? Because it looks like it might. Ueli Gegenschatz: Pretty much. I believe this is probably the closest possibility to come to the dream of being able to fly. JC: I know the answer to this, but how do you land? UE: Parachute. We have to open a parachute just seconds before, I would say, impact. (Laughter) It's not possible to land a wingsuit yet. JC: Yet. But people are trying. Are you among those — you're not going to commit — are you among those trying to do it? UE: It's a dream. It's a dream. Yeah. We're still working on it and we're developing the wingsuits to get better performance, to get more knowledge. And I believe soon. JC: All right. Well we will watch this space. But I have two more questions. What is the — there was exhaust coming out of the back of the wingsuit. Was that a propelled wingsuit that you were wearing? UE: Nope. It's just smoke. JC: Coming off of you? (Laughter) UE: Hopefully not. (Laughter) JC: That seems dangerous. UE: No, smoke is for two reasons, you can see the speed, you can see the way where I was flying. That's reason number one. And reason number two: it's much easier for the camera guy to film If I'm using smoke. JC: Ah, I see. So the wingsuit is set up to deliberately release smoke so that you can be tracked. One more question. What do you do to to cover your face? Because I just keep thinking of going that fast and having your whole face smushed backwards. Are you in a helmet? Are you in goggles? UE: The purest and the best feeling would be with only goggles. JC: And is that how you usually fly? UE: Usually I'm wearing a helmet. In the mountains I'm always wearing a helmet because of landings — usually it's difficult — it's not like regular skydiving where you have like the big landings. So you have to be prepared. JC: Right. Now is there anything you don't do? Do people come to you with projects and say, ""We want you to do this!"" and do you ever say, ""No, no I'm not going to."" UE: Oh of course, of course. Some people have crazy ideas and — (Laughter) JC: ...a round of applause... (Applause) UE: Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我是從飛行傘開始玩起的。玩飛行傘是從山上跳下，藉由飛行傘，有可能可以飛過國境，穿越很長的一段距離，而僅僅只需使用熱氣流來翱翔。使用飛行傘，也可以做出許多不同的特技動作。 因此，我開始嘗試高空跳傘。在這張照片裡，你們可以看到，這是四向高空跳傘，四個人一同飛翔，在照片左方是負責攝影的跳傘者，攝影機安裝在他的頭盔上，所以他可以錄下跳傘的全程經過，一方面是為了拍攝記錄，同時也可以作為日後參考。 從一般的，相對的高空跳傘，我更進一步接觸高空跳傘。自由高空跳傘是更接近三度立體空間的高空跳傘。你們可以看到那位穿著紅色傘裝的跳傘者，他正處在起立準備的姿勢。那位穿著黃綠色傘裝的先生，他以頭朝下的姿勢躍出。在背景中的是我，在自由落體狀態下排列出這整個隊形，同時藉著頭盔上的攝影機，紀錄這次跳傘的經過。 在自由高空跳傘後，我接著進行飛行滑板運動。飛行滑板是腳上加了一片板狀物的高空跳傘。你可以想像，有了這一大片空中衝浪板，會產生很大的力量，很大的一股力量。當然我可以利用這個力量來 —例如說：好好的旋轉 — 我們稱這個動作為直昇機運動。 在那之後，我接著玩飛行裝跳傘。飛行裝是一種連身套裝，穿上它後，只要運用我的身體就可以在空中滑翔。如果我的身體微微用力，在飛行裝上施加一些壓力，我就能使之滑翔。就如同你們現在看到的下墜率大大的減低，因為飛行裝的接觸面積更大。藉由適當的身體姿勢，我能夠向前推進，前進一段不算短的距離。這是我在里約熱內盧所做的一次跳傘。在畫面左邊，你可以看到科帕卡巴納。 在那邊，利用我從飛行傘及各種領域高空跳傘所學到的所有技巧與知識，我做了基點跳躍。基點跳躍是從固定物體上跳下的高空跳傘，像是建築物、天線塔、橋樑和地球 —我指的是山脈、懸崖等等。這的的確確是 — 對我來說 —看到所有這些視覺上的參考物，真的是親身體驗自由落體的終極體驗。 因此我的目標很快地變成發掘新的、沒有人在那邊進行過跳傘的場所。因此，在 2000 夏天，我成為第一個在瑞典艾格峰北坡進行基點跳傘的人。兩年後，我是第一個在馬特宏峰進行基點跳傘的人，那是一座非常有名的山峰，在座的各位可能都聽過。2005 年，我又在艾格峰、僧侶峰與少女峰進行了基點跳傘，這些分別是瑞典非常有名的三座山峰。這三次跳躍特別的地方在於，我在一天內完成這三座山峰的健行、攀登與跳躍。2008 年，我從巴黎的艾菲爾鐵塔上跳下。（笑聲） 憑著所有這些我學到的知識，我也想要嘗試特技。因此，和一些朋友一起，我們開始做各種不同的特技，例如說，像這邊這次的跳躍，我從飛行傘上跳下。或是這次，幾乎每個人都要凍僵了，除了我以外，因為那時候奧地利非常的冷，我們就是在那裡拍攝這個影片。每個人都坐在熱氣球的藍子中，而我在熱氣球頂端，準備利用我的空中滑板，從氣球上滑下來。又或者像是這次跳躍，從高速公路上正在移動的卡車躍下。（笑聲） 像這種頂級難度的極限運動，你必須要按部就班的練習，才有可能實現，而且你必須非常努力地加強你的技巧，增進你的知識。當然，體能上來說，你必須是要在非常好的狀態下，因此我經常不斷的在訓練。你必須要盡可能的獲得最好的裝備。也許最重要的是你必須鍛鍊你的心智，讓你的心完全做好準備。然後，所有的這些都在向人類飛行的夢想盡可能的邁進。 因此，2009 年，我非常努力地在為我的兩個新計畫訓練。第一個計畫是，我希望創下藉由飛行裝從懸崖上飛下的世界紀錄。同時，我希望創下一個新的紀錄，那就是飛行裝的最遠飛行距離紀錄。我的第二個計畫，我有一個驚人的想法，這是個從未有人做過的跳躍方式。 現在，在接下來的影片中，你們將會看見我穿著飛行裝飛行的技術，比起我的英文口說要好得多了。請大家欣賞影片，謝謝大家。（掌聲） （掌聲） June Cohen: 我有一些問題。我想我們可能都有一些問題。第一個問題，那感受真的如同在夢中飛行一樣嗎？因為看起來好像真的在夢中。 Ueli Gegenschatz: 差不多。我相信這可能是最接近實現飛行夢想的方法。 JC: 我知道這個問題的答案，但是，你如何降落？ UE: 降落傘。我們必須在接受撞擊（我會這麼形容）前的數秒鐘張開降落傘。（笑聲）至今還不可能只憑著飛行裝著陸。 JC: 還不可能。但是人們在嘗試。你在這些人 —我想你不會承認的 — 但是你是想要嘗試這麼做的人之一嗎？ UE: 那是一個夢想。是一個夢想，是的。我們還在嘗試中，在此同時，我們也正在研發具有更好性能的飛行裝，以獲得更多知識。我相信就快了。 JC: 好的。那麼我們會持續關注這個領域。但是我還有另外兩個問題。那是什麼 — 看起來飛行裝的背後會排放出氣體。你穿著的飛行裝是有推進動力的嗎？ UE: 不是。那只是煙霧而已。 JC: 從你身上冒出來？ （笑聲） UE: 但願不是。 （笑聲） JC: 那看起來很危險。 UE: 並不會，煙霧有兩個目的，你可以判斷速度，你可以看到我剛剛飛過的路線。這是第一個目的。第二個目的是，對於攝影者來說，如果我使用煙霧，拍攝上的難度將會大大降低。 JC: 喔，我懂了。因此這個飛行裝特別設計成會故意釋放出煙霧，這樣你比較容易被追蹤。最後一個問題。你用什麼方法來遮住你的臉？因為我一直不停的想著，以這麼快的速度，然後你的整個臉一直被風向後吹著。你有戴頭盔嗎？護目鏡呢？ UE: 最純淨也是最好的體驗是只戴護目鏡。 JC: 平常你做飛行裝跳傘的時候是這麼做的嗎？ UE: 通常我會戴頭盔。在山區中，我一定會戴頭盔，因為著陸 — 通常是很困難的 —這並不像是一般的高空跳傘，你會有一個很顛簸的著陸。因此你必須隨時準備好。 JC: 是的。那麼，有什麼事情是你不會去做的嗎？人們會不會帶著計畫來找你並且說：「我們希望你這麼做！」你有沒有說過，「不不，我不會去做的。」 UE: 喔，當然，當然有。某些人的想法太瘋狂了而且 — （笑聲） JC: 再度掌聲謝謝～ （掌聲） UE: 非常謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
