Talk	en	zh-tw
uldus_bakhtiozina_wry_photos_that_turn_stereotypes_upside_down	"Good afternoon. My name is Uldus. I am a photo-based artist from Russia. I started my way around six years ago with ironic self-portraits to lay open so many stereotypes about nationalities, genders, and social issues — [""I am Russian. I sell drugs, guns, porno with kids!""] [""Vodka = water. I love vodka!""] (Laughter) — using photography as my tool to send a message. [""Marry me, I need a visa.""] Today, I am still performing in front of the camera and trying to be brave like Wonder Woman. I focus on balancing meaningful message, aesthetic, beauty, composition,  some irony, and artifacts. Today, I'm going to tell you about my project, which is named Desperate Romantics. They're my artifacts, or paintings from pre-Raphaelites Brotherhood England mid-19th century. I took the painting and gifted new, contemporary meaning talking about issues which are surrounding me in Russia, capturing people who are non-models but have an interesting story. This boy is a professional dancer, only 12 years old, but at secondary school, he hides his dancing classes and is wearing the mask of brutality, trying to be united with the rest of his classmates like a storm trooper has no personality. But this boy has goals and dreams but hides it to be socially accepted, because being different isn't easy, especially in Russia. Next portrait interpretation is metaphoric. And this is Nikita, a security guard from one of the bars in St. Petersburg. He likes to say, ""You wouldn't like me when I'm angry,"" quoting Hulk from the movie, but I've never seen him angry. He hides his sensitivities and romantic side, because in Russia, among guys, that's not cool to be romantic, but it's cool to be surrounded with women and look like an aggressive hulk. (Laughter) Sometimes, in my project, I would take the painting and give it new meaning and new temptation about it. Sometimes, I would compare facial features and playing with words: irony, Iron Man, ironing man. (Laughter) Through the artifacts, I bring social issues which surround me in Russia into the conversation. Interesting fact about marriage in Russia, that most of the 18, 19-year-old girls are already ready, and dream to get married. We're taught from childhood, successful marriage means successful life, so most of the girls kind of fight to get a good husband. And what about me? I'm 27 years old. For Russian society, I'm an old maid and hopeless to ever get married. That's why you see me in a Mexican fighter mask, in the wedding dress, all desperate in my garden. But remember, irony is the key, and this is actually to motivate girls to fight for goals, for dreams, and change stereotypes. Be brave. Be ironic — it helps. Be funny and create some magic. (Applause)"	各位午安，我叫優都思。我來自俄羅斯，是以攝影為主的藝術家。我大約六年前開始拍攝諷刺自攝像，希望能打破許多刻板印象，像是國籍、性別、社會問題等等。[我是俄國人，我賣毒、槍、兒童色情片！][伏特加 = 水。我愛伏特加！]（笑聲）我用攝影傳達訊息。[娶我，我需要簽證。] 今天，我還是會在相機前面展現自己，並試著像神力女超人一樣勇敢。我把重心放在平衡有意義的訊息、美學、美感、構圖、諷刺，以及創作物上。 我今天想跟各位分享的是名為「 絕望的浪漫」系列。這些創作物或繪畫的靈感來自十九世紀中期英國前拉斐爾派兄弟會。我將繪畫賦予全新、當代的意義，講述圍繞在我周遭的俄羅斯議題。捕捉那些不是模特兒，卻帶著有趣故事的人。 這位男孩是專業舞者，年僅十二歲。但念中學的他，得隱瞞自己有上舞蹈課，並帶著殘酷的面具，試圖融入同儕之中，像星際大戰裡沒有個性的風暴兵。這位男孩有目標和夢想，卻為了被接受而隱藏起來，就因為與眾不同是件難事，在俄羅斯更是如此。 接下來的照片是象徵性詮釋。這是妮姬塔，由聖彼得堡一家酒吧的保全人員扮演。他很喜歡說：「我生氣的樣子你們不會喜歡」，這是電影綠巨人浩克的台詞，但我從來沒見過他生氣的樣子。他將自己感性、浪漫的一面藏起來，因為在俄羅斯，男孩子浪漫就不酷了。相反地，如果身旁圍繞一堆女人，一臉凶狠浩克的樣子就很酷。（笑聲） 有時候，我創作時，會將畫作賦予新意義，以及新的誘惑。有時候，我會比較不同的臉部輪廓，並玩文字遊戲：諷刺、鋼鐵人、拿鋼鐵熨斗的人。（笑聲） 透過創作物，我將身邊俄羅斯的社會議題帶入討論。俄羅斯的婚姻傳統有件事很有趣，大部分十八、十九歲女孩早就夢想、準備好要結婚了。我們從小就被教育成功的婚姻代表成功的人生，所以大部分女孩都以找到好老公為人生志業。 那我呢？我二十七歲，在俄羅斯，我已經算剩女，結婚無望了。這就是為什麼各位看到我帶著墨西哥戰士面具，身穿婚紗，在我的花園裡一臉絕望。但記住，諷刺是關鍵，這其實會讓女孩們有動力為目標與夢想而奮鬥，並改變刻板印象。勇敢、諷刺——是有用的。去搞笑、創造魔力吧。 （掌聲）
