Talk	en	zh-tw
ursus_wehrli_tidies_up_art	"My name is Ursus Wehrli, and I would like to talk to you this morning about my project, Tidying Up Art. First of all — any questions so far? First of all, I have to say I'm not from around here. I'm from a completely different cultural area, maybe you noticed? I mean, I'm wearing a tie, first. And then secondly, I'm a little bit nervous because I'm speaking in a foreign language, and I want to apologize in advance, for any mistakes I might make. Because I'm from Switzerland, and I just don't hope you think this is Swiss German I'm speaking now here. This is just what it sounds like if we Swiss try to speak American. But don't worry — I don't have trouble with English, as such. I mean, it's not my problem, it's your language after all. (Laughter) I am fine. After this presentation here at TED, I can simply go back to Switzerland, and you have to go on talking like this all the time. (Laughter) So I've been asked by the organizers to read from my book. It's called ""Tidying Up Art"" and it's, as you can see, it's more or less a picture book. So the reading would be over very quickly. But since I'm here at TED, I decided to hold my talk here in a more modern way, in the spirit of TED here, and I managed to do some slides here for you. I'd like to show them around so we can just, you know — (Laughter) Actually, I managed to prepare for you some enlarged pictures — even better. So Tidying Up Art, I mean, I have to say, that's a relatively new term. You won't be familiar with it. I mean, it's a hobby of mine that I've been indulging in for the last few years, and it all started out with this picture of the American artist, Donald Baechler I had hanging at home. I had to look at it every day and after a while I just couldn't stand the mess anymore this guy was looking at all day long. Yeah, I kind of felt sorry for him. And it seemed to me even he felt really bad facing these unorganized red squares day after day. So I decided to give him a little support, and brought some order into neatly stacking the blocks on top of each other. (Laughter) Yeah. And I think he looks now less miserable. And it was great. With this experience, I started to look more closely at modern art. Then I realized how, you know, the world of modern art is particularly topsy-turvy. And I can show here a very good example. It's actually a simple one, but it's a good one to start with. It's a picture by Paul Klee. And we can see here very clearly, it's a confusion of color. (Laughter) Yeah. The artist doesn't really seem to know where to put the different colors. The various pictures here of the various elements of the picture — the whole thing is unstructured. We don't know, maybe Mr. Klee was probably in a hurry, I mean — (Laughter) — maybe he had to catch a plane, or something. We can see here he started out with orange, and then he already ran out of orange, and here we can see he decided to take a break for a square. And I would like to show you here my tidied up version of this picture. (Laughter) We can see now what was barely recognizable in the original: 17 red and orange squares are juxtaposed with just two green squares. Yeah, that's great. So I mean, that's just tidying up for beginners. I would like to show you here a picture which is a bit more advanced. (Laughter) What can you say? What a mess. I mean, you see, everything seems to have been scattered aimlessly around the space. If my room back home had looked like this, my mother would have grounded me for three days. So I'd like to — I wanted to reintroduce some structure into that picture. And that's really advanced tidying up. (Applause) Yeah, you're right. Sometimes people clap at this point, but that's actually more in Switzerland. (Laughter) We Swiss are famous for chocolate and cheese. Our trains run on time. We are only happy when things are in order. But to go on, here is a very good example to see. This is a picture by Joan Miro. And yeah, we can see the artist has drawn a few lines and shapes and dropped them any old way onto a yellow background. And yeah, it's the sort of thing you produce when you're doodling on the phone. (Laughter) And this is my — (Laughter) — you can see now the whole thing takes up far less space. It's more economical and also more efficient. With this method Mr. Miro could have saved canvas for another picture. But I can see in your faces that you're still a little bit skeptical. So that you can just appreciate how serious I am about all this, I brought along the patents, the specifications for some of these works, because I've had my working methods patented at the Eidgenössische Amt für Geistiges Eigentum in Bern, Switzerland. (Laughter) I'll just quote from the specification. ""Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht —"" It's not finished yet. ""Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht Götz von Ohlenhusen wird die Verfahrensweise rechtlich geschützt welche die Kunst durch spezifisch aufgeräumte Regelmässigkeiten des allgemeinen Formenschatzes neue Wirkungen zu erzielen möglich wird."" Ja, well I could have translated that, but you would have been none the wiser. I'm not sure myself what it means but it sounds good anyway. I just realized it's important how one introduces new ideas to people, that's why these patents are sometimes necessary. I would like to do a short test with you. Everyone is sitting in quite an orderly fashion here this morning. So I would like to ask you all to raise your right hand. Yeah. The right hand is the one we write with, apart from the left-handers. And now, I'll count to three. I mean, it still looks very orderly to me. Now, I'll count to three, and on the count of three I'd like you all to shake hands with the person behind you. OK? One, two, three. (Laughter) You can see now, that's a good example: even behaving in an orderly, systematic way can sometimes lead to complete chaos. So we can also see that very clearly in this next painting. This is a painting by the artist, Niki de Saint Phalle. And I mean, in the original it's completely unclear to see what this tangle of colors and shapes is supposed to depict. But in the tidied up version, it's plain to see that it's a sunburnt woman playing volleyball. (Laughter) Yeah, it's a — this one here, that's much better. That's a picture by Keith Haring. (Laughter) I think it doesn't matter. So, I mean, this picture has not even got a proper title. It's called ""Untitled"" and I think that's appropriate. So, in the tidied-up version we have a sort of Keith Haring spare parts shop. (Laughter) This is Keith Haring looked at statistically. One can see here quite clearly, you can see we have 25 pale green elements, of which one is in the form of a circle. Or here, for example, we have 27 pink squares with only one pink curve. I mean, that's interesting. One could extend this sort of statistical analysis to cover all Mr. Haring's various works, in order to establish in which period the artist favored pale green circles or pink squares. And the artist himself could also benefit from this sort of listing procedure by using it to estimate how many pots of paint he's likely to need in the future. (Laughter) One can obviously also make combinations. For example, with the Keith Haring circles and Kandinsky's dots. You can add them to all the squares of Paul Klee. In the end, one has a list with which one then can arrange. Then you categorize it, then you file it, put that file in a filing cabinet, put it in your office and you can make a living doing it. (Laughter) Yeah, from my own experience. So I'm — (Laughter) Actually, I mean, here we have some artists that are a bit more structured. It's not too bad. This is Jasper Johns. We can see here he was practicing with his ruler. (Laughter) But I think it could still benefit from more discipline. And I think the whole thing adds up much better if you do it like this. (Laughter) And here, that's one of my favorites. Tidying up Rene Magritte — this is really fun. You know, there is a — (Laughter) I'm always being asked what inspired me to embark on all this. It goes back to a time when I was very often staying in hotels. So once I had the opportunity to stay in a ritzy, five-star hotel. And you know, there you had this little sign — I put this little sign outside the door every morning that read, ""Please tidy room."" I don't know if you have them over here. So actually, my room there hasn't been tidied once daily, but three times a day. So after a while I decided to have a little fun, and before leaving the room each day I'd scatter a few things around the space. Like books, clothes, toothbrush, etc. And it was great. By the time I returned everything had always been neatly returned to its place. But then one morning, I hang the same little sign onto that picture by Vincent van Gogh. (Laughter) And you have to say this room hadn't been tidied up since 1888. And when I returned it looked like this. (Laughter) Yeah, at least it is now possible to do some vacuuming. (Laughter) OK, I mean, I can see there are always people that like reacting that one or another picture hasn't been properly tidied up. So we can make a short test with you. This is a picture by Rene Magritte, and I'd like you all to inwardly — like in your head, that is — to tidy that up. So it's possible that some of you would make it like this. (Laughter) Yeah? I would actually prefer to do it more this way. Some people would make apple pie out of it. But it's a very good example to see that the whole work was more of a handicraft endeavor that involved the very time-consuming job of cutting out the various elements and sticking them back in new arrangements. And it's not done, as many people imagine, with the computer, otherwise it would look like this. (Laughter) So now I've been able to tidy up pictures that I've wanted to tidy up for a long time. Here is a very good example. Take Jackson Pollock, for example. It's — oh, no, it's — that's a really hard one. But after a while, I just decided here to go all the way and put the paint back into the cans. (Applause) Or you could go into three-dimensional art. Here we have the fur cup by Meret Oppenheim. Here I just brought it back to its original state. (Laughter) But yeah, and it's great, you can even go, you know — Or we have this pointillist movement for those of you who are into art. The pointillist movement is that kind of paintings where everything is broken down into dots and pixels. And then I — this sort of thing is ideal for tidying up. (Laughter) So I once applied myself to the work of the inventor of that method, Georges Seurat, and I collected together all his dots. And now they're all in here. (Laughter) You can count them afterwards, if you like. You see, that's the wonderful thing about the tidy up art idea: it's new. So there is no existing tradition in it. There is no textbooks, I mean, not yet, anyway. I mean, it's ""the future we will create."" (Laughter) But to round things up I would like to show you just one more. This is the village square by Pieter Bruegel. That's how it looks like when you send everyone home. (Laughter) Yeah, maybe you're asking yourselves where old Bruegel's people went? Of course, they're not gone. They're all here. (Laughter) I just piled them up. (Laughter) So I'm — yeah, actually I'm kind of finished at that moment. And for those who want to see more, I've got my book downstairs in the bookshop. And I'm happy to sign it for you with any name of any artist. (Laughter) But before leaving I would like to show you, I'm working right now on another — in a related field with my tidying up art method. I'm working in a related field. And I started to bring some order into some flags. Here — that's just my new proposal here for the Union Jack. (Laughter) And then maybe before I leave you ... yeah, I think, after you have seen that I have to leave anyway. (Laughter) Yeah, that was a hard one. I couldn't find a way to tidy that up properly, so I just decided to make it a little bit more simpler. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我的名字是 Ursus Wehrli﹐今天我想和你們談談我的作品整理藝術首先 - 有什麼疑問嗎﹖首先﹐我必須說我不是來自這裡而是來自一個文化完全不同的地方﹐你發現了嗎﹖你瞧﹐我打著一條領帶﹐然後﹐我有一點緊張因為我說的是外國話我想先為我接下來可能會犯的錯誤道歉畢竟我是從瑞士來的﹐希望你們不要覺得我說的是瑞士腔的德文這不過是一個瑞士人說美語的樣子但不用擔心 - 美語對我來說沒問題畢竟這是你們的語言﹐與我無關(笑聲)真的﹐反正我結束TED演講以後﹐我回瑞士就好倒是你還得繼續留在這裡講這種語言(笑聲) 大會要求我到這裡來朗讀我的書書名是""整理藝術""，如你所見這是一本圖畫書所以很快就讀完了但既然我在TED，我決定用比較先進的方式來發表我的演講以TED精神﹐我做了這些投影片我想在這裡跟你們分享﹐像這樣(笑聲)說真的﹐我也準備了一些放大圖片 - 這樣更好 整理藝術﹐是一個非常新的名詞你可能沒有聽過這是我這幾年來的一點小興趣一切都從美國藝術家 Donald Baechler 的作品開始我家裡有一幅﹐我每天看著它過了一陣子我實在受不了這種凌亂這個傢伙天天這樣盯著我真為他感到抱歉我覺得甚至他自己也不是很舒服每天都看著這些亂七八糟的紅方塊於是我決定幫他一把把這些方塊整齊地堆起來(笑聲)我覺得他現在看起來沒這麼悲慘了有了這次的愉快經驗以後﹐我開始更仔細地觀察現代藝術我發覺﹐現代藝術的世界真是有混亂 讓我給你一個好例子從一個非常簡單的例子開始這是保羅·克利的作品我們可以很清楚的看到﹐顏色一篇混亂(笑聲)他好像不知道怎麼把不同顏色放在一起這裡有這張作品的不同元素把它解構以後可能當時克利先生趕時間(笑聲)可能他正在趕一班飛機我們可以看到他從桔色開始然後慢慢用完桔色顏料這裡我們可以看到他稍微休息了一格現在看看經過我整理以後(笑聲)我們可以看到在原本圖畫中看不到的十七個紅色和橘色方塊，還有兩個綠色方塊搗亂很好不過那只是初級的整理罷了現在我們來看看比較複雜的圖片(笑聲) 怎麼說呢﹖亂成一團所有東西都被隨意的扔到這個空間裡如果我的房間長這樣的話我媽可是會懲罰我禁足三天的於是 - 讓我來重新規範一下這張圖畫這真的是很複雜的(掌聲)沒錯﹐有些人在這裡會拍手但這是比較瑞士的方式(笑聲)我們瑞士出名的有巧克力和起司﹐火車準時一切井井有條的時候我們才會快樂 讓我們再舉一些其他例子這是米羅的作品我們可以看到他畫了一些線條和形狀隨便地把它們畫在黃色背景上就像我們一邊講電話一邊在紙上亂畫的那些東西(笑聲)這是我的(笑聲)你可以看到我們節省了很多空間經濟實惠又有效率米羅先生如果用這種辦法的話﹐可以省下一半畫面再畫一幅 我知道你們仍然有點存疑為了證明我的認真我帶來了我申請的專利﹐這些作品的規格我特別在瑞士的專利協會為我整理藝術的手法申請了專利(笑聲)讓我唸一段說明給你們聽""Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht —""還沒結束""Laut den Kunstprüfer Dr. Albrecht Götz von Ohlenhusenwird die Verfahrensweise rechtlich geschützt welche die Kunstdurch spezifisch aufgeräumte Regelmässigkeitendes allgemeinen Formenschatzesneue Wirkungen zu erzielen möglich wird."" 是﹐當然我也可以翻譯﹐但你們也不會更了解的連我自己都不太懂﹐至少聽起來不錯我剛意識到介紹一個新點子的手法是很重要的所以有時專利是必要的我想做一個小小的試驗在座的每個人都坐的很整齊現在大家舉起你們的右手我們用來寫字的那個手﹐除了左撇子以外然後﹐我數到三﹐現在看起來還很整齊當我數到三的時候你們就跟後面的那個人握手一﹐二﹐三(笑聲) 誠如所見﹐這就是個很好的例子﹕就算大家都秩序井然還是有可能造成完全的混亂我們可以從以下的例子裡看到畫的作者是 Niki de Saint Phalle在這裡你看不清楚這些顏色和形狀畫的是什麼經過整理以後﹐很明顯﹐這是一個曬傷的女人在打排球(笑聲)沒錯﹐這個更清楚這是 Keith Haring 的作品(笑聲)我想沒差這幅畫的名字很好它就叫""無題""﹐取得真好 於是經過整理以後﹐我們就可以看到這間 Keith Harding 五金行(笑聲)用統計學的角度來看我們可以很清楚的看到這裡有25個淺綠色的元素有一個是圓形這裡有27個粉紅色的方形﹐只有一個粉紅彎形非常有趣﹐有人可以在所有 Harding 先生的作品上做一些統計分析看看畫家在各個時期對淺綠圓形和粉紅方形的偏好藝術家自己也可以從列出的清單中算出自己以後需要多少顏料(笑聲) 你也可以把它們組合在一起Haring 的方形和 Kandinsky 的點點在把它加入克利的方形最後你就有一整個清單可以排列你將它們分類﹐建檔﹐最後再全部放進檔案櫃裡放進你的辦公室﹐然後就可以以此為生了(笑聲)就像我一樣(笑聲)其實也有幾個藝術家是比較有條理的這是 Jasper Johns，我們可以看見他正在練習使用他的尺(笑聲) 但我仍然覺得他可以再更有條不紊一點把這些都加起來﹐你就可以這樣做(笑聲)我最喜歡的作品之一整理 Rene Magritte - 這真的很好玩你看(笑聲)很多人問我是什麼讓我這樣做的這必須要追溯到﹐我時常住在旅館的那段時間有一次我有機會住在麗池五星旅館你知道﹐那裡有這些標語每天早上你可以放在門口”請整理房間“我不知道我在這裡有沒有事實上﹐我的房間不只是一天整理一次﹐是一天整理了三次過了一陣子我決定開個玩笑在每天離開房間裡我都會故意四處亂扔些東西書﹐衣服﹐牙刷等等﹐很不錯我每次回房間的時候一切都回歸原位有一天早上﹐我在梵古的畫上掛了這個標語(笑聲)這個房間從1888年以後就沒整理過了當我回來的時候﹐它變成了這樣(笑聲)至少現在可以吸地了(笑聲) 我可以了解為什麼有些人會對某些特殊的圖畫特別有感覺覺得它需要整理﹐讓我們做一個小測驗這是 Rene Magritte 的圖畫現在你們可以在心中把它整理一下我想你們之中的有些人可能會把它整理成這樣(笑聲)是嗎﹖但我比較喜歡把它整理成這樣有些人會把它做成蘋果派但這是一個很好的例子﹐說明這是一項非常費時的手工業你得把不同元素剪下來﹐再把它重新安排而不是像你們之中很多人想像的﹐用電腦做的不然它就會變成這樣(笑聲) 目前為止﹐我已經整理了很多我想要處理的圖畫就像這個 Jackson Pollock 的作品這很困難﹐真的過了一陣子﹐我決定一不做二不休把顏料全放回它們原來的地方(掌聲)你也可以整理3D藝術像 Meret Oppenheim 的毛杯讓它們回到原來的模樣(笑聲)真的﹐很棒﹐你甚至可以嘗試如果你喜歡藝術的話﹐這是點彩畫派的作品點彩畫派便是所有畫都是由點和像素組成的這是最適合整理的了(笑聲) 這是點彩畫派的創始人 Georges Seurat我把他的所有點都收集起來它們全在這裡(笑聲)你可以晚點把它們清點一下﹐如果你想要的話你知道﹐這就是整理畫作的好處這是全新的﹐沒有任何傳統沒有教科書﹐至少現在還沒有這是“我們創造的未來”(笑聲)最後我們再看一個例子這是由 Pieter Bruegel 所畫的廣場你把每個人趕回家以後就變成這樣(笑聲)但或許你會自問那這些人都去了哪裡﹖當然﹐他們還在。他們全在這裡(笑聲)我把他們堆了起來(笑聲) 嗯好﹐我差不多已經講完了如果你想看其他例子﹐你可以到樓下的書店去買我很榮幸為你簽名﹐你想要我簽哪個畫家的名字都可以(笑聲)離開前我想給你們看一個東西最近我在做的新作品 - 和這個有關的也是整理我開始整理國旗你看﹐英國國旗可以變成這樣(笑聲)在我離去以前我是說﹐我想我最好趕快離開(笑聲)這個真的很難﹐我沒辦法整理它我只好把它做得簡單一點(笑聲)非常謝謝打擊(掌聲)"
