Talk	en	zh-tw
usman_riaz_and_preston_reed_a_young_guitarist_meets_his_hero	(Music) (Applause) (Applause) (Music) (Applause) (Music) (Applause) Chris Anderson: You guys were amazing. That's amazing. (Applause) You just don't hear that every day. (Laughter) Usman, the official story is that you learned to play the guitar by watching Jimmy Page on YouTube. Usman Riaz: Yes, that was the first one. And then I — That was the first thing I learned, and then I started progressing to other things. And I started watching Kaki King a lot, and she would always cite Preston Reed as a big influence, so then I started watching his videos, and it's very surreal right now to be — (Laughter) (Applause) CA: Was that piece just now, that was one of his songs that you learned, or how did that happen? UR: I'd never learned it before, but he told me that we would be playing that on stage, so I was familiar with it, so that's why I had so much more fun learning it. And it finally happened, so ... (Laughter) CA: Preston, from your point of view, I mean, you invented this like 20 years ago, right? How does it feel to see someone like this come along taking your art and doing so much with it? Preston Reed: It's mind-blowing, and I feel really proud, really honored. And he's a wonderful musician, so it's cool. (Laughter) CA: I guess, I don't think there is like a one-minute other piece you guys can do? Can you? Do you jam? Do you have anything else? PR: We haven't prepared anything. CA: There isn't. I'll tell you what. If you have another 30 or 40 seconds, and you have another 30 or 40 seconds, and we just see that, I just think — I can feel it. We want to hear a little more. And if it goes horribly wrong, no worries. (Applause) (Laughter) (Music) (Applause)	(音樂) (掌聲) (掌聲) (音樂) (掌聲) (音樂) (掌聲) 克斯里安德森：你們的表演真是太棒了太棒了(掌聲)這不是每天都能聽到的 (笑聲) Usman 我聽說你是在Youtube上看 Jummy Page 的視頻來學習吉它的 Usman Riaz: 是的，那是我的開頭，然後這是我一開始學到的然後我開始學其它的然後我也看了很多 Kaki King 的視頻她總是說她受到 Preston Reed 很深的影響所以我又再開始看他的視頻現在（能和他一起演出）真是感覺很不真實 (笑聲)(掌聲) 安德森： 剛才所表演的片段是你先前學到他的曲子，還是（即興的演出）……你們是如何演奏出來的？ Usman：我從未學過這曲子但他說我們會一起在台上表演這首我對這很熟悉 所以這就是為什麼我享受於學習它然後就這麼樣發生了(笑聲) 克里斯：Preston，從你的觀點我是指 你在20年前發明了它 是吧看到有人像這樣談論你的藝術 並且發揮它 是什麼感覺 Preston Reed：這令人興奮我感到很驕傲 很榮耀而且他是位很棒的音樂家，很酷 (笑聲) 克里斯：我想 你們可能表演其它片段 一分鐘之類的？可以嗎？你們即興演奏嗎？或者你們有其它的？ Preston：我們沒準備任何東西 克里斯：沒關係。我告訴你們如果你有個30到40秒你也可以表演個30到40秒我們想看看我感覺的到 我們想再多聽一點即使有出了什麼錯，也沒關係 (掌聲) (笑聲) (音樂) (掌聲)
