Talk	en	zh-tw
vanessa_ruiz_the_spellbinding_art_of_human_anatomy	"As a lover of human anatomy, I'm so excited that we're finally putting our bodies at the center of focus. Through practices such as preventive medicine, patient empowerment and self-monitoring — down to now obsessing over every single step we take in a day. All of this works to promote a healthy connection between ourselves and our bodies. Despite all this focus on the healthy self, general public knowledge of the anatomical self is lacking. Many people don't know the location of their vital organs, or even how they function. And that's because human anatomy is a difficult and time-intensive subject to learn. How many of you here made it through anatomy? Wow, good — most of you are in medicine. I, like you, spent countless hours memorizing hundreds of structures. Something no student of anatomy could do without the help of visuals. Because at the end of the day, whether you remember every little structure or not, these medical illustrations are what makes studying anatomy so intriguing. In looking at them, we're actually viewing a manual of our very selves. But what happens when we're done studying? These beautiful illustrations are then shut back into the pages of a medical textbook, or an app, referenced only when needed. And for the public, medical illustrations may only be encountered passively on the walls of a doctor's office. From the beginnings of modern medicine, medical illustration, and therefore anatomy, have existed primarily within the realm of medical education. Yet there's something fascinating happening right now. Artists are breaking anatomy out of the confines of the medical world and are thrusting it into the public space. For the past nine years, I have been cataloguing and sharing this rise in anatomical art with the public — all from my perspective as a medical illustrator. But before I get into showing you how artists are reclaiming anatomy today, it's important to understand how art influenced anatomy in the past. Now, anatomy is by its very nature a visual science, and the first anatomists to understand this lived during the Renaissance. They relied on artists to help advertise their discoveries to their peers in the public. And this drive to not only teach but also to entertain resulted in some of the strangest anatomical illustrations. Anatomy was caught in a struggle between science, art and culture that lasted for over 500 years. Artists rendered dissected cadavers as alive, posed in these humorous anatomical stripteases. Imagine seeing that in your textbooks today. They also showed them as very much dead — unwillingly stripped of their skin. Disembodied limbs were often posed in literal still lives. And some illustrations even included pop culture references. This is Clara, a famous rhinoceros that was traveling Europe in the mid-1700s, at a time when seeing a rhino was an exciting rarity. Including her in this illustration was akin to celebrity sponsorship today. The introduction of color then brought a whole new depth and clarity to anatomy that made it stunning. By the early 20th century, the perfect balance of science and art had finally been struck with the emergence of medical illustrators. They created a universal representation of anatomy — something that was neither alive nor dead, that was free from those influences of artistic culture. And this focus on no-frills accuracy was precisely for the benefit of medical education. And this is what we get to study from today. But why is it that medical illustration — both past and present — captures our imaginations? Now, we are innately tuned into the beauty of the human body. And medical illustration is still art. Nothing can elicit an emotional response — from joy to complete disgust — more than the human body. And today, artists armed with that emotion, are grasping anatomy from the medical world, and are reinvigorating it through art in the most imaginative ways. A perfect example of this is Spanish contemporary artist Fernando Vicente. He takes 19th century anatomical illustrations of the male body and envelops them in a female sensuality. The women in his paintings taunt us to view beyond their surface anatomy, thereby introducing a strong femininity that was previously lacking in the history of anatomical representation. Artistry can also be seen in the repair and recovery of the human body. This is an X-ray of a woman who fractured and dislocated her ankle in a roller-skating accident. As a tribute to her trauma, she commissioned Montreal-based architect Federico Carbajal to construct a wire sculpture of her damaged lower leg. Now, notice those bright red screws magnified in the sculpture. These are the actual surgical screws used in reconstructing her ankle. It's medical hardware that's been repurposed as art. People often ask me how I choose the art that I showcase online or feature in gallery shows. And for me it's a balance between the technique and a concept that pushes the boundaries of anatomy as a way to know thyself, which is why the work of Michael Reedy struck me. His serious figure drawings are often layered in elements of humor. For instance, take a look at her face. Notice those red marks. Michael manifests the consuming insecurity of a skin condition as these maniacal cartoon monsters annoying and out of control in the background. On the mirrored figure, he renders the full anatomy and covers it in glitter, making it look like candy. By doing this, Michael downplays the common perception of anatomy so closely tied to just disease and death. Now, this next concept might not make much sense, but human anatomy is no longer limited to humans. When you were a child, did you ever wish that your toys could come to life? Well, Jason Freeny makes those dreams come true with his magical toy dissections. (Laughter) One might think that this would bring a morbid edge to one's innocent childhood characters, but Jason says of his dissections, ""One thing I've never seen in a child's reaction to my work is fear."" It's always wonder, amazement and wanting to explore. Fear of anatomy and guts is a learned reaction. This anatomization also extends to politically and socially charged objects. In Noah Scalin's ""Anatomy of War,"" we see a gun dissected to reveal human organs. But if you look closely, you'll notice that it lacks a brain. And if you keep looking, you might also notice that Noah has so thoughtfully placed the rectum at the business end of that gun barrel. Now, this next artist I've been following for many years, watching him excite the public about anatomy. Danny Quirk is a young artist who paints his subjects in the process of self-dissection. He bends the rules of medical illustration by inserting a very dramatic light and shadow. And this creates a 3-D illusion that lends itself very well to painting directly on the human skin. Danny makes it look as if a person's skin has actually been removed. And this effect — also cool and tattoo-like — easily transitions into a medical illustration. Now Danny is currently traveling the world, teaching anatomy to the public via his body paintings, which is why it was so shocking to find out that he was rejected from medical illustration programs. But he's doing just fine. Then there are artists who are extracting anatomy from both the medical world and the art world and are placing it directly on the streets. London-based SHOK-1 paints giant X-rays of pop culture icons. His X-rays show how culture can come to have an anatomy of its own, and conversely how culture can become part of the anatomy of a person. You come to admire his work because reproducing X-rays by hand, let alone with spray paint, is extremely difficult. But then again this is a street artist, who also happens to hold a degree in applied chemistry. Nychos, an Austrian street artist, takes the term ""exploded view"" to a whole new level, splattering human and animal dissections on walls all over the world. Influenced by comics and heavy metal, Nychos inserts a very youthful and enticing energy into anatomy that I just love. Street artists believe that art belongs to the public. And this street anatomy is so captivating because it is the furthest removed from the medical world. It forces you to look at it, and confront your own perceptions about anatomy, whether you find it beautiful, gross, morbid or awe-inspiring, like I do. That it elicits these responses at all is due to our intimate and often changing relationship with it. All of the artists that I showed you here today referenced medical illustrations for their art. But for them, anatomy isn't just something to memorize, but a base from which to understand the human body on a meaningful level; to depict it in ways that we can relate, whether it be through cartoons, body painting or street art. Anatomical art has the power to reach far beyond the pages of a medical textbook, to ignite an excitement in the public, and reinvigorate an enthusiasm in the medical world, ultimately connecting our innermost selves with our bodies through art. Thank you. (Applause)"	"作為人體解剖學的愛好者,我很高興我們終於把自己的身體 作為關注重心。從實際行動, 比如預防藥物,病人授權,以及自我監控 －到現在擔心每天所做的任何事。所有的努力都是為了提高身體健康。 除了這些對於健康自身的關注,普通大眾對解剖學缺少對本身的認知。多數人不知道重要人體器官的位置,甚至不懂這些器官的功能。這是因為人體解剖學是很難且需要大量時間投入的學科。 在場各位,有多少人學過解剖學?哇,不錯 －你們中的大多數是學醫的。我,和你們一樣,耗費了大量的時間背誦上百個結構.學習解剖學的同學必須通過視覺教具才能做到這件事。因為最終,無論你是否記住每一個細小的結構,是這些醫學插圖讓學習解剖學變得有吸引力.仔細看他們的時候,我們事實上是在欣賞自己的身體手冊。 但是當我們完成學習後會發生甚麼呢?這些美麗的插圖被收錄在醫學教科書裡,或是應用程序裡,只有需要的時候才會被查閱。而對於公眾,醫學插圖可能僅會被動地出現在醫生辦公室的牆上. 從現代醫學的開端,醫學插圖,和伴隨而來的解剖學,它們主要存在於醫學教育領域。然而現今，發生了一些令人振奮的事情。藝術家讓解剖學走出了醫學世界的界線，然後把解剖學推向公眾世界。在過去的九年裡,我一直在為公眾編錄、分享解剖學藝術的崛起從我醫學插圖師的角度。 但是在我給各位展示現今藝術家是如何重塑解剖學之前,我們需要了解藝術在過去是如何影響解剖學的。 現在, 解剖學的本質是視覺科學,而首批了解這個本質的解剖學家出現在文藝復興時期。他們通過藝術家的幫助把他們的發現推廣給社會上的同僚。這種不僅是為了教育,還是為了娛樂的想法帶來了很多最奇妙的解剖插圖。 解剖學曾陷入一場持續了五百多年的科學、藝術與文化的衝突中。藝術家把解剖後的屍體描繪得栩栩如生,把屍體擺放得好似解剖過的脫衣舞者.想像一下你現在在教科書中看到這些圖片。藝術家也會把屍體死亡的特徵展示出來 －不情願地被剝落皮膚。空洞僵硬的四肢通常被擺成仍然活著的姿態。有些插圖甚至引用流行文化。這位是克萊拉,一只有名的犀牛,在18世紀中期遊遍歐洲,在那時,看到犀牛是一件激動人心的罕見事.把它加在這張插圖上好像如今邀請名人贊助商一樣。 然後色彩的使用讓解剖學的深度與清晰度更上一層樓，讓人嘆為觀止。 直到20世紀早期,伴隨著醫學插圖畫家的出現，科學與藝術間的完美平衡終於達成了。他們創造了通用的解剖學定義 －一種非生非死的事物,完全脫離藝術文化.的影響。著重強調毫無修飾的準確性恰恰是完全服務於醫學教育。這正是我們現在要學的東西。 但是為甚麼醫學插圖 －包括過去的與現在的 －可以讓我們浮想聯翩呢?現在，我們與生俱來地被身體的魅力所吸引。而醫學插圖仍然是藝術。沒有甚麼能比人體更能激發情感反應,從喜悅到完全厭惡.如今,藝術家用這種情感做武器,把解剖學從醫學的世界裡剝離,然後通過藝術,用最有想像力的方式重塑解剖學。 一個最有代表性的例子是西班牙現代藝術家費南多·維森特。他借助19世紀解剖插畫中男性的身體,把它們應藏在女性的情慾中。他畫作中的女性嘲諷我們去關注她們身體表象以外的部分,以此展示曾在解剖作品歷史上一度被忽略的強烈的女性氣質。 藝術才能在人體修補和復原中同樣可見。這個X光片展示了一位在滑板事故中腳踝斷裂脫臼的女性。作為對她痛苦的悼念,她委託來自蒙特利爾的建築師費德裡科·卡瓦哈爾為她受傷的小腿製作線雕。來看看這些安插在雕像中明亮的紅色螺絲。它們正是當時在她腳踝裡用作復健的螺絲.這是被變換成藝術的醫療工具。 人們經常問我怎麼選出在網路展示的藝術或是畫廊展示的特寫。於我來說,這是一種界於技术與概念間的平衡, 用來打破解剖學的界線, 以便更好的了解自身。這是麥可·里迪的作品感染我的原因。他繪畫中嚴肅的線條經常與幽默的元素相互穿插。比如說, 看看她的臉。注意那些紅色的印記。麥可用背景中這些瘋狂的、惱怒的、無法掌控的卡通怪物描繪出皮膚強烈的不安全感。在鏡像的圖畫中,他完全用解剖學渲染,然後塗抹以閃耀的粉末，讓整體看起來像糖果。通過這種做法,麥可淡化了將解剖學與疾病和死亡緊密聯繫在一起的傳統觀念。 下一個概念也許有點說不通,但是人類解剖學不再侷限於人類。當你還是孩童時,你是否希望你的玩具會有生命?傑森·福瑞利用他魔幻的玩具解剖研究實現了這些夢想。 (笑聲) 有人認為這種行為會給童年純真的卡通玩偶帶來病態扭曲的一面，但是傑森談及他的解剖研究時說道：""我從未看到任何一個孩子對我的成果表現出恐懼。""反應通常是好奇,驚嘆想要探索。對解剖學的恐懼與勇氣是一種學來的反應。 這種解剖學式的分析也會擴展到政治和社會對象。在諾·斯凱林的""解剖戰爭""中,我們看到一隻槍被分解來展示人類的器官。但當你湊近來看,你會發現槍沒有大腦。如果你繼續研究,你可能也會發現諾非常有想法的把直腸設置在槍口。 這是我多年關注的另一位藝術家看看他是怎樣讓公眾喜愛解剖學的。丹尼·夸克是一位年輕的藝術家他以自我解剖為創作過程勾畫他的主題。他打破醫學插圖的條框法則,通過加入非常戲劇化的光線與陰影。這種手法打造出3-D的效果使得作品本身好比直接在人體皮膚上作畫。丹尼使作品看起來好像人的皮膚真的被撕開。這種效果 －很酷,像是紋身一樣 －很容易過渡到醫學插圖中。現在, 丹尼在周遊世界,用他的人體繪畫為公眾講解解剖學,所以當我們的得知他被醫學插圖項目拒絕，我們都很震驚。不過他現在生活也不錯。 接下來,有一些藝術家把解剖學從醫學和藝術的世界脫離,然後直接把它在街頭展示出來。來自倫敦的SHOK-1繪畫出流行文化標誌的大型X光.他的X光表達了文化本身可以如何被解剖,而且相反地,文化如何可以成為人體解剖的一部分。你一定會欣賞他的作品因為手工重塑X光,更不用說使用噴霧顏料,是極其困難的。同樣地,這也是一位街頭藝術家,但他同時擁有應用化學的學歷。 耐可斯, 奧地利街頭藝術家,把""分解圖""的概念帶入新的層面,把人類與動物的解剖圖揮灑在世界各地的牆壁上。受動漫與重金屬音樂影響,耐可斯把非常青春迷人的能量注入到解剖學中,這是我所愛的地方。 街頭藝術家相信藝術屬於大眾。這種街頭解剖如此有魅力是因為它離醫學世界的解剖學最遠。它迫使你注視它,挑戰你對解剖學的個人觀點,不論是你覺得它是美麗的,難以接受的,病態的,或是,像我一樣,覺得嘆為觀止的。它所引起的各種反應是因為我們和它之間熟悉卻又偶爾變換的關係。 今天我展示給你們的所有藝術家都應用醫學插圖創作藝術。但是對於他們,解剖學不是需要背誦的,而是在有意義層面來理解人體的基礎;用與我們相關的方式來描畫它,無論是通過卡通,人體繪畫或是街頭藝術。 解剖藝術擁有能超越醫學課本力量,點燃公眾的熱情的力量,振作醫學世界的激情的力量,最終通過藝術,把我們最深層次的自我與我們的身體相連。 謝謝。 (掌聲)"
