Talk	en	zh-tw
vincent_cochetel_i_was_held_hostage_for_317_days_here_s_what_i_thought_about	"I cannot forget them. Their names were Aslan, Alik, Andrei, Fernanda, Fred, Galina, Gunnhild, Hans, Ingeborg, Matti, Natalya, Nancy, Sheryl, Usman, Zarema, and the list is longer. For many, their existence, their humanity, has been reduced to statistics, coldly recorded as ""security incidents."" For me, they were colleagues belonging to that community of humanitarian aid workers that tried to bring a bit of comfort to the victims of the wars in Chechnya in the '90s. They were nurses, logisticians, shelter experts, paralegals, interpreters. And for this service, they were murdered, their families torn apart, and their story largely forgotten. No one was ever sentenced for these crimes. I cannot forget them. They live in me somehow, their memories giving me meaning every day. But they are also haunting the dark street of my mind. As humanitarian aid workers, they made the choice to be at the side of the victim, to provide some assistance, some comfort, some protection, but when they needed protection themselves, it wasn't there. When you see the headlines of your newspaper these days with the war in Iraq or in Syria — aid worker abducted, hostage executed — but who were they? Why were they there? What motivated them? How did we become so indifferent to these crimes? This is why I am here today with you. We need to find better ways to remember them. We also need to explain the key values to which they dedicated their lives. We also need to demand justice. When in '96 I was sent by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to the North Caucasus, I knew some of the risks. Five colleagues had been killed, three had been seriously injured, seven had already been taken hostage. So we were careful. We were using armored  vehicles, decoy cars, changing patterns of travel, changing homes, all sorts of security measures. Yet on a cold winter night of January '98, it was my turn. When I entered my flat in Vladikavkaz with a guard, we were surrounded by armed men. They took the guard, they put him on the floor, they beat him up in front of me, tied him, dragged him away. I was handcuffed, blindfolded, and forced to kneel, as the silencer of a gun pressed against my neck. When it happens to you, there is no time for thinking, no time for praying. My brain went on automatic, rewinding quickly the life I'd just left behind. It took me long minutes to figure out that those masked men there were not there to kill me, but that someone, somewhere, had ordered my kidnapping. Then a process of dehumanization started that day. I was no more than just a commodity. I normally don't talk about this, but I'd like to share a bit with you some of those 317 days of captivity. I was kept in an underground cellar, total darkness, for 23 hours and 45 minutes every day, and then the guards  would come, normally two. They would bring a big piece of bread, a bowl of soup, and a candle. That candle would burn for 15 minutes, 15 minutes of precious light, and then they would take it away, and I returned to darkness. I was chained by a metal cable to my bed. I could do only four small steps. I always dreamt of the fifth one. And no TV, no radio, no newspaper, no one to talk to. I had no towel, no soap, no toilet paper, just two metal buckets open, one for water, for one waste. Can you imagine that mock execution can be a pastime for guards when they are sadistic or when they are just bored or drunk? We are breaking my nerves very slowly. Isolation and darkness are particularly difficult to describe. How do you describe nothing? There are no words for the depths of loneliness I reached in that very thin border between sanity and madness. In the darkness, sometimes I played imaginary games of checkers. I would start with the black, play with the white, back to the black trying to trick the other side. I don't play checkers anymore. I was tormented by the thoughts of my family and my colleague, the guard, Edik. I didn't know what had happened to him. I was trying not to think, I tried to fill up my time by doing all sorts of physical exercise on the spot. I tried to pray, I tried all sorts of memorization games. But darkness also creates images and thoughts that are not normal. One part of your brain wants you to resist, to shout, to cry, and the other part of the brain orders you to shut up and just go through it. It's a constant internal debate; there is no one to arbitrate. Once a guard came to me, very aggressively, and he told me, ""Today you're going to kneel and beg for your food."" I wasn't in a good mood, so I insulted him. I insulted his mother, I insulted his ancestors. The consequence was moderate: he threw the food into my waste. The day after he came back with the same demand. He got the same answer, which had the same consequence. Four days later, the body was full of pain. I didn't know hunger hurt so much when you have so little. So when the guards came down, I knelt. I begged for my food. Submission was the only way for me to make it to another candle. After my kidnapping, I was transferred from North Ossetia to Chechnya, three days of slow travel in the trunks of different cars, and upon arrival, I was interrogated for 11 days by a guy called Ruslan. The routine was always the same: a bit more light, 45 minutes. He would come down to the cellar, he would ask the guards to tie me on the chair, and he would turn on the music loud. And then he would yell questions. He would scream. He would beat me. I'll spare you the details. There are many questions I could not understand, and there are some questions I did not want to understand. The length of the interrogation was the duration of the tape: 15 songs, 45 minutes. I would always long for the last song. On one day, one night in that cellar, I don't know what it was, I heard a child crying above my head, a boy, maybe two or three years old. Footsteps, confusion, people running. So when Ruslan came the day after, before he put the first question to me, I asked him, ""How is your son today? Is he feeling better?"" Ruslan was taken by surprise. He was furious that the guards may have leaked some details about his private life. I kept talking about NGOs supplying medicines to local clinics that may help his son to get better. And we talked about education, we talked about families. He talked to me about his children. I talked to him about my daughters. And then he'd talk about guns, about cars, about women, and I had to talk about guns, about cars, about women. And we talked until the last song on the tape. Ruslan was the most brutal man I ever met. He did not touch me anymore. He did not ask any other questions. I was no longer just a commodity. Two days after, I was transferred to another place. There, a guard came to me, very close — it was quite unusual — and he said with a very soft voice, he said, ""I'd like to thank you for the assistance your organization provided my family when we were displaced in nearby Dagestan."" What could I possibly reply? It was so painful. It was like a blade in the belly. It took me weeks of internal thinking to try to reconcile the good reasons we had to assist that family and the soldier of fortune he became. He was young, he was shy. I never saw his face. He probably meant well. But in those 15 seconds, he made me question everything we did, all the sacrifices. He made me think also how they see us. Until then, I had assumed that they know why we are there and what we are doing. One cannot assume this. Well, explaining why we do this is not that easy, even to our closest relatives. We are not perfect, we are not superior, we are not the world's fire brigade, we are not superheroes, we don't stop wars, we know that humanitarian response is not a substitute for political solution. Yet we do this because one life matters. Sometimes that's the only difference you make — one individual, one family, a small group of individuals — and it matters. When you have a tsunami, an earthquake or a typhoon, you see teams of rescuers coming from all over the world, searching for survivors for weeks. Why? Nobody questions this. Every life matters, or every life should matter. This is the same for us when we help refugees, people displaced within their country by conflict, or stateless persons, I know many people, when they are confronted by overwhelming suffering, they feel powerless and they stop there. It's a pity, because there are so many ways people can help. We don't stop with that feeling. We try to do whatever we can to provide some assistance, some protection, some comfort. We have to. We can't do otherwise. It's what makes us feel, I don't know, simply human. That's a picture of me the day of my release. Months after my release, I met the then-French prime minister. The second thing he told me: ""You were totally irresponsible to go to the North Caucasus. You don't know how many problems you've created for us."" It was a short meeting. (Laughter) I think helping people in danger is responsible. In that war, that nobody seriously wanted to stop, and we have many of these today, bringing some assistance to people in need and a bit of protection was not just an act of humanity, it was making a real difference for the people. Why could he not understand this? We have a responsibility to try. You've heard about that concept: Responsibility to Protect. Outcomes may depend on various parameters. We may even fail, but there is worse than failing — it's not even trying when we can. Well, if you are met this way, if you sign up for this sort of job, your life is going to be full of joy and sadness, because there are a lot of people we cannot help, a lot of people we cannot protect, a lot of people we did not save. I call them my ghost, and by having witnessed their suffering from close, you take a bit  of that suffering on yourself. Many young humanitarian workers go through their first experience with a lot of bitterness. They are thrown into situations where they are witness, but they are powerless to bring any change. They have to learn to accept it and gradually turn this into positive energy. It's difficult. Many don't succeed, but for those who do, there is no other job like this. You can see the difference you make every day. Humanitarian aid workers know the risk they are taking in conflict areas or  in post-conflict environments, yet our life, our job, is becoming  increasingly life-threatening, and the sanctity of our life is fading. Do you know that since the millennium, the number of attacks on humanitarian  aid workers has tripled? 2013 broke new records: 155 colleagues killed, 171 seriously wounded, 134 abducted. So many broken lives. Until the beginning of the civil war in Somalia in the late '80s, humanitarian aid workers were sometimes victims of what we call collateral damages, but by and large we were not the target of these attacks. This has changed. Look at this picture. Baghdad, August 2003: 24 colleagues were killed. Gone are the days when a U.N. blue flag or a Red Cross would automatically protect us. Criminal groups and some political groups have cross-fertilized over the last 20 years, and they've created these sort of hybrids with whom we have no way of communicating. Humanitarian principles are tested, questioned, and often ignored, but perhaps more importantly, we have abandoned the search for justice. There seems to be no consequence whatsoever for attacks against humanitarian aid workers. After my release, I was told not to seek any form of justice. It won't do you any good, that's what I was told. Plus, you're going to put in danger the life of other colleagues. It took me years to see the sentencing of three people associated  with my kidnapping, but this was the exception. There was no justice for any  of the humanitarian aid workers killed or abducted in Chechnya between '95 and '99, and it's the same all over the world. This is unacceptable. This is inexcusable. Attacks on humanitarian aid workers are war crimes in international law. Those crimes should not go unpunished. We must end this cycle of impunity. We must consider that those attacks against humanitarian aid workers are attacks against humanity itself. That makes me furious. I know I'm very lucky compared to the refugees I work for. I don't know what it is to have seen my whole town destroyed. I don't know what it is to have seen my relatives shot in front of me. I don't know what it is to lose the protection of my country. I also know that I'm very lucky compared to other hostages. Four days before my eventful release, four hostages were beheaded a few miles away from where I was kept in captivity. Why them? Why am I here today? No easy answer. I was received with a lot of support that I got from my relatives, from colleagues, from friends, from people I didn't know. They have helped me over the years to come out of the darkness. Not everyone was treated with the same attention. How many of my colleagues, after a traumatic incident, took their own life? I can count nine that I knew personally. How many of my colleagues went through a difficult divorce after a traumatic experience because they could not explain anything anymore to their spouse? I've lost that count. There is a price for this type of life. In Russia, all war monuments have this beautiful inscription at the top. It says, (In Russian) ""No one is forgotten, nothing is forgotten."" I do not forget my lost colleagues. I cannot forget anything. I call on you to remember their dedication and demand that humanitarian aid workers around the world be better protected. We should not let that light of hope they have brought to be switched off. After my ordeal, a lot of colleagues asked me, ""But why do you continue? Why do you do this sort of job? Why do you have to go back to it?"" My answer was very simple: If I had quit, that would have meant my kidnapper had won. They would have taken my soul and my humanity. Thank you. (Applause)"	這些人，我一個也忘不了。他們的名字是：Aslan、Alik、AndreiFernanda、Fred、Galina、GunnhildHans、Ingeborg、Matti、NatalyaNancy、Sheryl、Usman、Zarema死亡名單還更長。對於他們當中許多人來說，他們的存在、人性被簡化成數據，被冷漠地記錄成「安全事故」。 對於我來說，他們是同僚，共屬人道援助工作者的社群，共同竭力為90年代車臣戰爭的受害者帶來一點安樂。這些人是護士、後勤人員、庇護專家、律師助理、翻譯人員。而正因他們提供的服務，他們被謀殺了。他們的家人難過心碎，但他們的故事卻被大大忘卻。沒有人因此而被判罪。 他們，我一個都不能忘。某程度上，他們與我同活。關於他們的記憶賦予我每天生存的意義。但他們也縈繞在我心中的黑暗街道。 作為人道主義援助工作者，他們選擇站在受害者的一邊，提供力所能及的幫助、安樂、保護，但是當他們自己需要保護時，卻無法被保護。時至今日，當你在看報紙頭條，看見伊拉克、敘利亞在打仗的同時，也看到援助工作者被綁架、人質被處決，但是他們是誰？為什麼他們會在那裡？為什麼他們決定到那裡去？面對這些犯罪，我們怎麼變得如此冷漠？這就是我今天來到這裡的原因。我們需要尋找更好的方式去銘記這些受害者。我們需要闡釋他們犧牲奉獻的關鍵理念。我們亦需要尋求正義。 1996年，我受命於聯合國難民署前往北高加索執行任務時，我就知道其中的一些風險。五位同僚遭殺害，三名同僚受重傷，七位同僚已被綁架做人質。因此當時我們很小心。當時我們使用裝甲車、誘餌車，變換出行模式、切換居所，還有其它多種安全措施。 但是1998年1月的一個寒冷的冬夜，還是輪到我了。我和我的守衛走進在弗拉季高加索的住所時，被一群武裝人員包圍了。他們拿下了守衛，把他打倒在地，他們在我面前暴打他捆住他、拖走了他。我雙手被銬，雙眼被蒙，被迫下跪，手槍的消聲器始終抵住我的咽喉。這樣的事情發生在你身上，你不會有時間去思考、禱告。我的大腦自動開始運作，快速回想我過去所經歷的人生。花了很長時間，我才發現這群蒙面男子不是來殺我的，但是受人指使來綁架我。之後，一系列泯滅人性的行為從那天開始了。我變成了一件商品。 一般我不談這些，但今天我想與在座各位分享被綁架317天的一些點滴。我被囚禁在一個地窖裡，伸手不見五指，如此渡過每日的23小時45分鐘，然後看守就會過來，一般有兩個。他們會帶一大塊麵包，還有一碗湯和一支蠟燭，蠟燭會燒15分鐘，珍貴的15分鐘光明，然後他們會把東西都拿走，而我又重返黑暗。我被鐵鍊鎖在床架上。活動範圍只有四小步。我經常渴望能走到第五步。沒有電視、沒有廣播、沒有報紙、沒有談話對象。沒有毛巾、沒有肥皂、沒有廁紙只有兩個敞口鐵桶，一個儲水，一個儲排泄物。你能想像嗎？模擬處決可以是守衛的消遣，要是看守是虐待狂，或者只是無聊、喝醉酒。我的耐力緩慢地被消磨。 隔離和黑暗最難以形容。你要怎樣描述空無？言語不能表達我當時所感受到的深切孤獨，徘徊在理智與瘋狂的邊界線上。在黑暗當中，有時我會玩假想的跳棋。我會先下黑子，然後下白子，然後再到黑子，不斷嘗試贏另一方。現在我不玩跳棋了。一想到家人、同僚、我的守衛Edik，我內心就飽受煎熬。我不知道他怎麼樣了。我嘗試避免思考，同時又嘗試填補時間，在原地做不同的體能運動。我嘗試祈禱、嘗試了各種記憶遊戲。但黑暗也會創造不平常的影像和想法。大腦的一邊想讓你反抗、嘶吼、哭泣，另一邊卻命令你閉嘴，默默忍受這一切。這是無休止的內心辯論；沒有人來做最終的裁決。 有一次，一名看守氣勢洶洶地走過來，告訴我，「今天要吃的，你就得向我下跪乞求。」當時我的心情不好，所以就罵他。我詛咒了他媽媽、他的祖宗。結果比較溫和：他將食物扔進了裝排泄物的桶。第二天他還是同樣的要求。也得到了同樣的答案，食物的下場也是一樣。四天之後，我的身體無處不痛。我從前不知道，明明已經一無所有，飢餓竟然可以讓人如此痛苦。所以，守衛過來的時候，我下跪了。我乞求食物。屈服是獲得另一支蠟燭的唯一辦法。 被綁架之後，我從北奧賽梯，被運到車臣，漫漫的三天路程，我被困在不同的車尾箱裡，一到達，我就被審問，一個叫鲁斯兰的人，審問了我11天。審問方法總是一樣的：光明延長到45分鐘。他來到地窖，讓看守把我綁在椅子上，然後把音樂放得很大聲。然後，他大聲喊著提問。他尖叫，還毆打我。細節我就不提了。審問的問題有很多我都不懂，也有一些是我不願意懂。審問的時長是帶子的時長：15首歌，45分鐘。我總是盼著快點播到最後一首。 有一天，不知道是白天還是夜晚，我聽到頭頂有一個小孩在哭，是個小男孩，也許兩歲或者三歲。（我聽到）腳步聲、一些混亂，還有人奔跑。鲁斯兰第二天過來，在他問第一個問題之前，我問他「你兒子今天怎樣了？他好點了嗎？」鲁斯兰吃了一驚。他非常生氣，以為這裡的看守把他的私人生活告訴我了。他非常生氣，以為這裡的守衛把他的私人生活告訴我了。我一直說，向本地診所提供藥物的非政府組織可能會幫他兒子恢復健康。然後我們談教育，我們談家庭。他跟我講他的孩子。我跟他講我的女兒。然後他要聊槍支、聊汽車、聊女人，所以我也得聊槍支、聊汽車、聊女人。我們一直聊到最後一首歌。鲁斯兰是我遇見過最兇殘的男人。他沒有再碰我了。他沒有再問我其他任何問題。我不再僅僅是一件商品。 兩天之後，我被轉移到另一個地方。在那裡，一名看守走到我身邊，相當靠近——平常不會這樣——他用很輕很輕的聲音說「我要感謝你，我們在達吉斯坦流離失所時，你們的組織向我家人提供了幫助。」我能說什麼？實在是太痛苦了。就像腹中插了一把刀。我花了好幾個星期去思考、嘗試重新接受從前幫助那些家庭和像他那樣後來變成僱傭軍的人時，我們深信的信念。他年輕、羞怯。我從沒見過他的臉。他的用意可能是好的。但在那15秒裡，他讓我質疑我們以前所做的一切，所有的犧牲。 他讓我開始思考他們對我們的看法。在此之前，我以為他們知道我們為什麼會在那裡、我們在幹什麼。但大家不能這樣擅自揣測。解釋我們的行動目的，並不容易，即便是對我們最親的親人。我們並不完美，也不高人一等，我們不是世界消防隊，也不是超級英雄，我們不能阻止戰爭，我們深知人道主義措施不能代替政治解決方案。但我們仍然堅持工作，因為每條生命都很寶貴。有時這就是你力所能及的，一條生命、一個家庭、一個小群體，都很重要。海嘯、地震、颱風發生時，你看見救援隊伍從世界各地趕往現場，連續數週搜索倖存者。為什麼？沒有人去質疑。每條生命都很寶貴，或者說，每條生命都應該很寶貴。出於同一原因，我們幫助難民幫助由於衝突而流離失所的人，無論他們有沒有國籍。 我知道有很多人，當他們面臨不能承受之苦時，會覺得無能為力，止步不前。這很遺憾，因為人們能給予幫助的方式有很多。我們不會因為這種無力感而止步。我們嘗試盡己所能，去提供一些幫助、保護和安樂。我們必須這樣做。我們別無選擇。這能讓我們感覺…感覺到簡單的人道。 這是我被釋放當天的照片。釋放數月後，我會見了當時的法國總理。他告訴我的第二件事是：「你去北高加索，實在是完全不負責任。你不知道你給我們帶來了多少麻煩。」會面很簡短。（笑聲） 我相信，幫助身處危難的人是負責任的行為。那場戰爭，沒有人想要真正停戰，今天我們有很多這樣的戰爭，為有需要的人帶去一點幫助、一點保護並不只是人道行為，這是為人類所做的真正改變。為什麼他不能理解這點？我們有責任去嘗試。大家都聽過這個概念：保護的責任。成果可能取決於不同的標準。我們甚至可能會失敗，但比失敗更糟糕的是：即便是力所能及，也不去嘗試。 假如你有這樣的經歷，如果你決定加入這類工作，你的生活將會充滿快樂和悲傷，因為我們無法幫助的人有很多，我們無法保護的人有很多，我們沒能拯救的人有很多。我稱之為「我的鬼魂」，近身目睹他們的痛苦，你也會感受到其中的痛苦。許多年輕的人道主義工作者初次工作會經歷很多辛酸。他們不得不目睹一些情景慘狀，但是他們無能為力，無法改變。他們必須學會接受，慢慢將這些轉化為正能量。談何容易。很多人做不到，但對於做得到的人來說，其他工作無法與之相比。每天你都可以看見自己發揮的作用。 人道主義援助工作者知道他們所擔負的風險，無論在衝突地區、還是衝突過後的地區，但我們的生命、我們的工作卻越來越威脅到生命安全，而生命的聖潔性卻逐漸減退。你知道嗎？自千禧年來，對人道主義援助工作者的襲擊已經增加到3倍。2013年破了新紀錄：155位同僚被殺害，171位受重傷，134位被綁架。破碎的生命如此之多。80年代初，索馬里內戰剛開始前，人道主義援助工作者有時會成為我們所說的間接傷害的受害者，有時人道主義援助工作者會成為我們所說的間接傷害的受害者，但我們基本上不是襲擊的目標。但現在變了。看看這張照片。巴格達，2003年8月：24位同僚遭殺害。聯合國的藍旗或紅十字會旗在過去會自動保護我們，這樣的日子已經不復返。 犯罪團體和一些政治團體在過去20年來互相雜交，創造出的產物我們根本無法與之溝通。人道主義原則被測試、質疑，也常常被忽視，但也許更重要的是，我們已經放棄尋求正義。襲擊人道主義援助工作者似乎再也不會帶來什麼後果。我被釋放後，被告知不要尋求任何形式的正義。「這對你沒好處」，人們這麼說。「而且你會將其他同僚的生命置於危險之中。」花了很多年，我才看到 與我綁架案相關的三個人被判刑，但這是例外。1995-1999年間在車臣被殺害或綁架的人道主義援助工作者，沒有看到任何正義得到伸張，而全世界也是如此。無法接受。不能容忍。在國際法中，襲擊人道主義援助工作者是戰爭罪行。這些罪行不應逃脫懲處。我們必須結束有罪不懲的惡循環。我們必須將對人道主義援助工作者的襲擊視為對人道主義的襲擊。這樣的襲擊讓我怒不可遏。 我知道，比起工作中遇到的難民我已相當幸運。看見自己的家鄉被完全毀滅，我不知道會有何感想。看見自己的家人被射死，我不知道會有何感想。看見自己的國家失去保護，我不知道會有何感想。我知道，比起其他人質，我已相當幸運。在我被釋放前四天，四名人質被斬首，僅離我囚禁之處幾英里遠。為什麼是他們？為什麼我今天會在這裡？答案不容易。 我從家人、同僚、朋友、陌生人身上得到了許多支持。這些年來他們幫助我走出黑暗。不是每個人都得到了同樣的關注。多少位同僚在經過創傷事件後放棄了自己的生命？我自己認識的就有9位。多少位同僚遭受了創傷事件後經歷了艱難的離婚，因為他們再也不能向伴侶解釋任何事情。這種事不勝枚舉。這類人生有代價。 在俄羅斯，所有的戰爭紀念碑的頂部都有這串漂亮的銘文。上面寫著（俄文）：「無人被遺忘，無事被遺忘。」 我不會忘記我失去的同僚。我不能忘卻所發生過的事情。我呼籲各位，銘記他們的奉獻，並要求世界範圍內的人道主義援助工作者都會受到更好地保護。我們不該讓他們所帶來的希望之光熄滅。 經歷苦難之後，許多同僚問我：「你爲什麽還在堅持？」「為什麼你要做這樣的工作？」「為什麼你非得要繼續做？」我的答案非常簡單：如果我放棄的話，那就是說我的綁匪成功了。我若放棄，他們就該征服我的靈魂，我的人性。 感謝。 （掌聲）
