Talk	en	zh-tw
virginia_postrel_on_glamour	"You might be wondering why I'm wearing sunglasses, and one answer to that is, because I'm here to talk about glamour. So, we all think we know what glamour is. Here it is. It's glamorous movie stars, like Marlene Dietrich. And it comes in a male form, too — very glamorous. Not only can he shoot, drive, drink — you know, he drinks wine, there actually is a little wine in there — and of course, always wears a tuxedo. But I think that glamour actually has a much broader meaning — one that is true for the movie stars and the fictional characters, but also comes in other forms. A magazine? Well, it's certainly not this one. This is the least glamorous magazine on the newsstand — it's all about sex tips. Sex tips are not glamorous. And Drew Barrymore, for all her wonderful charm, is not glamorous either. But there is a glamour of industry. This is Margaret Bourke-White's — one of her pictures she did. Fantastic, glamorous pictures of steel mills and paper mills and all kinds of glamorous industrial places. And there's the mythic glamour of the garage entrepreneur. This is the Hewlett-Packard garage. We know everyone who starts a business in a garage ends up founding Hewlett-Packard. There's the glamour of physics. What could be more glamorous than understanding the entire universe, grand unification? And, by the way, it helps if you're Brian Greene — he has other kinds of glamour. And there is, of course, this glamour. This is very, very glamorous: the glamour of outer space — and not the alien-style glamour, but the nice, clean, early '60s version. So what do we mean by glamour? Well, one thing you can do if you want to know what glamour means is you can look in the dictionary. And it actually helps a lot more if you look in a very old dictionary, in this case the 1913 dictionary. Because for centuries, glamour had a very particular meaning, and the word was actually used differently from the way we think of it. You had ""a"" glamour. It wasn't glamour as a quality — you ""cast a glamour."" Glamour was a literal magic spell. Not a metaphorical one, the way we use it today, but a literal magic spell associated with witches and gypsies and to some extent, Celtic magic. And over the years, around the turn of the 20th century, it started to take on this other kind of deception — this definition for any artificial interest in, or association with, an object through which it appears delusively magnified or glorified. But still, glamour is an illusion. Glamour is a magic spell. And there's something dangerous about glamour throughout most of history. When the witches cast a magic spell on you, it was not in your self-interest — it was to get you to act against your interest. Well of course, in the 20th century, glamour came to have this different meaning associated with Hollywood. And this is Hedy Lamarr. Hedy Lamarr said, ""Anyone can look glamorous, all you have to do is sit there and look stupid."" (Laughter) But in fact, with all due respect to Hedy — about whom we'll hear more later — there's a lot more to it. There was a tremendous amount of technical achievement associated with creating this Hollywood glamour. There were scores of retouchers and lighting experts and make-up experts. You can go to the museum of Hollywood history in Hollywood and see Max Factor's special rooms that he painted different colors depending on the complexion of the star he was going to make up. So you've got this highly stylized portrait of something that was not entirely of this earth — it was a portrait of a star. And actually, we see glamorized photos of stars all the time — they call them false color. Glamour is a form of falsification, but falsification to achieve a particular purpose. It may be to illuminate the star; it may be to sell a film. And it involves a great deal of technique. It's not — glamour is not something — you don't wake up in the morning glamorous. I don't care who you are. Even Nicole Kidman doesn't wake up in the morning glamorous. There is a process of ""idealization, glorification and dramatization,"" and it's not just the case for people. Glamour doesn't have to be people. Architectural photography — Julius Schulman, who has talked about transfiguration, took this fabulous, famous picture of the Kauffman House. Architectural photography is extremely glamorous. It puts you into this special, special world. This is Alex Ross's comic book art, which appears to be extremely realistic, as part of his style is he gives you a kind of realism in his comic art. Except that light doesn't work this way in the real world. When you stack people in rows, the ones in the background look smaller than the ones in the foreground — but not in the world of glamour. What glamour is all about — I took this from a blurb in the table of contents of New York magazine, which was telling us that glamour is back — glamour is all about transcending the everyday. And I think that that's starting to get at what the core that combines all sorts of glamour is. This is Filippino Lippi's 1543 portrait of Saint Apollonia. And I don't know who she is either, but this is the [16th] century equivalent of a supermodel. It's a very glamorous portrait. Why is it glamorous? It's glamorous, first, because she is beautiful — but that does not make you glamorous, that only makes you beautiful. She is graceful, she is mysterious and she is transcendent, and those are the central qualities of glamour. You don't see her eyes; they're looking downward. She's not looking away from you exactly, but you have to mentally imagine her world. She's encouraging you to contemplate this higher world to which she belongs, where she can be completely tranquil while holding the iron instruments of her death by torture. Mel Gibson's ""Passion Of The Christ"" — not glamorous. That's glamour: that's Michelangelo's ""Pieta,"" where Mary is the same age as Jesus and they're both awfully happy and pleasant. Glamour invites us to live in a different world. It has to simultaneously be mysterious, a little bit distant — that's why, often in these glamour shots, the person is not looking at the audience, it's why sunglasses are glamorous — but also not so far above us that we can't identify with the person. In some sense, there has to be something like us. So as I say, in religious art, you know, God is not glamorous. God cannot be glamorous because God is omnipotent, omniscient — too far above us. And yet you will see in religious art, saints or the Virgin Mary will often be portrayed — not always — in glamorous forms. As I said earlier, glamour does not have to be about people, but it has to have this transcendent quality. What is it about Superman? Aside from Alex Ross's style, which is very glamorous, one thing about Superman is he makes you believe that a man can fly. Glamour is all about transcending this world and getting to an idealized, perfect place. And this is one reason that modes of transportation tend to be extremely glamorous. The less experience we have with them, the more glamorous they are. So you can do a glamorized picture of a car, but you can't do a glamorized picture of traffic. You can do a glamorized picture of an airplane, but not the inside. The notion is that it's going to transport you, and the story is not about, you know, the guy in front of you in the airplane, who has this nasty little kid, or the big cough. The story is about where you're arriving, or thinking about where you're arriving. And this sense of being transported is one reason that we have glamour styling. This sort of streamlining styling is not just glamorous because we associate it with movies of that period, but because, in it's streamlining, it transports us from the everyday. The same thing — arches are very glamorous. Arches with stained glass — even more glamorous. Staircases that curve away from you are glamorous. I happen to find that particular staircase picture very glamorous because, to me, it captures the whole promise of the academic contemplative life — but maybe that's because I went to Princeton. Anyway, skylines are super glamorous, city streets — not so glamorous. You know, when you get, actually to this town it has reality. The horizon, the open road, is very, very glamorous. There are few things more glamorous than the horizon — except, possibly, multiple horizons. Of course, here you don't feel the cold, or the heat — you just see the possibilities. In order to pull glamour off, you need this Renaissance quality of sprezzatura, which is a term coined by Castiglione in his book, ""The Book Of The Courtier."" There's the not-glamorous version of what it looks like today, after a few centuries. And sprezzatura is the art that conceals art. It makes things look effortless. You don't think about how Nicole Kidman is maneuvering that dress — she just looks completely natural. And I remember reading, after the Lara Croft movies, how Angelina Jolie would go home completely black and blue. Of course, they covered that with make-up, because Lara Croft did all those same stunts — but she doesn't get black and blue, because she has sprezzatura. ""To conceal all art and make whatever is done or said appear to be without effort"": And this is one of the critical aspects of glamour. Glamour is about editing. How do you create the sense of transcendence, the sense of evoking a perfect world? The sense of, you know, life could be better, I could join this — I could be a perfect person, I could join this perfect world. We don't tell you all the grubby details. Now, this was kindly lent to me by Jeff Bezos, from last year. This is underneath Jeff's desk. This is what the real world of computers, lamps, electrical appliances of all kinds, looks like. But if you look in a catalog — particularly a catalog of modern, beautiful objects for your home — it looks like this. There are no cords. Look next time you get these catalogs in your mail — you can usually figure out where they hid the cord. But there's always this illusion that if you buy this lamp, you will live in a world without cords. (Laughter) And the same thing is true of, if you buy this laptop or you buy this computer — and even in these wireless eras, you don't get to live in the world without cords. You have to have mystery and you have to have grace. And there she is — Grace. This is the most glamorous picture, I think, ever. Part of the thing is that, in ""Rear Window,"" the question is, is she too glamorous to live in his world? And the answer is no, but of course it's really just a movie. Here's Hedy Lamarr again. And, you know, this kind of head covering is extremely glamorous because, like sunglasses, it conceals and reveals at the same time. Translucence is glamorous — that's why all these people wear pearls. It's why barware is glamorous. Glamour is translucent — not transparent, not opaque. It invites us into the world but it doesn't give us a completely clear picture. And I think if Grace Kelly is the most glamorous person, maybe a spiral staircase with glass block may be the most glamorous interior shot, because a spiral staircase is incredibly glamorous. It has that sense of going up and away, and yet you never think about how you would really trip if you were — particularly going down. And of course glass block has that sense of translucence. So, this session's supposed to be about pure pleasure but glamour's really partly about meaning. All individuals and all cultures have ideals that cannot possibly be realized in reality. They have contradictions, they uphold principles that are incommensurable with each other — whatever it is — and yet these ideals give meaning and purpose to our lives as cultures and as individuals. And the way we deal with that is we displace them — we put them into a golden world, an imagined world, an age of heroes, the world to come. And in the life of an individual, we often associate that with some object. The white picket fence, the perfect house. The perfect kitchen — no bills on the counter in the perfect kitchen. You know, you buy that Viking range, this is what your kitchen will look like. The perfect love life — symbolized by the perfect necklace, the perfect diamond ring. The perfect getaway in your perfect car. This is an interior design firm that is literally called Utopia. The perfect office — again, no cords, as far as I can tell. And certainly, no, it doesn't look a thing like my office. I mean, there's no paper on the desk. We want this golden world. And some people get rich enough, and if they have their ideals — in a sort of domestic sense, they get to acquire their perfect world. Dean Koontz built this fabulous home theater, which is — I don't think accidentally — in Art Deco style. That symbolizes this sense of being safe and at home. This is not always good, because what is your perfect world? What is your ideal, and also, what has been edited out? Is it something important? ""The Matrix"" is a movie that is all about glamour. I could do a whole talk on ""The Matrix"" and glamour. It was criticized for glamorizing violence, because, look — sunglasses and those long coats, and, of course, they could walk up walls and do all these kinds of things that are impossible in the real world. This is another Margaret Bourke-White photo. This is from Soviet Union. Attractive. I mean, look how happy the people are, and good-looking too. You know, we're marching toward Utopia. I'm not a fan of PETA, but I think this is a great ad. Because what they're doing is they're saying, your coat's not so glamorous, what's been edited out is something important. But actually, what's even more important than remembering what's been edited out is thinking, are the ideals good? Because glamour can be very totalitarian and deceptive. And it's not just a matter of glamorizing cleaning your floor. This is from ""Triumph Of The Will"" — brilliant editing to cut together things. There's a glamour shot. National Socialism is all about glamour. It was a very aesthetic ideology. It was all about cleaning up Germany, and the West, and the world, and ridding it of anything unglamorous. So glamour can be dangerous. I think glamour has a genuine appeal, has a genuine value. I'm not against glamour. But there's a kind of wonder in the stuff that gets edited away in the cords of life. And there is both a way to avoid the dangers of glamour and a way to broaden your appreciation of it. And that's to take Isaac Mizrahi's advice and confront the manipulation of it all, and sort of admit that manipulation is something that we enjoy, but also enjoy how it happens. And here's Hedy Lamarr. She's very glamorous but, you know, she invented spread-spectrum technology. So she's even more glamorous if you know that she really wasn't stupid, even though she thought she could look stupid. David Hockney talks about how the appreciation of this very glamorous painting is heightened if you think about the fact that it takes two weeks to paint this splash, which only took a fraction of a second to happen. There is a book out in the bookstore — it's called ""Symphony In Steel,"" and it's about the stuff that's hidden under the skin of the Disney Center. And that has a fascination. It's not necessarily glamorous, but unveiling the glamour has an appeal. There's a wonderful book called ""Crowns"" that's all these glamour pictures of black women in their church hats. And there's a quote from one of these women, and she talks about, ""As a little girl, I'd admire women at church with beautiful hats. They looked like beautiful dolls, like they'd just stepped out of a magazine. But I also knew how hard they worked all week. Sometimes under those hats there's a lot of joy and a lot of sorrow."" And, actually, you get more appreciation for glamour when you realize what went into creating it. Thank you."	"你可能會疑惑為什麼我戴著太陽眼鏡其中的一個答案就是因為我今天的主題是魅惑。我們都以為自己知道魅惑是甚麼一個魅力十足的電影巨星，就像 Marlene Dietrich也有男性。非常迷人。不僅僅因為他可以射擊，開車— 他也喝酒照片裡也真的有酒當然，他總是穿著燕尾服但我認為，魅惑實際上有一個更廣泛的含義不但實現在電影明星和虛構人物身上但也出現在其他形式。 一本雜誌？那麼，它肯定不是這一個。這是報攤上最缺乏魅力的雜誌 - 全是性愛祕訣性愛祕訣無關魅惑和茱麗芭摩爾，雖然她很迷人但那仍然不是魅力這個產業裡有一種特定的魅力這是 Margaret Bourke White所照的照片神奇，迷人的照片鋼鐵廠和造紙廠和各種魅力的工業場所。從車庫創業也帶有一種神奇魅力這是惠普車庫。我們都知道誰從車庫開始創業最終最後成立惠普。有物理的魅惑有什麼比了解整個宇宙更具魅惑呢全體合一，如果你是 Brian Greene 更好他擁有其他種類的魅力 還有，當然，這種魅力這是非常，非常迷人 - 太空的魅惑不是外星人的魅惑而是美觀大方，乾淨，60年代初的版本。那麼，我們所說的魅惑究竟是甚麼如果你想知道魅惑的意思可以去查字典。如果你看的是一本非常老的字典就更好了在這種情況下，1913年的字典。因為數百年來，魅惑 (glamour) 有一個非常特別的意義，我們使用它的方式和我們思考它的方式不同你有魅力這不只是一種質感 - 你還得使用它魅惑就像是一種魔咒不只是一種隱喻，像我們今日的用法而是一種真的魔法，像巫婆和吉普賽人並在一定程度上，凱爾特人魔術。這些年來，在20世紀之交，它開始帶著一種欺騙像是對一個虛假的，不實放大或美化的物件產生虛假的興趣或與其有關但儘管如此，魅惑是一種錯覺。魅惑是一個神奇的咒語。魅惑還有些危險縱觀大部分的歷史，當女巫對你施咒那往往是與你心相悖的 嗯，當然，在 20 世紀，魅惑因為好萊塢有了全新的定義這是 Hedy Lamarr她說，""任何人都可以迷人只要坐著裝笨就行了。""我們稍後還會繼續提到 Hedy和他的言論，與我們今天的主題息息相關有許多驚人的科技發展和創造這種好萊塢魅惑有關有燈光師、化妝師和修片師你可以到好萊塢歷史博物館看看 Max Factor 為了不同膚色的明星所設計的特殊房間，牆上的不同顏色於是你得到了這種高度設計的人像不完全屬於這個地球，而是一張明星的相片試試上，我們時常看見這些造假的魅惑巨星照他們稱之為假彩色 魅惑是一種形式的弄虛作假，為達到某種特殊目的可能是哄抬明星，或是為電影行銷它涉及了大量的技術。這不是 - 魅惑並不自然無論你是誰，你都不會一醒來就如此具有魅力就算妮可基曼也不能它總是要經過理想化，美化和戲劇化，不只針對人物魅力不只限於人物建築攝影 -討論變型的 Julius Schulman照了這張著名的 Kauffman House 照建築攝影是非常魅惑的它讓你進入這個特別的世界這是Alex Ross的漫畫看上去非常真實在他的漫畫中，他給了你一種真實感但真實世界的燈光並不實這樣 當你把人排成一排後面的人看上去應該比前面的人小但在魅惑世界不是這樣魅惑是怎麼一回事我在紐約一本雜誌的的目錄裡看見這個告訴我們魅惑回來了魅惑超越日常生活我認為這已經幾乎達到結合所有魅惑的核心了這是 Fiilippino Lippi 1543年所繪的聖徒 Apollonia 相我也不知道她是誰在15世紀大概相當與今日的名模一幅非常魅惑的畫像魅惑在哪？魅惑，第一因為她美麗但這不足以讓你魅惑他人只有讓你美麗。她優雅，她是神秘的，她是超越性，這些都是魅惑的基本要素你看不見她的眼睛，她垂下眼她並不是不看你但你必須自己想像她的世界她的鼓勵你去思考這個更高的層次她在那裡全然安靜手持折磨她致死的鐵器梅爾吉勃遜的“基督受難記” - 不魅惑這才是魅惑這是米開朗基羅的“聖母憐子圖”，其中瑪麗和耶穌童年他們倆如此幸福愉快 魅惑讓我們活在不同世界它又神祕又遙遠這就是為甚麼在這些魅惑的相片中他們從不直視觀眾這就是為甚麼太陽眼鏡如此魅惑但又不至於讓我們認不出那人從某種意義上說，它必須和我們有些共通處因此，正如我說，在宗教藝術，你知道，神是不魅惑的神不迷人因為祂無所不在無所不知 - 這有些太遙遠了然而，你會看到在宗教藝術，聖人或聖母瑪利亞往往被描繪 - 並不總是 - 用一種魅惑的方式正如我剛才所說，魅惑不一定和觀眾有關但必須有一種穿透性超人呢？除了來自 Alex Ross 的魅惑風格超人讓你相信人可以飛 魅惑有關超越這個世界到一個理想的，完美的地方這也是為甚麼運輸系統總是非常魅惑我們越不曾經歷的越魅惑你可以做一個魅惑的車照但你不能做出一張魅惑的塞車照你可以做一張魅惑的飛機相片，但不包括內部那概念是：它會帶你到其它地方這和坐你前面的那傢伙無關和這個討厭的小孩是誰的，或大聲咳嗽無關這故事和你的目的地有關或想像你的目的地這種被帶走的感覺就是魅惑風格的來源這些線條並不只是魅惑不只因為我們會因此想到同期的電影而是在這些線條中，我們忘記了日常生活 相同的，拱門很魅惑拱門和彩色玻璃，更魅惑旋轉樓梯非常魅惑某些樓梯圖片對我來說非常魅惑因為對我來說，它就像在承諾我一個學術的、深思的生活但也許那是因為我去了普林斯頓大學。天際線非常魅惑街道 － 沒這麼魅惑你知道的，真實並不魅惑地平線上，在開闊的道路，是非常，非常魅惑很少有甚麼事情比地平線更魅惑除了多重的地平線當然，在這裡你不覺得冷，或熱 -你看到的只是可能性想要達到魅惑的效果，你需要文藝復興的質感Castiglione 在它的“朝臣書”中創造了 sprezzatura 這個詞經過幾個世紀，這本書今日看上去不再魅惑 sprezzatura 是一種隱藏的藝術。它使事情看起來不費吹灰之力。你不想知道妮可基曼如何努力套進那件禮服她看上去非常自然舒服裘莉在拍攝古墓奇兵期間打的全身是傷，滿身的瘀青但當然他們都用化妝掩蓋了因為女主角做了所有的動作卻毫無瘀青，因為她有 sprezzatura掩蓋所有的努力，看上去毫不費力事實上，這是魅惑的一個重點魅力是有關編輯。妮如果創造穿透力喚起一個完美世界生活可以更好，我可以加入它們我可以是一個完美的人，加入這個完美的世界。我們不告訴你任何骯髒的細節。 這是 Jeff Bezos 好心借我的這是傑夫辦公桌下面的模樣這是現實世界的電腦，燈具，電器的各種模樣。但如果你看今天目錄 -在你為你的家找尋一個現代的、美麗的傢具時它看起來像這樣。沒有電線。下次當你收到這些目錄時你可以想像他們都把線藏到哪裡去了但你總是有這種幻覺：如果你買了這盞燈你將活在一個沒有電線的世界如果你買了這台筆記本電腦或者是這台電腦 - 甚至在這個無線時代你仍然無法活在無線的世界你必須有神祕，和風度就像她一樣 － 葛雷斯。我想這將永遠會是史上最魅惑的照片還有在電影”後窗“的那些鏡頭問題是，她是否魅惑到一個不屬於他的世界？答案是否定的，當然那只是一部電影 Hedy Lamarr 又來了你知道這種頭套非常魅惑它就像太陽眼鏡，它隱藏又顯示⋯⋯半透明的魅惑於是人們戴珍珠這就是為什麼酒具如此魅惑 - 魅惑是半透明的，不透明，也不完全不透明它邀請我們進入但我們並不知道它的全貌如果葛雷斯凱莉是最為魅惑的人或許玻璃製的旋轉樓梯是最魅惑的室內照因為螺旋樓梯非常魅惑它暗示著走上去，離開但你從未想到下來的時候很容易跌倒當然玻璃有一種透明感這次的會議討論的應該是純粹的享樂但魅惑其實有它真正的意義所以人和所有文化都有無法實現的理想 他們有矛盾，它們有些無法互通的原則無論如何，但這些理想為我們的文化和個人生活帶來意義和目的我們處理它的方式是把它放到一個想像的，金色的世界一個英雄的時代，即將出現的理想世界我們把這些理想和某些物品做出聯繫白色的柵欄，完美的房子。完美的廚房 - 桌上沒有任何賬單的完美廚房如果你買下那名牌烤箱，你的廚房就會變成這樣完美的項鍊象徵完美的愛情完美的鑽戒在完美的車裡開往完美假期這是一個室內設計公司，名字就叫烏托邦完美的辦公室同樣，沒有電線，當然，我的辦公室看起來根本不是這樣桌上連張紙都沒有我們要這個金色的世界某些人賺夠了錢如果它們有自己的家居理想的話他們可以買到這個完美世界 Dean Koontz 蓋了這個裝置藝術風格的家庭影院我認為絕非碰巧象徵著安全和居家這不一定總是件好事，你的完美世界是怎樣的你的理想世界是怎樣的？在那其中你是否剪掉了甚麼重要的細節？駭客任務是一部有關魅惑的電影這個演講可以全部拿來討論駭客任務和魅惑但是你知道，它被批評為渲染暴力你看看那些太陽眼鏡和長大衣他們還可以飛簷走壁之類的在真實世界中是不可能的這是另一張 Margaret Bourke White 的照片蘇聯。很吸引人。看看他們多麼開心，和美麗。我們正邁向烏托邦 我不是保護動物組織的成員，但我覺得這是個很好的廣告因為他們在說的是你的外套並不這麼魅惑，有些重要的事情被除去了事實上，有甚麼比思考甚麼被除去了更重要，更理想？由於魅惑可以非常極權和騙人。這不只是美化你的地板這是“意志的勝利”把所有東西精緻地消滅掉有一幅魅惑的照片國家社會主義總是極為魅惑是一種理想美感有關清理德國，西方和世界和消除任何不魅惑的事物魅惑可能是危險的 魅惑當然是吸引人的，有它的價值我並不反對魅惑但在日常生活中，那些被捨棄的東西裡，有些甚麼重要的事有一種方法可以避開魅惑的危險或拓展你對魅惑的讚賞採用 Issac Mizrahi 的堅毅對面操控的事實並承認我們喜歡這種操作享受它是如何發生的Hedy Lamarr 在此她非常迷人，但你同時知道她發明了擴頻技術知道她不傻，讓她更迷人了儘管她知道她可能看上去很傻 David Hockney 談到如何欣賞這點我認為，那些魅惑的畫將更迷人如果你想到它需要兩週才能完成但其實一切在一秒內都已發生書店裡有本書叫“鋼的交響曲”有關迪士尼中心外表下的一切它很神奇或許不魅惑，但揭開魅惑的表面也有其魅力有本好書叫“冠”有許多黑人婦女戴著教會帽的迷人照片其中有個婦女說“在我還是一個小女孩的時候，我就喜歡教堂裡的這些漂亮帽子他們看上去像美麗的娃娃，像從雜誌中走出來的但我也知道他們努力工作了一週在這些帽子下有很多很多的快樂和悲傷。你更能欣賞這些魅惑當你了解人們花了多少心思創造它謝謝。"
