Talk	en	zh-tw
vusi_mahlasela_sings_thula_mama	"I’d like to dedicate this one to all the women in South Africa — those women who refused to dwindle in the midst of apartheid. And, of course, I’m dedicating it also to my grandmother, whom I think really played quite a lot of important roles, especially for me when I was an activist, and being harassed by the police. You will recall that in 1976, June 16, the students of South Africa boycotted the language of Afrikaans as the medium of the oppressor, as they were sort of like really told that they must do everything in Afrikaans — biology, mathematics — and what about our languages? And the students wanted to speak to the government, and police answered with bullets. So every year, June 16, we will commemorate all those comrades or students who died. And I was very young then. I think I was 11 years, and I started asking questions, and that’s when my political education started. And I joined, later on, the youth organization under the African National Congress. So as part of organizing this and whatever, this commemoration, the police will round us up as they call us leaders. And I used to run away from home, when I know that maybe the police might be coming around the ninth or 10th of June or so. And my grandmother one time said, ""No, look, you’re not going to run away. This is your place, you stay here."" And indeed, the police came — because they’ll just arrest us and put us in jail and release us whenever they feel like, after the 20th or so. So it was on the 10th of June, and they came, and they surrounded the house, and my grandmother switched off all the lights in the house, and opened the kitchen door. And she said to them, ""Vusi's here, and you're not going to take him tonight. I'm tired of you having to come here, harassing us, while your children are sleeping peacefully in your homes. He is here, and you're not going to take him. I've got a bowl full of boiling water — the first one who comes in here, gets it."" And they left. (Applause) (Music) ♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama. ♫ ♫ Through the mist of the tears in your eyes on my childhood memory, ♫ ♫ I know the truth in your smile, ♫ ♫ I know the truth in your smile, ♫ ♫ piercing through the gloom of my ignorance. ♫ ♫ Oh, there is a mama lying down sleeping ♫ ♫ you're very ill and your heart crying. ♫ ♫ Wondering, wondering, wondering, wondering where is this world coming to. ♫ ♫ Is it right the children have to fend for themselves? No, no, no, no, no. no. ♫ ♫ Is it right heaping trouble on an old lady's head? ♫ ♫ So unlucky faceless people. ♫ ♫ Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama. Thula Mama Mama. ♫ ♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama ♫ ♫ Tomorrow it’s going to be better. ♫ ♫ Tomorrow it's going to be better to climb, Mama. ♫ ♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama. ♫ ♫ Am I to break into the song like the blues man or troubadour. ♫ ♫ And then from long distance in no blues club am I to sing, ♫ ♫ baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby. ♫ ♫ Should I now stop singing of love, ♫ ♫ now that my memory’s surrounded by blood? ♫ ♫ Sister, why oh why do we at times mistake a pimple for a cancer? ♫ ♫ So who are they who says, no more love poems now? ♫ ♫ I want to sing a song of love ♫ ♫ for that woman who jumped the fences pregnant ♫ ♫ and still gave birth to a healthy child. ♫ ♫ Softly I walk into the sun rays of the smile ♫ ♫ that will ignite my love song, my song of life, ♫ ♫ my song of love, my song of life, my song of love, ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love, my song of life. ♫ ♫ Ooh, I’ve not tried to run away from song, ♫ ♫ I hear a persistent voice, more powerful than the enemy bombs. ♫ ♫ The song that washed our lives and the rains of our blood. ♫ ♫ My song of love and my song of life, my song of love, ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love, ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love — I want everybody to sing with me — ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love, my song of life — everybody sing with me — ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love — I can’t hear you — ♫ ♫ my song of love, my song of life — you can do better — ♫ ♫ my song of life, my song of love — keep singing, keep singing — ♫ ♫ my song of love, my song of life, yes, my song of love — ♫ ♫ you can do better than that — ♫ ♫ my song of life, yes, my song of love, my song of life, my song of love — ♫ ♫ keep singing, keep singing, keep singing — my song of love. ♫ ♫ Oh yeah. My song of — a love song, my song of life. Sing. A love song, my song of life. Sing. ♫ ♫ Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life. Sing. ♫ ♫ Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life. ♫ ♫ Love song, my song of life. ♫ (Applause)"	"我想把這首歌獻給南非所有的婦女—特別是那些拒絕在種族隔離中式微的女性。當然，這首歌也要特別獻給我的奶奶，她在我的一生中扮演了相當重要的角色，尤其是在我身為激進份子而備受警察騷擾的那段期間。 你們大概都還記得在1976年6月16號，南非的學生聯合抵制鎮壓者強迫把南非荷蘭語作為溝通的媒介。學生們被迫一定要用南非荷蘭語來學習任何課程—如生物，數學— 那我們自身的語言該如何生存呢?因此學生們想和政府對談，但警方確以子彈回應。因此，每年的6月16號，我們都會紀念那些在反抗中犧牲的學生。回想起當時，我還很小，大概才11歲，正是對任何事物感到好奇的時候，而我的政治教育也正此開始。後來，我加入了非洲國民大會的青年組織。身為組織紀念活動的一員，警察常會來圍捕騷擾我們，他們把我們叫作""領導者""，在當時我還甚至常常逃家為了就是躲避警方的逮捕。他們常在6月的9號或10號來。有次，我的奶奶還說：「聽好，這次你不准走這裡就是你的家，就好好待在這裡。」那晚，警察果真又來了。因為他們總是任意地逮捕我們，關進牢裡，然後大約又在6月20號以後釋放我們。 那晚是6月10號，警察來了，把我家包圍起來，奶奶把房裡所有的燈關掉，再打開廚房的門。她對他們說:「伍斯今晚在家，不過你們別想把他帶走，我真的受夠了你們跑來這裡來騷擾我們，而你們的孩子確能在家裡睡得這麼安穩。他今晚就在這，但你們別想逮捕他。我已經準備好滿滿一盆滾燙的開水，誰先進來，我就潑向誰。」那晚他們就只好灰頭土臉的走了。(掌聲) ♫杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽♫♫從您那淚水盈眶的雙眼中，我回想起童年♫♫我知道您微笑中蘊含的真理♫♫我知道您微笑中蘊含的真理♫♫穿透我無知的籓籬中♫♫ 噢，親愛的媽媽熟睡著♫♫您的身體微恙，您的心在呼喊著♫♫擔心著，擔心著，擔心著，擔心著，擔心著這世界將會變成怎樣♫♫讓小孩自力更生，對嗎? 不，不，不......♫♫找老婦人麻煩，對嗎?♫♫對平凡人來說，是多麼的不幸♫♫杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽♫♫杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽♫♫明天將會變得更好♫♫明天的挑戰將會更加的容易♫♫杜拉媽媽，杜拉媽媽♫ ♫我開始像藍調歌手或吟遊詩人一樣唱著歌♫♫然而可以讓我歌唱的藍調酒吧卻無處可尋♫♫寶貝，寶貝，寶貝......♫♫是否該停止對愛的歌頌呢?♫♫當我的記憶已被鮮血化據?♫♫姊妹們，為何我們時常的把粉刺誤認為癌症?♫♫是誰在嘆息再也沒有歌頌愛的詩歌?♫ ♫我想要歌頌一首愛的旋律♫♫獻給那位懷著身孕仍跳下柵欄的婦女♫♫她仍然生下了健康的孩子♫♫我漫步在和珣微笑的陽光下♫♫燃起了我對愛，對生命的歌頌♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命，唱出愛♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛，唱出生命♫♫喔，我未曾停止歌唱♫♫我聽到一個堅毅的嗓音，比起敵人的炸彈更有威力♫♫那是洗淨你我的人生和血淚♫ ♫唱出愛，唱出生命，唱出愛♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛— 大家跟我一起唱♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛，唱出生命— 大家跟我一起唱♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛— 大聲點♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命— 再大聲一點♫♫唱出生命，唱出愛— 繼續唱，不要停♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命，對，唱出愛♫♫來，再大聲一點♫♫唱出生命，對，唱出愛，唱出生命，唱出愛♫♫繼續唱，不要停，不要停— 唱出愛♫對，就是這樣。唱出— 愛之旋律，唱出生命。唱。唱出愛，唱出生命。♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命。來，一起唱。唱出愛，唱出生命。一起唱。♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命。來，一起唱。唱出愛，唱出生命。♫♫唱出愛，唱出生命♫(掌聲)"
