Talk	en	zh-tw
wade_davis_on_endangered_cultures	"You know, one of the intense pleasures of travel and one of the delights of ethnographic research is the opportunity to live amongst those who have not forgotten the old ways, who still feel their past in the wind, touch it in stones polished by rain, taste it in the bitter leaves of plants. Just to know that Jaguar shamans still journey beyond the Milky Way, or the myths of the Inuit elders still resonate with meaning, or that in the Himalaya, the Buddhists still pursue the breath of the Dharma, is to really remember the central revelation of anthropology, and that is the idea that the world in which we live does not exist in some absolute sense, but is just one model of reality, the consequence of one particular set of adaptive choices that our lineage made, albeit successfully, many generations ago. And of course, we all share the same adaptive imperatives. We're all born. We all bring our children into the world. We go through initiation rites. We have to deal with the inexorable separation of death, so it shouldn't surprise us that we all sing, we all dance, we all have art. But what's interesting is the unique cadence of the song, the rhythm of the dance in every culture. And whether it is the Penan in the forests of Borneo, or the Voodoo acolytes in Haiti, or the warriors in the Kaisut desert of Northern Kenya, the Curandero in the mountains of the Andes, or a caravanserai in the middle of the Sahara — this is incidentally the fellow that I traveled into the desert with a month ago — or indeed a yak herder in the slopes of Qomolangma, Everest, the goddess mother of the world. All of these peoples teach us that there are other ways of being, other ways of thinking, other ways of orienting yourself in the Earth. And this is an idea, if you think about it, can only fill you with hope. Now, together the myriad cultures of the world make up a web of spiritual life and cultural life that envelops the planet, and is as important to the well-being of the planet as indeed is the biological web of life that you know as a biosphere. And you might think of this cultural web of life as being an ethnosphere, and you might define the ethnosphere as being the sum total of all thoughts and dreams, myths, ideas, inspirations, intuitions brought into being by the human imagination since the dawn of consciousness. The ethnosphere is humanity's great legacy. It's the symbol of all that we are and all that we can be as an astonishingly inquisitive species. And just as the biosphere has been severely eroded, so too is the ethnosphere — and, if anything, at a far greater rate. No biologists, for example, would dare suggest that 50 percent of all species or more have been or are on the brink of extinction because it simply is not true, and yet that — the most apocalyptic scenario in the realm of biological diversity — scarcely approaches what we know to be the most optimistic scenario in the realm of cultural diversity. And the great indicator of that, of course, is language loss. When each of you in this room were born, there were 6,000 languages spoken on the planet. Now, a language is not just a body of vocabulary or a set of grammatical rules. A language is a flash of the human spirit. It's a vehicle through which the soul of each particular culture comes into the material world. Every language is an old-growth forest of the mind, a watershed, a thought, an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities. And of those 6,000 languages, as we sit here today in Monterey, fully half are no longer being whispered into the ears of children. They're no longer being taught to babies, which means, effectively, unless something changes, they're already dead. What could be more lonely than to be enveloped in silence, to be the last of your people to speak your language, to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors or anticipate the promise of the children? And yet, that dreadful fate is indeed the plight of somebody somewhere on Earth roughly every two weeks, because every two weeks, some elder dies and carries with him into the grave the last syllables of an ancient tongue. And I know there's some of you who say, ""Well, wouldn't it be better, wouldn't the world be a better place if we all just spoke one language?"" And I say, ""Great, let's make that language Yoruba. Let's make it Cantonese. Let's make it Kogi."" And you'll suddenly discover what it would be like to be unable to speak your own language. And so, what I'd like to do with you today is sort of take you on a journey through the ethnosphere, a brief journey through the ethnosphere, to try to begin to give you a sense of what in fact is being lost. Now, there are many of us who sort of forget that when I say ""different ways of being,"" I really do mean different ways of being. Take, for example, this child of a Barasana in the Northwest Amazon, the people of the anaconda who believe that mythologically they came up the milk river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes. Now, this is a people who cognitively do not distinguish the color blue from the color green because the canopy of the heavens is equated to the canopy of the forest upon which the people depend. They have a curious language and marriage rule which is called ""linguistic exogamy:"" you must marry someone who speaks a different language. And this is all rooted in the mythological past, yet the curious thing is in these long houses, where there are six or seven languages spoken because of intermarriage, you never hear anyone practicing a language. They simply listen and then begin to speak. Or, one of the most fascinating tribes I ever lived with, the Waorani of northeastern Ecuador, an astonishing people first contacted peacefully in 1958. In 1957, five missionaries attempted contact and made a critical mistake. They dropped from the air 8 x 10 glossy photographs of themselves in what we would say to be friendly gestures, forgetting that these people of the rainforest had never seen anything two-dimensional in their lives. They picked up these photographs from the forest floor, tried to look behind the face to find the form or the figure, found nothing, and concluded that these were calling cards from the devil, so they speared the five missionaries to death. But the Waorani didn't just spear outsiders. They speared each other. 54 percent of their mortality was due to them spearing each other. We traced genealogies back eight generations, and we found two instances of natural death and when we pressured the people a little bit about it, they admitted that one of the fellows had gotten so old that he died getting old, so we speared him anyway. (Laughter) But at the same time they had a perspicacious knowledge of the forest that was astonishing. Their hunters could smell animal urine at 40 paces and tell you what species left it behind. In the early '80s, I had a really astonishing assignment when I was asked by my professor at Harvard if I was interested in going down to Haiti, infiltrating the secret societies which were the foundation of Duvalier's strength and Tonton Macoutes, and securing the poison used to make zombies. In order to make sense out of sensation, of course, I had to understand something about this remarkable faith of Vodoun. And Voodoo is not a black magic cult. On the contrary, it's a complex metaphysical worldview. It's interesting. If I asked you to name the great religions of the world, what would you say? Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Judaism, whatever. There's always one continent left out, the assumption being that sub-Saharan Africa had no religious beliefs. Well, of course, they did and Voodoo is simply the distillation of these very profound religious ideas that came over during the tragic Diaspora of the slavery era. But, what makes Voodoo so interesting is that it's this living relationship between the living and the dead. So, the living give birth to the spirits. The spirits can be invoked from beneath the Great Water, responding to the rhythm of the dance to momentarily displace the soul of the living, so that for that brief shining moment, the acolyte becomes the god. That's why the Voodooists like to say that ""You white people go to church and speak about God. We dance in the temple and become God."" And because you are possessed, you are taken by the spirit — how can you be harmed? So you see these astonishing demonstrations: Voodoo acolytes in a state of trance handling burning embers with impunity, a rather astonishing demonstration of the ability of the mind to affect the body that bears it when catalyzed in the state of extreme excitation. Now, of all the peoples that I've ever been with, the most extraordinary are the Kogi of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Colombia. Descendants of the ancient Tairona civilization which once carpeted the Caribbean coastal plain of Colombia, in the wake of the conquest, these people retreated into an isolated volcanic massif that soars above the Caribbean coastal plain. In a bloodstained continent, these people alone were never conquered by the Spanish. To this day, they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood but the training for the priesthood is rather extraordinary. The young acolytes are taken away from their families at the age of three and four, sequestered in a shadowy world of darkness in stone huts at the base of glaciers for 18 years: two nine-year periods deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of gestation they spend in their natural mother's womb; now they are metaphorically in the womb of the great mother. And for this entire time, they are inculturated into the values of their society, values that maintain the proposition that their prayers and their prayers alone maintain the cosmic — or we might say the ecological — balance. And at the end of this amazing initiation, one day they're suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives, at the age of 18, they see a sunrise. And in that crystal moment of awareness of first light as the Sun begins to bathe the slopes of the stunningly beautiful landscape, suddenly everything they have learned in the abstract is affirmed in stunning glory. And the priest steps back and says, ""You see? It's really as I've told you. It is that beautiful. It is yours to protect."" They call themselves the ""elder brothers"" and they say we, who are the younger brothers, are the ones responsible for destroying the world. Now, this level of intuition becomes very important. Whenever we think of indigenous people and landscape, we either invoke Rousseau and the old canard of the ""noble savage,"" which is an idea racist in its simplicity, or alternatively, we invoke Thoreau and say these people are closer to the Earth than we are. Well, indigenous people are neither sentimental nor weakened by nostalgia. There's not a lot of room for either in the malarial swamps of the Asmat or in the chilling winds of Tibet, but they have, nevertheless, through time and ritual, forged a traditional mystique of the Earth that is based not on the idea of being self-consciously close to it, but on a far subtler intuition: the idea that the Earth itself can only exist because it is breathed into being by human consciousness. Now, what does that mean? It means that a young kid from the Andes who's raised to believe that that mountain is an Apu spirit that will direct his or her destiny will be a profoundly different human being and have a different relationship to that resource or that place than a young kid from Montana raised to believe that a mountain is a pile of rock ready to be mined. Whether it's the abode of a spirit or a pile of ore is irrelevant. What's interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the natural world. I was raised in the forests of British Columbia to believe those forests existed to be cut. That made me a different human being than my friends amongst the Kwagiulth who believe that those forests were the abode of Huxwhukw and the Crooked Beak of Heaven and the cannibal spirits that dwelled at the north end of the world, spirits they would have to engage during their Hamatsa initiation. Now, if you begin to look at the idea that these cultures could create different realities, you could begin to understand some of their extraordinary discoveries. Take this plant here. It's a photograph I took in the Northwest Amazon just last April. This is ayahuasca, which many of you have heard about, the most powerful psychoactive preparation of the shaman's repertoire. What makes ayahuasca fascinating is not the sheer pharmacological potential of this preparation, but the elaboration of it. It's made really of two different sources: on the one hand, this woody liana which has in it a series of beta-carbolines, harmine, harmaline, mildly hallucinogenic — to take the vine alone is rather to have sort of blue hazy smoke drift across your consciousness — but it's mixed with the leaves of a shrub in the coffee family called Psychotria viridis. This plant had in it some very powerful tryptamines, very close to brain serotonin, dimethyltryptamine, 5-methoxydimethyltryptamine. If you've ever seen the Yanomami blowing that snuff up their noses, that substance they make from a different set of species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamine. To have that powder blown up your nose is rather like being shot out of a rifle barrel lined with baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity. (Laughter) It doesn't create the distortion of reality; it creates the dissolution of reality. In fact, I used to argue with my professor, Richard Evan Shultes — who is a man who sparked the psychedelic era with his discovery of the magic mushrooms in Mexico in the 1930s — I used to argue that you couldn't classify these tryptamines as hallucinogenic because by the time you're under the effects there's no one home anymore to experience a hallucination. (Laughter) But the thing about tryptamines is they cannot be taken orally because they're denatured by an enzyme found naturally in the human gut called monoamine oxidase. They can only be taken orally if taken in conjunction with some other chemical that denatures the MAO. Now, the fascinating things are that the beta-carbolines found within that liana are MAO inhibitors of the precise sort necessary to potentiate the tryptamine. So you ask yourself a question. How, in a flora of 80,000 species of vascular plants, do these people find these two morphologically unrelated plants that when combined in this way, created a kind of biochemical version of the whole being greater than the sum of the parts? Well, we use that great euphemism, ""trial and error,"" which is exposed to be meaningless. But you ask the Indians, and they say, ""The plants talk to us."" Well, what does that mean? This tribe, the Cofan, has 17 varieties of ayahuasca, all of which they distinguish a great distance in the forest, all of which are referable to our eye as one species. And then you ask them how they establish their taxonomy and they say, ""I thought you knew something about plants. I mean, don't you know anything?"" And I said, ""No."" Well, it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties in the night of a full moon, and it sings to you in a different key. Now, that's not going to get you a Ph.D. at Harvard, but it's a lot more interesting than counting stamens. (Laughter) Now — (Applause) — the problem — the problem is that even those of us sympathetic with the plight of indigenous people view them as quaint and colorful but somehow reduced to the margins of history as the real world, meaning our world, moves on. Well, the truth is the 20th century, 300 years from now, is not going to be remembered for its wars or its technological innovations, but rather as the era in which we stood by and either actively endorsed or passively accepted the massive destruction of both biological and cultural diversity on the planet. Now, the problem isn't change. All cultures through all time have constantly been engaged in a dance with new possibilities of life. And the problem is not technology itself. The Sioux Indians did not stop being Sioux when they gave up the bow and arrow any more than an American stopped being an American when he gave up the horse and buggy. It's not change or technology that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere. It is power, the crude face of domination. Wherever you look around the world, you discover that these are not cultures destined to fade away; these are dynamic living peoples being driven out of existence by identifiable forces that are beyond their capacity to adapt to: whether it's the egregious deforestation in the homeland of the Penan — a nomadic people from Southeast Asia, from Sarawak — a people who lived free in the forest until a generation ago, and now have all been reduced to servitude and prostitution on the banks of the rivers, where you can see the river itself is soiled with the silt that seems to be carrying half of Borneo away to the South China Sea, where the Japanese freighters hang light in the horizon ready to fill their holds with raw logs ripped from the forest — or, in the case of the Yanomami, it's the disease entities that have come in, in the wake of the discovery of gold. Or if we go into the mountains of Tibet, where I'm doing a lot of research recently, you'll see it's a crude face of political domination. You know, genocide, the physical extinction of a people is universally condemned, but ethnocide, the destruction of people's way of life, is not only not condemned, it's universally, in many quarters, celebrated as part of a development strategy. And you cannot understand the pain of Tibet until you move through it at the ground level. I once travelled 6,000 miles from Chengdu in Western China overland through southeastern Tibet to Lhasa with a young colleague, and it was only when I got to Lhasa that I understood the face behind the statistics you hear about: 6,000 sacred monuments torn apart to dust and ashes, 1.2 million people killed by the cadres during the Cultural Revolution. This young man's father had been ascribed to the Panchen Lama. That meant he was instantly killed at the time of the Chinese invasion. His uncle fled with His Holiness in the Diaspora that took the people to Nepal. His mother was incarcerated for the crime of being wealthy. He was smuggled into the jail at the age of two to hide beneath her skirt tails because she couldn't bear to be without him. The sister who had done that brave deed was put into an education camp. One day she inadvertently stepped on an armband of Mao, and for that transgression, she was given seven years of hard labor. The pain of Tibet can be impossible to bear, but the redemptive spirit of the people is something to behold. And in the end, then, it really comes down to a choice: do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or do we want to embrace a polychromatic world of diversity? Margaret Mead, the great anthropologist, said, before she died, that her greatest fear was that as we drifted towards this blandly amorphous generic world view not only would we see the entire range of the human imagination reduced to a more narrow modality of thought, but that we would wake from a dream one day having forgotten there were even other possibilities. And it's humbling to remember that our species has, perhaps, been around for [150,000] years. The Neolithic Revolution — which gave us agriculture, at which time we succumbed to the cult of the seed; the poetry of the shaman was displaced by the prose of the priesthood; we created hierarchy specialization surplus — is only 10,000 years ago. The modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old. Now, that shallow history doesn't suggest to me that we have all the answers for all of the challenges that will confront us in the ensuing millennia. When these myriad cultures of the world are asked the meaning of being human, they respond with 10,000 different voices. And it's within that song that we will all rediscover the possibility of being what we are: a fully conscious species, fully aware of ensuring that all peoples and all gardens find a way to flourish. And there are great moments of optimism. This is a photograph I took at the northern tip of Baffin Island when I went narwhal hunting with some Inuit people, and this man, Olayuk, told me a marvelous story of his grandfather. The Canadian government has not always been kind to the Inuit people, and during the 1950s, to establish our sovereignty, we forced them into settlements. This old man's grandfather refused to go. The family, fearful for his life, took away all of his weapons, all of his tools. Now, you must understand that the Inuit did not fear the cold; they took advantage of it. The runners of their sleds were originally made of fish wrapped in caribou hide. So, this man's grandfather was not intimidated by the Arctic night or the blizzard that was blowing. He simply slipped outside, pulled down his sealskin trousers and defecated into his hand. And as the feces began to freeze, he shaped it into the form of a blade. He put a spray of saliva on the edge of the shit knife and as it finally froze solid, he butchered a dog with it. He skinned the dog and improvised a harness, took the ribcage of the dog and improvised a sled, harnessed up an adjacent dog, and disappeared over the ice floes, shit knife in belt. Talk about getting by with nothing. (Laughter) And this, in many ways — (Applause) — is a symbol of the resilience of the Inuit people and of all indigenous people around the world. The Canadian government in April of 1999 gave back to total control of the Inuit an area of land larger than California and Texas put together. It's our new homeland. It's called Nunavut. It's an independent territory. They control all mineral resources. An amazing example of how a nation-state can seek restitution with its people. And finally, in the end, I think it's pretty obvious at least to all of all us who've traveled in these remote reaches of the planet, to realize that they're not remote at all. They're homelands of somebody. They represent branches of the human imagination that go back to the dawn of time. And for all of us, the dreams of these children, like the dreams of our own children, become part of the naked geography of hope. So, what we're trying to do at the National Geographic, finally, is, we believe that politicians will never accomplish anything. We think that polemics — (Applause) — we think that polemics are not persuasive, but we think that storytelling can change the world, and so we are probably the best storytelling institution in the world. We get 35 million hits on our website every month. 156 nations carry our television channel. Our magazines are read by millions. And what we're doing is a series of journeys to the ethnosphere where we're going to take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they cannot help but come away dazzled by what they have seen, and hopefully, therefore, embrace gradually, one by one, the central revelation of anthropology: that this world deserves to exist in a diverse way, that we can find a way to live in a truly multicultural, pluralistic world where all of the wisdom of all peoples can contribute to our collective well-being. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"對我來說 在世界各地旅行和從事人類學研究的生涯中最大的樂趣莫過於去體驗那些沒有忘記傳統的族群的生活不管是沐浴在微風中還是觸摸被雨水刷亮的石頭或是嘗著苦葉的味道 你都能感受到他們的歷史聽著黑豹巫師(Jaguar shamans)依然在銀河外旅行的故事紐特(Inuit)老人的神話仍然引起後人的共鳴而在喜馬拉雅山佛教徒還在追隨法門這讓我們想起人類學的核心揭示它的意思是 我們生活的世界不是存在於絕對的主張之中而是客觀的現實它是一連串適應性的選擇的結果許多世代前 人類祖先成功地做了選擇 當然 我們都遵守著相同的適應性規則我們都生於母腹 也這樣生兒育女我們要經歷成年禮的洗禮必須面對殘酷的生離死別所以我們會唱歌和跳舞還創造了藝術 來排遣生命苦楚 但有趣的是 每種文化的歌曲韻律和舞蹈節奏都有獨一無二的特色無論是生活在婆羅(Borneo)叢林的伯南(Penan)人還是海地的巫毒教(Voodoo)侍僧抑或是北肯亞(Kenya)凱蘇特(Kaisut)沙漠的武士安迪斯(Andes)山區的巫醫(Curandero)或撒哈拉沙漠中的圍帳客棧我碰巧與一位犛牛牧養人結伴進沙漠一個月前他在珠穆朗瑪峰的山坡上牧牛埃佛勒斯峰 世界的母親 這些族群展示了不同的生存方式和不同的思維方式以及不同的人生觀如果你認真想想 你就會發現它們能讓你滿懷希望這個世界五彩繽紛的文化猶如一張由精神生活和文化生活交織而成的網覆蓋住整個地球就如同地球上生態圈的網絡對芸芸眾生是一樣重要你可以把這種生命文化之網看作是一個種族文化圈這個種族文化圈可以被定義為從人類有意識以來 通過想像力所有的思想和夢想、神話、想法、感動與直覺的總集合種族文化圈是人類的偉大遺產它是我們的身份標誌也是我們人類天性格物致知的證明 如同生物圈受到嚴重的侵蝕一樣種族文化圈也面臨著同樣的厄運而且 它的毀滅速度更快沒有任何一位生物學家敢斷言50% 或更多的物種已經滅絕或者頻臨絕種 這本來就不是真的然而對 生物多樣性 的最悲觀的預測還遠優於我們對 文化多樣性 的最樂觀的預測而其中最明顯的 就是語言的失傳 數十年前 當我們才出生時地球上原本有 6000 種語言語言不僅僅是字彙集合或者文法而已語言是人類靈魂的神來一筆是透過它 每個獨特文化的精神才得以在物質世界體現每種語言都是一座古老的思想森林也是一種意識和生命可能性的生態系 6000 種語言 這和今天的觀眾一樣多其中一半已經不再向孩子們傳授這些語言已經沒有傳人也就是說 除非採取有效的措施否則它們會徹底地消失試想有口難言 這樣地孤單寂寞或者 你成了最後一個會說這語言的人祖先的智慧再也不能傳承下去再也無法期待孩子們的承諾另一個可怕的事實是現在每兩個星期就會有一位長者去世跟著一起埋葬入土的是一種古老語言的消逝 我知道你們有人會說「如果世界上只有一種語言，那不是更好嗎？」 我會說「好,就讓約魯巴語(Yoruba) 或者是粵語(Cantonese)或者是科基語(Kogi) 成為那唯一的語言。」你就會發現不能說母語是什麼樣的感覺了 因此 今天我想做的就是帶你們去看看這個種族文化圈一段簡潔的種族文化圈之旅去切身感受那消失中的文明可能你們有些人會忘記了我在前面說過“不同的生存方式”那是真的 完全不同的生命之道 舉個例子 這個小孩生活在亞瑪遜西北部的巴拉撒拉地區他們被稱為森蚺之族他們相信 他們是來自銀河東岸誕生於神聖的蛇腹這個族群的人在意識上認為藍色和綠色是相同的顏色因為天堂的藍色穹頂與他們安身其下的綠色樹冠是完全相同的意義他們有特別的 ""與異種語言通婚"" 規則這被稱為語言學異族通婚你必須與一個說不同語言的人結婚這都是根據神話傳說的歷史傳承下來的你可以看到一個奇怪的現象由於異語言同婚的緣故一個大家族會有六七種語言你從不會看到有人在練習別種語言他們只要聽 就會說了 其中一個我共同生活過的奇妙種族厄瓜多東北部的華拉尼(Waorani)族人早在 1958 年 就與現代人有和平的接觸1957年 有五名傳教士試圖接近他們但是這些人犯了一個致命的錯誤他們從空中丟下八到十張他們自己的照片在我們看來 這是友好的表示卻忘了這些生活在雨林中的人從來沒有見過平面圖像他們從林地上撿起這些照片試圖從相片背面 找到這些人的真實形體但什麼也沒發現 所以他們認為這是惡魔的召喚卡 於是他們用長矛戮死了這五名傳教士但華拉尼不僅戮死外來者他們還自相殘殺54% 的死亡人口是被他們自己的族人戮死的我們對一個八代宗譜進行調查發現只有兩例自然死亡當我們追根究柢他們終於承認 當族人因為年邁難免一死我們就乾脆戮死他 為他送終（笑聲）另一方面 他們對叢林有著令人驚詫的洞察力獵人們能聞到 40 步外的動物尿液再告訴你是什麼動物留下的 80 年代早期 我曾有一項奇妙的任務我在哈佛大學的教授問我是否有興趣去海地去潛入一個秘密社團那是海地總統杜華利和他的政權支持者的基地並且帶回一種製造僵屍的毒藥為了理解其中的奧秘我必須先瞭解這神奇的巫毒教信仰其實它不是什麼邪教組織相反地 它是一個複雜且抽象的世界觀這是很有意思的如果要列舉世界上的重要宗教你會舉出哪些例子基督教 伊斯蘭教 佛教 猶太教... 大概這些吧 但有一個大陸總是被遺忘很多人認為 撒哈拉以南的非洲地區沒有宗教信仰 當然 這是不正確的巫毒教常被認為不過是在奴隸時代悲哀的種族遷徙下所跟隨來的偉大宗教奧義的副產品但是 巫毒的獨特之處在於它是生者與死者之間一種實在的聯繫生者孕育了靈魂應著舞蹈的節奏翩翩起舞可以喚醒大水之下的靈魂暫時地代替生者的靈魂在那個短暫的閃光時刻 侍僧會成為神因此 巫毒教徒喜歡說:「你們這些白人去教堂做禮拜 談論上帝,而我們就在聖殿起舞 成為上帝。」因為你已經被神靈附體那你又怎會受到傷害呢於是 你會看到一些令人驚奇的現象巫毒教侍僧進入神志恍惚的狀態手持燃燒的枝條 但卻毫髮無損當他們進入變得極端亢奮時你看到的現象更加令人吃驚那是人類意志力的強大證明 在我接觸過的所有族群中最不平凡的是生活在哥倫比亞北部的聖馬爾塔山區的科基人這個種族是古代泰榮納(Tairona)文明的後裔他們一度征服了哥倫比亞的加勒比海岸平原地區列強的號角響起此後 他們避退到加勒比海岸平原的一個與世隔絕的火山山區在這個血腥肆虐的大陸這個種族逃過西班牙人的荼毒至到今天 他們仍然沿用僧侶會統治制度但是 他們的僧侶訓練方式非常獨特年幼的侍僧在三四歲時就被帶離他們的家庭隱居在黑暗世界在冰川上用石頭小屋待滿十八年兩個九年的總和它象徵在母腹的九月懷胎在此期間他們如同重新回到母腹中被族群文化的價值觀所滋養著這些價值觀維繫著信徒與宇宙之間的關係我們可稱之為生態平衡十八年後一天他們突然被帶出來他們生平第一次走出小屋看到陽光大地在陽光的照耀下呈現出令人震撼的壯觀美景那一刻 意識突然蘇醒他們以前學到的所有抽象知識都在令人驚歎的榮耀中得到印證 這時祭司說:「看到了吧 我以前教你的都是真的這裏是多麼的美麗 你要保護它。」他們稱自己為兄長稱現代人為弟兄說我們是破壞世界的人 現在 這種程度的感情是非常重要的說到土著和原始的風土人情我們會想到羅素關於那高貴野人的古老誑語只是被簡化的種族歧視或者我們會想到梭羅他說這些人比我們更親近大地這些在地族群並不多愁善感也不會沉溺往日時光在瘧疾盛行的阿斯瑪特(Asmant)濕地在寒風刺骨的西藏並沒有多少空間 但是他們經年累月地不間斷地演示 而創造了流傳百世的奇跡這並不是因為他們自覺地認識到這一點而是憑著非常細微的靈感他們認為這個地球本身的存在是因為人類透過意識吸收了自然的精華 那麼 這是什麼意思呢比如一位生活在安第斯山脈的小孩從小就被教導說 那裏的大山是阿普神的化身它將會指引他們的命運他們是一類完全不同的人與自然環境有一種不同的連結而對蒙大拿州的年輕人一座大山只不過是一堆大石頭可以用來開採石礦無論那是神的住所 或是一堆礦石 這都不重要重點是 他們的所教育的文化定義了人與自然之間的關係我在英國哥倫比亞的叢林長大我學到叢林是生來被砍伐的這種想法讓我與誇基特爾(Kwakiutl)部落的朋友們成為截然不同的人他們相信 這些樹木是胡克神(Hukuk)和天堂之眼的化身吃人的精靈在世界的最北邊在哈馬撒(Hamatsa)成人禮上 他們會與這些精靈戰鬥 如果你開始去了解這些文化能創造不同的生活方式你就會開始認識到他們與眾不同的生活方式這張照片是去年八月在亞馬遜西北地方拍的這是阿亞胡斯卡(ayahuasca)藤 俗稱死藤一種非常強效的精神麻醉植物薩滿教徒用它製作迷幻藥- 死藤水死藤水的奇妙之處不在於它神奇的藥用性它其實是由兩種不同的物質組成的一方面 它是一種藤本植物含有 β-哢啉 蓬鹼和微量的致幻成份食用它的藤就彷彿看到你的意識被一層藍色煙霧籠罩它與九節木的咖啡屬灌木的枝葉混雜在一起這種植物具有一種強效的色胺它的成分與腦內的5-羥色胺的成份非常接近亞諾馬米(Yanomami)部落的人也會從含有5-羥色胺的植物中提取這種物質並且用鼻子吸食如果你用鼻吸入這些粉末你會感覺像被砲管射出然後跟一排巴洛克畫像 一起掉落到整池的電流裡現實沒有被扭曲它只是消失 事實上 我曾與我的導師 Richard Evan Shultes 爭論過他曾揚名於1960的迷幻藥年代因為他在1930年代所發現的一種墨西哥的神奇蘑菇我和他爭論說 你不能把這些色胺歸入迷幻成份類別 因為當它們發揮效力時你已迷幻到不知迷幻為何物（笑聲） 但是 這些色胺物質並不能用吃的因為它們會被人體器官中的單胺氧化酶(MAO)的酶改變活性要口服這些色胺物質還必須吃下改變單胺氧化酶(MAO)活性的其他化學物質有意思的是這種藤本植物中存在的 β-哢啉正好能夠抑制單胺氧化酶(MAO)同時發揮色胺的效力 因此 問問自己在這片叢林中 有 8000 種藤蔓植物他們是如何發現這兩種完全不同的植物能這樣組合在一起這如同一種生化實驗多種成分混合的效應會大於各單獨成分 我們都相信失敗是成功之母但這樣實驗下去總是徒勞不過 印第安人會說 ""是植物告訴我們的"" 那是什麼意思呢?科凡(Cofan)部落的人發現了 17 種死藤全部是他們在叢林深處發現的在我們看來 它們是不同的物種如果你問他們是如何給這些植物分門別類的他們就會說:「我想你對植物有一些研究，應該對植物有一定的瞭解吧? 」 我說:「我不懂。」他說這十七種植物在月圓時 它們會用不同的音高對你歌唱這個發現不會讓你得到哈佛的博士學位這可比計算雄蕊數目好玩多了 現在（鼓掌）我們面臨這樣一個問題雖然我們會同情土著人的遭遇認為他們生活多彩且不被打擾但是隨著我們的世界向前發展這些人被排擠到歷史的邊緣20 世紀 以及接下來的 300 年戰爭會被遺忘科技發展也隨風而逝但後人們會記住 現在的我們積極地對地球上的生態和文化多樣性進行大規模的破壞 或者姑息這個局面我們不能怪罪世界生活的進步所有的文化也全都一直受到新的生活方式的強烈衝擊 也不能怪罪科技的日新月異蘇族印第安人即使放下弓箭他們依然是蘇族印第安人當美國人不再騎馬和坐馬車時他們仍然是美國人威脅種族圈完整性的不是新時代或新科技 而是權力是野蠻的排他主義去看看我們的世界你會發現 沒有一種文化是註定要消亡的這些富有活力的人們霸道的力量排除了他們的存在他們根本無從適應無論是伯南(Penan)腹地肆無忌憚的森林砍伐還是東南亞的撒拉瓦克遊民部落他們上一代還自由地生活在叢林中現在全淪落為僕役和妓女在婆羅洲(Borneo)溪流沿岸河水含沙量高到像泥漿像要把他們的一半土地都沖走全帶進南中國海同時日本的人貨船已經整裝待發準備運走從婆羅洲森林砍伐的原木我們再來看亞諾馬米部落金礦的發現引來掏金潮也因此帶來了病原體 我們再來看看西藏山區最近我做了大量的研究在那裏 你會看到政治獨裁的殘酷面雖然種族屠殺 物裡上的滅絕一個族群在全世界受到一致的譴責但是種族文化滅絕 也就是抹消人們的生活方式卻被姑息 甚至在很多地方被表揚被視為文化發展的一部分你無法體會西藏承受的痛楚除非你親身去體會我跋涉 6000 英哩 從中國成都穿過西藏的東南邊 到達拉薩跟著一個年輕同事 直到那時我也才真的明白你們所聽說的那些統計數字背後隱藏的真相6000 座神聖的古蹟被搗毀120 萬人被共產黨殺害這都發生在文化大革命期間年輕同事的父親被指為班禪喇嘛一派在中國人入侵後他父親因此被殺害了他叔叔和他的導師跟著大逃亡潮到尼泊爾他的母親因為富有的身家被捕入獄兩歲的他被藏在裙子下悄悄地帶進牢房因為她不能離開她的兒子好心協助他們的姐姐被送去再教育有一天 她不小心踩到印有毛主席頭像的臂章 而被處以判國罪被迫勞改七年之久西藏的痛楚是讓人難以承受但也因此見證人類的救贖精神 到最後 我們將面臨這樣的一個選擇我們是要一個單一單調的世界還是想要一個五彩繽紛、多樣化的世界?偉大的人類學家 Margaret Mead 在生前曾經說過她最擔心的是 人類隨波逐流地接受這種統一、概括的世界觀我們不僅會看到 人類的想像力退化得更狹隘短淺最後我們會一覺醒來忘記這個世界還有其他的可能性 謙卑地說 人類的[15 萬年]的歷史不過是滄海一粟新石器時代—人類農業的初始那時我們對種子頂禮膜拜薩滿的詩篇被祭司的韻文取代我們創造了層層的社會分工不過是一萬年前的事現代化的工業社會也只有將近三百年的歷史在我看來 這個短暫的歷史並不足以證明我們有能力解決這個千禧年將面臨的各種挑戰當我們向這個世界的多元文化詢問生命的意義你會得到一萬個不同的答案 在這個歌聲中 我們將會重新發現作為人類的別種可能：一個有完全意識的物種充分認識到 我們必須保證所有種族和生物都是昌盛繁榮 對生活充滿樂觀的 這張照片是我在巴芬(Baffin)島的北邊山頂上拍攝的那時 我和一些因紐特人去捕獨角鯨這個叫奧拉雅的人 述說了他祖父的傳奇故事1950 年代 加拿大政府並沒有友善地對待因纽特人為了確立我們國家的主權 他們被趕到指定區域這位老人的祖父拒絕遷移他家人擔心他的安全 拿走他所有的武器也拿走所有工具先告訴你們 紐特人一點都不怕冷他們善用這個優勢他們雪橇的滑刃是用凍魚乾外面包裹馴鹿皮做成的這位男子的祖父並不懼怕北極的夜晚和凜冽的暴風雪他就在雪地裡 脫下海豹皮長褲把大便拉到手上 等大便開始凍硬時把它削成刀片的形状然後在大便刀片的邊緣 抹上口水等它完全結凍變硬 他再用它宰殺了一條狗剝下狗皮 做成一副挽具又取出狗的胸腔 造了一對雪橇套到另一隻狗身上拽著那把大便刀 消失在冰原上這就是雙手萬能囉 從很多方面來說（鼓掌）這是他們頑強生命力的寫照也是所有土著人的生命力的真實寫照1999年4月 加拿大政府重新歸還給因紐特人土地這片土地比加州和德州的總和還更大這是我們的新家園 它叫紐勒維特(Nunavut)這是一塊獨立的領土 他們擁有所有的礦物資源這個例子正好說明了一個國家如何去修復與人民的關係 最後 我認為至少對我們這些曾去過一些世界上偏遠地方的人來說其實他們一點也不""偏遠""那裏也是某個族群的家他們是遠古人類想像力的遺產人類歷史源頭的分支而這些孩子的夢想 與我們自己孩子的夢想一樣是整個世界未來希望的一部分 因此 我們嘗試透過""國家地理雜誌""去告訴所有人政治家並不能做到些什麼我們認為（鼓掌）我們覺得雄辯不一定能說服人但我們認為 說故事才能改變這個世界因此 我們是最會說故事的機構我們網站每月點擊量達到 3 千 5 百萬次我們的節目在 156 個國家播放我們的雜誌有上百萬的讀者我們要做的是 通過一系列旅程帶領我們的觀眾去體驗種族文化圈的文化奇跡之地他們所看到的一切會讓他們感到震撼 而且我們希望他們逐漸地接納人類學的核心揭示：這個世界需要多樣化的生存方式讓我們能夠真正地生活在一個多元而豐富的世界之中讓所有種族的智慧都能為全人類的福址做出貢獻 謝謝（鼓掌）"
