Talk	en	zh-tw
wael_ghonim_inside_the_egyptian_revolution	"This is Revolution 2.0. No one was a hero. No one was a hero. Because everyone was a hero. Everyone has done something. We all use Wikipedia. If you think of the concept of Wikipedia where everyone is collaborating on content, and at the end of the day you've built the largest encyclopedia in the world. From just an idea that sounded crazy, you have the largest encyclopedia in the world. And in the Egyptian revolution, the Revolution 2.0, everyone has contributed something, small or big. They contributed something — to bring us one of the most inspiring stories in the history of mankind when it comes to revolutions. It was actually really inspiring to see all these Egyptians completely changing. If you look at the scene, Egypt, for 30 years, had been in a downhill — going into a downhill. Everything was going bad. Everything was going wrong. We only ranked high when it comes to poverty, corruption, lack of freedom of speech, lack of political activism. Those were the achievements of our great regime. Yet, nothing was happening. And it's not because people were happy or people were not frustrated. In fact, people were extremely frustrated. But the reason why everyone was silent is what I call the psychological barrier of fear. Everyone was scared. Not everyone. There were actually a few brave Egyptians that I have to thank for being so brave — going into protests as a couple of hundred, getting beaten up and arrested. But in fact, the majority were scared. Everyone did not want really to get in trouble. A dictator cannot live without the force. They want to make people live in fear. And that psychological barrier of fear had worked for so many years, and here comes the Internet, technology, BlackBerry, SMS. It's helping all of us to connect. Platforms like YouTube, Twitter, Facebook were helping us a lot because it basically gave us the impression that, ""Wow, I'm not alone. There are a lot of people who are frustrated."" There are lots of people who are frustrated. There are lots of people who actually share the same dream. There are lots of people who care about their freedom. They probably have the best life in the world. They are living in happiness. They are living in their villas. They are happy. They don't have problems. But they are still feeling the pain of the Egyptian. A lot of us, we're not really happy when we see a video of an Egyptian man who's eating the trash while others are stealing billions of Egyptian pounds from the wealth of the country. The Internet has played a great role, helping these people to speak up their minds, to collaborate together, to start thinking together. It was an educational campaign. Khaled Saeed was killed in June 2010. I still remember the photo. I still remember every single detail of that photo. The photo was horrible. He was tortured, brutally tortured to death. But then what was the answer of the regime? ""He choked on a pile of hash"" — that was their answer: ""He's a criminal. He's someone who escaped from all these bad things."" But people did not relate to this. People did not believe this. Because of the Internet, the truth prevailed and everyone knew the truth. And everyone started to think that ""this guy could be my brother."" He was a middle-class guy. His photo was remembered by all of us. A page was created. An anonymous administrator was basically inviting people to join the page, and there was no plan. ""What are we going to do?"" ""I don't know."" In a few days, tens of thousands of people there — angry Egyptians who were asking the ministry of interior affairs, ""Enough. Get those who killed this guy. To just bring them to justice."" But of course, they don't listen. It was an amazing story — how everyone started feeling the ownership. Everyone was an owner in this page. People started contributing ideas. In fact, one of the most ridiculous ideas was, ""Hey, let's have a silent stand. Let's get people to go in the street, face the sea, their back to the street, dressed in black, standing up silently for one hour, doing nothing and then just leaving, going back home."" For some people, that was like, ""Wow, silent stand. And next time it's going to be vibration."" People were making fun of the idea. But actually when people went to the street — the first time it was thousands of people in Alexandria — it felt like — it was amazing. It was great because it connected people from the virtual world, bringing them to the real world, sharing the same dream, the same frustration, the same anger, the same desire for freedom. And they were doing this thing. But did the regime learn anything? Not really. They were actually attacking them. They were actually abusing them, despite the fact of how peaceful these guys were — they were not even protesting. And things had developed until the Tunisian revolution. This whole page was, again, managed by the people. In fact, the anonymous admin job was to collect ideas, help people to vote on them and actually tell them what they are doing. People were taking shots and photos; people were reporting violations of human rights in Egypt; people were suggesting ideas, they were actually voting on ideas, and then they were executing the ideas; people were creating videos. Everything was done by the people to the people, and that's the power of the Internet. There was no leader. The leader was everyone on that page. The Tunisian experiment, as Amir was saying, inspired all of us, showed us that there is a way. Yes we can. We can do it. We have the same problems; we can just go in the streets. And when I saw the street on the 25th, I went back and said, ""Egypt before the 25th is never going to be Egypt after the 25th. The revolution is happening. This is not the end, this is the beginning of the end."" I was detained on the 27th night. Thank God I announced the locations and everything. But they detained me. And I'm not going to talk about my experience, because this is not about me. I was detained for 12 days, blindfolded, handcuffed. And I did not really hear anything. I did not know anything. I was not allowed to speak with anyone. And I went out. The next day I was in Tahrir. Seriously, with the amount of change I had noticed in this square, I thought it was 12 years. I never had in my mind to see this Egyptian, the amazing Egyptian. The fear is no longer fear. It's actually strength — it's power. People were so empowered. It was amazing how everyone was so empowered and now asking for their rights. Completely opposite. Extremism became tolerance. Who would [have] imagined before the 25th, if I tell you that hundreds of thousands of Christians are going to pray and tens of thousands of Muslims are going to protect them, and then hundreds of thousands of Muslims are going to pray and tens of thousands of Christians are going to protect them — this is amazing. All the stereotypes that the regime was trying to put on us through their so-called propaganda, or mainstream media, are proven wrong. This whole revolution showed us how ugly such a regime was and how great and amazing the Egyptian man, the Egyptian woman, how simple and amazing these people are whenever they have a dream. When I saw that, I went back and I wrote on Facebook. And that was a personal belief, regardless of what's going on, regardless of the details. I said that, ""We are going to win. We are going to win because we don't understand politics. We're going to win because we don't play their dirty games. We're going to win because we don't have an agenda. We're going to win because the tears that come from our eyes actually come from our hearts. We're going to win because we have dreams. We're going to win because we are willing to stand up for our dreams."" And that's actually what happened. We won. And that's not because of anything, but because we believed in our dream. The winning here is not the whole details of what's going to happen in the political scene. The winning is the winning of the dignity of every single Egyptian. Actually, I had this taxi driver telling me, ""Listen, I am breathing freedom. I feel that I have dignity that I have lost for so many years."" For me that's winning, regardless of all the details. My last word to you is a statement I believe in, which Egyptians have proven to be true, that the power of the people is much stronger than the people in power. Thanks a lot. (Applause)"	這是革命2.0。沒有任何人是英雄。因爲每個人都是英雄。每個人都作了一些事我們都用維基百科試想想維基百科的基本概念在維基百科裏每個人都合作編輯内容到頭來你將會有全世界最大的百科全書從這個聼起來有點瘋狂的主意實作起來你卻會得到全世界最大的百科全書。 在埃及的革命裏革命2.0每個人都作出了一點貢獻或大或小，都作出了一點貢獻這帶給我們在人類歷史裏所有關於革命的故事中一個最發人深省的故事。能看到所有的埃及人有如此完全的改變，這是很讓人鼓舞的。如果你看著局勢的演變埃及，近30年以來，一直處在劣勢一直在走下坡。全都是壞事全都是糟糕的事我們名列前茅的就只有貧窮、貪腐、缺乏言論自由、及缺乏政治參與等這類壞事。這都是我們偉大政府的偉大成就。然而，一切還是毫無改變。這不是因爲人民很高興或是不感到焦慮。事實上，人民是十分的感到焦慮。大家之所以保持靜默是因爲我所謂的恐懼的心理障礙。大家都感到害怕。並不是每一個人。事實上的確有幾個勇敢的埃及人我要感謝他們是如此地勇敢有幾百個人走上街頭來抗議他們被打被抓。然而事實上，大部分的人是害怕的每一個人都不想真正地惹上麻煩。 獨裁者少不了武力他們要讓人民活在恐懼裏。而那恐懼的心理障礙這麽多年來都很有效而接下來有了網路科技、黑莓機、簡訊。這些科技幫助了我們大家聯係。像YouTube、推特、臉書等的平臺給了我們很大的幫助因爲基本上那使我們覺得，“我並不孤單。很多人也跟我一樣地深感焦慮。”有很多人感到焦慮。事實上有很多人有相同的夢想。有很多人很在乎自己的自由。他們大概有全世界裏最棒的生活他們活在幸福裏。他們住在他們的別墅裏他們很高興，他們沒有煩惱但是他們仍然感受到埃及人民的痛楚 我們裏面很多人不真的覺得高興當我們在一部影片裏看到一個埃及人在吃垃圾而其他人在同時從國家人民的財富裏偷了幾十億的埃及鎊。網路扮演了一個重要的角色幫助了這些人說出了他們的心聲一起合作，開始一起思考那是一個教育性質的活動 Khaled Saeed 被殺死了在2010年6月。我還記得那張照片我仍記得那張照片裏的每個細節那張照片是很恐怖的他被刑求殘酷地被折磨至死然而政府當局的回答是什麽？他是被一團大麻嗆死的這是他們的回答：“他是個罪犯他是個逃避所有壞事的人。”但是人們並不這麽想人們並不相信這個説辭因爲有了網路，真相被公佈大家都知道了真相大家開始去想，“這個人也可能是我兄弟。”他是個中產階級我們大家都還記得他的照片 有人開了一個網頁一個匿名的網頁管理者基本上在邀請人們加入這個網頁那時還沒有任何計劃“我們要作什麽？”“我不知道”幾天内，聚集了上千上萬的憤怒的埃及人要求内政部“我們受夠了把殺他的人揪出來將他們繩之於法。”但是，當然，他們不聼那是一個不可思議的故事每個人是如何開始覺得這與自己切身相關每個人都是該網頁的主人人們開始提出主意事實上，其中最奇怪的主意之一是嘿，讓我們來個無言的靜立讓我們找人上街頭面對海，背對街身穿黑衣，靜靜地站立一個小時什麽都不作，然後就那麼掉頭回家對某些人而言，這就像，“哇，先是靜音下一次就是震動模式。”人們拿這個主意在開玩笑實際上當人們真的走上街頭的時候第一次有數千人在亞歷山大港那感覺起來，是令人驚異的、是偉大的。因爲人們先在虛擬的世界裏聯係上了再被帶到真實的世界裏分享了同樣的夢想同樣的焦慮、同樣的憤怒同樣的對自由的渴望他們在做這件事然而政府當局學到什麽了嗎？並沒有當局反而攻擊了他們、淩辱了他們儘管這些人是如此地和平他們甚至不是在抗議呢事情後來又繼續演變直到突尼西亞革命。 這一整頁，又再度由人們來管理事實上，匿名的管理工作是去收集主意幫助人們來票選並確切告訴他們他們在做什麽人們在照相人們在舉發在埃及國内違反人權的事件人們在提出主意他們實際上在票選主意接下來他們便執行那些主意、拍影片所有的事都是由人民為人民作的這就是網路的力量。沒有領導者每個在網頁上的人都是領導者突尼西亞的試驗，正如Amir所說的帶給我們啓發，讓我們看到了這條可行的路是的，我們可以，我們辦得到我們都面對同樣的因難我們都可以走上街頭 當我看到了25號那天街上的情景後我回到家說“25號前的埃及和25號以後的埃及將會完全不一樣了革命正在發生這不是結束這是個結束的開端。”我在27號的晚上被拘禁感謝上天我公佈了我的地點和所有事項。但是他們把我扣留住我並不是要在這裡談論的我的經歷，因爲小我並是不重要我被拘留了12天眼被矇起來，手被銬著我什麽也沒聽到，我什麽也不知道我沒辨法跟任何人説話我出來了隔天我到了Tahir廣場講認真的，從我觀察到的改變我以爲這之間相隔了12年我從未想過有一天我會看到這樣的埃及人這麽讓人驚訝的埃及人恐懼已不再是恐懼已經轉換成了力量，人們得到了很大的力量看到大家都如此地有力是不可思議的進一步來要求他們的權利情勢完全倒轉極端主義變成寬容 在25號以前誰能想得到如果我告訴你，成千上萬的基督徒將會祈禱成千上萬的回教徒將會保護他們成千上萬的回教徒也將會祈禱成千上萬的基督徒也會保護他們這真是太令人驚嘆了。所有的刻板印象這個政府當局想要灌輸給我們的透過所謂的文宣，主流媒體來傳導的都被證明是錯的。這一場革命讓我們看到了這個政權是多麽的醜惡而埃及的男人及埃及的女人們又是多麽的偉大。當他們有個夢想時他們是多麽簡單又偉大。 當我看到這我回家在臉書上留了言那是我個人的信仰跟發生了的事無關跟事情的細節無關我寫道，“我們將會取得勝利我們將會勝利因爲我們不懂政治我們將會勝利因爲我們不玩骯髒的把戲我們將會勝利因爲我們沒有既定的目標我們將會勝利因爲我們眼中流出的淚是從我們的真心流出來的我們將會勝利因爲我們還有夢想我們將會勝利因爲我們願意為我們的夢想奮戰。”後來, 我們真的贏了。不是因爲別的只是因爲我們相信我們的夢想這個勝利不在于在政治舞台上將會發生的改變這個勝利在於贏囘了每個埃及人的尊嚴。 實際上，有個計程車司機告訴我“聼，我在呼吸自由我又重新感受到了那失去了多年的尊嚴。”對我而言，那才是勝利和所有的細節無關。 我最後要告訴你的是一個我所相信的理念,埃及的人民也證明了這個理念這個理念就是人民的力量遠遠勝過了當權者的力量。 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
