Talk	en	zh-tw
wayne_mcgregor_a_choreographer_s_creative_process_in_real_time	"As you might imagine, I'm absolutely passionate about dance. I'm passionate about making it, about watching it, about encouraging others to participate in it, and I'm also really passionate about creativity. Creativity for me is something that's absolutely critical, and I think it's something that you can teach. I think the technicities of creativity can be taught and shared, and I think you can find out things about your own personal physical signature, your own cognitive habits, and use that as a point of departure to misbehave beautifully. I was born in the 1970s, and John Travolta was big in those days: ""Grease,"" ""Saturday Night Fever,"" and he provided a fantastic kind of male role model for me to start dancing. My parents were very up for me going. They absolutely encouraged me to take risks, to go, to try, to try. I had an opportunity, an access to a local dance studio, and I had an enlightened teacher who allowed me to make up my own and invent my own dances, so what she did was let me make up my own ballroom and Latin American dances to teach to my peers. And that was the very first time that I found an opportunity to feel that I was able to express my own voice, and that's what's fueled me, then, to become a choreographer. I feel like I've got something to say and something to share. And I guess what's interesting is, is that I am now obsessed with the technology of the body. I think it's the most technologically literate thing that we have, and I'm absolutely obsessed with finding a way of communicating ideas through the body to audiences that might move them, touch them, help them think differently about things. So for me, choreography is very much a process of physical thinking. It's very much in mind, as well as in body, and it's a collaborative process. It's something that I have to do with other people. You know, it's a distributed cognitive process in a way. I work often with designers and visual artists, obviously dancers and other choreographers, but also, more and more, with economists, anthropologists, neuroscientists, cognitive scientists, people really who come from very different domains of expertise, where they bring their intelligence to bear on a different kind of creative process. What I thought we would do today a little bit is explore this idea of physical thinking, and we're all experts in physical thinking. Yeah, you all have a body, right? And we all know what that body is like in the real world, so one of the aspects of physical thinking that we think about a lot is this notion of proprioception, the sense of my own body in the space in the real world. So, we all understand what it feels like to know where the ends of your fingers are when you hold out your arms, yeah? You absolutely know that when you're going to grab a cup, or that cup moves and you have to renavigate it. So we're experts in physical thinking already. We just don't think about our bodies very much. We only think about them when they go wrong, so, when there's a broken arm, or when you have a heart attack, then you become really very aware of your bodies. But how is it that we can start to think about using choreographic thinking, kinesthetic intelligence, to arm the ways in which we think about things more generally? What I thought I'd do is, I'd make a TED premiere. I'm not sure if this is going to be good or not. I'll just be doing it. I thought what I'd do is, I'd use three versions of physical thinking to make something. I want to introduce you. This is Paolo. This is Catarina. (Applause) They have no idea what we're going to do. So this is not the type of choreography where I already have in mind what I'm going to make, where I've fixed the routine in my head and I'm just going to teach it to them, and these so-called empty vessels are just going to learn it. That's not the methodology at all that we work with. But what's important about it is how it is that they're grasping information, how they're taking information, how they're using it, and how they're thinking with it. I'm going to start really, really simply. Usually, dance has a stimulus or stimuli, and I thought I'd take something simple, TED logo, we can all see it, it's quite easy to work with, and I'm going to do something very simply, where you take one idea from a body, and it happens to be my body, and translate that into somebody else's body, so it's a direct transfer, transformation of energy. And I'm going to imagine this, you can do this too if you like, that I'm going to just take the letter ""T"" and I'm going to imagine it in mind, and I'm going to place that outside in the real world. So I absolutely see a letter ""T"" in front of me. Yeah? It's absolutely there. I can absolutely walk around it when I see it, yeah? It has a kind of a grammar. I know what I'm going to do with it, and I can start to describe it, so I can describe it very simply. I can describe it in my arms, right? So all I did was take my hand and then I move my hand. I can describe it, whoa, in my head, you know? Whoa. Okay. I can do also my shoulder. Yeah? It gives me something to do, something to work towards. If I were to take that letter ""T"" and flatten it down on the floor, here, maybe just off the floor, all of a sudden I could do maybe something with my knee, yeah? Whoa. So If I put the knee and the arms together, I've got something physical, yeah? And I can start to build something. So what I'm going to do just for one and a half minutes or so is I'm going to take that concept, I'm going to make something, and the dancers behind me are going to interpret it, they're going to snapshot it, they're going to take aspects of it, and it's almost like I'm offloading memory and they're holding onto memory? Yeah? And we'll see what we come up with. So just have a little watch about how they're, how they're accessing this and what they're doing, and I'm just going to take this letter ""T,"" the letter ""E,"" and the letter ""D,"" to make something. Okay. Here goes. So I have to get myself in the zone. Right. It's a bit of a cross of my arm. So all I'm doing is exploring this space of ""T"" and flashing through it with some action. I'm not remembering what I'm doing. I'm just working on my task. My task is this ""T."" Going to watch it from the side, whoa. Strike moment. That's it. So we're starting to build a phrase. So what they're doing, let's see, something like that, so what they're doing is grasping aspects of that movement and they're generating it into a phrase. You can see the speed is extremely quick, yeah? I'm not asking them to copy exactly. They're using the information that they receive to generate the beginnings of a phrase. I can watch that and that can tell me something about how it is that they're moving. Yeah, they're super quick, right? So I've taken this aspect of TED and translated it into something that's physical. Some dancers, when they're watching action, take the overall shape, the arc of the movement, the kinetic sense of the movement, and use that for memory. Some work very much in specific detail. They start with small little units and build it up. Okay, you've got something? One more thing. So they're solving this problem for me, having a little — They're constructing that phrase. They have something and they're going to hold on to it, yeah? One way of making. That's going to be my beginning in this world premiere. Okay. From there I'm going to do a very different thing. So basically I'm going to make a duet. I want you to think about them as architectural objects, so what they are, are just pure lines. They're no longer people, just pure lines, and I'm going to work with them almost as objects to think with, yeah? So what I'm thinking about is taking a few physical extensions from the body as I move, and I move them, and I do that by suggesting things to them: If, then; if, then. Okay, so here we go. Just grab this arm. Can you place that down into the floor? Yeah, down to the floor. Can you go underneath? Yeah. Cat, can you put leg over that side? Yeah. Can you rotate? Whoom, just go back to the beginning. Here we go, ready? And ... bam, bake ... (clicks metronome) Great. Okay, from there, you're both getting up. You're both getting up. Here we go. Good, now? Them. (Applause) So from there, from there, we're both getting up, we're both getting up, going in this direction, going underneath. Whoa, whoa, underneath. Whoa, underneath, whoo-um. Yeah? Underneath. Jump. Underneath. Jump. Paolo, kick. Don't care where. Kick. Kick, replace, change a leg. Kick, replace, change the leg. Yeah? Okay? Cat, almost get his head. Almost get his head. Whoaa. Just after it, maybe. Whoaa, whaaay, ooh. Grab her waist, come up back into her first, whoom, spin, turn her, whoo-aa. (Snaps) Great. Okay, let's have a little go from the beginning of that. Just, let me slow down here. Fancy having eight — (Laughter) Fancy having eight hours with me in a day. So, maybe too much. So, here we go, ready, and — (Clicks metronome) (Clicks metronome) Nice, good job. Yeah? Okay. (Applause) Okay, not bad. (Applause) A little bit more? Yeah. Just a little bit more, here we go, from that place. Separate. Face the front. Separate. Face the front. Imagine that there's a circle in front of you, yeah? Avoid it. Avoid it. Whoom. Kick it out of the way. Kick it out of the way. Throw it into the audience. Whoom. Throw it into the audience again. We've got mental architecture, we're sharing it, therefore solving a problem. They're enacting it. Let me just see that a little bit. Ready, and go. (Clicks metronome) Okay, brilliant. Okay, here we go. From the beginning, can we do our phrases first? And then that. And we're going to build something now, organize it, the phrases. Here we go. Nice and slow? Ready and go ... um. (Clicks metronome) (Clicks metronome) The duet starts. (Clicks metronome) (Clicks metronome) So yeah, okay, good. Okay, nice, very nice. (Applause) So good. So — (Applause) Okay. So that was — (Applause) Well done. (Applause) That was the second way of working. The first one, body-to-body transfer, yeah, with an outside mental architecture that I work with that they hold memory with for me. The second one, which is using them as objects to think with their architectural objects, I do a series of provocations, I say, ""If this happens, then that. If this, if that happens — "" I've got lots of methods like that, but it's very, very quick, and this is a third method. They're starting it already, and this is a task-based method, where they have the autonomy to make all of the decisions for themselves. So I'd like us just to do, we're going to do a little mental dance, a little, in this little one minute, so what I'd love you to do is imagine, you can do this with your eyes closed, or open, and if you don't want to do it you can watch them, it's up to you. Just for a second, think about that word ""TED"" in front of you, so it's in mind, and it's there right in front of your mind. What I'd like you to do is transplant that outside into the real world, so just imagine that word ""TED"" in the real world. What I'd like you to do what that is take an aspect of it. I'm going to zone in on the ""E,"" and I'm going to scale that ""E"" so it's absolutely massive, so I'm scaling that ""E"" so it's absolutely massive, and then I'm going to give it dimensionality. I'm going to think about it in 3D space. So now, instead of it just being a letter that's in front of me, it's a space that my body can go inside of. I now decide where I'm going to be in that space, so I'm down on this small part of the bottom rib of the letter ""E,"" and I'm thinking about it, and I'm imagining this space that's really high and above. If I asked you to reach out — you don't have to literally do it, but in mind — reach out to the top of the ""E,"" where would you reach? If you reach with your finger, where would it be? If you reach with your elbow, where would it be? If I already then said about that space that you're in, let's infuse it with the color red, what does that do to the body? If I then said to you, what happens if that whole wall on the side of ""E"" collapses and you have to use your weight to put it back up, what would you be able to do with it? So this is a mental picture, I'm describing a mental, vivid picture that enables dancers to make choices for themselves about what to make. Okay, you can open your eyes if you had them closed. So the dancers have been working on them. So just keep working on them for a little second. So they've been working on those mental architectures in the here. I know, I think we should keep them as a surprise. So here goes, world premiere dance. Yeah? Here we go. TED dance. Okay. Here it comes. I'm going to organize it quickly. So, you're going to do the first solo that we made, yeah blah blah blah blah, we go into the duet, yeah, blah blah blah blah. The next solo, blah blah blah blah, yeah, and both at the same time, you do the last solutions. Okay? Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, world premiere, TED dance, three versions of physical thinking. (Applause) Well, clap afterwards, let's see if it's any good, yeah? (Laughter) So yeah, let's clap — yeah, let's clap afterwards. Here we go. Catarina, big moment, here we go, one. (Clicks metronome) Here it comes, Cat. (Clicks metronome) Paolo, go. (Clicks metronome) Last you solo. The one you made. (Clicks metronome) (Clicks metronome) Well done. Okay, good. Super. So — (Applause) So — (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) So — three versions. (Applause) Oh. (Laughs) (Applause) Three versions of physical thinking, yeah? Three versions of physical thinking. I'm hoping that today, what you're going to do is go away and make a dance for yourself, and if not that, at least misbehave more beautifully, more often. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Here we go. (Applause) (Applause)"	"如你所想的，我對舞蹈很有熱情。我熱衷創作舞蹈、熱衷欣賞舞蹈，也熱衷鼓勵別人參與其中。我對創造力也很有熱情。對我來說，創造力是至關重要的。我認為創造力是可以教的，我認為創造力技巧是可以傳授、分享的。我認為你可以找到專屬自己的身體符號、認知習慣，並以此為出發點，好好地「胡鬧」一番。 我出生於 1970 年代，當時約翰屈伏塔可是個大人物，像是《火爆浪子》、《週六夜瘋狂》。他提供了很棒的男性榜樣，讓我開始跳舞。我的父母總是讓我做決定，他們全力地鼓勵我出發去冒險、去嘗試，再嘗試。過去我有個機會在當地的舞蹈教室上課，且我的老師很有啟發性。她允許我自己獨立創編舞蹈。她所做的是讓我自己編國標和拉丁舞，教給我的同儕。那是我第一次有機會感受到我可以表達自己的心聲。這激勵了我日後成為一位編舞者。我覺得我有東西要說，有東西要分享。 我想有趣的地方在於，現在我對肢體的技巧非常著迷。我認為這是我們最擅長的溝通傳達技巧。我完全著迷於尋找一種透過肢體向觀眾表達理念的方式，來感動他們、觸動他們的心、幫助他們用不同角度思考。 所以對我來說，編舞是一種物理性思考。這過程存在於腦中，也存在於身體，是一種合作式的過程。是必須和別人合作完成的事。某種程度上說，是種分散的認知過程。我常和設計師和視覺藝術家一起工作，當然還有舞者和其他的編舞家，但現在，我有更多的機會是和經濟學家、人類學家、神經學家，認知科學家和許多來自不同領域的專家一起合作。他們把不同領域的智慧運用在不同的創新過程。 而今天我們要做的是稍稍探索一下物理性思考這個想法。我們都是物理性思考的專家，我們都有軀體，對吧？我們都知道身體在現實世界是怎樣的，物理性思考的其中一個面向就是「本體感受」這概念，就是自己的身體在真實空間中的感覺。我們都了解當你敞開雙臂，知道自己手指在哪的感覺。你絕對知道你什麼時候要拿杯子、或要把移動了的杯子重新擺好。我們早已是物理性思維的專家，我們只是不常意識到我們的身體。我們只有在身體出問題時才想到，比如手骨折或是心臟病發的時候，你才會真正意識到你的身體。但我們如何將編舞的思維、動覺智能運用在一般性的思考當中呢？ 我接下要做的是一場 TED 首演。我不知道這會不會成功，就姑且一試。我要做的是，用三種物理性思維模式來做些事情。 向您介紹，這是保歐羅，這是卡特琳娜。 （掌聲） 他們完全不知道接下來要做什麼。這不像一般的編舞，通常我會先計畫好要做什麼，並先在腦中設計一套固定舞步再教給他們，這些所謂的「白紙」只要學習就好，這完全不是我們要用的方法。整體的重點是他們如何掌握資訊，接受資訊，使用資訊，及思考這些資訊。 我將簡單地開始。通常舞蹈需要一個或多個刺激元素。我要用簡單的東西，這個 TED 標誌，我們都能看到它，很容易利用，而我要做的也很簡單。我們先從某軀體來獲得一個想法，這身體剛好是我的身體，然後把那個想法轉移到別人身上，這是一種直接轉移、是能量的轉換。 我將如此想像，如果您願意也可以照著做。我只用字母""T""，先在心中想像它，然後把它往外置於現實世界，所以我絕對有看到一個字母""T""在我前面。有吧？它絕對在那，當我看到它，我能繞著它走，對吧？它有某種語法，我知道如何使用它，所以我可以開始描述它，我可以簡單描述它，我可以用我的手臂描述它，所以我做的是用我的手，然後移動我的手。我可以描述它，用我的頭，你知道嗎?也可用我的肩，瞧？它讓我有事可做，讓我發揮作用。要是我把字母""T""平放在地，這裡，也許就是這裡，我或許可以突然用我的膝蓋，如果我膝蓋和手臂並用，就得到某種有形的東西，開始建立某物。接下來我要做的大約一分半鐘左右，我要用這概念要做點什麼。我身後的舞者將詮釋這概念，他們要快速理解，並採取自己的觀點。有點像我在卸載記憶，而他們在承接記憶，可以嗎？我們來看可迸出怎樣的火花。我們可以稍微看一下他們是如何存取記憶和怎麼做。我將用字母""T""、""E""和""D""做點什麼。好吧。就是這樣。 我要讓自己進入狀態，可以嗎? 一些手臂的交叉。 我所做的是探討""T""的空間，並透過行動來反射這空間。我不記得我做了什麼。我只是在做我的任務，而任務是""T""。我要從旁邊來看，哇。攻擊時刻。就是這樣。 所以我們開始建立一個舞句。 我們來看看他們做了什麼。他們所做的是去理解動作的觀點，然後將它創造成一個舞句。您可以看到的速度非常快，是吧？我並非要求他們要完全複製，他們要用收到的資訊產成一個舞句的開端。我可以觀察並得知舞者們如何移動。他們動作超級快，對吧？ 我詮釋 TED 的觀點，並將它轉化成有形的事物。有些舞者觀察動作時採用整體形式，即移動的弧線、運動知覺的移動，並以此作為記憶。有些則著重在具體細節，從小單位開始然後慢慢建立。好的，都理解了嗎？再來。 他們正在為我解決這個問題。有一點──他們正在建構這舞句，他們有些想法要緊緊抓住。可以嗎？一種創作方法。這將是我在世界首演的開端。 好，現在我要來點不一樣的。簡單來說，我要來個雙人舞。我要你們把舞者看成結構物體，他們只是純粹的線條，不再是人，只是線條，然後我會把他們視為物體來合作，可以嗎？我現在想當我移動時，做幾個身體的延展，我移動的同時也提示他們一些事情，如果，就這樣 ；如果，就那樣。開始吧。 抓住這個手臂，你可以往下放到地上嗎？對，到地上。可以鑽到底下嗎？卡特，可以把腿跨到這邊嗎？你可以旋轉嗎？再從頭開始。開始囉，準備好嗎？很好。你們兩位都站起來。都起身。他們很棒吧? （掌聲） 從那裡，從那裡，我們都起身，都起身往這邊。往下，往下，往下，可以嗎？往下。往前跳。往下、往前跳。保歐羅，踢。儘管踢。踢、站好、換腿。踢、站好、換腿。可以嗎？卡特，幾乎碰到他的頭。幾乎碰到他的頭。也許再後面些，扶她的腰部，起身，旋轉，把她轉身，很好。好，讓我們從頭開始。讓我稍微慢下來。想像有八...（笑聲） 一天有八小時這些想像都在我腦海中，也許太多了。準備好，開始。 （打拍子） 很好，做得好。是吧？（掌聲）好，還不錯。（掌聲）再來一些？好，再來一些。我們從這開始。分開，面對前面。分開，面對前面。想像有個圈圈在你前面繞過它，繞過它，把它踢出去，把它踢出去。把它扔向觀眾。再丟一次。我們有個心理結構，分享它因而解決問題。他們正這樣做。讓我看一下。預備，開始。 （打拍子） 太棒了。再來一次。可以先跳我們的舞句？然後再這樣。我們正在建立及組織這些舞句。開始。很好，慢慢來？預備，開始。（打拍子） （打拍子）雙人舞開始了。（打拍子）（打拍子）好的，很好，好，很好，非常好。（掌聲） 很好。所以──（掌聲）好的。那是──（掌聲）做的好。（掌聲） 這是第二種運作方式。第一種，身體對身體的轉移，對吧？和一個外在的心理結構合作，而他們為我承接記憶。第二種，將他們視為物體來思考和結構物體，我下了一連串指令，「如果這樣，然後那樣」若這樣，若那樣──「我有許多像這樣的方式，但是非常、 非常快速」，這是第三種方法。他們已經開始了，這是以任務為主的方法，他們有自主權，可以做所有的決定。 我請大家試試看，在這短短一分鐘來點心靈舞蹈。請大家開始想像，你可閉上雙眼或者睜開，如果你不想，大可觀賞，由你決定。花一秒鐘想一下""TED""在你面前，它就在你腦中，就在你腦海前，我要你把它向外移植到現實世界，想像一下""TED""這個字在真實世界。我要你們從某個觀點來看。我將專注在""E""這個字，我要放大它，所以它很龐大，我正放大""E""，所以它現在很龐大。然後我要它是立體的，我要在三度空間思考這個字，而非只是一個我面前的字母，這是我身體可走進的空間。我要決定我在這空間的哪邊，我退到""E""底邊這小小的部分，我正在想，我正在想像這空間高高在上。如果我要你伸手去摸，你不必真的伸出手，而是在心中想像伸手去碰""E""的頂端，你會碰觸到哪？如果用手指，會是如何？如果用手肘，又會怎樣？如果我已向你說明你所在的空間，現在讓紅色融入這空間，這對身體有什麼影響嗎？如果我說""E""內部所有牆面都倒塌了，你必須用你所有力量把它再蓋起來，你能夠怎麼做? 這是一幅心理圖畫，我正在描述心理的鮮明的畫面讓舞者能夠自己做出選擇。 若你剛閉上眼，可睜開了。 舞者們從剛才就這樣做，讓他們稍微繼續一會。他們一直在這裡做這些心理結構。我知道，我們應該讓它出人意表。 這就是我們的世界首演。可以嗎？開始。TED 舞蹈。來吧。我將迅速組織一下。你先跳我們設計的獨舞，很好，這樣這樣，然後雙人舞，對，然後...下一個獨舞...這樣這樣，兩人同時，你做最後的詮釋， 可以嗎？好。各位女士先生，世界首演，TED 舞蹈，三種模式的物理思維。（掌聲）先看是不是那麼好再鼓掌好嗎?（笑聲）讓我們鼓掌──嗯，讓我們之後再拍。開始，卡塔琳娜，關鍵時刻，開始， （打拍子）來囉，卡特。（打拍子）保歐羅，開始。（打拍子）最後你獨舞。你剛設計的 。（打拍子）(打拍子)做的好。好，很好，很棒。所以── （掌聲）所以──（掌聲）謝謝。（掌聲）所以──三種模式。（掌聲）哦。（笑聲）（掌聲）三種物理思維模式，可以嗎？三種物理思維。我希望今天離開後你會開始為自己而跳，如果不是這樣，至少更常、更漂亮地「胡鬧」一番， 非常感謝。（掌聲）謝謝，謝謝。（掌聲）就這樣。（掌聲）（掌聲）"
