Talk	en	zh-tw
wendy_freedman_this_new_telescope_might_show_us_the_beginning_of_the_universe	"When I was 14 years old, I was interested in science — fascinated by it, excited to learn about it. And I had a high school science teacher who would say to the class, ""The girls don't have to listen to this."" Encouraging, yes. (Laughter) I chose not to listen — but to that statement alone. So let me take you to the Andes mountains in Chile, 500 kilometers, 300 miles northeast of Santiago. It's very remote, it's very dry and it's very beautiful. And there's not much there. There are condors, there are tarantulas, and at night, when the light dims, it reveals one of the darkest skies on Earth. It's kind of a magic place, the mountain. It's a wonderful combination of very remote mountaintop with exquisitely sophisticated technology. And our ancestors, for as long as there's been recorded history, have looked at the night sky and pondered the nature of our existence. And we're no exception, our generation. The only difficulty is that the night sky now is blocked by the glare of city lights. And so astronomers go to these very remote mountaintops to view and to study the cosmos. So telescopes are our window to the cosmos. It's no exaggeration to say that the Southern Hemisphere is going to be the future of astronomy for the 21st century. We have an array of existing telescopes already, in the Andes mountains in Chile, and that's soon to be joined by a really sensational array of new capability. There will be two international groups that are going to be building giant telescopes, sensitive to optical radiation, as our eyes are. There will be a survey telescope that will be scanning the sky every few nights. There will be radio telescopes, sensitive to long-wavelength radio radiation. And then there will be telescopes in space. There'll be a successor to the Hubble Space Telescope; it's called the James Webb Telescope, and it will be launched in 2018. There'll be a satellite called TESS that will discover planets outside of our solar system. For the last decade, I've been leading a group — a consortium — international group, to build what will be, when it's finished, the largest optical telescope in existence. It's called the Giant Magellan Telescope, or GMT. This telescope is going to have mirrors that are 8.4 meters in diameter — each of the mirrors. That's almost 27 feet. So it dwarfs this stage — maybe out to the fourth row in this audience. Each of the seven mirrors in this telescope will be almost 27 feet in diameter. Together, the seven mirrors in this telescope will comprise 80 feet in diameter. So, essentially the size of this entire auditorium. The whole telescope will stand about 43 meters high, and again, being in Rio, some of you have been to see the statue of the giant Christ. The scale is comparable in height; in fact, it's smaller than this telescope will be. It's comparable to the size of the Statue of Liberty. And it's going to be housed in an enclosure that's 22 stories — 60 meters high. But it's an unusual building to protect this telescope. It will have open windows to the sky, be able to point and look at the sky, and it will actually rotate on a base — 2,000 tons of rotating building. The Giant Magellan Telescope will have 10 times the resolution of the Hubble Space Telescope. It will be 20 million times more sensitive than the human eye. And it may, for the first time ever, be capable of finding life on planets outside of our solar system. It's going to allow us to look back at the first light in the universe — literally, the dawn of the cosmos. The cosmic dawn. It's a telescope that's going to allow us to peer back, witness galaxies as they were when they were actually assembling, the first black holes in the universe, the first galaxies. Now, for thousands of years, we have been studying the cosmos, we've been wondering about our place in the universe. The ancient Greeks told us that the Earth was the center of the universe. Five hundred years ago, Copernicus displaced the Earth, and put the Sun at the heart of the cosmos. And as we've learned over the centuries, since Galileo Galilei, the Italian scientist, first turned, in that time, a two-inch, very small telescope, to the sky, every time we have built larger telescopes, we have learned something about the universe; we've made discoveries, without exception. We've learned in the 20th century that the universe is expanding and that our own solar system is not at the center of that expansion. We know now that the universe is made of about 100 billion galaxies that are visible to us, and each one of those galaxies has 100 billion stars within it. So we're looking now at the deepest image of the cosmos that's ever been taken. It was taken using the Hubble Space Telescope, and by pointing the telescope at what was previously a blank region of sky, before the launch of Hubble. And if you can imagine this tiny area, it's only one-fiftieth of the size of the full moon. So, if you can imagine the full moon. And there are now 10,000 galaxies visible within that image. And the faintness of those images and the tiny size is only a result of the fact that those galaxies are so far away, the vast distances. And each of those galaxies may contain within it a few billion or even hundreds of billions of individual stars. Telescopes are like time machines. So the farther back we look in space, the further back we see in time. And they're like light buckets — literally, they collect light. So larger the bucket, the larger the mirror we have, the more light we can see, and the farther back we can view. So, we've learned in the last century that there are exotic objects in the universe — black holes. We've even learned that there's dark matter and dark energy that we can't see. So you're looking now at an actual image of dark matter. (Laughter) You got it. Not all audiences get that. (Laughter) So the way we infer the presence of dark matter — we can't see it — but there's an unmistakable tug, due to gravity. We now can look out, we see this sea of galaxies in a universe that's expanding. What I do myself is to measure the expansion of the universe, and one of the projects that I carried out in the 1990s used the Hubble Space Telescope to measure how fast the universe is expanding. We can now trace back to 14 billion years. We've learned over time that stars have individual histories; that is, they have birth, they have middle ages and some of them even have dramatic deaths. So the embers from those stars actually then form the new stars that we see, most of which turn out to have planets going around them. And one of the really surprising results in the last 20 years has been the discovery of other planets going around other stars. These are called exoplanets. And until 1995, we didn't even know the existence of any other planets, other than going around our own sun. But now, there are almost 2,000 other planets orbiting other stars that we can now detect, measure masses for. There are 500 of those that are multiple-planet systems. And there are 4,000 — and still counting — other candidates for planets orbiting other stars. They come in a bewildering variety of different kinds. There are Jupiter-like planets that are hot, there are other planets that are icy, there are water worlds and there are rocky planets like the Earth, so-called ""super-Earths,"" and there have even been planets that have been speculated diamond worlds. So we know there's at least one planet, our own Earth, in which there is life. We've even found planets that are orbiting two stars. That's no longer the province of science fiction. So around our own planet, we know there's life, we've developed a complex life, we now can question our own origins. And given all that we've discovered, the overwhelming numbers now suggest that there may be millions, perhaps — maybe even hundreds of millions — of other [planets] that are close enough — just the right distance from their stars that they're orbiting — to have the existence of liquid water and maybe could potentially support life. So we marvel now at those odds, the overwhelming odds, and the amazing thing is that within the next decade, the GMT may be able to take spectra of the atmospheres of those planets, and determine whether or not they have the potential for life. So, what is the GMT project? It's an international project. It includes Australia, South Korea, and I'm happy to say, being here in Rio, that the newest partner in our telescope is Brazil. (Applause) It also includes a number of institutions across the United States, including Harvard University, the Smithsonian and the Carnegie Institutions, and the Universities of Arizona, Chicago, Texas-Austin and Texas A&M University. It also involves Chile. So, the making of the mirrors in this telescope is also fascinating in its own right. Take chunks of glass, melt them in a furnace that is itself rotating. This happens underneath the football stadium at the University of Arizona. It's tucked away under 52,000 seats. Nobody know it's happening. And there's essentially a rotating cauldron. The mirrors are cast and they're cooled very slowly, and then they're polished to an exquisite precision. And so, if you think about the precision of these mirrors, the bumps on the mirror, over the entire 27 feet, amount to less than one-millionth of an inch. So, can you visualize that? Ow! (Laughter) That's one five-thousandths of the width of one of my hairs, over this entire 27 feet. It's a spectacular achievement. It's what allows us to have the precision that we will have. So, what does that precision buy us? So the GMT, if you can imagine — if I were to hold up a coin, which I just happen to have, and I look at the face of that coin, I can see from here the writing on the coin; I can see the face on that coin. My guess that even in the front row, you can't see that. But if we were to turn the Giant Magellan Telescope, all 80-feet diameter that we see in this auditorium, and point it 200 miles away, if I were standing in São Paulo, we could resolve the face of this coin. That's the extraordinary resolution and power of this telescope. And if we were — (Applause) If an astronaut went up to the Moon, a quarter of a million miles away, and lit a candle — a single candle — then we would be able to detect it, using the GMT. Quite extraordinary. This is a simulated image of a cluster in a nearby galaxy. ""Nearby"" is astronomical, it's all relative. It's tens of millions of light-years away. This is what this cluster would look like. So look at those four bright objects, and now lets compare it with a camera on the Hubble Space Telescope. You can see faint detail that starts to come through. And now finally — and look how dramatic this is — this is what the GMT will see. So, keep your eyes on those bright images again. This is what we see on one of the most powerful existing telescopes on the Earth, and this, again, what the GMT will see. Extraordinary precision. So, where are we? We have now leveled the top of the mountaintop in Chile. We blasted that off. We've tested and polished the first mirror. We've cast the second and the third mirrors. And we're about to cast the fourth mirror. We had a series of reviews this year, international panels that came in and reviewed us, and said, ""You're ready to go to construction."" And so we plan on building this telescope with the first four mirrors. We want to get on the air quickly, and be taking science data — what we astronomers call ""first light,"" in 2021. And the full telescope will be finished in the middle of the next decade, with all seven mirrors. So we're now poised to look back at the distant universe, the cosmic dawn. We'll be able to study other planets in exquisite detail. But for me, one of the most exciting things about building the GMT is the opportunity to actually discover something that we don't know about — that we can't even imagine at this point, something completely new. And my hope is that with the construction of this and other facilities, that many young women and men will be inspired to reach for the stars. Thank you very much. Obrigado. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Wendy. Stay with me, because I have a question for you. You mentioned different facilities. So the Magellan Telescope is going up, but also ALMA and others in Chile and elsewhere, including in Hawaii. Is it about cooperation and complementarity, or about competition? I know there's competition in terms of funding, but what about the science? Wendy Freedman: In terms of the science, they're very complementary. The telescopes that are in space, the telescopes on the ground, telescopes with different wavelength capability, telescopes even that are similar, but different instruments — they will all look at different parts of the questions that we're asking. So when we discover other planets, we'll be able to test those observations, we'll be able to measure the atmospheres, be able to look in space with very high resolution. So, they're very complementary. You're right about the funding, we compete; but scientifically, it's very complementary. BG: Wendy, thank you very much for coming to TEDGlobal. WF: Thank you. (Applause)"	十四歲時，我對科學有很大的興趣，興奮地想學習更多。但高中科學老師卻對學生說：「女孩子不用聽這門課」。 激勵人心吧！ （笑聲） 我決定不聽他的話 － 但僅限於這句話。 讓我帶你們到 智利的安地斯山脈，位於聖地亞哥東北方五百公里，相當於三百英里處，非常偏遠，非常乾燥，但也非常的美麗。這裡幾乎什麼都沒有，只有禿鷹、大蜘蛛，以及當夜晚降臨的時候，呈現出全球最黑的天空之一。這座山是一個奇幻的地方，一個驚奇的組合：在偏遠的山頂上結合了精密的科技。 自從有歷史記載以來，我們的祖先就一直眺望夜空，思考我們的存在，我們這一代也不例外。但困難的是那片夜空現在已經被城市的光害給遮蓋了。所以天文學家必須在偏遠的山頂上，才能觀察研究這個宇宙。天文望遠鏡，是我們能看見宇宙的窗口， 這句話並不誇張：有人說南半球將是21世紀天文學的未來。現在已經有一組天文望遠鏡陣列，座落在智利的安地斯山脈上了；而且不久之後，還會有更強大的觀測陣列加入。有兩個國際組織將會在這裡建造巨型望遠鏡，它對於光線極為靈敏，就如同我們的眼睛一樣。還有巡天望遠鏡，它會每隔幾天完成掃描夜空一次。還有電波望遠鏡，能夠觀察長波長的電波。太空中還會有一座新的望遠鏡。即將接替現有的哈伯太空望遠鏡，命名為「詹姆斯˙韋伯太空望遠鏡」，將在 2018年發射升空。還有名為 TESS 的觀測衛星專門尋找位在太陽系之外的其他行星。 我在過去的十年，帶領了一個團隊 —一個國際聯盟組織，負責建造一座即將成為全世界最大的光學望遠鏡，稱為「巨型麥哲倫望遠鏡」，縮寫為 GMT，這座望遠鏡中將會若干個鏡片，每個鏡片直徑為8.4公尺，就是差不多 27 英尺。它可以完全遮住這個講台，也許還能延伸到第四排座位。這具望遠鏡的七面鏡片，每ㄧ片直徑差不多 27 英尺。七面鏡片全部加起來組合成直徑80 英呎的望眼鏡。所以實質上，跟這個禮堂一樣大。這座望遠鏡大約 43 公尺高。同樣地，來到里約，有些人可能已經看過巨大的耶穌雕像。它們的大小差不多；事實上，雕像比望遠鏡小一些。望遠鏡的尺寸相當於自由女神像。它即將安裝於一座 22 層的建物內－總高 60 公尺高。為了保護這座望遠鏡它的設計不同於一般建築，它將有個朝向天空的窗口，能夠直視天空，而且它將靠著底座旋轉 －底座是重達2000噸的旋轉建築物。 GMT 擁有哈伯太空望遠鏡十倍的解析度。它的敏感度是肉眼的兩千萬多倍。它讓我們第一次能夠在太陽系以外的行星尋找生命。它能讓我們看見宇宙中第一束光芒－－就字面意思：宇宙黎明。宇宙的黎明。它能讓我們看見過去，看見銀河系形成時的樣子，看見第一批黑洞以及第一批出現的銀河系。 人類觀察宇宙已有千年的時間，思索着我們在浩瀚宇宙中的角色。古希臘人告訴我們地球是宇宙的中心。五百年前，哥白尼 推翻了這個概念，並將太陽放在宇宙的中心。幾世紀以，我們學到很多 －自從 伽利略 這位義大利科學家第一次將一個兩寸直徑的小望遠鏡指向天際，之後，每次我們建造更大的望遠鏡時，我們對宇宙就有更多認識；毫無例外地，每次都有新發現。在二十世紀，我們發現了宇宙在膨脹。而且太陽系並非宇宙膨脹中心。現今我們知道宇宙是由大約一千億個銀河系構成，這是我們能看到的數量。而每個銀河系都有千億個恆星在其中。 你現在看到的是我們所能拍攝到宇宙最深處的影像。這是哈伯太空望遠鏡所拍攝，在哈伯升空之前這裡曾是一片空白的天空。想像一下這一小片區域，只是我們看到滿月的五十分之一。所以，像一下月圓的樣子。這張照片中能看見大約一萬個銀河系。銀河系看起來小，光線微弱是因為他們離我們非常遙遠。但每一個銀河系當中，都有數十億甚至數千億個恆星。望遠鏡也像時光機。我們看的距離越遙遠所看見的就是更久遠的過去。它也像是能收集光線的桶子－桶子越大，鏡面也越大；我們能看見越多的光線，也就能看見更久遠的過去。 所以在上個世紀我們發現宇宙中有著非常奇異的物體 — 黑洞。我們也發現看不見的「暗物質」和「暗能量」的存在。你現在看的是一張「暗物質」的照片。 （笑聲） 你對了。不是所有觀眾「看得到」。 （笑） 所以我們如何推測「暗物質」的存在 ？我們看不到它們－ 但是有引力場的存在。我們看看這銀河系的星海處在一個不斷膨脹的宇宙中。 我自己的工作是測量宇宙的膨脹。我在 1990年代參加的一項計畫用哈伯望遠鏡測量宇宙膨脹的速度。我們現在可以追溯到 140億年前。知道每一個星球都有自己的一段歷史；它們有出生，有中年時期，有些很戲劇性的死亡。由這些死亡星球的殘骸變成了新的星球，甚至有些還有行星圍繞著它們。 過去 20年裡最驚人的發現之一就是圍繞著其他恆星公轉的行星。它們是「太陽系外行星」。直到 1995年，我們才知道其它行星的存在－除了繞著我們太陽旋轉之外的行星。但是現在，有大約 2000個太陽系外行星－我們能觀測且測量質量。500個「多行星」系統，4000 個數量仍在增加的「太陽系外行星」的候選者。它們有各種形式的呈現。有類似木星、溫度很高的星球，有冰的、有水的，有全是石頭的行星、像地球一樣－ 叫做「超級地球」，甚至還有被認為全都是鑽石的行星。 所以我們知道至少有一個星球有生命－ 我們的地球。我們甚至發現了繞著兩個星球公轉的行星。這不再是只存在於科幻小說中的情節。所以我們知道，在地球之外會有生命。我們已經發展出複雜的生命體，現在可以追溯起源。根據我們所發現的數字顯示，巨大的行星－可能會有幾百萬， 甚至幾億個行星 －離恆星夠近－也正好和它公轉中心有適當的距離－擁有能夠支持生命的液態水。所以我們現在驚嘆於這些巧合，以及在下個十年將會有驚人發現，GMT也許可以採集這些行星的大氣層頻譜，來決定它們是否有可能孕育生命。 所以，什麼是GMT計畫？這是一個國際計畫。參與有澳大利亞，韓國，並且在里約這裡— 我很高興地說，我們有新成員：巴西。 （掌聲） 參與計畫的還有一些美國機構，包括哈佛大學、斯密森學會、和卡耐基學院、亞利桑那大學、芝加哥大學、德克薩斯奧斯丁大學、和德州農工大學。智利也參與其中。 望遠鏡鏡片製造本身就很迷人。取一大塊的玻璃，放到一個旋轉著的熔爐中熔化。這是在亞利桑那州大學橄欖球場底下進行。它藏在五萬兩千張椅子之下。沒人知道他的存在。那本來就有一個旋轉時的大鍋。鏡片成形，並且慢慢冷卻，然後精緻打磨。你可以想一下鏡片的精細度：隆起顆粒在直徑27呎的整個鏡面上，總合不超過百萬分之一英寸。所以你能想像到嗎？噢！ （笑） 是我這根頭髮直徑的五千分之一，在27呎的鏡面之上。這是一個驚人的成果。它讓我們獲得我們想要的精度。 那麼，這樣的精度能帶來什麼呢？用GMT，想像一下。如果我舉起這－ 我剛好有－我從這個距離看到上面的臉，看清楚上面的文字和肖像。我猜即使第一排的觀眾也看不到這些。如果我用GMT來看我們會在這禮堂用直徑80英尺的GMT對準200英里（約320公里）以外如果我站在聖保羅，大家依舊可以看清這個硬幣。就是這個望遠鏡非凡的解析度與能力。如果我們－ （掌聲） 如果太空人到了月球，離此 25萬 哩外，然後點起一根蠟燭－ 就一根 －我們用GMT 能看得到。相當非凡。 這是附近銀河系的星團模擬圖。「附近」是「天文觀測」的相對的概念。其實它離我們有上千萬光年。這是星團的大概樣子。看這四個明亮的物體，現在我們拿哈伯望遠鏡上的照相機相比。你可以看到模糊的細節顯露出來了。最後看看這個－ 多麼驚人－由 GMT 看到的圖像。注意那幾個亮點。這是用現在地球上最強的望遠鏡看到的，然後這個GMT看到的。非凡的精確度。 那麼，我們到哪？我們現在已經把智利的山頂弄平了。我們炸平了它。我們已測試與拋光第一面鏡片。已鑄造第二面和第三面。我們即將鑄造第四面鏡片。今年我們做了一系列的審查，國際委員會審查我們，他們說：「你們已經能開始建造了」。所以我們計劃用前四面鏡片建造這個望遠鏡。我們想儘早完工，開始收集科學數據－天文學家所謂的 2021年「第一曙光」。整個望遠鏡將在未來的十年中期完工，七面鏡片將悉數完成。 我們將回顧遙遠的宇宙，宇宙之黎明。我們將能詳細研究其它的行星。 但對我而言，建造GMT最令人興奮的 －莫過於真正探索事物的機會，探索未知的－ 甚至現在無法想像的事物，一個全新的世界。我的希望是這些設施的建造將能鼓舞年輕人去追求探索這些星球。 很感謝。謝謝（葡語） （掌聲） 布魯諾：謝謝你，溫蒂。等一下，我有個問題要請教你。你提到了不同的設施。所以說麥哲倫望遠鏡正在阿爾馬，智利以及夏威夷等地建造。它們會涉及合作，互補或者競爭嗎？我知道有關經費的競爭，那麼科學方面呢？ 溫蒂：科學方面是完全互補的。不論是太空或是地面望遠鏡，探測不同波長的望遠鏡，相似卻又不同的望遠鏡設備－它們探索問題的不同層面。當我們探索行星的時，我們將能夠嘗試不同的觀測、測量大氣狀況、以及能以高清晰度來觀察太空。所以他們都是互補的。資金方面，你是對的，我們有競爭。但是科學上，我們是互補的。 布魯諾：溫蒂，十分感謝你能來參與 TED Global。溫蒂：謝謝你們。（掌聲）
