Talk	en	zh-tw
wendy_chung_autism_what_we_know_and_what_we_don_t_know_yet	"""Why?"" ""Why?"" is a question that parents ask me all the time. ""Why did my child develop autism?"" As a pediatrician, as a geneticist, as a researcher, we try and address that question. But autism is not a single condition. It's actually a spectrum of disorders, a spectrum that ranges, for instance, from Justin, a 13-year-old boy who's not verbal, who can't speak, who communicates by using an iPad to touch pictures to communicate his thoughts and his concerns, a little boy who, when he gets upset, will start rocking, and eventually, when he's disturbed enough, will bang his head to the point that he can actually cut it open and require stitches. That same diagnosis of autism, though, also applies to Gabriel, another 13-year-old boy who has quite a different set of challenges. He's actually quite remarkably gifted in mathematics. He can multiple three numbers by three numbers in his head with ease, yet when it comes to trying to have a conversation, he has great difficulty. He doesn't make eye contact. He has difficulty starting a conversation, feels awkward, and when he gets nervous, he actually shuts down. Yet both of these boys have the same diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. One of the things that concerns us is whether or not there really is an epidemic of autism. These days, one in 88 children will be diagnosed with autism, and the question is, why does this graph look this way? Has that number been increasing dramatically over time? Or is it because we have now started labeling individuals with autism, simply giving them a diagnosis when they were still present there before yet simply didn't have that label? And in fact, in the late 1980s, the early 1990s, legislation was passed that actually provided individuals with autism with resources, with access to educational materials that would help them. With that increased awareness, more parents, more pediatricians, more educators learned to recognize the features of autism. As a result of that, more individuals were diagnosed and got access to the resources they needed. In addition, we've changed our definition over time, so in fact we've widened the definition of autism, and that accounts for some of the increased prevalence that we see. The next question everyone wonders is, what caused autism? And a common misconception is that vaccines cause autism. But let me be very clear: Vaccines do not cause autism. (Applause) In fact, the original research study that suggested that was the case was completely fraudulent. It was actually retracted from the journal Lancet, in which it was published, and that author, a physician, had his medical license taken away from him. (Applause) The Institute of Medicine, The Centers for Disease Control, have repeatedly investigated this and there is no credible evidence that vaccines cause autism. Furthermore, one of the ingredients in vaccines, something called thimerosal, was thought to be what the cause of autism was. That was actually removed from vaccines in the year 1992, and you can see that it really did not have an effect in what happened with the prevalence of autism. So again, there is no evidence that this is the answer. So the question remains, what does cause autism? In fact, there's probably not one single answer. Just as autism is a spectrum, there's a spectrum of etiologies, a spectrum of causes. Based on epidemiological data, we know that one of the causes, or one of the associations, I should say, is advanced paternal age, that is, increasing age of the father at the time of conception. In addition, another vulnerable and critical period in terms of development is when the mother is pregnant. During that period, while the fetal brain is developing, we know that exposure to certain agents can actually increase the risk of autism. In particular, there's a medication, valproic acid, which mothers with epilepsy sometimes take, we know can increase that risk of autism. In addition, there can be some infectious agents that can also cause autism. And one of the things I'm going to spend a lot of time focusing on are the genes that can cause autism. I'm focusing on this not because genes are the only cause of autism, but it's a cause of autism that we can readily define and be able to better understand the biology and understand better how the brain works so that we can come up with strategies to be able to intervene. One of the genetic factors that we don't understand, however, is the difference that we see in terms of males and females. Males are affected four to one compared to females with autism, and we really don't understand what that cause is. One of the ways that we can understand that genetics is a factor is by looking at something called the concordance rate. In other words, if one sibling has autism, what's the probability that another sibling in that family will have autism? And we can look in particular at three types of siblings: identical twins, twins that actually share 100 percent of their genetic information and shared the same intrauterine environment, versus fraternal twins, twins that actually share 50 percent of their genetic information, versus regular siblings, brother-sister, sister-sister, also sharing 50 percent of their genetic information, yet not sharing the same intrauterine environment. And when you look at those concordance ratios, one of the striking things that you will see is that in identical twins, that concordance rate is 77 percent. Remarkably, though, it's not 100 percent. It is not that genes account for all of the risk for autism, but yet they account for a lot of that risk, because when you look at fraternal twins, that concordance rate is only 31 percent. On the other hand, there is a difference between those fraternal twins and the siblings, suggesting that there are common exposures for those fraternal twins that may not be shared as commonly with siblings alone. So this provides some of the data that autism is genetic. Well, how genetic is it? When we compare it to other conditions that we're familiar with, things like cancer, heart disease, diabetes, in fact, genetics plays a much larger role in autism than it does in any of these other conditions. But with this, that doesn't tell us what the genes are. It doesn't even tell us in any one child, is it one gene or potentially a combination of genes? And so in fact, in some individuals with autism, it is genetic! That is, that it is one single, powerful, deterministic gene that causes the autism. However, in other individuals, it's genetic, that is, that it's actually a combination of genes in part with the developmental process that ultimately determines that risk for autism. We don't know in any one person, necessarily, which of those two answers it is until we start digging deeper. So the question becomes, how can we start to identify what exactly those genes are. And let me pose something that might not be intuitive. In certain individuals, they can have autism for a reason that is genetic but yet not because of autism running in the family. And the reason is because in certain individuals, they can actually have genetic changes or mutations that are not passed down from the mother or from the father, but actually start brand new in them, mutations that are present in the egg or the sperm at the time of conception but have not been passed down generation through generation within the family. And we can actually use that strategy to now understand and to identify those genes causing autism in those individuals. So in fact, at the Simons Foundation, we took 2,600 individuals that had no family history of autism, and we took that child and their mother and father and used them to try and understand what were those genes causing autism in those cases? To do that, we actually had to comprehensively be able to look at all that genetic information and determine what those differences were between the mother, the father and the child. In doing so, I apologize, I'm going to use an outdated analogy of encyclopedias rather than Wikipedia, but I'm going to do so to try and help make the point that as we did this inventory, we needed to be able to look at massive amounts of information. Our genetic information is organized into a set of 46 volumes, and when we did that, we had to be able to account for each of those 46 volumes, because in some cases with autism, there's actually a single volume that's missing. We had to get more granular than that, though, and so we had to start opening those books, and in some cases, the genetic change was more subtle. It might have been a single paragraph that was missing, or yet, even more subtle than that, a single letter, one out of three billion letters that was changed, that was altered, yet had profound effects in terms of how the brain functions and affects behavior. In doing this within these families, we were able to account for approximately 25 percent of the individuals and determine that there was a single powerful genetic factor that caused autism within those families. On the other hand, there's 75 percent that we still haven't figured out. As we did this, though, it was really quite humbling, because we realized that there was not simply one gene for autism. In fact, the current estimates are that there are 200 to 400 different genes that can cause autism. And that explains, in part, why we see such a broad spectrum in terms of its effects. Although there are that many genes, there is some method to the madness. It's not simply random 200, 400 different genes, but in fact they fit together. They fit together in a pathway. They fit together in a network that's starting to make sense now in terms of how the brain functions. We're starting to have a bottom-up approach where we're identifying those genes, those proteins, those molecules, understanding how they interact together to make that neuron work, understanding how those neurons interact together to make circuits work, and understand how those circuits work to now control behavior, and understand that both in individuals with autism as well as individuals who have normal cognition. But early diagnosis is a key for us. Being able to make that diagnosis of someone who's susceptible at a time in a window where we have the ability to transform, to be able to impact that growing, developing brain is critical. And so folks like Ami Klin have developed methods to be able to take infants, small babies, and be able to use biomarkers, in this case eye contact and eye tracking, to identify an infant at risk. This particular infant, you can see, making very good eye contact with this woman as she's singing ""Itsy, Bitsy Spider,"" in fact is not going to develop autism. This baby we know is going to be in the clear. On the other hand, this other baby is going to go on to develop autism. In this particular child, you can see, it's not making good eye contact. Instead of the eyes focusing in and having that social connection, looking at the mouth, looking at the nose, looking off in another direction, but not again socially connecting, and being able to do this on a very large scale, screen infants, screen children for autism, through something very robust, very reliable, is going to be very helpful to us in terms of being able to intervene at an early stage when we can have the greatest impact. How are we going to intervene? It's probably going to be a combination of factors. In part, in some individuals, we're going to try and use medications. And so in fact, identifying the genes for autism is important for us to identify drug targets, to identify things that we might be able to impact and can be certain that that's really what we need to do in autism. But that's not going to be the only answer. Beyond just drugs, we're going to use educational strategies. Individuals with autism, some of them are wired a little bit differently. They learn in a different way. They absorb their surroundings in a different way, and we need to be able to educate them in a way that serves them best. Beyond that, there are a lot of individuals in this room who have great ideas in terms of new technologies we can use, everything from devices we can use to train the brain to be able to make it more efficient and to compensate for areas in which it has a little bit of trouble, to even things like Google Glass. You could imagine, for instance, Gabriel, with his social awkwardness, might be able to wear Google Glass with an earpiece in his ear, and have a coach be able to help him, be able to help think about conversations, conversation-starters, being able to even perhaps one day invite a girl out on a date. All of these new technologies just offer tremendous opportunities for us to be able to impact the individuals with autism, but yet we have a long way to go. As much as we know, there is so much more that we don't know, and so I invite all of you to be able to help us think about how to do this better, to use as a community our collective wisdom to be able to make a difference, and in particular, for the individuals in families with autism, I invite you to join the interactive autism network, to be part of the solution to this, because it's going to take really a lot of us to think about what's important, what's going to be a meaningful difference. As we think about something that's potentially a solution, how well does it work? Is it something that's really going to make a difference in your lives, as an individual, as a family with autism? We're going to need individuals of all ages, from the young to the old, and with all different shapes and sizes of the autism spectrum disorder to make sure that we can have an impact. So I invite all of you to join the mission and to help to be able to make the lives of individuals with autism so much better and so much richer. Thank you. (Applause)"	為什麼？（Wendy Chung 溫蒂.張）父母們總是問我這個問題。 （Wendy Chung 溫蒂.張）“為什麼我的孩子會有自閉症？”（2014年3月 溫哥華卑詩省）作為一名兒科醫生、遺傳學家、研究員，我們想要找到這個問題的答案。 自閉症的病狀體現不是單一的，(自閉症譜系）它可以是一系列的病狀。自閉症的表現多樣，舉個例子：13歲少年：Justin，他不太會表達、不能講話，他通過iPad和人溝通，他用碰觸圖片來表達他的想法和意見。當這個男孩子不高興時，他會開始前後搖擺，如果他受到更大的刺激，他會開始用頭撞東西，甚至頭破血流，嚴重到需要縫針。同樣的，Gabriel也被判定為自閉症患者。他也是13歲，不過他的問題和Justin截然不同。他是一位數學神童，他可以輕而易舉地心算三位數的乘法不過，當他與人聊天時，他就一團糟了。他不會和人有目光接觸，他很難開啟話匣子，感覺不自在，當他緊張時，他就開始封閉自己了。不過這兩個男孩子都被診斷為自閉症譜系障礙。（自閉症譜系障礙） 我們非常擔心的是：自閉症到底是不是一種流行病？現今，每88個兒童裡就會有一個被診斷有自閉症。我們想知道的是：為什麼我們的圖表有這樣的趨勢？是因為得了自閉症的孩子在近年急劇增長？(自閉症實際上沒有圖表所顯示的巨大增加）還是因為我們的診斷方式包括了更多人？(紅線：殘障教育法案）我們現在把一種症狀歸類為自閉症，不過之前卻沒有把這種症狀視為自閉症。在80年代末，90年代初期，立法通過讓患有自閉症的人群有足夠的資源、有條件接受教育，從中得益。社會對自閉症更多的重視，讓父母、兒科醫師、教學人員熟悉如何識別自閉症的特征。因此，更多的人被診斷有自閉症並得到他們所需要的幫助。另外，我們對自閉症的定義也隨著時間改變，事實上，我們拓寬了對自閉症的定義，主要是因為我們看到某種病狀日趨增加。 那麼下一個人人都關注的問題就是：什麼導致自閉症？以及最大的誤區：疫苗會造成自閉症。讓我清楚地告訴各位：疫苗不會造成自閉症。（鼓掌）事實上，最初聲稱疫苗造成自閉症的報告完全是假的。這個報告被其發表的科刊《Lancet》收回它的作者被吊銷了他的行醫執照。（鼓掌）美國醫學研究院、疾病控制中心已經做過重複的調查，都沒有發現任何可靠的證據表明疫苗會造成自閉症。（疫苗不會導致自閉症）此外，疫苗的成份之一：硫柳汞曾被認為會造成自閉症，但在1992年已經從疫苗中移除。你可以發現，它和自閉症之後的發展沒有任何關聯。因此，沒有任何證據表明疫苗和自閉症有個。所以問題來了：是什麼造成自閉症？ 事實上，我們沒有一個單一的答案。自閉症包括一系列的病情它的病原也不是單一的。流行病學的數據顯示（什麼造成自閉症）我們知道其中一個原因或者應該說關聯和父親的高齡有關。就是說，在孩子受精時，父親的年齡越高，越會出現自閉症。另外一個易受傷害而格外重要的時間段：母親懷孕期間。在這段時期，嬰兒的大腦不斷發育。我們知道此時如受外界影響，孩子將會更容易患上自閉症。特別是一種叫做丙戊酸的藥物，患有癲癇的孕婦有時會服用的，我們知道這個藥物會增加患上自閉症的機率。另外，還有一些傳染病的導因，也會造成自閉症。 我會用很多時間跟大家講一講基因如何造成自閉症。我的意思不是只有基因會造成自閉症。但是這個病因是我們可以完全界定的。我們可以更好的從生物學從大腦運作的方式明白病因。因此我們可以找到方法得以應對。（性別之謎）一個我們還不理解的遺傳因素是男女之間的區別。男性和女性患有自閉症的比例是4:1我們不知道是什麼原因。 我們可以確認自閉症和遺傳有關的一個方式是統計“和合率”換句話說：如果有兄弟姊妹得了自閉症，家中其他成員患上自閉症的可能是多少?我們會看三種弟兄姊妹的情況：同卵雙胞胎，雙胞胎有100%一樣的遺傳信息。並有一樣的子宮環境。對比異卵雙胞胎異卵雙胞胎有50%一樣的遺傳信息。再對比一般的弟兄姊妹：有50%的遺傳信息，但是沒有一樣的子宮環境。當我們看“和合率“時，我們驚奇地發現，在同卵雙胞胎的情況下如果其中一個患有自閉症，另外一個得自閉症的概率是77%。要留意的是，這不是100%。遺傳不是唯一造成自閉症的因素。但是我們知道它佔了很大的比例。如果我們看異卵雙胞胎，相對的比例只有31%。另外一方面，異卵雙胞胎和兄弟姊妹也有不同讓我們推測，異卵雙胞胎所受所到的相同的影響比普通兄弟姊妹受到的要多。 所以這些研究給讓我們可以推論自閉症是和遺傳有關的。那么它和遺傳的關系有多大呢？當我們那其他熟悉的病情做比較時，比如腫瘤、心臟病、糖尿病，基因對自閉症的引導作用超過這些其他的疾病。即便如此，我們不知道是哪些特別的基因。我們甚至不知道是孩子的一個基因，還是一組基因造成自閉症。所以，某些患有自閉症的人來自遺傳！！！就是一個很強大、很頑固的基因造成的自閉症。不過，對於其他的人，自閉症來自遺傳。它可以是一組基因、在嬰兒發育過程中，多種因素最終造成自閉症的風險。我們不能確定某個患有自閉症的人是屬於以上哪一種情況，直到我們更深入的了解研究。 所以我們的問題成了：我們如何識別造成自閉症的基因？讓我提出一個不是那麼明顯的說法：對於某些人來說，他們可以因為遺傳而患上自閉症，但他們沒有任何自閉症的家族史。為什麼呢？因為某些人的基因出現改變或者突變，這些突變不是從父母那裡遺傳過來的，卻是從孩子本身開始的：卵子或精子所發生的突變，這不是在家族中一代一代傳下來。我們就可以用這發現去解讀和識別哪些基因造成這些人患上自閉症。所以，在Simons基金會，我們找到2600位沒有自閉症家族史的實驗對象。我們找到孩子和他們父母的基因，用這些基因嘗試明白哪些基因造成自閉症。要達到這個目標，我們要全面地了解他們的整個基因信息，看看孩子和父母的基因在什麼地方出現偏差。先抱歉一下，要這樣做呢，我用的方法比較老套。我會用百科全書的比喻，不是維基百科。我會嘗試用這個表達我的意思，當我們開始做他們的基因記錄時，我們需要處理巨量的信息。我們的基因信息被整理成46卷書，當我們整理時，我們需要知道每一卷書的具體位置，因為有些情況下，可能丟失一卷書造成自閉症。當然我們需要更細緻一些，所以我們需要打開這些書，在一些情況下，基因的改變是微妙的。可能是某頁的一段話不見了，甚至更細微，一個字母！30億個字母中的一個改變了，造成對大腦、對行為的深遠影響。（Simons 單一取樣發現25%自閉症是由全新的變異造成的）通過和這些家庭的基因做對比，我們發現大約有25%的患者是因為單一的，重要的基因因素而造成他們的自閉症。另外一方面，我們還不知道其他75%是什麼具體情況。 整個研究過程，真的叫我們謙卑自抑，我們明白並非是一個基因導致自閉症。事實上，我們現在的推測表明：至少有200-400個基因會造成自閉症。這樣間接解釋了為什麼自閉症可以有一系列的病狀。雖然有很多的基因，其實還是有跡可循的。這200-400個基因並非胡亂孤立的。它們是互相關聯的。它們是一條道上的，它們有組織，讓我們明白原因，找到大腦是如何運作的。我們開始追根尋源，識別這些基因，這些蛋白質、這些分子，了解它們如何互動，讓神經元正常運作，然後瞭解神經元如何合作，影響某些大腦連接，而大腦的神經連接是如何被影響人的行為舉止：患有自閉症的人是什麼樣的，有正常的認知的人是什麼樣的。前期診斷對我們來說至關重要，如果可以提早診斷有患上自閉症風險的人，我們就有時間幫助他們改變，能夠改變他們正在發育的大腦起著決定性作用。像Ami Klin這樣的研究員開發出一些方法用在嬰兒和幼童上，通過生物標誌，比如這個是用了目光接觸和眼球追蹤，看看嬰兒是否有患有自閉症的風險。你看到的這個嬰兒和這位女士有很好的目光接觸她在唱兒歌：小小蜘蛛這個嬰兒不會患上自閉症。這個嬰兒我們知道是沒問題的。不過，另外的這個孩子，將會患上自閉症。你可以發現這個孩子不能保持很好的目光接觸，嬰兒沒有注視，沒有在女士的眼神上進行交流，而是看看嘴巴，看看鼻子看別的方向，不能保持社交交流。通過這樣的方法，我們能夠檢查大批的嬰兒，檢定他們自閉症的風險，這些方法很有效也很可靠。它們將幫助在自閉症剛開始的時期介入，這個階段是最容易看到成效的。 我們如何介入呢？這應該會是綜合不同方式的。對於一些人，我們會使用藥物，所以找到影響自閉症的基因是至關重要的，這能找到藥物的目標。識別出那些我們可能影響的，這就是我們針對自閉症將要做的。藥物不是我們唯一的答案。我們將會在教育方式上不斷加強。患有自閉症的人，他們的思維可能很不相同。他們學習的方式不一樣。他們對周圍的觀察認知也不一樣，所以我們需要給予他們最適當的教育。在座的各位想必也有很多好的點子，可能通過新的科技，不管是通過儀器去鍛煉大腦，讓它更有效，為大腦某些不擅長的地方揚長避短。我們甚至可以用谷歌眼鏡。想象一下Gabriel：他在社交上害羞。如果他戴上Google Glass，戴上耳機，然後一位教練可以幫助他，教他如何和人聊天，如何引入話題，甚至有一天，邀一位女生出來約會。 這些新興科技將給我們帶來很大幫助，能夠幫助這些患有自閉症的人。不過，我們要走的路還很長。我們知道很多了，不過我們不知道的更多。所以我想邀請你，幫我們看看哪裡可以做得更好，我們集思廣益就一定大有可為。特別是這些家裡有自閉症的家庭，我邀請你們加入自閉症互動網成為尋找解決方法的一員。因為這需要很多人的參與：我們每個人都需要決定什麼是重要的，什麼可以帶來成效。當我們集思廣益，可能會找到一些解決方法，它會有效嗎？它能改變你的生活嗎？不論你患有自閉症，還是你的家人有自閉症。我們需要不同年齡層的人，年輕人到年長人士，有不同自閉症病狀特征的，有了這些才可以讓我們的努力有效果。所以我邀請諸位加入這項征途，讓患有自閉症的人們，在生活上更美、更好。謝謝。（鼓掌）
