Talk	en	zh-tw
will_wright_makes_toys_that_make_worlds	"I've always wanted to be a cyborg. One of my favorite shows as a kid was ""The Six Million Dollar Man,"" and this is a little bit closer to the 240-dollar man or so, but — (Laughter) At any rate, I would normally feel very self-conscious and geeky wearing this around, but a few days ago I saw one world-renowned statistician swallowing swords on stage here, so I figure it's OK amongst this group. But that's not what I want to talk about today. I want to talk about toys, and the power that I see inherent in them. When I was a kid, I attended Montessori school up to sixth grade in Atlanta, Georgia. And at the time I didn't think much about it, but then later, I realized that that was the high point of my education. From that point on, everything else was pretty much downhill. And it wasn't until later, as I started making games, that — I really actually think of them more as toys. People call me a game designer, but I really think of these things more as toys. I started getting very interested in Maria Montessori and her methods, and the way she went about things, and the way she thought it very valuable for kids to discover things on their own rather than being taught these things overtly. And she would design these toys, where kids in playing with the toys would come to understand these deep principles of life and nature through play. And since they discovered this, it stuck with them so much more, and also they would experience their own failures. There was a failure-based aspect to learning there. It was very important. And so, the games that I do, I think of really more as modern Montessori toys. And I really kind of want them to be presented in a way to where kids can kind of explore and discover their own principles. So a few years ago, I started getting very interested in the SETI program. And that's the way I work. I get interested in different subjects, I dive in, research them, and then try to figure out how to craft a toy around that, so that other people can experience the same sense of discovery that I did as I was learning that subject. And it led me to astrobiology, the study of possible life in the universe. And then Drake's equation, looking at the probability of life arising on planets, how long it might last, how many planets are out there. And I started looking at how interesting Drake's equation was, because it spanned all these different subjects — physics, chemistry, sociology, economics, astronomy. And another thing that really impressed me a long time ago was ""Powers of Ten,"" Charles and Ray Eames' film. And I started putting those two together and wondering, could I build a toy where kids would trip across all these interesting principles of life, as it exists and as it might go in the future. Things where you might trip across things like the Copernican principle, the Fermi paradox, the anthropic principle, the origin of life. And so I'm going to show you a toy today that I've been working on, that I think of more as kind of a philosophy toy. Playing this toy will bring up philosophical questions in you. The game is ""Spore."" I've been working on it for several years. It's getting pretty close to finished now. It occurs at all these different scales, from very small to very large. I'm going to pop in at the start of the game. And you actually start this game in a drop of water, as a very, very small single-cell creature, and right off the bat you basically just have to live, survive, reproduce. So here we are, at a very microscopic scale, swimming around. And I actually realize that cells don't have eyes, but it helps to make it cute. The players are going to play through every generation of this species, and as you play the game, the creature is actually growing bit by bit. And as we start growing, the camera will actually start zooming out, and things that you see in the background there will start slowly pulling into the foreground, showing you a little bit of what you'll be interacting with as you grow. So as we eat, the camera starts pulling out, and then we start interacting with larger and larger organisms. We actually play through many generations here, at the cellular scale. I'm going to skip ahead here. At some point we get larger, and we actually get to a macroevolution scale. Now, at this point we're leaving the water, and one thing that's kind of important about this game is that, at every level, the player is designing their creature, and that's a fundamental aspect of this. Now, in the evolution game here, the creature scale, basically you have to eat, survive, and then reproduce. You know, very Darwinian. One thing we noticed with ""The Sims,"" a game I did earlier, is that players love making stuff. When they were able to make stuff in the game, they had a lot of empathy in connection to it. Even if it wasn't as pretty as a professional artist would make for games, it really stuck with them and they really cared about what would happen to it. At this point, we've left the water, and now with this little creature — we could bring up the volume a little bit — and now we might try to eat. We might sneak up on this little guy over here maybe, and try and eat him. OK, well, we fight. (Creatures grunting) OK, we got him. Now we get a meal. So really, at this part of the game, what we're doing is we're running around and surviving, and also getting to the next generation, because we're going to play through every generation of this creature. We can mate, so I'm going to see if one of these creatures wants to mate with me. Yeah. (Creatures grunting) We didn't want to replay actual evolution with humans and all that, because it's almost more interesting to look at alternate possibilities in evolution. Evolution is usually presented as this one path that we took through, but really it represents this huge set of possibilities. Now, once we mate, we click on the egg. And this is where the game starts getting interesting, because one of the things we really focused on here was giving the players very high-leverage tools, so that for very little effort, the player can make something very cool. And it involves a lot of intelligence on the tool side. But basically, this is the editor where we're going to design the next generation. So it has a little spine. I can move around, I can extend. I can also inflate or deflate it with the mouse wheel, so you sculpt it like clay. We have parts here that I can put on or pull off. The idea is that the player can basically design anything they can think of in this editor, and we'll basically bring it to life. So I might put some limbs on the character here. I'll inflate them kind of large. And in this case I might decide I'm going to put — I'll put mouths on the limbs. So pretty much players are encouraged to be very creative in the game. Here, I'll give it one eye in the middle, maybe scale it up a bit. Point it down. And I'll also give it a few legs. So in some sense we want this to feel like an amplifier for the player's imagination, so that with a very small number of clicks a player can create something that they didn't really think was possible before. This is almost like designing something like Maya — that an eight-year-old can use. But really the goal here was, within about a minute, I wanted somebody to replicate what typically takes a pictorial artist several weeks to create. OK, now I'll put some hands on it. OK, so here I've basically thrown together a little creature. Let me give it a little weapon on the tail here, so it can fight. OK, so that's the complete model. Now we can actually go to the painting phase. At this phase, the program has some understanding of the topology of this creature. It knows where the backbone is, where the spine, the limbs are, how stripes should run, how it should be shaded. And so we're procedurally generating the texture map, something a texture artist would take many days to work on. And then we can test it out, and see how it would move around. And so at this point the computer is procedurally animating this creature. It's looking at whatever I've designed. It will actually bring it to life. And I can see how it might dance. (Laughter) How it might show emotions, how it might fight. So it's acting with its two mouths there. I can even have it pose for a photo. Snap a little photo of it. (Laughter) So then I bring this back into the game. It's born, and I play the next generation of my creature through evolution. Now again, the empathy that the players have when they create the content is tremendous. When players create content in this game, it's automatically sent up to a server and then redistributed to all the other players transparently. So in fact, as I'm interacting in this world with other creatures, these creatures are transparently coming from other players as they play. So the process of playing the game is a process of building up this huge database of content. And pretty much everything you're going to see in this game, there's an editor for that the player can create, up through civilization. This is my baby. When I eat, I'll actually start growing. This is the next generation. But I'm going to skip ahead here. Normally what would happen is these creatures would work their way up, eventually become intelligent. I'd start dealing with tribes, cities and civilizations of them over time. I'm going to skip way ahead to the space phase. Eventually they would go out into space, and start colonizing and exploring the universe. Now, really, in some sense, I want the players to be building this world in their imagination, and then extracting it from them with the least amount of pain. So that's kind of what these tools are about. How do we make the gameplay, you know, basically the player's imagination amplifier? And how do we make these tools, these editors, something that are just as fun as the game itself? So this is the planet that we've been playing on up to this point in the game. So far the entire game has been played on the surface of this little world here. At this point we're actually dealing with a very little toy planet. Almost, again, like the Montessori toy idea. What happens if you give somebody a toy planet, and let them play with a lot of dynamics on it? What could they discover? What might they learn on this? This world was actually extracted from the player's imagination. So, this is the planet that the player evolved on. Things like the buildings, the vehicles, the architecture, civilizations were all designed by the player up to this point. So here's a little city with some of our guys walking around in it. And most games put the player in the role of Luke Skywalker, this protagonist playing through this story. This is more about putting the player in the role of George Lucas. I want them, after they've played this game, to have extracted an entire world that they're now interacting with. As we pull down here, we still have a whole set of creatures living on the surface of the planet. All these different dynamics going on here. I can look over here, and this is a little simplified food web that's going on with the creatures. I can open this up and then scan what exists on the surface. You get some sense of the diversity of creatures that were brought in. Some of these were created by the player, others by other players, automatically sent over here. But there's a very simple calculation of what's required, how many plants are required for the herbivores to live, how many herbivores for the carnivores to eat, etc., that you have to balance actively. Also with this phase, we're getting more and more God-like powers for the player, and you can experiment with this planet as a toy. So I can come in and I can do things, and just treat this planet as a lump of clay. We have very simple weather systems, simple geology. For instance, I could open one of my tools here and then carve out rivers. So this whole thing is kind of like a big lump of clay, a sculpture. I can also play with the dynamics in this world over time. So one of the things I can do is start pumping more CO2 gases into the atmosphere, and so that's what I'm doing here. There's actually a little readout down there of our planetary atmosphere, pressure and temperature. So as I start pumping in more atmosphere, we're going to start pushing up the greenhouse gases here and if you'll start noticing, we start seeing the ocean levels rise over time. And our cities are going to be at risk too, because a lot of these are coastal cities. You can see the ocean levels are rising now and as they encroach upon the cities, I'll start losing cities here. So basically, I want the players to be able to experiment and explore a huge amount of failure space. So there goes one city. Now, over time, this is going to heat up the planet. So at first what we're going to see is a global ocean rise here on this little toy planet, but then over time — I can speed it up — we'll see the heat impact of that as well. Not only will it get hotter, but at some point it's going to get so hot the oceans will evaporate. They'll go up, and then they'll evaporate, and that'll be my planet. So basically, what we're getting here is the sequel to ""An Inconvenient Truth,"" in about two minutes, and that actually brings up an interesting point about games. Now here, our entire oceans are evaporating off the surface, and as it keeps getting hotter, at some point the entire planet is going to melt down. Here it goes. So we're not only simulating biological dynamics — food webs and all that — but also geologic, you know, on a very simple core scale. And what's interesting to me about games is that I think we can take a lot of long-term dynamics and compress them into very short-term experiences. Because it's so hard for people to think 50 or 100 years out, but when you can give them a toy, and they can experience these long-term dynamics in just a few minutes, I think it's an entirely different point of view, where we're actually using the game to remap our intuition. It's almost in the same way that a telescope or microscope recalibrates your eyesight; I think computer simulations can recalibrate your instinct across vast scales of both space and time. So here's our little solar system, as we pull away from our melted planet here. We actually have a couple of other planets in this solar system. Let's fly to another one. We're going to have this unlimited number of worlds you can explore here. As we move into the future, and we start going out into space and doing stuff, we're drawing a lot from things like science fiction. And all my favorite science fiction movies I want to play out here as different dynamics. This planet actually has some life on it. Here it is, some indigenous life down here. One of the tools I can eventually earn for my UFO is a monolith that I can drop down. (Laughter) Now, as you can see, these guys are actually starting to go up and bow to it, and over time, once they touch it, they will become intelligent. So I can actually pick a species on a planet and then make them sentient. Now they've actually gone to tribal dynamics. And now, because I'm actually the one here, I can get out of the UFO and walk up, and they should be worshipping me at this point as a god. At first they're a little freaked out. OK, well maybe they're not worshipping me. (Laughter) I think I'll leave before they get hostile. But we basically want a diversity of activities the players can play through this. I want to be able to play ""The Day the Earth Stood Still,"" ""2001: A Space Odyssey,"" ""Star Trek,"" ""War Of the Worlds."" Now, as we pull away from this world — we're going to keep pulling away from the star now. One of the things that always frustrated me about astronomy when I was a kid is how it was always presented so two-dimensionally and so static. As we pull away from the star here, we're actually going now out into interstellar space, and we're getting a sense of the space around our home star. What I really wanted to do is to present this, basically, as wonderfully 3D as it is actually is. And also show the dynamics, and a lot of the interesting objects that you might find, like, in the Hubble, at pretty much realistic frequencies and scales. So most people have no idea of the difference between an emission nebula and a planetary nebula. But these are the things that we can put in this little galaxy here. So we're flying over here to what looks like a black hole. I want to basically have the entire zoo of Hubble objects that people can interact with and play with, again, as toys. So here's a little black hole that we probably don't want to get too close to. But we also have stars and things as well. If we pull all the way back, we start seeing the entire galaxy here, kind of slowly in motion. Typically, when people present galaxies, it's always beautiful photos, but they're always static. And when you bring it forward in time and start animating it, it's amazing what a galaxy would look like fast forwarded. This would be about a million years a second, because you have about one supernova every century. And so you'd have this wonderful sparkling thing, with the disk slowly rotating, and this is roughly what it would look like. Part of this is about bringing the beauty of the natural world to somebody in a very imaginative way, so that they can start calibrating their instinct across these vast scales of space and time. Chris was wondering what kind of gods the players would become. Because if you think about it, you're going to have 15-year-olds, 20-year-olds flying around this universe. They might be a nurturing god. They might be bootstrapping life on planets, trying to terraform and spread civilization. You might be a vengeful god, conquesting, because you actually can do that, you can attack other intelligent races. You might be a networking god, building alliances, or just curious, going around and wanting to explore as much as you possibly can. But basically, the reason why I make toys like this is because I think if there's one difference I could possibly make in the world, that I would choose to make, it's that I would like to somehow give people just a little bit better calibration on long-term thinking. Because I think most of the problems that our world is facing right now are the result of short-term thinking, and the fact that it is so hard for us to think 50, 100, or 1,000 years out. And I think by giving kids toys like this and letting them replay dynamics, very long-term dynamics over the short term, and getting some sense of what we're doing now, what it's going to be like in 100 years, I think probably is the most effective thing I can be doing to help the world. And so that's why I think that toys can change the world. Thank you."	"我一直想當個機械改造人""The Six Million Dollar Man""(無敵金剛) 是我小時候喜歡的電視劇之一這個價格也滿接近的 ,大概240美元, 但是 (笑聲) 無論如何，穿著這個常使我感到很不自在,像個怪胎一樣 對吧, 但不久之前我看到一個世界知名的統計學家在這舞台上表演吞劍所以我想在這裡穿著這個應該也沒什麼大不了但這並不是我今天的主題我要說的主題跟玩具有關, 以及在我眼裡, 玩具與生俱來的力量 當我還是個孩子時, 我唸蒙特梭利學校一直升到六年級都在喬治亞州的亞特蘭大在那時, 我並沒有想太多但之後, 我領悟到那時應該算是我人生教育的高峰從那之後, 一切都急劇走下坡一直到後來我開始製作遊戲才停止惡化,事實上我想稱它們為玩具更為適當人們稱我為遊戲設計師, 但我認為我做的這些東西更像是玩具那時我開始逐漸對瑪利亞.蒙特梭利和她的教育方式還有她看待事物的方式產生興趣她認為對孩子極有助益的方式, 是讓他們主動去發現新事物而不是直接灌輸知識她會設計一些玩具, 讓孩子在玩樂的同時也能實際去了解那些潛藏於自然和生命中的真理由於那些事物由孩子們自己發掘, 他們的體認會更加深刻也會親自體驗多次失敗而由失敗為基礎的面向去學習, 是非常重要的所以我認為我開發的這款遊戲, 就是現代版的蒙特梭利教具而且我希望能藉由它讓孩子探索及發現屬於他們自己的真理 於是幾年前, 我開始對SETI(搜尋地外文明計畫)產生興趣這也變成了我工作的一部分我對各個領域都有興趣,深入研究他們, 並苦思如何製作一個玩具讓其它人也可以體驗到, 我在學習這些主題過程中所經歷的種種探索而這也引導我接觸了太空生物學, 一門研究存在於宇宙中的生命科學你們應該聽過德瑞克方程式, 它計算行星可能乘載的生物數量,持續的時間,以及行星的數量諸如此類然後我觀察到德瑞克方程式有趣之處在於它跨足了多個學科物理學, 化學, 社會學, 經濟學, 天文學而另外一直讓我印象深刻的是很久以前由查爾斯與蕾.伊密所拍的電影—-""十的次方""我開始把這兩個東西湊在一起思索我是否能把它們放入玩具中讓孩子探索這些恆久不變的定律以及它們的種種有趣之處在探索的過程中可能會遇到的定律像是哥白尼原理, 費米矛盾人擇原理, 以及生命起源所以今天我會讓你們看一個我正在製作的玩具這玩具被賦與前所未有的哲學意義當你在玩這遊戲時, 會有些哲學的問題在你腦中不斷浮現 這遊戲叫""幻想星球"", 我製作它己經有數年了現在它已經接近完成首先,它有各種不同的規模可以選擇從非常非常小到非常,非常大我直接跳到遊戲的一開始從一滴小水滴開始一個非常，非常小的單細胞生物馬上你就要開始想辦法生存，生活與繁衍就是這裡，它還只是顯微鏡才能看到的大小游來游去，我知道細胞沒有眼睛但這樣讓他看起來比較可愛玩家們必須要經歷這生物的每個世代,逐漸進化你玩遊戲的時候，這生物會一點一點的長大當他開始長大的時候，畫面就會開始拉遠你看見背景那些東西也會跟著往前移顯示一些成長階段會跟你產生互動的東西所以在吃東西的時候，鏡頭會拉遠我們也會逐漸跟越來越大的生物產生互動 現在,我們在細胞的規模玩過許多世代我先跳過這邊.當我們變更大時我們會進入宏觀進化的層面現在,我們離開了水這遊戲重要的一部分就是在每個階段玩家要設計自己的生物這就是這遊戲基本的面向現在,這款進化理論的遊戲,基本上你必須吃生存,然後繁衍。你知道，非常達爾文主義你們都知道＂模擬市民＂這款我之前開發的遊戲在裡面玩家都喜歡製作東西當他們在遊戲中製作出東西，他們就會對此放入大量的情感並產生強烈的移情作用，儘管它們並不是像那些專業的藝術家在遊戲中做的東西一樣美但玩家深愛自己所做的東西而且也非常在意它們會遭遇什麼事 現在,我們離開水中,跟著這個小生物我們把音量開大一點—現在我來讓它吃東西也許可以偷偷跑到那個小東西的旁邊—試著吃掉他好,現在我們來打架我們擊敗他了,拿到食物也就是說，遊戲的現階段就是要我們四處奔走,試著存活並且繁衍後代因為我們要將這生物的所有世代玩過一遍我們可以交配，現在我要在這裡面找個願意跟我交配的生物， 其實，我們都不想重看一遍人類或其他生物實際演進的畫面，因為看一個不一樣的演進過程會有趣的多演化過程看起來好像只有某些特定的方式但其實它有更多不同的可能性我們交配完，就點一下那顆蛋接下來就是遊戲有趣的地方了因為我們著重的是讓玩家擁有高水準的工具利用它們就可以輕輕鬆鬆做出很酷的東西工具欄這邊包含了許多智慧 基本上這邊就是編輯工具，我們用它來設計這個生物的後代.它有小小的脊椎它可以跑來跑去,他可以延展我可以用滑鼠把它變得膨脹或縮小，所以你可以塑造它就像黏土一樣。也有些部分可以讓我放上去或拿下來這個概念就是玩家可以利用這個編輯工具設計任何他們想要的東西，我們會讓他成真舉例來說，我在這角色放上些肢體我讓他們膨脹變大現在我決定要放—放些嘴巴在這些肢體上所以這遊戲鼓勵玩家發揮更多創造力這裡我可以放隻眼睛在中間，放上面一點，往下看再給它些腳所以基本上，我們希望這個遊戲可以增強玩家的想像力只要輕點滑鼠幾下，玩家就可以創造出一些他們以前從未想像過的生物就像創造出Maya(3D電腦動畫軟體)八歲的小孩也可以輕易上手但真正的目標是,我希望一個人可以在一分鐘內重製出那些手繪畫家需要花上幾個星期去創作的東西好,現在我放些手上去現在我大致上製作出一個小生物我們在它尾巴上放個小武器，這樣他就可以戰鬥這就是完整的型態。現在我們可以去著色模式 這個模式裡我們可以看到設計程式本身有這生物解剖型態的基本認知。它知道哪裡是後背還有脊椎跟肢體就好像他知道整個線條的走向，或該如何為它著色現在我們得到了整個結構圖這種結構圖是畫家們需要花很多天才能畫出來的著色結束後我們來測試看看，看它動起來會是什麼樣子現階段電腦會模擬這個生物的動態它接受我所有的設計，並且賦予它生命我也可以看它怎麼跳舞 （笑聲） 看他怎麼表現情感，怎麼戰鬥他現在在動他的兩個嘴巴我甚至可以讓他擺出照相的姿勢，幫他照張相 （笑聲） 現在我把它帶回遊戲中，它誕生了然後我繼續玩到他下個演化的階段再一次，玩家對自己創作的生物產生非常強烈的移情作用玩家在遊戲中創作一個生物的同時它會自動被送到一個伺服器再重新分送給各個玩家所以在這虛擬世界裡跟我互動的其他生物幾乎是由其他玩家創造出來的玩遊戲的過程就可以創造出個內容物龐大資料庫你在這遊戲裡面看到的所有東西都有一個編輯器讓玩家可以設計貫穿整個文明.這就是我的寶貝我吃東西的時候,我就會成長.這是它的下一代 但我現在要跳掉這部分.一般來說這些生物會慢慢的晉級,最後變成智慧型生物我要時常想辦法處理部落,城市和文明的種種問題我跳過這個部分,然後直接到太空階段他們終會進入太空,開始殖民其它星球與開拓整個宇宙具體來說,我希望玩家運用他們的想像力來建造這個世界.用最簡單的方式將他們的想像力具體化所以這就是這些工具的功用,讓這遊戲成為玩家想像力的增值器我們要如何讓這些工具,這些編輯器變的跟遊戲本身一樣有趣?這就是我們遊戲開始以來所待的星球目前為止整個遊戲都在這小小世界的表面進行 至今,我們玩的都是這小小的玩具世界再次展現與蒙特梭利教材相同的性質你知道,如果你給別人一個玩具星球並且在星球上放上許多可以玩的東西他們會發現什麼?他們又會從中學習到什麼?這世界是藉由想像力創造出來的這星球是玩家進行遊戲的地方裡面的大樓,汽車,建築物還有文明都由玩家一手創造而成這是一個小城市,有些人在裡面走來走去大部分的遊戲都讓玩家扮演天行者路克的角色也就是故事的主角然而,這遊戲賦予玩家發揮比導演喬治 盧卡斯更大的作用我希望玩家在玩過這遊戲後可以創造出另一個世界,並且跟它互動 現在,降落時我們也看到一群生物生活在這星球的表面,所以這裡會產生了很多不同的互動從這裡俯視,我可以在這裡看到一個簡化的食物鏈存在於這些生物中我可以從這裡看到究竟有些什麼生物存在於這星球上也可以看到各種不同的生物有些是玩家本身製作出來的有些是由其他玩家做出來的,被自動分配到這裡但這裡需要一些基本的運算能力像是需要多少植物才夠這些草食動物存活?而多少的草食動物才夠讓肉食生物存活,以此類推你必須要讓整個環境平衡在這個階段,我們讓玩家擁有越來越接近神的造物力量你可以用這個玩具般的星球去進行各種實驗進入這世界,我開始創造東西,就當它是一塊黏土你們看,這裡也有一個小小的氣象系統非常簡易的地理學.舉例來說,我可以開啟這個工具然後,像這樣雕刻出一條河流所以這整個星球就像一塊黏土,一個雕塑我也可以不時的掌控整個星球的動態 現在,我可以灌入更多二氧化碳到大氣中就像我現在做的你會看到這裡有個小小的顯示裡面有行星的大氣,氣壓跟溫度的資料如果我灌進更多氣體就會讓溫室氣體增加你會發現,海平面隨著時間逐漸上升城市們也會開始有危險,因為許多都是沿海城市你可以看到上升的海平面正逐漸侵占城市這裡我開始失去不少城市所以我希望玩家可以實際體驗和探索各種失敗—現在又有個城市消失了久而久之,整個星球都會增溫一開始我們會在這小小的玩具星球上目睹海平面上升隨著時間過去— 我來加速一下我們也會看到增溫造成的衝擊所以他不只會變得更熱他甚至會熱到整片海洋都蒸發一開始海平面上升,然後蒸發,這就是我的星球只要兩分鐘的時間,我們就會看到""不願面對的真相""的續集這也是這遊戲其中一個有趣的地方現在,整片海洋都從星球表面蒸發再持續熱下去,整個星球就會融化就像這樣 我們不只模擬生物的動態—食物鏈之類的我們也模擬地質,以一種簡易,核心的層面這遊戲有趣的地方在於我們可以將長時間的動態濃縮成非常短時間的經歷因為人類很難想像50年或100年間所發展的一切但如果你們給他這個玩具,他們就可以在短短幾分鐘內體驗這些長期的變化我認為我們正在展現一個全新的觀點用這遊戲去重新呈現我們的直覺就像望遠鏡跟顯微鏡重新校正你的視野,我認為電腦可以更大範圍跨越時間與空間的規模重新修正你的直覺 我們把視線從那融化的行星移開,這裡是我們的小太陽系,原來太陽系裡還有很多其他的小行星我們飛去另個行星我們有無限的星球可以探索現在,我們進到了未來我們進入這個空間開始做些事情建構出許多相似於科幻小說裡的東西而且我想把我所有最愛的科幻電影在這裡以各種不同遊戲動態玩出來這個行星有生物生存看,這裡有些原住生物我終於可以從我的幽浮拿出一個巨石柱然後我把它丟下去 (笑聲) 你會看到這些生物開始聚集並且膜拜它.一旦他們碰觸它,他們就會變得有智慧我可以在那星球上挑出一個物種,並且讓他們有情感你們看,現在他們進入部落動態現在,因為我就像救世主一樣,我想的話可以從幽浮出來而他們會像崇拜神一樣的崇拜我 (笑聲) 一開始他們會有點嚇到好吧,也許他們根本沒有敬拜我 (笑聲) 我想還是在他們產生敵意之前離開好了 我們希望玩家可以在遊戲裡享受各式各樣的活動我也希望他能像,你知道""當地球停止轉動"",""2001太空漫遊""""星際爭霸戰"",""世界大戰""現在,我們離開這個星球,我們離的越來越遠天文學里一直讓我有點困擾的一部分是為什麼他一直以都來是這麼的平面又靜態呢我們遠離行星,現在將要進入星際空間我們對我們母星周圍的空間有些概念 我現在想要呈現給大家的是一個完美的3D立體畫面不只如此,還有些變化你也會看到一些有趣的東西,像是哈伯望遠鏡也有著實際的頻率跟規模有些人根本不知道發射星雲跟行星狀星雲之間的不同但我們可以把它們放進這個小小的銀河我們飛到一個看起來像黑洞的地方我想要將哈伯望遠鏡能看到的東西呈現給大家而且人可以跟它們產生互動或像玩玩具一樣這裡有個我們不會想太靠近的黑洞這邊還有星星跟其他東西如果我們拉遠,會看到整個銀河緩慢的動態.一般來說人們呈現銀河時通常都用些非常美麗的照片但他們終究是靜態的.當你試著讓銀河產生動態你會發現可以看到快速移動的銀河其實是非常令人驚艷的 這大約是一秒一百萬年因為一個超新星形成的時間大約需要一世紀你有這個美麗,閃爍的發光體正在緩緩轉動著這就是他大概看起來的樣子有個非常重要的方向就是要將自然世界的美以極具想像力的方式帶給別人,這樣他們就可以開始大範圍跨越時間與空間去校正他們的直覺 那天克里斯跟我討論到,他有點好奇玩家會成為怎樣的神因為你一想到會有15歲20歲的人,各個年紀的人在這宇宙間飛來飛去他們可能是極力養育一切的神,也有可能是一個自食其力的生物試著占領地盤,散播文明你可能是個復仇心強的神,四處攻城掠地你真的做得到,你可以攻擊其他智能物種你也可能是個網絡性的神,四處結盟這也是你在遊戲中可以做的.或著因為好奇四處旅行,盡可能的發掘各種可能性 但我製造這個遊戲的原因是如果我可以為這世界創造一個不同的可能性那麼我就選擇去做,我想要讓人們可以用長遠的角度的思考,校正我想我們世界現在面臨的種種問題大多是我們太過短視所造成的因為對我們而言,去想50,100甚至1000年之後的事是很困難的我也要藉由給小孩這個玩具讓他們實際玩過各個動態用很短的時間去看長期的動態與變化讓他們知道我們現在在做什麼,還有100年後可能會變成怎麼樣我想這是我在幫助世界這件事上最有效率的一件事所以這就是為什麼我認為,玩具可以改變世界 謝謝大家"
