Talk	en	zh-tw
william_mcdonough_on_cradle_to_cradle_design	"In 1962, with Rachel Carson's ""Silent Spring,"" I think for people like me in the world of the making of things, the canary in the mine wasn't singing. And so the question that we might not have birds became kind of fundamental to those of us wandering around looking for the meadowlarks that seemed to have all disappeared. And the question was, were the birds singing? Now, I'm not a scientist, that'll be really clear. But, you know, we've just come from this discussion of what a bird might be. What is a bird? Well, in my world, this is a rubber duck. It comes in California with a warning — ""This product contains chemicals known by the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm."" This is a bird. What kind of culture would produce a product of this kind and then label it and sell it to children? I think we have a design problem. Someone heard the six hours of talk that I gave called ""The Monticello Dialogues"" on NPR, and sent me this as a thank you note — ""We realize that design is a signal of intention, but it also has to occur within a world, and we have to understand that world in order to imbue our designs with inherent intelligence, and so as we look back at the basic state of affairs in which we design, we, in a way, need to go to the primordial condition to understand the operating system and the frame conditions of a planet, and I think the exciting part of that is the good news that's there, because the news is the news of abundance, and not the news of limits, and I think as our culture tortures itself now with tyrannies and concerns over limits and fear, we can add this other dimension of abundance that is coherent, driven by the sun, and start to imagine what that would be like to share."" That was a nice thing to get. That was one sentence. Henry James would be proud. This is — I put it down at the bottom, but that was extemporaneous, obviously. The fundamental issue is that, for me, design is the first signal of human intentions. So what are our intentions, and what would our intentions be — if we wake up in the morning, we have designs on the world — well, what would our intention be as a species now that we're the dominant species? And it's not just stewardship and dominion debate, because really, dominion is implicit in stewardship — because how could you dominate something you had killed? And stewardship's implicit in dominion, because you can't be steward of something if you can't dominate it. So the question is, what is the first question for designers? Now, as guardians — let's say the state, for example, which reserves the right to kill, the right to be duplicitous and so on — the question we're asking the guardian at this point is are we meant, how are we meant, to secure local societies, create world peace and save the environment? But I don't know that that's the common debate. Commerce, on the other hand, is relatively quick, essentially creative, highly effective and efficient, and fundamentally honest, because we can't exchange value for very long if we don't trust each other. So we use the tools of commerce primarily for our work, but the question we bring to it is, how do we love all the children of all species for all time? And so we start our designs with that question. Because what we realize today is that modern culture appears to have adopted a strategy of tragedy. If we come here and say, ""Well, I didn't intend to cause global warming on the way here,"" and we say, ""That's not part of my plan,"" then we realize it's part of our de facto plan. Because it's the thing that's happening because we have no other plan. And I was at the White House for President Bush, meeting with every federal department and agency, and I pointed out that they appear to have no plan. If the end game is global warming, they're doing great. If the end game is mercury toxification of our children downwind of coal fire plants as they scuttled the Clean Air Act, then I see that our education programs should be explicitly defined as, ""Brain death for all children. No child left behind."" (Applause) So, the question is, how many federal officials are ready to move to Ohio and Pennsylvania with their families? So if you don't have an endgame of something delightful, then you're just moving chess pieces around, if you don't know you're taking the king. So perhaps we could develop a strategy of change, which requires humility. And in my business as an architect, it's unfortunate the word ""humility"" and the word ""architect"" have not appeared in the same paragraph since ""The Fountainhead."" So if anybody here has trouble with the concept of design humility, reflect on this — it took us 5,000 years to put wheels on our luggage. So, as Kevin Kelly pointed out, there is no endgame. There is an infinite game, and we're playing in that infinite game. And so we call it ""cradle to cradle,"" and our goal is very simple. This is what I presented to the White House. Our goal is a delightfully diverse, safe, healthy and just world, with clean air, clean water, soil and power — economically, equitably, ecologically and elegantly enjoyed, period. (Applause) What don't you like about this? Which part of this don't you like? So we realized we want full diversity, even though it can be difficult to remember what De Gaulle said when asked what it was like to be President of France. He said, ""What do you think it's like trying to run a country with 400 kinds of cheese?"" But at the same time, we realize that our products are not safe and healthy. So we've designed products and we analyzed chemicals down to the parts per million. This is a baby blanket by Pendleton that will give your child nutrition instead of Alzheimer's later in life. We can ask ourselves, what is justice, and is justice blind, or is justice blindness? And at what point did that uniform turn from white to black? Water has been declared a human right by the United Nations. Air quality is an obvious thing to anyone who breathes. Is there anybody here who doesn't breathe? Clean soil is a critical problem — the nitrification, the dead zones in the Gulf of Mexico. A fundamental issue that's not being addressed. We've seen the first form of solar energy that's beat the hegemony of fossil fuels in the form of wind here in the Great Plains, and so that hegemony is leaving. And if we remember Sheikh Yamani when he formed OPEC, they asked him, ""When will we see the end of the age of oil?"" I don't know if you remember his answer, but it was, ""The Stone Age didn't end because we ran out of stones."" We see that companies acting ethically in this world are outperforming those that don't. We see the flows of materials in a rather terrifying prospect. This is a hospital monitor from Los Angeles, sent to China. This woman will expose herself to toxic phosphorous, release four pounds of toxic lead into her childrens' environment, which is from copper. On the other hand, we see great signs of hope. Here's Dr. Venkataswamy in India, who's figured out how to do mass-produced health. He has given eyesight to two million people for free. We see in our material flows that car steels don't become car steel again because of the contaminants of the coatings — bismuth, antimony, copper and so on. They become building steel. On the other hand, we're working with Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett and Shaw Carpet, the largest carpet company in the world. We've developed a carpet that is continuously recyclable, down to the parts per million. The upper is Nylon 6 that can go back to caprolactam, the bottom, a polyolephine — infinitely recyclable thermoplastic. Now if I was a bird, the building on my left is a liability. The building on my right, which is our corporate campus for The Gap with an ancient meadow, is an asset — its nesting grounds. Here's where I come from. I grew up in Hong Kong, with six million people in 40 square miles. During the dry season, we had four hours of water every fourth day. And the relationship to landscape was that of farmers who have been farming the same piece of ground for 40 centuries. You can't farm the same piece of ground for 40 centuries without understanding nutrient flow. My childhood summers were in the Puget Sound of Washington, among the first growth and big growth. My grandfather had been a lumberjack in the Olympics, so I have a lot of tree karma I am working off. I went to Yale for graduate school, studied in a building of this style by Le Corbusier, affectionately known in our business as Brutalism. If we look at the world of architecture, we see with Mies' 1928 tower for Berlin, the question might be, ""Well, where's the sun?"" And this might have worked in Berlin, but we built it in Houston, and the windows are all closed. And with most products appearing not to have been designed for indoor use, this is actually a vertical gas chamber. When I went to Yale, we had the first energy crisis, and I was designing the first solar-heated house in Ireland as a student, which I then built — which would give you a sense of my ambition. And Richard Meier, who was one of my teachers, kept coming over to my desk to give me criticism, and he would say, ""Bill, you've got to understand- — solar energy has nothing to do with architecture."" I guess he didn't read Vitruvius. In 1984, we did the first so-called ""green office"" in America for Environmental Defense. We started asking manufacturers what were in their materials. They said, ""They're proprietary, they're legal, go away."" The only indoor quality work done in this country at that time was sponsored by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, and it was to prove there was no danger from secondhand smoke in the workplace. So, all of a sudden, here I am, graduating from high school in 1969, and this happens, and we realize that ""away"" went away. Remember we used to throw things away, and we'd point to away? And yet, NOAA has now shown us, for example — you see that little blue thing above Hawaii? That's the Pacific Gyre. It was recently dragged for plankton by scientists, and they found six times as much plastic as plankton. When asked, they said, ""It's kind of like a giant toilet that doesn't flush."" Perhaps that's away. So we're looking for the design rules of this — this is the highest biodiversity of trees in the world, Irian Jaya, 259 species of tree, and we described this in the book, ""Cradle to Cradle."" The book itself is a polymer. It is not a tree. That's the name of the first chapter — ""This Book is Not a Tree."" Because in poetics, as Margaret Atwood pointed out, ""we write our history on the skin of fish with the blood of bears."" And with so much polymer, what we really need is technical nutrition, and to use something as elegant as a tree — imagine this design assignment: Design something that makes oxygen, sequesters carbon, fixes nitrogen, distills water, accrues solar energy as fuel, makes complex sugars and food, creates microclimates, changes colors with the seasons and self-replicates. Well, why don't we knock that down and write on it? (Laughter) So, we're looking at the same criteria as most people — you know, can I afford it? Does it work? Do I like it? We're adding the Jeffersonian agenda, and I come from Charlottesville, where I've had the privilege of living in a house designed by Thomas Jefferson. We're adding life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Now if we look at the word ""competition,"" I'm sure most of you've used it. You know, most people don't realize it comes from the Latin competere, which means strive together. It means the way Olympic athletes train with each other. They get fit together, and then they compete. The Williams sisters compete — one wins Wimbledon. So we've been looking at the idea of competition as a way of cooperating in order to get fit together. And the Chinese government has now — I work with the Chinese government now — has taken this up. We're also looking at survival of the fittest, not in just competition terms in our modern context of destroy the other or beat them to the ground, but really to fit together and build niches and have growth that is good. Now most environmentalists don't say growth is good, because, in our lexicon, asphalt is two words: assigning blame. But if we look at asphalt as our growth, then we realize that all we're doing is destroying the planetary's fundamental underlying operating system. So when we see E equals mc squared come along, from a poet's perspective, we see energy as physics, chemistry as mass, and all of a sudden, you get this biology. And we have plenty of energy, so we'll solve that problem, but the biology problem's tricky, because as we put through all these toxic materials that we disgorge, we will never be able to recover that. And as Francis Crick pointed out, nine years after discovering DNA with Mr. Watson, that life itself has to have growth as a precondition — it has to have free energy, sunlight and it needs to be an open system of chemicals. So we're asking for human artifice to become a living thing, and we want growth, we want free energy from sunlight and we want an open metabolism for chemicals. Then, the question becomes not growth or no growth, but what do you want to grow? So instead of just growing destruction, we want to grow the things that we might enjoy, and someday the FDA will allow us to make French cheese. So therefore, we have these two metabolisms, and I worked with a German chemist, Michael Braungart, and we've identified the two fundamental metabolisms. The biological one I'm sure you understand, but also the technical one, where we take materials and put them into closed cycles. We call them biological nutrition and technical nutrition. Technical nutrition will be in an order of magnitude of biological nutrition. Biological nutrition can supply about 500 million humans, which means that if we all wore Birkenstocks and cotton, the world would run out of cork and dry up. So we need materials in closed cycles, but we need to analyze them down to the parts per million for cancer, birth defects, mutagenic effects, disruption of our immune systems, biodegradation, persistence, heavy metal content, knowledge of how we're making them and their production and so on. Our first product was a textile where we analyzed 8,000 chemicals in the textile industry. Using those intellectual filters, we eliminated [7,962.] We were left with 38 chemicals. We have since databased the 4000 most commonly used chemicals in human manufacturing, and we're releasing this database into the public in six weeks. So designers all over the world can analyze their products down to the parts per million for human and ecological health. (Applause) We've developed a protocol so that companies can send these same messages all the way through their supply chains, because when we asked most companies we work with — about a trillion dollars — and say, ""Where does your stuff come from?"" They say, ""Suppliers."" ""And where does it go?"" ""Customers."" So we need some help there. So the biological nutrients, the first fabrics — the water coming out was clean enough to drink. Technical nutrients — this is for Shaw Carpet, infinitely reusable carpet. Here's nylon going back to caprolactam back to carpet. Biotechnical nutrients — the Model U for Ford Motor, a cradle to cradle car — concept car. Shoes for Nike, where the uppers are polyesters, infinitely recyclable, the bottoms are biodegradable soles. Wear your old shoes in, your new shoes out. There is no finish line. The idea here of the car is that some of the materials go back to the industry forever, some of the materials go back to soil — it's all solar-powered. Here's a building at Oberlin College we designed that makes more energy than it needs to operate and purifies its own water. Here's a building for The Gap, where the ancient grasses of San Bruno, California, are on the roof. And this is our project for Ford Motor Company. It's the revitalization of the River Rouge in Dearborn. This is obviously a color photograph. These are our tools. These are how we sold it to Ford. We saved Ford 35 million dollars doing it this way, day one, which is the equivalent of the Ford Taurus at a four percent margin of an order for 900 million dollars worth of cars. Here it is. It's the world's largest green roof, 10 and a half acres. This is the roof, saving money, and this is the first species to arrive here. These are killdeer. They showed up in five days. And we now have 350-pound auto workers learning bird songs on the Internet. We're developing now protocols for cities — that's the home of technical nutrients. The country — the home of biological. And putting them together. And so I will finish by showing you a new city we're designing for the Chinese government. We're doing 12 cities for China right now, based on cradle to cradle as templates. Our assignment is to develop protocols for the housing for 400 million people in 12 years. We did a mass energy balance — if they use brick, they will lose all their soil and burn all their coal. They'll have cities with no energy and no food. We signed a Memorandum of Understanding — here's Madam Deng Nan, Deng Xiaoping's daughter — for China to adopt cradle to cradle. Because if they toxify themselves, being the lowest-cost producer, send it to the lowest-cost distribution — Wal-Mart — and then we send them all our money, what we'll discover is that we have what, effectively, when I was a student, was called mutually assured destruction. Now we do it by molecule. These are our cities. We're building a new city next to this city; look at that landscape. This is the site. We don't normally do green fields, but this one is about to be built, so they brought us in to intercede. This is their plan. It's a rubber stamp grid that they laid right on that landscape. And they brought us in and said, ""What would you do?"" This is what they would end up with, which is another color photograph. So this is the existing site, so this is what it looks like now, and here's our proposal. (Applause) So the way we approached this is we studied the hydrology very carefully. We studied the biota, the ancient biota, the current farming and the protocols. We studied the winds and the sun to make sure everybody in the city will have fresh air, fresh water and direct sunlight in every single apartment at some point during the day. We then take the parks and lay them out as ecological infrastructure. We lay out the building areas. We start to integrate commercial and mixed use so the people all have centers and places to be. The transportation is all very simple, everybody's within a five-minute walk of mobility. We have a 24-hour street, so that there's always a place that's alive. The waste systems all connect. If you flush a toilet, your feces will go to the sewage treatment plants, which are sold as assets, not liabilities. Because who wants the fertilizer factory that makes natural gas? The waters are all taken in to construct the wetlands for habitat restorations. And then it makes natural gas, which then goes back into the city to power the fuel for the cooking for the city. So this is — these are fertilizer gas plants. And then the compost is all taken back to the roofs of the city, where we've got farming, because what we've done is lifted up the city, the landscape, into the air to — to restore the native landscape on the roofs of the buildings. The solar power of all the factory centers and all the industrial zones with their light roofs powers the city. And this is the concept for the top of the city. We've lifted the earth up onto the roofs. The farmers have little bridges to get from one roof to the next. We inhabit the city with work/live space on all the ground floors. And so this is the existing city, and this is the new city. (Applause)"	"1962 年，根據瑞秋•卡森寫的書「寂靜的春天」，對像我這樣創作物件領域的人而言，礦坑中的黃絲雀不唱歌了。因此，「可能沒有鳥」這個問題，對四處找尋似已消失的北美野雲雀的我們變得至為根本。問題本來應該是：鳥在唱歌嗎？我不是科學家，這一點是很明白的。但是，我們剛剛才討論過「鳥」可能是什麼。什麼是「鳥」？在我的世界，這是個塑膠鴨。它來自加州，附有警告：「此產品含有加州政府認定會造成癌症、畸胎、或其他生育傷害的化學物質。」這是一隻鳥。怎樣的文化會製造這種產品，標示後，又賣給兒童？我想我們有設計的問題。 有人聽了我在全國公共電台講六小時的「蒙提切羅對話」後，寄給我這個感謝詞：「我們體認到設計是意圖的信號，而它也必須發生在世界裡，我們必須明白那個世界，以便使固有的智慧注入我們的設計，因此當我們回顧我們所設計事物的基本狀態，我們有必要回到原始條件去了解星球的運行系統及架構條件，我認為有個令人振奮的部分，即那裡存有好的消息，因為該消息是充裕的消息，而不是稀少的消息，而我認為既然我們的文化現在如此殘暴自虐，並對稀少及恐懼如此關切，我們可加上這充裕的另一面向，它是穩固的、由太陽驅動的，然後開始想像分享會是什麼樣子。」收到這個感覺不錯。它只是一句話。亨利•詹姆斯將會感到驕傲。我把它放在投影片底下，但顯然，這是一時興起的。 在我看來，根本的議題是，設計是人類意圖的第一個信號。那麼，我們的意圖是什麼，我們的意圖會怎樣 —如果我們早上醒來，我們設計著這個世界 —身為一個物種，我們的意圖是什麼？既然我們是優勢物種。而那不只是掌理和統領的辯論，因為說真的，統領意味著掌理 —因為你如何統領你殺死的東西？而掌理也意味著統領，因為你無法掌理事情，如果你無法統領它。 因此，問題是：設計師的第一道問題是什麼？現在身為守護者 — 例如國家，它擁有殺人、欺矇等權利 —現在我們問守護者的問題是：我們是否有意、或我們打算如何去保障地區社會、締造世界和平及拯救環境？但是我不知道這是個常見的爭論。 另一方面，商業相對而言是快速的、本質上有創意、效率高、且基本上是誠實的，因為如果沒有互信我們很難保持企業的永續經營。因此，我們基本上使用商業工具來工作，但我們問它的問題是：我們要如何珍愛所有物種及其後代直到永遠？因此我們以這個問題開始設計。因為今天我們了解的是現代文化採用的策略會導致悲劇。如果我們到現在還說：「嗯，我没料到會造成這樣的全球暖化」，並且說：「那不是我原本的計畫」，則我們知道，事實上這是我們所導致的後果。因為我們缺乏其他配套措施，才導致這些事的發生。 布希總統請我到白宮與聯邦各部門開會，我指出他們好像沒有計畫。如果結局是要全球暖化，他們幹得很好。如果結局是火力發電廠下風處兒童的汞中毒，因為他們扼殺了清淨空氣法案，因而我認為我們的教育方案應該重新訂定為：「全部兒童腦死，一個不留」。 （掌聲） 所以，問題是：有幾個聯邦官員準備好帶著家人移居到俄亥俄州和賓州？因此如果你沒有能讓人愉悅的目的，那麼你就如無頭蒼蠅四處亂竄，因為你看不到目標。因此也許我們可以想出一個策略來改變，那需要謙虛。在我從事的建築師行業中，佷不幸地，「謙虛」和「建築師」這兩個詞，從 ""The Fountainhead"" 一書後，就不曾在同段文字出現過。在場如果有人對這個「設計師的謙虛」概念有疑問，聽聽這句話：我們花了 5000 年才為行李箱裝上輪子。因此，誠如 Kevin Kelly 所說，沒有結局。是個無止境的賽局，我們身處在這個無止境的賽局中。因此稱它為「從搖籃到搖籃」，我們的目標非常單純。 這是我對白宮的簡報。我們的目標是一個快樂而多元的、安全的、健康的及正義的世界，有著清淨的空氣、清淨的水、土壤和電力 —經濟地、均衡地、環保地及優雅地享用。 （掌聲） 這句話中你有不喜歡的地方嗎？哪一部分你不喜歡？所以我們要充分多元，即使記不住戴高樂被問及「當法國總統的感覺如何」時說了什麼。他說：「你認為經營有 400 種乳酪的國家感覺如何？」但同時，我們知道我們的產品並不安全及健康。 因此當我們設計出了產品，我們分析其化學成份到 ppm 層次。這是 Pendleton 公司的嬰兒毯，它給你的小孩養分而不是老年痴呆症。我們可以自問，何謂正義、正義是否盲了、或正義就是盲目？在哪一點她的制服由白變黑？聯合國已經宣布了水資源同樣具有人權。需要呼吸的人都能很明顯的察覺空氣品質狀況。這裡有人不需要呼吸嗎？乾淨的土壤是個關鍵問題 — 土壤硝化、墨西哥灣的死亡區。全是未處理的基本議題。我們已看到太陽能首先以風的形式在在北美大平原區打敗了石化燃料的統治，因此石化業者逐漸退出市場。如果我們記得當亞瑪尼親王在成立石油輸出國組織時，有人問他：｢石油時代何時會結束？｣不知你是否記得他的回答，他說：｢石器時代不是因為我們用完石頭才結束的。｣我們看到世界上行為合於倫理的公司表現勝過那些不合倫理的。我們看到材料流的前景可慮。這是醫院的顯示器，從洛杉磯運到中國去。這個婦人將接觸有毒的磷，放出四磅有毒的鉛到她子孫的環境中，那是從銅來的。 另方面，我們看到希望的大好跡象。這是印度的 Venkataswamy 醫師，他想出了大量保健的方法。他免費替 200 萬人矯正視力。從材料流我們發現，汽車鋼材不能再當汽車鋼材用，因為它的塗裝含有：鉍、銻、銅、等等污染物。所以它們變成了建材。另一方面，我們和 Berkshire Hathaway,Warren Buffett and Shaw Carpet 公司合作，它是世界最大的地毯公司。我們已開發了一種可持續循環利用的地毯，達到 ppm 的層次。上層是尼龍6，那可回收為己內醯胺，底層是聚烯烴 — 一種可無限次回收的熱塑性塑料。如果我是鳥，左邊的建築對我是危險的。右邊的建築是我們為 The Gap 公司建的企業園區，屋頂上有原始的草原，是一項資產 — 築巢的好地方。 這是我的故鄉。我在香港長大：600 萬人住在 40 平方英哩土地上。旱季裡，每四天只供水四小時。與土地的關係是這樣的：農民在同一塊地耕種了 4000 年。你不可能耕種同一塊土地 4000 年而不知它的養分流向。我的童年夏日在華盛頓普捷灣度過，徜徉在初生及茁壯的樹林裡。我祖父曾是奧林匹克伐木工，因此我背負許多樹木業障，正在設法消除。我在耶魯大學讀研究所，在這一棟柯比意風格的大樓裡讀書，我們這行在情意上稱之為「粗野主義」。如果我們看看建築的世界，我們看到密斯 1928 年的柏林高塔，問題可能是：｢太陽在哪裡？｣這也許對柏林可行，但我們把它蓋在休士頓，窗子全關著。並由於大部分產品顯然不是設計供室內使用，這實質上是一個垂直的毒氣室。 我在耶魯時，正逢第一次能源危機，我設計了愛爾蘭的第一個太陽能暖氣房子，當時我是學生，建了那房子 —這讓你感受到我的雄心。Richard Meiers 是我的老師之一 ，常來我桌前批評我，他會說：｢比爾，你要明白 —太陽能和建築沒什麼關係。｣我猜他沒有讀過維特魯威。1984 年，我們設計了美國第一棟所謂的「綠色辦公室」，為環保局設計的。我們開始問生產商他們材料的成分。他們說：「它們都是適宜的，它們都合法，滾開吧。」當時全國唯一的室內品質研究是由 R.J. Reynolds 菸草公司所贊助，研究目的是要證明工作區的二手菸是無害的。 因此，突然間，1969 年我從高中畢業，事情發生了，我們知道「丟棄」離我們而去了。記得我們習慣拋棄物品、我們有理由抛棄？而美國海洋及大氣管理局的資料顯示，像這個 —看到夏威夷上方的那塊藍色嗎？那是太平洋環流。科學家近來抽取那邊的浮游生物，他們發現六倍於浮游生物的塑膠。當被問到此事，他們說：「就像個阻塞的巨型馬桶。」也許這就是抛棄。因此我們在找尋設計規則 —這是世界上最具多樣性的樹林，伊利安查亞，259 個樹種，在「從搖籃到搖籃」書中有提到。那本書用的紙是聚合物。它不使用樹木。書的第一章就叫做「這本書不是一棵樹」。在詩裡，瑪格麗特•愛特伍德寫著：「我們把歷史寫在魚皮上用熊的血寫。」用了那麼多聚合物，我們真正需要的是技術養分，並使用像樹一樣優雅的東西 —想想這樣的一個設計習題：設計一樣東西會造氧、固碳、固氮、濾水、儲存太陽能為燃料、製造複合醣和食物、建立微型氣候、隨季節變色並能自我複製。那麼，讓我們砍了它並用它來書寫吧？ （笑聲） 因此，我們看的基準和大部分人是一樣的 — 如：我付擔得起嗎？它有效嗎？我喜歡它嗎？我們更加上傑弗遜風格的列表，因為我來自夏洛特斯維爾，在那裡我有幸住在湯瑪斯•傑弗遜設計所的房子裡。我們加上生命、自由和追求幸福。如果我們來看競爭這個字，我相信你們都用過它。你知道嗎，大部分人不知道它來自拉丁文 competare，意思是一起奮鬥。就是奧林匹克運動員彼此訓練的方式。他們一起鍛練體能，然後競爭。威廉斯姐妹競爭 — 一人贏得溫布頓網球賽。因此我們一直在檢視競爭的概念，一種一起向前邁進的合作概念。而目前中國政府 —我替中國政府工作 —已採取了這個方式。我們也檢視「適者生存」，不是用在我們現代的競爭方式去把對方毀掉或打倒，而是一起適應、建立利基並一起成長，那樣很好。 現在大部分環保人士不說成長是好的，因為在我們的字典裡，瀝青是受責難的字眼。但如果我們視瀝青為我們的成長，則我們體認到我們所做的是在破壞地球的基本運作系統。因此，當我們以詩人的觀點看待 E 等於 MC 平方，我們看能量是物理、化學是質量，突然間，你得到生物學。我們有的是能量，所以我們會解決問題，但生物學的問題是微妙的，因為當我們處置了排出的有毒材料，我們將永遠無法恢復它。誠如法蘭西斯•克里克所指出，在和華生發現 DNA 後九年，生命要能成長的前提是 —它要有免費能源、陽光且它應是一個化學物質的開放系統。因此，我們要把人造物品變成生命體，我們要成長，我們要來自太陽的免費能源我們要化學物質的開放式代謝系統。接著，「長或不長」就已經不是問題了，而是：你要長成什麼？因此，反之於破壞成長，我們要使我們可享受的事物成長，有一天食品藥物局將允許我們做法式乳酪。 因此，我們有兩個代謝系統，我與一位德國化學家 Michael Braungart 合作，我們找到兩個基本的代謝系統。生物的代謝系統，我確定你明白，還有一個是技術代謝系統，我們把材料放在封閉循環中。我們稱它們為生物養分及技術養分。技術養分將是生物養分的十倍量。生物養分可以供養五億人，亦即如果我們都穿勃肯鞋和棉織品，世界會因為軟木耗盡而枯竭。因此我們需要將材料放入封閉循環系統，但我們要以 ppm 層級來分析這些材料有否癌症、生育缺陷、突變、免疫系統破換、生物可分解性、耐用性、重金屬含量、還有我們如何製造它們和生產它們的知識等等。 我們的首件產品是紡織品，我們分析了紡織產業的9800 種化學物質。使用那些智慧型的濾器，我們刪除了 9762 種。最後留下 38 種化學物。我們建檔了人類生產過程中最常用的 4000 種化學物，將在六星期內將資料庫公開。全世界的設計師將能分析他們的產品到 ppm 層級，以照顧人類及生態健康。 （掌聲） 我們已經開發了一套作業準則，讓公司可以寄送這些訊息遍及它的供應鍊，因為當我們問及多數合作的公司 — 總營業額約一兆美元— 說：「你們的材料來自何處？」，他們說：「供應商」。「它往何處去？」「顧客」。因此我們需要一些幫助。 因此，生物養分，第一次織物 —出來的水清淨得可以飲用。技術養分 — Shaw Carpet 公司可無限再用的地毯。這是尼龍還原為己內醯胺後再製成地毯。生物技術養分 — 福特的 U 型車，從搖籃到搖籃的汽車 — 概念車。Nike 鞋子的上層是聚酯，可無限次回收，底層是可生物分解的鞋底。穿你的舊鞋來，換新鞋回去。沒有終點線。此處有關汽車的點子是有些材料永遠回到產業去，有些材料回到土壤裡 －全是應用太陽能。 這是我們為奧伯林學院設計的大樓，它產生的能源超過大樓運作及淨化用水的需求。這是為 The Gap 設計的大樓，屋頂上有加州 San Bruno 的原始草皮。 這是我們為福特汽車公司做的專案，這是狄爾伯恩胭脂河的再生計畫。這顯然是張彩色照片。這些都是我們的工具。這就是我們賣給福特的方式。我們這樣做幫福特省下了 3,500 萬美元，相當於福特 Taurus在百分之四利潤下，值 9 億美元的汽車訂單。就是這個。它是世界最大的綠色屋頂，10.5 英畝。這是個能省錢的屋頂，這些雙胸斑沙鳥是首批在此定居的物種。五天內它們就出現了。而現在我們有 350 磅汽車工人在網路上學鳥叫。我們正在開發適用於城市的作業準則 —城市是技術養分之家。鄉村 － 生物養分之家。並將它們整合起來。 最後我將展示我們正在為中國政府設計的一個新城市。我們現在正在為中國以「從搖籃到搖籃」模式規劃 12 個城市。我們的工作是開發作業準則，供應 12 年內 4 億人口的居住。我們做了大量能源平衡 — 如果他們用磚，他們將失去全部泥土並燒光所有的煤。他們的城市將沒有能源也沒有食物。我們簽訂了合作意向書 －這是鄧楠女士，鄧小平的女兒 －讓中國採用「從搖籃到搖籃」。因為如果他們毒害自己，作為最低成本的製造者，將它送到最低成本的配銷系統 － Wal-Mart －然後我們將錢都付給他們，我們發現的將必然是，我還是學生時代時所稱的｢同歸於盡｣。 現在我們用分子來設計。這些是我們將規劃的城市。我們要在這個城市旁建造一個新城市；看看景觀。這是基地。我們通常不在綠地上建設，但這一個即將動土，因此他們和我們協商。這是他們的計畫。那好像是在地景上蓋個橡皮格子章。然後他們詢問我們的意見說：「你們會怎麼做？」這是他們可能得到的結果，這也是彩色照片。這是現有的基地，這是它現在的樣子，而這是我們的提案。 （掌聲） 因此我們進行的方式是非常小心地研究了水文學。我們研究了生物相，古代生物相，現代農耕及作業方式。我們研究了風及日照，確保城裡每人都有新鮮空氣、乾淨的水，以及每間公寓在白天某個時刻都會有直接日照。接著我們安排公園，把它們當生態基礎建設。我們安排建設區。我們開始整合商業區及混合使用區，所以人們都有中心和廣場好去。運輸很單純，每人距運輸系統都在步行五分鐘內。我們有 24 小時街道，所以總是有活動的地方。下水道系統全連結起來。如果你沖馬桶，糞便將進入廢水處理廠，處理後當資產賣，而不是有害物。因為誰要製造天然瓦斯的肥料廠？水全部取來建構濕地作為棲地重建。然後它產生天然瓦斯，再回到城裡作為炊煮用燃料。而這些是肥料瓦斯廠。然後混合肥全被取回到城市的屋頂，那裡可以耕作，因為我們抬高了城市及地景到空中 — 並把原有地景重建在屋頂上。所有工廠中心和所有工業區屋頂的太陽能板可供應全城電力所需。 這就是城市頂面的概念。我們把土地抬高到屋頂上。農民們有小橋能在屋頂間來回穿梭。我們把工作/生活空間全放在地面層。這是現有城市，而這是新城市。 （掌聲）"
