Talk	en	zh-tw
william_li	"Good afternoon. There's a medical revolution happening all around us, and it's one that's going to help us conquer some of society's most dreaded conditions, including cancer. The revolution is called angiogenesis, and it's based on the process that our bodies use to grow blood vessels. So why should we care about blood vessels? Well, the human body is literally packed with them — 60,000 miles worth in a typical adult. End to end, that would form a line that would circle the earth twice. The smallest blood vessels are called capillaries. We've got 19 billion of them in our bodies. And these are the vessels of life, and as I'll show you, they can also be the vessels of death. Now, the remarkable thing about blood vessels is that they have this ability to adapt to whatever environment they're growing in. For example, in the liver, they form channels to detoxify the blood; in the lungs, they line air sacs for gas exchange. In muscle, they corkscrew, so that muscles can contract without cutting off circulation. And in nerves, they course along like power lines, keeping those nerves alive. We get most of these blood vessels when we're actually still in the womb. And what that means is that as adults, blood vessels don't normally grow. Except in a few special circumstances. In women, blood vessels grow every month, to build the lining of the uterus. During pregnancy, they form the placenta, which connects mom and baby. And after injury, blood vessels actually have to grow under the scab in order to heal a wound. And this is actually what it looks like, hundreds of blood vessels, all growing toward the center of the wound. So the body has the ability to regulate the amount of blood vessels that are present at any given time. It does this through an elaborate and elegant system of checks and balances, stimulators and inhibitors of angiogenesis, such that, when we need a brief burst of blood vessels, the body can do this by releasing stimulators, proteins called angiogenic factors, that act as natural fertilizer, and stimulate new blood vessels to sprout. When those excess vessels are no longer needed, the body prunes them back to baseline, using naturally-occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis. There are other situations where we start beneath the baseline, and we need to grow more blood vessels, just to get back to normal levels — for example, after an injury — and the body can do that too, but only to that normal level, that set point. But what we now know, is that for a number of diseases, there are defects in the system, where the body can't prune back extra blood vessels, or can't grow enough new ones in the right place at the right time. And in these situations, angiogenesis is out of balance. And when angiogenesis is out of balance, a myriad of diseases result. For example, insufficient angiogenesis — not enough blood vessels — leads to wounds that don't heal, heart attacks, legs without circulation, death from stroke, nerve damage. And on the other end, excessive angiogenesis — too many blood vessels — drives disease, and we see this in cancer, blindness, arthritis, obesity, Alzheimer's disease. In total, there are more than 70 major diseases affecting more than a billion people worldwide, that all look on the surface to be different from one another, but all actually share abnormal angiogenesis as their common denominator. And this realization is allowing us to re-conceptualize the way that we actually approach these diseases, by controlling angiogenesis. Now, I'm going to focus on cancer, because angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer — every type of cancer. So here we go. This is a tumor: dark, gray, ominous mass growing inside a brain. And under the microscope, you can see hundreds of these brown-stained blood vessels, capillaries that are feeding cancer cells, bringing oxygen and nutrients. But cancers don't start out like this, and in fact, cancers don't start out with a blood supply. They start out as small, microscopic nests of cells, that can only grow to one half a cubic millimeter in size. That's the tip of a ballpoint pen. Then they can't get any larger because they don't have a blood supply, so they don't have enough oxygen or nutrients. In fact, we're probably forming these microscopic cancers all the time in our body. Autopsy studies from people who died in car accidents have shown that about 40 percent of women between the ages of 40 and 50 actually have microscopic cancers in their breasts. About 50 percent of men in their 50s and 60s have microscopic prostate cancers, and virtually 100 percent of us, by the time we reach our 70s, will have microscopic cancers growing in our thyroid. Yet, without a blood supply, most of these cancers will never become dangerous. Dr. Judah Folkman, who was my mentor and who was the pioneer of the angiogenesis field, once called this ""cancer without disease."" So the body's ability to balance angiogenesis, when it's working properly, prevents blood vessels from feeding cancers. And this turns out to be one of our most important defense mechanisms against cancer. In fact, if you actually block angiogenesis and prevent blood vessels from ever reaching cancer cells, tumors simply can't grow up. But once angiogenesis occurs, cancers can grow exponentially. And this is actually how a cancer goes from being harmless, to being deadly. Cancer cells mutate, and they gain the ability to release lots of those angiogenic factors, natural fertilizer, that tip the balance in favor of blood vessels invading the cancer. And once those vessels invade the cancer, it can expand, it can invade local tissues, and the same vessels that are feeding tumors allow cancer cells to exit into the circulation as metastases. And unfortunately, this late stage of cancer is the one at which it's most likely to be diagnosed, when angiogenesis is already turned on, and cancer cells are growing like wild. So, if angiogenesis is a tipping point between a harmless cancer and a harmful one, then one major part of the angiogenesis revolution is a new approach to treating cancer by cutting off the blood supply. We call this antiangiogenic therapy, and it's completely different from chemotherapy, because it selectively aims at the blood vessels that are feeding the cancers. We can do this because tumor blood vessels are unlike normal, healthy vessels we see in other places of the body — they're abnormal, they're very poorly constructed, and because of that, they're highly vulnerable to treatments that target them. In effect, when we give cancer patients antiangiogenic therapy — here, an experimental drug for a glioma, which is a type of brain tumor — you can see that there are dramatic changes that occur when the tumor is being starved. Here's a woman with a breast cancer, being treated with the antiangiogenic drug called Avastin, which is FDA approved. And you can see that the halo of blood flow disappears after treatment. Well, I've just shown you two very different types of cancer that both responded to antiangiogenic therapy. So a few years ago, I asked myself, ""Can we take this one step further and treat other cancers, even in other species?"" So here is a nine year-old boxer named Milo, who had a very aggressive tumor called a malignant neurofibroma growing on his shoulder. It invaded into his lungs. His veterinarian only gave him three months to live. So we created a cocktail of antiangiogenic drugs that could be mixed into his dog food, as well as an antiangiogenic cream, that could be applied on the surface of the tumor. And within a few weeks of treatment, we were able to slow down that cancer's growth, such that we were ultimately able to extend Milo’s survival to six times what the veterinarian had initially predicted, all with a very good quality of life. And we've subsequently treated more than 600 dogs. We have about a 60 percent response rate, and improved survival for these pets that were about to be euthanized. So let me show you a couple of even more interesting examples. This is 20-year-old dolphin living in Florida, and she had these lesions in her mouth that, over the course of three years, developed into invasive squamous cell cancers. So we created an antiangiogenic paste. We had it painted on top of the cancer three times a week. And over the course of seven months, the cancers completely disappeared, and the biopsies came back as normal. Here's a cancer growing on the lip of a Quarter Horse named Guinness. It's a very, very deadly type of cancer called an angiosarcoma. It had already spread to his lymph nodes, so we used an antiangiogenic skin cream for the lip, and the oral cocktail, so we could treat from the inside as well as the outside. And over the course of six months, he experienced a complete remission. And here he is six years later, Guinness, with his very happy owner. (Applause) Now obviously, antiangiogenic therapy could be used for a wide range of cancers. And in fact, the first pioneering treatments for people as well as dogs, are already becoming available. There are 12 different drugs, 11 different cancer types. But the real question is: How well do these work in practice? So here's actually the patient survival data from eight different types of cancer. The bars represent survival time taken from the era in which there was only chemotherapy, or surgery, or radiation available. But starting in 2004, when antiangiogenic therapies first became available, you can see that there has been a 70 to 100 percent improvement in survival for people with kidney cancer, multiple myeloma, colorectal cancer, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors. That's impressive. But for other tumors and cancer types, the improvements have only been modest. So I started asking myself, ""Why haven't we been able to do better?"" And the answer, to me, is obvious: we're treating cancer too late in the game, when it's already established, and oftentimes, it's already spread or metastasized. And as a doctor, I know that once a disease progresses to an advanced stage, achieving a cure can be difficult, if not impossible. So I went back to the biology of angiogenesis, and started thinking: Could the answer to cancer be preventing angiogenesis, beating cancer at its own game, so the cancers could never become dangerous? This could help healthy people, as well as people who've already beaten cancer once or twice, and want to find a way to keep it from coming back. So to look for a way to prevent angiogenesis in cancer, I went back to look at cancer's causes. And what really intrigued me, was when I saw that diet accounts for 30 to 35 percent of environmentally-caused cancers. Now the obvious thing is to think about what we could remove from our diet, what to strip out, take away. But I actually took a completely opposite approach, and began asking: What could we be adding to our diet that's naturally antiangiogenic, and that could boost the body's defense system, and beat back those blood vessels that are feeding cancers? In other words, can we eat to starve cancer? (Laughter) Well, the answer is yes, and I'm going to show you how. And our search for this has taken us to the market, the farm and to the spice cabinet, because what we've discovered is that Mother Nature has laced a large number of foods and beverages and herbs with naturally-occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis. Here's a test system we developed. At the center is a ring from which hundreds of blood vessels are growing out in a starburst fashion. And we can use this system to test dietary factors at concentrations that are obtainable by eating. Let me show you what happens when we put in an extract from red grapes. The active ingredient is resveratrol, it's also found in red wine. This inhibits abnormal angiogenesis, by 60 percent. Here's what happens when we added an extract from strawberries. It potently inhibits angiogenesis. And extract from soybeans. And here is a growing list of antiangiogenic foods and beverages that we're interested in studying. For each food type, we believe that there are different potencies within different strains and varietals. And we want to measure this because, well, while you're eating a strawberry or drinking tea, why not select the one that's most potent for preventing cancer? So here are four different teas that we've tested. They're all common ones: Chinese jasmine, Japanese sencha, Earl Grey and a special blend that we prepared, and you can see clearly that the teas vary in their potency, from less potent to more potent. But what's very cool is when we combine the two less potent teas together, the combination, the blend, is more potent than either one alone. This means there's food synergy. Here's some more data from our testing. Now in the lab, we can simulate tumor angiogenesis, represented here in a black bar. And using this system, we can test the potency of cancer drugs. So the shorter the bar, the less angiogenesis — that's good. And here are some common drugs that have been associated with reducing the risk of cancer in people. Statins, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and a few others — they inhibit angiogenesis, too. And here are the dietary factors going head-to-head against these drugs. You can see they clearly hold their own, and in some cases, they're more potent than the actual drugs. Soy, parsley, garlic, grapes, berries. I could go home and cook a tasty meal using these ingredients. Imagine if we could create the world's first rating system, in which we could score foods according to their antiangiogenic, cancer-preventative properties. And that's what we're doing right now. Now, I've shown you a bunch of lab data, and so the real question is: What is the evidence in people that eating certain foods can reduce angiogenesis in cancer? Well, the best example I know is a study of 79,000 men followed over 20 years, in which it was found that men who consumed cooked tomatoes two to three times a week, had up to a 50 percent reduction in their risk of developing prostate cancer. Now, we know that tomatoes are a good source of lycopene, and lycopene is antiangiogenic. But what's even more interesting from this study, is that in those men who did develop prostate cancer, those who ate more servings of tomato sauce, actually had fewer blood vessels feeding their cancer. So this human study is a prime example of how antiangiogenic substances present in food and consumed at practical levels, can have an impact on cancer. And we're now studying the role of a healthy diet — with Dean Ornish at UCSF and Tufts University — the role of this healthy diet on markers of angiogenesis that we can find in the bloodstream. Obviously, what I've shared with you has some far-ranging implications, even beyond cancer research. Because if we're right, it could impact consumer education, food services, public health and even the insurance industry. And in fact, some insurance companies are already beginning to think along these lines. Check out this ad from BlueCross BlueShield of Minnesota. For many people around the world, dietary cancer prevention may be the only practical solution, because not everybody can afford expensive end-stage cancer treatments, but everybody could benefit from a healthy diet based on local, sustainable, antiangiogenic crops. Now, finally, I've talked to you about food, and I've talked to you about cancer, so there's just one more disease that I have to tell you about, and that's obesity. Because it turns out that adipose tissue — fat — is highly angiogenesis-dependent. And like a tumor, fat grows when blood vessels grow. So the question is: Can we shrink fat by cutting off its blood supply? The top curve shows the body weight of a genetically obese mouse that eats nonstop until it turns fat, like this furry tennis ball. (Laughter) And the bottom curve is the weight of a normal mouse. If you take the obese mouse and give it an angiogenesis inhibitor, it loses weight. Stop the treatment, gains the weight back. Restart the treatment, loses the weight. Stop the treatment, it gains the weight back. And, in fact, you can cycle the weight up and down simply by inhibiting angiogenesis. So this approach that we're taking for cancer prevention may also have an application for obesity. The truly interesting thing about this is that we can't take these obese mice and make them lose more weight than what the normal mouse's weight is supposed to be. In other words, we can't create supermodel mice. (Laughter) And this speaks to the role of angiogenesis in regulating healthy set points. Albert Szent-Györgi once said, ""Discovery consists of seeing what everyone has seen, and thinking what no one has thought."" I hope I've convinced you that for diseases like cancer, obesity and other conditions, there may be a great power in attacking their common denominator: angiogenesis. And that's what I think the world needs now. Thank you. (Applause) June Cohen: I have a quick question for you. JC: So these drugs aren't exactly in mainstream cancer treatments right now. For anyone out here who has cancer, what would you recommend? Do you recommend pursuing these treatments now, for most cancer patients? William Li: There are antiangiogenic treatments that are FDA approved, and if you're a cancer patient, or working for one or advocating for one, you should ask about them. And there are many clinical trials. The Angiogenesis Foundation is following almost 300 companies, and there are about 100 more drugs in that pipeline. So, consider the approved ones, look for clinical trials, but then between what the doctor can do for you, we need to start asking what can we do for ourselves. This is one of the themes I'm talking about: We can empower ourselves to do the things that doctors can't do for us, which is to use knowledge and take action. And if Mother Nature has given us some clues, we think there might be a new future in the value of how we eat, and what we eat is really our chemotherapy three times a day. JC: Right. And along those lines, for people who might have risk factors for cancer, would you recommend pursuing any treatments prophylactically, or simply pursuing the right diet, with lots of tomato sauce? WL: Well, you know, there's abundant epidemiological evidence, and I think in the information age, it doesn't take long to go to a credible source like PubMed, the National Library of Medicine, to look for epidemiological studies for cancer risk reduction based on diet and based on common medications. And that's certainly something that anybody can look into. JC: Okay. Well, thank you so much. (Applause)"	午安有項醫學上的變革正在我們身邊發生這將幫助我們克服社會最憂慮的部份狀況包括癌症這項變革被稱做血管新生也就是在我們體內血管生長的過程 為什麼我們得在乎血管呢？因為，我們的身上到處都是血管將一位標準體型的成人體內所有的血管頭尾相連，能連成一條長度約十萬公里可繞地球整整兩圈的直線最小的血管被稱做微血管我們體內約有190億條微血管微血管是生之徑同時，如我將展示給各位看的它們也可以是死之徑微血管有個驚人之處：它們能因應不同的生長環境出現不同的形式比如說：在肝臟裡微血管是讓血液解毒的管道在肺臟裡則形成氣囊幫助氣體交換在肌肉中以如軟木塞開瓶器的形狀排列這樣在肌肉收縮時，血液循環也不會中斷在神經中，微血管蜿蜒如電線維持神經細胞的活力我們身上大部分的血管是在胎兒時期就長出來的也就是說，在正常情況下成人身上的血管不會自發地生長某些特別的情況則是例外每個月，女人的子宮裡血管會增生形成內膜懷孕時，子宮內膜將演變成胎盤也就是母親和寶寶間的連結我們受傷時，在傷疤下血管會不斷生長來幫助傷口癒合這是血管的真實樣貌數以百計的微血管全都長在傷口的中間 可見，我們的身體在任何時候都有調節全身血管數量的能力身體藉著計畫完善精良的調控系統來維持那些控制血管新生的刺激物或是抑制物間的平衡也就是說，若是在短時間內需要大量血管體內會釋放血管新生的刺激物這是一種被稱為血管新生因子的蛋白質就像我們體內的天然肥料一般能刺激新血管的萌發若是體內不再需要這樣過量的血管身體就會藉著自然釋放的血管新生抑制因子讓血管新生速度降到基準值而在其他需要比基準速度更低的血管新生的情況，這時我們就得讓血管生長回到正常值像是受傷後我們體內的血管先大量增生再降到健康時的正常數量也就是身體設定好的正常值 但現在我們知道，就有些疾病而言這個控制血管生長的系統有缺陷身體沒辦法減低過量的血管或是沒辦法讓新生血管出現在正確的時間或是位置這樣的情況就是血管新生失去平衡而血管新生失去平衡是非常嚴重的疾病比方說，血管新生不夠體內就不會有足夠的血管這樣傷口不會癒合、心肌梗塞足部血液循環不良、因為中風死亡或是傷害神經相反的，過多的血管新生會讓體內有過多的血管，也會造成疾病如癌症、失明關節炎、肥胖阿茲海默症總的來說，有70多種疾病正影響著世界上十億人口它們表面上看起來毫無關係但事實上，這些疾病都以異常血管新生為共同特徵明白這一點能讓我們重新思考如何藉著控制血管新生來治療這些疾病的確切方法 現在，我將重點放在癌症因為無論是哪一種癌症都以血管新生為重要特徵好，我們來談談癌症這是一個腫瘤。一團深灰色、看來不妙的細胞團在腦中生長在顯微鏡下，你可以看見數以百計如這樣被染成褐色的血管或是正在餵養癌細胞的微血管將氧氣或是養份帶給它們然而，腫瘤一開始不是這樣事實上，腫瘤一開始沒有血液供給原初的腫瘤是顯微鏡下的小細胞群它們頂多長成半立方毫米大小大概是是筆尖大小這些腫瘤長不大就是因為它們沒有血液供給也就沒有足夠的氧氣和養分 事實上，我們的體內可能隨時都在形成這些微腫瘤對因癌症而死的病人進行的病理解剖顯示在40到50歲的女性裡有百分之40的人的確有這樣的微腫瘤存在於乳房內年約50到60歲的男性其中50%於攝護腺裡有微腫瘤我們到了70歲以後百分之百的人甲狀腺裡有生長中的微腫瘤然而，在沒有血液供給的情況下大部分這樣的微腫瘤是不會變得有害的我的導師，佛克曼醫師同時也是血管新生研究的先驅者曾經說這些微腫瘤是「非病腫瘤」 因此，我們的身體有平衡血管新生的能力當這樣的能力運作良好就能避免血管餵養癌症生長這樣的機制也就變成我們體內最重要抵抗癌症的防禦機轉之一事實上，當你能確實阻斷血管新生讓血管永遠無法和癌細胞接觸腫瘤就不會生長然而，一旦腫瘤周圍出現血管新生它們就能以倍數成長這就是腫瘤如何從無害變得有害的實情癌細胞突變並且釋放許多跟血管新生有關的物質這些天然肥料會刺激血管生長進入腫瘤組織一旦血管進入腫瘤腫瘤就能擴張，侵犯周邊的組織在血管餵養腫瘤的同時腫瘤也得以進入循環系統這就是所謂的轉移當血管已經開始生長腫瘤就會瘋狂地增生而不幸的，在這個癌症發展的最後階段，轉移癌是幾乎不可能被診斷的 所以，如果血管新生是從無害的微腫瘤轉變成有害的癌症的關鍵點那麼，這個血管新生革命的主要部份就是藉著切斷血液供給來治療癌症的新方法我們稱之為抗血管新生治療這跟化療完全不同因為這個療法選擇性地瞄準供應腫瘤養份的血管之所以能這麼做，是因為腫瘤的血管跟一般健康的在身體其他部分的血管不同腫瘤的血管異常之處在於它們的結構脆弱因此，這類血管對專門來對付它們的藥物很敏感臨床上，當我們在癌症病人身上施以對抗血管新生的藥物像是這個治療神經膠細胞瘤的實驗性藥物神經膠細胞瘤是一種腦瘤我們可以在病人身上看到當腫瘤不再有養分時產生的顯著變化這是一位有乳癌的女士她接受美國食品藥物管理局核准的血管新生藥物Avastin的治療如你所見，這區血流在治療後即消失不見 我剛剛已經告訴妳們抗血管新生藥物對兩種癌症有效所以，幾年前，我自問我們能夠更進一步用這種藥來治療其他癌症嗎甚至是其他物種的癌症這是一隻九歲大的鬥牛犬，Milo牠的肩膀有個惡性神經纖維瘤這是一種極具侵入性的腫瘤已經進入牠的肺臟獸醫認為牠只有三個月可活因此，我們做了可以混在牠食物中的抗血管新生藥物的雞尾酒配方跟可以塗抹在腫瘤表面的抗血管新生藥物乳霜在數個星期的治療後我們得以減緩腫瘤的生長最終得以延長Milo的壽命達獸醫預測的時間六倍長之久生活品質也很好 接著我們治療了其他600多隻狗其中大概有60%的治療率也能增加那些將被安樂死的寵物的壽命接著，讓我向你們報告幾個更有趣的病例這是一隻20歲，生活在佛州的海豚牠的口裡有些出現大概3年多的病灶漸漸形成侵入性的鱗狀上皮癌為此，我們做了抗血管生成的藥糊塗抹在病灶上每個星期三次經過七個禮拜的療程後上皮癌完全消失了切片的結果也正常 這是一隻名叫Guiness的奎特馬牠嘴唇上的腫瘤是一種非常非常致命的腫瘤，血管肉瘤已經侵犯到牠的淋巴結我們用了能抹在嘴唇上的抗血管新生的藥膏跟口服的雞尾酒藥物讓治療得以內用跟外服雙管齊下經過6個月的療程腫瘤完全消失了這是Guiness接受治療後6年跟飼主快樂的合照 （掌聲） 現在，顯然的，抗血管新生藥物能被廣泛的運用在各種癌症的治療上事實上，第一個於人類跟於狗身上的前驅治療已經可以取得總共有12種藥物，用來治療11種癌症但真正的問題是這些藥物的實際成效如何？數據為8種不同癌症患者的存活時間柱狀圖為僅有化療手術或是放射線治療時的患者存活時間從2004年抗血管新生藥物出現在市面上你可以注意到腎臟癌、多發性硬化症大腸癌和胃腸道基質腫瘤等癌症患者的存活時間增加了70-100%非常令人印象深刻但是其它的腫瘤或癌症僅有一般程度的增加 因此，我自問為什麼這些癌症的治療不能更好而答案，對我來說，很顯然的是因為我們太晚開始治療當腫瘤已經生成往往就已經擴散或是轉移身為一名醫師，我明白一但疾病進程惡化即使得治治療將變得困難讓我們回到血管生成的生物學開始這樣想是否癌症治療有賴於從癌症發生本身下手藉著預防血管新生讓癌症不至於變得危險？這能幫助健康人跟已經擊敗過癌症一兩次的病人還有想找出方法不讓癌症復發的人為了藉由預防癌組織的血管新生，來走出一條新路我回到癌症生成的原因真正啟發我的是當我注意到飲食佔了引起癌症因子中30-35%的比重時 最明顯不過的想法應是想想我們可以移除、去掉或是不吃哪些食物但是，我用的是完全相反的法子我開始自問，我們能在飲食中加入哪些能抗血管新生的食物來刺激體內的防禦系統反擊那些餵養癌細胞的血管？也就是說，我們能藉著吃來餓壞癌症嗎？這問題的答案為：是的我將告訴你們，這該如何辦到而我們在這方面的研究帶著我們到了市場、農場跟香料櫃因為我們發現大地之母遺下了大量能夠天然地抑制血管新生的食物、飲料和藥草 這是我們正在研發的測試系統在中央的是血管環，由數百條微血管形成正在向外成星狀爆出生長我們能利用這個系統來測試我們能藉著飲食攝取的抗血管新生因子的濃度的影響這是當我們加入紅葡萄萃取物的情形其中的有效成份白藜蘆醇也能在紅酒中找到白藜蘆醇能抑制60%的異常血管新生這草莓萃取物的測試結果也有抑制血管生成的效果大豆萃取物也是這裡列出我們有興趣、仍在增加中的用來測試抗血管新生效果的食物跟飲料我們相信各類食物的不同種類或品種都有不同的效果我們想測試這樣的效果是因為我們吃草莓或喝茶時為何不選擇最有效的那個品種來預防癌症 我們測試了四種市面上常見的茶香片、日本煎茶伯爵茶和一種我們配製的茶你可以清楚見到不同的茶抗血管新生的效果不同這裡將效果從低到高列出來這個研究最棒的地方是當你混合兩種單獨使用時效果不高的茶抗血管新生的效果比各自單獨使用來得高也就是說這些食物有協成效果 還有更多實驗室裡其他測試的結果我們可以刺激腫瘤血管新生測試癌症藥物在這個系統裡的效果結果用黑色的柱狀圖表示當軸柱越短血管新生就越少，這是好情況我們測試了一些常見的跟降低癌症發生率有關的藥物Statin、非類固醇消炎劑跟一些其他藥物能夠抑制血管新生而比較某些食物跟這些藥物對血管新生的效果如你所見，這些食物不比藥物差而某些食物的效果甚是還比藥物好如大豆、荷蘭芹、大蒜葡萄跟莓類這讓我們只要回家使用這些食材烹煮食物就有治療癌症的效果試想我們是否能夠建立這個世界上第一個根據食物抑制癌症組織的血管新生能力所編列的評分表這也是我們現在正在做的 我已經對你們秀出許多實驗室的數據至此，真正的問題是什麼是人們吃下某些食物就能抑制癌症組織裡血管新生的證據？據我所知，最好的證據是一個樣本數為7萬9千人長達20年的研究科學家發現，每周攝取烹煮過的番茄兩到三次的男性最後得到攝護腺癌的機率降低一半我們現在知道，番茄是很好的茄紅素來源而茄紅素能減少血管生長而這個研究最有趣的部分是在那些得到攝護腺癌的男性中攝取較多番茄醬的人組織中確實有較少的血管能餵養腫瘤因此，這個臨床研究是當我們攝取足夠劑量的存在於食物中抗血管新生物質的確能影響癌症形成的證據我們現在正在跟Dean Ornish、南加大跟Tufts大學的工作團隊合作研究我們在血液中找到的健康食物成分對血管生成的標記分子的影響 而顯然的，我剛才跟各位分享的食物的廣泛影響並不侷限於癌症研究因為若我們是正確的，這樣的概念能衝擊消費者教育、食物供給、公共衛生甚至是保險產業事實上，一些保險公司已經開始考慮這樣的概念看看這個明尼蘇達的藍十字蘭盾公司的廣告對這個世界的許多人而言藉著改善飲食來治療癌症可能是唯一可靠實際的辦法因為並不是每個人能夠負擔末期癌症治療的費用但是每個人都能因為地區性、永續性的抗血管新生飲食而受惠 演講的最後我們剛剛提到食物還有癌症我還想再跟各位說說另外一個疾病，也就是肥胖因為，研究顯示脂肪組織的形成跟血管生成也高度相關一如癌症，脂肪隨著血管生長問題在於：我們是否可以藉著阻斷血液供應使脂肪萎縮？圖表上方的曲線為先天性肥胖的老鼠的體重這些老鼠會不斷地吃直到牠們跟一顆毛茸茸的網球沒兩樣而下方的曲線為正常老鼠的體重 如果你給一隻肥胖老鼠抗血管形成的藥物，牠們會變瘦一但停藥，體重則回昇若重新開始治療，體重下降停止治療，體重回昇事實上，利用抑制血管新生的藥物我們能讓老鼠的體重上上下下變動因此，這個用來治療癌症的療法也許也能用來治療肥胖這個實驗最有趣的部分是我們無法用這個藥讓這些肥胖老鼠的體重降得比正常老鼠低換句話說，我們沒辦法製造超級名模鼠（笑）這個實驗說明了血管新生在決定健康狀態時扮演的角色 聖捷爾吉·奧爾貝特曾說創件包括了見眾人所見思無人所想我希望我已經說服各位癌症、肥胖和其他疾病的治療上攻擊這些疾病的共有特徵即血管新生，是更有效的方法我認為這是世人目前需要的，謝謝 （掌聲） 這些藥物實際上並不是目前癌症治療的主流用藥對目前已有癌症的人你有什麼建議嗎？你會建議大部分的病人，現在就開始使用這樣的治療嗎？ 目前市面上已經有FDA核准的抗血管新生藥物如果你是位癌症病人或是正在協助或是支持某位癌症病人你應該向醫生詢問這類藥物目前有許多臨床試驗Andrew J Semesco基金會正追蹤約300家公司發現大概有100多種藥正在上線生產考慮那些已經被核准的藥找找有無臨床試驗但是除了醫生能提供的協助病人也該自問自己能夠做些什麼這也是我想跟各位談的我們可以從醫生無法為我們做的方面來自我強化擅用知識跟積極行動如果自然之母已經給我們提示我們認為未來可能的新方向為重視我們的飲食而食物本身就是我們一日三次的化療 基於你的演講你會建議那些癌症的高風險族群使用預防性的治療或是單純正確的飲食像是吃大量的番茄醬？ 你知道，現在有許多流行病學調查我想，在這個知識爆炸的時代取得可信的資料如利用Pubmed資料庫也就是美國國家醫學圖書館的檢索系統來搜尋飲食或是藥物降低癌症風險的流行病學研究並不是太花時間的事這確實是任何人都可以試著去做的 好，非常謝謝你 （掌聲）
