Talk	en	zh-tw
william_ury	"Well, the subject of difficult negotiation reminds me of one of my favorite stories from the Middle East, of a man who left to his three sons, 17 camels. To the first son, he left half the camels; to the second son, he left a third of the camels; and to the youngest son, he left a ninth of the camels. The three sons got into a negotiation — 17 doesn't divide by two. It doesn't divide by three. It doesn't divide by nine. Brotherly tempers started to get strained. Finally, in desperation, they went and they consulted a wise old woman. The wise old woman thought about their problem for a long time, and finally she came back and said, ""Well, I don't know if I can help you, but at least, if you want, you can have my camel."" So then, they had 18 camels. The first son took his half — half of 18 is nine. The second son took his third — a third of 18 is six. The youngest son took his ninth — a ninth of 18 is two. You get 17. They had one camel left over. They gave it back to the wise old woman. (Laughter) Now, if you think about that story for a moment, I think it resembles a lot of the difficult negotiations we get involved in. They start off like 17 camels, no way to resolve it. Somehow, what we need to do is step back from those situations, like that wise old woman, look at the situation through fresh eyes and come up with an 18th camel. Finding that 18th camel in the world's conflicts has been my life passion. I basically see humanity a bit like those three brothers. We're all one family. We know that scientifically, thanks to the communications revolution, all the tribes on the planet — all 15,000 tribes — are in touch with each other. And it's a big family reunion. And yet, like many family reunions, it's not all peace and light. There's a lot of conflict, and the question is: How do we deal with our differences? How do we deal with our deepest differences, given the human propensity for conflict and the human genius at devising weapons of enormous destruction? That's the question. As I've spent the last better part of three decades, almost four, traveling the world, trying to work, getting involved in conflicts ranging from Yugoslavia to the Middle East to Chechnya to Venezuela — some of the most difficult conflicts on the face of the planet — I've been asking myself that question. And I think I've found, in some ways, what is the secret to peace. It's actually surprisingly simple. It's not easy, but it's simple. It's not even new. It may be one of our most ancient human heritages. The secret to peace is us. It's us who act as a surrounding community around any conflict, who can play a constructive role. Let me give you just a story, an example. About 20 years ago, I was in South Africa, working with the parties in that conflict, and I had an extra month, so I spent some time living with several groups of San Bushmen. I was curious about them, about the way in which they resolve conflict. Because, after all, within living memory, they were hunters and gatherers, living pretty much like our ancestors lived for maybe 99 percent of the human story. And all the men have these poison arrows that they use for hunting — absolutely fatal. So how do they deal with their differences? Well, what I learned is, whenever tempers rise in those communities, someone goes and hides the poison arrows out in the bush, and then everyone sits around in a circle like this, and they sit and they talk and they talk. It may take two days, three days, four days, but they don't rest until they find a resolution or better yet — a reconciliation. And if tempers are still too high, then they send someone off to visit some relatives, as a cooling-off period. Well, that system is, I think, probably the system that kept us alive to this point, given our human tendencies. That system, I call ""the third side."" Because if you think about it, normally when we think of conflict, when we describe it, there's always two sides — it's Arabs versus Israelis, labor versus management, husband versus wife, Republicans versus Democrats. But what we don't often see is that there's always a third side, and the third side of the conflict is us, it's the surrounding community, it's the friends, the allies, the family members, the neighbors. And we can play an incredibly constructive role. Perhaps the most fundamental way in which the third side can help is to remind the parties of what's really at stake. For the sake of the kids, for the sake of the family, for the sake of the community, for the sake of the future, let's stop fighting for a moment and start talking. Because, the thing is, when we're involved in conflict, it's very easy to lose perspective. It's very easy to react. Human beings — we're reaction machines. And as the saying goes, when angry, you will make the best speech you will ever regret. (Laughter) And so the third side reminds us of that. The third side helps us go to the balcony, which is a metaphor for a place of perspective, where we can keep our eyes on the prize. Let me tell you a little story from my own negotiating experience. Some years ago, I was involved as a facilitator in some very tough talks between the leaders of Russia and the leaders of Chechnya. There was a war going on, as you know. And we met in the Hague, in the Peace Palace, in the same room where the Yugoslav war-crimes tribunal was taking place. And the talks got off to a rather rocky start when the vice president of Chechnya began by pointing at the Russians and said, ""You should stay right here in your seats, because you're going to be on trial for war crimes."" And then he turned to me and said, ""You're an American. Look at what you Americans are doing in Puerto Rico."" And my mind started racing, ""Puerto Rico? What do I know about Puerto Rico?"" I started reacting. (Laughter) But then, I tried to remember to go to the balcony. And then when he paused and everyone looked at me for a response, from a balcony perspective, I was able to thank him for his remarks and say, ""I appreciate your criticism of my country and I take it as a sign that we're among friends and can speak candidly to one another."" (Laughter) ""And what we're here to do is not to talk about Puerto Rico or the past. We're here to see if we can figure out a way to stop the suffering and the bloodshed in Chechnya."" The conversation got back on track. That's the role of the third side, to help the parties go to the balcony. Now let me take you, for a moment, to what's widely regarded as the world's most difficult conflict, or the most impossible conflict, the Middle East. Question is: where's the third side there? How could we possibly go to the balcony? Now, I don't pretend to have an answer to the Middle East conflict, but I think I've got a first step — literally, a first step — something that any one of us could do as third-siders. Let me just ask you one question first. How many of you in the last years have ever found yourself worrying about the Middle East and wondering what anyone could do? Just out of curiosity, how many of you? OK, so the great majority of us. And here, it's so far away. Why do we pay so much attention to this conflict? Is it the number of deaths? There are a hundred times more people who die in a conflict in Africa than in the Middle East. No, it's because of the story, because we feel personally involved in that story. Whether we're Christians, Muslims or Jews, religious or non-religious, we feel we have a personal stake in it. Stories matter; as an anthropologist, I know that. Stories are what we use to transmit knowledge. They give meaning to our lives. That's what we tell here at TED, we tell stories. Stories are the key. And so my question is — yes, let's try and resolve the politics there in the Middle East, but let's also take a look at the story. Let's try to get at the root of what it's all about. Let's see if we can apply the third side to it. What would that mean? What is the story there? Now, as anthropologists, we know that every culture has an origin story. What's the origin story of the Middle East? In a phrase, it's: Four thousand years ago, a man and his family walked across the Middle East, and the world has never been the same since. That man, of course, was Abraham. And what he stood for was unity, the unity of the family; he's the father of us all. But it's not just what he stood for, it's what his message was. His basic message was unity too, the interconnectedness of it all, the unity of it all. And his basic value was respect, was kindness toward strangers. That's what he's known for, his hospitality. So in that sense, he's the symbolic third side of the Middle East. He's the one who reminds us that we're all part of a greater whole. Now, think about that for a moment. Today, we face the scourge of terrorism. What is terrorism? Terrorism is basically taking an innocent stranger and treating them as an enemy whom you kill in order to create fear. What's the opposite of terrorism? It's taking an innocent stranger and treating them as a friend whom you welcome into your home, in order to sow and create understanding or respect, or love. So what if, then, you took the story of Abraham, which is a third-side story, what if that could be — because Abraham stands for hospitality — what if that could be an antidote to terrorism? What if that could be a vaccine against religious intolerance? How would you bring that story to life? Now, it's not enough just to tell a story. That's powerful, but people need to experience the story. They need to be able to live the story. How would you do that? And that was my thinking of how would you do that. And that's what comes to the first step here. Because the simple way to do that is: you go for a walk. You go for a walk in the footsteps of Abraham. You retrace the footsteps of Abraham. Because walking has a real power. You know, as an anthropologist, walking is what made us human. It's funny — when you walk, you walk side-by-side, in the same common direction. Now if I were to come to you face-to-face and come this close to you, you would feel threatened. But if I walk shoulder-to-shoulder, even touching shoulders, it's no problem. Who fights while they walk? That's why in negotiations, often, when things get tough, people go for walks in the woods. So the idea came to me of, what about inspiring a path, a route — think the Silk Route, think the Appalachian Trail — that followed in the footsteps of Abraham? People said, ""That's crazy. You can't. You can't retrace the footsteps of Abraham — it's too insecure, you've got to cross all these borders, it goes across 10 different countries in the Middle East, because it unites them all."" And so we studied the idea at Harvard. We did our due diligence. And then a few years ago, a group of us, about 25 of us from 10 different countries, decided to see if we could retrace the footsteps of Abraham, going from his initial birthplace in the city of Urfa in Southern Turkey, Northern Mesopotamia. And we then took a bus and took some walks and went to Harran, where, in the Bible, he sets off on his journey. Then we crossed the border into Syria, went to Aleppo, which, turns out, is named after Abraham. We went to Damascus, which has a long history associated with Abraham. We then came to Northern Jordan, to Jerusalem — which is all about Abraham — to Bethlehem, and finally, to the place where he's buried, in Hebron. So effectively, we went from womb to tomb. We showed it could be done. It was an amazing journey. Let me ask you a question. How many of you have had the experience of being in a strange neighborhood or strange land, and a total stranger, perfect stranger, comes up to you and shows you some kindness — maybe invites you into their home, gives you a drink, gives you a coffee, gives you a meal? How many of you have ever had that experience? That's the essence of the Abraham Path. That's what you discover as you go into these villages in the Middle East where you expect hostility, and you get the most amazing hospitality, all associated with Abraham: ""In the name of Father Ibrahim, let me offer you some food."" So what we discovered is that Abraham is not just a figure out of a book for those people; he's alive, he's a living presence. And to make a long story short, in the last couple of years now, thousands of people have begun to walk parts of the path of Abraham in the Middle East, enjoying the hospitality of the people there. They've begun to walk in Israel and Palestine, in Jordan, in Turkey, in Syria. It's an amazing experience. Men, women, young people, old people — more women than men, actually, interestingly. For those who can't walk, who are unable to get there right now, people started to organize walks in cities, in their own communities. In Cincinnati, for instance, they organized a walk from a church to a mosque to a synagogue and all had an Abrahamic meal together. It was Abraham Path Day. In São Paulo, Brazil, it's become an annual event for thousands of people to run in a virtual Abraham Path Run, uniting the different communities. The media love it; they really adore it. They lavish attention on it because it's visual and it spreads the idea, this idea of Abrahamic hospitality, of kindness towards strangers. And just a couple weeks ago, there was an NPR story on it. Last month, there was a piece in the Manchester Guardian about it, two whole pages. And they quoted a villager who said, ""This walk connects us to the world."" He said, ""It was like a light that went on in our lives — it brought us hope."" And so that's what it's about. But it's not just about psychology; it's about economics. Because as people walk, they spend money. And this woman right here, Um Ahmad, is a woman who lives on the path in Northern Jordan. She's desperately poor. She's partially blind, her husband can't work, she's got seven kids. But what she can do is cook. And so she's begun to cook for some groups of walkers who come through the village and have a meal in her home. They sit on the floor — she doesn't even have a tablecloth. She makes the most delicious food, that's fresh from the herbs in the surrounding countryside. And so more and more walkers have come, and lately she's begun to earn an income to support her family. And so she told our team there, she said, ""You have made me visible in a village where people were once ashamed to look at me."" That's the potential of the Abraham Path. There are literally hundreds of those kinds of communities across the Middle East, across the path. The potential is basically to change the game. And to change the game, you have to change the frame, the way we see things — to change the frame from hostility to hospitality, from terrorism to tourism. And in that sense, the Abraham Path is a game-changer. Let me just show you one thing. I have a little acorn here that I picked up while I was walking on the path earlier this year. Now, the acorn is associated with the oak tree, of course — grows into an oak tree, which is associated with Abraham. The path right now is like an acorn; it's still in its early phase. What would the oak tree look like? When I think back to my childhood, a good part of which I spent, after being born here in Chicago, I spent in Europe. If you had been in the ruins of, say, London in 1945, or Berlin, and you had said, ""Sixty years from now, this is going to be the most peaceful, prosperous part of the planet,"" people would have thought you were certifiably insane. But they did it, thanks to a common identity, Europe, and a common economy. So my question is, if it can be done in Europe, why not in the Middle East? Why not, thanks to a common identity, which is the story of Abraham, and thanks to a common economy that would be based, in good part, on tourism? So let me conclude, then, by saying that in the last 35 years, as I've worked in some of the most dangerous, difficult and intractable conflicts around the planet, I have yet to see one conflict that I felt could not be transformed. It's not easy, of course. But it's possible. It was done in South Africa. It was done in Northern Ireland. It could be done anywhere. It simply depends on us. It depends on us taking the third side. So let me invite you to consider taking the third side, even as a very small step. We're about to take a break in a moment. Just go up to someone who's from a different culture, a different country, a different ethnicity — some difference — and engage them in a conversation. Listen to them. That's a third-side act. That's walking Abraham's Path. After a TED Talk, why not a TED Walk? (Laughter) So let me just leave you with three things. One is, the secret to peace is the third side. The third side is us. Each of us, with a single step, can take the world, can bring the world a step closer to peace. There's an old African proverb that goes: ""When spiderwebs unite, they can halt even the lion."" If we're able to unite our third-side webs of peace, we can even halt the lion of war. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"講到談判的困難度的主題讓我想到我喜歡的一個中東來的故事一個男子給了他三個兒子17隻駱駝他把一半的駱駝給了他大兒子把三分之一的駱駝給他的二兒子把九分之一給他的小兒子三個兒子就開始協商了17沒有辦法除以2也沒有辦法除以3沒有辦法除以9兄弟之間的感情就開始緊張啦最後, 他們豁出去了他們去找了一個聰明的老太太幫他們解決問題這個聰明的老太太想了很久以後最後她回來告訴他們“嗯, 我不知道我該如何幫你們,不過至少, 如果你們要的話, 你們可以拿走我的駱駝.""所以他們有18隻駱駝大兒子拿走了屬於他的一半—18隻的一半是9隻二兒子拿走了屬於他的三分之一—18隻的三分之一是六小兒子拿走了屬於他的九分之一18隻的九分之一是2加起來正好是17他們還多出了一隻駱駝所以他們還給了聰明的老太太 (笑聲) 如果你認真的想想這個故事我想這和大部分我們常碰到的難度高的談判類似剛開始的時候他們有17隻駱駝—沒有辦法解決這個難題有的時候,我們需要的是往後退一步想一想,就像那個聰明的老太太一樣用不一樣的眼光來看待這個問題進而選擇用18隻駱駝來解決問題現在用""18隻駱駝""的邏輯來解決世界上的紛爭成為我的生命志向基本上來說, 我對待人的態度就像那三兄弟一樣我們是個大家庭科學上而言, 我們也知道我們是個大家庭感謝大眾傳播的革命每個在地球上的種族, 一萬五千個種族都可以和彼此保持聯絡而這就是個大家庭的團圓就像大部分的家庭團聚一樣並不盡是和平和光明的有許多的衝突問題是我們該如何處裡我們之間的差異?基本人們對衝突的本性和人類的智慧來解決我們之間最深層的差異?用設計精密的武器來解決巨大的破壞？這就是問題 我花了過去三十年中最精華的時間將近四十年在世界各地旅行著試圖去解決,介入衝突之中從南斯拉夫到中東從車臣到委內瑞拉有些是在地表上有史以來最困難的衝突我問過我自己這個問題我想我藉由某些方式找到了答案所謂和平的秘密事實上答案是令人驚訝的簡單不是很容易, 但很簡單不只是現在這也許是我們最古老的人類遺產和平的秘密是我們是我們這些在社區裡面對各種衝突時扮演建設性的角色的人 讓我告訴你的故事,一個例子將近二十年前我在南非和一些團體處裡衝突結束後我有一個月的假所以我花了點時間和一些San Bushmen的聚落住在一起我對於他們的生活模式和他們解決衝突的方式感到好奇因為,說穿了,在我們的記憶裡他們是獵人和蒐集者和百分之九十九的人類故事中我們的祖先的生活方式一樣而所有的人都擁有這些可以用來狩獵的毒藥絕對致命的毒藥所以他們如何面對他們與其他人之前的差異？事實上, 我從中學到了當這些社區裡的人情緒開始沸騰時,有些人會把毒藥藏在灌木以外的地方然後所有人坐成像這樣的一個圓圈他們坐著, 然後討論, 然後討論也許會花上兩天, 三天, 四天但他們不休息直到他們找到解決方法或者更好的, 一個和解的方案如果情緒仍然很高亢那他們就會讓有些人休息去拜訪親戚當作是讓彼此冷靜的時間 這個系統是我想, 也許是讓我們活到現在的原因基於我們人類的天性這個系統, 我稱它為第三方因為如果你認真想想通常當我們想到爭執, 當我們描述爭執時,通常只有兩方面阿拉伯對抗以色列, 勞工階層對抗管理階層丈夫對抗妻子, 共和黨對抗民主黨但我們通常看不見的是其實這中間都有個第三方而這個爭執中的第三方是我們是周遭的社區是朋友, 是夥伴是家人, 是鄰居而我們能扮演一個難以置信的建設性角色應該能說最基本能讓第三方來幫忙的是提醒兩方什麼才是真正重要的為了自己的小孩, 為了自己的家人為了整個社區, 為了未來著想停下戰鬥而開始進行談話因為, 如果我們介入了爭執中往往很容易失去了對事物的洞察力其實這很容易能反應人類：我們是反應的機器而就像那句格言說的當你在生氣時, 是最容易說出讓你永遠後悔的話而第三方能提醒我們這點第三方幫助我們走到陽台上隱喻為我們找個能透視問題的空間讓我們能把焦點集中在最後的勝利上 讓我告訴你一個我自己談判經驗上的小故事許多年前, 我在俄國的領袖和車臣的領袖的高峰會談上擔任促進會談的角色正如你所知道的, 那時戰爭正在進行而我們在海牙的和平宮殿裡會面在同個房間裡, 南斯拉夫的戰犯正在接受審判而談話從艱難的對話開始當車臣的副總統開始指著俄國人說,“你應該好好待在你的位子上,因為你將會參加戰犯法庭。“然後他繼續, 然後他指著我說,你是個美國人看看你們美國人在波多黎各幹得好事。“然後我的思緒開始奔跑, ""波多黎各？ 我對波多黎各了解多少？“我開始回答他的談話,但我試著記得走到陽台上去。當他暫停談話,所有人把目光集中到我身上想看我有什麼回答從陽台角度看來, 我能夠謝謝他的評論然後說, “我感謝你對我的國家的批評,而我會把那當作是我們是朋友的象徵所以才能率直的和對方談話我們在這裡不是為了討論波多黎各或是過去我們在這裡是為看我們是否能找出結束車臣人民的受苦和流血。對話回到原先的軌道上這就是第三方的角色為了幫助任何一方走到陽台上 現在讓我借用你一點時間來看看人們稱為世界上最困難的爭執或者最不可能解決的爭執那就是中東問題問題是：第三方在哪裡？我們該如何走到陽台上？我不想裝作我有解決中東問題的答案但我想我知道第一步該怎麼做照字面上來講的第一步是我們之中任何一位都能把自己當作第三方而做的事情讓我首先問你一個問題在你們之中有誰在過去這幾年曾經煩惱過中東問題且想過誰能解決這些問題？只是好奇, 有多少人？好的, 大多數的人都想過這個問題就在這裡, 這個離中東這麼遠的地方為什麼我們這麼關心這個問題？是因為死亡人數嗎？在非洲的爭執中, 有比中東問題更多的數以百計的人死去不是, 是因為故事本身因為我們覺得是置身在故事當中不管我們是天主教, 穆斯林, 或者猶太人有信仰或者沒信仰我們覺得這關係到個人利益 故事是有關係的。 身為一個人類學家, 我很清楚的知道這點故事是我們用來傳達知識的工具他們給了我們的生活意義就像我們在TED告訴你們的, 我們在講故事故事是重點所以我的問題是是的, 我們來試著解決在中東的政治紛爭但讓我們先看一下故事本身試著看到故事的根源和內容試著看看我們是否使用第三方的理念那是什麼意義？ 那故事會是怎樣？ 身為人類學家, 我們知道每個文化都有其起源的故事那中東的起源故事是什麼？簡單來說就是四千年以前, 一個男人和他的家庭穿越了中東而世界從此就再也不一樣了那個男人當然就是亞伯拉罕而他代表團結一個家庭的團結他是我們大家的父親但不只是他所代表的, 是他的訊息是什麼他的基本訊息也是團結所有的互聯性和所有的團結而他的基本原則是尊重是對陌生人的友好這是他廣為人知的地方, 他的好客所以就此而言他是中東裡的第三方的象徵他是提醒我們我們都是隸屬於一個偉大的總體的那個人現在, 你要如何—讓我們針對這個思考一下 今天我們面臨恐怖主義的折磨什麼是恐怖主義？簡單來說恐怖主義是把無辜的陌生人像敵人一樣的傷害以達到製造恐怖氣氛的目的那什麼是恐怖主義的相反意義？是把無辜的陌生人像朋友一樣的對待歡迎他們到你家裡以達到播下善因和互相理解或尊重, 或愛的目的 所以如果你能把亞拉伯罕的故事這個第三方的故事如果能夠因為亞拉伯罕代表了好客如果能夠因為這樣而成為恐怖主義的解藥？如果能有個預防針消滅宗教之間的對立？你會如何把這個故事運用到生活上？單單述說個故事是不夠的那是有力的—但人們需要體驗這個故事他們需要生活在那個故事之中. 你要如何辦到？而這是我覺得你該做的事情這是第一個步驟因為這個步驟很簡單就是你去步行你跟隨著亞伯拉罕的腳步走你追述著亞伯拉罕的腳步前進因為步行中藴涵著真正的力量你知道, 身為個人類學家, 步行是讓我們成為人的原因有趣的是, 當你步行,你走在一起在同一個常見的方向裡如果我是面對著你而前進而這麼靠近你你會感到有威脅感但如果我們是肩並肩同行就會碰觸到彼此的肩膀也不成問題誰會在步行中打架呢？這就是為什麼在談判中, 當事情變得難以解決時人們在樹林間步行 所以我有這個開發一個路徑, 一個途徑的點子想想絲路, 想想阿巴拉契亞足跡—那都是跟隨著亞伯拉罕的足跡人們說, “這太瘋狂了, 你辦不到你沒有辦法追循亞伯拉罕的足跡. 這太不安全了。你必須要穿越所有的國界.中東裡有十個不同的國家因為他們集結在一起了”所以我們在哈佛裡研究了這個想法我們做了所有被交付的任務幾年前, 我們之中的一個組有大概25名來自10個不同國家的成員決定試試看我們是否能追循亞伯拉罕的腳步從他的出生地吾珥出發在南土耳其, 北美索不達米亞然後我們坐公車和步行到了哈蘭在聖經裡, 亞伯拉罕在這裡開始他的旅程然後我們穿越了敘利亞的國界, 前往阿勒頗是個由亞伯拉罕的名字來命名的地方我們去到大馬士革這個地方和亞伯拉罕有很深的淵源我們然後來到北約丹再去耶路撒冷那地方整個城市都和亞伯拉罕有關, 去到伯利恆最後去到希布倫亞伯拉罕的墓地我們有效率的從發源地走到另一個發源地我們證明了這一切是有可能辦到的. 這是趟驚奇的旅程 讓我問你個問題在你們之中有多少人有經歷過在個完全陌生的社區或著陌生的地方然後一個完全陌生的人, 完完全全陌生的人朝你走來並對你示好也許邀請你去他們家, 給你喝點東西給你杯咖啡, 給你餐點？在你們之中有多少人有這樣的經驗？這就是亞伯拉罕之路的本質但你發現的是, 你去到那些中東的村莊裡你以為會面對擁有敵意的人們而你得到最讓人驚喜的待客之道全部都和亞伯拉罕有關聯“以聖父亞伯拉罕之名,讓我提供你一些食物“所以我們發現亞伯拉罕不只是一個藏在書中的人物他活著, 他是個活生生的存在 而讓我簡短的講完這個故事在過去的這幾年裡數以千計的人們開始試著在某些亞伯拉罕的路線上步行在中東享受著那些人們的好客他們開始在以色列巴勒斯坦在約丹, 土耳其, 敘利亞步行這是個很棒的經驗男人, 女人, 年輕人, 老人—有趣的是, 事實上女人比男人多那些無法參加的現在無法到現場參加的人們他們開始規劃步行在城市裡, 在他們自己的社區裡。舉例來說,在辛辛那提市他們規劃了場步行從教堂走到清真寺再走到猶太教堂然後大家一起享用亞伯拉罕式餐點那是亞伯拉罕之路日在巴西的聖保羅, 這已變成一年一度的活動讓數以千計的人跑起來在虛擬的亞伯拉罕之路上奔跑著集結了不同的社區。媒體愛死了這件事, 他們非常熱愛這件事他們花了許多精神和時間關心這件事因為這是看得到的而且這個能傳播一個想法亞伯拉罕式的好客對於陌生人的友好就在幾個禮拜前全國公共廣播電台才剛報導過上個月,在衛報上有條新聞在曼徹斯特衛報上有大概兩版全頁他們訪問個村莊裡的人他說：“這個步行讓我們和全世界連結在一起“他說這就像我們生活中的一盞明燈為我們照亮了希望而這就是亞伯拉罕之路想表達的 但不只是心靈層面的也關於經濟層面因為當人們步行時他們也會花錢在那裡的這個女人, Um Ahmad,住在亞伯拉罕之路在北約丹的路上她非常非常的窮她有點失明, 她的丈夫無法工作她有七個小孩要養但她只會煮飯然後她開始為某些步行的團體煮飯他們來到村莊然後在她家用餐他們坐在地上她家甚至沒有桌布她煮出最美味的食物用鄉村的新鮮草藥煮出來的食物越來越多的步行者前來她家最近她開始有了收入來支持她的家庭她告訴我們的團隊, 她說,“你們讓我被關注了在這個人們一度覺得看著我會感到羞恥和難為情的村莊裡“這就是亞伯拉罕之路的潜力基本上而言有數以百計類似這樣的村莊在中東上, 在亞伯拉罕之路上。其潜力就在於改變遊戲規則而去改變遊戲規則, 你必須要改變基本架構我們看待事物的方式—去改變基本架構從擁有敵意到好客從恐怖主義到觀光旅遊而在那觀念裡, 亞伯拉罕之路是個改變遊戲規則的方法 讓我給你看一樣東西我這裡有個橡實是我今年初步行亞伯拉罕之路時撿到的想當然爾, 橡實和橡樹有關係它長在橡樹上也和亞伯拉罕有關聯這條路就像個橡實它還在剛開始的階段橡樹會長得如何？當我想到我的童年時就在我出生在芝加哥後, 我到歐洲去生活那是段美好的時光如果你在1945年時有去過倫敦的廢墟,或者是柏林的廢墟遺址然後你說“60年後這裡將成為世界上最和平,最富有的的地方“人們會覺得你肯定是瘋了但他們辦到了也擁有共同的代號 — 歐洲 —和一個共同的經濟體所以我的問題是, 如果歐洲辦得到那為什麼中東辦不到？為何不能用共同的代號—就像亞拉伯罕的故事一樣—且因為興旺的旅遊業而擁有共同的經濟體呢？ 所以讓我總結一下在過去的35年裡在我和一些世界上最危險,困難,和棘手的爭執工作過後我看到一個爭執讓我覺得似乎無法改變當然, 那不是件簡單的事但是有可能的南非的紛爭解決了在北愛爾蘭的紛爭也解決了每個地方的紛爭都有可能可以解決一切都取決於我們需要我們成為那第三方讓我邀請你來想想如何成為第三方就算是個很小的步伐我們快要到休息時間了走到某個人面前來自不同的文化, 不同的國家不同的種族, 和你有差異的然後與他們對話, 聆聽他們的想法這就是個第三方的表現這就是亞伯拉罕之路的步行精神在TED演講後,何不來個TED步行？ 讓我交給你三件事情第一件, 和平的祕密就是第三方第三方是我們我們每一個人用小小的一步來帶領世界, 來帶動世界接近和平的那一步有個舊的非洲諺語說：""當蜘蛛網團結在一起時,他們可以使一隻獅子停止前進“如果我們能團結在一起我們第三方的和平網團結在一起,我們可以使戰爭這隻獅子停止下來。 非常謝謝你們 （掌聲）"
