Talk	en	zh-tw
william_black_how_to_rob_a_bank_from_the_inside_that_is	So today's top chef class is in how to rob a bank, and it's clear that the general public needs guidance, because the average bank robbery nets only 7,500 dollars. Rank amateurs who know nothing about how to cook the books. The folks who know, of course, run our largest banks, and in the last go-around, they cost us over 11 trillion dollars. That's what 11 trillion looks like. That's how many zeros? And cost us over 10 million jobs as well. So our task is to educate ourselves so that we can understand why we have these recurrent, intensifying financial crises, and how we can prevent them in the future. And the answer to that is that we have to stop epidemics of control fraud. Control fraud is what happens when the people who control, typically a CEO, a seemingly legitimate entity, use it as a weapon to defraud. And these are the weapons of mass destruction in the financial world. They also follow in finance a particular strategy, because the weapon of choice in finance is accounting, and there is a recipe for accounting control fraud, and how it occurs. And we discovered this recipe in quite an odd way that I'll come back to in a moment. First ingredient in the recipe: grow like crazy; second, by making or buying really crappy loans, but loans that are made at a very high interest rate or yield; three, while employing extreme leverage — that just means a lot of debt — compared to your equity; and four, while providing only trivial loss reserves against the inevitable losses. If you follow those four simple steps, and any bank can follow them, then you are mathematically guaranteed to have three things occur. The first thing is you will report record bank profits — not just high, record. Two, the CEO will immediately be made incredibly wealthy by modern executive compensation. And three, farther down the road, the bank will suffer catastrophic losses and will fail unless it is bailed out. And that's a hint as to how we discovered this recipe, because we discovered it through an autopsy process. During the savings and loan debacle in 1984, we looked at every single failure, and we looked for common characteristics, and we discovered this recipe was common to each of these frauds. In other words, a coroner could find these things because this is a fatal recipe that will destroy the banks as well as the economy. And it also turns out to be precisely what could have stopped this crisis, the one that cost us 11 trillion dollars just in the household sector, that cost us 10 million jobs, was the easiest financial crisis by far to have avoided completely if we had simply learned the lessons of epidemics of control fraud, particularly using this recipe. So let's go to this crisis, and the two huge epidemics of loan origination fraud that drove the crisis — appraisal fraud and liar's loans — and what we're going to see in looking at both of these is we got warnings that were incredibly early about these frauds. We got warnings that we could have taken advantage of easily, because back in the savings and loan debacle, we had figured out how to respond and prevent these crises. And three, the warnings were unambiguous. They were obvious that what was going on was an epidemic of accounting control fraud building up. Let's take appraisal fraud first. This is simply where you inflate the value of the home that is being pledged as security for the loan. In 2000, the year 2000, that is over a year before Enron fails, by the way, the honest appraisers got together a formal petition begging the federal government to act, and the industry to act, to stop this epidemic of appraisal fraud. And the appraisers explained how it was occurring, that banks were demanding that appraisers inflate the appraisal, and that if the appraisers refused to do so, they, the banks, would blacklist honest appraisers and refuse to use them. Now, we've seen this before in the savings and loan debacle, and we know that this kind of fraud can only originate from the lenders, and that no honest lender would ever inflate the appraisal, because it's the great protection against loss. So this was an incredibly early warning, 2000. It was something we'd seen before, and it was completely unambiguous. This was an epidemic of accounting control fraud led by the banks. What about liar's loans? Well, that warning actually comes earlier. The savings and loan debacle is basically the early 1980s through 1993, and in the midst of fighting that wave of accounting control fraud, in 1990, we found that a second front of fraud was being started. And like all good financial frauds in America, it began in Orange County, California. And we happened to be the regional regulators for it. And our examiners said, they are making loans without even checking what the borrower's income is. This is insane, it has to lead to massive losses, and it only makes sense for entities engaged in these accounting control frauds. And we said, yeah, you're absolutely right, and we drove those liar's loans out of the industry in 1990 and 1991, but we could only deal with the industry we had jurisdiction over, which was savings and loans, and so the biggest and the baddest of the frauds, Long Beach Savings, voluntarily gave up its federal savings and loan charter, gave up federal deposit insurance, converted to become a mortgage bank for the sole purpose of escaping our jurisdiction, and changed its name to Ameriquest, and became the most notorious of the liar's loans frauds early on, and to add to that, they deliberately predated upon minorities. So we knew again about this crisis. We'd seen it before. We'd stopped it before. We had incredibly early warnings of it, and it was absolutely unambiguous that no honest lender would make loans in this fashion. So let's take a look at the reaction of the industry and the regulators and the prosecutors to these clear early warnings that could have prevented the crisis. Start with the industry. The industry responded between 2003 and 2006 by increasing liar's loans by over 500 percent. These were the loans that hyperinflated the bubble and produced the economic crisis. By 2006, half of all the loans called subprime were also liar's loans. They're not mutually exclusive, it's just that together, they're the most toxic combination you can possibly imagine. By 2006, 40 percent of all the loans made that year, all the home loans made that year, were liar's loans, 40 percent. And this is despite a warning from the industry's own antifraud experts that said that these loans were an open invitation to fraudsters, and that they had a fraud incidence of 90 percent, nine zero. In response to that, the industry first started calling these loans liar's loans, which lacks a certain subtlety, and second, massively increased them, and no government regulator ever required or encouraged any lender to make a liar's loan or anyone to purchase a liar's loan, and that explicitly includes Fannie and Freddie. This came from the lenders because of the fraud recipe. What happened to appraisal fraud? It expanded remarkably as well. By 2007, when a survey of appraisers was done, 90 percent of appraisers reported that they had been subject to coercion from the lenders trying to get them to inflate an appraisal. In other words, both forms of fraud became absolutely endemic and normal, and this is what drove the bubble. What happened in the governmental sector? Well, the government, as I told you, when we were the savings and loan regulators, we could only deal with our industry, and if people gave up their federal deposit insurance, we couldn't do anything to them. Congress, it may strike you as impossible, but actually did something intelligent in 1994, and passed the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act that gave the Fed, and only the Federal Reserve, the explicit, statutory authority to ban liar's loans by every lender, whether or not they had federal deposit insurance. So what did Ben Bernanke and Alan Greenspan, as chairs of the Fed, do when they got these warnings that these were massively fraudulent loans and that they were being sold to the secondary market? Remember, there's no fraud exorcist. Once it starts out a fraudulent loan, it can only be sold to the secondary market through more frauds, lying about the reps and warrantees, and then those people are going to produce mortgage-backed securities and exotic derivatives which are also going to be supposedly backed by those fraudulent loans. So the fraud is going to progress through the entire system, hyperinflate the bubble, produce a disaster. And remember, we had experience with this. We had seen significant losses, and we had experience of competent regulators in stopping it. Greenspan and Bernanke refused to use the authority under the statute to stop liar's loans. And this was a matter first of dogma. They're just horrifically opposed to anything regulatory. But it is also the international competition in laxity, the race to the bottom between the United States and the United Kingdom, the city of London, in particular, and the city of London won that race to the bottom, but it meant that all regulation in the West was completely degraded in this stupid competition to be who could have the weakest regulation. So that was the regulatory response. What about the response of the prosecutors after the crisis, after 11 trillion dollars in losses, after 10 million jobs lost, a crisis in which the losses and the frauds were more than 70 times larger than the savings and loan debacle? Well, in the savings and loan debacle, our agency that regulated savings and loans, OTS, made over 30,000 criminal referrals, produced over 1,000 felony convictions just in cases designated as major, and that understates the degree of prioritization, because we worked with the FBI to create the list of the top 100 fraud schemes, the absolute worst of the worst, nationwide. Roughly 300 savings and loans involved, roughly 600 senior officials. Virtually all of them were prosecuted. We had a 90 percent conviction rate. It's the greatest success against elite white collar criminals ever, and it was because of this understanding of control fraud and the accounting control fraud mechanism. Flash forward to the current crisis. The same agency, Office of Thrift Supervision, which was supposed to regulate many of the largest makers of liar's loans in the country, has made, even today — it no longer exists, but as of a year ago, it had made zero criminal referrals. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is supposed to regulate the largest national banks, has made zero criminal referrals. The Fed appears to have made zero criminal referrals. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is smart enough to refuse to answer the question. Without any guidance from the regulators, there's no expertise in the FBI to investigate complex frauds. It isn't simply that they've had to reinvent the wheel of how to do these prosecutions; they've forgotten that the wheel exists, and therefore, we have zero prosecutions, and of course, zero convictions, of any of the elite bank frauds, the Wall Street types, that drove this crisis. With no expertise coming from the regulators, the FBI formed what it calls a partnership with the Mortgage Bankers Association in 2007. The Mortgage Bankers Association is the trade association of the perps. And the Mortgage Bankers Association set out, it had the audacity and the success to con the FBI. It had created a supposed definition of mortgage fraud, in which, guess what, its members are always the victim and never the perpetrators. And the FBI has bought this hook, line, sinker, rod, reel and the boat they rode out in. And so the FBI, under the leadership of an attorney general who is African-American and a president of the United States who is African-American, have adopted the Tea Party definition of the crisis, in which it is the first virgin crisis in history, conceived without sin in the executive ranks. And it's those oh-so-clever hairdressers who were able to defraud the poor, pitiful banks, who lack any financial sophistication. It is the silliest story you can conceive of, and so they go and they prosecute the hairdressers, and they leave the banksters alone entirely. And so, while lions are roaming the campsite, the FBI is chasing mice. What do we need to do? What can we do in all of this? We need to change the perverse incentive structures that produce these recurrent epidemics of accounting control fraud that are driving our crises. So we have to first get rid of the systemically dangerous institutions. These are the so-called too-big-to-fail institutions. We need to shrink them to the point, within the next five years, that they no longer pose a systemic risk. Right now, they are ticking time bombs that will cause a global crisis as soon as the next one fails — not if, when. Second thing we need to do is completely reform modern executive and professional compensation, which is what they use to suborn the appraisers. Remember, they were pressuring the appraisers through the compensation system, trying to produce what we call a Gresham's dynamic, in which bad ethics drives good ethics out of the marketplace. And they largely succeeded, which is how the fraud became endemic. And the third thing that we need to do is deal with what we call the three D's: deregulation, desupervision, and the de facto decriminalization. Because we can make all three of these changes, and if we do so, we can dramatically reduce how often we have a crisis and how severe those crises are. That is not simply critical to our economy. You can see what these crises do to inequality and what they do to our democracy. They have produced crony capitalism, American-style, in which the largest financial institutions are the leading financial donors of both parties, and that's the reason why even after this crisis, 70 times larger than the savings and loan crisis, we have no meaningful reforms in any of the three areas that I've talked about, other than banning liar's loans, which is good, but that's just one form of ammunition for this fraud weapon. There are many forms of ammunition they can use. That's why we need to learn what the bankers have learned: the recipe for the best way to rob a bank, so that we can stop that recipe, because our legislators, who are dependent on political contributions, will not do it on their own. Thank you very much. (Applause)	今天的頂尖主廚要教大家如何搶銀行，很顯然一般民眾需要一些指導，因為銀行搶案平均只搶到美金 7,500 元。這完全是不懂得如何做假帳業餘等級的水準。 當然，那些內行的人，都是大銀行的高層，上一次他們一出手，我們就損失 11 兆美元。11 兆美元看起來像這樣 。這個金額有幾個零？也讓我們損失超過 1000 萬個工作機會。 所以當務之急是自我教育，以了解為何金融危機一再發生，而且變本加厲，以及如何防範於未來。答案就是我們必須杜絶大規模管理詐欺的行為，管理詐欺是指管理者，尤其是執行長，管理一個貌似合法的機構時，把這個機構當成詐騙的武器。這是金融界裡最具殺傷力的武器。 在金融界裡，他們也採用一種特定的策略，因為他們在財務上所用的武器就是會計方法，以會計方法管理詐欺行為及其發生有個秘訣，我們在很不尋常的情況下發現了這個秘訣，我稍後再談。第一個秘訣是：瘋狂地擴張公司資本；第二個秘訣是：放出或購買高風險貸款，這種貸款的利率或收益非常高；第三個秘訣是：利用高度財務槓桿這意味著對資產而言有著很大比率的負債；第四個秘訣是：提供極少的準備金去因應呆帳損失。如果你遵循這四個簡單的步驟，任何銀行都做得到，保證一定會發生以下三種情況，第一是：銀行有很高的帳面利潤不只是高，而是史無前例地高。第二：以目前管理階層的薪資結構，執行長將一夕致富。第三：長久以來，銀行將蒙受巨大的損失除非獲得金援，不然就會倒閉。了解事情的來龍去脈後，我們才發現了這個秘訣，這是經過我們抽絲剝繭分析出的。1984 年貸款危機期間，我們研究每一個破產案例，尋找其中的共同點，我們發現這個秘訣普遍存在於每一個詐欺案例中。換句話說，稽查員能夠查到這些事項因為這致命秘訣不但摧毀銀行也會摧毀經濟。結果它正是可以阻止這類危機的方法，這危機讓我們損失 11 兆美元，這只是住房領域（房貸部門）而已，也讓我們失去 1000 萬個工作機會，這是目前為止最輕而易舉完全解決金融危機，只要我們從大規模管理詐欺中記取教訓，善加運用這個秘訣。接下來我們開始討論這類危機，二種大規模貸款詐欺導致發生危機的來源是：估價詐欺和欺騙性貸款。我們將發現：第一：對於這些詐欺行為在相當早之前就會獲得警訊。第二：藉由這些警訊我們可以輕易採取預防措施，早在儲貨危機發生時，我們就知道如何因應以避免發生這些危機。第三：這些警訊相當明確。清楚顯示大規模的會計管理詐欺行為正在擴大。 我們先來看估價詐欺。簡單地說，估價詐欺就是誇大用來擔保貸款的房屋價值。在 2000 年，這是安隆破產的一年多前，正直的估價師共同擬定一份請願書要求聯邦政府採取措施，及相關業者採取措施，去阻止大規模的估價詐欺行為。估價師解釋這類詐欺行為如何發生，銀行要求估價師誇大其估價，如果估價師拒絕配合，銀行就會將這些正直的估價師列入黑名單。不再僱用他們。在儲貸危機期間我們已經看過這種情形，我們知道這種詐欺行為只可能來自貸方，不誠實的貸方想要為估價灌水，因為這是防止損失的最好方法。所以，這個預警訊號早在 2000 年就出現，這是我們之前看過，且是相當明確的警訊。這些大規模會計管理詐欺行為是由銀行所主導的。 接下來，什麼是詐欺貸款呢？實際上，這個警訊出現的更早。儲貨危機基本上是發生於1980 年代的早期一直到 1993 年，在打擊會計管理詐欺的行動中，在 1990 年，我們發現出現第二波的詐欺行為。如同美國所有經過精心策畫的金融詐欺，起源於加州橘縣，我們恰巧是當地的監管單位我們的稽查人員說，銀行根本沒有查核借款人的收入情況就放款。真是太離譜了，必定會導致巨大的損失，這種情況只有金融機構參與會計管理詐欺。我們對稽核人員說，你們說的對，於 1990 及 1991 年我們將詐欺借款逐出金融業，但是，我們只能處理權限範圍內的業務，也就是儲蓄和貸款業務，其中最大、最惡劣的銀行－長灘儲貸銀行，主動放棄此業務，主動放棄聯邦政府頒發的儲蓄和借貸執照，放棄聯邦銀行的存款保險，變成一家抵押銀行，只為了逃避我們的監管，並把公司名稱改為 Ameriquest，是早期欺騙性借貸詐欺行為中最為惡名昭彰的銀行。此外，他們還故意欺騙少數民族。 所以我們了解這類詐欺性貸款危機。我們之前看過，也阻止過。在相當早之前就接獲警訊，此警訊相當明確正直的貸方絶不會做這種放款。我們看一下銀行業，監管機關，檢調單位的反應就能夠及早獲得警訊，預防危機的發生。 先從金融業開始，從 2003 年到 2006 年，金融業的詐騙性貸款業務增加超過 500%。這些貸款過度膨漲，泡沬化，造成經濟危機。截至 2006 年，半數所謂的次級貸款就是詐欺性貸款。這兩者非獨立運作，而是互相影響，形成你所能想像的致命組合。於 2006 年，有 40% 的貸款，所申請的房屋貸款是屬於詐欺性貸款，高達 40%！儘管銀行業的反詐欺專家警告這些詐欺性貸款有如引狼入室，詐騙率達到 90%，是九十喔。金融業的反應是，首先：一開始稱這種貸款為詐欺性貸款，這個稱呼不是很好，第二是：大幅地增加這種貸款，政府監管機關沒有要求或鼓勵貸方去做詐騙性貸款或買入詐騙性貸款，當然包括房利美和房地美。這詐欺性貸款的手法歸咎於貸方的問題。 估價詐欺又是怎麼一回事呢？同樣也是非常快速地膨漲起來。2007 年，有一份估價師的調查報告，90% 的估價師表示，貸方曾向他們施壓要求將估價灌水。換句話說，這兩種型態的詐欺，已變成通病和常態，這是造成經濟泡沫化的原因。 政府單位又是怎麼一回事？至於政府，就如我所說的，我們在執行儲貸監管業務時，只能處理我們負責的業務，如果貸方放棄聯邦政府存款保險我們也束手無策。至於國會議員，或許你不相信，事實上，他們在 1994 年做了一點聰明事，通過了「房屋所有權和權益保護法」賦予美國聯邦儲備局（美聯儲），只限美聯儲明確的法定權力，禁止貸款人的詐欺貸款業務，無論貸款人是否擁有聯邦存款保險，當柏南奇和葛林斯潘任職美聯儲主席時，是採取何種措施以回應以下的警訊：大規模的詐欺貸款以及把這些貸款賣給次級市場？請記住，沒有人可以讓這些詐欺消失。一旦發生詐欺貸款，只能透過更多的詐欺貸款轉賣給次級市場，捏造財務報告和保證條款，然後再包裝成不動產抵押貸款證券和衍生性金融商品而為這些產品擔保的是詐欺貸款。所以詐欺貸款貫穿整個金融借貸系統，惡性通貨膨脹造成泡沬化，造成災難。請記得，這類災難我們經歷過，我們遭受巨大的損失，監管機關也阻止這類危機的發生。葛林斯潘和柏克南拒絕法律賦予他們的權力去阻止詐欺貸款。首先，這是完全是其個人武斷的看法。他們只竭盡所能地反對任何監管措施。國際之間的寬鬆政策競爭，競相降低貨款的門檻，尤其是美國和英國，特別是倫敦，倫敦贏得最低貸款門檻的封號，這表示西方國家的監管制度，在這場誰是最鬆散監管的愚蠢競賽中，已徹底退化。 這是監管機關的反應。檢調單位對金融危機發生後的反應又是什麼呢？在 11 兆美金的損失之後，喪失 1000 萬個工作之後，在這場損失和詐欺的規模，比儲貸危機還要大上 70 倍之後呢？好，在儲貸危機當中，負責監管儲貸的機關，也就是 OTS（儲蓄管理局），提出 30,000 個刑事訴訟，超過 1,000 人被判以重罪，這只是重大刑案部分，嚴重的問題尚未浮上枱面，因為我們與聯邦調查局 (FBI) 併肩合作列出國內最惡劣的前 100 個詐欺名單。大約有 300 件儲貸違法，600 名高階主管涉案。他們幾乎全部被起訴。90% 被判有罪。這是有史以來，對抗白領犯罪最大的勝利，那是因為我們了解這類詐欺的手法，以及會計管理詐欺機制。 回到當前的金融危機。同一個機構，儲蓄管理局，應該要去監管國內許多詐欺貸款的銀行，直至今天，雖然該局已經不存在了，但直到一年前，刑事訴訟案件掛零。應該要去監管國內各大銀行的金融管理局，提出的刑事訴訟案件掛零。美聯儲提出的刑事訴訟案件也是掛零。聯邦存款保險公司狡滑地迴避了這個問題。沒有任何監管機關的協助，聯邦調查局沒有相關專業知識，來調查如此複雜的詐欺案件。原因不是單純地必須重新擬定提出訴訟的策略；他們是忘了訴訟這件事，所以造成這場危機的頂尖銀行詐欺高手，沒有人被起訴，華爾街的詐欺高手，當然也沒有人被定罪， 在監管機關沒有提供專業的協助下，聯邦調查局在 2007 年與抵押貸款協會合作。抵押貸款協會正是幹這些壞事的同業公會。抵押貸款協會開始行動後，膽大妄為並成功地欺瞞聯邦調查局。為抵押貸款詐欺下了一個似是而非的定義，你知道他們怎麼說嗎，協會的成員是受害者，沒有詐欺的行為。聯邦調查局不疑有他，抵押貸款協會闖關成功。至於聯邦調查局，在非裔美籍的司法部長，及非裔美籍總統的領導下，採信茶黨對金融危機的說詞，這是歷史上第一宗管理高層沒被定罪的怪異金融危機事件。問題在那些聰明狡滑的小角色，他們能夠欺騙毫無金融經驗，可憐的銀行業者，這是你能想像的最愚蠢說法，所以他們起訴那些小角色，銀行高層毫髮未傷。因此，那些詐欺者仍然逍遙法外，聯邦調查局只是追逐小老鼠，而不去抓大獅子。 我們該怎麼做？面對這一切，我們該做些什麼？我們必須改變不正當的激勵機制，正是因為這種機制讓大規模會計管理詐欺的事件一再發生，因而造成財務危機。所以首先必需排除具有系統危險性的金融機構。是所謂的「大到不能倒」的金融機構，在未來的 5 年當中，我們必須縮小它們的規模，使它們不再有系統性風險。現在它們是定時炸彈，一旦其中一家銀行倒閉，將引發全球性金融危機。不是會不會倒，而是何時會倒的問題。第二：必須徹底改革當今高階管理人員的酬薪制度，他們以高薪來收買估價師。請記住，他們透過酬薪制度對估價師施壓，試圖產生所謂的格萊欣 (Gresham) 效應，在市場上以劣幣趨逐良幣。他們獲得大勝利，這是為何詐欺行為像流行病般蔓延開來，第三件們必需做的事是：去處理我們所謂的 3D：放寬管制 (Deregulation)， 放寬監督 (Desupervision)，事實上的合法化(De Facto Decriminalization )。我們能改革以上三件事，如果我們這麼做，就能夠大幅減少危機發生的頻率以及危機發生後的危害程度。這不僅對經濟而言相當重要。你可以看出危機造成貧富不均以及對民主制度的影響。它造成美國式的親信資本主義，其中最大型的金融機構是兩黨的主要金主，這就是為何比儲貸危機還嚴重 70 倍的危機發生後，除了取締詐欺性貸款外，以上我提到的 3 個層面依然沒有實際上的改革。這是好事，詐欺性貸款只是其中一種武器。他們可使用的武器相當多。 這就是為何我們需要學習銀行家們的手法：搶銀行的最佳秘訣，這樣我們才能遏止這種做法，因為我們的立法者，仰賴政治獻金，他們不會主動採取行動。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
