Talk	en	zh-tw
will_marshall_teeny_tiny_satellites_that_photograph_the_entire_planet_every_day	"The Earth needs no introduction. It needs no introduction in part  because the Apollo 17 astronauts, when they were hurtling  around the moon in 1972, took this iconic image. It galvanized a whole  generation of human beings to realize that we're on  Spaceship Earth, fragile and finite as it is, and that we need  to take care of it. But while this picture is beautiful, it's static, and the Earth is constantly changing. It's changing on days' time scales with human activity. And the satellite imagery we  have of it today is old. Typically, years old. And that's important because you can't fix what you can't see. What we'd ideally want is images of the whole planet every day. So, what's standing in our way? What's the problem? This is the problem: Satellites are big, expensive  and they're slow. This one weighs three tons. It's six meters tall, four meters wide. It took up the entire fairing of a rocket just to launch it. One satellite, one rocket. It cost 855 million dollars. Satellites like these have  done an amazing job at helping us to understand our planet. But if we want to understand  it much more regularly, we need lots of satellites, and this model isn't scalable. So me and my friends,  we started Planet Labs to make satellites ultra-compact and small and highly capable. I'm going to show you what  our satellite looks like: This is our satellite. This is not a scale model, this is the real size. It's 10 by 10 by 30 centimeters, it weighs four kilograms, and we've stuffed the latest  and greatest electronics and sensor systems into  this little package so that even though this is really small, this can take pictures 10 times the resolution of the big satellite here, even though it weighs one  thousandth of the mass. And we call this satellite  ""Dove"" — Thank you. (Applause) We call this satellite ""Dove,"" and we call it ""Dove"" because  satellites are typically named after birds, but normally birds of prey: like Eagle, Hawk, Swoop,  Kill, I don't know, Kestrel, these sort of things. But ours have a  humanitarian mission, so we wanted to call them Doves. And we haven't just  built them, though. We've launched them. And not just one, but many. It all started in our garage. Yes, we built our first satellite prototype in our garage. Now, this is pretty normal for a Silicon Valley company that we are, but we believe it's the first time  for a space company. And that's not the only trick we learned from Silicon Valley. We rapidly prototype our satellites. We use ""release early,  release often"" on our software. And we take a different  risk approach. We take them outside and test them. We even put satellites in space just to test the satellites, and we've learned to manufacture our satellites at scale. We've used modern production techniques so we can build large numbers of them, I think for the first time. We call it agile aerospace, and that's what's enabled us to put so much capability into this little box. Now, what has bonded  our team over the years is the idea of democratizing access to satellite information. In fact, the founders of our  company, Chris, Robbie and I, we met over 15 years ago  at the United Nations when they were hosting a conference  about exactly that question: How do you use satellites  to help humanity? How do you use satellites to help  people in developing countries or with climate change? And this is what has bonded us. Our entire team is passionate about using satellites to help humanity. You could say  we're space geeks, but not only do we care  about what's up there, we care about what's down here, too. I'm going to show you a video from just four weeks ago  of two of our satellites being launched from the International Space Station. This is not an animation, this is a video taken by the astronaut  looking out of the window. It gives you a bit of a sense of  scale of our two satellites. It's like some of the  smallest satellites ever are being launched from  the biggest satellite ever. And right at the end, the solar array glints in the sun. It's really cool. Wait for it. Boom! Yeah. It's the money shot. (Laughter) So we didn't just launch  two of them like this, we launched 28 of them. It's the largest constellation of Earth-imaging satellites in human history, and it's going to provide a completely radical new data set about our changing planet. But that's just the beginning. You see, we're going to launch more than 100 of these satellites like these over the  course of the next year. It's going to be the largest constellation of satellites in human history. And this is what it's going to do: Acting in a single-orbit plane that  stays fixed with respect to the sun, the Earth rotates underneath. They're all cameras pointed down, and they slowly scan across as  the Earth rotates underneath. The Earth rotates every 24 hours, so we scan every point on the  planet every 24 hours. It's a line scanner for the planet. We don't take a picture of  anywhere on the planet every day, we take a picture of every single place on the planet every day. Even though we launched these just a couple of weeks ago, we've already got some initial imagery from the satellites and I'm going to show it publicly for the first time right now. This is the very first picture taken by our satellite. It happened to be over  UC-Davis' campus in California when we  turned the camera on. But what's even cooler is when we compare it to the previous latest image of that area, which was taken many months ago. And the image on the left  is from our satellite, and we see buildings are being built. The general point is that we will be able to track urban growth as it happens around the whole world in all cities, every day. Water as well. Thank you. (Applause) We'll be able to see  the extent of all water bodies around the whole world every day and help water security. From water security  to food security. We'll see crops as they  grow in all the fields in every farmer's field around the planet every day. and help them to improve crop yield. This is a beautiful image that was taken just a few hours ago when the  satellite was flying over Argentina. The general point is there are probably hundreds and  thousands of applications of this data, I've mentioned a few, but there's others: deforestation, the ice caps melting. We can track all of these things, every tree on the planet every day. If you took the difference between today's image and yesterday's image, you'd see much of the world news — you'd see floods and fires and earthquakes. And we have decided, therefore, that the  best thing that we could do with our data is to ensure universal access to it. We want to ensure everyone can see it. Thank you. (Applause) We want to empower NGOs and  companies and scientists and journalists to be able to answer the questions that they have about the planet. We want to enable the developer community to run their apps on our data. In short, we want to democratize access to information about our planet. Which brings me back to this. You see, this will be an entirely new global data set. And we believe that together, we can help to take care  of our Spaceship Earth. And what I would like to leave you with is the following question: If you had access to imagery of the whole planet every single day, what would you do with that data? What problems would you solve? What exploration would you do? Well, I invite you to come and explore with us. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	地球不需介紹，有部分原因是阿波羅17號的太空人在1972年快速繞著月球時，拍下這張象徵性的照片，這照片振奮了整個世代的人類，讓我們了解自己是生活在「地球號太空船」上，它容易受損且資源有限，我們得要保護好它。儘管這張照片很漂亮，不過它是靜止的，而地球卻是不斷地在改變。它是伴隨人類的活動逐日在改變。我們現今擁有的衛星照片已經過時了，而且已經過時好幾年了。這很重要，因為你無法修補看不到的東西，理想上我們要的是整個地球每天的影像，那麼有什麼事會妨礙我們呢？ 問題出在哪裡？這就是問題：人造衛星既大又貴，而且很緩慢。這一個重達3噸、6公尺高、4公尺寬，光是發射衛星就需要整整一枚火箭的酬載燃料，「一顆衛星、一枚火箭」，花上8億5千5百萬美金。像這樣的衛星大大地幫助我們瞭解我們的星球。可是假使我們想要更有規律地掌握地球，我們需要有大量的人工衛星，而這種衛星不能大規模製造。 因此我和朋友成立了「星球實驗室」，要做出極度緊密、小巧又非常有用的衛星。請看我們製作的衛星長什麼模樣，這就是我們的衛星。 這不是一個等比例模型，這是實際大小，體積是10X10X30公分、重達4公斤，我們配載了最新、最棒的電子零件和感應系統在這個小盒子裡面，即使這真的非常小巧，也能拍攝出比這個大衛星高10倍解析度的照片，即使它的質量只有大衛星的千分之一。我們稱這個衛星為「鴿子」。謝謝！（掌聲）我們稱這顆衛星「鴿子」，因為衛星通常是以鳥類來命名，不過通常是猛禽性鳥類，像是大鵰、老鷹、飛撲、獵殺…等等，或是紅隼這一類的東西。不過我們的衛星有著人道的使命，所以我們想稱為「鴿子」。而且我們不只是製造它們而已，我們還發射它們，不只一顆而是很多顆。 這一切的起源來自於我們的車庫。沒錯！我們在車庫裡打造了第一顆衛星的原型，對我們這種矽谷公司來說這很普遍，不過我們相信對太空科技公司來說是頭一遭，而且這不是我們從矽谷學來的唯一訣竅。我們很快就打造出衛星原型，我們的軟體採用「早發布、常發布」原則。還有我們使用少見的冒險方法，我們到外面做測試，甚至把衛星放到外太空，就為了做測試，我們也學會了大規模製造衛星，我們採用了先進的製造技術，因此可以製造大量的衛星，這應該是史上頭一回。我們管它叫靈活的太空產業，這是讓我們能在這個小盒子裡配置如此強大性能的原因。 這麼多年來讓我們團隊凝聚在一起的理由是讓衛星資訊取得普及化的想法。實際上我們公司的創辦人克里斯、羅比還有我，15年前就在聯合國裡認識了，當時他們主持的研討會主題就叫做你如何利用衛星來幫助人類？你如何利用衛星幫助在開發中國家的人民或是面臨氣候變遷問題的百姓？就是這些事情把我們凝聚起來的。我們整個團隊非常熱衷於利用衛星造福全人類，你可以說我們是太空怪胎，但我們不只關心上面（太空）發生事情，我們也關心發生在（太空）下面的事情。 我打算讓你們看一段影片，是四個禮拜前我們的兩顆衛星從國際太空站發射的景象。這不是動畫，是太空人拍攝窗外的影片。會讓你大致瞭解這兩顆衛星的大小，是目前最小的人造衛星之一，並從史上最大的衛星發射出。片尾照到了在太陽裡閃爍的太陽能光線，這真的酷斃了！再等一下！碰！好耶！這是能賣錢的照片！（笑聲） 所以我們不只發射了2顆這樣的衛星，我們發射了28顆衛星，這是史上拍攝地球影像最大的衛星星系，這將會帶給我們地球變化極重要且嶄新的資料。不過這只是個開頭，我們明年打算要再發射超過100個這樣的人造衛星，這將會成為人類史上最大的衛星星系。它們要做的事情是固定跟著太陽在單一軌道面上運動，地球在人工衛星底下繞轉，它們都有朝下拍攝的鏡頭，當地球在下方轉動時，它們會慢慢地掃描整個地球。地球每24小時轉動一週，因此每24小時我們可以再次掃描地球上的任何一點。這是地球的線性掃描器。我們並沒有每天拍攝地球上的所有角落，我們每天拍攝地球上每個單一地點。即使是幾個星期之前我們才發射了這些衛星，我們已經得到一些最新的影像，現在是首次公開發表。這是我們的衛星所拍攝的第一張照片，當我們開啟這些相機的時候，剛好是在加州的加大戴維斯分校上空。不過更棒的是我們拿來跟這個地區最近一次的照片做比較，那已經是好幾個月之前拍的了。而左邊的照片是我們的衛星拍攝的，可以看到建築物正在搭蓋。重點是我們能追蹤都市成長的變化，全世界所有的城市每一天的變動， 追蹤水文的變化也行。 謝謝！（掌聲） 我們每天都能看到全球的水體，並幫助保護水資源。水資源的安全之後是確保糧食安全，我們會看到農作物在田野裡生長的情形，每天地球上每位農人的田地都看得到，並且幫助他們改善糧食產量。這張美麗的照片是幾個鐘頭前衛星飛越阿根廷上空時才拍到的。重點是這份資料可能會有成千上百種方式應用，我已經說了一些，但是還有其他的，像森林除伐、冰山溶化，我們能追蹤所有這類的事情，每天在地球上的每棵樹都行。如果你拍下今天和昨天景像的差異，你就會看見非常多的世界新聞，像是水災、火災和地震。因此我們決定了，若要讓資料發揮到最大的用處就是確保全世界都能取得這些資料，我們要確保每個人都能看到。謝謝！（掌聲）我們要增加非政府組織、企業、科學家和記者的力量，讓他們能解答有關地球的問題。我們想讓研發人員們可以在我們的資料上運用他們的應用程式，簡言之，我們希望讓大家都能得到有關我們星球的資料。 這讓我回到這一點。你知道這將會是嶄新的全球資料庫，而且我們相信只要你我一起來，我們就能幫忙照顧我們的「地球號太空船」。我想要留給你們這個問題，如果你曾取得整個地球每一天的影像，你們會怎麼利用這些資料呢？你會解決什麼樣的難題呢？你會探索什麼呢？邀請你與我們一起探索！ 非常謝謝你們！ （掌聲）
