Talk	en	zh-tw
willie_smits_restores_a_rainforest	"I was walking in the market one day with my wife, and somebody stuck a cage in my face. And in between those slits were the saddest eyes I've ever seen. There was a very sick orangutan baby, my first encounter. That evening I came back to the market in the dark and I heard ""uhh, uhh,"" and sure enough I found a dying orangutan baby on a garbage heap. Of course, the cage was salvaged. I took up the little baby, massaged her, forced her to drink until she finally started breathing normally. This is Uce. She's now living in the jungle of Sungai Wain, and this is Matahari, her second son, which, by the way, is also the son of the second orangutan I rescued, Dodoy. That changed my life quite dramatically, and as of today, I have almost 1,000 babies in my two centers. (Applause) No. No. No. Wrong. It's horrible. It's a proof of our failing to save them in the wild. It's not good. This is merely proof of everyone failing to do the right thing. Having more than all the orangutans in all the zoos in the world together, just now like victims for every baby, six have disappeared from the forest. The deforestation, especially for oil palm, to provide biofuel for Western countries is what's causing these problems. And those are the peat swamp forests on 20 meters of peat, the largest accumulation of organic material in the world. When you open this for growing oil palms you're creating CO2 volcanoes that are emitting so much CO2 that my country is now the third largest emitter of greenhouse gasses in the world, after China and the United States. And we don't have any industry at all — it's only because of this deforestation. And these are horrible images. I'm not going to talk too long about it, but there are so many of the family of Uce, which are not so fortunate to live out there in the forest, that still have to go through that process. And I don't know anymore where to put them. So I decided that I had to come up with a solution for her but also a solution that will benefit the people that are trying to exploit those forests, to get their hands on the last timber and that are causing, in that way, the loss of habitat and all those victims. So I created the place Samboja Lestari, and the idea was, if I can do this on the worst possible place that I can think of where there is really nothing left, no one will have an excuse to say, ""Yeah, but ..."" No. Everyone should be able to follow this. So we're in East Borneo. This is the place where I started. As you can see there's only yellow terrain. There's nothing left — just a bit of grass there. In 2002 we had about 50 percent of the people jobless there. There was a huge amount of crime. People spent so much of their money on health issues and drinking water. There was no agricultural productivity left. This was the poorest district in the whole province and it was a total extinction of wildlife. This was like a biological desert. When I stood there in the grass, it's hot — not even the sound of insects — just this waving grass. Still, four years later we have created jobs for about 3,000 people. The climate has changed. I will show you: no more flooding, no more fires. It's no longer the poorest district, and there is a huge development of biodiversity. We've got over 1,000 species. We have 137 bird species as of today. We have 30 species of reptiles. So what happened here? We created a huge economic failure in this forest. So basically the whole process of destruction had gone a bit slower than what is happening now with the oil palm. But we saw the same thing. We had slash and burn agriculture; people cannot afford the fertilizer, so they burn the trees and have the minerals available there; the fires become more frequent, and after a while you're stuck with an area of land where there is no fertility left. There are no trees left. Still, in this place, in this grassland where you can see our very first office there on that hill, four years later, there is this one green blop on the Earth's surface ... (Applause) And there are all these animals, and all these people happy, and there's this economic value. So how's this possible? It was quite simple. If you'll look at the steps: we bought the land, we dealt with the fire, and then only, we started doing the reforestation by combining agriculture with forestry. Only then we set up the infrastructure and management and the monetary. But we made sure that in every step of the way the local people were going to be fully involved so that no outside forces would be able to interfere with that. The people would become the defenders of that forest. So we do the ""people, profit, planet"" principles, but we do it in addition to a sure legal status — because if the forest belongs to the state, people say, ""It belongs to me, it belongs to everyone."" And then we apply all these other principles like transparency, professional management, measurable results, scalability, [unclear], etc. What we did was we formulated recipes — how to go from a starting situation where you have nothing to a target situation. You formulate a recipe based upon the factors you can control, whether it be the skills or the fertilizer or the plant choice. And then you look at the outputs and you start measuring what comes out. Now in this recipe you also have the cost. You also know how much labor is needed. If you can drop this recipe on the map on a sandy soil, on a clay soil, on a steep slope, on flat soil, you put those different recipes; if you combine them, out of that comes a business plan, comes a work plan, and you can optimize it for the amount of labor you have available or for the amount of fertilizer you have, and you can do it. This is how it looks like in practice. We have this grass we want to get rid of. It exudes [unclear]-like compounds from the roots. The acacia trees are of a very low value but we need them to restore the micro-climate, to protect the soil and to shake out the grasses. And after eight years they might actually yield some timber — that is, if you can preserve it in the right way, which we can do with bamboo peels. It's an old temple-building technique from Japan but bamboo is very fire-susceptible. So if we would plant that in the beginning we would have a very high risk of losing everything again. So we plant it later, along the waterways to filter the water, provide the raw products just in time for when the timber becomes available. So the idea is: how to integrate these flows in space, over time and with the limited means you have. So we plant the trees, we plant these pineapples and beans and ginger in between, to reduce the competition for the trees, the crop fertilizer. Organic material is useful for the agricultural crops, for the people, but also helps the trees. The farmers have free land, the system yields early income, the orangutans get healthy food and we can speed up ecosystem regeneration while even saving some money. So beautiful. What a theory. But is it really that easy? Not really, because if you looked at what happened in 1998, the fire started. This is an area of about 50 million hectares. January. February. March. April. May. We lost 5.5 million hectares in just a matter of a few months. This is because we have 10,000 of those underground fires that you also have in Pennsylvania here in the United States. And once the soil gets dried, you're in a dry season — you get cracks, oxygen goes in, flames come out and the problem starts all over again. So how to break that cycle? Fire is the biggest problem. This is what it looked like for three months. For three months, the automatic lights outside did not go off because it was that dark. We lost all the crops. No children gained weight for over a year; they lost 12 IQ points. It was a disaster for orangutans and people. So these fires are really the first things to work on. That was why I put it as a single point up there. And you need the local people for that because these grasslands, once they start burning ... It goes through it like a windstorm and you lose again the last bit of ash and nutrients to the first rainfall — going to the sea killing off the coral reefs there. So you have to do it with the local people. That is the short-term solution but you also need a long-term solution. So what we did is, we created a ring of sugar palms around the area. These sugar palms turn out to be fire-resistant — also flood-resistant, by the way — and they provide a lot of income for local people. This is what it looks like: the people have to tap them twice a day — just a millimeter slice — and the only thing you harvest is sugar water, carbon dioxide, rain fall and a little bit of sunshine. In principle, you make those trees into biological photovoltaic cells. And you can create so much energy from this — they produce three times more energy per hectare per year, because you can tap them on a daily basis. You don't need to harvest [unclear] or any other of the crops. So this is the combination where we have all this genetic potential in the tropics, which is still unexploited, and doing it in combination with technology. But also your legal side needs to be in very good order. So we bought that land, and here is where we started our project — in the middle of nowhere. And if you zoom in a bit you can see that all of this area is divided into strips that go over different types of soil, and we were actually monitoring, measuring every single tree in these 2,000 hectares, 5,000 acres. And this forest is quite different. What I really did was I just followed nature, and nature doesn't know monocultures, but a natural forest is multilayered. That means that both in the ground and above the ground it can make better use of the available light, it can store more carbon in the system, it can provide more functions. But, it's more complicated. It's not that simple, and you have to work with the people. So, just like nature, we also grow fast planting trees and underneath that, we grow the slower growing, primary-grain forest trees of a very high diversity that can optimally use that light. Then, what is just as important: get the right fungi in there that will grow into those leaves, bring back the nutrients to the roots of the trees that have just dropped that leaf within 24 hours. And they become like nutrient pumps. You need the bacteria to fix nitrogen, and without those microorganisms, you won't have any performance at all. And then we started planting — only 1,000 trees a day. We could have planted many, many more, but we didn't want to because we wanted to keep the number of jobs stable. We didn't want to lose the people that are going to work in that plantation. And we do a lot of work here. We use indicator plants to look at what soil types, or what vegetables will grow, or what trees will grow here. And we have monitored every single one of those trees from space. This is what it looks like in reality; you have this irregular ring around it, with strips of 100 meters wide, with sugar palms that can provide income for 648 families. It's only a small part of the area. The nursery, in here, is quite different. If you look at the number of tree species we have in Europe, for instance, from the Urals up to England, you know how many? 165. In this nursery, we're going to grow 10 times more than the number of species. Can you imagine? You do need to know what you are working with, but it's that diversity which makes it work. That you can go from this zero situation, by planting the vegetables and the trees, or directly, the trees in the lines in that grass there, putting up the buffer zone, producing your compost, and then making sure that at every stage of that up growing forest there are crops that can be used. In the beginning, maybe pineapples and beans and corn; in the second phase, there will be bananas and papayas; later on, there will be chocolate and chilies. And then slowly, the trees start taking over, bringing in produce from the fruits, from the timber, from the fuel wood. And finally, the sugar palm forest takes over and provides the people with permanent income. On the top left, underneath those green stripes, you see some white dots — those are actually individual pineapple plants that you can see from space. And in that area we started growing some acacia trees that you just saw before. So this is after one year. And this is after two years. And that's green. If you look from the tower — this is when we start attacking the grass. We plant in the seedlings mixed with the bananas, the papayas, all the crops for the local people, but the trees are growing up fast in between as well. And three years later, 137 species of birds are living here. (Applause) So we lowered air temperature three to five degrees Celsius. Air humidity is up 10 percent. Cloud cover — I'm going to show it to you — is up. Rainfall is up. And all these species and income. This ecolodge that I built here, three years before, was an empty, yellow field. This transponder that we operate with the European Space Agency — it gives us the benefit that every satellite that comes over to calibrate itself is taking a picture. Those pictures we use to analyze how much carbon, how the forest is developing, and we can monitor every tree using satellite images through our cooperation. We can use these data now to provide other regions with recipes and the same technology. We actually have it already with Google Earth. If you would use a little bit of your technology to put tracking devices in trucks, and use Google Earth in combination with that, you could directly tell what palm oil has been sustainably produced, which company is stealing the timber, and you could save so much more carbon than with any measure of saving energy here. So this is the Samboja Lestari area. You measure how the trees grow back, but you can also measure the biodiversity coming back. And biodiversity is an indicator of how much water can be balanced, how many medicines can be kept here. And finally I made it into the rain machine because this forest is now creating its own rain. This nearby city of Balikpapan has a big problem with water; it's 80 percent surrounded by seawater, and we have now a lot of intrusion there. Now we looked at the clouds above this forest; we looked at the reforestation area, the semi-open area and the open area. And look at these images. I'll just run them very quickly through. In the tropics, raindrops are not formed from ice crystals, which is the case in the temperate zones, you need the trees with [unclear], chemicals that come out of the leaves of the trees that initiate the raindrops. So you create a cool place where clouds can accumulate, and you have the trees to initiate the rain. And look, there's now 11.2 percent more clouds — already, after three years. If you look at rainfall, it was already up 20 percent at that time. Let's look at the next year, and you can see that that trend is continuing. Where at first we had a small cap of higher rainfall, that cap is now widening and getting higher. And if we look at the rainfall pattern above Samboja Lestari, it used to be the driest place, but now you see consistently see a peak of rain forming there. So you can actually change the climate. When there are trade winds of course the effect disappears, but afterwards, as soon as the wind stabilizes, you see again that the rainfall peaks come back above this area. So to say it is hopeless is not the right thing to do, because we actually can make that difference if you integrate the various technologies. And it's nice to have the science, but it still depends mostly upon the people, on your education. We have our farmer schools. But the real success of course, is our band — because if a baby is born, we will play, so everyone's our family and you don't make trouble with your family. This is how it looks. We have this road going around the area, which brings the people electricity and water from our own area. We have the zone with the sugar palms, and then we have this fence with very thorny palms to keep the orangutans — that we provide with a place to live in the middle — and the people apart. And inside, we have this area for reforestation as a gene bank to keep all that material alive, because for the last 12 years not a single seedling of the tropical hardwood trees has grown up because the climatic triggers have disappeared. All the seeds get eaten. So now we do the monitoring on the inside — from towers, satellites, ultralights. Each of the families that have sold their land now get a piece of land back. And it has two nice fences of tropical hardwood trees — you have the shade trees planted in year one, then you underplanted with the sugar palms, and you plant this thorny fence. And after a few years, you can remove some of those shade trees. The people get that acacia timber which we have preserved with the bamboo peel, and they can build a house, they have some fuel wood to cook with. And they can start producing from the trees as many as they like. They have enough income for three families. But whatever you do in that program, it has to be fully supported by the people, meaning that you also have to adjust it to the local, cultural values. There is no simple one recipe for one place. You also have to make sure that it is very difficult to corrupt — that it's transparent. Like here, in Samboja Lestari, we divide that ring in groups of 20 families. If one member trespasses the agreement, and does cut down trees, the other 19 members have to decide what's going to happen to him. If the group doesn't take action, the other 33 groups have to decide what is going to happen to the group that doesn't comply with those great deals that we are offering them. In North Sulawesi it is the cooperative — they have a democratic culture there, so there you can use the local justice system to protect your system. In summary, if you look at it, in year one the people can sell their land to get income, but they get jobs back in the construction and the reforestation, the working with the orangutans, and they can use the waste wood to make handicraft. They also get free land in between the trees, where they can grow their crops. They can now sell part of those fruits to the orangutan project. They get building material for houses, a contract for selling the sugar, so we can produce huge amounts of ethanol and energy locally. They get all these other benefits: environmentally, money, they get education — it's a great deal. And everything is based upon that one thing — make sure that forest remains there. So if we want to help the orangutans — what I actually set out to do — we must make sure that the local people are the ones that benefit. Now I think the real key to doing it, to give a simple answer, is integration. I hope — if you want to know more, you can read more. (Applause)"	有一天我和妻子走在市場上，有人往我面前遞上一個籠子籠子的縫隙後是我今生所見過最悲傷的眼睛。我最初見到的，是一個病得非常厲害的猩猩寶寶。當晚我摸黑回到那個市集我聽到“嗚，嗚”的啜泣聲果然﹐我在垃圾堆上發現一個正在死去的小猩猩。籠子被丟棄了我抱起這小猩猩，在牠身上揉揉，強迫牠喝點水直到牠開始正常地呼吸。 這是Ｕce。現在牠住在Sungai Wain保護林區，而這是Matahari，牠的第二個孩子，事實上牠也是我救來的第二個紅毛猩猩Dodoy的孩子。這件事戲劇性地改變了我的生命，到今天為止，在我的兩個中心裡，已有將近一千隻小猩猩。 （掌聲） 不，不，不。錯了。這很糟糕。這不過證明我們失敗了，我們無法在野外救活牠們。這很不好。這僅表明每個人在他們該做的事上失敗了。幾乎所有的紅毛猩猩都活在世界上的動物園裡，那些現在受害的猩猩寶寶，其中已經有六隻消失在森林中了。 伐林，尤其是為了栽種油棕櫚而濫砍林木，以提供西方國家生質燃料是造成這些問題的主因。這是二十公尺長的泥炭沼澤，蘊藏世界上最多的有機物質。開墾泥炭沼澤來種棕櫚樹就像製造一座座噴發二氧化碳的火山群這將會排放非常多的二氧化碳我的國家已成為全球溫室氣體排放的第三大國，名列中國與美國之後，而我們卻是個毫無工業的國家。就只因為濫採森林。 這些是可怕的圖像。我今天不會花太多時間說這些，但是有許許多多Uce家庭成員很不幸地依然住在那森林裡依然必須經歷那過程而我已不知道要將牠們安置在哪些安全的地方了。於是，我決定必須要為牠想出一個解決方案而這一解決方案也讓採伐森林的人們同樣受益讓他們的經手最後一片森林那將會失去那些受害者與棲息地。 所以我創造一個叫Samboja Lestari的地方我的想法是，如果我可以在我想像的到最糟糕最不可能的地方完成這件事從一個什麼都沒有了的地方那麼就沒有人會有藉口說，“對啊，但是...”不會有。這會是每一個人都可以依循的步驟。 所以我們現在在婆羅洲東部。這是我開始著手的地方。誠如你所見到的，這裡原先只有一片枯黃荒地什麼也不剩，只剩一丁點小草2002年間我們這裡有將近百分之五十的人沒有工作存在著為數甚多的犯罪。當地人在醫療與飲水上花費很多錢農業生產力所剩無幾這是全省最貧窮的區域所有野生動植物已經完全滅絕就像生物學上的一片沙漠當我站在這片草地上，我只覺得熱 — 那裏甚至沒有一點蟲子的聲音 —只剩這些搖動的草。 儘管如此，四年後我們在此創造了３０００個工作機會。那裏的氣候也改變了。我將為你們展示：再也沒有水災，再也沒有火災。這裡也不再是最貧窮的區域了，而且此地的生物多樣性也得到巨幅地發展。我們得到超過一千以上的物種，至今有１３７種鳥類。我們有３０種爬蟲類。 所以，這裡到底發生了什麼事? 我們在森林中製造了巨大的經濟損害。基本上這些全部的毀壞過程已經得到減緩，但我們見到一樣的事—我們使用火耕；人們買不起化肥所以他們燃燒一半的樹木與當地現有一半的礦產。火災變得頻繁發生過一陣子你又被困在一塊完全無法耕種的土地上。沒有一棵樹存留。然而在這個地方，在這片草地上你可以見到山丘上有我們最初的辦公室，四年下來，一片綠方地在地球表面出現了... （掌聲） 這裡有這些動物，這些快樂的人們，而且還有經濟價值。 這怎麼可能呢？如果你看看這步驟，你會發現很簡單：我們買下這塊地，處理火災，然後開始植林混合農業與林業。在那時我們建立基礎設施、管理、以及財政措施。但我們必須確定每一個當地居民都全然參與計畫這樣就沒有外部的力量會介入。這使得當地人成為那片林地的保護者。我們以“人民、利益、地球”的原則，並且更進一步地我們建立一個確定的法律地位因為假始森林屬於國家的話人們會說，它屬於我，它屬於每一個人。我們也應用其他原則比如說透明化、專業評估管理可擴展性、往複性...等等。 我們所做的是制定配方如何從一開始甚麼都沒有的情況向一個目標前進。你根據可以控制的因素，制定一個配方無論選擇技術、化肥、或樹種你觀測結果，並且測量它。在這配方裡你同時包含了成本。你要知道需要付出多少勞動力如果你可以把這配方丟在地圖上、在沙質土壤上、在粘土壤上、在陡峭的斜坡、在平地上的土壤上、你配置這些不同的食譜；如果將它們結合起來，從之而來的一個商業計劃、以及從之而來的工作計劃，你可以對其進行優化可以針對對現有的可供勞動力、或現有的肥料，來完成這計畫。 這就是實行這個計畫所看起來的樣子。我們要擺脫這片荒草地。它從根處散發著化合物合歡樹是一個經濟價值非常低的植物但我們需要它們來恢復微氣候，以保護土壤並打開這片荒草地。8年後，這裡可能真會產生一些木材，也就是說，如果你可以以正確的方法維護它，我們能做出竹子幼芽這是一個古老發源自日本的建築廟宇的技術但竹子非常容易著火。所以要是我們一開始就種植竹子的話我們要承擔失去一切的高風險所以我們晚點兒種它，沿著水道過濾水，只在木材可供使用時提供原產品。 這樣的想法是：如何在一定的時間與空間內，使用有限的工具與策略，匯聚資源。因此我們栽種這些樹，栽種鳳梨同時種植豆類和生薑在它們之中，以減少樹木與樹木之間的競爭，作物肥料 — 有機物質是對農作物有益的，對人們也是有益的，它也幫助樹木生長，農民有免費土地，系統獲得初期收益，紅毛猩猩也獲得健康食物我們可以加快生態系統的再生這期間甚至也可以節省一些錢。 美麗極了。多好的理論。 但是，它真的那麼容易嗎？不見得，因為如果你回顧1998年所發生的事情，火災發生了。這是一個面積約五千萬公頃的林地。一月。二月。三月。四月。五月。我們在短短幾個月之內失去了五百五十萬公頃的林地。因為我們有10,000次左右的這種地下火災在美國賓州也有。一旦土壤變得乾燥，旱季會出現裂縫，氧氣滲入，火災隨而發生，問題又會重新開始。 因此，如何打破這種循環呢？火災是最大的問題。這是三個月看起來的樣子。三個月間，外邊的自動照明沒有熄滅因為是那麼黑。我們失去了所有的作物，一年間沒有一個孩子增加體重。他們還失去了12點的智商；這對猩猩和人來說都是一場災難。因此，火災是首先真正要處理的工作。這就是為什麼我在這裡把它作為一個單一重點。您需要當地人民，因為這些草原，一旦開始燃燒，它就會像一場風暴使你再度失去最後的灰燼與養分直到第一場雨落到海浬讓珊瑚礁也死去為止。 所以，你必須與當地人民一起做。上述僅僅只是短期的解決辦法，而你還需要一個長期的解決辦法。為此，我們設置了一個以糖棕櫚樹圍繞出來的一個區域。這些糖棕櫚樹形成一個防火亦防洪的天然設施。並且為當地人民提供了大量的收入。 這看起來是這樣的：人們只在這些樹上刮採幾毫米片，一日兩次，僅僅採收糖水，二氧化碳、降雨量和一點點的陽光原則上你使那些樹木成為生物光伏電池。因為他們每年每公頃可以產出3倍以上的能源，因為你可以將之用於日常工作，您可以從這裡製造許多的能源。您不必採集器官或任何其他的作物。 因此，這是我們在熱帶所能有的基因潛在結合它尚未被開發，並且正藉由科技整合做著但此外，你也要有很好的法律知識所以我們賣下那整塊地這就是我們開始這項計畫的所在之處，在一片蠻荒地之中。如果你放大一點，你可以看到所有的這區域已被不同類型的土壤劃分開來，事實上，我們仔細考量財務狀況測量在這5000頃長，2000頃寬地裡的所有樹木。這個森林很不同。 我們真正做的只是依自然的性質，而自然本身是不了解何謂單種栽培的，且自然森林有多種層次。這意謂著，森林可以較好地利用地面以及地面以上的光，可以在生態系統中儲存更多碳，提供更多功能，然而這也較為複雜，並不像表面上那麼容易，你需要與當地住民合作，一起工作。 所以我們的作法是仿效自然，種植快速生長的樹木，同時在那之下我們種植生長較為慢的植物，也就是非常高多樣性的初級糧作林木使它們得以較好地利用陽光同樣重要得是：它們得以取得適當的菌類這些菌類可以附著生長於它們的葉內，從24小時內掉落的葉子中帶養分回樹根之中。他們會成為養分泵而你也需要土壤中的固氮微生物若少了這些微生物，你將不會有任何成果。 接著，我們著手開始植林 — 一天只栽種1000棵樹。其實可以栽種更多的，但我們不想因為我們希望保持穩定的就業數量。我們不希望失去人他們要在林業上工作。而我們有需多工作要做。我們使用指標性植物觀測土壤類型，看看什麼植物或什麼樹種會生長出來。我們在這區域內已經監測了每一棵樹。 這是它現實中看起來的樣子，你在這周圍有不規則環，100公尺寬的的環帶內種植的是糖棕櫚可以提供648個家庭生計。這只是此區域的一個小部分。 這裡的培植區是相當不同的。如果你看我們樹木種類的樹木，比如說歐洲好了，從俄羅斯的烏拉爾到英格蘭，你知道有多少嗎？165在這裡的培植區，我們要種植10倍以上的樹種。你們能想像嗎？你必須知道你正在做什麼，但恰恰是多樣性使計畫得以運作。使你可以從零開始，藉著種植蔬菜與樹木，或著直接栽種樹木，在那草原線上，設置緩衝區，生產堆肥，然後，確保正在成長的森林的每一個階段都有作物可供使用。一開始，可能先是鳳梨、蘋果、和玉米。第二階段，會有香蕉和木瓜。接著，會有椰子和辣椒。然後慢慢地，樹木開始接管，從水果、從木材、從薪柴，帶來產出，最終，糖棕櫚接管給予人們永久的收入。 在左上角，下面這些綠色條紋，你看到一些白點 — 這些實際上是個別的鳳梨樹你可以從太空中看見在這些區域，我們開始栽種越來越多的合歡樹如同你們之前所見到的這是一年後的樣子。這是兩年後。螢幕上，如果你從電塔看過去這是我們開始著手的地方。我們栽種幼苗混合香蕉、番木瓜、以及所有當地居民的作物，但同時樹木也在它們之間快速成長於是三年後， 我們有了137種鳥類。 (掌聲) 我們降低了當地攝氏3至5度的氣溫。空氣濕度增加了百分之十。雲層積聚 — 我會展示給你們看。降雨量增多了。所有這些作物種類為人們賺取了收入。 我在這裡建立的生態區，三年前是空無一物，一片枯黃。這是我們與歐洲太空總署一起運用的無線電發射接收器它帶給我們利益是，校整每一個接近的衛星系統，攝下衛星照片。我們使用這些圖片分析碳匯與森林的成長，我們可以透過衛星照片監控每一棵樹，我們現在可以利用這些數據提供其他地區我們的工作方法以及相同的技術。事實上我們已經在Google Earth上運作了。如果你想使用一點新科技，在卡車上裝置追蹤系統並且同時使用Google Earth你可以直接辨別出哪一顆油棕櫚是可持續地生產著，也可以知道哪些人正在盜採林木，你可以儲存更多的碳匯比起任何節能措施都還要好 這是Samboja地區，你可以測知樹木長回來了，但你也衡量地到，此地也恢復了它的生物多樣性。生物多樣性是一個可以測量水平衡的指標，測量有多少藥方得以保留在此區域最後，我把它打造成為一個造雨機因為現在森林自己可以開始造雨了。附近這座城Balikpapan有很嚴重的水資源問題，它被百分之八十的海水圍繞，而現在我們得到了許多水進入地質岩層中。現在，我們來看看這個森林上的雲，我們所看到的是造林區、半開放區、和開放區。 再看看這些圖片。我會很快地帶過它們。在熱帶地區，雨水不是由冰晶形成的，好比溫帶地區的情況，你需要化學成分從樹葉中產出這才會開始產生降雨。所以若創造一塊可以累積雲層的陰涼區域，你就會有可以產生降雨的林木。你們看，現在已經增加了百分之11.2的雲，這是在整整三年後才有的。如果你看看降雨，在那個時候已經高達百分之20了。讓我們看看下一年，你可以看到，這趨勢將持續下去。一開始的我們有一小撮較高的降雨量雨量越來越寬也越來越高。再來倘若我們看看降雨模式在Samboja Lestari 之上，這裡曾經是最乾旱的地方，但現在你們可以見到這裡已形成一個降雨高峰的區塊。所以是真的可以改變氣候的。當然，如果有信風形成的話，降雨的效應會消失，然而之後，一旦風穩定下來，你們看到降雨高峰再回來這一區域。 所以，不要說什麼這是沒有希望的話，因為我們事實上真的可以改變什麼如果你整合若干技術的話。科技其實是很棒的，但這仍取決於人，取決於你的教育投注之上。我們有自己的農業學校。但真正成功的，是我們的樂隊因為如果有孩子出生的話， 我們會演出，所以每一個人都是我們的家庭一員而且你不會為你的家人製造麻煩。 這是看起來的樣子。我們有一條路經過這區帶給人電力和水。我們有糖棕櫚區，我們也為這種多刺的棕櫚設置圍網把紅毛猩猩與人類隔離開來 — 我們在這塊區域中提供牠們棲息處而裡頭我們有造林區作為基因銀行，使所有的材料存活著，因為在過去12年沒有一株熱帶硬木樹的幼苗長大因為氣候因素已經消失。所有的種子都被吃掉了。 因此，我們現在作內部監督透過電塔、衛星、顯示螢幕等。每一個出售自己的土地的家庭現在可獲得一塊土地回來。而且它有兩個好的熱帶硬木樹作為圍欄，你可以在第一年種植有樹蔭的林木，接著，在那之下種植糖棕櫚樹，然後再設置這有刺圍網。過幾年後，你可以移去這些製造樹蔭的林木，人們得到的合歡樹可保存竹皮，可以用來蓋房子，也可拿來燒柴做飯。然後他們可以開始盡其可能地從樹上產出收益。他們也有足夠的收入來維持家庭生計。然而，不管你在這項目上做甚麼，都必須完全得到當地人的支持，也就是說，你還必須按照地方與文化價值作調整，各地各有不同，不存在單一配方。 你也要確保腐敗的行為是難以發生的，也就是確保透明性。就像Samboja Lestari這裡，我們將這環內區域以20個家庭分為一組。假使其中一個成員違反協議，並且私採林木，其他19個家庭成員必須決定如何處置他。如果小組成員不作處置，那麼，其他33個小組則必須決定如何處置這個不遵守協定的小組。 這是一種合作的組織方式，他們那裡有民主文化所以可以使用當地司法體系來保護你的系統。因此，概括地說，如果你看一下它，人們可以在一年內出售自己的土地獲得收入，但他們找到工作，建設以及植樹造林，與猩猩一起共事生活，他們可以利用廢木料作工藝品。他們還可以在攻樹林中得到免費的土地，在那裡他們可以種植莊稼。現在他們可以出售部分水果給與紅毛猩猩照護計畫。他們得到房屋的建築材料，銷售糖的合約因此，我們可以在當地生產大量的乙醇和能源。他們以環保的方式所有這些其他利益，金錢他們還得以得到教育，很棒的生意。 而所有的東西都基於一件事 —確保森林仍然存在。因此，如果我們想要幫助紅毛猩猩 —我實際上做的是 —我們必須確保當地人民是受益者。現在我認為，要完成這件事，真正的關鍵，簡單地說，是整合。我希望 — 倘若你想知道更多，你就可以了解更多。 (掌聲)
