Talk	en	zh-tw
wolfgang_kessling_how_to_air_condition_outdoor_spaces	"Good evening. We are in this wonderful open-air amphitheater and we are enjoying ourselves in that mild evening temperature tonight, but when Qatar will host the football World Cup 10 years from now, 2022, we already heard it will be in the hot, very hot and sunny summer months of June and July. And when Qatar has been assigned to the World Cup all, many people around the world have been wondering, how would it be possible that football players show spectacular football, run around in this desert climate? How would it be possible that spectators sit, enjoy themselves in open-air stadia in this hot environment? Together with the architects of Albert Speer & Partner, our engineers from Transsolar have been supporting, have been developing open-air stadia based on 100 percent solar power, on 100 percent solar cooling. Let me tell you about that, but let me start with comfort. Let me start with the aspect of comfort, because many people are confusing ambient temperature with thermal comfort. We are used to looking at charts like that, and you see this red line showing the air temperature in June and July, and yes, that's right, it's picking up to 45 degrees C. It's actually very hot. But air temperature is not the full set of climatic parameters which define comfort. Let me show you analysis a colleague of mine did looking on different football, World Cups, Olympic Games around the world, looking on the comfort and analyzing the comfort people have perceived at these different sport activities, and let me start with Mexico. Mexico temperature has been, air temperature has been something between 15, up to 30 degrees C, and people enjoyed themselves. It was a very comfortable game in Mexico City. Have a look. Orlando, same kind of stadium, open-air stadium. People have been sitting in the strong sun, in the very high humidity in the afternoon, and they did not enjoy. It was not comfortable. The air temperature was not too high, but it was not comfortable during these games. What about Seoul? Seoul, because of broadcast rights, all the games have been in the late afternoon. Sun has already been set, so the games have been perceived as comfortable. What about Athens? Mediterranean climate, but in the sun it was not comfortable. They didn't perceive comfort. And we know that from Spain, we know that ""sol y sombra."" If you have a ticket, and you get a ticket for the shade, you pay more, because you're in a more comfortable environment. What about Beijing? It's again, sun in the day and high humidity, and it was not comfortable. So if I overlay, and if you overlay all these comfort envelopes, what we see is, in all these places, air temperature has been ranging something from 25 to 35, and if you go on the line, 30, of 30 degrees C ambient temperatures. If you go along that line you see there has been all kind of comfort, all kinds of perceived outdoor comfort, ranging from very comfortable to very uncomfortable. So why is that? This is because there are more parameters influencing our thermal comfort, which is the sun, the direct sun, the diffuse sun, which is wind, strong wind, mild wind, which is air humidity, which is the radiant temperature of the surroundings where we are in. And this is air temperature. All these parameters go into the comfort feeling of our human body, and scientists have developed a parameter, which is the perceived temperature, where all these parameters go in and help designers to understand which is the driving parameter that I feel comfort or that I don't feel comfort. Which is the driving parameter which gives me a perceived temperature? And these parameters, these climatic parameters are related to the human metabolism. Because of our metabolism, we as human beings, we produce heat. I'm excited, I'm talking to you, I'm probably producing 150 watts at the moment. You are sitting, you are relaxed, you're looking at me. It's probably 100 watts each person is producing, and we need to get rid of that energy. I need, with my body, to get rid of the energy, and the harder it is for myself, for my body, to get rid of the energy, the less comfort I feel. That's it. And if I don't get rid of the energy, I will die. If we overlay what happens during the football World Cup, what will happen in June, July, we will see, yes, air temperature will be much higher, but because the games and the plays will be in the afternoon, it's probably the same comfort rating we've found in other places which has perceived as non-comfortable. So we sat together with a team which prepared the Bid Book, or goal, that we said, let's aim for perceived temperature, for outdoor comfort in this range, which is perceived with a temperature of 32 degrees Celsius perceived temperature, which is extremely comfortable. People would feel really fine in an open outdoor environment. But what does it mean? If we just look on what happens, we see, temperature's too high. If we apply the best architectural design, climate engineering design, we won't get much better. So we need to do something active. We need, for instance, to bring in radiant cooling technology, and we need to combine this with so-called soft conditioning. And how does it look like in a stadium? So the stadium has a few elements which create that outdoor comfort. First of all, it's shading. It needs to protect where the people are sitting against strong and warm wind. But that's not all what we need to do. We need to use active systems. Instead of blowing a hurricane of chilled air through the stadium, we can use radiant cooling technologies, like a floor heating system where water pipes are embedded in the floor. And just by using cold water going through the water pipes, you can release the heat which is absorbed during the day in the stadium, so you can create that comfort, and then by adding dry air instead of down-chilled air, the spectators and the football players can adjust to their individual comfort needs, to their individual energy balance. They can adjust and find their comfort they need to find. There are 12 stadia probably to come, but there are 32 training pitches where all the individual countries are going to train. We applied the same concept: shading of the training pitch, using a shelter against wind, then using the grass. Natural-watered lawn is a very good cooling source stabilizing temperature, and using dehumidified air to create comfort. But even the best passive design wouldn't help. We need active system. And how do we do that? Our idea for the bid was 100 percent solar cooling, based on the idea that we use the roof of the stadia, we cover the roofs of the stadia with PV systems. We don't borrow any energy from history. We are not using fossil energies. We are not borrowing energy from our neighbors. We're using energy we can harvest on our roofs, and also on the training pitches, which will be covered with large, flexible membranes, and we will see in the next years an industry coming up with flexible photovoltaics, giving the possibilities of shading against strong sun and producing electric energy in the same time. And this energy now is harvested throughout the year, sent into the grid, is replacing fossils in the grid, and when I need it for the cooling, I take it back from the grid and I use the solar energy which I have brought to the grid back when I need it for the solar cooling. And I can do that in the first year and I can balance that in the next 10, and the next 20 years, this energy, which is necessary to condition a World Cup in Qatar, the next 20 years, this energy goes into the grid of Qatar. So this — (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause) This is not only useful for stadia. We can use that also in open-air places and streets, and we've been working on the City of the Future in Masdar, which is in the United Emirates, Abu Dhabi. And I had the pleasure to work on the central plaza. And the same idea to use there, to create outdoor conditions which are perceived as comfortable. People enjoy going there instead of going into a shopping mall, which is chilled down and which is cooled. We wanted to create an outdoor space which is so comfortable that people can go there in the early afternoon, even in these sunny and hot summer months, and they can enjoy and meet there with their families. (Applause) And the same concept: shade against the sun, shade against the wind, and use, use and take advantage of the sun you can harvest on your footprint. And these beautiful umbrellas. So I'd like to encourage you to pay attention to your thermal comfort, to your thermal environment, tonight and tomorrow, and if you'd like to learn more about that, I invite you to go to our website. We uploaded a very simple perceived temperature calculator where you can check out about your outdoor comfort. And I also hope that you share the idea that if engineers and designers can use all these different climatic parameters, it will be possible to create really good and comfortable outdoor conditions, to change our thermal perception that we feel comfortable in an outdoor environment, and we can do that with the best passive design, but also using the energy source of the site in Qatar which is the sun. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause) Shukran. (Applause)"	各位晚上好 我們現在在這很棒的開放露天廣場我們在這樣舒適溫度的夜晚玩的很開心但是當10年後2022年卡塔爾主辦世界盃足球賽我們已經知道那會是個很熱很熱 充滿陽光6, 7月的夏季當卡達被指定為主辦世界盃足球賽的時候全世界很多人都在想屆時足球員是否可能得在像沙漠般氣候的天候展現他們的球技屆時觀賽者是否可能得在這樣熱的環境坐在開放式球場看球 我們來自Transsolar 的工程師與Albert Speer & Partner的建築師一同合作已經提供支援 並開發了完全由太陽能提供完整的太陽能冷氣系統於開放式的球場 讓我來談談這個從舒適這點讓我從舒適這點談起很多人混淆了環境溫度與熱舒適性 我們通常以這樣的圖表來比對你可以看到紅色的線表示了氣溫在6, 7月的時候氣溫來到了攝氏45度這實際上很熱但氣溫不能用來完整的定義舒適氣候 我為你們提供一些分折我和一些夥伴探究了一些全世界不同的世界盃、奧運足球場細究舒適程度並分析人們觀賞這些不同運動賽事的舒適程度讓我從墨西哥開始 墨西哥的溫度氣溫大約是介於攝氏15到30度人們感到很自在在墨西哥，那是很令人舒適的比賽接著看奧蘭多相同類型的球場開放式球場人們坐在烈陽下下午伴隨著高濕度他們不是很享受不太舒服氣溫並不太高但是在球賽中並不舒適 那麼首爾呢由於轉播權所有的比賽都在傍晚進行太陽已經下山所以人們可以舒適的觀賞球賽 那麼雅典呢地中海型氣候但在太陽下不舒適，不能夠舒服的觀賞 而西班牙我們知道 sol y sombra(一種西班牙的酒)如果你有一張票而且是一張在蔭涼處的票你必須付更多錢因為你可以待在一個舒適的環境 而北京呢同樣的 烈陽當空伴隨著高濕度不是很舒適 我把這些疊在一起當這些舒度區塊疊在一起時我們看到的是在所有的這些地方氣溫從大約25度到35度如果你在攝氏30度劃一條線30度的環境氣溫延著這條線你可以看到所有戶外觀賞的類型包含了非常舒適到非常不舒適 怎麼會這樣呢這是因為有更多的變數影響了我們的熱舒適性包含了陽光、直射陽光漫射陽光、風強風、涼風空氣濕度還有在我們環境週遭的輻射熱然後還有氣溫 所有這些變數都對我們人體的舒適感造成影響科學家已經發展出一種參數也就是感知溫度所有這些變數集合起來並幫助設計者了解什麼樣的因素影響使我感到舒適或使我感到不舒適什麼樣的因素影響了我的感知溫度而這些變數這些氣候變數與人們的代謝有關 因為代謝我們人類會產生熱我正激動，我正在演講此刻 我也許產生了150瓦你們正坐著你們很放鬆 你們正看著我你們每個人也許產生了100瓦而我們必須排出這些熱能我必須使我的身體排除掉這些熱能如果從我的身體排除這些熱能越困難那我就會覺得越不舒服這就是了如果我不能排出這些熱能我就會死 如果我們加入於6, 7月所舉行的世界盃足球賽可能會發生的情況我們可以看到氣溫將會更高但由於比賽、競技是在下午舉行相比於我們在其它地方所觀察到的不舒適這也許會是一樣的 我們與一個準備標案的團隊一起坐著我們訂定目標重點放在感知溫度重點放在這個區間的戶外舒適也就是攝氏32度的感知溫度這是非常舒適的人們在開放的戶外環境會覺得相當舒適 但這代表了什麼呢如果我們看看即將發生的我們發現 氣溫太高了即使我們發揮最好的建築設計及氣候工程設計我們仍然不能得到更好的結果 我們必須主動的做些什麼我們必須 例如說引進輻射冷卻技術我們必須結合這個稱為軟空調 那麼 在球場裡看來會是怎麼樣球場有一些能產生戶外舒適的元素首先它是有遮蔽的它必須保護人們坐在可以抵擋強風和暖風的地方 但這不是我們所有得做的我們必須使用主動系統相反於在球場中吹出冰冷的暴風我們使用了輻射熱冷卻技術如同嵌在地板中的地板加熱系統只是改為使用冷水來流過水管你便可以釋放於球場在白天所吸收的熱能所以你可以創造這樣的舒適感再加上 引進乾空氣而不是向下吹的冷空調觀賽者和足球員便可以調整他們各別的舒適需求來達成各別的熱能平衡他們可以調整並找到他們所需要的舒適感 之後大約會有12個球場但是有32個訓練球場讓各個國家隊進行訓練我們套用了相同的概念在訓練球場中使用遮蔽來擋風並使用這些草自然灌溉的草坪是穩定氣溫相當好的冷卻來源我們 再使用乾燥的空氣來產生舒適感 但即使是最好的被動設計也無法解決我們需要主動系統我們要怎麼做呢 我們在這個案子的想法是百分之百的太陽能冷卻基於這樣的想法我們使用球場的屋頂我們使用光電系統包覆了球場的屋頂我們不需要借用任何傳統能源我們不需要使用化石燃料能源我們不需要向我們的鄰居借用能源我們使用的能源我們可以從我們的屋頂獲得在訓練球場中覆蓋上大且可調整的膜我們將在未來幾年看到工業生產可調整的太陽光電給予抵擋烈陽的遮蔽並在同一時間產生電能 這樣的能源現在可以全年提供可以送到電網中取代了化石燃料能源當我需要它來提供冷卻時我從電網中拿回來當我需要太陽能冷卻技術時我使用的是我引進電網中的太陽能源我在第一年可以使用它而我一樣可以在接下來10年 20年達到平衡這能源提供了卡達世界盃的空調接下來20年這能源進入卡達的電網 所以 (掌聲) 非常感謝你們 (掌聲) 這不僅可以用在球場我們也可以用它於開放式空間和街道我們正在努力於未來的城市馬斯達爾城中這在 阿拉伯聯合酋長國 阿布扎比我很榮幸可以在中央廣場工作同樣的想法也套用在那裡來創造戶外空調使感知是舒服的人們很享受到這個地方而不是走進一個冷氣直往下吹非常冷的購物廣場我們想要創造一種舒適的戶外空間人們可以在午後走進甚至是在充滿陽光而炎熱的夏天他們可以盡情享受並與他們的家人相聚 (掌聲) 同樣的概念陽光下的遮蔽擋風的遮蔽在這些美麗的雨傘下我們獲取 並使用這些來自太陽的能源從中獲得好處 我想鼓勵你們在今晚和明天去注意你的熱舒適性及熱舒適環境如果你想了解的更多我邀請你來我們的網站我們上傳了一個很簡單的感知氣溫計算機你可以檢查你的戶外舒適度我也希望你把這個概念分享給工程師與設計師讓他們可以使用這些環境變數那我們就可以創造真正好且舒適的戶外環境並改變我們對熱的感知使我們在戶外環境感到舒適我們可以用最好的被動設計並且 加上如同卡塔爾來自太陽的能量來源 (掌聲) 非常感謝你們 (掌聲)謝謝 (掌聲)
