Talk	en	zh-tw
yang_lan	"The night before I was heading for Scotland, I was invited to host the final of ""China's Got Talent"" show in Shanghai with the 80,000 live audience in the stadium. Guess who was the performing guest? Susan Boyle. And I told her, ""I'm going to Scotland the next day."" She sang beautifully, and she even managed to say a few words in Chinese: 送你葱 So it's not like ""hello"" or ""thank you,"" that ordinary stuff. It means ""green onion for free."" Why did she say that? Because it was a line from our Chinese parallel Susan Boyle — a 50-some year-old woman, a vegetable vendor in Shanghai, who loves singing Western opera, but she didn't understand any English or French or Italian, so she managed to fill in the lyrics with vegetable names in Chinese. (Laughter) And the last sentence of Nessun Dorma that she was singing in the stadium was ""green onion for free."" So [as] Susan Boyle was saying that, 80,000 live audience sang together. That was hilarious. So I guess both Susan Boyle and this vegetable vendor in Shanghai belonged to otherness. They were the least expected to be successful in the business called entertainment, yet their courage and talent brought them through. And a show and a platform gave them the stage to realize their dreams. Well, being different is not that difficult. We are all different from different perspectives. But I think being different is good, because you present a different point of view. You may have the chance to make a difference. My generation has been very fortunate to witness and participate in the historic transformation of China that has made so many changes in the past 20, 30 years. I remember that in the year of 1990, when I was graduating from college, I was applying for a job in the sales department of the first five-star hotel in Beijing, Great Wall Sheraton — it's still there. So after being interrogated by this Japanese manager for a half an hour, he finally said, ""So, Miss Yang, do you have any questions to ask me?"" I summoned my courage and poise and said, ""Yes, but could you let me know, what actually do you sell?"" I didn't have a clue what a sales department was about in a five-star hotel. That was the first day I set my foot in a five-star hotel. Around the same time, I was going through an audition — the first ever open audition by national television in China — with another thousand college girls. The producer told us they were looking for some sweet, innocent and beautiful fresh face. So when it was my turn, I stood up and said, ""Why [do] women's personalities on television always have to be beautiful, sweet, innocent and, you know, supportive? Why can't they have their own ideas and their own voice?"" I thought I kind of offended them. But actually, they were impressed by my words. And so I was in the second round of competition, and then the third and the fourth. After seven rounds of competition, I was the last one to survive it. So I was on a national television prime-time show. And believe it or not, that was the first show on Chinese television that allowed its hosts to speak out of their own minds without reading an approved script. (Applause) And my weekly audience at that time was between 200 to 300 million people. Well after a few years, I decided to go to the U.S. and Columbia University to pursue my postgraduate studies, and then started my own media company, which was unthought of during the years that I started my career. So we do a lot of things. I've interviewed more than a thousand people in the past. And sometimes I have young people approaching me say, ""Lan, you changed my life,"" and I feel proud of that. But then we are also so fortunate to witness the transformation of the whole country. I was in Beijing's bidding for the Olympic Games. I was representing the Shanghai Expo. I saw China embracing the world and vice versa. But then sometimes I'm thinking, what are today's young generation up to? How are they different, and what are the differences they are going to make to shape the future of China, or at large, the world? So today I want to talk about young people through the platform of social media. First of all, who are they? [What] do they look like? Well this is a girl called Guo Meimei — 20 years old, beautiful. She showed off her expensive bags, clothes and car on her microblog, which is the Chinese version of Twitter. And she claimed to be the general manager of Red Cross at the Chamber of Commerce. She didn't realize that she stepped on a sensitive nerve and aroused national questioning, almost a turmoil, against the credibility of Red Cross. The controversy was so heated that the Red Cross had to open a press conference to clarify it, and the investigation is going on. So far, as of today, we know that she herself made up that title — probably because she feels proud to be associated with charity. All those expensive items were given to her as gifts by her boyfriend, who used to be a board member in a subdivision of Red Cross at Chamber of Commerce. It's very complicated to explain. But anyway, the public still doesn't buy it. It is still boiling. It shows us a general mistrust of government or government-backed institutions, which lacked transparency in the past. And also it showed us the power and the impact of social media as microblog. Microblog boomed in the year of 2010, with visitors doubled and time spent on it tripled. Sina.com, a major news portal, alone has more than 140 million microbloggers. On Tencent, 200 million. The most popular blogger — it's not me — it's a movie star, and she has more than 9.5 million followers, or fans. About 80 percent of those microbloggers are young people, under 30 years old. And because, as you know, the traditional media is still heavily controlled by the government, social media offers an opening to let the steam out a little bit. But because you don't have many other openings, the heat coming out of this opening is sometimes very strong, active and even violent. So through microblogging, we are able to understand Chinese youth even better. So how are they different? First of all, most of them were born in the 80s and 90s, under the one-child policy. And because of selected abortion by families who favored boys to girls, now we have ended up with 30 million more young men than women. That could pose a potential danger to the society, but who knows; we're in a globalized world, so they can look for girlfriends from other countries. Most of them have fairly good education. The illiteracy rate in China among this generation is under one percent. In cities, 80 percent of kids go to college. But they are facing an aging China with a population above 65 years old coming up with seven-point-some percent this year, and about to be 15 percent by the year of 2030. And you know we have the tradition that younger generations support the elders financially, and taking care of them when they're sick. So it means young couples will have to support four parents who have a life expectancy of 73 years old. So making a living is not that easy for young people. College graduates are not in short supply. In urban areas, college graduates find the starting salary is about 400 U.S. dollars a month, while the average rent is above $500. So what do they do? They have to share space — squeezed in very limited space to save money — and they call themselves ""tribe of ants."" And for those who are ready to get married and buy their apartment, they figured out they have to work for 30 to 40 years to afford their first apartment. That ratio in America would only cost a couple five years to earn, but in China it's 30 to 40 years with the skyrocketing real estate price. Among the 200 million migrant workers, 60 percent of them are young people. They find themselves sort of sandwiched between the urban areas and the rural areas. Most of them don't want to go back to the countryside, but they don't have the sense of belonging. They work for longer hours with less income, less social welfare. And they're more vulnerable to job losses, subject to inflation, tightening loans from banks, appreciation of the renminbi, or decline of demand from Europe or America for the products they produce. Last year, though, an appalling incident in a southern OEM manufacturing compound in China: 13 young workers in their late teens and early 20s committed suicide, just one by one like causing a contagious disease. But they died because of all different personal reasons. But this whole incident aroused a huge outcry from society about the isolation, both physical and mental, of these migrant workers. For those who do return back to the countryside, they find themselves very welcome locally, because with the knowledge, skills and networks they have learned in the cities, with the assistance of the Internet, they're able to create more jobs, upgrade local agriculture and create new business in the less developed market. So for the past few years, the coastal areas, they found themselves in a shortage of labor. These diagrams show a more general social background. The first one is the Engels coefficient, which explains that the cost of daily necessities has dropped its percentage all through the past decade, in terms of family income, to about 37-some percent. But then in the last two years, it goes up again to 39 percent, indicating a rising living cost. The Gini coefficient has already passed the dangerous line of 0.4. Now it's 0.5 — even worse than that in America — showing us the income inequality. And so you see this whole society getting frustrated about losing some of its mobility. And also, the bitterness and even resentment towards the rich and the powerful is quite widespread. So any accusations of corruption or backdoor dealings between authorities or business would arouse a social outcry or even unrest. So through some of the hottest topics on microblogging, we can see what young people care most about. Social justice and government accountability runs the first in what they demand. For the past decade or so, a massive urbanization and development have let us witness a lot of reports on the forced demolition of private property. And it has aroused huge anger and frustration among our young generation. Sometimes people get killed, and sometimes people set themselves on fire to protest. So when these incidents are reported more and more frequently on the Internet, people cry for the government to take actions to stop this. So the good news is that earlier this year, the state council passed a new regulation on house requisition and demolition and passed the right to order forced demolition from local governments to the court. Similarly, many other issues concerning public safety is a hot topic on the Internet. We heard about polluted air, polluted water, poisoned food. And guess what, we have faked beef. They have sorts of ingredients that you brush on a piece of chicken or fish, and it turns it to look like beef. And then lately, people are very concerned about cooking oil, because thousands of people have been found [refining] cooking oil from restaurant slop. So all these things have aroused a huge outcry from the Internet. And fortunately, we have seen the government responding more timely and also more frequently to the public concerns. While young people seem to be very sure about their participation in public policy-making, but sometimes they're a little bit lost in terms of what they want for their personal life. China is soon to pass the U.S. as the number one market for luxury brands — that's not including the Chinese expenditures in Europe and elsewhere. But you know what, half of those consumers are earning a salary below 2,000 U.S. dollars. They're not rich at all. They're taking those bags and clothes as a sense of identity and social status. And this is a girl explicitly saying on a TV dating show that she would rather cry in a BMW than smile on a bicycle. But of course, we do have young people who would still prefer to smile, whether in a BMW or [on] a bicycle. So in the next picture, you see a very popular phenomenon called ""naked"" wedding, or ""naked"" marriage. It does not mean they will wear nothing in the wedding, but it shows that these young couples are ready to get married without a house, without a car, without a diamond ring and without a wedding banquet, to show their commitment to true love. And also, people are doing good through social media. And the first picture showed us that a truck caging 500 homeless and kidnapped dogs for food processing was spotted and stopped on the highway with the whole country watching through microblogging. People were donating money, dog food and offering volunteer work to stop that truck. And after hours of negotiation, 500 dogs were rescued. And here also people are helping to find missing children. A father posted his son's picture onto the Internet. After thousands of resends in relay, the child was found, and we witnessed the reunion of the family through microblogging. So happiness is the most popular word we have heard through the past two years. Happiness is not only related to personal experiences and personal values, but also, it's about the environment. People are thinking about the following questions: Are we going to sacrifice our environment further to produce higher GDP? How are we going to perform our social and political reform to keep pace with economic growth, to keep sustainability and stability? And also, how capable is the system of self-correctness to keep more people content with all sorts of friction going on at the same time? I guess these are the questions people are going to answer. And our younger generation are going to transform this country while at the same time being transformed themselves. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"在我去蘇格蘭的前一晚，中國達人秀邀請我到上海主持總決賽體育館的現場有八萬名觀衆.知道特別嘉賓是誰嗎？蘇珊大媽.我告訴她，“我明天要去蘇格蘭.""她不但歌聲非常動聽，還學會了說幾句中文.她說:“送你蔥”這句話的意思不是“你好,” “謝謝,”那類的話.""送你蔥""意思是“免費的大蔥.”她為什麽要說這句話呢?因為“送你蔥”是來自有著""中國蘇珊大媽""之稱的一位五十多嵗在上海賣菜的女攤販,她非常喜歡西方歌劇,但她不懂歌詞的意思也不會說英語, 法語, 或是意大利語,所以她以獨特的方式來記歌詞將歌詞全部換成蔬菜名.（笑聲）意大利歌劇公主徹夜未眠的最後一句她當時就是以""送你蔥""來演唱的.當蘇珊大媽說了這句話的時候,現場的八萬名觀衆一起跟著唱了起來.當時的場面十分有趣. 我想蘇珊大媽還有那位上海的賣菜大嬸都有她們的獨特之處.大家通常會覺得她們無法在娛樂圈這個行業裡闖出天下,但是才能和勇氣讓她們得到了肯定.一場秀和一個平台讓她們有了一個可以圓夢的舞台.其實要與衆不同不是什麽難事.我們都有獨特之處從不同的角度來看.但我覺得與衆不同其實很好,因為你有不同的想法.你也許可以在某一方面有影響. 我這個年代的人是幸運的我們目睹並參與了中國歷史性的變化.在過去的二，三十年裡中國發生了很多變化.我還記得1990年的時候.我剛好讀完大學,我當時申請了一個營銷的工作地點是北京的一個五星級賓館,這個賓館現在還有, 叫喜來登長城飯店.在被一位日本經理詢問了半小時之後,他在面試要結束時說,""楊小姐，你有問題要問我嗎?""我鼓起了勇氣，鎮定地問，""你能不能告訴我,你們賣什麽的?""因為我當時完全不知道一個五星級飯店的銷售部要做什麽.那是我第一次走進一家五星級飯店. 與此同時,我參加了由中國國家電台舉辦的試聽會這是第一個向大衆開放的試聼會現場還有上千名的女大生.製作人告訴我們他們在找甜美，單純和漂亮的新面孔.當輪到我的時候, 我起身問道,""為什麽在電視上的女人一定要長得漂亮，甜美，單純還要配合度高?為什麽她們不能有自己的想法說自己的話?""我以為我的話可能有點冒犯了評委.但我的話反而得到了他們的認同.因此我進入了第二回合,然後第三，第四.在第七回合比賽結束後,我戰勝了所有的選手.我也因此在加入了黃金檔的一個節目.你也許不敢相信,這個節目是中國第一個允許主持人表達他們自己的想法他們不需要念之前寫好的稿.（掌聲）我當時每週的觀衆人數達到200-300萬. 幾年以後,我決定去美國的哥倫比亞大學讀研究所,同時也創辦了自己的媒體公司,這個想法在我剛剛入行的時候並不存在.公司的項目分很多類.我訪問過的人數已經過千.有時候年輕人會對我說,""楊瀾姐, 你改變了我的人生,""這些話讓我感到驕傲.我覺我這代人很幸運因為我們看到了整個國家的興起.北京競標奧運的舉辦權我有在場.我也代表了上海市博會.我看到了中國擁抱全世界也看到了全世界擁抱中國.但我有時會想,現在的年輕人到底要做什麽?他們到底有什麽不同之處,有什麽樣的變化會因他們而產生這些變化會怎樣改變中國，甚至整個世界? 所以我今天的話題是關於年輕一代通過社交媒體的平台來認識他們.首先，他們是誰? 長得什麽樣?照片上的女孩叫郭美美20嵗，很漂亮.在她的微博上,她炫耀了自己的名牌包, 衣服, 還有車在她的微博上,微博是中國版的Twitter.她還說自己是商會紅十字會在商會的一名經理。她沒有想到她的舉動引起了大衆的敏感導致了一場全國性的質問,差一點變成一場針對紅十字會的騷亂.這場爭論非常激烈以至於紅十字會開了一場記者會來澄清""郭美美事件,""該事件也因此被調查. 現今為止,公衆已知道郭美美給自己捏造了紅十字會經理的職位也許是因為她喜歡慈善二字.她的那些奢侈品是男朋友送的禮物她的男友之前是一名董事會成員在商會紅十字會下屬的一個部門工作.這個解釋起來有點困難.盡管如此，公衆憤怒仍未平息.熱論還在進行中.這個事件説明了民衆對政府機構或是政府所支持的機構的不信任,而這些機構在過去都不夠透明.這個事件也説明了社交網站的力量和影響.微博就是個很好的例子. 微博在2010年興起,訪客人數翻倍瀏覽時間更是之前的三倍.單是新浪網, 一個主要的新聞網站,就有超過1.4億的微博用戶.騰訊網, 2億.有最多人關注的用戶不是我是個電影女演員，她有超過九百五十萬的跟隨者, 網上的叫法是粉絲.大約有80%的微博用戶都是年輕人,年齡在30嵗以下.大家應該都知道傳統媒體依然由政府控制,社交網站提供了一個平台讓大家可以表達自己的不滿.因為其它的平台不多,來自社交網站的激憤有時可以變得非常強烈, 非常活躍甚至帶有暴力. 通過微博,我們可以進一步地了解在中國年輕的一代.但他們到底有什麽不同之處?第一,他們大部分是80後和90後,出生在一胎化政策的年代.因為有了選擇性的流產很多家長選擇要男不要女,後果就是現今男人的數量超出女人數量的3千萬.這個差別讓社會存在一種潛在危險,但沒人敢確定;因為我們生活在一個全球化的世界,男生們可以到其它國家找女友.年輕人裡的大多數都受過不錯的教育.中國這一代的文盲人數少於百分之一.在城市裡, 有80%的學生上大學.但他們面對的是一個在變化的中國今年, 年齡超過65的人口已經達到百分之7點幾,到2030年人口老化會達到15%.大家也許知道我們的傳統是年輕的這一代有義務供養老的一代,在他們生病時候照顧他們.這意味著已成家的年輕人將需要供養4位父母他們的預期壽命是73嵗. 年輕一代的日子不是那麽好過.大學畢業生的供應超過需求.在城市裡,大學畢業生的起薪大約在400美金一個月,但平均的房屋每月租金超過500美金.那怎麽辦呢? 他們只能一起住擠在一個狹小的空間裡就為了省錢他們稱自己為""蟻族.""至於那些打算結婚還要買房的人,他們認識到自己要打30-40年的工才能買得起一套住房.美國的比例是一對夫妻5年的薪水可買一套房,但在中國需要30-40年因為房價的高漲. 在兩億的離鄉打工族中,60%是年輕人.他們覺得自己有點被夾在城市和鄉村之間.他們大多數都不想回農村,但在城市他們沒有歸屬感.他們的工作時間長薪水卻相對較少，社會福利也不多.很多因素都會影響他們像失業,通貨膨脹,銀行貸款政策緊縮,人民幣升值,或是歐美國家對中國產品需求的下降.去年,一場悲劇在中國南方的設備生産工廠發生了:13名工人年紀在20嵗左右自殺,就像是一場傳染病一樣.只是死亡原因不同.整個事件引起了社會的關注.大家開始關心這些工人身體和心理上的孤單. 有些選擇返回鄉村的人,當地人十分歡迎他們回鄉,因為他們在城市獲得了知識，技術，和人際關係,通過互聯網的幫助,他們可以創造更多工作,在發展較落後的地區將農業升級並創造更多商機.過去幾年裡, 在臨海區域,出現勞動力短缺的現象. 這些圖表顯示一個更概括的社會狀況.第一個是恩格爾係數,它解釋了每天生活必需的花費的百分比在過去的10年内,從家庭收入的角度來看,已經下降到37%.但是在過去的兩年裡,這個比例上漲到39%,這説明了生活花費在上升.吉尼係數顯示已經過了0.4的警戒綫.現在是0.5比美囯還差説明的收入不平等.你能看到整個社會都感到沮喪因為他們失去了一部分的流動性.同時, 針對富人和有權利人士的怨恨與憎恨開始蔓延.所以各種對腐敗或是官商勾結的指控都可造成社會的譴責甚至動亂. 通過觀察微博上一些最熱門的話題,我們可以更了解年輕的一代.社會公正與政府責任是他們最關心的問題.在過去的十年裡,大量的城市化發展讓我們看見了很多有關強拆私人住宅的報導.這些新聞引起了年輕人的不滿和失望.過程中有時有人死亡,也有人以自焚來抗議.當這類報導大量在互聯網上出現的時候,人們強烈要求政府出面制止. 好消息是在今年早期,國務院在房屋申請和拆建方面頒佈了一項新政策同時允許法庭傳喚那些強拆的地方政府官員.還有很有其它讓民衆擔憂的問題在互聯網上受到了強烈議論.大家應該都聽説過空氣污染,水源污染, 有毒食品.但應該不知道我們還發明了山寨版牛肉吧.這種牛肉精包含多種成分如果你把它們塗在雞肉或是魚肉上面,那就雞魚肉看起來就像牛肉了.最近,民衆們開始擔心食用油,原因是有上千的人發現餐館使用的油是加工過的陰溝油.這類現象在互聯網上引起了大衆的強烈不滿.幸運地是,我們看到政府更及時和更平常地來消除公衆的擔憂. 雖然這些年輕的一代確信他們在政策制定上的影響,但在自己生活方面的追求上卻有點找不到方向.中國很快會超越美國.成為第一大奢侈品消費市場這還不包括在中國人在歐洲和其它地方的消費.但你也許不知道, 這其中一半的消費者收入還不到2000美元.他們根本就不是有錢人.但這些名牌手袋和衣服對他們來説是一種身份的象徵.這個女孩在一個相親節目上公開表明她寧願坐在寳馬車裡哭也不要坐在腳踏車上笑.但當然還是有年輕人覺得寳馬腳踏車都無所謂,只要能開心就好. 在這張圖片裡, 是一種很流行的現象叫做“裸婚"".他們不是在婚禮上不穿衣服,但已經決定要在沒有車房,沒有鑽戒沒有婚宴的情況下結為夫婦,來實現他們對真愛的承諾.通過社交媒體, 人們還做了有很多意義的事.這張圖片上展示了一台卡車上的500隻將會被加工成食物的流浪狗和被綁架的狗在高速路上被發現和停了下來整個國家都在微博上關注此事件.有人捐錢, 捐狗糧志願去停下那台卡車.幾小時的協商後,這500隻狗獲救了.同時也有人幫助找走失的孩童.這位爸爸將兒子的圖片上傳到網上,在成千上萬的轉發後,孩子找到了,我們通過微博見證了一家的團聚. 幸福是最近兩年裡聽到最多次的詞語.幸福不單只是和個人經歷和價值相關,它也同樣關係到我們的環境.人們在思考這些問題:我們到底應不應該犧牲我們的環境來換取GDP的增長?我們應該如何來實現社會和政治的改革才能趕上經濟的增長,讓發展更持續和更穩定?還有, 自行糾正的制度到底有多大的能力讓人們在這麽多衝突的情況下還能感到滿足?我想民衆們會給這些問題一個答案.我們年輕的一代將會改變他們的國家同時也改變了自己. 謝謝大家. （鼓掌）"
