Talk	en	zh-tw
yann_arthus_bertrand_captures_fragile_earth_in_wide_angle	"I have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane. I emitted, in the atmosphere, nine tons of CO2; that is the weight of two elephants. I came here to speak about ecology, and I emitted as much CO2 as a Frenchman in one year. So what do I have to do? I have to kill a Frenchman when I come back at home? (Laughter) I have to do my carbon offset in another way, like I do every time. (Laughter) In fact my work is to show our impact on our planet. I'm going to show you some examples of the last pictures I've done in the last year. Alberta sand oil, a lot of pollution. You know the problem; we don't want to believe what we know. In Alberta people work nonstop, 24 hours by seven to extract as much oil as they can. We know about the end of oil. Oil sand is not a long-term solution. But we use three times more oil than we find every year. We don't want to believe what we know. Deny. Coral reef in New Caledonia. 100 percent of the coral may be wiped out before 2050 because of global warming. And you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature, and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea. North Pole. I've done this picture last summer. It was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago. Now there is a new way open between Atlantic and Pacific. The thickness of the Arctic decreased more than 40 percent since 1960. There is a new face of Kilimanjaro without ice. Sad picture. It lost 80 percent of its ice. According to scientists, in 100 years all the mountain glacier will be gone. Glaciers are very important for the life on earth. Like Al Gore told you, two billion people live on the water from the glacier of Himalaya. Return of fish men. One fifth of human kind depend on fish to live. Today now 70 percent of the fish stock are over-exploited. According to FAO, if we don't change our system of fishing the main sea resources will be gone in 2050. We don't want to believe what we know. The beautiful picture, by [unclear] in Africa. One human of six have not enough to eat in the world. One billion people have not enough to eat. In Africa, corn is one of the main foods in many places. Here in America, 90 percent of the corn cultivated is used to feed animals or to do oil. Palm tree plantation in Borneo. Every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation. Refugee camp in Darfur. Today we have 20 million refugees in the world. According to the U.N., we speak about 250 million refugees in 2050. I always show my pictures in the street. We have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities. But how to understand the world without the voice of people? Landscape was not enough. It was obvious to me to do another work. I launched a project named Six Billion Others. I sent around the world six cameramen asking the same question, the same crucial question, about life. We have done five thousand interviews. I'm going to show you this. Man: The most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life? It's when my dad told me, ""Here, I give you this girl as your fiance."" Woman: Love? Love is nice if you can have it. Second Man: Romeo and Juliet, Sassi and Panno, Dodi and Diana, Heer and Ranjha, this is love! Third Man: My greatest fear is ... Woman: You're asking me a hard question. Fourth Man: I live happily because what else should I do? Fifth Man: The first thing I remember ... (Sixth Man: That's how I learned, by my mother,) Fifth Man: ... from my childhood, (Sixth Man: that you should respect humans.) Fifth Man: we were having fun, biking. (Sixth Man: I will never forget those words.) Seventh Man: We invented stories, we flew around the world, while remaining in our attic. Eighth Man: I had a big laugh today. Ninth Man: You see, family is ... it's awful. 10th Man: In the word life, you have the life. 11th Man: Who am I? Isn't that the biggest question? 12th Man: If I was to go back to Iraq and speak to the people, I'd have to bow down and kiss their feet. Just as that woman tried to kiss my feet when we were taking her sons. I feel ashamed. And I feel humbled by their strength. And I will forever feel a need to make reparations to Iraq. Second Woman: Dad, Mom, I grew up. You shouldn't worry about me. Dad doesn't need to go to work. My family ... What can I say? At the moment, my family is very poor, my life here in Shenzhen is just about showing myself that I can earn more and to let my parents stay and have something to live on. I don't want them to spend their whole lives in poverty. If someday I can achieve something, I would like to say thank you daddy and mommy. Thank you. Thank you for having fed me and raised me, and for making my life of today. Thank you. 13th Man: After seven years now of being in a wheelchair, I've done more in life being in a chair than out of a chair. I still surf. I sail the world. I freedive. After many people said I couldn't do that. And I think that comes from connecting with nature, connecting with the energy of life, because we're all disabled in some way on the planet — spiritually, mentally or physically. I got the easy part. 14th Man: Let's say that you and me like each other. You come from elsewhere. You don't know me. I don't know you. We talk without lying. If I do like you, I give you one cow and many other things and we become friends. How can we make it all by ourselves? (Applause) YAB: You can also go to the website, answer — respond to the questions also. Forty crucial questions. Now I am going to speak to you about my movie. For the last three years, I was shooting the earth for the movie. The name of the movie is ""Home"" — ""Maison."" It is about the state of the planet. It's a fantastic story of life on the earth. I'm very proud to show you the teaser. Video: This Earth is four and a half billion years old. These plants, several hundred million years old. And we humans have been walking upright for only 200 thousand years. We've managed to adapt, and have conquered the whole planet. For generations, we've been raising our children, not unlike millions of other species living beside us. For the past 30 years I've been closely watching the earth and its dwellers from high up in the sky. Our life is tied to the well-being of our planet. We depend on water, forests, deserts, oceans. Fishing, breeding, farming are still the world's foremost human occupations. And what binds us together is far greater than what divides us. We all share the same need for the earth's gifts — the same wish to rise above ourselves, and become better. And yet we carry on raising walls to keep us apart. Today our greatest battle is to protect the natural offerings of our planet. In less than 50 years we've altered it more thoroughly than in the entire history of mankind. Half of the world's forests have vanished. Water resources are running low. Intensive farming is depleting soils. Our energy sources are not sustainable. The climate is changing. We are endangering ourselves. We're only trying to improve our lives. But the wealth gaps are growing wider. We haven't yet understood that we're going at a much faster pace than the planet can sustain. We know that solutions are available today. We all have the power to change this trend for the better. So what are we waiting for? (Applause) YAB: Luc Besson is the producer of the movie. But it is not a normal movie. The film is going to be distributed free. This film has no copyright. On the five of June, the environment day, everybody can download the movie on Internet. The film is given for free to the distributor for TV and theater to show it the fifth of June. There is no business on this movie. It is also available for school, cities, NGOs and you. We have to believe what we know. Let me tell you something. It's too late to be pessimistic — really too late. We have all a part of the solutions. To finish, I would like to welcome the 4,700th baby born since the beginning of this talk. Merci beaucoup. I love you. (Applause)"	我對地球造成很大的傷害，因為我是坐飛機來此的。光是這趟飛行，我已在空氣中排放了九噸二氧化碳，這相當於兩隻大象的重量。我來這裏本是為了談談生態問題，但我來此的過程中所排放的二氧化碳含量卻已與一個法國人一年所排放的二氧化碳量相等。那我應該如何是好？當我回到家時我得殺個法國人來謝罪。（笑聲）我應該做一些有意義的事，來抵免我來此多消耗的二氧化碳，我每次都是這樣做的。（笑聲） 事實上，我來此的目的就是向各位展示人類對地球的影響。我會給各位看一些例子。上面的照片，是我去年所拍攝的 亞伯達省 (Alberta) 的油砂，一個大汙染源。大家都知道這問題，但我們卻選擇漠視我們所知道的事實。在亞伯達省，人們一天 24 小時不斷的在工作，每七小時一班輪替，為的就是竭盡所能的抽取石油。我們都知道石油終將衰竭，油砂終究不是一個長期的解決辦法。但我們的石油使用量每年開採量的三倍。我們就是不願承認這個事實，拒絕相信事實。 這是新赫里多尼亞的珊瑚礁群。該地的珊瑚礁群很有可能在 2050 年前就因為全球暖化而全部滅絕了。我們知道珊瑚對溫度非常敏感，而對海洋的多樣性，珊瑚扮演非常關鍵的角色。 這是北極，我在去年夏天拍攝了這張照片。這在 15 年前是根本做不到的。現在這兒有一條航道可以接通大西洋和太平洋。自從 1960 年起，北極冰層的厚度已減少超過百分之四十以上。 這是看不到雪頂的吉力馬札羅山。真是令人感傷的圖片啊！它已失去了百分之八十的冰。據科學家估計，未來一百年內，所有高山的冰河都會消失殆盡。冰河對地球上的生命來說很重要。正如阿爾•高爾所說，全球有 20 億人的生活用水是依靠喜馬拉雅山系的冰河。 再回到漁夫這個題目，五分之一的人類是依靠魚而生活。現今百分之七十漁業資源被過度開發根據聯合國糧食及農業組織，如果我們不改變我們的捕魚作業，於 2050 年，海上的主要資源將會消失。我們還是對此視而不見、聽而不聞。 這是幅美麗的照片是由某某（聽不清楚）攝於非洲。世界上每六個人裡就有一個人沒有足夠的食物。 也就説全世界就有十億人沒有足夠的食物。在非洲，玉米是許多地方的主要食品之一。在美國，百分之九十種植的玉米都是用來餵養動物或者是當作燃油。 在婆羅洲棕櫚樹種植園，每一年，五萬平方英里的森林面積隨風而逝。 這是達爾富爾的難民營。今天，於世界上共有兩千萬難民。根據聯合國，在 2050 年，將會有兩億五千萬名難民。 我總是在街頭展示我的照片。我們已經在一百個城市裡舉辦了攝影展。但是如果人們沒有機會傳達他們的心聲，是不可能理解這個世界的。光是看一些風景照片是遠遠不夠的。很明顯我必要採行其他的方法。我發起了一個名為「其他60億人的聲音」的計畫我派六個攝影團隊到世界各地問一些同樣的問題。這些重要的問題，都和生活息息相關我們已經完成了五千次訪談。我在這裡向你們展示一下成果。 男人：我生命中最美好的事情是什麼？那是當我父親告訴我：「過來，我把這個女孩給許配給你。」 女人：愛？愛是人類所能擁有的最美好事物。 第二個男人：羅密歐與茱麗葉，Sassi and Panno，多迪和戴安娜王妃，Heer and Ranjha， 這就是愛情！這就是愛情！（第三個男人：我最大的恐懼是...） 女人：你問的問題真難以回答啊！。 第四個男人：我生活得很幸福，因為該做的事情都做完了 第五個男人：我首先想到的是... （第六個男人：我從我母親身上學到的是，）第五個男人：...從我還是個小孩開始， （第六個男人：因此我們人類應該彼此尊重。）第五個男人：我們一起騎自行車，真是快樂啊。 （第六個男人：我永遠不會忘記這些句。） 第七個男人：雖然身處閣樓裏，我們藉著自己創造故事，使心靈飛往世界各地 第八個男人：今天我捧腹大笑。第九個男人：你知道嗎，家庭...真是個糟糕的東西。 第十個男人：在各種生活方式中，你有你自己獨特的型式。 第十一個男人：我是誰？這是頭等重要的問題？ 第十二個男人：如果我可以回到伊拉克，我想對那裏的人民說，我得跪下來，親吻他們的腳來請求寬恕。就如同當初一個伊拉克女人想吻我的腳，求我不要帶走她的的孩子一樣。我感到慚愧，我感到謙卑。因為我感受到他們親情之愛所散發出來的力量。我一直都覺得有必要向伊拉克作出賠償。 第二個女人：爸爸、媽媽，我長大了。所以你們不用擔心我。爸爸也不用再工作了。我的家...怎麼說呢？不瞞大家說，我的家很貧窮，來到深圳這裏，我只是想展現自己有賺更多錢的能力。 讓父母去嘗試到很富裕的感覺吧？讓父母有富裕的感覺吧？我不想讓他們一生都在貧窮生活下度過如果哪一天我能成功，我第一要感謝的就是我的父母。我要對他們說：爸爸，媽媽，謝謝你們。謝謝你們的養育與栽培，才會讓我有今天。謝謝你們。 第十三個男人：我已在輪椅中度過七年的時光，我在輪椅上所完成的人生重要事項比我在輪椅外所完成的事情還多，我至今仍在然衝浪、航遊世界及潛水，儘管許多人說我不可能再做這些運動了 但我證明我能。我認為這一切都歸功於與大自然連結，與生命的活力聯繫。因為在地球上每個人多少都有一些缺陷，有的是精神上的，有的是心智方面或身體上的缺陷，我身體的缺陷只是小攤的啦。 第十四個男人：比方說，你我都彼此喜歡。不管你從哪里來，雖然你不認識我，我也不認識你，但我們必須坦誠相對。如果進一步我的確喜歡你。我會給你一頭牛和許多其他東西，我們就成為朋友的關係。那我們之間就不應該區別你我了。 （鼓掌） 伯特蘭：你還可以上這個網站，也來回答這 40 個人生重要的問題。 現在我來談談我的電影。在過去三年，我拍攝了一部有關地球的電影。它的名字為「家園」。「家」。它是一部關於地球變化的電影。它也是一部關於生命旅程很精彩的故事。我很自豪地向你們來展示這預告片。 影片：地球已有 45 億年歷史了。這些植物都已有幾百萬年的歷史，然而我們人類能直立步行的歷史則僅有廿萬年。我們已經成功地適應下來，並已經征服了整個地球。世世代代，我們養育我們的孩子，卻不像在我們身邊賴以生活的數百萬其他物種那樣。過去30年裏，我有幸從高空仔細觀察地球和它的居住者們。我們的生活依賴於我們美好的地球環境。我們依靠水、森林、沙漠、海洋。漁業養殖業、農業，到現在都還是人類最重要的工作。地球把我們緊密聯繫在一起的程度，遠大於因地理位置所造成的區隔。我們共同分享地球的資源，共同追求超越自身，將生活變得更好的期望。然而，我們卻也自築壁壘，讓我們彼此分開。 今天，我們最大的挑戰是是如何保護地球的天然資源。在不到 50 年裏，人類已經徹底地改變了地球，改變的程度超過過去任何時代。世界上一半的森林已經消失，水資源所剩不多，集約農業使土壤貧瘠，我們現有的能源是不可持續利用的。氣候正在發生變化，我們正在危害我們自己。我們只是想改善我們的生活。但是，貧富差距在日益加劇。我們還沒有認識到，地球的承受能力已無法包容我們的迅速發展。我們知道可行的解決方案在哪裡。為了更好的未來，我們每個人都有能力來改變這惡化趨勢。因此，我們還等什麼呢？（鼓掌） 伯特蘭：盧貝松是這電影的製片人。這部電影和一般的電影不一樣，這部影片將免費發行，它沒有版權。在六月五日，環境日那一天，每個人都可以在網際網路上下載這部電影。這部影片將免費提供給電視和電影院的經銷商們於六月五日當日免費放映。這部電影未涉入任何商業行為。這電影會提供給學校、城市、非政府組織和你們。 我們必須相信我們所知道的這一切。我想告訴大家的是，此時悲觀已經太晚了，真的已經太遲了。我們應該要做的是馬上行動，以盡到解決這些問題的責任。最後，我想歡迎從我開始演講到現在這段期間出生的第 4700 個新生兒。謝謝你們（法文）。我愛你們。掌聲
