Talk	en	zh-tw
yann_dall_aglio_love_you_re_doing_it_wrong	"What is love? It's a hard term to define in so far as it has a very wide application. I can love jogging. I can love a book, a movie. I can love escalopes. I can love my wife. (Laughter) But there's a great difference between an escalope and my wife, for instance. That is, if I value the escalope, the escalope, on the other hand,  it doesn't value me back. Whereas my wife, she calls me the star of her life. (Laughter) Therefore, only another desiring conscience can conceive me as a desirable being. I know this, that's why love can be defined in a more accurate way as the desire of being desired. Hence the eternal problem of love: how to become and remain desirable? The individual used to find an answer to this problem by submitting his life to community rules. You had a specific part to play according to your sex, your age, your social status, and you only had to play your part to be valued and loved by the whole community. Think about the young woman who must remain chaste before marriage. Think about the youngest son  who must obey the eldest son, who in turn must obey the patriarch. But a phenomenon started in the 13th century, mainly in the Renaissance, in the West, that caused the biggest identity crisis in the history of humankind. This phenomenon is modernity. We can basically summarize it through a triple process. First, a process of rationalization of scientific research, which has accelerated technical progress. Next, a process of political democratization, which has fostered individual rights. And finally, a process of rationalization  of economic production and of trade liberalization. These three intertwined processes have completely annihilated all the traditional bearings of Western societies, with radical consequences for the individual. Now individuals are free to value or disvalue any attitude, any choice, any object. But as a result, they are themselves confronted with this same freedom that others have to value or disvalue them. In other words, my value was once ensured by submitting myself  to the traditional authorities. Now it is quoted in the stock exchange. On the free market of individual desires, I negotiate my value every day. Hence the anxiety of contemporary man. He is obsessed: ""Am I desirable? How desirable? How many people are going to love me?"" And how does he respond to this anxiety? Well, by hysterically collecting symbols of desirability. (Laughter) I call this act of collecting, along with others, seduction capital. Indeed, our consumer society is largely based on seduction capital. It is said about this consumption that our age is materialistic. But it's not true! We only accumulate objects in order to communicate with other minds. We do it to make them love us, to seduce them. Nothing could be less materialistic,  or more sentimental, than a teenager buying brand new jeans and tearing them at the knees, because he wants to please Jennifer. (Laughter) Consumerism is not materialism. It is rather what is swallowed up and sacrificed in the name of the god of love, or rather in the name of seduction capital. In light of this observation on contemporary love, how can we think of love in the years to come? We can envision two hypotheses: The first one consists of betting that this process of narcissistic  capitalization will intensify. It is hard to say what shape  this intensification will take, because it largely depends on social and technical innovations, which are by definition difficult to predict. But we can, for instance, imagine a dating website which, a bit like those loyalty points programs, uses seduction capital points that vary according to my age,  my height/weight ratio, my degree, my salary, or the number of clicks on my profile. We can also imagine a chemical treatment for breakups that weakens the feelings of attachment. By the way, there's a program on MTV already in which seduction teachers treat heartache as a disease. These teachers call themselves ""pick-up artists."" ""Artist"" in French is easy, it means ""artiste."" ""Pick-up"" is to pick someone up, but not just any picking up — it's picking up chicks. So they are artists of picking up chicks. (Laughter) And they call heartache ""one-itis."" In English, ""itis"" is a suffix that signifies infection. One-itis can be translated as ""an infection from one."" It's a bit disgusting. Indeed, for the pick-up artists, falling in love with someone is a waste of time, it's squandering your seduction capital, so it must be eliminated like a disease, like an infection. We can also envision a romantic use of the genome. Everyone would carry it around and present it like a business card to verify if seduction can progress to reproduction. (Laughter) Of course, this race for seduction, like every fierce competition, will create huge disparities  in narcissistic satisfaction, and therefore a lot of loneliness and frustration too. So we can expect that modernity itself, which is the origin of seduction capital, would be called into question. I'm thinking particularly of the reaction of neo-fascist or religious communes. But such a future doesn't have to be. Another path to thinking about love may be possible. But how? How to renounce the hysterical need to be valued? Well, by becoming aware of my uselessness. (Laughter) Yes, I'm useless. But rest assured: so are you. (Laughter) (Applause) We are all useless. This uselessness is easily demonstrated, because in order to be valued I need another to desire me, which shows that I do not have any value of my own. I don't have any inherent value. We all pretend to have an idol; we all pretend to be an idol for someone else, but actually we are all impostors, a bit like a man on the street who appears totally cool and indifferent, while he has actually anticipated and calculated so that all eyes are on him. I think that becoming aware of this general imposture that concerns all of us would ease our love relationships. It is because I want to be loved from head to toe, justified in my every choice, that the seduction hysteria exists. And therefore I want to seem perfect so that another can love me. I want them to be perfect so that I can be reassured of my value. It leads to couples obsessed with performance who will break up, just like that, at the slightest underachievement. In contrast to this attitude, I call upon tenderness — love as tenderness. What is tenderness? To be tender is to accept  the loved one's weaknesses. It's not about becoming a sad couple of orderlies. (Laughter) That's pretty bad. On the contrary, there's plenty of charm and happiness in tenderness. I refer specifically to a kind of humor that is unfortunately underused. It is a sort of poetry of deliberate awkwardness. I refer to self-mockery. For a couple who is no longer sustained, supported by the constraints of tradition, I believe that self-mockery is one of the best means for  the relationship to endure."	愛情是什麼？它是一個很難定義的詞彙，因為它有極為廣泛的應用。我可以喜愛慢跑，我可以愛一本書、 一部電影，我可以愛吃肉排，我可以愛我的妻子。（笑聲） 但這愛存在著龐大的區別，比如說，我對肉排之愛與對我妻子的愛，便有顯著不同。也就是說，如果我珍視肉排的話，肉排，相反地，卻不會珍視我。然而我的妻子呢，她喚我為她生命中的星星。（笑聲） 因此，只有一種他人的欲望意識才能夠將我視為一個得以被欲望的個體。我知道這一點，這就是為什麼我們可以更準確地把愛情定義為「被欲望中的欲望」。於是，這關於愛的永恆難題即為：如何使自己被欲望？如何使自己持續地被欲望？ 過去，一個個體往往透過將自己的生命交由群體規範來尋求這問題的解答。你可以根據你的性別、年齡，和社會地位，來扮演某種特定角色。而且你只需要扮演好那角色即可獲得整個社群的愛與重視。想想那個必須在婚前保持貞潔的年輕女子，想想那個必須服從長子的那最小兒子，而那長子又必須服從家族長輩。 但一種始於 13 世紀，主要是在西方文藝復興時期的現象造成了人類歷史上最嚴重的身份危機。這現象就是現代性。我們基本上可以通過三種過程來總結它：首先是，一個理性化的科學研究過程，它加快了科技的進步。接著，一個政治的民主化進程促進了個人的權利。最後出現的是經濟生產與貿易自由化的理性進程。 這三個相互交織的過程完全推倒了西方社會的所有傳統根基，並對個人生活造成鉅變。現在，個人可以自由地珍愛或蔑視任何態度、任何選擇、任何事物；但結果是，他們自己同樣也面對了他人的自由，他人用來珍視或貶低他們的自由。換句話說，這曾經透過將自己提交給傳統權威而確保了的自我價值現在卻被投諸於股票交易所，任人估量。 在個人欲望的自由市場中，我每天都在商議我的個體價值。因此，這造成了當代人的焦慮。他 / 她總是癡迷於：「我是否可欲？如何可欲？有多少人會愛我？」他 / 她得如何回應這種焦慮呢？嗯，通過歇斯底里地收集可欲的象徵。（笑聲） 我把這種與他人一塊兒的收集性的行為稱作「誘惑資本」。事實上，我們的消費社會很大程度上是建基於誘惑資本之上的。關於這種消費性質，有人聲稱我們的時代是唯物主義的。但這不是真的 ！我們收藏事物，僅僅只是為了與其他心靈交流！我們這麼做，是為了使他們喜歡我們，是為了引誘他人！沒有什麼還要比讓一個青少年買新牛仔褲然後撕到膝蓋邊更要非物質主義，或更令人感傷了，因為他想要博得珍妮佛的青睞。（笑聲）消費主義不是物質主義。它卻是那些以愛神之名犧牲了的或生吞活剝了的一切，或者，不如說是，以誘惑資本的名義。 根據這種對於當代愛情的觀察，我們該如何思考未來的愛情呢？我們可以想像兩種假設：第一個是由賭注組成的，這賭注將加深自戀的資本化過程。很難說這深化過程會採取怎樣的形式，因為它很大程度上取決於社會與科技的創新，這是難以預測的。但我們仍然可以試著想像一種約會網站，一種有點類似績點獎勵促銷的方案，使用誘惑資本點數，這點數會根據我的某些特質而變化，比如年齡、身高體重比例、學歷、薪水、或我網上檔案的點擊量。我們也可以想像一種對於分手的化學治療療程，這種療程可以緩解戀愛情愫。 此外順帶一提，現在在 MTV 上已經有了一種類似的節目了，在那節目中，誘惑教師將心痛視為一種疾病來治療。這些教師自稱「把妹達人（pick-up artists）」。「（Artist）藝術家」在法語中意味著「表演藝術家（artiste）」。「Pick-up」意指是勾搭但不是隨便勾搭 — — 必須勾搭最靚的。所以他們都是勾搭靚妹的表演藝術家。（笑聲）他們稱心痛為「真命天女症（one-itis）」，在英語中，「itis」是「（infection）感染」的字尾，我們可以把 one-itis 譯為「被那一人感染」。它是有點噁心啦。事實上，對那些「把妹達人」來說，愛上一個人是在浪費時間，它浪費你的誘惑資本。因此，它必須被根治，就像一種疾病，彷彿發炎一般。我們還可以設想一種擁有浪漫用途的基因組。每個人都會到處拿著它，就像一張名片一樣到處發，來查明是否誘惑可以進階到繁殖。（笑聲） 當然，這場誘惑的競賽，如同每項激烈賽事，將創造出關於自戀滿意度的巨大不平等，於是它也會產生許多孤單與失落。因此，我們可以預想的是，現代性本身這個誘惑資本的來源，會被許多人質疑。我想到的某種特別的反應，即為新法西斯主義社群或宗教社群。但我們並不一定要擁有這種未來。 我們可以思索另一種關於愛情的可能性路徑。但如何思索呢？如何放棄進行歇斯底里地估價的需要？嗯，這個嘛，意識到我自己的一無是處，即可。（笑聲）是的，一無是處，我很沒用。但請放心：你們也是。（笑聲）（掌聲） 我們都是沒用的。這種無用性是很容易證明的，因為，為了要尋求珍視，我需要另一半來欲望我，這顯示了，我自身其實並不具有任何價值。我沒有任何固有的價值。我們都假裝有偶像；我們都假裝自己是別人的偶像，但實際上我們個個都是濫竽充數之人，有點像街上的路人，他們全都表現出冷漠的樣子，雖然他實際上已預期，並且算計出所有的目光都會朝向他。 我覺得，越來越意識到這種一般的冒用性，這樣的憂慮就得以緩解我們的戀愛關係。因為，我想要從頭到腳地被愛，捍衛我每一個選擇，那誘惑的歇斯底里存在著。因此，我想要看起來完美，以讓他人可以愛我。我希望他們能夠完美，這樣我就可以確定我的價值。它會導致情人們沉迷於績效，誰會像以前那樣以績效不好的結果分手呢。 相對於這種態度，我呼籲，用溫柔 — — 溫柔的愛。什麼是溫柔？溫柔意謂著去接受你愛人的弱點。它非關成為某種悲涼的伴侶照護者喲。（笑聲）它沒那麼糟。相反地，在溫柔中，存在著許多魅力和幸福。我特別想到一種幽默，這種幽默，很不幸地，尚未得到充分利用。它是一種蓄意的尷尬詩歌。 我指的是自嘲。對於那些由傳統約束的、無以為繼的伴侶們，我相信自嘲是得以忍受彼此關係的最佳途徑之一。
