Talk	en	zh-tw
yoav_medan_ultrasound_surgery_healing_without_cuts	"Over the last 13 years — one, three, 13 years — I've been part of an exceptional team at InSightec in Israel and partners around the world for taking this idea, this concept, noninvasive surgery, from the research lab to routine clinical use. And this is what I'll tell you about. 13 years — for some of you, you can empathize with that number. For me, today, on this date, it's like a second bar mitzvah experience. (Laughter) So this dream is really enabled by the convergence of two known technologies. One is the focused ultrasound, and the other one is the vision-enabled magnetic resonance imaging. So let's first talk about focused ultrasound. And I hold in my hand a tissue-mimicking phantom. It is made out of silicon. It is transparent, made just for you. So you see, it's all intact, completely transparent. I'll take you now to the acoustic lab. You see the phantom within the aquarium. This is a setup I put in a physics lab. On the right-hand side, you see an ultrasonic transducer. So the ultrasonic transducer emits basically an ultrasonic beam that focuses inside the phantom. Okay, when you hear the click, this is when the energy starts to emit and you see a little lesion form inside the phantom. Okay, so everything around it is whole and intact. It's just a lesion formed inside. So think about, this is in your brain. We need to reach a target inside the brain. We can do it without harming any tissue. So this is, I think, the first kosher Hippocratic surgical system. (Laughter) Okay, so let's talk a little bit about ultrasound, the force of ultrasound. You know all about imaging, right, ultrasound imaging. And you know also about lithotripsy — breaking kidney stones. But ultrasound can be shaped to be anything in between, because it's a mechanical force. Basically, it's a force acting on a tissue that it transverses. So you can change the intensity, the frequency, the duration, the pulse shape of the ultrasound to create anything from an airbrush to a hammer. And I am going to show you multiple applications in the medical field that can be enabled just by focusing, physically focusing. So this idea of harnessing focused ultrasound to treat lesions in the brain is not new at all. When I was born, this idea was already conceived by pioneers such as the Fry brothers and Lars Leksell, who is know actually as the inventor of the gammaknife. But you may not know that he tried to perform lobotomies in the brain, noninvasively, with focused ultrasound in the '50s. He failed, so he then invented the gammaknife. And it makes you ponder why those pioneers failed. And there was something fundamental that they were missing. They were missing the vision. It wasn't until the invention of the MR and really the integration of MR with focused ultrasound that we could get the feedback — both the anatomical and the physiological in order to have a completely noninvasive, closed-loop surgical procedure. So this is how it looks, you know, the operating room of the future today. This is an MR suite with a focused ultrasound system. And I will give you several examples. So the first one is in the brain. One of the neurological conditions that can be treated with focused ultrasound are movement disorders, like Parkinson's or essential tremor. What is typical to those conditions, to essential tremor for example, is inability to drink or eat cereal or soup without spilling everything all over you, or write legibly so people can understand it, and be really independent in your life without the help of others. So I'd like you to meet John. John is a retired professor of history from Virginia. So he suffered from essential tremor for many years. And medication didn't help him anymore. And many of those patients refused to undergo surgery to have people cut into their brain. And about four or five months ago, he underwent an experimental procedure. It is approved under an FDAIDE at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville using focused ultrasound to ablate a point in his thalamus. And this is his handwriting. ""On June 20th,"" if you can read it, ""2011."" This is his handwriting on the morning of the treatment before going into the MR So now I'll take you through [what] a typical procedure like that looks like, [what] noninvasive surgery looks like. So we put the patient on the MR table. We attach a transducer, in this case, to the brain, but if it will be a different organ, it will be a different transducer attached to the patient. And the physician will then take a regular MR scan. And the objective of that? I don't have a pointer here, but you see the green, sort of rectangle or trapezoid? This is the sort of general area of the treatment. It's a safety boundary around the target. It's a target in the thalamus. So once those pictures are acquired and the physician has drawn all the necessary safety limits and so on, he selects basically a point — you see the round point in the middle where the cursor is — and he presses this blue button called ""sonicate."" We call this instance of injecting the energy, we call it sonication. The only handwork the physician does here is moving a mouse. This is the only device he needs in this treatment. So he presses ""sonicate,"" and this is what happens. You see the transducer, the light blue. There's water in between the skull and the transducer. And it does this burst of energy. It elevates the temperature. We first need to verify that we are on target. So the first sonication is at lower energy. It doesn't do any damage, but it elevates the temperature by a few degrees. And one of the unique capabilities that we leverage with the MR is the ability to measure temperature noninvasively. This is really a unique capability of the MR. It is not being used in regular diagnostic imaging. But here we can get both the anatomical imaging and the temperature maps in real time. And you can see the points there on the graph. The temperature was raised to 43 degrees C temporarily. This doesn't cause any damage. But the point is we are right on target. So once the physician verifies that the focus spot is on the target he has chosen, then we move to perform a full-energy ablation like you see here. And you see the temperature rises to like 55 to 60 degrees C. If you do it for more than a second, it's enough to basically destroy the proteins of the cells. This is the outcome from a patient perspective — same day after the treatment. This is an immediate relief. (Applause) Thank you. John is one of [about] a dozen very heroic, courageous people who volunteered for the study. And you have to understand what is in people's mind when they are willing to take the risk. And this is a quote from John after he wrote it. He said, ""Miraculous."" And his wife said, ""This is the happiest moment of my life."" And you wonder why. I mean, one of the messages I like to carry over is, what about defending quality of life? I mean, those people lose their independence. They are dependent on others. And John today is fully independent. He returned to a normal life routine. And he also plays golf, like you do in Virginia when you are retired. Okay, so you can see here the spot. It's like three millimeters in the middle of the brain. There's no damage outside. He suffers from no neurodeficit. There's no recovery needed, no nothing. He's back to his normal life. Let's move now to a more painful subject. Pain is something that can make your life miserable. And people are suffering from all kinds of pain like neuropathic pain, lower-back pain and cancer pain from bone metastases, when the metastases get to your bones, sometimes they are very painful. All those I've indicated have already been shown to be successfully treated by focused ultrasound relieving the pain, again, very fast. And I would like to tell you about PJ. He's a 78 year-old farmer who suffered from — how should I say it? — it's called pain in the butt. He had metastases in his right buttock, and he couldn't sit even with medication. He had to forgo all the farm activities. He was treated with radiation therapy, state-of-the-art radiation therapy, but it didn't help. Many patients like that favor radiation therapy. And again, he volunteered to a pivotal study that we ran worldwide, also in the U.S. And his wife actually took him. They drove like three hours from their farm to the hospital. He had to sit on a cushion, stand still, not move, because it was very painful. He took the treatment, and on the way back, he drove the truck by himself. So again, this is an immediate relief. And you have to understand what those people feel and what their family experiences when it happens. He returned again to his daily routine on the farm. He rides his tractor. He rides his horse to their mountain cabin regularly. And he has been very happy. But now, you ask me, but what about war, the war on cancer? Show us some primary cancer. What can be done there? So I have good news and bad news. The good news: there's a lot that can be done. And it has been shown actually outside of the U.S. And doing that in the U.S. is very painful. I don't see, without this nation taking it as some collective will or something that is a national goal to make that happen, it will not happen. And it's not just because of regulation; it's because of the amount of money needed under the current evidence-based medicine and the size of trials and so on to make it happen. So the first two applications are breast cancer and prostate cancer. They were the first to be treated by focused ultrasound. And we have better-than-surgery results in breasts. But I have a message for the men here. We heard here yesterday Quyen talking about the adverse event trait in prostate cancer. There is a unique opportunity now with focused ultrasound guided by MR, because we can actually think about prostate lumpectomy — treating just the focal lesion and not removing the whole gland, and by that, avoiding all the issues with potency and incontinence. Well, there are other cancer tumors in the abdomen — quite lethal, very lethal actually — pancreas, liver, kidney. The challenge there with a breathing and awake patient — and in all our treatments, the patient is awake and conscious and speaks with the physician — is you have to teach the MR some tricks how to do it in real time. And this will take time. This will take two years. But I have now a message to the ladies. And this is, in 2004, the FDA has approved MR-guided focused ultrasounds for the treatment of symptomatic uterine fibroids. Women suffer from that disease. All those tumors have heavy bleeding during periods, abdominal pressure, back pain, frequent urination. And sometimes, they cannot even conceive and become pregnant because of the fibroid. This is Frances. She was diagnosed with a grapefruit-sized fibroid. This is a big fibroid. She was offered a hysterectomy, but this is an inconceivable proposition for someone who wants to keep her pregnancy option. So she elected to undergo a focused ultrasound procedure in 2008. And in 2010, she became a first-time mother to a healthy baby. So new life was born. (Applause) So in conclusion, I'd like to leave you with actually four messages. One is, think about the amount of suffering that is saved from patients undergoing noninvasive surgery, and also the economical and emotional burden removed from their families and communities and the society at large — and I think also from their physicians, by the way. And the other thing I would like you to think about is the new type of relationship between physician and patients when you have a patient on the table [who] is awake and can even monitor the treatment. In all our treatments, the patient holds a stop sonication button. He can stop the surgery at any moment. And with that note, I would like to thank you for listening. (Applause)"	過去 13 年中 —1,3,13 年 —我曾是以色列 InSightec 公司和其來自世界各地的伙伴的一個優秀小組的成員，我們把非侵入式的手術這個想法、這個概念，從研究實驗室中推行到例行性的臨床使用上。而這就是我將要告訴大家的東西。13 年 —對你們一些人而言，也許會有種同情的感覺。對我而言，今天這個日子，就像是第二次的成年禮一樣。 (笑聲) 而這個夢想已經藉由兩項技術的結合而成真了。其中一項是聚焦超音波，另一項則是視覺化的磁振造影技術。讓我們先談談聚焦超音波。我手中所拿著的是一個組織模型。它是用矽做成的。它是透明的, 特別為大家製造的。如你所見，它是完好無缺，完全透明的。我現在帶你來到聲效實驗室。你可以看見模型被放在玻璃缸裡。這是我放在物理實驗室的一套設備。在右手邊，你可以看見一台超音波轉換器。當這個超音波轉換器對著模型聚焦發射出超音波束。好,當你聽見「啪」一聲，這表示能量開始被傳送出來，然後你可以看見在模型裡面出現小小的損傷。而它周圍的其他位置則都完好無缺。損傷只在內部形成。想像一下，這東西在你的大腦內。我們需要觸及大腦中的這個目標物。我們可以在不傷及任何組織的前提下做到。所以，我想，這是第一個符合猶太戒律的希波克拉提斯手術系統。 (笑聲) 接著我們來談談超音波，超音波的力量。大家都聽過造影,對,超音波的造影。也聽過震波碎石 —震碎腎臟結石。但超音波可以被塑造成介於這兩者之間的東西，因為它是一種機械式的力量。基本上，它的一種作用在它所橫越過的組織上的力量。所以你可以改變超音波的強度、頻率、週期、波形等來創造出像噴鎗以至鎚頭的任何東西。接下來我將會給你演示藉由聚焦，完全的聚焦，在醫療領域中所能做到的各種應用。 使用控制聚焦超音波來治療大腦裡的患處並不是全新的想法。這個想法在我出生時就已經被一些前輩提出，例如 Fry 兄弟們，以及 Lars Leksell，他實際上正是加馬刀(利用放射線聚焦)的發明人。不過你可能不知道他曾經在1950年代，嘗試利用聚焦超音波進行非侵入式的前腦葉白質切除術。他失敗了，之後他就發明了加馬刀。這會讓你疑惑為什麼這些前輩們會失敗。他們缺少了一些很基本的東西。他們缺少了視覺影像。直到磁振造影被發明出來，並且真正將磁振造影結合聚焦超音波使我們得到解剖學和生理學上的回饋藉以達到完全非侵入式，封閉循環的手術程序。 這就是在今天,我們所看到未來的手術室的樣子。這是搭配了聚焦超音波系統的磁振造影設備。我將會給大家看一些範例。第一個例子是在大腦之中。一種神經系統的疾病是可以用聚焦超音波來治療的是運動障礙症,像帕金森氏症或是原發性顫抖症等。這些問題的典型症狀是，以原發性顫抖症為例，在喝湯或吃麥片時無法做到不把東西灑得到處都是，或是無法端正寫字讓大家看懂，以及無法不靠別人的幫助只靠自己過生活。 我想讓大家看看 John。John 是退休的歷史教授，住在維吉尼亞。他罹患原發性顫抖症許多年了。藥物治療無法再給他任何幫助。許多患這種病的人拒絕接受讓人切割大腦的手術。在 4~5 個月前，他接受了一次實驗性的療程。這獲得美國食品藥品管理局(FDA)的臨床試驗醫療器材豁免(IDE)批准，在夏洛特斯維爾的維吉尼亞大學裡面進行，使用聚焦超音波消融他視丘葉片中的一點。這是他的筆跡。「在 6 月 20 號」 如果你有看見的話，「2011年」這是他在治療當天早上進行磁振造影之前所留下的筆跡。接下來我要讓大家了解像這種手術的典型流程是怎樣的，無侵入式的手術是怎樣的。 我們讓病人躺在磁振造影的檯子上。在這個案例裡,我們把轉換器接到大腦上，如果是不同的器官，就會把不同的轉換器接到病人身上。接著主治醫師會進行常規的磁振造影掃描。目的是什麼呢?我手邊沒有投影筆，不過你可以看見這綠色、類似矩形或梯形的部份?這是進行治療的大概區域。這是目標物周圍的安全範圍。它是在視丘內的一個目標。一旦取得了這些照片後，主治醫師畫出了所有必要的安全限制範圍等等，他基本上選取一點 —你看到在游標的位置,中間的一個圓點 —然後他按下這個叫做「超音波降解」的藍色按鈕。我們稱這注入能量的步驟，我們稱它為超音波降解。主治醫師唯一需要動手的是移動這隻滑鼠。這是他在這項治療中唯一用到的器具。 他按下超音波降解，跟著就會出現以下的情況。你看看那個轉換器，淺藍色的地方。在頭顱和轉換器之間注有水。然後它放出巨大能量。它提升溫度。首先我們必須確認我們命中了目標。所以第一次超音波降解是使用較低的能量。這不會造成任何傷害，它只是讓溫度上升幾度而已。使用磁振造影其中一項獨特的能力就是可以進行非侵入式溫度量測。這確實是磁振造影的獨特之處。它並不是被用作常規的造影診斷。但這裡我們可以取得實時的解剖造影和溫度分佈圖。你可以看見圖中的這些點。溫度暫時地上升到攝氏 43 度。這並不會造成任何傷害。但重點是，我們準確的命中目標。一旦主治醫師確認了聚焦點是在他所選取的目標上，接著就會進行一次最高能量的消融治療，就像你在這裡看到的一樣。你看見溫度上升到達約攝氏 55 至 60 度。如果持續超過 1 秒鐘，基本上足以消滅細胞中的蛋白質了。 這是從病人角度看到的結果 —就在治療完成當天。問題立刻就被解決了。(掌聲)謝謝大家。John 是許多有膽量、有勇氣自願接受這個研究的約12個參加者中之一。你必須了解，當這些人願意接受這個風險時，他們的心裡在想些什麼。這裡引用了 John 所寫下的內容。他說「太神奇了」。他的妻子說「這是我這一生中最開心的時刻」。你也許感到疑惑。我想傳達給大家其中一個訊息是，有沒有想過維護生活質素?我是說，這些人失去了獨立性。他們必須依靠其他人。然而現在，John 完全不需要依靠別人了。他回復到一個正常生活了。他也打打高爾夫球，就像你們在維吉尼亞退休後所做的一樣。你可以看到這邊的班點處。在大腦中約 3 mm 的東西。在外面並沒有任何的損傷。他沒有受到任何神經損傷。不需要復健，什麼都不需要。他已恢復正常生活。 接著我們繼續談談一個更痛苦的題目。疼痛是一種讓你的生命很不舒服的東西。而人們正承受著種種的疼痛，例如神經痛、下背痛、以及癌症骨擴散的疼痛，當癌細胞擴散到你的骨頭時，有時候是會非常痛楚的。我所指出的這些全部狀況都已經被證實可用聚焦超音波成功治療很快速的解除疼痛。接著我想告訴大家關於 PJ 的故事。他是一位 78 歲的農夫，患上 — 該怎麼說呢? —那被稱為臀部疼痛的病症。他的癌細胞擴散到了右臀，即使靠著藥物治療他仍然沒辦法坐下來。他必須放棄所有農田的工作。他接受了放射線治療，最先進的放射線治療，不過沒用。許多像他一樣的病人偏向使用放射線治療。 不過，他自願參與我們在世界各地進行的也在美國進行的一個關鍵性的研究，事實上是由他妻子帶他來的。他們從農場開了 3 個小時的車到醫院。他必須坐在一個軟墊上，完全不能移動，因為動的話會很痛。他接受了治療，在回家的時候，是由他自己開著卡車。再一次，問題立刻就被解決了。你必須明白當事情發生時，這些人的感覺以及他們家人的感受。他再次回到農場進行日常工作。他駕駛他的拖拉機。經常騎馬到山上小屋。他變得很開心。 但你可能會問我，那對抗癌症的戰爭又怎樣呢?讓我們看看主要的癌症。又有甚麼可以做的呢?我有好消息，也有壞消息。好消息是：我們有許多事情可以做。在美國以外的國家實際上已經被證實了。但在美國進行這件事是很痛苦的。我想，除非這個國家將它視為某種集體意願或是某種必須達成的國家目標，否則它不會發生。它不單是監管上的問題；而因為在現行的實證醫學體系下，以及測試規模等問題下，想要達成它必須花費很大量的金錢。 最初的兩項應用是乳癌和前列腺癌。這是最早使用聚焦超音波來治療的癌症。對於乳癌，效果比開刀還好。不過我要告訴在場的男士們一個消息。我們昨天在這裡聽到 Quyen 談論治療前列腺癌不好的後遺症。而使用磁振造影引導進行聚焦超音波治療有著獨一無二的契機，因為我們可以改良原有的前列腺腫瘤切除術 —只針對聚焦點進行治療，而不是將整個腺體移除，藉此，避開所有性能力或尿失禁的問題。此外,腹腔內還有其他的癌症腫瘤 —很小的，事實上非常細小的 —在胰臟、肝臟和腎臟裡。這裡的挑戰是，對於有意識而且清醒的病人 —在我們所有的治療中，病人都是清醒的，有意識的，並且和主治醫師交談的 —你必須教導磁振造影一些訣竅，如何實進行。這要花一些時間。這要花兩年的時間。 現在我要給現場的女士一個消息。那就是，在 2004 年，美國食品藥品管理局(FDA)已批准了磁振造影引導聚焦超音波用來治療子宮肌瘤。女人常被這個病所苦。那些腫瘤會導致經期大量出血、腹部漲痛、背痛、頻尿等問題。有時候,子宮肌瘤甚至會造成無法受孕或無法懷孕等問題。這是Frances。她被診斷出有葡萄柚大小的子宮肌瘤。這是一個很大的子宮肌瘤。醫生建議她進行子宮切除手術，但對於一位還想懷孕的女士而言這是一個無法接受的建議。所以在 2008 年，她選擇了接受聚焦超音波的治療。而在 2010 年，她成為了一個健康寶寶的新手媽媽。就這樣，一個新生命誕生了。 (掌聲) 所以，在最後，我要給大家四項消息。首先，請想想看病人接受無侵入式手術，可以免受多少的苦痛，還有，可以讓他們的家人、居住的社區、以及社會都可以解除那巨大的經濟以及情感上的負擔，另外,我想也解除他的主治醫師的負擔。另一件我想大家思考的事情是主治醫師和病人之間所出現的全新型態的關係，病人躺在手術台上時，是清醒的,甚至還可監視著治療的進行。在我們所有的治療中，病患都握著一個停止超音波降解的按鈕。他可隨時停止手術的進行。 以此按語我想感謝大家的聆聽。 (掌聲)
