Talk	en	zh-tw
yossi_vardi_fights_local_warming	"We are going to talk today about the sequel of ""Inconvenient Truth."" It's time again to talk about ""Inconvenient Truth,"" a truth that everyone is concerned about, but nobody is willing to talk about. Somebody has to take the lead, and I decided to do it. If you are scared by global warming, wait until we learn about local warming. We will talk today about local warming. Important health message: blogging may be hazardous to your health, especially if you are a male. This message is given as a public service. Blogging affects your posture. We start with the posture. This is the posture of ladies who are not blogging; this is the posture of ladies who are blogging. (Laughter) This is the natural posture of a man sitting, squatting for ventilation purposes. (Laughter) And this is the natural posture of a standing man, and I think this picture inspired Chris to insert me into the lateral thinking session. This is male blogging posture sitting, and the result is, ""For greater comfort, men naturally sit with their legs farther apart than women, when working on laptop. However, they will adopt a less natural posture in order to balance it on their laps, which resulted in a significant rise of body heat between their thighs."" This is the issue of local warming. (Laughter) This is a very serious newspaper; it's Times of England — very serious. This is a very — (Laughter) — gentlemen and ladies, be serious. This is a very serious research, that you should read the underline. And be careful, your genes are in danger. Will geeks become endangered species? The fact: population growth in countries with high laptop — (Laughter) I need Hans Rosling to give me a graph. (Applause) Global warming fun. (Laughter) But let's keep things in proportion. How to take care in five easy steps: first of all, you can use natural ventilation. You can use body breath. You should stay cool with the appropriate clothing. You should care about your posture — this is not right. Can you extract from Chris another minute and a half for me, because I have a video I have to show you. (Applause) You are great. This is the correct posture. Another benefit of Wi-Fi, we learned yesterday about the benefits of Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi enables you to avoid the processor. And there are some enhanced protection measures, which I would like to share with you, and I would like, in a minute, to thank Philips for helping. This is a research which was done in '86, but it's still valid. Scrotal temperature reflects intratesticular temperature and is lowered by shaving. By the way, I must admit, my English is not so good, I didn't know what is scrotal; I understand it's a scrotum. I guess in plural it's scrotal, like medium and media. Digital scrotum, digital media. And only last year I recognized that I'm a proud scrotum owner. (Laughter) And this research is being precipitated by the U.S. government, so you can see that your tax man is working for good causes. Video: Man: The Philips Bodygroom has a sleek, ergonomic design for a safe and easy way to trim those scruffy underarm hairs, the untidy curls on and around your [bleep], as well as the hard to reach locks on the underside of your [bleep] and [bleep]. Once you use the Bodygroom, the world looks different. And so does your [bleep]. These days, with a hair-free back, well-groomed shoulders and an extra optical inch on my [bleep], well, let's just say life has gotten pretty darn cozy. Yossi Vardi: This is one of the most popular viral advertisement of last year, known as the optical inch by Philips. Let's applaud Philips — (Applause) — for this gesture for humanity. And this is how they are promoting the product. This is — I didn't touch it, this is original. Laptop use to solve overpopulation. And if everything failed, there are some secondary uses. And then our next talk, our next TED if you invite me will be why you should not carry a cell phone in your pocket. And this is what the young generation says. (Applause) And I just want to show you that I'm not just preaching, but I also practice. (Laughter) 4 am in the morning. (Laughter) You cannot use this picture. (Applause) Now, I have some mini TED Prizes, this is the Philips Bodygroom, one for our leader. (Applause) Anybody feels threatened, anybody really need it? (Laughter) Any lady, any lady? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	今天我們來講講「不願面對的真象」續集，現在該再來談談「不願面對的真象」，一個大家都關心的真象，但是沒有人願意好好談談。總有人得起個頭吧？就讓我來吧！如果你很害怕全球暖化，那你可得更注意我待會兒要談的「自體暖化」。今天我們就來談談「自體暖化」。 很重要的健康資訊：部落客該注意自己的健康，尤其是男性。這是公開的資訊，上網會影響你的姿勢。我們先看這個姿勢，這是沒有上網的女性的坐姿；這是在上網的女性坐姿。(笑聲)這是一般男性自然的坐姿，可以保持通風。(笑聲)這是一般男性自然的站姿，我想Chris應該是看到這張照片，才把我排進水平式思考的時段吧！這是男性上網時的坐姿。原則上，「為保持舒適，男人在坐的時候，通常會把雙腿張得比女性開。但是在使用筆記型電腦時，為了要保持平衡，男性通常會採取較不自然的坐姿，這會造成雙腿間的體溫急速上升。」這就是我要說的「自體暖化」。(笑聲) 這是一份很嚴肅的報紙，這是英國時報—這可不是開玩笑的！這是非常—(笑聲)— 各位女士先生，認真點好嗎？這可是很嚴肅的研究，你們要注意看劃線的地方！要注意！你的基因危險了！愛上網的人會瀕臨絕種嗎？事實是：在高度使用筆記型電腦的國家，其人口成長率—(引述Hans Rosling的研究)(笑聲)我要請Hans Rosling給我一張表。(掌聲)全球暖化更進一步...(笑聲)我們要看到問題背後的真象。 有五個簡易的保健方法，第一，自然通風法，運用皮膚的呼吸，你可以穿上合適的衣物來保持涼爽。要注意姿勢 — 這樣不對！你們可以請Chris再多給我一分半鐘嗎？我得給你們看一段影片才行。(掌聲) 你們太棒了！這才是正確的姿勢。這是WiFi的另一個好處，我們最近才發現的。使用WiFi你就不用帶著主機。我還想告訴你們其他幾個先進的保護措施，在這裡，我想花一點時間來感謝飛利浦的協助。這個研究是在1986年做的，但現在還是成立的！陰囊的溫度就代表「那附近」的溫度，剃了毛之後，溫度就會降低。 對了，我得承認我的英文不是很好，我不知道陰囊得用scrotal(複數)，我只會用scrotum(單數)。我猜這個字的複數變化，就像媒體的medium和media一樣吧。數位陰囊、數位媒體。直到去年，我才發現我多了一顆陰囊(意指終於知道要使用複數)(笑聲) 這個研究是由美國政府贊助的，所以你就知道為什麼稅務員那麼努力工作了吧！ 影片：男人：飛利浦Bodygroom採取平滑、符合人體工學的設計，可以讓你安全且簡單地修剪雜亂的腋毛、在 [嗶] 附近凌亂的捲毛、還有在 [嗶] 和 [嗶]下面難以清除的部位等。一旦使用了Bodygroom，世界就變得不一樣，你的 [嗶] 也會不一樣。最近，我的背部變得清爽、腋下也整理乾淨、還有我的 [嗶] 也變得光溜溜，嗯，我只能說我的生活變得十分舒適。 Yossi Vardi: 這是去年度最受歡迎的醫學廣告 —大家都叫它「光溜溜的飛利浦」。讓我們為飛利浦鼓掌 —(掌聲)— 他們真的體貼人性。這是他們的廣告，這真的是 —我可沒有動手腳哦，這是原版的。筆記型電腦可以解決人口過多問題。如果東西壞了，總還可以想出另一個用途。 下一次演講，如果TED還邀請我來的話，我的標題會是「不要把手機放在口袋裡」。這是現在年輕人的主張。(掌聲)我還得說，我可不是光說不練的人哦...我會身體力行...(笑聲)凌晨四點...(笑聲)你們不可以使用這張照片。(掌聲) 我為你們準備了一些小禮物，就是飛利浦的Bodygroom，一個給我們的召集人，(掌聲)有人覺得很危險、需要這個的嗎？(笑聲)有女士需要嗎？女士？謝謝大家。(掌聲)
