Talk	en	zh-tw
young_ha_kim_be_an_artist_right_now	"The theme of my talk today is, ""Be an artist, right now."" Most people, when this subject is brought up, get tense and resist it: ""Art doesn't feed me, and right now I'm busy. I have to go to school, get a job, send my kids to lessons ... "" You think, ""I'm too busy. I don't have time for art."" There are hundreds of reasons why we can't be artists right now. Don't they just pop into your head? There are so many reasons why we can't be, indeed, we're not sure why we should be. We don't know why we should be artists, but we have many reasons why we can't be. Why do people instantly resist the idea of associating themselves with art? Perhaps you think art is for the greatly gifted or for the thoroughly and professionally trained. And some of you may think you've strayed too far from art. Well you might have, but I don't think so. This is the theme of my talk today. We are all born artists. If you have kids, you know what I mean. Almost everything kids do is art. They draw with crayons on the wall. They dance to Son Dam Bi's dance on TV, but you can't even call it Son Dam Bi's dance — it becomes the kids' own dance. So they dance a strange dance and inflict their singing on everyone. Perhaps their art is something only their parents can bear, and because they practice such art all day long, people honestly get a little tired around kids. Kids will sometimes perform monodramas — playing house is indeed a monodrama or a play. And some kids, when they get a bit older, start to lie. Usually parents remember the very first time their kid lies. They're shocked. ""Now you're showing your true colors,"" Mom says. She thinks, ""Why does he take after his dad?"" She questions him, ""What kind of a person are you going to be?"" But you shouldn't worry. The moment kids start to lie is the moment storytelling begins. They are talking about things they didn't see. It's amazing. It's a wonderful moment. Parents should celebrate. ""Hurray! My boy finally started to lie!"" All right! It calls for celebration. For example, a kid says, ""Mom, guess what? I met an alien on my way home."" Then a typical mom responds, ""Stop that nonsense."" Now, an ideal parent is someone who responds like this: ""Really? An alien, huh? What did it look like? Did it say anything? Where did you meet it?"" ""Um, in front of the supermarket."" When you have a conversation like this, the kid has to come up with the next thing to say to be responsible for what he started. Soon, a story develops. Of course this is an infantile story, but thinking up one sentence after the next is the same thing a professional writer like me does. In essence, they are not different. Roland Barthes once said of Flaubert's novels, ""Flaubert did not write a novel. He merely connected one sentence after another. The eros between sentences, that is the essence of Flaubert's novel."" That's right — a novel, basically, is writing one sentence, then, without violating the scope of the first one, writing the next sentence. And you continue to make connections. Take a look at this sentence: ""One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he discovered that in his bed he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug."" Yes, it's the first sentence of Franz Kafka's ""The Metamorphosis."" Writing such an unjustifiable sentence and continuing in order to justify it, Kafka's work became the masterpiece of contemporary literature. Kafka did not show his work to his father. He was not on good terms with his father. On his own, he wrote these sentences. Had he shown his father, ""My boy has finally lost it,"" he would've thought. And that's right. Art is about going a little nuts and justifying the next sentence, which is not much different from what a kid does. A kid who has just started to lie is taking the first step as a storyteller. Kids do art. They don't get tired and they have fun doing it. I was in Jeju Island a few days ago. When kids are on the beach, most of them love playing in the water. But some of them spend a lot of time in the sand, making mountains and seas — well, not seas, but different things — people and dogs, etc. But parents tell them, ""It will all be washed away by the waves."" In other words, it's useless. There's no need. But kids don't mind. They have fun in the moment and they keep playing in the sand. Kids don't do it because someone told them to. They aren't told by their boss or anyone, they just do it. When you were little, I bet you spent time enjoying the pleasure of primitive art. When I ask my students to write about their happiest moment, many write about an early artistic experience they had as a kid. Learning to play piano for the first time and playing four hands with a friend, or performing a ridiculous skit with friends looking like idiots — things like that. Or the moment you developed the first film you shot with an old camera. They talk about these kinds of experiences. You must have had such a moment. In that moment, art makes you happy because it's not work. Work doesn't make you happy, does it? Mostly it's tough. The French writer Michel Tournier has a famous saying. It's a bit mischievous, actually. ""Work is against human nature. The proof is that it makes us tired."" Right? Why would work tire us if it's in our nature? Playing doesn't tire us. We can play all night long. If we work overnight, we should be paid for overtime. Why? Because it's tiring and we feel fatigue. But kids, usually they do art for fun. It's playing. They don't draw to sell the work to a client or play the piano to earn money for the family. Of course, there were kids who had to. You know this gentleman, right? He had to tour around Europe to support his family — Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart — but that was centuries ago, so we can make him an exception. Unfortunately, at some point our art — such a joyful pastime — ends. Kids have to go to lessons, to school, do homework and of course they take piano or ballet lessons, but they aren't fun anymore. You're told to do it and there's competition. How can it be fun? If you're in elementary school and you still draw on the wall, you'll surely get in trouble with your mom. Besides, if you continue to act like an artist as you get older, you'll increasingly feel pressure — people will question your actions and ask you to act properly. Here's my story: I was an eighth grader and I entered a drawing contest at school in Gyeongbokgung. I was trying my best, and my teacher came around and asked me, ""What are you doing?"" ""I'm drawing diligently,"" I said. ""Why are you using only black?"" Indeed, I was eagerly coloring the sketchbook in black. And I explained, ""It's a dark night and a crow is perching on a branch."" Then my teacher said, ""Really? Well, Young-ha, you may not be good at drawing but you have a talent for storytelling."" Or so I wished. ""Now you'll get it, you rascal!"" was the response. (Laughter) ""You'll get it!"" he said. You were supposed to draw the palace, the Gyeonghoeru, etc., but I was coloring everything in black, so he dragged me out of the group. There were a lot of girls there as well, so I was utterly mortified. None of my explanations or excuses were heard, and I really got it big time. If he was an ideal teacher, he would have responded like I said before, ""Young-ha may not have a talent for drawing, but he has a gift for making up stories,"" and he would have encouraged me. But such a teacher is seldom found. Later, I grew up and went to Europe's galleries — I was a university student — and I thought this was really unfair. Look what I found. (Laughter) Works like this were hung in Basel while I was punished and stood in front of the palace with my drawing in my mouth. Look at this. Doesn't it look just like wallpaper? Contemporary art, I later discovered, isn't explained by a lame story like mine. No crows are brought up. Most of the works have no title, Untitled. Anyways, contemporary art in the 20th century is about doing something weird and filling the void with explanation and interpretation — essentially the same as I did. Of course, my work was very amateur, but let's turn to more famous examples. This is Picasso's. He stuck handlebars into a bike seat and called it ""Bull's Head."" Sounds convincing, right? Next, a urinal was placed on its side and called ""Fountain"". That was Duchamp. So filling the gap between explanation and a weird act with stories — that's indeed what contemporary art is all about. Picasso even made the statement, ""I draw not what I see but what I think."" Yes, it means I didn't have to draw Gyeonghoeru. I wish I knew what Picasso said back then. I could have argued better with my teacher. Unfortunately, the little artists within us are choked to death before we get to fight against the oppressors of art. They get locked in. That's our tragedy. So what happens when little artists get locked in, banished or even killed? Our artistic desire doesn't go away. We want to express, to reveal ourselves, but with the artist dead, the artistic desire reveals itself in dark form. In karaoke bars, there are always people who sing ""She's Gone"" or ""Hotel California,"" miming the guitar riffs. Usually they sound awful. Awful indeed. Some people turn into rockers like this. Or some people dance in clubs. People who would have enjoyed telling stories end up trolling on the Internet all night long. That's how a writing talent reveals itself on the dark side. Sometimes we see dads get more excited than their kids playing with Legos or putting together plastic robots. They go, ""Don't touch it. Daddy will do it for you."" The kid has already lost interest and is doing something else, but the dad alone builds castles. This shows the artistic impulses inside us are suppressed, not gone. But they can often reveal themselves negatively, in the form of jealousy. You know the song ""I would love to be on TV""? Why would we love it? TV is full of people who do what we wished to do, but never got to. They dance, they act — and the more they do, they are praised. So we start to envy them. We become dictators with a remote and start to criticize the people on TV. ""He just can't act."" ""You call that singing? She can't hit the notes."" We easily say these sorts of things. We get jealous, not because we're evil, but because we have little artists pent up inside us. That's what I think. What should we do then? Yes, that's right. Right now, we need to start our own art. Right this minute, we can turn off TV, log off the Internet, get up and start to do something. Where I teach students in drama school, there's a course called Dramatics. In this course, all students must put on a play. However, acting majors are not supposed to act. They can write the play, for example, and the writers may work on stage art. Likewise, stage art majors may become actors, and in this way you put on a show. Students at first wonder whether they can actually do it, but later they have so much fun. I rarely see anyone who is miserable doing a play. In school, the military or even in a mental institution, once you make people do it, they enjoy it. I saw this happen in the army — many people had fun doing plays. I have another experience: In my writing class, I give students a special assignment. I have students like you in the class — many who don't major in writing. Some major in art or music and think they can't write. So I give them blank sheets of paper and a theme. It can be a simple theme: Write about the most unfortunate experience in your childhood. There's one condition: You must write like crazy. Like crazy! I walk around and encourage them, ""Come on, come on!"" They have to write like crazy for an hour or two. They only get to think for the first five minutes. The reason I make them write like crazy is because when you write slowly and lots of thoughts cross your mind, the artistic devil creeps in. This devil will tell you hundreds of reasons why you can't write: ""People will laugh at you. This is not good writing! What kind of sentence is this? Look at your handwriting!"" It will say a lot of things. You have to run fast so the devil can't catch up. The really good writing I've seen in my class was not from the assignments with a long deadline, but from the 40- to 60-minute crazy writing students did in front of me with a pencil. The students go into a kind of trance. After 30 or 40 minutes, they write without knowing what they're writing. And in this moment, the nagging devil disappears. So I can say this: It's not the hundreds of reasons why one can't be an artist, but rather, the one reason one must be that makes us artists. Why we cannot be something is not important. Most artists became artists because of the one reason. When we put the devil in our heart to sleep and start our own art, enemies appear on the outside. Mostly, they have the faces of our parents. (Laughter) Sometimes they look like our spouses, but they are not your parents or spouses. They are devils. Devils. They came to Earth briefly transformed to stop you from being artistic, from becoming artists. And they have a magic question. When we say, ""I think I'll try acting. There's a drama school in the community center,"" or ""I'd like to learn Italian songs,"" they ask, ""Oh, yeah? A play? What for?"" The magic question is, ""What for?"" But art is not for anything. Art is the ultimate goal. It saves our souls and makes us live happily. It helps us express ourselves and be happy without the help of alcohol or drugs. So in response to such a pragmatic question, we need to be bold. ""Well, just for the fun of it. Sorry for having fun without you,"" is what you should say. ""I'll just go ahead and do it anyway."" The ideal future I imagine is where we all have multiple identities, at least one of which is an artist. Once I was in New York and got in a cab. I took the backseat, and in front of me I saw something related to a play. So I asked the driver, ""What is this?"" He said it was his profile. ""Then what are you?"" I asked. ""An actor,"" he said. He was a cabby and an actor. I asked, ""What roles do you usually play?"" He proudly said he played King Lear. King Lear. ""Who is it that can tell me who I am?"" — a great line from King Lear. That's the world I dream of. Someone is a golfer by day and writer by night. Or a cabby and an actor, a banker and a painter, secretly or publicly performing their own arts. In 1990, Martha Graham, the legend of modern dance, came to Korea. The great artist, then in her 90s, arrived at Gimpo Airport and a reporter asked her a typical question: ""What do you have to do to become a great dancer? Any advice for aspiring Korean dancers?"" Now, she was the master. This photo was taken in 1948 and she was already a celebrated artist. In 1990, she was asked this question. And here's what she answered: ""Just do it."" Wow. I was touched. Only those three words and she left the airport. That's it. So what should we do now? Let's be artists, right now. Right away. How? Just do it! Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我的演講主題是現在就當個藝術家吧大多數人，在聽到這個話題時總是很緊張很抗拒「藝術不是我的菜，而且我現在很忙。我得上學，找工作送我的孩子去補習⋯」你想著「我太忙了，我沒時間搞藝術。」我們有數百種現在不能當藝術家的理由你現在是不是已經想到了幾個了？ 我們有太多不能當藝術家的理由當然，其實我們也不知道為什麼要當個藝術家我們不知道為什麼應該當藝術家但我們有很多不能當的理由為什麼人們總是立刻抗拒把自己與藝術相連的想法？或許你認為藝術是給那些大有天分的人或那些受過完整專業訓練的人有些人可能認為自己離藝術太遠了你或許這麼想，但我並不這麼認為這就是我今天演講的主題我們生來就是藝術家 如果你有小孩，你就知道我的意思幾乎孩子做的每件事都是藝術他們拿蠟筆在牆上塗鴉他們隨著電視上的孫丹菲跳舞但那真的稱不上是孫丹菲的舞蹈那是孩子自己的創作所以他們跳著奇怪的舞唱著讓大家痛苦的歌或許只有他們的父母能忍受他們的藝術且因為他們一整天都在練習這樣的藝術說真的，大家對孩子會覺得有點煩 孩子有時候還會表演獨角戲玩扮家家酒就是一種獨角戲或說是一場戲劇某些孩子在長大一點後開始說謊通常父母都記得他們孩子第一次說謊的時候他們很震驚「現在你的本性露出來了！」媽媽說。她心想，「為什麼跟他老爸一個樣呢？」她質問他，「你知道你會變成什麼樣嗎？」 但你不需要擔心孩子開始說謊的剎那就是說故事的開始他們在說他們沒看到的事這很奇妙。這是非常奇妙的時刻父母應該慶祝「萬歲！我的兒子終於會說謊了！」是吧！是該慶祝的舉個例，一個小孩說，「媽，你猜怎樣，我今天回家時碰到一個外星人！」然後普通媽媽的回答是「不要胡說八道！」那麼，理想的爸媽是這樣回應的：「真的嗎？外星人啊？長什麼樣子？他跟你說了什麼嗎？」「你在哪裡看到的？」「嗯，在超市前。」 當你們像這樣對話這個小孩就得為他起了頭的事情想想接下來該怎麼回答很快地，一個故事就這麼展開了當然，這是小兒講的幼稚故事但是他們能一句接著一句說這跟像我這樣的專業作家做的事是一樣的他們在本質上沒有不同羅蘭·巴特有一次提到福樓拜的小說「福樓拜並不是寫小說。他只是把句子接起來。字句間奇妙的愛，成就了福樓拜小說的本質。」沒錯，小說基本上就是寫一句話然後在不違反第一句的情境下寫出下一句然後你繼續連接句子 看看這句話：「一天早上，葛雷戈·桑姆薩從不安的睡夢中醒來，發現自己在床上變成了一隻大得嚇人的甲蟲。」是的，這是卡夫卡《變形記》的第一句話他寫下這句不合理的句子還要繼續寫下去使其合理化卡夫卡的作品成為現代文學的名作卡夫卡沒有把作品拿給父親看他與他父親的關係並不好他自己寫下這些句子如果他讓他父親看過，他可能會想，「我的孩子終於瘋了。」 沒錯！藝術就是有一點瘋狂並且還要使下一個句子合理化這與一個孩子做的事也沒太多差別一個剛剛開始說謊的小孩正邁出講故事的第一步孩子們會做藝術他們不會累，他們樂在其中幾天前我在濟州島孩子在海邊時，大都喜歡玩水但有一些孩子會花很長時間在海灘用沙堆積出山川和大海——啊，堆不出大海不過有很多不同的東西——人啊狗之類的但父母對他們說「這些會被海浪沖掉。」換句話說，這些是沒用的沒有用處但孩子不在乎他們在那時刻玩得很開心而且他們還會繼續玩沙孩子並不是因為有人要求而做他們不是被老闆要求或被任何人要求，他們就是玩 當你還小，我打賭，你一定花過時間享受過單純藝術的樂趣當我要求我的學生寫下他們最快樂的時刻很多都會寫他們還是孩子時非常早期的藝術經驗第一次學鋼琴的時候第一次與朋友四手聯彈或與朋友表演一段可笑的小短劇使自己看來像蠢蛋，諸如此類或是你洗出用老相機拍的第一張相片的時刻他們談到這樣的經驗你一定也有這樣的時刻在那片刻，藝術使你快樂因為那不是工作工作不能使你快樂，對吧？大部分工作都很艱辛 法國作家米歇爾·圖尼埃曾說過一句名言其實是有點調皮「工作違反人性，其證明是它讓我們疲倦。」是吧？如果工作是我們的本性，為什麼會好累？玩不會讓我們累我們可以徹夜地玩如果我們熬夜加班，就應該得加班費為什麼？因為那好累，我們覺得疲憊但是孩子們，通常他們做藝術只是好玩。那是玩耍他們畫圖並不是為了賣作品給客人或彈鋼琴賺錢養家當然有些孩子是為了養家你們都認得這位紳士吧？他得巡迴歐洲以養家沃夫岡·阿瑪迪斯·莫札特但那是幾個世紀以前的事所以我們可以說他是例外不幸的是，我們的藝術——多好玩的消遣——到了某個時期就結束了孩子得去上課，去學校，做功課當然他們還要學鋼琴，學芭蕾但這些不再好玩了你被要求去做這些，而且還有競爭，這樣怎麼好玩？如果你上了小學還在牆上塗鴉我保證你媽會找你麻煩還有如果你長大了還繼續表現得像個藝術家你會感到日益增加的壓力大家會質問你的行為且要求你要表現合宜 這是我的故事：我當時初三，我參加了一個學校畫圖比賽，在景福宮舉行我很盡力地畫，然後我的老師走過來問我，「你在做什麼？」「我在努力畫畫，」我說「為什麼你只用黑色？」的確，我很急切地把寫生簿塗黑所以我解釋「天色很黑，有隻烏鴉棲息在樹枝上。」然後我的老師說「是嗎？唉！英夏，你大概不擅長畫畫，但你有講故事的天份。」我真希望是這樣的回答「你死定了！你這混蛋！」才是老師的回答「你死定了你！」他說你應該要畫這個宮殿，景福宮之類的但是我把每樣東西都塗黑了所以他把我踢了出去當時那裡還有很多女孩子我丟臉死了 我的解釋或理由都不被接受而且我真的是死很大如果他是位理想的老師他會以我之前說的來回應「英夏或許在畫畫上沒有天份但他在編故事上很有一手，」然後他還可以鼓勵我一下但這樣的老師很難找到後來，我長大後去了趟歐洲的畫廊那時我是大學生而我心想這實在是太不公平了看我找到什麼！（笑聲） 當我被懲罰的時候像這樣的作品就高掛在巴塞爾而我在景福宮前罰站嘴裡塞着我的畫看看這個！這難道不像壁紙嗎？當代藝術，我後來發現，不會像我用一個憋腳的故事來解釋畫作不會提到烏鴉大部分的作品是沒有標題的，《無題》反正二十世紀的當代藝術就是做一些怪怪的東西然後隨你解釋及詮釋跟我那時做的本質一樣當然，我的作品非常不成熟但我們來看看一些更有名的例子 這是畢卡索的作品他把自行車把手插進座墊裡然後稱之為《牛頭》，很有說服力吧？下一張，把小便池翻轉以側邊平放，然後稱它為《噴泉》那是杜象的作品所以用故事來解釋怪怪的行為那的確是當代藝術的重點所在畢卡索甚至發表聲明「我不畫我所看到的，我畫我所想的。」是的，這就是說我不需要畫景福宮我真希望當時我知道畢卡索說的這句話這樣我就可以跟老師好好辯論一番可惜，這在我們體內的小小藝術家在我們與迫害藝術者爭鬥前就已經窒息而死了他們被封閉住那是我們的悲劇 所以當小藝術家被封閉、放逐或甚至殺了，會怎麼樣呢？我們對藝術的渴望不會消失我們仍然想表達表現自我但是隨著藝術家之死，這個渴望會用隱諱的形式表現出來在卡拉OK店，總有人唱著《她離開了我》或《加州旅館》模仿彈吉他的樣子通常這些人都唱得很爛真的很爛有些人變成像這樣的搖滾迷有些人在夜店裡跳舞那些原本可以開心講故事的人最後變成整晚掛網那就是寫作天分的隱諱表現 有時候我們看見爸爸比小孩還激動玩著樂高或組塑膠機器人他們會說，「不要碰。爸爸幫你做。」小孩已經失去興趣，去玩別的東西了爸爸還在那裡一個人組城堡這顯示在我們體內，想當藝術家的衝動是被壓制了，並沒有消失但這股衝動也常常以負面的嫉妒形式表現你們知道《我想上電視》這首歌吧?我們為什麼喜歡它呢?因為電視里的人在做我們希望做但無法達成的事他們跳舞、演戲——做得愈多得到的讚賞也愈多所以我們開始嫉妒他們我們成為手拿遙控器的獨裁並且開始對電視上的那些人品頭論足「他根本不會演！」「那個也叫唱歌？她根本五音不全。」我們很容易說長道短這些東西我們嫉妒不是因為我們很壞而是因為體內被壓抑的藝術家至少我是這麼認為 那我們應該怎麼做？是的，沒錯就在當下，我們要開始自己的藝術就在這一分鐘，我們可以關掉電視從網路下線站起來開始做些什麼在我教學生的戲劇學校有一門演技課在這堂課裡學生一定要演戲然而，主修表演的人不一定會演戲舉個例，他們也可以寫劇本而劇作家也可能作舞台藝術同樣的，主修舞台藝術的人也可能當演員，這樣你也能演出戲劇學生一開始都懷疑自己能不能做到但後來他們都做得很開心，我幾乎不曾看過誰演戲的時候很悲慘在學校、軍隊甚至在精神療養院一但你讓人們演戲，他們都很喜歡我親眼看到這在軍中發生很多人在演戲時很開心 我還有另一個經驗在我的寫作課我給學生一項很特別的作業我的班上有很多像你們一樣的學生主修不是寫作有些人主修藝術、音樂他們都認為自己不能寫作所以我給他們白紙及一個主題可以是很簡單的主題寫下你兒時最悲慘的經驗有一個條件：你必須像瘋了一樣的寫像瘋了一樣我在教室走來走去鼓勵他們「快寫！快寫！」他們必須像瘋子一樣寫一到二小時他們只能在最初的五分鐘想一下 我之所以要讓他們像瘋了一樣的寫是因為當你慢慢的寫，就會有很多事在你腦中跑來跑去藝術惡魔會偷偷跑進來這惡魔會告訴你千百個理由為什麼你不會寫「大家會笑你。這寫得不好。」「你在寫什麼句子？看看你的筆跡！」它會說很多事你一定要快跑以免被惡魔抓到我在課堂上見過的佳作不是給他們帶回家寫很久以後才要交的作業而是在我面前，像瘋子一樣以一枝鉛筆寫了40到60分鐘的故事學生都寫到有點恍神了他們寫了30或40分鐘後都不知道自己還在寫而這個時刻，碎碎念的惡魔消失了 所以我可以這麼說：並不是那千百個理由讓我們當不成藝術家反而是那個我們想要的唯一理由使我們成為藝術家為什麼做不了某件事並不重要大部分的藝術家之所以能成為藝術家只有一個理由當我們把惡魔關在心裡睡覺開始做一些藝術敵人就在外部出現他們大半以父母的形象出現（笑聲）有時候他們看起來像我們的配偶但他們不是你的父母或配偶他們是惡魔。惡魔。他們降到世間，很快地轉變形象以阻止你當藝術家，或成為藝術家而且他們還有一個屢試不爽的神奇問題當我們說，「我想試試演戲。社區中心有個影劇學校，」或「我想學唱歌劇，」他們就問「喔？是嗎？演戲？為了什麼？」這神奇的問題就是：「為了什麼？」但藝術並不是為了什麼藝術是最終的目標它拯救我們的靈魂，使我們活得快樂它幫助我們表達自我使我們不需要酒精或藥物就能快樂所以要回答這麼現實的問題我們必須大膽「嗯，就好玩嗎！對不起喔，我沒找你一起玩！」這就是你應該說的。「我要開始做囉！不管你了！」我想像中的理想未來是我們擁有很多身份而其中之一是藝術家 有一次我在紐約搭計程車我坐在後座我看到座前有個跟戲劇有關的東西所以我問司機，「這是什麼？」他說這是他的簡介。「那你是做什麼的？」我問。「演員，」他說。他是計程車司機兼演員。我又問：「你都演什麼角色？」他很驕傲地說他演李爾王李爾王！「誰能告訴我我是誰？」是李爾王的名言那就是我夢想的世界某人白天是高爾夫球手，晚上當作家或計程車司機兼演員；銀行家兼畫家秘密或公開地表演他們的藝術 1990年，瑪莎·葛蘭姆這位現代舞蹈傳奇人物到韓國訪問這位已經90多歲的藝術家抵達金浦機場時記者問了她一個典型的問題「要怎麼做才能成為一位偉大的舞者？有沒有什麼忠告給有抱負的韓國舞者？」她是大師。這張照片拍攝於1948年而她當時已經是位有名的藝術家1990年，記者問了她這個問題而這是她的回答「就去做！」哇，我大受感動她只說了這三個字就離開了機場就這樣所以我們現在應該怎麼做？來當藝術家吧！現在！就在當下！要怎麼做？就去做！ 謝謝 （掌聲）
