Talk	en	zh-tw
yves_behar_s_supercharged_motorcycle_design	Forrest North: The beginning of any collaboration starts with a conversation. And I would like to share with you some of the bits of the conversation that we started with. I grew up in a log cabin in Washington state with too much time on my hands. Yves Behar: And in scenic Switzerland for me. FN: I always had a passion for alternative vehicles. This is a land yacht racing across the desert in Nevada. YB: Combination of windsurfing and skiing into this invention there. FN: And I also had an interest in dangerous inventions. This is a 100,000-volt Tesla coil that I built in my bedroom, much to the dismay of my mother. YB: To the dismay of my mother, this is dangerous teenage fashion right there. (Laughter) FN: And I brought this all together, this passion with alternative energy and raced a solar car across Australia — also the U.S. and Japan. YB: So, wind power, solar power — we had a lot to talk about. We had a lot that got us excited. So we decided to do a special project together. To combine engineering and design and ... FN: Really make a fully integrated product, something beautiful. YB: And we made a baby. (Laughter) FN: Can you bring out our baby? (Applause) This baby is fully electric. It goes 150 miles an hour. It's twice the range of any electric motorcycle. Really the exciting thing about a motorcycle is just the beautiful integration of engineering and design. It's got an amazing user experience. It was wonderful working with Yves Behar. He came up with our name and logo. We're Mission Motors. And we've only got three minutes, but we could talk about it for hours. YB: Thank you. FN: Thank you TED. And thank you Chris, for having us. (Applause)	Forrest North: 任何合作都是從對話中衍生出來的。現在我想跟你們分享一下在這些對話當中的小插曲。我是在華盛頓州的一間小木屋裡長大的平日總會有很多空閒時間。 Yves Behar: 而我則在景色秀麗的瑞士長大。 Forrest North: 我一直都特別愛好以可再生能源來驅動的車輛。這輛陸上的風帆穿越了位於內華達洲的一個沙漠 YB: 這發明結合了風帆和滑雪的技術。 FN: 而我的興趣也在有危險性的發明上。我在自己的房間裡建造了一個有十萬伏特的特斯拉線圈。這令我媽媽十分驚慌。 YB: 令我媽媽驚慌的是這就是年輕人的危險時尚。(笑聲) FN: 現在我把我的熱誠和這些可再生能源結合在一起。我開著一輛由太陽能驅動的汽車穿越了澳洲、美國和日本。 YB: 有風能, 有太陽能, 我們要說的還有很多。而這些事總會令我們感到十分興奮。所以, 我們決定實行一個特別的計畫就是把工程和設計結合在一起.. FN: 真正製造一件能整合這兩種技術的產品，一件美麗的東西。 YB: 於是我們便造了一個寶貝。(笑聲) FN: 你可以請我們的寶貝出來嗎?(掌聲)這寶貝是全電動的。它每小時能達到150英里。這速度是普通電動摩托車的兩倍。這輛摩托車真是令人興奮的東西就是工程和設計美麗的整合。這帶給駕駛者一個奇妙的體驗。跟Yves Behar一起工作是一件很捧的事。Mission Motors——我們這個組合的名字和標誌都是由他起的。雖然我們只有三分鐘的時間但要真正說起來, 我可以說上好幾個小時。 YB: 謝謝。 FN: 謝謝TED, 也要謝謝克里斯邀請我們來這裡。(掌聲)
