Talk	en	zh-tw
yves_morieux_as_work_gets_more_complex_6_rules_to_simplify	I have spent the last years trying to resolve two enigmas: Why is productivity so disappointing in all the companies where I work? I have worked with more than 500 companies. Despite all the technological advances — computers, I.T., communications, telecommunications, the Internet. Enigma number two: Why is there so little engagement at work? Why do people feel so miserable, even actively disengaged? Disengaging their colleagues. Acting against the interest of their company. Despite all the affiliation events, the celebration, the people initiatives, the leadership development programs to train managers on how to better motivate their teams. At the beginning, I thought there was a chicken and egg issue: Because people are less engaged,  they are less productive. Or vice versa, because they are less productive, we put more pressure and they are less engaged. But as we were doing our analysis we realized that there was a common root cause to these two issues that relates, in fact, to the basic  pillars of management. The way we organize is based on two pillars. The hard — structure, processes, systems. The soft — feelings, sentiments, interpersonal relationships, traits, personality. And whenever a company reorganizes, restructures, reengineers, goes through a cultural transformation program, it chooses these two pillars. Now, we try to refine them, we try to combine them. The real issue is — and this is the answer to the two enigmas — these pillars are obsolete. Everything you read in business books is based either on one or the other or their combination. They are obsolete. How do they work when you try to use these approaches in front of the new complexity of business? The hard approach, basically  is that you start from strategy, requirements, structures, processes,  systems, KPIs, scorecards, committees, headquarters, hubs, clusters, you name it. I forgot all the metrics, incentives, committees,  middle offices and interfaces. What happens basically on the left, you have more complexity, the  new complexity of business. We need quality, cost, reliability, speed. And every time there is a new requirement, we use the same approach. We create dedicated structure processed systems, basically to deal with the  new complexity of business. The hard approach creates just complicatedness in the organization. Let's take an example. An automotive company, the engineering division is a five-dimensional matrix. If you open any cell of the matrix, you find another 20-dimensional matrix. You have Mr. Noise, Mr. Petrol Consumption, Mr. Anti-Collision Properties. For any new requirement, you have a dedicated function in charge of aligning engineers against the new requirement. What happens when the new  requirement emerges? Some years ago, a new requirement appeared on the marketplace: the length of the warranty period. So therefore the new requirement is repairability, making cars easy to repair. Otherwise when you bring the car  to the garage to fix the light, if you have to remove the engine to access the lights, the car will have to stay one week in the garage instead of two hours, and the  warranty budget will explode. So, what was the solution using the hard approach? If repairability is the new requirement, the solution is to create a new function, Mr. Repairability. And Mr. Repairability creates  the repairability process. With a repairability scorecard,  with a repairability metric and eventually repairability incentive. That came on top of 25 other KPIs. What percentage of these people is variable compensation? Twenty percent at most, divided by 26 KPIs, repairability makes a difference of 0.8 percent. What difference did it make in their actions, their choices to simplify? Zero. But what occurs for zero impact?  Mr. Repairability, process, scorecard, evaluation, coordination  with the 25 other coordinators to have zero impact. Now, in front of the new complexity of business, the only solution is not drawing boxes with reporting lines. It is basically the interplay. How the parts work together. The connections, the interactions, the synapses. It is not the skeleton of boxes,  it is the nervous system of adaptiveness and intelligence. You know, you could call it cooperation, basically. Whenever people cooperate, they use less resources. In everything. You know, the repairability issue is a cooperation problem. When you design cars, please take into account the needs of those who will repair the cars in the after sales garages. When we don't cooperate we need more time, more equipment, more systems, more teams. We need — When procurement, supply  chain, manufacturing don't cooperate we need more stock, more inventories,  more working capital. Who will pay for that? Shareholders? Customers? No, they will refuse. So who is left?  The employees, who have to compensate through their super individual efforts for the lack of cooperation. Stress, burnout, they are  overwhelmed, accidents. No wonder they disengage. How do the hard and the soft try to foster cooperation? The hard: In banks, when there is a problem between the back office and the front office, they don't cooperate. What is the solution? They create a middle office. What happens one year later? Instead of one problem  between the back and the front, now I have two problems. Between the back and the middle and between the middle and the front. Plus I have to pay for the middle office. The hard approach is unable to foster cooperation. It can only add new boxes,  new bones in the skeleton. The soft approach: To make people cooperate, we need  to make them like each other. Improve interpersonal feelings, the more people like each other,  the more they will cooperate. It is totally wrong. It is even counterproductive. Look, at home I have two TVs. Why? Precisely not to have to cooperate with my wife. (Laughter) Not to have to impose tradeoffs to my wife. And why I try not to impose tradeoffs to my wife is precisely because I love my wife. If I didn't love my wife, one TV would be enough: You will watch my favorite football game, if you are not happy, how is the book or the door? (Laughter) The more we like each other, the more we avoid the real cooperation that would strain our relationships  by imposing tough tradeoffs. And we go for a second TV or we escalate the decision above for arbitration. Definitely, these approaches are obsolete. To deal with complexity, to enhance the nervous system, we have created what we call  the smart simplicity approach based on simple rules. Simple rule number one: Understand what others do. What is their real work? We need to go beyond the boxes, the job descriptions, beyond the surface of the container, to understand the real content. Me, designer, if I put a wire here, I know that it will mean that we will have to remove the engine to access the lights. Second, you need to reenforce integrators. Integrators are not middle  offices, they are managers, existing managers that you reinforce so that they have power and interest to make others cooperate. How can you reinforce your  managers as integrators? By removing layers. When there are too many layers people are too far from the action, therefore they need KPIs, metrics, they need poor proxies for reality. They don't understand reality and they add the complicatedness of metrics, KPIs. By removing rules — the bigger we are, the more we need integrators, therefore the less rules we must have, to give discretionary power to managers. And we do the opposite — the bigger we are, the more rules we create. And we end up with the Encyclopedia  Britannica of rules. You need to increase the quanitity of power so that you can empower everybody to use their judgment, their intelligence. You must give more cards to people so that they have the critical mass of cards to take the risk to cooperate, to move out of insulation. Otherwise, they will withdraw. They will disengage. These rules, they come from game theory and organizational sociology. You can increase the shadow of the future. Create feedback loops that expose people to the consequences of their actions. This is what the automotive company did when they saw that Mr. Repairability had no impact. They said to the design engineers: Now, in three years, when the new  car is launched on the market, you will move to the after sales  network, and become in charge of the warranty budget, and if the warranty budget explodes, it will explode in your face. (Laughter) Much more powerful than 0.8  percent variable compensation. You need also to increase reciprocity, by removing the buffers that make us self-sufficient. When you remove these buffers, you hold me by the nose, I hold you by the ear. We will cooperate. Remove the second TV. There are many second TVs at work that don't create value, they just provide dysfunctional self-sufficiency. You need to reward those who cooperate and blame those who don't cooperate. The CEO of The Lego Group, Jorgen Vig Knudstorp, has a great way to use it. He says, blame is not for failure, it is for failing to help or ask for help. It changes everything. Suddenly it becomes in my interest to be transparent on my real weaknesses, my real forecast, because I know I will not be blamed if I fail, but if I fail to help or ask for help. When you do this, it has a lot of implications on organizational design. You stop drawing boxes, dotted lines, full lines; you look at their interplay. It has a lot of implications on financial policies that we use. On human resource management practices. When you do that, you can manage complexity, the new complexity of business, without getting complicated. You create more value with lower cost. You simultaneously improve  performance and satisfaction at work because you have removed the common root cause that hinders both. Complicatedness: This is your  battle, business leaders. The real battle is not against competitors. This is rubbish, very abstract. When do we meet competitors to fight them? The real battle is against ourselves, against our bureaucracy, our complicatedness. Only you can fight, can do it. Thank you. (Applause)	我花了過去幾年時間試著解決兩個謎題：為什麼所有跟我合作過的公司其生產力總是這麼令人失望？我與超過 500 家公司合作過，不管那些先進科技—電腦、資訊科技、傳播、電信及網路；謎題二：為什麼員工沒有完全投入工作？為什麼大家覺得這麼痛苦，甚至要積極地擺脫現狀？不願投入與同事合作，做出損害公司利益的事，儘管有那些員工聯誼活動，慶祝活動、員工倡議、領導力發展課程來訓練經理人如何更有效激發團隊士氣。一開始，我以為那是先有雞還是先有蛋的問題：因為大家不投入，所以生產力也較差，或反之，因為生產力較差，就算我們施加更多壓力他們也不願投入。但當我們進行分析時，就瞭解到有一個共同根源造成這兩個問題，而事實上與基本的管理支柱有關。我們組織的方式基於二個支柱，硬性 — 結構、流程、系統，軟性 —感覺、情緒、人際關係、特質、個性，無論何時一間公司改組、重組、重新設計，經歷文化轉型計畫，都要選擇這兩種支柱。現在，我們試著改進它們，嘗試著結合它們，真正的問題是 —這也是兩個謎題的解答 —這些支柱已經過時，你在企業書上讀到的一切都是建立在其中一個基礎上或兩者的組合體，它們已經過時了。當你在企業的新複雜度前，試著使用這些方法，怎麼可能還有用啊？強硬的方式基本上就是從策略、條件、結構、流程系統、關鍵績效指標、記分卡、委員會、總部、中心、群組開始，各式各樣你說得出的，我還忘了提那些度規、激勵措施、委員會、中間部門及介面，基本上在左邊的那些複雜性更大，是企業的新複雜度，我們需要品質、成本、信度、速度，而每次有新的條件，我們就用同樣的措施，我們設立專門的結構流程系統，在根本上處理企業的新複雜度，強硬的方案只會產生組織的複雜度。讓我們舉個例，一家汽車製造公司的工程部門使用一個五維矩陣，如果你看看矩陣內任何一個小組，就會發現另一個二十維的矩陣，噪音先生、油耗先生、防撞性能先生，如出現任何新的條件，就有專門的功能小組負責指揮工程師應付這項新條件。當新的條件出現時會怎麼樣？幾年前，一項新條件在市場出現，就是保固期限。那麼這項新的條件就是可維修性，讓維修汽車變得容易，不然當你要修燈把車送到修車廠，如果你必須拆掉引擎才能碰到燈，車輛必須留在修車廠一星期，而不是兩小時，那麼保固預算會爆掉，使用強硬方式的解決方案是什麼？如果可維修性是新的條件，解決方案即是建立一個新的函數可維修性先生，而可維修性先生建立可維修性的流程，設計可維修性記分卡，可維修性度規，最終則是可維修性激勵方案，這可在其他二十五項關鍵績效指標上，這些人領取變動薪酬佔百分之幾？最多百分之二十，除以二十六項關鍵績效指標，可維修性可多拿 0.8%。他們會做些什麼行動去選擇簡化流程？沒有。到底零影響會帶來什麼事？可維修性先生、流程、記分卡、評估與其餘二十五個協調者協調帶來零影響。現在，在企業的新複雜度前，唯一的解決方案不是畫框框，並連上從屬關係線，它基本上是交互作用，不同的部門如何一起合作、各式各樣的連接、交互作用、突觸，這不是程序框框，該是具適應性及智能的神經系統，你知道，基本上你可以稱之為合作。無論何時只要大家合作，就可減少使用資源，所有事都一樣。你知道，可維修性問題是一個關於合作的問題。當你設計不同的汽車時，請考慮到那些提供售後服務的修車人在修車場裡的需要，當我們不合作時就需要更多時間、更多器材、更多系統、更多團隊，我們需要 — 當採購、供應鏈、製造商不合作時，我們就需要進更多貨、更多存貨及更多營運資金，誰要為這些買單？股東？顧客？不，他們會拒絕的。那麼誰留下來？由於缺乏合作，各個員工必須付出超級努力去補償損失，壓力、燃燒殆盡、壓倒、意外，難怪他們不投入。各式軟硬的方法如何嘗試促進合作？硬性：在銀行，當問題發生在前綫部門與後勤辦公室，他們就是不合作。有什麼解決方法？他們設立一個中間部門，一年後結果如何？本來只有一個問題存在前綫部門與後勤辦公室之間，現在我有兩個問題存在於後勤辦公室與中間部門之間及中間部門與前線部門之間，此外我還要支付中間部門的開銷。強硬的方式不能促進合作，它只能加上新的程序、新的聯繫在框框上。軟性措施：我們需讓他們彼此喜愛對方才能使大家合作，增進人與人之間的感情，彼此愈喜愛對方，合作就愈多。這是大錯特錯的。這甚至會產生不良後果。看，我家有兩部電視。為什麼？就是因為不用跟我老婆合作，（笑聲）不用跟我老婆談交換條件，我不跟老婆談交換條件的原因正是因為我愛老婆，如果我不愛老婆，一架電視就夠了：你要跟著看我喜愛的足球賽，如果你不高興，就去看書或說掰掰吧？（笑聲）我們愈是彼此相愛就愈要避免真正的合作，因為勉為其難的讓步使我們的關係變得緊張，於是我們買第二部電視或者就結論得進行仲裁程序，這些方法無疑早已過時。因應複雜度，要增強神經系統，建立於一些簡單規則，我們創立了一項名為簡單智慧型的措施。簡單規則一：瞭解別人做什麼，他們真正的工作是什麼？我們需要超越程序框框、職務說明書、容器的表面，瞭解真正的內容。我作為設計師，如果把一條電線放在這裡，我知道那意味著必須拆掉引擎才能碰到燈。第二，你需要增援整合者，整合者不是中間部門，他們都是經理人，現存的經理人，而你的增援，使他們擁有權力及利益動機促使其他人合作。你要如何增援經理人使他們成為整合者？要移去各式各樣的階層，當一間公司有太多層級，大家距離真正的行動階層太遠，於是他們需要關鍵績效指標、度規，需要為現實尋找較差的替代物，他們不瞭解實情，他們增加了度規、績效指標的複雜度，把規則挪去 — 我們規模愈大，需要的整合者人數就愈多，因此我們必須減少規則，授予經理裁量權，而我們所行正好相反 —我們規模愈大，就創造更多規則，最後得到像大英百科全書的規則，你需要增加權力額度才能授權每個員工，要他們運用判斷及智慧，你必須給大家發出更多的牌，使他們有關鍵多數的牌以承擔合作的風險，搬離孤獨的生活。不然，他們就會退縮，就不會投入，這些規則，是從賽局理論及組織社會學得來。你可以對未來陰影 (shadow of the future) 的增強感到憂慮，創造回饋環路 (feedback loop)，向大家揭露行動的後果真相，這就是汽車製造公司所做的，當他們看到可維修性先生沒有產生任何影響，他們對設計工程師說：那三年內，當新車推出市場時，你會被調到售後服務的網絡內負責保固的預算，如果保固預算爆了，它會讓你死得很難看！（笑聲）這一定比 0.8% 的變動薪酬更有力。你也需要增強相互關係，挪去讓自我感到滿足的緩衝保護，當你挪走這些緩衝保護，大家的關係唇齒相依，我們就會一起合作，拿走第二部電視。工作職場上存在很多第二部電視，它們不會創造價值，只會提供不正常的自我滿足，你需要獎勵會合作的員工，責備不合作的。樂高集團執行長納斯托普採取主動使用它，他說失敗者不應該受到責備，要責備那些未曾幫助他人或求助者，這樣可以改變一切。突然間坦率地表達出真正的弱點、實際預測變為對自己有利，因為我知道即使失敗也不會受到責備，除非沒有幫助他人或向其他人求助。當你這麼做，在整個企業的組織設計上就有很多涵義。你停止畫框框、虛線、實線，你著重在他們之間的交互作用，在我們所運用的財務政策上也有很多涵義，在人力資源管理上也如是。當你那樣做，你就能控制複雜度，企業的新複雜度，卻不至搞得很繁複。你花較少的成本創造更多價值，同時改善了工作績效及滿意度，因為你已經挪去了阻礙工作績效和降低滿意度的共通根源。複雜度：這是你的戰鬥，企業領導人。真正的戰鬥不是面對競爭者。這是廢話，兼非常抽象的。我們什麼時候會與競爭者面對面戰鬥？真正的戰鬥是跟自己作戰，跟我們的官僚體系、我們的複雜度作戰。只有你能打這場仗，就可以完成這件事。謝謝。（掌聲）
