Talk	en	zh-tw
yves_rossy_fly_with_the_jetman	"(Music) [music by Moby] [Grand Canyon] Narrator: Many of the tests are conducted while Yves is strapped onto the wing, because Yves' body is an integral part of the aircraft. [Wind tunnel tests] Narrator: The wing has no steering controls, no flaps, no rudder. Yves uses his body to steer the wing. Stefan Von Bergen: Well, he turns by just putting his head on one or the other side. And sometimes he assists that with his hands, sometimes even with the leg. He's acting as a human fuselage, so to say. And that's quite unique. Narrator: When he arches his back, he gains altitude. When he pushes his shoulders forward, he goes into a dive. [Swiss Alps] [Strait of Gibraltar crossing] [English Channel crossing] Commentator One: There he goes. There is Yves Rossy. And I think the wing is open. So our first critical moment, it's open. He is down. Is he flying? Commentator Two: It looks like he's stabilized. He's starting to make his climb. Commentator One: There's that 90 degree turn. He's out over the channel. There is Yves Rossy. There is no turning back now. He is over the English Channel and under way. Ladies and gentlemen, a historic flight has begun. [Images: National Geographic] Commentator Two: And as he approaches the ground, he's going to pull down on those toggles to flare, slow himself down just a little bit, and then come in for a nice landing. Commentator One: There he is. Yves Rossy has landed in England. Bruno Giussani: And now he's in Edinburgh. Yves Rossy! (Applause) (Applause ends) And his equipment as well. Yves, welcome. It is quite amazing. Those sequences were shot over the last three years in various moments of your activities. And there were many, many others. So it's possible to fly almost like a bird. What is it like to be up there? Yves Rossy: It's fun. It's fun. (Laughter) I don't have feathers. But I feel like a bird sometimes. It's really an unreal feeling, because normally you have a big thing, a plane, around you. And when I strap just this little harness, this little wing, I really have the feeling of being a bird. BG: How did you start to become Jetman? YR: It was about 20 years ago, when I discovered free falling. When you go out of an airplane, you are almost naked. You take a position like that. And especially when you take a tracking position, you have the feeling that you are flying. And that's the nearest thing to the dream. You have no machine around you. You are just in the element. It's very short and only in one direction. (Laughter) So the idea was, okay, keep that feeling of freedom, but change the vector and increase the time. BG: So I'm kind of curious, what's your top speed? YR: It's about 300 km per hour before looping. That means about 190 miles per hour. BG: What's the weight of the equipment you're carrying? YR: When I exit full of kerosene, I'm about 55 kilos. I have 55 kilos on my back. BG: And you're not piloting? There is no handle, no steering, nothing? It is purely your body, and the wings become part of the body and vice versa? YR: That's really the goal, because if you put in steering, then you reinvent the airplane. And I wanted to keep this freedom of movement. And it's really like the kid playing the airplane. I want to go down like that. And up I climb, I turn. It's really pure flying. It's not steering, it's flight. BG: What kind of training do you do, you personally, for that? YR: Actually, I try to stay just fit. I don't do special physical training. I just try to keep my mobility through new activities. For example, last winter I began with kite surfing. So, new things. So you have to adapt. I'm quite an experienced manager of systems as a pilot, but this is, really — You need fluidity, you need to be agile and also to adapt really fast. BG: Somebody in the audience asked me, ""How does he breathe up there?"" Because you're going fast and you're up at 3,000 meters or so. YR: Okay, up to 3,000 meters, it's not such a big problem with oxygen. But for example, bikers, they have the same speed. Just with the helmet, integral helmet, it's really no problem to breathe. BG: Describe for me the equipment, since you have it here. So Breitling's four engines. YR: Yeah, two-meter span. Ultra-stable profile. Four little engines, 22 kilos thrust each, turbines, working with kerosene. Harness, parachute. My only instruments are an altimeter and time. I know I have about eight minutes fuel. So I just check before it's finished. (Laughter) And yeah, that's all. Two parachutes. That means, if I have a problem with the first one I pull, I still have the possibility to open the second one. And this is my life. That's the real important thing about safety. I did use that during these last 15 years about 20 times. Never with that type of wing, but at the beginning. I can release my wing when I am in a spin or unstable. BG: We saw the 2009 crossing of the Gibraltar Strait where you lost control and then you dived down into the clouds and in the ocean. So that was one of those cases where you let the wings go, right? YR: Yeah. I did try in the clouds, but you lose orientation completely. So I did try to take, again, a climb altitude. I thought, okay, I will go out. But most probably, I did something like that. (Laughter) BG: Something that is not very safe, the image. YR: You feel great, but — (Laughter) But you have not the right altitude. So the next thing I saw was just blue. It was the sea. I have also an audible altimeter. So I was at my minimum altitude in that vector — fast — so I pulled that. And then I did open my chute. BG: So the wings have their own parachute, and you have your two parachutes. YR: Exactly. There is a rescue parachute for the wing for two reasons: so I can repair it afterward and especially so nobody takes that, just on his head. BG: I see. Maybe come back here. This is risky stuff indeed. People have died trying to do this kind of thing. And you don't look like a crazy guy; you're a Swiss airline pilot, so you're rather a checklist kind of guy. I assume you have standards. YR: Yeah. I have no checklist for that. (Laughter) BG: Let's not tell your employer. (Laughter) YR: No, that's really two worlds. Civil aviation is something that we know very well. We have a hundred years of experience. And you can adapt really precisely. With that, I have to adapt to something new. That means improvise. So it's really a play between these two approaches. Something that I know very well, these principles. For example, we have two engines on an Airbus; with only one engine, you can fly it. So plan B, always a plan B. In a fighter, you have an ejection seat. That's my ejection seat. So I have the approach of a professional pilot with the respect of a pioneer in front of Mother Nature. BG: It's well said. What happens if one of the engines stops? YR: I do a roll. And then I stabilize, and according to my altitude, I continue on two or three engines. It's sometimes possible. It's quite complicated to explain, but according to which regime I was, I can continue on two and try to get a nice place to land, and then I open my parachute. BG: So the beginning of the flight is actually you jump off a plane or a helicopter, and you go on a dive and accelerate the engines, and then you basically take off mid-air somewhere. And then the landing, as we have seen, arriving on this side of the Channel, is through a parachute. So just as a curiosity, where did you land when you flew over the Grand Canyon? Did you land on the rim, down at the bottom? YR: It was down on the bottom. And I came back afterward on the sled of the helicopter back. But it was too stony and full of cactus on top. (Laughter) BG: That's exactly why I asked the question. YR: And also, the currents are quite funny there. There is big thermal activity, big difference in altitude also. So it was much safer for me to land at the bottom. BG: I think that right now, many people are asking, ""When are you developing a double-seater so they can fly with you?"" YR: I have a standard answer. Have you ever seen tandem birds? (Laughter) BG: Perfect answer. (Applause) (Applause ends) BG: Yves, one last question. What's next for you? What's next for Jetman? YR: First, to instruct a younger guy. I want to share it, to do formation flights. And I plan to start from a cliff, like catapulted from a cliff. BG: So instead of jumping off a plane, yes? YR: Yes, with the final goal to take off, but with initial speed. Really, I go step by step. It seems a little bit crazy, but it's not. It's possible to start already now, it's just too dangerous. (Laughter) Thanks to the increasing technology, better technology, it will be safe. And I hope it will be for everybody. BG: Yves, thank you very much. Yves Rossy. (Applause)"	(音樂) 火箭人 依福斯羅斯 大峽谷 當依福斯駕駛火箭時作為整個本件的一本分我們做了很多的測試 風洞測試 火箭沒有轉向器沒有副翼 沒有方向盤依福斯靠著身體轉動火箭 stenfan von bergen 項目經理： 看他通過頭部的移動有時在手的幫助下甚至腳來改變方向他就像是一個人體機身非常的特別 當他抬起背時高度就會增加當他前移肩部時高度就會降低 瑞士阿爾卑斯山脈 飛躍直布羅陀海峽 飛躍英吉利海峽 評論員 看他出發了依福斯羅斯我想雙翼應該打開了 的確打開了這是我們第一個關鍵的時刻 它打開了他在下降 他在飛行嗎 評論員2 他看起來找到了平衡開始爬升了 評論員 這就是你說的那個起航的90度回轉他正飛躍在海峽上好的 依福斯羅斯這就沒有回頭路了他正在穿越英吉利海峽女士們先生們歷史性的飛行已經開始了 評論員2 當他靠近地面時他要打開降落傘的安全栓慢慢地降低速度然後非常完美的降落 看依福斯羅斯在英國大陸上降落了 布魯諾朱薩尼（ted歐洲區主管） 他現在就在愛丁堡 歡迎依福斯羅斯（掌聲）當然他的裝備也來了 歡迎你 依福斯 相當的驚奇這個視頻是在你這三年中數次的飛行的一個剪輯當然還有很多很多看了它 我們可以幾乎像鳥一樣的飛行了吧在天上是什麽感覺 羅伊斯 很好玩（笑）我沒有羽毛但是我時常感覺就像鳥似的這是不真實的感受因為總有一個飛機在你旁邊當我只背上這小東西這翅膀時我才有感覺像鳥一樣 布 你是如何成為火箭人的 依 那是差不多20年前在我知道自由落體時人只要走出了飛機就幾乎沒有保護你就要這樣做特別是你做這種下降的樣子時你真的是有種你在飛的感覺這就是離我飛行最近的夢想在你身邊沒有機器你就像在飛那持續的非常短也只能在一個方向所以就有了這樣的想法保持這種自由的感覺但是能夠改變方向和增加時間 布 我有點好奇 速度最快能多少 在迴旋前大概300km每小時這就意味著190英里每小時 布 那你帶的裝備有多重 依 當加滿燃料時我大概55kg然後在背上個55kg 布 從某種感覺上你沒有在駕駛沒有手柄沒有轉向器就只有你的身體感覺像是翅膀和你身體的互相成為了彼此的一部份 依 那自然是我們的目標因為加入你加入了方向盤你就像是又發明了一遍飛機我也希望能一直保持這種自由的感覺就像小孩子模仿飛機一樣的感覺我想下降時就這樣上升 轉向就是一種純粹的飛行不是操控方向盤 而是飛行 布 你又會做一些怎樣的訓練個人的 爲了飛行 依 事實上 我就只需要保持體重沒有做什麽特殊的身體訓練就是通過新的活動保持靈活性比如上個冬天 我開始了風箏衝浪新事物所以你要去適應它因為我作為一個火箭人對這方面的系統還是比較有經驗的但是這項運動還是很需要靈敏性的你要很靈活並且還要變得很快 布 有的觀眾問我你是如何呼吸的因為你飛的很快并會到海拔3000m以上 依 到了3000m以上氧氣其實並不是什麽大問題比如 摩托車手他們和這是差不多的速度帶上頭盔一整個頭盔呼吸也不是什麽問題 跟我們介紹一下你在這的裝備吧有四個引擎 依 對 兩米寬超穩定的支架四個小引擎每個都是渦輪的22kg推力柴油供應機廠 降落傘我唯一用的是高度計和秒錶我有大概八分鐘的燃料所以一定要確保沒有燒完（笑）然後最後的兩個降落傘假如第一個壞掉了我就可以去拉第二個這是我生命的保證是對安全問題很重要的東西在過去的15年我用了大概20次這個傘但是這個型號沒有遇到這樣的問題 但是在一開始我是會放棄我的翅膀當我很不平衡甚至打轉 布 我們看了2009年穿越直布羅陀海峽的那是當你失去控制時你直接降到了雲層下墜入海中這是你放棄火箭當中的一次對吧 依 是的我在雲中嘗試了但是你完全丟掉了方向我還是嘗試再一次攀升高度我想這應該就能解決了但是大部份時候卻那樣了 布 這給人很不安全的感覺 依 但是你會感覺很爽卻掉了下去接下來我看到的就是一片藍就是大海了我也有一個有語音功能的高度計所以當我知道在最低高度時速度很快的我就放棄了火箭打開了降落傘 所以火箭是有它自己的降落傘 在你身上還有兩個降落傘 對 為火箭也配了降落傘因為第一我可以在事後修它第二不會有人被活生生的砸到 布 好我明白了 可以回到這裡了這是一個有一定風險的東西有很多人爲了這個付出了自己的生命你看起來也不像一個狂人 你是一個瑞士的飛行員所以你應該是那種注重安全性的人對於這個你應該有自己的分寸 依 是的 那就是不注意安全 布 那這就最好不要告訴你的贊助了 依 不是那樣的 那是兩個世界正統飛行學是我們很瞭解的領域我們已經有100年的歷史你有一個模子去模仿但是這個我就要去領悟一些新的東西這就意味著是去創作在這兩者間也有一定的聯繫一些我很懂的東西一些原則 比如我們的客機有兩個引擎但是只有一個時 你也是可以飛的這就是備用機換 同樣的戰鬥機種 是有彈出式的座椅這就是我的彈出式座椅我有作為一個職業飛行員的知識同時以一個開創者運用自然的力量 布 說的很好假如有一個引擎壞掉了你怎麼辦 依 我會打轉然後試著平衡根據我的高度我現在有2或3個引擎有時可能有機會這可能有點難解釋但是根據我的高度我可以靠著兩個繼續飛然後這一個好的地方降落 打開降落傘 布 在飛行一開始你是從一個飛機或直升機上跳下來的然後俯衝加速估計應該是在半空中飛行最後降落 這就是我們看到的到達海峽的另一端借著降落傘降落處於好奇當初你飛過大峽谷是在哪裡降落的是在邊緣 還是下降到了地面 我是降到了地面然後靠著直升機回來的因為表面太多的石頭和仙人掌 布 這就是我爲什麽問這個問題 依 並且當時的氣流有點意思有一股巨大的上升暖氣流在高度上也有很大的不同所以降落在地面會安全鞋 布 我想現在很多觀眾會問你什麽時候造一個雙人的那樣我們就可以一起飛了 依我給出很明確的回答你們見過串聯在一起的鳥嗎 布 絕妙的回答（掌聲）依福斯 最後一個問題下一個目標是哪裡 火箭人的下一個目標 依 首先找一個年輕人教會他去做列隊飛行我準備從一個懸崖出發就像從懸崖旁彈射出去一樣 布 就不從飛機上跳了吧 依 最終目標是能用初速度起飛真的是一步一步來聽起來有點假但是不是的現在是有可能去做的 但是太危險了（笑）有更好的技術就會更安全我希望最後每個人都能用 布 依福斯 非常感謝 依福斯羅斯 （掌聲）
