Talk	en	zh-tw
zahra_langhi_why_libya_s_revolution_didn_t_work_and_what_might	"I have never, ever forgotten the words of my grandmother who died in her exile: ""Son, resist Gaddafi. Fight him. But don't you ever turn into a Gaddafi-like revolutionary."" Almost two years have passed since the Libyan Revolution broke out, inspired by the waves of mass mobilization in both the Tunisian and the Egyptian revolutions. I joined forces with many other Libyans inside and outside Libya to call for a day of rage and to initiate a revolution against the tyrannical regime of Gaddafi. And there it was, a great revolution. Young Libyan women and men were at the forefront calling for the fall of the regime, raising slogans of freedom, dignity, social justice. They have shown an exemplary bravery in confronting the brutal dictatorship of Gaddafi. They have shown a great sense of solidarity from the far east to the far west to the south. Eventually, after a period of six months of brutal war and a toll rate of almost 50,000 dead, we managed to liberate our country and to topple the tyrant. (Applause) However, Gaddafi left behind a heavy burden, a legacy of tyranny, corruption and seeds of diversions. For four decades Gaddafi's tyrannical regime destroyed the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral fabric of Libyan society. Aware of the devastation and the challenges, I was keen among many other women to rebuild the Libyan civil society, calling for an inclusive and just transition to democracy and national reconciliation. Almost 200 organizations were established in Benghazi during and immediately after the fall of Gaddafi — almost 300 in Tripoli. After a period of 33 years in exile, I went back to Libya, and with unique enthusiasm, I started organizing workshops on capacity building, on human development of leadership skills. With an amazing group of women, I co-founded the Libyan Women's Platform for Peace, a movement of women, leaders, from different walks of life, to lobby for the sociopolitical empowerment of women and to lobby for our right for equal participation in building democracy and peace. I met a very difficult environment in the pre-elections, an environment which was increasingly polarized, an environment which was shaped by the selfish politics of dominance and exclusion. I led an initiative by the Libyan Women's Platform for Peace to lobby for a more inclusive electoral law, a law that would give every citizen, no matter what your background, the right to vote and run, and most importantly to stipulate on political parties the alternation of male and female candidates vertically and horizontally in their lists, creating the zipper list. Eventually, our initiative was adopted and successful. Women won 17.5 percent of the National Congress in the first elections ever in 52 years. (Applause) However, bit by bit, the euphoria of the elections, and of the revolution as a whole, was fading out — for every day we were waking up to the news of violence. One day we wake up to the news of the desecration of ancient mosques and Sufi tombs. On another day we wake up to the news of the murder of the American ambassador and the attack on the consulate. On another day we wake up to the news of the assassination of army officers. And every day, every day we wake up with the rule of the militias and their continuous violations of human rights of prisoners and their disrespect of the rule of law. Our society, shaped by a revolutionary mindset, became more polarized and has driven away from the ideals and the principles — freedom, dignity, social justice — that we first held. Intolerance, exclusion and revenge became the icons of the [aftermath] of the revolution. I am here today not at all to inspire you with our success story of the zipper list and the elections. I'm rather here today to confess that we as a nation took the wrong choice, made the wrong decision. We did not prioritize right. For elections did not bring peace and stability and security in Libya. Did the zipper list and the alternation between female and male candidates bring peace and national reconciliation? No, it didn't. What is it, then? Why does our society continue to be polarized and dominated with selfish politics of dominance and exclusion, by both men and women? Maybe what was missing was not the women only, but the feminine values of compassion, mercy and inclusion. Our society needs national dialogue and consensus-building more than it needed the elections, which only reinforced polarization and division. Our society needs the qualitative representation of the feminine more than it needs the numerical, quantitative representation of the feminine. We need to stop acting as agents of rage and calling for days of rage. We need to start acting as agents of compassion and mercy. We need to develop a feminine discourse that not only honors but also implements mercy instead of revenge, collaboration instead of competition, inclusion instead of exclusion. These are the ideals that a war-torn Libya needs desperately in order to achieve peace. For peace has an alchemy, and this alchemy is about the intertwining, the alternation between the feminine and masculine perspectives. That's the real zipper. And we need to establish that existentially before we do so sociopolitically. According to a Quranic verse ""Salam"" — peace — ""is the word of the all-merciful God, raheem."" In turn, the word ""raheem,"" which is known in all Abrahamic traditions, has the same root in Arabic as the word ""rahem"" — womb — symbolizing the maternal feminine encompassing all humanity from which the male and the female, from which all tribes, all peoples, have emanated from. And so just as the womb entirely envelopes the embryo, which grows within it, the divine matrix of compassion nourishes the entire existence. Thus we are told that ""My mercy encompasses all things."" Thus we are told that ""My mercy takes precedence over my anger."" May we all be granted a grace of mercy. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我從來沒有忘記過我祖母說過的話流亡路上去世的祖母"" 我的孩子阿，阻止格達費，反抗他。但是你千萬不要轉變成像格達費那樣的革命。"" 自從利比亞的革命爆發以來已經過了將近兩年的時間，受到突尼西亞和埃及大規模動員反抗的鼓舞我和許多利比亞人在境內和境外都參與了武裝反抗，這是為了響應“憤怒日”，並且引爆了反抗格達費暴君政權的革命。而這無疑的是一場偉大的革命。利比亞的年輕人，不論男女，全部都站在前線，因為受到了推翻政府的感召，並對於自由、尊嚴、社會公平的口號日漸增強。他們在對抗像格達費這樣的獨裁政權時，展現出來的勇氣是全世界的典範。他們表現出無比的團結，從東至西再延伸到南邊。終於，在經歷了六個月的殘酷戰爭後，其中的死亡人數將近五萬人，我們現在想要做的是解放我們的國家並且擊垮暴君。 (掌聲) 然而，格達費留下的卻是一堆爛攤子，暴政的傳承、國家的腐敗和分裂的種子。因為格達費連續四十年的暴政，摧毀了利比亞的基礎建設、文化、道德規範和社會結構。相較於其他的女人，我很敏銳的意識到這些破壞，和修復民間社會時將面臨的挑戰，因為這牽扯到了國家的全面性，和轉型到民主體制時全國的共識。有將近兩百個組織在格達費垮台後迅速地建立了起來。而在的黎波里則有將近三百個。 在經歷了33年的流亡生涯後，我回到了利比亞，並抱持著一種獨特的熱情，我開始組織起一個工作室，旨在教人蓋建築物、教人如何培養領導技能。在一群了不起的女人的合作下，我共同創辦了利比亞女人和平聯盟一場能讓來自不同領域的女人、領導者參與的運動，目的是去遊說並讓社會政治賦予婦女權力，並且為了基本的權利去遊說，讓婦女們都能擁有建立民主和和平的平等參與權。 我在選舉前碰到了很艱難的狀況，一個愈發極端著的狀況，一個因為擁有權力且排他的自私政客而造成的狀況。我帶領著初期的利比亞女人和平聯盟，去遊說成立一個包容性較高的選舉法，一個讓每一位市民，不管你的成長背景為何，都擁有投票和競選權力的法，最重要的是要去規範我們的政黨，讓男性和女性能輪流地去參選，不管是不同層級或同一階層的參選名單，都能夠有交叉式的名單出現。終於，我們的初始目標被採納且成功了。女人在國會中贏得了17.5%席位這是52年以來的第一次選舉。 (掌聲) 不管如何，一步一步地，選戰後的喜悅，以及整個革命的行動，已經一去不復返。每一天，我們在充滿暴力的新聞中醒來。某一天我們起床看到的是古清真寺和蘇菲古墓被褻瀆的新聞。在另一天我們起床看到的是美國大使在領事館被殺的新聞。又在某一天，我們因為軍官被刺殺的新聞而醒來。接下來的每一天，每一天，我們都在軍人的統治之下起來，伴隨著他們無止盡地違反對犯人的基本人權，還有他們對法規的不尊重。 我們的社會，被革命的意志塑造，變得越來越極端，並且與理想和信念背道而馳，自由、尊嚴、社會公平這些我們最初的信念。不寬容、排他和復仇變成了革命後的標誌。我在這裡的目的並不是要激勵你們因為我們曾經成功的達成了交叉選舉名單和選舉權。相反的，我今天來這裡的目的是要懺悔，我們這個國家做出了錯誤的選擇，採納了不正確的決策。我們沒有將權力的優先順序做排序。因為選舉並沒有為利比亞帶來和平、穩定和安全。選舉名單的男女交叉和輪流有帶來和平和國家共識嗎?不，它沒有。這到底是為什麼呢?為什麼我們的社會持續的極端化並且被有權且排他的自私政客統治?而這些政客不分男女都有參與。 也許我們失去的不僅僅是女人這個個體，而是普遍的女性價值，同情心、慈悲心和包容心。我們的社會需要做一個國內的溝通並且建立起共識這比選舉本身還要重要，選舉僅僅造就了極端化和分裂。我們的社會需要有本質上的女性代表，這比數值上的女性代表還來的需要。 我們必須停止憤怒的行為和停止響應憤怒日。我們必須開始表現出同情心和慈悲心。我們必須發展出女性的論述這不是只為了推崇而是為了落實，以慈悲取代憤怒，合作取代競爭，包容取代排外。這些理想是飽受戰爭摧殘的利比亞，為了達到和平的目的而迫切需要的。 和平有個化學方程式，這個化學方程式是由男性和女性的觀念交織和替換所組成的。也就是說，真正的男女交叉共識。而且我們必須在社會政治運作之前建立起男女交叉共識的存在。 根據可蘭經的一段經文，“Salam” — 和平 — “是所有神的共通話語，raheem”接著，raheem 這個字，在亞伯拉罕習俗中是非常常見的，和阿拉伯的字 ""rahem"" — 子宮 — 有著同樣的字根，代表著母性的意念環繞著人性，不管你是男是女，不管你是哪個部落來的，不管世界各地來的各個人種。就像子宮包覆著在其中發育的胎兒一樣，神聖的子宮和藹的滋養所有的存在。因此，我們被教誨著 ‘ 我的慈悲環繞著世間萬物。 ’因此，我們了解“我的慈悲超越了我的憤怒” 願我們都能被賜與慈悲的恩惠(掌聲) 謝謝你們。 (掌聲)"
