Talk	en	zh-tw
zainab_salbi	"I woke up in the middle of the night with the sound of heavy explosion. It was deep at night. I do not remember what time it was. I just remember the sound was so heavy and so very shocking. Everything in my room was shaking — my heart, my windows, my bed, everything. I looked out the windows and I saw a full half-circle of explosion. I thought it was just like the movies, but the movies had not conveyed them in the powerful image that I was seeing full of bright red and orange and gray, and a full circle of explosion. And I kept on staring at it until it disappeared. I went back to my bed, and I prayed, and I secretly thanked God that that missile did not land on my family's home, that it did not kill my family that night. Thirty years have passed, and I still feel guilty about that prayer, for the next day, I learned that that missile landed on my brother's friend's home and killed him and his father, but did not kill his mother or his sister. His mother showed up the next week at my brother's classroom and begged seven-year-old kids to share with her any picture they may have of her son, for she had lost everything. This is not a story of a nameless survivor of war, and nameless refugees, whose stereotypical images we see in our newspapers and our TV with tattered clothes, dirty face, scared eyes. This is not a story of a nameless someone who lived in some war, who we do not know their hopes, their dreams, their accomplishments, their families, their beliefs, their values. This is my story. I was that girl. I am another image and vision of another survivor of war. I am that refugee, and I am that girl. You see, I grew up in war-torn Iraq, and I believe that there are two sides of wars and we've only seen one side of it. We only talk about one side of it. But there's another side that I have witnessed as someone who lived in it and someone who ended up working in it. I grew up with the colors of war — the red colors of fire and blood, the brown tones of earth as it explodes in our faces and the piercing silver of an exploded missile, so bright that nothing can protect your eyes from it. I grew up with the sounds of war — the staccato sounds of gunfire, the wrenching booms of explosions, ominous drones of jets flying overhead and the wailing warning sounds of sirens. These are the sounds you would expect, but they are also the sounds of dissonant concerts of a flock of birds screeching in the night, the high-pitched honest cries of children and the thunderous, unbearable silence. ""War,"" a friend of mine said, ""is not about sound at all. It is actually about silence, the silence of humanity."" I have since left Iraq and founded a group called Women for Women International that ends up working with women survivors of wars. In my travels and in my work, from Congo to Afghanistan, from Sudan to Rwanda, I have learned not only that the colors and the sounds of war are the same, but the fears of war are the same. You know, there is a fear of dying, and do not believe any movie character where the hero is not afraid. It is very scary to go through that feeling of ""I am about to die"" or ""I could die in this explosion."" But there's also the fear of losing loved ones, and I think that's even worse. It's too painful. You don't want to think about it. But I think the worst kind of fear is the fear — as Samia, a Bosnian woman, once told me, who survived the four-years besiege of Sarajevo; she said, ""The fear of losing the 'I' in me, the fear of losing the 'I' in me."" That's what my mother in Iraq used to tell me. It's like dying from inside-out. A Palestinian woman once told me, ""It is not about the fear of one death,"" she said, ""sometimes I feel I die 10 times in one day,"" as she was describing the marches of soldiers and the sounds of their bullets. She said, ""But it's not fair, because there is only one life, and there should only be one death."" We have been only seeing one side of war. We have only been discussing and consumed with high-level preoccupations over troop levels, drawdown timelines, surges and sting operations, when we should be examining the details of where the social fabric has been most torn, where the community has improvised and survived and shown acts of resilience and amazing courage just to keep life going. We have been so consumed with seemingly objective discussions of politics, tactics, weapons, dollars and casualties. This is the language of sterility. How casually we treat casualties in the context of this topic. This is where we conceive of rape and casualties as inevitabilities. Eighty percent of refugees around the world are women and children. Oh. Ninety percent of modern war casualties are civilians. Seventy-five percent of them are women and children. How interesting. Oh, half a million women in Rwanda get raped in 100 days. Or, as we speak now, hundreds of thousands of Congolese women are getting raped and mutilated. How interesting. These just become numbers that we refer to. The front of wars is increasingly non-human eyes peering down on our perceived enemies from space, guiding missiles toward unseen targets, while the human conduct of the orchestra of media relations in the event that this particular drone attack hits a villager instead of an extremist. It is a chess game. You learn to play an international relations school on your way out and up to national and international leadership. Checkmate. We are missing a completely other side of wars. We are missing my mother's story, who made sure with every siren, with every raid, with every cut off-of electricity, she played puppet shows for my brothers and I, so we would not be scared of the sounds of explosions. We are missing the story of Fareeda, a music teacher, a piano teacher, in Sarajevo, who made sure that she kept the music school open every single day in the four years of besiege in Sarajevo and walked to that school, despite the snipers shooting at that school and at her, and kept the piano, the violin, the cello playing the whole duration of the war, with students wearing their gloves and hats and coats. That was her fight. That was her resistance. We are missing the story of Nehia, a Palestinian woman in Gaza who, the minute there was a cease-fire in the last year's war, she left out of home, collected all the flour and baked as much bread for every neighbor to have, in case there is no cease-fire the day after. We are missing the stories of Violet, who, despite surviving genocide in the church massacre, she kept on going on, burying bodies, cleaning homes, cleaning the streets. We are missing stories of women who are literally keeping life going in the midst of wars. Do you know — do you know that people fall in love in war and go to school and go to factories and hospitals and get divorced and go dancing and go playing and live life going? And the ones who are keeping that life are women. There are two sides of war. There is a side that fights, and there is a side that keeps the schools and the factories and the hospitals open. There is a side that is focused on winning battles, and there is a side that is focused on winning life. There is a side that leads the front-line discussion, and there is a side that leads the back-line discussion. There is a side that thinks that peace is the end of fighting, and there is a side that thinks that peace is the arrival of schools and jobs. There is a side that is led by men, and there is a side that is led by women. And in order for us to understand how do we build lasting peace, we must understand war and peace from both sides. We must have a full picture of what that means. In order for us to understand what actually peace means, we need to understand, as one Sudanese woman once told me, ""Peace is the fact that my toenails are growing back again."" She grew up in Sudan, in Southern Sudan, for 20 years of war, where it killed one million people and displaced five million refugees. Many women were taken as slaves by rebels and soldiers, as sexual slaves who were forced also to carry the ammunition and the water and the food for the soldiers. So that woman walked for 20 years, so she would not be kidnapped again. And only when there was some sort of peace, her toenails grew back again. We need to understand peace from a toenail's perspective. We need to understand that we cannot actually have negotiations of ending of wars or peace without fully including women at the negotiating table. I find it amazing that the only group of people who are not fighting and not killing and not pillaging and not burning and not raping, and the group of people who are mostly — though not exclusively — who are keeping life going in the midst of war, are not included in the negotiating table. And I do argue that women lead the back-line discussion, but there are also men who are excluded from that discussion. The doctors who are not fighting, the artists, the students, the men who refuse to pick up the guns, they are, too, excluded from the negotiating tables. There is no way we can talk about a lasting peace, building of democracy, sustainable economies, any kind of stabilities, if we do not fully include women at the negotiating table. Not one, but 50 percent. There is no way we can talk about the building of stability if we don't start investing in women and girls. Did you know that one year of the world's military spending equals 700 years of the U.N. budget and equals 2,928 years of the U.N. budget allocated for women? If we just reverse that distribution of funds, perhaps we could have a better lasting peace in this world. And last, but not least, we need to invest in peace and women, not only because it is the right thing to do, not only because it is the right thing to do, for all of us to build sustainable and lasting peace today, but it is for the future. A Congolese woman, who was telling me about how her children saw their father killed in front of them and saw her raped in front of them and mutilated in front of them, and her children saw their nine-year-old sibling killed in front of them, how they're doing okay right now. She got into Women for Women International's program. She got a support network. She learned about her rights. We taught her vocational and business skills. We helped her get a job. She was earning 450 dollars. She was doing okay. She was sending them to school. Have a new home. She said, ""But what I worry about the most is not any of that. I worry that my children have hate in their hearts, and when they want to grow up, they want to fight again the killers of their father and their brother."" We need to invest in women, because that's our only chance to ensure that there is no more war in the future. That mother has a better chance to heal her children than any peace agreement can do. Are there good news? Of course, there are good news. There are lots of good news. To start with, these women that I told you about are dancing and singing every single day, and if they can, who are we not to dance? That girl that I told you about ended up starting Women for Women International Group that impacted one million people, sent 80 million dollars, and I started this from zero, nothing, nada, [unclear]. (Laughter) They are women who are standing on their feet in spite of their circumstances, not because of it. Think of how the world can be a much better place if, for a change, we have a better equality, we have equality, we have a representation and we understand war, both from the front-line and the back-line discussion. Rumi, a 13th-century Sufi poet, says, ""Out beyond the worlds of right-doings and wrong-doings, there is a field. I will meet you there. When the soul lies down in that grass, the world is too full to talk about. Ideas, language, even the phrase 'each other' no longer makes any sense."" I humbly add — humbly add — that out beyond the worlds of war and peace, there is a field, and there are many women and men [who] are meeting there. Let us make this field a much bigger place. Let us all meet in that field. Thank you. (Applause)"	"半夜傳來巨大的爆炸聲響把我從睡夢中吵醒那時已經很晚了我不記得確切的時間我只記得那聲音是如此的響亮如此的嚇人我房間的東西都在晃動我的心, 我的窗戶我的床 — 每件東西我望向窗外我看到一個完整的半圓形的爆炸我以為那只是電影,但電影不足以表達出我所看到的這個強大的影像—那鮮艷的紅色橙色和灰色和完整的爆炸情景我目不轉睛的看著直到他消失在我的眼前我回到床上然後禱告而我偷偷的感謝上帝那枚導彈沒有墜落在我家那天晚上我的家人沒有因此而死去三十年過去了我仍然對那次的禱告感到罪惡隔天我才知道, 那枚導彈墜落在我哥哥的朋友家殺害了他和他的爸爸但沒有殺死他媽媽或姊妹一個禮拜後,他媽媽去我哥哥的教室拜託那些七歲大的孩子跟她分享他們擁有的任何一張她兒子的照片因為她失去了一切 這不只是個默默無名戰後倖存者的故事或是我們在報紙上看到的那些默默無名 一成不變的難民照片或是在電視上看到衣衫襤褸的難民他們汙穢的臉和害怕的眼神這不只是個生活在某個戰爭某個無姓名的人的故事我們不清楚他們的希望, 他們的夢想他們的成就, 他們的家人他們的信仰 他們的價值觀這是我的故事我就是那個女孩我是那另一個影像和角度的另一個戰後倖存者我就是那個難民而我就是那個女孩事實上,我在飽受戰爭蹂躪的伊拉克長大我相信戰爭是兩面性的而我們只看到其中的一面而已我們只討論其中的一面但我親眼看到有人在戰爭的另一面裡生活著工作著 我在戰爭的色彩中成長砲火和血液的紅色大地在爆炸時的棕色色彩映在我們的臉上而爆炸的導彈所散發出刺眼的銀色如此的閃亮沒有任何東西能保護你的眼睛不去看到我在戰爭的聲響中長大斷斷續續的槍擊聲猛烈的隆隆砲彈聲噴射機的嗡嗡聲在上空飛來飛去和氣笛所發出的尖嘯警告聲這些都是你預料得到的聲響但也有些聲音是一群鳥在夜空中不一致的尖叫著孩子們誠實的高八度哭著和強而有力卻令人無法忍受的安靜“戰爭,“ 我的一位友人說,“和聲音沒有太大關係.""事實上, 戰爭是關於靜默人類對戰爭所表現出的靜默 我離開伊拉克以後成立了 Women for Women International 組織開始幫助戰爭後的女性倖存者在我的旅程和工作中從剛果到阿富汗從蘇丹到盧安達我不只看到戰爭的色彩和聲音相同但對於戰爭的恐懼都是相同的你知道, 那些對於死亡的恐懼不要相信任何電影演員表現出來的什麼英雄絕不會害怕死亡經歷那種“我快要死去“或“我也許會在這場爆炸中死去“的感覺是一件令人害怕的事情但我想害怕失去摯愛的恐懼恐怕更糟痛到你甚至不願去想起可是 我想最恐怖的恐懼恐怕是像Samia, 一位在塞拉耶佛四年的圍攻中生存下來的玻茲尼亞女人和我敘說的那種恐懼她說：“那種失去自我的恐懼,失去自我的恐懼。""那是我在伊拉克的媽媽以前常告訴我的話就像是從內到外的死去一位巴勒斯坦女人有一次告訴我,“那不只是死去一次的恐懼而已,""在她形容軍人的行軍和他們子彈的聲音時,她說,""有的時候我覺得我在一天之中死了十次。""而她說：""但這一切並不公平,因為人一生只有一次生命,所以應該只有一次死亡而已, 不是嗎？“ 到目前為止 我們只看到戰爭的其中一面我們至今只討論和著迷於如何在軍事上佔領越來越多的領土, 計畫作戰時間如何增兵和臥底行動當我們應該調查在社會架構的細節裡哪裡被分裂最嚴重哪裡的社區是臨時形成的及倖存者及其表現出的恢復力和驚人的勇氣就只為了讓生活繼續過下去我們只著迷在政治,戰術武器,金錢戰爭裡的傷亡人員等表面上客觀的討論這是個內容匱乏的溝通方式 在這個議題上我們對待戰爭的傷亡人員態度是如此的輕率因此我們認為強暴和戰爭的傷亡人員是不可逃避的責任世界上80%的難民是女人和小孩—喔90%的戰爭傷亡者是平民老百姓其中75%是女人和小孩多麼有趣的話題呀喔, 在盧安達 五十萬的女性在一百天之內遭到強暴或者, 在我們現在在講話的同時數以千計的剛果女人正遭到強暴和凌虐多麼有趣呀這些只不過變成我們參考的數字而已在戰爭前線越來越多的衛星從太空中向下凝視著我們已知的敵人們指引著導彈前往看不見的攻擊目標就在人們為了為了媒體而擁有的表演中這個特定的無人駕駛武器攻擊沒打到激烈分子反而打到一個無辜的村民這是場西洋棋比賽你學習去玩一場國際關係的遊戲在你離開的時候學習迎合國內和國際的領導者將軍，遊戲結束 我們缺少了戰爭另一面的完整面貌我們缺少了我媽媽的故事在每次的警笛聲, 每次的空襲, 每次的斷電她都在那裡保護著我們她為了我和我哥哥表演木偶秀讓我們不會對爆炸的聲音感到害怕我們缺少了Fareeda 的故事她是位音樂老師一位在塞拉耶佛的鋼琴老師在塞拉耶佛四年裡的圍攻行動裡她日復一日堅持開放著自己的音樂學校在整個戰爭期間不管狙擊兵拿著槍瞄準她和學校她依然走到學校讓學生戴著手套,帽子, 穿著外套演奏著鋼琴,小提琴,大提琴這是屬於她的戰爭這是她對於戰爭的抵抗我們缺少了Nehia 的故事一個在加薩的巴勒斯坦女人在去年開始的戰爭停火的那一瞬間她離開了家收集所有的麵粉烤了許多的麵包分配給鄰居們就怕接下來可能會繼續打仗我們缺少了Violet的故事她不管自己才剛從教堂的集體大屠殺中生存下來她仍繼續埋葬屍體整理家園, 打掃街道我們缺少了那些在戰火中仍然努力生活著的女人們的故事你知道—你知道仍有些人是在戰時相愛去上學仍然去工廠和醫院工作離婚,跳舞,玩樂努力生活著的嗎？而努力那樣生活著的都是女人 戰爭是兩面性的一面是在戰場上打仗而另一面則是開放學校工廠和醫院給有需要的人們的一面是專注在如何在戰場上打勝仗而另一面是專注在如何讓生活變得更好一面是讓我們討論著前方的作戰策略另一面是讓我們討論後方的生活策略一面是覺得不打仗了就是和平但另一面則是認為所謂的和平就是能安全的抵達學校和工作地點有一面是由男人來主導的而有一面是由女人來掌管的為了讓我們能夠更加了解我們要如何建立長久的和平我們必須從兩邊去了解戰爭與和平我們必須全面性的去了解其背後真正的意義 為了讓我們了解何謂真正的和平我們必須去了解就如同一位蘇丹女人跟我說的,“對我而言, 所謂的和平是當我的腳指甲重新長回來的時候。“她在蘇丹南方長大20年間的戰爭造成一百萬的人民死亡迫使五百萬的難民必須離開家鄉許多女人被革命軍和軍隊當成奴隸般的對待被迫成為軍人的性奴隸還必須扛軍火和水以及食物所以這女人為了不再被軍隊抓到她到處逃難了20年她的腳指甲只有可能在和平來臨時才有可能會再長出來我們必須從腳指甲的這個觀點來了解和平的意義 我們必須了解到如果我們不把女人涵蓋進來的話所謂為了停止戰爭或為了和平的協議就失去了意義在談判桌上我驚訝的發現這群唯一在戰爭中沒有打仗 沒有殺人沒有搶劫 沒有放火 沒有強暴這群人雖然不是唯一一群但是是最頻繁為了讓生活在戰火蔓延中繼續過下去而努力的人們竟然沒有在談判桌上我主張女人應主導對於後方重建的議題但事實上有許多男人在這個議題上被排除在外沒有去打仗的醫生們那些藝術家,學生, 不願拿起槍去作戰的男人們他們在談判桌上被嚴重的排除在外我們不能討論如何保持長久和平建立民主國家, 穩定的經濟任何形態的穩定局勢如果我們不延攬女人在在談判桌上的話就無法達成而且至少一半要是女人 如果我們不開始在女人和女孩身上投資我們是不能討論建立穩定的社會你知道世界上所有軍隊一年的支出相當於700年的聯合國的預算相當於2928年的聯合國對女性的預算如果我們把這些預算發放在女性身上的話或許世界上會有個更美好的和平景象同樣重要的是我們必須投資在和平和女人上不只因為我們該作這件正確的事情我們該作這件正確的事情不只是為了今天我們能建立穩定且長久的和平而是為了未來 一個剛果女人告訴我她的孩子們目睹自己父親在他們面前被殺害看到母親在他們面前被強暴在他們面前被凌虐她的孩子們看到他們九歲大的兄弟姊妹在他們面前被殺害他們要如何過得好好的？她加入了Women for Women International 計畫她得到了支援知道她的權利我們教導她職業和商業技巧. 幫助她找到了工作她現在能賺$450. 現在過得很好她把孩子們送去上學— 有了新家她說, “我最擔心的並不是這些我擔心的是我的小孩心中有怨恨我怕他們長大後，會想要找殺害他們父親和兄弟的兇手復仇""我們需要在女人身上投資因為那是我們確保未來不會再有任何的戰爭的唯一機會母親是比任何和平協議都能治愈她們的孩子 你問我有好消息嗎？ 當然有 有好多好多的好消息首先, 我剛剛提到的女人們現在每天開心的唱歌跳舞著如果他們能這麼做我們為何不能呢？我剛剛提到的女孩現在開始在Women for Women International Group 工作她能影響一百萬人, 動用八千萬美金的經費而我那時可是從零開始什麼都沒有, nada, [不清楚] （笑聲） 這些女人是在艱難的環境中生存了下來不只如此他們想讓世界變得更加美好如果,我們要有改變我們有更好的平等機會我們是平等的我們有人能替我們發聲而我們了解戰爭不只是前線還有後方 魯米, 一位13世紀蘇非派的詩人說, “在正確的行為和錯誤的行為的世界之外那裡有個地方我會在那裡和你相見當靈魂躺在那裡的草皮上時談論世界太過於多餘想法, 語言甚至 “彼此“這個片語都不再有任何意義“我虛心的改成—虛心的改成在戰爭與和平的世界之外那裡有個地方許多女人和男人在那裡相遇讓我們擴大那個地方讓我們都在那裡相遇 謝謝你們 （掌聲）"
