Talk	en	zh-tw
ze_frank_s_nerdcore_comedy	"You know, when Chris first approached me to speak at TED, I said no, because I felt like I wasn't going to be able to make that personal connection, you know, that I wanted to. It's such a large conference. But he explained to me that he was in a bind, and that he was having trouble finding the kind of sex appeal and star power that the conference was known for. So I said fine, Ted — I mean Chris. I'll come on two conditions. One: I want to speak as early in the morning as possible. And two: I want to pick the theme for TED 2006. And luckily he agreed. And the theme, in two years, is going to be ""Cute Pictures Of Puppies."" (Video) (Music) [How to Dance Properly BASIC TWIRL] [NEW SCHOOL] [OLD SCHOOL] [WHO'S YOUR DADDY?] [""RIDE THE PONY""] [MAKE LOVE TO THE CROWD] [SMACKING THAT ASS] [STIR THE POT OF LOVE] [HANGING OUT ... CASUAL] [WORD.] (Applause) I invented the Placebo Camera. (Laughter) It doesn't actually take pictures, but it's a hell of a lot cheaper, and you still feel like you were there. (Laughter) (Clears his throat) (Laughter) ""Dear Sir, good day, compliments of the day, and my best wishes to you and family. (Breathes in) I know this letter will come to you surprisingly, but let it not be a surprise to you, for nature has a way of arriving unannounced, and, as an adage says, originals are very hard to find, but their echoes sound ouder. So I decided to contact you myself, for you to assure me of safety and honesty, if I have to entrust any amount of money under your custody. I am Mr Micheal Bangura, the son of late Mr Thaimu Bangura who was the Minister of Finance in Sierra Leone but was killed during the civil war. (Laughter) Knowing your country to be economical conducive for investment, and your people as transparent and trustworthy to engage in business, on which premise I write you. (Laughter) Before my father death, he had the sum of 23 million United States dollars, which he kept away from the rebel leaders during the course of the war. (Laughter) This fund was supposed to be used for the rehabilitation of water reserves all over the country, before the outbreak of war. When the war broke out, the rebel leader demanded the fund be given to him, my father insisted it was not in his possession, and he was killed because of his refusal to release the fund. Meanwhile, my mother and I is the only person who knows about it because my father always confide in me. (Sighs) I made an arrangement with a Red Cross relief worker, who used his official van to transport the money to Lungi Airport, Freetown, although he did not know the real contents of the box. (Laughter) The fund was deposited as a family reasure, in a safe, reliable security company in Dakar, Senegal, where I was only given temporary asylum. I do not wish to invest the money in Senegal due to unfavorable economic climate, and so close to my country. The only assistance I need from you, which I know you would do for me, are the following: one, be a silent partner and receive the funds in your account in trust; two, provide a bank account under your control to which the funds will be remitted; three, receive the funds into your account in trust; take out your commission; and leave the rest of the money until I arrive, after the transfer is complete. Sincerely, Mr Micheal Bangura."" (Laughter) (Applause) This is really embarrassing. I was told backstage that I have 18 minutes. I only prepared 15. (Laughter) So if it's cool, I'd like to just wait for three. (Laughter) (Laughter ends) I'm really sorry. (Laughter) (Applause) What's your name? (Laughter) Mark Surfas. It's pretty cool, huh? Pursuing happiness. (Laughter) Are you a virgin? Virgin? I mean — no, I mean like in the TED sense? (Laughter) Are you? Oh, yeah? So what are you, like, a thousand, two thousand, somewhere in there? Huh? Oh? You don't know what I'm talking about? (Laughter) Ah, Mark — (Laughter) Surfas. (Laughter) 1,860 — am I good? And that's nothing to be ashamed of. That's nothing to be ashamed of. (Applause) Yeah, I was hanging out with some Google guys last night. Really cool, we were getting wasted. (Laughter) And they were telling me that Google software has gotten so advanced that, based on your interaction with Google over your lifetime, they can actually predict what you are going to say — (Laughter) next. And I was like, ""Get the fuck out of here. That's crazy."" (Laughter) But they said, ""No, but don't show anyone."" But they slipped up. And they said that I could just type in ""What was I going to say next?"" and my name, and it would tell me. And I have to tell you, this is an unadulterated piece of software, this is a real Internet browser and this is the actual Google site, and we're going to test it out live today. What was I going to say next? And ""Ze Frank"" — that's me. Am I feeling lucky? (Laughter) (Shouting) Am I feeling lucky? Audience: Yes! Yeah! (Sighs) (Laughter) Ze Frank: Oh! Amazing. (Laughter) In March of 2001 — (Laughter) I filmed myself dancing to Madonna's ""Justify My Love."" On a Thursday, I sent out a link to a website that featured those clips to 17 of my closest friends, as part of an invitation to my — an invitation to my th — th — 26th birthday party. (Laughter) (Clears throat) By Monday, over a million people were coming to this site a day. (Sighs) (Laughter) Within a week, I received a call from Earthlink that said, due to a 10 cents per megabyte overage charge, I owed them 30,000 dollars. (Laughter) Needless to say, I was able to leave my job. [WAS LAID OFF] (Laughter) And, finally, you know, become freelance. (Laughter) [UNEMPLOYED] But some people refer to me more as, like, an Internet guru or — [JACKASS] swami. (Laughter) I knew I had something. I'd basically distilled a very difficult-to-explain and complex philosophy, which I won't get into here, because it's a little too deep for all of you, but — (Laughter) It's about what makes websites popular, and, you know, it's — [DANCE LIKE AN IDIOT AND DON'T SELL ANYTHING] It's unfortunate that I don't have more time. Maybe I can come back next year, or something like that. (Laughter) I'm obsessed with email. I get a lot of it. Four years later, I still get probably two or three hundred emails a day from people I don't know, and it's been an amazing opportunity to kind of get to know different cultures, you know? It's like a microscope to the rest of the world. You can kind of peer into other people's lives. And I also feel like I get a lot of inspiration from the average user. For example, somebody wrote, ""Hey Ze, if you ever come to Boulder, you should rock out with us,"" and I said, ""Why wait?"" [rocking out] (Video) (Music) And they said, ""Hey Ze, thanks for rocking out, but I meant the kind of rocking out where we'd be naked."" (Laughter) And that was embarrassing. But you know, it's kind of a collaboration between me and the fans, so I said, ""Sure."" [rocking out naked] (Video) (Music) (Laughter) I hear a lot of you whispering. (Laughter) And I know what you're saying, ""Holy crap! How is his presentation so smooth?"" (Laughter) And I have to say that it's not all me this year. I guess Chris has to take some credit here, because in years past, I guess there's been some sort of subpar speakers at TED. I don't know. And so, this year, Chris sent us a TED conference simulator. (Laughter) Which really allowed us as speakers to get there, in the trenches, and practice at home so that we would be ready for this experience. And I've got to say that, you know, it's really, really great to be here. (Pre-recorded applause) I'd like to tell all of you a little joke. (Pre-recorded applause and cheering) Not just the good stuff, though. You can do heckler mode. Voice: Hey, moron, get off the stage! ZF: You get off the stage. (Laughter) Voice: We want Malcolm Gladwell. (Laughter) (Baby cooing) (Huge crowd applauding) In case you run over time. (Heroic music) Just one last thing I'd like to say, I'd, really — (Laughter) I'd like to thank all of you for being here. (Loud music) (Laughter) And frog mode. (Singing) (Sings) ""Ah, the first time that I made love to a rock shrimp —"" (Laughter) [Spam jokes are the new airplane jokes] (Sighs) It's true. Some people say to me, ""Ze, you're doing all this stuff, this Internet stuff, and you're not making any money."" (Laughter) ""Why?"" And I say, ""Mom, Dad — (Laughter) I'm trying."" I don't know if you're all aware of this, but the video game market, kids are playing these video games, but, supposedly, there's tons of money. I mean, like, I think, 100,000 dollars or so a year is being spent on these things. So I decided to try my hand. I came up with a few games. (Laughter) This is called ""Atheist."" I figured it would be popular with the young kids. OK. Look, I'll move around and say some things. (Sighs) [Game over. There is no replay.] (Laughter) So that didn't go over so well. (Laughter) I don't really understand why you're laughing. (Laughter) Should have done this before I tried to pitch it. ""Buddhist,"" of course, looks very, very similar to ""Atheist."" (Laughter) But you come back as a duck. (Laughter) And this is great because, you know, for a quarter, you can play this for a long time. (Laughter) And Chris had said in an email that we should really bring something new to TED, something that we haven't shown anyone. So, I made this for TED. It's ""Christian."" It's the third in the series. I'm hoping it's going to do well this year. (Sighs) (Laughter) Do you have a preference? (Laughter) Good choice. (Laughter) So you can wait for the Second Coming, which is a random number between one and 500 million. (Laughter) So really, what are we talking about here? Oh, tech joy. (Laughter) Tech joy, to me, means something, because I get a lot of joy out of tech. And in fact, making things using technology — and I'm being serious here, even though I'm using my sarcastic voice — I won't — hold on. Making things, you know — making things actually does give me a lot of joy. It's the process of creation that keeps me sort of a bubble and a half above perpetual anxiety in my life, and it's that feeling of being about 80 percent complete on a project — where you know you still have something to do, but it's not finished, and you're not starting something — that really fills my entire life. And so, what I've done is, I started getting interested in creating online social spaces to share that feeling with people who don't consider themselves artists. We're in a culture of guru-ship. It's so hard to use some software because, you know, it's unapproachable, people feel like they have to read the manual. So I try to create these very minimal activities that allow people to express themselves, and, hopefully — (""The End"" by The Doors) Whoa! I'm like — on the page, but it doesn't exist. (Laughter) It's, like — seriously, though — (Laughter) I try to create meaningful environments for people to express themselves. (Laughter) Here I created a contest called, ""When Office Supplies Attack,"" which, I think, really resonated with the working population. (Laughter) Over 500 entries in three weeks. Toilet paper fashion. (Laughter) Again, people from all over the country. The watch is particularly incredible. (Laughter) Online drawing tools — you've probably seen a lot of them. I think they're wonderful. It's a chance for people to get to play with crayons and all that kind of stuff. But I'm interested in the process of creating, as the real event that I'm interested in. And the problem is that a lot of people suck at drawing, and they get bummed out at this, sort of, you know, stick figure, awful little thing that they created. And eventually, it just makes them stop playing with it, or they draw penises and things like that. (Laughter) So, the Scribbler is an attempt to create a generative tool. In other words, it's a helping tool. You can draw your simple stick figure, and it collaborates with you to create sort of a post-war German etching. (Laughter) In fact, it's tuned to be better at drawing things that look worse. So, we go ahead, and we start scribbling. So the idea is that you can really, you know, partake in this process, but watch something really crappy look beautiful. And here are some of my favorites. This is the little trap marionette that was submitted to me. Very cool. (Laughter) Darling. Beautiful stuff. I mean this is incredible. An 11-year-old girl drew this and submitted it. It's just gorgeous. (Laughter) I'm dead serious here. This is not a joke. (Laughter) But, I think it's a really fun and wonderful thing. So this is called the ""Fiction Project."" This is an online space, which is basically a refurbished message board that encourages collaborative fiction writing. These are haikus. None of the haikus were written by the same person. In fact, each line is contributed by a different person at a different time. I think that the ""now tied up, tied down, mistress cruel approaches me, now tied down, it's up."" It's an amazing way, and I'll tell you, if you come home, and your spouse, or whoever it is, says, ""Let's talk"" — That, like, chills you to the very core. (Laughter) But it's peripheral activities like these that allow people to get together, doing fun things. They actually get to know each other, and it's sort of like low-threshold peripheral activities that I think are the key to bringing up some of our bonding social capital that we're lacking. And very, very quickly — I love puppets. Here's a puppet. It dances to music. Lotte Reiniger, an amazing shadow puppeteer in the 20s, that started doing more elaborate things. I became interested in puppets, and I just want to show one last thing to you. Oh, this is how you make puppets. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ze Frank. (Applause)"	克里斯第一次來找我上TED演說時，我拒絕了，因為我覺得演說不能達到我想要的那種個人私下的交流，而TED是種大型的演講，我覺得不是我想要做的事。但他對我說，他找的對象是有限制的，TED最為人所知的就是講者都具有明星般的魅力與吸引力，他實在很難再去找到具有這種特質的人... (笑聲) 所以我說好吧，TED，我是說克里斯，我有二個條件，第一，我要早上愈早的時段演講愈好，第二，我要幫TED 2006選定主題。很幸運的是他同意了，而再過二年的主題，我要設定為「小狗的可愛照片」。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 我發明了「百憂解照相機」(網站)， (笑聲) 雖然不能幫你照相，但是卻很便宜，你也能有置身於其中的感覺。 (笑聲) 「先生您好，希望您今天過得很好，也祝福您與您的家人。我知道您收到信後必感驚訝，但請不要緊張，因為凡事自有其道理，就像以往有句諺語說，原音難尋，但回音依然響亮。所以我決定親自寫信給您，因為我相信您是誠信並值得託付的，所以我將會請您幫我保管一大筆錢。我是麥可．班古拉先生，也就是已故的提阿母．班古拉先生的兒子， (笑聲) 我父親曾擔任過獅子山共和國的財政部長， (掌聲) 但在內戰中被人殺害了。(笑聲)我瞭解貴國極歡迎經濟投資，貴國人民在企業經營上亦是公開且值得信任的，因此我才寫信給您。 (笑聲) 在我父親過世之前，他負責保管一筆2千3百萬美金的鉅款，他的責任是不要讓叛軍領袖在內戰中將此筆鉅款奪走。 (笑聲) 在內戰爆發之前，這筆款項原本是要用作修復本國各地的水源保護區之用，但內戰爆發之後，叛軍領袖要求我父親將這筆款項交給他，但我父親堅持這筆款項並非他個人財產，不願將款項交出，因此才被殺害。目前，只有我母親和我知道有這筆款項存在，因為我父親一向都很信任我。我很快便與某位在紅十字會工作的人取得聯繫，他協助我用紅十字會的貨車將錢送往自由城的龍吉機場，但他不知道箱子裡裝的是什麼。 (笑聲) 我再次向您保證這筆錢是以我們家族的名義存入的，我們存在塞內加爾達卡市內一個安全且值得信賴的證券公司，我暫時在那裡找到了容身之地。我不希望將錢投資在塞內加爾，因為最近塞內加爾的經濟狀況很糟，而且又離獅子山太近。我只希望您能幫我一個忙，我相信您一定願意幫忙，就是：第一，請您不要告訴別人，我會將錢存入您的信託帳戶；第二，請您將您的銀行帳戶給我，我才能將錢匯入；第三，在我匯入款項後，您會在您的信託帳戶內看到這筆錢匯入，您可以領取屬於您的佣金，其餘的錢就請留在帳戶內等待我來領取。誠摯的麥可．班古拉先生。」 (笑聲) (掌聲) 我覺得很尷尬，他們在後台告訴我，我有18分鐘可以發表演說，但我只準備了15分鐘的講稿。 (笑聲) 如果真是這樣，我乾脆在這裡等上3分鐘好了。 (笑聲) 我真的很抱歉！ (笑聲) (掌聲) 你叫什麼名字？ (笑聲) 馬克．瑟法斯，很棒吧，啊？追求快樂啊... (笑聲) 這是你的第一次嗎？第一次？ (笑聲) 不是啦！我是說來參加TED？ (笑聲) 你是嗎？哦，好。你有1千還是2千筆資料？啊？噢？你不知道我在說什麼？ (笑聲) 哈！馬克... (笑聲) 瑟法斯... (笑聲) 1,860筆...我很厲害吧？ (笑聲) 這沒有什麼不好意思的，真的沒有什麼不好意思的。 (掌聲) 好，我昨晚和一群Google的人出去混，真的很棒，我們純粹是在浪費時間。(笑聲)他們告訴我說現在Google的軟體已經很進步了，它可以參考你以往與Google的互動經驗，推測出你待會兒會說什麼。 (笑聲) 我回答：「滾回家去吧，怎麼可能？」 (笑聲) 但他們說：「是真的，但別告訴別人。」但他們自己就說溜嘴了啊...他們要我先把「待會兒要說的話」輸入到電腦裡，再輸入我的名字，電腦就會有解答了。我得告訴各位，現在各位看到的這個軟體是正版的，這真的是網路上的Google網站，我們今天就來現場測試一下。「待會兒要說的話」還有傑．法蘭克，就是我。我今天夠幸運嗎？ (笑聲) 我今天夠幸運嗎？ 觀眾：夠！ (笑聲) 法蘭克：噢，太神奇了！(螢幕：你待會兒會說：太神奇了！...) (笑聲) 在2001年的三月... (笑聲) 我把自己配著瑪丹娜唱「證明我的愛」的舞蹈畫面拍下來，在星期四那天，我把這一段影片寄到網上的某個連結，有17個我最要好的朋友可以看到這支影片，我把這支影片當成邀請函，因為我要辦我的...我的...2...26歲生日派對。 (笑聲) 到了星期一，一天之內就有超過一百萬人次進到這個網站， (笑聲) 不到一個星期，我接到一通來自EarthLink的電話，他們說因為我的網路流量超載，所以每1M要收我10美分的費用，我欠了他們三萬美金。 (笑聲) 不用說，我只好離職了... (被解僱) (笑聲) 所以，現在成了自由工作者... (失業中) (笑聲) 但有些人稱我為網路的「始祖」這一類的... (蠢蛋) (笑聲) 或是 「導師」...(輸家) (笑聲) 其實我自己有一個理論，那是我從一些很難向別人解釋、很複雜的哲學中領悟出來的，但在此我不想多談，因為我怕那個理論對你們來說太深奧了！ (笑聲) 那是有關網路為何流行的理論... (笑聲) (像個白痴那樣跳舞，什麼都不知道！) 很抱歉我沒有足夠的時間去解釋...或者我可以明年再回來演講吧... (笑聲) 我對電子郵件很著迷，我收到很多郵件，四年了，每天我還是會持續收到200或300封來自陌生人的郵件，這簡直是瞭解異國文化的大好機會，對吧？就像用顯微鏡來看世界，你可以深入別人的生活，我同時也覺得我從一般用戶身上得到許多啟發。舉例來說，有些人寫信給我，上面寫：「嘿，傑，如果你有機會來波爾德，你應該來和我們一起搖滾。」我回說：「就不必等了吧？」他們回說：「嘿，傑，謝謝你答應和我們一起搖滾，但我們都是脫光光搖滾哦！」 (笑聲) 那真的很尷尬...但你知道嗎？我和粉絲之間可是有牢不可破的關係，所以我說：「沒問題！」 (笑聲) 我聽到你們在說悄悄話哦... (笑聲) 我知道你們在說什麼，你們說：「天啊！他的演說怎麼那麼精彩？」 (笑聲) 我得說，我今年的表現可不只這樣，我覺得克里斯有一點功勞，因為在過去的那一年裡，我猜一定有一些講者在TED表現得不怎麼樣，我是不知道啦... (笑聲) 所以今年，克里斯寄給我們一個TED演說模擬器， (笑聲) 讓我們這些講者可以在家裡，模擬這個環境，練習演說，以便我們熟悉這整個流程。我真的得說，能來到這裡，真的、真的很棒！ (掌聲) 我不只有這些好東西，我還想說一個笑話。你可以點選鬧場模式。 音效：嘿！白痴！下來！ 法蘭克：你才下去哩！ (笑聲) 音效：我們要聽馬坎．葛拉德威爾演講！ (笑聲) (掌聲) 假如你的演講超過時間...我...我還有最後一件事想說，我真的... (笑聲) 我想謝謝各位來聽我的演說。 (笑聲) 還有青蛙模式。哈！這是我第一次和一條會跳舞的蝦子親熱... (笑聲) (笑聲) (垃圾笑話是最新型的機上笑話) (掌聲) 這是真的！有人來找我說：傑，你做的這些東西，這些網路上的玩意兒，沒辦法幫你賺進一分錢啊... (笑聲) 為什麼？我說：「媽，爸... (笑聲) 我還在嚐試。」我不知道你們是不是都知道這件事，但是，這種電玩市場，孩子們都在玩電玩，所以應該可以賺很多錢啊！我想，一年至少都會花個十萬美金來買這些電玩，所以我決定自己開發，我開發了幾個新遊戲。 (笑聲) 這個叫做「無神論者」，我覺得一定會很受小孩子歡迎。你們看，我可以走來走去，還會說一些話。 (遊戲結束，不能重玩) (笑聲) (掌聲) 這個不是很受歡迎。 (笑聲) 我真的不知道你們為什麼要笑。 (笑聲) 你們以前一定也有過這種經驗，我只是想做好這個遊戲啊...「佛教徒」，當然，這個遊戲和「無神論者」非常相似， (笑聲) 你會變成一隻鴨子再回到這個世上， (笑聲) 你們知道嗎？這真的很棒，只要25分錢，就可以玩上很久。 (笑聲) 克里斯在他寄給我的一封郵件裡說，我們應該要帶些創新的東西到TED來，一些以前沒人看過的東西。所以，這是我為TED打造的「基督徒」，是這一系列裡的第三個遊戲，我希望今年它可以成功。 (笑聲) 你們有沒有特別喜歡哪一個？選得好！ (笑聲) 你可以等，看看他什麼時候復活...(笑聲) 可能要等上... (笑聲) 不一定幾秒，只知道是介於1秒和5億秒之間。 (笑聲) 我們言歸正傳，我們剛才講到哪裡了？噢，科技的樂趣。 (笑聲) 對我來說，科技的樂趣代表了一種意義，因為我從科技上獲得許多樂趣。事實上，用科技製造東西...我是很認真的，即使我是用諷刺的語氣，我也沒有...等一下，製造東西...製造東西確實帶給我許多樂趣。創造的過程會讓我保持在一種半焦慮的狀態，每當我完成某個計畫達80%的程度時，就會有這種感覺，你知道你還有事情要做，但還沒有做完，也不是要開始做另一件事，那真的讓我的生活很充實。 因此，我開始著手設計一些有趣的網路社交空間，讓那些不自認是藝術家的人，能夠互相分享心情。我們的文化崇敬導師，有時候很難說服別人去使用某種軟體，因為他們不會用，他們認為應該要先閱讀使用手冊。所以我想要...(笑聲)我想要發起一些很微小的活動，讓人們可以表達自己的感覺，而且...哇！我...我在某個並不存在頁面上。(笑聲)好，認真一點！雖然... (笑聲) 我想要創造一個有意思的空間，讓人們可以表達自己的情緒。 (笑聲) 我在這裡舉辦了一場比賽，叫做「文具用品大反擊」，我覺得，這真的很契合... (笑聲) 和上班族真的很契合。 (笑聲) 三個星期之內就收到500則以上回覆。這是衛生紙時裝秀。 (笑聲) 全國的人都在...那支錶真的很神奇。 (笑聲) 你們可能看過許多線上繪圖工具，我覺得他們都很棒，我覺得這種工具可以讓人們玩玩蠟筆，或是其他的顏料等，但我感興趣的是過程，創造的過程才是我最感興趣的。問題是，很多人不會畫畫，他們就是不擅長，他們只會畫些簡單的圖案，或甚至畫得很糟，所以最後，他們就不想再玩繪圖工具了，他們只會畫些小雞雞之類的東西。 (笑聲) 「畫家」這個軟體就是要創造一個一般人可以使用的工具，換句話說，它是一個幫助你繪圖的工具，你可以在上面畫些簡單的線條圖案，然後它會和你一同創造，看起來會像是戰後德國的蝕刻畫。 (笑聲) 事實上，你可以畫些很醜的圖案，但最後卻會變得很好看。好，我們來畫，然後再用畫家模式來修圖，這個軟體的用意是希望你能真正參與這個過程，看看這些糟糕的圖案怎麼樣變得美麗。有幾張是我很喜歡的，這是我收到的一個小小的、被困住的木偶。就是這些，很棒！ (笑聲) 「親愛的」，這張很美。這真的很神奇！這是一個11歲小女孩畫的，她寄來給我，真的很漂亮！ (笑聲) 我是很認真的！這可不是在開玩笑！ (笑聲) 我覺得，這是...這真的很有趣，而且很棒！這是「科幻專案」，這是一個線上空間，基本上是一個接力式的留言版，讓大家可以在上面合力撰寫科幻題材。這些像是三行徘句詩，都是由不同的人所撰寫，沒有一句...每一句都是由不同的人、在不同的時間所寫的。看看這個：「綁緊再綁緊，女主人殘暴地逼近我，綁緊再綁緊。」這真的很特別，如果你回到家，你的另一半，或是其他人，對你說：「我們得談一談。」你絕對會冷到骨子裡去。 但就是這些淺顯易懂又好玩的遊戲，能讓大家聚在一起做些好笑的事，這些人真的就這樣認識了其他人。我認為，就是這種低門檻又淺顯易懂的遊戲，才讓我們平時所缺乏的社交機制得以發揮。最後，很快再講一個，我喜歡木偶，像是這一個，它會隨音樂起舞， 樂德．瑞尼傑，她在1920年代是很受歡迎的皮影戲表演藝術工作者，它開始做一些細緻的表演動作我對木偶很感興趣，我最後再給各位看一樣東西，噢，這是教你怎麼製作木偶。 (掌聲) 克里斯．安德森：各位先生女士，傑．法蘭克先生。 (掌聲)
