Talk	en	zh-tw
ze_frank_s_web_playroom	"Every presentation needs this slide in it. (Laughter) It's beautiful, isn't it? Do you see? All the points, all the lines — it's incredible. It is the network; and in my case, the network has been important in media, because I get to connect to people. Isn't it amazing? Through that, I connect to people. And the way that I've been doing it has been multifaceted. For example, I get people to dress up their vacuum cleaners. (Laughter) I put together projects like Earth Sandwich, where I ask people to try and simultaneously place two pieces of bread perfectly opposite each other on the Earth. And people started laying bread in tribute, and eventually a team was able to do it between New Zealand and Spain. It's pretty incredible — the video's online. Connecting to people in projects like YoungmeNowme for example. In YoungmeNowme, the audience was asked to find a childhood photograph of themselves and restage it as an adult. (Laughter) This is the same person — top photo, James, bottom photo, [Jennifer]. Poignant. This was a Mother's Day gift. (Laughter) Particularly creepy. (Applause) (Laughter) My favorite of these photos, which I couldn't find, is there's a picture of a 30 year-old woman or so with a little baby on her lap, and the next photo is a 220-lb man with a tiny, little old lady peaking over his shoulder. But this project changed the way that I thought about connecting to people. This is project called Ray. And what happened was I was sent this piece of audio and had no idea who generated the audio. Somebody said, ""You have to listen to this."" And this is what came to me. Recording: Hi, my name is Ray, and on yesterday my daughter called me because she was stressed out because of things that were going on on her job that she felt was quite unfair. Being quite disturbed, she called for comfort, and I didn't really know what to tell her, because we have to deal with so much mess in our society. So I was led to write this song just for her, just to give her some encouragement while dealing with stress and pressures on her job. And I figured I'd put it on the Internet for all employees under stress to help you better deal with what you're going through on your job. Here's how the song goes. ♫ I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ ♫ Oh, I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ ♫ Oh, if you don't leave me alone, ♫ ♫ you gonna have to send me home ♫ ♫ 'Cause I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ Now you might not be able to sing that out loud, but you can hum it to yourself, and you know what the words are. And let it give you some strength to get the next few moments on your job. All right. Stay strong. Peace. Ze Frank: So — yeah. No, no, no, shush. We've got to go quickly. So I was so moved by this — this is incredible. This was connecting, right. This was, at a distance, realizing that someone was feeling something, wanting to affect them in a particular way, using media to do it, putting it online and realizing that there was a greater impact. This was incredible; this is what I wanted to do. So the first thing I thought of is we have to thank him. And I asked my audience, I said, ""Listen to this piece of audio. We have to remix it. He's got a great voice. It's actually in the key of B flat. And have to do something with it."" Hundreds of remixes came back — lots of different attempts. One stood out in particular. It was done by a guy named Goose. Remix: ♫ I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ ♫ Oh, I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ ♫ Oh, if you don't leave me alone, ♫ ♫ You gonna have to send me home ♫ ♫ Cuz I'm about to whip somebody's ass ♫ ♫ I'm about to whip some ♫ — ZF: Great, so it was incredible. That song — (Applause) Thank you. So that song, somebody told me that it was at a baseball game in Kansas City. In the end, it was one of the top downloads on a whole bunch of music streaming services. And so I said, ""Let's put this together in an album."" And the audience came together, and they designed an album cover. And I said, ""If you put it all on this, I'm going to deliver it to him, if you can figure out who this person is,"" because all I had was his name — Ray — and this little piece of audio and the fact that his daughter was upset. In two weeks, they found him. I received and email and it said, ""Hi, I'm Ray. I heard you were looking for me."" (Laughter) And I was like, ""Yeah, Ray. It's been an interesting two weeks."" And so I flew to St. Louis and met Ray, and he's a preacher — (Laughter) among other things. So but anyways, here's the thing — is it reminds me of this, which is a sign that you see in Amsterdam on every street corner. And it's sort of a metaphor for me for the virtual world. I look at this photo, and he seems really interested in what's going on with that button, but it doesn't seem like he is really that interested in crossing the street. (Laughter) And it makes me think of this. On street corners everywhere, people are looking at their cell phones, and it's easy to dismiss this as some sort of bad trend in human culture. But the truth is life is being lived there. When they smile — right, you've seen people stop — all of a sudden, life is being lived there, somewhere up in that weird, dense network. And this is it, right, to feel and be felt. It's the fundamental force that we're all after. We can build all sorts of environments to make it a little bit easier, but ultimately, what we're trying to do is really connect with one other person. And that's not always going to happen in physical spaces. It's also going to now happen in virtual spaces, and we have to get better at figuring that out. I think, of the people that build all this technology in the network, a lot of them aren't very good at connecting with people. This is kind of like something I used to do in third grade. (Laughter) So here's a series of projects over the last few years where I've been inspired by trying to figure out how to really facilitate close connection. Sometimes they're very, very simple things. A Childhood Walk, which is a project where I ask people to remember a walk that they used to take as a child over and over again that was sort of meaningless — like on the route to the bus stop, to a neighbor's house, and take it inside of Google Streetview. And I promise you, if you take that walk inside Google Streetview, you come to a moment where something comes back and hits you in the face. And I collected those moments — the photos inside Google Streetview and the memories, specifically. ""Our conversation started with me saying, 'I'm bored,' and her replying, 'When I'm bored I eat pretzels.' I remember this distinctly because it came up a lot."" ""Right after he told me and my brother he was going to be separating from my mom, I remember walking to a convenience store and getting a cherry cola."" ""They used some of the morbidly artist footage, a close-up of Chad's shoes in the middle of the highway. I guess the shoes came off when he was hit. He slept over at my house once, and he left his pillow. It had 'Chad' written in magic marker on it. He died long after he left the pillow at my house, but we never got around to returning it."" Sometimes they're a little bit more abstract. This is Pain Pack. Right after September 11th, last year, I was thinking about pain and the way that we disperse it, the way that we excise it from our bodies. So what I did is I opened up a hotline — a hotline where people could leave voicemails of their pain, not necessarily related to that event. And people called in and left messages like this. Recording: Okay, here's something. I'm not alone, and I am loved. I'm really fortunate. But sometimes I feel really lonely. And when I feel that way even the smallest act of kindness can make me cry. Like even people in convenience stores saying, ""Have a nice day,"" when they're accidentally looking me in the eye. ZF: So what I did was I took those voicemails, and with their permission, converted them to MP3s and distributed them to sound editors who created short sounds using just those voicemails. And those were then distributed to DJs who have made hundreds of songs using that source material. (Music) We don't have time to play much of it. You can look at it online. ""From 52 to 48 with love"" was a project around the time of the last election cycle, where McCain and Obama both, in their speeches after the election, talked about reconciliation, and I was like, ""What the hell does that look like?"" So I thought, ""Well let's just give it a try. Let's have people hold up signs about reconciliation."" And so some really nice things came together. ""I voted blue. I voted red. Together, for our future."" These are very, very cute little things right. Some came from the winning party. ""Dear 48, I promise to listen to you, to fight for you, to respect you always."" Some came from the party who had just lost. ""From a 48 to a 52, may your party's leadership be as classy as you, but I doubt it."" But the truth was that as this start becoming popular, a couple rightwing blogs and some message boards apparently found it to be a little patronizing, which I could also see. And so I started getting amazing amounts of hate mail, death threats even. And one guy in particular kept on writing me these pretty awful messages, and he was dressed as Batman. And he said, ""I'm dressed as Batman to hide my identity."" Just in case I thought the real Batman was coming after me; which actually made me feel a little better — like, ""Phew, it's not him."" So what I did — unfortunately, I was harboring all this kind of awful experience and this pain inside of me, and it started to eat away at my psyche. And I was protecting the project from it, I realized. I was protecting it — I didn't want this special, little group of photographs to get sullied in some way. So what I did, I took all those emails, and I put them together into something called Angrigami, which was an origami template made out of this sort of vile stuff. And I asked people to send me beautiful things made out of the Angrigami. (Laughter) But this was the emotional moment. One of my viewer's uncles died on a particular day and he chose to commemorate it with a piece of hate. It's amazing. The last thing I'm going to tell you about is a series of projects called Songs You Already Know, where the idea was, I was trying to figure out to address particular kinds of emotions with group projects. So one of them was fairly straightforward. A guy said that his daughter got scared at night and could I write a song for her, his daughter. And I said, ""Oh yeah, I'll try to write a mantra that she can sing to herself to help herself go to sleep."" And this was ""Scared."" (Video) ♫ This is a song that I sing when I'm scared of something ♫ ♫ I don't know why but it helps me get over it ♫ ♫ The words of the song just move me along ♫ ♫ And somehow I get over it ♫ ♫ At least I don't suck at life ♫ ♫ I keep on trying despite ♫ ♫ At least I don't suck at life ♫ ♫ I keep on trying despite ♫ ♫ This is a song that I sing when I'm scared of something ♫ Okay, so I wrote that song, right. Thank you. So the nice thing was is he walked by his daughter's room at some point, and she actually was singing that song to herself. So I was like, ""Awesome. This is great."" And then I got this email. And there's a little bit of a back story to this. And I don't have much time. But the idea was that at one point I did a project called Facebook Me Equals You, where I wanted to experience what it was like to live as another person. So I asked for people's usernames and passwords to be sent to me. And I got a lot, like 30 in a half an hour. And I shut that part down. And I chose two people to be, and I asked them to send me descriptions of how to act as them on Facebook. One person sent me a very detailed description; the other person didn't. And the person who didn't, it turned out, had just moved to a new city and taken on a new job. So, you know, people were writing me and saying, ""How's your new job?"" I was like, ""I don't know. Didn't know I had one."" But anyway, this same person, Laura, ended up emailing me a little bit after that project. And I felt badly for not having done a good job. And she said, ""I'm really anxious, I just moved to a new town, I have this new job, and I've just had this incredible amount of anxiety."" So she had seen the ""Scared"" song and wondered if I could do something. So I asked her, ""What does it feel like when you feel this way?"" And she wrote a sort of descriptive set of what it felt like to have had this anxiety. And so what I decided to do. I said, ""Okay, I'll think about it."" And so quietly in the background, I started sending people this. (Audio) ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ So I asked people whether they had basic audio capabilities, just so they could sing along to the song with headphones on, so I could just get their voices back. And this is the kind of thing that I got back. Recording: ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ZF: So that's one of the better ones, really. But what's awesome is, as I started getting more and more and more of them, all of a sudden I had 30, 40 voices from around the world. And when you put them together, something magical happens, something absolutely incredible happens, and all of a sudden I get a chorus from around the world. And what was really great is, I'm putting all this work together in the background, and Laura sent me a follow-up email because a good month had passed by. And she said, ""I know you've forgotten about me. I just want to say thanks for even considering it."" And then a few days later I sent her this. (Audio) ♫ Right now, it feels like I forgot to turn the light on ♫ ♫ And things that looked so good yesterday ♫ ♫ are now shades of gray ♫ ♫ And it seems like the world is spinning ♫ ♫ while I'm standing still ♫ ♫ Or maybe I am spinning I can't tell ♫ ♫ And then you say ♫ ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ♫ Just breathe ♫ ♫ And now the words sing ♫ ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ♫ Just breathe ♫ ♫ Now everybody sings ♫ ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ♫ Just breathe ♫ ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ♫ Just breathe ♫ ♫ Hey ♫ ♫ You're okay ♫ ♫ You'll be fine ♫ ♫ Just breathe ♫ Thank you. (Applause)"	每個演說都需要這張投影片。(笑聲)很漂亮，不是嗎？你看到了嗎？那些點和那些線，真的很驚人，這就是網路。在我看來，網路是很重要的媒介，因為我得和人們交流。很驚人，對吧？我是透過網路和人們交流的，交流的方式是具有多個面向的。舉例來說，我會要大家把自己的吸塵器好好裝扮一番，(笑聲)我還發起了幾個計畫，像是「地球三明治」這個計畫，我要參與的人想辦法同時在地球上完全對應的二個地點，放置二片麵包。於是大家懷著崇敬的心開始放置他們的麵包，最後，終於有一組人成功達成了！他們分別是在紐西蘭和西班牙。這真的很神奇！這段影片有放在網路上。另外我也發起了其他可以串連起人們的計畫，像是「年輕的我，現在的我」，參與計畫的人要把自己年輕時的照片和自己成年後的照片並排比對。(笑聲)這是同一個人—上面的是詹姆士，下面的是茱莉亞，很刺激吧？這是母親節的禮物。(笑聲)看起來特別詭異。(掌聲)(笑聲)我最喜歡的照片現在還沒找到，我希望看到一張30歲左右的女子照片，有一個小嬰孩躺在她的腿上，另一張則是一個重達100公斤的男人，有一個小小的老婦人趴在他的肩上。 但下面這個計畫，徹底改變了我對於和人們交流的觀念，這個計畫叫做「瑞(Ray)」。事情是這樣的，我收到一段錄音內容，而且完全不知道是誰錄的，給我的人只說：「你得聽聽看。」所以這就是我聽到的： 錄音內容：嗨，我的名字是瑞，昨天我的女兒打電話給我，她的壓力很大，因為工作上的某件事情讓她覺得很不公平。她心裡很不平靜，希望我能給她安慰，但我不知道該說些什麼才好，因為我們在社會上總是得處理一些烏煙瘴氣的事。所以我想要為她寫一首歌，一首能給她勇氣、讓她能處理工作上的壓力的歌。我想，如果我把這首歌放在網路上，那麼其他在職場上遭遇壓力的員工們，也能妥善地處理自己的壓力。這首歌是這樣唱的： ♫ 我要打某人的屁股 ♫ ♫ 噢，我要去打某人的屁股 ♫ ♫ 噢，如果你不走開的話 ♫ ♫ 你就得送我回家 ♫ ♫ 因為我要去打某人的屁股 ♫ 你們現在可能不方便大聲唱出來，但你們可以在心裡哼唱，反正你們已經知道歌詞了。希望這首歌能在你的職場上為你帶來力量，好，要堅強、和平哦！ 傑．法蘭克：好，不，不，不，噓！我們得進行得快一點。我被這首歌深深地感動了，真的很不可思議！這才是和人們交流的方式，對吧？人和人間隔著一大段距離，但卻能感受到彼此的感覺，而你希望以某種特別的方式來感動另一個人，你可以選擇不同的媒介，把它放在網路上，你就會發現所產生的影響有多麼巨大。這真的很驚人！這就是我想要做的！我想到的第一件事是我得感謝這個人，所以我問我的聽眾：「聽聽看這段錄音，我們得幫它重新配樂，他的聲音太棒了！這首歌還定在降B調哩！我一定要為他做些什麼。」數以百計重新配樂後的版本寄回來給我，其中有各式各樣的配樂，其中有一個版本非常特別，是一個叫做古斯的傢伙做的。 重新配樂：♫ 我要打某人的屁股 ♫ ♫ 噢，我要去打某人的屁股 ♫ ♫ 噢，如果你不走開的話 ♫ ♫ 你就得送我回家 ♫ ♫ 因為我要去打某人的屁股 ♫ ♫ 我要打某人的... ♫ 法蘭克：太棒了！真的很棒！這首歌...(掌聲)謝謝！有人告訴我，堪薩斯的某場棒球比賽裡曾播放這首歌，於是，這首歌登上了某個音樂下載網站的第一名，所以我說：「我們把這首歌收錄在唱片裡吧！」所有的聽眾都集合起來，一起設計了唱片的封面，我說：「如果你們要收錄這首歌，我就得把唱片送給這個人，但你們得先找出這個人是誰才行。」因為我只知道他的名字是瑞，我也只聽過這段錄音，只知道他的女兒很不開心而已。不到二個星期，他們就找到這個人了，我收到一封電子郵件，上面說：「嗨，我是瑞，聽說你在找我。」(笑聲)我回答：「對呀，瑞，這二個星期很有趣呢！」因此，我飛去了聖路易，去拜訪瑞，他是個牧師。(笑聲)他還有做一些其他的事。 不管怎樣，這張圖讓我想到這件事，這張圖是你在阿姆斯特丹每個街角都看得到的圖，對我來說卻像是虛擬世界的某種比喻。我仔細看了這張圖，裡面的人似乎對那個按鈕很感興趣，反而對過馬路這件事沒那麼在意。(笑聲)這讓我聯想到，在每一個街角上，都有人注視著自己的手機，你可以輕易地把這類行為歸類為人類文化中的壞習慣，但是，那些人卻自得其樂。當他們對著手機微笑，你一定有看過有人停下來，突然間，詭異、擁擠的網路世界變成了他的真實生活，他在那裡才能感受到別人，別人也才能感受到他的存在，那是我們所追求最原始的動力。我們可以創造各式環境讓網路更容易使用，但是，我們所做的其實是要讓人們彼此交流，但並不一定要在實體空間裡交流，在虛擬空間裡也可以交流，我們必須體認到這一點。我認為，這麼多人在網路上創造了這麼多新的科技，但這些人並不一定很擅長與別人交流，這簡直就像是我小學三年級時會做的事。(你喜歡我嗎？是／否) (笑聲) 所以我們在過去幾年發起了一連串的計畫，這一切都起因於我想要瞭解要怎麼讓人們更親密地交流。有時候，這不過是再簡單不過的事而已。「童年漫步」，在這個計畫裡，我請參與者回想他們童年時，被大人帶著走了一遍又一遍的路，雖然可能不具任何意義，像是去公車站那段路，或是去鄰居家那段路，但我要他們將這個記憶融入Google的街景中。我告訴各位，如果你將記憶融入Google街景中，你將會體會到在某個時刻，有某種記憶回來了，就直接衝進你的大腦裡。而我，則將這個特別的時刻撿拾起來，特別是大家針對Google街景所引發的記憶。「我們的談話是因為我說了一句『我很無聊』而開始的，她的回答是『我無聊的時候會吃椒鹽脆餅』，我的記憶歷歷在目，因為我經常想起這一段對話。」「就在他告訴我和弟弟他要和媽媽離婚之後沒多久，我記得我走到便利商店，買了一罐櫻桃可樂。」「他們的畫法有點像病態藝術家所畫的足印，查德的鞋印被特寫畫在在高速公速中間，我猜是在他被撞後掉在那裡的。他有一次睡在我家，枕頭還留在我家，上面還有用奇異筆寫著「查德」的痕跡，雖然他在離開我家很久以後才去世，但我們再也沒有機會可以把枕頭還給他了。」 有時人們的表達方式比較抽象，這是「痛苦背包」，是我們在去年9月11日之後所發起的計畫，我那時在思考有關痛苦以及人們如何去排解痛苦，甚至如何將痛苦抒發出來。所以我就開啟了一條電話專線，人們可以打這支專線，將他們的痛苦留在語音信箱裡，但並不一定要和911事件相關。人們打進來的留言是： 電話錄音：好，我想說一件事，我並不孤單，也有人愛我，我真的很幸運。但有時我真的覺得自己孤單一人，每當我有這種感覺時，即使別人對我做出極微小的友善行為，也會讓我哭泣。就像有人在便利商店裡不經意地與我對望，然後對我說聲：「祝你有愉快的一天。」 法蘭：我所做的，是把這些留言蒐集起來，徵詢留言者的意見，把留言轉錄成MP3，發送給音效師們，讓他們可以利用這些留言創造出一些音效。最後，這些音效會被分送給DJ們，他們會利用這些聲音素材編寫出無數的歌曲。(音樂)我們沒有太多時間可以播放太多內容，你們可以自行上網去收聽這些內容。 「用愛祝福52比48」是我們在上次總統大選後所發起的計畫，當時麥坎和歐巴馬二人都在大選後的演說中提到要族群和解，我心裡想：「那到底是什麼玩意兒？」但我又想：「我們就來試試看吧！叫大家舉起族群和解的標誌來看看吧！」接下來我們就看到一些還真的不錯的東西出現了：「我投藍，我投紅，一起為我們的未來努力。」這些真的很可愛。贏的那一方有人留下這個畫面：「親愛的48，我答應會傾聽你的心聲，為你奮鬥，也永遠尊重你的決定。」輸掉的陣營則有人留下這個畫面：「48致52：希望你們的領袖都能像你們一樣有格調，但我很懷疑。」在這股風潮逐漸流行了起來之後，我也發現，有些右翼的部落格或訊息版開始認為我們太囂張了，我就因此受到牽連，接到非常多的憤怒信函，有些還威脅要我死。有一個傢伙還特別一直寫一些很糟糕的信給我，他把自己打扮得像個蝙蝠俠，他說：「我打扮成蝙蝠俠是為了不以真面目示人。」或許他怕我會以為是真的蝙蝠俠在追我，這真的讓我好過多了，我心想：「好險，不是他！」 我所做的...不幸的是，我總是把這類不好的痛苦經驗隱藏起來，耗費了我許多精神。我發現我是在保護這個計畫，我想保護這個計畫，我不希望這些特別的照片被別人玷污，所以我把這些電子郵件全都蒐集起來，放進一個叫做「憤怒摺紙社(Angrigami)」的網站，用這些憤怒的信函做成摺紙的型態。我請大家用「憤怒摺紙社」裡的材料，幫我摺出些美麗的成品。(笑聲)這些真的很感人。我的一位讀者的舅舅在某個特別的日子裡去世了，他選擇以一份憤怒的摺紙來紀念他，這真的很特別！ 最後，我想要告訴各位有關「你所熟知的歌曲」的一連串計畫，這個計畫的構想是希望集眾人之力，表達出某種特殊的情感。其中的一個計畫非常直接，有個傢伙說他的女兒在晚上睡覺時被嚇到了，問我是否能幫她的女兒寫一首歌，我說，沒問題，我想我會寫一首類似祈禱文的歌，讓她可以唱給自己聽，幫助她進入夢鄉。這首歌叫做「害怕」： (影片)♫ 每當我害怕我就唱這首歌 ♫ ♫ 不知為何，這首歌能幫我克服恐懼 ♫ ♫ 歌詞能帶給我前進的力量 ♫ ♫ 我就能克服恐懼 ♫ ♫ 至少我不再覺得生活很糟 ♫ ♫ 我反而會儘力嚐試 ♫ ♫ 至少我不再覺得生活很糟 ♫ ♫ 我反而會儘力嚐試 ♫ ♫ 每當我害怕我就唱這首歌 ♫ 對，我寫了這首歌，謝謝！好消息是，有次當他走過他女兒的房間時，她真的在對自己唱那首歌，我心想：「哇！太棒了！」 然後我就收到這封電子郵件，他說明了之前的一些狀況，但我現在沒有足夠的時間可以唸出來。這次的經驗促使我做了下一個計畫，叫做「讓我在Facebook變成你」，我希望體驗一下別人的生活是怎麼過的。所以我徵求志願將用戶名稱和密碼交給我的人，在一個半小時內我就收到了30個志願者的來信，我只好先將這部分網站關閉。後來我選擇了其中二個人，我想變成他們，所以我請他們告訴我要怎麼樣在Facebook上扮演他們的角色，有一個人寫了一長串詳細的內容給我，另一個人則沒有。我發現沒有提供我資料的那個人，其實剛剛搬到另外一個城市去接受另一份新的工作，然後我就接到有人寫信給我說：「你的新工作還好吧？」我只好回答：「我不知道耶...我有換工作嗎？」 最後，這個換工作的人，也就是蘿拉，在這個計畫結束之後寄了一些郵件給我，我覺得很不好意思，因為我沒有把她的角色扮演好。但她說：「我覺得很焦慮，我剛搬到這個新城市，又換了新工作，我的焦慮感真的很強烈。」她聽過「害怕」這首歌，所以她問我是否能幫忙，所以我問她：「當你焦慮的時候，你有什麼感覺？」她就把她焦慮的時候所感覺到的想法寫了出來，於是我就決定幫忙她。我說：「我會考慮看看。」我悄悄地製作了一份錄音，並寄給許多人： (錄音內容)♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ 我詢問這些人看他們有沒有一些基本的錄音設備，好讓他們在聽著耳機一邊唱的時候，把聲音錄下來寄回給我。我收到寄回來的錄音是： 錄音內容：♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ 法蘭克：這真的是其中比較好的，最棒的是，當我收到愈來愈多、愈來愈多的回覆後，我發現我收到來自世界各地30到40種不同的聲音，把他們放在一起之後，就會產生奇妙的事情，真的很不可思議，就像是集合了全世界各地人聲的合唱團一樣。最棒的在後面，當我把大家的聲音混合在一起時，一個月過去了，蘿拉又寄了一封信來詢問進度，她說：「我想你大概已經忘記我了吧，我只是要謝謝你願意考慮幫助我。」幾天之後，我把這個寄給她： (錄音內容)♫ 此刻，我似乎忘了把燈點亮 ♫ ♫ 昨日原本美好的一切 ♫ ♫ 現在看來一片灰暗 ♫ ♫ 當我站立時 ♫ ♫ 我覺得天旋地轉 ♫ ♫ 是我在轉吧，我不知道 ♫ ♫ 然後你說 ♫ ♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ ♫ 深呼吸就好 ♫ ♫ 全世界都在唱 ♫ ♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ ♫ 深呼吸就好 ♫ ♫ 每個人都在唱 ♫ ♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ ♫ 深呼吸就好 ♫ ♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ ♫ 深呼吸就好 ♫ ♫ 嘿 ♫ ♫ 你可以的 ♫ ♫ 你會沒事 ♫ ♫ 深呼吸就好 ♫ 謝謝！ (掌聲)
