Talk	en	zh-tw
zeynep_tufekci_how_the_internet_has_made_social_change_easy_to_organize_hard_to_win	"So recently, we heard a lot about how social media helps empower protest, and that's true, but after more than a decade of studying and participating in multiple social movements, I've come to realize that the way technology empowers social movements can also paradoxically help weaken them. This is not inevitable, but overcoming it requires diving deep into what makes success possible over the long term. And the lessons apply in multiple domains. Now, take Turkey's Gezi Park protests, July 2013, which I went back to study in the field. Twitter was key to its organizing. It was everywhere in the park — well, along with a lot of tear gas. It wasn't all high tech. But the people in Turkey had already gotten used to the power of Twitter because of an unfortunate incident about a year before when military jets had bombed and killed 34 Kurdish smugglers near the border region, and Turkish media completely censored this news. Editors sat in their newsrooms and waited for the government to tell them what to do. One frustrated journalist could not take this anymore. He purchased his own plane ticket, and went to the village where this had occurred. And he was confronted by this scene: a line of coffins coming down a hill, relatives wailing. He later he told me how overwhelmed he felt, and didn't know what to do, so he took out his phone, like any one of us might, and snapped that picture and tweeted it out. And voila, that picture went viral and broke the censorship and forced mass media to cover it. So when, a year later, Turkey's Gezi protests happened, it started as a protest about a park being razed, but became an anti-authoritarian protest. It wasn't surprising that media also censored it, but it got a little ridiculous at times. When things were so intense, when CNN International was broadcasting live from Istanbul, CNN Turkey instead was broadcasting a documentary on penguins. Now, I love penguin documentaries, but that wasn't the news of the day. An angry viewer put his two screens together and snapped that picture, and that one too went viral, and since then, people call Turkish media the penguin media. (Laughter) But this time, people knew what to do. They just took out their phones and looked for actual news. Better, they knew to go to the park and take pictures and participate and share it more on social media. Digital connectivity was used for everything from food to donations. Everything was organized partially with the help of these new technologies. And using Internet to mobilize and publicize protests actually goes back a long way. Remember the Zapatistas, the peasant uprising in the southern Chiapas region of Mexico led by the masked, pipe-smoking, charismatic Subcomandante Marcos? That was probably the first movement that got global attention thanks to the Internet. Or consider Seattle '99, when a multinational grassroots effort brought global attention to what was then an obscure organization, the World Trade Organization, by also utilizing these digital technologies to help them organize. And more recently, movement after movement has shaken country after country: the Arab uprisings from Bahrain to Tunisia to Egypt and more; indignados in Spain, Italy, Greece; the Gezi Park protests; Taiwan; Euromaidan in Ukraine; Hong Kong. And think of more recent initiatives, like the #BringBackOurGirls hashtags. Nowadays, a network of tweets can unleash a global awareness campaign. A Facebook page can become the hub of a massive mobilization. Amazing. But think of the moments I just mentioned. The achievements they were able to have, their outcomes, are not really proportional to the size and energy they inspired. The hopes they rightfully raised are not really matched by what they were able to have as a result in the end. And this raises a question: As digital technology makes things easier for movements, why haven't successful outcomes become more likely as well? In embracing digital platforms for activism and politics, are we overlooking some of the benefits of doing things the hard way? Now, I believe so. I believe that the rule of thumb is: Easier to mobilize does not always mean easier to achieve gains. Now, to be clear, technology does empower in multiple ways. It's very powerful. In Turkey, I watched four young college students organize a countrywide citizen journalism network called 140Journos that became the central hub for uncensored news in the country. In Egypt, I saw another four young people use digital connectivity to organize the supplies and logistics for 10 field hospitals, very large operations, during massive clashes near Tahrir Square in 2011. And I asked the founder of this effort, called Tahrir Supplies, how long it took him to go from when he had the idea to when he got started. ""Five minutes,"" he said. Five minutes. And he had no training or background in logistics. Or think of the Occupy movement which rocked the world in 2011. It started with a single email from a magazine, Adbusters, to 90,000 subscribers in its list. About two months after that first email, there were in the United States 600 ongoing occupations and protests. Less than one month after the first physical occupation in Zuccotti Park, a global protest was held in about 82 countries, 950 cities. It was one of the largest global protests ever organized. Now, compare that to what the Civil Rights Movement had to do in 1955 Alabama to protest the racially segregated bus system, which they wanted to boycott. They'd been preparing for many years and decided it was time to swing into action after Rosa Parks was arrested. But how do you get the word out — tomorrow we're going to start the boycott — when you don't have Facebook, texting, Twitter, none of that? So they had to mimeograph 52,000 leaflets by sneaking into a university duplicating room and working all night, secretly. They then used the 68 African-American organizations that criss-crossed the city to distribute those leaflets by hand. And the logistical tasks were daunting, because these were poor people. They had to get to work, boycott or no, so a massive carpool was organized, again by meeting. No texting, no Twitter, no Facebook. They had to meet almost all the time to keep this carpool going. Today, it would be so much easier. We could create a database, available rides and what rides you need, have the database coordinate, and use texting. We wouldn't have to meet all that much. But again, consider this: the Civil Rights Movement in the United States navigated a minefield of political dangers, faced repression and overcame, won major policy concessions, navigated and innovated through risks. In contrast, three years after Occupy sparked that global conversation about inequality, the policies that fueled it are still in place. Europe was also rocked by anti-austerity protests, but the continent didn't shift its direction. In embracing these technologies, are we overlooking some of the benefits of slow and sustained? To understand this, I went back to Turkey about a year after the Gezi protests and I interviewed a range of people, from activists to politicians, from both the ruling party and the opposition party and movements. I found that the Gezi protesters were despairing. They were frustrated, and they had achieved much less than what they had hoped for. This echoed what I'd been hearing around the world from many other protesters that I'm in touch with. And I've come to realize that part of the problem is that today's protests have become a bit like climbing Mt. Everest with the help of 60 Sherpas, and the Internet is our Sherpa. What we're doing is taking the fast routes and not replacing the benefits of the slower work. Because, you see, the kind of work that went into organizing all those daunting, tedious logistical tasks did not just take care of those tasks, they also created the kind of organization that could think together collectively and make hard decisions together, create consensus and innovate, and maybe even more crucially, keep going together through differences. So when you see this March on Washington in 1963, when you look at that picture, where this is the march where Martin Luther King gave his famous ""I have a dream"" speech, 1963, you don't just see a march and you don't just hear a powerful speech, you also see the painstaking, long-term work that can put on that march. And if you're in power, you realize you have to take the capacity signaled by that march, not just the march, but the capacity signaled by that march, seriously. In contrast, when you look at Occupy's global marches that were organized in two weeks, you see a lot of discontent, but you don't necessarily see teeth that can bite over the long term. And crucially, the Civil Rights Movement innovated tactically from boycotts to lunch counter sit-ins to pickets to marches to freedom rides. Today's movements scale up very quickly without the organizational base that can see them through the challenges. They feel a little like startups that got very big without knowing what to do next, and they rarely manage to shift tactically because they don't have the depth of capacity to weather such transitions. Now, I want to be clear: The magic is not in the mimeograph. It's in that capacity to work together, think together collectively, which can only be built over time with a lot of work. To understand all this, I interviewed a top official from the ruling party in Turkey, and I ask him, ""How do you do it?"" They too use digital technology extensively, so that's not it. So what's the secret? Well, he told me. He said the key is he never took sugar with his tea. I said, what has that got to do with anything? Well, he said, his party starts getting ready for the next election the day after the last one, and he spends all day every day meeting with voters in their homes, in their wedding parties, circumcision ceremonies, and then he meets with his colleagues to compare notes. With that many meetings every day, with tea offered at every one of them, which he could not refuse, because that would be rude, he could not take even one cube of sugar per cup of tea, because that would be many kilos of sugar, he can't even calculate how many kilos, and at that point I realized why he was speaking so fast. We had met in the afternoon, and he was already way over-caffeinated. But his party won two major elections within a year of the Gezi protests with comfortable margins. To be sure, governments have different resources to bring to the table. It's not the same game, but the differences are instructive. And like all such stories, this is not a story just of technology. It's what technology allows us to do converging with what we want to do. Today's social movements want to operate informally. They do not want institutional leadership. They want to stay out of politics because they fear corruption and cooptation. They have a point. Modern representative democracies are being strangled in many countries by powerful interests. But operating this way makes it hard for them to sustain over the long term and exert leverage over the system, which leads to frustrated protesters dropping out, and even more corrupt politics. And politics and democracy without an effective challenge hobbles, because the causes that have inspired the modern recent movements are crucial. Climate change is barreling towards us. Inequality is stifling human growth and potential and economies. Authoritarianism is choking many countries. We need movements to be more effective. Now, some people have argued that the problem is today's movements are not formed of people who take as many risks as before, and that is not true. From Gezi to Tahrir to elsewhere, I've seen people put their lives and livelihoods on the line. It's also not true, as Malcolm Gladwell claimed, that today's protesters form weaker virtual ties. No, they come to these protests, just like before, with their friends, existing networks, and sometimes they do make new friends for life. I still see the friends that I made in those Zapatista-convened global protests more than a decade ago, and the bonds between strangers are not worthless. When I got tear-gassed in Gezi, people I didn't know helped me and one another instead of running away. In Tahrir, I saw people, protesters, working really hard to keep each other safe and protected. And digital awareness-raising is great, because changing minds is the bedrock of changing politics. But movements today have to move beyond participation at great scale very fast and figure out how to think together collectively, develop strong policy proposals, create consensus, figure out the political steps and relate them to leverage, because all these good intentions and bravery and sacrifice by itself are not going to be enough. And there are many efforts. In New Zealand, a group of young people are developing a platform called Loomio for participatory decision making at scale. In Turkey, 140Journos are holding hack-a-thons so that they support communities as well as citizen journalism. In Argentina, an open-source platform called DemocracyOS is bringing participation to parliaments and political parties. These are all great, and we need more, but the answer won't just be better online decision-making, because to update democracy, we are going to need to innovate at every level, from the organizational to the political to the social. Because to succeed over the long term, sometimes you do need tea without sugar along with your Twitter. Thank you. (Applause)"	最近，我們聽聞了許多關於社群網路如何全力支持抗議的事件，說是「全力支持」的確不為過。但是這十幾年來，我一直研究並參與了各種社會運動，如今我意識到科技全力支持社會運動的方式可能反倒會削弱它們的影響。這並非不可避免，但要跨越這個難關必須要深刻探究，究竟是什麼讓社會運動在長期有可能成功。而這些教訓可以應用於諸多領域。 讓我們談談2013年7月在土耳其格濟公園發生的抗議，我當時還回到抗議現場進行研究。推特是組織這場抗議的關鍵所在。它在公園裡無處不在﹣﹣無處不在的還包括催淚彈。它並非全是高科技。但土耳其人早已習慣了推特的力量，因為一年前的一場不幸事故，軍用飛機轟炸並殺死了在土耳其邊界的34個庫爾德走私販。土耳其媒體完全封殺了這條新聞。新聞編輯坐在他們的工作室，等著政府告訴他們下一步該怎麼做。一位懊惱的記者無法再忍受這一切。他自掏腰包買了機票，飛到了這次事件發生的村莊。而他眼前的是這般景象：一整列棺材依次下山，死者的親友號啕痛哭。之後，他告訴我，他深受打擊，不知所措，於是他拿出手機，正如我們任何人都可能會做的那樣，他拍下這番景象，並發送了一條推特。好傢伙，這張圖在網路上爆紅，並且衝破了審查制度，逼迫大眾傳媒對它進行報導。 於是一年後，當格濟抗議運動在土耳其展開，一開始事關一個被夷為平地的公園，卻發展成為一場反威權抗議運動。並不令人驚訝的是，土耳其媒體再度封殺了這條消息，但有時事情會變得很荒唐。當事態已如此緊張時，當CNN國際頻道正從伊斯坦堡進行直播時，CNN土耳其頻道正在播放一部關於企鵝的紀錄片。我很愛看企鵝紀錄片，但它並非當天的頭條新聞。一位憤怒的觀眾將這兩個畫面放在一起，拍下了一張照片，而那張圖也在網路上被瘋轉。從那以後，人們將土耳其媒體稱為「企鵝媒體」。（笑） 但這一次，大家都知道該做什麼了。他們只需拿出了自己的手機，查看真實的新聞報導。更讚的是，他們知道要去公園，拍下圖片並參與其中，將圖片在社群媒體上廣泛分享。網路連接被應用於方方面面，從抗議中的食物供給到捐款。一切食物的組織都部份依靠了這些新科技的幫助。 而利用網路調動人群，並宣傳抗議運動，這樣的做法其實並不新鮮。還記得薩帕塔民族解放軍嗎？那些來自墨西哥恰帕斯州南部的農民，以帶著面目、抽著煙槍、充滿魅力的副司令馬科斯為領袖？那或許是第一場獲得全球矚目的運動了，多虧了網際網路。或者思考一下1999年的西雅圖，當跨國性民眾的努力獲得了全球性的關注，讓這個當時還不知名的組織，「世界貿易組織」進入世人眼簾，同樣也是通過利用這些電子科技來幫助他們組織實現的。最近，不斷出現的民眾運動撼動了一個又一個國家：從巴林蔓延到到突尼斯、埃及，甚至更多國家的阿拉伯起義；在西班牙、意大利、希臘的「憤怒者」；格濟公園起義；台灣的太陽花運動；烏克蘭的「親歐盟示威」；香港的佔中運動。再想想更近期的自發性團體，比如推特標籤「#釋放我們的女孩」。如今，推特網路能夠發動一場全球性的覺醒運動。一篇臉書主頁就能成為大規模性動員的中流砥柱。太神奇了。 但是思考一下我剛剛提到過的幾個瞬間。他們得以實現的成就，他們的成果，與他們所激發的規模和能量並不完全成正比。他們正當提出的期望與他們最終得到的結果並不匹配。問題就來了：隨著電子科技令民眾運動變得更為簡單可行，為什麼運動獲得成功的可能性並沒有相應地增加呢？我們在行動主義和政治中欣然接受了網路平台的同時，是否忽略了用老辦法做事的一些好處？我相信正是如此。我相信一條經驗法則：動員民眾變得更加容易並不意味著取得成果就會更加容易。 讓我把話說清楚，科技的確在很多方面有助於民運，它的效果非常強大。在土耳其，我看著四個年輕的大學生組織了一個全國性的市民新聞網路，名為 140Journos ，而那成為了這個國家裡不受審查的新聞中心。在埃及，我見證了四個年輕人利用數位連結為10家戰地醫院組織了物資供給和後勤工作，都是非常大規模的操作，正是在2011年解放廣場附件發生大規模衝突的那段時期。我問了這個叫做「解放供給」組織的創始人，他花了多久將這個想法轉化成現實。「五分鐘，」他說道。只花了五分鐘。他本人在物流方面並沒有任何訓練或背景。又或者想想在2011年震撼了世界的佔領運動吧。它僅僅從一封電郵開始，一封來自 Adbusters 雜誌向它的9萬名訂閱者發送的電郵。第一封電郵發出的兩個月後，在美國有600場持續進行的佔領運動和抗議。祖科蒂公園第一場佔領運動發生後一個月之內，一場全球性抗議在82個國家，950個城市進行。這是史上規模最大的全球性抗議運動。 將它和1955年阿拉巴馬州的民權運動相比較一下，那場抗議是為了爭取罷免種族隔離的公車系統。他們準備了多年，就在羅薩．派克斯被捕之際，決定是時候實施這個運動了。可是這麼才能散佈這個消息呢？告訴大家：「明天我們要進行聯合抵制啦！」當時並沒有臉書、短訊、推特，什麼都沒有的那個年代該怎麼辦呢？於是他們不得不油印5萬2千張宣傳單，偷偷溜進一間大學的複印室，秘密地油印了一晚上。然後，他們發動了遍佈全城的68個非裔美國人團體，由專人發散了這些傳單。這項運輸任務令人望而卻步，因為他們都是窮人。他們必須去工作，不論參加抵制與否。因此，他們組織了大規模的汽車共乘，同樣也是通過見面的方式。沒有短訊，沒有推特，沒有臉書。他們必須不斷的見面，才能讓共乘得以進行下去。 如今，這會簡單得多。我們可以創建一個數據庫，顯示可供乘搭的和你所需要的便車，使用數據庫座標，並且利用短訊來聯繫。我們不用那麼頻繁地見面。但話說回來，考慮下這一點：美國的民權運動跨越了政治危險的雷區，面臨壓迫，衝破阻礙，贏得了重大的政策讓步，在諸多風險中航行、創新。與之截然相反，在佔領運動引起對不平等的全球性討論三年後，引起這場爭議的政策仍固若金湯。歐洲也曾被反緊縮政策抗議運動所震撼，但這片大陸並沒有改變前進的方向。我們欣然接受這些科技的同時，是否忽視了緩慢而有持續性的方法所帶來的一些好處？為了理解這一點，我在格濟抗議運動大約一年後回到了土耳其，並參訪了一些人，從激進分子到政治家，從執政黨到反對黨和反對運動。我發現格濟抗議者們很絕望。他們很懊惱，他們取得的成果和之前的期望相去甚遠。這樣的話我在全球各地不斷聽到，從許多其他與我保持聯絡的抗議者口中聽到。而我也逐漸意識到，問題的所在之一就是我們如今的抗議活動有些像攀越珠穆朗瑪峰，不過是在60個夏爾巴人的幫助下，而網路就是我們的夏爾巴人。我們正在做的則是走捷徑，並沒有帶來「慢工出細活」的好處。因為，你看看，組織那些令人生畏、無聊透頂的物流任務所需要的做的，不僅僅是處理好那些任務，他們還創造出一種組織，能夠發揮集體思考的力量，並且能夠共同作出決定，獲得共識，實現創新，或許甚至還有更關鍵的，也就是跨越差異，攜手同行。因此，當你看到1963年華盛頓的這場大遊行時，當年你看著那幅圖片時，正是在這場大遊行中，馬丁．路德．金發表了他著名演講《我有一個夢想》，就在1963年，你看到的不只是一場遊行，你聽到的不只是一場有力的演講，還有這場遊行背後的辛苦付出和長期努力。而如果你是當權者，你會意識到，你必須嚴肅對待這場遊行所顯示的能力，不僅僅是遊行本身，而是這場遊行所顯示的能力。反觀佔領運動的全球性遊行，在短短兩週之內就組織完畢，卻紕漏百出，各種不滿，卻看不到什麼能夠發揮長期影響力的東西。關鍵的一點是，民權運動在策略上創新，從聯合抵制，到午餐檯靜坐、罷工糾察、示威遊行、自由之行。今天的運動快速地形成大規模，卻沒有組織基礎，讓他們得以承受住考驗。他們像是剛剛創業的公司，規模迅速擴大，卻不知道下一步該如何是好，也很少能夠有策略地調整姿態，因為他們沒有足夠強的能力來經受住這些轉變。 我要把話說清楚：勝利法寶並非油印機。而是共同協作、集體思考的能力，那只有通過長期的努力才能獲得。為了理解這一點，我採訪了土耳其執政黨的一位高層官員，我問他：「你是如何辦到的？」他們同樣也大量使用電子科技，所以這一定不是原因。那秘密究竟是什麼呢？他告訴了我這個秘密。他說，關鍵在於他喝茶從不加糖。我說，這聽起來風馬牛不相及啊？他又說道，他的黨派極早地開始為下一場競選做準備，從上一場競選結束就開始了，而他一天到晚都去投票人家中訪問，去他們的婚禮派對現場，割禮儀式，然後他與同事見面，對比一下筆記。每天要參加那麼多次會見，每次會見都有茶供應，他不能拒絕送來的茶水，因為那樣會很失禮，在每杯茶裡，他一顆糖塊也不能放，因為那樣的話，就會攝入數不清幾千克的糖分了。那一刻，我意識到為什麼他語速這麼快。我們是在下午見面的，他那天已經攝入過量咖啡因了。但是他的政黨贏得了兩個重大選舉，就在格濟示威一年之內，獲得足夠多的票數贏得了大選。誠然，政府要推上檯面有不同的資源。選舉和民運不一樣，但他們的不同點是由教育意義的。就像所有類似的故事一樣，這並非只是一個關於科技的故事。這是關於科技能讓我們實現什麼，與我們想要實現什麼相彙聚。如今的社會運動想要以非正式的方法運營。他們不想要領導體制。他們想要遠離政治，因為他們懼怕貪腐和拉攏收買。他們說的沒錯。現代代議民主在許多國家被強權掐住了喉嚨。但如此般運營對他們來說是艱難的，難以長期維繫，難以對體制施加影響，這就導致了許多懊惱的抗議者退出遊行，也導致了更加充滿貪腐的政治。而沒面臨過有效性挑戰的政治和民主好比一個跛腳人，因為那些引起近期社會運動的背後原因是極為關鍵的。氣候變化向我們步步緊逼。不平等正阻礙著人們的成長和潛能，並且阻礙著經濟發展。威權主義在許多國家令人窒息。我們需要讓社會運動變得更加有效。 有些人爭辯說，問題在於如今民權運動的組成者不再像從前的人那樣敢於冒風險，這並不屬實。從格濟公園，到解放廣場，再到其它地方，我見過許多人用他們的生命和生計做賭注。馬爾科姆．格拉德維爾所說的也不對，如今的示威者們並非「形成了較弱的虛擬關係。」不是的，他們參與到抗議中，正如他們的前人一樣，陪同著他們的友人，已有的關係網，有時他們也會結交一生的摯友。我也仍然見到我交的那些朋友，他們是我十多年前在薩帕塔全球抗議活動中結交的，而陌生人之間的那種連結並非毫無意義。當我在格濟遭到催淚彈襲擊，和我素不相識的人們幫助了我，也幫助了彼此，而不是忙於逃命。在解放廣場，我見到人們，示威者們，十分努力地保護彼此，以免受到傷害。數位化意識提升很贊，因為改變想法是改變政治的基石。但如今的民權運動不能侷限於快速號召大規模人群，要想出如何能夠集體思考，起草強有力的政策提案，達成共識，弄懂政治上的步驟，並將之與談判籌碼相聯繫，因為所有這些良好的意圖、勇氣和犧牲，它們本身是遠遠不夠的。 這方面也有很多努力。在紐西蘭，一群年輕人正在研發一個叫做 Loomio 的平台，以供大規模決議的參與。在土耳其，140Journos正在舉辦「駭客馬拉松」，以支持社區和公民新聞。在阿根廷，一個叫做DemocracyOS 的開源平台正將民眾參與帶入議會和政黨。這些都很棒，而且我們需要更多，但不僅僅是需要更好的線上決議，因為要讓民主更上一層樓，我們需要在每一層面創新，從組織層面，到政治層面，到社會層面。因為如果要實現長期的勝利，有時候你的確需要喝茶不加糖，還需要你的推特。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
