Talk	en	zh-tw
ziauddin_yousafzai_my_daughter_malala	"In many patriarchal societies and tribal societies, fathers are usually known by their sons, but I'm one of the few fathers who is known by his daughter, and I am proud of it. (Applause) Malala started her campaign for education and stood for her rights in 2007, and when her efforts were honored in 2011, and she was given the national youth peace prize, and she became a very famous, very popular young girl of her country. Before that, she was my daughter, but now I am her father. Ladies and gentlemen, if we glance to human history, the story of women is the story of injustice, inequality, violence and exploitation. You see, in patriarchal societies, right from the very beginning, when a girl is born, her birth is not celebrated. She is not welcomed, neither by father nor by mother. The neighborhood comes and commiserates with the mother, and nobody congratulates the father. And a mother is very uncomfortable for having a girl child. When she gives birth to the first girl child, first daughter, she is sad. When she gives birth to the second daughter, she is shocked, and in the expectation of a son, when she gives birth to a third daughter, she feels guilty like a criminal. Not only the mother suffers, but the daughter, the newly born daughter, when she grows old, she suffers too. At the age of five, while she should be going to school, she stays at home and her brothers are admitted in a school. Until the age of 12, somehow, she has a good life. She can have fun. She can play with her friends in the streets, and she can move around in the streets like a butterfly. But when she enters her teens, when she becomes 13 years old, she is forbidden to go out of her home without a male escort. She is confined under the four walls of her home. She is no more a free individual. She becomes the so-called honor of her father and of her brothers and of her family, and if she transgresses the code of that so-called honor, she could even be killed. And it is also interesting that this so-called code of honor, it does not only affect the life of a girl, it also affects the life of the male members of the family. I know a family of seven sisters and one brother, and that one brother, he has migrated to the Gulf countries, to earn a living for his seven sisters and parents, because he thinks that it will be humiliating if his seven sisters learn a skill and they go out of the home and earn some livelihood. So this brother, he sacrifices the joys of his life and the happiness of his sisters at the altar of so-called honor. And there is one more norm of the patriarchal societies that is called obedience. A good girl is supposed to be very quiet, very humble and very submissive. It is the criteria. The role model good girl should be very quiet. She is supposed to be silent and she is supposed to accept the decisions of her father and mother and the decisions of elders, even if she does not like them. If she is married to a man she doesn't like or if she is married to an old man, she has to accept, because she does not want to be dubbed as disobedient. If she is married very early, she has to accept. Otherwise, she will be called disobedient. And what happens at the end? In the words of a poetess, she is wedded, bedded, and then she gives birth to more sons and daughters. And it is the irony of the situation that this mother, she teaches the same lesson of obedience to her daughter and the same lesson of honor to her sons. And this vicious cycle goes on, goes on. Ladies and gentlemen, this plight of millions of women could be changed if we think differently, if women and men think differently, if men and women in the tribal and patriarchal societies in the developing countries, if they can break a few norms of family and society, if they can abolish the discriminatory laws of the systems in their states, which go against the basic human rights of the women. Dear brothers and sisters, when Malala was born, and for the first time, believe me, I don't like newborn children, to be honest, but when I went and I looked into her eyes, believe me, I got extremely honored. And long before she was born, I thought about her name, and I was fascinated with a heroic legendary freedom fighter in Afghanistan. Her name was Malalai of Maiwand, and I named my daughter after her. A few days after Malala was born, my daughter was born, my cousin came — and it was a coincidence — he came to my home and he brought a family tree, a family tree of the Yousafzai family, and when I looked at the family tree, it traced back to 300 years of our ancestors. But when I looked, all were men, and I picked my pen, drew a line from my name, and wrote, ""Malala."" And when she grow old, when she was four and a half years old, I admitted her in my school. You will be asking, then, why should I mention about the admission of a girl in a school? Yes, I must mention it. It may be taken for granted in Canada, in America, in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in patriarchal societies, in tribal societies, it's a big event for the life of girl. Enrollment in a school means recognition of her identity and her name. Admission in a school means that she has entered the world of dreams and aspirations where she can explore her potentials for her future life. I have five sisters, and none of them could go to school, and you will be astonished, two weeks before, when I was filling out the Canadian visa form, and I was filling out the family part of the form, I could not recall the surnames of some of my sisters. And the reason was that I have never, never seen the names of my sisters written on any document. That was the reason that I valued my daughter. What my father could not give to my sisters and to his daughters, I thought I must change it. I used to appreciate the intelligence and the brilliance of my daughter. I encouraged her to sit with me when my friends used to come. I encouraged her to go with me to different meetings. And all these good values, I tried to inculcate in her personality. And this was not only she, only Malala. I imparted all these good values to my school, girl students  and boy students as well. I used education for emancipation. I taught my girls, I taught my girl students, to unlearn the lesson of obedience. I taught my boy students to unlearn the lesson of so-called pseudo-honor. Dear brothers and sisters, we were striving for more rights for women, and we were struggling to have more, more and more space for the women in society. But we came across a new phenomenon. It was lethal to human rights and particularly to women's rights. It was called Talibanization. It means a complete negation of women's participation in all political, economical and social activities. Hundreds of schools were lost. Girls were prohibited from going to school. Women were forced to wear veils and they were stopped from going to the markets. Musicians were silenced, girls were flogged and singers were killed. Millions were suffering, but few spoke, and it was the most scary thing when you have all around such people who kill and who flog, and you speak for your rights. It's really the most scary thing. At the age of 10, Malala stood, and she stood for the right of education. She wrote a diary for the BBC blog, she volunteered herself for the New York Times documentaries, and she spoke from every platform she could. And her voice was the most powerful voice. It spread like a crescendo all around the world. And that was the reason the Taliban could not tolerate her campaign, and on October 9 2012, she was shot in the head at point blank range. It was a doomsday for my family and for me. The world turned into a big black hole. While my daughter was on the verge of life and death, I whispered into the ears of my wife, ""Should I be blamed for what happened to my daughter and your daughter?"" And she abruptly told me, ""Please don't blame yourself. You stood for the right cause. You put your life at stake for the cause of truth, for the cause of peace, and for the cause of education, and your daughter in inspired from you and she joined you. You both were on the right path and God will protect her."" These few words meant a lot to me, and I didn't ask this question again. When Malala was in the hospital, and she was going through the severe pains and she had had severe headaches because her facial nerve was cut down, I used to see a dark shadow spreading on the face of my wife. But my daughter never complained. She used to tell us, ""I'm fine with my crooked smile and with my numbness in my face. I'll be okay. Please don't worry."" She was a solace for us, and she consoled us. Dear brothers and sisters, we learned from her how to be resilient in the most difficult times, and I'm glad to share with you that despite being an icon for the rights of children and women, she is like any 16-year old girl. She cries when her homework is incomplete. She quarrels with her brothers, and I am very happy for that. People ask me, what special is in my mentorship which has made Malala so bold and so courageous and so vocal and poised? I tell them, don't ask me what I did. Ask me what I did not do. I did not clip her wings, and that's all. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)"	在許多父權社會和部落社會中，父親通常因其子而聞名，但我是少數因為女兒而聞名的父親，我深感榮耀。 （掌聲） 馬拉拉開始為自身的教育而戰並為權利挺身而出是在 2007 年，她的努力在 2011 年時被表彰，獲頒國家青年和平獎，她變得家喻戶曉，在國內是非常知名的女孩。在那之前，她是我的女兒，但現在我是她的父親。各位先生、女士，如果我們一瞥人類歷史，女性的故事是不公正、不平等、暴力與剝削的故事。在父權社會中，你會看到權利從一開始就決定了，當一個小女孩出生，沒有人會慶祝她的誕生。她不受歡迎，父親與兄長也不歡迎她。鄰居來訪會對母親露出憐憫之情，沒有人會恭喜她的父親。一位母親如果有女兒會很不自在。當她生了第一個女孩、第一個女兒，她會很難過。當她生了第二個女兒，她會很驚訝，並滿懷期待生個兒子。當她生了第三個女兒，她會像犯人一樣感到內疚。 不只是母親受苦，就連女兒，那個新生的女兒，當她長大之後，也會受苦。到了五歲該上學的時候，她得留在家裡，而兄弟則已得到入學許可。一直到 12 歲，不知怎麼搞的，她就有了幸福人生。她能享樂，她能和朋友在街上玩耍，而且可以上街繞繞，就像隻蝴蝶。但是當她成為青少女，在她 13 歲時，如果沒有男性陪同，就會被禁止出門。她被監禁在家裡。她不再是一個獨立個體。她成了他人所謂的名譽，屬於她父親的、兄弟的、家人的名譽，如果她違背了所謂的名譽符碼，就可能喪命。 很有趣的是這種所謂的名譽符碼，那不只是影響了一個女孩的人生，還影響了家庭中男性成員的人生。我認識一個有七姊妹和獨子的家庭，而那個獨子移民去了波斯灣一帶的國家，為了賺錢養活七姊妹和父母，因為他覺得如果他的七姊妹學了技能，然後離家賺點家計，會很丟臉。因此這個獨子犧牲了生活的樂趣和姊妹的幸福是為了所謂的名譽聖壇。 還有一個規範出現在父權社會中，那就是服從。一個好女孩應該要是很文靜、很謙卑，而且非常服從。這是準則。模範的好女孩應該非常文靜。她應該要沉默、她應該要接受她的父母親與長者所做的決定，即使她不喜歡這些決定。如果她得嫁給不喜歡的男人，或是嫁給老人，她都必須接受，因為她不想被冠上不服從者的稱號。如果他得很早婚，她必須接受。否則，她會被稱為不服從者。結果會如何？一位女詩人說，她被安排結婚、上床，然後生下很多兒子和女兒。很諷刺的情況是這位母親也會教女兒同樣服從的一課，教兒子同樣名譽的一課。這個惡性循環不斷重覆上演。 各位女士、先生，這對無數女性的禁錮是可以改變的，如果我用不同的方式思考，如果女性和男性用不同的方式思考，如果發展中國家父權和部落社會的男性和女性可以打破一些家庭和社會的規範，如果他們可以廢除國內體制中有歧視的法律，廢除那些違背女性基本人權的法律。 親愛的弟兄姐妹，當馬拉拉出生時，那是第一次，相信我，老實說，我不喜歡嬰兒，但是當我看進她的眼底，相信我，我感到無比榮耀。在她出生之前，我考慮要為她取什麼名字，我一直很欣賞一位傳奇英雄，為阿富汗自由而戰的鬥士，她是邁萬德的馬拉拉，我的女兒以她為名。在馬拉拉出生後幾天，我的女兒出生後幾天，我的堂兄來訪──那是巧合──他來我家時帶了一份祖譜，那是優薩福扎伊家的祖譜，我檢視這份祖譜，它回溯了我們 300 年來的祖先。但是我發現全都是男性，我拿起筆，從我的名字畫出一條線，寫下「馬拉拉」。 當她長大到四歲半的時候，我准許她到我的學校上學。你可能會問，我為什麼要提到准許女孩上學？沒錯，我得提出這件事。在加拿大這可能是理所當然的事，在美國、在許多已開發國家皆是，但是在貧窮國家、在父權社會、部落社會中，對女孩來說是人生中的大事。登記入學意謂著認可她的身分和姓名。准許入學意謂著她進入夢想與渴望的世界，在那裡她可以為自己的未來挖掘自己的天賦。我有五位姊妹，沒有一個可以上學，你會很吃驚，兩個星期前，在我填寫加拿大簽證表格時，當我填到家庭的部分，我想不出其中幾位姊妹的名字。原因是我從來沒有看過她們的名字寫在任何文件上。因為這個因素，我珍視我的女兒。我的父親無法給我的姊妹、他的女兒的東西，我想我必須改變。 我總是賞識女兒的聰穎和才智。我鼓勵她與我同坐，一起接待我的朋友。我鼓勵她和我一起參加不同的會議。這所有的良善價值我都嘗試灌輸在她的人格特質中。不只是她，不只是馬拉拉。我將這所有的良善價值分享給我的學校，以及女學生和男學生。我以教育來解放人心。我教導我的女兒，我教導我的女學生捨棄服從的訓誡。我教導我的男學生捨棄所謂的偽名譽。 親愛的弟兄姐妹，我們為女性的更多權利而奮鬥，我們努力為女性在社會上爭取更多、更多、更多的空間。但是我們面臨新的現象。這會毀滅人權，尤其是對女權。那稱為塔利班化。意謂著一個完全否定女性參與政治、經濟和社會的任何活動。上百所學校消失了。女孩被禁止上學。女孩被迫戴著面紗，她們被禁止上市場。音樂家被禁聲，女孩被拐賣，歌手被謀殺。無數人受苦，卻很少人說出口，最恐怖的是你身邊充斥著會屠殺、拐賣人口的人，而你為自己的權利發聲。這是最恐怖的事。 馬拉拉在 10 歲的時候站出來，為自己接受教育的權力挺身而出。她為英國廣播公司 (BBC) 的部落格寫日記，她自願為紐約時報做紀錄，她也站上每一個有機會說話的講台。她的聲音是最強而有力的聲音。那就像漸強音樂一樣在世界各地傳遞。那就是塔利班為什麼無法忍受她的活動，在 2012 年 10 月 9 日時，她被近距離槍擊頭部。 那一天對全家和我來說是世界末日。世界變成一個巨大的黑洞。當我的女兒在生死交戰的邊緣，我在妻子耳邊低語：「我應該為了發生在我的女兒和你的女兒身上的事被譴責嗎？」 她突然告訴我：「請別責備自己。你支持對的理念。你拿自己的生命當賭注，為了真理、為了和平，也為了教育，而你的女兒受到你的啟發，起身與你並肩而戰。你們倆都在正確的道路上，造物主會保佑她。」 這些話語對我來說意義非凡，自此之後我就沒再提這個問題。 馬拉拉還在醫院的時候，她經歷極劇烈的苦痛，她嚴重頭痛，因為她的顏面神經被切斷了，我總是看到一片黑影在妻子的臉上蔓延。但是我的女兒從不抱怨。她總是告訴我：「我很好，即使我有扭曲的笑容和麻木的臉龐。我會一切安好，請不要擔心。」她是我們的慰藉，她撫慰了我們。 親愛的弟兄姐妹，我們從她身上學會了在最艱難的時刻如何保有堅韌的心，我很高興能告訴大家即使馬拉拉成了兒童與婦女權利的指標人物，她還是像個 16 歲的女孩。她會因為作業沒寫完而哭泣。她會和兄弟吵架，這讓我很開心。 大家都問我，我在指導時有什麼秘方讓馬拉拉如此英勇、無畏、勇於發聲且泰然自若？我告訴他們，別問我做了什麼，問我沒做什麼。我沒有折斷她的雙翼，如此罷了。 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲）謝謝！非常感謝大家，謝謝！（掌聲）
