Talk	en	zh-tw
zimchallenge	So today, I want us to reflect on the demise of guys. Guys are flaming out academically; they're wiping out socially with girls and sexually with women. Other than that, there's not much of a problem. So what's the data? So the data on dropping out is amazing. Boys are 30 percent more likely than girls to drop out of school. In Canada, five boys drop out for every three girls. Girls outperform boys now at every level, from elementary school to graduate school. There's a 10 percent differential between getting BA's and all graduate programs, with guys falling behind girls. Two-thirds of all students in special ed. remedial programs are guys. And as you all know, boys are five times more likely than girls to be labeled as having attention deficit disorder — and therefore we drug them with Ritalin. What's the evidence of wiping out? First, it's a new fear of intimacy. Intimacy means physical, emotional connection with somebody else — and especially with somebody of the opposite sex who gives off ambiguous, contradictory, phosphorescent signals. (Laughter) And every year there's research done on self-reported shyness among college students. And we're seeing a steady increase among males. And this is two kinds. It's a social awkwardness. The old shyness was a fear of rejection. It's a social awkwardness like you're a stranger in a foreign land. They don't know what to say, they don't know what to do, especially one-on-one [with the] opposite sex. They don't know the language of face contact, the non-verbal and verbal set of rules that enable you to comfortably talk to somebody else, listen to somebody else. There's something I'm developing here called social intensity syndrome, which tries to account for why guys really prefer male bonding over female mating. It turns out, from earliest childhood, boys, and then men, prefer the company of guys — physical company. And there's actually a cortical arousal we're looking at, because guys have been with guys in teams, in clubs, in gangs, in fraternities, especially in the military, and then in pubs. And this peaks at Super Bowl Sunday when guys would rather be in a bar with strangers, watching a totally overdressed Aaron Rodgers of the Green Bay Packers, rather than Jennifer Lopez totally naked in the bedroom. The problem is they now prefer [the] asynchronistic Internet world to the spontaneous interaction in social relationships. What are the causes? Well, it's an unintended consequence. I think it's excessive Internet use in general, excessive video gaming, excessive new access to pornography. The problem is these are arousal addictions. Drug addiction, you simply want more. Arousal addiction, you want different. Drugs, you want more of the same — different. So you need the novelty in order for the arousal to be sustained. And the problem is the industry is supplying it. Jane McGonigal told us last year that by the time a boy is 21, he's played 10,000 hours of video games, most of that in isolation. As you remember, Cindy Gallop said men don't know the difference between making love and doing porn. The average boy now watches 50 porn video clips a week. And there's some guy watching a hundred, obviously. (Laughter) And the porn industry is the fastest growing industry in America — 15 billion annually. For every 400 movies made in Hollywood, there are 11,000 now made porn videos. So the effect, very quickly, is it's a new kind of arousal. Boys' brains are being digitally rewired in a totally new way for change, novelty, excitement and constant arousal. That means they're totally out of sync in traditional classes, which are analog, static, interactively passive. They're also totally out of sync in romantic relationships, which build gradually and subtly. So what's the solution? It's not my job. I'm here to alarm. It's your job to solve. (Laughter) (Applause) But who should care? The only people who should care about this is parents of boys and girls, educators, gamers, filmmakers and women who would like a real man who they can talk to, who can dance, who can make love slowly and contribute to the evolutionary pressures to keep our species above banana slugs. No offense to banana slug owners. Thank you. (Applause)	"今天，我想請大家思考一下男性的衰落。男性在學術方面的聲勢下降;他們同時與女孩社交不暢以及與成熟女性在性方面也跟不上。除此之外，倒也沒什麼別的問題。數據怎麼說呢？男孩的失學率高得令人吃驚。一個男孩有比一個女孩多出30%的可能性中途退學。在加拿大，同等基數的情況下，有五個男孩會辍學，而女孩只會有三個會輟學。女孩從小學，到研究院,在各級學校裏都比男孩表現優勝。在高等教育領域裏從學士到所有研究院學位男性要比女性少10%。在特殊教育項目裏，三分之二的學生都是男生。還有就是衆所周知的男孩比女孩有五倍的可能性被認爲有過動症（注意力缺乏）—然後被要求服用例如利他林一類的藥。 有什麼證據來說男性聲勢不行呢？首先，男性中有一種新出現的對於親密的恐懼，親密意味着與他人在身體上和感情上的聯通—特別是與異性,因爲異性會給出模糊意義並且自相矛盾,與我們自己的節奏不一樣的信號。(笑聲)每年都會有一個研究來調查在大學生中自我認同爲“害羞”的比例。我們可以發現男生數量持續的提高。“害羞”分爲兩類。害羞是一種社交上的蹩腳。較早的一種是對於被拒絕的恐懼。這種社交不暢感覺就像你是在一個陌生的地方。你不知道該說什麼該做什麼,特別是面對異性在一對一的場合裏。害羞的人不懂面部表情語言,還有使得人們可以很舒服的進行有聲與無聲交流的規則,包括傾聽與表達。 我現在正在研究這麼一個概念，叫做“社交緊張綜合徵"",來試圖解釋爲什麼男性更偏好與兄弟們聯繫感情，而不是與女性交往。研究結果表明，在童年早期,男孩，之後成爲男人更偏愛與其他男性呆在一起——在同一個物理空間裏。我們甚至觀察到在男性與其他男性一起的時候,他們大腦皮層的興奮在運動隊裏，在俱樂部裏，在團伙裏，在兄弟會裏,特別是在軍隊裏，還有就是在酒吧裏這種興奮在超級碗決賽的那個週日達到高峰,通常男性更願意與一羣陌生人擠在一個酒吧裏,看維斯康新綠灣隊的阿倫•羅傑斯從頭包到腳也不願意去在臥室裏看一絲不掛的珍妮弗•洛佩兹。但問題是現在男性更偏愛與現實脫節的網路世界,而不是在真實的社會環境下進行與人即時的交流。 爲什麼會這樣呢？ 其實這是一個沒有意想到的結果。我認爲原因就是過分的網路適用，過度的電子遊戲,還有新產生的無止境的色情內容的供應。這些都是令人成癮的興奮源。藥物成癮，你也就是想要更多的這種物質。令人成癮的興奮源，你會想要新鮮的不同的東西。藥物成癮，你會想要同樣的東西——這是不一樣的。你需要各種新鮮的東西來滿足這種興奮源成癮。 各種行業也源源不斷的提供滿足這種興奮源的東西。簡•麥克恭尼高去年給出了一個數據,那就是一個男孩在到21歲之前,平均下來他會已經玩了一萬小時的電子遊戲,大部分是獨自玩的。還有，辛迪•加勒普說過,男人不懂做愛與看色情片的區別。現在，平均下來一個男孩每週會看50個色情短片。當然會有每週看一百個的人。(笑聲)色情行業是美國增長最快的行業——每年上升150億。對應每400個在好萊塢製作的電影,就有11000個色情片被生產出來。 這個的結果就是，非常迅速的,提供給成癮者一個新的興奮源。男孩的大腦每天都被這些數碼內容重新塑造尋求變化，新鮮感，激動與不斷的興奮。這就意味着他們與傳統的課程完全脫節,不適應模擬，靜止，以及交流上採取一種被動的模式。他們同時也與浪漫關係脫節,因爲浪漫關係是逐漸而潛移默化的成長的。 那我們有什麼解決方案呢？這就不是我的任務了。我在這裏是爲了警示大家的。你們的任務是解決這個問題。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 誰應該關注這個問題呢？應該關注這個問題的人包括孩子的父母，包括男孩與女孩,教育者，遊戲製作人，電影製作人還有希望得到一個真正的男人的女人們，一個女人可以交流的男人，一個可以跳舞可以慢慢的做愛並能夠應對進化壓力來保證我們這個物種不至於落到香蕉毛蟲那個層次。我無意冒犯飼養香蕉毛蟲的人們。謝謝。 (掌聲)"
